everybody’s dinner book. X any); season to taste with salt, ground white pepper, and, if liked, a little cayenne. Spread this paste on the toast, then a layer of cold ma.shed potatoes, then the pork, then a second piece of toast, with paste and potatoes as a cover to the sandwich. The mashed potato can be left out if pre- ferred, and an excellent sandwich made by simply buttering the toast, spreading mustard over the butter, and then the pork. A little mixed pickles, finely chopped, may aLso be added. DINNER No. 20. Pork or Bacon and Pea Soup {Ingredients—Peas, etc., 3d.).—Soak half a pound of split peas overnight in cold water. Boil the peas next morning until quite tender in some of the liquor in which the spring was boiled (the liquor from boiled beef may equally be u.sed for it), pass thi'ough a sieve, add more liquor to it, return it to the saucepan, and when the con.sistency of cream serve it very liot. Hand with it some powdered mint and croUtons of fried bread. If you have any cream it is an improvement. Small dice of cold boiled pork or bacon, and the same of cold boiled caiTot, should be added about ten minutes before serving. Cathedral Cutlets {Ingredients—Egg and Butter, etc., 3d.).—This is an excellent recipe for using up any scraps or trimmings of cold meat, poultry, game, Rsh, eggs, or vege- tables ; therefore I do not count whatever the cutlets are composed of as part of the cost of the dish. I’he meat, or whatever you have, should be pounded with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, one ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, a dash of cayenne, and some ketchup. If you are msing white meat or fish, use tohite ground pepper. With one raw egg make the mixture into a stiff paste, and shape it into small cutlets, with a little flour added; egg and breadcrumb the cutlets, and fry them in hot lard. The cutlet bone should be made by putting a small piece of raw maecai’oni at the end of each cutlet. Potato Marbles (/?ii'/rerZfe?j^.9—Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—With a vegetable cutter cut some cold potatoes into small balls about the size of marbles; put them into a stewpan, with a