THRKE-SHILLING DINNERS. 47 salt, and mustard to taste; cut the bacon into small square pieces; make a frying pan hot over the fire, throw in the pieces of bacon, and keep them moving until nicely browned; then add the beans and stir with a fork over the fire until they have absorbed the bacon dripping an'd are quite hot; add seasoning to taste; turn on to a hot dish, and serve directly. Orange Sticks (^Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ■, two Oranges, 2d. ; Cream, Vanilla, Sugar, and Flour, 5d.).—Beat two eggs until they are white, add to these their weight in castor sugar, the same of fiour, and the juice and half the peel of two oranges ; stir well; butter a large sheet of tin ; spi ead on it the mixture in very thin cakes, about the size of thein.side of a saucer ; bake a light golden colour. While still warm roll on a wooden roller, from which they will easily be detached. Put some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla in the centre of a glass chsh, arrange the orange sticks round it, sprinkling some castor sugar over thenu^ Omelette a la Devonshire [Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d. ; Milk, Id. ; other ingredients, 2|d.).-—Beat the yolks of four eggs until almost white, and the whites for the same time, then beat the two together for five minutes ; after adding- one teacupful of milk, one dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and .salt, a few drops of lemon juice, one onion cut into foxir pieces, and some chopped parsley, beat thoroughly. Put enough fat in a frying pan to cover the bottom; when just on the boil take out the onion, pour the mixtm-e into a pan, and hold it over a clear fire until done. DINNER No. 20. Sausages en Robe de Chambre [Ingredients—^ lb. Sau- sages, 5d. ; Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Mash three-quarters of a pound of potatoes c^uite smoothly with milk and dripping (butter if you can afford it). Have ready half a pound of sausages (if you put them in boiling water, they do not require pricking and take fifteen minutes to cook). Wrap up each sausage in mashed potato, to make them look like rolls ; put a bit of butter or some dripping on each, and bake in tlie oven or before the fire, or fi-y until a good