37 THREE-SHILLTNG DINNERS. just browned. Spread some raspberry or other jam, marma- lade, or honey ovei- one of the cakes, placing the second cake on the top with the side that is brown uppermost. Wherij the cakes are cold, cut them into sandwiches, and sift castor sugar over them and serve. DINNER No. 8. Mutton a la Richelieu (^Ingredients—The other half of the Mutton, 9d.; g lb. Bacon, 4R1. ; Potatoes, etc., 3d.).— Slice the bacon and fry it lightly. Cut the rest of the mutton into slices, and fry them in the bacon fat. When done, place on a very hot dish. To the gravy in the frying pan add two tablespoonsful of vincgai-, one of Worcester, one of Yorkshire relish, one teaspoonful of made mustard, one salt- spoonful of salt, one dessertspoonfid of castor sugar, pepper and cayenne to taste. Mix thoroughly with the bacon fat, povir this over the mutton, place boiled potatoes round the dish, and serve immediately. Any scraps of meat or trim- mings can be used in this way. An excellent dish. Rolls Stuffed with Mince (Ingredients—Rolls, 2d.; Pickles, Cress, etc., 3gd.).—Chop fine any cold, roast, or boiled meat, game, or poultry you have, or any fish. Add a little dour, pepper and salt to taste, and sulhcient gravy to make the mince rather thin; add some finely-minced mixed pickles. Boil well for fifteen minutes. Have ready two dinner rolls, scoop out the centre, after cutting off the top, and before the mixture is quite cold fill the rolls ; add a few more pickles at the top. Replace the top, and serve on a bed of mustard and cre.s«)^^ Tutti Frutti (Ingredients—Sponge Cakes, 3d. ; three v^ggs, 3d.; other ingrechents, 6d.).—Soak three sponge cakes in one wineglassful of sherry or orange wine. Place them in a glass dish, and pour some jam over them. Take three eggs, and with the yolks make a custard, whipping the whites until quite stiff. Pour the custard over the cakes and jam, then the whites on the top of all. Make a pretty pattern on the top of the whites with shreds of mixed peel, \ and over the whole scatter hundreds and thou.sands. v\