8 everybody’s dinner book. with the pastry round. Scraps of lish, game, eggs, or vegetables may be used in the same way; the smallest pieces, even the scrapings from bones, will do. Curry powder may be added, or chopped pickles. DINNER No. 1.3. Croutons of Sheep’s Brains and Tongue {Ingredients— Lard, etc., 3d.).—Boil the brains from the above head (they should be tied up in muslin : if liked, a leaf of sage may be put in with them). When quite done, add white pepper and salt to taste, .and serve on croiito'ns of fried bread .about the size of a crown piece. The tongue should be carefully boiled, then skinned, cut into neat pieces, and served on .a croilton in tlie centre of the dish with the others round it. N.B.—The br.ains and tongue being included in the original cost of the head—namely, tenpence—are not charged again. Herrings a la Gregoire {Ingredients—Two Ileriangs, 2d. ; Onions and Potatoes, Id.).—Fry some herrings a nice gold colour, .and serve them as hot as j^ossible, witlr fried onions sh)-ed into pieces about two inches long and a qu.arter of an inch wide, and cold pot.atoes cut and fried in the same manner. Spr.ats may also be sei-ved in the same w.ay. A Delicious Dish {Ingredients —Two Apples, 2d.; Castor Sugar and Sponge Cake, 2d.).—Take two lai-ge fair apple.s— red .are prettiest—wipe them and place in .a preserving kettle, pour over them one heaped cup of castor sugar, .and .add enough hot w.ater to cover them. Cover closely .and boil a quarter of an hour until tlie apples are soft; remove to the b.ack part of the .stove, and let the apples simmer until the skins crack open, and the juice is a thick syrup and .a most lovely rose colour. Excellent hot or cold. You may serve sponge cakes with the apples if you like, or s.avoys if you prefer them. Poached Egg with Cheese {Ingredients—Egg, Id. ; Cheese and Butter, Id.).—Poach one egg, dish it carefully on a round of toast, powder it over with gr.ated Parmesan, sprinkle with cl.arified blitter, brown with a salamander. Any rem.ains of mashed potatoes or spinacli may be used in.stead of tlie toast.