1’Oim-SniLLlNO DINNERS. 53 each roll in very finely chopped parsley mixed with a little blitter, the end of another in chopped mushroom, pre\dously cooked in butter and mixed with the yolk of one egg. Arrange them alternately round a dish with the rolls rest- ing against each other, DINNER No. 5. Giblet Soup with Beans {Ingredietits—Two Sets of Giblets, Is.; Vegetables and Beans, 4d.; Stock, 6d.).—Stew the giblets well with a sprig of sage, ditto winter savory, one good- sized onion, salt and pepper to taste. In the meantime boil one pint of white beans until they are quite tender, mash half, and pass them through a .sieve. Take up the giblets and cut them into small pieces. Mince the liver fine, or rub it smooth. Return these to the gravy; add all the beans and sufficient stock (or water if you have no stock) to make a thick creamy soup. The water in which the beans were boiled must be put with them into the .soup. The bean.s should soak all the previous night in plenty of cold water. Fillets of Sole with Mushrooms {Jngre/lients—The other two Fillets, 7gd.; Cream and Muslirooms, etc.,5^d.).—Take the two remaining fillets; boil them carefully. Prepare a sauce as follows :—Get a white-lined saucepan, put a little cream into it, season to taste with salt and ground white pepper, let it ju.st boil. Have ready some mushrooms, rub them with salt and pepper, and when the cream boils add them to the cream in the saucepan. Boil all together for four minutes; serve very hot. Lay the fillets in a flat dish, and pour the sauce over them. Serve immediately with very thin brown bread and butter I’olled like small corks. Faust Kidneys [Ingredients—Two Kidneys, 7d.; other ingi’edients, 4^d.).—Two kidneys, one table.spoonfiil of made mustard, one dessertspoonful of curry powder, one tea- spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of cayenne, .some salad oil, and flour. Mix into a paste. Cover the kidneys wth the pa.ste, and toa.st in a Dutch oven before the Are. Serve on hot buttered toast,