230 BVERYBODy’s DINNER BOOK. ^ Chestnut Sauce {Ingredients—Qhaatnntfi, Id.; Milk, etc., Koast half a pound of chestnuts until they are quite tender (they should he scalded first). Pound them to a smooth paste with one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- ful of ground white pepper, and two tablespoonsful of cream or one ounce of fresh butter. Put the paste into the sauce- pan, and mix with it by degrees half a pint of boiling milk and cream mixed. Stii’ until fully blended ; hand with the turkey. A delicious sauce. DINNEPt No. 10. Partridge Soup {Ingredients—Partridge, Is. Gd.; Vege- tables, 4d.; Stock, 9d. ; Ham, etc., 2d.).—Skin one or more old partridges, and cut them u]!; put the meat into a stew- pan Avith one slice of lean ham, half a stick of celery, and one onion sliced and fried in buttei-. Pour over all one quart of good stock, and steAV for one hour. Add three pepper- corns and half a teaspoonful of salt. StcAv for one more hour ; strain the soup ; pound the meat, and stir it in; add one head of celery cut up and thoroughly stewed. Hand croiitons of fried bread Avith it. Mayonnaise of Sole: Isabella’s Kecipe {Ingredients— Sole, Is.; Eggs, 3d.; Lettuce, 8d. ; Ijemon, Capers, etc., 2d.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 7d.).—Boil the fillets of sole in salted Avater Avith the juice of one lemon squeezed into it. When done, lay the fillets flat hetAveen tAvo dishes. Put on a Aveight. When cold, cut into jiear-shaped pieces. Cut some cos lettuce as for a salad, reserving the hearts; jjut a layer of lettuce slightly heaped on to a dish; pour the mayonnaise sauce over it. On this arrange the pieces of sole in a circle alternately Avith quarters of hard-boiled egg. Put the rest of the sauce in the centre; garnish the base prettily Avith the lettuce hearts cut in quarters, and small heaps of capers and shred hard-boiled egg. Pulled and Grilled ’I'QiIs.gy {Ingredients—Turkey, Is. 2|d.; White Sauce, Is. 2d.).—Make a rich Avhite sauce Avith white stock and a quarter of a pint of cream, and heat it in a steAvpan; then after skinning some of the bones of the turkey draAv aAvay gently all the Avhite meat; do not break it or use a knife. Put the meat into the sauce, Avhich should be