99 STX-SHTLLING PINNERS. a pint of %-inegar with a little allspice, ginger, and pepper, and ponr it over tlie fish. Almost r. ny fish filleted or broken into large pieces can be served in tlie same way. Duclos Kidneys [Ingredients—Ts\o Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d. ; Egg, Id. ; Stock and Tomatoes, fid.; Butter, etc., 4d.).— Skin and take the fat off two kidneys ; cut them into neat slices; season with cayenne pepper and salt and finely chopped herbs. Fry them both sides in butter, and stir in a quarter of a pint of gravj'^ with some puree of tomatoes. Cook in boiling water two ounces of maccaroni; place a layer of it under the kidneys; pour the sauce round; sprinkle salt and pepper at the top, with a good dust of grated Parmesan, chopped hard-boiled egg, and shreds of pickles. Fitzwilliam Mutton {Ingredients—The rest of the Loin, Is. 3d. ; Potatoes, 3d.).—Take the remains of the roast loin of mutton of the previous day. As the joint was not jointed, it shoidd have been cut lengthwise. Mince the meat in dice; put it into a saucepan with salt and pepper to taste, some good gravy, and one tablesjioonful of Worcester and the same of Harvey sauce. Make it very hot. Fill the space where the meat lias been cut from with the mince ; spread thickly over the mince well-mashed potatoes, keeping the shape of the loin exactly. Brown it in the OA'en or with a salamander, and .serve without gravy as hot as pos.sible. The remains of a sirloin of beef may be treated in the same way, and is called “ Ossory Beef.” Veal and pork ai-e also dre.'ised this way, and lamb. Savoury Egg Pudding {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; other ingi-edicnts, 2d.).—Butter a pudding di.sh just large enough for one person ; line it with a layer of breadcrumbs flavoured with herbs. Break into this two eggs; cover with more breadcrumbs and a little melted butter. Set the dish in the oven until the eggs are thoroughly cooked; then brown them with a salamander or on the top gi’ating of the oven. DINNER No. 3. Julienne Soup {Ingredients—Stock, fid. ; Vegetables, etc., fid.).—Make this soup of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, sorrel, chervil, herbs, and lettuce. Cut the carrots.