everybody’s dinner book. 86 castor sugar and pepper, and half a teaspooiiful of salt. Stir the soup until it thickens, remove it from the fire, and stir in slowly the yolks of the four eggs. Place in the soup tureen slices of French roll dried in the oven, or two ounces of pulled bread; pour the soup over it, and serve vmj hot. Hand grated Parmesan with it. Fillets of Skate Egged and Breadcrumbed [Ingredients— Skate, 6d.; other ingredients, .3d. ; one Egg, Id.).—Take some skate; fillet it; egg and breadcrumb the fillets ; fry in hot lard; put fried parsley in the centre of the dish ; dish up the fillets; serve with black butter or good sharp sauce. Ham, Veal, and Egg Mould [Ingredients—Veal, Is. 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; | lb. Ham, fid.; other ingredients, 4d.).— Cut two hard-boiled eggs into slices ; take the brown edge of some slices of the cold loin of veal, and trim a quai’ter of a pound of ready-cooked ham neatly. Have a pretty mould ; lay the above in it in layers, placing pepper and salt, chopped pai'sley, and pickles between each layer. When nearly full, put in suflEicient strong stock to fill the mould. Bake half an hour. When cold, turn it out of the mould, and serve with the following salad ;— Cabbage Salad [Ingredients—One Cabbage, l|d.; Butter and Cream, 2|d. j one Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 4d.).— A quarter of a pint of vinegar, one teaspoonful of made mustard, chtto black pepper, one eggspoonful of salt, a bit of buttei' the size of a walnut. Boil all together. Cut one cabbage finely; mix it with two tablespoonsful of cream and the yolk of one egg well beaten. When the mixture is quite cool, pour it over the cabbage, previously placed in the salad bowl. Beat the white of the egg quite stiff, and stir in at the last moment before serving. Rice Toast with Poached Eggs [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Rice, etc., 2d.).—Boil the rice the night before it is used ; put it in a bread pan, and keep it on the ice. The next morning cut it into .slices, brush a little melted butter over the broiler and also over the sliced rice, and toast before the fire. When done, butter the slices, place a