'rKN-SHILLING mNNKRS. shells, and season with cayenne, a small piece of butter, salt, and lemon juice. Place them on a gridiron over a brisk fire, and broil for live minutes. PJNNPll No. 9. Consomme a la Brillat Savarin {Imjredients—Stock, 9d.; Quenelles of Partridge, etc., 2s.).—Make some small quenelles of partridge ; shape them carefully in a spoon ; shred some ti-uflles finely. Place the quenelles and truffles in the soup tureen, and pour on them rich, strong, clear soup. Sole a la St. Denis {Imjredients—Sole, Is. ; Butter, Parsley, etc., 3d. ; Italian Sauce, 6d. ; Butter, Gd.; Shrimp Pa.ste, 3d.).—Scrape and clean one sole ; cut off the head and tail; toss in a saute pan with enough fresh butter to cover it; sprinkle with chopped parsley, chives, salt, and pepper; turn the fish. When cooked, dish up carefully, cover with Italian sauce, and gai'iiish the dish with little balls of shrimp paste. Cotelettes de Pore a laRoyale {Imjredients—1| lb. Pork, Is. Id.; Forcemeat, Gd. ; Butter, 2d. ; Celery, l^d.).—Trim some neat cutlets from some neck of veal; egg and bread- crumb them, cutting the bone off rather short; fry in liot lard a nice golden colour •, garnish with fried celery and “ royal sticks,” made from finely chopped forcemeat made from fowl or game, mixed with breadcrumbs, salt, finely minced herbs, pepper, and cream ; roll this into very thin round sticks, and fry in butter. May also be used as a garnish for joints of beef, mutton, lamb, veal, or pork. Dinde aux Saucisses, Sauce aux Marrons {Imjredients— Turkey [6s., five dishe.s]. Is. 2^d.; Sausages, 5d. ; Stuffing, 9d.).—Fasten a sheet of buttered paper on to the breast of the turkey; put it down at a bright fire some little distance at first, afterwards drawing it nearer, and being specially careful that it is thoroughly well basted the whole time. About fifteen minutes before serving remove the paper, dredge lightly with flour, and put a bit of butter into the basting ladle; ba.ste the bird wth it as soon as the buttei: melts. StufT with the usual stuffing. Pour round it good clear gravy. Carnlsh with sausages, and hand with it a tureen of chestnut sauce, made as follows :—