233 TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. of ii pint of fresh raspbei’ries with a quarter of a pint of water, and set it into a pan of boiling water or a moderate ovon for half an hour; then strain olF the liquor and put it into a saucepan, with one ounce of sugar, one small glass of sherry, and one dessertspoonful of arrowroot, first blended in one spoonful of the juice. Stir until it is on the point of boiling. Pour over or round your pudding, or hand in a sauce boat. Cherries, red currants, strawberries, black- bendes—indeed, any fresh fruit—may be served in this way. DINNER No. 12. Potage a la Reine Mab [Ingredients—Vegetables, 7d. ; Cream, 6d.; Stock, 9d.; Eggs, 2d.; Rice, Id.).—Prepare in exactly the same way as “ Potage a la Madame de Genlis ” [see Dinner No. 8, p. 198), and in place of vegetables, truffles, and mushrooms serve carefully boiled rice. Sanmon a I’lrlandaise [Ingredients—Salmon, Is. 6d.; White Wine, Vinegar, etc.. Is.).—Boil a slice of salmon in strong salt and water. Make a pickle with equal parts of white wine, vinegar, and water; boil it with cloves, ginger, mace, pepper, and horseradish. Take out the horseradish when sufficiently boiled, and pour the pickle over the salmon. Hashed Turkey a la Mansfield [Ingredients—Turkey, Is. 2|d.; Mushrooms, etc., 6d.; Stock, 9d.).—Cut the other leg in two and any wfflite that is left; add one onion. Cut the stuffing into neat slices. Put any trimmings and bones you have into a stewpan with one eschalot and three mush- rooms sliced. Cover with one pint of good white stock; simmer for half an hour; put in a seasoning of ground white pepper and salt. After ten minutes strain the stock, set it on the fire, put in the turkey to heat, and warm the •slices of stuffing before the fire. When hot, place them round the dish with one stewed mushroom between each two slices; put the hash in the middle, dish the leg and pinion on the top, pour the sauce over the whole, and serve very hot. Brillat Savarin says: “ The turkey is the largest and, if not the most delicate, at least the most savoury of domestic poultry.” An excellent bird, truly.