KIGHT-SIIILLING DINNERS. 181 into a stiffish paste, and make small dumplings, kneading thoroughly, and being especially careful that there are no cracks. Boil for twenty minutes in milk. Serve with Demerara or treacle. When boiled in milk, add sugar and half a stick of cinnamon before boiling, and serve as sauce. Casena Biscuits alaDuchesse {Ingredients—Hill’s Oasena Biscuits, 4d.; Egg, Id.; Cream, Parmesan, and Capers, 6d.; Mustard and Cress, 2d.).—Take some “ Casena Biscuits,” made by Messrs. Hill & Son, 60, Bishopsgate Street Within, B.C. They are most excellent liavoiu-ed with cheese, and quite delicious. The following savoury will, I am sure, be generally appreciated: Spread on the biscuits a layer of Parmesan’ mixed with egg and cream, well flavoured with anchovy. Score the mixture and place capers down the incision. Shred truffles may be substituted. Serve on a bed of mustard and cress. DINNEE, No. 16. Thick Ox Tail Soup: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients —The rest of the Ox Tail Soup, Is. lOd.; Brown Roux, 3d.). —Thick ox tail is prepared in the same manner as clear, with the exception of cLuifying the stock, which strain through a napkin, and thic-ken with a little brown roux to the consistency of thin sauce; pass thi’ough a tammy, well skim, and serve. Rabbit Roll with Puree of Mushrooms {Ingredients— The rest of the Rabbit Roll, Is. 7d. ; Egg, Id.).—Cut the remains of the roll into neat slices, dip them in egg, then in fine bi'eadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard a nice golden colour. Serve with a puree of mushrooms. Pui'§e of Mushrooms : Delorme’s Recipe {Ingredients— Mushrooms, 3d.; Butter, 2d. ; Bechamel Sauce, 6d.; Cream, 2d.).—Put some good white button mushrooms in a stewpan with some butter, let them cook until tender, add to them some bechamel sauce, pass all through a sieve (a fine hair one is best), and put back in the stewpan with a little cream. Serve very hot. An excellent sauce. Roast Pheasant a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Pheasant, [3s. 6d., enough for twice]. Is. 9d. ; Sauce and Chips, 4d.).