TWO-SFULLING DINNERS. 17 ounce of butter in a pan, acid the vegetables, with a pinch of sugar and salt. Cover lightly, and place in the oven. As soon as the vegetables begin to get a delicate brown, add one pmt of stock ; simmer until the vegetables are cooked, skim off all the fat very carefully (as one test of a good and careful cook is the absence of fat in her soups), add two tablespoonsful of rice that has been previously cooked, and serve at once as hot as possible. The tureen should always be thoroughly warmed before the soup is poured into it. Soup cannot be too hot. Corned Beef Curried {Ingredients—Half a tin of Armour’s Corned Beef, 4|d. ; Milk, etc., 2|d.).—Cut one pound of corned beef into slices (a two-pound tin costs 9d.). Make a good curry sauce with one spoonful of curry powder mixed with milk (and a little stock if you have any). Lay the slices in a very hot dish, pour the sauce carefully over them, make very hot, and serve with potatoes as follows ;— Pommes de Terre a la Florence {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Milk, Butter, etc., 5d.).—Boil one pound of very mealy potatoes ; mash them so that no lumps are left. While mashing incorporate thoroughly with them salt to taste, two ounces of butter, a handful of fine white breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and enough hot milk to make the mixture cpiite stiff and perfectly smooth ; add the beaten yolks of two eggs and the white of one beaten to a very stifi' froth. Place the potato mixture high in a dish, shaping it in the centre almost to a point; pour over it clarified butter, and bake until it is a pale brown. Excellent cold. DINNER No. 6. Potage Pauvre Homme {Ingredients—Vegetables, fid. ; Eggs, 2d.; Stock, etc., fid.).—Put one ounce of butter into a saucepan with two large onions shred fine ; fry them a pale brown, add one teaspoonful of flour, stir for a few minutes, but take care not to allow the mixture to become a dark colour. Add one pint of common stock, previously flavoured with carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, and pai'sley ; stir until the soup lx)ils; season to taste with salt and pepper. Peel a couple of potatoes, cut them into small dice, and put them 2