evri^yrody’s einneb book. 246 milk, and when it boils stir in one tablespoonfnl of Brown & Poison’s corn Aonr dissolved in water. Beat np the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two with four tablespoonsful of castor sugar, and stir them to the cold Ouca Cocoa, with two teaspoonsful of vanilla (a quarter of a teaspoonful of cinnamon if liked), one saltspoonful of salt, and one tea- spoonful of melted butter, until quite light. Bake in open shells of pastry. When done, cover them with some meringue, made of the other tv^o whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, two tablespoonsful of castor sugar, and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. To be served when cold. DINNER No. 20. Garbure de Languedoc : Translated from “ L’Almanacii DES Gourmands ” {Ingredients—Stock, Is. 6d.; Vegetables, lOd.; Bacon, Ham, and Lard, Is.; Gruyfere and Parmesan, 7d.; Veal, Is. 2d.).—Take some of the contents of a good stock pot, or in default of this some very good broth. Take some good white cabbages and cut them in quarters. After they are blanched let them cool; sqtieeze them well, so as to drain every <lrop of water from them, and dress each quarter up separately. Line a saucepan with strips of lard; dress up on it some of the cabbage, with some bacon, some ham, some fillet or kniickle of veal. After covering the whole with strips of bacon, j’^ou add to it carrots, onions, and a bouquet of herbs; moisten the whole with some of the contents of the stock pot or some ^ood broth, and cook it over a slow fire. When it is well done, cut some bread, which you let simmer until the soup is rather thick. Then drain the cabbages on a clean white cloth, and squeeze them. Take some gi’ated Gi'uy6re and Parmesan, mixed in equal quantities ; sprinkle this ovei- your soup tureen, which shoiild be of silver, or at any rate of .something that will stand the fire ; then put in a layer of cabbage ; sprinkled with cheese; then one of crumbled bread, equally spiinkled with cheese ; continue these layers until the tureen is neaily full, taking care that the cabbages make the last layer, which must have a double quantity of cheese sprinkled on to it. The tureen being full, set it to brown gently in the oven or on the stove, -with a gentle fire under and over it. Serve boiling hot. When the “ Garbure de Languedoc ” is ready.