rvbhybody’s dinner book. 50 Let them be well seasoned. Add mushrooms, onion, and shallot chopped fine. Pour the remainder of the batter over the m6at; bake one hour ; serve very hot in the dish it was baked in. Care should be taken that the battei- is quite smooth ; the flour should be carefully mixed with some milk; then add the eggs well beaten, a little salt; then stir all together for five minutes. Mutton cutlets can also be used in this way. Steak and sheep’s liver make an excellent dish, and should be baked an hour and a half. Sausages and bacon done in this way are delicious, and a good meal is obtained at a small cost. Stewed Potatoes (^Imjredients—Potatoes, Butter, etc., 3d.). •—Bub a saucepan with a clove of garlic, put one ounce of butter into it, and when melted add three potatoes peeled and cut into quarters; add a little hot water, salt and pepper to taste, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon. Let all stew slowly until quite done. Peach Custards (^Inyredients—OnQ packet of Freeman’s Peach Pudding Powder, 4d. ; Milk, 3d.).^—-One packet of Freeman’s peach pudding powdei', made the same way as the strawberry pudding (see Dinner No. 13, p. 42), but with more milk. Pour into custard cups. Delicious. They have all the aroma of fresh fruit. Eggs with Asparagus (Ingredients—Asparagus, Is.; half of it, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter and Cream, 4|d.).—Beat the yolks of two eggs; pass them through a tammy; put them into a saucepan with butter, pepper and salt, a little white sauce or cream. Set it over the fire and stir until the egg is set. Drop into it the heads and stalks, cut into pieces, of half a bundle of cooked asparagus. Put triangles of fried fried bread round, and serve dmectly. DINNEK No. 3. Consomme aux Point d’Asperges (Ingredients—Other half of A.sparagus, fid.; Clear Soup, fid.).—Put the heads of asparagus into boiling water with a little salt and the 4east bit of soda; boil fifteen minutes. Have ready some very good clear soup. Take the asparagus out of the water, throw them into the soup, and serve immediately.