147 SKVRN-SHILLING DINNERS. Beetroot, 2d. ; Parsley, Tarragon, etc., 2|d.).—Take a salad bowl and rub it tliorouglily with a shallot. String some French beans, put them into plenty of salted water, and boil them whole. Let them get cold. Put oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and cayenne in the bowl; mince some parsley, tarragon, and capers ; put the beans in, and mix the ingredients well together. Cut two hard-boiled eggs into rings, the same ■with a beetroot; lay these alternately on the top of the salad, and place in the centre some boned anchovies cut into pieces. Gordon Rolls {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter and Milk, 4d. j Sugar and Flour, 2d. ; Jam, 3d.).—Make a cake mixture—two eggs, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, enough milk and flour to make a soft dough. Well butter a paper and put it on a flat baking tin ; pour the cake mix- ture on to the paper very thinly, and bake seven minutes in a hot oven. Turn it out quickly on to a well-sugared paper, spread it at once with jam or marmalade, roll up immediately, and serve. Rice “ Cordon Bleu ” {Ingredients—~K\ce, Id.; Suet, 2d. ; Tomatoes, etc., 4d.).—One cuiiful and a half of rice ; add two of water, place it all in a saucepan on the fire, let the rice come to a good boil, then set it on the .side of the stove to stcsam ; as the rice should be perfectly dry, do not stir it at all. Chop some suet fine and shred small two onions; place them with the rice in a frying pan ; let them cook a short time; add a little thyme, pepper and salt to ta.ste, and two niced-sized tomatoe.s. Cook for half an hour, mix it with the well-boiled rice, place in a deep earthenware dish, and bake until a golden brown. DINNER No. 14. Consomme aux PaiUes de Parmesan {Ingredients—Par- me.san and Gruy6re, 2d.; Cream, 2d.; Flour, etc., Id.; Stock, 9d.).—Mix two ounces of flour, one ounce of grated Par- mesan, the same of Gruy6re, a pinch of cayenne, and enough cream to make a dough stiff enough to be rolled out. Cut it in small strips two inches long, one-eighth of an inch thick and two-eighths of an inch broad ; bake in a slow oven.