TRN-SHILLING DINNERS. OOP; ounce of floiu’ in ono ounce and a half of fresh butter ; add to the sauce. Simmer for ten minutes, skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. Pomines de Terre alaSoyer {Inr/redients—Potatoes, 3d.).— Boil some large old potatoes without peeling them. Sei've wrapped in a napkin, or, better still, a wooden potato bowl. Hand butter sauce in a boat. Butter Sauce {Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—Melt some fresh butter, flavour to taste with salt ami pepper, add finely minced parsley, and serve very hot. Good also with new potatoes and French beans. Frangipane {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Cream, 2s.; Butter, Vanilla, etc., 6d.).—Make a nice open tart of good pastry, and fill it with frangipane made as follows. This mixture takes its name from an Italian prince called “ Csesar Frangipane.” It is also used to fill tartlets. Take one whole egg and the yolks of two, stir into it enough potato flour to make a thick sauce, then add one pint of milk or cream. Warm over a slow fire, stir until it boils, add two ounces of melted butter or beef marrow, continue stirring until quite thick, and flavour to taste with vanilla. Cook in a hain- marie. For more persons use two whole eggs and the yolks of four, two pints of milk or cream, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter. A delicious dish. DINNER No. 7. Potage d’Homard a la Marengo {Ingredients—Lobster, Is. 6d. ; FLsh Stock, 5d. ; Roll, Onion, etc., 2d.; Butter and Egg, 2d.; Mushrooms and Truffles, 4d.).—Take the meat from the body, claws, and tail of one lobster ; cut it into neat pieces, and set it aside until needed. Bruise the chine, small claws, and fins in a mortar, and put it in a stewpan with one pint of fi.sh stock, the toasted crust of half a French roll, one small onion, the peel of half a small lemon, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne. Let all stew three-quarters of an hour. Make small quenelles of the pounded lobster coral, some of the flesh, half an ounce of bread crumbs, united with well-beaten egg. Fry them in butter, and put them into the tureen before the soup is poui’ed in. 15