24 t:VERYBODY’s DINNER BOOK. fry them, cut into large dice, in boiling fat; when a nice brown, serve with the lish. Cold Meat Fried with Onions {Imjredients—Butter, etc., 6d.).—Take slices of any cold meat yon have and one large onion ; fry a good bi'own in two ounces of butter; shake the pan continually to prevent the meat from hurning. Boil up a quarter of a pint of broth or stock ; season well with jiepper, salt, mustard, sugar, cayenne, and Worcester and Anchovy sauce. Pour over the slices of meat, and serve as hot as possible. Gooseberry Fool {Ingredients—Goo.seberries, 14d.; Milk, etc., 3^d.).—Boil some gooseberries in sufficient water to cover them. When tender, strain through a sieve, sweeten to taste, and leave to get cold. Warm without boiling some new milk or cream, or a mixture of both ; add it to the gooseberries, stiri-ing well until the right con.sLstency. Serve when cold. Allow half a pint of milk to half a pint of the fruit. Serve in a glass dish or in custard or china cups. It is excellent iced. Pastry fingers may be eaten with it. Mont Blanc Pudding {Ingredients—lb. Cheese, 3d. ; Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter and Milk, 2d.).—A quarter of a pound of cheese, two eggs, one ounce of butter, a quarter of a pint of milk ; grate the cheese, beat it up -with the eggs, add the butter and milk, put it in the oven, and serve very hot. It is veiy good eaten cold; the remains can be used up next day. DINNER No. 14. Parsnip Soup {Ingredients—Parsnips and Onions, 3d. ; Stock and Tomato, 4d.).—Take two parsnips, scrape clean and rasp them, add two .sliced onions, and if obtainable one ripe tomato. While this is being done, heat some broth or stock, and season with salt, and if liked a little mace. Put the vegetables into one pint of the skimmed broth, coyer the stewpan close, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for two or two and a half hours, by which time the vegetables will be sufficiently tender to allow of their being passed through a sieve. Then boil the soup until it is