211 NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. eggs in halves, taking a tiny bit off the base of each, so that they Avill stand upright. Have ready a silver dish, place the eggs in a ring, continue the rings, which will gradually diminisli in size until one only remains in the centre. Have some finely shred parsley and some mustard and cress; make a border I'ound the eggs, laying prawns, carefully shelled, on the vegetable. Make a very good mayonnaise sauce, and pour over the whole, taking care that there is plenty of the sauce. Serve with this very thinly cut brown bread and butter, and the same made from milk bread, rolled into tiny rolls. Shrimps may be used, if preferred, instead of prawns, also shreds of lobster. DINNER No. 17. Potage a la Portugaise aux Fines Herbes {Ingredients— Vegetables, Is.; Eggs, 2d. ; Bread and Butter, 2d.).—Take some fines herbes, spinach, sorrel, tarragon, chervil, celery, white beet, leeks, carrots, and turnips. Wash them very carefully and boil in water. When nearly done, add a sUced onion, a little garlic, a lump of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Thicken with the yolks of the eggs, put some slices of bread into the soup tureen free from crust, and pour the boning soup over them. Salmon Sauce Blanc {Ingredients—Salmon, Is.; Butter, Lemon, etc., 2d.; Eggs, 2d.).—Cut up a piece of salmon into thin scallops, press with the blade of a knife winch has been dipped in cold water, melt some butter in a saucepan, lay the scallops in it side by side, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and shake the saucepan over a quick fire. Warm some reduced stock; add the butter in which the fish was cooked; season with chopped blanched parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the juice of one lemon; thicken with the yolks of the eggs, dish up the scjillops, and pour the sauce over them. Chicken Patties {Ingredients—Remains of the Chickens, Is. 6d. ; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Roll out some light paste until about one inch thick 3 leave for a few minutes, after which cut out yom- patties with a round levelled tin cutter about two and a half inches in diameter; cut out the patty covers with a small cutter, and bake for twenty minutes;; scoop out