27 TWO-SHTLLING DINNERS. sugar, and the same of Jine flour ; add to this the whites of the eggs, and one large tablespoonful of rose or orange flower water; beat all the ingi-edients together for ten minutes. Arrange the paste on the baking tin with a spoon in pieces about a thumb length, sprmkle with castor sugar, let the sugar absorb, and bake a nice brown in a moderate oven. When partly cool, press two pieces together, and place in an air-tight tin box until required. They are most useful when you have to ai'range a little dinner at a very short notice. DINNER No. 17. Savoury Hash {Ingredients—Milk, Butter, etc., 3d.).— Any remains of game, poultry, or veal. Mince, not too finely. To one small cupful of meat add one ounce of butter, half a cup of milk, minced onions to flavour, salt and pepper to taste. Stew until cooked, and serve on rounds of toast. Potted meat may be used instead of fresh. Every-day Pie {Ingredients—Vegetables, 6d. 3 Butter, etc., 5d.).—Take some carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, onions, parsnips, cabbage, lettuce, beetroot, cold potatoes, and cauliflower. Out them in small pieces ; put them in a pan with two ounces of butter, a very httle water; season with salt and pepper to taste. Stew them until quite tender; pour them into a small pie dish well buttered, just large enough for one person ; cover with paste and bake. When in season, peas, broad beans, French beans, scarlet runners, mushrooms, asparagus, may be added in place of some of the above, which would then be out of season. / Kate’s Marmalade Pudding {Ingredients—Suet, 2d.; Egg, Id. ; Peel, Lemon, Marmalade, 2d.).—Three ounces of breadcrumbs, four ounces of suet, one ounce candied mixed peel, half a lemon, one egg, three tablespoonsful of marma- lade. Chop the suet very fine, shred the candied peel, grate the rind of the lemon, put these ingredients into a basin, add the breadcrumbs, and mix with them the marmalade and egg. Well grease a basin, turn in the mixture, cover with gi’eased paper, and steam two hours. Frascati Eggs {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d. ; other ingredients, 2d.).—After boiling two eggs hard, sliell them very carefully,