everybody’s dinner book. 172 two inches in diameter cut out of each slice as many pieces as possible. With another paste cutter about one inch and a half in diameter make a mark on one side of each cylinder of breadcrumbs. When all are ready, fry them a golden colour in very hot lard. A deep frying pan should be iised, and plenty of lard, so that the croustades fairly swim in the fat. When done, lay them in front of the fire to di-ain, and afterwards remove the cover (marked with the smaller paste cutter), and with the handle of a tea-spoon scoop out all the inside of each croustade. Mince finely some remains of roast or boiled chicken, free from skin. Add an equal quantity of ham or tongue, and the same of truffles or mushrooms finely minced. Toss the whole in a saucepan, with a pinch of flour and whole pepper and some salt (pounded spice also if liked). Moisten with a little white stock. Stir in, off the fire, the yolk of one egg, beaten up -with the juice of half a lemon. Fill the croustades with this mince. Put one button mushroom on each, cover them with a sheet of oiled paper, put them into the oven to get thoroughly hot, and serve. Any scraps of meat, game, fish, eggs, and vegetables can be used in this way, and they can be varied by adding a little cm-ry powder to the stock. Chartreuse of Mutton {Ingredients—Vegetables [average], 3d. ; Stock, 6d.; Butter, 2d.).—Butter the inside of a straight tin mould. Take different cold boiled vegetables; cut into squares, circles, dice, triangles, or any fancy shapes. Arrange them in a mosaic pattern on the inside of the mould. In winter, carrots, turnips, beetroot, artichokes, and sprouts 3 in summer, carrots, turnips, asparagus points, French beans, and peas. Keep these vegetables in their places with a wall of cold mashed potatoes one inch and a half thick. Make a good white sauce; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; thicken slowly with sifted flour (do not colour the flour) and some strong stock flavoured with mushrooms ; add cold mutton, beef, or veal; cut in square pieces half an inch thick. Stew gently half an hour. In the meantime, put the mould in the oven, until the vege- tables and potatoes are heated through; then pour in the sauce and meat. Place a dish on the top of the mould, turn out, and serve.