70 everybody’s dinner book. pile them in the centre of the dish, with the liver and bacon placed alternately round them, and the gra\'y poured round. Serve vefi'y hot. Salmon Salad a I’Americaine {Ingredients—One tin of Preserved Salmon, 7id. ; Biscuits, etc., 4d.).—One tin of salmon, some cracknel biscuits broken into bits, one onion cliopped fine, salt and pepper; moisten with vinegar, stir all together lightly in the salad bowl, and serve. Souffle a la Donovan {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; four Eggs, 4d.; Sugar, Flour, Nutmeg, Lemon, 3|d.; Brandy ami Butter, 6d.).—Half a wineglass of brandy, the rind of one lemon, one pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg, three'ounces of loaf sugar, three ounces of butter, six ounces of flour. Beat the butter to a cream (the quickest way to do this is to put it into a warm basin, stu’ring it backwards with the hand); add four well-whisked eggs, the flour and sugar (rub some of the lumps on a fresh lemon to exti’act the flavour, and then pound them with the rest), the brandy, a grate of nutmeg, and the milk by degrees. Have ready a well- buttered soufflee dish (charmuig ones for two or more people can be bought at Harrod’s Stores for elevenpence each; they are made of white china), pour the mixture into it, and bake in a well-heated oven from thirty to forty minutes. Do not take it from the oven until time to serve, as it spoils light dishes like souffles to he taken from the oven until required. People should wait for the souffle, not the souffl6 for them.. Ramequin Cases with Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.).—Get two ramequin cases, china or paper. Mix together a bit of butter, some crumbs from a day-old loaf, salt and cayenne, and a little chopped pai\sley. Butter the bottom of the cases, put in the mixture, break one egg into each case, cover with breadcrumbs, see that the cases are quite full, put them on a baking tin, set them in the oven for three minutes, and serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 20. Riz au Lait {Ingredients—Milk, 2d. ; Rice, Sugar, Oi-ange Flower Water, .3d.).—Wash some rice quite clean, and