SKVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 1.51 Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel [Ingredients—Mackerel, 6d.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Take one very fresh soft-roed mackerel; cut off the fins ; make an incision one inch deep down the back; lay the fish in a dish; strew salt and pepper over it, three tablespoonsful of sweet oil, one onion cut in rings, and some whole parsley. Leave the mackerel to marine in this for about two houi’S, turning it over occasionally. Half an hour before serving rub a gricUi’on with oil, take out the fish and wipe it, dust with salt and pepper, and lay on the gridiron (if more than one mackerel, place them one inch apart) over a slow fire. Cook the fish carefully until a good coloui-, then turn it and do the other side. When done, lay the mackerel on its back; it will take about five minutas to cook. When you have dished it up, open the back with a spoon and insert butter mixed with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Serve the marinade in a boat with it. Fricandeau with Ham [Ingredients—Best of the Cold Fricandeau, 2s. 0|d. ; | lb. Ham, 6|d.).—Put the cold fricandeau on to a clean dish, and serve with cold ham cut into rounds with a cutter. Ossory Beef [Ingredients—^Rest of the top side of the Sirloin, 9d. ; Vegetables, 5d. ).—-The remains of the top side of the sirloin dressed in the same way as “ Fitzwilliam Mutton ” [see Dinner, No. 2, p. 99): that is to say, the space where the slices were cut from is filled with the remains of the beef, carefully minced; then peas, carrots, turnips, and French beans, chopped and mixed together and moistened with stock, are placed next to the mince; beyond that again mivshed potatoes nicely bi-owned. Middleton Pudding [Ingredients—Suet, 2d. ; Currants, etc., 8d.).—Soak some stale bread in boiling water. When quite soft, drain the water from it. Beat up the bread with milk, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped fine, the same of currants, Demerara to taste, some mixed peel, and a little spice. Put the mixture into a well-buttered pie dish. ^ Biike and serve very hot. Demerara should be served with it. An excellent pudding, especially for children. ^ Curried Eggs and Onions on Toast [Ingredients—Two )J^ggs, 2d.; Spanish Onion, etc., Igd.).—Curry one small