SIX-SHTLLINO mNNR'RS. 121 good herb and mushroom stuffing (if mushrooms are not liked tliey can be omitted). Eoll the meat; tie it into a neat shape with tape, and roast it. Use the bones for .the stock pot. Serve with clear gravy. A Dutch Salad {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. | lb. Bacon, 4:ld.; Potatoes, Id.; Salad, etc., 4d.).—Lay at the bottom of a deep dish a few hot or cold sliced potatoes; on the top of these place a fresh salad (lettuce, mustard and cress, lieetroot), not dressed, and on the top of the salad two hard-boiled eggs hot or cold, cut in slices. Take half a pound of nice fat bacon cut in rashers; fry crisp. Mix one teaspoonful of flour in cold water ; add pepper, salt, vinegar, and mustard to taste. Mix this sauce with the liquid fat from the bacon, pour over the salad, and serve. Ham and fat pork may be used in the same way. OrangePui’ee {Ingredients—One pint Cream, Is.; Savoys, 3d.; tliree Eggs, 3d.; three Seville Oranges, 3d.; Sugar, etc.. Id.).—Take one pint of cream, sugar to taste, a little mLxed spice, three eggs well beaten, the juice of three Seville oranges. Stir over a slow fire imtil it is as thick as you wish : it must not boil. Let it get cold. Pour it into a glass dish, and serve with savoys. N.B.—The same dish ma.y be made with lemon instead of orange juice, and is especially recommended for rheumatic or gouty persons. Baked Omelette aii Parmesan {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; 3 oz. Parmesan, 2d. ; Milk, etc., 2d.).—Beat two eggs very lightly; mix with them two pinches of ground white peppei-, one of salt, three tablespoonsful of milk (cream if you have it), and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Povir the mixture into a well-buttered pl.ate. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven, and .serve instantly, with a little Parmesan dusted over the top just as you send it to table. DINNER No. 18. New York Beef Soup {Ingredients—| lb. Gravy Beef, fid.; Cehuy, 3d.; \ lb. Rice, ^d.; i lb. Pearl Barley, Jd.; ,j lb. e.ach of Onion, Turnip, Carrot, fid.; ^ lb. Tomatoes, 3d.; Pai'.«ley, Id.).—Cut the meat iiito pieces about one iiicli