ONE-SHILLING DINNERS. 3 will give bones when asked : if a fish is filleted at the shop the bones and tiimmings should always be sent with it). In the absence of bones melted butter will do. Mix all together, and stm gently over a slow fire. When pounding the herbs mix a little butter with them. Good Way of Cooking a Pork Chop {Ingredients—Pork Cliop, 5d.; Apples, etc., 3d.).—Buy one pork chop. Pry well, taking care that it is not the least diy. Previous to frying, egg and breadcrumb the chop; sprinkle it with finely chopped onion and sage. Serve with apple sauce in a sauceboat. If you have any cold potatoes, fry, and serve with the chop. DINNER No. 4. Ashford Bacon Pudding {higredients—Bacon, 6d.; Egg, Id.; Spinach, etc.. Salt, and Pepper, 2d.).—Line a pudding basin entirely with thin slices of bacon. Boil some spinach, chop and season it. Whip up the yolk of one egg, with pepper and salt to taste. Cut some carrots, turnips, and onions into square pieces; mix them well with the seasoning and egg; place them very thickly alternately round the sides of the tin or basin (it can be made in a pudding shape), and at the bottom fill up the centre with the dressed spinach. When the basin or tin is fuU, cover it with thin slices of bacon; steam one hour, tui'n it out in a covered dish, lift up the bacon, pour in some rich brown gravy, replace the bacon carefully, and serve very hot. Nancy’s Savoury {Ingredients—Butter and Egg, Igd.; Bread, Anchovy Sauce, Lard, Igd.).—Put a little butter into a saucepan, when melted break one egg into it, stir together until it is the consistency of thick cream, add half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Have ready some rounds of bread about the size of the top of a sherry glass; fry a delicate brown in boiling lard or dripping. Pour some of the mixture on to each croUton, and serve ve>'y hot. DINNER No. 5. Howard Leek Soup {Ingredients—Leeks, Id. ; Egg, Milk, Cream, 4d.; Stock, Butter, 3|d.).—Ery some leeks in butter; add half a pint of stock, or more according to the quantity