rverybody’s dinner book. 38 Emergency Egg Savoury {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Butter, Id.).—The yolk and white of one egg, and one ounce of butter clarified; beat together thoi’oughly. and stir over the fire, taking care to stir always in the same direction, until quite amalgamated. Have ready a round or square of crisp hot toast made from either brown or white bread, butter it, place the mixture on the toast, season with salt and pepper, and serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 9. Waste-not, Want-not Soup {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; 1| lb. Meat, lOgd. ; Bones, 3d. ; Vegetables, etc., 4;ld.).—Get from your butcher one pound of ends and trimmings of meat and some bones; place them in a saucepan, covering well with water. Put in any raw, also cooked, vegetables you have, celery and lettuce stalks, rinds of bacon and bacon bones, scraps of bread and toast, a good seasoning of herbs, salt and pepper to tixste, any scraps of povdtiy and veal you have, some rice, and minced parsley. Simmer all gently for three hours, removing the fat occasionally, and adding water when required. Strain through a cullender, and serve very hot. Poach one or more eggs, and add them after the soup is in the tureen. Coquilles de Poisson (to use up cold fish) {IngreAients— Cream and Milk, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Melt a bit of butter in a small saucepan, and mix it thoi'oughly with one table.spoonful of flour ; add as much milk as will make the quantity of sauce you require, pepper and salt to taste, and if liked a pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir on the fire until the sauce is the consistency of cream, then add the fish you have, freed from skin and bone. Stir in two table- spoonsful of cream, and fill some scallop-shells (silver or plated are best, but fireproof china will do very well) with these ingredients, cover each with breadcrumbs, and place in the oven just long enough to brown. Cayenne in a less quantity may be substituted for nutmeg, and instead of cream the yolk of one egg beaten up with the juice of half a lemon. Eggs may be dressed in the same way, also Avith curry sauce; so may any scraps of meat, game, or poultry. Equally good cold.