FOUR-SHILLINO DINNRBR. loaf sugar, and a little grated horseradish. Serve in a deep dish. Hand with it brown bread and butter, and a lemon cut in quarters. Chicken with White Sauce {Ingredients—Remains of the Chicken, Is.; Milk and Butter, 2d.; other mgredients, 2d.).—Take the remainder of the chicken—namely, the two wing bones, the merrythought, and piece of the brea.st (the slices from the breast having made the first meal). Warm the chicken in a saucepan with white sauce made as follows :—Put one ounce of butter into a ste^vpan, add one carrot and one small onion cut very fine; simmer all together until the butter is almost absorbed; .stir in a quarter c f a teacupful of fioui’, add half a pint of milk, and a little salt and pepper. Boil gently until the sauce thickens, strain it, and season with a little cayenne. The addition of chicken bones, if you have any, is an improvement, or they may be put in the stock pot. If preferred, mushroom or tomato sauce or good brown gravy may be substituted for the white sauce. Have ready some maShed potatoes, place it in the centre of a dish, dish the chicken up against it, pour the white sauce over the whole, and serve at once. Lettuce with Arrowroot and Poached Eggs {Ingredients— One Lettuce and Arrowroot, 4|d. ; two Eggs, 2d.).—Stew one lettuce in good brown gravy (a cos lettuce is best, 4d.). Thicken the gravy with a little arrowroot; serve with two nicely poached eggs, which should bo placed on the bed of lettuce just before serving. DINNER No. 9. Pur4e of Liver {Ingredients—g lb. Calf’s Liver, 5d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Roll, Id. ; other ingredients, 8d.).—Get half a pound of calf’s liver, slice it, dredge well with fioui-, and fry brown in butter, with one onion cut in thin slices. Pound the liver pei’fectly smooth ; season with black pepper, salt, and if liked a pinch of nutmeg, but this may be omitted. Stir into it one pint of brown stock ; boil ten minutes, with the addition of one sliced French roll with the cru.st lelt on. Strain, and again heat the .soup until it almost boils. Pour the imree on to two well-beaten eggs,