3G everybody’s dinner book. French Roll, Cress, and Egg Sandwich {Ingredients— Roll, Id.; Cress, Eggs, etc., 2d.).—Cut four rounds from a French roll, butter them and sprinkle a little salt, add the yolk and white of one hard-boiled egg in rings, then a layer of small cress, then one more iwind of the roll .as a cover. DINNER No. 7. Filet de Merluche Lavalliere {Ingredients—Haddock, 4d.; Egg, etc., 5d.).—Take one fair-sized haddock, .split it and remove the b.ackbone, turn it half over and skin it, cut it into fillets, take the greatest care that no fin bones are left on, trim very neatly. Beat up one egg with a littlo w’ater, and pepper and salt to taste, dip the fillets in this mixture, breadcrumb them thoroughly, lay them in the frying basket, .and plunge it into a stewpan containing enough boiling lard or fat to cover the lish entirel3a Shake the basket from time to time, sprinkle with .a little salt, and take the fillets out when they are a pretty gold colour. Dish on a fish paper in a circle, with fried parsley in the centre, and half a lemon cut in two on a plate; hand with it some rolled slices of very thin bread and butter. Roast Shoulder of Mutton a I’Espagnole {Ingredients— Half of the other h.alf of the Shoulder, 9d. ; Tom.atoe.s, Potatoes, and Egg, 5d.).—Roiust the other half of the shoulder of mutton very carefully. Warm half a tin of tomato pur6e, spread it on a very hot dish, di.sh the mutton on it, and pour round some good gravy. Boil some potatoes, dip them into egg, breadcrumb them, fry, and arr.ange round the dish. Tartine aux Confitures de Framboise {Ingredients—Tv'o Eggs, 2d.; Milk and Cre.am, 7d.; Jam, etc., 4d.).—Mix the yolks of two eggs with one and a half dessertspoonful of fine flour and the same of rice : the ingredients must be quite smooth. Add ojie dessertspoonful of castor sugar, one coffee- cupful of new milk, a small pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Whi.sk the whites of the eggs until tliey are a stiff froth, and add them last; be.at all together for five minutes, and then put the mixture on to two flat plates previously buttered. Bake in a quick oven until set and