TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. SSS little of the best parts of the meat; colour them pink and green respectively, and slip them into the soup just before serving. Rice flour or groimd rice may be used instead of arrowroot, and maccaroni or vermicelli may take the place of the quenelles, or be served as well in the soup. Guinea fowls, chickens, rabbits, and pheasants can be cooked in the same way. Cotelettes de Mouton a I’Afrioaine {Ingredients—14 lb. Mutton, Is. 6d. j Chutnee, etc., 64d.).—Out the cutlets neatly, broil over a very sharp lire, turning them continually. When nearly done, season highly with salt and pepper, and rub one spoonful of chutnee on both sides of each cutlet; put them again on the gridiron, broil for another minute, and serve. Lamb chops and cutlets or mutton chops, also pork, may be cooked in the same way. Pommes de Terre a la Lyonnaise {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d. ; Shallot, etc., 2d.).—Stir over the lire some oil, butter, a little finely minced shallot, pepper, and salt. Mix it well, and as soon as the oil and butter are thoroughly amalga- mated, pour this sauce over some ready boiled and .sliced potatoes. Serve at once, as the sauce curdles as it cools. Canard Parfaite an Puree Verte {Ingredients — Duck [3s., two dishes]. Is. 6d. ; Onions, etc., 3d.; Stock, 3d.; Peas, 9d.).—Take rather more than one pint of green peas; boil them in a little broth, and I'ub them sinooth through a sieve; stew one duck in broth with salt, whole pepper, half a clove of garlic, some small onions, parsley, thyme, basil, and bay leaves. When done enough, pass the sauce through a sieve, and add to it the puree of peas ; reduce the whole to a good consistency, about that of thick cream. Serve the duck with the pitree over it. Blancmange au Cafe {Ingredients—Cofiee, 6d.; Gelatine, 3d.; Sugar, 24d.; Sweet Almonds, Is. 3d.).—Roast a quarter of a pound of coft'eo beriies (B.W. mixture, as in Dinner No.'12, p. 234) ; grind and put them in one tumbler- ful of boiling water; leave until the grounds have settled at the bottom of the tumbler ; pour the clear coffee into a bowl, and add half a pound of sugar and half an ounce of