RIGHT-SHILLTNG DINNERS. 165 DINNEE No. 5. Creme de Eiz: Isabella’s Eecipe {Ingredients—White Stock, Is. 6d.; Eice and Egg, 2d.; Peas, 4d.; Cream, 3d. ).— Pick and wash in tepid water two ounces of rice; put it to cook in one pint of white stock; when thoroughly done, add one more pint of stock, with a handful of young green peas boiled in it. Stir into the soup, off the fire, half a gill of cream, with the yolk of one egg strained and beaten up with it j add white pepper and salt to taste, and serve as hot as possible. Saumon au Vin Slanc {Ingredients—White Wine, 9d. ; Salmon [3s., enough for two dishes]. Is. 6d.; Butter, 2d. ; Onions, etc., 2d.; Lemon, Id.).—Pour into a fish kettle one pint and a half of water, and half a pint of white wine; add a Kttle parsley, two bay leaves, one small onion, two cloves, a little salt, a few crushed peppercorns, and two ounces of butter. Boil fifteen minutes. Have ready three pounds of salmon; place it in the centre of a good-sized piece of muslin; lower on to the strainer in the kettle; fold the corners of the muslin over the fish; simmer gently thirty to forty minutes. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Make some shrimp or lobster sauce, mix with it a little of the stock in which the fish has been boiled, and serve in a sauce boat. Shi’imp Sauce {Ingredients—Shrimps, 3d. •, 2 oz. Butter, 2d.; Milk and Floui’, 2d.).—Mix the butter and flour together smoothly on a plate, put it into a lined saucepan, and pour in one-third of a pint of milk (one teaspoonful of flour is enough) ; keep stii-ring it one way over a shai'p fire j let it boil quickly for a minute or two; shell the shrimps very carefully; 2>utthem into the butter; add salt and cayenne to taste, and one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; let all just simmer, and serve very hot. Dutch Sweetbread {Ingredients—^ lb. Veal, 7d. ; Egg and Milk, 2d. ; Suet, 2d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.).—-Half a pound of finely minced veal (it can also be made with chicken, turkey, rabbit, or pheasant), two ounces of suet chopped very fine, a quarter of a pound of bread soaked in milk, and theyolk of one egg well beaten ; mix thoroughly ; add salt, pepper.