SIX-SHILLING DINNEHS. ion tender. Add the potatoes forty minutes before the stew has finished cooking. Plenty of pepper is a necessary ingredient, and salt to taste, while great care should be taken that any fat which rises to the surface should be entirely skimmed off. Nothing looks so unmviting as a greasy Irish stew. Pile the cutlets in the centre of the dish, and arrange whole potatoes and some button onions all round them. Some people like a little finely chopped parsley sprinkled over it just before serving, but most people prefer it without this adclition. Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel {Ingredients—Two Kidneys, 7d.).—Split two kidneys lengthwise, but do not divide them. Strip off the skin and fat; then skewer them carefully on plated skewers, taking care that the skewers go thi-ough the points and back, so that they are flat while broiling. Season with salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon juice, and a dash of cayenne; brush them over thoroughly with oil or claiified butter; put them over a brisk, clear fire, turning the cut sides towards the fire; turn them; broil for five minutes. When cooked place a bit of “Maitre d’Hdtel Butter,” made as follows, in the centre of each kidney, and serve very cpiickly on hot buttered toast. Hand with this dish hot or cold “ Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Maigre.” Maitre d’Hotel Butter {Ingredients—1 oz. Fresh Butter, Id.; Parsley and Lemon Juice, Id.).—One ounce of fresh butter mixed with one dessertspoonful of lemon juice or the juice of half a lemon, and the same quantity of finely chopped parsley freed from all moisture, salt and pepper to taste. Incorporate all the ingredients thoroughly, and keep in the cool or on ice until wanted. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Maigre {Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Cut two ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, put it in a stewpan, dredge over it one teaspoonful of flour, add one wineglass of water, and salt to ta.ste; stir in one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, one shallot minced. Let it ju.st boil. The butter may also bo melted with cream, in which ca.se water is used, l)ut not flour; then you must keep stirring it, but it must not boil.