59 FOim-SHILLING DINNERS. of pounded mace, salt, pepper, and a dash of lemon juice; moisten with cream or gravy. Make some puff paste rather thin; cut into round or square pieces ; put the mince between two pieces of paste; press the edges to keep in the gravy or cream; fry a nice brown. Serve on a napkin or fish paper, mth a little crisply fried parsley in the centre. A Dry Curry of Oysters {Ingredients—One dozen Oysters, Is. 6d.; Butter, 2d. ; Vegetables, etc., 8d.).—Heat twelve oy.sters slowly until they .are thoroughly warmed through. Dissolve a fair-sized slice of butter in a deep well-lined saucepan, and shake over a brisk fire until it begins to colour; then add the oysters, and see that they are all equally well browned, shaking the pan thoroughly, and turning the oysters very often. When done, lift the oysters out, throw into the saucepan two lai-ge onions finely minced, and a bit of butter, and fry until they begin to get tender; then add one teacupful of stock, half an acid apple or the juice of a quarter of a lemon, the heart of one small lettuce, and the same of one cabbage shred small, one or more gherkins, and one tomato, out of which the seeds h.ave been I'emovetl. Stew until a thick pulp; if too dry, add more stock, put m the oysters with two teaspoonsful of flour, the same of curry powder, .and a pinch of salt. Simmer for forty-five minutes; serve on a hot dish with boiled rice on a separate dish. Shrimps, prawns, and lobster may be cooked in the same way. Very good cold. (Eufs au Beurre Noil’ {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.).—Put two ounces of fre.sh butter in a frying pan. Place it on a sharp fire until the butter becomes a dark brown ; remove from the fire, break two eggs into it, and fiy lightly. Place them on .a dish, add to the black butter a little chili vinegai-, and serve very hot. DINNEPt No. 11. Another Pea Soup {Ingredients—Stock and Peas, lOd. ; other ingredients, 2d.).—U.se green pe.as that .are too hard to cook as vegetables. Put them in boiling watei' until soft, and then strain them through .a sieve. Mix the peas with one pint of gravy soup, some laitter, finely chopped parsley.