104 evpjrybody’s dinner book. DINNEll No. 6. Pui’ee aux Choux de Bruxelles {Iwjredients—l lb. Brussels Sprouts, 3d.; Stock, Gd. ; half a pint of Cream, Is.). —Pick carefully one pound of spi-outs, wash them thoroughly and plunge them into a liberal quantity of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil twenty minutes; drain and put them through a cullender; then rub them through a sieve, return to the range, and add one quart of stock. Wet one dessertspoonful of flour in a little cold milk, and whisk it into the soup; add one saltspoonful of salt gradually, and taste the soup while adding it. Add a dash of c<ayenne. Scald half a pint of rich cream, whisk it into the soup, taste for seasoning, and serve with croUtons. Calf’s Feet Fritters [Ingredients—Two Calf’s Feet, Is.; one Egg, Id.; Tomato Sauce, etc., 3d.).—Put the calf’s feet into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew gently for foiu- hours; then cut the meat oft’ the bones in neat pieces; sprinkle them with pepper and salt, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in lard a nice brown. Serve dry or with tomato sauce. Put the bones back into the water in which they were stewed, and boil for some time longer; the liquor can be used for jelly. Leg of Mutton Hashed with Pickles and Mushrooms [Ingredients—-Part of the Boned Leg, Is. 3d.; Potatoes and Mushrooms, 3d.; Pickles, etc., 3d.).—Take the remains of the thick end of the rolled and stuffed leg of mutton; cut it into slices; use the stuffing also; add some mixed pickles, chopped not too finely. Take some cold boiled potatoes; cut them into strips like broad straws; fry them lightly in boiling fat. Fry some strips of oiaons in the same way. Well warm a hash dish; place the potatoes and onions in the centre of the dish, the hashed mutton round the vegetables, and triangles of fried bread or toast round that again. Some good gravy should be added to the hashed mutton before putting it in the dish. Light the spirit lamp and send up to table as soon as the hash is cooked. If liked, red currant jelly may be eaten with it. Send broiled mush- rooms on toast on a separate dish to table with it. Baked Batter Pudding [ImjredienU—Three Eggs, 3d. [enough for twice; half cost of dish, 44d.] ; Butter, Id.