62 kverybody’s dinner book. quart of water into a stewpan, and turn tlie fried kidney into this. Have ready cleaned and cut uji very small, one turnip, one carrot, one onion, one outer stick of celeiy; fry these in the drii^ping or lard; then add them to the soup, wdth a bouquet (jarni (that is, a sprig of thyme, one bay leaf and a bunch of parsley tied together). Boil gently for three hours'. Mix one tables])Oonful of Hour to a smooth paste mth cold water, add gradually one pint of the hot liquor, and turn the whole into the soup ; stir it once more to prevent it getting lumpy; let it boil for a few minutes; then add peppier and salt to taste, one tea.spoonful of ketchup, and if needed a few drops of browning. Remove the bouquet garni, and serve very hot. Soubise Cutlets {^Ingredients—Half the remaining Outlets, lOd.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Saw off the upper rib bone, leaving the bone, which makes the cutlets .about three inches long, then saw off the spine bone; scrape the nseat and fat clean off half an inch of the top of each bone. Put the cutlets round a saitte pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add one ounce of butter, and cook them a nice brown on each side. Serve with Soubise sauce in the centre and a good grav^q with a little glaze round the cutlets. Soubise Sauce {Ingredients — Onions, 2d.; MiHc, Id.; Cream, Gd.; Butter, etc., Igd.).—Parboil four good-.sized onions (if you wish the sauce to be mild, use one large Spanish onion to half a pint of milk) ; remove the core and chop them finely; put them into half a pint of milk, and stew them gently for half an horn-; thicken with a little butter and flour; season with pepper and salt; rub through a hair sieve; add one gill of cream, which should be boiling at the time. Orange Flower Blaucmange {Ingredients—Sweet Almond Valencias, Ggd.; Bitter Almonds, Id.; Milk, 2d.; Orange Flower Water, etc., 2d.).—Nine ounces of sweet almonds blanched and peeled, six bitter almonds; pound them in a mortar with orange flower water; when reduced to a paste, add castor sugar to taste, and about one pint of milk. Pour into a mould, and set it on the ice until required. Bombay Toast {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2d.). —Put a spc'onful of butter on a hot-water dish or plate.