KIGHT-SniLLING DINNERS. 163 etc., 4cl.).—The yolks of two eggs, a quarter of an ounce of Swinborne’s isinglass, dissolved in one gill of hot milk, one ounce of castor sugar, half a pint of new milk, one pint of stewed gooseberries, stewed until reduced to a pulp, and sweetened to taste. Beat the eggs and sugar together until the consistency of rich cream j pour over them half a pint of hot milk; return to the saucepan; stir until thick, but do not let it boil. Add this mixture very gradually to the dissolved isinglass and gooseberry pulp ; stir until nearly cold ; pour into a prepared mould. When quite firm and cold, turn it out on to a glass dish. Scrambled Eggs with Ham {Ingredients — Three Eggs, 3d.; Butter, 3d.; Milk, etc., 2d. ; Ham, 3gd.).—Break into a stewpan three eggs, three ounces of butter, two tablespoons- ful of new milk, salt and pepper to taste, and a little parsley. Stii' the mixture over the fire until it becomes thick ; when of the proper consistency, .serve on very hot, well-buttered toast, adding a little parsley at the top of the eggs just before serving, with finely minced ham or tongue on the top of that again. DINNER No. 4. Flemish Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, Gd.; Butter, Id.). —Boil equal parts of potatoes and turnips in water with one onion and one head of celery. Add pepper and salt to taste. When quite tender, pass the vegetables through a hail- sieve. Put it in a saucepan on the fire. When it boils, add one pat of fresh butter, plenty of chervil, a pinch of pai-sley, and some tai'ragon leaves minced fine. Serve very hot. Veal CoUops: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients— 1 lb. Veal, Ls. 2d.; Bacon, 4|d.; Mushrooms, 6d.; Stock, 7d.).—Trim six (or more) veal cutlets (the fillet of the best end of the neck is best); cut a similar number of pieces of streaky bacon, and trim them to a unifoi'm size with the veal; add half a basket of button mushrooms. Saute the cutlets until a nice brown ; have I’eady one pint of good stock ; toss in the mushrooms, wlfich have been previously cooked, let them boil until the gi’avy is reduced to demi-glaze: have