SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 127 Veal Collops : Miis. Bradban’s Recipe {hujreclients— I lb. Veal, 7d.; Bacon, 4gd.; Sherry, Ketchup, etc., 3d.). —Take half a pound of veal, cut it about the .same thick- ness as for cutlets, flour it, and fry a light brown in fresh butter; sprinkle with floui', and add half a pint of water, pouring it in gradually. When it boils add a very small quantity of pounded mace and one onion. Simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour ; add one teaspoonful of sherry and the same of mushroom ketchup to the gravy, and give one boil up. Have ready some, fried bacon cut a uni- form size with the veal j arrange the veal collops and bacon alternately in the dish, and serve directly, with the sauce poui ed round. Poulet au Vin Blanc : from a French Restaurant - (^Ingredients—Chicken [2s. 6d., enough for two dishes], Is. 3d.; White Wine, Mushrooms, etc., 6d.).—Take a young and tender chicken; cut it up; saute all of it with the exception of the two legs in the best salad oil and fresh butter ; then add one glass of white wine, a little chopped mushroom and shallot. Serve with little squares of bread fried in butter. Guinea fowls may be cooked in the same way; pheasants also. Pommes de Terre a la Barigoule {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter and Stock, 3d.; Onion, etc., 2d.).—Peel some medium-sized potatoes and put them on in equal quantities of stock and water, a little good oil or butter, salt and pepper to taste, one onion stuck with two cloves, a sprig of parsley, and one carrot. When the potatoes are cooked and all the gravy absorbed, take them out and fry lightly in boiling lard or butter, and serve with a smooth sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Miss Harrington’s Pudding {Ingredients—2 oz. Beef Suet, 2d.; one Egg, Id.; Sugar, etc., 2|d.).—Two oimces of beef suet chopped fine, two ounces of breadcrumbs, two ounces of flour, one egg. Boil all together in a .small basin. Serve with sugar, marmalade, jam, or sherry sauce. A Good Way of Cooking a Bloater {Ingredients—Bloater, 2d.; Butter, Id.).—Split one bloater, take out the backbone, and cut oft' the head and tail; rub it with mustard, have