by dr. KATE MITCHELL, THE GENTLEWOMAN’S BOOK OF HYGIENE. By Dr. KATE MITCHELL. Crown 8vo, with Portrait, 6s. PRESS OPINIONS. SATURDAY REVIEW. “A well printed and prettily bound volume of the ‘Victoria Library for Gentlewomen ”... deals in a practical spirit with the principles that govern the preser\'ation of health and the prevention of disorder and disease. Miss Mitchell’s advice on the important subjects of clothing, exercise, diet, and the treatment of common ailments is chiefly addressed to women, from childhood to maturity, and is characterised by thoroughness of treatment and admirable good sense. The chapter on physical education is excellent.” THE SPEAKER. “Dr. Kate Mitchell takes for her motto the well-known line of Martial, ‘ Life is not to live, but to be well,’ and she lays down, with great plainness of speech and a corresponding amount of common-sense, in ‘ The Gentlewoman’s Book of Hygiene,’ those general laws the observance of which so intimately concern, not merely physical, but mental and moral health. Ever3rwhere stress is laid on the fact that prevention is better than cure, and women are warned against careless habits, which too often lead to disease and suffering. The ailments peculiar to girlhood, womanhood, and maturity are discussed, and much light is thrown, by the writer’s professional experience, on many practical questions concerning bathing, rest, exercise, and recreation. Alto- gether, these pages abound in wholesome and sound advice, and the book will make its own welcome whenever it is fortunate enough to fall into the hands of a sensible woman.” REVIEW OF REVIEWS. “ This book is the second volume of the ‘Victoria Library for Gentlewomen,’ and should be read by every woman and girl who has regard for her health and personal appearance. Dr. Kate Mitchell has laid down in the plainest and simplest language those general laws on the observance of which depends our physical, mental, and moral health. The book is brightly and interest- ingly written, and will be a permanent addition to hygienic literature.” BLACK AND WHITE. “Dr. Kate Mitchelf^is a licentiate of medicine, and she writes a most sensible book, fortified^ but not overborne, by the best scientific medical knowledge of the day. The book is a capital one.” QUEEN. “ This is the second of the volumes announced as the ‘Victoria Library for Gentlewomen.’ It is written by a lady who is well known as an able and accomplished member of the medical profession. Our present aim is to call attention to the work as one from which wise and judicious parents may gather a host of useful hints on all subjects which concern the health and general welfare of youthful womanhood.” GENTLEWOMAN. “Such a manual as the present ought to receive a welcome from the class to whom it appeals. The professional standing of the authoress, and the com- prehensive character of the book, dealing with every stage of a woman’s life from childhood to maturity, is enough to justify its existence.” LONDON : HENRY & CO., 6, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C.