82 EVEKYBOPY’s PINNEB BOOK. they ai’6 quite tender ; simmer gently about fifteen minutes. The peas should be added the last thing. Hand with it croutons of Med bread. Cold Fresh Herrings iloigredients—Herrings, etc., 4d.).— Clean the herrings thoroughly; pack them in a baking dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, a little lard, and two teaspoonsful of vinegar. Bake half an hour. Serve cold. Rissoles with Mashed Potatoes {Ingredients—One Egg, Id. ; Potatoes, Onions, etc., 2|d.; Suet, etc., 3d.).—Chop up any cold meat you have as fine as possible; add to the meat chopped suet and onions, pepper and salt, a little thyme, and one raw egg. Amalgamate thoroughly, form into balls, and fry a nice brown in hot lard. Serve with fried parsley as a garnish, “ Carrots au Beurre ” in the centre, and mashed potatoes as a border. Carrots au Beurre {Ingredients—Carrots, Butter, etc., 4d.). —Cut some carrots into long pieces ; put them in water with salt and a bit of butter. When tender strain them; put them into a saucepan with batter, salt, and pepper •, saute them on the fii’e, add one tablespoonful of water to prevent the butter timning to oil. When just on the boil take them out, and seiwe in the centre of the rissoles. Caisses de Canard {Ingredients—Duck, Is.; Mushrooms, etc., 3d.).—Take the remains of the duck except the legs and mug bones, mince finely, add chopped mushrooms, and moisten with good brown gi-avy. Get some ramequin case.s, fill them with the mixture, strew brown breadcrumbs on the top, and serve very hot. Rhubarb and Batter Pudding {Ingredients—Rhubarb, 3d. ; three Eggs, 3d. ; other ingi-edients, 6^d.).—Butter a pie dish. Peel some fresh rhubarb and cut into pieces of about one inch long, add castor sugar or Demerara, and the juice of one lemon, with the rind cut into strips, and one spoon- ful of water. Make a rich batter with three eggs, puttiiig one tablespoonful of flour to each egg, and sufficient milk to form the mixture into a thick cream. Pour it over the rhubarb. Serve with castor sugar. Turn the pudding out of the dish; pour melted butter round it.