09 F0UR-SHILIJNC4 DINNERS. a moderate oven to bake for an hour and <a half if they are small potatoes, two hours if large. Bat them with salt and butter. Sacon Omelette (^Ingredients—Bacon, 2|d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Onion).—Out a quarter of a pound of bacon into small chce, and place them in the oven for a few minutes m a shallow baking tin ; beat up the yolks of two eggs with one tablespoonful of flour, the same of finely chopped onion, two of chopped parsley, one saltspoonful of mixed herbs and the same of pepper, and half a pint of milk; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add quickly to the batter; pour the batter over the hot bacon, and put the whole into the oven for twenty minutes, or fry in a frying pan. Serve the moment it is done. DINNER No. 19. Artichoke or Palestine Soup (Ingredients—Jerusalem Artichokes, 3d.; Milk and Cream, 3d. ; Butter, etc., 3d.). —Wash and pare one pound of Jerusalem artichokes, and place them in an enamelled saucepan, Avithsome butter, two strips of bacon rmd scalded and scraped, and one bay leaf. Put the lid on, and let the vegetables simmer over the fire for eight minutes, shaking the jjan occasionally to prevent them from sticking. Pour in sufficient water to cover the ai’tichokes, and stew them gently until soft. Rub them through a sieve, mix the liquor they were boiled in with them, make the soup hot, and add boiling milk and cream until it is the consistency of rich cream ; add Avhite pepper and salt to t.aste. Serve with crodtons of fried bread. It is very good made only with milk, but of course the cream is a great improvement. Autumn Liver, Bacon, and Potatoes (Ingredients—| lb. Calf’s Liver, 5d.; Bacon, Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Fry two i-ashers of bacon in a frying pan. Take half a pound of calf’s liver, cut it into neat pieces, and fry in the same pan in Avhich the bacon has been cooked ; when done, add a little flour and water, whicli with the bacon fat and juice from the liver Avill make the gravy; boil until it thickens. Cut some cold potatoes into dice, fry in boiling lard or dripping,