FIVR-SHILLING DINNERS. 77 pai’isley, one teaspoont’ul of chervil, ditto chives, ditto green onions, some thyme, and a bay leaf. Make very hot, and serve as hot as possible. Plaice Rolled and Baked {Ingredients—Plaice, 6d.; Milk and Butter, l^d. ; Parsley, etc., Ud.).—Get a nice plaice, sprinkle it with lemon juice, roll it, bake it in the oven with a little butter. Prepare a sauce as follows:—Put a lump of butter into a saucepan ; thicken with a little flour; add some milk, a little parsley chopped fine ] flavour to taste with lemon juice. Mock Venison a la Contesse {Ingredients Is. 2d.; g lb. Sausages, 5d.; Onions and Potatoes, 3d.).— Fry some button onions, having parboiled them first, so as to prevent their being too pungent; pile them in the centre of a dish. Out some slices from the mock venison (loin of mutton); make a border of mashed potatoes, put it round the onions, and lay the slices of mutton against the potatoes en couronne—that is to say, the slices overlapping each other. Fry half a pound of sausages, cut them in rings, and garnish with them. Salsify in Batter {Ingredients—Half a bunch of Salsify, 3d.; one Egg, Id. ; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—Scrape some salsify quite white ; throw it into a pan of boiling water with a lump of salt and a few drops of lemon juice. When tender drain carefully, cut it into pieces; dip it into batter made of one egg, a little flour, salt, mace, nutmeg, and pejDper ; fry a nice brown; serve with fried parsley. The Abbot’s Omelette {Ingredients—1 lb. Apples, 4d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 3gd.).—Peel, core, and quarter one pound of good cooking apples ; put them in a potato steamer, and steam until tender. Put them in a basin and beat to a pulp ; sweeten to taste; stir in one ounce of fresh butter ; when cold mix all with two well-beaten eggs. Butter a tart dish ; strew the bottom and sides thickly with breadcrumbs to the depth of a quarter of an inch ; put some on the top, then a little dissolved butter. Bake for one hour in a good oven. When done turn it out, and sift castor sugar over it. Maccaroni and Tomatoes {Ingredients—| lb. Maccaroni,