76 everybody’s dinner book. soup, and boil for one lioiu-. If you have no stock use water instead, and let it boil for three hours until the vegetables are thoo'ouyhhj cooked and quite tender. After the vegetables are boiled flavour to taste with pepper and salt. Skim the fat off if you make it with stock. About fifteen minutes before serving, and while the soup is boiling, throw m heads of aspai-agus, about a quarter of a puit of fr&shly gathered shelled jmung peas, and some French and haricot beans. Put it into a soup tureen over toasted ci'usts of bread. Mock Venison {Ingredients—Loin of Mutton [G lb., 4s. 6d., enough for foiu-dishes]. Is. Igd. ; Port or Tarragona, Is.; Beans, Rod Currant Jelly, 5d.).—Cut the loin in lialf; take one half, soak it in one tumblerful of port wine or tarragona for three days, season with salt, and baste with port or tarragona while roasting. Make a little port hot in an enamelled saucepan, serve in a sauce boat, with red currant jelly in a glass dish as you would with real venison. If in the summer French beans or scarlet runners should be served mth it: potato straws in the winter. Economical Potato Pie {Ingredients—| lb. Suet, 2d.; Onions and Potatoes, 2d.; Oatmeal, Flour, etc., 3d.).— Pare .some potatoes .and cut them in .slices. Chojj some onions .and the suet very fine. Place some of the .suet in the bottom of a pie dish, then some oatmeal, then onion, pepper and salt to taste, .and Layers of potatoes, taking care that potatoes form the last layer. Make .a crust of flour, lard, or dripping, and one tea.spoonful of Borwick’s baking powder. Cover the dLsh and bake in a moder.ate oven two hours. Buttered Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; half a tin of Shrimp Paste 2|d.).—Boil two eggs hard. Let them get quite cold. Then chop the whites and yolks together finely. Have ready some very hot buttered toast; spread over the butter with a thick layer of shrimp paste, with the egg on the top of .all. DINNER No. 5. Consomme aux Fines Herbes {Ingredients—6d.; Chives, Green Onions, Id. ; Pansley, Cheiwil, etc., Id.).—To one pint of consomme add one t.ablespoonful of cliopped