133 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. ounces of castor sugar, the beaten yolk of one egg, the white of the same, and one ounce of finely chopped mixed peel. Have a pudding dish lined with puff paste ; place on it a layer of strawberry jam, then a layer of paste, then one of apricot jam, then one of paste, then one of black currant jam; as a finish a thick layer of the mixture. Sift some castor sugar ovei' all, and bake one hour and a quai’ter. This is the best recipe I know for “ Bakewell Pudding.” DINNEE No. 5. Potage aux Profiterolles [Ingredients—Clear Soup, 9d.; Milk Loaves, etc., 6d.).—Ask the baker to make you some very tiny milk loaves (those made in Pai'is for this soup are about the size of small pigeons’ eggs); scoop out the crumb from each; fill up the space with a little forcemeat, ready cooked; put the profiterolles into the soup tureen, and pour over them some boiling, well-seasoned and flavoured clear soup. Flounders Saute [Ingredients—Two Flounders, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Oil and Parsley, 2d.).—Clean the fish; dip them in the yolks of two eggs, previously well beaten. Put four tablespoonsful of olive oil into a frying pan over the fire. When quite hot put in the flounders; let them remain five minutes ; turn them over and fry the reverse side. Ten to twelve minutes will cook them. Garnish with fried parsley and serve. Marrow Croutons a la St. James [Ingredients—Marrow Bone, lOd.; Eoll, Id.).—Cut some rounds from a French roll; remove the crust; fry them in boiling lard. When the marrow bone is quite cooked and very hot, take out the marrow, spread it on the <yroiitons, add a dash of white pepper, and serve as hot as possible. Rump Steak a la Reine [Ingredients—| lb. Rump Stejik, 7d. ; Mushrooms, 3d. ; Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—Broil the steak very carefully over a clear fire. Fry a piece of bread in boiling lard (it should be as near as possible uiiifoiin with the steak); broil some mushrooms, also of a uniform size ; sprinkle them with salt and pepper ; lay them on tlie a'oitton, with the steak on the mushrooms j pour some very good