134 everybody’s dinner book. gravy round; garnish with cold potatoes fried in lard and cut into lai’ge rounds; arrange these nicely round the dish in little gi’oups. Pois a la Francaise {Ingredients— ^ lb. Butter, 4d.; Peas, 4d.; Onions, etc., 3d.).—Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a saucepan; then add one pint of young peas, pepper and salt to taste, one small onion whole, a small bunch of parsley, half a head of lettuce tied up together, some mint, and a good pinch of castor sugar. Toss on a slow fire until the peas are cooked and perfectly tender; then remove the parsley, lettuce, mint, onion, and serve with a little finely minced parsley mixed in the peas. East Kent Cherry Tartlet {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; 6 oz. Butter, 6d.; | lb. Cherries, 5d.; Sugar, etc., 6d.; Devonsliire Cream [Is. enough for two dishes], 6d.).—Line some patty pans with paste; fill them with uncooked rice, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Make the paste with the yolks of three eggs and the white of one to four ounces of castor sugar, six ounces of butter, one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and a little water. Work it very lightly and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Remove the stones and stalks from half a pound of fresh cherries, stew them with a few ch-ops of cochineal and essence of vanilla, a little w.ater, and plenty of castor sugar. When quite tender, take the rice out of the patty pans, fill each with the stewed cherries, make them quite hot in the oven, and serve with Devonshire cream. Any left can be eaten cold with the rest of the cream. They may also be made with blackberries, in which case the cochineal should be omitted. DINNER No. 6. Potage Nivernaise {Ingredients—Clear Soup, 9d. ; Carrots, etc., 4d.).—Cut some new carrots into the shape and size of olives. Boil the trimmings with some good clear stock, so as to give it a .strong flavour of carrots. Toss the cut carrots in fresh butter, with a pinch of castor sugar, and pepper and salt, moistening with some stock until they are quite tender and almost glazed. Pour the carrot-flavoured stock over and serve.