262 evbkybody’s dinnee book. Bath Buns.—Into 1 lb. of fine flour mix 1 lb. of .sifted sugar, j oz. of powdered cinnamon, and one table.spoonful of fresh yeast. _ Dissolve 1 lb. of butter and stir into it; then allow it to rise before the fire for ten minutes, after which add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and the whites of two; mix all well together and form into buns, strew caraway comfits over them or strips of candied peel, and bake them on tins in a slow oven for fifteen or twenty niinutes. Pain d’Epice: French Recipe.—Put over the fire 1 lb. of treacle, 6 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of powdered ginger, 1 oz. of powdered cinnamon, ^ oz. of pounded cardamoms, 1 oz. each of candied lemon and orange peel in thin shavings, and half a pod of vanilla pounded with one tablespoonful of brandy. Stir the mixture well, and simmer for five minutes; then pour it out, and when cool beat in by degrees as much flour as you can knead into a smooth paste. P>ake on buttered tins in small cakes or nuts in a slow oven for half or three-quarters of an hour. Soup Cakes.—Put one large knuckle of veal, one shin of beef, and three pounds of juicy beef into a stewpan, and cover with two quarts of water. Stew for one hour; then take the marrow out of the bones and add to the soup with two teaspoonsful of salt, twelve peppei'corns, and two onions. Stew for six hours, and if much reduced you may during the time gi’adually add one pint more of water. When the meat is in rags, strain the stock off and set it in a cold place until the fat can be removed in a cake; then put the soup into a baiiv-marie, set it on a quick fire and let it boil, not simmer, and let it stand one day; then heat it again in a bairwmame, stii-ring it until it becomes thick, when it may be poured out into small, shallow, round moulds of earthen- ware to form cakes, which, when cold, must be turned out upon flannel to dry. Keep the cakes in tin canisters. When used it is only necessary to put one cake into boiling water in proportion to the strength you require the soup to be, and when melted u.se any further seasoning or vegetables that you like. A basin of soup can by this means be made in a few minutes, and it is most convenient on long journeys or when you are far fi’om a butcher.