Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21923577LECTUKES ON SURGERY.LECTURES ON SURGERY DELIVERED IN ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. WILLIAM LAWRENCE, F.R.S., SERJEANT-SURGEON TO THE QUEEN, AND SURGEON TO THE ROYAL HOSPITALS ST. BARTHOLOMEW AND BETHI.EM. LONDON. JOHN CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 1MDCCOTATII., Al.l.ARI), WllNTtft, HAKVHOI.OMKW CI.OSK.TO WILLIAM POSTER WHITE, Esq., TREASURER OP ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL, TO WHOSK INTELLIGENCE, JUDGMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE ABILITY, AND INCESSANT VIGILANCE THE PUBLIC ARE INDEBTED FOB THE HIGH EFFICIENCY OF THIS GREAT INSTITUTION, THE FOLLOWING PAGES ARE INSCRIBED AS A TESTIMONY OF REGARD, ESTEEM, AND ADMIRATION, BT THE AUTHOR.Although I had declined former proposals for publishing my ' Lectures on Surgery/ I have acceded to a similar request from my friend and colleague Mr. Coote, who offered the tempting inducement of his aid in revision, correction, and carrying the work through the press. He has rendered partial assistance in the earlier pages, and would, I am sure, have afforded valuable aid throughout, if I had not soon dis- covered that an undertaking like the present must be the work of one person. In order, therefore, to relieve him from responsibility in respect to any opinions or statements in which he may not coincide, it is right to mention that he neither saw the greater part of the manuscript before it went to the printer, nor has seen a single page in print before the publication of the book. I take this opportunity of thanking him sincerely for his ready and kind offer of co-operation on this, and for his valuable services on many other occasions. I have divided the work into Chapters instead of Lectures, as the latter do not correspond with the natural divisions of subjects. The language still retains traces of lecturing, which I have not thought it necessary to efface. I have reprinted from the < London Medical Gazette' two Clinical Lectures on Syphilis, containing illustrations of some im- portant practical points. WILLIAM LAWRENCE. Whitehall Placi: ; Ouioler, L862.CONTENTS. LNTEODUCTION. PAGE Distinction between Physic and Surgery—Mode op STUDY . . . . . 1 CHAPTEE I. On the Nature and Divisions op Disease ; the Arrangement and Classification op Diseases ; Nosology . . . . . . 21 Health and disease . . . . .22 Varieties in degree of disturbance . . 24 Organic and functional disease . . .25 Humoral pathology . . . . . 28 Names of diseases . . . . .32 Nosology ... 33 Symptoms of disease . . . .38 Causes .... 39 CHAPTEE II. Inflammation .... 44 Local symptoms and effects . . 45 Constitutional symptoms .... 49 Explanation of symptoms . . 50 State of the blood-vessels ... 51 Theories of inflammation . . 53 CHAPTEE III. Inflammation continued; its General Phenomena and Subdivisions ... gg Inflammatory effusions ... 57 Varieties of inflammation ... gg Various effects .... gj Acute and chronic ... g^ Differences in nature or kind; common and specific 67 Causes of inflammation . RQCONTENTS. X CHAPTEE IY. 74 76 Preliminary measures . • ■ • n 11 ^-nflamm n t.nTV lever . '< 78 81 88 93 95 96 98 111 112 Treatment op Inflammation Preliminary measures Treatment of acute inflammation with inflammatory fever Bleeding, general and local . • • »i Effect of the former, and mode of proceeding • • ^ Local bleeding . • • 90 Morbid effects of the loss of blood . Internal remedies; purgatives. Diet . Antimony . Mercury . • 101 Counter-irritation . • • ^ Local applications • < • ^ Treatment of chronic inflammation CHAPTEE V. Spontaneous Inflammations, and the Unhealthy States op Constitution to which they owe their Origin . State of plethora . • ■ ' t,g Disorders of the digestive organs and excretions . • ^ Causes . • " . 120 Evidences of constitutional unhealthiness . ' ' 124 Curative measures . • 125 Diet . .127 Medicines . • ,• ^30 Treatment of the skin • 131 General weakness; remedies . CHAPTEE VI. . 133 Fever . .133 General views • 134 Idiopathic and sympathetic fever . ^ Gastric fever • 137 Opinions of Broussais . ' 139 Typhus • , 14,1 Irritative fever . CHAPTEE VII. . 143 Suppuration .■ . . 143 General remarks • ^44 Formation of matter; abscess • " UQ Pus . . 149 Symptoms of suppurationxi CONTENTS. PAGE Progress to the surface . . . . 150 Treatment . . . . . .152 Surgical proceedings for evacuation of matter . . 153 Cases in which puncture is necessary or advisable . 155 Abscesses with putrid and offensive matter . . . 159 CHAPTEE VIII. Chronic Abscess ..... 162 Symptoms and course . . . . . 162 Character of the cyst; thick cysts . . . 164 „ „ contained fluid . - . . 166 Inflammation of the cyst after bursting or puncture . 168 Causes . . . . . 169 Treatment . . . . . .170 Cases of intermediate character . . . . 172 Fistula . . . . . 174 Hectic fever . . . . . 175 Nature and symptoms .... 176 Treatment . . . . . 177 CHAPTEE Ulceration—Varieties of Ulcers Nature of the process External ulceration . Granulation Cicatrization Reproduction Varieties of ulcers . Indolent ulcer . Varicose ulcer Inflamed ulcer . Phagedsenic ulcer Sloxighing phagedena Hospital gangrene 179 179 181 182 184 186 187 188 190 191 193 194 197 CHAPTEE X. Mortification .... oqi Nature, distinctions, and names . . 201 Acute and chronic gangrene . . Separation of the dead part . . 205 Causes, external . . _ 0qj „ internal . . , Qjj Prognosis . 213 Treatment .... 9^xii CONTENTS. Senile gangrene Causes Treatment Herpetic mortification VAGK 222 226 227 228 CHAPTEE XI. Wounds Incised wounds; union by adhesion Treatment . Haemorrhage Lacerated and contused wounds . Gunshot wounds Question of amputation . Cases in which it may be necessary Time for performing it . Contusion . Ecchymosis CHAPTEE XII. Poisoned Wounds; Hydrophobia; Venomous Serpents Dissection Wounds Bites of rabid animals, source and nature of the poison Whether originating spontaneously Animals liable . How the poison is introduced . • Interval between the wound and the occurrence of hydro phobia Symptoms and course of the disease Treatment Escharotics; excision The disease in the dog Poison of venomous serpents . Stings of insects Injuries received in dissection . Nativre and course of the injuries . Occasional dangerous effects . Treatment CHAPTEE XIII. . 283 Scalds and Burns • • l>83 Varieties in nature and degree of injury • ■ Treatment . • ' 2S6 Local applications . • ^gg Cauteries, actual and potential • _ 231 231 236 240 242 244 248 249 252 254 255 257 257 258 260 261 262 263 264 265 267 270 273 273 274 276 279CONTENTS. xiii l'AQK Hot iron . . . . . 288 Moxa . . . . . .289 Escharotics . . . . • . . 290 CHAPTER XIV. Sympathetic effects of Local Injuries, Immediate and Remote. Delirium Tremens ; Tetanus . . 294 Delirium tremens . . . . . 295 Tetanus ...... 298 Idiopathic . . . . . 299 Traumatic ...... 300 Symptoms and course of the disease . . . 302 Treatment ...... 304 Croton oil and opium . . . . 307 Chloroform. .... 310 CHAPTER XV. Specific Diseases : Scrofula . . . 313 Comparison of scrofula and common disease . . 314 The parts and age most subject . . . 316 Causes . 32g Treatment; general management . . 322 Change of air . . 325 Medicines . 327 CHAPTER XVI. Gout and Rheumatism . , 332 Comparison of gouty and rheumatic to common inflam- mation . . t 332 State of constitution in gout . . 334 Gouty iritis ... 33g Rheumatism . . CHAPTER XVII. Syphilis . General view ; primary and secondary symptoms History Mode of production . Direct and indirect infection Venereal virus ; whether one only, or more than one Whether the varieties of syphilis may depend on the con- stitution or state of health of the recipient 350 341 341 342 347 348 3-A9CONTENTS. l'AOB 357 363 366 369 Nature and character of syphilitic affections, and erroneous notions long prevalent on the subject. • • 353 Treatment on general principles . Mercury; its preparations, modes of administration, and effects . • • . • • ' Proofs that mercury is not essential to the cure of syphilis, whether primary or secondary . Influence of mercury on the system Its mode of action Injurious effects of the remedy • ,N To what extent its influence should he carried • • «j/8 Iodide of potassium . ' Sarsaparilla . • • ' Primary syphilis . • • • " Infection by application of the poison to a sound surface, a wound, or denuded surface . • 387 Varieties of primary sores . • • 387 Simple and indurated sores • • " ^ Excoriation, gonorrhoea prseputii . • 390 Phagedenic sore . • ' Sloughing . • • • 396 Diagnosis; pseudo-syphilis • • Treatment of primary syphilis 5 the sloughing form . Phagedenic ulcer • • ^ Other primary affections . • Use of mercury; whether essential, useful, or calculated to ^ prevent secondary symptoms . • 406 Bubo . • • A.OQ Whether venereal when without primary sore . • w» Secondary or constitutional symptoms ; lues venerea . 41- Affections of the skin; erythema . • ■ Scaly, tubercular, papular eruptions . • ^ Pustular and vesicular (rupia) . ■ ^ Rhagades ani et digitorum . 418 Affections of the nails . • ^ Mucous tubercles, condylomata, warts . Iritis . • • Affections of throat, mouth, and tongue Disease of bones and joints „ the nose . „ the testicle Treatment of secondary syphilis Use of inercury. Case of phagedena . Syphilitic disease in bones and joints Nose 421 422 426 427 42S 432 432 433 436 438CONTENTS. xv PAGE Mucous tubercles, warts, and condylomata . . . 439 Inocidation and syphilization ... . . 440 Syphilis in infants . . . . . 441 CHAPTEE XVIII. Clinical Lectures on the Venereal Disease, re- printed prom the ' London Medical Gazette,' vol. xxi. ..... 452 Lecture I.—Mode of study; chronic phagedena; other forms of primary syphilis . . . . 452 Lecture II.—Acute phagedsena; sloughing sore . 462 CHAPTEE XIX. Venereal Diseases .- Gonorrhoea . . . . 475 Nature of the poison..... 476 Symptoms and course . . . . 481 Treatment ...... 483 Secondary symptoms .... 489 Phimosis ...... 490 Paraphimosis .... 491 Swelled testicle, hernia humoralis . . . 492 Gonorrheal ophthalmia; conjunctivis . . . 494 Inflammation of the sclerotica and his . . . 496 Gonorrhoea! rheumatism . . 4,07 CHAPTEE XX Cancer Malignant diseases Schirrous or hard cancer Primary and secondary affections . Cancer of the breast, indolent stage » ,, active stage . Organic changes Affection of bones Paraplegia; fractures Varieties in character and duration Causes Diagnosis; age . Treatment . Local applications Operation . Cancer of the male mammary gland Epithelial cancer >, „ of the lip 501 501 502 504 505 506 510 512 514 515 521 522 525 530 531 540 542CONTENTS. XVI Epithelial cancer of the face . • • .out „ of the-tongue • ^53 Diagnosis . . • • • • Syphilitic and other indurations and idcers . . • 554-8 Large excrescence on the margin of the tongue . Treatment; operation Cancer of the tongue; operation External organs of generation Males . Females . Scrotum . Skin; hand . CHAPTEE XXI. EUNGTTS B-33MATODES General description Anatomical character Causes Diagnosis . Treatment Operation . Cases of medullary tumours Medullary disease in the eye . testicle hones 558 559 563 564 565 566 567 568 572 572 574 578 581 582 5S3 584 593 595 600 female breast . . . 602 Case of permanent recovery after operation malignant disease in the superior maxillary bone . Disease of upper jaw, malignant (?); operation; permanent cure Malignant disease of tonsil 603 606 606 611 CHAPTEE XXII. . 614 Melanosis . 614 Disease in the skin Causes and treatment Disease in the eye Osteoid cancer 618 620 630 EKKATA. Pane 346, line 15, for fourteenth read fifteenth. 10. » fifteenth „ sixteenth.1 INTRODUCTION. DISTINCTION BETWEEN PHYSIC AND SUEGEEY; MODE OP STUDY. Surgery is one division of the science and art which have disease for their object. This science, considered generally, embraces the physical history of man. It investigates the construction of the human body, and its living actions; it inquires into the purposes executed by each part, and into the general results of their combined exertions. It observes the human organization under aU the various modifications impressed on it by surrounding influences of all kinds; and it draws from these sources the rules for preserving health and removing disease. The practical application of these rules constitutes the art of healing, or, rather, of treating disease, for in many cases we are unable to heal, and do not even attempt it; while the assemblage of facts and reasonings on which these practical proceedings are grounded makes up the science of medicine. The boundaries of surgery have not hitherto been, and perhaps caunot be, very clearly defined ■ and the line of demarcation between it and physic is by no means easily traced. Considering the distinction between them to be a2 INTRODUCTION. mere matter of arbitrary usage, I employ the word surgery in its common acceptation; understanding it to include 1st, injuries of all kinds; 2ndly, the greater part of external and local complaints; 3rdly, such internal affections as produce changes recognisable externally—for example, alterations of figure, colour, or consistence; 4thly, all cases requiring external topical treatment, operations, or manual proceedings of any sort. It is of the same hind of subjects that Boyer and Delpech treat, when speaking of external diseases. The title adopted by the latter ' Traite des Maladies reputees Chirur- gicales,' treatise on the diseases reputed or considered sur- gical, shows that the distinction is not better understood in France than in this country. It must be confessed that the boundary just indicated is obscure and uncertain. Hence, as in the case of contiguous governments with undefined possessions, disputes have arisen respecting the right to certain portions of territory. Injuries, operations, external local complaints, and manual proceedings, are undisputed possessions of surgery; but it is not easy to distinguish between external and internal diseases; here, in fact, surgery and physic join, Since it is found thus difficult to draw a satisfactory line of demarcation between physic and surgery, you will not be surprised to find, in a great majority of instances, that both are practised together in this country by one description of persons, who hold a double qualification, from examinations by the Society of Apothecaries and the Koyal College of Surgeons, and were formerly called surgeons and apothecaries. Nineteen twentieths of disease are under the care of this class of persons in the country, who are there- fore not improperly styled general practitioners. On the other hand, in the metropolis and some large towns, the two branches of the profession are partly exercised by two classes of persons, whose education differs in important points. TheyDISTINCTION BETWEEN PHYSIC AND SUEGEEY. 3 are taught by distinct teachers, in separate courses of in- struction; and their regulation is intrusted-by law to two distinct public bodies, the Colleges of Physicians and Sur- geons. Viewing these apparent contradictions, we are natu- rally led to inquire more narrowly in what the distinction between physic and surgery consists, whether in the nature of the diseases allotted to each, or in the mode of treatment; whether there is any essential difference in the mode of learn- ing them ? how and when the distinction arose ? whether it is well founded ? whether it tends to the advantage of the public, or merely to the benefit of physicians and surgeons ? Nothing like the modern distinction was made by the ancients; there is no trace of it in the Greek, Roman, or Arabian writers. Certain branches of practice were followed separately in Egypt, where the diseases of the eyes, of the teeth, and even of some internal parts, were attended to exclusively by particular classes of practitioners; and some such distinctions existed in Rome; but Hippocrates, Galen, Celsus, and the other medical writers of antiquity, treat indifferently of the nature and management of fevers, injuries, external and internal disorders, and operations. In speaking of treatment, Celsus considers it under three divisions, the same which we still adopt, and mentions these under their Greek names; viz., (diet, &c), ^apuaKBfiriKt, (reme- dies), x«pty>yunj (chirurgical, or manual proceedings). But the idea of splitting medicine into two parts, and of teaching them differently, seems never to have been entertained by this elegant and philosophic writer, nor by those other founders and great promoters of medical science and practice, whose names and works are still regarded with deference and respect In the long night of barbarism and ignorance, which intervened between the downfall of the Roman Empire and the revival of letters in the West of Europe, learning and4 INTRODUCTION. science were confined to the members of the ecclesiastical profession, to whom we are indebted for preserving those imperfect remains of ancient literature and arts which we still possess. The exercise of medicine harmonised very well with the immediate objects of their holy calling. After the council of Tours, held in 1163, had declared that the Church abhors the shedding of blood (ecclesia abhorret a sanguine), priests and monks were obliged to desist from all curative proceedings that involved loss of blood. These were taken up by barbers, attendants on baths, itinerants, and mounte- banks. In course of time, surgery, which then consisted merely of bleeding, tooth-drawing, and a few other simple processes, became, with the art of the barber, the occupation of a class of men who were legally incorporated in this and other countries, under the title of barber-surgeons. The separation of surgery, or one branch of treatment, from that medical knowledge which is the indispensable guide to the time and mode of its application, and its asso- ciation with the art of the barber, long outlived the circum- stances which produced them. In England it lasted till the middle of the last century, when the Company of Barber- Surgeons was legally extinguished, in the reign of George II. The union of the two callings still exists in some parts of Europe. In order to judge whether there is any well-grounded difference between physic and surgery, it is necessary to advert shortly to the nature of medical science and practice generally. The numerous individual organs which make up the human body, although various in structure and office, are all intimately connected and mutually dependent. They are merely subordinate parts of one great machine, and they all concur, each in its own way, in producing one generalDISTINCTION BETWEEN PHYSIC AND SURGERY. 5 result, the life of the individual. All the leading arrange- ments are calculated to give a character of unity to the organization and the living actions of our frame. There is a common source of nutrition for the whole body; a single centre of circulation; a common place of union for all sensations and volitions, for nervous energy of whatever kind. The various organs are not only intimately connected by the share which they severally take in executing associated and mutually dependent functions, they act and react on each other, often very powerfully, either through obvious connexions in structure, or by the hitherto imperfectly- known influences which we call sympathies. Hence the expression of Hippocrates, in relation to the human body, is perfectly correct, Labor unus; consentientia omnia (One exertion; all parts concurring.) You could form no adequate notion of one organ, or system of orga.ns, if you insulated it from the rest of the body, any more than you could estimate the use or action of a single wheel or lever detached from a watch or a steam-engine. As the animal machine, although complicated in structure, is single, and as its living motions, although numerous and intricate, form one indivisible series, so a similar connexion runs through those changes of structure and function, which constitute disease: hence there is one anatomy and physio- logy, and there can be only one pathology. If we wish to know any portion of the body, we must not only carefully examine the part itself, but survey the relations of structure and function which bind it to the rest; and if we investigate any class of diseases, we must consider, not only the local symptoms, but also the disturbance which the diseased organs may excite in other parts of the frame, and the influence which other parts may exert over the seat of disease.0 INTRODUCTION. It must be the first duty of the medical student to learn the structure of the body and its living actions; that is, to study man in the state of health. These are the objects of the two sciences which are denominated anatomy and physi- ology. He then proceeds to the observation of diseases; he notices the circumstances under which they arise; he watches their progress and termination; he explores the organic changes which they produce, and learns to connect these changes with their appropriate external signs or symptoms during life; deriving from these comparisons the means of distinguishing the exact seat of disease, and predicting its course and event. These are the subjects of pathology, or the doctrine of disease. The student is now prepared to apply the external influences, such as diet, climate, exercise, the outward or inward remedies, or the surgical operations which may be necessary for the removal of disease and the res- toration of health. When disease is studied in this manner, in reference to the whole body, it constitutes the science of general pathology; as a similar investigation, dn-ected to any single organ, is the pathology of that part. The real question respecting the distinction of physic and surgery is this : after surveying the whole field of disease m the way just mentioned, canyon find out any portions in- sulated from the rest ? any division not connected with other parts, which can be understood without reference to them . Can you separate this entire subject of disease into two in- dependent halves, requiring different modes of study and practice? Certainly not. The entire structure and functions are universally and intimately connected. No part is inde- pendent. The causes that constitute disease are commonly to be found, not in the part itself, but in other quarter,, and the principal means of cure are seldom to be applied di- rectly to the part diseased. For instance, a person is suddenlyDISTINCTION BETWEEN PHYSIC AND SURGERY. 7 attacked with gouty inflammation of the great toe, in severe pain, and great discomfort, with excited circulation, foul tougue, digestive organs and excretions totally disordered; you remedy the general disturbance, and thus cure the attack, possibly without any application to the part. Another loses the use of an arm and leg, in which you find no change, the source of the mischief is in the brain, to which your treatment must be directed. In many cases, disease origi- nating in one part affects many other organs of the body; and the secondary disease thus produced may attract more attention than the original complaint itself. A person ex- periences an affection of the head, which may be produced by various causes, and, within a short time, the circulating system, the digestive organs, and the secretions, become deranged, aud he is in a state of fever. Another receives an injury; inflammation of the part follows, and soon excites general feverishness. The patient may be said to have a sympathetic fever in both cases, and the general disturbance seems of more consequence than the local cause. Again, although individual organs are numerous, the elements of organic structure are few. The various pro- portions in which they are combined make the difference, as the various combinations of a few letters produce the infinite variety of words. The basis of nearly aU parts consists of the areolar, vascular, absorbent, and nervous structures. Hence, pathological principles are the same for all parts, and, con- sequently, treatment must be similar throughout. When diseases are arranged in any form, you may strike a line through, so as to divide the mass into two halves, give them different names, and caU them distinct branches of science, but they will resemble each other in all essential points : the causes, origin, course, and treatment of the disease compre- hended under each, will be the same. If you must have a8 INTRODUCTION. division, separate the two sides of the body, or the upper and lower halves. This will, at least, be clear and intelligible; but to assert, that surgery and physic are essentially distinct, is to say that there are two kinds of pathology; that the external and internal parts are to be treated on different principles. It would be as rational to say that there are two kinds of physiology, one for the outside, another for the inside of the body. When you know that the component tissues, or organic elements of our frame, are the same throughout, can you suppose that the position of a part in the body can alter the nature and treatment of disease ? It may cause differences in the mode of proceeding, thus you have less power of acting locally on internal parts; it may make the pathological investigation of one organ more difficult or easy than that of another; but it cannot alter essential prin- ciples. Inflammation, for instance, is the same kind of dis- turbance, whether in an internal or external part, and we treat it exactly on the same principles, whether it be in the eye, breast, or testicle; in the heart, lungs, or Uver. The principles of pathology, therefore, are general; they are the same for all parts of the medical art. They result from our knowledge of health and disease generally, and must, there- fore, be common to the physician and surgeon. The eyes have been intrusted to the surgeon as external parts: yet the organ is the most complicated in the body; and many of its component tissues are highly organized, so that its affections are very much diversified, and require a greater insight into pathology and therapeutics than those of any other single part. The eye, with its appendages, not only contains mucous, and fibrous membranes, muscular, glandular and nervous parts, but also several peculiar tissues. It not only exhibits the various affections of these produced by common disease, but it suffers from gout and rheumatism,DISTINCTION BETWEEN PHYSIC AND SURGERY. 9 from smallpox, measles, scarlatina, and chronic cutaneous eruptions; from scrofula and syphilis, cancer, fungus hsema- todes, and melanosis. If, therefore, an organ so complex in its structure, and liable to such a number and variety of diseases, can be safely intrusted to the care of the surgeon, I am at a loss to know why there should be any distinction, grounded on the nature of the affections, between the surgeon and physician. It is in vain, then, to establish separate professorships of external and internal, pathology; to institute distinct colleges of physic and surgery; to teach them as separate sciences, and to expect tbat they shall be practised separately. Lec- turers and writers cannot make the distinction; and thus we find the same diseases, in many instances, considered by the teachers of physic and surgery, comprehended in the writings of both; illustrated by both on the same principles, and treated by the same means. Some have proposed to assign local diseases to the surgeon, general to the physician. It may be questioned whether there are any local or general diseases in the strict sense of the terms; at all events there are few in which the cause has been applied to the part itself, and in which the in- fluence of the disease, as well as of the treatment, is con- fined to the part; whde, on the other hand, there are hardly any in which all parts of the frame are affected. When a part of little consequence in the animal economy is slightly diseased, no sensible effect may be produced beyond the part itself; if, on the contrary, an important organ is actively dis- ordered, many other parts feel the influence; and hence arise what are called general affections. Even in fever we can clearly trace the general disturbance to a local origin in so many cases that the very existence of fever, as a general affection, has been questioned. The difference, therefore,10 INTRODUCTION. between what we call local and general diseases, is merely in degree, not in kind: it is a difference of more or less. If we were to arrange diseases in one column, beginning with the most local, and ending with the most general, we should fill up the interval with others forming an insensible transition between the two extremes. Where could we draw the line across, to divide surgery and physic, on a scale thus con- structed ? Reverting to the nature and extent of the duties which originally constituted the occupation of the surgeon, and looking to the etymological import of the term, which is manual operation, it has been contended that surgery should embrace those cases only in which operations or other manual aid are required. Thus it has been represented, that the province of surgeons is to administer to external ailments; and that among their rules of conduct is included the nega- tive duty of prescribing no internal remedy whatever. Such notions are worthy of the ignorance to which the separation of surgery and physic owes its origin, and of the dark period in which it occurred. Thus this important professional dis- tinction would rest, not on any essential difference in the causes or nature of disease, or in the principles of treatment, but on the accidental and often varying circumstances of the means employed for their cure. What are we to do with the numerous cases, such as serious inflammations, affections of the head, various gouty and rheumatic diseases, in which change of diet and internal remedies are necessary, in con- junction with topical applications, or with the surgical operations of bleeding, cupping, leeching, scton or issue? How shall we dispose of those, in which these different modes of proceeding become necessary in succession; for example, in retention of urine or hernia? In the latter, a series of manual proceedings, topical applications, and internal ad-DISTINCTION BETWEEN PHYSIC AND SURGERY. 11 ministrations, employed either successively or in conjunction, is often followed by a surgical operation. In many instances it is a mere question of degree, whether internal remedies shall be trusted to alone, or whether bleeding, cupping, leeches, &c, shall be added. Thus a slight affection of the head may be removed by purgatives and abstinence ; while a more serious degree of the same affection may require, in addition, abstraction of blood, either generally or locally; or indeed an opposite method of treatment, by the administration of stimulants. If it is meant to confine surgeons to operations and manual proceedings, and thus to reduce surgery to a mere mechanical department of the healing art, I must enter my strongest pro- test against the arrangement. It would be degrading to exer- cise this kind of barber-surgery, while the office of teaching it would present no attraction. If our profession were reduced to this, it wotdd no longer be necessary to study its scien- tific principles. We might spare ourselves the trouble of learning anatomy, physiology, pathology, and therapeutics j and we might well resign into the hands of our old associates, the barbers, tbe contemptible remnant to which surgery svould then be reduced. In considering the subject historically, we cannot deny that surgery consisted originally of this limited, mechanical, md subordinate department, which was exercised under the lirection, and by the permission of physicians • but surgeons We long emancipated themselves from this bondage, and will lever again submit to such ignominious trammels. They lave cultivated, with ardour and success, the scientific foun- lations of their art. They can adduce the rapid progress )f surgery since the middle of the last century, and its )resent undiminished rate of progression, in proof that their :laims on the confidence of the public are not inferior to12 INTRODUCTION. those of any other branch of the medical profession. They can point out, in their modern annals, the names of many who have been the largest contributors to the advancement of medical science. Among these may be mentioned that of Mr. Pott, so long a surgeon of this hospital. He was an able practitioner, a clear and elegant writer; and has been regarded, both abroad and in his own country, as one of the great modern improvers of surgery. He, however, is thrown into the shade by the transcendant merits and more brilliant reputation of his contemporary and rival, John Hunter, the greatest man in the medical profession, either of ancient or modern days, without excepting even the immortal discoverer of the circulation. In contemplating this extraordinary character, we are at a loss to determine whether he surpassed others most in talent or in industry. The searching glance which he directed into the construction and actions of all living beings, the novelty of Ms views, and the splendour of his discoveries, strike us with astonishment; but observe the amount of his labour! we can hardly believe it possible that the treasures of his museum could have been formed by one person. To these great names we may add that of a kindred spirit, who entered with ardour on the path they had pointed out, and followed it into new regions of speculative and practical knowledge; I mean the founder of this school, Mr. Abernethy. Fellow-labourers in the same cause have not been wanting in France, Germany, and Italy. It will be sufficient to enume- rate Jean Louis Petit, and the other members of the French Academy of Surgery; Desault, Richter, Bichat, and Scarpa. The two latter have been among the greatest contributors to the progress of anatomy and physiology since the time of Hunter. A knowledge of the structure and functions of the body is the basis of all rational medicme. Doctrines, systems, andMODE OE STUDY. 13 theories, which will not bear examination by the test of ana- tomy and physiology are only to be regarded as random guess- work or idle dreams. No one would attempt to mend a clock, watch, steam-engine, or the commonest piece of machinery, unless he understood its construction, unless he knew what we may call its anatomy and physiology, that is the nature of the materials which compose it, the configuration, adjust- ment, and mutual action of the parts. Yet persons are con- stantly attempting to rectify the disorders of the human machine, not only with a slight and vague knowledge of its construction, but even in perfect ignorance of it, although, as a piece of machinery, the human body is far more complicated than any instrument of human fabrication. No man who aspires to a scientific knowledge of his pro- fession can neglect the sciences of anatomy and physiology, because they afford the foundation and criterion of all medical doctrines; but correct anatomical knowledge is especially necessary to the surgeon as a preparation for his ordinary duties; without it he cannot determine the seat and nature of disease; he cannot distinguish between the affections of rantiguous parts; he cannot understand the varied nature md appropriate treatment of injuries, such as fractures, dis- locations, or wounds of blood-vessels and other soft parts. If you ask how much knowledge of anatomy is necessary ?or a surgeon, the answer is short, as much as he can get. Four study of anatomy must be general; it must embrace ;he whole frame, unless indeed you should know of auy part vhich is out of the reach of injury, or exempt from the ittacks of disease, or any region which can never be the ubject of operation. Operations, may in some instances, be executed mechani- ally, by following certain rules; but if things do not go on xactly according to the description, the operator, ignorant14 INTRODUCTION. of anatomy, is immediately confused, embarrassed, frightened. In most cases, too, unless the knife be guided by minute anatomical knowledge, operations are attended, not only with unnecessary suffering aud risk to the patient, but also with the greatest danger to the reputation of the operator. I trust, gentlemen, that you will not be anxious to dis- cover how small a stock of scientific knowledge will enable you to carry on the trade of surgery. Your more honorable course will be to render yourselves accurate anatomists, as the most essential step towards becoming good surgeons. The health, the limbs, the lives of our fellow-creatures are in- trusted to our care, with a confidence in our knowledge, skill and humanity; our utmost exertions in the acquisition of knowledge will not do more than enable us to under- take this serious responsibility. What kind of feelings, what conscience can the man possess who can plunge an instrument into the human body without knowing what he may divide or injure, who can operate without that full anatomical knowledge that will enable him to meet every emergency? How could he bear his own reflections, if serious and perma- nent injury or loss of life, should ensue, as the consequence of his ignorance and rashness ? But the study of anatomy and physiology does not make us acquainted with disease : you may know the structure and functions of an organ perfectly, and yet be ignorant of its diseases How then are these to be learned? Not from lectures, nor from writings, but by studying the great book of nature. You must frequent the hospital and the sick chamber, and observe diseases for yourselves. Lectures and books are auxiliaries, and, under certain circumstances, usetul ones 5 but they are of secondary importance, compared to the actual observation of disease. To know disease, then, you must see, examine, and closelyMODE OF STUDY. 15 watch patients; you must observe the origin and progress of the altered functions during life, and then investigate, after death, the changes produced in the organization. Here your knowledge of anatomy and physiology will be of the greatest service. How can you appreciate the effect of disease, unless you know the healthy structure? How can you refer the altered functions or symptoms to the organic changes which have produced them, especially in internal organs, unless you know the healthy functions ? The general doctrines of disease and treatment can only be judged by the lights of anatomy and physiology; the greater portion of medical theories is obviously unable to bear this scrutiny, and may be at once dismissed. The wards of an hospital are the best school of medicine; and clinical study, under the guidance of a competent teacher, is the best mode of learning. You will immediately inquire whether it is not necessary to hear lectures and read books before you begin to see patients. I advise you to resort as early as possible to nature, to that source from which the masters of our art have derived their information; from which lecturers and authors must draw their knowledge. Here it may be said with perfect truth Juvat integros acce- dere fontes atque haurire. In learning anatomy, you have the facts demonstrated to you by the teacher, and you examine and explore them for yourselves by dissection. In the same way, demonstration of the phenomena of disease on the patient by the teacher, and the actual observation of them by the learner, are the only means by which real know- ledge of the subject can be acquired. The facts thus pre- sented to the senses make a stronger impression than any lescription, even by the ablest lecturer or writer; while the nformation which a person thus acquires for himself from lature can always be depended on, and is never forgotten.16 INTRODUCTION. Between him who has only read or heard, and one who has seen, there is the same difference, in point of knowledge, as between a person who has merely perused the description of foreign countries, and another who has actually visited them. To secure these advantages to their full extent, instruction should be strictly clinical, that is, the symptoms of disease, and the changes it produces, should be actually pointed out and explained on the patient; their origin, progress, and connexion, should be illustrated, and the indications and modes of treatment should be deduced from the facts thus immediately observed. This kind of clinical instruction can only be given at the time of visit. I have always endeavoured to explain diseases in this manner to the pupils of the hospital, and I shall continue to illustrate clinically in the wards the general doctrines which I deliver in this theatre. ' After beginning to observe diseases for yourselves, you may have recourse, with advantage, to lectures and books, which may be of great use in teaching you how and what to observe; in pointing out what might escape observation ; in elucidating what may be obscure and perplexing; in rectifying erroneous - conclusions; and in impressing the results of observation more strongly on the memory. I cannot help thinking that too much importance has been attached to lectures. From the long prevalent custom of attending them, and the regulations of the public bodies which require certificates of attendance, before admitting candidates to examination, the belief seems at last to have been produced, that medicine can be learned in this manner. This is a great mistake. The medical sciences rest on observation, and are only to be acquired by resorting to nature. The great number and intricacy of the phenomena are additional reasons why we should examine for ourselves, and not take the facts at second or third hand. A few casesMODE OF STUDY. 17 attentively observed, will teach you more than any lectures or books. If you attend to nature with an unprejudiced mind, you cannot go astray. Lecturers and writers often copy from each other without resorting to the fountain of knowledge : can we wonder that they frequently mislead and deceive instead of instructing; ? Whether the student should begin with the practical study of external or internal diseases, or of both together, may depend on accidental circumstances of opportunity or con- venience; the most natural order, however, is to take external affections first, and then to proceed to those of internal parts. In the former, the origin, progress, termination, and effects of disease, and the operation of treatment, are obvious to the senses. Here the evidence is clear; and the principles de- rived from this source must be applied by analogy and induction to the more obscure affections of internal organs. Hence a physician should begin by studying surgery; and he who has made himself a good surgeon, has accomplished much of what is necessary towards becoming a good phy- sician. Do not imagine, however, that the knowledge of surgery will qualify you to practise physic. Internal diseases, and ;he more general affections, which together make up the lepartment of the physician, form a very arduous and im- portant branch of study, which will require much time and ;he closest attention. The obscure nature of inward disease •enders its investigation more difficult than that of outward iffections. You will, therefore, embrace every opportunity )f studying this subject practically, as well as by lectures and >ooks. Your study of disease, both in nature and books, should mbrace the whole range of the subject. To the great najority of you, who will have to act as general practitioners, 218 INTRODUCTION. this is obviously necessary; you will hardly meet with cases requiring a treatment strictly surgical. I consider a compre- hensive acquaintance with the entire circle of medicine equally necessary to those who mean to practice surgery only. If the surgeon is to rank higher in public estimation than the general practitioner, will he rest his claim to this superior dignity on the circumstance of possessing a lower amount of medical knowledge? It is necessary that surgeons should apply, in their own department, the principles and modes of relief deduced from a survey of medicine generally. The manual part of surgery is far less important than the medical; and it would be indeed disgraceful to our profession if surgeons were not competent to the management of surgical cases with- out the assistance of any other practitioners. Moreover, an eminent surgeon, who has the thorough acquaintance with anatomy, physiology, and the general principles of medical science, necessary to such a character, will be consulted under various circumstances, and more especially in cases of obscurity, difficulty, and emergency. If he says that he has not studied this, that he knows nothing of that, that he can- not direct the treatment of a case under such and such occurrences, what can he expect but to forfeit the confidence of those to whom his ignorance becomes thus exposed. I do not recommend you, gentlemen, to read many books in the commencement of your surgical studies. Seeing and examining will be more useful to you than reading. To those who wish to acquire a thorough knowledge of their profession, an acquaintance with the Latin, German, and French languages, is absolutely necessary; as numerous valuable works, on all parts of medicine, are to be found in each of them. You will understand, from the observations which I have now had the honour of addressing to you, that in selectingMODE OF STUDY. 19 the medical profession you have set yourselves no very easy task. The study of medicine is, indeed, an arduous under- taking. The most comprehensive mind and the greatest industry might find occupation for many years in acquiring the whole circle of medical knowledge; you will have reason to lament that you cannot employ a longer time in the pre- liminary studies which are necessary as a qualification for the active duties of your profession; and you will therefore see the necessity of improving, with the greatest diligence, the opportunities of information that you now possess, and which you will never be able to recall. Let me observe, at the same time that, among all the various objects which can ingage the human mind, there is no better exercise of the utellectual faculties, no more attractive and interesting pursuit, than the study of the medical profession; while its )ractice has the most salutary moral tendency of repressing elfishness, calling forth and strengthening aU the benevolent .nd social feelings. Our studies embrace all the most nteresting parts of natural knowledge. Our first and mmediate object is to learn the construction of our own rame, the means by which we live and move, and have our eing; we see the nature and operation of those influences by rhich health is interrupted and restored, by which disease nd suffering may be averted. Chemistry, natural philosophy, nd natural history, are auxiliary sciences, more or less immediately connected with the primary objects of our pur- uits. Thus we are led to the contemplation and study of ature, and the investigation of truth. We are not called pon to defend any doctrines or systems, or to uphold any 5t of opinions. We have no interests at variance with those f the community. In professional intercourse with our ^low-creatures we are known only as instruments of good • i restoring or securing health, the greatest of blessings in20 INTRODUCTION, removing pain and sickness, which are among the greatest of evils i in soothing the angnish and quieting the alarm which friends and relations feel for each other ; in protracting the approach of that awful moment, from which we all shrink hack with instinctive dread, the termination of existence. The happiness or misery of life, and the very question of life or death, often hang on onr decisions. I trust that, bearing in mind the serious nature of those duties, you will he anxious to employ the short period of your studies to the greatest advantage, and allow no opportunity of gaining knowledge to pass unimproved; you will thus become respected members of an honourable profession, and prepare for yourselves, in the decline of life, the sweetest of all rewards—the retrospect of labours devoted to the good of others.CHAPTER I. ON THE NATURE AND DIVISIONS OF DISEASES; THEIR AR- RANGEMENT AND CLASSIFICATION; NOSOLOGY. It is the object of medicine to ascertain the nature and seat of diseases, in order to discover the causes, best means of prevention, and treatment. If we understood in each instance what organs are the seat of disease, and how they are affected, there would be little difficulty as to the subject of treatment. We should then be able to give an appropriate name to each disease, and to arrange them according to their natural affinities, that is, we might establish a rational noso- logy, or systematic catalogue of diseases. It happens unfortunately that in many instances we are unable to determine the nature of disease, while in others we cannot discover even its exact seat. Hence the names jf diseases are in many instances calculated to mislead, md those mere catalogues which are called nosologies ire really worse than useless. The difficulties, however, to vhich I allude, are not so great in that part of the subject vhich is our present object, viz., the surgical department, rhey are more forcibly felt in the affections of internal organs vhich, being situated at a greater or less distance below the urface, are withdrawn from direct observation and examina- ion, so that their precise condition in the first instance, and he changes they undergo from treatment, are often little uore than conjectural.22 THE NATUKE AND Most persons imagine that they understand the meaning of health and disease; yet it is not altogether easy to give a satisfactory definition of these two states. Health and disease have been said to be two opposite states, and under many circumstances this representation is correct. For example, a person in full health may be truly represented as in an opposite condition to that of a person in fever. How- ever, health and disease are not simply two states that can be thus" compared; for under each is included a great variety of conditions differing materially from each other. On one side health passes, by an insensible gradation, into disease; and on the other disease in the same way is shaded off if I may use the expression, gradually into health; so that when we survey the conditions which approach to each other, we find considerable difficulty in determining what is health and what is disease. The human body consists of numerous organs, each exe- cuting its own particular function, and all concurring in the general purposes of organization, which are to preserve life,, to keep up the relations which connect the individual with the surrounding world, and to continue the species. When the organization is perfect, and the functions are regularly exe- cuted, the individual is said to be well, or in a state of health: the notion of health, therefore, combines the two circum- stances, perfect structure and perfect functions. The word natural, as applied to the healthy structure, is rather equivo- cal, for we must admit that disease is a part of nature. The French and the Germans use the word normal, to denote what we call the healthy structure. This term (from norma, a square, a rule) is about equivalent to the English epithet healthy; thus the normal, or healthy structure, and the regular execution of functions would be opposed to disease, which implies altered structure or irregular function.DIVISIONS OP DISEASES. 23 Disease has been defined an improper or irregular execution of one or more functions of the body. This, however, is objectionable, as omitting what is of primary importance in the consideration of disease, namely, the state of the organs. The definition, however, is correct as far as it goes; for wherever we see an irregular execution of any function, we may safely conclude that disease exists; but we may have disease, and that of unequivocal kind, existing in the body without any observable deviation from the natural state of the functions. Warts and corns are considered to be diseases, and at all events, steatomatous tumours are so; yet these may arise, and even acquire considerable size, without the individual being aware of their existence; and, even when they have arrived at considerable magnitude, they do not necessarily disturb any function, being only inconvenient by their bulk. Even so formidable a disease as cancer affecting the female breast may begin and go on so insensibly as to attain some size before the female is aware that any change has occurred; and the presence of the disease is discovered accidentally. Disease may be called a deviation from the normal, regular, j-r healthy state of any organ or function, or of the fluids se- creted by any part. This may be exemplified in the stomach, [t may be affected with inflammation and cancer; and in both cases there is a manifest change in structure; in the former ;emporary, in the latter permanent. In indigestion (dys- pepsia), nausea, sickness, the function of the stomach is mpaired, and the organ fails in its office. In heart-burn md water-brash an acid secretion is poured into the cavity, vhile in yellow fever a strange, dark, more or less fluid sub- stance, resembling coffee grounds, and called black vomit, is hrown up. You will perhaps be inclined to think that the three cir-24 THE NATUEE AND cumstances combined in the definition now mentioned might properly be reduced to one, altered functions and secre- tions necessarily implying changes in an organ. I can entertain no doubt that if our knowledge of diseases were perfect, we should be able to trace in every instance altered functions or secretions to changes in the state of organs. Unfortunately, we not unfrequently see impaired function when we cannot ascertain the condition of the organ, more particularly in internal diseases, while in other instances there are manifest symptoms of disease, without our being able to determine its exact seat. In this imperfect state of knowledge we are obliged to admit alterations of function and secretion as diseases, and to give them names without implying that the changes take place independently of alteration in the organs. Thus it happens that nosological catalogues contain in addition to the names of well-ascer- tained and localised diseases, an abundance of others which denote mere symptoms. In considering the morbid changes which the body may undergo, we must bear in mind that they differ much in degree. There may be change of such a kind that the alteration will be visible after death, or it may merely affect the living condition, and leave no traces distinguishable after death. I do not mean to represent that the function of an organ can be altered, while the organ itself remains in a perfectly healthy state; for what are functions? merely the organs in a state of exertion. Perfect functions imply a normal condition of the organs, and vice versd. To say that functions are disordered without any change in organs, would be to assert that an effect had taken place without a cause. The morbid changes that may take place in the body may be divided into the more serious, which are visible on examination after death, and, the slighter, which affect25 DIVISIONS OF DISEASES. merely the living condition of the parts, and are not ascer- tainable after death. The living condition of an organ which is necessary for the regular execution of its function com- prises not only the structure as seen after death, but also a proper supply of healthy blood, and an uninterrupted exer- cise of that influence which connects the part with the nervous system, and in many cases, sympathetically, with other organs of the body. Nearly the whole of the slighter changes elude our observation; so that in many instances we cannot say whether a particular organ is in a condition fitted to exercise its functions properly or not. In some diseases we can see how the organ is affected in its vital conditions, we can observe how it is influenced by this kind of alteration. The functions of the brain, for example sensation, and volun- tary motion, will be suspended when the action of the heart is suddenly stopped, as in syncope; or when the function of the lungs is arrested, as in the case of suffocation. Under the former the supply of blood to the brain fails in quantity, under the latter in quality, the necessary change from venous to arterial not having taken place; while in both the structure of the organ is unaltered. When, therefore, we speak of diseases being functional, we mean merely to express that we can observe no change of structure in the organs during life, nor discover any after death, and we use the word functional in contra-distinction to organic, which denotes visible changes in the organs of the body, ascertainable by dissection. This distinction between functional and organic disease, although often convenient in common language, is loose and indefinite, and hardly admis- sible in a scientific sense. The term organic, indeed, is used chiefly to denote the more serious alterations of structure which are permanent, impairing or destroying function and even endangering life, such as cancer, ossification, indurations2G THE NATURE AND tubercular degeneration. We sliould be at a loss to make an equally clear enumeration of functional affections, and thus fail in an attempt to distribute all diseases under the two- fold division of organic and functional in any clear and rational ground. Where should we place inflammations and the changes which they often leave behind. In their active state, alterations in the affected organs are obvious enough. In the great majority of cases these are transitory, so that the organs soon recover their normal structure and functions, but in other instances they leave behind more or less per- manent changes. The difference between functional and organic disease has sometimes been marked in our own language by the terms disorder and disease j but this use of the two words is neither sanctioned by their common acceptation, nor indeed by their etymological signification. In common language disorder and disease are synonymous, and used indiscriminately; and if we inquire what is their proper meaning, it seems to be nearly the same. What is disease ? It is an interruption of ease, that is, a change in feeling. What is disorder? An interruption of the regular course in which the functions should be executed. Examination after death is not a perfectly satisfactory criterion of the changes which may have taken place in an organ during life. There are obvious and important changes observable during life, which leave no trace after death. In erysipelas, there is determination of blood to the skm, with distension of the blood-vessels and increased redness; but these appearances are lost after death. In inflammation of the eye, there is external redness, which disappears after death. We cannot, therefore, conclude because we discern no change in the state of the part after death, that no change had taken place during life. Before we can determine that no change27 DIVISIONS OF DISEASES. has taken place in the organs, our examination after death must be very accurate, and should be performed with the aid of complete knowledge of the healthy, normal, or regular state of the part. Thus we find that in proportion as pathological investigations after death have been conducted with greater ac- curacy, the number of diseases supposed to be functional has been diminished. Fevers have been regarded as general dis- orders without local cause, or as proceeding from disturbed cerebral functions; but the more accurate pathological in- quirers of modern times have found out that important organs are more or less seriously diseased, so that the com- plaint may be removed from the list of simply functional affections. The division, then, of disease into functional and organic, according to the view that we now take, denotes a difference in degree, rather than in essential nature. In diseases called functional, the changes in the organs are of the slighter degree, which leaves little or no trace behind; while in the organic the alterations are more considerable, perma- nent, and dangerous. To assert that functions are disordered when their appropriate organs are in the normal state, would be the same as if a watchmaker, when our watch goes wrong, should tell us that all its parts and their connexions are perfect, but that the motion is in fault. We should be justly dissatisfied, and recommend him to examine more minutely. In the same way, when medical men are puzzled, they must inquire more deeply and cautiously, in order to find out what may have escaped observation on the first occasion. This is not a merely speculative point, but one of conside- rable practical importance; for they who believe in strictly functional diseases direct their treatment according to that view. The endeavour is to remedy the imperfection of the function, to excite the vital properties which seem to be deficient in energy, to rouse those that appear to be dormant;28 THE NATUKE AND such treatment being calculated in many cases rather to aggravate than to remove disease. On such pathological views the treatment of palsy would be directed to the loss of power in the paralysed parts, to the neglect of the real seat of the mischief in the brain. In the same way amaurotic affections, regarded as weakness of sight, have too often been treated by tonics and stimuli of all kinds, with the sure result of increasing the disease of the retina and hastening its progress. At one time the explanation of all diseases turned on the changes supposed to take place in the animal fluids ; while, at a subsequent period, all share in the explanation of morbid phenomena has been denied them. In the early period of medical art, when anatomy and physiology were nearly un- known, the enumeration of these fluids was altogether imagi- nary j and they were supposed to be capable of derangement in variety of ways, chemical and mechanical, analogous to those which fluids might undergo out of the body. All diseases were explained on the supposition of changes in these fluids, and the means of treatment were directed to remedy such sup- posed alterations. When anatomy and physiology began to be cultivated, and the organic changes taking place in disease came to be investigated by examinations after death, these notions were, put an end to; the humoral pathology, as it is called, was hardly spoken of, except in terms of contempt, and the animal fluids were then disregarded in the attempts to explain the nature of disease. The constantly advancing knowledge of anatomy and physiology during the last century, could not fail to rectify notions so completely erroneous; and the really wonderful progress of chemistry in recent times has thrown so much light on all parts of the subject as to convince us that an intimate acquaintance with the nature and composition of the animal fluids is as necessary to soundDIVISIONS OF DISEASES. 29 notions in physiology and pathology as the study of the solid structures of the body. It was near the middle of the last century, that our countryman Hewson made his laborious and successful examination of the blood, which a modern Erench physiologist has characterised by the bold but not inapt expression of circulating flesh [chair coulante) and not long afterwards Mr. Hunter began those researches on this fluid in all its various conditions of development, health, disease, and accident which constitute the foundation of his principles in physiology and pathology. All organs may be primarily diseased, experiencing dis- turbance from causes acting on them in the course of their ordinary functions; or they may suffer secondarily, in con- sequence of disease previously existing in some other parts. Boiling water or a blister applied to the skin, or a wound, will cause - inflammation as their primary effects. When the stomach is disordered by particular articles of food, such as shell-fish in some individuals, or otherwise overloaded, in- flammation of the skin may be excited, in the shape of nettle- rash or erysipelas, as a secondary affection. Determination of blood to the head, excessive or long-continued mental exertion, will cause giddiness or other forms of cerebral disorders, while similar symptoms may be brought on by a disordered stomach or overloaded bowels. Primary disease is also called idiopathic, as being brought on by a cause immediately acting upon the part; while the secondary is termed symptomatic or sympathetic, as being caused by the previous existence of disease in some other organ of the body. Various views have been entertained respecting the se- condary affections, which are constantly coming under our notice, with a view to determine the primary disorder to30 THE NATURE AND which their origin should be referred. Some have regarded the liver as a principal source of disease; while the entire alimentary canal has been viewed in the same light by others. These and similar notions are too partial, and there- fore more or less erroneous. We must, however, observe that, in proportion to the importance of any system of organs, will be the influence which they exercise in exciting disease in other parts. In this point of view, the digestive system, the stomach, the intestinal canal and the subsidiary organs, will have a greater influence in exciting disturbance in other quarters than most other parts. We cannot, however, regard them as the source of all other diseases. The brain may be disturbed primarily by causes of direct action, such as serious and continued study, intense mental application, anxiety, grief, and distress, and it then becomes a powerful source of sympathetic influence in various ways. When we say one part sympathises with another, we merely denote the fact that the affections are nearly coincident, and that the second takes place in consequence of the first; so that the physical is analogous to the moral sense of the term. It does not explain how the influence is produced. The pneumogastric nerves account sufficiently for the reciprocal influences of the stomach and head, while the nervous com- munications in so many parts and the more or less direct con- nexion of all the nerves with the cerebrospinal axis explain any sympathies that might at first sight seem obscure. Many sympathies become intelligible by anatomical connexion and continuity of surface. In examining patients, we have to determine not only what organ of the body is diseased, but also how it is affected; this being a part of the subject still involved in much uncertainty. In the great majority of cases, diseases consist of a disturb-DIVISIONS OF DISEASES. 31 ance in the circulation of the part, which, when it has reached a certain point, is called inflammation, as it is commonly attended with some increase of temperature. This disturb- ance affects the nutrition of the part, and thus causes, by its progress and continuance, more or less change in its com- ponent textures, which may be called effects or consequences of the disorder. Inflammations are not all of one kind; and there is one leading distinction which it is necessary to notice in adverting thus generally to the disease. It is divided into common and specific: the former is produced by ordinary causes acting on healthy constitutions, by a wound, for instance, inflicted on a person in good health. Other external agents will act in the same way. Specific diseases are those in which the constitution of the patient is unhealthy, either from hereditary or acquired imperfection, scrofula, gout, and rheumatism are examples; or they may arise from one definite and specific cause, as in syphilis, smallpox, measles, scarlet fever, and contagious diseases generally; and by no other. Specific inflammation, thus excited, is nearly similar to the common, the difference consisting merely in modifi- cations. As the vascular disturbance constituting inflammation presents at least an appearance of increased vital activity in the seat of disease, a question might naturally occur, whether cases are not met with of opposite character, where, in short the circulation is weakened, and the local changes are charac- terised by debility and want of restorative power. Cold re duces the circulation of a part, and if continued, will arrest vital ackonaltogether; circulation is impeded in the extremities of old persons so as to cause loss of vitality. The state of good health is the most effectual preventive of disease, and when combined with soundness of constitution, may render a32 THE NATURE AND person almost proof against its attacks. On the other hand, original bodily weakness, and the lowering effects of illness and other circumstances, produce a state in which disease may be excited by the slightest causes, and is characterised by debility both in its origin and progress. There is, how- ever, no general term to distinguish affections of this des- cription. It might be convenient, in order to avoid controversy, to arrange the affections of each organ on a simple plan not involving any theoretic views of general pathology. Thus, affections of the eye might be taken in the following order • First, injuries; secondly, inflammations, divided into two heads, common and specific; thirdly, consequences of inflam- mation; fourthly, organic changes; fifthly, functional derange- ment. We shall hardly find anything that can be said about the diseases of the organ, that is not referable to one or other of these heads. An arrangement of this kind does not take us beyond the extent of our knowledge. When we do not understand the nature of a disease, it is better to acknowledge the fact at once, and leave the matter for further investigation, than to attempt explanation by an imaginary and theoretical view. When we have ascertained the seat and nature of a dis- ease, we can give it a clear and expressive name, which shall at once identify the disease itself. Many affections are named in this way; thus the terms peritonitis, enteritis, pleuritis, pericarditis, denote both the nature and seat of the mischief. In many instances our knowledge is too im- perfect to admit of diseases being thus named, and then they are designated according to some circumstance that is obvious to observation; thus we have such names as dyspnoea, dyspepsia, dysuria, diarrhoea, dysentery, cholera. Frequently the name denotes merely the pain or altered sen-DIVISIONS OF DISEASE. 33 sation, as cephalalgia, gastrodynia; or the loss of blood or other discharge, as haemoptysis, hsematemesis, hematuria, gonor- . rhoea, leucorrhcea, melasna, diabetes. All these pass in nosology as so many diseases, but they are merely names of symptoms, and thus indicate our ignorance of the true nature of the mischief. Nosology.—In a subject so extensive, multifarious, and complicated as medicine, rational arrangement and classifica- tion are of considerable importance. A methodical distribu- tion of parts could not fail to lessen the labour both of learner and teacher. Each of the numerous organs composing the body is liable to be diseased in various ways; and every particular affection of an organ has its name, and is regarded as a disease. In many instances an organ is made up of many component structures, each of which is liable to particular forms of de- rangement, while all of them have received names, and appear in nosologies as diseases. Take the case of the eye. In con- sequence of its being open to external observation, and of its structure being extremely complex, the forms of disease inci- dental to its various structures are sufficiently distinct to have received name3 amounting to some hundreds. You will not therefore be surprised to find that the diseases of the whole body may be made to amount to thousands. The study of disease is not, however, so complicated and endless a subject as this ample catalogue of names would lead you to expect. Although the individual organs of the body are numerous, the component tissues or organic elements of which it is built up are few; the basis or ground-work of nearly all the organs consists of cellular membrane, blood- vessels, absorbents, and nerves. It is the various propor- tions in which these elements are combined that make the differences of the various organs. Hence, as the essential 334 THE NATURE AND basis of the several organs is the same throughout, the morbid affections must be essentially similar. That part of the science of medicine which considers names and the distribution of diseases into classes is technically called Nosology. Diseases have sometimes been considered topographically, that is, according to their situation m the body ■ and old writers have generally treated them m this way, beginning with diseases of the head, and descending to the other parts of the body. This, at all events, does not involve any theoretic ground of confusion, but it leads to tedious repetitions. Medical nosologists have generally founded their arrange- ments on the nature of diseases; and their efforts have, in general, been unsuccessful, because this part of the subject is imperfectly known. Most of these nosologists have been but Httle acquainted with anatomy and physiology and therefore their distinctions have in most instances been fanciful, and have been founded on particular doctrines and systems which will not bear examination. The greatest advantage has been derived in the study of natural history from scientific nomenclature and classification, for which we are chiefly indebted to Linmeus, a man of extra- ordinary talent, industry, and restless ardour in the pursuit of knowledge, to which he devoted the first three quarters of the last century. He undertook the immense task of naming and arranging all organized beings, and executed it so successfuBy that his system soon obtained universal currency, and stiU maintains its ground to a considerable extent. He studied species, and gave them rational names, and then grouped them according to their natural affinities, distinguishing them by their natural differences. The success which attended his efforts in natural history led to attempts of a similar kind in the arrangement of diseases. A nosology was publishedDIVISIONS OF DISEASE. 35 by a French physician (Sauvages), in which diseases were arranged in species and genera, and were combined in orders and classes, in the same way that Linnaeus had adopted for plants and animals. This arrangement included 10 classes, about 300 genera, and about 4000 species. The example of Sauvages was followed by others j and various systems of nosology were published, which I need not dwell upon at length, for they are now, as they deserve, nearly forgotten. Dr. Cullen, of Edinburgh, published a system of nosology, which was generally adopted, and is still maintained in this country. Yet we find, upon examining it, that diseases are brought together which have no natural affinity; and that, m other instances, those are separated, and put into diffe- rent classes, which resemble each other. Under the division tumours we find aneurisms, varix, ecchymosis, scirrhus, cancer, bubo, sarcoma, warts, corns, hydrarthrus and exos- tosis. Dyspepsia, diarrhoea, and dysentery, are in different orders, while hydrophobia, diabetes, diarrhoea, palpitation, and epilepsy, are in the same order. If this be one of the most successful attempts at nosology, we may safely dismiss all of them from further consideration. It is a sign of sounder ideas upon the subject that these systems have fallen into disuse. The attempt to class diseases on the same principles that are foUowed in the arrangement of organized beings must fail, because the two cases are entirely different. The species of animals and plants are distinctly marked by the hand of nature, and there can be no difficulty in placing them Diseases, on the contrary, run into each other by insensible gradations; so that it is often difficult to point out the distinc tion between them, and in some instances they are different^ named by different persons. We are constantly meeting with forms of disease that are not described; and it is a36 THE NATTJBE AND common observation, that diseases which we meet with in nature are very little like those we read of in books. Thus the primary grounds of distinction, so clear and definite m animals and plants, arc altogether wanting in diseases, to which the name of species cannot be applied in the same sense as in natural history. Again, the structure and economy of animals being well known, leading circumstances can be adopted as the ground of their distribution into genera, classes, and orders, so that from the position of an animal m such an arrangement, you understand the principal points m its economy before you are acquainted with the animal itself. This advantage is altogether absent in the case of diseases. All the subjects either in the animal or vegetable kingdom might be arranged in a single line, beginning with the most simple and ending with the most complicated, or vice versd. Diseases are so imperfectly distinguished and so in- termingled, that they would form a sort of network, instead of a single line. Cullen's nosology, therefore, can afford no assistance in acquiring a knowledge of the nature and re- lations of diseases, and the task of learning what is useless and deceptive ought not to be imposed on students. As diseases consist of changes in the state of organs, the proper ground of distinction would be anatomy; at all events, this would not involve any error. There are two things to be considered here, the anatomy of form and position, and that of texture. The one is called descriptive, the other general anatomy. The latter shows the compo- sition of the organs : it is a kind of analysis, reducing them into their constituent elements. Bichat, a Frenchman of ex- traordinary genius, who died at the age of thirty-three, leaving behind him a great name, has explained the anatomy of structure. He has attempted to reduce, in a work called < Anatomie Generale/ the organs of the body to their compo-DIVISIONS OF DISEASE 37 nent elements, and to determine the nature of these constituent parts. He has shown the proportions in which trfey enter into the various organs of the body, and has subjected them to every kind of analysis, anatomical and chemical. In short, he has produced a work which is truly extraordinary, when considered as the production of a man who died at so early an age. If we knew enough of the elementary structures of which the body is composed, we might estimate the disturb- ance of each system, and have a natural arrangement of its diseases. In considering diseases on this plan, we should find that much time would be saved; after explaining generally the nature of the affections to which each tissue is liable, we should only have to point out the local circumstances belonging to the diseases of each part. Suppose we take the cellular system ; inflammation of this is called phlegmon; proceeding to sup- puration, it constitutes abscess. When the phenomena of phlegmon have been once described generally, we need not repeat the account in considering each part. The same remark holds good of serous, mucous, and fibrous membranes, and indeed of all other tissues. It is, however, convenient in some cases, especially of peculiar and complicated organs, such as the eye, to describe together the affections of the part; it is not only a great aid, but almost essential to diagnosis, and makes the entire subject more intelligible. The arrangement which I propose to adopt is founded on these two considerations; for the most part regarding diseases as they occur in the various organic systems, but in other instances viewing together those seated in particular organs. Although diseases are spoken of under single names, and therefore appear to the mind at first view as single objects we find in general that each embraces a variety of circum- stances ; and that in order to understand them thoroughly they must be viewed in different lights. In the first place38 THE NATURE AND you survey the circumstances which denote the existence of disease/and which may be called generally its external signs. You direct attention to the circumstances under which it has arisen, and you investigate the occurrences that have taken place previously. You next proceed to notice those changes in the organ which are recognisable by examination. You ascertain the alterations in the state of the part first affected, and then observe the changes which may have been produced in other parts. These circumstances are called the symptoms of disease, that is, matters which you actually see or observe at the time of examining the individual case. The word sign of disease is more comprehensive, because it embraces all the circumstances that have taken place prior to the time of examination. The symptoms of disease are divided into primary, that is, changes in the state of the part itself; and secondary, or such as maybe noticed in the condition of other organs. Redness, swelling, and yellow discharge, are primary symptoms of gonorrhoea. Increased frequency of making water, swelling of the absorbent glands, the testicles, are secondary symptoms of the same disorder. In looking at the symptoms of disease, practical persons par- ticularly turn their attention to such as constantly take place in each particular disease, which have been called Pathogno- monic They are inseparable from the disease; their presence therefore indicates that the disease exists, while their absence shews that the disease is not present. Secondary symptoms, for example, cannot be pathognomonic. Even symptoms that belong to the organs immediately affected, are not always the same in every case; thus few come under the description of pathognomonic. These are mostly found in external disease, and are referable to what we ascertain by surgical examination. Thus, for example, if a patient have pain in making water, and the water is interruptedDIVISIONS OF DISEASE. 39 in its passage from the bladder, or if he feel pain on the motion of a carriage or other bodily exertion, we suspect that he has stone in the bladder. But all these symptoms may coexist with other diseases besides stone. If, however, we introduce a metallic instrument into the bladder, which strikes against a hard body, it is a pathognomonic symptom of stone. Symptoms may be divided into local and general: the former are those seen in injured or diseased parts; the latter are the disturbances excited by the local mischief in other more or less numerous parts of the system. The symptoms constituting fever may occur with local inflam- mations, and with injuries y they may take place in connection with numerous conditions, and therefore do not point out particularly the nature of any disease. Some causes of disease act immediately on the organs, and are called direct, immediate, or exciting. Thus, the appli- cation of hot water to the skin produces inflammation. Other causes produce a state of body in which disease is likely to occur without actually giving rise to it; these are called remote or predisposing. Thus, a full state of habit, produced by indulgence in eating and drinking, is a predisposing cause of apoplexy. You will read of what is called the proximate cause of disease; this means that which has immediately preceded its appearance. When our knowledge of a disease is rendered complete by tracing it to a particular part, the condition of such part, indicated by an appropriate name, is the disease, and the influences which have induced that state are the proximate cause of the affection. When, from obscurity in the actual seat of mischief, the name of the disease merely denotes a group of symptoms, the affection of the suffering organ, if discovered, is the proximate cause of the symptoms40 THE NATURE AND so named; in other words, the proximate cause is the disease itself. The subject of causes will be best understood by stating a case. An individual of stout frame and sanguineous tem- perament, with short neck, is of full habit, produced by indulgence in eating and drinking. He makes ahearty dinner or supper, filling his stomach with food; and shortly after falls back in his chair, loses consciousness, and has an attack of apoplexy. He either dies almost immediately, or without regaining his senses or voluntary motion. On examining the body in two or three days, effusion of blood into the sub- stance of some part of the brain is found. In this case, if you regard the loss of sensation and voluntary motion as the disease, the pressure on the brain by the effusion of blood is the proximate cause. If, however, as would be more correct, you consider the loss of sensibility and mobility as symptoms, the cerebral hemorrhage would be the proximate cause, and must itself have depended on an unhealthy condition of blood- vessels, induced by excess or indulgence, and giving way under the excitement of the circulation by a full meal. The latter would be called the occasional or exciting cause of the cerebral hemorrhage, of which the apoplexy or palsy would be the symptoms. The sanguineous temperament, short neck, and fulness of habit, are the predisposing or remote causes. Thus, in investigating the mode in which disease is produced, we see a series of changes, each of which m re- ference to that which preceded, and to that which follows, is successively effect and cause. _ Having, then, observed the nature of the case, having noted the existing symptoms, and traced the previous history having watched the course and progress of the disease, and its termination, we complete our investigation by opening the body, in case death should have occurred. We thus findDIVISIONS OF DISEASE. 41 out the changes which have been produced in the part imme- diately affected, or in others connected with it; we ascertain what may be called their pathological condition. These inquiries have materially contributed to give us correct notions respecting the nature of diseases, and have dispelled the fanciful views in which disease was attributed to supposed alterations of fluids, or to the condition of the vital proper- ties; for it has shown in most cases that material changes have been produced in the organs of the body. These examinations complete the history of disease. In some cases we find no visible change, but this negative circumstance is of use in detecting error. Valuable as is the knowledge imparted by these examina- tions, you must not consider them, of the first importance; clinical observation affords the best means of ascertaining and appreciating the changes caused by disease. Examina- tion after death, in fatal cases, completes the history and our knowledge of the matter, and is thus a useful auxiliary source of information. In order to discover the exact seat and nature of disease, close attention is often required in discriminating between the affections of contiguous organs, in determining which among the several affections incidental to a part is that present in the case, and in distinguishing between primary and second- ary diseases. This branch of the inquiry is called the dia- gnosis, and the circumstances which lead us to establish the distinction may be called the diagnostic signs. Wh^ we have thoroughly investigated a disease, tracing it- history, ascertaining the symptoms, observing its progress and changes, together with the effect of treatment, we shall be able to form a rational opinion respecting its duration and effec s; we shall be prepared to foretell or prognosticate the event and termination, whether favorable or otherwise in4a THE NATURE AND other words, to form the prognosis. This is a matter of considerable importance in practice, respecting which the patient and friends are naturally anions, w.sh.ng to know whether there is any or what danger, and how long It may he before ordinary occupations can be resumed. In dangerous cases wc must steer cautiously between two opposite difficulties, not giving unnecessary alarm nor ni- dulging hopes which may be disappointed. Wc must hsten to inquiries which we cannot always answer satisfactory, and avoid any evidence of impatience, even if the questions should he somewhat troublesome. Policy, as well as better fcelmgs, recommends sympathy of tone and answer Few persons can estimate professional skill, but all can feel the value of attention and kindness. Be cautious not to pronounce sentence of death, as patients thus condemned have some- times recovered. It has been truly observed, that nothmg > m„re certain than death, nothing more uncertam than the ^^served the disease in the way I have mentioned, you naturally pass to the consideration of the means by 'which it may be arrested or conducted, through a ecrt m to a successful termination. These means fall course, to a successtu mana„ement of external under three divisions, namely, the manage influences which tend to the restoration of bed , as diet air, exorcise, clothing, sleepmg, wakmg, to, winch as met, au, ,econd, pharmaceutical, arc called by the name Add*} the secona, p the employment of internal and external remecbes, the thud, «J, including operations and other manual proc^d ings. This division, which is at least as old as the mm of Colsns, shows that surgery, properly speakmg, - a blanch of therapeutics, or treatment. . The several circumstances connected with disease, as just mentioned, taken altogether, constitute the sconce ofDIVISIONS OF DISEASE. 43 pathology; and the investigation of disease is not complete till it has been surveyed under all these aspects. Disease may be considered in one or other of these views only, and treatises have been written upon parts of the subject, under especial names. The consideration of nomenclature constitutes nosology; that of symptoms, symptomatology ; of causes, (Etiology, &c. j and there have been treatises on the art of diagnosis. There is no doubt that useful information may be given in this way; but the several divisions of the science of medicine elucidate each other so materially, that the subject will be most advantageously treated as a whole.CHAPTER II. INFLAMMATION , ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS. Tee causes of disease, however various they may be, iu the great majority of instauees disturb the orcula- tiou of the parts iu which they occur. They are said to stimulate, to excite, to irritate, to inflame. All injuries and all external irritations produce inflammation, and a great variety of internal causes, of which, in many cases we cannot ascertain the nature, or form a satisfactory appreciation, produce the same result. Inflammations, again, occur in certain cases, if we may use such au expression, sympa- thetically : they seem to be effects or symptoms of a general disorder existing iu the frame. Of all the various diseases which constitute the catalogues of onr nosologies, the greater part consist either of inflammation in particular organs, or of Luges which are produced by it; and there are few indeed in which inflammation in some part is not either a cause or consequence, a concomitant circumstance, or a mode o- When I say mode of cure, I allude to the production of inflammation artificially as the means of remedying d.sea.o This is a circumstance peculiar to inflammation, and not belonging to other morbid affections. By external applica- tions we can excite inflammations similar to those uhel arise from internal causes. We cannot, however, ... the same way, produce organic changes, such as cancer, fungus, htematorlcs, exostosis.INFLAMMATION. 45 Of what are called general affections, there are very few m which there is not inflammation of some particular organ, and in which that inflammation is not either the cause of the affection, or a concomitant circumstance. We shall hardly meet with any cases of fever in which this is not exemplified. Therefore, a course of lectures, whether medical or surgical, must he principally occupied in de- scribing inflammations, in pointing out the effects which they produce in the several organs and textures of the body, in showing the various forms under which they appear, in investigating their causes, explaining their varieties, and exhibiting the means by which they may be controlled, arrested, or removed. I therefore begin with this important subject, in order to avoid the necessity of repetitions in speaking of particular diseases. Inflammation has generally been spoken of and described in the abstract; but the varieties of the process dependent on differences in the structure of the affected organs, on the nature and cause of the disease, are so numerous that they cannot be comprehended in a general description. In order, therefore, to give you a general notion of the subject, I shall select a particular instance, in which the character of the disturbance and its injurious effects are strongly marked in flammation of the hand, produced by a wound, puncture" laceration, or other injury of a finger or the hand The injury, being trivial, is disregarded, and ordinary occupations requiring exertion of the part are continued in spite of pain This however increases, with swelling involving the whole hand, with mtense suffering and fever, until medical assis ance is at last resorted to. The whole hand is now the eai of a violent inflammation in full development Tf i T7 the e„t„, hand. In ft. immediate ^ rf J46 INFLAMMATION, part, and in the palm, it is tense and firm, softer at the back of the hand. The redness is a bright scarlet, or light crimson tint It is that kind of colonr which we suppose to be pro- duced by an increased quantity of arterial blood in the part The redness is most intense in the immediate neighbourhood of the injury, and from that it is gradually shaded off towards the sound parts. The increased heat is sensible to the touch The patient, too, complains of burning heat in the seat ot disease. If, however, we examine the temperature by the thermometer, we do not find such an increase as the sensation described by the patient would lead us to expect. The heat does not rise beyond the natural temperature of the blood, namely, about 98° Fahrenheit. This point has been particu- larly investigated by Mr. Hunter. He excited inflammation in the cavity of the chest, in the vagina and rectum of animals j and he found that the temperature of those parts never rose, under any intensity of inflammation he could excite, beyond the natural temperature of the blood. If you place a blister on the skin of the chest, and afterwards examine the temperature of the part from which the cuticle has been removed you will find the thermometer will probably rise about two degrees beyond the temperature of the surrounding skin In the same experiment on the extremities, the differ- ence'of temperature will probably be four degrees, because the temperature of the extremities is naturally lower than that of the parts near to the centre of the circulation On one occasion, in which Mr. Hunter was operating for hydro cele by incision, he introduced the bulb of a ther— into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and found the tm- perature to be 92° S on the following^day, when inflation had commenced, it had risen to 98^°*. * MM.Beequerel and Breschet are supposed to have found an inflamed part considerably hotter than the internal organs of the body-that K to mITS NATUEE AND SYMPTOMS. 47 The pain in the first instance, is slight, and it gradually increases. It is augmented on pressure, and increased by any attempts to use the part. At first the patient ex- periences something of a dull aching; but as the inflammation proceeds, that feeling assumes a peculiar character, and is attended with a throbbing or pulsatory sensation. The patient feels the increased pulse. This is not a mere sensation of the patient. There is actual increase of fulness and force in the pulse throughout the Hmb, of the pulsation in the neighbourhood of the diseased part. The pulse at the wrist on the iuflamed side is fuller, stronger, and harder, than that of the opposite wrist.. The throbbing extends along the radial and ulnar arteries to the elbow, and in some severe cases reaches as far as the brachial itself. In conjunction with this increased fulness of the arterial trunks which lead to the inflamed part there is a corresponding distension of the veins. On the back of the hand and along the arm they are as full as they are seen after placing a ligature above the elbow, before you perform venesection. In conjunction with these four remarkable alterations in the part, the function of the inflamed organ is suspended, or, hotter than the hlood-and that Hunter's explanation of inflammatory heat is consequently valueless. Simon has lately instituted Some experiments in con. Tff H rVhe ^ °f ^ EdmUDd M°ntg0mery' and °° the ^nce thus ff rded, he affirms that an inflamed part is no mere passive recipient of heaT hut » , self actively caJoriflc. He found, first, that the arterial hlood supp^ to an mflamed limh is less warm than the focus of inflammation second y, that the venous hlood returning from an inflamed limh tWh found less warm than the focus of inflammation, is warmer tSl ! ^ blood supplied to the hmh; and thirdly, that the venou^I an mflamed limh is warmer than the corresponding current on*& sideofthehody. Therefore, concludes Mr. Simon 17 T ^ involves a local production of heat. (<Sys e70f S ^ *™™ Holmes, Esq., vol. i, p. 43, ed. 1) ( " * *•48 INFLAMMATION, at least, considerably impaired; that is, the patient either cannot move the limb without pain, and then but very imperfectly; or, when the inflammation has proceeded to its highest extent, he is totally incapable of moving it. If the inflammation continues, the symptoms increase in intensity with total loss of rest. The local disturbance may proceed so far that the part can no longer sustain it, and partial mor- tification ensues. A portion of the skin assumes a dirty brownish or blackish colour, indicating that it is dead ; and the part thns deprived of its vitality, is technically called a slouoh. Under a less violent degree of inflammation, matter forms S that is, a thickish yellow or whitish fluid, known by the name of pus, i* ponred out by the inflamed vessels into ft. substance of the part, being deposited in one spot, which is called an abscess: this is technically known by the term suppuration. Or, without proceeding to cither of these states, the swelling of the part may diminish, the pain and redness slowly lessen, the symptoms and effects of inflammation gradu- ally disappear: the natural state returns by degrees and the power of executing the natural function is restored, m other words, the symptoms of inflammation slowly subside, aid the pm-t recovers; this is called resolution. Under c"circumstances, that is, in some kinds of mflamma t on not in such a case as I have been considering, the ^'ptomswul disappear and almost immedmt* The French have designated this sudden disappearance by the , a word denved from the Latin «^ which means, to be concealed or bidden In the one there has been swelling in the part, and slow removal of tha swelling, occupying a considerable time; in the other, the removes rapid; so that, there is a propriety in distinguish,,,, these two modes of termination. Where mortification or sup- puration ma, have taken place, there is more or less mdura-ITS NATUKE AND SYMPTOMS. 49 tion and swelling in the surrounding parts, or these changes caused by interstitial deposition may occur alone, without the more serious alterations, not only augmenting bulk but con- siderably impairing motion. Inflammation is said to terminate in mortification, suppu- ration, interstitial deposition, or resolution. The latter is a real termination j the normal state of structure and function is restored. The inflammation may go on unabated after the other changes. Such, then, are the effects which inflammation produces in the part which is its immediate seat, and these are the primary or local symptoms of the disturbance. At the same time, in a violent inflammation, important on account of the organ affected, or from its extent, other effects are produced, called secondary, sympathetic, or constitutional. They exemplify the intimate connexion which binds together the various organs, and involve so many parts that, speaking loosely, the constitution may be said to suffer generaUy. The vascular system is disturbed, the action of the heart being affected, the pulse full, strong, and hard. The nervous system suffers; there is pain of the head, back, and limbs ■ also restlessness, want of sleep, and sometimes even delirium at night. The digestive organs are obviously involved The tongue is white; there is want of appetite, thirst, cos- tiveness, and sometimes even nausea and sickness. The secretions are suspended, or, at least, diminished in quan- tity. The skm is hot and dry, the mouth is dry, the urine scanty. These constitutional or sympathetic disturbances havino- been produced by the local affection, gradually g0 off in pro" portion as the original disorder abates. They are relieved more particularly when suppuration occurs, for then the secretions are restored. The circulation, relieved by this 450 INFLAMMATION, natural outlet, becomes tranquillised, the nervous system recovers, and the appetite returns. Such are the several phenomena, local and general, of a well-marked attack of inflammation, and you see there is a correspondence of character between the two. To an inquiry in what inflammation consists, it would not be sufficient to enumerate the local symptoms, the swelling, redness, heat, pain and impaired function. These are symptoms of inflammation, external signs by which we know that inflammation exists, but the real question is what are the changes in the part of which these symptoms are the ex- ternal evidences? There is disturbance of the circulation, as consequences of which, when it has proceeded to a certain extent, nutrition and secretion are altered, impaired, or suspended. Can we as yet explain how these effects are produced? It is clear, from circumstances, that an increased quantity of blood enters and circulates through the inflamed part. The increased fulness and throbbing of the arteries, the visible dis- tension of the venous trunks, the enlargement of the small vessels, as shown by the redness of the part, and the general redness throughout the tissues on examination after death satisfactorily prove that there is an increased quantity of blood sent to the part. All the textures of the inflamed member seem to contain a greater quantity of blood-vessels, and these appear to be of greater size than natural. That they are actually enlarged was shown by Mr. Hunter, in his experi- ment on the ear of a rabbit. He produced inflammation » one ear; after it was fully developed, he killed the animal, injecting the head, and clearly found that the vessels of the inflamed ear were much larger and more numerous than those of the sound one. He has given, in his work on «In- flammation and the Blood/ an engraving of the two ears,ITS NATUKE AND SYMPTOMS. 51 between which the contrast in the number and size of the vessels is most striking:. Though these circumstances prove that an increased quantity of blood is sent to the inflamed part, it does not follow that a greater quantity is circulating through it. That a greater quantity enters is beyond doubt, and it has been supposed that the additional supply is stagnant, or confined, m the part. But other circumstances prove distinctly that a greater quantity actually circulates through it. If you cut into an inflamed part, blood flows much more abundantly than it would from a similar incision in a sound part. Take the case of phlegmonous erysipelas, which occupies the skin and cellular membrane. If you make an incision, not going deeper than the fascia, a great number of vessels bleed most freely, so that twenty or thirty ounces of blood may escape very rapidly. If you perform an operation on an inflamed part, or in its immediate neighbourhood, which you should avoid if possible, the vessels, both arterial and venous, bleed most profusely. The distended state of the veins sufficiently proves that there is more rapid circulation. The comparative state of the circulation in an inflamed and uninflamed part is shown in the case of a young man admitted into the hospital with violent inflammation of the hand, already ex- tending to the forearm at the end of a week, from an accident to the little finger. The radial pulse of the inflamed limb was full, strong, and frequent. I ordered that a vein should be opened in each arm at the same time. About fifteen ounces of blood flowed from the inflamed limb, while three ounces were escaping from the opposite side. The latter had a thin, buffy covering, while the former presented a thick layer of the toughest fibrinc, and was cupped to the utmost extent. This general view, then, leads us to see that the phenomena52 INFLAMMATION, of inflammation are attended by increased activity of the circulating system in the affected part. The redness and preternatural heat are obviously accounted for by this view. The redness by the increased quantity of blood, and the in- creased heat on the same principle. The heat of the body certainly depends principally on the changes produced in the blood in passing through the lungs; and when a larger quantity of that fluid is sent into, and circulates through, any part, it will obviously follow, that the temperature of that part must be increased, but still it, never rises above the natural heat of the blood. The swelling is to be accounted for partly by the turgescence occasioned by the general dis- tension of the blood-vessels, and partly by the interstitial deposition. The pain will be readily explained by the cir- cumstance of the nerves participating, as well as all other parts, in the general disturbance. It has been a disputed point whether the pressure of the turgid vessels upon the nerves caused the pain, or the irritation of the nerves gave rise to the vascular turgidity; it is a question of little moment, and which scarcely admits of a positive answer. The constitutional symptoms are to be regarded as sym- pathetic effects produced by the state of the inflamed part; and here we see that the local disturbance acts equally on the vascular, nervous, digestive, and secreting systems; they are all equally affected. Of these sympathetic affections another view may be taken; we may suppose, and some of the phe- nomena would seem to convey that view, that the disturbance of the circulation of the part is communicated to the rest of the vascular system, and thus accounts for the affections of the digestive and nervous systems and of the secretions. Examination of inflamed parts after death shows clearly how the various tissues have suffered. There is increased redness of all the textures, the vessels being larger and ap-ITS NATUEE AND SYMPTOMS. 53 parently more numerous. There is an effusion of firm character in and about the immediate seat of inflammation, of a soft substance in the neighbouring parts. These effusions, which fill the interstices and clog the various tissues uniting them together more closely, are the albuminous and fibrinous parts of the blood. The inflamed tissues are firmer to the feel, but the cohesion of their particles is diminished; they have lost their elasticity, and are rendered brittle, so that ligatures cut through them instead of holding. We proceed thus far in our attempts to explain inflammation on safe grounds, that is, on clearly ascertained facts. Not contented with the knowledge thus obtained by direct ob- servation, pathologists have indulged in hypotheses and con- structed theories of inflammation. Besides a host of others two justly celebrated men, Boerhaave and Cullen, have at- tempted the subject, and seem to have believed that they had solved the difficulty. The opinion of the first was con- veyed in the expression error loci; it was that the circulation became obstructed by the minute vessels being stopped up by the particles of the blood. Cullen thought that the minute vessels were in a state of spasm. _ These notions of obstruction and spasm are altogether imaginary, grounded on the diminution or suppression of secretin. This only proves, however, that a new and unusual exertion supersedes the ordinary mode of action Albumen and fibrine are poured out abundantly from the surface of mflamed serous membranes and interstitially in other textures. Inflamed mucous membranes exhale fluid most copiously. " The aid of the microscope has been invoked, in the hone of settling the matter bv direct observations of he e l at 0n m an mnamed part, the ,veb of a frog's foot bemg p W7 the held of the .nstrnment, and excited bv s„me° L ^54 INFLAMMATION, application. Even here directly opposite conclusions have heen drawn by different inquirers, the difference being between transmission of blood in increased quantity and stagnation, between increased activity of vessels and atony. The more accurate inquiries of modern observers show that there is a gradually increasing obstruction of the circulation, where the disturbance is carried to the highest pitch, while the enlarged vessels in the circumference transmit the blood more actively. The following statements, which I do not pretend to indorse, present the general opinion of the day. After the application of a local irritant, the vessels first contract, but shortly afterwards dilate, and become tortuous and varicose j the current of blood above the spot irritated becomes sluggish, and if the injury be severe, ceases entaely. Within this area the fluid part of the blood is lost, the cor- puscles clinging to the walls of the vessels and adhering one to another. These changes in the blood-vessels are not primary but secondary phenomena, and microscopists next assert that the dilatation of the arteries is not an active, but a passive, process. The augmented supply of blood, it is argued, is not the result of an increased activity of the vessels ; on the contrary, it is due to their dilatation, which is a consequence of diminished vitality of the tissues. The conclusion accordingly is, that the cause of "inflammatory stasis" lies wholly in an influence exerted on the blood by the textures \ in other words, that it is « primarily the result of an increased attraction which the inflaming tissue exerts, as it were, suctionally, on the blood coursing withm its capillaries." . It would be a complete waste of time to examine further the various hypotheses respecting inflammation. It may be sufficient to say that it is disturbance of the circulating system, with an altered mode of exertion; but what theITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS. 55 alterations are we do not know. It is not simply increased vascular activity; that would produce increased nutrition, augmentation of natural bulk or secretions, as in the annual reproduction of the stag's horn, in the swelling of the gravid uterus and of the breasts of suckling women. Thus the seat of inflammation is in the capillaries, those vessels which are the agents of nutrition, growth, secretion, and excretion, which perform all the active business of the animal economy. We do not yet know what differences of structure and action produce all the varied results of vascular exertion; how the capillaries of one part form bone, those of another muscle ; why some secrete bile, others mucus or urine. Can we, then, be surprised that we do not understand inflammation ? Being unable to assign the exact nature of the change in the part, we are obliged to name and define inflammation from its effects or symptoms. The terms inflammation, phlegmasia, phlogosis, phlegmon, are all derived from the most striking external character, that of increased heat. If we do not yet understand the nature of this frequent, almost universal, and therefore familiar affection, can we be surprised that all attempts at founding nosological distributions on the nature of the several affections have failed ?CHAPTER III. ON INFLAMMATION: ITS EFFECTS, VARIETIES, AND CAUSES. I have already alluded to the fact that we find the textures of an inflamed part, examined after death, preternaturally red, and the number of the blood-vessels apparently increased, while they are turgid with blood; at the same time interstitial deposition is observed in the structures generally. "When we examine the parts, they feel firmer than natural; notwithstanding which they are more easily lacerated and give way under the application of force, so that the effect of the inflammatory process is to diminish the natural cohesion or firmness of parts, and this is found to be the general result of the disease in its active form. This particular result is often seen in the brain where a peculiar softening takes place * which was originally observed without reference to the cause which produced it. Accurate examination has proved it to be merely a change dependent on inflammation. The newly deposited substance is that formerly and still sometimes called coagulating or coagulable lymph. It is * Softening of the brain often proceeds from inflammatory reaction con- sequent upon disturbance of the cerebral circulation, as after ligature of the carotid artery; another cause consists in the plugging of small arteries by masses of fibrine, dislodged from the valves on the left side of the heart, or from some part of the arterial system, as was first described by Virchow,1 and subsequently by Dr. Kirlces.3 1 Virchow's 'Archiv.' 2 * Mcd-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xxxv.' INFLAMMATION. 57 the fibrine of the blood, namely, that whitish and tough part which is seen after washing the red particles from the crassamentum or clot. It is analogous to the buffy coat seen on the surface of blood drawn from a patient labouring under inflammation, and is now generally termed fibrine. But inflammatory effusions present differences in their character. Thus, contrast the membrane formed about the larynx in croup with the muco-purulent secretion of bron- chitis, or the tough, blood-stained mucus poured forth in pneumonia. Compare the hard, syphilitic node on the tibia with the soft, fluctuating swelling proceeding from the same cause on the forehead. The circumference of an inflammatory swelling presents a soft or (edematous condition which is due to effusion of serous fluid. We see the nature of inflammatory effusions when the , serous membranes are inflamed, because there the substance, which in other parts is deposited interstitially, is effused on . a surface. When the peritoneum or pleura is inflamed, a soft and semi-transparent substance, like thin glue ' is deposited, so that the opposed surfaces, which are naturally free, become agglutinated. On the serous surface of the lung you may see this fibrine poured out in such a quantity as to cover the organ com pletely. At first it lies loosely connected, so that you can easfly scrape it off with the handle of a knife; but soon blood-vessels shoot into it and organize it, when it assumes the character of the structure from which it has been produced that of the pleura. The way in which the vessels extend into the newly deposed substance has been made the subject of microscopical research. J You sec the same phenomenon in inflammation of the i • The lymph is deposited either generally in its testnre, alter: the colonr and changing considerably the natnre and appear!58 INFLAMMATION, ance of its structure, or as a distinct mass or paten. The matter thus poured out constitutes the source of adhesions between the margin of the pupil and the capsule of the lens. When lymph is deposited interstitially in the various textures the phenomena are more obscure, as the effused matter is blended with the natural structure. All the tissues are thickened, condensed, and closely adherent, so that great stiffness or entire loss of motion may result. Such an occurrence in the right hand of a labourer or mechanic may render him entirely unfit for his occupation. Inflammation may leave behind in the affected parts, he testicle for example, a degree of hardness fully equal to that of scirrhus, and this change, with its possible degeneration into cancer, has not unfrequently been stated in works of apparently good authority among the effects of inflammation. The hardness, however, in this case is simple induration without anything of malignant character. In scirrhus, without Zj previous inflammation, a malignant grow h is found in lieu of the natural structure, while more or less obvious traces of the latter are seen in simple induration caused by Iflammation, which has never, in my experience, assumed • n malienant character. You are not to understand that each iuflammatmn produces one only of these effects; on the contrary, dependmg as they do! on differences in the degree or mtenstty of ft. tlLce, they are usually confined, affectmgdjflment portions of the same part. Thus, there may he mortvflca^n in the centre, with snppnration under and aroundft<ma larger circle of consolidation hy fibrinous eftuston.and std further off serous iufiltration. While these changes are tahing place where the disturbance is most achve, the inflammation may slowly subside iu the circumference terminate by resolution. There may still rcmam swelbng andITS EFFECTS AND VARIETIES. 59 thickening from effusion into the inflamed textures. After suppuration has taken place in one part fresh excitement may occur in the neighbourhood. Thus, inflammation origi- nating in the finger gradually extends into the palm of the hand and thence along the forearm, producing in these various parts changes of structure by which the motions of the limbs are impaired or entirely lost. Hence the great importance of preventing such a calamity by employing the most effectual measures at as early a stage as possible. The idea of inflammation drawn from the examination of external parts has been generalised, and hence it has been said to consist in the five circumstances I have detailed, namely, redness, swelling, heat, pain and impaired function; we do not include the sympathetic influences in our general notion of inflammation, because they do not invariably attend. The disturbance of the sanguiferous and digestive systems, of the secretions and excretions, which constitute inflammatory fever, are only observed when inflammation is violent, extensive, or seated in an important organ. In less serious cases these influences, though not strongly marked, are seldom wanting, while they may be very severe occasionally, where the disease is neither extensive nor seated in a part of importance, as in inflammation about the finger-nail, in thecal abscess, in suppuration under the periosteum, parti- cularly on the cranium. Not knowing the exact nature of the local changes, we are not surprised when we find that almost directly opposite opmions have been entertained respecting the state of the circulation in the inflamed spot. One thing is clear namely, that if a vein be opened between the seat Vf disease and the heart, a much greater quantity of blood will flow m the same time than if no inflammation existed * * All .icroscopical equations prove that in one spot, where the Lnflaxn-60 INFLAMMATION, Acute inflammation is called also active, violent, or phlegmonous. The term « phlegmonous » was applied hy the Greeks to that active form of inflammation seated in the areolar tissue which leads to abscess. Chronic inflammation is called also languid, slow, or indolent; the vascular dis- turbance and redness are much less; the pain is slight; the inflammation frequently proceeds to a considerable extent before the patient is aware of its existence. But though the chronic may appear to be of much less consequence than the acute disturbance, it often produces more serious change of structure in the affected organs. But the varieties of inflammation are more numerous and important than would be represented by this simple division. Let us take, for example, the finger; there may be the common inflammatory excitement following a scratch or cut, erysipelas in its various forms, burn, chilblain, whitlow, gout, rheumatism; and differences, both as to degree and results, are noticed yet more abundantly in the affections to which the internal organs are subject. I Let us notice varieties in the absolute and relative degree of the changes usually regarded as essential characters. The redness varies in its tint; it may be bright scarlet or crimson, or, on the other hand, livid; the colour may m both instances be slight or intense. Those differences are in great measure dependent on the quantity of the capillary vessels. paction is highest and the eifusion m0»t uWunt tUc^ its corpuscles should float, you read of "blood-corpuscles chngmg to the a of their containing vessel, and aggregating there." This stas* occurs mth m0re or less facility in proportion as the liquor sanguinis . more or e~ transudate, but it docs not result from alteration of calibre ***** - efferent vessels of the part. The cause of its production lies wholly m the m- fluence exerted on the blood by the textures themselves.ITS EFFECTS AND VAKIETIES. 61 The swelling may be considerable or slight, according to the degree of inflammation present and the differences of texture; as, for instance, in inflammation of a mucous, serous, or fibrous membrane, the bronchial membrane, the pleura, or the sclerotic coat of the eye. # Heat varies similarly in degree • the hot, burning sensation m an acute abscess may be contrasted with the absence of any increase of temperature in a chronic purulent formation. Pain may be violent or entirely absent. Generally, the more intense the inflammation the more violent the pain. But the difference in the degree of pain partly depends on difference of texture. In proportion as the part is more firm and dense and more copiously supplied with nerves, the pain is greater, and vice versa. Thus, in paronychia the pain is extreme; in inflammation of the conjunctiva it may be entirely absent; in that of the sclerotica it is dull, heavy, and II. Various effects.-I have mentioned the usnal effects commonly called termination, of active inflammation when seated m a part like the haad. ^ ^ ^ enumerate ^ ^ degrees of the inflammatory process, and all the effects it may produce in the varions organs and textures, the cata- logue mil be much increased. 1. Increase in number and size of blood vessels is a very general, rf not universal, effect of inflammation. As inflam -tmn » essentially seated in the vascular system, we health. We cannot but suppose that some change occurs in the part pnor to increased vascular action « f pressmu is made on it, in ^"J^'J£ ™ attracted in nnnsnal quantity, and the vcIseTs el ted T unusual exertion. This unknown impression „ 7 the irritation of some pathologists h62 INFLAMMATION, The terms irritation and disorder, which we use to denote slight deviations from the normal functions of a part, may be considered to comprehend especially in the case of organs not open to immediate observation during life the early stage and the slighter degree of inflammation. When such trivial disorder occurs in an organ winch we can examine, such as the eye, we find its circulation disturbed; the same change probably occurs in internal parts, winch we cannot see. The inflammatory disturbance not unfrequently consists wholly or at least principally in the increased size and number of blood-vessels. It is then called determnaUon of blood, vascular congestion, local plethora, hyperemia. In many cases this change does not remain after death, but often there is turgidity of blood-vessels, with apparent mcrease of number as if they had been injected. Hemorrhage. A rupture of vessels is a likely occurrence when they are distended and under increased exertion Blood may be effused into the substance of a part, such as the brain or lung, or on the surface, as in the alimentary canal or the air-passages, not always proceeding from rupture of vessels, for in the latter cases we may fail to trace breach of surface. Not unfreauently there is some mixture and with the effusions into serous cavxtres, probably from the same sources as the matter or effusions Changes of secretion are illustrated by the effus.cn o serum, lymp^ and pus. These three products are dependen on differences in degree of the inflammatory action, as w See in an abscess, where pus is formed m the centre ymph effused around, to form the parietes, and serum m the ci - cumference. But yet not wholly so, for texture as .veil s degree exerts an influence; thus, serous membranes easily pour forth lymph, and mucous membranes, pus. Diminished cohesion is seen in the brittleness or softenedITS EFFECTS AND VARIETIES. G3 condition of inflamed parts. The lung-substance consolidated by the inflammatory process breaks down easily under jjressure; the substance of the brain may be semi-fluid from the same cause. The inflamed mucous membrane of the alimentary canal may be reduced to a pulp. In inflamed parts ligatures cut through or tear away the textures. Ulceration and gangrene will be mentioned in another lecture. The more remote changes consequent on inflammatory effusions consist in opacity of parts naturally transparent, as the cornea or the arachnoid membrane; in adhesion between those naturally distinct, as in the serous cavities; in thick- ening, consolidation, and induration, white, gray, or red, the last termed hepatization • the differences depending on the number of the capillary vessels. All these differences in effect depend in great measure on difference in the degree of inflammatory disturbance, in which respect they might be arranged in the following order- Irritation, Vascular congestion, Effusion of serum, Ulceration Hemorrhage, Effusion offibrine, Suppuration, Gangrene. All inflammatory effusions are of high specific gravity, and contain a large quantity of albumen; they may also contain fibrme, pus, or blood-cells. The great chemical characteristic of inflammatory effusions, according to Mr. Simon is their excess of chloride of sodium and of phosphates. Pus says Professor Lehmann, contains three times as much chloride of sodium as the serum of the blood, and during pneumonia it has been shown by D, Beale, the lung is so disproportion- ately loaded with this salt that the urine is entirely deprived of * But in all inflammatory effusions ^00^ forms abound. Whether they first appear as tr J " nuclei, which subsequently gather around them their vesting wall, or whether they represent prating cells'64 INFLAMMATION, which pervade the entire organism and become apparent only during inflammatory action, are points which I shall leave, without further comment, for the consideration of those in- terested in such matters. The differences here mentioned are more noticed m cases of spontaneous than in those of accidental inflammation. All the textures involved in a wound suppurate, although mus- cular and fibrous tissues are hardly known to suppurate otherwise. . . . HI Degree—The inflammatory disturbance varies m its amonnt or quantity; there may be more or less of it; when m„e, the process is rapid; when less, slower. These differences, as I have already stated, are marhed by the epithets acute and chronic, those terms denotmg differences in degree, not in land. Violence of symptoms and rapidity of course are seen, in acute; mildness and slowness in chrome. The terms are not opposed to each other in sense. Acute, which means sharp, refers to the symptoms, especially the pain. Chronic, i. e. enduring, to the time occupied " You are not to suppose that there are just two.degrees.of violence, so that each case can be referred without hesxtation „ one or the other; on the contrary, between the mo violent, rapid, or acute, and the mildest and — th - a great and indefinite number of gradations, like tb in mediate shades between two colours. Some adopt tb c degrees, acute, subacute, chronic. Acute is synonym u with active, violent, phlegmonous; snob a disturbance is violent to last. It must be cut short by treatment, 01 it destroy or disorganize the part. Chronic is also called languid, slow, indolent The vascu !ar disturbance is less ; the redness inconsiderable or pain trifling or none; sympathetic influences hard.y no c . Consequently there is no constitutional disturbance; but theITS EFFECTS AND VARIETIES. 65 altered secretion is a striking feature; and interstitial depo- sition, with swelling and change of structure is greater. If we contrast the changes i^ the testicle affected with acute inflammation as in some cases of hernia humoralis, with those of more chronic nature, producing that morbid enlarge- ment called by the older surgeons sarcocele, or with the venereal disease of the same gland, we shall find that in the latter there is permanently organized new matter, as may be proved by injection. So, likewise, in the adventitious mem- branes lining the dura mater. They are true inflammatory effusions, as I have seen in many of the examinations which I have performed at Bethlehem Hospital. Thus, in acute inflammation there is violent but temporary disturbance; the part soon regains its natural state. In chronic, with apparently slighter disorder, we find greater and more permanent change of structure, often impairing or destroying function. The danger in the two cases, as regards the part, and the difficulty in treatment, are in an inverse ratio to the severity of the symptoms and apparent ground of alarm. The violent disturbance of acute inflammation is easily stopped; to re- move or check the disorganizing effects of chronic is'a work of greater difficulty and longer time. Acute and chronic stage. We use the terms acute and chronic stage not only to mark differences which are observed originally and through the whole course of the inflammation but also to denote a corresponding difference in degree of vio' lence in different periods of one and the same inflammation " An inflammation is not an uniform disturbance throughout- the part goes through different states between the be«rbnin- and the termination of the affection. The ,™ntn & & , symptoms, com- mcncing m slighter form, proceed gradually to their full intensity, then there is a stationary period in which all the 566' INFLAMMATION, phenomena are fully developed : this is followed by decline and disappearance. Though bearing one name throughout, the disturbance is different at these several times. If an inflammation be divided into three stages, the first two, viz the origin or formation, and the stationary period, do not differ much in duration 3 but the third, that of decbne, may be very various in length. If the inflammation have been violent, and allowed to proceed uncontrolled, if the exciting causes are still acting, and the patient is guilty of excess and imprudence, the disorder may be protracted almost indefinitely; at all events, a long period intervenes be- tween the cessation of violent disturbance and recovery. This is called the chronic stage of an inflammation. Some entertain the notion that these are essentially dif- ferent, that increased action is the essence of one, debility of the other. That there is no essential difference between the acute and chronic stages of the same inflammation, appears from the change of one into the other. Acute gradually changes into chronic, chronic often relapses into acute. The two stages often require different and almost opposite treatment. Hence, perhaps, the notion of their different nature. The terms active and passive inflammation convey no clear meaning. Inflammation may occur in a weakened or un- healthy frame and thus important modifications of treatment, both local and general, may become necessary. We must distinguish between the nature of the local disturbance and the state of the constitution. As the capillaries are an inextricable network, how can we determine whether vascular disturbance is confined to oue or the other order of vessels, so as to justify the expressions arterial and venous congestion ? IV. Nature or land of inflammation ; it may be commonITS EFFECTS AND VAKIETIES. 67 or specific. Common inflammation is that excited by an or- dinary cause in a healthy constitution, e. g., by wound or other injury, in a patient of sound constitution and good health. Specific derives its character from peculiarity of constitution, or of the exciting cause. Peculiarity of constitution or unhealthiness may be either original, that is, natural or congenital, as in scrofula, or ac- quired, as in gout and rheumatism. Peculiarity of cause, is exemplified in syphilis, smallpox, measles, scarlatina, itch, which are produced by one cause only. The diseased processes are the same in specific as in com- mon inflammation; they differ in modifications, these differ- ences being sometimes so slight that it would be difficult to distinguish them by appearances merely. Common inflammation proceeds regularly to some decided effect; as for instance, suppuration, mortification, resolution In some specific diseases there is great irregularity, often sudden disappearance, with reappearance in another part this is caUed metastasis, a Greek word, meaning simply trans- ference. In each specific inflammation there is a tendency to some peculiar change; to ulceration in syphilis; to ulceration and disorganization by tubercular deposition in scrofula Under this head of diversity in kind maybe mentioned differences dependent on the nature of the cause; in which respect inflammation may be distinguished as : Accidental, spontaneous, and symptomatic In the first the symptoms appear quickly or immediately after the application of the cause; they exist in an canal degree; the disorder proceeds regularly to its termination- and commonly produces suppuration or ffario,, terminates by resolution. g^grene, or68 INFLAMMATION, In the second, the appearance of the local symptoms is preceded by previous disorders, often by rigors. The progress is irregular; there are exacerbations and remissions; some- times intermissions. The complaint is protracted, and re- lapses are frequent. Delitescence and metastasis are common. Suppuration and gangrene are comparatively infrequent. Induration is common, and it occurs also in the accidental. Softening is only seen as a consequence of the former. We have also to consider individual peculiarities, such as differences of temperament, constitutional disposition to scrofula, gout, or other diseases, the indefinite matters called idiosyncrasies, and the modifications in constitution depen- dent on age, sex, mode of life, diet, and lastly, the effects produced by climate, season, properties of the air. Thus, hepatitis is common in hot countries. Erysipelas will prevail in foul or imperfectly ventilated wards of an hospital, or other apartments with many occupants. Typhus fever breaks out among masses of people crowded together and badly fed. Typhoid fever with ulceration of the bowels, is ascribed to unwholesome water, bad drainage, and other imperfect do- mestic arrangements. That mysterious disease, the cholera, swept from east to west, brought into activity by some occult atmospheric influence, and seems in many localities to have taken the place of "the plague," a disease allied to typhus in its severest form, now happily nearly extinct. Causes of inflammation.-In considering this part of the subject, it will be convenient to adopt the threefold division of inflammations into accidental, symptomatic, and spon- taneous. Accidental inflammations are those produced by an obvious external cause; such causes being numerous. Injuries of all kinds, mechanical, chemical or mixed.ITS CAUSES. 69 Wounds, including surgical operations, incisions, punctures, lacerations, bruises, pressure. Heat, strong acids, pure alkalies, certain metallic salts. Acrid substances of various nature and power : cantharides, mustard, pepper, various metallic salts, and oxides. Animal poisons: cowpox, smallpox, syphilis, gonorrhoea, purulent ophthalmia, itch. Bites of venomous serpents. Bites and stings of insects. Excessive exertion of an organ in the execution of its natural functions, as in the case of the eye, brain, alimentary canal Cold and moisture, singly or combined: particular winds and various atmospherical agencies. Direct action of cold on a part: exposure of the eye to wind, rain, or fog. Cold or damp air to the nose, throat, larynx, trachea. External application of cold and moisture inducing internal inflammation, e.g. bronchitis, diarrhoea, dysentery. An important difference is observed in the action of the causes now enumerated. Direct violence, chemical stimuli and animal poisons will excite inflammation in some decree • it may be considerable or slight. The other causes, such as exertion of the organ and atmospherical agencies, are quite uncertain in their effects, they do not act at all on many individuals, while in those who feel their influence the effect vanes individually. A large company is exposed to wind and rain; most of them do not suffer at all; one has catarrh one inflammation of the chest, a third rheumatism and a fourth affection of the bowels. One individual in a company has an attack of apoplexy or palsy. Two persons strain the ankle-joint; temporary uneasiness ensues in one, inflamed joint in the other. ' mnamed70 INFLAMMATION, Hence, ia addition to the external agency, a particular state of body is necessary to produce an aptitude, or predis- position to disease, and thus it has been necessary to divide causes into immediate, direct, or exciting, and remote or predisposing. . The latter may be natural peculiarity of constitution. All human beings are not organized alike. Nature has nothing of the quaker taste. She has no delight in uniformity of colour, figure, stature. She has not cut out all mankind by one pattern; on the contrary, her law is variety, as we observe unmistakeably throughout creation. Variety m or- ganization and vital actions not less than in form, stature, functions, dispositions, and endowments. Thus the state of health, as the general result of the exercise of all the organs instead of being an uniform condition, is different m each individual. , Such varieties as are common to many persons are called temperaments; the sanguineous,nervous,phlegmatic,melan- cholic; those of individuals are idiosyncrasies. As peculiarities are hereditary, so is the disposition to particular diseases in families. Morbid dispositions or diatheses are closely allied to dif- ference, of temperament, but they make a nearer approach to disease, as in scrofula, gout, rheumatism. The two latter may be original or acquired. BispositL to particular kinds of disease may ar,se from age and sex, natural vigour or weakness of frame, donate and situation. . . Erysipelas in tropical countries. Hepa«,s m ho region* here it is rare, and abscess of tbe liver is almost unknown. Yellow fever in certain American cities, whenever the tbe>- m0meter remains at or ahove 80° for si, week, consecufvely. Intermittents; malaria.ITS CAUSES. 71 Symptomatic inflammations are those caused by previous disease of another part; such as inflammation of absorbents and glands from syphilis or other local disorders, affection of the testicle in gonorrhoea; or they are local inflammations produced by general affection of the constitution. Here the inflammation is a symptom of the disease; in accidental cases the inflammation is the disease. The pustules of small- pox, the efflorescence of scarlatina and measles, and secondary syphilis, are examples. In spontaneous inflammations there is no obvious exciting cause j while in some the origin is quite obscure, as in in- fluenza, and cholera. In many inflammations, both external and internal, acute and chronic, we can trace no injurious agency on the part; but we find an unhealthy state of constitution; we refer the local disease to this cause, and we accomplish the cure by rectifying the constitutional indisposition. These states of health are brought on slowly; the individual does not con- sider himself ill; he is suddenly attacked with disease, but does not refer it to the constitutional cause; he ascribes it to some particular occurrence, to having been chilled or heated, to going from a hot room into cold air, or vice versa, to something eaten or drunk. These inflammations, owing their origin to a morbid state of constitution, are thus allied to the preceding division or the symptomatic. The local complaint is in some sort the offspring or symptom of the general affection. These unhealthy states of constitution give a predisposition to inflammation generally; they render the body susceptible of external agencies, which otherwise would not affect it, and they aggravate the inflammatory dis- turbance consequent on the action of direct exciting causes. Gouty inflammations might be classed under either divi- sion.72 INFLAMMATION, The causes, nature and progress, of these unhealthy states of constitution, and the mode of managing them, form so important a suhject, that I shall defer its consideration at present, as it would interrupt the general view of inflam- mation, and I shall take it up separately after concluding the latter. According to the differences in their modes of production inflammations and other diseases have been divided into idiopathic and sympathetic or primary and secondary. The distinction is useful, because it leads us to investigate causes, to inquire into the mode in which diseases arise. Hence we come to know the true nature of disease, and are enabled to lay down rational rules of treatment. Idiopathic or primary diseases are those produced by some direct agency on the part affected; either by some cause capable of exciting inflammation under all circumstances, or by such influence as will excite disease in persons predisposed. Such are the accidental inflammations. In other and numerous instances of local inflammation or other disease, we see, as I have already explained, no direct operation on the part affected; but we find disturbance m other quarters; we see that the local affection has shown itself subsequently to the existence of such disturbance, and thus, that in point of time it is secondary ; we find often that the cure of such primary disturbance will remove the local affection. Hence we consider the former to be the cause, although we cannot always show how the effect is produced Sympathetic diseases then may be defined as those excited by injury, dissase, or disorder of another part. They are secondary, inasmuch as they come after the original affection. Most organs afford examples of both kinds. Thus gonorrhceal ophthalmia may be caused by direct application of infectious matter to the eye; or it may comeITS CAUSES. 73 on from internal causes, as an example of what is called metastasis. Inflammation of the testis may arise directly from injury, or from the stimulating injection used in the radical cure of hydrocele, or indirectly from gonorrhoea. The skin becomes inflamed by blister,, scald, or burn. The cutaneous inflammation called urticaria is often brought on by loaded or disordered stomach. Disorder of the head is induced by injury or intense mental exertion; it may equally occur from overloaded stomach or costive bowels. The reciprocal influence of the head and the abdominal organs affords striking exemplifications of sympathy, and is of great practical importance. 1. The head affects the stomach and bowels in accidents and other cases. A blow on the head is often foUowed by sickness, vomiting, loss of appetite, costiveness. Afflicting intelligence will destroy appetite. 2. Worms in the stomach, or other irritations in the same quarter, affect the head, and cause convulsions. Stimulating liquors exhilarate and intoxicate. A large draught of spirits will kill as by apoplexy. Abscess of the liver sometimes occurs from injury of the head. Hypochondriasis and melancholy are often to be traced to abdominal causes. Languor and dejection are common in jaundice. The word sympathy does not explain these occurrences • it means, etymologicaUy, suffering with, and thus merely denotes the simultaneous existence of two affections, without showing how the one produces the other. Nerves are probably the agents of sympathy ■ when tH are divided, it is no longer manifested.CHAPTER IV. TREATMENT OP INFLAMMATION. In the first place, let me speak of acute or active inflam- mation, either with or without inflammatory fever. You have seen, from the description which I have given that inflammation is a temporary state, although a violent disturbance, and that it may go through its various stages and come to an end without medical treatment; it may end in the restoration of the healthy or normal state, both of structure and function. Observe in this respect the contrast between inflammation or common disease, and the organic changes produced by some specific diseases. The tendency of the latter is de- structive ; that of the former salutary. Cancer of the female breast commences without vascular disturbance, often without pain; in its progress it supersedes and destroys every texture it meets, until it finally produces changes fatal to life. An abscess of the breast proceeds from some local irntation, such as the accumulation of milk; it comes to the surfece bursts, and having discharged its contents, leaves the gland to resume its proper functions. But when inflammation is violent, it disturbs to a dangerous or at least alarming degree, or even suspends the functions of the organ; it may need, therefore, to be stopped quickly in75 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. order to save life. This is especially the case when it occurs in such parts as the brain, the lungs, or the heart, the larynx, stomach, intestines, or abdomen. Again, the various effects of inflammation, particularly mortification, suppuration, and interstitial depositions, cause changes of structure, which impair or destroy function, although inflammation should be stopped. Even the least considerable of these effects, effusion of lymph, may produce organic alterations seriously and permanently injurious; and these take place occasionally when the inflammation is far from its highest degree. Such effusion may consolidate and harden parts which are naturally loose and soft in structure; it may cause adhesion between those which are distinct, although contiguous, and it may render transparent struc- tures opaque. The restorative powers of joints are comparatively weak; it is long before a knee or elbow once inflamed regains the perfect smoothness and polish of the internal surfaces, and the flexibility of the surrounding structures, which are necessary to the perfect freedom and strength of the articulation. Inflammation of the cornea, the iris, or the retina, though not very violent, would come to a natural end; but it might lessen or destroy the transparency of the first, it might contract or close the pupil, it might impair or extinguish the sensibility of the nervous structure to light, entailing, according to its degree, imperfection or loss of sight. If inflammation of the hand be allowed to pursue its course or be treated inefficiently in its earlier stage, it may cause mischiefs of the most serious and distressing kinds, gluin°- tendons to the fibrous sheaths or bones in or on which they should play, and converting them, with fascia, muscles, cellular texture, and skin into a hard mass, with irremediable stiffness if not immobility of the affected portions.76 TEEATMENT OE INFLAMMATION. Hence it is necessary to arrest inflammation in order to prevent sncli changes, although the organ may not be im- portant to life; and we must employ active means in the former as in the latter case, if this purpose is to he satis- factorily accomplished. Thirdly, even supposing the organ not to he important to life and, further, that we have no reason to apprehend any of the more serious effects, it is still very desirable to arrest inflammation quickly. The longer the vessels remain dis- tended, the more slowly do they recover their natural state; and the more easily do they again become disordered. Hence the continuance of inflammation increases the difficulty of recovery and the liability to relapse. Hence an organ, which has been once seriously diseased, is likely to suffer again. The persons who undertake life assurances are well aware of this However well a person may be at the time when he offers himself, they either do not nndertake the risk, or they impose such terms as may secure them against future loss if they find that he has had serious disease, and they in- quire carefully into his sanitary history. Fourthly, we are to consider the relief from present suffering in acute inflammation attended with sympathetic fever. There are certain preliminary and auxiliary measures of general application which, without directly tending to check inflammation, place the patient under the most favorable circumstances for the direct means. They consist m removing all causes capable of increasing local or general excitement. The exciting cause should be got rid of when practicable; you would remove a foreign body from the eye, and guard against cold and damp, when exposure to these agents has brought on disease. You must enforce, as far as possible repose of the affected organ. If it be a joint, the patient must not use the limb. Inflamed eyes must be kept at rest,77 TEEATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. and if one only suffer, the other cannot be employed safely on account of the close sympathy between the two organs. If the head is affected, mental study and other sources of cerebral excitement must be strictly avoided. But repose cannot be completely attained, when parts of involuntary action are the seat of disease. General rest in the recumbent posture tends to tranquillise such parts, as the heart for example. The position should be such as is favorable to the return of blood. In the case of inflam- mation attacking the lower extremities, the patient should be confined to bed. In the case of similar vascular ex- citement in the head, the sitting posture may be most agreeable. All external agency on the affected part, such as pressure, must be avoided; hence much manual examination is in- jurious ; the apartment should be light and well ventilated. We next come to the direct means of lessening and re- moving inflammation. On the treatment of inflammation, and first in its acute or violent form, when it is generally attended with inflammatory fever.—Among the'direct means of controlling acute inflam- mation, we may mention, in the first place, the abstraction of blood, that is, of the material by which the disturbance is kept up. In the figurative view on which the name of this affection is founded, blood may be termed the fuel by which the flame is maintained. By cutting off the supply of blood, all vital action is stopped as we see in the brain under syncope. Thus bleeding, considered abstractedly, may be regarded as the most speedy and effectual means of arresting the local mischief and lessening the general disturbance. Its practical employ- ment must be subjected to a careful consideration of the concomitant circumstances, of the natural constitution, the amount of bodily power, and the previous health of the78 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, patient, his age and general condition. Blood may be taken either from the vascular system generally, or from the vessels of a part; thus bleeding is either general or local. In the former case it is drawn from a single vessel of suitable size and by a single opening; that is, either by venesection or phlebotomy, or by arteriotomy ; the latter proceeding, however, having become almost obsolete. In the latter it is taken from small vessels by numerous openings, the methods being cupping, leeches, scarifications, punctures. Cupping is a kind of intermediate method. A skilful cupper will sometimes procure a given quantity of blood by cupping as quickly as it could be drawn from a vein. Small arteries are often divided in cupping on the temple, when they pour forth a powerful jet of blood against the glass. When blood is taken thus by cupping, or when leeches are applied in great numbers, the circulation would be affected nearlv in the same way as by general bleeding. Thus general and local bleeding are sometimes identical in effect. Usually, blood is drawn in larger quantity and shorter time generally than locally; but when local is assimilated to general m quantity and in the time of abstraction, we cannot expect any material difference in the influence on the complaint. The veins at the bend of the elbow are almost invariably selected for venesection in this country. Not believing that the general effect of venesection, or its influence over the inflamed part depends in any material degree on the situation from which the blood is drawn, we choose the arm as the most convenient place for the proceeding, both to the surgeon and patient. . It has been, and probably may still be, a frequen practice on the Continent of Europe to bleed in the internal saphena vein a little above the ankle. I can give no opinion on a subject of which I have no personal experience; yet, it anTREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 79 opening in the circulating system below has the effect of drawing blood from the upper regions, the head or the chest may be relieved by bleeding in the saphena. I am inclined to explain on this principle the marked benefit which I fre- quently see produced by the application of a few leeches on the insteps, say, for instance, three on each side. Bleeding in the jugular vein has been recommended in affections of the head, particularly in children. It is an inconvenient and unsatisfactory proceeding, to which leeching and cupping are far preferable. The blood drawn from a vein, when active inflammation exists in any organ, exhibits the peculiar appearances already mentioned as characters of inflammation. There is slow coagulation, and consequently more complete subsidence of the red particles leaving the fibrine on the superior surface of the clot, free from colouring matter. The stratum of fibrine thus left, which is dense and tough, is often yeUow, hence caUed buffy or buff-coloured. In the process of shrinking, by which the serum is squeezed out of the clot, this upper stratum, consisting of fibrine only, contracts more than the rest of the clot; hence its edge is drawn inwards so as to render the coagulum concave or cupped. The buffy coat and the cupped or concave surface which it presents, are the two circumstances constituting the inflammatory character of the blood, the so-called buffy ov inflammatory coat or crust (crusta inflammatoria or pleuritica). The buffy coat seems to differ from the rest of the crassamentum only in the absence of red particles. Some- times it is an opaque yellow stratum, almost leathery so that it is with difficulty penetrated with a spoon, strongly contracted at the edge, and deeply concave. This state indicates high inflammatory actionj the , yellow, opaque, and tough, the higher the inflammati more tion.80 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Sometimes the inflammatory coat is softer, slightly trans- parent, not unlike boiled bacon fat, or a greyish jelly, like that of isinglass, little or not at all cupped. Couenne, French; speck-haut, German. Sizy covering; sizy blood. Sometimes there is a large proportion of crassamentum without any colourless stratum. The inflammatory characters are seen in blood drawn from a vein, also in that taken from an artery ;* not when it comes from the capillaries, as in cupping or leeching. We come, in the next place, to inquire what is the com- parative efficacy of general and local bleeding in arresting inflammation, in order to determine the occasions best surted to each method; we must consider also what quantity of blood should be taken, when, and how often the evacuation should be repeated. * On this point, respecting which the authorities, so far as I know, are silent, the following statement, kindly sent to me by my friend Dr. Tweedxe, affords clear and satisfactory evidence : « While I was house-surgeon at the Edinburgh Hospital, I was directed to bleed a patient under the care of Dr. Hamilton, for hammteinesis. The general febrile symptoms were very severe. I attempted to take blood from the veins of the arm, but, from their small size, I could not obtain the quantxty ordered. I opened the jugular vein, but from his struggles the orifice closed I then opened the temporal artery, from which the blood came in a full stream. The blood soon coagulated, and to my surprise, I found a thick firm, buffy coat on the crassamentum. I showed the blood to my fnend, the late Dr. Gordon, who told me he had searched every where for such a speamen, and had written to the surgeons of the large hospitals in London, to know ,1 they had ever observed this occurrence-their answer was in the negative. This specimen was placed in his museum. «I have since had an opportunity of observing the same thing in a pat.ent of mine, at the Fever Hospital, who was bled from the temporal artery, «* inflammation in the brain daring fever. This last Bpecimen, 1 sent to Mr. Grainger, who has alluded to it in his work on ' General Anatomy.' A. T.TREATMENT OP INFLAMMATION. 81 You might at first suppose that local bleeding is the best means of arresting disturbance confined to a particular spot. It seems, prima facie, the method best calculated to deprive the affected part of the material necessary to keep up the excitement. You can, indeed, in this way take blood out of a part, but all the channels of supply remain open, conse- quently fresh quantities continue to come in. The question is, can you cut off the supplies ? This can only be done by general bleeding, which, if carried to a certain extent, will stop the inflammation at the time. You see a patient with pleurisy; there is severe pain in the side, a full and strong pulse, heat of skin, and extreme distress of breathing, so that even speech is most painful. If a vein is opened, the symptoms are relieved as the blood flows, and a copious bleeding takes away the pain and restores the free action of the chest. If a violent inflammation of the eye, with intense redness, pain, and intolerance of light, is treated in the same manner, the vessels are emptied, the organ be- comes pale, and can be freely opened. The effect of this in both cases is most striking when the evacuation is carried to the extent of producing faintness. Thus, general bleeding is capable not only of checking inflammation, but of entirely stopping it for a time. The vessels will fill again and the symptoms recur, but in diminished degree. By thus lessening the force with which the heart is acting, and diminishing the amount of the circulating fluid, the violence of the disorder is effectually checked, and the part is brought more near to the state of health, a condition favorable to the influence of in- ternal remedies, perhaps with the addition of local depletion. In this way general bleeding may sometimes, not fre- quently, be resorted to with advantage when it is important to subdue active inflammation quickly or to check it decidedly. Such occasions are afforded by serious and 6 %82 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, alarming inflammatory disorders of the respiratory apparatus, whether in the throat or chest, by similar attacks of the cranial contents or those of the abdomen. The same course of proceeding, or the use of such local depletion as may be equivalent to general bleeding, may be necessary to prevent injurious changes of structure in parts delicately organized, as the brain, eye, or ear, or where the function is important and requires a perfect state of the structure, as in a large joint or the hand. In the latter case I have often seen the greatest advantage and relief from opening a vein at the elbow. The line of conduct now recommended is most advan- tageous in the early stage of an inflammation, when the local and general symptoms are the most violent, also in the young and robust and in those of full habit, when the local mis- chief and the general disturbance are aggravated and main- tained by general plethora. If we had the means of doing so, it would be useful to lay down clear and fixed rules for determining our choice in all cases between general and local bleeding. The presence of inflammatory fever is an additional reason for the former, while, on the other hand, it would not be absolutely contra- indicated by its absence. It is necessary sometimes to employ active depletion where febrile disturbance of the system is not present. . A stout man, of full habit, about forty, employed in a printing office, chiefly as compositor, had a sudden attack of the retina, with total loss of sight. He was immediately bled from the arm to twenty-six ounces. Cupping on the back of the neck was necessary on the next day, and it was re- peated in two days more. Suitable internal treatment, including the use of mercury, was added after the veneaection, and vision was completely restored in a fortnight.TEEATMENT OP INFLAMMATION. 83 The pulse will not afford the criterion. If it be full, strong, and hard, the indication for general bleeding is clear; but it is sometimes low and oppressed, particularly in affections of the head; sometimes small, but hard and wiry, as in in- flammation of the peritoneum and bowels. We must be guided principally by the local symptoms. When they indicate high inflammation, and there is reason to fear that such inflammation may cause serious mischief in impor- tant organs or structures, we must take active measures to arrest it. General bleeding is among the most efficacious, and certainly more so than local. Ia treating acute inflammation of an important organ, especially in a robust or plethoric person, you must bleed largely, so as to produce a decided influence on the circula- tion, in order to arrest, through it, the local mischief. You cannot measure the quantity necessary for' this purpose beforehand, and you must be guided by its effects. In order to produce the required influence on the vascular system, it maybe necessary to take twenty, thirty, or more ounces of blood. Bleeding to syncope is sometimes advantageous; if this is done in the outset, perhaps no further loss of blood may be necessary, and little if any physicking. It has been more common on the Continent, at least in France and Italy, to take smaU quantities of blood and to repeat the abstraction frequently. A few ounces are taken aight and morning, and the plan is persevered in for several successive days. M. Boisseau, an intelligent modern writer, well acquainted with French practice, in peaking of bleeding in inflammatory fever, that is, local inflammation, attended with fever says that we should not take less than eight ounces at each bleeding; that this quantity is rarely sufficient, so that it is84 TREATMENT OE INFLAMMATION, necessary to go to twelve or even sixteen ounces, the latter quantity being never exceeded. Professor Langenbeck, of Gottingen, says that be never takes more than eight or ten ounces. One cannot help concluding from these representa- tions, either that there must be a great difference in condi- tional power between the English and some Continental nations, or that the inflammatory diseases of the latter are milder and more manageable than our own. It has been objected to the large bleedings which we sometimes find necessary, that they weaken. They cerWy do so in one sense; that is their object. We think that the patient has too much blood, and that the heart is acting too powerfully; that he is too strong, if those circumstances are the criteria of strength. The object, however, is to stop the inflammation, to do it effectually, and at the same time safely. I cannot doubt that these points will be most completely secured by employing active means in an early stage. One large bleeding generally suffices. I never saw a patient labouring under a serious inflammation injured by one vene- section, however large. _ Will it contribute to the patient's strength, to let an inflammation run on for eight or ten days, instead of stopping it in one or two ? On the other plan, the inflammation lasts for several days, and the bleedings go on till the patients vessels are drained; he is brought by the protraction o disease and the repetition of treatment into a state f ^ greatest debility. This method seems to me ing n on contrived for allowing the patient to experience the M debilitating effect, both of the disease and the treaty*■ } cannot doubt that a large bleeding in the beginning only the most efficacious, but the most economical mode proceeding as respects the patient's strength* * On the 9th of November . young -man applied to me, at the out-85 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. The apprehension that bleeding employed for the cnre of inflammation may bring on typhoid symptoms rests on this same dread of debility, a fear in this case completely ground- less. There is real fear of weakness in inflammations, fear that the affected part may be weakened, i. e. have its func- tion more or less seriously impaired by the continuance and the disorganizing effects of inflammation, fear that the con- stitution may be weakened by the prolonged duration of the constitutional disturbance excited by the local mischief. The active measures capable of preventing these occurrences will preserve the patient's strength. Typhoid symptoms are not to be produced by loss of blood; they denote a peculiar condition, attended, it is true, with great reduction of strength, brought about by affection of the brain, primary or secondary, especially when it has proceeded to a certain extent. The repetition of general bleeding, though rarely necessary, may be indicated by the continuance or the return of the patient room, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labouring under acute inflammation of the external tunics of the right eye. The conjunctiva was of bright-red colour, the vessels of the sclerotic full, and the cornea hazy. For the last three nights the agony of pain, extending from the diseased organ across the brow and over the temples, was such as to deprive her of any rest, night or day. I referred her to Mr. Lawrence, who admitted her into the hospital. Eighteen leeches were immediately applied to the right temples, and in the course of the evening twelve more. The good effect, after the second appli- cation, was immediate; the agonising pain, which was wearing her out, sub- sided ; she was enabled to rest her head upon the pillow, and for the first time, for forty-eight hours, closed her eyes in refreshing sleep. She was ordered two grains of calomel and a third of a grain of opium, every four hours, until an effect was produced on the mouth. The patient recovered without a bad symptom, and with the complete use of the organ. What would have been her condition had the inflammatory excitement been allowed to pursue its course unchecked ?—II. Coote.86 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. circumstances which first required the depletion. We can point out no one circumstance to guide us in this matter, as we could not lay down any single indication for resorting to it originally. The inflammatory state of the blood, in conjunction with the local symptoms, may authorise us to repeat venesection to a much smaller amount than in the first instance. If local inflammation is accompanied by febrile constitu- tional disturbance, the digestive organs being disordered, and the secretions suspended or diminished, we find that when the secretions are restored, and the alimentary canal begins to act, the fever is diminished or cured. It is said that the fever is removed by the restoration of the secretions and of the functions of the alimentary canal. Perhaps it might be more correct to say that the secretions return, and the digestive organs are improved, because the fever is abated. However, assuming the first supposition, some persons say, « Do not bleed! Give opening medicines, and diaphoretics. Act on the bowels and skin, and you will thus get rid of the fever." Two, four, or more days, are often consumed m fruitless efforts of this kind; purgatives are given which do not purge, diaphoretics which do not diminish the heat and dryness of skin. The local disturbance increases; the general disorder gets worse and worse. Relief comes at last rather by the efforts of nature than as the result of medical means. The treatment by direct depletion appears to great advantage when contrasted with this mode of proceeding, and shows us that the state of the skin and bowels may he immediately influenced through the circulation. Take away blood, and your objects are accomplished at once. When you have thus relieved the circulation from the load whichTREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 87 oppresses it, the natural action of the various parts is restored. Free perspiration comes on, the bowels are soon relieved, the urinary secretion is increased. A notion has prevailed that the inhabitants of London and of other large cities do not bear bleeding, and that the depletion which is advantageously employed for removing inflammation in the residents of the country is neither safe nor proper in Londoners. This view, which is not set forth as a deduction from experience or argument, seems to be one of the commonplaces handed from one writer and teacher to another, without direct inquiry or examination. The inhabitants of London, from the highest to the lowest, for the most part indulge their appetites like the rest of the world, and they who live in the country do the same. Nowhere is the consumption of animal food and fer- mented liquors more general than in our metropolis. These habits, of which the injurious effects are aggravated in many instances by sedentary occupations or indolence, produce their natural results, a plethoric state of system and abundance of inflammatory diseases, both of which will soon be detected by the attentive observer in all classes. I am convinced that inflammations are as numerous and violent among cockneys as among countrymen, and I know that they can only be counteracted by the same means which are just as necessary and safe in the one case as in the other. It would require long and close observation, with careful examination of corresponding classes in cities and the country, to determine whether there is any real difference between them in the respect above mentioned. I have not met with any allusion in reference to the capital and great cities of France or of other European countries. My own experience does not lead me to accept the notion above mentioned, or to88 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. believe that there is any essential distinction in pathology and therapeutics between town and country. We must direct our practice in either situation not by any abstract principle, but by careful consideration of each case. Local bleeding may be employed after general depletion, or alone in less violent and urgent cases. When the local disturbance has been checked, and the secondary effects, constituting the state of sympathetic in- flammatory fever, have been removed or lessened, the local abstraction of blood will accomplish all that remains to be done. Our choice lies between two means, cupping and leeches; for scarifications and punctures are applicable to a few cases only, and hence not to be regarded as general means. Cupping is the more efficacious ; we can succeed in getting a larger quan- tity of blood, and it is drawn more quickly, that is, if the operator be skilful. Cupping is not applicable in some situa- tions, nor where the surface is inflamed, on account of the pain. To be efficacious, leeches must be employed m greater numbers than are usually applied. In the adult it is seldom worth while to employ fewer than ten or twelve when we wish to check any inflammation decidedly, as in the eye; while in serious cases the number must be increased to two or three dozen. . When employed in such numbers, leeches are as effective as venesection, and sometimes more so. If, as commonly computed, each leech takes half an ounce of blood, a large quantity is drawn when three or four dozens are applied When they can be placed on or very near to the seat ot disease, as on an inflamed extremity or on the abdomen in peritonitis, they are peculiarly useful, abstracting as much blood as we should take by venesection, and drawing it fromTREATMENT OP INFLAMMATION. 89 the inflamed vessels themselves, so as immediately to unload them. You will not, I trust, misunderstand my observations, so as to suppose that I recommend the loss of blood or particularly general bleeding in all cases. Remember that I have been speaking of acute inflammation, attended generally with in- flammatory fever in cases of importance, either from the nature of the affected organ or the extent of the mischief. There are many inflammations in which it is not necessary to abstract blood, either generally or locally; there are others in which local bleeding answers every purpose, in conjunction with other means. You must consider, in particular in- stances, the importance of the affected part, the degree of disturbance, the probability that continuance of the inflam- mation may alter structure and impair function, also the presence or absence of constitutional disturbance. You must bear in mind the age, constitution, and habit of body, the general powers of the patient, and regulate your choice of means by a combined view of these several particulars. When it is your object to arrest inflammation suddenly, on account of the importance of the organ, or the immediate urgency of the symptoms, or from apprehension of those structural changes which inflammation often produces, you will find it advantageous to employ general bleeding, and to take at once such a quantity of blood as will influence the circulation. You will thus arrest inflammation more effect- ually, and at less expense to the constitution, than by the repetition of smaller bleedings. Should your own reflection satisfy you that the foregoing- remarks on the loss of blood, as a therapeutic measure, are sound, you will not, I trust, be deterred from acting on them by the outcry and alarm raised against the practice of late years, which, originating on insufficient grounds, has been90 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. taken up and repeated more as a matter of fashion and obedience to supposed authority than from the result of expe- rience and observation. The plan once generally prevalent in country districts, of healthy persons being bled twice a year, in spring and fall, as a precautionary measure, would alone be a sufficient proof that blood has often been taken away incau- tiously and needlessly, while it may justify the belief that the practice has been less injurious than might have been expected. That the practice of taking away blood occasionally to a greater or less extent in the treatment of inflammatory disorders, which has prevailed universally wherever the science and art of medicine have been most successfully cultivated, may have been altogether a mistake, is possible. Stronger evidence and arguments than have yet been produced will be necessary to prove the point, and still more powerful proofs will be required to satisfy us that the opposite mode of combating such affections, by means of stimulants, including the free use of brandy, is either advantageous or safe. It would be a public misfortune if the sanction of professional authority should be given to a treatment calculated to encourage the pernicious habit of spirit-drinking. Morbid effects of the loss of blood.—The loss of blood exerts a powerful influence over the animal economy, and hence its beneficial operation in the treatment of inflammations. Hence, too, serious dangers may result from its injudicious employment; from using it in cases where it is not required ; from carrying it to too great extent, and most particularly from the frequent repetition of it to a large amount, espe- cially under an erroneous estimate of the ca;=e and a mis- apprehension of the indications which it presents. Hence, in doubtful cases, great caution is required in determining on the measure originally, in fixing the quantity, and in resort- ing to its repetition.TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 91 YV lien an active inflammation exists, the constitution bears the depletion; but injurious effects will surely ensue if loss of blood be resorted to where there is no inflammation, and especially if the symptoms thus produced should be mistaken, as they may be, for those of continued inflammation, so as to lead to a repetition of the depletion. You will hence see the necessity of abstaining from this measure unless a clear indication for it is presented by active inflammation of some •organ or by general plethora, increased fulness and action of the vascular system generally. The morbid effects are either immediate or remote. The immediate are syncope, in its various degrees, from slight faintness to fatal cessation of vascular action, convulsions, delirium, coma. Syncope occurs most easily in the erect pos- ture ; some faint so easily from loss of blood, that it is neces- sary to bleed them in the recumbent or horizontal position. Syncope being the natural remedy for loss of blood and the natural mode of arresting it, gives no alarm to medical persons, though it frightens bystanders out of their wits. When the arm is bound up and the patient left quiet, he soon recovers. If remedies are required, they are the hori- zontal position (laying the patient at full length on the floor), smelling-salts and stimuli, such as wine, sal volatile, or brandy and water. I never saw the least ground for alarm from syncope in venesection, nor heard of a fatal termination. But such an event is, no doubt, possible. Care is required under particular circumstances, as in elderly persons, where much blood has been lost already, and in those labouring under disease of the heart or large vessels. It is not likely that venesection would be resorted to under such circum- stances. If the case should present any uncertainty, and even independently of that, it would be well to observe care- fully the effect of the depletion on the pulse.92 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Convulsions are alarming, but not dangerous; they occur more frequently in children, arising from interruption of the supply of blood to the brain, and thus resembling the effect of the opposite state of cerebral circulation, which also causes convulsions. They are not unfrequently seen, in a slight degree, in conjunction with fainting from venesection. Remedies.—Horizontal position and stimuli, hyoscyamus freely. The most strongly marked case of this kind which I have seen was that of a man, who, having met with an accident in the street, was carried insensible into the shop of a neigh- bouring chemist, who proceeded to draw as much blood from the arm as would flow from the orifice. He was brought into the hospital, labouring under the most violent and alarming convulsions. They gave way slowly to the administration of henbane, with brandy and water, the head being shaved. It was an ordinary case of concussion, m which convalescence was not materially delayed by the well- meant but injudicious proceeding of the chemist. Delirium is not strictly immediate; first, fainting is noticed, then delirium, as the circulation is restored and reaction ensues; a rare occurrence. Mild cordials and narcotics, cold to the head. Blisters or sinapisms, if the affection continues. Coma.—Most common in children; a state of deep sleep, approaching to apoplectic. This, as well as convulsions and delirium, shows how the sensorium may be influenced by disturbance in the supply of blood. A. similar state may be produced in children by exces- sive purging, and is apt to be confounded with hydro- cephalus. Quiet; fluid nourishment, such as beef tea. PerhapsTREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 93 stimuli with caution. Beef tea; arrow-root, with a little wine; Spirit. Ammon. Aromat. More remote effects.—Gradual exhaustion, and death; exhaustion, followed by reaction; increased frequency of pulse, after large bleedings. Pulse not only more frequent, but throbbing and bound- ing; palpitation and increased action of heart; throbbing of the carotids; beating in the head; severe headache, with sounds of hammering or beating. These, which are effects of the loss of blood, may be mistaken, and sometimes are, for indications of further depletion; these symptoms are, indeed, relieved by syncope, and thus are benefited, for the moment, by loss of blood; but they return in an aggravated form. General paleness of surface; blanched, waxy whiteness of countenance.* Cold to the head; perhaps a few leeches to the temples. Nourishment and light stimuli. Beef tea; arrow-root, with brandy; ammonia; hyoscyamus; perhaps opium, with cor- dials. If it should be necessary to act on the bowels, clys- ters or mild and warm aperients. Purgatives.—Bleeding directly accomplishes the primary indication in the treatment of inflammation, that of lessen- ing the disturbance of the vascular system. It is not, however, sufficient to diminish the quantity of circulating fluids in this way; we must prevent the introduction of fresh supplies, by the employment of purgatives, and by regulating the diet, or rather enjoining abstinence. Active purgatives are of use to remove whatever is con- tained in the stomach and bowek, to clear out the alimentary canal, a proceeding which affords great relief. * More full account of these injurious effects of loss of blood, with illustra- tive cases, are found in Dr. Marshall Hall's book on the 'Morbid and Curative Effects of the Loss of Blood.'94 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. You may employ calomel combined with jalap, compound extract of colocynth, or rhubarb. Calomel alone, or with these combinations, followed by the common purging mixture of infusion of senna with salts and manna, or by castor oil. The effect of purgatives is not confined to expelling from the digestive canal alimentary accumulations and unhealthy secretions; they stimulate the extensive mucous surfaces of the stomach and intestines, producing discharges from them, and act indirectly on the glands, which pour their fluids into the canal. By the repetition of such medicines, especially by the administration of saline aperients in small doses at short intervals, we keep up a constant discharge of watery fluids from this extensive surface, lessening the quantity of circula- ting fluids, and thus directly reducing vascular action. I need scarcely refer to the well-known debilitating effect of purging. Purgatives probably contribute to arrest local inflammation in another way, on the principle. of counter-irritation, by exciting the alimentary mucous membrane and drawing the circulating fluids to it in unusual quantity. Emetics, for- merly used in the treatment of imflammation, probably act in this way, rather than by merely expelling the contents of the stomach. When an irritable state of the stomach, nausea, or sickness, occasions the rejection of medicines, we may employ those active means which are efficacious in small bulk, such as calomel alone or combined with a little opium; croton oil. Saline aperients in the effervescing form, are sometimes retained when others are rejected; Seidlitz pow- ders. The infusion of senna, with Epsom or Rochelle salts, in the effervescing form; carbonate of soda added to the medicine, and lemon juice mixed at the time of taking it. When our purgatives are rejected by the stomach, we mayTREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 95 attack the alimentary canal by the other end and employ clysters. These are not to be trusted to solely, because they do not clear the stomach and upper bowels, nor do they operate on the mucous membrane and the secretions, like purgatives, by the mouth. They are often useful in aid of the latter. Diet.—In cases of inflammation where we are employing the most powerful means of reducing increased action, we prohibit nourishment or food, and confine the patient to drinks, simply diluent, acidulated, or slightly mucilaginous. Cold water; toast water; barley water; apple or currant water; lemonade; tamarind water; imperial; weak tea. The juice of grapes, currants, oranges. In cases that do not require this strict discipline, ripe fruits, roasted apples, thin gruel, whey. A little toasted, bread or biscuit with tea. Solid animal food and fermented liquors, in all their shapes, are totaUy out of the question. They cannot fail to be in- jurious. The wishes and natural desires, especially of sensi- ble persons, are to be regarded, so that the lighter forms of animal food may be allowed when strongly desired. Loss of blood, purging, abstinence or starvation, these are the three great means of reducing inflammation, but there are other auxiliary measures. We naturally endeavour to remove the heat and dryness of skin, to produce perspiration. When that comes on naturally, relief is experienced, the fever subsides. Light covering and ventilation should be attended to; cold or tepid sponging may be employed. Diaphoretics and refrigerants, or cooling medicines. Of the latter class, nitre has been held in great estimation; its solution in water produces cold, and its application to the tongue causes sense of coolness; hence the notion of its re pigerant powers, which are doubtful. However, it acts the kidneys, and thus contributes to restore the secretions re- on96 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Liquor Ammonite Acetatis may be given in water, or Mis- tura Amygdalae. The alkaline carbonates of soda, potash, and ammonia, neu- tralized with lemon juice or citric acid, or the same combi- nations in the effervescing state, are at least grateful to the patient; ijhey diminish thirst. Saline draughts and mixtures, though commonly adminis- tered under the name of febrifuge remedies, are not of much efficacy in themselves. They are, however, convenient vehicles for more active substances, for saline purgatives, such as Epsom or Rochelle salt; for nitre, antimony, digitalis, colchicum. The most powerful medicine for acting on the skin is antimony, more particularly in the two preparations of James's powder, a secret medicine, and the tartrate or potassio- tartrate. Its influence is not confined to the skin j according to the dose, the tartrate, a very powerful medicine, and much more so than the other, produces perspiration, nausea, sickness or purging. In these various operations it is an efficacious means of combating inflammation. To excite perspiration, it is given in doses of one eighth to one quarter of a grain, generally in combination with saline medicines; from' one quarter to one half a grain, to cause nausea; from one half a grain upwards, it vomits and purges. If such doses are repeated at short intervals, so as to maintain the effect, perhaps there is no more powerful means, by in- ternal medicine, of lessening the power of the heart's action. The number and strength of the pulse are rapidly reduced under the continuance of nausea and sickness thus produced. Of late years the Italian physicians have employed the tar- trate of antimony in larger doses than I have mentioned, not to sweat or vomit, but, from observing its powerful effects IB combating inflammation. They exhibit it as a contra-stimulant, considering it the most efficacious of that class. This seemsTREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 97 to me merely our old acquaintance, antiphlogistic, under a new name. The two terms, so far as I can judge, are precisely- equivalent. It is administered, for this purpose, in the quantity of one or two grains every two or three hours; even oftener. The Italian physicians are said to have carried it to the extent of a scruple or even half a drachm in twenty-four hours. When thus employed, I mean in doses of half a grain to one and even two grains, one or two of the first doses often cause vomiting; afterwards the stomach becomes ac- customed to the remedy, and receives it without repugnance. It sometimes purges, and sometimes sweats, but often, without producing any such effect, it exerts a decided influence in abating the inflammation. The stomach is said to tolerate the remedy more readily when an active inflammation exists, requiring its use. Sometimes every dose causes vomiting, so that we cannot persevere with it. I have exhibited the tartrate of antimony frequently on this plan, and with great advantage, but have not carried the dose beyond two grains. A consideration of the effect which it produces on the skin, in external use, would deter me from introducing it in large quantities into the alimentary canal. It is useful when it vomits, purges, or sweats; but it may also be of service without causing any of these effects. It cannot be regarded as superseding the loss of blood, but it lessens the necessity for repeated venesections' It may be employed with advantage after bleeding, and in cases where, having already resorted to direct de- pletion, we doubt the propriety of its repetition. I have used it principally in inflammations of the chest, in pleu- risy, pneumonia properly so called, and bronchitis, often with great advantage, never with bad effect. In grain-doses it is often very serviceable in the latter case. The followi 7 "ng98 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. is one of the first cases, in which I tried the remedy on the Italian plan, and it affords a good example of its advan- tages. In the winter of 1843-4, I saw a youth, about ten years of age, on the fifth or sixth day of a severe inflammatory attack in the chest. He had been similarly affected before, the disease having been obstinate and the convalescence tedious. He had now been actively and judiciously treated, had been bled three times, but without making any im- pression on the disease. There was a hard, dry cough, pre- venting rest, with a pulse of 110. I tried mercury, calomel, with James's powder, giving two grains every four or six hours. In three days salivation was produced, with some alleviation of symptoms, but no reduction of the pulse nor change in the "cough. I resorted to the tartrate of antimony, and gave a grain in an ounce of cinnamon water every four hours. The stomach bore it well, and I increased the dose in two days to a grain and a half. He went on with it nearly three weeks, the symptoms yielding regularly and most favorably. The issue of the casewasmore rapidly and completely successful than I could have anticipated. He took, during this time, five doses, on an average, in the twenty-four hours; sometimes the stomach rejected its contents, without effort or distress, once in twenty-four hours. It was necessary to give occasional aperients. . James's powder may be advantageously combined with calomel when the latter is employed as a purgative, or m a regular way, with a view to its power in arresting mflam- mation. . . , The tartrate of antimony in small doses is usefully joined with saline purgatives, such as Epsom salts. Another remedy, of still greater power, in the treatment ot inflammations is mercury, especially in the form of calomel. This remedy is very useful as a purgative, either alone or mTREATMENT OE INFLAMMATION. 99 combination with other means. Again, small doses of calomel, or of grey powder, given at moderate intervals, are of great service in general feverish disturbance of the system, whether sympathetic or idiopathic, by promoting the secretions and acting on the bowels. They may be used advantageously in this way whenever in such cases the tongue is foul or the mouth dry. But if we were to regard mercurial preparations merely as purgatives or correctives of unhealthy secretions, our notions of their powers would be limited and imperfect. Common experience has established the practical fact that mercury, especially calomel, exhibited freely after bleeding and other evacuations, has the best effect in removing the remaining symptoms, in preventing the changes of structure which continued inflammation will produce, and thus in rendering recovery more speedy and complete. Two grains of calomel alone, or combined with James's powder, or with opium, may be given every six or eight hours, for one, two, or more days. When the mouth has been affected, which shows that the constitution is influenced by the remedy, the progress of recovery is accelerated, the symptoms sometimes not yielding decidedly till this takes place. Such being the fact, recognised by observation, what is the explanation ? Iritis affords a favorable opportunity for observing the mode in which mercury acts. This affection is accompanied by the effusion of fibrine, either interstitially or in smaU portions on the surface or at the edge of the pupil. Under the mer- curial influence the deposition of fibrine is arrested, and that which had been deposited is absorbed. The free use of mercury has been found very serviceable in croup, in that peculiar inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the trachea and its branches in which fibrine effused, so as to form an adventitious lining to the part. is100 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Again, the same remedy is employed with advantage in inflammations of serous membranes, the pericardium, perito- neum, and pleura, in which abundant effusion of albumen and fibrine is the most striking feature. Are we not warranted in the general inference that mercury possesses the power of controlling that disturbed state of the capillaries on which the effusions above mentioned depend, and of thus preventing the changes of structure which they might produce. As fibrine disappears before our eyes in iritis under the influence of mercury, and as we cannot doubt that the albumino-fibrinous effusions of inflamed serous membranes are removed in the same way under the same treatment, the beneficial action of mercury has been said to be that of exciting absorption, to which its efficacy as an alterative in chronic enlargements had been formerly ascribed. We must, however, ascend a step higher in the analysis, m order to appreciate correctly the singular action of this remedy, and we shall be authorised, if I mistake not, to ascribe to it the power of arresting that disturbed condition of the capil- laries which is the essence of inflammation. The morbid products are removed, because the inflammation is at an end Thus, the swelling of an inflamed hand disappears when the inflammation has been arrested. The absorption of the effused fibrine would not be to much purpose if the inflam- mation causing its effusion still continued. If this be a just view of its powers, mercury is pre-eminently and above all others the antiphlogistic remedy. It is not however, safe to use it in the manner now described, until the violence of the attack has been checked by previous evacuations. _. , Digitalis lowers the pulse and acts on the kidneys It K an uncertain remedy, and in larger doses unsafe. Hence it is not generally used.TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 101 Colchicum acts on the alimentary canal and on the kidneys; on the former violently, and even dangerously, in free doses. It is chiefly employed in gout and rheumatism. Counter-irritation.—It has been observed, when a new disease appears, that one previously existing is lessened or removed. When the testicle inflames in gonorrhoea, the affection of the urethra subsides or ceases. The inflammation of the testicle has been ascribed to the stoppage of the dis- charge. It is more probable that the urethral disease stops because the testicle has become inflamed. Inflam- mation of the eye in a child ceases when the ears become sore, and vice versa; internal disorders, or an attack of gout or rheumatism, are soon arrested by an eruption, and the reverse. We imitate this process of nature by making an artificial new disease in order to get rid of a previously existing malady. This is counter-irritation, i.e. a new-irritation contra or opposed to one previously existing. Revulsion, from revello, implies that the new disease tears away, forcibly displaces, the other. Derivation, from the Latin, means turning aside a stream. Leeches are supposed to draw the fluids from an inflamed part to the outlets produced by their application, and a similar action is ascribed to the discharges caused by counter- irritation. Thus, counter-irritation, revulsion, and deriva- tion, are allied in meaning. Counter-irritation in acute inflammation is generally ac- complished by blistering the skin, either by means of a plaster in which the cantharides or Lytto, the irritating material, are incorporated, or by a blistering tissue or fluid which owe their power to the active principle (cantharidine) extracted from the Spanish insects. There are other means e.g. hot or boiling water or pure Liquor Ammonia or'Sir102 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. A. Carlisle's plan of blistering by means of iron plunged in hot water, which act immediately. Sinapisms operate more quickly than blisters : according to tbeir strength and the duration of the application they either redden the skin or blister. To afford a reasonable chance of success, the new irritation must be more powerful than that which it is designed to supersede. An active inflammation, in its full development, yet unchecked, with its train of sympathetic effects, cannot be stopped by the minor disturbance of a blister. Blisters, under such circumstances, instead of checking the disease, increase the general disturbance, and thus aggravate the patient's sufferings. This mode of proceeding, then, is to be resorted to when depletion and the other means already described have lessened the local disturbance and removed the constitutional effects; towards the end of inflammation, when it seems likely to become chronic; or as a remedy against the pain and sense of weakness which may remain after the other symptoms have come to an end. Another caution in the use of blisters is not to place them so near the suffering organ as to include it in the circle of irritation. I have seen aggravation of suffering from neglect of this rule, in placing a blister on the temple so near to the eye as to increase the irritation in the part. The assemblage of measures just detailed, both dietetic and remedial, con- stitutes the antiphlogistic treatment or plan, the treatment opposed to inflammation. The means which refer to diet and general management constitute the antiphlogistic regimen. Local applications.-mxo^h these are of much less im- portance than general means in the treatment of inflammation, they are often useful auxiliaries; this is particularly the case in external inflammation ; to a great part of internal inflam- matory affections they are obviously inapplicable.TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 103 Cold.—The increased heat of inflamed parts would lead naturally to the application of cold water. Patients would of themselves apply cold fluids to relieve the burning heat of an inflamed part. The external application of cold lessens vascular disturbance, causing contraction of the distended vessels, and consequently diminution of redness and heat. The general and local effects of cold are similar; when carried to the full extent, it is capable' of arresting vital action altogether. Torpor, insensibility, reduction and cessation of circulation, even death, ensues from continued general ex- posure. In a part so affected you remark a deathy paleness, from stoppage of circulation, as frostbite, in which, unless judiciously managed, ends in mortification. Thus, by the judicious application of cold we can lessen the temperature of an external part, not only with relief to the patient's feelings but with corresponding diminution of the inflammation. The well-known effect of cold in checking haemorrhage shows its influence on the vascular system. Its utility is not confined to external inflammations j parts not far below the surface experience the beneficial effects of cold applied ex- ternally, as in diseases of joints and of the cranial contents. For the purpose of producing the desired effects, we generally apply fluids called lotions or washes. Folded linen or lint, dipped in water and squeezed, so as to be wet but not dripping, laid on the part and frequently renewed, or frequent sponging so as to keep the surface moist, are suitable means. Lotions or washes are applied cold, but the effectual cooling of a part, for the purpose of abating and removing inflammation, does not depend so much on the low temperature of the liquid as on its evaporation. We must, therefore, employ our lotions in such a way that they may evaporate, hence called evaporating lotions. For this purpose the pari, when104 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. covered by the wetted rag or spunged over, must be exposed to the air, and its temperature will soon be reduced. If you leave a patient to himself, he covers the part with bandage, with dress, or bedclothes, so as to heat it, and convert the process into fomentation. Applications.—Cold water; fresh spring-water; vinegar and water (oxyerat); rose-water; iced water. Saturnine or lead lotion, popularly known and trusted under the name of Goulard. No efficacy is ascribed to the lead. Alcohol or ether may be added to a lotion to increase evaporation. Spirit lotion consists of two ounces of rectified spirit or spirit of rosemary to six or eight of rose-water or saturnine lotion. Liq. Ammon.Acet., with spirit and rose-water, forms an agree- able lotion. Alcohol or ether, evaporated by a current of air, would lessen temperature very considerably. When ice is em- ployed for cooling a part, it should be pounded and put into a bladder till it is half or two thirds full; or freezing mix- tures formed by dissolving salts in cold water may be used when it is wished to make the cold more intense. The operation of cold on internal parts is seen in the head, by placing on it a bladder half full of cold spring-water, re- moving it as soon as it becomes warm, or more effectually by means of an ice cap. A powerful influence is produced ou the internal parts by the cold douche, that is, by pouring a stream of cold water on the head from a height of a few feet; this cannot be borne long. The cold must not be continued when the temperature has been reduced, or the part would be chilled and become aching. Warm applications.-There are cases in which patients dislike the impression of cold, and prefer warm applications. Occasionally, when the former have been continued for some time, a change is desired. Whenever warmth is found mostTEEATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 105 agreeable to the patient's feelings, the local application should be warm. The lotions already described may be applied tepid, so as to avoid the uneasy feeling caused by cold. Warm fomentations are effected by flannels immersed in hot water, wrung out in a coarse towel, applied to the part and frequently renewed. If this plan is followed up effectively, the flannels being hot and large, they sometimes excite general perspiration. We read of mucilaginous and narcotic fomentations, as pre- pared by decoctions of marsh mallow, chamomile, poppy, hemlock, henbane and other herbs; unctuous applications are also mentioned, containing some greasy matter. Although these probably act only as means of applying warmth and moisture, patients have faith in their virtues, and the nar- cotics, when strong, may have some soothing effect. Bran, on which hot water has been poured, or warm grain, in a linen or flannel bag, will be found convenient by retaining warmth and moisture for a long time, when frequent changes might be troublesome or injurious; a bag of warm salt may be used when dry warmth is required. Poultices are made of bread, or linseed well-powdered. They should be prepared with boiling water. No positive rules have been hitherto laid down for distinguishing the cases to which cold and warm applications are respectively most applicable. Perhaps cold may be preferable in incipient in- flammations of external parts, warm when the inflammation is fully developed or seated below the surface. Warmth with moisture, seems to exert a relaxing influence when fibrous structures are involved, as in the case of inflamed joints. The means which have been described are to be repeated and continued in some shape or degree until the inflammation is removed. A cautious course should be pursued for a short time, until the healthy state of the affected part and of the106 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. body generally is restored, and all fear of relapse is gone. Our object now is to guard against fresh excitement, to winch the part remains liable for some time. The state of the bowels must be attended to. The diet must still be regulated in quantity and quality, though therules applicable to active inflammation are no longer necessary. In general, it should be light and nutritious, but not stimu- lating, until the normal state of the affected organ and function is completely restored. Patients and their friends are afraid of weakness, and anxious to resume the enjoyments of the table; medical men too often sanctioning and in- dulging these notions. Dr. Baillie remarked that he had hardly ever seen a relapse in fever that could not be traced to imprudence in diet. The strength is often reduced by active disease and by the means employed to remove it j patients feel and look weak; they are anxious for measures calculated to restore strength. In those of good constitution, in whom disease has been promptly and efficaciously treated, recovery follows by the natural powers of the system, without strengthening medicines. The improvement of diet and the return of appetite are sufficient. It is necessary to be cautious against premature indulgence. If inflammation be treated on the expectant system, and allowed to run on, patients will be much weakened, and require a course of tonics. When the powers are considerably reduced, from the duration of disease, especially in elderly persons or those of unsound constitutions, good air, quiet of body and mind, nourishing diet with cordials, will be the best restoratives. The dilute mineral acids, vegetable tonics, bark in its various preparations, cusparia, cascarilla may be resorted to. hen the digestive powers are deficient, vegetable bitters, calumba, gentian, quassia, camomile, or hop, may be taken, perhapsTKEATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 107 with rhubarb. As medicines act better in combination than singly, acids may be given with tonics and bitters; the vegetable infusions may be combined with ammonia and tinctures. Treatment of chronic inflammation.—If acute inflammation be actively treated, you will have no chronic stage ; the dis- turbance is arrested, and the part recovers its natural powers. If, however, the treatment has been inert, or not followed up with sufficient perseverance; if the general management in diet and other points has not corresponded to the medical means; if the patient has been imprudent and unmanageable; the local disturbance goes on, becomes habitual, and great difficulty may be experienced in arresting it. The word chronic merely means lengthened or protracted • a chronic inflammation, therefore, is one that has lasted a considerable time. Or, the inflammation, having still the usual symptoms, may have a milder character and slower progress from the be- ginning. Again, chronic inflammation, although bearing the same name, may be a very different affair from acute, not showing signs of active vascular disturbance, but causing enlargement by interstitial deposition. This form arises from unhealthiness of constitution, and the patients are frequently scrofulous. • In either of the first two cases, although the local symp- toms are slighter in degree, and the sympathetic effects in- considerable or not observable, the disease is essentially the same as in active inflammation: it is vascular disturbance, and must be combated by means milder in degree but similar in ehararacter to those employed in the more acute period. Local abstraction of blood, by cupping or leeches, may be necessary, especially in a robust and plethoric person, where108 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. the complaint may have obviously originated in and is main- tained by fulness of habit; in affections of important parts, such as the head or retina; or -where disease is extensive, as in inflammation and ulceration of a limb. It is a matter of consequence to regulate the digestive organs. You would first clear out the alimentary canal by suitable aperients, and then use such means as will keep it in good order without purging. We want to have the fecal residue of the food expelled without watery evacuations. Aloetic medicines, colocynth, and rhubarb, answer. If the colour of the evacuations is unhealthy, mercurial preparations, which excite the secretions of the digestive apparatus, may be usefully combined with the purgative; they certainly impart a healthier colour to the motions. Extract of colo- cynth ; aloes; extract of rhubarb, with calomel or blue pill, are suitable combinations. An occasional dose of rhubarb, with magnesia and sulphate of potash; of senna mixture ; of castor oil, or of aloes and rhubarb, either in pills or in the combination of Infus. Ehei with Decoct. Aloes comp. The administration of mercury is advantageous, though the effect is slower than in acute inflammation. It often exerts a marked influence in arresting the mischief and in removing interstitial deposition. It acts as powerfully in chronic as in acute iritis. As the clanger of disorganization is not so imminent, we administer it in the mildest form and in mode- rate doses. Three or four grains of grey powder or blue pill, once or twice in the twenty-four hours, will answer the purpose. That mercury in small doses, continued for a more or less considerable time, is of use in such cases, has been established as the result of general experience. These doses and this mode have been called alterative, in the belief that they change or alter the state of parts by a gradual agency, without any violent action. It may sometimes be advan-TKEATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 109 tageous to carry the use of the remedy rather beyond this alterative plan. Diet must be regulated in chronic as' well as in acute in- flammation. It is just as necessary to determine what a patient shall eat and drink as to prescribe medicine. In the treatment of diseases, if you content yourselves with ordering the latter, and leave the patient in other respects to his own devices and desires, you will be beaten in many instances. He will do himself more mischief by what he puts into his stomach than you can do him good by physic. A large pro- portion of diseases is caused or aggravated by errors in diet; inattention to it often frustrates curative effects in themselves judicious; imprudent indulgence may cause relapse of acute disease. During the existence of inflammatory disease, fer- mented liquors should, in general, be prohibited; animal food may be allowed cautiously in sbghter cases and as recovery is advancing. The use both of meat and stimuli may be not only advantageous but necessary in constitutions weakened by age, long suffering, or other causes. Bread, biscuit, and other farinaceous articles, milk, broth, gruel, tea, vegetables and ripe fruits, form an intermediate bill of fare between that of health and fever diet. Such articles will sustain the human race in full health and strength, enabling them to undertake and execute all kinds of exertion, bodily and mental. There are populous nations of vegetable eaters. When all excitement is gone, local and general, when the tongue is moist and clean, and the appetite good, when the patient can take exercise and sleep well, i.e. when he is well, he may resume the diet and habits of health. Counter-irritation.—Blisters may be employed in acute as well as in chronic inflammation. It is better to repeat them than to attempt keeping up a discharge from the blistered sur-110 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. face by the savine ointment. I have seen this very injurious in weak children, even to the extent of causing sloughing. The following ammoniacal application spread on lint is said to be mild and safe for children. Pommade Ammoniacale: Lard, 4 parts • Mutton suet, 1; Liq. Ammon., 5. The lard and suet melted together, but not hot; then add the Liq. Ammon. Friction on the neighbouring skin of the emetic-tartar ointment. One part of the Tartrate to three of lard, rubbed once or twice in the twenty-four hours, produces pimples, pustules, and superficial sloughs. A succession of these may be produced by rubbing in fresh places. Croton oil alone or with olive oil acts in a similar way. Seton issue, or moxa, are occasionally used in severe cases. The peas or other substances used to keep issues open are often productive of great pain. This is avoided in moxas. Frictions over the part with stimulating liniments, containing Liquor Ammonite, Tinct. Lyttse, Oleum origani, camphor. 01. Oliv., §iss; Acid Sulph., 5iss; 01. Tereb., §ss. Local means. Fomentation; poultice; cold lotions less frequently. Mercury locally, in reference to its specific effect in checking the inflammatory process. Frictions with mercurial ointment or liniment. Emplastr. Hydrarg.; Emp. Hydr. cum Ammon. Iodine.—Ung. Potassje Hydriodatis; Ung. Iodinii, 9j ad sj; iodine internally; or the ioduret of mercury in ointment.CHAPTER V. SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS, AND THE UNHEALTHY STATES OF CONSTITUTION TO WHICH THEY OWE THEIR ORIGIN. Having concluded the observations I had to offer to you respecting the treatment of those inflammations in which our attention and our curative efforts are principally directed to the suffering organ, with the view of speedily arresting disease, I must now revert to another and very large class of inflammatory affections, which I have already mentioned incidentally, viz., the spontaneous inflammations in which our views respecting the causes and mode of origin are different, and our treatment consequently exhibits corresponding modifications. Numerous inflammations, more particularly of the chronic kind, come on without any obvious exciting cause; in common language, they are said to come of themselves. To under- stand their origin we must look beyond the part, and careful research will enable us to explain the matter satisfactorily. We discover deviations from the healthy state of some im- portant 'functions, and as these disturbances are found in parts of general influence, the digestive organs, for example, we say, speaking perhaps rather loosely, that the constitu- tion is unhealthy. However, as these states of constitutional unhealthinesa give birth to a numerous and dissimilar progeny of local112 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. affections, it is necessary to consider carefully how they are produced, what are their characters, how they can he reme- died. These considerations, in short, involve the origin, nature, and treatment of a large tribe of local diseases, of inflammations acute and chronic, of suppurations, ulcera- tions, indurations, enlargements. How little is to be done by merely local means in most diseases of the skin, in gouty and rheumatic disorders, in the numerous tribe of scrofulous complaints, and a great variety of other maladies. You will not, therefore, be prepared to understand or treat effectively a large portion both of medical and surgical diseases, unless you know the remote causes of those numerous ailments, which seem to spring np spontaneously, but which must be referred either to disorder of some principal system, for example, that of the digestive organs, or to a general unhealthiness, of which such disorder has been the primary source and is a leading feature. As these causes act slowly and almost insensibly, they often escape the notice of patients themselves, and even elude superficial investigation. They are only to be discovered by a close and searching examina- tion, which should embrace the sanitary history of the indi- vidual, his diet and habits, mental and bodily occupations, and the condition of all the important functions. Unless this inquiry is carried out rigidly, the real nature of the mischief will often escape detection. The predisposing cause of disease often consists m a state which is called, in common language, fulness of habit, while it bears the learned name of plethora, the latter being a Greek word, signifying fulness, and having been adopted into our own language under the pronunciation of pleth -ora^ The ordinary working of the animal machine is attended with wear and tear. There is a constant and considerable expenditure of materials in the various vital movements ofSPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 113 our complicated frame; hence the necessity of the new supplies, which are received into the digestive organs, and brought by their action into a fit state for admixture with the mass of circulating nutriment. A great portion of man- kind, led away by the gratification incidental to the indul- gence of those appetites which are designed to secure an object of primary importance in the animal economy, intro- duce a larger quantity of new supplies than the wants of the body require. There is excess of nutrition; the system be- comes overfilled. The abundant supply of new matter causes at first a more vigorous exertion of all parts, by which the excess is disposed of. The actions of the vascular system are more energetic; there is actually increased nutrition, with augmentation of bulk, and all the external appearances of health and strength. Sooner or later a state approaching to disease is produced; the pulse is full, easily accelerated; tongue occasionally white ; heat and thirst are often experienced. Perspiration is easily excited. This state is plethora, from excess of nutrition ■ but the organs are not yet diseased; it is the first step from the state of health towards disease. Individuals thus circum- stanced are in constant clanger of disease; a little additional excitement, or some trifling cause brings it on. Local in- flammation easily occurs, and it has the acute inflammatory character. Common experience has established the truth that this external appearance of exuberant health is apt to lead to disease. In common life it is considered dangerous to be congratulated on one's good looks. When a person has been suddenly cut off by acute disease, we often hear the observa- tion that it was quite unexpected, that Mr. — had appeared remarkably well just before his attack. 8114 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. A very long time ago I was intimately acquainted with a young physician of spare habit, active mind and body, zealously pursuing his profession, and taking much walking exercise, with excellent health. Meeting with deserved success he found it necessary to leave off walking and to keep a carriage. Having agreeable manners and social habits, he lived much in society when the mode of living was freer than at present, though he did not commit excess. He soon began to increase in bulk, and was joked by his friends on the subject. It was his custom to celebrate his birthday by a jovial meeting, which was concluded by a bowl of punch after supper. On the last occasion he had been in excellent health, and was perfectly well next morning when he left home in his carriage. Having occasion to draw up the blind he found the right arm motionless and the leg very stiff; it was an attack of hemiplegia, which obliged him to give up his profession : after surviving for a few years, he sunk under advancing disease of the brain. The state of plethora, and its effect in producing local inflammation are evidenced in gout, especially in the begin- ning of the disease. The following is the order and con- nexion of the phenomena : luxurious indulgence in the plea- sures of the table, and indolence; hence, fulness of system, and disturbance of functions as premonitory symptoms; then violent local inflammation. The latter and other analogous affections are natural efforts at relief; safety valves, by which exuberant nutrition escapes. In. many other instances the dependence of the local inflammation on the state of con- stitution will be found nearly as evident as in gout, on careful investigation. To regard the appearance of the local disease as the begin- ning of the mischief, in such a case, would be a great error in pathology ; the affection of the part is merely a symptomSPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 115 of constitutional unhealthiness, produced by causes which have been long in operation. Is the term plethora literally correct ? It has been questioned whether the vessels really contain more blood in such cases, and consequently whether the term plethora be literally correct. This is a point difficult to deter- mine. We do not know what the natural, regular or normal quantity of blood is; we have no means of ascertaining how much the vessels contain in a given instance; thus we want data for comparison. We cannot be certain that an indivi- dual in the state I have mentioned has more blood in his vessels than at another time. Yet we often find unnatural fulness and strength of pulse; it is accelerated by slight exertion. The blood sometimes exhibits the inflammatory characters. Hence, whether the quantity of blood be greater or not, the vascular system is in an unhealthy condition. It is a state like that of females in whom menstruation has been suppressed, or has not occurred at the proper period, where we often see flushed countenance, pain of head, and heat of surface. It is a similar state to that of persons in whom large ulcers have healed rapidly. The superficial veins of the limbs are fuller and more prominent than usual, and I cannot help thinking that there is an increased quantity of blood, which we sometimes find it advantageous to diminish. Acute inflammation occurring in a plethoric person requires active antiphlogistic treatment, both on account of the local malady, and of the plethoric state of constitution. We seldom have to treat the latter alone, because persons thus circumstanced do not consider themselves ill. If we had two means would be sufficient, viz., depletion and abstinence, the former to bring down the system to a safe point in the scale of health, the latter to prevent it from becoming again116 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. overfilled. I do not use the term to point out loss of blood ; moderate living and strong exercise would be advisable. If the errors in diet, which originally caused the state of plethora are continued j if excessive supplies are still poured in, so as to increase the load which already oppresses the system, the organs cannot dispose of them; their functions become disordered, and a state of system ensues very different from that just described. The stomach, as might be expected, suffers first: when digestion, the first and most important step in assimilation, is performed imperfectly, the associated and subsequent pro- cesses of biliary and pancreatic secretion, chylification, lacteal absorption, urinary, fsecal and cutaneous excretion are ne- cessarily interrupted or impaired. The effects of disorder in these central and important functions must be felt in all parts. The alimentary canal and the organs connected with it supply the new materials for the repair and growth of the body, and for its various internal movements; and it disposes of the alimentary residue after the nutriment has been extracted from it. When healthy supplies are produced, all the animal actions, bodily and mental, are carried on pro- perly ; the body is active, the mind is alert, and a general feeling of health and vigour pervades the frame. On the contrary, when the alimentary canal is filled with undigested matters and unhealthy secretions, the composition of the blood must become vitiated, and the materials of disease, rather than of health, are distributed over the frame. Hence the nutrition of the body suffers: we cannot be surprised that any part should become diseased j that any corporeal or mental function should become disturbed. The symptoms which characterise the state of an individual thus circumstanced, are referable to three points. 1. Dis-SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 117 order of the chylopoietic organs. 2. Deficient performance of the excretions, by which the residue of digestion and superfluous alimentary matter should be removed from the system ; and, 3. Unhealthy nutrition of the body generally. If we regarded merely the origin of the mischief, we might call this state, with Mr. Abernethy, disorder of the digestive organs; but this name, although it points to the source of the evil, is too limited to express the general unhealthiness which is the ultimate result. Here I think it necessary to caution you against the erroneous estimate of the cause and nature of the mischief, which might be deduced from a superficial view of the matter, especially in its earlier stages. When the organs of digestion and excretion, being surcharged and oppressed, are found unequal to the burden, and begin to fail in their offices, sensations of weakness are experienced, which are almost invariably misinterpreted by the patient. Indeed, medical persons not unfrequently misunderstand their source and nature, and thus direct treatment which aggravates the mischief. A person, who has long indulged his appetite freely, and enjoyed good health, begins to experience incon- venience ; he is flushed, drowsy, and inactive after meals; the stomach is uneasy and flatulent, the bowels are costive ; the appetite fails, especially in the morning ; the rest is im- perfect ; the spirits and the, powers of bodily exertion are impaired. There is a general feeling of weakness, and the patient fancies that he wants strengthening, that it would be better for him to eat and drink more, and to take more stimulating articles. Some of these, for instance spirits, cause temporary excitement, with sense of increased power. Medical advice is sought as the mischief increases. The failure in the office of the stomach being the most prominent circumstance, the case is regarded as indigestionj tonics118 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. stimulants, and cordials, with good diet are recommended, and thus the matter proceeds until nature relieves herself by- some acute disease, or some feverish disturbance. Causes.—You will see clearly enough, from the preceding remarks, how I think that these unhealthy states of consti- tution are produced. If you should doubt whether the explanation is adequate, remember that habits of diet operate powerfully, because they are in constant action. The cause is incessant j it is applied day after day and year after year. When you interrogate a patient respecting his habits, he says that he is temperate, because he takes only some beer, a few glasses of wine, and some spirit daily. You must multiply these quantities by 365, to come at a year's consumption; and then you will see what a quantity of stimulating fluid passes over the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. But excess, or even imprudence in diet is not necessary to produce these unhealthy states, although it is a frequent cause, especiaUy among the rich. They may he brought on by circumstances which act primarily on the nervous system and disturb the digestion, assimilation, and nutrition secondarily. Mere bodily inactivity weakens the digestive organs, and interrupts or suspends the excretions. They who follow laborious occupations, or take much strong exercise, can indulge their appetites with, comparative impunity. The vigorous action of the excretory organs clears off the redun- dance of nutriment. The sedentary and inactive must be sober and temperate. Hence moderation in diet is especially necessary to those who are confined to bed by disease. Anions; the causes which exert a direct depressing influence on the nerves are the following: sedentary occupation, with long hours of labour, often with unwholesome or in- sufficient nourishment, especially when pursued in confinedSPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 119 and crowded dwellings, and in the bad air of narrow courts and streets; excessive mental exertion and overwork of the brain j the cares of life inseparable from the immense ac- tivity and constant struggle of modern times; long-continued anxiety, distress, and affliction. Examples of disturbed digestion from mental influences occur frequently, such as sudden loss of appetite from dis- tressing intelligence. I saw an Irish milk-woman, pre- viously in good health, with sudden and entire suspension of the digestive process and total loss of appetite, from anxiety respecting an only son then under my care in the hospital, She had feared that it was intended to amputate the leg- When reassured on this point she quickly regained health and appetite. As these unhealthy states of constitution are brought about slowly and almost insensibly, they often escape for a time the notice of those in whom they occur. Thus when we ask a person who consults us for a local complaint whether he is in good health, we are generally answered in the affirmative, and if we put a question or two indicating doubt on the point we shall probably be assured that he is perfectly well. The notions of health entertained by those who have not reflected on the subject are generally loose and vague. They who do not suffer actual uneasiness or inconvenience and are able to pursue their ordinary avocations, believe and call themselves well, when a careful examination of the various functions would lead to a different report. A spontaneous outbreak of disease is a clear proof that some part of the animal machinery is out of order, and our first duty is to detect the source of mischief and to remedy it, if possible. In its milder forms and earlier stages the discovery may not be perfectly easy; but a close scrutiny cannot fail to show us the truth. When the mischief is of long date, begun by120 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. neglect and mismanagement, the results are too various and obvious to escape even superficial observation. In order to ascertain the state of health in an individual, the various functions must be systematically examined. A person in perfect health should not be conscious that he has a stomach and intestinal canal. If, therefore, the introduction of food should excite, more or less immediately, uneasiness in any form or degree, more especially if it amount to pain or cause tenderness on pressure in the epi- gastric region, and further, if there should be flatulence, acidity, or the other annoyances referred to dyspepsia, there is imperfection of digestion, and the habits of diet are in fault. Appetite may be irregular, either deficient or capri- cious. There is sometimes craving for food, which leads to overloading the stomach. The appearance of the tongue generally depends on the state of the stomach; when that organ is disordered it is seldom clean, but covered by a whitish, greyish, or yellowish coating; it is greyish, with red edge and tip, in gastro-intestinal affections; it is seldom quite clean in the regular inhabitants of London. Irregularity in the expulsion of the faeces often exists, generally also costiveness, followed sometimes by, or alter- nating with griping and purging. The discharges indicate clearly an unnatural state of the biliary and intestinal secretions, and a defective execution of those changes which the food undergoes before the expulsion of its residue. It is not necessary to detail the peculiar colour, consistence and other properties of that singular animal product, a healthy stool, or the deviation of its natural colour into various lighter or darker tints, as those of clay, mud, or even the blackness of pitch. The intestines sometimes contain an accumulation of fsecal matter, although motions may have been produced.SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 121 There may be liquid evacuations when more consistent matters in considerable masses, and even the hard lumps called scybala, remain in the canal. The colour of the motions depends principally, but not exclusively on the liver. Various kinds of food and medicine such as spinach 'and steel exert their influence. The great size of the liver, its peculiar organization and circulation lead to the conclusion that it must perform an important part in the changes which the nutritive mass undergoes after leaving the stomach, and in faecal excretion, though the exact nature and extent of this influence is not yet clearly explained. Its affections in these cases are obscure, and hardly appreciable by external examination; we judge of of its state by the colour of the evacuations; and it may contribute to the tenderness occasionally observed in the epigastric region. Changes in the urinary secretion may be expected when the functions of the stomach, intestines, and liver are per- verted, as it is an important office of the kidney to separate from the blood the residual portion of the new matter intro- duced by the lacteals. The urine, although clear when passed, becomes cloudy on cooling; it contains too much acid, and throws down deposits of lithate of ammonia in various shapes, or sometimes crystals of lithic acid; it may be deficient in quantity, and high coloured. Persons conversant with horses judge of their state by examining the coat; when it is smooth, and the skin is soft to the feel, and elastic, the animal is in good condition. The same criterion may be resorted to in the human subject When the skin is of a light flesh tint, smooth, and soft' pliant and elastic, we know that its immense capillary ei/ culationis in good order, and that its important secretions arc properly performed. The latter will be increased by122 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. exercise, but a person in good health, like a horse in good condition, should be able to use considerable exertion with- out much sweating. In constitutional unhealthiness the skin is pale and dingy, harsh and dry; the countenance is sallow. The blood is not effectively pushed into the capillaries of the surface, and the important excretion, by which much useless and noxious matter is got rid of, is diminished or sus- pended. By a strange inconsistency, persons who incur con- siderable trouble and expense in insuring daily attention to the skin of their horses, very often take little or no care of their own. The state of an organ so important cannot be of less consequence in the one case than in the other. Consider- ing that the condition of this organ is powerfully influenced by that of the circulation and other internal movements, while this action is reciprocal, medical men cannot fail to understand that daily care of this organ secures health and strength to those who are well; while its return, when un- healthy, to an efficient state of circulation and secretion affords important aid to the recovery and maintenance of health. With this condition of the skin there is usually combined, in greater or less degree, decline of flesh and power. The muscles want the firmness and ready contractibty of health, becoming even loose and flabby, with increasing unfitness for bodily exertion. As the mischief proceeds the nervous system becomes more and more depressed. There is lowness of spirits, irritability of temper, deficient energy of will and action. Hypochondriasis and melancholy may supervene. Nervous irritability shows itself in numerous and various forms, especially in females. The circulation, as might be expected, varies according to the general condition; the pnlse being rather full aud strong at one end of the scale, small and feeble at the other. It is sometimes irregular.SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 123 When the important functions of digestion, absorption, assimilation, nutrition, and excretion are disordered, the com- position of the blood must be altered. This " living and cir- culating flesh," as a German writer has not inaptly though somewhat poetically called it, must be vitiated by the intro- duction of ill-prepared supplies and the retention of matters which ought to have been eliminated. Chemistry has not yet succeeded in disclosing the exact nature and extent of these changes, though the French inquirers, particularly Andral and Gavarret, have investigated successfully the varying proportions in which the several constituents of the blood are found in various diseases. All observations prove that the proportion which the red blood corpuscles bear to the other constituents of the circulating fluid is in direct relation to the activity and vigour of animal power. Andral found the globules to be only 287 instead of 127 per 1000 in a case of extreme chlorosis; at the same time there was a corresponding increase of water from 790 to 8687. The pallid state of the skin and countenance in those whose nervous system has been severely depressed by long continued constitutional unhealthiness, shows unmistakeably a defi- ciency in the red colouring matters of the blood. The progress of chemical science may throw further light on this interesting department of pathology. We should understand but imperfectly the sanitary state of a patient if we omitted to inquire carefully into the nature and quantity of his food and drink, the number and times of meals, also the habits of living, in respect to exercise in the open air, and mental occupation. Local treatment, although of secondary importance, is not to be neglected in spontaneous inflammationsj such measures as the state of the part may require should be resorted to according to the directions in preceding chapters. The in'124 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. fluence of constitutional treatment must often be slow in cases of confirmed unhealthiness; while on the other hand, in more recent cases, where the powers of the system have not yet been seriously impaired, local ailments are quickly benefited or cured, as health improves, nnder the simplest local management. Curative measures of different, and indeed opposite charac- ter, will be necessary in the several unhealthy states of con- stitution, comprehended under the foregoing general des- cription, varying as they do from those allied to the state of plethora, with increased strength of circulation, and the external appearances of health and vigour, to the apparently and really debilitated condition resulting from long-continued imperfection in some of the most important functions. Between these extremes there is a large and indefinite number of intermediate gradations. There are still some common objects of treatment, such as the restoration and improvement of deficient and unhealthy excretions, although the means of accomplishment and the concomitant measures may be widely different. We might make a rough and loose twofold division of our patients.. The first would include the whole middle class, and those above them, all enjoying ample means of more or less luxurious indulgence, with which love of ease and its enjoyment are not unfrequently combined. To the second might be referred all below who are less fortunately situated. Among them, however, is a mass .by no means inconsiderable, of skilled and superior workmen and mechanics, who, by earning large wages, possess the means of indulgence, which they arc too commonly eager to enjoy, forgetting, like their superiors, the price which they will have ultimately to pay in damaged health for tem- porary pleasures. Below these come the really unfortunate members of society, who have been brought by misfortuneSPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 125 or improvidence into a condition of poverty and hard work, with their attendant privations, by which they have been rendered more liable to the attacks of disease, and less capable of the restorative efforts necessary for its cure. Perhaps, however, the observations on treatment might be conveniently enough considered under the three divisions : firstly, of the plethoric state with excess of power; secondly, of the intermediate gradations, which lead to the third condition, in which the want of power becomes more and more apparent. When a spontaneous inflammation occurs in a person of full habit, the source and nature of the mischief and the re- medial measures are too obvious to be mistaken. The fecal, urinary, and cutaneous excretions, if deficient or unhealthy, must be restored or improved. Alimentary accumulations should be got rid of by suitable means, such as pills of calomel with compound extract of colocynth or jalap, fol- lowed by an aperient draught, a purging mixture, or castor oil. If the bowels should continue sluggish, a compound rhubarb pill may be taken daily or every second day, with an occasional morning dose of Seidlitz powder, if neces- sary. If the urine should be acid, and more particularly if it deposits lithate of ammonia, from fifteen to twenty grains of bicarbonate of potash, with six of nitre, may be taken in water or a teacupful of chamomile tea, twice a day, three hours after the breakfast and dinner meals. Due care must be taken to maintain the skin in an efficient state of cir- culation and excretion. The errors of diet which have oc- casioned or favoured the state of plethora should be avoided Food may be taken three times daily. If considerations of health are to determine the point, the principal meal, dinner should not be later than two or three o'clock, breakfast and the evening repast being respectively five or six hours' earlier and later, and, as a general rule, not including animal food126 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. A little reflection cannot fail to convince even those who are ignorant of the human frame that strength is not conferred in proportion to the quantity of strong food and drink that can be swallowed, but by that which can be duly digested and assimilated by the appropriate organs. Quantity, therefore, is a more important consideration than quality. The several meats, game, poultry, fish, well-cooked vegetables, and the lighter adjuncts of the table, all in their various modes of cookery, are sufficiently wholesome if prudently enjoyed, that is, without overloading the stomacb. The rule of leaving off with an appetite, more frequently commended than followed, would be a sufficient guide as to quantity j they who observe it will surely be ready for their next meal. There is more difficulty about the drinks than the eatables j although many enjoy excellent health, drinking nothing but water with dinner, and are so convinced that the habit is most advan- tageous to health, that they are zealous and unceasing in their efforts, to enforce on all the practice which would indeed be useful in many of the cases now under consideration, I cannot help believing that in other instances the stomach will perform its office better with the aid of some stimulus than without. A moderate quantity of light and well-made malt liquor may be safely taken, or a little wine. The products of the French and German vineyards are safer than the stronger wines more commonly consumed in England under the firm belief that they are better suited to the Englisb constitution, a point which is doubtful. As the inter- mediate degrees pass on one side into the states marked by excess of power, and in the other into those characterised hy the opposite condition of weakness, they cannot be subjected to uniform rules of treatment. Some will do well under the plan sketched out for the first division, with slight modifi- cations ; while in others we must carefully avoid measures ofSPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 127 a weakening character, whether in medicine or diet, bearing in mind constantly the necessity of rallying the circulation, rousing and maintaining the energy of the nervous system. In proportion as these objects are secured, we may calculate confidently on improvement in the state of local complaints, and their progress to recovery. Although the patient should be weak, it may be necessary in the first instance to employ active means to correct the secretions and restore the excretions and digestive power. As the several medicines which agree in acting on the alimentary canal, produce their effect in different ways, a combination of them is advantageous when several processes are in fault. Some stimulate the large intestine and lead to the expulsion of its contents, as aloes and colocynth, hence called eccoprotics; some, as calomel and antimony, excite secretions and cause discharge of mucus; others stimulate the intestinal linings, causing watery discharges; rhubarb, without exciting discharge, acts on the the stomach and on the canal generally with so much advantage, as to have become one of the most popular aperients. If the bowels are costive, the tongue coated, the appetite deficient, even not without feelings of nausea, pills of calomel, with colo- cynth or jalap, or of calomel, James's powder and aloes, or calomel alone in a four or five grain dose may be administered, and followed, if necessary, after a few hours, by a warm draught containing infusion of senna, or rhubarb, magnesia, and sul- phate of potash. By unloading the alimentary canal in this way, the system is relieved, and appetite returns at least in some degree. One clearance will probably suffice, though something similar may be again needed. If the bowe&ls continue sluggish, and the motions of bad colour, purgatives should be avoided, especially if there is much weakness such mild aperients being employed as will aid the natural action128 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS, of the chylopoietic organs. The compound rhubarb or aloes pill of the London Pharmacopoeia in the dose of five grains, immediately before a late dinner, or in the evening, will answer the purpose very well. The compound extract of colocynth, or the compound rhubarb pill, or extract of rhubarb, may be combined with blue pill or calomel; these means being discontinued or confined to occasional use m proportion as the natural functions return; one or two pills of aloes and soap in equal parts may be given every four hours, if alimentary accumulation should be suspected, and large evacuations are sometimes produced in this way. As mercury possesses great corrective and alterative powers, acting on the skin, the kidneys, the liver, probably also on the pancreas and the secreting surface of the alimentary mucous membrane, it seems peculiarly adapted to morbid states of the system marked by defective excretion and nutri- tion, and its employment in proper cases seldom disappoints our expectations. We give only the milder forms of the remedy, for instance, the gray powder and blue pill, and only in small doses. We avoid it altogether in weakened con- stitutions, or give it only in the combinations indicate^abov. Under other circumstances two or three grams of eithei form may be given every second day, daily, or even twice a day with an occasional aperient if necessary. When, after the intestinal canal has been cleared, the stomach is found unequal to its task, from long-—d d order, tonics and bitters are found occasional mild aperients. The vegetable^fusxons maybe combined with eordials in the shape of *u*« alkaline carbonates if there should be acidity. The spiutus ammonhe aromaticus would be useful in the latter case Warm aperients, such as the compound decoction of aloe, either with or without tincture of senna or rhubarb areSPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 129 suited to enfeebled habits where the stomach is weak. This decoction, with an equal proportion of infusion of rhu- barb, represents in the fluid form the combination so ex- tensively employed in the compound rhubarb pill. Such articles of food may be aUowed in general as patients are inclined to take, and feel that they can eat with relish, under the condition of not exceeding the quantity which the stomach can receive without uneasiness, either immediate or consequent. Care must be taken in the weaker subjects that the aliment is light, easy of digestion, and nutritious. To the question whether so-called made dishes are wholesome, an eminent physician is reported to have replied « Yes, if they are well made;- and I agree with him. By judicious culinary skill and combinations, meats that would be hard may be softened and rendered easy of digestion. We cannot expect that organs weakened by disease can digest such kinds and quantities of food as are taken with impunity by the healthy and strong. Sometimes the stomach will not receive or digest solid animal food; good broth, beef-tea, or soup with bread, macaroni, or vermicelli may be substituted. Milk eggs, and thevarious farinaceous articles, such as rice, arrow' root sago, tapioca, in the shape of puddings, are liffht and nutritious. Tea and cocoa, with bread or biscuit, are Jenrl acceptable to invalids. The aid of stimuli, such "as be^ wmeand even spirits in dilution or composition, will be more reqmredi, proportion as the patients ^Z^Zl to the lowest class. The quantity to be allowed at firs ' continuance, diminution, or withdrawal will depend I state of circulation; should that be accelerated T headache, and thirst, the * should be immediately reduced or withdrawn Tf ^ " -ions articles above mentioned can be taken fcjj^ 9130 SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. quantity, stimuli may not be necessary and should be omitted if they excite. The state of the skin is a point of nnportance m all forms and degrees of eonstitutional nnhealthiness, and not less so : those who being well wish to attain and secure the h^hes vigour. It is.however, strangely neglected » aU rank, « particularly in the two most numerous elasses, the uuddle 1^:1 Low. Claiming attention onthe —°™ * f personal cleanliness, and comfort, the organ formmg the ex Z* covering of our frame, mnst he anobject ef ^grea« •interest to the anatomist and physiolog.st, from iU beaotdul ^d wonderful structure, particularly the immense capfllary . "stem, the nervous supply, and the combinations present Z aim st eontradietory qualities, that is, of tagh and dehea e organisation, vascuta and nervous; of softness, phahd,ty ^elasticity, with great power of resistanceandjb^y'f sustaining almost extreme violenee wthou nyu y., either tepid or eooler, down to the temperature of the atmo sphere should he used to the hody generally dady, or as often I may he praetieable, and effective ablution wrtb soap sh nld Z added once a week. Warm bathing may be sufficient fa thos in a weak state, and it may be used by the tumd as a t- for the colder fluid. The eold shower-bath preparation for tto eeW ^ & ^ ^ nftPTi strenetnens the weaii, ami *o Tong After the skin has been dried itshenld be thoroughly tbbed with a eoarse towel or rough gloves When *- thlthly eleansed for the first time, mneh extraneou thorouBmy „ttajlM 3Cales, sebaceous and other matte; secretions, not to mention a , accumula- and sometimes in not inconsiderable rolls, bu + fo^l +o interfere with the functions of the organ, turns cannot fail to interfere J ^ ^ by obstructing the orifices of ducts ana herepr0. which open on all parts of its surface; they will soon be rep!SPONTANEOUS INFLAMMATIONS. 131 duced unless prevented by regular care. The attentions now recommended promote health and strength by maintaining an active condition of the cutaneous capillaries, and, by equalising this circulation over the entire surface, have the beneficial effect of preventing and removing local determina- tions and congestions. In the advanced stage of unhealthiness, as seen in those dl-nourished and ill-clothed persons, who pursue laborious occupations by day, and sleep at night in crowded and un- ventdated apartments, we observe how seriously the powers of the system may be impaired by a combination of de- pressing influences often aggravated by domestic cares and anxiety. Under such circumstances local disease is easdy excited and difficultly cured. The first object is to rouse and support the circulation; unless this can be accomplished, we cannot expect to see the energy of the nervous system restored, or the functions of digestion, assimilation, and nutrition brought back to their healthy state. An hospital is the best refuge for such cases; here they find warmth, cleanliness and comfort, generous diet with suitable stimuli, strengthening medicines, with the aid of the warm bath and soothing local remedies. The food with stimuli should be as nutritious and sustaining as the state of the stomach and circulation will admit. Bark and steel are the best remedies. Female domestic servants, particularly in the middle and lower classes, although previously strong and weU, often suffer much from hard work, bad hours, and imperfect rest, un- wholesome food, and exposure to cold and damp. They suffer from a disease of the legs, called erythema nodosum almost peculiar to themselves. They soon recover by rest' warmth, and good diet, with or without strengthening medicine.CHAPTER VI. FEVER. The general disturbance of the vascular system, excited sympathetically by local inflammation, is called fever; sym- pathetic /mr-sometimes inflammatory fever, or sympathetic inflammatory fever. The same name is given to analogous constitutional affections, not obviously originating in local affection. The latin febris (from which our fever) U from ferveo, to be hot; this, and the Greek terms ,uPsrog and „Pi*«, from «vP, fire, denote a striking external symptom of most fevers, I e. increased heat, with which increased fre- quency of pulse is generally combined. These two circumstances, viz., the increased heat and in- creased frequency of pulse, are found in many state.> of the body, which in other respects, differ greatly ; that is, the dis- turbance of the circulation, on which the accelerated pulse and increased heat depend, may be accompanied with various kinds and degrees of disturbance in various parts. Hence it has not been found practicable to form any definition, or even short description of fever, that should ""V^** nature and cause of all the affections included under tha ,vord. It is indeed useless to make the attempt; for the cases vary almost infinitely; the term has been, and is em- ployed loosely; and moreover, the scat and nature ofFEVER. 133 disease are still controverted points, even in fevers of common occurrence. Fever, taken in its original and etymological, as well as in its more obvious and common sense, as denoting the excited pulse and augmented heat, especially the latter, is the name of a symptom rather than of a disease; and it is thus em- ployed by Hippocrates, and other ancient writers, who enumerate ttvPztoq or fever among the symptoms of certain local inflammations. Regarding fever in this point of view, we might define it a general disturbance of the vascular system, caused sym- pathetically by irritation, inflammation, or disorder of some organ or parts. This, I believe, would be a sufficient definition of surgical fevers. It must, however, be observed that, if we take fever in the medical sense, and understand it to embrace, not only the cases, in which accelerated pulse and heat are present, but also others more or less closely aUied to these, we shall perhaps find some cases, at all events we shall meet with some stages of many cases, in which these symptoms are not present. It is doubtful, however, whether we can properly call any case fever, in which vascular excitement and heat are not present at some period. When an important organ is inflamed; or, when inflam- mation of serious degree and extent affects a part of less im portance, the vascular excitement and heat are conjoined wath symptoms belonging to the part, and the name some- tunes expresses both circumstances. Hence the medical fZ CatUT1, erySipdat°US> Uli™> gastric, rheumatic fevers, and the common phrases rheumatic fever, brain fever «* fever. These are not bad names; they denote the two circumstances which deserve our attention, viz., the local!S4 FEVEK. cause, and the more general disturbance, and they mark the dependence of the latter on the former. In profess.onal lan- guage, we name the disease from the local affect™, .hen „ Low that, regarding the fever merely as a symptom Pkremtis, encephalitis, pleuritis, enteritis, peritomUs are such names. If we do not know the local origin, we call the case fever, thus naming it from the most prominent symptom as in other cases where the exact scat of taease is not ascertained. When we do not discover the local cause; or tf, as some pathologists do, wc regard fever, in a large proportion o cases, as a general disturbance independent of such loea cause, it is called idiopathic, that term nnplymg that the fever, as a general disturbance, is immediately produced by the exciting cause. The French apply to these eases the name of essential fever, Fiivre essentielle*, consrdermg the fever or general disturbance to be the essence of the complamt. The other cases, in which fever is a symptom of obvmus local affection, are sympathetic or symptomatic. The pro- priety of this distinction in a scientific pomt of vmw > Lbtful: the very existence of idiopathic or -"-"^ in the strict sense is questionable. I am aware that the nature of the disturbance and the treatment arc very M- Ct in the two kinds of cases, and that the 4. motion be & v^ mo^, we cannot regard it as scientihcally correct. The nature of fever is quite clear m many cases. When an important local disease takes place, such as an mflamm - L of the brain or its membranes, of the lungs, ptaa, o pericardium, of the peritoneum, liver, stomach, or bond, a large joint or joints, of a considerable extent of skm othc parts! especially the vascular system sympathy with the . ■ ntm «mUUU, «»«! >W<°»«««» »• * ""ml- >"'"'FEVER. 135 local mischief; and these effects constitute fever. Here there is no difficulty in seeing the local cause, and in tracing the dependence of the general symptoms on that cause. In other instances the local cause is not so clear; the general symptoms are more prominent, and obscure it. Unless the case be carefully investigated, the primary local disorder may escape notice. All disorders of the brain that may produce febrile disturbance are not characterised by strongly marked local symptoms; and the same remark holds good of disorders in the alimentary canal. There are cases in which we can observe no local affection during life; but examination after death unexpectedly dis- closes local disorder, occasionally serious. Thus, in a case of fever, of which the cause could not be traced during life, Dr. Tweedie found, after death, an abscess in the spleen. Here let me remark that, in speaking of local inflamma- tion as the cause of fever, the word is used in a general sense, to denote not merely the state of a part in which there are swelling, redness, heat and pain, but also the minor degrees of disturbance marked by simple afflux of blood, vascular congestion, or functional derangement. Thus we find that, in the great majority of cases, there is a local cause of fever; if we cannot trace such a cause in some instances, what are we to infer? That such cases are an exception to the general law, or that we do not yet suffi- ciently understand them, and ought to mark them down as subjects for closer investigation; Idiopathic fever, however, belongs to the medical depart- ment of instruction; the causes, nature, and treatment of the cases referred to that head are considered in the writings of physicians and in medical courses. I will only observe that between the febrile diseases treated by the surgeon and those which fall to the lot of the physician there is, in manv136 FEVER. cases,, no essential difference of nature or treatment. We frequently see as a disturbance symptomatic of local disease a kind of fever, which, if it were contemplated without a knowledge of the local cause, would be called typhus. You must therefore omit no opportunity of gaining information on this subject from the lectures and writings of pbysicians. The sympathetic or symptomatic fever which attends sur- gical diseases is not a uniform affection in all cases ; it exhibits varieties of character dependent on the temperament, con- stitution, state of health,-diet, and other habits, and on the age of the patient, on climate and season. 1. Sympathetic fever may be inflammatory. The disorder of the vascular system being primary, and the most strongly marked. There is a full, strong, and hard pulse, considerable heat of body. This indeed is the constitutional disturbance already described as attending acute local inflammation; it is the synocha of Cullen. Synocha merely means-continued, from the Greek avveXn, ; m^oc <ni« XW is used b* HlPp°' ' The means employed in the treatment of local inflammation are equally efficacious in removing the concomitant sympa- thetic disturbances. The existence of considerable inflamma- tory fever may render more active treatment, especially as re-ards abstraction of blood, necessary. 2 The disturbance of the digestive organs may predominate; and such cases constitute what are sometimes called gastric or bilious fevers. Serious local injury often primarily disturbs the alimentary canal, producing tenderness and pain in the epigastric region, diminished appetite or sickness, thirst, costiveness; and these symptoms, to which acceleration of pulse, and heat of skm are soon added, constitute traumatic fever. The principal symptoms of gastric or bilious fever, underFEVER. . 137 which term mucous fever must also be included, are referable to disorder of the alimentary canal; they are uneasiness, either mere tenderness on pressure, or pain more or less severe in the region of the stomach; thirst; complete loss of appetite; nausea and sickness; pain on taking anything into the stomach, with speedy rejection ; tongue, coated and foul, or coated, with red edge and tip; costiveness; sallowness of countenance. The symptoms show clearly that the origin of the mis- chief m these cases is an impression produced on the stomach by the local injury or disease. Sometimes the pain in the region of the stomach, and the functional disturbance of the organ are so considerable, that we cannot but regard the case as inflammation of the mucous lining, or gastritis. Viewing the obvious disturbance in the digestive organs, some writers have taught that we should employ medicines calculated to remove this ; and that we need not and ought not to take blood. They are of opinion that where the bilious character is well-marked, bleeding is not only un- necessary, but prejudicial; and that such cases should be treated by purgatives, calomel more particularly. Broussais on the contrary proscribes purgatives; he con- siders their exhibition in any case, where inflammation of the gastric or intestinal mucous membrane exists, as most injurious. He exhausts the vocabulary of abuse against all those who purge their patients under such circumstances, de- nominating it an incendiary treatment, murderous practice He believes that purgatives irritate and inflame the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, and thus aggravate the original mischief; and he does not hesitite to ascribe to their employment the ulceration of the mucous membrane so frequently seen in the intestines of those who have perished from continued fever. He Says that the treat138 FEVER. ment should consist in allaying inflammation by loss of blood, and in preventing irritation of the inflamed surfaces by confining the patient to some mild mucilaginous drink. He considers the abstraction of blood locally to be the most advantageous, and employs leeches to the abdomen m large numbers, often some dozens. He confines the patxent to gum water, eaagommee*. I cannot agree with either of these views. 1he loss of blood will often relieve the gastric disturbance more speecbly, effectually, and agreeably than purgatives. Under suit- able circumstances of age, strength, state of circulation, especially with a serious local affection, I should not scruple to employ venesection, although the case should be denomi- nated bilious. When the tenderness of the epigastric region is great, with tormenting thirst, and rejection of everything taken into the stomach, free leeching may be used instead of venesection or after it. We may agree with Broussais in condemning the use ot purgatives as a first or only remedy in the acute affections, to which the names of gastritis or enteritis could with any pro- priety be applied. Indeed, when the stomach immediately rejects what is swallowed, internal remedies cannot do much Jod But we cannot go further with him, and be contented, after taking blood, with the administration of gum water. Purgatives are of the greatest use in clearing away ahmentary * CWe** bilios, et saburrahs.-Sed pfa. est at •* quffi subsit materia attend eruatur : pesshnasoue sepias lata,, d necessitate, hypothetic velo ohda.it. iWciosa qo.de. - ^ > gastrica, venesectio observer, quoticscunque vera banc Lur indieatio; sed hoe ipso, quo de his loquhaur, sub «e o, hcet ca uhon, QOn ta,n iofrequens est gastric* ciun inflannnatoria dispose con.b n t o, et negto sub initio venisection irrevocabue agrotaa^us daun^ fern, experientia convicti fatemur." (L P. Frank, i, 166.)FEVER. 139 accumulations and morbid secretions; and the free discharges they produce relieve the vascular system and thus dispense with the necessity of further loss of blood. The notion that purgatives cause inflammation or ulcera- tion of the intestines is totally unfounded. I never saw a case in which such a thing could be even suspected. In a case of fever terminating fatally at the end of a fortnight, where purgatives, especially calomel, had been freely ad- ministered throughout, the mucous membrane was healthy in its whole tract. I would observe here, that ulcerations of the intestinal mucous membrane are common in France, where purgatives are seldom used; more rare here, where these medicines are seldom omitted. The stomach is some- times so irritable that it rejects aperients or anything else, seldom, however, after proper depletion. So much benefit always ensues from unloading the alimentary canal, that we must attempt it by such medicines as- are active in small compass by calomel alone, in repeated doses, or combined with extr. coloc. comp.j perhaps croton oil. The senna mixture, or saline purgatives in the effervescing state may be useful. Blisters or sinapisms may be appHed to the stomach, which will probably bear diluting drinks, cold, in small quantities. 3. In a third form of sympathetic fever, the head is prin- cipally affected, and the symptoms, referable to disorder of the sensorium, resemble those of the nervous fever or typhus as it is generally, but rather loosely denominated. There is uneasiness about the; head, heat and flushing, dulness and stupor with heaviness of the eyes, oppression of the counte nance, impaired state of the external senses or mental faculties. Muscular power is seriously diminished, with great sense of weakness; debility, hence the name of adv namic fever. The disturbance in the sensorial and moving140 FEVER. powers has been marked by the French term ataxique, which means irregular. The oppression of the central organs of the nervous system disturbs the digestive organs, the secretions and the circulation. When such a febrile attack has lasted for some time, especially if proper means have not been em- ployed to check its progress, the symptoms become serious, and the patient is in an alarming and dangerous state. The oppression of the nervous system, with low delirium, or stupor and coma,, the complete prostration of strength, the involuntary tremors and starting of the tendons, the dxs- turbance of the digestive organs indicated by a dry, brown and glazed or fissured tongue, with sordes about the teeth and lips, present a formidable collection of symptoms, called typhoid, the danger of which is marked by the terms apphed to this form of complaint of malignant or putrid fever. This aggravated typhoid disorder is hardly seen, except m idio- pathic cases. Surgical or sympathetic fevers only approach to it. In the beginning of the disease, with dear evidences of congestion in the head, when the state of debility has not yet come on, and with a view to prevent it, as well as the typhoud state generally, local depletion by leeching or cuppmg may be advisable. The local application of cold is advantageous. The head shonld be shaved, and covered with cloths d,pped m cold water, evaporating lotions, iced water, or ice in a bladder. The cold donche maybe usefnl; after its employment the heat is lessened, the patient often sleeps and sweats Calomel, with antimony and mild pnrgatives are the best remedies in the early stage. When the brain and the circnlation arc reheved >t w,U be necessary to give nourishment and stimulants wrth can .on The muscular debility, which is seen in the earner^stages■ not an evidence of simple weakness, but results from thatFEVER. 141 oppressed state of the brain which diminishes voluntary power. This has sometimes led to the injudicious use of tonics and stimuli. Bark and wine will not remove the sen- sorial congestion, from which the want of muscular power proceeds. When, however, the complaint is protracted, and the power of the system failing, with small and weak pulse, tonics and cordials with wine must be resorted to, their effect being carefully watched. This treatment is employed for a temporary purpose, to rouse the nagging powers: when the patient rallies, it may be proper to lessen or withdraw the stimulus. The patient is not to go on continuously with wine or brandy, without careful attention being paid to the state of the circulation. Under the name of irritative fever, a state has been described which is not essentially distinguished from this nervous or typhoid kind of sympathetic fever. We see this ■ m a serious injury, such as a compound fracture which goes on badly, which is in fact incurable, where the powers of the system have been exhausted by extensive and continued in- flammation and suppuration, while the local irritation still proceeds, and the febrile disturbance is still kept up. Thus it is high action in a weakened frame, where the powers of recovery, both local and general, are failing. Fever excited by local injury or disease may be inter- mittent : you may have a regular paroxysm of ague.CHAPTER VII. SUPPURATION. of inflammation; the ^ocess is called Plls in its more ordinary forma is a wtat.sh or yeUo^h * — -—>** * * „f fctt, mate. ^ olltot„,e «„ded phm. of «* Koldta.kj co™.i«1 tt» P. rf cc,H,r„„, „„ op ,„ Wood, but Tirchow pro™™™. «»P ^ ^ ^ aUhong„ „o a. „„™i,,»» ,«f. w^pi. -ib.-Mf *»*■ rcoden, prtbotogW reg.ro. P» «» « ,,.„,.,„„** arc itotad of theMood, ft. lymph " " 'The I»o « - They diffi b-; „ „ ,„„•„,v»,,,; i wi to a viwcntar system, abnormally. ^SUPPURATION. 143 flamed part constitutes an abscess (from abcedere, to depart. (Celsus.) The formation of matter is not confined to the circum- stances now alluded to; it may take place in other and dif- ferent cases. 1. On the denuded surface of inflamed cutis, as after scald or blister. 2. On the surface of inflamed mucous membrane ; that is, a fluid, with all the sensible characters of pus, not distinguish- able from it by appearance, is exhaled from such membranes when inflammation has reached a certain extent. 3 and 4. On the surfaces of inflamed serous and synovial membranes. 5 and 6. On the surface of wounds, when they are repaired by granulation, and on that of ulcers. The term abscess is applied only to collections of pus, excepting however those which take place in the regular or normal cavities, such as those of the pleura or peritoneum; ■ when pus or any other fluid is poured out into these, we call it an effusion. Seeing suppuration ordinarily as a result of inflammation, we are led to inquire whether it is so invariably. Whether' when we find pus, we may be sure that there either is, or has been inflammation of the part. In the abscess of acute inflammation, in the formation of pus by mucous, serous, and synovial membranes, and by denuded cutis, the point is unequivocal, the pus is the pro- duce of inflammatory disturbance. The case is different with the granulations of wounds and ulcers, which are healing those granulations are not inflamed, though they present increased vascular activity, a condition analogous to that of inflammation. In certain abscesses, as I shaU expla- hereafter, we fail to observe any symptoms of previonPs or144 SUPPURATION. accompanying inflammation, yet we find, on examining the surrounding structures, unequivocal evidence of preceding in- flammatorv disturbance. Again, we do not heaitate to pronounce that inflammation haa existed, when we see snch structural alterations as are the JiXown results of that process, although the disturbance itself has escaped onr notice. In the same way as pus is not a normal product, wc may conclude from its presence that there has been an alteration in the vessels or then- contents, .hich may he discovered hy closer observation, or more care- ful examination of the parts in which it is found. I have already shown you that inflammation vanes greatly in the violence of its symptoms, and the rapidity of* pro- cess Suppuration exhibits, in this respect, the same variety „f character as the inflammation which causes it. Pus may be Led, an abscess completely developed, and break externally IT hort time, two or three days, or less ; or the collection t m slowly, and the matter remain in the part for wcehs, ZZ or even years. Suppuration, therefore, might he iSuiahcd, »e inflammation, by the terms acute and M W use the expression chronic abscess though we t Z speah of acute abscess. More generally we denomi- nate those collections of fluid which are produced hy the "tt violent inflammation as phlegmonous abscesses, of ^17Tm pr-r purpose to consider the nature, ^ P;r:"lg proceeded to a high degree pus. hI Ts formed in the centre of the inflamed part The matter is tormea constituent » affected tissues are softened, the conesio ft , j rt,;. change proceeds so lar in uns parts is lessened, and this K action centre of the inflamed point, .. e., where t of the vessels is at its highest degree, that they are^act broken down, and a thin, serous effusion, of reddish colour,SUPPUEATION. 145 mixed with the disorganized tissue. This breaking down of tissues, and the bloody effusion, are not mechanical, but vital processes. White matter or pus is now seen disseminated in small portions, which soon unite into one collection, an abscess. The fluid increases in quantity; the collection, as it increases, pushing aside and condensing the surrounding cellular tissue and other soft parts, which yield more or less readily according to their nature. The cellular texture gives way easily; the firmer parts, such as muscles, tendons, blood- vessels, resist, forming elevations or ridges on the sides of the abscess, and sometimes pass across from one side to the other, being insulated by the matter. "When the surrounding parts yield equally, the form of the collection is regular and rounded; under other circumstances, the figure is various. The surface of the cavity is soft and pulpy, greyish or yellowish, being coloured by the matter which adheres to it. With the handle or back of a scalpel we can scrape off a soft, greyish substance, considered to be fibrine. This is inorganic, at least it does not receive injection. When it is removed, we see a dense, compact, reddish structure which has been compared to a mucous membrane. This kind of newly-formed membranous texture constitutes a bag containing the mat- ter j it may be dissected entire from the surrounding parts, when the abscess would be a bag or cyst full of matter. This texture, recently called the pyogenic membrane, forms, in technical language, the parietes, walls, or sides of an abscess. Its internal smooth surface, which shows considerable vas- cularity on injection, is in contact with the contained matter.>: To the external surface the surrounding cellular membrane and other parts are closely adherent, being condensed -and rendered preternaturally firm by the inflammatory profess. This condensation extends to a greater or less distance around 10146 SUPPUKATION. the abscess, beyond which we find the parts in their natural condition. In the early stage of an abscess the collection of matter is small, and it is surrounded by a large mass of firm substance; in the progress of suppuration the quan- tity of matter increases, and the surrounding hardness diminishes. The sac of the abscess consists of the cellular substance or other soft parts condensed by the effusion of fibrine, and forming a barrier between the matter and the surrounding healthy tissues. It insulates the pus, and confines it to the part in which it is deposited; otherwise it would spread along the cellular tissue generally, as the fluid of anasarca does. The inflammation is most violent in the centre, and there produces suppuration; it is less violent in the circumference, causing merely interstitial effusion, and consequent condensa- tion. These different effects represent what Mr. Hunter has de- nominated adhesive and suppurative inflammations, which terms designate here, as in most other cases, merely dif- ference in degree, not in the nature of the disturbance. At a greater distance from the suppurative centre the increased action is still further lessened, and causes merely serous effusion. The pus contained in such an abscess is a thick, whitish or yellowish, homogeneous, soft fluid; it is as thick as the thickest cream, and sometimes even more so, having the con- sistence of a soft solid, like butter. Such matter has been called good or laudable pus, pus laudabile. This expres- sion, singularly but not inappropriately denotes the kind of purulent effusions produced by high inflammation in a healthy individual. Generally speaking, the higher the inflammation, the thicker the matter produced by it. Pus is heavier than water, and sinks in it. This has been147 SUPPURATION. regarded as a criterion to distinguish it from mucus. Great pains have been taken to establish the distinction, particularly in reference to expectorations, but diagnosis is not always successful. Under ordinary circumstances, there is no risk of confounding the two fluids. Pus has no viscidity, and easily blends with water. Mucus is ropy, slimy, and not miscible with water. While pus sinks, mucus floats; but this is not constant; the tough mucus from the inflamed bladder sinks, even in the mine. The ordinary, or even the slightly altered secretion of mucous membranes is not likely to be confounded with the produce of suppurative inflammation. But under high inflammation mucous membranes secrete a fluid closely resembling pus; and I know of no certain dis- tinction. It is not a point of any material practical import- ance. Pus is secreted or effused through the pulpy surface of the abscess; it is a morbid product from vessels disturbed by inflammatory excitement, as ordinary secretions and nutri- tive deposits are the regular offspring of vessels in their nor- mal state. It is not produced by fermentation or concoction of the fluids; nor does it result from a breaking down or melting of the solids. The latter notion has probably arisen from observing the cavity which contains the matter. There is a large excavation, an apparent loss of substance; the notion might well arise that parts had disappeared and had been converted into pus. There is really no loss of sub- stance. The textures surrounding the matter are merely pushed aside and swelled; the natural form and bulk of the part are restored when the disease has come to an end. Yet there is something like a breaking down of the natural textures in the commencement of phlegmonous abscess There is not only a softened state of the parts, but actual148 SUPPURATION. solution of continuity, with a bloody effusion. Oil from the adipous membrane is sometimes mixed with the pus. In a patient who had laboured under fever, and who came to St. Bartholomew's Hospital from the Fever Hospital, there was a large abscess on the hip ; the contents were pus and oil, the latter floating on the surface of the former. The opening became obstructed before the sac was emptied, and I drew out a lump of the common adipous matter twice as large as the last joint of my thumb. In the matter discharged from a mammary abscess m a suckling woman it is not uncommon to see milk clearly recognisable, and sometimes partially curdled or creamy. Portions of hepatic substance are seen in the pus discharged from an abscess of the liver, which may also have a brownish red tinge. The fluid of an abscess has been supposed to undergo changes before it acquires the full characters of pus. Matter is said to be well elaborated or concocted. The older writers speak of the maturation or ripening of an abscess. We find, on the contrary, that pus is formed at once, with its full characters. Indeed, the fluid seen at the very beginning is serous, thin, with bloody tinge; but pus soon shows itself and is perfect in its characters. In the same way denuded skin first secretes a transparent serum, then pus; and there is a gradual transition from the natural colourless fluid of mucous membranes to the secretion not distinguishable from pus But in all these cases, when the purulent secretion is established, the pus is formed at once with its full properties. Thus the cyst of an abscess is a kind of newly formed organ in the animal economy, a new organ for a new product. I secretes and it absorbs. Hence, if the inflammation be brought to an end, the matter may be taken up by the absorbents, and thus a spontaneous cure may be effected.SUPPURATION. Symptoms.—A violent inflammation, proceeding rapidly, accompanied by throbbing pain, especially if left to itself, is likely to cause suppuration. The actual formation of matter is accompanied by diminution or complete remission of pain, except where inflammatory tension is maintained by the un- yielding nature of the parts affected or of those containing and surrounding it; also by diminution or cessation of the febrile disturbance. Both the local and general symptoms may, however, be aggravated when suppuration occurs in parts of dense and resisting organization, especially when they are covered and connected with highly organised and sensitive structures as under periosteum, in the digital thecse, in the palm, or sole. There is often a sense of weight and tension, with pulsation synchronous with the heart's action. Frequently suppuration is preceded and accompanied by shiverings or rigors; these do not constantly attend. Matter mav form without rigora and the latter frequently occur without suppuration: they commonly attend the outbreak of serious spontaneous disease. The most unequivocal evidence that matter has formed is the sensation of softness which its presence occasions. On feeling the part, you are sensible that a fluid is there. If you place the fingers of the two hand's on the part, at a distance from each other, and press alternately, the fluid is forced from one side to the other, the sensation thus received being called fluctuation. Careful examination is necessary, in order to determine whether matter has formed or not, especially when the in- flammation has been deep-seated. Instead of keeping up an alternate pressure with the two hands, by which an im- pulse is sometimes produced where matter has not formed, let one hand rest on the part, then press firmly and quickly150 SUPPURATION. with the other. Frequently, direct examination will not enable us to determine the point: we must combine with careful examination of the part a consideration of the other symptoms. Progress to the surf ace.-When suppuration has begun, the abscess becomes larger and larger, increasing in all directions, but extending principally where the resistance is least. Generally, therefore, it enlarges towards the external surface, or towards that of any mucous canal. This progress of an abscess, however, towards the exterior, or towards the natural mucous outlets, does not depend simply on the circumstance of there being less resistance in those directions; for abscesses will take either of these courses, although there should be less opposition in other quarters. Thus abscesses in the abdominal or thoracic parieties, or in the pelvis, make then- way outwards; and those forming deep in a part, equally tend to the surface, so as to bring about a discharge of their contents externally. There is gradual removal of the intervening parts, and approach of the matter to the surface, it being still walled m by adhesive inflammation as the removal proceeds. Thus deposition and removal, opposite processes, are going on together in different portions of the same swelling; the latter on the exterior, to bring the matter to the surface the former, of pus and lymph, in the cavity and wall of the jibsccss As the fluid advances to the exterior, the coverings become thinner and thinner, and the fluctuation is more and more distinct. The inflammatory swelling of the surrounding parts is lessened; but the central portion, where the sense at fluctuation is most plain, continues to enlarge, and rises into a prominence more or less pointed: this is the pointing ot an abscess. The skin becomes red, tense, and shining J it is151 SUPPURATION. very thin, the redness being of a deep and sometimes livid tint. The thinned skin ulcerates, and matter escapes; there is resistance and consequent separation of the cuticle, some- times to a considerable extent, where it is thick, as in the hand and foot. At first a small quantity only escapes, for the opening is in general a small one; but as much pus is discharged as suffices to remove tension, and the patient is consider- ably relieved. The sides of the abscess contract in conse- quence of this diminution of the quantity of its contents; pus still flows out; the opening becomes larger, and ultimately allows the whole to drain away. By means of this process, the cavity of the sac becomes much lessened ; ultimately it granulates, the surrounding swelling subsides, and the open- ing cicatrises. The skin, being distended and deprived of its vascular supply, sometimes sloughs; and the matter escapes as the slough separates. The openings thus made by nature are generally small, and allow partial escape of the matter, with diminution of tension and relief. Sometimes the aperture is larger, and the entire contents are evacuated at once; the cavity con- tracts in proportion to the diminution of its contents; pus is still secreted, and drains out slowly. The sides of the abscess, reduced in extent by gradual contraction, ultimately collapse and coalesce, completely effacing the excavation; and the aperture is closed by granulation and cicatrisation. Sometimes, especially in parts which move considerably in executing their functions, the cavity of the abscess does not completely close. It is reduced in size; but an opening remains from which matter is discharged; this leads into a small tube, of various extent in different instances, sometimes branching out. This small tube, the remains of the abscess,152 SUPPURATION. lined by a smooth pyogenic membrane, and the natural opening, constitute a fistula or sinus. The former term merely means a tube or pipe. The opening sometimes closes for a time, and the discharge is renewed after a longer or shorter interval. Treatment.—The local treatment of a simple phlegmonous abscess, when suppuration has occurred or is imminent, is of the simplest character. The. part, kept at rest, should be covered with a soft poultice, that of linseed being generally found the most comfortable, or by water dressing. Warm fomentation from time to time often affords temporary relief. The disease thus pursues its course, with little inconveni- ence, to its natural termination by discharge of the matter through a spontaneous opening, the poultice being continued for a short time, and then replaced by a light dressing. Sometimes, in an extensive and violent inflammation, such as that of the hand and forearm, from injury of a finger, there may be suppuration at one part requiring relief, while dan- gerous inflammation is spreading in another. The means calculated to lessen the amount and extent of the general inflammatory disturbance may be continued after attending to the partial suppuration. Since the cyst of an abscess absorbs as well as secretes, you might conclude that if inflammation could be completely subdued, the matter might be taken up by the absorbents, and thus that the abscess might be cured without the dis- charge of its contents externally. This sometimes happens, but so rarely, that in practice we consider an external dis- charge, by puncture or bursting, a necessary consequence of suppuration. The cases in which I have most frequently seen dispersion of matter by absorption have been suppurations of the in- guinal glands from primary venereal sores, and those of theSUPPURATION. 153 periosteum, particularly of the cranium, from syphilis. A girl of the town came into St. Bartholomew's with a sore on the labium as large as a sixpence, and a suppurated bubo. The skin over the latter was bright red and thin, the swelling was soft and seemed to contain at least an ounce of matter. I thought it fit for opening, but left it alone, prescribing blue pill night and morning, a black wash to the sore, and rest in bed, with poultice. On the next visit, the swelling was easier. Soon after, the size and redness of the part had obviously diminished, the skin became wrinkled, and in a short time all vestige of the mischief had disappeared. It is often advantageous to evacuate the matter surgically, instead of waiting for its discharge by a natural opening. There have been different modes of accomplishing the object; for instance by seton, a needle of suitable length, armed with a few threads of silk, being entered at one end, carried through the collection, and brought out at the other end, leaving the silk in the abscess as in an ordinary seton, in the expectation apparently that the matter would drain out at the openings. Such a proceeding could not fail to renew and aggravate the local excitement of a phlegmonous abscess, and thus add to the sufferings of the patient. I once saw a case in which this proceeding had been resorted to. It was a collection of matter in the neck of a young lady. The effect was to increase the swelling, which had been quiet and painless, and to bring on active inflammation, with constitu- tional disturbance. In the method by caustic, the thinned skin of the groin, which may have been extensively detached from the subjacent parts, may be rubbed with the potassa fusa so as to destroy its vitality. The matter will be dis- charged when the eschar separates; or the latter may be cut through, so as to evacuate the collection. Under such cir- cumstances there may be an advantage in getting rid of the154 SUPPURATION. thinned and livid integument, which may impede the progress of granulation and cicatrisation. But this inconvenience does not occur when suppurating buhoes are opened at a proper time and in a proper manner. If the seton and caustic have not become completely obsolete, the occasions for their em- ployment must be of the rarest occurrence. Generally we adopt the direct and simple proceeding of puncture, which is the shortest and most effectual means of accomplishing the purpose. Knives of various forms may be used: but perhaps ■the most convenient instrument is a straight, lancet-pointed, and double-edged bistoury. The sharp point and double edge make it enter easily. You may make a simple punc- ture, or, having punctured, run the knife along, so as to extend the opening, when a more ample aperture is needed, as is the case when the skin has become thin, and the col- lection is large. It is best to make the opening, and then let the matter drain out of itself. ■ There is no advantage in squeezing out the whole contents. This is contrary to the course of nature; in spontaneous bursting the aperture is small, and the escape generally gradual; the cyst contracts in proportion as the contents are lessened. Pressure or violence are not only not necessary for discharging the matter, but they give pain and irritate. Still less should you thrust your finger into the abscess, as I have seen done, or introduce instruments of any kind without necessity. Having made the opening, let the matter run out. Cover the part with a fomentation- cloth for half an hour, and then put on a poultice. Since many practitioners are in the habit of puncturing as soon as they find that matter has formed, seeming to regard it as a surgical duty to do so, it is necessary to con- sider the question generally, which of the two proceedings, namely leaving an abscess to its natural course, or dis-SUPPURATION. 155 charging the matter by puncture—leads to the most favor- able termination of the disease. The formation of pus in phlegmonous inflammation, its most frequent effect, relieves or terminates the local disturbance; as the matter advances to the surface, the inflammatory swelling and induration of surrounding structures lessen and disappear, and the ulcera- tion of the thinned skin completes a series of salutary pro- cesses, by which the sides of the collection are brought into the most favorable state for contracting and coalescing so as to obliterate the cavity. An early opening not only inter- rupts the natural process of cure, but often excites fresh inflammation. The sides of the puncture made in parts of some thickness will unite by adhesion if left in contact, while, if distended by lint, they become irritated and painful, the ultimate result being a protracted and less favorable cure. These dangers may be avoided by delaying the puncture till the skin has become red and thin, that is, nearly in the state to which it is brought previously to natural bursting. Suppuration, however, occurs in such a variety of structures and situations, that we cannot establish any single rule for its surgical treatment. It is often expedient, or even necessary, to resort to a more or less early puncture, in order to lessen the amount or limit the extent of the mischief. When, then, may abscesses be left to their natural course ? and what are the cases in which the matter ought to be dis- charged by an artificial opening? They may be left to themselves when seated superficially, and in parts of little consequence, and particularly when instead of spreading in the circumference, the collection is advancing favorably to the surface. The following heads will comprise nearly all the cases in which surgical inter- ference is necessary. 1. Where matter forms deeply, and when, consequently, its156 SUPPURATION. progress to the surface is opposed by muscles, tendons, or fascia^ e.g. deep suppuration in the forearm, thigh, or leg, more especially in the palm and sole. It is a general law that matter advances towards the exterior; but when it encounters unyielding parts, such as fibrous textures, its advance is opposed and retarded; hence it extends in other directions, between muscles, in tbe course of tendons, under fasciae, making the mischief more extensive. In the palm and sole there is not only dense fascia, but the integuments are thick, and the subcutaneous tissue very compact. Thus matter cannot find its way outwards, but extends among the tendons and nerves, and, in the upper ex- tremity passing under the annular ligament, finds an easy pas- sage into the forearm. In all these cases open as early as possible. You must often puncture when you cannot feel fluctuation, guided by the local symptoms to the situation of the matter. The same reasoning applies still more strongly to the case of matter formed on the surface of bone, as in necrosis. If not speedily discharged, it may be expected to detach the perios- teum more and more extensively. 2. When suppuration has occurred in parts abounding with cellular and adipous substance, where, consequently, the col- lection extends readily in the circumference, for example, in the neighbourhood of the anus and in the perinseum. Here too the opening should be ample, and the edges should be kept apart by the interposition of dressing, to prevent the formation of fistula. This; rule is particularly applicable where copious cellular membrane is covered externally by muscles or fasciaa, which will impede the advance of the pus to the surface, as in sup- purations in the neighbourhood of the male urethra, whetherSUPPURATION. 157 in the perinseum or scrotum, in the ham and groin, the axilla and the neck. Deep-seated suppuration is frequently met with on the inner surface of the lower jaw, under or hehind the bone, and in the course of the neck, the matter being formed in the abundant areolar tissue, which favours the movements almost constantly going on in the important organs occupying these situations. There is much of this tissue about the pharynx and larynx, the oesophagus and trachea, and it extends in the course of the large vessels and nerves into the chest. Matter formed in these situations, being confined by the cervical fascia, the sterno-mastoid muscle and the pla- tysma, and thus impeded in its progress outwards, presses on the organs above mentioned, and easily extends in the loose tissue around them, in which important blood-vessels and nerves abound. These circumstances render the local suffer- ing and the constitutional disturbance intense and alarming. I have seen a case of this kind in which there had been de- lirium for successive nights. As evacuation of the matter gives immediate and complete relief, it should be resorted, to as early as possible, that is, as soon as its presence can be ascertained by direct examination, or strongly presumed, from the history and present symptoms. As it may be necessary to puncture rather deeply, the position of important blood-vessels must be carefully considered before the instrument is used, and it will be better to wait than to run the risk of serious bleeding. 3. Suppurations in parts of dense and unyielding texture, such as the theca of a digital tendon, and in those which are not only dense, but copiously supplied with blood-vessels and nerves, for the inflammation of such parts is attended with severe suffering. This applies to all suppurations in and about the fingers, and most of those in the hand. They are accompanied with intense pain and fever, from which it isSUPPURATION. 158 a great object to relieve the patient. The matter does not advance to the surface; it may extend along the tendons of the fingers to the palm and back of the hand, and do great mischief. We must open, although not certain that matter may have formed, and open freely. It is of no consequence if pus should not be evacuated, as the puncture will bleed freely and thus give relief. 4. Suppurations interfering with parts essential to life, or exercising important functions, such as the larynx, pharynx, oesophagus, and the throat generally. 5. Abscesses in the neighbourhood of serous cavities, or large joints. In the former case, matter may make its way into the cavity, although it is generally discharged externally. 6. Suppurations caused by the introduction into the cel- lular membrane of irritating matters, such as urine or fasces. Here the freest incisions are necessary to limit the mischief, which would otherwise extend indefinitely. 7. To prevent the deformity consequent on extensive sup- puration in the eyelids and other parts of the face. In following up the rule now laid down, of adopting early puncture in many abscesses, we must often make the attempt in doubtful cases, where there is no decided fluctuation. The quantity of matter may be so small, in addition to its being deeply seated, that fluctuation is not to be expected. Here you must consider the origin and progress of the complaint, and the present symptoms, especially the state of the part in respect to swelling, redness, heat, and pain. Serous infiltra- tion of the surrounding textures sometimes helps our judg- ment by affording an indication of suppuration. In such doubtful cases of deep-seated suppuration it is necessary to puncture deeply; and you must therefore take care to avoid blood-vessels or other important parts; this pre- caution is especially necessary in the neck. The openingSUPPUEATION. should be as large as yon can make with safety, and, as the puncture or incision is carried through parts nearly healthy, "which would unite by adhesion if brought into con- tact, this must be prevented by interposing between them a slip of dressing. When the natural course of proceeding is thus anticipated by art, the inflammation does not subside, as it does after spontaneous bursting; sometimes it is rather increased. The means necessary to lessen inflammation must therefore be continued, and may require to be employed actively. The matter contained in an abscess, being completely shut out from external influences, undergoes no change so long as the collection is entire. It may remain weeks, months, or longer without exhibiting any of the spontaneous alterations, which exposure to the air would produce. When let out, the pus has merely a faint kind of odour. Sometimes, however, the matter is found to have undergone putrefactive decom- position ; it is dark-coloured, brownish or blackish, dis- coloured throughout, or streaked, and containing bubbles of air, being at the same time extremely fetid. Sometimes there is a mixture of blood with this offensive matter, dis- colouring it generally, or in streaks, or there may be coagula. Sometimes the pus is natural in colour and consistence, but stinks. These changes are seen more commonly in certain situ- ations and under particular circumstances. Thus putrid, dark- coloured matter, with mixture of air, is met with in suppura- tions near the anus, or the male urethra, in the perimeum or scrotum, in and more or less near the entrance of the female organs of generation. This peculiarity is not dependent on the existence of communication between these outlets and the abscesses; for it is observed where there is no such com- munication, nor is it a constant occurrence in the abscesses of such situations.100 SUPPURATION. It may be considered probable that the neighbourhood of the large intestine has some influence in producing the phe- nomenon. A lad, about sixteen, was nnder my care in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with a considerable inflammation in the parietes of the abdomen, immediately over the ascending colon. This complaint had showed itself very soon after an inflammation of the bowels. Fluctuation became manifest, and I punctured the swelling, giving issue to six or eight ounces of thick, white, and apparently well-formed pus, but very fetid. The abscess healed quickly and favorably. The presence of blood promotes decomposition of pus; thus, in all cases that I have seen of suppurating aneurismal sacs, where the matter has been mixed with coagula, it has been fetid. An Irishman was under my care with a swelling in tbe middle of the thigh at its inside; it was firm, and ex- ceedingly painful. Leeches, poultices, and other means were employed, with little or no relief, and the patient continued ■to complain of severe pain. After some time fluctuation was perceived, and I evacuated by puncture two or three ounces of fetid pus mixed with coagula. The patient soon recovered. In a person who died of phlebitis, an abscess had occurred m the arm, and was opened before death. It contained fetid pus with a mixture of coagula. Matter which has been in contact with dead bone is usu- ally stinking. This decomposition and stinking state of matter are not unfavorable circumstances. Both the local and general symptoms are severe; but, when the abscess has been free y opened, the recovery proceeds just as favorably and quickly as if the matter had not displayed these peculiar characters. A middle-aged woman who had been previously healthy, came under my care in St. Bartholomew's with an extremely painful, bright-red swelling on the inside of the thigh at itsSUPPURATION. 161 upper part, extending to the perinseum and side of the vulva. It was of recent origin. I let out between six and seven ounces of the most stinking matter I ever smelt. She was immediately relieved. At the end of a week the opening had closed, and the patient was in perfect health. 11CHAPTER VIII. CHRONIC ABSCESS. Chronic abscess bears the same relation to the phlegmonous suppurations just described as chronic does to acute inflam- mation. Suppurations, however, like the inflammations pro- ducing them, cannot be included in two divisions. The most violent and active present a striking contrast in all points to the most languid and slow, but there is an indefinite number of gradations connecting the two extremes, some of which might be referred with equal propriety to either divi- sion The local symptoms preceding the formation of chronic abscess are sometimes so slight as actually to escape even the attention of the patient. There is no redness, heat, or pam; and the patient may not know that disease exists till the presence of matter becomes obvious to the sight by enlarge- ment of the part. . A medical practitioner once brought to me a youth, his apprentice, wishing that I would examine a tumour above the hip To my utter astonishment I found a large abscess there. I asked the practitioner how long it had existed He said he was unaware, for the youth had only spoken of it a dav before. From the swelling, punctured on the following day, more than a pint of matter escaped. Now this lad, who had been following his ordinary avocations, found the mcon-163 CHRONIC ABSCESS. venience so slight, that he had not communicated on the subject to those about him. In September, 1828, I was consulted by a gentleman of forty, stout, and in good health, for a tumour in the neck, respecting which he had received an opinion that excision would be necessary. It had existed for two years, having formed slowly and without disturbance of health. Fluctua- tion being discovered on careful examination, I punctured, and let out three ounces of thin, light, yellowish-brown, turbid fluid. The opening closed after discharging for some time, leaving the parts apparently in as perfect a state as on the opposite side. The collection was renewed, broke, and healed after dis- charging for some time, still without pain. It reformed and required relief three or four times more at distant periods. In consequence of these collections forming without previous apparent inflammation, without heat and redness, the part retaining its natural colour and temperature, they have been called cold abscesses, abscessus frigidi, in opposi- tion to abscessus calidi, or the results of active inflammation. These cold or chronic abscesses are as different from the hot or phlegmonous in their progress as in their origin and attendant symptoms. They spread iu the circumference, without disposition to come to the surface, and thus attain a large size, going on for weeks, months, or even years. They break ultimately. In the case just related of abscess in the neck there was no appearance of tendency to breaking at the end of two years. In these cases the indolent character of chronic sup- puration is most strongly marked; there are numerous gradations between these and the phlegmonous, with occasional diversities, of which we do not always trace the reason. I saw a gentleman, between forty and fifty, on account of a164, CHRONIC ABSCESS, swelling near the anus, which had formed without pain. On March 31st, he had felt something unusual in the seat of the disease. A swelling came and gradually increased till April 6th, when I saw him. There was a considerable enlarge- ment at the side and towards the front of the anus, of a deep red colour, soft in the centre, and firmer in the circumference. He had not been indisposed, and had felt nothing more than a slight prickling sensation. I evacuated about three table- spoonfuls of thick, white, inodorous pus, and the part healed soundly. Pain sometimes precedes and accompanies these slow sup- purations, and of course it may be expected to occur more or less considerably in conjunction with external evidences of dis- turbance in those which lie midway between the two extremes. The matter of chronic abscess is contained in a cyst, which is organized as in the phlegmonous, but is thinner and less dense Such a cyst affords a feeble barrier to the matter ; hence the indefinite increase of these collections, especially when under unyielding parts, as fascia, and when they are situated in loose cellular texture. When the cyst of an abscess is so thin, its existence is hardly recognised by external examination. There is a strong contrast between the so t- ness and indefinite outline of such a collection and the thick solid wall of adhesive inflammation which bounds a phlegmonous abscess. The thinness of the cyst and the want of disposition to come to the surface leadto an almost indefinite, extension of the mischief in some situations, as in the col- lections called psoas and lumbar abscesses, m which the increase is favoured by gravity. Under the excitement disease in the lower dorsal or in the lumbar forms behind the peritoneum and descends through the loo e areolar tissue covering the muscles along the side of the pelvis into the thigh under Poupart's ligament, or it mayCHRONIC ABSCESS. 165 take a course towards the loins, or escape through the back of the pelvis. In the first of these cases the matter may- descend along the thigh to the knee; and I have seen more than seventy ounces of fluid evacuated by puncturing such a collection; in the third instance it may reach the ham. When matter has thus gravitated to a part distant from the spot where it was formed, it may be called an abscess in, but not of, the part. The want of tendency to come to the surface, and the ready disposition to spread, may render it necessary to discharge the contents of such abscesses by puncture. In other instances the cyst is dense and thick, so as to render fluctuation very obscure, or altogether imperceptible. From their slow growth, absence of pain, and firm feel, such swellings may be mistaken for solid tumours, and may be extirpated accordingly. Hence, in case of doubt, a prelimi- nary puncture should be made, which may save the patient from a severe operation. A man from Wales, came to St. Batholomew's Hospital, with a large, firm swelling in the neck, under the sterno- mastoideus, extending nearly from the angle of the jaw to the sternum. It was considered a solid swelling by all who saw it, and I removed it; when it was found to be a tough and thick cyst full of pus. A healthy female of forty had a firm swelling in the axilla, as large as a small orange, which had arisen gradually. I examined it carefully two or three times, and thinking it a fleshy tumour, appointed a day for its extirpation. Every- thing was prepared. I again examined carefully before placing the patient on the table, and fancied there might be fluid. I accordingly punctured, and discharged nearly &a tea- cupful of tolerably well-formed matter. I admitted into St. Batholomew's an elderly female, with an enlargement behind the sternum, supposed to be of a: aneur.166 CHRONIC ABSCESS. ismal character. There was a fulness behind the first bone of the sternum and the right sternoclavicular articulation attended with strong pulsation. I considered that it might be a dilated artery and watched the case. The swelling gradually came forward and broke, having been a chronic suppuration with strong cyst. A girl was under my care for some months in the hospital with! solid tumour of the ilium, which was suspected to be of osseous or cartilaginous character. In course of time it softened, and proved to be a chronic abscess, upon examining which that curious sensation common to thick-walled cysts containing a moderate amount of fluid was noticed, namely that of a circular depression of bone, with a sharp circumfe- rential rim, such as is felt when fluid blood is extravasated under the scalp. These cases show what mistakes may occur with regard to matter formed with very little previous inflammation; and they afford an important caution, that in any instance, in which you think of extirpating a doubtful tumour, a prehminary puncture should be made. They show you that, in certain cases, though the formation of matter takes place in this in- sensible way, there may be as much condensation in the sur- rounding tissue as to give the feel of a solid body, though in chronic abscesses the cyst is generally thin. In the instance of the gentleman before spoken of, in whom the tumour formed in the neck, and had been there two years, the cyst was so thin, that when the matter was discharged you could not have supposed there had been any swelling at all; one side of the neck appearing just like the other. Another striking point of distinction between chronic and acute abscesses is afforded by the different character of the contents in the two cases. The former contain generally a thin fluid often of nearly watery consistence; it is frequentlyCHEONIC ABSCESS. 167 characterised as serous, usually more or less turbid, some- times like whey, sometimes of a brownish, tint or dirty hue. Sometimes the fluid is entirely of this thin serous or whey- like character, hence the name of lymphatic tumours, under which these collections have been described. In this serous or lymphatic fluid there is generally an admixture of flakes or shreds of various sizes. They are either soft or curdy, or tough and fibrous, sometimes spoken of as consisting of lymph; the soft ones may be so, but not the large fibrous and cellular masses, which are often seen. The matter may be thicker and yellower, but then it is flaky or curdly, and not homogeneous like good pus. Sometimes in evacuating a chronic abscess we find the upper part of the fluid thin and serous, the lower portion purulent, having subsided from its greater specific gravity. When we see a swelling forming without heat and pain, and containing an almost watery fluid, we may hesitate in regarding it as the result of inflam- mation, and in giving to such fluid the same name as that which belongs to the very different production resulting from active inflammation; but there is a gradual transition from theseto the most acute cases. If any doubt could be entertained on this point, it would be removed when we see that if active inflammation supervenes in a case of chronic abscess, from which a watery fluid hardly recognisable as matter has been previously discharged, the secretion assumes the character of pus such as might come from a phlegmonous suppuration. This occurred in the following case, which illustrates strikingly the interesting peculiarities under which chronic abscesses are occasionally seen : Case. A person of spare habit, twenty-six years of a°-e and accustomed to close occupation as an engraver, previously healthy and moderately strong, had pain in the back in168 CHRONIC ABSCESS. June, 1828, regarded as lumbago. This lasted till June, 1829, when a tumour appeared and gradually increased. In June, 1830, when I first saw him, it was as large as my head, at the back of the loins and pelvis, obviously con- taining fluid, without pain or impulse on coughing. There was stiffness of the loins, so that he bent the knees to reach any- thing on the ground. He was thin and pale, but rest, appe- tite, &c, were good, and he had walked from his residence, two miles, to consult me. I punctured it June 15th; five pints of dull yellowish watery fluid escaped, completely emptying the tumour. The puncture healed; I applied a broad bandage, enjoining rest. On July 15th he had completely recovered, and walked to see me, when puncture was repeated, two and a half pints of serous fluid discharged, with a few small flakes towards the end. The puncture healed. It was repeated, and a pint and a half drawn off. In about a week, although the puncture had healed as before, in con- sequence of imprudent liberties, violent inflammation of the cyst came on, with high fever. A free opening was imme- diately made, giving issue to three pints of thick fetid pus, and then left open. August 18th. The fever soon disap- peared, the tongue was now clean, and the appetite good. Soon after the pulse became accelerated, and he grew thin. A large abscess formed in the back, which was punctured. He died hectic, the original abscess having healed. Chronic abscesses, although slow in progress, break at last, and discharge their contents. Instead of healing quickly after such an event, as phlegmonous abscesses do, they go on discharging for a long time, close very slowly, and often give rise to permanent fistute. When they open spontaneously, and more frequently when punctured, the surface of the abscess may become mflarccd and the secretion is altered. It is thin, fetid, and irntatm&CHRONIC ABSCESS. 169 to tlie parts. If air is admitted into the cavity, the pus lodging there is decomposed and rendered irritating, and thus perhaps excites inflammation in the cyst. The inflamed cyst, often very extensive, acts sympathetically on the stomach, alimentary canal, circulation, and secretions, pro- ducing fever. This constitutional disturbance reacts on the local mischief. The local malady, with its excessive discharge, and the general reaction, reduce the powers, generally feeble in these cases, and the patient dies hectic. It may be questioned, whether the local mischief and the general disturbance are produced in these cases by the putre- factive decomposition of the matter consequent on the intro- duction of air into the abscess; or, whether inflammation of the cyst is the first event, and the changes in the matter are secondary. The occurrences now specified are seen when we have no reason to suppose that air has been admitted, and where the matter cannot be said to be putrid. The matter may become altered and fetid, the abscess being entire, if inflammation is produced in the cyst, as iu the case last re- lated. When putrid matter is confined, it causes great con- stitutional disturbance, and complete relief ensues from its discharge. Causes.—Chronic abscesses sometimes owe their origin to obvious local exciting causes, such as caries of bone, or disease of a joint. Psoas or lumbar abscess and suppurations around the hip are examples. These are usually chronic affections, occurring in unhealthy constitutions. The nature of the suppuration corresponds with that of the original affection, and with the constitutional unhealthiness. When the affec- tion of bone or joint is more acute, as from external injury in a healthy subject, the surrounding inflammation is more active, and the suppuration has the same character. Chronic abscesses more commonly come under the head of170 CHRONIC ABSCESS. spontaneous inflammations, that is, they arise without obvious cause. They occur, not in healthy individuals, but in those whose constitutions are naturally feeble, especially in the scrofulous, among whom suppurations, although sometimes active, are more commonly chronic. They may also occur in those whose naturally good constitutions have been im- paired by various causes. Thus, in both descriptions of cases, there is constitutional imperfection, which accounts satis- factorily for the peculiar character and progress of the disease. Hence you understand the epithets good and laud- able applied to the thick pus of phlegmonous suppuration, as contrasted with the thin, wheylike or watery matter of chronic ftbs cess • The treatment presents much greater difficulty than that of phlegmonous abscess, inasmuch as we have to contend, not merely with the local mischief, but with the constitu- tional unsoundness to which that owes its origin. Our objects will be to strengthen those in whom the frame has been origi- nally feeble, and to restore health where it has been impaxred by depressing influences or bad habits. The circulation should be invigorated by nutritious and generous diet, with such kind and amount of stimuli as can be taken without excitement The aid of strengthening medicines, particularly bark and steel, will often be required. Other vegetable tonics and bitters, with the dilute mineral acids, may also be useful. Residence in pure air, more particularly that of the sea-side, is advantageous, with as much of open-air exercise or enjoyment as the general health and state of the disease will admit. If the stomach and bowels require assistance, it must be given by such mild means as will not weaken. Whcnthe constitution has been invigorated by these measures, the abscess will remain stationary, or sometimes even lessen. If the matter should be coming forwards, we may leave theCHEONIC ABSCESS. 171 case to its natural course. By some this is preferred, as a general rule of practice. At all events, if the question of openiug is doubtful, it will be safer to abstain. If the col- lection, already considerable, is still increasing, without any tendency to break, open it surgically, in order to limit the extent of mischief. When the matter has all escaped, close the opening carefully with adhesive plaster, to take the chance of healing by adhesion. The course now recommended does not differ materially, so far as the abscess is concerned, from that proposed by Mr. Abernethy for the treatment of psoas and lumbar abscesses, except that in his plan the opening would probably be made earlier. He punctured cautiously, to prevent passage of air into the cyst, allowed the contents to flow out without squeezing, and closed the wound carefully. Puncture was repeated once or more, when matter had accumulated to a smaller amount than at first. The proposed object was to give opportunity for gradual contraction of the cyst, with the intention of opening it freely when much reduced in size, and then leaving it to heal by granulations. The almost constant complication of carious vertebrae with these abscesses sufficiently accounts for the want of success which has led to the abandonment of this plan. Some surgeons prefer evacuating the matter by means ot a trochar. The only objection to this is the frequent inter- mixture in these cases with the fluid pus of flakes which may be too large to pass through even a full-sized canula. In one of the great hospitals of Paris a practice is almost universally resorted to of employing drainage tubes which are about equal in size to the largest urethra bougie made of India rubber, open at both ends, and sufficiently long to enter the abscess fairly after it has been evacuated, and to leave one or more inches on the outside. The object is to172 CHRONIC ABSCESS. prevent re-accumulation, and thus accelerate the contraction of the cyst. With a free opening, re-accumulation cannot occur. The question then will be, whether it will be best to trust for the contraction of the cyst to the natural progress of such a case, or to attempt ensuring it by introducing into the cavity a foreign body, which is likely to excite irritation, in some cases at least. If these tubes are employed in all abscesses, the great majority will certainly get well, and we may therefore conclude that their introduction does not prevent the cure. The cases to which the preceding observations are most applicable are those in which the chronic character is most strongly marked in all respects, and particularly the psoas and lumbar diseases. The termination is so frequently un- favorable, whether they burst naturally or are evacuated by puncture, that we wittingly defer the latter measure as long as possible, employing in the meanwhile all means calculated to build up and maintain constitutional power. We are driven at last, by the increase of the swelling and the desire of the patient, to make an opening, explaining previously the dangers incidental to the changes which take place in the cyst, and observing that the termination may be regarded as sufficiently favorable if the latter is obliterated, leaving be- hind a deep fistula, of which the duration may be indefinite. There are numerous spontaneous suppurations, which, from their duration, might be termed chronic, although the at- tendant symptoms and the character of the pus approach to those of the more active kind. They may form with pain, or become painful in their progress; as they increase there is heat, and great suffering from stiffness and tension, especially when the external tissues are thick and unyielding, so that attempts at motion are almost unbearable. A free incision evacuates well-formed homogeneous pus, with perfect relief,CHRONIC ABSCESS. 173 and the cure proceeds favorably, though not so rapidly or uninterruptedly as in genuine phlegmonous abscess. A patient, about forty, and previously healthy, came into St. Bartholomew's, under my care, with a large abscess of four weeks' duration. It filled the space between the scapula and spine; it was firm and resisting, so that fluctuation was ob- scure. He was in great pain night and day, complaining of tightness on the shoulder and back, rendering him unable to move from the position in which he lay, nearly on his face, with the head and upper limb supported. A free incision, by which twenty-four ounces of well-formed pus were discharged, gave immediate and perfect relief. The escape of matter had nearly ceased in three weeks. About the same time, I had under my care a woman, between thirty and forty, with great and most painful enlargement of the thigh, of not less than ten weeks' duration. The increase of size began in the upper part of the thigh; it was firm, as if involving the bone; and the severity of the pain, which impaired appetite and rest, favoured the supposition. The nature of the affection at this time was quite obscure. The swelling gradually extended, so as to occupy nearly the whole front and inner side of the limb; suppuration was now discovered, and pain was less, though still considerable. I let out thirty* ounces of good pus by a free puncture, deeming that the only resource, although the result, considering the great extent of the mis- chief, appeared altogether uncertain. Matter of good quality was discharged abundantly for three or four weeks, the strength being kept up by generous diet and stimuli. The flow of matter ceased gradually, health and strength returning in the same proportion. Anomalous cases of suppuration, presenting a singular contrast between the slowness of their progress and de- velopment and the perfect character of the contained pus174 CHRONIC ABSCESS. are of occasional occurrence. I have seen a few examples in the female breast, and none more remarkable than that of a healthy married woman, aged thirty-four, from the country, Avho had borne three children, the last of whom she had suckled until within a few weeks of her admission into the hospital. There was a swelling, not painful nor hard, occupying nearly the external half of the right breast. It was about equal in size to a hen's egg; the integuments were loose over the entire surface, and the swelling moved easily on the subjacent parts. There was a feeling of softness on the surface, and careful examination detected fluctuation. This disease had begun more than three years previously, with a loose and painless knot, not larger than a nut. It had slowly attained its present size almost without pain. When closely questioned on the point, she said that for two or three months she had felt sometimes a slight prickling in the part, but without pain, or even uneasiness. The swelling occupied the whole thick- ness of the mammary gland, which was not large. Con- sidering the case to be cystic disease in a portion of the gland, I made an exploratory puncture with a grooved needle, along which a drop of pus escaped. More than an ounce of well- formed pus was now discharged by a free puncture, leaving the affected portion of its natural size and soft feel. The fistula? remaining after chronic abscesses, which indeed are sometimes excavations, rather than the mere pipes which the name would imply, may be treated in various ways. Compress and bandage will sometimes effect the closure; the previous injection of a strong solution of sulphate of zinc, for instance twenty grains to the ounce, may be resorted to. The astringent injection may be used alone. A seton may be placed in the tube so as to excite inflammation in its surface. In failure of such measures, it will be necessary to lay the part open by simple incision. Should the tube beCH110NIC ABSCESS. 175 long, one half may be cut at first, and the other after the first incision has healed. The practice of throwing into a chronic abscess, after drawing off the contents by means of a trochar, injections containing tincture of iodine is recommended to us by the high authority of the justly respected surgeon of La Charite, by whom it seems to have been first employed. I do not know the strength or quantity of the injection used by M. Velpeau, nor whether he leaves it in the cavity wholly or in part. I have injected the tincture in various degrees of dilution, from one to four proportions of distilled water, in a quantity from half an ounce to an ounce and a half, leaving it in the abscess, and closing the opening. It is a safe pro- ceeding, and certainly checks secretion so as to retard fresh accumulation. It will probably require to be repeated. The pure tincture of iodine, injected on one occasion by mistake, did no harm. I am unable at present to appreciate the plan fully, from want of sufficient experience. They who propose to adopt this treatment must take care to employ a trochar and canula sufficiently large to let portions of curdly or flaky substance pass, otherwise the cyst might not be properly evacuated for the reception of the injection. HECTIC FEVER. The constitutional disturbance which accompanies the copious suppuration of a chronic abscess, after the cyst has inflamed and the case is proceeding unfavorably, is called hectic fever. Hectic, a term of Greek origin, means habitual; and this fever is the continued constitutional disturbance seen in a system weakened by continued and serious local disease, more especially when such disease is attended with suppura-176 HECTIC FEVER. tion. Hence it has been sometimes called suppurative fever; this is an objectionable name, because suppuration often occurs without such fever, while, on the other hand, hectxc may take place where there is no suppuration. Hectic being a febrile disorder, kept up by a serious local disease, may occur in medical as well as in surgical cases. Pulmonary hectic is nothing peculiar; it is merely this dis- order accompanying disease of the lungs, and it may be found in such disease, as well as in affections of joints, without suppuration. There is a correspondence in nature and degree between local disorders and the general disturbance, which they excite sympathetically. A compound fracture causes violent inflam- mation of the limb, and suppuration; this is attended with inflammatory fever. The formation of matter lessens the dis- turbance. Repeated inflammations and suppurations occur, accompanied with renewed febrile attacks. The strength of the patient is reduced; and now the condition of the limb is altered. The firm swelling of acute inflammation is exchanged for edematous tumefaction; the soft parts are flabby, and a thinner matter is discharged in large quantity from the seat of the various suppurations. This change in the part is accompanied by an analogous alteration in the febrile symptoms. The "patient becomes hectic; his fever mav be said to have become chronic. in hectic, whether it arise from a change in the local symptoms caused by a severe injury, such as a bad compound fracture, from irritation in the cyst of atonic abscess, or from disease in some important organ, such as the longs or a large joint, there is considerable disturbance of the circulation. The pulse is accelerated, rising to 120 or upwards, and going on at that rate for weeks or months. The circulation, how- ever, is variable; the surface generally, and the countenanceHECTIC FEVER. 177 in particular, being sometimes flushed and heated, sometimes pallid and chill. Slight exertion will bring on flushing, which ends in perspiration. The functions of the digestive organs are often disturbed. Towards the latter part of the affection purging comes on. At the same time there is profuse perspiration. The abundance of these discharges is marked by the epithet colliquative, or melting, which implies that the substance of the body is wasted by these profuse secretions. The nights are generally restless and uncom- fortable. The symptoms do not remain the same through the twenty- four hours. There is an evening exacerbation, with accelera- tion of the pulse, and increased heat. This burning heat is succeeded by profuse perspiration, which soaks the night- clothes as if they had been dipped in water. Towards the morning the patient becomes comparatively free from fever, and may remain so through the day. It has been asked, whether hectic can be cured. The question should be, whether the disease which has caused these symptoms can be cured; whether we can remove the local excitement on which the general disturbance depends; if you can do this, you can cure hectic fever. In many cases the local disease is uncontroEable; you cannot expect to cure the fever while the causes which have produced it remain in full force. But the symptoms of hectic will cease when the source of irritation is gone, as in the case of a diseased joint, which we can amputate. After such an operation the patient will sleep soundly, though he has been without rest for weeks • the circulation is tranquillised, the appetite returns, and the strength is soon recovered. Treatment.—If we regarded merely the vascular excitement we might think it necessary, in treating hectic, to adopt means for lessening the disturbance of the circulation. But 12178 HECTIC FEVER. you must consider the general condition of the patient. No powerful means, nothing of a depressing kind could he home. The object is to sustain strength hy means that do not ex- cite. Let the patient take light hut nutritious diet. Light tonics are advantageous, such as bark or cascarilla, with the mineral acids. The latter are useful in checking the profuse perspiration. Narcotics may be employed when the patient does not rest. We thus adopt palliative measures; endea- vouring to support strength, and to soothe where we cannot hope to cure.CHAPTER IX. ULCERATION.—VARIETIES OF ULCERS. ULCERATION. This process was believed by Mr. Hunter to be the work of the absorbents, and he called it ulcerative absorption, to distinguish it from the gradual removal of structures by which collections of blood or matter, aneurisms and tumours, are brought to the surface of the body, or to that of mucous membranes having external outlets, and from the general shrinking by which diminution of bulk is effected without breach of surface. These natural processes were called by him respectively progressive and interstitial absorption. This view, although supported by an authority of the greatest weight in physiology and pathology, does not rest on any direct evidence, and it involves the assumption of a close analogy between ulceration, which is a disease, and these so- called progressive and interstitial absorptions, which are of a restorative nature. In recent times the close analogy of mortification and ulceration could not fail to attract notice. We observe in both the same essential feature, that is, loss of vitality or destruction, and both are preceded and accom pamed by vascular disturbance of the part, which in most cases can be justly termed inflammation. The difference is180 ULCERATION. that visible portions, of larger or smaller hulk, perish in one case; while in the other the loss of substance is in detail, the disorganized fragments being detached in so minute a form that they generally escape observation, being carried away and concealed by the discharges from the exposed surfaces. Sometimes, however, shreds of decayed tissue may he seen on the surface of an ulcer, and minute particles may be recognised in the discharge of a spreading sore, being more numerous in proportion as this is thinner and less puriform. Again, the pus flowing from a cavity in which there is dead bone is loaded with granules of phosphate of lime. This mode of dilapidation has been sometimes not inaptly characterised as molecular disintegration. The close approximation of the two processes is still further illustrated by the intermediate gradations, which conduct us so insensibly from one to the other, that we are sometimes in doubt to which of the two particular cases should be assigned. Again, the two modes of destruction not unfre- quently exist in different portions of one and the same diseased surface, as we may see in syphilitic phagedena, both primary and secondary, in hospital gangrene, and even m spreading ulcerations of less formidable character. There is no hetter exemplification of ulceration than m the separation of a slough from the living parts when mor- tification has ceased. There is first adhesive inflammation, with redness, heat, and swelling, by which the textures are thickened, and blood-vessels are closed; loss of substance follows. Ulceration, then, is loss of vitality in the component particles of a tissue, with discharges which, at first thin and perhaps tinged with blood, soon become thicker and purulent. The breach of surface thus produced is an ulcer. It is a vital, not a chemical or mechanical process; it is not erosion. The loss of substance is not originally produced, nor is theULCERATION". 181 chasm subsequently extended by any corrosive or destructive agency of pus. This fluid has no solvent power over the animal structures. The origin, progress, and general phenomena of ulceration, vary according to differences of texture in the part affected; of nature in .the inflammation, which may be common or specific; and of constitution or health in the individual. All textures are susceptible of ulceration, as we see in the separation of a mortified Kmb, where the ulceration will go through skin, cellular membrane, fascia, muscles, tendons, nerves, blood-vessels, and bone, so that the member may be detached by a natural process. But all are not equally liable; skin is the most prone, then mucous membrane, which is a kind of internal skin, and cellular tissue. It occurs fre- quently in bone, in articular cartilages, and in the cornea. Fibrous structures, such as fascia, tendon, and ligament, are the least susceptible. Hence abscesses under them are slow in coming to the surface. All newly formed parts are weaker in vitality than the original structures, and ulcerate more easily. We are best acquainted with external ulceration, where its origin, progress, and mode of repair are under our immediate observation. The following remarks apply directly to this, and, under modifications, to ulceration in other situations. External ulceration is preceded by inflammation, and generally accompanied with more or less of pain. The skin is red, of increased temperature, painful, and somewhat swollen. The cuticle becomes loosened and whitish, the part is then livid. When the loosened cuticle is removed, one or more small openings, or several slight cracks of the skin are « exposed; a portion of the texture has been lost, leaving a rugged, yellowish, or grayish surface, sometimes spotted* or streaked with blood; the surrounding skin is red, hot and182 ULCERATION. painful. The ulcer enlarges in extent and in depth, the edges remaining red and painful; the surface is yellowish, whitish, or darker, irregular, and sometimes presenting shreds of decaying textures; the edge is sharp. There is a thin, serous, or slightly opaque discharge, which is some- times bloody. When ulceration stops, the breach which it has caused is filled up, and the surface is restored by other processes, which are nearly similar under the four following circumstances: 1st. On the surfaces of chasms produced by ulceration; 2ndly, on that left by the separation of a slough; 3rdly, on the exposed surface of an abscess or fistula; 4thly, on that of a wound with loss of substance, or separation of the sides. A new material springs up at various points m small portions, gradually becoming more numerous, and coalescing into a more or less uniform covering of soft red substance, which rises on its surface into rounded or pointed prominences of various size, and kept moist by secretion of pus. The pro- minences are granulations, and the process itself is called granulation. The secretion of pus is not an invariable con- comitant of the process; it is not seen in the case of ulcera- tion of the articular cartilages, or in that of the cornea. This process of restoration consists in the deposition of the plastic material, fibrine, formerly called coagulable or organizable lymph, and in its organization; it soon pos- sesses blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves. The effusion of fibrine is analogous to what occurs in inflammation; there is at all events increased vascular activity, manifested by greater redness. Dr. J. Thomson found the heat near the edge of a sore two degrees higher than in the rest of the^ limb. (f Lectures on Inflammation/ p. 407). Blood-vessels are visible in granulations to the naked eye, and may be seen in immense number with magnifying-ULCERATION. 183 glasses. They cause the redness of granulations. This vascularity is proved by injections and by bleeding on slight injury. Further proof is afforded by the profuse secretion of pus. That granulating surfaces have the power of absorption, is shown by the effect of active substances such as opium, mercury, arsenic, when applied to them. They act in the same way as when taken into the stomach. Absorbents cannot, however, be demonstrated in granulations, and the absorbing power of these growths may depend on their veins, whose thin walls may admit the introduction of foreign matters. Although nervous fibres cannot be shown, the sensibility of granulations is unequivocal; they are often exquisitely painful. The time required for organizing the new material destined to repair the breaches of surface caused by ulceration is short. When the process of destruction has ceased, little red shoots are seen coming through the previously gray and disorganized surface at the end of twenty-four hours, and they then multiply quickly, so as soon to constitute a con- tinuous mass. The mode in which blood-vessels form in the granulations has been made the subject of special inquiry. Small outgrowths arise from pre-existing vessels; they gradually elongate, pursuing an arched course, until, meeting and coalescing with a neighbouring outgrowth, they form a loop, which again gives origin to other loops. Thus veins too are formed; for capillary vessels consist, as the larger vessels, of both arterial and venous txibes. Is repair accomplished in the manner now described in all textures ? It is so in mucous membranes, cellular substance, in the brain, muscles and tendons, and in bones. How is it in the cornea and in articular cartilages ? We cannot fail to remark the striking analogy between this repair and what happens in inflammation and the union184 ULCERATION. of wounds by adhesion. When two granulating surfaces are brought into and maintained in contact, they unite; their vessels inosculate. This may be seen occasionally, when a bruised flap of scalp which has granulated is brought in apposition with a granulating surface of the head. So strong is the disposition to union, that we are unable to prevent it when a granulating surface of the eyelid is in contact with a similar surface of the eyeball, and thus accretion of the lid to the eye, constituting symblepharon, inevitably results. Some amount of exposure is necessary for granulation; entire abscesses and sinuses do not granulate. The superficial, when exposed, granulate most easily; when they extend deeply, the disposition to this process is lessened. Hence arises the necessity of keeping the edges of an incision apart when we wish to insure healing from the bottom. Granulation has been said to be a property of the cellular texture, but I question whether it is so exclusively. As this structure enters into the composition of all organs, it is diffi- cult to determine the point. Granulation is certainly most active where the cellular texture is the most abundant, as in wounds or burns, where the subcutaneous stratum is exposed. Too exuberant granulation is termed in common language proud flesh. When the chasm of an ulcer, or the exposed sur- face left by the separation of a slough, or that of a wound, abscess, or fistula, is filled up, a smooth pellicle forms over the surface at the edge of the sound skin; the granulations shrink, the secretion of pus ceases. This pellicle gradually extends from the circumference to the centre, till the whole surface is covered. This constitutes the cicatrix or scar, aud the process is called cicatrization. A cicatrix is at first thm, red, delicate, and easily torn: it gradually becomes white and strong, and may even be firmer than the original skin. Although always sufficiently answering the purpose of resto-ULCERATION. 185 ring the surface when damaged by loss of substance, cicatrices may present differences of character under different cir- cumstances. When ulceration has been confined to the surface of the skin, without going through the texture, the cicatrix which begins at once over the whole surface, is thin, pale, and smooth, as large as the sore, since there has been no loss of integument, and free from puckering in the circumference. It is, however, immediately distinguish- able from the natural skin by the absence of the fine lines and hairs of the latter, and by the want of that combined softness, elasticity, and strength, which belong to the true skin. When there has been much loss of substance, the scar will be irregular and hard, often with contraction of the sur- rounding skin. It has been stated that the rete mucosum is not repro- duced in the dark races. Cicatrices have been at least partially coloured where I have seen them in negroes. Absorption of the granulations goes on pari passu with the formation of the cicatrix, causing a regular contraction of the scar, accompanied by elongation of the surrounding skin. This process, which continues throughout the whole course of healing, and sometimes for months afterwards, causes con- traction of the sore by its circumference being drawn towards the centre. Hence a cicatrix or scar is much smaller than the ulcer was, and the sound skin is drawn from the neigh- bouring parts to make up the difference. Where the in- tegument is loose, and the ulcer or wound of moderate extent, the surrounding skin takes the place of that which was lost, the cicatrix becoming smaller and smaller, and then the peculiar material on which this contracting process depends becomes also absorbed, and the new covering acquires the aspect of a thin, pale, membranous patch. But when there has been a large destruction of skin and subjacent186 ULCERATION. tissue, as in bad burns, the contraction, which proceeds, though slowly, with an almost irresistible power, draws together such moveable parts as are within its range, and fixing them in unnatural positions, by hard, puckered, and ugly cicatrices, causes, especially in the face, neck, and flexures of the limbs, most distressing deformities, often admitting of only partial remedy. Reproduction.—Is the cavity of a large ulcer, or that of an abscess, filled up by reproduction of the lost textures before it is healed over ? It has been supposed and described that the lost parts, whether skin, cellular membrane, muscle, or others, are reproduced. The loss of substance, however, is rather apparent than real. The inflammatory swelling of surrounding parts gives a deceptive appearance of excavation; and as this subsides, we discover that there has been no loss except of skin, aod consequently no necessity for reproduction. That new matter springs up for the repair of ulcers cannot be doubted. Granulation is the formation of a new organ in the economy for a temporary purpose. But the effect is limited to the uniting of wounds, or filling up of breaches, and does not extend to the reproduction of lost parts. There is a wide contrast between man and the lower animals in this respect. In man no lost part or organ is restored, except the shaft of a long bone; separated parts are united, and that by a medium, which, though clearly distinguishable from the original, answers the end, and enables the part to execute its function, as in muscle, tendon, bone, and even nerve, The breaches of ulceration are closed externally, but the lost substance of a wound or a destructive sore is not repro- duced. Hence skin becomes fixed after recovery to muscles or fascia, muscles and skin to bone. The cicatrix is not skin, but a good and sufficient substitute for it.187 ULCERATION. Treatment.—In the first stage inflammation is to be les- sened by rest, simple diet, and employment of the mildest local means, sucli as soft poultice of bread or linseed, simple ointment covered by lint dipped in cooling lotions or cold water and frequently renewed. When the restorative process has begun, and is proceeding favorably, the business of the surgeon is merely to assist nature, and remove or avert any obstacles to her efforts. It will be well if he does not inter- rupt or retard her salutary operations by officious interference. To the part, which is kept at rest and protected from external influences, the local means already mentioned are still appli- cable. The granulating process often goes on most favor- ably under simple cold water. A solution of sulphate of zinc may be useful if the purulent secretion should be profuse and the surface of the sore pallid; a shght touch of nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper may be useful, with pressure by bandage, if the granulations should be exuberant. VARIETIES OF ULCERS. The nature and treatment of ulcers exhibit numerous and important differences. They may be common or specific. The latter, such as the carcinomatous, syphilitic, and scrofulous, will be considered in other parts of the course. Even common ulcers, or such as result from ordinary causes in constitutions free from morbid disposition, are various. They are influenced by position, for instance, by proximity to the centre of circulation, or remoteness from the heart; also by situation which may be favorable or unfavorable to the return of the venous blood. An ulcer of the leg will differ in appearance, according as the limb is in the horizontal or the perpendicular posture. Hence ulcers on the trunk heal quicker than those on the limbs, and those of the188 ULCERATION. upper are less troublesome than those of the lower limbs. Ulcers of the legs are the most numerous, and most diffi- cult of management, especially in tall persons, and those in bad health. The restorative process is influenced by the degree of general power and the state of health, while, reciprocally, the condition of a sore will affect the constitution. The super- vention of fever stops the progress of repair; granulations disappear and ulceration is renewed. If hospital gangrene attacks a healing sore, a powerful depressing influence quickly pervades the frame. Hence an ulcer is a good index of the individual's health. A healthy ulcer is one in which the restorative processes are going on favorably, and the person is in good health. The newly deposited substance is firm, the granulations are small and pointed, not rising above the edge of the sore; they are of a florid red, as if from the presence of arterial blood in the capillaries. Yet even here the colour will depend on the position of the part, the florid tint being changed to a darker and even somewhat livid hue on holding down the limb, and a few drops of blood may even escape. The pus is thick, whitish, and moderate in quantity. No additional remarks on treatment are required, except that confinement is neither necessary nor advantageous. With the aid of compress and bandage more or less exer- cise may be taken when an ulcer of the leg is in a healthy The term indolent denotes a state of ulcer, particularly on the legs of elderly persons or those of weak constitutions, especially after long poulticing. The granulations are large, pale, flabby or spongy, rising above the edge of the sore; there is copious secretion of thin matter. The limb swells, more particularly in the dependent posture.ULCERATION. 189 Treatment.—The effect of position on the return of venous blood, which has been already adverted to, is plainly seen in the arm or leg, according as the limb passes from the horizontal to the vertical position in the state of health. The influence is still more manifest in disease; an inflamed finger swells, reddens, and becomes throbbing and painful when the limb is held down; these symptoms cease on raising the arm above the head. It seems a natural inference that a person labouring under an ulceration of the leg should keep the limb and body in the horizontal position. This is sometimes necessary, and may be said, speaking abstractly, to be most favorable to the healing process. Confinement to bed, however, weakens both the limb and the body, damaging health more or less seriously, and an ulcer healed in that way will surely break out again when ordinary occu- pations are resumed. Pressure acts powerfully in aiding the return of venous blood and giving strength to the limb, when the vessels are distended and enlarged, and the part is gene- rally swollen. Exertion of the part in such a state brings on heat, pain, and increased swelling; a well-applied bandage prevents this mischief, and enables the patient to use the part with comparative ease. The principal means of treat- ment in such cases must therefore be the use of pressure, which may be applied to the entire limb, to the part in which the ulcer is seated, or in both ways. The part of the limb in which the ulcer is placed and two or three inches below and above it should be inclosed with strips of plaster about two inches wide, long enough to go round with two or three inches over, beginning from below and going upwards, each succeeding strip covering one third of that im- mediately preceding. As the resin contained in the adhesive plaster may irritate the skin, the emplastrum plumbi is pre-190 ULCEKATION. ferable and will adhere sufficiently if it has been made and spread without more heat than is sufficient to liquefy it, and if it is recently spread. Soap plaster, rendered adhesive by a little tar (sj to sij) might be used. The limb is then covered from the toes to the knee by a roller from seven to nine yards long, of coarse, unbleached calico, stocking web, or other ma- terial sufficiently light and elastic. Flannel would in general be too heating. If the bandage is applied before or soon after rising it should not be tight, as it will fit closely, and thus give the required support in proportion as the part swells with exer- cise. If a feeling of heat and stiffness should come on, the limb may be supported in the horizontal position for a time, the bandage being soaked with cold water. As the amount of discharge is much lessened in this mode of proceeding, the dressing need not be renewed as long as the part continues easy, that is for two, three, or more days, the patient pur- suing his ordinary occupation, and taking moderate exercise. Should the use of stimuli or astringents be deemed necessary, such as the nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper in sub- stance or solution, mercurial lotions or ointments, they may be applied at the time of dressing. The callous ulcer is a variety of the indolent kind. It has a firm and raised edge, with thick white cuticle, a nearly smooth surface, with sparing discharge, and little pain. Such sores are seen about the ankle in elderly and weak persons. The want of restorative effort suggests the use of stimulating dressings. In other respects they may be managed in the same manner as the indolent. I have seen it necessary to pare the callous edge. Varicose ulcer.—A varicose state of veins, caused by the dependent position of the lower limbs, and consequently un- favourable return of blood, often leads to inflammation andULCERATION. 191 ulceration of the integuments, the ulcerations being painful and difficult to heal, but not presenting any other peculiari- ties. Not unfrequently the surrounding integuments, to a greater or less extent, are in a state of chronic eczema. There is sometimes inflammation of the neighbouring veins, with great pain. It is necessary in the first instance to remove this inflammation by rest, poulticing, and probably leeches, which may be employed, not only safely, but advantageously on the inflamed skin and over the inflamed veins. When the parts have been brought into a quiet state, and repair is beginning, general pressure of the entire limb below the knee, by an elastic bandage, will be most useful, and the continual employment of support by bandage or elastic stocking will be necessary to prevent relapse. The eczematous state of the integuments may be remedied by a strong solution of nitrate of silver after the surface has been thoroughly and perfectly cleaned. The irritability of the ulcer may sometimes be removed by the same application. Inflamed ulcer.—Inflammation is the source of ulceration in most cases ; hence nearly all are at first inflamed ulcers. The continuation of ulceration indicates extension of inflam- mation, and its supervention in a healing sore stops the healing, and produces relapse of ulceration with enlargement of the sore. We have now to consider the last-mentioned sub- ject. The degree of disturbance varies greatly, the differences being loosely marked by the term under which the cases are mentioned, as ill-conditioned, painful, irritable, inflamed, or sloughing sores. In a severe case the margin of the sore is fiery red, with general swelling, redness, and heat of the limb. The granulations have disappeared, and instead of them the ulcer presents an irregular bottom of a foul, greyish, yellow- ish, or brownish colour, often streaked with blood. When the192 ULCERATION. inflammation runs high, partial sloughing may occur, and the destructive process goes on rapidly. Perhaps vessels of some size are opened, and copious bleeding may ensue. Inflamed sores do not secrete pus, but yield instead of it a copious, thin, generally offensive fluid, or a thin matter of reddish colour from admixture of blood, or a thick, dark- coloured glutinous substance ; these morbid discharges being named respectively, ichor, sanies, and sordes. This state of the part, which is brought on by neglect, even total want of care, and intemperance, and probably aggravated by violent or long-continued exertion, is attended with severe pain, want of rest, and general feverish disturbance. Relief will be afforded by rest, soothing local applications, such as fomentations and poultices, of which that of bread with charcoal is the best, and a dose of Dover's powder or some other opiate at bed-time. Mild stimuli will generally be necessary, as the subjects of such an attack are usually free livers, with such fluid nourishment as the stomach will receive when more solid nutriment cannot be borne. In cases of less serious character, with inflammation of the surrounding parts, the granulations are converted into a dirty greenish or livid mass, with specks of matter and blood, and thin offensive discharge. The effects of rest and mild local treatment will often suffice, where the state of inflammation has been brought on simply by imprudent exertion. The healing of ulcers is often retarded by inflammation, although its presence is not indicated by the obvious and striking circumstances just enumerated, especially m young persons, those of full habit, and such as are accustomed to free living. There is swelling of the part, redness of skin, some heat, and pain. Sometimes such a state comes on during the healing of a large ulcer, especially if the patientULCEEATION. 193 be confined to bed, allowed a full diet, the bowels being at the same time costive; he feels uncomfortable, with diminished appetite, mouth clammy, perhaps headache with want of sleep. You examine the limb and find it warm; the sore is painful, the granulations are giving way at some points, the discharge is thin. The active purging and reduced diet which are urgently necessary under these circumstances will probably be sufficient to prevent the serious mischief which might ensue if these premonitory symptoms should be unnoticed or disregarded. I take this opportunity of impressing on your minds the necessity of watching closely the health of those in whom large sores, especially of long standing, are rapidly healed, or m which extensive outward disease of any other kind is sud- denly brought to an end. The copious and generous diet, with the stimuli which have been necessary in a state of weak- ness to sustain failing power and restore strength, are now sources of danger, and may lead, by overfilling the system, to serious disturbance in the head, chest, or abdomen. I have seen alarming and permanent paralytic symptoms and fatal apoplexy from an entire neglect of precaution in this matter. In proportion therefore, as old discharges or other external disease are brought to an end, the state of the cir- culation and the excretions should be carefully observed, the quantity of food, and especially of stimuli, being changed in conformity with the altered condition of the body. Our fore- fathers were probably not altogether wrong in advising that an issue should be opened in the leg when an old ulcer was on the point of closing. Phagedenic ulceration.—This epithet, derived from the Greek, and equivalent to eating or destructive, may seem a superfluous addition to ulceration, which always implies loss of substance. It is, however, a convenient practical term to 13194 SLOUGHING- PHAGEDENA, denote cases, not of infrequent occurrence, in which, the de- structive process is more rapid, considerable, and unequivocal than in simple ulceration. These affections, varying in their degree of activity and rate of progress, might he divided into acute and chronic; and they form an insensible transition from ulceration to mortification, being closely allied to the former in their milder shape, and hardly distinguishable from the latter in their more violent form. Phagedena is seen most frequently in syphilis, where it occurs both as a primary and secondary affection, and perhaps more in the latter than in the former shape. It may, how- ever, be seen under other circumstances. The edge of a phagedenic sore is sharp, often ragged, with livid fragments apparently crumbling away; the mar- gin often red. The bottom is irregular, livid, grayish or tawuv, sometimes with viscid and bloody discharge. There is considerable pain in the acute, but not in the chronic form. This subject will be further considered under the head ot syphilis If we speak of treatment, without reference to the specific character of the affection, it would include bread poul ■ tice perhaps with charcoal or with lint dipped in a mixture of liquor opii sedativus and water on the sore; opium internally, particularly at night, bark or sarsaparilla, with good diet and stimuli. Sloughing ^etoa-Phagedsena gangrenosa, presents a peculiar disorganization of the affected structures, in which there is more of mortification than ulceration. It is most com- monly seen in women of the town, as an occasional concomi- tant of syphilis, although it is not a direct effect of syphilid poison, andmay occur altogether independently of that disease. I have seen it originate in the hospital. Though generally connected with venereal disease in some shape, it is not neces-SLOUGHING PHAGEDENA. 195 sarily so. I have seen it only in prostitutes and generally in those of the lowest description, and I have not met with it in men. The predisposing cause of the affection is an unhealthy state of constitution in young and naturally healthy, but often delicate females, who lead a miserable life of prostitution in the worst parts of London, with little protection from the coarseness and ill-usage of the lowest characters. They are constantly intemperate, especially in the use of spirits, and exposed to cold, wet, fatigue, and broken rest. Their wretched calling involves excitement and irritation of the generative organs and parts in their immediate neighbourhood, which are frequently excoriated by acrimonious discharges, of which the effect is aggravated by uncleanliness. The disease, which is seen most frequently at the side of the labia, in the groin, on the inner and upper part of the thigh or buttock, and particularly in the cleft of the nates, begins with a vesicle or pustule on a raised basis of inflamed skin, painful from the first, and attended with constantly increasing suffering throughout its progress. This soon opens into an angry sore, which spreads rapidly, with whitish and shreddy surface, sharp edge, inflamed margin, and thin discharge. The disease soon assumes its characteristic appearance, measuring from one to two or more inches, and often enlarging with great rapidity. I have seen a fissure of some inches in length and proportionate depth, occupying the cleft of the buttocks, and reaching forward to the side of the labium, formed within forty-eight hours, and blackened by disorganization in its whole extent. The surface, which is irregular and generally more or less excavated, varies in colour being generally of a dull brownish-red, varied with deeper tints approaching to black, with gray and yellow, as if from thick, adherent matter. It consists of disorganized tissues196 SLOUGHING PHAGEDENA. blended into a pulpy mass of uncertain depth. The dis- charge is a copious brown, thickish fluid, of peculiarly offensive odour, immediately recognisable, even at some distance from the patient. Distinct sloughs are sometimes seen ; loss of blood from the surface is not unfrequent. The mischief is confined to the skin and the immediately subjacent strata; the surrounding skin is of deep red, with some inflammatory thickening of the parts beneath. The pulse is accelerated and feeble, while appetite and rest are lost from the incessant and severe pain. This formidable and distressing affection seems to be altogether local] at all events, it is completely under the power of a strictly local remedy, namely, destruction of the disorganized tissues by an effective escharotic, capable of penetrating the mass in its entire depth, such as strong nitric acid, which was introduced into practice by Mr. Welbank, a former pupil of St. Bartholomew's, whose paper " On Sloughing Phagedena," in the eleventh volume of the ' Me- dico-Chirurgical Transactions/ gives an admirable description of the disease and its treatment. The mode of proceeding is to protect the surrounding skin by smearing it with oil, or preferably with laid or spermaceti cerate, to remove all discharge and blood, so as to render the surface quite dry, then to soak the disorganized mass thoroughly with strong nitric acid, thus converting it into a brownish eschar, which may be covered with cotton-wool, dry lint or poultice. The surrounding surfaces should be kept as free from moisture as possible. The application of the acid should be made under the influence of chloroform. The severe pain, which may last from one to two hours, may render an opiate necessary. As soon as the pam of the appli- cation has ceased, the local and general suffering of the disease will have ended, and the patient may be said to be well. She will probably rest well, and be quite recovered the followingSLOUGHING PHAGEDENA. 197 morning, with quiet pulse, good appetite, and cheerful coun- tenance. On the separation of the eschar, after a few days, a perfectly healthy granulating surface is disclosed, which heals rapidly. Strict attention to cleanliness and dryness of sur- rounding parts is necessary throughout, and the complaint thus ends without leaving hehind any liability to further mischief. I once saw a formidable case of sloughing phagedsena entirely independent of venereal affection. A female between twenty and thirty was reduced to a condition of extreme weakness by a severe attack of smallpox followed by diar- rhoea and excoriation, which had caused a large and deep sloughy excavation in each buttock. She recovered under the use of the acid with all the means, both dietetic and medical, calculated to restore and maintain general power. The question of contagion naturally presents itself to the mind in viewing this serious disease, and the unpleasant secretion which accompanies it. That the discharge does not affect the sound skin of the patient is clearly seen from the way in which it has been applied to nearer and more remote parts of the body before admission into an hospital. It would, therefore, probably not affect the skin of a healthy person; and hospital nurses have never been injured by it, so far as I know. Does it contaminate the atmosphere so as to act injuriously on previously healthy sores in patients occupying contiguous beds or lying in the same ward ? We entertain suspicion that it has such influence, and act on the opinion by keeping patients who labour under the affection as far apart from others as possible. In Hospital Gangrene, (Pourriture d'hopital), there is a state of sore occurring under certain circumstances in hospitals and analogous situations, so similar in some respects to the preceding affection, that it has been described under the same198 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. name of phagedena gangrenosa. By the terms hospital sore, putrid, contagious, malignant, scorbutic ulcer, the same, or analogous affections are denoted. It is a most unhealthy and rapidly destructive condition of ulcers, whether the result of wounds, sores, or ulceration, produced by local causes; appearing in hospitals, prisons, barracks, shops, when filled with bad surgical cases in un- healthy situations, particularly of elevated temperature. The crowding of human beings within a small space is always unfavorable to health, as we see in the occupants of small and overfilled apartments, in the narrow streets and courts of large cities. A noxious influence, of which we do not know the exact nature, is generated under such circumstances. In the ward of an hospital, calculated to hold fifteen or sixteen persons, twenty were sometimes placed when applications were more numerous than usual. It was soon noticed that typhus fever invariably broke out on such occasions. In large hospitals filled with serious diseases, especially ex- tensive wounds and ulcers, when ventilation is not good, the effect is obvious in many ways; in the prevalence of erysipelas, in the unfavorable result of operations, and in the change produced in wounds and ulcers previously healthy. It is clearly ascertained that, for the favorable treatment whether of medical or surgical cases, and of the latter more particularly, when wounds, ulcers, and operations are included, an hospital ward should offer, at least, a thousand cubical feet of atmosphere for each bed, and that an allowance of fifteen hundred feet would be still better. Hospital gangrene is the local effect of a vitiated atmosphere on the surface of a wound. More general disturbance ensues, as a secondary consequence. In a case which has been previously going on favorably the part becomes painful and hot, the edges are inflamed, suppuration stops, and a serousHOSPITAL GANGKENE. 199 discharge takes its place. A thin white stratum spreads over the -wound, it becomes thicker and grayish, streaked with blood. It may look yellow, like pus; but you cannot wipe it off. It is a soft, pulpy, or glutinous mass, adherent to the parts below, and resulting from disorganization of the surface and contiguous textures. The edges of the wound and the adjacent skin may slough in successive portions, and sometimes the whole surface of the wound sloughs, with offensive discharge. The ulcer extends rapidly, with great pain, which prevents rest, destroying both in circumference and depth. The patient is pale and weak, with feeble pulse, and loss of appetite. That this dangerous affection is pro- duced by the influence of a noxious atmosphere, and that the number of sufferers, and the succession in which the cases occur in particular instances, depend on their exposure to a common cause, seems to be generally admitted. Whether the disease, when it has thus arisen, possesses contagious pro- perties is more doubtful, though it has been spoken of under the name of contagious ulcer. Its progress is most effectively arrested by separation and dispersion of the patients, with thorough cleansing and ventilation of the apartments they have occupied. The complaint has been hardly known in England, owing perhaps to the precaution of limiting the num- ber of patients in reference to the cubical measurement of wards, and of enforcing sufficient ventilation. It has been more frequently seen in France, especially in the South as in Lyons and Montpelier, and in Spain. It was un- known for a long time in St. Bartholomew's, where, however a few cases have occurred at considerable intervals in the last ten or twelve years. The treatment is essentially the same as that of sloughing phagedsena, namely, destruction of the morbid surface by means of nitric acid or other escharotic of equivalent power,200 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. and supporting the patients' strength by all the resources of diet and medicine. Delpech treated a hundred and fifty- cases from Pampeluna, all with cautery, and successfully. The nitrate of silver, and even pure potash, are not sufficient for the occasion.* * In the early spring of the present year circumstances occurred at St. Bartholomew's, showing that wounds, even of trivial character, may pass into the sloughing state without having heen exposed to the unfavorable influences described in the preceding pages, and leading to the belief that they must have arisen from some more general but obscure cause. A healthy youth, about twenty, came to the hospital as a casualty patient with a cut on the forearm near the wrist, less than an inch in length, and over the radial artery, which it had not injured. It was properly dressed, and he returned in three days, when it was dressed again, the edges not having united. He came again in three or four days, when I saw him, with a circular sore as large as a half-crown, covered with a dark brownish-black slough; the discharge was a bloody and offensive sanies. He was admitted, and the strong nitric acid was applied with the desired effect, which was only temporary. This was repeated after some days, the result being an exposed surface of formidable aspect more than two inches in diameter, which improved slowly and healed very gradually hut completely, the radial and ulnar arteries being obliterated. A nearly similar case was admitted by one of my colleagues about the same time, and it was found necessary to manage even trivial wounds with great precaution. About the same period three men were brought into one of my wards on the same day, with erysipelas, in so dangerous a state from extreme prostration that the free use of brandy was necessary for some time to rally the circulation and bring them into a state of safety.CHAPTER X. MORTIFICATION. Mortification is the death of a part, i. e., of a part only. Necrosis, from the Greek, is a synonymous expression, seldom used except in application to the death of bone. Mortification is the death of a part, with a peculiar change in its state, the result of a preceding peculiar disorder; hence (that is, in the previous peculiar disorder) it is distinguished from— 1. Simple death, as that of an amputated part. 2. Apparent death, i. e., temporary suspension of vital action with power of recovery, as in a frost-bitten part. This is local asphyxia, that is, cessation of pulsation or circulation, which bears the same relation to local death as suspended animation or general asphyxia does to general death. 3. Chemical decomposition, or the changes produced in living parts by the application of heat, acids, alkalies, and other chemical agents. These are chemical phenomena; mortification is the result of vital changes. 4. Putrefaction, or chemical decomposition consequent on death, that is, alteration of animal structures from the effect of surrounding influences after death. This also is chemical not vital change. Putrefaction often follows mortification, but not necessarily the pecuhar change constituting mortification is in some202 MORTIFICATION, instances an effectual preservative against the spontaneous alterations, or those caused by surrounding influences, which constitute putrefaction. Mortification, gangrene, sphacelus, are used indifferently, and may be regarded as synonymous terms, yet there are shades of difference. Mortification is the more general expression. Gangrene is generally applied to external and superficial mortification. Sphacelus to the death of an entire part or limb. Dr I Thomson proposed to restrict the term gangrene to the state of transition from inflammation to mortification. But no such state, independent of inflammation on the one side and of mortification on the other, can be defined; nor could we hope to give a new meaning to a word so commonly employed in a clearly understood sense, both by ancients and moderns. The dead part is ealled in English a dough; and the pro- cess generally, slonghing. The separated cuticle or cast-skm of the snake is called its slough, which is an old Anglo-Saxon "Regarding mortification, then, as the death of a part in the sense already specified, the question presents rtself, wflatrs the IMBg action necessary to produce the pecuflar change of structure constituting mortification T Is it Docs inflammation always precede? I beheve flat .t does, u le degree or form, if we employ the word in the compr. hcnsive Lsc of disturbed circulation. However, a par m perish without undergoing inflammatmn, as from cod, or Ln the ligature or rupture of its artery; hut he flange « - produced is simple death, not mortmcatmn. See AC- Lury to the Blood-vessels of the Lower Ertreunty, producm pi, dry Gangrene of tfle Foot," by T. W. Cipher, At * .MecUco.Chirurg-.cal Transactions,' vol. xvn, p. 17.MORTIFICATION. 203 the situation of the wound in the groin, the femoral artery was found obliterated. " I have seen two instances in which the limb mortified after the ligature of the principal artery. The part at which the living was connected with the dead flesh exhibited the usual appearances of gangrene. The remainder of the dead parts had not undergone those peculiar changes which take place when gangrene is the consequence of inflammation. They had the appearance of parts which have remained a long time in a dissecting-room. They were of a pale colour, and soon became putrid. The cuticle peeled off, and was followed by an oozing of filthy sanies. I have, however, heard of instances in which the whole limb became black, and presented the appearances which are peculiar to gangrene."* In a case under my care in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where the popliteal artery and vein were torn across by a violent injury, the foot and leg became cold, and presented the appearances of a dead limb. Is the previous local disturbance a certain degree, or a peculiar kind of inflammation ? Mortification may occur at all ages, in all kinds of con- stitution, and in every state of health. It may take place in all organs, and affect them under every variety of extent. Hence the mode of attack, the state of the affected parts, the kind and degree of constitutional disturbance, and the whole progress of the affection; the prognosis and the treatment must differ most widely in different cases. Considered generally, this affection is a cessation of vital movement, or, more particularly, of the circulation of a part. The blood ceases to flow; hence loss of natural colour, and temperature, of sensibility, and the power of motion. The part becomes cold and turns of a dirty grayish, yellowish, * Hodgson, 'Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins,' p. 265.204 MORTIFICATION. greenish, livid, brown, or black hue; or it assumes various combinations of these tints. A sanious or bloody fluid is poured out under the cuticle, raising it into vesications or loosening it generally. These changes, which are preceded by aggravation of the inflammation, by a deeper tint of redness passing into lividity, and then by diminution of tension, are followed speedily in most cases by putrefaction. When the part, at the time of mortification, is loaded with fluids, these as well as the containing solids, undergo chemical decomposition. The various textures are softened, half dissolved, filled with a fetid sanies or reduced to a stinking pulpy mass. Gas is disengaged from the parts thus changed j and the fetor, which is always present and characteristic, is sometimes overpowering. This is gangrena humida, moist gangrene. It is mortification consequent on active inflammation, and hence may be called acute gangrene. Sometimes the dead part is found in a state very different from that just described; the preceding inflammation is not considerable, and the mortified portion, although brown or black, is dry, hard, and shrivelled; instead of dissolving by putrefaction, it remains hard and dry, and may be kept for years without undergoing further change. This is gangrena sicca, dry or chronic gangrene. These two strongly contrasted forms have been named hot and cold gangrenes. All parts which have a circulation are liable to mortifica- tion Thus we see this change in all the textures when an entire limb has perished. All, however, are not equally susceptible. Cellular tissue is the most prone j skm resists longer. Harder parts, such as fibrous structures, are less subject. Blood-vessels resist more than other soft textures ; hence we sometimes see them insulated and entire when theMORTIFICATION. 205 surrounding soft textures have perished as in sloughing bubo. There i3 great variety of character and progress in different organs. If the disturbance which has caused the mortification continues, this change extends to fresh parts. The mortified portion has no clear boundary, or rather it is shaded off by a dusky red or livid border to the surrounding parts, which exhibit a deep-red colour. But, when it stops, a clearly defined line marks the limit of the dead portion. The neigh- bouring part then assumes a bright-red tint. A process now begins for separating from the living the dead portion or slough. There is a well-marked line between them, with a removal of particles constituting a superficial groove, which deepens more or less rapidly, and gradually extends through- out, so as to detach entirely or throw off the slough. Granu- lations arise from the exposed living structures in the groove, and are formed successively, in proportion as the detachment proceeds; so that a healthy granulating surface is seen when the slough is at last pushed off. What is the phy- siological explanation of this process? Is it ulceration, or absorption ? Mr. Hunter, always inclined to ascribe great power to the absorbing system, regarded these processes as identical, that is, he considered the breaches of surface con- stituting ulcers to be the work of the absorbents, and this opinion has been generally adopted. Recently, and perhaps more correctly, ulceration has been deemed to be a modifica- tion of local death, in which the lost substance perishes in minute detail, instead of losing vitality in the mass as it does in mortification. There is no doubt on the point of repair, which is simply a specimen of healing by granulation and cicatrization. As the separation extends through all the component textures when an entire portion of a limb has perished, the206 MORTIFICATION. loss of blood is prevented by its previous coagulation in the vessels, which extends considerably above the point of separation. Thus the femoral artery has been found closed by coagulum in amputation of the thigh for mortification of the leg. In amputating immediately below the knee for mortification of the foot extending above the ankle, I tied the three arteries of the leg, although they did not bleed. The time necessary for completing the separation varies, according to the size of the part and the nature of its component structures, from a few days to weeks or months. The constitutional symptoms are very various. There may be none in some cases of small mortifications whether from external or internal causes, such as that of skin covering the tibia, from a blow, that of the thinned integu- ment covering an abscess or an aneurism about to burst, or that of a toe in senile gangrene. As mortification is fre- quently preceded and accompanied by active inflammation, the general disturbance in those cases is the same as m inflammations. But, when the loss of vitality has oc- curred, the symptoms change; there is a remission both of the local and general disturbance. We observe the cor- respondence between the local and the general affection here as in other cases. Hence, when a considerable mor- tification has occurred, there is great depression of the vital powers. The symptoms assume the typhoid type, if we may use an expression which is rather indefinite. The pulse is feeble and intermittent; there are faintings, with a sense of languor and weakness. Cold sweat supervenes, attended with complete muscular prostration and subsultus tendinum. The sensorial functions become imperfect; there is either lovr delirium or stupor; the tongue is dry and brown. There is hiccough, with tympanitic swelling of the abdomen. There207 CAUSES. is, in short, a complete breaking up of the constitution, announcing speedy dissolution. The causes of mortification are numerous and various. The essential nature of the process, under its several forms being a cessation of the vital movements in a part, we see it brought on by various agencies capable of disordering the circulation so as to cause its stoppage. The following are among its obvious external causes. 1. Injury, which must be violent in degree, though it may be limited in extent, and if inflicted in that case on an unim- portant structure, such as a bit of skin covering the tibia in a blow on the shin, is not a matter of consequence. In proportion as the extent of violence and the importance of the parts injured increase, there is greater suffering and danger. The latter reaches its highest degree in severe injury of a limb, where fracture or comminution of bones, with exposure or dislocation of joints, is combined with bruising and lace- ration of soft structures. 2. Pressure by the weight of the body on prominent parts, such as the sacrum and trochanters in long confine- ment to bed, or that of splints and other surgical apparatus. Pressure of bandages, when the limb swells after their application; hence the necessity of caution in using them where inflammation may be expected. They are hardly ever necessary. 3. Contact of animal fluids or solids in peculiar morbid conditions, or in particular states of decomposition. Under the name of malignant pustule, a formidable disease, proceeding rapidly to mortification, is known in the south of Europe, and is described by the writers of France and Italy to whom it seems to be well-known. They speak of it as a local inflammation excited in butchers and others by contact with the blood or other fluids of animals perishing in particular208 MORTIFICATION. morbid states, or when overdriven oxen are slaughtered. It is also mentioned under the term charbon. An external inflammation soon goes on to mortification, extending rapidly, and often fatal. I once saw this affection in a mild form occurring in a man who had been employed in Leadenhall Market, and had to overhaul parcels of hides from South America, which often arrive in a very bad state. One of them swept along his cheek, and he was aware that it touched the skin. The cheek, for an inch and a half in depth immediately below the eyelid, swelled and became red, as by erysipelas. This part having become shining and still redder, turned black. The slough, which involved the entire thickness of the cheek, separated slowly. From the considerable loss of substance, the cicatrix drew down and everted the lower lid. It seems that horsehair imported from abroad sometimes reaches England in a foul state. I saw two healthy boys employed in a manufactory of this article, in each of whom there was a nearly circular black slough on the forearm, about the size of a shilling in one, and of a sixpence in the other. It occupied the thickness of the skin and the subja- cent tissue, and was accounted for by their having handled the foul horsehair. The affection was completely local, and soon terminated by cicatrization after the slough had sepa- rated. Sloughing primary syphilitic sores show the serious mis- chief that may be caused by a poison applied to the sound surface of a previously healthy person. The subject will be further considered under the head of syphilis. In sloughing phagedena, which is indirectly connected with venereal disease there is a combination of ulceration and mortification pro- duced by the local influence of acrimonious discharges. A similar combination is seen in hospital gangrene, as the effectCAUSES. * 209 of a noxious atmosphere on wounds and ulcers. The two latter subjects will be considered under ulceration. 4. Cold, intense or long-continued. 5. Circumstances directly and seriously interfering with the circulation. (a) Effectual compression or rupture of the principal artery and vein of a limb ; ligature of the main artery in wound or aneurism. The latter may entirely arrest the circulation and thus cause simple death; it may impede the supply of blood, causing paleness and coldness of the part, which may be removed by warmth and friction; or it may lead to the disturbance of circulation and consequent mortification, partial, or general. (b) Interruption of the circulation, arterial and venous, by general pressure, such as that of the stricture in strangu- lated hernia. This produces distension of vessels, apparent stagnation of the blood, and deep discoloration of the affected parts. (c) Interception of vascular supply, as an occasional effect of other disease. It is in this way that the thinned skin over an abscess or aneurism which has nearly reached the surface may lose its vitality, and that the integuments mortify over the cellular sloughs of phlegmonous erysipelas and car- buncle. 6. Violent inflammation. These external causes do not produce mortification as their immediate and primary effect. They excite and disturb the circulation, inducing a degree of disorder which the parts are incapable of sustaining . hence the blood stag- nates, and mortification ensues. The arrest of the circulation 1S owing m certain cases to the violence of the inflammation But mortification frequently occurs from a degree of in- 14210 - MORTIFICATION, fiammation not of the highest kind. In order to appreciate these eases, we must consider not only the local disturbance, but the previous state of the part, and the condition of the constitution. Either local or general debility, and more par- ticularly the combination of both, constitute a great predis- position to mortification. The arrest of the circulation when a part is frostbitten, and still more if the skin should be frozen weakens the part to such a degree that it will not bear the influx of blood if suddenly warmed, but inflames and mortifies, while it may be perfectly recovered if the natural temperature is restored very slowly. The skin, weakened by constant pressure in long confinement to bed, easily inflames and sloughs. A^ain, in weakened constitutions, slight causes, and appa- rently trivial degrees of inflammation may cause mortifica- tion. Thns, making scarifications, which are small super- ficial cuts, in anasarcous legs, in order to let out the fluid with which they are loaded, a practice altogether unnecessary may cause not only painful inflammation, but even mortification. The application of blisters is stdl worse. I saw a patient in an advanced stage of dropsy, in whom a blister had been placed on the calf of each leg. The entire surfaces mortified, thus terminating existence prematurely by a painful death. . f i Andral has recorded a similar fatal occurrence m a fen ale a„ed forty-three, in whom organic toease of the hver, omach, pancreas, and omentnm existed and who tremely emaciated and weak, with vonntmg, —^ small, Id frequent pulse, hot and dry skm. Busfa- applied to the legs; violent pain, and extreme produced, followed hy prostration. The vacated u fee were covered hy a hlack stratum, and the patent dredm two days from the application. (Andrei, ' Climque, iv, 461.)CAUSES. 211 I have seen mortification of a blistered surface brought on by dressing with savine ointment in young and weakly children more than once. Indeed, this remedy should not be resorted to at all in young subjects without great precaution as to the size and power of the blister, and the duration of the application. Internal causes.—An unsound state of constitution, induced and maintained by indulgence of appetite and inactivity, con- stitutes a predisposition to attacks of inflammation, and even mortification. The effect is too obvious to escape notice, when bad habits are carried to excess. But the same in- fluences in a minor degree, such as may not appear to pass much beyond the bounds of prudence, especially if accom- panied by indolence, may, in the course of years, gradually undermine the powers of the system. The mischief proceeds so slowly as to escape the notice of the individual until his attention is roused by an attack of disease. The most trivial injury, especially to a part remote from the centre of circu- lation, such as a superficial cut on a toe, may cause mortifi- cation under such circumstances. Is the real cause of the mischief here in the local injury, or in the unsoundness of constitution ? How is the matter to be explained, if, as not unfrequently happens, a black spot appears spontaneously on a f.np ? J The habits now alluded to may, by long continuance, so disorder and weaken the most important internal organs as to cause great general debility favorable to the occurrence of spontaneous mortification, or to its occurrence from a local injury. A strong predisposition to spontaneous gangrene originates in an imperfect state of the circulation, caused by disease of the arteries. The coats of these vessels, not only in the trunks, but in the ramifications as far as we can trace them212 MOKTIFICATION. are in great measure ossified, or, as some contend, calcified. The earthy matter, which is phosphate of lime, is deposited in variety of forms and of extent, generally in thin plates or scales, first, perhaps, in the internal or serons coat, bnt uVU- mately involving the whole substance of the vessel. At first small and distinct, they increase in size, and come nearer together, so as to occupy the whole tube for a considerable extent. They may convert the vessel into a completely hard and rigid canal. The deposit sometimes encroaches on the cavity lo as to lessen or entirely obstruct the calibre. This state of the arteries, which must lessen the quantity of blood received by a part, and interfere with its proper trans- mission, may be found in the healthiest persons, who have attained great age, and led regular lives, and may manifest its injurious influence in them; occurring at an earlier age and in unsound constitutions, it cannot fail to be more hurtful. Our knowledge of this disease as a cause of gangrene is almost confined to the lower limbs. In a patient under my eare in St. Bartholomew's, in whom a great toe had been slowly yielding to the malady during some months, I found the radial artery on both sides hard and pulseless. The late Baron Dupuytren contended that spontaneous gangrene of the lower extremities arises, not from ossification of the blood-vessels of the part, which he regarded merely as a casual coincidence, but from inflammation of the femoral artery, causing effusion into the tube, and its consequent obstruction. According to my experience, these cases of arteritis are extremely rare; and the very small number that I have seen, have been in younger persons than those attacked by the usual form of spontaneous gangrene. They have been attended by unequivocal evidences of dis- order in the course of the main artery, from which thePROGNOSIS. 213 others are entirely free; while the beginning and progress of the affection have been altogether different in the two cases. Internal causes, of which the nature and operation are unknown, may render persons more liable to mortification. An example is afforded by the use of spurred rye for food, the pernicious effect of which is not unfrequent in the north of Europe, though almost if not entirely unknown in England. Prognosis.—Mortifications from external causes, of small extent in unimportant parts, such as the skin, are of no ma- terial consequence. Even if the injury were a little larger and deeper, it would probably not be dangerous under judicious treatment. In other cases, whether from external or internal causes, the affair is serious, often most dangerous, involving, more immediately or remotely, loss of limb or of life. Mor- tifications from internal causes are more dangerous than those from external. In the former the constitution is in fault, and we may expect that the mischief will spread, return after it has once been arrested, or show itself elsewhere; in the latter, the affected part is concerned only, or at least chiefly. The mere local changes are no criterion of the danger; their extent affords no measure of the risk to life. An Irishman of middle age was brought into the hospital from a workhouse in Islington. He had received a sb>ht injury in the shin and had neglected it. Pain and swelling came on, preventing him from following his occupation, that of a labourer, and he was received into the workhouse, from which it was soon deemed necessary to transfer him to St Bartholomew's. The left lower limb was in a dangerous con- dition in nearly its entire length, the foot and leg bein- swelled, and bright red, with mortification from knee to ankle214 MORTIFICATION. from four to six inches in breadth, the integuments in this space being perfectly black. Vivid redness, with some swell- ing, extended along the inner half of the thigh to the groin. The circulation was extremely depressed, but the aspect o- the countenance not altogether unfavorable. He was placed in a warm bed, and a glass of warm brandy and water ad- ministered without delay, the limb being enveloped in a soft poultice. He was able to take beef tea in the evening with repetition of the stimulus, and an opiate was administered at bedtime. Having passed a good night, he had a better pulse the next day. He looked at the limb with perfect coolness, and apparently without alarm. Under the influence of a generous diet, with stimuli and bark, the restorative pro- cesses went on favorably, and he left the hospital quite well in a few weeks. A small black spot on the toe of a free liver, with a bulky frame and red face, would be a more alarming affair than the case of the poor Irishman. It would clearly proclaim an unhealthy state of constitution; it would be an outward and visible sign of inward unsoundness. In forming our prognosis, therefore, we must consider not merely the extent of the local mischief and the importance of the affected part, but also the cause of the mortification, and the state of the constitution. Treatment.—No one plan can be universally applicable in an affection like mortification, which may occur at all ages, in all kinds of constitutions, and in all conditions of health; in a diseased process, of which the causes and progress are very various, being sometimes unattended with risk, at others most dangerous to life, or even inevitably fatal. The general indications are— 1. To prevent its occurrence. 2. To arrest its progress, and combat particular symptoms.TREATMENT. 215 3. To favour the separation of the mortified part, and, in certain cases, to accomplish that separation by a surgical operation. 1. The means of prevention differ, according to the nature of the case. They include proper treatment of inflammations, and judicious management of frostbitten parts. 2. The practice formerly prevailed, and is not altogether obsolete, of attempting to stop the progress of mortification by various warm and stimulating applications considered to have the power of preserving and restoring the heat of the part, or by others supposed to be capable of preventing putrefaction, and therefore called antiseptics; for instance, spirits of wine, turpentine, balsams, camphor, bark, yeast and beer in poultice. These substances prevent or retard putrefaction in dead animal matter, and they have been em- ployed in mortification on this false analogy. The appli- cation of conclusions drawn from the action of certain matters on dead textures, to the employment of these agents on the living frame, are equally false in physiology and logic. Alcohol, oil of turpentine, and camphor, may have some effect in lessening the fetor of the mortified parts; but their stimulating action on the living structures, already too highly excited, would, in most instances, hasten instead of retarding the progress of mortification. For the purpose of correcting fetor the best applications are charcoal and the chlorides of lime and soda. Finely powdered charcoal absorbs the noxious and offensive effluvia of dead and living animal matter as well as carbonic acid gas, and is thus employed with advantage in places where animal decay is going on. A bread poultice, with admixture of powdered charcoal in sufficient quantity to make it quite black, is one of the best applications, not only in many cases21G MOETIFICATION. of mortification, but in all phagedenic and sloughing ulcers. The chloride of lime exposed in flat dishes is in domestic use as a disinfectant, and will sweeten the air of an apart- ment. A solution of this, and also of the chloride of soda, is sold under the name of bleaching and disinfecting liquids, and they appear in the London Pharmacopoeia under the names of liquor calcis chloridi, and liquor sodse chlorinatse, respectively. When properly diluted, they may be sprinkled on external dressings and bed-linen to destroy offensive smells. Although charcoal and the chlorides are perfectly effica- cious in destroying unpleasant effluvia and in preventing the progress of putrefaction in the altered part, they do not, I believe, impede the extension of the process ; that is, they are not to be regarded as antigangrenous in the proper sense of the word. Applications to the part which has perished are obviously unavailing, while incisions for the purpose of allowing reme- dies to reach more deeply, could not be otherwise than in- jurious. If the surrounding structures are still actively inflamed, soothing local means, with appropriate general management, will be most likely to check the progress of the mischief. The internal treatment has too frequently been directed by the same views as the external, and has consisted in the free use of stimuli, of cordials and tonics, more particularly bark, and of full diet. Bark, long supposed to have sovereign powers in gangrene, is now found to have no such in- fluence. In many cases tonics and stimuli with strong diet are obviously inadmissible. Mortification may occur in states of general power not only different from each other but almost opposite in character.TREATMENT. 217 There may be a full pulse, with heat of skin, costiveness, thirst, and a white tongue. The indication here would be obvious, to clear the alimentary canal, restore the secretions, and enjoin a light, simple, and unstimulating diet. On the other hand the pulse may be feeble and failing, the powers of life giving way at all points, and a state of prostration approaching, with the prospect of speedy dissolution. In such a crisis, or rather at an earlier stage, the only chance of safety is in rallying and maintaining the circulation. Our great dependence must be on brandy or on wines of the most cordial quality, with such strong fluid nourishment as the stomach will bear. Bark in its most concentrated form, with other cordials and stimuli may have place in the treat- ment. If the patient's health is in a satisfactory state, the sepa- ration of the dead part will go on very well under an ordinary poultice of bread or linseed. The charcoal poultice has the advantage not only of destroying fetor, but of producing a healthy condition of the new granulating material which accompanies and follows the detachment. If the restorative process should appear inactive, strips of lint moistened with balsam of Peru, or spread with resin ointment, may be placed on the granulating surface under the poultice. Powdered camphor has been recommended for the same purpose. Poultices made with linseed or oatmeal and yeast, or stale beer are sometimes employed. I have often seeu the yeast applications successful where others had failed. Amputation may be necessary or advisable when a portion of a limb has mortified; and two questions occur for conside- ration—1st, what are the circumstances under which an operation should be resorted to? and 2nd, what time should be chosen for its performance ? It has generally been regarded as a universally received218 MORTIFICATION. rule that amputation should not be performed until the boundary between the dead and living parts has been clearly established. This would seem to imply the converse propo- sition, namely, that when the limit has been unequivocally marked out the operation might be safely resorted to. Both these propositions must be abandoned. If the first rule were followed, lives would be sacrificed when an ope - ration might be undertaken with reasonable chance of success; according to the second, operations would be undertaken in many instances when an unfavorable result would be almost certain. In reference to these remarks, which will be further illustrated in speaking of traumatic and of spontaneous gangrene, it will not escape attention that the cause of one is local, of the other constitu- tional. If in a spontaneous gangrene of the lower extremity the disease should have stopped in the leg, and if the soft parts should have firmly cicatrized, the projecting bones may be sawn through in order to remove the nuisance of the decayed parts, taking care not to injure the cicatrix. Mortification from frostbite, rarely seen in this country, is common in the northern parts of Europe, especially in Russia, and in other equally cold regions. Cold has the same effect locally and generally, enfeebling and at last arresting circulation j the effect is seen in the ex- tremities of the body, for instance, in the hand; fingers become livid, white, cold, and benumbed. The parts are then frozen. By gradually thawing them, circulation is restored. The only danger is in precipitation, in the too free use of warmth and stimuli. The frozen parts are to be rubbed with snow or iced water. By exposure in a very low temperature, the nose, cheeks, and ears are frozen, the persons not being aware of the change until warned byFROSTBITE—TRAUMATIC GANGRENE. 219 a friend who notices the deathy -whiteness of the affected skin. Treatment.—If inflammation should have been produced, with swelling, redness, heat, and great pain, the usual antiphlogistic measures may be employed according to the violence and extent of the local symptoms. Let it be ob- served, however, that during the siege of Sebastopol frost bites were extremely common among the men at work in the trenches. The surgeons there found that in all instances positive evil ensued by surgical interference of any kind. The mortified parts were allowed to separate. Traumatic gangrene.—All mortifications excited by direct violence come under this term; the slighter cases are unim- portant. But when mortification follows from local injury of the more serious kind, attacking at once an entire division of a limb, and rapidly spreading to the trunk, the affection is of the greatest consequence, and may decide the patient's fate in a few hours. It comes on in consequence of injuries attended with violent and extensive bruising and laceration, with injury of vessels and ecchymosis, especially when complicated with fracture or dislocation; in bad gunshot injuries, and compound dislocations. Severe pain occurs in three or more days after the accident; the limb swells, loses its natural colour and temperature, and becomes cold. It is variously dis- coloured, greenish, livid, blackish. The cuticle is loosened or raised by effusions of turbid reddish fluid. The cellular texture is loaded with a yellow or bloody serum. The mor- tification rapidly reaches the trunk. Larrey, who had seen it principally in consequence of gunshot injuries, has known this to happen in six hours. The only question in such a case is whether immediate amputation offers any chance of saving life : if we wajt uutil220 MORTIFICATION. the mortification stops, and the line of demarcation between the dead and living parts occurs, the patient surely dies; for this mortification does not become limited. In deciding on this point, we have to consider, not only the state of the part, but also that of the constitution. In an un- healthy habit a slight injury may cause traumatic gangrene, which is owing in such a case to the badness of constitution rather than to the local mischief. Such a constitution would form one of the most cogent reasons against the operation. On one occasion I saw a stout man of large frame, em- ployed as a drayman in the brewery of Messrs. Whitbread. A few days previously he had grazed the shin, and regarding the hurt as of no consequence he had continued at work, when violent inflammation came on, and in about three days mortification had nearly reached the trunk. In an individual in whom so serious an effect could be produced from so slight a cause, amputation would be out of the question. I was once sent for to see a gentleman without being aware of the nature of the case that I should have to witness, and on entering the room I was much surprised with the look of the patient. He began to speak, but he appeared as though he could hardly articulate. I put my finger on his pulse, and found it sinking. The hand was cold, and I then found he had an affection of the other arm, which I was desired to look at, and when it was opened, to my great astonishment, I found the forearm mortified. It was cold, livid, and discoloured, and the process of mortification was extending up the arm. On inquiring what had occurred in this case, I found that the patient was not aware of any other cause except that a person passing him in the stm t had accidentally struck him upon the elbow a few daysTRAUMATIC GANGRENE. . 221 before. The part became uneasy; it swelled, and he seat for a medical man, who despatched his assistant, and he ap- plied some leeches. But the medical practitioner, by whose desire I was requested to see the patient, had not seen him until a few hours previously. It is obvious that, under such circumstances, amputation was out of the question. In the feeble state to which this person was reduced, the mere operation would have been sufficient to extinguish life, and in fact the patient died within twenty-four hours of my visit. Many years ago an Irishman was brought to this hospital, who had fallen from a scaffold three stories high. He did not fall direct to the ground, but from the third story to the second, from the second to the first, and from thence to the ground; however, he received a severe injury of the wrist. I was at the time an assistant-surgeon to the hospital, and, being in the ward accidentally about midday, was requested to see this patient; it was about three or four days after his admission. On the preceding night, at bed-time, the dresser under whose care he was had left him well; for he had seen him late, and he ascertained that he was then well. In the morning the patient told the nurse that he had been in a dreadful state of pain all night; she came to the dresser, and at his request I went to see him. I found the fore-arm, from the wrist up to the elbow, enveloped by a bandage, which might not have been, when applied, tighter than was proper; but in consequence of the limb swelling, it had become too tight. The hand was quite dead. The fore-arm was livid and cold up to the elbow; the upper arm in its lower part was not, perhaps, actually dead, but in a state of impending mortification. The discoloration of the skin reached as high as the shoulder, and this state of the Hmb had come on in twelve, or at the utmost fifteen hours. Now222 . MORTIFICATION. this was a stout young Irishman, of excellent constitution, and therefore a fit subject for an attempt to save life by an operation; and although the integument was not in a per- fectly satisfactory state where it was necessary to amputate, I thought I would give him a chance. I removed the arm at the shoulder joint, the cellular membrane being discoloured and infiltrated with a yellow fluid in the part where the incision was made. The case succeeded perfectly, and the patient reovered. I have seen other instances in which amputation has been successfully performed in traumatic gangrene before morti- fication had stopped, and consequently before the line of demarcation had taken place between -the dead and the living parts. Several such cases are recorded by Larrey, in his "Memoirs of Military Surgery;" and of late years there has been an accession of evidence on the same point; so that I have no hesitation in saying that in patients of healthy constitution, where gangrene arises from external causes simply, you must disregard the rule of waiting for the line of demarcation. Senile Gangrene. — Such is the name under which an affection of common occurrence is now universally known, although our great surgeon, Pott, to whom we are indebted for the first distinct account of the subject, which, although short, is so clear, rational, and judicious, that it has not yet been surpassed, so far from having employed the epithet senile, observes simply, "It frequently happens to persons advanced in life, but is by no means peculiar to old age." It is a form of dry or chronic mortification, and is frequently spoken of as spontaneous, a character which belongs to it in the great majority of instances. Mr. James, of Exeter, a pupil of St. Bartholomew's, speaks of it under the appro- priate designation of chronic sphacelus, in his valuable andSENILE GANGRENE. 223 interesting observations " On the Causes of Mortality after Amputation of the Limbs/' in the ' Transactions of the Pro- vincial Association/ vol. xvii. It is a mortification speedily following an inflammatory disturbance, of so slight a nature that it not unfrequently escapes notice altogether, the discoloration of the part being the first circumstance that attracts the patient's notice. A dark spot is seen at the end, or on the inside of one of the toes, generally the smaller ones. Sometimes it begins on the great toe, occupying the plantar surface of the last phalanx. It may begin on the foot; I have seen it on the heel, and once in the middle of the sole. The cuticle is loosened, and raised into a vesication, 'becoming whiter and opaque, with a sodden appearance when thick, as on the plantar surface of the toes or foot. A puncture lets out a bloody fluid, and the skin is seen deep red, or more frequently livid, brownish or black, in short mortified. It soon becomes dry, hard, and shrivelled. Sometimes it begins and proceeds with little or no pain. I have seen a large vesicle occupying the entire plantar surface of the last phalanx of the great toe, and in another instance one of similar magnitude on the heel, when the patients were hardly aware that anything was the matter, and yielded unwillingly to the necessity of confine- ment in bed. In other cases uneasiness more or less con- siderable is felt in the whole foot, particularly in the night, and even before any visible change, or with merely a small discoloured spot. The affection generally proceeds slowly, and sometimes very much so, destroying a toe and stopping, then sub- sequently attacking other toes after an interval. Some- times it goes faster from toe to toe, then to the foot, and even to the leg. There is previous swelling, with redness, lividity, and great pain, then loosening of the cuticle, and rnorti-224 MORTIFICATION. fication. Sometimes the mischief extends along the sheaths of the flexor tendons into the sole with great suffering. The constitution, at first unaffected, sympathises seriously, and the patient sinks under the extension of the mischief. This affection does not always terminate fatally. The slough of the toe or heel may separate slowly, leaving a healthy granulating and cicatrizing surface, leading to a sound cure. Thus a gentleman nearer to eighty than seventy experienced without any suffering mortification of the entire plantar surface of the last phalanx of the great toe. It healed well under confinement to bed, and there was no return of mortification during the two or three remaining years of life. Another gentleman of sixty-one, who had lived well, and was rather corpulent, with a reddish face, had a slough form at the side of the heel, twice as large as a shilling, without pain or any assignable cause. By confinement to bed for two months, to which he submitted at first very unwillingly, mild diet, and poultice, the slough separated slowly, followed by healthy and sound repair. I saw him at the end of six months in perfect health, when he felt himself better than he had been for many years. The cicatrix of the heel was covered by a hard dark crust, the foot being then as well as ever. I saw him again in good health at the end of four years from the original attack. I attended a gentleman under sixty, of robust frame, and strong health, with an attack of pain and swelling in the upper part of the back, between the scapula and spine, which soon proceeded to suppuration not of violent character. It healed kindly after the discharge by a free puncture of several ounces of healthy pus. Not long after mortification occurred in a toe of one foot, extending gradually but very slowly to the other toes and subsequently along the foot to the ankle, where it stopped. The dead parts separated by the naturalSENILE GANGRENE. 225 process leaving the astragalus in its place, and at the end of many months the whole had cicatrised, and the health, which had not failed much, was quite restored. The pain, which had been slight in the beginning, gradually became so severe as to require the free use of opium. The patient was now able to take long drives in an open carriage, which he enjoyed greatly, much care being taken of both limbs, especially in re- gard to position and covering. In less than a year disease of the same character, but more rapid course, in the other leg, carried the patient off in a comparatively short time. This patient had been in the habit, for a long course of years, of indulging him- self in eating and drinking to an enormous amount, not, how- ever, to an immediately injurious extent in the latter re- spect. To my great surprise, I found that he had borne this large quantity of ingesta well, so as to have enjoyed good health, till the mortification came on, although he had not taken any great exercise, and had spent much time in con- fined apartments and bad air. An example of more active disease, proceeding rapidly, yet apparently referable to the same head, was afforded by a lady, about fifty, the widow of an ale-brewer, who had lived freely, and generally had a white tongue. She began to suffer pain in the middle toe of one foot, and paid no attention to it till it had lasted some weeks. When I saw her, the entire toe was swelled, red, and- excessively painful. A ragged sloughy hole was observed on one side, yielding an offensive discharge and leading to the bare bone. There was a foul tongue, with great pain, flushed countenance, and expression of illness and anxiety. The inflamed toe perished, and then the others, death occurring in about a month from my first seeing her. This affection is much more frequent in men than in women. "For one female," says Mr. Pott, "in whom I have met 15226 MORTIFICATION. with it, I may say that I have seen it in at least twenty males." Causes.—The disease is most common in those who have heen free livers. To this effect, Mr. Pott observes, " I have much more often found it in the rich and voluptuous, than in the labouring poor, and more often in great eaters than in free drinkers." It happens, however, not infrequently in old and healthy persons, who have led a regular and temperate life, depending on the diseased condition of the arterial coats which has been already mentioned. Mr. Pott's excellent practical tract shows that inquiries into morbid changes after death had not begun in his time. In speaking of causes, he says, "It has by some been supposed to arise from ossification of vessels; but for this opinion I could never find any foundation but mere conjecture." The view of this subject taken by Baron Dupuytren has already been alluded to on a previous occasion. Regarding the affection as proceeding from inflammation of the arteries, he calls it " gangrene symp- tomatique," observing that it may occur where the arteries are not ossified, and not follow where they have undergone this change. He describes the arterial disease as being preceded and accompanied by severe pain in the limb, and indicated by local changes, such as diminished pulsation, diminution in size of the vessels, and hardness of the tubes, which point out the seat and nature of the affection. He describes the changes produced in the vessels as ascertained by dissection, particularly their obstruction by lymphatic concretions to a considerable distance from the mortified part. The writings of Mr. Pott, and the rational mode of treating senile gangrene followed in England in conformity with his valuable experience and instructions, seem to have been unknown to Dupuytren, or ignored by him, although fifty years had elapsed from the death of our great surgeon. Thus, he con-SENILE GANGRENE. 227 fesses that lie had pursued the old routine, both of external and internal remedies, for fifteen years, the cases whether of arteritis or ossification constantly getting worse under their influence. At length, light broke in upon him from a patient m the Hotel Dieu, a female between sixty and seventy, with senile gangrene affecting the toes of the left foot, pre- ceded by long and severe pains, which had prevented rest for several months. The ends of the toes were mortified and dry, the neighbouring part of the foot swelled and livid. During several weeks, bark and opiates were used both internally and externally, without effect. The mortification spread along the toes, and the sole and back of the foot. M. Dupuytren having found the pulse full and strong, and the face red, ordered venesection. The pain ceased, sleep was restored, and the mortification stopped. At the end of a fortnight the bleeding was repeated, and it was had recourse to whenever the symptoms returned. The patient recovered. Since that time, says M. Dupuytren, we have employed repeated bleedings with the effect of relieving and curing two thirds or even three fourths of our patients (<Le9ons orales/ vol. iv— ' Dictionnaire de Medecine/ p. 10. Although I have seen a few instances in which great pain of the foot with constitutional disturbance has been effectually relieved by venesection, I regard such cases as exceptional, and cannot consider repeated bleedings to be a proper general mode of treating senile gangrene. Mr. Pott's plan of em- ploying opium answers admirably when the pain is severe, as the remedy thus administered gives ease and rest without dis- turbing the head or stomach, or causing costiveness. When there is no pain, opium is unnecessary. The diet should be nutritious and light, without stimuli, the latter being allowed occasionally. To urge on the patient full animal diet, with free use of stimuli, is a relic of the ancient injudicious routine228 MOKTIFICATION. It is advantageous to cover the whole limb from the toes to the knee, kept in a horizontal position in bed, with carded wool, which maintains an uniformity of temperature, and is thus especially serviceable if the circulation should be feeble. A dry and shrivelled toe, or piece of skin, may be wrapped in a bit of rag thinly spread with fresh lard or simple cerate, which need not be changed so long as there is no discharge. When separation commences, a soft linseed poultice may be applied, and removed when necessary by opening the lower part of the wool without uncovering the rest of the limb. The question of amputation will come under consideration in some cases of senile gangrene. The opinion of experienced surgeons has been so adverse to the operation as almost to have established a positive rule against its performance, grounded on the belief that from the unhealthy state of con- stitution to which the origin and extension of the mischief must be referred, destructive action may be expected in the wound instead of healthy repair. The cases of this disease may be arranged in two divisions; the one including those where the fault is altogether in the constitution,the otherwhere the constitution and health are sound, the disease depending on the state of the arteries. Mr. James, of Exeter, in the paper already quoted, has ably argued the question in favour of operating in instances of the latter kind, and has adduced the conclusive evidence of six cases in which amputation had been performed with perfect and permanent success, either in the thigh or leg, for senile gangrene in old and otherwise healthy persons. An herpetic mortification is sometimes seen in the legs of elderly and generally enfeebled persons. It begins with vivid redness of the skin, quickly passing into superficial mortifica- tion, the whole process being generally very painful. It may extend along one edge, separating and healing at. the other.SENILE GANGRENE.- 229 The slough may separate entirely, the exposed surface granulating and cicatrizing rapidly. We suppose a cure is at hand, but the mischief reappears and spreads. It came on from an accidental injury to the shin in a gentleman of seventy of indolent and studious habits, fond of indulgence m diet, and rather corpulent. It extended considerably, healing in the parts first affected, but got well by rest in the horizontal posture with regulated diet. In a female of seventy-two, the affection, seated in the leg, began with bright redness of the skin and then slough, the latter separated and the parts healed; she seemed well, but sloughing recurred, at last going deeper and proving fatal at the end of several weeks. The pain was most severe in this case, requiring large doses of opium and the liquor sedativus. The latter was useful as a local application, proving sedative in that form. Quinine and port wine were the most advantageous remedies, purgatives being required and used with much ad- vantage, when the narcotics were freely administered. I saw a gouty gentleman of sixty-five who had been a free liver, and accustomed tojstrong exercise, which he had latterly given up, at the same time living low. He was thin, sallow, and feeble; the feet and legs rather cedematous and red ; on one leg, a little above the ankle, there was a portion of dead skin about an inch long and half as broad, dark and livid rather than black, without surrounding redness; on the other leg, below the ankle there was a watery vesicle the size of a bean. The feet and legs had been hot and painful at night, but not in the day. The treatment included the horizontal position, bread poultice, good diet, with four or six glasses of wine and mild aperients. The pain at night was immediately relieved. The skin under the vesicle sloughed and separated the larger mortified portion in the other leg came away slowly, and the patient returned to the country in three weeks230 • CANCRUM ORTS. perfectly well. If the disease had not been attended to early in this case, it might probably have assumed the herpetic form. Under the names of cancrum oris, nomas or nome from the Greek v£juw, depasco, and water canker, a foul phaganteric ulceration, with foetid discharge, is described, attacking the mucous membrane of the lip or cheek in children, spreading through the intermediate textures, and causing a black slough of the skin. The latter is first swelled and hard, then becomes red, and soon turns black. It attacks children of the lower class, especially those of weak constitution,in whom the powers of the system have been lowered by bad food and clothing, but it is not entirely confined to such subjects. If the disease of the mucous membrane does not exceed the size of a sixpence, the slough of the skin being about equal to a half- crown, the progress of the mischief may be stopped by an effectual application of the strong nitric acid both internally and externally, under the influence of chloroform, by bark and wine, with strong beef-tea, and perhaps an opiate at night. When the mischief is more extensive, there is little chance of saving the patient. If the affection, though more extensive, has not penetrated beyond the mucous membrane, ulceration of similar character in the gums round the necks of the teeth being combined with it, a strong solution of lunar caustic to all the morbid surface may suffice m lieu of the acid. Chlorate of potash may be combined with the bark, or substituted for it, and the same diet is required as in the preceding case.CHAPTER XL WOUNDS. These are seen under great variety, in the nature and ex- tent of the injury, the concomitant circumstances, the mode of treatment, and the result. They may be conveniently con- sidered under the following heads; namely, incised, lacerated, contused, punctured, and poisoned wounds, the latter gene- rally very slight in themselves, being complicated by the intro- duction of irritating or poisonous matter at the breach of surface. 1. Incised wounds or cuts, being simple divisions of the soft textures of the body by cutting instruments, include the great majority of surgical operations, which, generally speak- ing, require only the same local management as incised wounds produced in other ways. Mankind seem to have arrived at all times, by a natural instinct, at the right mode of treating cuts, which is practised throughout society as a familiar piece of domestic surgery. The edges of the cut are brought together by some adhesive plaster, or by a rag wrapped round the part, which is kept quiet, and the injury is remedied without pain or discharge. If an ignorant person who had taken this course should be informed that he had healed the wound by the first intention, he would probably be surprised at the discovery that he had performed so scien-232 INCISED WOUNDS. tific a process. As the edges of wounds, when thus approxi- mated, quickly stick together, we call the process union by adhesion, which is exactly equivalent to Galen's expression, " per primam intentionem," or the French phrase of " re- union immediate." This simple method of treating wounds, according to the dictates of common sense, appears to great advantage in comparison with the precepts and practice of the learned, who have' laid down the rules of art on the subject, prescribing a cumbrous and complicated mode of dressing, including variety of ointments, pledgets, masses of lint or charpie, compresses and bandages. This course, which has been obsolete in England for the last three quarters of a century, still flourishes in all its complexity throughout a great part of the Continent. The explanation of the process by which wounds are thus healed, is that the surface of the wound soon becomes covered by a closely adhering substance, which in appear- ance and other properties exactly resembles the fibrine of the blood. This fibrine, of which Dr. John Thomson* found, in experiments on animals, a distinct layer covering the wounds he bad made within less than four hours after they had been inflicted, agglutinates the sides of the wound, making them adhere so effectually that at the end of ten or twelve hours they cannot be separated without force. This medium of union is soon penetrated with blood-vessels, and thus becomes organized. The shortest time within .which this organization can be accomplished has not been ascer- tained, but simple wounds are often found firmly healed at the end of two or three days. The medium of union must be poured out by the capillaries of the part; it cannot be an effusion from divided vessels, as it is effected most advan- tageously when the wound is perfectly dry before being closed. * ' Lectures on Inflammation,3 p. 209.233 UNION BY ADHESION. The union is not effected by blood, Mr. Hunter's notion on this subject being now considered erroneous. The presence of coagula, although it may stick the sides together for a time, prevents adhesion. In reference to this object, blood is a foreign body, and ought to be carefully removed before the sides of a wound are approximated. This effusion of fibrine is seen under the five following circumstances, and, so far as the nature of the substance is concerned, the process is essentially similar in all. 1. Union by adhesion, or the first intention. 2. As the commencement of healing by the second intention, or granulation. 3. In inflammatory swell- ing of a part. 4. In the walls of an abscess. 5. In inflam- mation of serous membranes. That state of a part in which fibrine is thus effused was called, by Mr. Hunter,adhesive inflammation. Objections, not altogether unfounded, have been made to this generalization, which, although in itself interesting, unites the healthy pro- cess of adhesion, by means of a common name, with the morbid state of inflammation. Under favorable circum- stances, the sides of a wound are agglutinated without any observable vascular disturbance; without swelling, redness, heat or pain, that is, without any of the usual characteristics of inflammation. The supervention of inflammation prevents adhesion. Effusion of fibrine is not the result of any peculiar kind, but rather of a certain degree of inflammation. Dif- ferences of texture, however, produce difference in this respect • thus, effusion of fibrine, which occurs most easily in serous, is difficultly excited in mucous membranes. All the softer textures of the body are susceptible of union by the effusion of fibrine, as we see constantly in skin, cellular membrane, muscle, tendon, nerves, coats of intestine. Broken bones grow together more slowly on account of their hardness, but the process is not essentially different.234 INCISED WOUNDS. The uniting medium, which first agglutinates, assumes the nature of the structure in which it is deposited, and the part is restored to its former state and functions, as is seen in skin, muscle, tendon. The power of a nerve, lost by its divi- sion, returns when the continuity of the cord is restored. This union by adhesion is observed, not only in simple divi- sion, but where parts have been nearly detached, as in flaps of scalp, an ear or finger almost separated. In all such cases union may be accomplished, if very slight connection only remains 5 there is even some evidence that portions of skin entirely separated have become adherent. The power of union by adhesion is illustrated by the surgical proceed- ings for the restoration of lost or mutilated parts, and by animal engraftings. The practice of making what have been called artificial noses, but in reality that of transplanting a portion of in- tegument from the arm to the face, was carried on at Tropea, in Calabria Oltra, in the 15th century, by a family named Boiani. Two Sicilian surgeons, father and son, named Branca, were celebrated in the art at the end of the 15th century. Tagliacozzi, professor at Bologna, who had learned the process from the Calabrian operators, practised it, and has described it at great length, in his elaborate folio of 300 pages, fDe Curtorum Insitione per Chirurgiam,' with numerous plates, 1597. The noses made by Tagliacozzi were seen by many of his contemporaries, who have attested the facts. He also made ears and lips. A statue was erected to him at Bologna, in which he is represented holding a nose in the hand. He pared away the callous edge of the cicatrix, raised a flap of skin of proper size and form, from the arm or forearm, leaving it connected at the part intended to form the top of the nose, bound the arm to the head, then fastenedUNION BY ADHESION. 235 the partially detached flap to the pared edge of the old nose by sutures, and completing the separation when the circu- ^ lation had become established. That he succeeded in this way, in making a portion of skin from the forearm adhere to that of the face, and thus in covering over the chasm left by the loss of the external nose, we can easily admit; but a stronger degree of faith is necessary in order to believe some other of his statements, viz., that the new noses smell more acutely than the original, and grow larger and stronger, also that hair grows on them so abundantly, that they require shaving. The Asiatic method of restoring the nose by means of a portion of skin from the forehead, is described in the 'Gentleman's Magazine/ for 1794 (October). Duhamel, in the ' Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences/ 1746, mentions that it was a common practice in the poultry yards of France to engraft the spurs of young cocks on their combs. He did this, and in many instances they became adherent, and grew, even to the length of some (4) inches. This fact was verified by Mr. Hunter, and the result of his experiments may be seen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. It is reported that new noses have sometimes been made in India with a portion of skin cut from the buttock, but we have no clear and authentic statement on the subject. Professor Biinger, of Marburg, employed a similar operation on a female, in whom the prominent part of the nose had been lost, and the neighbouring skin was in an unhealthy state from herpes. He took the skin from the upper and outer part of the thigh, employing this operation because a larger piece of skin was required than he could procure from the forehead. He cut a piece four inches long and tliree wide. An hour and a half elapsed before he could close the sutures. Union took place, and the skin retained its vitality, except230 INCISED WOUNDS. at the lower edge, where a portion perished. (' Grafe u. Walther's Journal/ B. iv.) A portion of the cranium of a dog was removed with the trephine hy Merrem and replaced, the integuments then closed. The bone united. He did the same in a cat. Professor Walther repeated the experiment in a dog, which was killed a year after. The piece was firmly united; the cranium is in the Museum at Bonn, and is figured in Wiesmann, ' Com- mutatio Physiologica de coalitu partium/ &c. &c, Lipsiae, 1824, which contains a complete collection of facts relating to this subject. The following remarks on the treatment of wounds are equally applicable to those made in surgical operations. The objects are to promote adhesion, and to keep off in- flammation. The edges of the wound must be brought together and kept in contact. The means of doing this are, 1. Adhesive plasters; 2. Sutures; 3. Bandage; 4. Attention to position. Formerly sutures were almost universally employed; in the present century they have been superseded to a con- siderable extent by adhesive plasters, strips of which should be used just sufficient in number and length to bring the sides of the wound together, and to keep them in apposition. It is not necessary to cover the entire surface of the wound. Recollect that these plasters are in themselves irritating, and would probably excite some inflammation and uneasiness if put on an uninjured part. Remember that the occurrence of inflammatory swelling in some degree is probable, when the plasters become tightened, and thus aggravate the mischief. It is of no use to drag the sides forcibly together, when there has been loss of substance; either the plasters give way, or remaining firm, cause inflammation and pain. The part should be left open or covered as lightly as possible. AUNION BY ADHESION. 237 linen rag twice folded, dipped in water, and squeezed, may be applied if the coolness is agreeable. If no inflam- mation occurs, the plasters may be left for three, four, or more days, and then renewed, if it should seem advisable; generally a simple damp cloth is sufficient. If the plasters are rendered stiff and uneasy by blood which has become dried, they should be removed earlier : this may be done at the end of twenty hours if necessary. If the edges are red and painful, and union has been only partial, that is, if inflammation has occurred, damp cloths, or a thin and soft bread poultice will be preferable. Sutures are employed either alone, or in conjunction with adhesive plasters in the form called interrupted, which consists of separate stitches. They are necessary where the integuments "are loose and folded, as in the scrotum or neck, or where moisture might detach plasters, as about the mouth. The sutures should be made with sharp needles and small ligatures; for instance, a single stout silk thread, such as would be used in tying arteries. The number of stitches should be such as wiU bring the edges of the wound together, and maintain them in apposition. The two methods may be used in different parts of the same wound. The sutures may be cut out, if there is no reason for retaining them, in twelve, twenty-four, or more hours; that is, when they have kept the parts together sufficiently long for the purpose of union, and before their presence can have excited inflammation. If the sutures should be put on the stretch by inflammatory sweUing of the parts, they should be removed at once. Recently slender metallic wires, of silver or iron, have been employed for surgical suture's in pre ference to threads of silk or other material. They answer the purpose perfectly well, and do not cause the slightest irntation m the textures through which they pass • in this238 INCISED WOUNDS. respect there is no great difference between the metallic sutures and small, firm, silk threads. We are indebted to Dr. Marion Sims, of New York, for the introduction of the silver suture, which he has found peculiarly advantageous in cases of vesico-vaginal fistula and other operations in that quarter. He advocates very strongly its general employment in surgery. Sutures perhaps have been too freely employed heretofore; they have since been too much decried. The objections to them, as formerly used, are rather applicable to the mode than to the principle. The older surgeons used large needles, and large threads; they were carried deeply, with the intent of uniting the wound throughout its whole depth, and then left in indefinitely, causing inflammation and sup- puration, and often cutting their way out from the swelling of the parts. When properly employed, that is, when small needles and threads are used, and not carried deeper than the skin and adipose layer, and cut out as soon as their purpose is answered, they are sometimes necessary, often advantageous, and never hurtful. They should be used in wounds of the eyelids, eyebrows, and face generaUy, where accurate adjust- ment is necessary to prevent or lessen deformity. Small needles and silk should be used, and the threads may be cut away in twelve or twenty-four hours. I have seen unpleasant results from neglect of these simple precautions. In one case, a transverse wound through the whole thickness of the upper eyelid was allowed to cicatrize, so as to leave an opening in the lid like a button-holej in another, there was a fissure like that of bare-lip ; while in a third instance a flap of skin, in- cluding half an inch of a thick black eyebrow in its middle, torn down by an accident, was allowed to heal below the level of the rest of the brow. If the preference between sutures and plasters for theUNION BY ADHESION. 239 treatment of incised wounds were made a general question, my answer would be in favour of tlie former. The object is to unite the edges, and maintain them in contact by means incapable of fretting the wound itself, or of irritating the surrounding parts. Plasters, particularly the common adhesive, which are irritating, press closely on the very edges of the wound, and cover the surrounding integuments to a greater or less extent. When removed at the end of two, three, or more days, the edges of the wound are found red- dened and discharging, and the neighbouring skin is heated and itching. When a wound has been united partly by sutures and partly by plasters, the former portion will soon be completely healed without any redness or discharge, while the latter is superficially inflamed and suppurating. While the silver wire, or small firm silk, holds the edges well together without irritation, the wound itself and the neighbouring parts are left open, or covered by a damp cloth to prevent heat or swelling. I have spoken of interrupted sutures, which may not unite the wound with sufficient firmness on all occasions. Being once on a visit in the country, I was called to see a boy who had been attacked in the yard of a neighbouring inn, and seriously wounded, by a boar. There was a large rent in the abdominal parietes, through which a portion of the stomach and omentum, with some intestines, had protruded. These parts were returned without difficulty, but the belly was then obviously over full, particularly as the stomach was partially filled with a meal recently taken. As the occurrence of vomiting sooner or later was most probable, and that of peritonitis almost inevitable, it seemed likely that compress and bandage would do more harm than good, and that they could not be borne. I therefore united the wound firmly by the uninterrupted suture. This mode of dealing with the240 INCISED WdUNDS. wound answered its purpose completely. After being ra danger for a few days the patient recovered; there was a firm cicatrix, without any protrusion either at the time or subsequently. In transverse wounds of the limbs, or in those of the neck or trunk near a limb, the closure of the sides will require attention to position J while position alone will accomplish our purpose in cases of cut-throat, the head and neck being bent forwards and supported in that attitude by a suitable arrangement of pillows. An uniting bandage may be employed if necessary. A few turns of a double-headed roller are carried round tbe head, and the two portions of the roller are then brought from behind forwards on the sides of the neck, and fixed in front to a circular bandage on the chest. A bandage may be used as a temporary measure, until the more proper means can be procured. In general the less covering over a wound, in addition to the direct means of union already described, the better. Rest of the part, and of the body generally, is necessary in important wounds, whether accidental or surgical. After serious wounds, light and unstimulating diet is most proper, and usually most agreeable to the patient. If chloroform has been employed, it generally leaves behind an indispo- sition, under which there is no desire for food. Tea, barley- water, toast-water, or similar fluids, will be most agreeable. Beef tea or broth may be taken, as soon as there is return of appetite; and if the pulse should be feeble, with uncom- fortable feelings, wine and water, or some other moderate stimulus, may be allowed. Hcemorrhage-U there is bleeding from a wound, we must not close it until the flow of blood has ceased, and coagula should be previously removed with a soft sponge, as they would interfere with adhesion if left in the wound. Vessels thatHAEMORRHAGE. 241 bleed freely should be secured by ligature. Exposure to air and cold sponging soon stop the smaller arteries. Secondary haemorrhage sometimes occurs in a longer or shorter time after a wound has been closed. Faintness from loss of blood, and exposure to the air have arrested it at the time. The circulation recovers when the patient has been some time in bed, and then bleeding may come on, more par- ticularly if the part be covered with dressings and heated by the quantity of bed-clothes. The blood oozing slowly, partly coagulates in the wound; and it may gradually form large clots, distending the parts with great irritation and pain, and making the haemorrhage more active. This secondary bleeding is so alarming and painful to the patient, and so troublesome to the surgeon, that the means of prevention ought to be carefully studied. It would be advisable not to perform an operation, even of minor importance, at once, on a patient engaged up to the time in active exertion and free living. Stimuli should be withdrawn for two or three days, the diet at the same time being light. Costive- ness should be guarded against. If the circulation is tran- quil, with soft and quiet pulse, the tongue being clean, even a serious operation may be undergone with safety! Do not stop to tie vessels during the operation, unless the haemorrhage should be inconvenient by obscuring and con- cealing the parts which are to be divided. After securing the principal vessels, if bleeding should stiU continue from many points, let the patient be put to bed, and leave the wound open for two, three, or more hours. It is sometimes advan- tageous to dress the wound after the patient is in bed, and even if the surface is slightly glazed. Then dress lightly without compresses, bandages, or any unnecessary covering Let the bed-clothes be light, and the apartment cool. If 16242 LACERATED AND 'CONTUSED WOUNDS. secondary bleeding should come on in spite of these pre- cautions, which is quite improbable, open the wound, clear out coagula, tie any bleeding vessel. Most probably, how- ever, clearance and exposure will have stopped the bleeding. The wound should then be left moderately open, with light covering. When the sides of an incised wound have not been brought to-etherin the first instance, when such a wound has been attended with loss of substance, so that union could not be effected, or, when the attempt to procure adhesion has failed, then the healing must be accomplished by granulation and cicatrization, that is by the so-called second intention. The successive changes which the wound then undergoes are, cleansing of the surface with flow of serum, discharge of Pus, granulation, cicatrization. The process is correctly described by the older writers under the quaint terms of mundification, digestion, incarnation and cicatrization. Rest, with mild applications, is necessary during the inflammation which accompanies these changes; the subsequent treat- ment is the same as that of granulating ulcers. Lacerated and contused «,oi«Mfo.—Lacerated wounds being effected by tearing instead of cutting, are attended with greater injury to the parts. They are, however, frequently healed by adhesion, and should be treated on that view in the same way as incised wounds. Even the degree of violence in- volved in a wound of the scalp inflicted by a stick or a poker, does not always prevent union by the first intention. When great bruising accompanies laceration, as in wound of a limb by a wheel passing over it, or in great wounds by machinery, the damage to the surfaces precludes all hope ot recovery by adhesion. The inflammation following injuries is in proportion to the degree of violence with which they have been inflicted, andLACEKATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 213 to their extent; hence, in contused and lacerated wounds of the most serious description, we expect high inflammation, generally with more or less extensive sloughing of the wounded surface, and corresponding constitutional disturbance. Re- pair must be gradually effected in such cases by granulation. The injured part placed in an easy position, with the sides of the wound gently supported and approximated, may be covered with wet cloths or a soft poultice. Oiled lint some- times answers well as a covering, and does not require frequent change. I had under my care, in St. Bartholomew's, a remarkable instance of lacerated and contused wound, in which the parts had been subjected to extreme violence. A stout coal-heaver twenty-eight years of age, being drunk when drivinghis waggon, fell just before the wheel, which caught in the bend of the knee, carrying the limb before it close on the ground, but not going over it. All the soft structures were divided down to the bone, immediately above the knee, the wound measuring five inches transversely and three inches in depth. It was com- pletely blackened throughout by the mud along which it had been violently carried, which was forced into the severed structures for some distance. Although no injury of the joint was discoverable at the time, the singular nature of the injury and its close proximity to the knee excited some apprehension. After removing small bits of gravel and cleansing as far as was practicable, the wound was covered with a cold poultice, and the knee supported by side splints. A free venesection was necessary on the same evening, and a repetition of the measure in smaller quantity was required on the following clay. Milk diet. The local inflammation did not exceed the amount necessary for the repair of such an injury, and there was no fever. He left the hospital with the wound soundly cicatrised, and in excellent health, in two months.244 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Gunshot wounds have been formerly supposed to be peculiar in their nature, and altogether different from other descriptions of injury. The violence, the damage, and the danger, are far greater, and the symptoms more alarming. Hence, at first, they were thought to be poisoned, and treated on that notion by supposed antidotes, such as turpentine, hot oils, balsams, &c. The great wars of modern times have afforded abun- dant opportunities of cultivating this department of surgery, which is therefore now well understood. The only pecu- liarities of these wounds are in the nature of the bodies by which they are inflicted, and in the degree of violence with which such bodies come in contact with the human frame. The injuries are inflicted by bullets, balls, fragments of shells, splinters of wood and stone; and these act with the greatest force. Hence laceration and contusion are carried to the highest degree with inevitable disorganization of the affected structures. The degree of violence is various : 1. Direct blow by the projectile in full force; the part is traversed, or a limb is carried away. 2. Direct blow with diminished force ; causing laceration, contusion, with fracture, the latter being generally splintered. 3. Oblique blow, consequent contusion and laceration of muscles, ecchymosis, fracture without breach of skin. This description of injury is popularly ascribed to the wind of the ball. Symptoms.—-The infliction of the wound may not be per- ceived when all the powers of the mind and body are strained to the utmost in a death-struggle, amid the heat, confusion, and stunning sounds of a battle. In other cases, it is attended with severe pain, and causes agitation, tremors, and alarm. Some- times there is great depression of the nervous system, and con- sequently of the circulation and other vital processes. ThereGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 215 is small and feeble pulse, with coldness and paleness of the surface, shivering, and even syncope. There may be deadly paleness with general tremor, instant vomiting, and profuse perspiration. These, not inaptly called nervous symptoms, generally go off in two or three hours, especially if a slight stimulus is taken, or under the influence of kind encourage- ment and sympathy. If, however, this constitutional distur- bance or shock should continue, it will lead to an unfavorable apprehension respecting the seat or extent of injury. Although gunshot wounds often bleed less at first than might be expected, there is generally more or less bleeding ; while serious, and even fatal haemorrhage, may ensue from wounds of large arteries, more especially when the vessels are partially divided. When a limb is carried away, the bleeding although profuse at the moment, ceases from the mode in which the coats of the vessel give way successively. The external elastic coat having been violently stretched before it gives wav, contracts and retracts so as to close the end of the vessel more or less completely for the time. The entry of a bullet is an opening, rather smaller than the bullet itself, with the skin bent inwards, while the exit is larger, more ragged, and has the margin everted. Treatment.—If the circulation is feeble, and the nervous symptoms are considerable, rest and warmth are necessary, perhaps with stimuli in moderate quantity. Extraneous sub- stances, such as bullets, portions of clothing, splinters, should be removed, if it can be done easily. An incision should be made to remove a bullet, when near the surface, or sticking to a bone from which it could be readily separated. If, however, it were firmly fixed, so that it could not be removed without incisions of some extent and the employment of force it should be left to be loosened by suppuration. If it is not found easily do not persevere in the search; bullets246 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. often pursue curious courses, being turned out of their original direction by the resistance they experience in striking against parts, and not merely against hard parts; a muscle or the skin will turn aside a bullet coming obliquely, as a ball or stone rebounds from the water. Thus a ball may pass between the skin and the thoracic or abdominal parietes half round the trunk, without penetrating either cavity, and in other cases it may reach a part considerably remote from that at which it had entered. Bullets often remain quietly in the body for years, becoming gradually inclosed in a sort of compact cellular cyst. This is an additional reason for not probing much, nor at all after inflammation has commenced. The danger of gunshot wounds arises principally from the inflammations, suppurations and constitutional disturbance, which are likely to follow the injury : our great object, therefore, will be to prevent these evils, or to lessen their amount. Eest and low diet are obviously necessary. Surprising instances are recorded of recovery from most dangerous wounds where persons have been left for dead on the field of battle, and have remained without assistance for two or more days. Nothing more is required as local application for three or four days than cloths dipped in cold water, or simple poultice either cold or lukewarm. The ancient practice of introducing into the wound foreign substances under the name of tents, or pieces of prepared sponge, in order to provide for the escape of discharge, is now quite obsolete, as well as the application of bandages, except for some specific purpose. The practice of dilating the wound, that is, of making notches in its orifice, to prevent tension and facilitate the escape of discharges, was formerly generally followed, and is perhaps not yet entirely given up. We endeavour to preventGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 247 inflammatory swelling by suitable treatment, and then dis- charge and sloughs pass out easily through the wound: should matter be confined by any impediment in the suppurative stage, an opening may then be made for its discharge. The only reason for making incisions in the early stage would be to remove splinters of bone, balls, or other foreign bodies. More or less variety may be expected in the nature of the mischief if we include under the general expression of gun- shot wounds all the injuries inflicted by fragments of shells, explosions, and other incidents of actual warfare. The wound may be lacerated, and not contused. Thus at the siege of the citadel of Antwerp, M. H. Larrey saw several cases where the solutions of continuity were perfectly regular, and more or less like those made by a cutting instrument. These, however, are exceptional occurrences. The general course is that the surface of the wound, disorganized by the violence of the injury, sloughs, inflammation and suppuration occurring in order to throw off the dead portions. Thus discharge from the wound, with some swelling and heat, may be expected at the end of four or five days. When this suppurative stage begins, cold applications are laid aside and poultices substituted. As soon as the sloughs have been detached, granulation and cicatrization follow. Fistulous openings may remain connected with injured bone or the pre- sence of foreign bodies, and in the former case inflammation with discharge of bony fragments may be renewed occasion- ally, for an indefinite period. Secondary haemorrhage is not uncommon in this suppu- rative stage. Wounded arteries, which may have ceased to bleed at the time of the injury, may become troublesome from the clearance which the track of the wound now undergoes. From about the eighth day, therefore, patients must be closely watched whenever there is reason to suspect, from the248 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. presumed course of the wound, that an artery likely to afford a troublesome or dangerous bleeding, may have been involved in the mischief. If the dreaded bleeding should occur, it would be desirable to secure the injured vessel; the attempt would be unpromising in a suppurating wound deeply and dangerously situated. Under such circumstances recourse has been had to ligature of the main artery above the wound; this has sometimes succeeded, sometimes failed. Question of amputation.—In wounds of the extremities the degree and extent of injury are so great, in some instances, as to preclude all expectation of recovery. The fatal event will be brought about speedily by traumatic gangrene, in a some- what longer time by violent inflammation and fever, or still more remotely by repeated suppurations, gradual exhaustion, and hectic ; to say nothing of the risks of secondary bleeding in both of the latter cases. In other instances the point is doubtful; if we attempt to save the limb, life is en- dangered by the local injury and general disturbance closely following the accident; or the patient, after months or years of suffering and danger, recovers with a limb so damaged in structure and office as to be less useful than an artificial substitute. In army cases the necessity of moving the patient, and the want of accommodation, are to be considered. Amputation, therefore, is unquestionably necessary in some cases, and clearly expedient in many others, in spite of the authority of Frederick the Great, king of Prussia, who, vexed by seeing so many of his soldiers rendered useless by loss of limbs, determined that the practice should be discon- tinued. Bilguer, chief surgeon to the Prussian army, published in 1760, apparently by royal command, a work on the subject, entitled, f Dissertatio de Membrorum Amputatione rarissime administranda, vel quasi abroganda/ the arguments ofQUESTION OF AMPUTATION. 2 fc9 which are answered by Mr. Pott, with his usual clearness and good sense in his ' Remarks on the Necessity and Pro- priety of Amputation in certain cases and under certain circumstances/ in which he has also pointed out the proper time for its performance. (Works, vol. iii.) The cases in which amputation should be performed may be brought under a few heads : 1 and 2. When joints are traversed by balls, with exposure of the articulation and shattering of the articular extremities. Serious wounds of the limbs, particularly the thigh and leg, in their continuity, with extensive laceration and contusion, comminuted or splintered fracture, probably extending in the latter case to the next joint. The last three quarters of a century have afforded the most ample opportunities of observation and experience in this important part of surgery, in all its varieties of situation and extent, and the practical conclusions from this mass of evidence have been well summed up by M. Velpeau, in his 1 Medecine Operatoire/ torn, i, to the following effect: " In gunshot injuries of joints, with considerable mischief, there is no doubt respecting the propriety of amputating. The difference of opinion among practitioners regards the cases where the joint is not largely opened, the osseous ex- tremities having been simply traversed or broken by the ball. The circumstances must be taken into the account. If the patient can receive all necessary care and attention, supposing a ball to have simply traversed the wrist, elbow, ankle, or shoulder, breaking the articular extremities without lacerating the tendons and soft parts, the preservation of the limb should be attempted. On the contrary, in the tumult of camps in crowded hospitals, when destructive epidemics prevail,, if the patient can neither be^ kept quiet, nor receive the re- quisite care, if the fracture is splintered, the ligaments,GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 250 synovial membranes, and tendons, bruised and torn, imme- diate amputation is best. Many cases of recovery under sucli circumstances have been recorded, and some occurred among the ' blesses de Juillet/ under Dupuytren. But how many fatal terminations could be opposed to these unexpected cures." M. Velpeau then mentions the fatal issue of wounds by gunshot of the hand, ankle, elbow, and knee, where the injury was not of the worst kind, although treated under every advantage in Paris. He goes on to say that gunshot injuries in the continuity of the limb, especially in the lower extremities, are almost as unfavorable as wounds of the joints; thus, that a splintered fracture by gunshot of the tibia and fibula almost always requires amputation. For one who recovers, you will have ten die, especially if the soft parts are torn and bruised. The indication is still more decisive in the thigh. He quotes the opinion of Ravaton, Schmucker, and Lombard. M. Ribes gives an account of ten cases, which all ended fatally, in spite of the greatest care. Among 4000 men at the Invalids there was not one who had been cured of such an injury.- M. Yvan had two, in 1815; but fistulous openings remained, and they died from the results of the injury. M. Gaulthier de- Claubry formerly surgeon to the Imperial Guard, is of the same opinion as M. Kibes, and all in Spain who had met with this injury died when amputation was not immediately performed. He quotes the experience of S.Cooper, Percy, Thomson, Larrey, and Heunen. The events of July, 1830, showed the surgeons of Paris the correctness of this unfavorable prognostic. However, some successful cases occurred; one at La Pitie, under M. Lisfranc, one under Dupuytren. Arnal mentions three more. Somme saved two out of eight at Antwerp, and some other trials were equally fortunate both at Paris and Brussels. In theseQUESTION OF AMPUTATION. 251 cases the patients were placed under the most advantageous circumstances. Yet even here the successful attempts were few, and the limb, when saved, was of questionable value. The danger is greatest when the fracture is towards the middle of the bone. Amputation is generally necessary in comminuted fractures by gunshot of the lower extremity; in the upper, the necessity is less urgent. We cannot lay much stress on a few unexpected cures. The question is, what proportion of recoveries may be expected, out of a given number, in both modes of proceeding. When the head of the humerus has been broken, without great injury of the surrounding structures, removal of the damaged portion of the bone may supersede the necessity of amputation at the shoulder joint. An attempt to save the limb is more likely to succeed in the elbow or wrist than in the ankle, as the power of restoration is more considerable in the former cases than in the latter, and a stiff joint is in them of less consequence. 3. When the bone has been broken and the soft parts lacerated and crushed, without external wound, by a spent ball, or one striking the part obliquely. 4. When a considerable mass of soft parts has been shot away, for example in the thigh, especially if the artery be included, although the bone may not be broken. If the artery and vein should be divided, with fracture of the femur, amputation would be advisable, although the wound might not be serious in other respects. 5. If the bone should be extensively denuded, though not broken, by a piece of bombshell or small cannon shot traversing a limb. 6. When a limb is carried away by a cannon ball, explo- sion, or any other cause. The wound is lacerated, jagged, and bruised, the bone protruding and splintered. The regularQUESTION OP AMPUTATION. incision of an amputation is advantageously substituted for an injury of so dangerous a character. If the accident has occurred so high up as not to leave room for regular amputa- tion, the wound should be made as even as possible, splinters should be removed, and the end of the bone taken off. The artery should be tied. In considering the place of amputation it is a general rule to preserve as much of the limb as you can. Remember, how- ever, that splintering of the bone often passes beyond the seat of the main injury, and thus that it might possibly be expedient to amputate above the next joint; for instance, above the knee. A more important consideration is the best time for ampu- tation. The arguments on this point are equally applicable to cases of compound fracture. We have to choose between im- mediate, or rather early amputation, that is, within ten, or at furthest twenty-four hours, before inflammation has come on in the part, and before fever has commenced, and delayed, after fever has subsided. These are called, respectively, primary and secondary. It will be understood that the former will not be resorted to so long as the state of nervous depression occasionally attendant on these injuries has not passed off. Experience has so clearly determined the point in favour of the primary operation, that the question may be considered as settled. Mr. Pott had already taken the correct view of this important question, and has strongly enforced the necessity of " immediate or very early decision.-" (f Works/ vol. iii, p. 359.) The great reason for amputation is because the injury im- mediately or remotely endangers life; that is, by mortifica- tion, inflammation, and violent fever, as its immediate or early effects, or subsequently by successive inflammation, suppura- tion, and hectic.QUESTION OF AMPUTATION. 253 In early amputation there is merely the risk of the opera- tion j if delayed, the patient incurs successively the dangers of the wound and those of the operation. Thus delay exposes the patient to the chance of dying before the period for second- ary amputation arrives. It is alleged that persons in full health do not bear opera- tion's so well as those previously reduced by disease; and this may be true to a certain extent. But the question is, will the patient, whether he be in full health or otherwise, have a better chance for life with a terribly contused and lacerated wound, attended with splintered bone, exposed joint, or other complications, than with the clean cut of an amputa- tion? When the necessity of operation is admitted, will the patient bear it better, and have a better chance of recovery after the inflammation, the fever, the suppu- ration consequent on the injury, than at the moment of the accident ? They will not, nor so well. Hear the result of experience. After the battle of Toulouse, 47 primary amputations were performed; 9 of the patients died, that is, one fifth, nearly; there were 51 cases of delayed amputation, of which 21 were lost, or about one to two and a half. At New Orleans, of 45 primary amputations 7 died, being one in six and three sevenths; of 7 delayed, 2 died, or one in three and a half. These statements are very favorable to early or immediate amputation, but they do not give the true comparison of mortality between the two methods, they do not place the advantages of the former in their full light; because to those who died of secondary amputation you should add the others who died before the time for secondary amputation arrived, and who might have been saved by the early opera- tion. The result of my own comparatively limited experience ofCONTUSION. immediate or early amputation in bad compound fractures, and some gunshot injuries, accords entirely with, the more abundant evidence collected by the surgeons who have prac- tised in the great military hosts of recent times. In gunshot injuries of the head, neck, thorax, abdomen, and pelvis, there is always something individual in each case, and the circumstances are too various to admit of being brought under general rules of treatment. In a large proportion of such injuries, patients are in the greatest danger, and their only chance of recovery lies in keeping down the circulation by strict rest and regimen, and in watching closely to antici- pate the occurrence of inflammation, or to check it promptly if it should arise. Such means, aided by youth, a sound constitution, and previously good health, have frequently led to recovery from injuries which at first appeared quite des- perate. Contusion or bruise are the terms by which we denote injury without division of parts, that is, without wound. Generally, but not invariably, the vessels are so injured as to pour out blood into the cellular tissue, causing swelling, usually coming on soon, and sometimes increasing rapidly to a great and even alarming extent. In its most violent degree contusion so disorganises the part as to stop the circulation, and thus cause mortification. This is seen on a small scale in blows on the shin where the skin is violently squeezed at the time of the accident between two hard bodies. Slighter bruises, occasioning merely temporary inconvenience, are little thought of; when the injury is more considerable, it interrupts or suspends functions, as. in muscles and joints, and may lead to inflammation, particularly under neglect or imprudent exertions. The most important point of treatment is to rest the injured part for a sufficient time, and to avoid premature exertion.ECCHYM0S1S. 255 Cold lotions may be used if there is heat; when there is firm swelling with pain, leeches and poultice will afford relief. It is of importance to prevent inflammation when a joint, or con- siderable muscles, are injured, and to check the disorder if it should have supervened. When general swelling with stiff- ness, and more or less uneasiness on exertion remains, as it does occasionally for some time after serious bruising, bandaging with or without adhesive plasters, and elastic supports, are often useful. Friction with stimulating lini- ments may sometimes be necessary. The blood which escapes from vessels injured in bruising, constituting what is technically called ecchymosis, may either be diffused and infiltrated in the cellular texture, or collected into one mass. In the former case, which is the more frequent, as the cells of the texture communicate freely, the fluid blood often passes along them, to a considerable distance from the seat of injury. In a few days its presence discolours the skin, turning it dark-red, livid, or even almost black. Subsequently it becomes yellowish or greenish, and this discoloration may extend, like the blood, beyond the bruised part. If the swel- ling of ecchymosis takes place rapidly, so as to render the part tense, the blood is forced into the tissue of the skin, which thus becomes immediately of the deepest livid and almost black colour, with great alarm to the patient and those not conversant with the appearance. In all these cases of ecchymosis the blood is gradually removed by absorption. Cold is applied in the first instance, to prevent increase of the effusion; whether its disappearance subsequently is hastened by friction with soap liniment is somewhat doubtful. In a rapidly in- creasing ecchymosis it might be necessary to make a free incision, in order either to stop the haemorrhage by exposure or to tie bleeding vessels if any such should be found. I once had occasion to do this where the scrotum had become256 ECCHYMOSIS. enlarged in the course of three hours, by internal bleeding, to an enormous size, and was still increasing, with deep livid dis- coloration and most severe pain. As the swelling passed upwards on the abdomen, the incision necessary for com- plete exposure was nearly afoot long, exposing such a degree and extent of bloody cellular infiltration as could hardly be paralleled under any other circumstances. Although the swelling had been constantly increasing till the incision was made, no bleeding vessel could be discovered. The integu- ments, relieved from distension, contracted so as to diminish the exposed surface, which was still considerable. The granu- lating process went on well, and the patient, though much weakened by the very large loss of blood, soon regained his strength. When effused blood forms a collection instead of being in- filtrated, it may retain its fluidity, and form a soft, fluctuating swelling in the part, which may be mistaken for an abscess. Theprevious injury, and the absence of the symptoms denoting suppuration, ought to prevent the possibility of such a mistake. Although the fluid blood sometimes remains for a rather long time in the part, it will be ultimately absorbed. If the blood of an ecchymosis coagulates, instead of remaining fluid, it sometimes irritates the surrounding textures, and may even cause inflammation and suppuration. A free opening is neces- sary, giving issue to the coagula and matter, with great relief. I have made an incision into a labium when immensely dis- tended, coal black, and very painful, turning out some ounces of black coagula, completely easing the patient although sup- puration had not occurred.CHAPTER XII. POISONED WOUNDS—HYDROPHOBIA—VENOMOUS SERPENTS— DISSECTION WOUNDS. POISONED WOUNDS. The most formidable of these is the bite of a rabid animal, which, .although presenting no peculiarity either at the time of infliction or subsequently, introduces directly into the human frame a poison generated in certain animals when labouring under the same affection. This poison excites after an in- terval of a few weeks, sometimes extending to months, a violent, general, and peculiarly distressing disorder of the nervous system, speedily, and as far as our present know- ledge extends, invariably fatal. The general disease is called hydrophobia, which means literally, dread of water, from a singular symptom which is peculiar to it in the human subject; it is also called rabies or rabies canina, in English canine madness, or simply madness j in French, la rage. The disease is communicated by the saliva, which becomes poisonous in rabid animals. No noxious property is disco- vered in any other fluid, nor in any of the solids. Perhaps there may be an exception to this statement in the case of the blood j there is, at least, a difference of testimony on the subject. 17258 HYDROPHOBIA. Dupuytren, Breschet, and Magendie produced no effect by rubbing wounds with the blood of rabid animals; tbey also injected tbe blood of rabid, dogs into the veins of healthy animals, without injury to the latter. Dr. Hertwig (of Berlin), however, found that rabies could be produced in the dog by injecting the blood of another affected with madness into the cellular substance. Out of eleven, thus inoculated, two died of rabies. ' Beitr'age zur n'ahern Kentniss der Wuth- Krankheit von Hertwig, M.D., Director of the Boyal Veteri- nary School, Berlin, in Hufeland's f Journal der praktischen Heilkunde', 1828. An analysis of this paper will be found in the ' Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal./ vol. xxxii, p. 378. We know the disease in the human subject only as the result of infection, that is, as conveyed, like smallpox or cowpox, by direct communication of poisonous matter from animals to man. Does it ever arise spontaneously in»either case ? In man, some kind of aversion to or dread of liquids has been seen in rare instances, as a symptom of another affec- tion, and might be called symptomatic hydrophobia. But that very marked horror at water and other fluids, which constitutes so striking a feature in the fatal, affection ordi- narily called hydrophobia, is only known as resulting from direct appbcation of the poisonous saliva to a wounded or abraded surface. In animals it is rather difficult to determine the point; dogs, particularly, may be wounded without our knowing it. Some circumstances would lead us to suppose that in them, as in man, the source of the malady is extraneous, that it is pro- duced by infection, and does not originate spontaneously. The communication by infection is an ordinary and well- known occurrence, while the spontaneous origin is ohscure and doubtful.HYDKOPHOBIA. 259 Sportsmen, who have many dogs, keep hydrophobia out of their kennels by making every new comer perform quaran- tine before he is admitted. In insular situations, many years have often passed without any appearance of the disease. Dr. I. Hunter states that no case of hydrophobia had occurred in Jamaica for forty years, although the dogs are as numerous there as in any place in the world. (* Trans, of a Society/ vol. i.) This leads me to mention that heat of climate or season does not seem to have the commonly supposed efficacy in producing hydrophobia. It is rare in the West Indies, not known in Egypt and some other hot countries; it occurs here in winter as well as in summer. On the other hand, Dr. Hertwig states that he has fre- quently seen rabies arise spontaneously in the dog, the causes of origin being very obscure. It appears, he says, in dogs of every race, and all ages; under every species of management; at all times of the year, and in every kind of weather. Heat and cold have no influence in its origin. Chamber dogs are more liable to it than those exposed to the weather. We cannot, I think, help admitting with Dr. Hertwig that hydrophobia must originate spontaneously in the dog. The history of the disease cannot be accounted for except on that supposition. There are not here, as in smallpox and cowpox, constantly existing sources of infection, by which the poison can be directly conveyed from one animal to another. The disease, though so much talked about, is of rare occur- rence. Many surgeons of the most extensive practice have never seen a case, and it is of the greatest rarity in the lai-e hosptals of London. Considerable periods of time elapse without a case being heard of in England, and if an in stance or two should turn up after a long interval, the animals are soon put out of existence. These circumstances are quite inconsistent with the notion that the disorder can originate260 HYDROPHOBIA. only in the direct communication of the poison from another rabid animal. The French may probably have considered this point in reference to the wolf, but I have not met with any information on the subject. The animals liable to the disease, besides the human species, are chiefly the domesticated races; those brought tinder the dominion of man, and associated with him. The dog, wolf, and fox, closely allied, and breeding together, are the' most liable, hence the name of rabies canina. Of the jackal (canis aureus) we have no information. The cat, horse, ass, mule, cow, sheep, pig, goat, are subject to the disease.* All animals are not equally susceptible; perhaps dogs are most so, yet the cases from bites of wolves are frequent in France. Four men and twelve dogs were bitten by one dog; all the dogs went mad, while all the men escaped, though they used no means of prevention. Twenty persons were bitten by the same dog ; only one had the disease. (Dr. I. Hunter in < Trans, of a Society/ vol. i, p. 302.) Yet sometimes the human subject seems very susceptible. Twenty-three individuals were bitten by a female wolf; thir- teen died in the course of a few months, besides several cows wounded by the same animal. Of ten individuals bitten by a wolf nine died; of twenty-four persons bitten by a wolf, near Eochelle, eighteen perished. The disease is communicable only by the dog, wolf, cat, and fox if indeed the statement be well founded that a Duke of Richmond died in Canada from a bite by the animal last mentioned. Fromnumerous experiments made in the French veterinary school at Alfort, it appeared that herbivorous quadrupeds could not communicate the disease. Professor Dupuy could # Cooper's ' Dictionary,' p. 698.HYDROPHOBIA. 261 not produce hydrophobia in cows and sheep by wounding them and applying to the part sponge moistened with the saliva of rabid animals of the same class; but the disease was excited when the sponge was moistened with the saliva of a mad dog. According to Dupuy,. no communication of rabies takes place in flocks of sheep by the presence of those affected with the complaint. Can hydrophobia be communicated from one human being to another; or to other animals? No instance of the former is known. Many attempts have been made to convey it by inoculation to other animals. These have failed, except in one or two instances. Magendie and Breschet in- oculated two dogs on June 19th, 1813, from a patient in the Hotel Dieu; one became rabid on the 27th July, and bit two other dogs, one of which was affected with hydrophobia on the 26th of August. Mode of production.—The poisonous saliva by which the disease is produced, must be applied, either to a recent wound or to a raw surface of the skin. It has no injurious effect either on entire skin or on entire mucous membrane, so that it might be swallowed with impunity. The infection, received in the great majority of instances from the dog or the wolf, is generally, but not necessarily, conveyed by a bite. Some years ago, a lady of rank and fashion had a pimple on her face, of which she had scratched off the head; she had a lapdog, which she allowed to lick her face. Hydrophobia was thus contracted, and she perished by this terrible disease. The disease is communicated most certainly by the bite. Mr. Cline and Sir A. Cooper both failed in attempts to intro- duce it in the dog by inoculation, the former from the human subject, the latter from the dog. (Travers, f On Constitu-262 HYDE OPHOBIA. tional Irritation/ vol. ii, p. 404.) A silk drawn through the mouth of a rabid dog, and then placed as a seton, in the nape of a healthy dog, will impart the disease to one or two in six. (Ibid.) In fifty-nine inoculations, partly with saliva, partly with blood injected into the cellular tissue, rabies was pro- duced fourteen times, that is, in 24 per cent. ('Edin. Journal/ vol. xxxii, p. 388.) The bites may take effect either on covered or naked parts. In the latter case the disease will probably be produced, unless proper means of prevention are resorted to j while in the former, the teeth are freed from the poisonous matter by passing through the dress, and inflict no injury beyond the mere wound. The wound inflicted by a rabid animal exhibits no peculiarity; the local appearanee, the progress, the repara- tion and healing are the same as in a bite by a healthy dog. A more or less considerable interval elapses between the injury and the appearance of the disease, that is, the hydro- phobia, rabies, or madness. The terrible malady is analogous in this respect to smallpox, cowpox, scarlatina, and syphilis, the interval not being regular, and nearly defined, as in the three former; but indefinite, as in the latter. The most common time of commencement is from the thirtieth to the fortieth day; say five to seven weeks; it is some- times earlier than the first, often later than tbe last. In a large number of cases collected by a society, the time varied from thirty-one days to seventeen months. Dr. I. Hunter considers seventeen, and Dr. Hamilton nineteen months, as the longest well authenticated intervals. The latter mentions eleven days as the earliest period. The two long dates above mentioned deviate so widely from the ordinary course of experience on the subject, that strong evidence would be required to establish their correctness.HYDKOPHOBIA. *b3 I do not know whether they could he sustained hy sufficient proof. In fifteen patients seen hy one observer, the limits were fourteen days, and fourteen weeks. Of seventeen persons bitten by a wolf, ten had hydrophobia; one on the fifteenth, one so late as the sixty-eighth day. (S. Cooper < Diet/ p. 700.) Fifteen persons were bitten by a mad dog on the 27th of January, ten received the bites on the naked flesh; of these five died between February 27th and April 3rd. (S. Cooper, p. 698.) The appearance of the symptoms has sometimes been pre- ceded by changes in the part; by beat, redness, and pain, the latter shooting along the limb. Generally there are no such symptoms, and the patients have sometimes even forgotten the injury. In a first short stage of the complaint there is usually headache, and some general indisposition, speedily followed by the peculiarly characteristic symptoms. These may be stated to consist generally of the strongest aversion to or horror of liquids, especially of water, and of the severest spasmodic agony excited by the attempt to swallow it. The complaint sometimes begins altogetber suddenly with this strange suffering. If the patient is induced, not without difficulty, to repeat the effort, violent spasm of the throat and neck, with sense of choking and ungovernable agitation are produced, altogether defeating the object, and impelling the patient to escape from the bed or room; this spasm being sometimes so powerful and general as absolutely to prevent the desired movements. The same distress, in less degree, is caused by the mere presence of water in sight, and particularly by the sound of pouring it from one vessel into another: vet a youth under my care in St. Bartholomew's, during a hard frost in the winter, ate greedily thin ice, chewing it like a biscuit to relieve his thirst. Spasms will be brought on also264 HYDROPHOBIA. by a bright object, such as a mirror seen suddenly; by a strong light, or draught of air. There is now excessive cerebral excitement with delirium, spasms, and sometimes ungovern- able screams. There are intervals of comparative rest, with paroxyms of spasm and suffering, which soon wear out the patient, the time of death varying from thirty-six hours to five or possibly six days. There is not the slightest foundation for the notion that the unfortunate sufferers attempt to bite those near them, or that they utter sounds resembling the barking of a dog. Examination after death shows vascular disturbance in the brain, and some slight redness of the pharynx, but nothing to throw light on the peculiar character of this terrible disease. Dr. Hertwig has minutely described the morbid appearances in the dog, from nearly 200 dissections. He says that he has seen all the appearances described by others, but " with all the pains I took I have been unable to discover any constant change of structure, or one peculiar to rabies; and that, like the symptoms during life, the appearances after death are very different in their nature, extent, and intensity." (f Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ.,' vol. xxxii, p. 384.) Treatment.—All attempts to arrest the complaint have been hitherto unsuccessful; not a single case of recovery has been authenticated. Opium has been given by the mouth, by clyster, and by injection into the veins, in large doses, with some temporary, but no permanent benefit. Patients are not readily susceptible of the action of narcotics in this disease; such medicines must, therefore, be administered freely in order to produce even short relief. A pint of tepid water injected into the veins, by direction of Magendie, caused temporary tranquillity, withpower of swallow- ing liquids; but the symptoms returned with the usual fatal result. Bloodletting has been tried largely, without any effect.HYDEOPHOBIA. 265 The only hope of safety, then, is in prevention, and the interval between the bite and the outbreak of the symptoms affords a favorable opportunity for accomplishing this object. As the fluid poison causing the mischief is introduced into a wound, it would seem, on first view, a natural and easy course to remove it by careful ablution. If this should, be attempted in the first instance, before excision can be resorted to, it should be carried into effect systematically and with perse- verance. Tepid water (about 90) should be poured in a con- tinuous stream out of a tea-kettle from a height of four or five feet, on the wound, exposed as openly as possible. If the wound should have penetrated, a smaller stream may be directed against it forcibly, by means of a strong syringe. These attempts might be continued for some hours. Escharotics have been applied to the wound, and even the actual cautery has been used.- We can hardly doubt that if the mild lunar caustic were effectually rubbed on all the surfaces to which the tooth of the animal has reached, especially after careful ablution, that the patient would be safe. Still, as pointed teeth may have penetrated deeply, and parts may be considerably lacerated, some uncertainty must remain. It is recorded that hydrophobia supervened in a youth from wound of the face, where caustic had been applied to the parts at the time of the accident, by Mr. Hunter. The only measure on which we can rely with perfect con- fidence for placing the patient in safety, is complete excision of all the wounded parts. This may be preceded by careful ablution, if the wound should be lacerated, irregular, and penetrating. Previous examination with the probe will show how far the injury has reached, and we must carry the knife still further, rather going beyond than falling short of what may seem absolutely necessary. Immediate excision is not necessary j it may be performed266 HYDROPHOBIA. with apparent success, some hours and even some days after the wound. What is the limit in respect of time ? May it he practised with preventive effect at any period hetween the receipt of the wound and the commencement of hydrophohia? that is, does the poison stay in the part ? On that point we are absolutely ignorant, and there is little prospect of our arriving at certainty on the subject. High authorities have directly asserted that excision of the wounded parts at any time before the occurrence of symptoms will be effectual in preventing the attack. No sufficient evidence can be pro- duced to support this dictum, which is involved in uncertainty by the very circumstances of the case. Of many persons bitten by one and the same dog or wolf, several die, while some escape who have taken no more precaution than those who died. If excision at a remote period had been performed in these fortunate cases, it would have had the credit of saving them. A gentleman was under my care who had been bitten on the thumb and hand by a dog, to whom no suspicion attached at the time. He employed water dressing, and left the country, where the accident had occurred, for London. The dog, which was soon discovered to be ill, died of hydrophobia, and I excised the injured parts at the end of the fourth day. There was no subsequent illness. I cannot lay much stress on this case, as the wounds, though not inconsiderable, were superficial, so that any poisonous matter might have been washed from them by the water which was applied plentifully from the beginning. Mr. Travers has published in the second volume of his work on < Constitutional Irritation/ p. 410, the following communi- cation from Mr. Hodgson : '< The efficacy of excision of the bitten part at any period before the accession of symptoms, is illustrated by the following fact, which occurred in my own practice. A dog on the same day bit a child, and subsequentlyHYDROPHOBIA. 267 a man, the man immediately destroyed the dog. A few weeks afterwards, the child was attacked with hydrophobia, and died. After the child was seized with the symptoms of hydrophobia, I cut out the bitten parts in the man's arm. The disease did not occur in the man, though he had been exposed to the fullest chance of taking it, his arms being bare at the time of the bite, and, as was proved by the occurrence of the disease in the child, the dog beiug at that time certainly in a state capable of communicating it." A single case of this kind does not go far towards establishing the important practical conclusion of the authorities already referred to. Chemical examination of the saliva has not thrown any light on the nature of this very peculiar disease. Although hydrophobia is very rare, bites by dogs are common enough, and we cannot be surprised that they often excite alarm and anxiety by suggesting the possible occurrence of hydrophobia. If the dog by which a bite has been inflicted, has been previously, and is at the time in good health, there is no ground whatever for apprehension. If this should be otherwise, and particularly if the same dog should have bitten other persons or animals, without having been at once hunted down and killed, he should be confined and observed, when a few days will decide the matter, so far as hydrophobia is concerned. The general symptoms and usual course of the malady in the dog should be known to the medical authority consulted on the occasion, who may have to pronounce an opinion on view of the animal, or from description of its condition. The disease in the dog.—The dread of water does not occur either in the dog or in any other rabid animal, nor is there altogether such violence of symptoms as the term rabies might lead us to expect. According to Hertwig, the disease shows itself in the do°-268 HYDROPHOBIA. under two forms, the more violent, which he calls raying, and the still (Rasende and Stille Wuth). The former begins with a change in the temper and behaviour. There may- be dulness, sluggishness, and peevishness, or increased activity. Restlessness is an early symptom; the animal shifts about without an object, and is thus impelled to leave home ; but he returns. They know and obey their master and keeper, but less and less as the disease advances. Loss of appetite occurs early, and almost invariably accompanied with a propensity to swallow indigestible substances, such as straw, leather, wool, fragments of wood, turf, and glass, also their own urine and dung, and those of other dogs. There is constipation, and generally thirst, with frequent lapping of water, which is not properly swallowed in consequence of swelling of the tongue or throat. An important and invariable symptom is a change in the cry; it is a single short bark, suddenly changed to a short howl. In no other disease does a similar change of cry occur. The disposition to bite generally prevails, but varies according to natural character; it is increased by irritation. There is rapid emaciation; the muzzle, lips, and tongue, are generally dry. Paralysis of the hind limbs appears at last. In the calm or still rabies there is also at first a change of manner, inactivity and listlessness. There is paralysis of lower jaw, and consequently open state of mouth; hence fluids, when lapped, run out. The saliva also flows out. There is less tendency to bite, or to run away. The same change of cry is observed. In both cases they bite and gnaw objects near them towards the end, and seem angry when approached. There is tough, frothy saliva about the mouth. Death occurs in from six to eight days, sometimes sooner; ten is the outside. The disease breaks out in the dog within fifty days after the communication of the poison. Dr. Hertwig never wit-HYDE0PH0B1A. 269 nessed it after a longer period. (f Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ./ vol. xxxii.) Suspected dogs are tied up for fifty-one days at Alfort. It is clear from the foregoing statement, that if a suspected dog continues well for ten days, he neither has nor has had hydrophobia • also that if a dog has been bitten by another unequivocally rabid, and remains well for fifty-one days, he will not be affected with rabies. If a person should be bitten by a dog which runs away and is seen no more, the chances against his being mad are a thousand to one, probably much higher; if the bite should also have been inflicted on a covered part, there cannot be the slightest ground for apprehension. Still, if a nervous person should be haunted by the dread of hydrophobia, perhaps the mind will not be quieted till the wounded part has been cut out. I once did this, as I considered, quite unnecessarily, for a surgical colleague, who agreed in the view of the matter which I presented to him, but added simply that he should continue uneasy if the part was not removed. It is hardly necessary to mention the means not unfre- quently resorted to by those who have been bitten by animals supposed to be rabid, on the popular belief that they are capable of preventing the fatal malady. One of them is, in the language of the country, " going to the salt water" to be there ducked with as much perseverance and repetition as can be practised with safety. Another is the swallowing of the so-called Ormskirk medicine, or some other similar com- position of perfectly inert ingredients. As there is no danger in the great majority of instances, the patients believe themselves to have been saved by the processes to Avhich they have been submitted, and thus strengthen the common faith in the efficacy of such means.270 POISONED WOUNDS. VENOMOUS SERPENTS. The bite of these animals is more immediately serious and alarming, both in its local and general influence, than that of those affected with rabies, though the constitutional disorder, however dangerous, is not invariably fatal like the general excitement of hydrophobia. While the poison in the latter case remains dormant for weeks or months, the local effect in the former is immediate, and quickly rises to its highest intensity, the constitutional disturbance proceeding and increasing at the same time. This course is essentially ne- cessary to the accomplishment of the object for which the poisonous property exists, that of disabling the animals which form the prey of these serpents. The venom is secreted in a small gland situated near the articulation of the lower jaw on each side of the head, and furnished with a duct which opens into a small canal hollowed out in the poison-fang. This is a small, smooth, and per- fectly sharp-pointed tooth, admirably adapted to perform a species of inoculation, introducing and lodging safely at a suitable depth a minute portion of the venom by a sudden sharp stroke of the head. In non-venomous serpents there are four longitudinal rows of small, sharp-pointed, upper teeth, ranged from before backwards, two of them on the palate, the two others on the sides of the upper jaw. In the venomous species the lateral rows are wanting, and in lieu of them there is a poison-fang at each anterior corner of the mouth. Some of the more dangerous kinds are popularly known, such as the rattlesnake of North America (Crotalus) of which the bite will kill a cat or puppy in a few minutes. It may be fatal, but is not always so to man, or even to animals.VENOMOUS SEKPENTS. 271 The hooded or spectacle snake of the East Indies, Cobra de capello (Coluber naia), is powerfully venomous, destroying a fowl within a minute, a dog in half an hour, and a human subject in a few hours. There are actively poisonous serpents in considerable numbers in some of the West India islands, at least in Martinique and St. Lucia. One of them is called the yellow or spotted snake; Vipere fer de lance (Coluber carinatus, Linn.). On one occasion an officer and several men were killed within a short time, dying from six to twelve hours after the bite. The viper or adder is the only venomous serpent found in England. The bite produces troublesome local symptoms, but is not dangerous and still less fatal, though it may have caused death in some excep- tional cases. Fontana found that three vipers could not destroy a dog of sixty pounds weight. The poison does not act on the sound skin, or mucous membrane; thus it may be taken into the stomach with im- punity. A student swallowed the poison of four large vipers without injury and no effect was produced on a pigeon by taking the poison of ten vipers. Like the poison of hydro- phobia, it must be introduced into a wound. In many expe- riments on dogs, punctures with lancets charged with venom, even from the most poisonous Indian serpents, failed to produce any effect, although the bite of the animal was rapidly fatal. The local effect is considerable swelling, rapidly extending along the limb and to the trunk, the skin being mottled and dark purple or livid; inflammation and suppuration of the cellular membrane may supervene. The general symptoms are vomiting, torpor, and loss of consciousness, sometimes a state resembling intoxication; enfeebled action of the heart. If the case were seen sufficiently early, excision of the wounded part, scarification and ablution, and ligature above272 VENOMOUS SERPENTS. the wound, if on a limb, might be resorted to. Stimuli and cordials, obviously indicated by the failing powers of life, have been freely administered; such as ether, brandy, or wine, volatile alkali locally and internally, particularly the spiritus ammoniac succinatus, under the name of Eau de Luce. In the East Indies, where venomous serpents are numerous, great reliance is placed, and not unjustly, according to Dr. Russell, in his ' History of Indian Serpents/ on a remedy called the Tanjore pill, consisting of white arsenic (arsenious acid) combined with vegetable matters, so that each pill con- tains about one grain of the arsenic. Mr. Ireland, an English army surgeon, then stationed in St. Lucia, tried the use of arsenic freely in four bad cases of bites by the most dangerous serpents of the island, and communicated the results to the Medical and Chirurgical Society, in a paper published in the second volume of their ' Transactions.' He was bold enough to give two drachms of the liquor potassas arsenitis of the London Pharmacopoeia, containing one grain of the arsenic for a dose, and to repeat it every half hour for four hours in two, and three hours in other instances, in all of which the treatment was successful. Purgative clysters were employed at the same time, and free purging took place, sometimes with vomiting. Comparing Mr. Ireland's doses of six and eight grains of arsenic swallowed in three and four hours with our own familiar experience of the fatal effects produced by much smaller quantities, we can only conclude that the serpent poison renders the human frame comparatively insensible to the immediate action of the arsenic, while it is quickly expelled from the alimentary canal, by the early and free purging, which is a part of the plan. Still, until faith in the method has been somewhat strengthened by further evidenceDISSECTION WOUNDS. 273 of its safety, a doubt might arise whether the poison or the remedy would he the most dangerous to life. The sting of an insect, such as the bee, wasp, or hornet, is a minute puncture, with the introduction of an acrid fluid. A small, firm, inflammatory tumour of the skin is quickly produced, with a more general and sometimes considerable swelling around, and a peculiar stinging and smarting pain. The local effects and the suffering are the most considerable from the sting of the hornet, two, three, or four of which might cause constitutional disturbance of somewhat alarming though not really dangerous character. From the multiplied stings of bees, death has been known to ensue within a short time. A French gentleman having been unlucky enough to overturn a beehive, was immediately attacked and covered by the disturbed insects. He became pale and cold, the pulse sunk, the breathing was interrupted; he felt that he was going, and death took place in less than fifteen minutes. ('Archives Generales/ v. 15.) The statements respecting the poison of the tarantula spider are fabulous. Fleas, bugs, gnats (musquitoes), scorpions, simply bite, being often painfully annoying, but not dangerous. They come generally under domestic treatment. Injuries received in dissection have generally been placed under the head of poisoned wounds, though doubts have been entertained respecting the propriety of the arrangement, that is, whether any poison is introduced into the body through these wounds or not. There are arguments on both sides of the question, which has no practical importance, as treatment does not depend on the nature of the cause, but on the character of the local and general disturbance in each case. The original injury in these cases is trivial, a superficial and small cut, a scratch, a needle puncture, in sewing up a body. Similar effects not unfrequently ensue from the like 18DISSECTION WOUNDS. 274 trivial hurts in cooks, especially in handling and preparing game or poultry. Local irritation ensues, inflammation is excited, and extends to the neighbouring parts or the entire limb; constitutional disturbance takes place, not unfre- quently so violent as to endanger life, and sometimes, but rarely, to terminate fatally. The local and constitutional mischief, in the great majority of instances, are analogous to what we see as the effect of similar injuries where no suspicion of poison exists; but the degree of disturbance, especially of the latter kind is much more considerable than in simple injuries ; while the nature and progress of the symptoms, and the fatal event, in some few instances, are widely different from what we see in simply mechanical hurts. It must therefore be admitted that there is at least a striking peculiarity in a certain portion of these injuries, a difference of effect, as compared with the results of common wounds, which naturally leads to the inference of a specific cause, and that cause is considered to be an animal poison. Dissection wounds may produce simple inflammation and superficial suppuration; swelling with heat and pain of the limb ; mortification of the wounded part, the last phalanx; or two phalanges ; inflammation of the absorbent vessels and glands, evidenced by red lines extending along the forearm and arm to the axilla; inflammatory swelling, and sometimes suppuration of the gland at the elbow or those of the armpit. There may be simple erysipelas, or the deeper mischief of phlegmonous erysipelas, leading to suppuration in the palm or back of the hand; also thecal abscess, with mortification of the flexor tendons. These several effects are accompanied by such febrile con- stitutional disturbance as would attend similar states of disease arising from ordinary causes.DISSECTION WOUNDS. 275 Sometimes severe pain occurs in the injured part, with little swelling or other signs of inflammation ; the pain shoots along the limb. The nervous system is quickly and seriously influenced; there is excitement followed by symptoms of oppression. The patient is agitated and anxious, with want of sleep, prostration of strength, with great sense of weak- ness ; small and rapid pulse, chills and rigors; a collection of symptoms manifesting a powerful impression on the nervous system, and referred to irritation as distinguished from inflammation. Pain comes on in the shoulder and axilla; diffused inflammation of the cellular tissue may take place on the chest, with redness of skin, increased irritation and death in a few days. When violent inflammation attacks the injured part, there will be great local suffering and sympathetic fever, but no serious danger. In these graver cases the local symptoms are slighter and less prominent; the constitutional disturbance, on the other hand, is more formidable with the characters of irritation, not of fever. It may be said, that in one case the vascular, in the other the nervous system is principally affected. I have seen the formation of a large abscess about the pectoral muscle, with quick recovery after the discharge of its contents. In another case there was circumscribed empyema; the matter bulged forwards between the second and third ribs, and was discharged by a simple puncture, from which matter issued for a considerable time. There had been no breach of surface in this case; two small vesicles formed on the skin of the wrist, and soon dried up. There was severe pain in the arm, especially in the axilla, leading to the belief that matter would form there. Several weeks of dangerous illness preceded the suppuration in the chest and the recovery was very tedious, protracted, and indeed imper feet. This serious illness followed the examination of a >276 DISSECTION WOUNDS. patient who had died of peritonitis, the hands having been covered for a considerable time with the abdominal effusion. The local symptoms show themselves at different intervals from the injury in different cases, within twenty-four hours in those of the most dangerous kind. In considering the causes of these occasionally serious mischiefs, the suspicion of poison naturally presents itself to the mind. In the great majority of dissection wounds, the trifling injury is hardly noticed, and soon dries up. If it goes further, the local symptoms and general disturbance are merely such as similar injuries, inflicted in other ways, would produce. How different is the course in the exceptional in- stances, such as that recorded by Mr. Travers of a student, who slightly punctured his finger in opening the body of an hospital patient recently dead at noon on Monday. Pain came on in the evening, and increased in the night with high constitutional irritation. The next day, with slight redness of the puncture, " the nervous system became agi- tated in a most violent and alarming degree, the symptoms nearly resembling the universal excitation of hydrophobia." Death occurred at three o'clock on Wednesday morning, that is in less than forty hours. (< On Constitutional Irritation/ vol. i, p. 203.) Iu some other happily rare cases, severe constitutional irritation, without much local disturbance has ended fatally in a few days. The following is a striking instance: A lady, who had died of puerperal peritonitis, was examined in the presence of a physician at eight o'clock in the morning, of December 28th. He assisted in sewing up the body, and was not aware that he had injured himself. At eight in the evening, being at a dinner party, he felt some heat and uneasiness at the end of a finger, and thought he might have pricked it in sewing the body, though not aware of havingDISSECTION WOUNDS. 277 done so. A slight blush was observed, and Avith a lens, a minute opening in the cuticle was perceived at the centre of the red part. This was touched with nitrate of silver and with a minute quantity of nitric acid, without causing pain. He went home, and finding the finger still uneasy, as the former applications had given no pain, he again applied nitrate of silver, continuing the application till he felt it sensibly. The pain thus produced soon increased to agony, and shivering came on. Red lines were observed on the hand at half-past eight on the following morning (Dec. 29th) and an eschar, equal in size to a split pea, had formed on the finger. Leeches, fomentations and poultices, with pur- gatives were now resorted to. At 1 p.m., the last two pha- langes of the finger had mortified. The red lines now ex- tended to the elbow, with uneasiness in the axilla. There was complete prostration of strength, irregularity of breathing, and torpor, with the pulse from 90 to 100, and soft. Durin°- the rest of the day there was much heavy sleep, with intervals of pain. The hand and arm swelled, the absorbents were inflamed along the arm, and the axillary glands swelled. There was now great torpor, with depression and oppressed breathing. An erysipelatous blush arose on the axilla and side of the chest. Death took place at 6 a.m. on January the 1st—the fourth day. There is room for doubt in this case whether the fatal event was owing to the original puncture, if indeed there had been such a puncture, which does not seem quite clear, or to the very energetic escharotic treatment resorted to under the influence of apprehension and alarm. The result might have been different if fomentation and poultice had been trusted to, with opium internally. A free division of the inflamed part might have been resorted to if painful swelling and tension had supervened.278 DISSECTION WOUNDS. The objections to the notion of poison are these: In the great majority of such wounds no effects result at all. Hundreds of dissection cuts and punctures occur without injurious consequences. Where bad effects result, they are uncertain in their nature and degree. In other animal poisons, such as the bites of rabid animals and venomous serpents, in syphilis, glanders, small-pox, and cow-pox, there is a regular course in respect to the time of origin, the nature and succession of symptoms and termination. If, then, there be poison in dissection wounds, it is altogether indefinite and capricious; the source is quite uncertain; we cannot point out any particular state of the parts dissected, or condition of previous disease, that will produce the effect. Again, in dissecting the same body, one suffers, others escape. Indeed the state of health of the individual is probably an important circumstance. These effects, which do not occur in strong and healthy persons, are more common towards the end than at the beginning of the anatomical season. Serious consequences have proceeded, in many instances, from wounds received in examining or sewing up the bodies of patients who had died of peritoneal inflammation, and more particularly of puerperal peritonitis, in which the morbid effusion into the peritoneal cavity may be supposed to have been introduced into the wound, and to have made the noxious impression. Similar effects, however, may be pro- duced by wounds received in the dissection of other bodies, and in any stage of freshness or decay. Perhaps it has hap- pened more often where the body has been fresh. In the only instance in which I have suffered, there was inflam- mation and slight suppuration of the axillary glands, from examining in the middle of the day the body of a patie nt who had died in the morning. So far as I know, there is no ground for fear of receivingDISSECTION WOUNDS. 279 through dissection wounds the peculiar disease which may- have affected the individual during life, except in the cases of small-pox and glanders. The venereal disease has, I believe, never been thus communicated, nor has any peculiar effect resulted from wounds received in examining cases of cancer or other malignant diseases. Some of the effects which seem peculiar may be equally produced under other circumstances; for instance, the mor- tification of the skin round the puncture in the case of the physician, and the subsequent loss of vitality in the last two phalanges of the finger. Both these changes may have been caused by the free cauterization resorted to in the case. I saw an exactly similar limited mortification around a puncture of the finger, caused by the end of a needle pushed forcibly in sewing without the protection of a thimble. I saw it about thirty hours after the accident. The patient had passed a sleepless night, with severe disturbance of the stomach. Free division of the parts on the palmar surface of the last phalanx, which were tense, gave complete ease. I have witnessed three or four instances in which the last two phalanges of a finger have mortified under the inflam- mation induced by the neglect of trivial injuries, which the sufferers almost invariably attribute to poisoning of the parts. Treatment.—Prudence would suggest, under all circum- stances, simple measures of precaution, such as effective ablution, and covering the part with an adhesive plaster, particularly if the occupation of dissection should be con- tinued. The solution of alum, said to be kept at hand in some establishments, is certainly not preferable to clear water, if so good. Nitrate of silver should not be resorted to except for a special reason, and the application should then be confined to a denuded surface. If inflammat: cion280 DISSECTION WOUNDS. should occur, rest of the part should be enjoined. Leeches may be required, with fomentation, and poultice, probably also evacuation of the alimentary canal. Should inflamma- tory disturbance increase in violence and extent, free leeching may become necessary. If suppuration should occur in the finger or hand, par- ticularly in the theca, under fascia, or in any deep situation, it should be opened early. The part should be punctured, if the presence of matter is rendered probable by the symp- toms, without waiting until fluctuation is manifest. If high local inflammation be attended with constitutional disturbance of inflammatory character in a person of robust constitution and good health, general bleeding and other antiphlogistic measures may be advisable. A remarkable example of this kind is afforded by the following case: A gentleman of large frame, full muscular development, and in excellent health, scratched his thumb in sewing up the body of a female who had died of peritoneal disease. Most violent pain came on in the night, shooting up the limb, which swelled, and became hot, with great constitutional disturbance, marked by headache, restlessness, agitation, nausea, and shrunk countenance. He immediately lost thirty ounces of blood by venesection. On the next day the limb was greatly swelled, with inflammation of the absorbents. Leeches were applied to the part, and cold to the head. The swelling and tension of the limb, with great pain and con- stitutional disturbance, were all worse on the following day, when venesection was twice repeated, with numerous leeches on the limb. I saw this gentleman, an intelligent and well- informed surgeon, on the following day, the fourth from the commencement of the attack. There was inflammatory enlargement and tension of the entire limb, with groat suffering. The patient believed that matter had formed inDISSECTION WOUNDS. 281 the ball of the thumb, which was enlarged and painful, and I made a deep incision at his urgent request; a small quantity of pus escaped, and subsequently thirty ounces of blood flowed, with relief of the hand. There was still intense suf- fering in the forearm and arm, which could only be relieved by the local abstraction of blood, for which purpose leeches were put on by handfuls, without counting, from time to time during this and the following day. There was now a complete change in the local and constitutional symptoms, a lowered pulse, with general depression. Opium was resorted to, with generous diet, and gradual but complete recovery of health and strength, which lasted to the time of his death at a somewhat advanced age. But when the nervous symptoms, or those of irritation predominate, general depletion or other lowering measures would be injurious. Local bleeding by leeches may be necessary, and opium to quiet irritation. The strength to be supported by mild nourishment, with suitable cordials. A complete contrast to the foregoing picture was presented in the state of a young physician who had pricked the fore- finger in sewing up a body. Some pain was felt during the day; it increased on going to bed, and became so severe as to deprive him entirely of sleep. I found him on the fol- lowing morning with a haggard countenance, expressive of anxiety and alarm, a small and feeble pulse, with great sense of weakness, and severe pain of the finger, without much external change. It was determined by another medical friend and myself to recommend an immediate glass of brandy and water with laudanum, such liquid nourishment and stimuli as could be taken, fomentation, and warm poultice to the part after leeching. These means were most bene- ficial. Suppuration, however, took place in the theca, with sloughing of the tendons.CHAPTER XIII. SCALDS AND BURNS. The application of heat to the human body will cause, according to its degree, slight inflammation, mere redness of the skin (erythema); more considerable inflammation, with vesication, without or with subsequent mortification of the skin, either superficial or in its entire thickness; or complete disorganization and death of the affected parts to a less or greater depth, according to the intensity of the heat and the duration of its application. The term scald is applied to the injury caused by hot water and other similar liquids, where the heat is not greater than 212° Fahr., the boiling point of water. The transient application of hot water causes inflammation and vesication, that is, the elevation of the cuticle by a serous fluid effused from the capillaries of the skin, similar to that caused by blistering. If the application be continued, it excites violent inflammation, with superficial mortification as its result. Other liquids, such as oil and resinous matters, which are susceptible of much higher temperature than water, and great heat in other shapes, kill the parts, reducing them to a black, firm mass, which shrinks and curls up as far as its connexions with the living parts will allow. This brown or black disorganized substance, is called an eschar. Eax<>Pa 13SCALDS AND BUKNS. 283 the name given by the Greeks to the burnt and discoloured surface of an altar where the fire has been kindled. Hence its application to denote a burnt place in the human body. The name eschar is equally applied to parts disorganized and dis- coloured by chemical agents; and these substances are called, in reference to their action on the human body, escharotics. A slough is a part disorganized by a previous peculiar disturbance of the circulation. Eschar denotes disorgani- zation by immediate chemical action. Thus, eschar is an effect of external, slough that of internal agency. The essential nature of the disturbances excited by the action of heat on the human frame, that is, of the inflam- mation, with its local effects of serous effusion, suppuration, and mortification, the subsequent processes of granulation and cicatrization, and of its sympathetic influences, is not different from that of the corresponding effects consequent on the action of other causes. The two points of consequence are, the degree of injury, that is, whether it be inflammation and vesication, or disorganization, and its extent. The prognosis turns principally on the latter; the slighter mischief, when extensive, is dangerous; the most considerable, when of small extent, is free from risk. In the worst cases, the powers of life are prostrated by the shock of the injury, and never recover; death ensues in a few hours. In extensive burns of a less serious description a violent impression is made on the nervous system, and hence arise disturbance and depression of the circulation, respiration, and digestive organs. The symptoms are : small, rapid, and feeble pulse ; faintness; the respiration, at first, light and failing, becomes laborious and stertorous; there is coldness of the surface with chills, shivering, lividity of countenance, sickness, and thirst. The patient may sink under the con- tinuance and aggravation of these symptoms, or reaction284 SCALDS AND BURNS. may take place. The danger of this state is greatest in the first three or four days j at the end of that time reaction will probably have become established. When scalds and burns of considerable extent are not attended with these dangerous symptoms, they cause severe pain, and much febrile disorder. Remember the local suf- fering and general disquiet caused even by a boil, that is, by inflammation in a spot of the skin and subjacent tissue. What must you expect when a considerable portion of the surface is highly inflamed ? Injuries of the trunk are more dangerous than those of the extremities. Although life should not be endangered, the local mischief and its repair may involve subsequent deformity or impaired function. Treatment.—Two methods of treatment, apparently oppo- site, have been employed in different cases, namely, warm and cold applications. In slight cases of scalds, more particularly, we may adopt the usual course of preventing or lessening local inflammation by means of cold, using cold spring water, vinegar and water, saturnine lotion. Greater cold may be produced by applying ice, or by the evaporation of alcohol or ether. The im- mediate immersion of a scalded part in cold water may so check inflammation as to prevent vesication. If the part or the patient should become chill, the cold should be discontinued. Vesicated or denuded parts may be covered by light and soft dressing. The linimentum calcis, made of linseed oil and lime water in equal parts answers the purpose perfectly well. This mild and soft liniment, spread thickly on lint, gives efficient protection to the injured surfaces in the great majority of bums and scalds, and should not be changed as long as the parts are easy. It is familiarly known as the Carron oil, being theSCALDS AND BUKNS. 285 general, if not the universal remedy for these injuries in the great Scotch iron foundry bearing the same name. It is a question whether vesications should be opened. The object of treatment is to prevent or lessen inflammation ; if this is accomplished, it is immaterial whether vesications are opened or left entire. If the part is easy there is no reason for interference. Should there be any good reason for letting out the fluid of a blister, make a small puncture; the raised cuticle subsides and still protect the sentient cutis, on which a new covering is soon produced. Exposure of the cutis should be carefully avoided, as the mere contact of the atmosphere would be painful. In the more extensive burns, attended with prostration of the vital powers, another mode of proceeding is required. When the patient is comatose or shivering, with feeble pulse, cold extremities, and livid countenance, it would be madness to apply cold ; life is already reduced to a feeble spark, which such treatment would extinguish. Here the state of the system is the most important consideration, though that of the part is not to be neglected. We must exert ourselves to restore and maintain the sinking powers of life. Brandy is the best cordial; it may be administered in gruel or arrow- root, one part of spirit to two or three of the vehicle; the mixture to be given in small quantities at short intervals. When there is much pain and restlessness, the depression of the circulation being less strongly marked, opium is advisable. In the most severe cases the patient is nearly if not altogether insensible, and the disposition to stupor and coma is an objection to the use of opium. The use of stimuli must be closely watched, with constant reference to the state of thd circulation. The quantity should be lessened when reaction has begun, and they should be with- drawn as that proceeds, fluid nourishment being substituted286 SCALDS AND BURNS. When suppuration begins in scalds and burns, the con- stitutional excitement is sometimes so considerable as to require salines, with antimony and nitre, together with mild regimen. Local means.—-To structures actually disorganized appli- cations can be of no service. Yet even such parts and the entire body should be covered warmly, to prevent chilliness. Cotton-wool is now recognised as the best application for the injured parts and their neighbourhood, its use having been suggested in America by the accidental circumstance of a badly burnt child having been placed on an emergency in a basket of cotton, with which it soon became covered, and then quiet. A tolerably thick layer of the wool should be placed on the burnt or scalded part, and lightly confined by suitable bandages. It completely answers the two im- portant purposes of preserving the heat and taking off pressure from the prominent points in the various attitudes of the body. When this kind of dressing has been properly applied and a suitable stimulus administered, the patient soon becomes easier. He remains at perfect rest, the covering not requiring renewal or change possibly for weeks, at all events not so long as he feels comfortable. If discharge should appear at any point, a little wool may be added in that situation, or a partial renewal of the covering may be advi- sable. The separation of eschars, and the repair of the surfaces often go on most favorably on this plan, by which the severe suffering from the renewal of dressings and the exposure to the air of extensive denuded and sensitive sur- faces is entirely avoided. The treatment by cotton has nearly superseded a method in very general use previously, Waving been introduced by Mr. Kentish of Newcastle, who had seen much of the worst burns in the collieries of that district. In this plan, which'287 SCALDS AND BURNS. may be said to have answered its purpose well, the burnt parts were sponged with oil of turpentine, warm, then covered with a liniment <af resin ointment and oil of tur- pentine. The dressings, confined by light bandages, were not to be renewed so long as the patient continued comfortable. "When fresh dressings were applied, care was taken not to chill the parts by opening the whole at once, or leaving the parts open. Poultices of linseed or bread are useful when the sepa- ration of sloughs is going on. The large destruction of the skin leaves extensive granulating surfaces, with copious discharge, of which the cicatrization is extremely tedious. When these are painful, powdered chalk or calamine, with some opium, may be strewed over the surface. A good, nutritious diet is necessary to sustain constitutional power. Profuse discharge is sometimes advantageously checked by astringent solutions. Where mortification does not extend through the entire depth of the skin, cicatrization is accom- plished rapidly, as it begins and proceeds over the entire surface at one and the same time; on the other hand, there is exuberant granulation with tardy cicatrization where the skin is wholly destroyed and the injury extends to the subjacent cellular stratum. Here pressure, with escharotics to the elevated margin of the sore are required. When burns with much loss of substance occur in the face, lower jaw, neck and chest, or on the limbs in their flexures, the cicatrices, in proportion as they contract and acquire solidity, displace and alter the form of the moveable parts within their range, so as to cause distressing deformity often with great imperfection of movement. Change in the form and position of the eyelids involves injurious exposure of the eyeball; the entrance of the nostrils may be contracted, with destruction of the alae nasi; the lower lip and the jaw may be288 CAUTERIES, ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL. everted and drawn down on the chest, with constant escape of saliva, and inability to close the month, or to move the Lead except in slight degree. The movements of an upper limb may be lost by the arm becoming fixed to the side of the chest, and that of a joint may be rendered imperfect by a cicatrix over it in the form of a bridle. These evils may be partially remedied for a time by cutting through the cica- trix, but they return as the incision heals. Very slow and gradual extension by means of instruments is the best mode of treatment. The position of parts should be closely watched during the progress of healing, so as to omit no precaution calculated to prevent or to lessen the extent of mischief so serious. CAUTERIES, ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL. Several powerful agents, capable of disorganizing the parts to which they may be applied, have been employed in the practice of surgery at different times. The most potent of these, iron instruments called cauteries, raised to the highest degree of heat, were so commonly in use heretofore, that a chafing dish with burning charcoal and the requisite instrumental supply was regularly carried round with the surgeon on his ordinary hospital visits. Although these rough means have for a long time given way to the milder treatment suggested by an improved pathology and therapeutic system, they are still in occasional use. They are undoubtedly powerful agents, although our confidence in them is not so strong as that expressed in the old statement-" Quod medicamenta non sanat, ferrum sanat, quod ferrum non sanat,^ignis sanat, quod ignis non sanat, id prorsus insanabile est." They are still more frequently used on the continent than by EnglishCAUTEEIES. 289 practitioners. The hot iron is used in two degrees of heat, the highest or white, a lower or red heat. The former destroys instantaneously, and is said to give less pain than the latter. As its necessary proximity in action to the surround- ing parts would injure them, they should be protected by some layers of wetted paper, in which a hole is cut to expose the part requiring the cautery. The red heat will often suffice; and its transient application in this degree will some- times enable us to accomplish, in an easy manner, effective but extremely superficial disorganization. An infant under eight weeks of age had one side of the face and lower jaw, with part of the ear, covered by a thin nsevus, which had spread to this extent from a small spot observed near the nose soon after birth. It was confined to the skin, not forming one mass, but in separate portions, scattered irregularly over the space mentioned, and communicating by vascular ramifica- tions. It was completely destroyed by a red iron passed quickly over the principal portions, and leaving light-brown marks behind. I saw the child a few years after, and should hardly have known that anything had been done to the face if I had not been reminded of it. Cases of nsevus are not unfre- quent in which this method might be resorted to with advan- tage. An anaesthetic might be employed if this powerful mode of revulsion were objected to simply from the dread of pain. A more frequent form of actual cautery is the moxa, a treatment imitated from the Chinese, who use the downy substance derived from an Artemisia, compressed and formed into cones, which are placed on the part, lighted at the apex, and allowed to burn out on the skin. We employ cotton dipped in solution of nitre; when dried, it is compressed so as to form cylinders about an inch in length and from half an inch to an inch in diameter, kept in their proper form by a bit of linen or calico, of which the ends are sewn together, 19290 BSCHAKOTICS. This is held on the part by a small instrument with a ring of metal and a wooden handle. It is ignited at the top, and may be kept in strong combustion by the blowpipe until it is burnt out, when the portion of skin is reduced to a brownish eschar and there is considerable redness to a greater or less extent in the circumference. Pure potash, fused and formed into sticks for convenience of application, is employed either to destroy morbid growths or diseased surfaces, or to disorganize a portion of skin for the establishment of an issue. It quickly destroys the tissues, reducing them to a dirty brownish pulp, and the destruction may be carried to any desired depth by wiping away the disintegrated tissues with lint, and then renewing the appli- cation. Its great deliquescence, which would extend the escharotic action further than we might wish, must be guarded against. Thus, in making an issue, we put together two or three portions of adhesive plaster, and cut a hole in the centre of the required size of the issue, and rub this part sufficiently with the caustic. A piece of plaster is then put over it, the whole is removed in three or four hours, and a poultice is sub- stituted, which is to be continued until the>char is separated. In another mode of proceeding, sometimes preferred, the pure potash is combined with an equal proportion of quick lime, which is a caustic like the potash, but not used alone in surgery. The two powders are to be rubbed together and put into a stoppered bottle. When required for use the desired quantity is moistened by alcohol, so as to form a mass called Vienna paste. This is a new name for an old remedy, the combination of quick lime with pure potash having been well-known in the hospitals of London at least from the very beginning of the present century under the name of Calx cum Kali puro, or paste caustic, soft soap having been employed instead of alcohol to make theESCHAKOTICS. 291 powders into a paste. Tor making an issue a portion of this paste, as thick, at least, as a half-crown, is placed in the hole cut in the plaster, then covered over, and the whole left on for six or eight hours. The nitrate of silver, although in such general and daily- use that the simple term caustic is understood both by sur- geons and others to designate this substance, is not as Mr. Higginbottom has justly observed, an escharotic. When effectively applied in substance or in strong solution, it may but does not always, vesicate, without acting more deeply. When applied to a moist surface, as that of a mucous mem- brane or an ulcer, it is immediately decomposed by the common salt found in all animal fluids, and converted into a muriate of silver, characterised by its white colour. It is thus that it may be taken into the stomach with impunity in large doses. Its astringent action on the minute vessels of the skin and of other structures to which it is applied is so unequivocally advantageous, that it is probably the most general and useful of all surgical applications. The solution in distilled water is a convenient form of the remedy, varying in strength from one or two grains to the ounce, the latter being the most common, to that of twenty or even thirty grains to a drachm. As the action of the remedy is quite superficial, the last-mentioned twenty-grain solution may be applied by means of a camel-hair brush with perfect safety to more or less extensive surfaces, the skin having been first cleared by effective ablution. The chloride of zinc, introduced of late years, is so powerful an escharotic that it is seldom used alone, though it does not act through the cuticle. It is most commonly combined with an equal proportion of plaster of Paris (sulphate of lime) or wheat flour. The powder is mixed, at the time of name with water, so as to form a paste, which may be spread on292 ESCHAKOTICS. lint to a greater or less thickness, according to the depth of structures which it may he wished to destroy. Its ad- vantages are that, in this way, it may he made to act deeply, that it exerts no other injurious action, locally nor con- stitutionally, so that it is free from the dangers inseparable from the use of arsenical caustics. The whitish-brown adherent eschar which it forms separates favorably under poulticing, and is succeeded by a healthy granulating surface. The great disadvantage is in the extremely severe pain attendant on the process. A violent disturbance is excited in the part and neighbourhood, with vivid redness, sense of heat and burning almost intolerable, equally uncontrollable by warm or cold applications, though the latter, including iced water or freezing mixtures, are, perhaps, the most serviceable. This pain may last for many hours in spite of opiates. It is sometimes used in solution for the destruction of a painful, malignant ulceration, as in cancer. The fluid of the late Sir W. Burnett, for the preservation of sails and cordage, is a solution of this chloride, and answers the purpose very well for employment in this way, either in its ordinary strength or somewhat diluted. Of late years the cancer curers have substituted this chloride for the dangerous arsenical preparations formerly employed. A morbid mass may be destroyed by it in some time and with great suffering, being succeeded by a healthy granulation and cicatrization. This is called a cure, though cancerous induration is commonly either left in the circum- ference at the time or quickly developed after the so-caUed cure. An American quack of this kind made many dupes in England a few years ago, by colouring it with the red juice of an American plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis.) The liquid perchloride of iron is a recent and valuable addition to the resources of surgery in various ways. In293 ESCHAROTICS. full strength it is a powerful escharotic, quickly disorganizing and blackening the textures to which it is applied, though not acting through the cuticle. It will thus advantageously supersede the actual cautery as a means of arresting haemor- rhage. Even when considerably diluted it coagulates albumen and thus affords assistance in stopping bleeding. The acid nitrate of mercury, in which the metal is dissolved by the aid of heat in an excess of acid, is an escharotic fluid used in France, being applied by means of a camel-hair brush. It is less potent than the perchloride of iron. Arsenious acid (white arsenic) is a powerful escharotic, capable of destroying parts to which it is applied, producing a brownish-white, tough slough, on the separation of which a healthy granulating surface follows. The possibility of its absorption and consequent poisonous action is the strongest objection to its employment for purposes which can be answered equally well by other agents of perfectly safe cha- racter. Nitric, muriatic, sulphuric acids, and the chloride of antimony, are powerful escharotics, of which the destructive action is not attended with any other danger to the part or to the constitution. The latter, however, is almost out of use, although its effect is said to be produced without great pain.CHAPTER XIV. SYMPATHETIC EFFECTS OP LOCAL INJURIES, IMMEDIATE AND REMOTE—DELIEIUM TREMENS-TETANUS. Although I have already spoken of the general disturb- ance excited by local inflammations as an essential part of their history, and of the changes and varieties they exhibit in connexion with the progress and various results of such affections, several points of more or less importance con- nected particularly with the effects of local injuries still remain for consideration. Injuries not unfrequently produce immediate disturbance of the circulation; there is depression of the pulse, sometimes actual fainting, with coldness and paleness of the surface. Rest, with or without gentle stimuli, soon removes these symptoms, which are usually transitory. They are, however, sometimes produced by the most trifling causes, such as intro- ducing a bougie or by a wound with a little bleeding, while the most serious accidents may occur without such an effect. The stomach may suffer, sickness and even vomiting coming on. I saw a poor woman who had hurt the last phalanx of the forefinger by the end of a needle which had penetrated the skin. The part swelled a little and became painful. She was soon sick, and passed the night without rest, retelling and vomiting from time to time. She vomited while I examinedSYMPATHETIC EFFECTS OF INJURIES. 295 the part next day. I cut down to the bone with immediate relief, the part being swelled and tense, and she recovered quickly. Chills and shivering, rigors in technical language, sometimes occur; an effect referable to the muscular system, though we do not see clearly how the influence is brought about. The case is more unequivocal in tetanus, which does not come on until some days after the injury. Delirium tremens.—There is a great and violent shock of the nervous system in gunshot wounds, bad burns, and other very serious injuries, accompanied or soon followed by depression of the circulation. In less serious cases there is temporary agitation, anxiety, and alarm. In some instances, either of serious or comparatively unalarming character, there may have been nothing unfavorable at the time or for some days after an accident, when a peculiar disturbance of the nervous system begins to show itself. The patient, who has been without complaint, becomes uneasy and restless, being at the same time talkative. He moves about without apparent purpose, and would be described as fidgety. He becomes rambling and incoherent, and soon delirious. If not watched, he would get out of bed, although with a fractured limb, wanting, as he says, to go home. He fancies that he sees strange persons or beings in the room, or that he is pursued by the police. There is total want of sleep. The pulse is accelerated, but feeble or not strong. The head may be heated and per- spiring, and there is often copious general perspiration from the violent efforts and movements of the patient. The two leading features of this singular affection, which is not un- frequent in the cases of accident brought into the London hospitals, are aptly denoted by its name, delirium tremens. In reference to the habits and state of constitution which pre- dispose to this affection, it may be observed that a large proportion of those accidents have occurred to persons in a296 DELIRIUM TREMENS. state of drunkenness, and consequently that the complaint is much more frequent in males than in females. It occurs not unfrequently in great drinkers, especially of ardent spirits, without any exciting cause, as a spontaneous affection, so that the name of traumatic delirium, under which it is spoken of by Dupuytren, gives too limited a view of the subject. In the London hospitals it is seen principally in those who, working hard and earning good wages, are enabled to indulge their appetites without restraint, especially with animal food, gin, and porter, of which latter they frequently swallow excessive quantities daily. In the great London breweries I have understood they are allowed to drink as much as they please. When received into an hospital on account of accident, the supply of stimulus is at once cut off, and they are reduced to a slender diet, consisting partly, however, of milk and bread, both of the best quality. The brain soon feels the effect of the change inevitably produced under these circumstances in the condition and movement of the circulating fluid, the unfavorable influence being probably increased by inactivity in bed, and manifested unequivocally in the spirits, temper, and want of rest, or in the more or less violent derangement of the mental faculties and moving powers. Our experience of these effects leads us to adopt preventive measures in the first instance, when their occurrence might otherwise be anticipated. Thus, we often allow such patients from the beginning meat diet and porter, sometimes with a glass of gin and water at bed-time, thus maintaining a condition of general health more favorable to the performance of the necessary restorative processes than could be expected under the strict regimen which has been often enjoined. The same principle must guide our treatment throughout the progress of such cases, especially when the repair of extensive injuries requires a long confinement. The sisters and nurses of ourDELIRIUM TREMENS. 29/ accident wards become well acquainted with this affection by constant observation, and thus sometimes put us on our guard by noticing its earliest symptoms, when preventive measures can be adopted with the best effect. The treatment of delirium tremens turns on two points, the use of stimuli and that of opiates. The former is the most important in the early stage, when it may possibly supersede the necessity of resorting to the latter. When, however, the want of sleep has come on in the full development of the complaint, opium must be resorted to, and must be used freely, as the nervous system is less ame- nable to its influence than under other circumstances. It is often necessary to increase the dose after smaller quantities to a drachm of laudanum or a grain of morphine. The tartrite of antimony may be advantageously combined with opium ; half a grain of this substance, with a moderate dose of opium, will do more good than double the quantity of the latter medicine alone. I have seen a grain of the tartrite in the same combination calm the nervous system completely when the smaller quantity had failed. It is certainly advisable to avoid the large and repeated doses of opium which have sometimes been necessary in the treatment of this affection. The late Mr. Jones, of Jersey, thought that he had discovered the required sub- stitute in large doses of tincture of digitalis, and has pub- lished several cases in which the plan has been completely successful. He gave half an ounce of the tincture, and repeated the dose, if necessary, in a few hours. It is in- teresting to know that we can give in such large quanti- ties a remedy which we have been accustomed to think it necessary to watch closely when administered in doses of a few drops. Mr. Jones has not given more than two half- ounce doses in any one case, reducing the quantity when he^yo TETANUS. has found it advisable to persevere with the remedy. This plan of treatment has been followed by others, without doing harm in any case, but not with invariable success. To a female, about fifty, with a bad fracture of the leg, by whom two or three large doses of laudanum had been taken without effect, T gave three drachms of the tincture, which quieted her immediately and permanently, inducing a tranquil state of the circulation, under which recovery went on most favorably. Dupuytren treated this complaint with laudanum injected into the rectum in the quantity of ten drops, which he seems to have found constantly successful. I have no experience of this treatment. It is hardly necessary to give a caution against confounding this drunkard's delirium with that of fever. The latter is preceded for some time, probably a few days, by actual fever; in the former delirium is the first symptom, and such constitutional disturbance as may take place is secondary. The violent restlessness and incessant agitation of the former do not take place in the latter. TETANUS. A serious affection of the muscular and nervous system, under this name, is observed as a remote consequence of local injury. The word tetanus, which is of Greek extraction, means tension or contraction; and tetanus may be defined as a state of spasm or permanent contraction of some portion or the whole of the voluntary muscles; rigiditas spastica is the expression of Cullen. When we say permanent con- traction, the expression must be understood with some limi- tation. The state of the voluntary muscles in this disease is, generally, that of spasm, but there are paroxysms of con- vulsions ; there is occasional relaxation of the muscles, and such is their state in sleep. We cannot, therefore, say that the voluntary muscles are permanently contracted through the whole period that this affection lasts. The state may beTETANUS. 299 considered permanent when the intervals of even partial relaxation are rare and distant. Tetanus may be either partial or general. When the muscles of the jaw alone are affected, the case is called trismus or, in popular language, locked-jaw. And this latter term, is used as a common phrase to denote tetanus, without meaning that the affection is confined to the muscles of the jaw. When the muscles of the back part of the trunk are affected so as to bend the body backwards, it is called opis- thotonos. This does not occur as a distinct and exclusive affection; the rigidity of the back is merely a part of the general disorder. The terms emprosthotonos and pleuro- sthotonos are given to what may be termed imaginary con- ditions, in which the body is said to be bent either forwards or to the side. Tetanus is either idiopathic or the result of injury, in the latter case it is called traumatic or sympathetic. The progress of the affection varies in rapidity, and hence it is divided into acute and chronic. In some cases the disease is less acute than in others, but it never lasts very long. The distinction into acute and chronic is less marked than in in- flammation. Idiopathic tetanus is rare in this country. During the last thirty years I cannot recall in my own experience more than two cases, in both of which the affection partook of the chronic character, and was nearly limited to the muscles of the face, neck, and spine. The pulse was hard, the tongue furred, and the bowels constipated. The patients ultimately recovered after active treatment, in which purging was a prominent remedy. Idiopathic tetanus, however, belongs to the department of the physician j my subject is the sympathetic or traumatic form of the affection. Traumatic tetanus, as the name implies, is consequent on,JUU TETANUS. injuries, particularly of the extremities, more rarely of the head, neck, or trunk. I saw it, however, once in a wound of the nose of unimportant character; the integument on the convexity of the organ was divided down to the bone by a fall from the horse, when the face came in contact with the ground in a gravelled road. The patient, a gentleman about fifty, was in good health at the time, and the apparently trivial wound was granulating quite favorably. It is caused most frequently by contused, lacerated, or punctured wounds. It has been supposed to arise, more especially, from injuries of nerves, but these organs are involved in all wounds of soft parts. It has been fancied that tetanus may arise from a nerve having been included with an artery in a ligature. This is probably an imaginary notion. At all events, tetanus rarely occurs in these climates after operations, although nerves must often be included in the same ligature with arteries* Tetanus may occur in all states or stages of a wound, when it is inflamed or sloughing, going on favorably, or when the process of repair is more or less advanced. The obvious inference from these circumstances is that the com- plaint does not depend on the nature or condition of the wound, but on something not yet ascertained in the state of the patient. Sir James Macgrigor, in his " Surgical History of the English Army in the Campaigns of Spain and Por- tugal" (f Medico-Chirurgical Transactions/ vol. vi), observed that tetanus occurred in all descriptions of wounds, from the slightest to the most formidable, and in all states, from the worst to the most favorable condition, even in that of healing. It does not appear until after a few days, from five to fifteen, according to Larrey. Sir James Macgrigor * In a case of tetanus at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, following a wound of the finger, the injured memher was amputated, and on its examination a small splinter of wood was found imbedded in the digital nerve.TETANUS. 301 considered that wounded persons were in no danger from this alarming malady after twenty-two days. It is more common in hot than in cold climates, but is not a frequent com- plication. In the Schleswig-Holstein war Stromeyer had only sis cases in a list of 2000 wounded. In the Hotel Dieu, in July, 1830, they had but one case of tetanus among the 390 patients wounded by gunshot. During the war in the Crimea its infrequency was remarked. Mr. Macleod knew of only six cases which occurred in camp, and of seven at Scutari ('Notes on the Surgery of the Crimean War/ p. 153). Of the former, one followed a compound fracture of the thigh, one a face wound with destruction of the eye, one an ampu- tation at the shoulder, one a flesh wound of the leg, and the other two occurred in wounds of the thigh without fracture. Sudden vicissitudes of temperature have been looked upon as powerful causes of tetanus, especially the change from a hot day to a cold and damp night. Such was the case in India after the battles of Ferozepore and Chillian- wallah, when the wounded lay exposed to cold nights after days of great exertion under a burning sun. The same fact was noticed by Larrey in the German campaign of 1809. The prevalence of tetanus, both idiopathic and traumatic, in hot climates, and particularly in the West Indies, where heat is looked upon as a predisposing and exciting cause, has been noticed by Sir Gilbert Blane, who remarked that of 810 wounded men who came under his observation in that part of the world in 1782, thirty were seized with tetanus, and seventeen died; while the influence of the opposite con- dition, that of extreme cold, was noticed by Dr. Kane, who tells us that while most of his party were more or less affected, he lost two men from an " anomalous spasmodic affection allied to tetanus, and that all his dogs perished from a like cause."ou<* TETANUS. Symptoms and course of the disease.—The muscles first affected are those of the jaw, face, and deglutition. There is stiffness of these parts, soon passing into more or less complete rigidity. The two rows of teeth are either held close together, or separable only in a slight degree. There is a peculiar fixed and characteristic expression of coun- tenance, caused by the involuntary action of the muscles on the moveable parts of the face, altogether at variance with the state and feelings of the patient, and hence called risus sardonicus. This facial spasm, together with that of the masseter and temporal muscles, keeps the mouth closed. Swallowing is difficult, and occasionally hardly practicable for a time. The back of the neck soon becomes rigid. A peculiar sensation is experienced behind the ensiform car- tilage, from which pain shoots to the back. This is nearly, if not always, present. The muscles of the spine and those of the abdomen then become rigid; the walls of the latter are as hard as a board, while the head and spine are so forcibly bent backwards that the body rests in the recumbent position on the occiput and pelvis. Lastly, the affection involves the limbs, so as now to include the whole voluntary muscular system, with the addition of the diaphragm, if the pain behind the ensiform cartilage depends on the state of that muscle. The disease seems to destroy life by exhaustion of the nervous power, but it may be suddenly fatal by spasm of the larynx or the heart. The state of the affected muscles is generally that of con- traction and rigidity, but convulsions or movements of violent and irregular character are brought on by slight causes, and are of the most painful kind. You can estimate this suffering by knowing the pain of cramp in the calf of the leg, which lasts only for a few seconds, and supposing this to affect the whole frame, and to be continued. The state of rigidity is attendedTETANUS. 303 with suffering, which, although great, is less than the agony of the convulsive paroxysms, which rapidly exhaust the patient. They have been called clonic, in contrast with the tonic or permanent spasm. The functions of the nervous system are nearly unimpaired. Cullen represents that the natural functions, those of the vascular, respiratory, and digestive systems are not disturbed. He states particularly that the circulation is not affected, that the blood is not altered, or, if changed at all, rather loose in consistence; that the appetite is not impaired, and that the functions of the digestive organs are performed regularly. This repre- sentation differs so entirely from the course of my own ex- perience, that'I can hardly suppose it to have been drawn from actual observation. The blood, instead of being loose in consistence, may be buffed and cupped. There is loss of appetite, with obstinate costiveness, considerable difficulty being experienced in obviating the latter. In the commence- ment of the affection the pulse, particularly in young and robust persons, is strong, and accelerated, rising from 100 to 120. The pulse, as well as the respiration, is accelerated in the convulsive attacks, when the patient is covered with profuse sweat. The violent spasms sometimes cause considerable local mischief, such as rupture of muscles, particularly the rectus abdominis, ecchymosis in the abdominal walls, about the fundus or sides of the bladder, or in the subperitoneal tissue. Examinations after death fail to disclose any morbid changes that are either constant or characteristic; they do not enable us even to localize the disease in any organ or system There may be in some instances subserous infiltration in the brain and increased quantity of fluid round the spinal cord and we may sometimes fancy that the latter is softened, but on other occasions these changes are not observed.ou-* TETANUS. The pathology of tetanus, therefore, still remains obscure. We naturally look to the spinal cord and the medulla ob- longata, but discover no clear evidence in these quarters. The voluntary muscles are obviously influenced sympa- thetically by the local injury through the medium of the nervous system; but we have not hitherto discovered how the spinal cord or other part of the nervous apparatus is affected, nor what is the source or character of the influence disturbing it. Costiveness, which has been observed as a marked feature of the affection by Boyer, has been present generally, if not invariably, and to a high degree, in the cases which have fallen under my own observation. Mr. Abernethy proposes the question, What is the state of the stomach and digestive organs between the receipt of the injury and the occurrence of tetanus? thereby implying the opinion that a loaded state of the alimentary canal may be one source of the mischief. Great alleviation of the spasms, and some- times their complete temporary subsidence, are produced by an effective clearance of the large accumulations, which often fill the intestines at the time of the attack. The prognosis is always very serious in traumatic tetanus, but much less so in the idiopathic form which is common in hot countries, where it often ends favorably; hence confi- dence in treatment and expectations of success are stronger in the latter than in the former. The more acute the form of the disease the more dangerous, and vice versa. Hippo- crates observed that if the patient survives the fourth day the chances are better, and Dr. Parry states that if the pulse does not exceed 100 or 110 on the fourth day there are great hopes ('Cases of Tetanus/ &c, 1814). Treatment.—The first question is, considering that the symptoms are the consequence of a local cause, will the removal of the cause put a stop to them ? In other words,TETANUS. 305 will the amputation of a finger, a thumb, or any other part, arrest the symptoms, and put a stop to the complaint ? We may, I believe, say confidently that it will have no such effect. Tetanus may occur when a wound is in a healing state, and making rapid progress to a cure. No doubt the complaint owes its origin to some condition of the wound and health prior to this healing state; consequently the removal of the part would be useless. Yet amputation of the extremity in which it may be situated has been pro- posed, even in late times, and by those whose authority is considered high in surgery; more particularly by Larrey, who recommends it in the surgical history of his military campaigns. He, however, adds, that it is only proper in cases of chronic tetanus, or at the very commencement of the symptoms in those of a more acute kind. He adduces but few cases, and even these do not furnish conclusive evidence on the point. It has been tried in some instances without satisfactory results. Perhaps, however, we should not be warranted in condemning it absolutely. There could be no objection to removing a finger, if in a bad and painful state, on the first appearance of alarming symptoms. From the great diversity and even directly opposite plans of treatment which have been and still are resorted to in this disease, we may conclude that no one method has hitherto re- ceived the general assent and sanction of the profession. The extremes include bleeding and purging on one hand, quinine, iron, and diffusible stimuli on the other. Differences in con- stitution and previous health, and the period of the affection, will account for something in this variety, but not for the complete therapeutic contrast, from which we can only draw the conclusion that the pathology of the affection is not yet ascertained. The state of the voluntary muscles has naturally led to the employment of antispasmodics, and especially of the 2030G TETANUS. most powerful of the class. Thus the treatment of tetanus has generally turned, in part at least, on the exhibition of opium. In tetanus the nervous system is less influenced by opium and other antispasmodics than under other circumstances, and thus they have sometimes been borne in very large doses without good or obviously bad effects. Dr. Babington gave 180 grains of opium in eleven honrs, and an ounce of tincture of opium in twenty-four hours. The history of idiopathic tetanus, affords many instances in which the free use of opium has been said to have cured. It has not the same beneficial result in the sympathetic form of the complaint. Bloodletting has been resorted to in tetanus, particularly in the early stage. Patients have been bled largely, and, in some cases, the blood has been buffed and cupped. Hence bloodletting may perhaps be a useful auxiliary remedy in some cases, although, considered alone, it is not capable of accomplishing the purposes we have in view. Mercury has been employed freely, so as to produce saliva- tion, frictions having been employed for this purpose. This does no good; indeed, in some instances tetanus has come on when the patients were under salivation at the time. The powerfully relaxing or depressing effect which tobacco exercises over the nerves and the muscular system has led to the employment of it in the form of clyster. This dangerous remedy has been of no service. Musk, camphor, and ether, have been exhibited in large doses; in fact, all in such doses as are supposed to exert a power over the muscular and nervous system. Bark, wine, tonics, and stimuli of all kinds, have been given very freely. If we were merely to look over the recorded cases ot tetanus, observing the means that have been employed andTETANUS. 307 their effects, we should feel totally at a loss for any principle to guide us in the treatment of this affection. It appears to me that those cases have done hest in which active aperients have been administered from time to time, so as to remedy the state of costiveness which exists at the commencement of the disease, and to prevent its recurrence, and in which at the same time opiates have been employed to mitigate the severity of the spasm. In some instances successful results have been procured by acting steadily on this plan. The points of treatment, therefore, on which I place reliance myself are, first, the free exhibition of aperient medicines, particularly the croton oil, most convenient from its activity in so small a dose and the consequent facility of adminis- tration, in order to unload the canal in the first instance and afterwards to prevent reaccumulation, and the use of such narcotics as may be sufficient to procure ease by controlling the spasms. Half a dram of laudanum, with or without a dram of the tincture of hyoscyamus, will generally be suf- ficient when the bowels have been evacuated, a fresh dose being administered as soon as the influence of the former on the spasms has ceased. In an exceptional case, such as that of a robust person with a full and strong pulse, a venesection in the first instance might be of service. Some years ago I was called to a case of tetanus under circumstances of imminent danger, where this plan of treat- ment was completely successful. It was that of a gentleman about fifty years of age, a robust man, of full habit, accus- tomed to free living, of very active mind, with various and important business on his hands at the time. The attack of tetanus occurred in the hottest time of the year. He was riding, when the horse fell, throwing him forwards, and his face came on the ground, so as to graze the dorsum of the nose, making a slight wound. He thought so little of the308 TETANUS. accident that lie did not discontinue his ordinary pursuits nor change his usual mode of living. The wound had just gone through the skin, and was very slight. At the end of about ten days, when it seemed on the point of healing, on sitting down to the table with some friends, he felt that he could not move his jaws freely. He had some difficulty in masticating and in swallowing his food. He was induced, by the importunity of his relations, rather than by his own feelings, to send for a medical person, who took a little blood from the arm, and gave him some opening medicine. He was worse the next day, when I saw him. At this time the symptoms of tetanus were well marked: spasmodic con- traction of the muscles of the jaw; he could not swallow ordinary food; pain behind the sternum, extending through to the spine. His pulse was full and strong, his bowels tolerably open; he had been bled, and taken opening medi- cine the day before. I told him he must go to bed, for he was then sitting up. He was bled, and I prescribed an active aperient. The blood was buffed and cupped, the opening medicine had acted powerfully, and he was better on the next day. Being desirous of producing still further action on the alimentary canal, I ordered a large dose of calomel and jalap, and that was followed up with a draught of the infusion of senna with salts. On this occasion, how- ever, the medicine produced no effect. The medical "gentleman in attendance gave him castor oil, which did not act; he then repeated the aperient draught, and gave a clyster. When I saw him on the next day, these means had not operated; I therefore directed immediately the administration of croton oil. He took a single drop in a teaspoonful of gruel. In an hour such an immense action occurred, and he discharged such a quantity of fecal matter as altogether astonished him- self and all about him. He filled the close stool pan com-TETANUS. 309 pletely. This was followed by relaxation of the rigid muscles and considerable relief of all the symptoms, but the complaint went on, and proceeded to the full development of tetanus over the whole body. The treat- ment of the case from this time consisted in the regular administration every day of croton oil, so as to ensure free action of the bowels. In the first instance a single drop pro- duced this effect, but after some time it was necessary to give a drop and a half. The evacuations that were produced by this medicine were very copious indeed, and it was observed by the medical gentleman in attendance that "we had got the secret in reference to tetanus." The muscles that before were rigidly contracted became comparatively relaxed at the time. The tetanic affection, however, proceeded until all the voluntary muscles became affected to as high a degree as I ever saw. The patient lay frequently for a considerable time with the limbs completely rigid, and then would have attacks of the most severe convulsions. It was necessary to exhibit opium, in order to control the attacks of spasm. Although in instances where opium has been trusted to alone it has failed to produce this effect, moderate doses in this case would suspend the paroxysms of convulsion for some hours, when it was necessary to repeat the dose. The use of opium in tetanus is not confined to the adminis- tration of the tincture, the solid drug, or morphine. The latter substance has been appbed in powder to the surface of the skin over the vertebral column, previously denuded by bHstering, I believe, without any particular advantage. The rapid and effectual manner in which the hypodermic in- jection of this remedy removes the severest pains without any injurious influence on the head or stomach strongly recommends its use in some cases of tetanus. The violence of the spasms has, in some instances, been controlled by310 TETANUS. this method of administering an opiate. The brain becomes quieted, and some hours of sound sleep may be procured, but unfortunately without influencing the progress of the disease. William D—, aged sixty, was admitted into St. George's Hospital, November 5th, 1858, with a gun-shot wound of the thigh. On the 13th he had a little wan- dering delirium. On the 14th trismus and other symptoms of tetanus supervened, and gradually increased during the two following days. On the 16th, at half-past 12 p.m., three quarters of a grain of morphine were injected in five drops of liquid. He was asleep in twenty-five minutes, and remained so for the greater part of the night, totally undis- turbed by the tetanic spasms, which recurred nearly every minute. Death finally ensued. (f Med. Times and Gazette/ March 5th and April 16th, 1859.) The Cannabis indica has been employed at Guy's Hospital in 1858 by Mr. Cock and Dr. Wilks, but " the cure was attributed more to the quantity of wine and beef tea taken than to the medicine." The powerful influence which anaesthetics, chloroform par- ticularly, are capable of exerting on the nervous and mus- cular systems, has naturally led to their being tried in tetanus. Some temporary ease, but no permanent benefit, has been experienced from them, while they seem to have been rather injurious on other occasions. A gentleman between forty and fifty had a bad gunshot wound of the foot; an entire charge of shot entered just above the heel from the muzzle of a fowling-piece, nearly in contact with the part. The charge went through the sole from behind forwards, coming out in a mass between the great toe and the second, without breaking any bone or injuring the exter- nal parts, except at the entrance and exit of the charge. Nothing unfavorable had occurred in the foot, which hadTETANUS. 311 been kept perfectly at rest, when, on the sixth or seventh day, tetanus came on in a most alarming form in the jaws and mnscles of deglutition, with entire inability to swallow. This distressing condition was completely removed by the use of chloroform, after which swallowing was quite easy, and the system was so far tranquillised as to give a more favorable impression of the case. Although the improvement lasted several hours, the hopes thus excited proved illusive, the symptoms returning with great violence, and proving fatal in less than forty-eight hours from the first outbreak. Some practitioners have relied chiefly on tonic and stimulating treatment, carrying it to a great extent by large doses of quinine and carbonate of iron, with or without beer, wine, spirits, and medicinal stimuli and cordials. The severe and almost incessant suffering inseparable from the complaint soon brings on great general weakness, under which the free use of quinine would be indicated, and certainly unobjec- tionable, if preceded and accompanied by the attentions to the state of the alimentary canal already enforced. Would it succeed as a sole remedy from the first, and would it super- sede the necessity of opiates in dealing with the terrible con- vulsive paroxysms ? The same observations are applicable to the use of iron, of which the carbonate, in its necessarily large doses, would be the most objectionable form where deglutition is difficult. The tincture of the sesquichloride would be more convenient. The employment of diffusible stimuli, under suitable precautions, would be consistent with the use of quinine and iron, and would be advantageous in the weakened condition to which the patient is reduced in the more chronic form of the disease after the greatest danger has passed. I know no evidence that it would be useful or even safe to give beer, wine, and brandy in large quantity from the beginning as the sole or principal treatment.313 TETANUS. The warm bath, which has been tried repeatedly, is now disused, from the belief that it is not only inefficacious, but sometimes hurtful, from the movements and disturbance which it involves where perfect rest is of the greatest con- sequence. In the West Indies cold baths have been exten- sively employed, with so .much success as to have been generally adopted. This statement refers to cases of idio- pathic tetanus, so frequent in tropical climates, of which a considerable proportion end favorably under different plans of treatment. The remedy has been employed here in the traumatic form of the disease, not only without benefit, but with clear proof of having hastened the fatal termination.CHAPTER XV. SPECIFIC DISEASES. SCROFULA. We use this term in two senses, either to designate the peculiar characters which distinguish a certain class of diseases, or to indicate the peculiarity of constitution which is generally original or connate, from which such peculiar character is derived. In the former sense, scrofula is equivalent to scrofulous disease, in the latter to scrofulous constitution. Thus, if we say of a person that he has scro- fula, we mean that he labours under some actual disease of scrofulous character. When it is said that scrofula exists in a family, the meaning is that individuals of the family in greater or smaller number, exhibit that original peculiarity or defect of constitution which is called scrofulous, although none of them may be suffering from disease at the time. The word scrofula is said to be derived from scrofa, which is the Latin for a sow; though the ground for the deriva- tion is not apparent. The term struma, properly applied to swellings of the neck, is often used as equivalent to scrofula. Popularly, these diseases are often denominated the evil, or the king's evil, from the belief entertained in former times that the touch of a royal personage would cure them.314. SCROFULA. There is an insensible transition from common to scro- fulous disease; hence the diagnosis is often somewhat uncertain. The word scrofula, indeed, denotes a difference in the character and progress, not in the essential nature of disease. For scrofula consists of inflammation and its various effects, namely, interstitial deposition, enlargement, induration, suppuration, ulceration; with the restorative processes of granulation and cicatrization. The description of scrofula, therefore, embraces the modifications which these processes undergo in a particular class of subjects, and its treatment consists in various de- viations from the ordinary mode of proceeding required by those modifications, and by the constitutional peculiarities on which they are founded. In comparison with common inflammation, scrofulous is less active and rapid; the inflammatory characters are not so strongly marked. It has not the firm swelling, the bright- red colour, and the acute pain of common inflammation, nor does it, in general, exert so powerful a sympathetic influence on the constitution. Yet we occasionally see, in the scrofulous affections, which, in respect of redness, swelling, heat, and pain, are closely allied to common inflammation, so that the distinction of acute or chronic is applicable to both cases. Scrofulous suppuration is slow in its progress, increase, and advance to the surface. The skin is extensively detached and thinned before it ulcerates. Scrofulous abscesses are, therefore, generally chronic. The contained fluid is mucous or serous rather than purulent, or it is a very thin pus, with a mixture of flakes and curdy matter. Scrofulous inflammation seldom terminates in mortification. When it does occur it is not as a consequence of violent inflammation. Without much local disturbance, part of a glandular swelling may be deprived of vitality and convertedSCROFULA. 315 into a fibrous, dense kind of substance, which is slowly separated. It is a loss of vitality peculiar to scrofula, and generally associated with suppuration. Scrofula frequently appears in the form of chronic inflam- mation. The part is enlarged, perhaps slightly red, sometimes not discoloured. The affection lasts a long time without es- sentially impairing functions, or at least leading to any serious ill consequence. It is enlargement without important change of structure. Sometimes, however, adventitious deposits of tu- berculous character or of cheesy or curdy matter take place. The formation of tubercles is a common and character- istic form of scrofula, especially in internal organs. These are small grayish or whitish bodies, varying in size from that of a pin's head upwards; tolerably firm, not organized. They are irregularly disseminated, increasing in number, coalescing into groups; they gradually soften, loosen, and are broken up, portions of the tubercular matter coming away. A peculiar kind of suppuration occurs, and thus ex- tensive destruction of parts may ensue, as in the case of the lungs. The tuberculous matter may be deposited in larger and irregular masses, and may be infiltrated in the substance of an organ. In one shape or other this tubercular mischief is incidental to most of the structures and organs of the body. Scrofulous ulceration is languid and inactive, with thin discharge. The surface of the sore is pale or livid, without granulation. The margin may be smooth, red, and elevated. Sometimes the base is raised a little. The ulcers which remain after a scrofulous abscess are indolent, the cicatrices being more or less raised, puckered, and irregular. Scrofulous sores often go on long with little change. The parts most susceptible of scrofulous disease arc, in the first place, the absorbent glands, more particularly those of the neck and mesentery. The glands of the groin are316 SCROFULA. rarely affected; and those of the axilla still less frequently. One of the principal exciting causes of scrofulous diseases is exposure to cold; hence it is that the glands of the neck are so frequently the seat of the scrofulous attack. The mesenteric glands suffer from the irritation of the alimentary mucous membrane, to -which the scrofulous are very liable, the glandular affection being here secondary, as it is in so many other instances. The glands suffer in various ways: from inflammation and suppuration, which are most frequently but not always chronic. The skin becomes thin, red., and livid, then ulce- rates. Thin pus escapes sometimes with portions of cheesy substance,and a languid, scrofulous ulcer ultimately remains. There may be simple enlargement without pain; the gland is loose, the surrounding cellular texture being unaffected. One gland or several may be affected. The whole chain may be involved under the jaw, from ear to ear, and down the neck, forming great, unsightly swellings, without change in the skin. Sometimes a succession of inflammations, sup- purations, and ulcerations, gradually attacks all these glands, leaving the jaw and neck covered with scars. Occasionally there is interstitial deposition of chalky matter, in the glands. 2. Scrofula, in some of its various shapes, attacks other parts of glandular structure, such as the lip, eyelids, female breast, testicle. 3. Mucous membranes, particularly that of the eye, so constantly exposed to all the most powerful external causes of disease; that of the nose, throat, and respiratory organs, and that of the alimentary canal, so easily disordered by irregu- larities of diet. The urinary mucous surfaces, not being exposed by their situation or office to similar exciting causes, generally escape. 4. The skin, so necessarily exposed to all the externalSCROFULA. 317 causes of disorder, and closely connected with subjacent parts which suffer primarily from scrofula, such as the glands of the neck, often suffers from inflammation and ulceration in the scrofulous. It may be the seat of chronic inflammation, with thickening and induration in the tubercular form, pro- ceeding to imperfect suppuration and ulceration. There may be scabbing of the exposed surfaces, with inactivity of the complaint and subsequent return. There may be per- manent thickening and discoloration in patches, as conse- quences of scrofulous eruption in the form of psoriasis, that is rough and red patches, with heat and itching, formation of scales ; or Assures, discbarge and excoriation. Inflammatory enlargement of the corresponding absorbent glands is likely to happen when such scrofulous eruptions are in an active state. 5. Inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and chronic abscess. 6. In the lungs it constitutes tubercular phthisis, the most frequent form of what is popularly called consumption. Other internal organs are less frequently the seat of tubercular disease. 7. The bones and joints are frequently affected by scrofula, causing in the former inflammation, with caries and necrosis; in the latter, disease of the articular extremities, affecting the joints, and called in common language white swelling. The liability to scrofula does not extend equally throughout the whole of life; it is chiefly confined to the period of growth, at least from the end of suckling to puberty. In many individuals, the whole of this time, is a succession of scrofulous attacks in the absorbent glands, in the eye, ear, skin, bones and joints, and often the disease exists in several of these parts at one and the same time. Puberty puts a stop to these ravages, and when the change in the con- stitution is accomplished the affections of the glands,318 SCROFULA. skm, eye, and other parts, soon disappear, and health is rested, with the appearance of strength suitable to the age. After, however, these earlier and chiefly external affections have come to an end, the disease not unfrequently, sooner or later, attacks more important parts, particularly the lungs, the mammary gland or testicle. Thus those persons who, after suffering much from scrofula in their early years, seem to have gained a healthy constitution at puberty, retain so much of the original imperfection as to remain through life more liable to disease than others. The great predisposing cause of scrofula is original pecu- liarity or' imperfection of constitution. We can have no hesitation in admitting this. The external marks of scrofula are generally understood to be thinness of the integuments, so that the superficial vessels are distinctly seen ramifying under them. The skin is so thin in some individuals that the course and ramifications of the subjacent vessels, and the colour of the contained blood, are quite discernible. The upper lip is thick, the eyelids red, the muscular flesh soft and flaccid. These circumstances are more or less observable in scrofulous subjects; but it is not so easy to explain the nature of that peculiarity which we designate as the scrofulous constitution, diathesis, or disposi- tion. Although the general outward appearances are in many instances unmistakeable, the deviations from the normal state of structural elements, if there are any such, have not yet been ascertained. Variety is the law of nature through- out the whole raDge of organized beings, and exists to its greatest extent in the bodily form and vital actions of our species. Each individual has something peculiar to himself in feature, form, corporeal and mental endowments. Some of these diversities are found in different degrees in so large a number of persons as to admit of their being grouped to-SCROFULA. 319 getter, and we might rationally expect to find that sus- ceptibility to particular forms of disease would belong to such a group. In many parts of Europe the scrofulous would form a large assemblage. Two kinds of constitution, m some respects considerably different from each other, may be ob- served in scrofulous persons. In one there is a pale and bloated countenance, which is languid and inexpressive, a large abdomen and flaccid muscles, a feeble circulation, with cold extremities. There is general languor in the bodily and mental functions. In the other there is much colour, great vivacity and irritability. The circulation is active, and easily accelerated. Both body and mind are active, often with early intellectual development and quick susceptibility of external influences. It has been inquired whether fair or dark persons are the most subject to scrofulous disease. In forming a conjecture on this point from what may come casually under our observation, we must remember that the fair-haired pre- dominate in the population of England. The result of our observations is, that it occurs in all complexions and all temperaments, and may be seen in negroes, at least when they are living in this country. I cannot agree in opinion with those who consider that the nature of scrofula is sufficiently explained as a state of debility. That word has its own signification in pathology, denoting the impaired state of vital power consequent on great injuries, serious and long-continued diseases. In the majority of cases this is a temporary condition, and gradually disappears under the restorative power of the constitution with suitable manage- ment. Speaking generally, scrofulous persons are weaker than those of sound constitution; they cannot perform the same amount of violent or continued exertion as those of sound constitution. External agencies affect them more°"u SCROFULA. powerfully; they arc less able to resist cold and other de- pressing influences. The marks of scrofula may be observed at an early age; they are original and hereditary. The latter term applies to the constitutional disposition, not to the disease. A person of scrofulous constitution may escape disease alto- gether under favorable circumstances and with great care; sometimes, however, all precautions are unavailing. The offspring of scrofulous parents is not necessarily scrofulous ; we often see differences in this respect between the different children of the same family. When both parents are scrofu- lous it is highly probable that the children will have the same constitution; when one parent only is affected, the children may or may not escape. The chances are more unfavorable in marriages of consanguinity. The most powerful among the exciting causes is cold, espe- cially when combined with moisture, exposure to cold winds, with snow and rain, fogs, and great vicissitudes of atmos- pheric temperature. Scrofula, therefore, is most prevalent in cold, damp, and variable climates, such as that of Great Britain, the north of France, and Germany, and the still more northern parts of Europe. The late Professor Beer has stated that in Vienna nine tenths of the ophthalmise of children are scrofulous; Benedict gives a similar proportion for Breslau. The late Dr. Gregory stated in his lectures that there was not a family in Scotland totally exempt from scrofula. An analogous representation is made by M. Guersent, so long the physician of the hospital for sick children in Paris. He says, " We may almost affirm that in our great cities no numerous family will be found in which, on tracing the pedigree upwards and downwards, we shall not meet with phthisical or scrofulous subjects." (f Diet, de Mede- cine,' vol. xix, p. 191.)SCROFULA. 321 Dr. J. Thomson says: " In this climate, at least, I think it may he fairly doubted whether there he any individuals who, in some period or other of their lives, are not liable to attacks of scrofula in some of the various forms which it assumes." ('Lectures on Inflammation/ p. 163.) If these representations should be admitted as well founded, it would save us the trouble of attempting to point out the external marks of scrofula, or to investigate its real nature. It is comparatively unfrequent in warm climates, though by no means unknown in them. The natives of warm regions suffer when they come into cold countries, as we see in indi- viduals of the dark races when they have lived some time in England. In the same way the monkey tribes, all of whom belong to warm climates, are subject in England to tuber- cular disease of the viscera. In this country the character of the disease varies according to season, being worse in winter and spring, better in summer and autumn. The next in order among the exciting causes is insufficient and unwholesome food, excess or irregularities in diet. These disturb the digestive organs, of which the mucous lining is easily disordered in such cases, and thus vitiate the nutrition of the body at its source. The injurious influence is aggra- vated by neglect of exercise, by sedentary and studious appli- cation for purposes of education, at an age when actipe exertion and sports in the open air would be more beneficial to mind and body. Thus disturbed digestive organs, pallid and dry skin indicating defective circulation in the capillaries, and flabby muscular flesh are generally found in these patients. Suckling children escape; they enjoy warmth, and have whole- some natural food. When several exciting causes act together, and in a powerful degree, they produce a state of constitution not dis - tinguishable from the naturally scrofulous. The crowded 21322 SCROFULA. dwellings of the poor, and their confined situations, their insufficient and unwholesome food, their deficient clothing, and want of domestic comforts, produce a state of the di- gestive, muscular, and cutaneous systems, not distinguishable from the scrofulous, and leading to similar morbid affections. This might be called acquired scrofula, as distinguished from that of hereditary origin. General exciting causes produce scrofulous forms of disease in those who have the predisposi- tion. When that is strong, disease will appear without any assignable exciting cause. Treatment.—As the numerous and various forms of scrofu- lous disease arise from a common cause, namely, natural imperfection of constitution, and as that original defect may be aggravated by mistaken and injudicious care, the treatment of those affected must be of general character, embracing their management in respect of diet, clothing, residence, exercise, and occupations. In comparison with these mea- sures, medical treatment, though by no means unimportant, is of subordinate consequence. Medicines, however, and surgical aid will have a better chance of success when their effect is favoured by attention to the important points alluded to above. The weakly appearance of scrofulous children, and the belief in debility as the cause of the mischief, has often led to the practice of ordering tonic medicines, such as bark and steel, and recommending the free use of animal food, with beer and wine. They who give such advice forget that indi- viduals of naturally weak constitutions cannot do or bear what can be done or borne by those of stronger frame. The active circulation of healthy growing children is quickly dis- ordered by stimulating food and drink; how then can we expect the weaker subjects of scrofula to bear such excite- ment? The strongest and healthiest child would soon beSCROFULA. 823 in a fever if allowed animal food twice a day with beer and wine, to say nothing of the bark and steel. The diet of the scrofulous should be easily digestible, nutritious, but not stimulating; a mixture of animal and vegetable nourishment has been found by universal expe- rience best for the human species. There is no advantage in making it principally animal for scrofulous subjects, nor in excluding vegetables. The quantity and quality of the food should be such as will sit lightly on the stomach; sense of weight, uneasiness, or excitement of the circulation after eating are warnings that should be attended to. The dinner may consist of some light animal food with well cooked vegetables; occasionally beef tea or broth with vegetable and farinaceous additions may suit a weakened stomach better. Milk and egg with bread and other farinaceous articles, will supply what may be further required. When the circulation is languid and the skin pale, some well made malt liquor or wine and water may be given once or twice daily. The more excitable subjects will not bear liquid stimuli in any shape, and solid animal food sometimes disagrees with them. They do well with light animal broths, milk diet, including farina- ceous matters, vegetables and ripe fruits. On the other hand, for the half starved, half clad, neglected and miserable children of the poorer classes, good diet and stimuli are the obviously necessary remedies, and combined with the cleanli- ness, warmth, and comfort of an hospital, soon call into action the restorative powers of the constitution. For adult persons, three meals a day are amply sufficient. Some robust individuals in active occupation take only two, and enjoy excellent health. Younger, and especially growing persons, require to take food more frequently, perhaps four times in the day; nothing should then be taken in the in- tervals. There are some adidts, who without being feeble re-324 SCROFULA. semble children in this respect, becoming weak, with a painful sense of sinking unless they take something to eat about once in four hours. The condition of the skin is a matter of importance in the management of the scrofulous, in whom a dry, harsh, and pallid state of the surface, shows clearly that the cutaneous circulation is imperfect, and that its important office as an excretory organ must be either partially deficient or alto- gether wanting. Warm bathing is advantageous; where this cannot be procured, daily ablution of the entire surface with tepid water and soap will answer the purpose, the temperature being gradually reduced, especially as strength improves, and according to the season of the year; the ablutions to be followed by a thorough dry rubbing. When strength is im- proved so that the shock can be borne,the shower bath, either cold or with the water slightly warmed will be serviceable. Warm clothing should be worn in such a state of skm, especially in the colder parts of the year. It is a very mis- chievous notion to suppose that the weakness which exists in scrofulous subjects can be remedied by hardening them, as it is termed j that is, by allowing them to be exposed to cold and vicissitudes of temperature, with insufficient clothing. The animal powers are comparatively defective, and should not be exposed to such trials. It is desirable that scrofulous subjects should have exercise; and that they should be aUowed to go into the air, properly protected from cold. It is found, by experiments on animals, that the power of gene- rating and preserving heat is less in young subjects than in adults; and less in proportion as the individual is younger. According to the age and power of the young person, walking and riding may be resorted to, with the active sports and pursuits natural to childhood, with the benefit of exer- cising and strengthening the muscles. There will be suffi-SCEOFULA. 325 cient time both for amusing occupations and moderate studies. Sedentary employment of all kinds should be limited in amount, the improvement of health and strength being the primary object, while learning and accomplishments are of secondary importance in both sexes. During the period of suckling, children are warmly clad, and kept much in contact with the mother, enjoying a supply of healthy nourishment produced by the hand of nature. Thus the two great exciting causes of scrofula under other circum- stances, exposure to cold and insufficiency or unwholesomeness of nutriment, are prevented in the case of infants at the breast. Change of air.—The greatest benefit is derived in cases of scrofula from residence in pure air, this alone, in many in- stances, being capable of doing more towards mending the state of the system than either external applications or internal remedies. It is vain, in many cases, to attempt relieving diseases of this kind while the patients remain in large towns, in crowded dwellings, in confined situations, and sedentary occupations. As soon as they escape and get into pure country air, the diseases which we had been attempting to remedy, but ineffectually, will get well of themselves. Sea air, however, has no specific influence over scrofula. The disease may arise in those who were born and have always lived near the sea. Nevertheless, to persons living in large towns, the tonic and bracing effects of the sea air pro- duce so great and beneficial an alteration that the worst forms of scrofulous disease often get well rapidly, simply by this influence. An infirmary is established at Margate for the reception of scrofulous patients during a part of the year, and the general practice is simply to cover the affected parts with cloths dipped in the salt water, trusting in other respects to the effects of the sea breezes.326 SCROFULA. I have been surprised at finding even medical persons sometimes questioning the advantages derivable from change of air, either in scrofula or in other diseases. It is stated in explanation of this doubt that the air, when analysed chemically, presents the same elements in all the varieties of situation, for instance in the heart of London or on Sabs- bury Plain. This will be readily admitted, but there may be something besides the mere proportion of gases capable of acting favorably or unfavorably on human health. Some years ago, I had an opportunity of seeing, in a family I was well acquainted with, the marked effects produced by change of air. The family consisted of a gentleman and his wife, both of whom were persons of middle age, and about nine or ten children, who had lived for many years in the neighbourhood of London, but not in town, both themselves and their offspring enjoying invariably good health. There were appearances about the children which might have led to the suspicion of scrofulous diathesis, yet they had suffered no form of scrofulous disease, and though the family consisted alto- gether of eleven individuals, they had contributed very little to the support of our profession. The eldest son had sbght en- largement of the glands of the neck, and when he got older he contracted the venereal disease, and had bubo, which was very troublesome. Circumstances connected with the pro- fessional pursuits of the father induced him to leave his original abode, and to bring his family into a close and con- fined part of London. Within two years a marked change had taken place in their health. In the first place a child died at the age of about three years; it had been previously healthy, but became ill soon after the father removed. It bad scrofulous ophthalmia, and swelling of the lower eyelid, with formation of abscess. There was undefined indisposition, that sometimes affected the head, sometimes the chest, and some-SCROFULA. 327 times the abdomen, and at last it died from a severe attack in the chest. On examining the body I found extensive ulcer- ation of the intestinal mucous membrane, and considerable enlargement of the mesenteric glands, with tubercular disease of the lungs. Another infant died at the age of six months. The eldest daughter of the family, a remarkably fine, beau- tiful young woman, at the age of seventeen, began soon after the family had removed to town to have uneasy sensations in the chest, then an attack of inflammation took place, and this ended in consumption, of which she died. The father, a person who had enjoyed good health, and who lived regularly, had a severe attack of inflammatory character, in the bowels. All this took place within two years, while, in the whole preceding period of their residence in the neigh- bourhood of London, during which they had nine children, nothing of the kind had taken place. This impressive warning induced the parents to leave London, and no further mischief occurred. When the diet, the state of the skin, the clothing, exercise, residence, bodily and mental occupation of the scrofulous, more particularly of those under puberty, have been properly regulated, much will not be required in the way of medical treatment strictly so called. The state of the digestive organs, and that of the general strength, as shown by the condition of the circulation and the amount of muscular power, will be the two points requiring attention. Under neglect, or injudicious treatment, particularly when full and strong diet with stimuli has been allowed, on the notion of remedying weakness, the stomach may be disturbed and the bowels loaded with undigested food and unhealthy se- cretions ; there is costiveness, with foul tongue and offensive breath, perhaps a tumid state of the abdomen. The ali- mentary canal must be cleared by an active aperient, such as328 SCROFULA. calomel with rhubarb, jalap, or scammony, the dose being moderate, and repeated if necessary. The Hydrarg. c. creta, with rhubarb or jalap, may be sufficient, or castor, oil, if the stomach will bear it. After the bowels have been cleared and relieved, it may be necessary, not to purge, which would be injurious, but to assist them in their office by occasional mild means, such as a small dose of gray powder with rhubarb, of castor oil, of the concentrated infusion of senna as combined with other matters, so as to remove its unpleasant taste, of Epsom salt with dilute sulphuric acid. The compound de- coction of aloes is often serviceable, given in the middle of the day, or a little before dinner. If the bowels should be disposed to act naturally, it will be best not to interfere with them. The languid circulation, pale skin, cold extremities, and deficient muscular power of the scrofulous, especially in those most unfavorably circumstanced, clearly indicate the necessity of tonics, bark and steel in their various forms being the most appropriate medicines of this class. The liquor cinchonse of Battley, and quinine are the most eligible forms of the former; steel wine, ammoniated tincture of iron, and the tincture of the sesquichloride of the latter; while the citrate of quinine and iron presents a combination of both reme- dies. The iodide of iron is another combination easily taken by children in the form of syrup: its action seems to me to be simply that of iron. Some scrofulous subjects, however, will not bear tonics in any shape or dose; these are princi- pally the excitable children, with whom stimidi and full animal diet disagree. If the bowels are unloaded, and the tongue clean, they may be safely tried. The principles of medical practice in scrofula are not very clearly established, as some think well of the mineral acids, nitric, muriatic, or sulphuric, with light tonics, such as casca- rilla, while others repose much confidence in liquor potassaeSCROFULA. 329 given rather freely, or in the scsquicarbonate of ammonia usually combined with vegetable infusions. The former may be taken in infusion of orange peel or sound beer. The iodide of potassium has been strongly recommended in the treatment of scrofulous complaints, for which a French physician, M. Lugol, has regarded it almost in the light of a specific. He employed it in solution, with the addition of iodine (Potassii iodidi gr. x; Iodinse gr. v, Aquae destill. Oj), giving five to ten minims three times daily, and gradually increasing the dose. To so trifling a dose as this we cannot ascribe any efficacy. The iodide may be given in doses of one to three grains, in any suitable vehicle, two or three times daily. I cannot say that I have seen any benefit derived in scrofula from this remedy, powerful as it is in many other diseases. Cod-liver oil has been and still is extensively used in scrofula and other diseases, with a firm belief in its efficacy, whether it be regarded as food or physic. Increased activity of nutrition is often evidenced under its employment in children by increase in bulk and weight. The liver oil of other fishes, of the rays particularly, and purified sperm oil, have been found equally beneficial, and there is a doubt whether olive or almond oil would not do as much good. Cream, while more agreeable, would probably be no less beneficial. The purest kind of the cod-liver oil should be given as being the least re- pulsive in taste. It is sometimes so offensive to the stomach that it cannot be continued. Children may begin with a tea- spoonful three times a day, and gradually increase the quantity. Sarsaparilla is a mild tonic and restorative, useful in dilapi- dated and weakened states of constitution. A child might take a teaspoonful of the fluid extract three times a day, with or without quinine. The administration of mercury is properly discouraged in scrofulous cases, in which, however, its sparing use is not330 SCROFULA. unfrequently necessary. Thus calomel in small quantity is combined with other aperients to unload the bowels, and the gray powder may be used with rhubarb as a mild aperient, when the secretions are unhealthy. Sometimes a more active and continued use of this mercurial may be advisable to check the progress of disorganization, and it might be sometimes necessary for this purpose to go on with it so as to affect the system, the constitution being well supported at the same time. A safe and convenient mode of exhibiting mercury in small doses in some scrofulous cases is afforded by the bi- chloride, of which a grain may be dissolved in two ounces of tincture of bark or rhubarb, one drachm to be taken twice daily. Local Treatment.—Inflamed absorbent glands proceeding to suppuration, or subcutaneous abscesses, are best treated by poulticing. In order to avoid unsightly cicatrices on the face or neck, especially in females, it is desirable to prevent inflammation and thinning of the skin. The matter should be evacuated by a careful lancet puncture before the skin is changed in colour, and poultice should be continued. In languid and tedious ulceration, whether consequent on suppuration or otherwise, resin ointment, and the solution of sulphate of zinc, or nitrate of silver, will be useful. Lint or rag dipped in sea water, or simple ointment, will be sufficient when things are going on favorably. In simple enlarge- ment without active inflammation, the part may be covered with soap plaster as an external defence. In chronic in- flammation of an important part, such as the testicle, the use of mercurial ointment or plaster may be necessary. The tincture of iodine, or the iodide ointment, will be available in chronic scrofulous enlargements generally. The principle of counter-irritation by blistering, or preferably by the emetic tartar ointment, is often useful.CHAPTER XVI. GOUT AND EHEUMATISM. Although gout and rheumatism are rather medical than surgical subjects, the morbid states designated by these terms are chiefly known by producing local disease; thus as sur- geons often have to treat cases called gouty or rheumatic, we cannot entirely omit the subject. We naturally inquire what is the real nature of the disease in the cases called gouty and rheumatic ? Whether the inflam- mation of the joints, particularly of the fibrous and synovial membranes of the joints, in cases called gouty and rheumatic, is essentially different from common inflammation ? Whether the treatment be the same in the two cases ? Whether persons of gouty or rheumatic constitutions are liable to the consequences of that peculiar inflammation in other parts of the body as well as in the joints? The subject, perhaps, will be best elucidated if we consider the affections of some part which is liable to the different varieties of inflammation. The knee may be the seat of common inflammation, or of the affections denominated gouty or rheumatic. Under all three of these circumstances the motions of the part arc impaired; it is more or less painful; and it is usually in some degree red and heated. There may be a difference in the degree of these symptoms, but such differences arc332 GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. only in modification, or form, and not in essential nature. Indeed, if we look to the local symptoms only, we shall not always "be able to establish the diagnosis. Although, how- ever, the three cases agree in this general view, they differ in their causes, progress, termination and treatment. Common inflammation is caused by mechanical injury, which produces its effects under all circumstances, and on all individuals whatever may he their age or other conditions. Rheumatism is produced by the action of cold, or various external influences immediately on the joint itself, or some other part of the body, but they do not produce the affection in all individuals. Several persons may he exposed to cold, or other external influences, but it will produce rheumatic affection of the joints only in some proportion of them. For the production of rheumatism, therefore, you require some external cause; and, at the same time, a particular consti- tution, having a disposition to the complaint. Gout may be brought on by injury or by external influences, but it most commonly appears spontaneously: indeed it may come on in a joint, and it frequently does so in the middle of the night, when the patient is quiet in bed; so that here we look simply, in explaining the phenomena, to an unhealthy state of con- stitution in the individual. Here the local affection is the external manifestation of some internal or more general affection. So far, then, as the cause is concerned, there is an obvious distinction between the three cases. Common inflammation is the result of local agency; rheumatic inflammation requires some external influence, combined with a predisposition of constitution; and gouty inflammation results from a morbid state of constitution, without external cause. In common inflammation there is a regular progress of the affection, which goes on uninterruptedly. The symptoms,GOUT. 333 at first slight, become more considerable, and the disease gradually increases to its full development. It remains for some time in full activity, then gradually declines, goes off, and leaves the patient without liability to future attacks. In rheumatic inflammation, on the contrary, the affection appears suddenly in a decided form. The joint is swelled, painful, and becomes at once inflamed. Soon after it has appeared in one joint, it may show itself in another. It may suddenly cease in the part first affected, and appear elsewhere. It may return to the first part. The patient will be liable to future attacks. But the sudden development of the disease, its sudden and abrupt cessation, its extension to other joints, its affecting several of them at the same time, and its in- fluence in exciting pericarditis, particularly characterise rheumatic inflammation. In gouty inflammation, the disease, as in the rheumatic, exhibits its full character at the first onset. The commence- ment of the attack is characterised by pain in the part, in- creasing to a severe degree, and then gradually declining. There are paroxysms of acute pain in its severest forms; these, after a time, diminish in intensity, and then disappear. Here, as in rheumatism, the complaint often abruptly ceases in one part, and extends to others, while those first affected may suffer again. Thus gouty inflammation is irregular in its course ; it shifts to other joints, and there is great probability, almost amounting to a certainty, of future seizures. After repeated attacks of gouty and rheumatic inflammation, the joints pass into a condition of chronic enlargement, with stiff- ness, and even complete loss of motion, with depositions of lithic acid compounds in the case of gout. In the case, then of common inflammation, we have only to consider the deve- lopment of disease in the part, consequent on a local cause. But in rheumatic or gouty cases there is the local tnflam-334 GOUT. mation, and something superadded to it, and the great object of inquiry is to find out the nature of the additional circum- stance. We find that a person who has for the first time a gouty attack, is almost invariably in a plethoric state, pro- duced by excessive nutrition, the result of luxurious habits and indolence. Gouty inflammation is most frequent in individuals of sanguine temperament, and in those of robust frame. Generally speaking, it is most common in the higher classes, in those whose situation in life gives them habits and the means of indulgence and indolence. In the first attack of gout the patient generally has a full, strong pulse, heat of skin, white tongue, and disorder of the digestive organs. The disorder last mentioned is not to be regarded simply as the cause of the mischief. Like the gouty attack itself, it is an effect of those habits which lead to a plethoric state of constitution. The alimentary apparatus has probably been strong and efficient, capable of assimilating the abundant nourishment introduced into the system. If the stomach be feeble and easily disordered, the state of plethora cannot be established. The originally vigorous organs being no longer equal to the tasks imposed on them, fail in their office, causing imperfection and disorder in im- portant functions, which precede the outbreak of the gouty attack. The latter gives general relief, effectually and quickly, in the early stages of the complaint. Such is the condition of a patient when he first becomes the subject of gouty attacks; but when these have been repeated, when a person has suffered for a series of years from successive attacks of gout, his state is quite different from that now described; there is deficiency in the various excretions, and a degree of languor in the system, iu which there is hardly power to form gouty paroxysms. There is little difficulty in pointing out the proper mode ofGOUT. 335 treating such an affection. The disease in the part is by no means the most important circumstance, it is rather of secondary consequence. Generally speaking, we may almost neglect the consideration of the local affection, which may be regarded as a sort of safety valve to the constitution, carrying off without danger a diseased condition, which might other- wise lead to more important consequences. Warmth, there- fore, and rest, are the principal points in treating the local affection, if it remain within moderate limits; but if it goes further, we may employ leeches to the part, with fomenta- tions, and so forth. But our attention should be principally directed to remedy the state of plethora from which the local symptoms are derived, on which point observations have been already made in reference to the unhealthy states of consti- tution which give rise to spontaneous diseases. In addition to the course of treatment there described, benefit may often be derived from the use of colchicum, of which the wine of the seeds, and the acetous extract, are the most useful forms. It is so useful in the treatment of gouty inflammation, that some persons regard it almost in the light of a specific for the complaint. Such are the means by which the condition of the system which gives origin to the gout in the part, may be removed. The more important consideration is, what can be done to prevent the recurrence of such attacks? If the habits of living which, in the first instance, have produced a state of plethora, be continued, there can be no doubt that the indi- vidual will be the subject of future attacks; that these will become more and more severe, extending to a greater number of parts, and ultimately reducing the patient to a state of miserable suffering. Now there are two modes which persons may take to accomplish this object, and unless they adopt these courses they will not succeed. The two means arc33G GOUT. temperance and exercise. Persons must be contented to work hard, and to live moderately; they must, to use a homely phrase, "keep their eyes open, and their mouths shut." Mankind like to indulge their appetite, to lead indolent lives, and yet they wish also to have health. They want to com- bine two things that are incompatible, but they ought to be reasonable; they may have good eating and drinking with bad health, or good health with temperate fare. Our notion of gout is not to be confined to its effects on the joints; other organs and textures are liable to disorders, which originating in the same cause as the affections of the joints, are not improperly termed gout both in popular and medical language. The head, chest, or abdomen, may suffer in this way. Are these affections peculiar, that is, gouty, or of common character ? There is no peculiarity in treatment, nor in the result of examinations after death, that we should call gouty. When disease in gouty individuals occurs in internal parts, it has the same symptoms which would cha- racterise common inflammation in the same parts. There are no external signs by which we can distinguish a gouty attack in the head, chest, or abdomen, from other diseases in the same situations; and examinations after death do not enable us to distinguish such disorder from inflammation induced by other causes. The iris affords an example in a part comparatively ex- ternal, of the peculiar character of inflammation in a gouty person. It is very liable to disease in persons of such con- stitution, and the inflammation exhibits some characters which enable us to distinguish it from other inflammatory affections of the part. The iris, like the joints, may be the seat of repeat 3d attacks of inflammation in the gouty, which, although serious at the time, as in the joints, pass off without much injury to the organ : their frequent repetition, however,GOUT. 337 ultimately inflicts such damage on the delicate texture, as seriously to impair or even to destroy sight. I Lave, how- ever, seen the iris disorganized, with loss of sight, hy a siDgle attack in a gentleman of full habit, under thirty years, being the first manifestation of gout which he had experienced. Such an attack would not only justify, but absolutely require the most energetic employment of bleeding and mercu- rialization. I was consulted by a gentleman, forty years of age, a stout person, of sanguine temperament, fair complexion, with rather light eyes. He had lived a luxurious and dissipated life at Oxford, drinking freely of port wine. At the age of twenty-two he had a severe and painful affection of the joints and other parts, which lasted several months. This induced him to leave off port wine; but he had always enjoyed an excellent appetite, and had been in the habit of drinking beer freely. He had experienced ten attacks of inflammation of the right eye, and the left had suffered on two occasions; on one occasion the inflammation occupied three years, and at that time he had some swelling in the right hand : with this exception, he had not suffered in the joints or limbs since his first illness. In the right eye, the iris was so changed that you could hardly recognise the natural texture of the part, and vision was nearly extinct. I performed an operation for cataract on a gentleman who had lost the sight of one eye entirely, from repeated attacks of arthritic disease, while the other had suffered from the same affection. He was fifty-five years of age, of fair com- plexion and sanguine temperament, and he had passed several years in the West Indies, living freely, and indulging in spirits. He had suffered greatly from gout in the joints of both hands, which were swelled and knotted in a remarkable manner. These deformities, showing a most unhealthy con- 22RHEUMATISM. 338 ditiori of the digestive organs and nutritive function, are produced by the deposition in and around the joints and tendinous sheaths of urate of soda, a whitish friable substance with a loose resemblance to chalk, and hence popularly called chalk stone. Tbe pupil of the lost eye was nearly closed, and the capsule of the lens was opaque. Being unwilling to operate on account of the disposition to gout, I re- commended him to use belladonna, which he did, and I at last operated by his wish rather than my own desire. I feared that the operation would bring on gout again. He lived low for some weeks, taking Plummer's pill and purgatives. At the time of the operation I opened the capsule, and broke down the lens in its situation; fortunately no inflammation followed, yet the state of the pulse made me bleed him more than once after the operation. In about two months the operation was completed, and he had perfect vision. I remember his mentioning to me, when asking him about the state of his fingers, that of late years, though he had suffered from gout, he had got a perfect remedy, and I found that to be colchicum. Whenever he had any warning symptoms, he took a few doses of this medicine, which effectually pre- vented the attack. Rheumatism is a disease closely allied to gout, and, like it, principally affects the joints. As in the case of other affections nearly resembling each other, these run together, so that we sometimes hesitate in determining which name should be given in particular cases. The term rheumatic gout, fami- liarly employed in common language, and not altogether disowned by medical men, serves to solve the difficulty. As we cannot show how persons subject to gout or rheumatism differ when the diseases are absent, from those naturally healthy, so we are unable to distinguish between the two constitutions except from the characters of the affections toEHEUMAT1SM. 839 which they give rise. There is one striking difference be- tween the two disorders. In gout, the local affection almost invariably appears spontaneously, as the simple result of the constitutional disposition, while in rheumatism it is more commonly caused by external agencies, such as cold and moisture, or unusual exertion. In spontaneous cases, the swelling of the joints, as in gout, is preceded by disorder of the digestive organs and fever. If blood is taken in the state of general disturbance preceding the rheumatic attack, or at an early period of the disease, it exhibits the inflammatory character. In rheumatism the synovial membrane is the seat of disease, the external coverings being often unchanged, and the pain frequently slight, while in gout the external parts are greatly swollen and red, with excruciating pain, but no evidence of effusion into the articular cavity. There is less tendency to affections of internal organs in rheumatism than in gout, with the important exception of the heart and pericardium, both pericarditis and endocarditis being fre- quently induced, especially in young subjects. The eyes suffer in both cases. In gout the affection commences in, and is confined to the iris, while rheumatic ophthalmia begins in the sclerotica and extends to the cornea and iris. The latter affection yields to ordinary remedies, especially in the outset. Should these have failed, and the complaint have been tedious, great and sudden benefit is often experienced from powder of bark and carbonate of soda in five or six grain doses three or four times daily. The treatment of rheumatism in the early period will con- sist, like that of gout, in removing the unhealthy state of system on which the local affections depend. The moderate loss of blood may be advantageous in some cases, especially if we see grounds for fear that the pericardium or heart may become affected, though local bleeding by leeches is generally310 EHEUMATISM. preferred to venesection. Aperient medicines, salines with nitre and colchicum, and mild mercurials, with light diet and perfect rest, will be proper. Swelled and painful joints may be covered with cotton wool. If a joint, such as the knee or wrist, should be actively inflamed, with such pain as to inter- fere with rest, local depletion will be advisable to prevent increased constitutional excitement, as well as to protect the joint from such changes of structure as might impair its mobility.CHAPTER XVII. SYPHILIS. Syphilis and venereal disease are expressions used indiffe- rently to denote a train of morbid appearances originating from infection directly conveyed from a diseased to a healthy individual, seldom in any other manner than by sexual inter- course. Venereal disease is the more general term, embracing, according to its etymology, the affections proceeding from sexual intercourse. Adopting the expression in its more general sense we divide venereal diseases into syphilis and gonorrhoea. In syphilis we distinguish two classes of morbid affection, the primary and secondary, which may also be called the local and constitutional forms of the disease. The primary effects are seen in the parts to which the poison is immediately applied, that is, in the organs of genera- tion, or in their near neighbourhood. They consist of in- flammation with swelling proceeding quiqkly to ulceration. With these affections disease of the inguinal or femoral absorbent glands is sometimes combined, not however imme- diately, nor even quickly. Such glandular affection therefore is not strictly primary. Still the primary sore under the name of chancre, and the glandular disease under that of bubo which is the Latinised form of the Greek word for the groin' are called the primary or local symptoms of syphilis. The342 SYPHILIS. former expression is equivalent to primary venereal sore, and there can be no objection to it if employed to include the whole of them. Primary sores, however, differ in character, and the word chancre is often used to denote one of these, and that not the most frequent, the others being considered different in their nature, and therefore not chancres, to the great confusion and discomfort of students and persons of limited experience. I do not use the word chancre in the limited sense alluded to above, but more generally as equivalent to primary sore. The secondary or constitutional symptoms are various affec- tions of the skin, eruptive and ulcerative; of the throat, tongue, and mouth; of the osseous system, namely, of the periosteum, bones, and joints; of the eye, nose, ear, testicle, larynx. These constitutional symptoms are properly syphilis or lues venerea, or in vulgar English, pox. This, although hardly admissible in polite language, is an innocent word, the plural of the Anglo-Saxon poc, meaning pustule, and em- ployed in that sense in cowpox, smallpox, &c. Syphilis, then, to use the language of grammarians is a noun of multitude. It is not a single affection of one part, but the word is used, like scrofula, to denote various diseases of several organs and textures, which proceed from one common source. The production of secondary symptoms is not essential to the notion of syphilis. Primary are not constantly followed by secondary symptoms. The latter occur only in a propor- tion of cases; which proportion has been variously stated from one third to one twentieth, or even one fiftieth. The proportion may perhaps be influenced by treatment. History.—The venereal disease is supposed to have been un- known to the ancients ; if so, they were happy in their igno- rance. We find, indeed, in ancient writers, such as Celsus, and in the works of other authors, scattered passages respecting affections of the generative organs, which might be supposed343 HISTORY. to have been of venereal origin; but no delineation of the subject even approaching to our present knowledge, and no account of the secondary symptoms. It is first clearly described towards the end of the fifteenth century by the writers of Italy and France, who speak of it as a new, loathsome, and obstinate disease of very destructive and even often fatal nature, propagated by sexual intercourse and in other ways. Two remarkable events took place about this time : the discovery of the new world, as it was then called, by Columbus, who returned from his first voyage, in which he had discovered the large island called by the natives Hayti, which he christened Hispaniola, and which has since com- monly borne the name of St. Domingo, in 1493 ; and the invasion and conquest of Naples by Charles VIII of France, who having entered the city in February, 1495, was soon obliged to retreat. The origin of syphilis has very commonly been referred to one or the other of these events. Some have considered it to have been a new disease brought from St. Domingo by the crew of Columbus j others, that it broke out in the army of Charles VIII, which was a great assemblage of troops and military adventurers from all quarters, when it was disbanded on his retreat from Naples, and indulging in the license and violence of the times, extensively propagated the affection over Italy, France, and the south of Europe. I can find, not only no sufficient evidence, but no evidence at all of the American origin; none that the disease existed originally in the West India islands, or in America; none that the followers of Columbus brought back with them any particular disease old or new. The names under which the disease was known, when it first attracted attention, afford clear negative evidence re- specting its American origin. The Italians call it mal Fran-344 SYPHILIS. cese, French disease, while it is termed morbus Gallicus in a collection of writers on the subject. The French return the compliment by calling it mal cle Naples or morbus Neapolitanus. It has never been called Spanish, American, West Indian, or Haytian. On examining the historical evidence upon this subject we find unequivocal traces that the venereal disease existed in Europe before the discovery of Hayti by Columbus. There are passages in the writings of authors who lived eight or ten years before that time, which show that the venereal disease was then not unknown. Peter Martyr, who was then phy- sician to the king of Spain, speaks of the disease under the name of morbus Gallicus, thus affording unequivocal proof that it was known at that time. If we reject the hypothesis of the West Indian origin, we may next inquire whether there is any clear proof that syphilis, now so universal, originating in and kept up by causes which have been and still are in constant action all over the world, was first seen in France or Italy in the wars connected with and following the invasion of Naples by Charles VIII, and that from this source it was disseminated through Europe by the military of various countries connected with those wars. This view could not be adopted except on the clearest and strongest evidence, and such proof is totally wanting. Medical science, cultivated in some points by the ancients, had been long and totally neglected. Priests and monks had some rude and imperfect notions of medicine, while surgery, if it might be so called, was exercised by barbers, attendants on baths, and others equally ignorant. Under such circumstances, the venereal disease, like other com- plaints, had been neither observed, appreciated or understood, so that ita description by well educated and informed persons who began to study the subject properly, seemed like theHISTORY. 315 account of an entirely new matter. It was merely a descrip- tion and explanation of what had previously failed to excite observation and reflection; and it attracted the greater attention as the statements were all of the most exaggerated and alarming description. Assuming that identity of effect implies identity of cause, I cannot doubt that venereal disease is as old as the promis- cuous, intercourse of the sexes on which it is now invariably attendant. It may be regarded as a punishment falling ap- propriately on those who disregard what has been called the obvious design and intention that the sexes should co- habit in single pairs, an arrangement so consonant to the entire physical and moral nature of our species as to be equally important to the individual and the community. Liability to venereal disease is a considerable though too often insufficient sanction for the observance of this law. The -want of this restraint, imperfect as it is, would be a great encouragement to licentiousness, vice, and immorality. Not only was the occurrence of sores on the genitals of both sexes, and that of buboes well known before the time of Columbus and Charles VIII, but the liability to infection was well understood, as is proved by measures of precaution resorted to in this country and elsewhere. Public brothels existed in those days in many cities on the continent, and were subjected to regulations intended to protect the health of their visitors. One was established in Rome, near the palace of the Pope, yielding a tribute to the marshal of the court of Rome. There was one in Southwark, under the jurisdiction and care of the Bishop of Winchester, with the regulations of which, although said to be still extant, I am not acquainted. There is however, in Astruc's great work on the venereal disease, a detailed account of a brothel at Avignon, established by Johanna the First, Queen of the two Sicilies, and CountessSYPHILIS. 3-1(5 of Provence, with the rules for its management in the original Provence dialect, and in a Latin translation. She directs that the establishment shall be placed near the convent of the Augustine friars, a situation that might have been con- venient to the inmates of both houses, and that all the girls shall wear a red shoulder-knot. The most important regu- lation is the fourth, by which it is ordered that on every Saturday a barber, deputed by the consuls, should examine all the girls, and that any one who should be found to have con- tracted any illness by her fornication (scortatione agritudinem ullam contraxisse) should be separated from the rest and not allowed to follow her calling, ut morbi prsecaveantur, qui a ju- venibus possent concipi. The date of this ordinance is 1347. They who believe that the venereal disease did not exist in the world till the very end of the fourteenth or the beginning of the fifteenth century, and that it then broke out all at once in a mysterious and inexplicable manner somewhere or other in the south of Europe, allege the silence of preceding writers as a conclusive argument in favour of their opinion. It is true that the venereal disease is not described by name before that period. Syphilis and lues venerea were words not heard of before the sixteenth century. The great variety of affections embraced under our present notion of syphilis, and the relations they bear to each other, constitute an important subject entirely beyond the comprehension of the barbers and ignorant men to whom the care of external complaints was turned over in the middle ages; the natural history of the complaint is as yet but imperfectly understood. A long period must have elapsed before constitutional symptoms occurring weeks and months after the primary affection could have been understood as consequences of the latter, and before the train of subsequent affections sometimes prolonged for years could have been appreciated. In respectMODE OF PRODUCTION. 317 to this argument drawn from the silence of preceding writers, let us remember that it has been doubted whether the con- tagious eruptive fevers were known to the Greek and Roman physicians. The Arabians pointed out their existence clearly, but their distinctive characters, though apparently obvious to common observation, were for a long time neither perceived nor acknowledged. Smallpox, measles, and scarlet fever were considered as mere varieties of the same disease, till near the beginning of the eighteenth century; and the diagnosis of measles and scarlet fever was not established till 1793, in the second edition of Dr. Withering's essay on the latter. The smallpox was known for centuries before its contagious nature was recognised, and even Sydenham ascribed it to the state of the atmosphere, with only a vague and doubtful reference to contagion. These considerations show us that the truth may escape the notice even of enlightened observers, and lead to the conclusion that the diseases of mankind, like their moral and physical constitution, are likely to remain unchanged. Against hastily concluding that diseases not previously described have therefore not existed, we may derive a salutary caution from the cases of gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, and syphi- litic iritis. We cannot doubt that both of these very striking affections now so commonly met with, must have been fre- quently seen at all times, though they have entirely escaped the notice of Mr. Hunter, and of the other writers on syphilis, until within a few years. In our ordinary experience, syphilis appears as the effect of a poison directly communicated from an infected to a healthy person. The infection cannot be conveyed, as was supposed heretofore, by kissing, embracing, use of the same cups, or other utensils. In the great majority of instances a morbific secretion, that of a primary ulcer or chancre, applied to the sound surface of a healthy person, produces the pri-SYPHILIS. 348 mary symptom,, an inflammation proceeding generally to ulceration. The secondartj symptoms come from this source; we do not know how, any more than we know how the constitutional excitement called hydrophobia is caused by the bite of a rabid dog, or that of smallpox by inoculation, or atmospheric con- tagion. A poison is said to be introduced into or to be ex- pelled from the constitution; the system is said to be contami- nated. These somewhat figurative expressions do not denote anything capable of demonstration. There is reason to sup- pose that the blood is altered, but the alteration is not recognisable by our present means of examination. The matter secreted by primary sores is obviously in- fectious ; it is even infectious to the same individual by in- oculation. The matter of bubo is infectious. Surgeons have contracted primary sores by wounding themselves in opening buboes, or by application of the matter to existing wounds. Destruction of the eye took place in two instances by inflam- mation excited by the matter of bubo spirting into the eye of surgeons who had opened the suppurations. It is said that the secretion of secondary sores will not infect, and that it produces no effect when inoculated. I should not like to trust it in my own person. Syphilis may be communicated indirectly, thus when a pregnant woman labours under the disease in its constitutional form, the child in utero becomes diseased, generally, though not invariably. Here we must conclude that the poison is conveyed by the blood. Again, diseased infants infect healthy women by suckling, and the disease thus communicated may affect the embryo in case pregnancy should supervene. It is a question whether a woman can be infected by cohabitation with a man labouring under constitutional symptoms. The appearance of syphilis in married females is aVENEREAL VIIIUS. 349 very unpleasant, indeed a painful occurrence. It is difficult to get clear evidence on tlie point, the motives for misrepresenta- tion and concealment being strong. I have seen cases, in which I believed that syphilitic disease occurred in married women from cohabitation with husbands labouring under secondary symptoms; and I see no reason why the infection may not be conveyed through the seminal secretion of a diseased male as well as through the blood of a diseased pregnant woman. We speak and write familiarly about the venereal virus or poison as if it were something well known to us, but we are not acquainted with its real nature, knowing it only by its effects. Thus I could only describe it as that state of se- cretion from a sore which is capable of producing a sore in another person; that it is the state of the mother's blood which renders it capable of infecting the offspring; but what these particular states are, we are unable to determine, that is, we have no sensible or chemical signs by which the matter of a sore, or the blood of a pregnant woman under such circum- stances, differs from ordinary matter or from ordinary blood. When, therefore, we read of the venereal virus " entering" or being " expelled" from the constitution, or of the constitution being "impregnated" with it, or of its "lurking" in the system, these are vague expressions, which have no precise meaning. The next point of inquiry is, whether there be one kind of poison only, or more than one ? Inasmuch as the real nature of the poison, that is, the real source of the symptoms, is unknown, this question resolves itself into another: whether the various symptoms that we recognise as syphilitic are so different from each other, and so regular in those differences as to induce us to refer them to different sources ? We must acknowledge, on a superficial view, that there is considerable variety in those symptoms, to which we give collectively the name of syphilis, or venereal disease, that there is suchSYPHILIS. 350 diversity, whether we regard the primary or the secondary symptoms. The primary symptom may be a simple abrasion, an excoriation, an idcer with induration, a phagedamic or a sloughing sore. Syphdis may consist either of an ulcer alone or with a bubo, or of those primary symptoms followed by scaly, papular, tubercular, or pustular eruption, by ulcerations of the skin, by superficial or excavated ulcer of the tonsils, or by affections of the bones, the periosteum, or the joints. In this variety of effects, which may last only a few days or weeks, or extend to months or years, syphilis presents a strong contrast to the results of other animal poisons, such as smallpox, measles, scarlatina, which, without being absolutely uniform, present a general regularity of symptoms, progress, and duration. Heretofore all the appearances called syphilitic were referred to one source, they were considered as the various effects of one poison. In more modern times, and more par- ticularly by Mr. Hunter, a distinction was attempted to be drawn from the effects of mercury. When the disease got well without the administration of mercury, it was considered not to be syphilitic; and those diseases arising from sexual intercourse, which got well under the use of mercury, were considered to be syphilitic. Mr. Carmichael, of Dublin, who was surgeon to the Richmond Hospital in that city, where a large number of syphilitic patients are admitted, wrote an 1 Essay on the Venereal Disease/ containing the result of his observations, and giving useful practical rules for the treat- ment of such affections. In this work he has advocated the opinion of a plurality of poisons. He has attempted to show that each particular primary ulcer is attended with its peculiar set of secondary symptoms. He has, therefore, connected together the primary ulcers with the secondary symptoms, which he considers particularly to belong to them j and he has thus established, in his own opinion, the existence of fourUNITY OR PLURALITY OF POISONS. 351 distinct kinds of affection, which he has named after the cha- racter of the eruption, and considers as the restilt of so many- different poisons. I am aware that many of the distinctions which Mr. Carmichael has pointed out are founded in observa- tion, and you will recognise the justice of many of his remarks; but I cannot say that the combinations of symptoms which he has pointed out are so constant as to lead me to adopt the same conclusion that he has arrived at. Hitherto we possess little or no information respecting the very first point which offers itself for our investigation on the question of the unity or plurality of poisons; that is, whether each particular primary sore propagates its like or not. We have no means of settling the point by direct experiment; we cannot inoculate this complaint, as we do the smallpox. It rarely happens that we have the opportunity of comparing the disease in the person infected with that in the quarter from which the infection proceeded. There has been a want of correspondence in the small number of cases in which I have been able to make the comparison. I had a married woman under my care in the hospital with a phagedsenic sore on the nympha, which nearly destroyed the part. She had contracted this from her husband, who was attending as an out-patient at the same time. He had ulcer- ation of the glans and prepuce, without the slightest approach to the phagedcenic character. Mr. Evans, a surgeon in the army, who has published an instructive pamphlet on ulcerations of the genitals, witnessed the examination of the women of the town in some of the French cities. Many of them had dis- charge from the vagina, with consequent excoriation, hardly any had ulcerations. Yet the English soldiers, who had intercourse with these women, were affected with ulcerations in numerous instances, such as are deemed syphilitic. Both in army practice and in civil life, instances have sometimesSYPHILIS. 352 been known of different men having intercourse in succession with one and the same woman. Within a short time one has had gonorrhoea, another ulcerations, and a third has escaped. Here, however, the evidence is incomplete, as we do not know the exact state of the women. As we are quite in the dark respecting the actual venereal poison generally, as well as on the question whether there is one poison only or more than one, we are naturally led to inquire whether the great variety in the affections compre- hended under the general name of syphilis may not depend on differences in those who receive the infection, particularly in constitution and state of health, perhaps also in the management and treatment local and general; the character of the symptoms is less favorable, the disease is more in- tractable and enduring in the scrofulous than in those of healthy constitution. In a person of full habit, continuing course of intemperance and other irregularities, all the suffer- ings are aggravated, and dangers are incurred which the pru- dent entirely escape. The effect of constitution and mode of life is strikingly illustrated by Dr. Ferguson in his "Observa- tions on the Venereal Disease in Portugal," published in the fourth volume of the ' Medical and Chirurgical Transactions.5 He says that the venereal disease in Portugal is extremely mild; that the natives of that country are in the habit of treating it by vegetable decoctions and low diet; that they suffer little from it; that it seldom produces serious symptoms j that when it goes into a constitutional form, it wears itself out under this treatment, not interfering materially with the health. Thus he considers that the disease, among the Portu- guese, has lost its virulent character; but he says that the British troops and officers had the disease in that country with the utmost severity; that a greater number of instances of loss of the penis occurred among them, in a short time,SYPHILIS—ITS NATURE. 353 than he supposed could be presented by all the hospitals of this country for a number of years. Yet the disease had arisen from the infection of the mild disease that I have just mentioned. The secondary symptoms were of the most severe kind, and extremely intractable. Dr. Ferguson, who was inspector of hospitals in the British service in Portugal, had occasion to see an officer labouring under chancres, with a highly-inflamed state of the parts, proceeding to sloughing, in consequence of sexual intercourse four days before, and he had been guilty of no excess or irre- gularity to produce this bad state of the sores. Dr. Ferguson, with great difficulty, by active treatment, prevented morti- fication of the penis. The woman who communicated the infection was an opera dancer in Lisbon, apparently in perfect health, who continued upon the stage for many months after- wards, occasionally infecting others, without anything extra- ordinary in the nature of the symptoms. Nature of syphilis.—The affections included under the general name of syphilis are too various to admit of being described under any one character. The processes are the same as in other diseases, differing only in modifications: they are inflammation, ulceration, mortification, suppuration, enlargement by interstitial deposition. Inflammation is seen in all its degrees, from acute to chronic. The same may be said of ulceration, which is sometimes rapidly destructive and very painful, at others slow and indolent. Constitutional dis- turbance occurs in various forms, both inflammatory and of hectic character. Respecting the nature and progress of syphilis, and em- power to check it, most erroneous notions prevailed even to a recent period. It was held to be constantly progressive and destructive, whether in the affected part or in the constitu- tion ; that it would destroy parts by ulceration; that it would 2335-1 SYPHILIS—ITS NATURE, attack part after part, and that its ravages could be arrested only by the use of mercury, which was regarded as an in- fallible specific. Such was the general notion when Mr. Abernethy published his 'Observations on Diseases resembling the Venereal.' He asked the opinions of the most eminent surgeons then living in London, among whom were the late Messrs Cline and J. Pearson, two gentlemen in whose expe- rience and judgment the greatest confidence was placed. These and other surgeons consulted on the occasion, were unanimous in the opinion above mentioned. Hence it followed that a disease which had got well without the use of mercury could not have been syphilitic: this was the belief of Astruc; it was also the doctrine of J. Hunter, who has founded much of his reasoning on this supposition; and it was adopted from the latter by Mr. Abernethy, whose representations m the publication just mentioned are entirely founded on this view, which, indeed, he assumes as the basis of his arguments. Hence arose the distinction made by Mr. Hunter, in the case of diseases resulting from the common source of sexual intercourse between syphilis and diseases resembling it, but which are not syphilitic. It has been discovered, of late years, that these notions are entirely unfounded; that syphilis does not necessarily possess this destructive character, either in its separate symptoms or collectively; and finally that in every shape, whether primary or secondary, it may get well without the employment of mercury. Indeed, so complete has been the revolution ot opinion on this subject, that some surgeons, including persons of experience and judgment, have entirely discarded the use of mercury in these affections, regarding it as not only un- necessary but prejudicial. The extensive prevalence of these erroneous notions, and the firm faith with which they were held, are calculated toSYPHILIS—TBEATMENT. 355 teacli us a salutary lesson, that of examining for ourselves the evidence of general doctrines, and distrusting the authority even of the highest names, in matters of opinion. The sub- version of the long-established criterion has of course over- thrown all the speculations built upon it respecting syphilis, and diseases resembling syphilis, but not being venereal. Hence we may altogether discard the expressions of pseudo- syphilis, syphiloid diseases, cachexia syphiloidea, sequela? of syphilis, terms, which having either no distinct meaning, or an erroneous one, have only tended to perplex and embarrass us in investigating a naturally difficult subject. The most important feature in the natural history of this disease is the succession of the secondary or constitutional to the primary or local symptoms, and the successive appearance of the various constitutional affections. These are renewed from time to time in some instances, being often severe in their local and general effects, and requiring the employ- ment of remedies that act powerfully on the system. Thus in some cases the constitution is ultimately enfeebled, or the patient sinks under the complaint and the remedies! This happens, however, only in a few instances. Persons are liable to syphilis repeatedly. One attack does not protect the constitution, as in smallpox, cow- pox, &c. 7>™ W.-Surgeons have naturally directed their atten- tion to the specific nature of syphilis, to the peculiar ravages that it causes locally, to its effect in interrupting health for months or years, and finally weakening the constitu- tion. They have looked for a specific remedy, for something possessnig, or supposed to possess antisyphilitic virtues, that is, capable of counteracting the effects of the morbid poison and thus of checking and eradicating the disease. The^ have beheved that mercury possesses such power, and there356 SYPHILIS. fore have generally trusted to it in the management of svphilis. Even when dissatisfied with this supposed antidote, on account of its injurious effects in some cases, they have still endeavoured to find some other specific. Hence they have attended too little to the circumstances of common nature presented by syphilitic diseases, and to the indica- tions of common treatment. Let us, for a moment, take a different view, and forgetting the specific origin of the mischief, inquire whether the various affections called syphilitic are entirely peculiar, or whether they do not bear such a resemblance to other diseases in their essential nature as to make it probable that they may be beneficially treated, to a greater or less extent, by what may be called ordinary in opposition to specific remedies. They are inflammations, acute and chronic, with their several results, constitutional disturbance, inflammatory, irritative, or hectic; pain more or less considerable, often very great, with emaciation, loss of rest, appetite, and strength. These affections may be combated in great measure by ordinary means, by local treatment and diet, with rest, saline and anti- monial medicines, by means capable of exciting absorption, by narcotics and restoratives. Reduced diet, at least abstinence from fermented liquors and solid animal food, is generally proper, whatever treat- ment mav be adopted in other respects, unless in those whose powers are lowered by protracted disease and treat- ment • 1312 cases, including primary and secondary symp- toms, were treated at the Val de Grace, from April, 1825 to July, 1827, some with mercury, some without. Some had animal diet, some "regime vegetal et adoucissant The average duration of the cases on meat diet was fifty-five days, of the others thirty-three. < Archives/ xx, 441.357 TREATMENT—MERCURY. MERCURY; ITS PREPARATIONS, MODES OP ADMINISTRATION AND EFFECTS. Mercury is employed in the treatment of syphilis, either simply as a local application or as a remedy capable of pro- ducing a powerful influence on the system ; and through that influence, of arresting the progress of the disease, and ulti- mately curing it. In the metallic form it is inert; it pro- duces no effect upon the human body; it may be swallowed in large quantity, and will do neither good nor harm. It exercises no influence except when it is combined with oxygen, or with an acid. Of the forms in which mercury is used as a local appli- cation, perhaps the most common is that ordinarily called the black ivash, an unchemical combination of calomel with lime- water, the proportion being fifteen grains of calomel to the ounce. This is used as a lotion, by dipping lint into it and applying it to sores. If not the very best, it is one of the best modes of employing mercury locally. Another lotion, called yellow wash, is a combination of bichloride of mer- cury (corrosive sublimate) with lime-water, in the proportion of two grains to an ounce. This is used in the same way as the preceding. We have the mercurial ointment, which, however, is not frequently applied to venereal sores. There is also the red precipitate ointment (Unguentum Hydrargyri Nitrico-oxidi), which is in general use; and the citrine oint- ment (Unguentum Hydrargyri Nitratis), which is not fro- quenty employed in venereal cases. Another mode in which mercury is employed locally, is by fumigation; and for this purpose the red sulphuret of mercury or cinnabar (Hydrargyri Sulphurctum rubrum), is commonly358 SYPHILIS. used. An apparatus is employed for the purpose, consisting of a small grate, a thick piece of iron and a funnel: the iron, heated red hot, is placed on the grate, and half a dram or a dram of cinnabar is thrown on the iron, over which the funnel, which has a straight or curved tube, is then placed. The cinnabar is volatilized by the heat, and rises in .the form of white fumes, which are directed against an ulcerated surface by the tube of the funnel, and form on it a whitish pellicle. The peculiar effect of mercury upon the constitution can be produced either by applying certain preparations to the surface of the body, or by administering others internally. The most common mode of external use is by friction, that is, rubbing on the inside of the thighs, before the fire, for the space of twenty or thirty minutes every night, a dram of the strong mercurial ointment,- sometimes half a dram only is employed. It may be necessary to rub twice a day. When the rubbing is ended, most of the ointment will be found to have disappeared; it may be said to have been rubbed in. The patient should not wipe off what remains, but put on a pair of flannel drawers, and wear them during the process. If pimples should break out by rubbing the ointment on the inside of the thighs, the patient must vary the part on which he rubs. And inasmuch as some of the ointment sticks on the skin, it is necessary to wash the surface clean every third night, before beginning to rub in. When mercurial ointment is employed in this way, it is capable of producing the same general effect on the system as when other forms are taken internally. It should seem that the ointment is forced through the cuticle by the rubbing, so that it may be taken up and pass into the system. Simple external application is not sufficient for the purpose. It must, however, be observed, that if the ointment be spread rather thickly on flannel, ap- plied on a part, the testicle, for example, every night, and359 USE OF MEECURY. kept on through the night, the system will gradually he affected. The same effect may be produced by smearing the ointment on the armpit, and leaving it there during the night. A principal advantage attending this mode of employing mercury is, that it does not produce those unfavorable effects on the alimentary canal, and other parts of the system, which the internal use of mercury frequently does, or it produces them in a much less degree. Hence it used to be the general mode of administering the remedy for the purpose of affecting the system. The troublesome nature of the process has pro- bably led to its general discontinuance, though it is still resorted to occasionally with advantage. Mercury may be introduced into the system by general fumigation of the surface. If the naked body be placed in a box, at the top of which there is an opening made for the head to pass out; and if some preparation of mercury be vola- tilized by means of a hot iron placed on a grate in an opening at the bottom of the box, the whole surface being exposed to such fumigation, a very speedy affection of the system may be produced. For this purpose the gray oxide, or cinnabar, may be employed. The cinnabar, however, is too active to be used in this way. Indeed, the mere local use of it in the way of fumigation, sometimes affects the system. Cinnabar fumi- gation has been used in some ulcerations of the throat, and I have sometimes seen salivation produced on such occasions. The mildest and safest form of mercury for internal use is the Hydrargyrum cum creta, in which the metal is brought into the state of oxide by trituration with chalk : this is fami- liarly known as a domestic remedy under the name of gray powder. It possesses, at the same time, sufficient power as an antisyphilitic for the great majority of cases. In the dose of three or four grains three times daily it will soon affect the3G0 SYPHILIS. system. The blue pill, although mild, is more active: four or five grains may he given two or three times a day, and it may he substituted for the gray powder when that seems inefficient: sometimes to each blue pill there maybe added a grain of .calomel. This last substance, so well known under its own name,now called Hydrargyri Chloridum, is more active than the two preceding, and therefore available when the object is to mercurialize the patient quickly: it may be given in doses of two grains combined with the fourth or third of a grain of opium, three or four times in the twenty-four hours. A similar addition of opium may be necessary to the blue pill or gray powder. Calomel may be given in grain or half-grain doses two or three times daily, without or with a little opium. Sometimes calomel has been administered in a single nightly dose of three, four, or five grains, with one grain of opium. For producing the desired influence of mercury on the con- stitution as an antisyphilitic remedy, I prefer the gray powder or the blue pill, seldom resorting to calomel. The external plan by friction is equally advantageous and perhaps safer, but patients are seldom willing to adopt it, especially as the judicious employment of the internal remedies answers all purposes. The 1 London Pharmacopoeia' has an iodide and a biniodide of mercury: the former may be given in the dose of a grain three times daily, and the quantity may be gradually in- • creased to three grains. Its effect on the constitution is not distinguishable from that of mercury. The latter is used as an external remedy in the form of ointment. The bichloride of mercury, or corrosive sublimate, is another form employed in certain cases, though it is an irritant poison, even in quantities not to be called large. It must be given in small doses, and its effects must be cautiously observed. In this country it is not used in the general treatment of361 USE OP MERCURY. syphilis, being resorted to where small doses, such as the eighth or sixteenth of a grain, are to be administered, more especially where there may be some doubt respecting the propriety of using mercury at all, when the small quantity last mentioned may be given two or three times a day. It was introduced into practice in consequence of the enco- miums bestowed on it by Van Swieten, who practised at Vienna; hence it came to be used generally on the continent, particularly in France, where it was exhibited in solution under the name of 'Liqueur de Van Swieten/ Forty years ago all the cases, whether of primary or secondary symptoms, at the Venereal Hospital in Paris, were treated with this remedy. The formula thus employed contained one grain of bichloride in an ounce of distilled water, and the quantity usually given, was half an ounce, that is, half a grain twice a day, rather a large allowance. The remedy was carried round with the physicians when they made their visits, and the requisite portion was poured out and drank by each patient in the presence of the medical attendant; so that at all events the administration of the remedy was ascertained. The dose was generally taken in milk or thin mucilage. The Liquor Hydrargyri Bichloridi of the 'London Pharmacopoeia/ has half a grain of bichloride in an ounce, so that one dram contains the sixteenth part of a grain. A grain may be dis- solved in an ounce of tincture of bark; a teaspoonful, which contains the eighth of a grain, may be taken three times a day. The red oxide of mercury, which was formerly called Hydrargyrum Calcinatum, was at one time occasionally given for the purpose of affecting the system; a grain, or a grain and a half, being administered twice a-day, generally in com- bination with opium. This is a powerful agent, and irritates the alimentary canal; hence, having no particular advantages it is now discarded from practice, at least in this country.*36.2 SYPHILIS. On the use of mercury .—This remedy was universally em- ployed in England for the care of syphilis, from the remote time of its first introduction into practice to the early years of the present century, under the belief of the disease being constantly progressive, and only to be cured by this treat- ment. That this was general is clear from the opinions which Mr. Abernethy collected from the great surgical au- thorities of London before he published his ' Observations on Diseases resembling the Venereal/ in 1804. All the persons received into the syphilitic wards of the London hospitals were subjected to mercurial treatment, gene- rally by friction, and carried, in most cases, to the extent of salivation. The contaminated and offensive atmosphere insepa- rable from such a course of proceeding fully justified the name of foul wards, which may possibly have been applied to these apartments in the first instance to denote the moral stain implied by the contraction of the complaint. Although this opinion respecting the nature and cure of syphilis was held with undoubting faith in England, and I believe in France also, evidence was slowly arising elsewhere calculated not merely to raise doubts on the subject, but to show that it was altogether unfounded. We learn from Dr. Ferguson that the use of mercury had been almost completely abandoned in Portugal, without any unfavorable result, and British surgeons saw the entire disuse of mercury by their colleagues in charge of foreign troops in the British service in many in- stances during the great war. Mercury, when employed freely and indiscriminately, as it was formerly, and especially in repeated courses, disturbs health so seriously, not without suspicion of aggravating the disease, that surgeons at various times have turned their attention to the discovery of some other treatment by winch the symptoms might be more safely controlled. Thus,3G3 USE OF MERCURY. various other articles have been pi*oposed as remedies for the venereal disease; and cases have been published in which these, various as they are in their nature, are said to have produced the desired effect of curing the complaint. According to the prevalent notion of mercury being the only remedy for the venereal disease, when a cure was stated to have been effected by otber means, such as sarsaparilla, guaiacum, mezereon, nitric acid, or various other things, it was said the patients got well, because they had not the true venereal disease. We can have no doubt in admitting that the cases which were supposed to be incorrectly reported, or not to have been truly venereal, were really syphilitic. The clearest evidence however, respecting this point, that mercury is not necessary to the cure of syphilis, has been afforded by the investigations of the late Mr. Rose, surgeon of St. George's Hospital. He has the great merit of having been the first to submit the matter to direct experiment. He had charge of a battalion of the Coldstream Guards, then stationed in London, and having intercourse with the lowest prostitutes of the town, thus affording abundance of cases. He determined to treat all the primary symptoms that might occur in the battalion simply by common antiphlogistic means, whether they had the characters supposed to be those of true syphilis or any other. He resolved, in short, that all should be treated without mercury. The result of his expe- rience is contained in a paper published in the eighth volume of the ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions/ entitled < Ob- servations on the Treatment of Syphilis, with an Account of several Cases of that Disease, in which a Cure was effected without the use of Mercury.' After following this plan for two years, he found that all primary syphilitic symptoms could be cured without the employment of mercury; whether they were indurated chancres, superficial sores, or whatever364 SYPHILIS. character they might have presented. Ordinary antiphlo- gistic means simply, with rest and reduced diet, were suffi- cient, no mercury having heen employed during that time in any primary or secondary syphilitic affections. He says that in most instances the cure was slower than if mercury had heen used, though in some the sores healed rapidly. It appears, too, that there was a greater number of secondary affections, hut that those were always mild, and that they gave way to simple treatment without mercury. Thus he overturned the hitherto prevalent notion of mercury being absolutely necessary for arresting the progress of the disease, and showed that syphilis does not possess that destructive character which had been previously ascribed to it. In my opinion this is the most important step that has been taken towards understanding the nature and treatment of the venereal disease; and I should place the truth, thus esta- blished by Mr. Rose, far beyond any of the speculations that are contained even in the work of Mr. Hunter. In consequence of the researches of Mr. Rose, the non-mercurial treatment of the venereal disease has been extensively tried in the British army; and registers have been kept at the Army Medical Board showing the result of the treatment, both with and without mercury, from which comparative estimates of the two plans may be made. In other parts of Europe similar investigations have been carried on, with similar results; and the consequence of these inquiries has been a general revolution of opinion on the subject, and a corresponding change in practice. Persons who have the venereal disease are now no longer doomed to go through those long and severe courses of mercury winch they underwent heretofore. Mr. Rose, like Dr. Ferguson, had enjoyed opportunities during the Peninsular campaigns of observing how littleUSE OF MERCURY. 365 attention was paid by the Portuguese and Spaniards to the earlier stages of syphilis, and he was surprised not only at seeing primary sores cured without mercury, but also on finding that no subsequent ill consequences ensued. He saw some similar instances among the British soldiers, and was puzzled by the contrast which the continued good health of those persons presented with Mr. Hunter's alarming account of the terrible effects which must have ensued when the means of cure were not understood, and the description of the ravages said to have been caused by syphilis at the period of its imaginary origin. There can be little doubt that the two latter were, to say the least, greatly exaggerated. In the same way an apparently circumstantial account was given of great destruction caused by the introduction of the disease into Otaheite, which was discovered by subsequent observations to have been entirely unfounded. Although the researches of Mr. Rose, supported as they have been by other concurrent evidence, entirely overthrew the long-established doctrine that the cure of syphibs without the use of mercury is impossible, and thus proved that repeated and injurious courses of the remedy are quite un- necessary, they do not and were not intended by that gen- tleman to show that the remedy ought to be altogether dis- carded, that it has no special power over the disease, or that it ought not to be still retained, under proper management, as the principal means of treating a large portion of venereal affections. I must, therefore, express my entire dissent from the opinions of a distinguished teacher, the late Dr. John Thompson, Professor of Pathology in the University of Edin- burgh, who entirely abandoned the use of mercury both in primary and secondary syphilis, considering not only that patients recover much better without it, but that many of the affections regarded as the secondary symptoms of syphilis,366 SYPHILIS. especially in their more aggravated forms, are owing to the use of mercury. For many years before his death he trusted entirely to the simple decoction of sarsaparilla in all forms and stages of the disease. It is likely enough that too free use of a remedy under an exaggerated notion of its powers, should be followed by the opposite mistake of disbelieving its real efficacy. These errors are gradually corrected by time, and thus it has been found necessary, in numerous in- stances, to resume the use of mercury after it had been entirely abandoned. Mercury, like most other remedies, affects different indi- viduals differently, so that we cannot mention any definite dose that could be employed by all persons under all circum- stances. There are some persons in whom a quantity, such as a grain or two of blue pill, a grain or even half a grain of calomel, will produce salivation, while in others you may rub in mercury, and give calomel or blue pill in large doses, inter- nally, without affecting the system. Hence it is necessary to proceed cautiously, and to watch the effects of mercury. You cannot safely let the patient go on for several days with- out seeing him; salivation may have come on in the mean time. You should inquire whether the person has taken mercury before j whether it affects him quickly and in small doses, and ascertain these points before you direct the form and quantity of the remedy. The external use by frictions, and the internal administra- tion of blue pill, or the gray powder may be conjoined, when we wish to produce the full effect of the remedy quickly m order to arrest dangerous disease, or when the constitution resists its influence. When the desired effect is produced, the external or internal method may be continued alone. When mercury is employed either externally or internally, with a view to its beneficial influence in the treatment of367 USE OP MERCURY. syphilis, it must be used continuously and daily, so as to pro- duce its peculiar effect upon the constitution, and this effect must be maintained for some length of time, that is, for several days or weeks, until, in short, the cure is effected. This is called a course of mercury. We cannot say that the same doses, either in amount or number, are to be continued throughout. As this powerful remedy is capable of acting in- juriously or at least unpleasantly, care must be taken not to carry it further than is necessary to produce the required effect on the symptoms, and to keep up that until they are removed. The case must, therefore, be watched, the quantity of mercury being diminished or increased, left off for a time, and renewed according to circumstances. This process causes little inconvenience when carefully conducted, under proper precautions in diet and general management. The action of mercury on the constitution is increased by warmth and diminished by cold; it goes on more favorably when the patient remains in a uniform temperature. It was formerly the general practice to confine the patient strictly to his chamber, and, if we should wish to produce the effect of the remedy quickly and safely, especially in weakened and deli- cate states of health, the patient should keep to the house, occupying an apartment of regulated temperature; under other circumstances this confinement is not necessary. Still, as the constitution is more easily disturbed by external in- fluences under the use of mercury, exposure to cold and damp, or to the night air, which might bring on rheumatism or other disorders, should be avoided. With these precautions, persons may follow their usual occupations under the careful use of the remedy in ordinary cases. As the use of mercury generally causes some degree of feverish excitement, strong animal food with stimulating liquors would be improper. The diet should be light, broths, milk, bread, rice, and other368 ACTION OF MERCURY. farinaceous articles are suitable. As the bowels may be dis- turbed by the remedy, acids should be avoided, such as salads, pickles, vinegar, unripe fruits, and uncooked vegetables generally. As it may be necessary to administer mercury to those in reduced health, a more generous and nutritious diet, with stimuli, may be required to sustain the powers of the constitution. It produces a peculiar effect on the mouth. In the first place it causes an unpleasant metallic or coppery taste, which patients are most sensible of in the morning, communicating at the same time a fcetor to the breath, so that persons who have taken mercury, and do not wish that the fact should be known, must be careful not to approach too near to those from whom they wish to conceal it. It then produces a swollen, spongy, inflamed state of the gums, with loose- ness, and a tender condition of the teeth, so that the person is neither able to bite or masticate a hard substance, nor anything that approaches to a state of solidity. The sur- face of the tongue, and the mucous membrane of the lips and cheeks, undergo the same kind of inflammatory affection as the gums. The parts swell, and become very painful, and if the effect of the remedy goes on, it causes ulceration, the surface thus exposed assuming a kind of grayish or ash colour, as if it were covered with a superficial slough. In the further progress of the mercurial influence, sloughs to some depth may take place. In conjunction with these effects on the mouth, there is an increased secretion of the salivary glands, and this constitutes salivation, or ptyalism, during which a person will spit a pint, or more, in twenty-four hours This fluid is turbid, ropy, and sometimes tinged or mixed with blood The effect thus produced on the mouth, of which the degree now described is excessive and injurious, is con- sidered as a criterion of that general influence of the remedyACTION OP MERCURY. 369 on which we place reliance for arresting and curing syphilis; and I believe it may properly be regarded in that light. It is not, however, au essential evidence on the point. Action on the mouth is not seen in some persons, though the other effects of the remedy, including its influence on the disease may go on satisfactorily. When, therefore, the symptoms are giving way, the mercury need not be pushed because the mouth remains unaffected. Mercury cures syphilis in infants, though the mouth does not become sore. Action of the remedy.—I have already spoken of mercury as a purgative and an alterative. It does not cure syphilis when thus used. Its purgative action, indeed, interferes with or prevents that constitutional influence on which we depend for the cure of the disease, and must therefore be arrested by the combination of opium with the mercurial. At the same time that the effects just described are pro- duced, a salutary influence is exerted over the syphilitic symptoms in most, but not in all cases. Ulcers, losing the ulcerative character, cease to spread. The reproductive pro- cess commences, and healing is soon completed. Lymph is absorbed from the iris. Matter is sometimes removed from a suppurated bubo. Eruptions fade and disappear. Swellings of the periosteum are dispersed. Pains of joints and limbs cease. These various effects seem hardly reducible to any one principle, for, prima facie, they are in some respects contra- dictory. There is increased activity of absorption/by which lymph is removed from the iris, a periosteal or a glandular swelling is dispersed, or matter is taken up from a bubo On the other hand, the process of destruction is stopped, and deposition of new matter takes place in ulcers. The contra- diction, however, is only apparent, not real. The general effect of mercury is to arrest the venereal inflammation; this is the same in all the cases, while the absorption in the first 24370 SYPHILIS. set of instances and the deposition in the others are merely the local restorative effects consequent on the cessation of the inflammation which had produced them. The most unequivocal example of antisyphilitic influence is afforded in the action of mercury on ulcers of the throat and mouth. This remedy produces inflammation and ulceration, even sloughing of these membranes, yet it arrests syphilitic ulceration and leads to its repair. I have seen venereal ulcers of the lips and tongue healing rapidly while the mer- cury was causing ulceration, with ash-coloured slough, of the immediately adjoining membrane. Thus mercury showed itself at once both bane and antidote. Mercury has been said to cure syphilis by its specific power, and the specific action of mercury is said to be that of curing syphilis. This raises the question, what is a specific? The common and rather loose notion considers it as a remedy having a peculiar and direct action on a certain disease. The beneficial influence of remedies is often clearly explained by some general action on the system, as that of purgatives and dia- phoretic medicines in fever. Mercury does not cure syphilis by its action on the bowels, the mouth, liver, kidneys, or skin, nor by excitement of the vascular system, for none of those are essential to its beneficial influence on the disease, which appears to our ignorance as a direct agency, like that of sulphur on the itch and of bark on ague. It is m this sense that mercury may be called a specific for syphilis. Mr. Hunter says that it produces an irritation in the sys- tem which counteracts the irritation of the poison. This pretended explanation does not seem to me to carry our knowledge a single step beyond the general and popular statement that " mercury cures a pox." Injurious effects of mercury.—When injudiciously and m-INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY. 371 cautiously administered, its effects, with the amount and number of doses, not being duly watched, this remedy may act prejudiciously on the system, producing effects which are in themselves a kind of disease, sometimes a serious one, requiring appropriate treatment. It may affect the mouth, producing excessive salivation; and I do not know a more painful condition than that of an individual in whom this takes place. The tongue becomes swelled, excessively sore, excoriated on the surface and edges, and presses against the teeth on each side, so that indentations are observed on the margin of the organ. Sometimes the tongue is so swollen that it protrudes out of the mouth, preventing the closure of the jaws, and becoming deeply indented by the teeth on its inferior surface, with great and constant pain. The lips are swelled, and the whole head and face participate in the tumefaction. The mucous membrane of the lips, cheeks, and throat, is highly inflamed, excoriated, ulcerated, sloughy' and excessively tender. There is at the same time an inces- sant and profuse discharge of fetid saliva from the mouth, continuing night and day, and almost preventing the. patient from taking rest. The quantity of the discharge, under such circumstances, is beyond what I have already mentioned; frequently a quart of saliva, or more, flows from the mouth in the course of a night. Occasionally the effects are yet more serious; the gums slough, the alveolar processes perish and the teeth themselves fall out. I had under my care an officer from the East Iudies, who had been in service at Rangoon m the Burmese war, and contracted a fever, for which mer' cury had been given very freely. While taking this medicine his head swelled to an enormous size, and a dreadful saliva tion took place: such was the deplorable state in which he embarked for England, with little expectation of reaching it alive. He recovered a little on the voyage. When he arrived372 INJURIOUS EFFECTS OE MERCURY, the lips and gums were enormously' swelled, he could not open the mouth, and there was a constant discharge of the most horribly fetid matter I ever smelt; it was so had that he quite scented that part of the ship in which he was stationed so that none would go near him. I found that the who e of the teeth were so loose as to render it necessary for all to come out, and they were removed accordingly, sixteen from each jaw. Then the alveoli of both jaws came away m large pieces In consequence of tbe opposed surfaces being ulce- rated, the gums became united to tbe cheeks, so as to limit the power of moving the lower jaw to a very small extent. Salivation is not a state endangering life, though it may prevent a person for some time from taking solid food. In the swelled, excoriated, and tender state of the tongue and throat, the patient can neither articulate nor swallow without great pain Unfortunately, there is no direct or speedy remedy for this painful and distressing state; it will require three, four or more weeks for the affection gradually to subside, and we cannot very materially accelerate the cessation of the symptoms. As a warm and uniform temperature promotes the action of mercury, free exposure diminishes it; so that under profuse salivation the head and jaws should be un- covered, instead of being closely tied up, as they usually are, under the notion that the mischief arises from taking cold, and exercise may be freely taken in the open air. Sahne pur- gatives should be administered in small doses; an open state of the bowels lessens the action of mercury on the mouth The measure of most immediate efficacy m lessening the Solent inflammation of the mouth and surrounding pars which causes the suffering in these distressing cases is the application of leeches below the edge of the lower 3aw on one or both sides. Lotions and gargles are not of much a, a Frequent cleansing of the mouth by port wane and waterLNJUEIOUS EFFECTS OF MEECUEY. 373 equal parts, cold, is probably beneficial by its astringent action^ and is agreeable. Tincture of myrrh or brandy diluted with three or four times the quantity of water may be used after a time. A solution of alum in infusion of roses, with or with- out the tincture, may be tried, also the chlorate of soda in solution, one ounce of Liquor Soda? Chlorinatae to eight or ten ounces of water. The chlorate of potash may also be tried in the dose of ten to twenty grains every six or eight hours. Wben the swelling has in some degree subsided we observe ulcerations of the tongue, and superficial, ash-coloured sloughs of the mucous membrane, for which the best application is the Linimentum iEruginis of the Pharmacopoeia. This is a re- medy of undoubted efficacy, known formerly under the names of Mel or Unguentum iEgyptiacum, and believed to have been used by the ancients in diphtheria. It may be applied to the diseased surfaces by means of a camel-hair pencil or by lint rolled round the end of a probe, care being taken that none of it shall be swallowed. A strong solution of nitrate of silver, or the solid stick, may be used for the same purpose. Mercury taken internally may disagree with the bowels, causing pain, griping, and purging, or tenesmus and mucous evacuations. Laudanum in chalk mixture will relieve, with discontinuance of the merurial course, which may be resumed with the addition of a little opium to the mercury. A moderate dose of rhubarb, with Pulv. Cretse comp. c. Opio and a dram of Spiritus Myristicaj in mint water will settle the alimentary canal effectually. If the mischief recurs, the use of the remedy by friction must be substituted for its in- ternal administration. Sometimes mercury produces a peculiar inflammation of the skin, called eczema mercuriale. The skin becomes inflamed in patches; minute vesicles form on the inflamed374 INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY. surface, as thickly set together as they can stand. These at first are hardly visible, since their contents are transparent; but they soon become opaque and purulent; they break and discharge matter, which encrusts on the surface, causing a copious, fetid discharge, which stiffens the linen and produces painful excoriation. Fresh patches of skin become inflamed and go through the same process. Thus this eczema may extend indefinitely over the body. The affection is a painful one, being attended with consider- able inflammation of the skin, and irritation from the dry crusts and the exudation of matter. This complaint goes through a certain course, gradually subsiding in the parts first affected, and then coming on in others. It is the source of great pain and distress, and even high constitutional irri- tation when it has been allowed to become extensive. It arises from peculiarity of constitution in the individual, for it will take place without much mercury having been em- ployed. It may occur either from the external or internal employment of the remedyj it may begin on the thighs, under the use of the ointment; and I have seen it excited by the irritation of a mercurial plaster. In the case of a person known to be subject to this affection mercury should either be not employed at all or administered with great caution, and it should be immediately discontinued if eczema is seen even in the slightest form. The affection admits of little more than palliative treatment; soothing and mild local applications should be employed. The surface may be washed and gently cleansed by means of emollient or mucilaginous fluids, milk and water, decoction of linseed, or thin gruel. Parts which are particularly sore and inflamed may be covered with a bread and water poultice. Mild unctuous applications may be employed after the inflammatory stage is gone by, in order to detach and remove the crusts that are formed on theINJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY. 375 surface of the body, the part may then be lightly dusted with flour or the oxide of zinc in powder. Aperient me- dicines must be given, and saline draughts with antimony may be used. Mercury sometimes acts as a kind of poison upon the system, accelerating the pulse, which is feeble, causing loss of flesh, appetite, and rest; a state not unlike hectic fever. Sometimes it goes further, and has a peculiar influence in disturbing the action of the heart and of the respiratory organs. It causes a sense of oppression about the prse- cordia, an irregular action of the heart, a small, quick, inter- mittent pulse, coldness of the surface, and a pale, contracted countenance. These symptoms have been clearly described by the late Mr. Pearson, in a small work entitled ' Obser- vations on some Articles of the Materia Medica in the Treat- ment of Syphilis/ and he calls this affection erethismus, a Greek word, about equivalent to irritation. He says that at the Lock Hospital, of which he was surgeon, he had observed that occasionally persons died suddenly, without his being able to ascribe the death to any particular cause. He was hence led to pay attention to persons who were under a mercurial course, and he found that symptoms such as I have described were occasionally produced; and that, in this depressed condition of circulation and general strength, a slight degree of exertion, such as walking across the ward, had sometimes suddenly been fatal. I once saw a marked instance of this affection in the person of a physician, who is well known by his writings, the late Dr. Bateman. who took mercury in consequence of an amaurotic affection. He was delicate, and rather of an irritable habit; and this peculiar effect of mercury on the heart and respiratory organs was produced in him to an alarming degree, so as to bring him into a state of the greatest danger, though the remedy376 INJURIOUS EFFECTS OP MERCURY. did not act powerfully upon the mouth. The circulation was depressed, the action of the heart was irregular, and the functions of the respiratory organs so much interrupted, that for five or six weeks his life was in the greatest danger. He has given an interesting narrative of his own case in the ninth volume of the ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions/ under the title of " Notes of a case of Mercurial Erethismus." Mr. Pearson ohserves, that the "best remedies for this peculiar affection are, first, free exposure to the air; secondly, medicines of a cordial or stimulating kind, a good and generous diet, animal food, wine, and other fermented liquors. These means seem obviously calculated to raise the sinking powers of the circulating system and to give general strength. I recollect that Dr. Bateman, although a temperate person, found it necessary to take wine, and even hrandy, freely, during the period that he was suffering in this way; also to take jellies and animal food in a concentrated state. When such symptoms are coming on, volatile alkali in camphor mixture is the hest remedy. Mercury is to be discontinued on the very first alarm, and if the patient be in an hospital, he must be immediately removed from the mercurial atmosphere. In the state of system produced by the action of mer- cury persons sometimes experience rheumatic affections. They complain of pains in the joints and limbs, and occa- sionally actual swelling of joints comes on. It would appear that in individuals of rheumatic constitution the employment of mercury is likely to bring the disorder into action. Hence mercury is to be used with great caution in individuals of such constitution. To this catalogue of evils that are ascribed to the employ- ment of mercury some persons are inclined to add con- siderably. They enumerate, among the prejudicial effects of the remedy, eruptions, iritis, affections of the nose, of theINJUEIOUS EFFECTS OF MEECUEY. 377 bones, and of the joints, being a considerable portion of the symptoms with which we are well acquainted as the secon- dary symptoms of syphilis. I must observe, in the first place, that we know all the symptoms that I have just men- tioned may be produced by syphilis treated without the aid of mercury j we frequently see them all in individuals that have taken no mercury; we have, therefore, clear evidence that all these effects may be produced by the disease. We have not the same kind of proof that they can be produced by mercury; on the contrary, mercury is given in many diseases besides syphilis, and to a considerable extent; but in no instance do we find it then produce eruptions like syphilis, iritis, disease of the bones, of the periosteum, or of the nose. The effects in question may then be produced by syphilis without mercury; but we have no proof that they can be caused by mercury without syphilis. It is true that mercury and syphilis, taken together, may bring forth that which neither will produce singly. I readily admit that the injudicious use of mercury and the repeated employment of it in some cases may act prejudicially on the system, and that a perseverance in its use where it exerts some of its noxious influences may aggravate the symptoms of syphilis, may cause them to return more easily, and may make them more difficult to cure. Thus, the employment of mercury, under such circumstances, may increase the difficulties which belong to the disease itself. I cannot, however, at present see any evidence that mercury is capable of producing these symptoms, which we are in the habit of witnessing as the effects of syphilitic poison, where no mercury has been used • and certainly there are mischiefs enough arising from the injudicious and imprudent use of mercury without adding those that do not belong to it. All we want is to know the truth, to learn what the remedy can effect, and what it can378 SYPHILIS. not; to understand what advantages and disadvantages may attend its use, and thus to ascertain its real value. It has heen much the habit in modern times to be con- tented with producing a merely sensible impression on the mouth, and then to discontinue the mercury, under the notion that when the mouth is affected at all the influence on the system is sufficient for the cure of the disease. I cannot coincide with this view of the subject. There are many instances in which this slight effect on the mouth is sufficient, while in others the symptoms do not yield till the remedy is carried further. We never see the symptoms give way so quickly and favorably as when the mercury, without our having wished it, has produced salivation. I cannot, there- fore, adopt the opinion of those who regard ptyalism as an occurrence interfering with the curative influence of the remedy. It is, indeed, a painful state, and not necessary to the accomplishment of our object. We should therefore proceed cautiously in the few instances in which we find it expedient to push the use of mercury further than usual, as salivation sometimes comes on quite unexpectedly. In most instances a mild effect suffices, and we manage our doses of the remedy so as to keep this up without increas- ing the amount of action. Since mercury, imprudently and carelessly used, is capable of producing injurious temporary effects, and since its long- continued and repeated employment may injure health seriously and permanently, it is desirable to attain its cor- rective or specific influence on venereal disorders with as small a quantity of the remedy as is consistent with the object. We must therefore consider two questions, what degree of mercurial influence is necessary to arrest and cure syphilis, and how long the remedy ought to be continued. In reference to the first point, is a slight action on theUSE OP MERCURY. 379 mouth sufficient ? Will all the benefit that the remedy can confer be derived from it when it just perceptibly acts on the system, or may not a more considerable influence be ne- cessary, either generally or in particular cases? Then, further, is it sufficient to continue the remedy until, ulcera- tion having been arrested, the healing process has begun, and a healthy condition of the part is established ? If we leave it off at this point, relapse of ulceration will often occur, and it is necessary to resume the treatment. We must therefore go on till cicatrization is completed. Is it of any use to go further, in order to diminish the chance of relapse or of secondary symptoms ? We are still in the dark on these points, respecting which we consult the best authorities in vain. It would require a great and peculiar field of practice, a long course of time, with patient observation and mature reflexion, to collect such a body of evidence as would enable us to lay down positive rules on the subject. Mr. Hunter contends, in respect to the venereal disease, that mercury will cure the action or the existing disease, but not the disposition or the state of constitution which may lead to future appearances. The latter point is sufficiently estab- lished by the ordinary course of experience. Yet, in detailing the histories of cases, we find him going on with mercury after the symptoms had disappeared, in order to protect the constitution. Patients are often disposed to take this view of the subject, and thus the mercurial course is often con- tinued in a mild degree for one or two weeks after the symptoms have disappeared. The substance next in efficacy to mercury in the treatment of syphilis is the iodide of potassium, which, however, has no claim to be regarded, like mercury, as a specific against the disease generally. It exerts no power over the primary symptoms, but is very useful in the secondary affections,380 SYPHILIS—VARIOUS REMEDIES. more particularly in their protracted and painful states, when attended with that depression of general health under which it is desirable'to avoid the use of mercury. It has little influence on the earlier and milder forms of constitu- tional syphilis, though very efficacious in the advanced stages of the complaint, to which the name of tertiary is sometimes applied. It is rapidly beneficial in all affections of the bony system, whether osseous, periosteal, or simply painful; also in affections of the joints. It has the advantage over mer- cury of not interfering with health; it produces none of the serious inconveniences so often caused by the injudicious use of that powerful remedy, though, in rare instances, it disagrees by affecting the head, the mucous membranes of the nose, eye, and throat, so considerably, that its use cannot be con- tinued. Its employment is not inconsistent with that of mer- cury ; indeed, the two remedies are sometimes used together with advantage. There is some ground for the remark that its influence is less permanent than that of mercury; its use, however, may be resumed when necessary, and continued for any length of time without injury to health. Its bene- ficial action generally takes place soon; if no good is done in a month, the remedy may be left off. The modus operandi, as in so many other cases, is obscure; all that we can observe is the beneficial influence of the remedy on the symptoms, which is often sudden and unmistakeable. Moderate doses, such as two to five grains three times a day, will do all the good that can be conferred by the iodide, and it very rarely disagrees in such quantity; there can be no reason for the very large doses sometimes administered. Camphor mixture is a convenient vehicle, any distilled water or simple vegetable infusion may be used, or it may be given with sarsaparilla. Other remedies are occasionally employed in the treatmentSYPHILIS—VARIOUS REMEDIES. 381 of syphilis, without hairing any pretence to specific influence like mercury, or to such power over particular symptoms as that of the iodide of potassium. The principal of these is the root of sarsaparilla, which has been taken in various forms, as powder, simple and compound decoction. In the latter it is mixed with guaiacum, sassafras, and mezereon, forming a combination nearly resembling a remedy formerly of great repute under the name of Decoctum Lusitanicum, Lisbon Diet Drink. There is also an extract of the root and a fluid extract of the compound decoction. The latter form is now generally used in the dose of a dessert-spoonful in water three times a day, in preference to swallowing large quantities of the decoction. No confidence can be placed in this remedy unless it be carefully prepared from genuine arti- cles. Great difference of opinion has prevailed among medical men on the subject of sarsaparilla, some regarding it worthless, while others ascribe to it considerable virtues, a discrepancy ascribable in some degree to difference of quantity in the article. I regard it as an excellent restorative, doing good in those instances in which, either from the long continuance of disease, from the painful nature of the symptoms, or the injurious effects of treatment, especially where mercury has been employed long or repeatedly, the constitution has been enfeebled, loss of appetite, want of rest, emaciation, and de- bility having been produced. It may also be employed with advantage in the cases where mercury has been found by previous experience to disagree, or where its use is inadmis- sible from peculiar susceptibility or delicacy of constitution. How does sarsaparilla act? They who deny its utility allege that a person in health might drink a quart of the decoction without any effect; certainly he might do so, with no other result than that of distending his stomach. We do not understand the mode of action of many powerful333 SYPHILIS—PRIMARY SORES, medicines. I do not pretend to explain how sarsaparilla operates, but I know by experience that it is a useful remedy It seldom fails to render essential service in those cases of secondary syphilis where the continuance of painful disease has impaired the appetite, destroyed rest, and caused loss of flesh and strength. It is employed with equal advantage in similar states of constitution produced by other causes. It is less applicable to the treatment of primary syphilis, but may be used with advantage when the disease has been painful and obstinate, and has impaired health, particularly if it has resisted the action of mercury. Opiates are often advantageously combined with sarsaparilla. The good effects observed when sarsaparilla has been administered after a long mercurial course may arise, in some measure, from discon- tinuance of the latter. It is often given in conjunction with mercury, particularly the bichloride, in small doses, or blue pill- it renders the action of the mercurial milder. It is of no use when patients are in good condition; it is injurious in feverish states of the system. Under both circumstances it excites and causes headache. Primary syphilitic or venereal sores are seldom seen except in the external organs of generation, or in their immedmte neighbourhood. I say seldom, hecanse they may oceur m other quarters, I have seen them on the lip and tongue and more frequently ou the fingers. They oeeur m the latter situation occasionally to medical men from delivermg jomen labouring under the disease, especiaUy if there should be a dlded surface on the part at the time. Ho, they are produced in the two former cases I am unable to expW They appear most commonly on the glans and hmng of the prepuce in the male; on the thin covering hmng the m Lval between the labia in the female. They occur less frequently on the common integument, but may he seenSYPHILIS—PRIMA BY SORES. 383 the skin of the prepuce or penis and on that of the labia. They are still less common on mucous surfaces, yet the urethra and vagina are not exempt; we see them occasionally at the entrance of both canals. Primary sores are produced by the application of infectious matter to a natural unbroken surface, or to a wound or sore. The poison acts more rapidly in the two instances last men- tioned. In this way the fingers and nipples are sometimes affected. I have seen several cases in which syphilis has been contracted by the application of venereal matter to a wounded or abraded surface of a finger, but no instance in which this has occurred to the entire skin of these parts. Most of these patients have been surgeons. A gentleman once consulted me for a violent inflammation affecting the wrist, forearm, and lower part of 'the arm. On the thumb there was an inflamed sore, about the size of a shilling, with considerable swelling and redness around. I asked him how this had happened ? He said that it was a gnat-bite, which he had neglected, that it had festered, got worse and worse, and then his arm had inflamed. It appeared to me to be a more serious affair than a gnat-bite would pro- duce, and that there must have been some other cause. On closer inquiry I found that three days previously he had been dining with a friend in the city, and had drank rather freely; that on returning home along the Strand he had got into conversation with a damsel, and had been silly enough to put his hands up her petticoats, but had taken no other liberty with her. When he got home he said that he found that his hand stunk very badly, and he immediately took means for cleaning it, but found difficulty in getting rid of the smell. From that time his thumb, which he felt had some thing the matter with it, got worse and worse. It was now apparent that syphilitic poison had been applied to the part384 SYPHILIS—PRIMARY SORES. and that the state of the sore was the result of such appli- cation. The first ohject was to reduce the inflammation, which was very severe. Vox this purpose leeches and other suitable measures were employed. In two or three days the inflammation of the arm and forearm had subsided, but the thumb was not at all better. I now directed the black wash, with poultice, to the part, and that he should take five grains of blue pill three times a day. He went on with this a few days, but it had produced no effect on the system, and the sore of the thumb had become worse. It was then necessary to employ mercury more actively, and I gave him calomel and opium largely, under which he became salivated; the local symptoms were soon arrested, the sore put on a healthy character, and proceeded rapidly towards healing. Not being regularly under my care, he left off the mercury before the cicatrization was complete; the consequence was that the sore spread again, and he was obliged to go through a second mercurial course before the complaint could be put a stop to after which it was finally and permanently cured. A surgeon once wrote to me from Lincolnshire, mentioning that he had got a painful sore on the finger or thumb, I forget which; that he had delivered a poor woman who had gone accidentally through the town in which he lived, and finding that a sore place which he had had on the thumb or finger previously, produced by a scratch, was now excessively painful, he was induced to examine the patient, and found that she had got venereal sores. The sore and the inflam- mation of the parts had increased rapidly, and spread into an inflamed, foul ulcer/ He wrote to consult me about it, stating these circumstances, and begging to know what I thought of the case. I answered that he had got a venereal sore, and that he ought to use mercury actively. In a few days he came to town, pale, sallow, and looking ill. He showed mePRIMARY SORES. 385 the part, which was bright red; there was a large foul sore on it, which was excessively painful. He said that he had suffered much in coming to town : that he had begun to take mercury as soon as I wrote, but it had not acted on the system; he thought, however, that the progress of the sore had been checked, but he had been annoyed on the journey by another cause, namely, an attack of piles, which came on just before he left the country, and had been very painful in the coach. As he had never had piles before, I thought it strange that they should appear just at that time; but he said he was sure of the fact, because he had showed them to a surgeon, who had put caustic upon them, which had made them much more painful. On examination I found he was suffering from the excoriated and ulcerated chaps round the anus, rhagades ani, a secondary consequence of the primary sore. I enjoined confinement to the house, and an active mercurial course. The remedy took effect rapidly, and as soon as the system was affected, the sores in both situ- ations were checked. By perseverance in this treatment, in two or three weeks he got well, and went back to the country. I saw another gentleman who had attended a low woman in her confinement. He had a broken surface of some kind upon the finger, which became infected; it put on a thick margin, and had an unhealthy secretion : in a short time he had a swelling of the glands in the axilla, and a scaly eruption about the body. These got well when the system was tho- roughly affected with mercury. Thus we see that syphilis may be contracted in other ways as well as through the sexual organs, and it is of consequence for those who have to practise on patients who may labour under syphilitic disease, and have to handle the organs of generation, to take great care that they do not aUow anyfcscharge to come in contact with recent wounds or ulcers. 25386 SYPHILIS. These have been inoculations by the secretion of primary sores. Can a similar effect be produced through the medium of secondary symptoms? Women may be infected through the nipples from suckling syphilitic children. Delpech relates the case of a surgeon who had injured his fore-finger. He examined some excoriated chaps around the anus which are secondary affections, and the moisture produced from them (suintement) came in contact with the sore part Itching and pain in the finger came on almost immediately; ulcera- tion of the wound and swelling of its circumference next day • then humeral and axillary buboes. These primary effects were followed by pustules over the body, ulcerations of the palate and nose, and six years of disease and treatment. (' Chirurgie clinkpie,' i, 336.) The loeal effect in the ease of a sound surface follows the application of the poisonous matter, not immediately, hut after an interval of time more or less considerable, as in smallpox, cow-pox, hydrophobia. This interval, winch rs generally about a week or ten days, is sometimes less, and sometimes protracted to five or six weeks. Mr Hunter says that chancres may appear m twenty-four hours' after connexion, or not till the end of seven weeks. He saw one instance in which there was an mterval of two m„„ths. When venereal matter is applied to the surface of Tina or sore, as in the cases already mentroned of th fingers, an effect takes place at once, that rs, pam or rtehm is felt immediately, and recognisable changes me found m twenty-four hours inflammations of the Primary venereal sores aie ai nxo* soften pimples, minute vesicles or pushes The cu * is broken and nleeration takes place , there . loss of sub- sharp edge, grayish or yellowish surface, com- monly but not invariably circular figure.PEIMAEY SOEES. 387 There are many varieties of primary sores, which may be reduced to the following heads : I. Simple venereal sore (venerola vulgaris, Evans).—One or more; often a series behind the corona glandis, or at the orifice of the prepuce; sometimes painful, and bleeding on slight occasions. They go through certain successive stages: 1. Ulceration. Slight excavation, with grayish or tawny surface, and sharp edge. 2. Filling up to a level with the sound skin, and rising above it—ulcus elevatum. 3. Cicatrization. This progress occupies four, five or six weeks. a. Sore at the base of the framum, generally ulcerating through and destroying it. b. Fissures of prepuce. c Ulcers on glans, superficial, and not becoming elevated or indurated. ' II. Ulcer with slightly raised edge, on the integument of the penis, of circular figure, with smooth surface and little discharge, forming a thin incrustation, and not painful There may be one or more, of the size of a sixpence to that of a half-crown; under neglect, sometimes attaining a more consumable magnitude. These sores, common enough among the lower orders, are not met with in private practice III. Indurated sore; Hunterian chancre. Mr. Hunter entertained the notion that the venereal poison, as a specific irritant, would produce on the parts to which it is applied a certain regular effect of definite cha racter and progress, as is the case in smallpox, cow-pox or t e >tch Thus he says that "a chancre has ^ thickened base, and although in some the common inflam mation spreads much further, yet the specific is confined to this base. Again, in describing the development of the388 SYPHILIS. sore, he says, « a thickening of the part commences, which at first, and while of the true venereal kind, is very circum- scribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the surrounding parts, but terminating rather abruptly. Its base is hard, and the edges a little prominent." Had he discarded preconceived notions and current doctrines, and applied to primary syphilis his great powers of original observation and reflection, he certainly would not have been satisfied with this meagre account of the subject, which is alto-ether imperfect, even in reference to one, and that by no means the most frequent form of the disease. The character of induration is seen in primary sores under different aspects; it may be in moderate degree, and might be called thickening with firmness rather than induration. There may be aeon- siderablelump under the skin, generally without redness, often not existing at first, but gradually developed. If you take the part between the finger and thumb, you might suppose that there is a piece of cartilage below the surface to which the skm closely adheres. The ulceration, which is superficial or a little excavated, is seldom large ; it is slow in progress and unat- tended with pain. The induration often remains after the sore has healed, and that for a long time; and I have seen it occur in conjunction with secondary symptoms twelve months after the cure of the primary disease. It has not yet been shown that this kind of primary symptom owes its origin to any peculiarity in the poison which has caused it. There is, how- ever no doubt that a certain structure is necessary to its pro- duction, namely, some amount of loose cellular tissue. Hence it is most frequent in the fold of prepuce behind the glans, and in the lining of the prepuce. It is hardly met with in the glans, where the quantity of this structure is extremely small, and it is but rarely seen in the common integument ot the prepuce. When the corona glandis and contiguous portionPRIMARY SORES. 389 of the prepuce are involved in a common sore, the latter will be indurated, but not the former. The great respect, amounting almost to veneration, in which the authority of Mr. Hunter has always been held, especially in reference to a subject on which he had bestowed much thought, has led to the general adoption of his views respecting the primary venereal sore or chancre, as he always calls it, and succeeding writers and teachers have generally adopted his description, instead of examining for themselves. The greater number of primary syphilitic sores have no indurated base or edge; yet, because Mr. Hunter has so described it, this form has been adopted as the criterion of a venereal sore, and has been caUed the true venereal chancre, all others being deemed not syphilitic. Primary sores, as well as other symptoms, differ; yet the various forms equally result from infection : one kind is just as true syphilis as another. Because, however, primary venereal sores do not generally correspond to what Mr. Hunter has described under the name of chancre, and because syphilis deviates in other respects from the description he has given, it has not only been fancied, but asserted even by writers of high authority that the disease has changed its character since Mr. Hunter wrote. I think it more probable that he should have been mistaken or inaccurate, than that nature should have changed; and I cannot help calling to mind the short but pithy remark of a great writer of antiquity • "Opinions commenta delet dies ; nature judicia confirm." When we refer to the descriptions given by ancient writers of the diseases which we now observe we find them in perfect accordance with our present experience; and I see no reason for believing that nature has changed in this more than in other cases. Considering Mr. Hunter's entire confidence in the390 SY-PHILIS. mercurial test, as applied to his conclusions respecting syphilis, and the fanciful speculations and the contradictory statements which ahound in his celebrated work, I cannot help classing some of his views among the "opinionum com- menta" rather than with the " nature judicial IV Simple excoriation; mere removal of cuticle. When seated on the prepuce, sometimes attended with induration in a slight degree. Some persons, fancying that the venereal poison must pro- duce a peculiar effect, that this must he an ulcerative exca- vation, more especially with indurated base, seem to consider that a simple abrasion of cuticle cannot be the effect of an animal poison, they say "that's an excoriation! it is not venereal." I have no doubt that the primary effect of the venereal poison may be either a mere excoriation or a sore of the most superficial kind; and that secondary symptoms may follow such primary affections. V. Inflammation of the glans and prepuce, with excoria- tion, and fetid puriform discharge gonorrhoea prtsputii. a Simpleinflammation,withincreased and altered secretion. b. Inflammation, with exoriation, in red and white patches, and superficial ulceration. e Inflammation, with ulcer, at the base of the prepuce. VI Phagedenic sore. All ulceration is phagedenic in its origin and progress; that is, there is destruction of parte. In the venereal sores already considered this loss is incon- siderable in extent, and proceeds slowly. In phagedenic primary sores, the destruction of parts by ulceration is more considerable : they seem eaten away, and a conspicuous loss of substance is soon produced. The margin of the sore is sharp, generally irregular; portions of it turn livid and then perish. The surface is irregular, tawny, or livid, without any attempt at repair. There is no surrounding hardness.ft PRIMARY SORES. 391 «. Rapid destruction, with a corroded livid surface, red edge, and severe pain. b. Slower progress, creeping on for some weeks, and de- stroying the glans or prepuce without much pain. VII. Sloughing sore. We see two kinds of this affection on the genitals. The sloughing sore and the phagedsenic form of the disease are nearly allied in nature, differing chiefly in the degree of mischief, and in the course of the affection. Whether the more or less formidable character of these sores depends on anything specific in the irritating or poisonous matter to which they owe their origin, or either to pecu- liarity of constitution, or state of health in the patient, is at present unknown. Within my own experience, they have occurred to persons in whom there was neither ob- servable imperfection of constitution nor impaired state of health, the disease having been received from persons in whom there could have been no malady of great virulence, or any material deviation from the state of health, inasmuch as the peculiar characters and circumstances of the disease, especially the painful state of the sexual organs, and the con- comitant constitutional disturbance, could not fail to preclude the possibility of sexual intercourse. In one form of the complaint the sloughing is obviously brought on by irregu- larities in the conduct of the individual. The circumstance already mentioned (at p. 352) of the destructive character of the disease contracted by the British troops in Portugal, from intercourse with native females, in whom venereal affec- tions were of the slightest character, involves the question in considerable uncertainty and doubt. The most frequent form of sloughing sore is that brought on by high inflammation, the effect of neglect and intern perance, that is, by various causes of excitement, external and392 SYPHILIS". internal, acting on an affection in its nature inflammatory. An ordinary sore is situated on the glans, particularly on the corona, or at the base of the prepuce. Under want of care and probably irregularities of all kinds, it becomes inflamed ; the prepuce inflames, swells, becomes bright red, and cannot be drawn back, while an offensive ichor or bloody and dark- coloured matter flows from its contracted orifice. There is probably a full and strong pulse, with headache, white tongue, and restlessness. When the parts are exposed by slitting the prepuce, a larger or smaller slough of the glans is seen at its back part, of dull gray or brownish colour, the glans itself being swelled, sometimes with pustules on the surface, and the lining of the prepuce is either ulcerated, thickened by inflammation, or in incipient disorganization. The slough extends deeply between the glans and corpora cavernosa, but not so as to open the urethra; when it is de- tached, and granulation has commenced, there is a deep chasm,' at the bottom of which the front ends of the corpora cavernosa are seen. As the slough passes through the blood- vessels of the glans, bleeding often takes place at the time of separation, which, although usually profuse, generally stops of itself by causing fainting; it may, however, require ligature or some styptic. The separation of the slough is followed by healthy granulation, with subsidence of all the local disturbance and speedy recovery. There is no fear of secondary symptoms. In other instances the affection is of sloughing character from the beginning, commencing with a vesicle or pustule, which opens into an angry and painful sore. Sooner or later the part becomes dark, blackish or brownish, with an offen- sive ichorous discharge. There is generally, but not always, surrounding inflammation, with pain, and constitutional dis- turbance. Under appropriate treatment, of which division otPRIMARY SORES. 393 the prepuce is generally a necessary part, the dead portion is separated, leaving a loss of substance, which is filled by granulation, and healing ensues without any liability to secondary symptoms. Such cases are rare. I had an instance under my care in St. Bartholomew's, in a healthy girl about twenty. There was a softish, dark slough on the inner side and lower part of the labium, about an inch in length, and at least half as broad, with little surrounding disturbance or pain. Her story, which there was no reason to disbelieve, was to the effect that she was servant in a family not far from the hospital, that she had been induced to go to a fair m the neighbourhood of London, where she had a single con- nexion with a companion. She was kept in bed with poultice to the part, under which the slough separated, and healing followed without any other inconvenience. A gentleman, about sixty, of good fortune and regular habits, who could not have contracted the disease from any low ^source, came to consult me from a few miles in the country, being in good general health. When he opened his dress, I immediately recognised the fcetor of sloughing phage- dena. There was a soft, dark-brown slough on the side&of the glans, about the size and form of a horse-bean, and, as it appeared when separated, about the depth of such a body. The glans was not much swelled, nor was there much pain • the prepuce could be withdrawn so as to denude the glans' Rest in bed, with soothing local treatment, checked the pro gress of the complaint, but there was more or less aching pam from the pressure of the prepuce, although that part was not inflamed : I therefore divided it on the third day when all uneasiness ceased. The separation of the slough, and the repair of the chasm by granulation and cicatrization were soon complete, and nothing further ensued. A gentleman, twenty-two years of age, having had a suspi-394- SYPHILIS. cious connexion, perceived on the eleventh day a small whitish place on the glans, for which caustic was used, giving a little pain. On the following day the place was larger, with foul dis- charge and very painful. He was worse on the fourteenth day, when three grains of calomel with half a grain of opium were ordered every six hours. He came to me on the following day, when he had taken four of the pills, and found himself worse. The peculiar fcetor of sloughing phagedsena was imme- diately recognisable. The prepuce was inflamed, and slightly (Edematous, the glans, equally red, protruded about half-way at the orifice. The prepuce could be withdrawn with a little difficulty, so as to expose a sore about the size of a shilling, of which about two thirds were on the glans, the remainder on the root of the prepuce. It had the pulpy, brownish, and bloody surface of sloughing phagedena, with one black por- tion, and it projected above the margin of the ulcer. It discharged a thin, red, and extremely offensive ichor. The neighbouring internal surface of the prepuce was highly inflamed; the whole penis very painful. Twelve leeches to the penis, and poppy fomentation. In the evening, althougb the pain was lessened and the discharge thicker, the pulse was full and hard, twelve ounces of blood were taken from the arm. On the fifteenth day the fcetor of the discharge had gone, the parts very tender to the touch and occasionally painful. Twelve leeches. On the 16th the discharge was a thin matter, neither sanious nor fetid ; the prepuce, being still inflamed and tender, was slit up, the sore being larger, and presenting an excavation that would hold a nut. The process after this time was completely favorable, and Cica- trization was accomplished in little more than a month from the beginning of the symptoms. There were no secon- dary symptoms. If elderly persons of debilitated frames, such especially asPRIMARY SORES. 395 have led an irregular life, should be attacked by primary syphilis in the sloughing form, the disorganizing process may extend rapidly without previous local disturbance of violent character or great constitutional excitement. Here the only chance of safety lies in immediate recourse to the most powerful means, dietetic and remedial, of rousing and main- taining the failing powers of the constitution. Primary sores are sometimes attended with a peculiar disor- ganization of the affected tissues, by which they are converted into a kind of white slough, that is, a whitish or yellowish sub- stance, generally of a tough or firm texture, adhering closely to the surface, spreading slowly without much inflammation, and gradually separated in the natural progress of the affection or under the influence of mercury. This kind of slough may cover the surface, either generaUy or partially, and seems ana- logous to the grayish or whitish substance so frequently seen in secondary ulcerations. I have seen a smaU mass of indura- tion form at some depth near the side of the glans, and slowly come to the surface, then exposed and loosened in a firm fibrous lump, bigger than a horse-bean, having an exca- vation which was soon filled up by granulations. This white kind of disorganization, which may be accompanied by active inflammation, is more controllable and less alarming than the blackish or brownish sloughs. I saw a gentleman with a sore on the corona glandis and neighbouring part of the prepuce, which had existed three weeks, during which he had lived freely as usual, without any treatment. The ulcer, as large as a sixpence, was exca vated, with a dirty-white surface, as if from a covering of tough, white substance; it was very sensitive. I ordered black wash, five grains of blue pill night and morning and a dram of mercurial ointment to be rubbed in each night There was a strong mercurial action in three days, so that it396 SYPHILIS. was necessary to leave off; the part was much better. At the end of ten days, the mouth being still very sore, the ulcer was becoming clean by the separation of a tough, white kind of slough, which was found to have extended deeply; the ex- posed surface was healthy as far as the separation had ex- tended, and in another week the cicatrix was complete. Diagnosis. The doctrines promulgated of late years re- specting the peculiar characters of true venereal sores, respecting syphilis, and the diseases said to resemble it without being venereal, that is, between syphilis and pseudo- syphilis, have occasioned much needless perplexity to prac- titioners, who were unable to recognise, in the majority of cases, the characters ascribed to the genuine disease. They were pursuing a chimera, and were inevitably disappointed and perplexed. The affair, in truth, is very simple. When ulcerations occur, in healthy individuals, at an interval varying from a few days to a much longer time, after con- nexion with females who receive a plurality of visitors, they are syphilitic in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, or a still greater proportion, whatever the characters of the sores may be. The criteria of primary syphilis, therefore, would be sexual intercourse with women leading a life of prosti- tution or at least unchaste, and the manifestation of the disease after a longer or shorter interval during which the part has been perfectly healthy. A further evidence, which the lapse of time only can afford, is the occurrence of se- condary or constitutional symptoms. When this has been added to the two former circumstances, the disease is syphilis, whatever may have been the character of the original sore The anxious inquirers on the vexed question of true syphilis might have spared themselves trouble by observing the direct statements of Mr. Abernethy, that «the fictitious disease in appearance so exactly resembles syphilis, that no observation,PRIMARY SORES. 397 however acute, seems to be capable of deciding on its nature;" and that all his reasoning is founded " upon the presumption that diseases which get well spontaneously are not syphilitic." (' Observations on Diseases resembling Syphilis/ pp. 44, 54.) The generative organs, like other parts, are liable to common disease, and thus may present appearances liable to be confounded, from their situation, with those resulting from syphilis, but easily distinguishable. Laceration or excoriation of the male or female organs may occur in intercourse, with slight bleeding; the effect being immediate, and probably without suspicion of infection. This may be more probable if the secretions of the female organs should be unhealthy, though without suspicion of infection. Accumulation of the sebaceous secretion may irritate the corona glandis or the lining of the prepuce. In herpes prasputii, there are one or two small red patches on the integument of the prepuce, on each of which a small cluster of vesicles, four or six in number, is developed. Transparent at first, they soon become opaque, and then dry up: such vesicles may form on the glans. In psoriasis prseputii there is thickening, with fissures of the orifice of the prepuce. This and the preceding affection are altogether unlike any primary syphilitic sore, and occur most fre- quently when there has been no exposure to infection. Small vesicles or pustules are sometimes seen on the glans in conjunction with stricture or irritation of the urethra. The foregoing account is a simple enumeration of the sores caused by infection in sexual intercourse, according to their obvious characters, and not involving any doctrinal points Such sores have been arranged in two divisions, the hard and soft primary sores. The terms are ill chosen as applied to ulcerated surfaces, of which the differences in consistence are so slight as to be hardly recognisable. By hard chancre is398 SYPHILIS. probably meant the sore with indurated base; the others are distinguished from this, not by being soft, but by wanting the firm basis. In many cases this induration, not existing m the early stage, is developed gradually, so that the same sore would be soft and hard in different stages of its progress. Sores have again been divided into infecting and non- infecting, thus reviving the old and happily forgotten pseudo- svphilitic doctrine, without the name. This would be an important pathological and practical distinction, if true. Before these terms are adopted, the difference which they express in the essential nature of the affections should be clearly established, which is far from being the case at present. Treatment of primary sores. As the mischief pro- ceeds from the direct application of a local irritant or poison, the notion has been entertained that its pro- gress might be prevented by excision in an early stage, or effective destruction of the surface by an escharotic. I have not seen or known of any instance in which the former proceeding has been resorted to. It would be so obviously inapplicable to the greater number of primary affections, that we may doubt whether it has ever been actually put m practice. The nitrate of silver may be safely tried while the sore is small, and a second application, after the effect of the first has gone off, may be made. It has been strongly as serted that if this is done within four days from the first appearance of the sore, there will be no danger of secondary svmptoms. Without guaranteeing this statement, I see no objection to the proceeding. We seldom see eases early enough to try the principle fairly. _ It is clearly established, by general experience, that mer- cury is prejudicial in sloughing sores, that it aggravates all the symptoms, local and general, and that it may lead to lav,, or entire loss of the glans, prepuce, or penis. WherePRIMARY SORES—TREATMENT. 399 mischief has been brought on by high inflammation, as the effect of neglect or intemperance, and complicated with phy- mosis, the penis, and especially the prepuce, being swelled, red, and shining, with offensive ichorous or sanious discharge from its contracted orifice, the indication to abate the local mischief by dividing the prepuce is most urgent. Both glans and prepuce are highly inflamed; the swollen glans stretches the foreskin, while the latter, thickened and in- durated by inflammation, acts like a bandage on the inflamed glans. If effectual relief is not afforded by incision, the distended prepuce suppurates and sloughs on its convexity, forming a ragged hole, through which the glans protrudes, with relief of the distress. The prepuce is to be divided with a curved bistoury, carried along a director, introduced from the orifice to the angle of reflexion. Copious bleeding usually follows, with great relief both of the part and the constitution. If, however, it should be excessive, which it seldom is, it must be stopped by the usual means. A soft bread poultice, with rest in bed, and an opiate if there is much pain, soon make the patient easy. The slough is soon detached, the inflammation of the glans and prepuce ceases, and a healthy granulation with good pus succeeds, forming a striking contrast to the previous con- dition. If the prepuce does not give way, the glans may mortify to a greater or less extent. To determine whether the prepuce should be divided not is sometimes a difficult point of diagnosis. The de°rt of redness, swelling, and pain will not enable us to deride" The propriety of the measure depends on the condition of the sore, which we cannot see. The discharge' from the orifice of the prepuce must assist our judgment in doubtful cases. An ichorous or sanious state of discharge, with fetor indicates sloughing; and in such circumstances the division or cgree400 SYPHILIS. ought to be performed. If the discharge should be purulent, even though somewhat bloody, and the glans not tender on pressure, we may be contented with leeches, tepid syringing, and mild aperients. In cases of primary sloughing sore on the glans, its most frequent seat, I have found incision of the prepuce necessary, even where it has not been much swelled and enlarged, nor in the state of phymosis. It has always been most beneficial, not only as a measure of temporary relief, but in respect to the progress of the sore. In some milder cases of primary sloughing affection which differ from those just described both in their origin and symptoms local and general, it may not be always necessary to divide the prepuce. Best in the horizontal posture, soothing local means, such as fomentations and soft bread poultice, mild diet, with opiates if necessary, will be the suf- ficient and best means. The objection to slitting up the prepuce, that the cut edges may become phagedenic or sloughing, is completely un- founded according to my experience, which has been some- what extensive in this matter. Phagedenic sore. If mercury really has the power of ar- resting syphilitic disease, it should be shown in the treatment of phagedena, where destruction of parts is going on more or less rapidly. I have seen many cases in which the prepuce has been slowly eaten away, nearly to its attachment, by a process so Httle painful that the patient has hardly sought for a remedy. In all of them the regular and mild use of mercury, in the hospital, has soon stopped the progress of the disease and effected a sound cure. I have seen a which the entire prepuce has been destroyed in this way the nse of mercury having been absolutely forbidden. I have known of a similar result where the glans was the scat ot thePRIMARY SORES. 401 disease. When the phagedenic sore is proceeding actively, destroying the affected parts by an ulcerative, not sloughing, process, without surrounding inflammation, or material con- stitutional disturbance, the active use of mercury, both locally and internally, is indicated. At an early period of my practice, when doubts and difficulties had been raised and uncertainty prevailed respecting mercury, I saw a seafaring man from Wapping with a large quickly spreading ulcer of the glans, eating deep, with foul phagedenic surface. It spread for three or four days under my fruitless efforts to do good by soothing treatment. At this time the patient was fortunately seen in consultation with me by the late Mr. Thomas Blizard, an adherent to the ancient faith of mercury, which he immediately pronounced to be the only remedy for saving the remainder of the glans; it was imme- diately resorted to internally, and by friction, with black wash to the part. The mouth was quickly and profusely affected, and rapid cicatrization ensued. If there should be much pain, and if the constitution is depressed, opiates and sarsaparilla would be advantageous. The lining of the prepuce is sometimes penetrated by phagedena at the fold where it is reflected over the glans, and the ulceration then burrows between the penis and the sheath of integument reaching possibly to the pubes, and nearly msulating the body of the organ. This mischief can only be remedied by incision, so as to expose the morbid surface completely. As the phagedenic and sloughing sores are allied forms of disease, the one passing by insensible gradations into the other we may be at a loss to determine whether to administer mer' cury or to adopt a mild and soothing local treatment. When the sore presents a blackish, or dark-brown slough, it is a case for soothing local measures, perhaps with some direct antiphlo- 26402 SYPHILIS. gistic treatment; if the surface be gray, white, or phagedamic, mercury may be advisable. In a doubtful case, if there is local inflammation, with febrile constitutional disturbance, try antiphlogistic means > if these fail, employ mercury decidedly ; should that aggravate the symptoms, opium should be used internally and locally, with iodide of potassium and sarsa- parilla. . In gonorrhoea praeputii, if there is mere inflammation, witu increased and altered secretion, and patchy excoriation, mer- cury is not necessary. The local affection is speedily removed by astringent lotions, such as a solution of Zinci Sulphas. Should there be actual ulceration, a mild use of mercury until the surface has healed will be the safest In the remaining primary affections, namely, in the simple venereal sore without induration, in that on the body of the penis with slightly raised margin, and some thickening of the base, in superficial ulceration, and perhaps in mere excoria- tion,'with subjacent thickening, and in indurated sore, not to mention modifications approaching more or less to these or combinations of different forms ; that is in the great majority of primary sores, the sloughing and phagedenic being few in comparison, the most important question is as to the use of mercury. . The points we have to consider may be comprised under three questions. First, whether the use of mercury is essen- tial to the cure of such sores; Secondly, whether its em- ployment will abridge the duration of the complaint j ia other words, whether it will expedite the cure; Thirdly, whether it will prevent the occurrence of secondary symptoms, or have any influence in protecting the patient from those subsequent diseases which constitute constitutional syphilis. Now, that the employment of mercury is not W*M& *PEIMARY SORES. 403 the cure of these sores, I have already had occasion to explain, having shown that it has been proved by the clearest evidence that all forms of the venereal disease may get well without its use. An exception must be made to this statement in respect to phagedaena, both acute and chronic. The prepuce or the glans might be lost by withholding the use of mercury in these affections. The next question is, whether it abridges the duration of the complaint; and on this point the evidence is contra- dictory. I know that it was the opinion of Mr. Rose, whose name I have mentioned as having commenced in this country those important investigations that have thrown so much light on the nature and treatment of the venereal disease, that, although primary sores can be cured without mercury, the cure occupies a longer time. Mr. Guthrie acknowledged that the primary venereal sores treated without mercury at the York Hospital, were tedious, frequently running on to six, eight, ten, and twenty, and even in one case to twenty-six weeks, healing and relapsing. He thought that the protracted cases would have got well in one half or one third of the time under mercury. Others have stated that the sores treated without mercury got well the soonest. I allude particularly to some comparative trials made in the English army. A report was made by Sir James M'Grigor then Director-General of the Army Medical Board, and by Sir William Franklin, that, in 1940 cases of primary venereal sores, treated without mercury, in the course of two years the average time required for the cure was twenty-one days when there were sores without bubo, and forty-five days when bubo co-existed with sores. During the same period 2827 cases of primary sores were treated with mercury and they occupied, on an average, thirty-three days when without bubo, and fifty days when complicated with bubo In a404 SYPHILIS. number of cases that were treated at the Val de Grace, in Paris, a similar result was obtained; that is, out of 1084 cases of primary sores, 336 were treated with mercury; and the average duration of these cases was forty-seven days, without a distinction as to whether they had bubo or not; 698 cases were treated without mercury, and the average duration of these was twenty-eight days. According to these statements, then, the result is much in favour of the treat- ment without mercury. We do not, however, know whether the cases were taken indiscriminately, or selected for the two modes of treatment on account of difference in their nature and indications. The third question is, whether the employment of mercury for the primary affection has any effect in preventing secon- dary disease? Mr. Hunter's statements on this point are contradictory. He probably had not instituted comparative trials himself, so that the opinion he has given on this point is rather theoretical than practical. The returns of numerous cases treated in the British army partly m one way, partly in the other, where the patients continued under observation for a considerable time, so as to afford an oppor- tunity of knowing the result of the treatment of such cases, lead to the conclusion that the employment of mercury for the primary symptoms has a decided effect in preventing the occurrence of secondary affections. This is entirely a ques- tion of experience, only to be solved by observing the results of the two modes of treatment in a great number of cases. Mr. Eose states that, of the cases that he treated without mercury, about one in three had secondary symptoms Similar observations were made at the same time m the York Hospital at Chelsea, in which the proportion of secondary symptoms was one in ten; but in subsequent and more enlarged army experience, the proportion of secondary405 PETMARY SORES. symptoms was not greater than one in twenty. In 1940 cases treated on the non-mercurial plan in the army, there were 96 instances of secondary symptoms, that is, about one in twenty, taking cases of all descriptions. In 2827 cases treated with mercury, there were only 51 instances of secon- dary symptoms; that is, one in 55; the clear inference being that the employment of mercury for primary sores has a marked influence in preventing the occurrence of secondary symptoms. I cannot adduce any experience of my own that approaches in extent and accuracy to that just detailed. The result of my own observation is, that very few instances of secondary symptoms occur when these primary sores have been treated with mercury. I therefore adopt in the primary sores now under consideration a mild mercurial treatment, such as three or four grains of the gray powder three times a day, or four or five grains of blue pill twice or three times daily, with black wash to the part; a quiet mode of living, and light diet, without stimuli. Under this treatment the mouth is slightly touched. The local means may be varied if necessary by employing nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper in solution. In the treatment of indurated chancres the use of mercury is considered more particularly necessary, and it is carried further than in other cases. It is equaUy required whether the induration existed originally, or has come on subsequently, also if it remains after the sore is healed. The patient cannot be considered safe so long as the hardness remains, and the remedy should therefore be continued until it is dis- persed. This effect may be hastened by the application of mercurial ointment to the part. Cicatrization of the sore, and then absorption of the hardness, take place favorably mder the use of mercury generally and locally. A patient in St. Bartholomew's had a small and not deep406 SYPHILIS. sore on the lining of the prepuce, equal in size to the last joint of the fore-finger, so that the prepuce could not be retracted without difficulty. The sore and induration, which had existed for two months, were cured in three weeks. A gentleman had a reddish thickening and induration of the prepuce, forming a considerable elongated enlargement, which had existed nearly two years; it went away under the use of mercury employed for other symptoms. A gentleman had two or three small sores, which healed m about three weeks under the moderate use of mercury. In three weeks more an induration came on at the base of the prepuce, without any fresh infection, and a sore formed upon it. The induration was as large as a horse-bean. The sore healed in a fortnight under mercurial treatment; the indu- ration had nearly gone in six weeks more. This patient, with whom I was acquainted for many years, had no secon- dary symptoms. A young medical friend had a large induration of the prepuce, with superficial ulceration. Slight use of mercury did no good, but the disease yielded quickly to a more free employment of the remedy. There were no secondary symptoms. A gentleman had venereal sores, which were very obstinate. After they had been cured he married. In about a twelve- month a large red thickening came in the prepuce, and a few scaly eruptions on the head. These symptoms disap- peared under the use of mercury. Bubo.—This word, which is the Latinised form of the Greek j3ouj3u>v groin, means a swelling in that part of the body. It was originally applied to syphilitic enlargement of the absorbent glands in that region, but it is now sometimes, though not very correctly, used to denote such glandular affections consequent on primary venereal sores, wherever407 BUBO. they may be situated. The situation of bubo, therefore, will depend on that of the primary symptom; thus, in the great majority of cases, they occur in the glands situated nearest to the external organs of generation; in those of the groin, at the lower part of the abdomen, at the upper and inner part of the thigh, or at the pubes. They may occur in the axilla from primary sores on the fingers or hand, or on the nipple or areola of the female breast. Primary sores on the lips might give rise to glandular swellings below the lower jaw. The glands below and behind the angle of this bone are frequently enlarged in connection with syphilitic disease of the fauces. I have never seen them in this situation attaining considerable size, proceeding to suppu-r ration, or causing trouble after the throat had got well. The disease may affect a single gland, or more than one, some- times even including the whole range. An absorbent vessel is occasionally but rarely affected, and is felt as a small, rather painful cord on the back of the penis. It gives no trouble. The affection may be in the inguinal or in the femoral glands, or in both; in the latter case there is a double swelling, one above, the other below the bend of the thigh. It may be confined to one side, or exist on both; it may occupy both ranges of glands on both sides. It usually occurs on the same side of the body as the primary affection, but instances are not unfrequent in which it is seen on the opposite side. The disease may be simple enlarge- ment, enlargement with induration, or inflammation more or less active in the two former cases. The swelling is moveable under the skin, and may continue so throughout, the disease not being active, and confined to the gland itself. The inflammation may increase and spread to the surrounding cellular tissue, with interstitial effusion, and consequent thick- ening, by which the separate glands are massed together408 SYPHILIS. into an uniform, oblong enlargement, which becomes fixed to the subjacent parts, and to the skin in front. The progress of the inflammation brings on increase of swelling with redness, heat, pain, and constitutional disturbance. Suppu- ration frequently ensues, the matter being usually formed in the cellular texture round the gland, not in the substance of the latter. It may, however, occur in the gland, or in both situations at once. When a suppurated bubo has been opened by a free incision, the retraction of the edges some- times exposes the glands as if they had been dissected. When the case is proceeding favorably, they soon granulate like the rest of tbe surface. The discharge of the matter, whether by natural opening or puncture, is sometimes followed by ulceration, which may be extensive, intractable and tedious, especially in individuals of naturally weak constitution. In some unfortunate instances extensive sloughing has super- vened, either from the noxious influence of a bad atmosphere in a crowded and close apartment, or from injudicious treat- ment, with neglect and irregularities on the part of the patient. Buboes sometimes occur quickly after primary sores, espe- cially such as are attended with much irritation. Some- times they do not arise till days or weeks have elapsed, the sore being nearly, or even completely healed. In the latter case they have been regarded as constitutional symptoms, though further information would be necessary to establish that view. They accompany gonorrhoea as well as syphilis. They occur occasionally, but rarely, without any previous primary affection, and have received from the French the name of «bubons d'emblee," which might be translated into English as arising originally or at once. They might be called primary. The bubo, being in the great majority of instances attendedBUBO. 409 <vith a primary sore, participates in the treatment adopted for the latter, whether simply antiphlogistic or mercurial; and the swelling is dispersed without any means being especially directed to it, in ordinary cases, when properly treated from an early period of the affection. When a sore requiring the use of mercury is accompanied by buboes, mercurial frictions are recommended, on the supposition that the local influence of the remedy on the glands through which it passes, will promote their cure. Mr. Hunter seems to have relied on this as an invariable effect; and it certainly happens often, but by no means uniformly. When the sore has healed, it is not necessary to persevere with mercury; especially when the bubo, after having suppurated and discharged externally, is healing kindly. When buboes occur without primary sores, are they to be regarded as a venereal symptom ? Ought mercury to be used ? I have seen so many instances of glandular swellings, without primary ulceration, occupying both groins in indi- viduals otherwise healthy, after exposure to infection, that I am satisfied venereal poison may affect the glands without causing any other primary symptom, either as ulceration or dis- charge. Such swellings, when left to themselves, may remain a long time without any change. I do not know whether they can give rise to secondary symptoms. They should be treated with mercury • and they are decidedly benefited by mercurial frictions and plasters. Mr. Carmichael, however says, "If the tumour in the groin has not been preceded by an ulcer on the genitals, mercury is unnecessary, and may be highly injurious." (< Venereal Diseases/ p. 310.) I cannot understand on what ground this positive statement rests assuming, as it does, the denial of venereal character to the glandular affections in question. Do we know how primary sores are produced ? A poisonous matter is applied410 SYPHILIS. to a healthy surface, on which, without any change appreciable by our senses having occurred in the intermediate time, a sore comes after several days, or possibly some weeks. Some impression must have been made on the part at the time, and why may not that impression, whatever it may be, lead to a syphilitic bubo, as well as to a primary syphilitic ulcer? It is a question of experience to be settled by facts, not by bare assertion, however positive. Common principles of treatment are applicable to syphilitic inflammation of the absorbent glands, viz., local bleeding, which is not often required, cold lotions, poultices, light diet, and rest in the recumbent position; the latter is of importance by allaying the local inflammation, and thus preventing the occurrence of suppuration or lessening its amount. If suppuration has already occurred, the matter will some- times, but not frequently, be removed by absorption, the swelling disappearing without any external discharge. If the suppuration, when of moderate extent, is coming favorably to the surface, it may be allowed to discharge naturally. Should the quantity of matter be more considerable, with the skin reddened and raised, it must be discharged by a surgical openin-. This should be made, not in the long axis of the swelling, but in the vertical direction, through the whole breadth, from above downwards, in order to give the most favorable drainage for the matter, and to prevent its detention by the thinned skin. If the integument has been much thinned and detached, it may be rubbed with the potassa fusa on its most prominent part to the extent of half or three quarters of an inch, the eschar being cut through on the following day; it is advantageous to destroy some of the thinned skin in this way. If the granulating process should still be languid and tardy, the red precipitate ointment, the nitrate of silver, or sulphate of copper, with compression andDl'IiO. 411 bandage, may be resorted to. In order to abridge as much as possible the amount of inconvenience and confinement occa- sionally incidental to a suppurated bubo, it has been recom- mended to make an early opening with a very narrow knife, and to press out the matter gently, to close the opening with a small bit of plaster, and cover the part with water dressing, the patient remaining at rest for a day or more. A small suppuration occurring in an indolent bubo, which does not interfere with the occupations of the patient, may be left to break of itself, and will require nothing more than a bit of plaster over the opening until it closes. In a large, glandular swelling, there may be repeated suppurations, resulting in fistulous openings, which may require to be injected with astringent solutions, or to be laid open with subsequent pressure by bandage. Large, indolent buboes, with or without sinuses and fistulous openings, may be treated with blisters, which sometimes lead to their dispersion, sometimes to more active inflammation and suppuration; they may also be painted over with a solution of nitrate of silver, in the proportion of a scruple to a dram of water. This solution may be used with advantage in other states of buboes, and is often successful in preventing the occurrence of suppuration. Unhealthy and extensive ulceration, which not uncom- monly supervenes in scrofulous subjects, with foul surface, livid, raised, and irregular margin, is best remedied by pure air, especially that of the sea side, with good diet, include stimuli, sarsaparilla, and tonics. Sloughing bubo impera- tively requires removal from a noxious to a pure atmosphere the general treatment just mentioned, and such local means' as charcoal or yeast poultices, and balsam of Peru - if the strong nitric acid should be thought advisable, it must be used most cautiously in the neighbourhood of the great vessels412 SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. SECONDARY OR CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS (LUES VENEREA). A portion of time more or less considerable generally elapses between the cessation of the primary and the appear- ance of secondary symptoms. The usual interval is from six to twelve weeks. Sometimes the secondary symptoms come on earlier, even before the primary have disappeared. It is not uncommon to see patients who have neglected all treatment and led an irregular life with primary sores and incipient syphilitic eruption. I once saw a young woman of sanguine temperament with primary sores, buboes, eruptions, sore throat, iritis, and swellings of the periosteum. In other instances, the appearance of secondary disease is delayed much beyond the time mentioned; to many months, or even longer. In the same way there may be long intervals be- tween the successive secondary symptoms, resulting from one infection. In one instance fourteen months had elapsed between the primary sore and a scaly syphilitic eruption; the patient had forgotten the sore, and did not remember it till questioned on the point. In another case there were nearly two years between a primary sore and a scaly eruption resulting from it. A gentleman was under my care for primary sores, followed by sore throat and eruption. He got well, and married at the end of a year from his recovery. In three years after his marriage he consulted me with symptoms of decided syphilitic character, a few scaly patches, two or three small circular sores on the legs, and one similar sore on the scapula. These gave way readily to mercury. In two instances of ulcerated sore throat, which I could not hesitate to regard as syphilitic, there had been intervals of eight and ten years without any symptoms. These, and many other analogous instances, must convinceSECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 413 us that in respect of the time which may elapse between primary and secondary syphilis, and between the successive manifestations of the latter, there is great latitude. I feel unable to point out a limit, that is to say, what is the greatest extent of possible interval; or what length of time may be considered as affording perfect security against the recurrence of disease. Some surgeons would, I believe, question the nature of the disease in many of these cases. They would deny that an affection could be syphilitic when the patient had been free from all symptoms for many months or several years. I think there are no good grounds for such denials. If several months may elapse between pri- mary and secondary symptoms, or between successive attacks of the latter, we can have no difficulty in admitting that the time may be extended to one or two years; and we really see cases where the point is clear. If one or two years, why not four or five, or more ? It is a mere question of expe- rience. Observe, however, that the statement now made applies to cases which are altogether exceptional. In the ordinary course, if a patient remains well for twelve months after the healing of a primary sore, the chances of secondary mischief are so small that they may be put out of considera- tion in practice. The chances are rather less favorable to the patient when secondary symptoms have already occurred. The appearance of constitutional symptoms is frequently preceded and accompanied by feverish disturbance more or less considerable, by heat, thirst, loss of appetite, headache. There may be pain in the limbs and chest, cough, acce- lerated pulse, shivering. The fever is analogous to that which precedes the eruption in the exanthemata. Syphilitic affections of the skin.—I. Simple erythema; mere redness, without any other change, not in general414 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. very vivid, in nearly circular patches about the size of a shilling, generally on the trunk, sometimes so numerous as to give the surface a mottled or marbled appearance. They go off without leaving any trace behind. 2. Scaly syphilitic eruption ; psoriasis syphilitica consists of red spots of various size, from that of a split pea to a shilling. These are of a brownish or coppery red, without elevation, and heretofore called copper-coloured blotches. The red colour becomes more vivid, and the cuticle assumes a rough and more or less scaly state. The spots sometimes run together into larger patches ; they are commonly bright and large on the forehead and face. They come on the scalp, and make the hair fall off. They spare no part, not even the palms or soles ; here they are very characteristic, the thick cuticle dries, cracks, forms white or horny scales. I have sometimes seen the affection confined to the palms and soles. 3. Tubercular eruption, in reddish or brownish-red eleva- tions of various sizes, generally scattered, sometimes in groups, with the surface smooth at first, and then becoming slightly scaly. They are largest on the face, as big as peas, sometimes larger, and do not occur on the palms and soles. They leave a brown or livid stain in the skin after they are gone. Reddish or brownish marks often remain long after recovery. 4. Papular (Lichen syphiliticus) is an active inflammation in the form of pimples, scattered or in clusters, on the face, trunk, and limbs; sometimes so numerous on the trunk that a portion of skin free from the affection can hardly be seen. Very small vesicles or pustules form on some of the pimples, and soon dry up. The eruption abates in two or three weeks, and disappears by resolution, leaving stains, which do not last long. There are often successive crops. This eruption, which is an active inflammation, extending over theAFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. 415 greater part of the body, is preceded by feverish disturbance, often very considerable, which declines in proportion as the affection of the skin is developed. 5. Pustular {Ecthyma syphiliticum), consists of pustules, varying in size, formed on inflamed and indurated bases. They are generally separate, scattered irregularly On the trunk and limbs, and not numerous. Sometimes there are groups of small pustules on inflamed patches of skin, as in the case of impetigo. Sometimes they approach in size to the papulae, and thus form a transition from the papular to the pustular form ■ some of these, indeed, are often inter- mixed in the papular eruption. Occasionally the pustules are of considerable size. The cuticle soon gives way, and thin, yellowish, or brownish scabs form, which soon fall off, leaving a reddish mark. 6. Vesicular; Rupia. On an inflamed elevation of the skin the cuticle is raised, not by pus, but by a thin, slightly opaque fluid, which escapes and forms a thin, dark, adherent crust. Under this ulceration takes place, and extending equally in all points of the circumference, forms a circular sore. When it has attained some size, about that of a shilling, the ulcer begins to heal at some one part, while it spreads in other directions. The healing may begin in the centre, while ulceration goes on in the whole circumference, so that the sore retains the circular form, and is annular • or it may heal at one part of the edge, and from that towards the centre, and spread at the rest, so as to have a crescent shape. The spreading edges of these sores are phagedenic, and retain that character so long as they increase in extent. The surrounding skin is bright red, the edge ragged and sharp, while the surface immediately within this edge is a grayish or yellowish disorganized substance, in short, a kind of slough, Which, though of softish appearance, is not deficient in416 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. firmness. The ulcer, which is very painful, extends by a succession of these sloughs, while granulation and cicatri- zation are going on in the opposite direction of the same sore. In neglected cases these sores are seen under various modifications of size, form, and degree of sloughing, some- times with elevation of the spreading margin. When these syphilitic ulcerations are left uncovered, the discharge con- cretes into dark, brownish, or blackish flat scabs. If the ulcer is spreading rapidly, these crusts will assume a pro- minent, conical shape, not much unlike that of the limpet shell. The scab increases by successive additions at its base, which push up the portions previously deposited; it thus resembles a number of concentric rings, placed one over the other, the largest at bottom, the smallest at top. These sores sometimes exist in great number, occurring in various parts of the body, creating much suffering and constitutional disturbance from their painful character. The affection, including the vesicle or pustule with which it begins, which has usually broken before we have the opportunity of seeing, and the scabbed sores which follow, constitute Rupia simplex, or L. prominens, according as the scab is flat or conical It is well figured by Bateman in his 'Delineations of Cutaneous Diseases/ plates 53 and 54. These eruptions are most commonly distinct, but not always so; they are sometimes of mixed character. The tubercular and the scaly are frequently combined. Pnstules may coexist with scaly eruption, and thus we see ulcerations conjoined with the coppery patches. In papular eruption some of the pimples, as might be expected, often become pustular. Other syphilitic affections of the s*m.-Besides the erup- tions now described, there are ulcerations of the skm, more or less important, of not infrequent occurrence in secondaryAFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. 417 syphilis. A portion, sometimes circular, sometimes of irre- gular figure, slowly inflames, becomes red, thickened, indu- rated and irregular on the surface. Ulceration ensues, usually going deeply, with foul surface. There may be a large slough, or some smaller ones, leaving foul sores. Occasionally a circular piece of skin is destroyed in its whole thickness, leaving a deep ulcer, as if a piece had been taken out by a punch. When the ulcers have healed, the skin remains rough, red, and sometimes tuberculated; occasionally ulce- rating, if neglected, and possibly lasting a considerable time. The larger excavated sores remaining after a deep slough are extremely painful in the whole course of the complaint, and demand careful treatment both, local and general. The term rhagades, a Greek word, meaning chaps or fis- sures, is applied to a superficial inflammation of the thin in- tegument around the anus, with excoriation or ulceration of its slight, radiated folds, and thin discharge from the surface. The orifice of the bowel may be free in the rhagades ani, or it may present an ulcerated fissure. It may be attended with considerable uneasiness, especially in sitting, and patients often refer their suffering to piles. The old name of rhagades digitorum is applied to a peculiar and painful ulceration of the toes, affecting their intervals and opposed surfaces, of which the cuticle becomes thickened and opaque, while the cutis is partially livid, yielding a thin brownish, and very offensive discharge. It may affect one or two internals or the whole series. In the worst cases the ulceration occupies the entire palmar aspect of all the toes and extends to the prominent margin of the sole immediately behind them, the surface, which is that of denuded cutis being smooth, of irritable appearance, and yielding, not pus' but a light, yellowish and clear exudation. With this affection, or independently of it, we may meet 27418 SECONDARY SYPHILIS, with an inflammation and foul ulceration at the root of the nail, of the great toe more particularly, sometimes called onychia maligna, probably from the high inflammation, the pain, offensive discharge, and intractable nature of the dis- ease It may also be seen in a less troublesome form m one'or two of the smaller toes. The rhagades may occur alone or in conjunction with other symptoms, more parti- cularly scaly eruption. I have seen the nail of the forefinger completely loosened by an ulcerative process, so that I was able to separate it without pain from its cuticular connections. The exposed vascular surface was in a discharging state, and soon healed nnder simple applications. The patient, a female, had other symptoms of syphilis. _ A gentleman consulted me on account of disease m the nails of both hands, all of which were affected more or less. The nails were separated from the subjacent parts at their loose edge, the attached base being in its natural state. The affected portions had a light-brownish appearance, the ends of the fingers being somewhat reddened, warm and tender, particularly on exertion. The separated portions of The nail" were dry and fissured. ease as I hadnot seen before, the suspicion of syphilis crossed my Id, and I Quired whether there were or had been Z o^r symptoms, to whichhe immediately gave a negative ^1 Not feeling quite satisfied, I ashed if he had any hTg of eruption, he said not, but on further urgingh ouestion, he said there might be something very slight on the Tms When they were uncovered several spots were found n them, sufficiently characteristic of syphilitic origin, w^h he referredto previously to his marriage. I prescribed mercury bath, under which the heat and tenderness ceased, and419 AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. progress of the mischief was arrested. He was going on most favorably, when he grew tired of the treatment, and left it off. All the symptoms i'eturned in a short time, and he was obliged to go through a regular mercurial course, so as to affect the mouth, with the result of a complete and permanent cure. Mucous tubercles, condylomata, warts. — The discharges incidental to venereal affections irritate the skin covering the sexual organs and the immediately surrounding parts, and produce various superficial and chiefly temporary affections, not in their nature venereal, though that disease is their occa- sional cause. Mucous tubercles are almost, but not entirely, confined to females, in whom the configuration of the genital organs almost necessarily exposes them to the irritation of discharges, especially under neglect of cleanliness, and indul- gence in irregularities of all kinds. Mucous tubercles are vascu- lar elevations of the cutaneous texture, generally circular and of regular convexity, varying from the size of a split pea to that of a shilling or half-crown; the surface is irregular, somewhat fissured and ulcerated, and pours out a thin muco- purulent discharge. When properly treated, the discharge stops, the surface becomes dry and cuticular, and the ele vation soon disappears. In fattish women, of flabby fibre and thin skin, these tubercles spring up rapidly, and soon cover the external organs and adjacent parts, from which they extend sometimes wherever there are cutaneous folds or two surfaces in contact; thus, they may be seen in the axillaa under the breasts when pendant, at the bend of the thW and the navel. Large growths of this kind, of irregular figure, are called condylomata. The external organ, of women the glans and preputial lining of men, often ecome overed with vascular warts, either of pedunculated characte or with broad bases; under neglect they may increase, so a430 SECONDARY SYPHILIS, to form large masses. A vascular elevate of warty kind is sometimes seen on tie raphe of the perinamm, and has been called, not inaptly, crista galli. The immense magnitude whioh these masses are capable of acquiring could hardly he believed without the direct evrdenee of sight The most extraordinary case I have seen was that of a female under twenty-five years of age, who bad led an irre-ular life, but had suffered only from gonorrhma, she had teen married about a year, and was pregnant when admitted into St Bartholomew's under my care, in a good state ot general health. Each labium, bypertrophied and beset w.th large, warty excrescences, was at least as large as my fist The interval between them was occupied by a third mass of nearly equal size, consisting of the clitoris and nymph*, m a state of morbid change, similar to that of the labra. Bebmd these swellings were smaller, but by no means mconsrderable, nrasses of vascular excrescence, extending along the pera- num and verge of the anus, completely hidmg the entrance both of the vagina and rectum. The extensive surfa«s of these growths was moistened by a cop.ous discharge of offen- character. The ecraseur was employed almost« in removing these strange growths, and accompbshed the pnrpoTe satisfactorily and safely, especially in preventmg loss rfb ood, and with less suffering altogether than nrrght have been expected, considering the bulk of what was removed anTthat five or six repetitions of the operatrve proceeds and n m ^ ;nstl.umellt was at the same time. Both chains Iboug r of the strongest construction, broke, and rt became • ne essary to finish the separation with the knife winch was : fished ^ ^ ^ ~ « removed in the same manner on another ay ^ft largest of the posterior masses were taken away on snbsc421 IRITIS. quent occasions. These operations and the use of chloroform were not attended either with dangerous or even unpleasant symptoms. I douht whether this disease could have been removed without the aid of the ecraseur; the use of the knife would have been attended with dangerous bleeding, and must have been repeated at least three or four times, if not more. The structure of the parts removed, differed only in size from the ordinary vascular excrescences of this region. Iritis.—An inflammation of the eye, beginning in and con- fined to the iris under favorable circumstances of treatment and duration, otherwise extending to the important structures behind, occurs not unfrequently in conjunction with syphi- litic eruptions, particularly the scaly, papular, and tuber- cular. It may occur at a later period than that of the eruption, and is sometimes, but rarely, seen as a sole secon- dary symptom. It may affect both eyes simultaneously, or in succession. The characteristic appearances of the affection are caused by effusion of fibrine into the texture of the mem- brane, on its surface, and on the pupillary margin. The iris loses its brilliancy, and the delicate fibrous character of its surface, becoming at first sluggish, and then motionless, the pupil contracts, and soon adheres to the crystalline capsule. Its colour is altered; if blue or gray, it presents a dull, yellowish, or greenish discoloration, the general tint being darker than before • if brown, it turns to a dull red. Fibrine is often effused, in small, reddish, or brownish tubercles, on the pupillary margin or the surface of the iris. The sclerotic vessels are congested, and as they approach the front break up into an infinite number of minute ramifications, closely crowded together, and forming a red zone round the cornea This zone is at first pink, the distended vessels being seen through the conjunctiva, which is unaltered; as the affection proceeds, the mucous membrane partakes of the inflammatory423 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. disturbance, and the zone is then bright red. The cornea, at first clear, gradually becomes dull and hazy, especially if the inflammation is violent and continued. In an acute attack there may be severe pain in the globe and head; but in a milder degree, which is the most common, there is kttle or no pain during the day, while it comes on at night, interfering with and often preventing rest. Vision is dull at the begin- ning, becoming more and more imperfect, until in severe cases it is lost for the time. Some intolerance of light with lacrymation is experienced at first, but soon goes off. The disease begins on the pupillary margin, occupies the inner circle of the iris, on which a stratum of reddish-brown fibrme is sometimes poured out j it extends more or less rapidly to the circumference, and then through the ciliary body to the posterior tissues. To this extension, which render the disease of the organ more general than the term iritis indi- cates, the impaired vision must be referred. When m a mild form, the complaint may go through its course and recover with slight change in the pupil, not injurious to vision. It may cause contraction of the pupil and its closure by an adventitious membrane, and more or less disorganization of the iris, with complete loss of sight. In rare instances lymph is effused behind the iris, and in such quantity as to cause a bulging of the sclerotic and conjunctiva. The fibrme thus effused may pass through the pupil into the anterior chamber In the few instances which I have seen of this aftection vision has been completely lost, although the inflammation has yielded to treatment. slmti, affections of * tkroat, ~* - There is an excavated nicer of the tonerl, gene ally on both rides, as if a portion had heen scooped ont; the sor^ grayish or dirty white, sometimes termed lardaceons. The m LLatory symptoms are slight, merely a httle redness, mth-423 SORB-THROAT. out swelling or pain. I have found it in patients who had said, when asked on the subject, that they had no sore throat. There may be inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces, with redness, thickening, and pain, especially in swallowing. There may be ulceration in various forms, superficial or a little deeper, with slight loss of substance, yellowish or whitish surface, frequently with painful enlai'ge- ment of the cervical glands. These appearances are seen on the tonsils, velum, and uvula. There may be a superficial ulceration, with white surface, as if the part were covered with milk ; this has been called the snail track ulceration. Phagedsenic ulceration of the throat is a most painful and formidable affection, beginning at the back of the pharynx, and extending forward to the tonsils, velum, and uvula. It has an irregular, foul, tawny, grayish, or yellowish surface, with a ragged edge, red and swelled margin. It often spreads to a great size, passing upwards, behind the velum, and down- wards further than we can follow it. Sometimes it passes to the upper surface of the velum. There is severe pain, shooting to the ears, and thus showing that the expanded orifices of the Eustachian tubes are involved in the mischief. Deglutition is only accomplished with the greatest difficulty and suffering, and even articulation is painful. When the upper surface of the velum and the pharynx suffer together, the surfaces become firmly and permanently united by inoscu- lation of the granulations. A small opening at the centre keeps up the communication between the posterior, nares and the pharynx. Syphilitic affection of the tongue is of frequent occurrence, either in conjunction with disease in the throat or indepen- dently. The mucous membrane, with its epithelial covering is the part affected in the great majority of instances In conjunchon with scaly eruption, the membrane may bo424 SECONDARY SYPHILIS—TONGUE. denuded in small patches towards the middle of the dorsum, with little inconvenience. It might be considered as an appearance of the eruption under a modification dependent on the difference of structure in the surface. We sometimes see a thickening of the mucous membrane, which as sbghtly raised in a nearly circular form on the middle and back part of the dorsum, with slight fissures, giving it something of a warty character; it is attended with some pain. There may be reddish swelling of the edges of the tongue, of fissured and warty appearance, and very painful; or spongy swelling of the edges, with superficial ulceration, similar to that caused by mercury. Superficial or excavated ulcers occur on the edges or tip, less frequently on the dorsum; there may be a single ulcer, with indurated base. Ulcerated fissures of the tongue.—I was consulted by a patient with a painful swelling at the middle of the dorsum, on its left side. It was red, painful, and occupied by two ulcerated fissures, from half to three quarters of an inch deep, parallel to the long axis of the organ. The swelled part was firm, but not of scirrhous hardness. There was a small, glandular swelling near the ramus of the lower jaw. In three or four days a sore on the head was accidentally dis- covered; it was a large, irregular cicatrix of the scalp, towards the circumference of which three or four small, circular, and tolerably healthy ulcerations existed ; a superficial ulceration was also discovered in the throat. The patient now stated that he had contracted the venereal disease seven years pre- viously, and had nothing of the kind since, and that the sore on the head had been of eighteen months' duration. The use of calomel and opium, twice a day, soon affected the mouth ; the tongue and the scalp got well rapidly, the cicatrix of the tongue presenting a superficial, longitudinal fissure. A gentleman, twenty-four years of age, consulted mc for aAFFECTIONS OF TONGUE AND MOUTH. 425 deep, ulcerated fissure on the right side of the back of the tongue, parallel and near to the mesial line, and so far back that it could not be seen till the organ was drawn forwards. It was an inch long, of uncertain depth, but not less than three quarters of an inch. There was no induration of margin or basis, and it had existed a fortnight. There were small superficial ulcerations of the tonsils. The patient, then in perfect health, had had gonorrhoea a year before, and syphilis five years previously. He had experienced excoriations since, but never eruptions or sore throat. The mouth was soon affected by calomel and opium, twice a day, which he left off in ten days, considering the tongue quite well. He was recommended to persevere gently for a few days, as the fissure was not quite closed. I have seen partial swelling and induration of the tongue from syphilis, and one case came under my care in which the entire organ was similarly affected, without much pain, but with the greatest inconvenience in mastication, swallowing, and articulation. I ordered the gray powder internally, which disagreed with the bowels, as it had done several years previously, when taken in a serious attack of primary syphilis. Frictions, which were substituted, agreed perfectly, with the effect of removing the disease slowly, but completely and permanently. Ulcerated fissures at the angles of the mouth afford cha- racteristic and unmistakeable evidence of syphilis, and did not escape the notice of Hogarth. The mucous membrane of the lips or cheeks maybe thickened, raised, and simply excoriated, or superficially ulcerated, sometimes with aph- thous whiteness. There may be superficial sores of circular figure, yellowish or whitish, without thickening. Superficial ulceration may occur on the hard or soft palate. Partial but active inflammation of the gums, with ulceration round the426 SECONDARY SYPHILIS BONES. necks of the teeth, of grayish phagedenic character, with great pain, is occasionally seen. Syphilitic disease of bones and joints.-^ give the name of node (Latin, nodus, a knot or knob) to a partial enlarge- ment of a hone, which may he a disease of the bony sub- stance or of the periosteum, the cases being, therefore, dis- tinguished as osseous and periosteal. In the former case the swelling is of incompressible hardness, while the latter, although firm to the feel, yields a little to pressure. On a long bone such as the tibia, it will be about two or three inches in length, but it may be longer; there may be more than one and nearly the whole shaft is sometimes occupied by an irregular enlargement. The progress of the disease is slow, attended with aching pain during its development, after which there may not be much suffering while the patient is at rest in the day, but it becomes extremely painful m bed, so as to prevent rest, the pain going off in the morning. It is most frequent in the bones which, being thinly covered, are the most exposed to external influences. This is partx- cularly observable in the tibia and cranium, also m the clavicle The lower end of the radius and the upper portion of the ulna suffernot infrequently, and other bones may be affected in rare instances. Cranial nodes are generally, bu not invariably, attended with suppuration, and thus are soft to the feel; active inflammation and suppuration may occur in those on the tibia, and partial necrosis of the bone or caries may ensue. This result is sometimes seen iathe cranium. The swelling of the periosteum subsides under proper treatment; the bony node becomes quiet, but the enlargement generally remains in a greater or less deg e. The shaft of the bone is sometimes the seat of pam, even m a severe degree, without any enlargement. I have heard the opinion expressed, and seen it stated inJOINTS—NOSE. 427 print, that the diseases of the osseous system now under consideration arise, not from syphilis, but from the use of mercury. These affections appear to me to result as un- equivocally from the syphilitic poison as sore throat, erup- tions, iritis, or any other among the universally recognised symptoms of the disease. They are to be met with frequently where no mercury has been taken previously, and they are seen as frequently yielding, with other concomitant symptoms, to an employment of the remedy which has had no preju- dicial influence on the constitution. I have never seen them arise from the most free use of mercury, when employed in other cases, while, on the other hand, it may be used with advantage in periosteal affections not connected with syphilis. Joints.—These may be placed in the following order, so far as relates to the frequency of affection, namely, knee, ankle, foot, hand, elbow, hip, shoulder. In the knee there may be inflammation of the synovial membrane, with effusion or general swelling, without recognisable effusion. In the foot and hand there is swelling, apparently affecting the perios- teum of the metatarsal and metacarpal bones. These affec- tions of joints are most frequent as secondary affections of phagedenic syphilis. They are likely to occur with severity in constitutions injured by the long prevalence of disease and repeated use of mercury. Like the bones, the joints may be the seat of pain, without the presence of actual disease. Nose.—Its mucous lining may be affected with ulceration of active and painful, but more frequently of chronic cha- racter. The discharge of such ulcers dries into scabs, which may obstruct the passage of air in breathing, and are some- times not forced out without pain and difficulty; they may be streaked with blood, and are apt to be offensive The ulceration often attacks the septum of the nostrils, which it428 SECONDARY SYPHILIS NOSE, perforates and may destroy to a considerable extent, making a free communication between the two sides, not visible ex- ternally, as the columna nasi remains entire. A more formidable affection of this part is necrosis of the bony structures, with active and painful inflammation of the mem- branous coverings. Portions of bone are lost successively m the progress of the disease. If the septum and ossa nasi go flattening of the bridge is inevitable, with irremediable deformity, especially if it should be accompanied with phage- denic ulceration of the external nose. If a piece of the bony palate should be lost, an opening of communication between the nose and mouth is likely to be established, through which liquids pass into the nose in drinking. The testicle does not suffer frequently in syphilis. The most frequent form of the affection is chronic inflammation, with moderate enlargement, firmness, but not induration, and not much pain. It is generally a remote effect, but it may occur earlier, with more active inflammation and pam. -Both testicles may suffer together, but more commonly the com- plaint is confined to one. A youth of twenty had a primary sore and bubo, which suppurated. The right testicle inflamed, swelled, and became painful, the scrotum reddening and beginning to adhere to the swelling, which was not large. Mercurial frictions were employed, nothing being done to the testicle except keeping it suspended. As the mouth became affected the swelling of the testicle lessened, and soon went away entirely; the scrotum loosened, and the parts completely regained their normal state. . , A gentleman was under my care with numerous rapud sores, disease of the nose and of the testicle, sixteen months after small primary sores on the prepuce, which had been followed by ulcerated throat. It was represented that U*NOSE —TESTICLE—EAR—LARYNX. 429 testicle had been swelled and then got better a few months previously. When I saw bini the tumour was large, slightly red, and painful on pressure; there was fluid in the tunica vaginalis, which it was subsequently necessary to evacuate by puncture; it did not reaccumulate. Blue pill was admin- istered carefully, being sometimes discontinued. The swelling of the testicle gave way very slowly, and had not entirely disappeared till after several months. In another gentleman primary sores, regarded as pseudo- syphilis, had been treated without mercury, and speedily fol- lowed by an eruption for which a regular mercurial course had been instituted. This was soon followed by a second eruption and severe iritis. Another attack of iritis and five of sore throat occurred subsequently, and, lastly, soft periosteal swellings of the frontal bone and over the ossa nasi. I saw this gentleman for the latter affection four years after the primary sore. There was now, in addition to the other symptoms, induration, with slight pain, of one testicle, which was about half as large again as the other; this was what remained of a considerable enlargement and indu- ration which had occurred during the foregoing disease, and had been treated by leeches, followed by mercurial oint- ment on flannel to the testicles. The ear.—The meatus auditorius externus is sometimes inflamed with puriform discharge, considerable pain, and im- perfection of hearing. The affection, which is of rare occur- rence, and usually accompanied by other symptoms, has always yielded completely to the employment of mercury. The larynx may be affected with inflammation and ulcera- tion, extending into the glottis from the throat; it is a case of urgent danger, only to be averted by rapid mercurialization. Mr. Carmichaelsays that he never witnessed a recovery when the larynx was decidedly attacked by ulceration. Chronic430 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. laryngitis may originate from syphilis, and require the opera- tion of laryngotomy. The several symptoms now detailed, which make np the constitutional form of lues venerea, neither occur indiscrimi- nately nor in any regular and invariable sequence. Some are usually met with earlier and others later, hut there is considerable variety in this respect, and in protracted cases the early symptoms, such as eruptions and sore throat, often reappear in an advanced period of the disease. Mr. Hunter distinguishes a first and second order of parts in constitutional syphilis, acknowledging that the order is inverted in some cases. Under the first he includes the skin, tonsils, nose, throat, inside of the mouth, and sometimes the tongue j under the second the periosteum, fasciae, and bones. Some modern writers call these respectively secondary and tertiary; there is, however, no regularity in this point, the order as Mr. Hunter has observed, being sometimes inverted, while secondarv and tertiary symptoms occur together not infrequently. Nodes and affection of the testicle, though usually late, may occur early, the former particularly. Affec- tions of the throat and skin, which are commonly the first constitutional symptoms, occur frequently in the advanced stage of the complaint. The nose, which Mr. Hunter has placed in the first order of parts, seldom suffers until a comparatively late period. The diseases of this organ, of the ear, the testicle, the larynx, and the joints, are certainly of late occurrence with few exceptions, and deep ulcers of the skin may be added to the list Two, three, or more secondary symptoms are generally seen together, but I have met with sore throat, nodes and iritis, as single and sole evidences of constitutional affection. Mr Carmichael has attempted to show that certain secondary symptoms can be traced to particular sores asSECONDARY SYPHILIS. 431 their source, and that these symptoms are developed in a regular succession, so as to admit of establishing four kinds of syphilis, so different from each other as to lead to the in- ference that they owe their origin to distinct poisons. Al- though he is far from having succeeded in this attempt, he has pointed out certain combinations and successions of morbid appearances which are not unfrequently met with in practice, and has distinguished them by appropriate names. He has acted judiciously in taking his names from the erup- tions which are the most constant and characteristic symp- toms. Looking to the indurated sore or chancre described by Mr. Hunter, he assumes that as the type of syphilis, and finds it commonly followed by the copper-coloured, scaly eruption, by the excavated and tawny ulcer of the tonsils, by pains in the shafts of the long bones, and nodes formed on their surface. He calls this the scaly venereal disease, which especially requires the use of mercury, both in its primary and secondary form. The second form is named, from its eruption, papular venereal disease; the eruption, which is papular, is accompanied by inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the throat, with superficial ulceration, by severe pain in the joints and limbs, without swelling of the periosteum or bones, and by pains in the chest and back. The primary affections are gonorrhoea, excoriation of the glans and pre- puce, and superficial ulceration, unattended with indurated base or elevated edge. There is active inflammation of the skin, with constitutional disturbance of corresponding cha- racter. Ordinary antiphlogistic means are proper in the outset, mercury being reserved for the decline of the com- plaint. A third, well-marked form of the disease is the phagedenic, the primary affection being a phagedenic sore, which is fol- lowed by phagedenic sore throat, rupial eruptions, troublesome432 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. and obstinate affections of bones and joints. Great pain attends in all stages of the complaint. There is ten- dency to relapse, and thus the strength and health of the patient are seriously impaired. Mr. Carmichael absolutely prohibits the use of mercury in all stages and forms of pha- gedenic disease, in which I cannot agree with him, although mnch harm may have been done by long and repeated courses of the remedy, which must have increased the prejudice ao-ainst it. A fourth form has been mentioned, under the name of pustular, of which Mr. Carmichael does not speak with confidence. Although surgeons who have seen much of syphilitic disease cannot fail to have observed occasionally the groups of secondary symptoms pointed out by Mr. Carmichael, and their succession to primary affections, there is by no means such regularity and constancy in either point as would justify us in adopting his conclusions. We sometimes see different primary symptoms, such as an indurated and a simple sore, coexisting in the same individual, also sores of different cha- racter derived from the same source of infection; and again for- midable secondary symptoms derived from slight primary sores, and vice vend, and irregular combinations of secondary symp- toms. Many of these occurrences probably depend more on differences of constitution or temperament, on state of health, habits of living, and treatment in those who receive the disease, than in the nature of the poison, as I have observed on a former occasion in speaking of the latter subject. Treatment of secondary syphilis.-A mild course of mer- cury, steadily pursued under proper precautions, is the best and safest mode of proceeding. It should not be begun until the constitutional disturbance which sometimes ushers in the attack and is often severe in the papular eruption, has been allayed. When ulcers of the throat or mouth are m an in-SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 433 dolent state, they may be touched with the nitrate of silver from time to time. After a regular outbreak in the throat and skin, a relapse may occur, 'sooner or later, and require renewal of the treatment. Sometimes very slight return of eruption or ulceration may take place after a longer or shorter interval, not requiring resort to mercury; warm baths and general care are sufficient, with caustic to ulcers. The use of mercury is not applicable to the serious pha- gedenic affections of the pharynx and fauces, with the phage- denic rupial sores which often accompany them. Here iodide of potassium, sarsaparilla and opium, with such fluid nourish- ment and stimuli as can be swallowed most easily, are the best remedies. Local remedies are of little avail in a state of throat in which the very attempt at gargling would be injurious. Heretofore I have frequently employed cinnabar fumigation in these throats, with beneficial influence on the morbid surface; but the process is irritating and painful, and not free from danger; I have seen acute and fatal bronchitis excited by it. The local symptoms improve under the general treatment, with merely such washing of the mouth by wine and water^ for example, as may conduce to comfort. I am well aware that the influence of mercury on the system is capable of checking phagedenic ulceration, and that it may be used ad- vantageously for rupial sores, when they appear early, and the patient's strength is unimpaired. Cinnabar fumigation of the throat has sometimes brought on salivation, under which phagedenic ulceration, both in the throat and skin, has been arrested and soon cured. This form of disease recurs fre quently, and gives way to the iodide of potassium, which has the advantage over mercury of not injuring the constitu- tion, however long or frequently it may be used. The local use of mercury in phagedena is not liable to the 28434, SYPHILIS IRITIS. same objection as its general Snployment, thus the black or yellow wash may be need to sores, with or wrthont The crusts should be removed from racial sores by poulttcmg, followed by dressing with red precipitate ointaaen*• Cinnabar fumigation is one of the most powerful correctives in bad and obstinate phagedena. Iritis -Cases of this affection differ widely from each other in the degree of inflammatory disturbance, whmh may be most acute, with great local suffering and proportionate con- rt tutional affection, or perfectly mild, with little or no pam t the organ, and no other inconvenience. The majonty of cases lying between these extremes are, perhaps, rather more med I the chronic than to the acute form. Acute mtts demands active treatment, by general or local the subsequent use of mercury. An acute case, wotb pam m Te globe and head, and fever, in a yonug and strong person, Wilder attackinbotb eyes, would require general bleedmg :piousabstractionbycnppingonbothtemples,p— bv a skilful operator. Cupping on the temple, or at thebauk ^Ineck, or free leeching on the reeion may be resorted to in other cases. It >s seldom Zble to lit local bleeding altogether iu the early stage of relieved. The mercurial influence shorn ™. +1-1P milder agency ot tne gui) by the same means or the mimcr & , . . , ^ rcA 70ue o bine pill, until the discoloration of the tns an 0 e cd -e round the cornea have disappeared and vsrnn » restored.IRITIS. 435 The iodide of potassium may be advantageously substituted for mercury under certain circumstances; for instance, if the latter, fairly tried, has not done all the good that might be expected, if the inflammation, although abated, still lingers on, or if it should relapse, or mercury should disagree. The use of belladonna is advisable in conjunction with the mercury, in order to counteract the tendency to contraction of the pupil". This remedy does not act on the iris so long as it is actively inflamed; it may be employed as soon as the inflammation begins to decline. As the solution of the extract or of atropine dropped into the eye would irritate, the extract, moistened with water to the consistence of honey, should be smeared on the brow and supraorbital region once in twenty-four hours, and washed off at the end of an hour. The combined effect of the mercury and beUadonna in a recent state of the affection may detach adhesions of the pupil or cause their elongation, so that they may not interfere with the motions of the iris. When the nocturnal pain is severe, and not relieved by the means already specified it may be lessened or entirely prevented by rubbing at bedtime on the frontal and temporal regions, six grains of mercurial ointment mixed with two grains of opium. Where iritis has come to an end, vision being completely restored, the eye not unfrequently remains irritable or as patients call it, weak, for a longer or shorter time, more par- ticularly if the attack has been acute or the treatment either imprudently delayed or not followed up with sufficient care The eye will not bear strong light, exposure to cold, or em- ployment m reading or writing, without temporary vascular congestion, lacrymation, and pain. Eelapse of inflammation is easily produced by such causes. Patience and prudent care are the best preventives and remedies. Continued pain m the organ may require a blister at the back of the neck436 SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. Sometimes advantage is derived from dropping the Vinnm Opii into the eye onee or twice daily; protectmn from light by a green shade or eolonred glasses may he Sunder neglect, the inflammation has continued with com- plete loss of vision for the time, the proper treatment shonld still he tried. Vision may he improved and is sometunes reco- rd under circumstances which seem desperate at tot Lht. Again, supposing the inflammation to have passed off without the use of mercury, leaving the organ apparently m its normal state, but without improvement of stght, a course „f that medicine ought to be tried. Ihave seen« greatly improved under such circumstances, although from hve to eiglt weeks might have elapsed from the commencement of the attack before the mercurial treatment was Treatment of syphilitic disease in bones and these symptoms occur in combination with other seconda^ effects of yphilis for which mercury is employed, they yeld power over them when they occur alone. But m the latter Ze we prefer the iodide of potassium, which has a singular pTwer ver all these affections, controlling them as effectually I m rTury, and actingmore rapidly. It -«H* efficacy the diseased part but to extend beyond xt. If a node sbo " i—, other local means may he re.mre ; snch t Tdtke 5?J7Z£- - te should take place, wim & r ir- r +1,^ is only to be resorted to unciei ui^ necessary ; tins rs °^ ^ without surgical cmnstances, as sucb swellings oiten interference. Periosteal swellings of the cramal bone.BONES AND JOINTS. 437 face are soft, obviously containing matter, but it is not necessary to puncture them. I saw a gentleman in the spring of the year with a large periosteal swelling on the forehead; it was soft, without red- ness or pain, and the health was good. Four years previously there had been slight sores on the glans, which got well in three weeks, without the use of mercury. A long course of second- ary symptoms, eruptions, sore throat, iritis, and circular sores, in various repetitions and under different modes of treatment, ensued. An incision down to the bone had been strongly recommended, but declined. The health being quite good under sarsaparilla, which had been taken for some time, I advised that it should be continued, with an evaporating lotion to the swelling if it should become heated. He continued well through the summer, following his profession, that of a barrister, actively. In the beginning of September there was a soft swelling, nearly two inches in circumference, at the upper part of the frontal bone, and a smaUer near the brow. There was a general swelling over the ossa nasi, containing matter, with redness and thinness of the skin. By the middle of October the matter had entirely disappeared from the nose, the skin remaining red, with doubt whether it adhered soundly to the bone. In November, the skin over the nose still remaining red, there was slight discharge from a minute opening, which soon closed. At the end of the month the periosteal affections had entirely disappeared, the patient was in excellent health, and there was no return of disease. The course of the disease has been equally favorable in the great majority of similar cases which have come under my observ- ation. When a periosteal node continues very painful, in spite of all means, local and general, the only remedy that remains is a free division of the part in its whole length down to the bone438 SECONDARY SYPHILIS-NOSE. More or less severe pain in the joints and limbs is often experienced in the ontset of constitutional syphilis, accom- panied with general febrile disturbance, aud it goes off m proportion as that subsides. The more serious affections of the former are generally seen in an advanced period of the complaint, and especially in phagedenic cases. There may be inflammation of the synovial membranes, with effusion into the joint, or general and painful inflammatory erUarge- xnent, without any evidence of increased secretion. If the local suffering is not relieved by the iodide of potassium and opium a few leeches may be advisable, although the patient is probably in a weakened state. Blistering may also be advan- tageous. . , The nose is sometimes, but rarely, affected m the early period of secondary symptoms. I have seen it yield at that time like other concomitant affections, to the use of mercury. Should this fail, iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla must be substituted, which are the best remedies for the complaint m its tertiary form. The accumulation of dry crusts in the nos- trils is a source not only of inconvenience but pain; it may be obviated in some degree by the steady use of tepid ^ater, either snuffed up from the palm of the hand or more forcibly introduced by syringing. The fetid discharge will so long as irritation is kept up by the presence of dead bone, which should be removed surgically as soon as it becomes loosened. This unpleasant symptom may be lessened for a time by injecting a solution of chlorate of soda, as strong as the lining membrane will bear. The regular empbyment of tepid water to clear away the crust and discharge, followed by syringing with the yellow wash or with a solution of bichlo- ride o&f mercury, in the strength of half a grain to two grains to the ounce of water, taking care that none of it shall swallowed, will be useful in all respects.MUCOUS TUBERCLES—WARTS. 439 Treatment of mucous tubercles, warts, condylomata.—The first indication is to restore the irritated and inflamed surface, from which these growths proceed, to a healthy state. When the external organs, perinseum, and neighbouring skin, in females, are in a state of erythematous redness, with excoria- tions and superficial ulceration, aggravated by neglect and irregularities, careful ablution with soap and water is the first step; it maybe advantageously extended to the entire person. The part, when carefully dried, should be thoroughly soaked with solution of caustic, of two to five grains to the ounce. Lint wetted with solution of sulphate of zinc, three grains to the ounce, and kept on the part for two or three days, may be used instead. Means must be employed in the meantime to check the discharges which have kept up the irritation. The mucous tubercles may now be dusted with the oxide of zinc in powder, under which they shrink and dry up speedily, or they may require to be touched once or twice with nitrate of silver. The same means are applicable to small warty growths of the vascular and moist kind. Larger excrescences, whether in males or females, sometimes shrink and disappear under the powder consisting of sulphate of copper and powdered savine in equal proportions. Strong acetic and nitric acids are available for larger warty and condylomatous masses. If these strong applications should act too slowly and imper- fectly, the knife may be used, with the subsequent use of nitrate of silver, if a disposition to reproduction should appear. Very copious bleeding, which comes from the entire surface, may follow excision, and require the use of the tincture of the sesquichloride of iron or of the perchloride of the same metal. These affections possess no specific. character • they arc seen most commonly in connexion with venereal disease, but may arise equally from other causes of irritation.440 SYPHILIS—INOCULATION AND SYPH1LIZATION. In considering the treatment of constitutional syphilis it is necessary to speak of inoculation and syphilid, on the former of which I have little and on the latter no personal experience. Mr. Hunter and Mr. Benjamin Bell, of Edin- burgh, many years ago, occupied themselves much with inoculating both gonorrhoea! matter and the discharge from venereal sores, principally in reference to the question of identity or diversity of the poison in the two cases. For some years inoculation of patients, with the discharge of their own primary sores more particularly, has been extensively prac- tised in France, and perhaps elsewhere on the Continent, partly for pathological illustration, partly as an assistance m diagnosis and a guide in treatment. As this proceeding throws little light on the nature of the disease and affords still less aid in its management, I cannot help considering it unnecessary as well as dangerous, and I am at a loss to understand what justification can be pleaded for its continuance. Two large, most painful, and intractable ulcers, the result of two inoculations, were under my care for several weeks, resisting every variety of treatment. The patient resorted elsewhere for the relief which I had failed to give him, so that I do not know how the matter ended. The inoculation in this case was performed by a foreign physician, then resi- dent in London. Syphilization consists in producing a syphilitic sore by the inoculation of infectious matter, then inoculating the patient with discharge from his own sore, and so on repeatedly. The result of experience is alleged to be that the effect becomes gradually milder and milder, till it is reduced at last to a mere puncture, which does not discharge, the patient being then said to be syphilid. The secondary symptoms, for winch the treatment is recommended, are said to come to an end during the process. This proceeding has been largely pra^SYPHILIS IN INFANTS. 441 tised in the north of Europe, particularly in Norway, where Professor Boeck, of Christiania, has long been occupied in a laborious investigation of the whole subject, on which Pro- fessor Sperimo, of Turin, has also bestowed much attention * Syphilis in infants.—Mr. Hunter concludes his work on the venereal disease with a chapter " On Diseases resembling the Lues Venerea, which have been mistaken for it," in which, as well as in a former part (section ii, part vi) he details some strongly marked cases of this affection, of which he absolutely denies the syphilitic character, having satisfied himself by reasoning that the contamination of children by the constitutional disease in their parents is impossible. It appears accidentally that some of his contemporaries at least took a more just view of the subject, which seems, however, to have been less clearly understood than might have been expected, considering the frequency of the affection, its nne- quivocal origin, the unmistakeable character of the symptoms, its easy and frequent communication from infants to their nurses, and the mode of cure. To this original infantile disease, and to its various con- sequences, which may be developed at a more or less remote period after infancy, the name of hereditary syphilis has lately been given. The name is objectionable; it will not be misunderstood by medical persons, but it is likely to be * If I am not mistaken, the notion has also been entertained that healthy persons m^ht he rendered insusceptible of syphilis by this process of s^ bzat.cn. We cannot be surprised that the French Academy of Medicine af a bng debate, should have recorded its entire disapprobln02 wh -heme. I haye heard of one instance in which the In 1 , London, with results too well ^Jt^^^^ experiment. I trust that this example will not he Ltl^^ZT moculation of syphilis will be entirely discontinued. An accost Z 1 , « be found in the British and ^U^^442 STPHILIS IN INFANTS, misinterpreted by others, and to excite in parents the alarming apprehension that syphilis may descend to their offspring, Uke scrofula. It is incorrect in pathology, h, applyvng the same epithet to two things so essentially distinct as natural pecu- liarity of constitution and the influence of a morbid poison. This objection is strengthened by the circumstance that con- siderable additions have lately been made, on grounds winch are at least very questionable, to the list of unpleasant con- sequences ascribed to the so-called hereditary syphilis. Svphilitic infants are sometimes born dead, with evidences of previous general disease of the integuments. They may come into the world alive, with extensive inflammation of the skin, the cuticle peeling off, thin, emaciated, and soon dying. More commonly they are born well, and begin to show be disease on the skin in four or five weeks after birth, possibly sooner or later. The first symptoms, excoriation, superficial ulceration, or reddish patches, are seen about the organs o generation, anus, and nates. Blisters are spoken o by the ^men who see the disease in its earliest stage. The aff c- C of the skiu extends gradually over the body, in smaller or larger patches of light-brownish red, with slight roughness 0 surface and peeling of the cuticle, even on the palms and 01 suiiaoc j p ,1ip There is redness soles, without much redness of the to.1 .nd excoriation, with scaly state of the cuticle, ai " the neck and on the occiput. The face is dis gureuby eruption, withflssures at the angles of the.mouthap ti>* of the mucous membrane, and rawness o the palpebnd margins. The child snuffles, and the nostrds are soon filled Ih a thick, yellow matter, rendering them air so as to make sucking difficult or impracticable hence Z Z flesh, miserable emaciation, fretfulness, and irrittoty on which, if unrelieved, death speedily supervenes i ti an occasional, but not frequent, concomitant of the disc,SYPHILIS IN INFANTS. 443 I have seen cases of infants in the first and second year, with pupils contracted and closed by adventitious membrane and total loss of sight, in whom the affection had been probably syphilitic. The child of a gentleman who had had primary sores before marriage became affected a few weeks after birth with eruption all over the body; it wasted, and seemed on the point of dying, but recovered by the use of mercury in small doses. In a few weeks more severe inflammation of the eyes came on, which was arrested by mercury in small doses, but the child became blind. When I saw it, several weeks afterwards, one pupil was fixed, with an opaque membrane behind it. The other pupil was clear, but without motion, and the child was blind. I have seen one instance in which the vascular surface on which the nail rests was inflamed in all the toes of both feet, more particularly in the great toes. There was dis- charge of yellow matter, drying and hardening under the loose edges of the nails, and raising them, the nails them- selves exhibiting a lightish-brown discoloration. Separation of the entire nail occurred only on one of the great toes, leaving a raw surface, which soon healed. It was the case of a healthy infant, about eight months old. The disease yielded -slowly to the use of the Hydrarg. c. Creta. The remedy was discontinued rather prematurely, when a relapse of the dis- ease took place, and a very slight discoloration of the finger- nails of both hands was observed. Permanent cure was effected by repetition of the treatment, which did not disturb the health. An attack of syphilis in the usual form, but not severe, had occurred in this case before I saw the infant The treatment of these cases is simple and successful The disease yields readily and quickly to mercury, which these young subjects bear very well. Three grains of the Hydrar* c Creta, a grain, or half a grain of calomel, may be given441 SYPHILIS IN INFANTS, twice daily. The eruption gees off, the discharge from the nose ceases, and the child recovers flesh, regaining health and strength not nnfrequently when there seemed hardly a hope of recovery. , . It has heen recommended, and probably practised m Ranee, to treat syphilitic infants through the mother by administering mercury to her. As infants hear the remedy better than adnlts, there seems to be no advantage m a r„nndabont way of proceeding, which subjects the mother if she is free from disease, to the inconvenience and possible ininr, of merenrial influence unnecessarily. I have never tried this practice nor heard of its employment in this country Syphilis as seen in the infant is in the constitutional form or that of lnes venerea, the infection having heen conveyed bT the blood of the mother, who has had the same disease. I have not known of any mischief to the child from primary disease in the mother at the time of partitionA^ woman of sixteen or seventeen, in the sixth month of pr g_ nancy, was nnder my care in St. Bartholomew s, with had and obstinate primary sores, for which it was necessary to USe mercury so freely as to cause salivation, nnder which they healed favorably, without injury to her health, and she ief/the hospital for her confinement, with instrucUons o bring the child at the end of a month, which she did, both teself and the baby being then perfectly well. She was d ILed to hring it again in another month, hut she cam- a fortnight, with the disease clearly devehiped m he eh « and an nicer of each tonsil in her own throat. By t e us of mercury both mother and child soon recovered, but in h eoorse of amouth a phlegmonous auppnratton and behind the jaw of the child; it was opene , and con well. Although in this ease no constitutional V»P^ occurred in the mother before delivery, we cannot doubtSYPHILIS IN INFANTS. 445 that the constitution had become affected previously to that time. The effect of the venereal disease, when it has been intro- duced into the system of the mother, and has thus influenced the health of her offspring, does not end here. The con- taminated infant may communicate the malady by suckling to a healthy woman, in whom, although the source of in- fection has been constitutional, it appears in the primary form, that is, in ulcers of the breast, with glandular swellings in the axilla, these being followed by the usual train of secondary symptoms. The offspring of a woman thus diseased will be syphilitic, and capable of communicating the disease. This serious misfortune is not confined to a single birth, but may extend to several, whether the original affection was caused by sexual intercourse or in other manners. These points, as weU as the general history of the complaint, its effects and treatment, are sufficiently illustrated by the following cases. Mrs. B—, twenty-nine years of age, who had been married ten years and had ten children, had given birth to a healthy child four years before I saw her. When it was a month old she went as wet-nurse to a place where she stayed three months; the infant was perfectly healthy. She then went to suckle a child three weeks old, whose mother had died suddenly. This child had a sore mouth when she took to it. In a week afterwards she says that it came out in sores on the seat, that the nostrils ran with corruption, the eyes were sore, and the skm of the head peeled off. She suckled this child for ten weeks, when it died. Both her nipples began to be sore as soon as she took to this child, and a lump as large as a walnut formed in the left armpit. Her throat became ul- cerated, and was so bad that what she drank ran out of her nose. Her throat was bad for five months, and got well under salivation, and nothing has ailed her since. Within446 SYPHILIS IN INFANTS, two years she gave birth to three dead children Three former children had been born alive and healthy. The fourth infant, for which she consulted me, was born healthy, and showed symptoms at the end of four weeks similar to those of the diseased child which she had suckled formerly. When I saw it, at the age of five weeks, there were copper- coloured eruptions on the body and limbs; the edges of the evelids excoriated; the nostrils filled with tlnek, yel ow matter ■ the child was thin and fretful. It recovered speedily under a nightly dose of the Hydrarg. c. Cret&. I was consulted in February, 1827, by Mrs. H-, a respectable woman, for a disease of the breast and other symptoms, bringing with her a child that she was suckling, which had been and was then ill. A lady in the family way, for whom she washed, observing that she had a healthy child at the breast, asked her to take her infant when born, and suckle it. She consented, and took the child which had been born early in the previous October, keeping her own infant to the right and the nurse chdd to the left breast. She stated that the latter, a healthy child at birth, became ill in a week; small bhsters came about the organs of generation, and then spread over the body, wrth redness of the skin, which peeled off. The nostrils became stuffed and the mouth very sore. At this tune her own • i -u fn wffPT The child took white powders, nirmle began to suner. iUC Teh mu!t have been mereurial, and got better tat her 0Wn nipple and breast were still bad. The mfan 1 d the marks of former eruption on vanous parts of the body. There was some thick, yellow matter n the nostnls and the mouth was aphthous. I ordered for rt a dady dose of Hvdrarg. c. Creta. Mrs H— had a smooth red nicer not excavated w.tl indurated base, about the size of a shilling, on the areola ofSYPHILIS IN INFANTS. 447 the left breast. The substance of the gland above the nipple was indurated, forming a lump as large as a hen's egg. To a question whether she had eruptions or sores elsewhere, she answered " no;" but I found, on careful examination, a few small, reddish and slightly scaly spots on the forehead, scalp, arms, and thighs, and two or three slightly elevated superficial ulcers on the labia. She was weak, from suckling the two children. Her own child, which had been always kept to the right breast, was quite well. I ordered that it should be weaned, and prescribed for the mother a blue pill, with a little opium, night and morning. These means were con- tinued to March 19th, when the ulcer on the areola had healed, the swelling of the breast had gone, and the eruptions had disappeared. The nurse-child had recovered, but was ema- ciated. It was sent to another nurse about the middle of April, having then a slight return of symptoms. The new nurse observed that the child's mouth was sore, as she supposed, from thrush; her own nipples, which had been previously quite well, immediately became sore. Mrs. H— had a fresh appearance of scaly syphilitic eruption and ulcers on the labia. The former treatment was resumed for both. The new nurse had common inflammation of the left breast in May, ending in abscess, which was opened; she had no syphilitic symptom. The child was well, except that the nose was a little stuffed. The second nurse, whom I saw on July 17th, had a superficial sore, with moderately firm base, the size of a shilling, about an inch from the nipple; it had existed three weeks, and had not changed under any appli- cations she had tried. The child, whom she had suckled for seven weeks, had died three weeks previously. Blue pill night and morning, with black wash. July 24th -Small' reddish-brown eruptions, slightly raised, were thickly scattered over the hands, including the palms and arms, the feet and448 SYPHILIS IN INFANTS. honA or trunk, and there was legs 1 there were none on the head or n , .n a,«,w 25th—The mouth had been affected no sore throat. August ^otn. x bythe mercury. The nicer ef the breast had heakd, wrttout living hardness. The ernptions had disappeared and a few la/spots had come out on the face and head, fcr whmh the mercury was continued in dmnmshed quantity. On 1^18,8 this sccondnnrsc was delivered of a fine, healthy Man which was brought to nre on May 20th, covered wfih Typbihtic eruption from head to foot. It bad commenced a week after birth, and gradually extended, consrstmg partly of smail, red patches, but principally of larger portmns ta- coloured in tbe same way, red or reddish-brown, wfih the cuticle peeling off or scaly; tbe cuticle was peebng thus rom be soles toes, bands, and fingers, in The organs of generation, anus, buttocks, and thrghs, w r Lp-red and partially excoriated, tbe lips chapped n0 part of tbe surface was free from drsease. The cbfid « fed by hand, tbe mother having no milk. She waa dyrng of JtHsis in a montb afterwards, tbe child havrng neariy re coXd under the nse of merenry. Mrs. H- whom saw rtLbcgmningofMay.^^wastheninperfectheaUh^d strength She had experienced slight eruptmns fiom trrne ttoe but in no great nnmber; they went away, and were to trme hot m g ^ ^ ^ succeeded by tresn oneb, SST~ * -—was "otice4 in one f fT,P interesting cases recorded by Mr. Hunter, ^rr—vommeof the ^^^Z notions' there is an interesting paper by Ml Hey, en :* e: ihlcating the Meets of tbe Venerea, Disease on ^ Child in mere," in which he d^ the disease can be communicated to the wuc ySYPHILIS IN INFANTS. 449, with a husband labouring under secondary symptoms. With- out being able to establish the point by direct evidence, he is of opinion that it may be so communicated; I agree with Mr. Hey on this subject, although unable like him to adduce clear proof, which indeed is hardly to be expected. He mentions having seen several instances, in which the mothers' having been once affected has communicated the disease to two, three, or even four children in succession, each of them having the disease in a milder form than the preceding one, and this without any ground for suspecting a fresh infection. He subjoins the following interesting case : In the latter end of the year 1770 and the beginning of 1771, a blind woman, who gained her living by drawing the breasts of women during their confinement, became affected with ulcers at the angles of the lips, which were judged to be venereal. He found that she had drawn the breasts of a woman who was supposed to be labouring under the venereal disease. He treated these ulcers as syphilis, and they healed under that treatment. He observes, that several women whose breasts had been drawn by this woman became affected with syphilitic disease. He mentions one case in particular. Mrs. B— had her breasts drawn twice by this woman, upon the death of her second child, which died of the smallpox and within three or four weeks afterwards perceived a swelling of the axillary glands, and complained of soreness in her throat. The swelling in the axilla was, no doubt, the effect produced by this blind woman drawing her breasts. The gentleman who saw the sore throat, deeming it to be venereal exhibited mercury, and it got well. During the treatment she became pregnant, but continued the use of the mercurv during her pregnancy; and at the end of seven months she 1772, continued to enjoy good health, and was delivered of 29450 SYPHILIS IN INFANTS, a child apparently healthy in February, m3 *lneh -he her- self suckled. When the child was about sleeks old, m ! luk Mr Hey judged to he syphilitic appeared eruption winch » ^ ^ mi cMd upon its legs the tormer sural! doses of he " d was in a short time freed from the eruption, hut cent nued to take the medicine till the beginning of August. l octohcr following, two or three small ulcers appeared on ll outside of the lahia pudendi of the child, and on that c on —al course was resumed, with the addition 1 occasional dose of calomel. The ulcer, were soon healed but in May, 1774, the nostrils became sore, and the ^teguments of the nose were also tender, at the same time V?.. „ Wrse The mercurial course was repeated, the chid grew hoarse^ Oh ^ ^ and —* for tw — ber ^ ^^^^^^^ In" 'm - this same woman hore another child, winch " anuarenti; healthy at its birth, and continued to be so l a to21. Blotches of a copper colour then came out 1 1 1 hut soon disappeared, upon having recourse upon the skin, d Wotdie8 ap_ to mercurial medicines. After some i „„<,;„ and were accompanied with a small me peared again, ano "t". r and remained well. infection in ntero do The mischiefs attendant on venereal mteetionSYPHILIS IN INFANTS. 451 Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson has pointed out and figured mal- formations of the incisor teeth, which he regards as clear indications of syphilitic infection. 1 have seen a girl about eight or ten years old, in whom the four adult incisors, very well-formed teeth, had become so loose that they were ready to drop out. They came away almost without force, the corresponding alveolar portion of the superior maxillary bones being necrosed. Although the mother who brought this patient to the hospital said there was nothing else amiss in the mouth, I looked into the throat, where I found that the uvula had disappeared, and the velum had undergone ulce- ration, which had not completely cicatrized. According to the account of mother and daughter, who were decent and respectable persons, this disease had not been noticed. There was also a large node of the tibia, which became very painful, and proved extremely obstinate. The dead portion of bone came away in time, leaving a round opening of communication with the nose, which in a few weeks was in a state to admit of closure by a plate of vulcanite bearing the teeth, and adapted to the palate by Mr. Alfred Coleman so skilfully that all the functions of the part are performed perfectly The mother had been affected with syphilis, including nodes or the cranium.CHAPTER XVIII- CLINICAL LECTURES ON THE VENEREAL DISEASE.REPRINTED FROM THE * LONDON MEDICAL GAZETTE/ VOL. XXI. LECTURE I. mode op study; chronic phagedena; other forms OF PRIMARY SYPHILIS. They who wish to learn the nature of the —1 disease may ehoose hetween two modes of proceeding. One u to "ad hooks on the suhject; the other, to enter the wards of an hospital, and study the faets there presented to ohser.at.on, ^h mind as free as possihle from doctrines and precon- ceived notions. The two methods ought to comode; tot Zr d.ffer wide,, in their resnlts. There cannot he he S« hesitation in determining that the lattery preferah t the pnrpose of gaining eorreot knowledge. If you exp to find what ,on read confirmed hy what you wrll ohse e r ylllves in this hospital, you will he disappomted, the 1 of study do not differ more essentially than the ITulrlt« they respectively lead. The— in hooks are to the effect that there . a eertam ™ua « poison, which, .hen applied to the human hody rodu ^ffecta so well marked in character and gross, that we may hy them easily d.stmgmsh syphJis fromCLINICAL LECTURE. 453 all other forms of disease. Thus, we should expect to find the great pox as* definite in appearance and course as the smallpox or cowpox. Again, it is represented that other morbid phenomena, apparently produced in the same manner as this supposed regular syphilitic disease, are not venereal, do not result from the application of a poison, and require a different mode of treatment from true syphilis. When, on the contrary, we look over the several cases presented to our observation in a large hospital, we see affec- tions very different from each other in appearance, and in other essential characters, yet coming under the common denomination of venereal disorders. Different as these are, they seem all to arise from a common source; they owe their origin to promiscuous sexual intercourse, and are, therefore, justly denominated venereal. I know no reason why any one of these varieties should be called true syphilis rather than any other. We may, therefore, abandon the attempt to distinguish between syphilis and the diseases resembling it, and discard from our vocabulary the terms true syphilis and pseudo-syphilis, and the others founded on the hypothesis just noticed; terms which have either no clear meaning or an erroneous one, and are only calculated to introduce confusion and obscurity into a subject sufficiently difficult in itself. If then, you wish to learn the nature of syphilis, dismiss from your minds the speculations of authors, and observe the phenomena, progress, and treatment of the venereal cases in this hospital. I now direct your attention to the case of William Smith a tailor, m Lazarus Ward, who has already been in the hos' pital more than once. This is a well-marked example of phagedenic venereal disease, and it shows a correspondence m character between the primary affection and its secondary or constitutional consequences.45 I CLINICAL LECTURE. He was first admitted into the hospital on the 19th of May, 1836, with a phagedenic ulcer of the prepuce, by winch the upper half, or two thirds of the part, had been destroyed to the basis of the glans. The ulcer had an irregular, ragged surface and edge, small portions of the latter being W| there was no appearance of reproduction. The discharge was thin and ichorous; not abundant nor offensive. There was not much pain. The ulcer had existed eight weeks during which time he had taken twelve pills, and employed a lotion, which caused considerable pain. A few large, brownish-red, cutaneous tubercles had appeared recently on the forehead and face. He was directed to take two grains of calomel, with one third of a grain of opium, three times daily, and to apply the black wash to the sore. He continued this treatment till the 6th of June, when the mouth had become considerably affected; he then left off the calomel and opium, and took five grains of the blue pill every night During this time he was kept in bed, and confined to milk diet Under this plan the ulceration was quickly arrested, and the sore, which had been spreading for eight weeks, healed rapidly, the tubercular eruption disappeared from the face. The original sore, however, did not heal completely at the xaiddle of the dorsum penis, where the ulceration had ex- tended a little under the integument; it continued to burrow in this direction after it had cicatrized soundly elsewhere, and at last extended so far that it was necessary to lay open the undermined skin by a free incision, on the 13th of June. The unhealthy surface thus exposed was dressed successively with black wash and with the balsam of Peru. The sulphate of quinine, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, were administered internally. The patient left the hospital m the middle of July, freed from the local complaints, and m excellent health.SYPHILIS. 155 The case, thus far, shows the natural progress and the destructive effects of phagedenic ulceration, when unchecked; for, if we suppose the twelve pills taken before admission to have been mercurial, they had produced no sensible ope- ration on the system. It shows that phagedena, although essentially destructive, eating away the affected part by ulce- ration, as its name implies, is not necessarily active in its progress. It had here gone on uncontrolled for eight weeks, and merely destroyed a portion of integument. The effect, indeed, would have been more serious if the disease had been seated in the glans. The present case is an example of what might be called chronic phagedena. It demonstrates further the powerful influence of mercury over the disease, and its unequivocal instrumentality in effecting a cure. Some have believed that the use of mercury is capable of giving the phagedenic character to an ulcer. Here, however, the primary form of the complaint was pha- gedenic ; this character rapidly disappeared under the use of mercury, being succeeded by a healthy restorative process. W. Smith returned to the hospital, on September 10th, 1836, with a relapse of ulceration on the penis. I was absent from London at the time, and he consequently came under the care of my colleague, Mr. Lloyd. I understand that the whole dorsum of the penis was occupied by afoul, phagedenic sore, of circular figure, which extended a little in the direction of the pubes. The surface was so foul, and it extended so rapidly, that Mr. Lloyd had thought it proper to apply the strong nitric acid. The sore, when I saw it, was covered by the brown crust which follows the effective application of that escharotic. The separation of the eschar was followed by a clean and granulating surface, and cicatrization was soon completed. On this occasion no mercury was used, either456 CLINICAL LECTURE. externally or internally, and the patient was discharged per- fectly well in October. On January 6th, 1837, he was again admitted with pha- gedenic ulceration of the fauces and face, and inflammation of the periosteum. The velum palati, uvula, and tonsils, the upper and back part of the pharynx, were occupied by an irregular ulceration, with a lardaceous surface, ragged edge, and bright red margin j deglutition was performed with diffi- culty, and with great pain. There were three or four cir- cular phagedenic sores on the face. There was a soft, fluc- tuating swelling over the left superciliary ridge, and another on the os male of the same side. The carpal extremity of the left ulna presented a large, painful swelling of the perios- teum All these affections were of painful character; they had interrupted rest, and impaired appetite, causing ema- ciation, and great weakness. These evils were aggravated by great alarm respecting the nature and progress of the disease and depression of spirits. I found, on inquiry that he had uever been affected with syphilis before; that he had been of regular habits; and that he had been particularly careful of himself since his first admission into the hospital. The painful nature of the symptoms, and the enfeebled condition of the patient, required narcotics, and ^^^2 both medical and dietetic, and presented a strong contra- iudication to the general use of mercury, although the mflu ence of that remedy was required to check the progress of Tease particularly in the throat. He was ordered to disease, p j h every night and morning; fumigate the throat with cinnabar every n b ZtL the concentrated compound decoction of sarsaparilla to take the co ^ ^ B c Qpl0 three times a clay, anu nve at night; and to feed on milk and broth, or on -eat, ac- 2g o his power of swaUowing. On the 9th aght onnc*, por wine were ordered for him daiiy, and the dose of theSYPHILIS. 457 Pil. Saponis c. Opio was increased to seven and a half grains. On the 24th the fumigation was continued once daily, the mouth having become sore, and linctus was ordered for a cough. Under this treatment, the local symptoms and the health improved rapidly; the ulceration of the throat lost its phagedsenic character, and soon healed; the ulcers of the face cicatrized, the swelling of the ulna disappeared, and those of the frontal bone and os mala broke and discharged, the openings subsequently scabbing over. With the abate- ment of pain the rest and appetite returned; the flesh and strength were restored, and the patient left the hospital in the middle of February, not only free from disease, but stout and in excellent health. On] this occasion mercury was only used locally, viz., in the form of cinnabar fumigation; but, as it happens not unfrequently under such circumstances, the specific action of the remedy on the constitution was produced, and ptyalism ensued. The rapid cicatrization of the ulcers in the fauces and in the face, and the corresponding dispersion of the peri- osteal swellings, were probably owing in great measure to this operation of the remedy. The soothing and restorative medicine, and the generous diet, which were necessary on account of the pain, emaciation, and weakness, were advan- tageous in enabling the patient to support the action of mercury. Smith seemed completely restored when he left the hos- pital; but the cure was not yet permanent, for he is now again in Lazarus ward, affected with disease of the nose ulceration of the throat, enlargement and induration of the right testicle. He came in on the 23rd of this month (June) There is a large, ulcerated opening in the septum narium' forming a free communication between the two nostrils both of which are in great measure blocked up with bloody'scabs458 CLINICAL LECTURE, and stinking matter. A most offensive fetor is diffused to some distance round the patient. The bridge of the nose has partially sunk, and has become turned to one side. The integuments are swelled, of dull red colour, hot, and painful. There can be no doubt that the bone is diseased, from the yielding of the septum, the offensive stench, and the inflamed state of the external coverings. The affection of the mucous membrane is probably secondary; the seat of disease m the pharynx is its upper and back part, so high up that the lower portion only of the ulcer comes into view; it has the same phagedenic character as on the former occasion. This position of the ulcer in the pharynx, if not peculiar to phage- denic syphilis, is very common in that form of the disease; the testicle is moderately enlarged, hard, somewhat irregular and knotted, painful on pressure; the scrotum is red, and rather warm. . The remedies ordered were, solution of corrosive sublimate (half a grain to the ounee) in lime water, to the nose, pre- viously clearing it of seabs and matter by means of tepid water; five grains of hydriodate of potash in an ounee and a half of eompound deeoetion of sarsapariUa, three times a day; mercurial liniment to be rubbed on the testicle. The patient has now been in the hospital a week under this treatment, and already feels much better. The foregoing is a striking ease of primary phagedenic ulcer, followed by the constitutional effects which are ob- served in this form of syphilis more particularly, viz tubercular eruption, and phagedenic ulcers of the sUn fauces, upper and back part of the pharynx, drsea* of th uasal bones and membrane, and affection of the W*» shows the rapid succession of the various secondary y mptoius, which is usually observed in this form of the Mercury is of great service in the treatment of phagedamicSYPHILIS. 459 syphilis j but it must not be employed indiscriminately. If "we proceed on the old notion of its being the specific and sole remedy for such complaints, employing it freely at first, recurring to its use when the disease appears again, and so on, to ties quoties, we shall seriously damage the constitution, aggravate the patient's sufferings, and increase the liability to relapse. The disease itself is of painful nature; it causes loss of flesh and general depression: repeated and long courses of mercury act like a poison in this dilapidated state of health. It is necessary to check the destructive progress of the primary affection, and this object sometimes cannot be accomplished without the full action of the remedy on the mouth. Its local administration is of great service in pha- gedenic secondary symptoms • but I avoid, if possible, its internal use, especially; when the powers of the constitution have been impaired by the painful nature and the duration of the disease. [Smith remained in the hospital four or five weeks on the last occasion. Before he went out the whole septum narium came away in several pieces. The discharge ceased, and the nostrils became clear, but the deformity of the nose was in- creased; the throat soon got well, and the swelling of the testis subsided. He showed himself at the hospital from time to time during the autumn, continuing free from disease and in excellent health. It may be concluded that he continues well, as he promised to return in the event of any relapse.] There are at present other cases in the hospital, illustrating the various effects produced by what appears to me a common cause, promiscuous sexual intercourse; and clear evidence to the same point may at any time be obtained by looking over the patients m any one venereal ward. James Wood, admitted June 15th, has six or eight small circular sores on the lining of the prepuce, at its orifice.460 CLINICAL LECTURE. These sores are a little elevated, so that the entire oleer is in slight relief; they are of florid red. This is a commonta. and sitnation of primary syphilis. The sores, whmh are nnmerons, present a little ulcerative excavatmn; hey then become raised, as yon see them in this patient and of find eolonr, and subsequently cicatrise. From four to e gh weeks not unfrequently elapse before the headmg process r completed. Remember that this elevation helongs to one period only in the progress of the affeetion. These eases ;how that excavation, and a fonl, tawny surface are not essen- tial eharaeters of a syphilitic sore; also, that primary sores mav "be numerous as well as single. Thomas Haley, in the same ward (Lazarus), has a sore not excavated, seated on an indurated basis, at the root of the prepuce, just hehiud the glans. The induration, as Wge as a horsebean, feels like a lump of cartilage under fte skim In this and the preceding case black wash is applied to the part, and five grains of blue pill are taken twice daily Mr. Hunter's description has led to the behef tha a venereal sore is circu!ar, excavated, foul or tawny on the surface, and with an indurated base and edge. A little ob se a i n will be sufficient to show that the latter character not essential, and that it is not seen in the majority ■ Lai sores The subcutaneous hardness, which rs eer- tainly y P its development ^ I —e of loose, cellular tissue under the skin. Tttnot seen in nleers of the glans, where that trssne exists ring^we -et with it in the prepuce, and especially a mtST* corona glandis and rim basis of the prepuce, in wbieh ease the prepurial portion of the sore maySYPHILIS. 461 be indurated, while that on the glans possesses no such character. Another patient in Lazarus has a sore as large as a sixpence on the integuments of the prepuce. The ulceration is super- ficial, with a clean, smooth surface, affording a thin discharge in small quantity, which concretes into a slight, closely adhering scab. The margin of the sore is a little raised; there is a bubo in the right groin, while the sore is on the left side of the prepuce. This occurrence of glandular affection on the side opposite to the ulcer is occasionally noticed. This case is treated in the same manner as the two preceding. Thus these four cases of disease arising from promiscuous sexual intercourse, present to your observation four primary affections essentially distinct; and I know no reason why one of these should be called true syphilis more than the others. Hence syphilis, whatever may be the nature of its unknown cause, and whether that cause be one or many, produces phenomena considerably varied. They who have been endea- vouring to find out true venereal disease, in the expectation of finding, as in smallpox or cowpox, an affection of deter- minate character, commencing at a regular period, running a certain course, lasting a certain time, and coming to a definite conclusion, have been seeking for what does not exist. The whole phenomena of syphilis, the characters of the primary disease, the constitutional effects, the duration of both, the intervals between the primary and secondary affections, and between the successive manifestations of the latter, present numerous and striking differences.LECTUEE II. ACUTE PHAGEDENA AND SLOUGHING SORE. | I called your attention, gentlemen, in the last lecture to four cases of primary Syphilitic ulcers, then m the hospuah 11 the sores'po-sed strongly marked characters and no two were alike. We thus learn that the venereal person whatever he its nature, does not produce one uuvarymg sc of effects. Further evidence of similar nature might he adduced in corroboration of the same conclusion. Thus, the first effect of the venereal poison may be an nicer qmte super- ficial or a mere excoriation, without loss of substance Many consider that such appearances are not syphilitic; I regard them just as much so as the other forms. They occur from promiscuous sexual intercourse, and are not seen » mamed Ufe, where the parties strictly observe the marrmge vow nor in Inch as live chastely. They give rise to secondary phr- litic symptoms, and thus it happens that we see cases of the a te Xre tie patient says that he has had no venereal toel I was consulted, Dot long ago, by a gentleman w.th disease. J- wa , „. . . ... nf ^[rfo the characters an attack of acute syphilitic iritis, of which t were so well marked, that I immediately told him tha he were w ^ cQuld not H had venereal disease ot the eye. ^ flll+T,PT father, that some ^^J^ heal con, ;X;X" ^'consulted a medical pract, plctely that .t waa a mere tioner respecting the lauei, wnuCLINICAL LECTURE. 463 excoriation, witliout any venereal character, and not requiring any particular treatment. The iritis in this case required active treatment j and the organ was not completely restored until the use of mercury, carried to the extent of affecting the gums, had been persevered in for four weeks. If the character of the primary affection had here been inferred from those of the iritis and eruption, we should have argued that it must have been decidedly syphilitic. Whether this gentleman would have escaped without secondary symptoms, if the excoriation (as it was called) had been treated with mercury, must be uncertain : I think he would have had a better chance. If, however, he should hereafter experience further secondary symptoms, such as sore throat, affection of the periosteum, disease of the nose, he will not estimate very highly the knowledge and discri- mination of the person who pronounced the primary com- plaint not to be venereal. [No further symptoms have ensued in this case; at the end of eight months from the treatment of the iritis, the gentleman remains perfectly well.] I placed before you, in the last lecture, a case of chronic phagedena; that is, of an eating ulcer which proceeds slowly which had lasted eight weeks without causing serious or extensive damage. Phagedenic ulceration may proceed more rapidly; it may destroy the glans in eight days. I will present you with an example of acute phagedena. A gen tleman, twenty-two years of age, observed an unpleasant appearance on the glans ten days after a suspicious connexion For this he consulted a medical practitioner on a Thursday and did not see him again till the following Sunday, pur- suing his ordinary avocations, and living as usual in the mean time, the weather being very hot. I saw him on the following day (Monday), when his medical attendant in464 CLINICAL LECTURE. ] torn* me that the complaint had of a hlaok spot, that it had increased fearfully hy Sunday, In ho —dad that I should he — salted. I feund a phagedsnlo — ^ stroyed one fourth of the glans on its left snfe anteriorly hy the frenum. This alarming - had an e golar surfaee, ^^^'^ spot!, yellowish and grayish colour, intern -ed and it secreted an offensive lehor, with stron a ■ fetor The glans was swelled and hnght red cleared V an active P mercurial ointment ;Z i J - severe — W —ce= Led hy high atniospherfeal J-^^- ^ of the Motions/^Xt W dlday evening he was in a every fonr or six hours, un occupied nigh fever, the small ^J^J^ the 1, „eing as hot as an oven I ^ ^ ^ t0 and found it necessary to suW ^ ^ ^ v»eight. Two days after he was re The action „nere he had a coo! and commodious apatmentT of the mercury was slow in this instance , itSYPHILIS. 465 swelling of the gums nor ulceration, but it rendered them white, as if they had been covered by a thin, adventitious stratum, and it caused moderate ptyalism. The progress of the complaint seemed checked in the first twenty-four hours ; but it was not decidedly arrested until about the seventh day. In the mean time it extended deeply, by a sloughing process batween the glans and the corpus cavernosum penis; it destroyed the frenum, and showed itself to a small extent on the right side of that fold, but it did not enlarge beyond its original boundary on the left of the glans, and it left the prepuce entire. When the slough separated it had gone so deeply as to open the urethra to the extent of about an inch on its upper and left side. When the surface had been cleared the sore healed rapidly; and, as the prepuce was entire, while the contraction of the cicatrix lessened the apparent loss of substance in the glans, not only was the part again capable of all its functions, but its form had suffered very little damage. The mercurial influence was kept up nntil cicatrization was complete, a period of about four weeks. This is an example of primary sore spreading rapidly by destructive ulceration, which would, probably, have de stroyed the glans in four or five days from the time I first saw it, if left to itself. The treatment demonstrates un- comely the powerful influence of mercury over such — PeZ^rSfoU—— -patient I proceed to explain to you the nature and treatment f another form of nrimarv «™vr , ueatment of 01 pnmary syphilis, sloughing chancre «„ affection in some respects more formidable than the ceding, the acute phagedenic sore. A lad of sZ T had recently left the country, contracted ypl Jto^al 1" arrived in town. He immediately ^ 30466 CLINICAL LECTUUE. practitioner, who observed nothing alarming in the - This was on a Tnesday, and he was seen again on the fo - * ° , ,n the mean time he had heen gomg into lowing Saturday. In then* ^ living m bis USUdi m „pms ^as now , ,i ,,0+w heinsr very warm, lne penis w * oridce of the prepoce eon- S2 adhere L a degree of fever,h derine him incapahle of fnrther exertion. Depletion by *" 1 stal Tf the greatest discomfort from severe was in a state ot tn g bodily and mental snaringTh^^ en ^ rally, the prepnee moie pa* nla ly and offensive discharge, with the Pe™lia from — these ^^r^a^eo e, the contract*d oriSce* *^ '^slightest tonch. tremely pmnfnI tha he co^ ^ ^ by by mental anxiety and depression, w^th ap^hen ^ might lose the member entirely. rt—:tated t • -u -a «n,wpd by the swollen piepuce. pressure ^'T^L doeSj ftom the edges of the Heeding ^J^^ ^unloading thcvcss^ incision. Lne lenci wt mischief is aU „;i +1ip inflammatory miscmci immediately engaged in tlicSYPHILIS. 467 important source of additional benefit in this mode of pro- ceding. One half of the glans had perished, and was con- verted into a dark, greyish slough, separated from the living parts by a distinct line. Poppy fomentation and soft bread poultice constituted the local treatment, and the muriate of morphine was given at night to procure rest. On the fol- lowing day he was much better; the division of the prepuce had been followed by immediate and effectual relief to the part, and the opiate had procured a good night. The slough was separating. In two days' time the separation had advanced considerably, leaving a rather foul and ragged surface, to which lint, clipped in the balsam of Peru, was applied. In two days more, the surface had become quite clean, and the balsam was left off, as its application caused pain. Soon after, the mortified part became entirely de- tached; although the slough extended deeply between the glans and the body of the penis, the urethra escaped. The sore now healed rapidly. The measures of general treatment after the prepuce had been divided consisted in a nutritious diet, with porter and wine, and the sulphate of quinine, in two-grain doses, three times a day. No secondary symptoms ensued in this case. This and other analogous cases show that the venereal poison may cause, not only inflammation, increased and altered discharge, thickening and various modifications of ulceration, but also loss of vitality more or less considerable The mortified part is separated by the same process as in other cases the surface left after such separation being per. fectly healthy, and usually granulating and cicatrizing rapidly An ingenious person has written a book to prove "the non exastence of venereal virus." We will not dispute about words; but we may be permitted to ask, if there is no venereal p01son, how it happened that the first and sole468 CLINICAL LECTURE. 1 amour of a healthy youth, aged sixteen, should h.ve caused the serious mutilation of which I have given you the W In respect to the division of the prepuce, a stnkmgly he^ialVt of the treatment in these - .^-r conditions of the glans and prepuce, fear has been enter tained that the discharge from the diseased surfaces might T nte the ed«s of the incision. This apprehension is cont.rn.nate the ede ^ j altogether unfounded; in a iai&e ia" Adopted the proceeding m this hospital, no such result "has ever been noticed. X iave seen lately . greater nnmher than usual of these serious phagedenic and sloughing diseases, some havmg occurred in private practice, where they are met with mo.e ZZ than n the wards of an hospital. These pnv. e cses rp.rtioul.rly interesting in elucidating the natnr« of the disease; we can tr.ee out .ts course more s.t,sf.c- riW -d can ascertain th.t the distinguishing features of betn^laint are not produced hy causes which may he sup- losedTo exert an influence on many hospital p.t.euts, such as posed to exert severance in profligate l.ceu- intemperance, neglect, ana persev an .ppcranee ^ o£ ^ affection from the complaint, I anticipate . most offensive *» slough of back the prepuce wrthout pM„y the glans as large .. . »» ^ d;d ^ rdate black, discharging a thru, W * t0 how the affair had occurred, - « J ^ „ ouestion him on the subject. I found ^ in the morning to his medical attend.nt « bad been induced by his report to come to town,SYPHILIS. 469 saw him in the evening. There was little or no swelling of the penis, and not much pain. I directed him to return home immediately; to go to bed, and remain there; to apply as many leeches as he could place on the penis; to use poppy fomentation and bread poultice, and take opening medicine. I told him that swelling and pain might be expected, and that a division of the prepuce would then be necessary. I did not see him again till the end of two days, when he was considerably worse. The penis and prepuce were swelled, but not considerably; the latter could only be withdrawn with difficulty. He had been in great pain for the last twenty-four hours, and had not slept during the preceding night. I divided the prepuce in its whole length. There was free bleeding, especially from one artery, and twentv ounces of blood flowed from the incision. Half the glans had mortified. The parts were now covered with the charcoal poultice, which is an excellent application, both for correcting fetor, and improving the condition of sloughing sores. The division of the prepuce at once relieved the pain, and it arrested the sloughing process. The latter effect has always ensued, within my observation, when the glans has been com- pletely denuded in this way. The debility and the mental depression necessarily attendant on such an affection, and the treatment, required a nutritious and generous diet with tonics and restoratives; these means improved and maintained strength. The slough, which was dense and hard, separated slowly; a month elapsed before it had completely come away while in the preceding instance of a younger subject, the mortified part was loose and soft, and completely detached m a fourth part of the time. Here, too, as I have generally observed, the slough extended deeply into the glans, and made an opening into the urethra. No farther unpleasant effect occurred in this case; several470 CLINICAL LECTURE, months have now elapsed sinee the denization was com- Pl6ted" , -, n .n«P of sloughing chancre some years I attended another case ot siougmug nnTlT,PX;OI1 ^ +wn vears of age, had connexion n«ro A o-entleman, twenty-two years 01 dg , ago. ABent ' He had had none for a con- with a female on October ^tn. siderable time previously, and none subsequently before 1 sideiaoie uiuo * observed a small whitish saw him. On November 4th, he oDserveu saw mm. eon wfi0 touched it place on the glans, and consulted a surgeon, with caustic, the application causing a little pain, and p^e Libed opening medicine, with three tfie fifth the sore place was larger, a foul discharge. He was worse on the 6th whe grains of calomel, and half a grain of opium — ^ d everv six hours. He consulted me on the 7th, having taken fo7of I doses last mentioned, and feeling much worse. Z soon as he opened his clothes to show the complaint I recognised the peculiar fetor of sloughing sore. The p/e netwasbright'red, and slightly cedematous; the g ans dually red, protruded about half way at the orifice^ of^ The latter could be withdrawn with a little dim Xo as " eS^ a slough e.ual » — « " shilling, of which ahout two thirds were on th e glan , remaining ted on the reflected portton of he pP in other parts; > han atave the level sloughing phagedena, and pi 3 ^ - the sonnd parts , it — — °fenr :l hiS The whole pen, of the prepuo ™ ^ _ not affcoted hy the was very painful. aul ^ merCmT- , i * nff. leeches to the penis, followed The mercury to be left off, lccchcS fomentation by poppy fomentation and bread poultice, theSYPHILIS. 471 to be injected under the foreskin. Aperient medicine. To keep in bed. In the evening, the leeches having drawn much blood with considerable relief, the pain was lessened, the discharge less red and offensive, and thicker. The bowels had been freely opened; the pulse full and rather hard. I took away sixteen ounces of blood from the arm, and ordered a saline draught, with thirty drops of Tinctura Opii, if there should be such pain as to prevent rest. 8th.—The blood presented a thin, buffy coat; he passed a good night without the opiate. The discharge is no longer fetid; the prepuce is still inflamed and swollen ; the glans and penis are very tender to the touch, and occasionally painful. Twelve leeches, which occasioned free bleeding; an opiate draught at night. 9th.—The penis less swelled and painful; the discharge no longer sanious nor fetid, but a thin, pus. An opening draught, and afterwards a saline draught every six hours; an opiate at night. 10th.—Occasional severe pain during the night, with in- tervals of ease; the penis still red, and very tender to the touch. I slit open the prepuce, of which the internal surface was inflamed and partially ulcerated; the sore of the penis was larger, presenting an excavation that would hold a filbert; a loose, black slough lay in it; the discharge puriform, not discoloured, but very fetid. Frequent tepid ablution; poultice of bread and water. 11th.—Much easier since the division of the prepuce; the lining of the latter and the glans present several ulcerations, with ash-coloured surface. As these did not exist originally' they must be referred to the active inflammation of the affected parts excited by the primary affection. In the same way a syphilitic sore behind the corona glandis not unfre- quently causes inflammation, excoriation, and fetid, puriform472 CLINICAL LECTURE. discharge from the glans and prepuce. The original sore is large and deep, the slough having separated. 14th.-The process of granulation is advancing, and the ulcerative excavation is lessened. The secondary ulcerations, and the incision of the prepuce are healing; all swelling has subsided, and the pain is at an end. 18th.-The sore xs cicatrizing rapidly. Poultice discontinued; dry hut; a draught of infusion of cascarilla, with dilute sulphuric acid, three times daily. December 12th.—The sore healed soon after the last date, and the patient went out of town. The parts are now in a perfectly sound state, the loss of substance in the glans appearing much less than at the time; and the general health and strength are perfect. This case occurred several years ago. I have seen the subject of it from time to time, and know that no constitu- tional symptoms ensued. The eases now related stow that the venereal person may eanse mortification, either simple loss of vitality or the state called sloughing phagedena, as its primary effect; and that high inflammation of the surrounding parts, particularly of the glans and prepuce, follows more or less quichly as a secondary consequence. The treatment consists in depletion, general or local, or hoth, with other antiphlogistic means ; and in division of the prepuce when it has become, inflamed The propriety of the latter measure is indicated by general swelling, redness, and severe pain of the penis with fetid, ehorout or sauious discharge from the orifice of the prepuce^ The latter part will soou slough, if local relief is not procured in the manner now indicated. The division of the prepuce however, is of great advantage in checking the progress sloughing chancre on the glans, even where that part is not considerably swelled, nor in the state of phimosis, as you seeSYPHILIS. 473 from the foregoing cases. In this rapidly destructive and formidable complaint, mercury is unnecessary ; its free exhi- bition would probably be most injurious. I do not think it necessary to detain you on the minor points of treatment, such as the occasional use of anodynes, the variations of local treatment according to the state of the ulcer, the diet, the administration of tonics and restoratives when the progress of disease has been checked; the particular in- dications in each case will direct your conduct in these matters. Case of sloughing chancre in a young female—The cases which I mentioned to you in a former lecture, of sloughing as the primary effect of the venereal poison, were all in males. We have now in the hospital a girl of sixteen, whose case is interesting in reference to the natural history of syphilis, showing that the venereal poison may destroy the vitality of the part to which it is applied, without exciting surrounding disturbance, or disordering health. Sarah Wood! ruff, to whose case I have already referred at p. 393, was servant to a family in Goswell street. She went out in the evening with two females older than herself, and passed the night with a man, with whom she represents that she had sexual intercourse for the first time. This hap pened a few days before she came to the hospital On her admission she had a slough at the right side of the entrance of the vagina; its longest axis was nearly an inch There was no material inflammation or swelling of the sur" roundmg parts, and little or no pain. The slough was bounded by a hue, at which the process of separation had hardly begun. The appetite and sleep were unimpaired, the circula tarn undisturbed, and the girl appeared in perfect health" She was confined to bed, the part was poulticed; an medunne admxmstered, except an occasional aperient The474 CLINICAL LECTURE. , t c nUrr +Tip denth of the mortification separation took place favorably, tue acpu being at ieast one third of an inch, and the surface -efl rapid*, alittle discharge from the vagma —g *.the cicatrix had heen completed. ^.J^"^™^ leave the hospital. The story told hy to female w as c » berated hy the state of her se.ua, organs, winch we » except at the mortified part. The gangrenous affect on was not referable to irritation from excesses cotton, nor to any :l' toonalnubealthiuess; it must be regarded, therefore, stop y - the local effect produced by the appbeaton of an Till poison. The influence of the virus must hare been ex- of granulation and cicatrization were performed as healtoy n he ease of slough caused by any other agency The symp- toms are more severe when this affecton occurs nt he m^e wbere the suffering seems to arise pnnmpally from the of to inflamed prepuce on theinflamed gUns and agency is observed.GONORRHOEA. 475 CHAPTER XIX. VENEREAL DISEASES—GONORRHOEA. The disease, which bears the technical name of gonorrhoea and is familiarly called clap, is an inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra or vagina, attended with puriform discharge which possesses infectious properties, being capable of communicating the disease by contact to the mucous membrane of these organs in a healthy person. Thus gonor- rhoea is an infectious disease, conveyed from one individual to another usually, but not necessarily, by sexual intercourse. It is often mentioned with the epithet virulenta, not because it possesses peculiar violence of symptoms, but to designate it as the effect of a virus or poison, and thus to con- trast it with gonorrhoea benigna, which depends on ordi- nary causes. The etymological signification of the term gonorrhoea might lead to an erroneous opinion respecting the nature of the affection, and particularly of the discharge Gonorrhoea, which is derived from the Greek, is equivalent to the Latin ^ seminis, that is, discharge of the seminal fluid. It 1S perhaps hardly necessary to state, that the discharge winch takes place from the urethra in gonorrhea is not of that nature, that it is an increased quantity, with alter- atxon lnthe quahty, of the natural mucous secretion of the part, caused by the state of inflammation in the membrane476 GONORRHOEA. ■ , - o~™o fnrftiffii writers have called As a more appropriate name, some toreign w it llemorrhva, which means excessive now o mucous tod however, the term gonorrhoea is too generally received and nnderstood to render change of name advisable I had occasion to speak, in describing sypMos, of what » called the poison or virus, that prodnces the disease ; and m « way we recognise the existence of a similar eanse t gonorrhoea It is a Ration whether these two diseases 1ms and gonorrhcea, are produced by one and the same 2*o wh ther they owe their origin to different poisons. We Low nothing of the venereal virus considered » the Itraet and we know as little of that whieh canses gonor- Z C ^, we do not know the particular ingredmnt or qumi y in gonorrhoea! discharge, or in the secretin from a JSticsL that is capable of another person; we only know that a certain tod called r0nt hll discharge, and the secretion of syphilitic sores rodocesnch effects. The cation then, respecting *e Lntity or diversity of these two poisons, comes to this, w«er two things, both of which are entirely unknot To ns be the same, or different. How can we answer snob Lv It would be more clear, and more suscep- IITZLI, in this form,whethergonorrhcealdischarge It cTpa" -dncing syphilis, and whether the secretion o a syphilid sore be capable of producing gonorrhoea. It deduced to a tpaestion of fact, which wouhl seem » Tf wp see two effects that aie pei admit of easy answer. It we see iwu admit 01 y cauges are simllar rlnpq the case stand, uu>"> r - _ does tne c followed bv a train of ex- +;rm ? Svuhilis consists or niceis, . Tsive diles in various parte of the body, occupying longNATTJKE OF THE POISON. 477 periods, sometimes several years. In gonorrhoea there is in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra or vagina, without breach of surface. This is more considerable in extent than the syphilitic ulcer; it goes through a certain course, coming to a natural end, being confined to the parts first affected, and not in general attended with further influence on the constitution. These two diseases seem totally unlike, and the inference that naturally presents itself to the mind from contemplating the subject in this view would be, that they owe their origin to causes essentially different. They who believe that syphilis first arose about the time of the discovery of America, are still of opinion that gonorrhoea existed before that time, and that it was an old disease. We should have supposed that persons holding that opinion would think that gonorrhoea depended upon a poison different in its nature from that of syphilis. For if gonorrhoea existed from ancient times, and the poison that produces it is the same as that of syphilis, how did it happen that syphilis had not existed as long as gonorrhoea? The belief in the identity of the poison is incompatible with the notion that gonorrhoea » an ancient affection, and that syphilis is one of recent date. However, we see that some persons who believe in the recent origin of syphilis are still of opinion that the poison producing the two diseases is the same. This was the case with Mr. Hunter. He was a great advocate for the identity of the poisons; in fact, he asserts that they are the same, and that the difference between the two diseases arises merely from diversities in texture of the parts to which * - apphed; that is, if the poison come in contact with a mucous surface, such as that of the urethra or va, causes gonorrhea; if ^ a surface ^ J^ produces syphilis, primary syphilitic sores. If this wer th only difference in the two cases, it appears to me, in478 GONORRHEA. ^ that « should expect to find fem ale, £ — I infected, labouring almost invanab uud« g ^ ^ seldom — te vagina in every ease, necessanly external parts of the genM It may come m contact wit u however, And organs, hut not — ^ WeJo n ^ ^ | that genera exi ts » » ^ ^ ^ ^ expect tr3 — * account at ot the poison into TO7 f?uent,y m m h, H the P ^ ^ ^ gonorrhoea and jphdis ^ ^ ^ in many—We do sometimes find seeretmg and non secret, g compaIatively the two diseases existing together, on rare- t„, t„ brian his opinion to the test of M; HCT3S£E* Are with a lancet direct experiment, ana ^ _ the matter of go— ^ ^ fte result of He has given a long acco ^ ^ wUct was chancre » « ^ ^ T . it Tol he decisive of the option, as it would conclusive, t Wd ^ ^ t,K nneouivocally ^ » , wound. I can only troduction of gonorrheal toc0nsisteucies, that, ,n spite of the In u r by the withhold my belief, and I am^—e ^ faot, that attempts to ^ *- «" gonorrhoea! matter, and to produce gNATURE OF THE POISON. 4,79 discharge of syphilitic sores, have totally failed in other in- stances. Mr. B. Bell, of Edinburgh, made several experi- ments for both of these purposes by inoculating gonorrhoeal discharge on the glans and prepuce with a lancet, which pro- duced no effect whatever, and applying in the same manner the secretion of primary syphilitic sores to the vagina and male urethra. When the secretion of a chancre was introduced by a small puncture into the surface of the male urethra, chancre was produced, chancre which led to the occurrence of secondary symptoms, and required a long course of treat- ment for their cure. Here I may observe, that Mr. Hunter's statement that the application of syphilitic matter, either to the vagina or urethra, that is, to a secreting mucous surface, will produce, not ulcer, but discharge, is not strictly correct For we find, not very frequently indeed, but so often that it is perfectly well known, that chancre may take place within the orifice of the male urethra, and a troublesome thing it is when it occurs there. We also know that chancre may take Place at the entrance of the vagina. The urethra and vagina - both susceptible of the occurrence of syphilitic ulcera- The general result of our experience leads to the opinion that gonorrhoea and syphilis are essentially distinct in the* »a -; that the poison producing the two must be diffei r and that there is a greater difference between the affections' - can be accounted for simply by diversity of textu 7n heir respective seats. I consider them as essentially di^ m their nature, and cannot doubt that the causes which p o ducethem must be equally different in some important Z T Although, however, the result of ftp * • , f P ^ see* almost conclusive jT^^g^ two cases, while the consideration that mere ry To 2 1 - « Possesses no peculiar ^2^^480 GONOEBHCEA. +T,Pre are arguments worthy of supports the same view, there are g ,racted in the same manner, and vaginal u & 'tXreSu^vooaU, hy the periodical ~ t'!n o uul lie women in the large cities of the continent. among them, hut discharge from the vagina I Z —. Syphilitic sores are frecpient enough amo g Z soldiers who cohahit with these women. Agam, of M- the soldiers -wuu woman one has /■ „„t mm having intercourse with tne same >vu IT on— -thcr syphilis, while hoth affecUons have ■ i. „. infracted from the same source. Bonor sometimes hecn contracted t nearly allied affections. The simple and the gonorrhoea praiputn with its P**^» surface approach to gonorrhoea, -P^J^ infection and the occurrence of gonorrh- This £ shorter than in the case of prim y^£ protracted for some weeks. The dischag Uer rnrrrrr^s^.andu 4\ fl C ^ special circumstanees. may he s ill further p ^ ^ had mter. I was informed hy a men fte ^ eourse with a female in a field. He ca& posure of his person in this open- u - ^ q„ severe attack of rheumatism. As HeSYMPTOMS AND COURSE. 481 the thirtieth clay after the connexion, gonorrhoea broke out. In the first place, a slight degree of heat and uneasiness is experienced at the orifice of the urethra; the lips of the opening swell and become red, and then the discharge shows itself. A thin, yellowish fluid issues from the urethra, in- creases in quantity, and becomes thick and yellow, some- times having a greenish appearance. The pain and uneasiness increase in proportion as the discharge increases. Together with these symptoms, an unpleasant sensation is expe- rienced in making water. The passage of the urine over the inflamed, surface of the urethra produces a sense of burning and scalding technically called ardor urin^e, and the increased secretion flows copiously from the canal. The symptoms increase in violence and last for a certain time; they then begin to lessen, the pain subsides, the discharge diminishes in quantity, till it goes away altogether; and thus gonorrhoea, if left to itself, will pursue a certain course, and disappear entirely, this process occupying perhaps four, five, or six weeks. Sometimes, instead of disappearing entirely, the dis- charge diminishes in quantity, has a less bright colour and sometimes even becomes colourless. The scalding in making water is lost, and nothing remains except this increased secretion. In that state the complaint may go on inde- finitely, under the name of gleet. But persons who contract this disease do not often get off so easily. What I have described is a mild specimen of the affection, a sort of middling ease. Frequently the inflam mation is more considerable, the glans penis swells and becomes of a bright-red colour and painful; the lips of the urethra are particularly tumid and red; the prepuce swells becomes cedematous, and sometimes passes into the state of 31482 GONOBEHCEA. phimosis, .Hie, at the same time, the inflammation extends Ingth nrethra and may even reach may be an admixture of hlood with the discharge, alarmmg , i. ^ ottrnded with any danger. In tlie the P^\"/"tatination that the inflammation milder case it is found by exami of the nrethra does not reaeh further than about und a half or two inches from heerrand £ n ^-c+i^p " specific distance." lie seems iuw * i nwonld notreaehbeyond thepointlhave mentmned ff ™ ly managed. However, the inflammation by no means observes this boundary in all eases; it often goes beyond the p fl distanee which Mr. Hunter described, and runs along hi nr thra into the perimeum. In these cases there . sevme pa n of the urethra, extending to the perineum and frequently oton of the severest kind. The patient also expenences plfu erections, especially in the night. Thrs symptom Sly occurs in clap to a greater or less degree. The e ection is often accompanied by an incurva ton o the ^ whicbisbent downwards, as if confined by a stnug, Td hence called cbordce. The curve, being only temporary 1„ depend on any permanent change. It may probably he considered as of ^^^^1^ vented by opinm. It would seem not tmprobable that fibruie Ight b effused into the corpus spongiosum nrethrm when Z canal is violently inflamed. This would cause thmkcnmg and some change of figure. a • In a stfil more serious form of the affectum, when the n,- flammation extends to the bladder, there is most severe pmnTREATMENT. 483 in the region of that viscus, in the perineum, and along the penis, extending to a greater or less distance all around; the patient is tormented by an incessant desire to void the urine, and the act of doing this is excessively painful; .the ardor urinae is increased to an almost unbearable degree; and inas- much as the mucous lining of the urethra is swelled, from the state of congestion in its vessels, the canal is diminished in caliber, so that the urine comes out slowly, and the pain in discharging it is proportionally augmented. This diffi- culty in discharging the mine may proceed to such an extent that it comes away only by drops, or there may be complete retention. It also happens occasionally that the over-dis- tended vessels of the membrane give way, and blood escapes. Ihis is rather a favorable occurrence, as it tends to relieve the turgid vessels of the inflamed membrane. Such are the circumstances that characterise gonorrhoea in its worst form. When the inflammation occupies the whole ength ot the urethra and involves the prostate and bladder there is hardly a more painful disease, or one altogether of greater dlstress while it lasts. Then other eases, again, are particularly mild; they trouble the patient with very little pain, and there is only a slight uneasiness in voiding the urine Treatment.-^ effectual, speedy, and safe mode of arrest- ing gonorrhoea is still a desideratum. The discovery of such means would be highly interesting to many persons to medical and indeed all other student! As ye" we 2 ^ able to diminish very much the force of that moral lesson SUffenng inV°1Ved * ** « iscalculataI The treatment may be considered either as rational or empi ncal. When we proceed tQ ^ .t r accoXP;" prmciple, we deal with it as an inflammatory employ treatment, suited in activity to th ^^484 GONORRHOEA. symptoms. In some of the serious eases that I have men- tioned it might evenhe necessary to take Wood from the arm „r from the loins oe perinmum, hy enpping or leeehes, and th n to administer purgative medieines, followed hy dmphoie c , sueh as salines, vrith antimony. The patient must he kept at rest in the reenmhent position, and eonfmed to low or mdd diet Mueilaginous drinks, sueh as harley water, linseed tea, s uel and gum-arabic water, should he freely taken, to dilute Torino and render it less stimulating to the urethral mueous surfaee. Alkahne remedies are eapahle of assisting in this object, partieularly the liquor potassa,, which may be given in the drinks just mentioned. The best way o relieve the scalding is to give a moderate dose, about twenty drops, each time after the patient makes water. If given at distant intervals, the effect on the urine is lost, but if admin- istered regularly, immediately after making water it wdl have an effect on the secretion before the next time of pas, g the urine. Pain remaining m the urethra and bladder after tee preliminary means will be relieved by the warm bath, ^hip-bath, or effective fomentation. At the same time Doverl powder or opiates should be resorted to in suffi- ^e'rLable aud troublesome irritabm*of the bladder still continues, opiates may be advantageously^employ d n the form of clyster. Twenty minims of Tinctuia Opu or »r emTy * *rown op iu three or four ooncesof thin starch than if opium were taken into the stomach. This methoO m"b resorted to with advautage when uneaay sensat.on Tn this quarter remain after the complaint has been removed in all other respects. , If in a severe ease of gonorrhoea the urine should only e discharged by drops, or there should be actual retention,TREATMENT. 485 catheter must be resorted to. An instrument of middle size should be used. A large one could not be introduced, and the point of a small one would catch against the irregu- larities of the inflamed and swollen membrane. The use of the instrument is likely to be attended with bleeding, which may be copious; it will relieve the inflamed membrane. The chordee and nocturnal erections, which often interfere seriously with rest, may be prevented by a dose of camphor and opium at bedtime. Four grains of the former and half a grain of the latter may be taken in a pill, or the camphor rubbed up with sugar may be taken in Mistura Amygdalaj with Tinct. Opii ttixx. Small swellings, with more or less pain, are occasionally found on the under surface of the penis in the course of the urethra, and are probably, as generally supposed, inflamed mucous lacunae. These disappear without any special treatment. Suppuration of such an enlargement is rare. When the disease is very violent, especially in a young subject of sanguine temperament and full habit, abscess may form in the perinaeum, requiring an early and free opening. In milder cases a gentler kind of treatment may be adopted emptying the bowels, keeping the patient quiet on moderate diet, giving him nitre with supertartrate of potash, and muci lagmous drinks. In inflammation of the penis patients experience relief from the steady application of cold and fre- quently bathing the part. Sometimes more benefit is expe- rienced from the use of warm fomentation or poultices, or from steeping the penis in warm water. When the pain of micturition 1S very seyere, it may be ^ P the penis at the time in water as hot as can be borne In the treatment of gonorrhoea we have the advantage of being able to apply remedies immediately to the seat of i ease by mjec.on into the urethra. Such injections make a486 QONORBHCEA. considerable figure in treatise, on tee subject, described and arranged according to their intended purpose as mucila- ginous or emollient, sedative, stimulant, and astnngen. The two kinds first mentioned, instead of soothing and relieving pain, will only irritate, and a similar effect in greater degree .ill be produced by stimulating appbeatmns to an inflamed mucous membrane; astrmgents, on the con- trary, may be of service. The proposal has been made, and extensively acted upon, to inject strong solutions of astringent substances mto the urethra in the early stage of the affection, with the view of stopping the discharge, and thus cutting the disease shorty A solution of nitrate of silver has been employed for tins purpose, in the proportion of ten grains to the ounce. If this be thrown into the urethra at an early period, rt may stop the affection. It may be observed with respect to these injections generally that it is not necessary to impel thi: into the urethra further than what Mr. Hunter as called the specific distance; and that, by pressure with the fiuger on the outside, you may prevent the fluid from passing further than this. I have not myself employed this method and therefore can give no positive opinion on the su^ It has been much used in the army, where the patent are verily situated for the employment of the treatment at the test time, namely, the earnest appearance of the symptom^ fTit^e ular and effectua! application, and the appropriate general management. As the application is powerful, and !2 bte if us d carelessly and injudiciously, of aggravating capable, it use , t o{ causmg inflammation and suttenng, even ,,„tion c ■ „ it .hraild only be ventured on with caution, r^r^f^by the surgeon house,, and le aC during its employment should *M-J* ^* avoiding all local and general excitement. Injections arcTREATMENT. 487 most commonly after the more violent symptoms have been already relieved. We employ astringents in a milder form, as sulphate of zinc, sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, the bichloride of mercury; of the first three, two or three grains to the ounce of distilled water; of the latter, not more than one grain to tlie ounce. The injection should be made three or four times in the day, and in many cases it quickly puts a stop to the increased secretion. In other instances it fails to do so, and in some cases it aggravates the symptoms, in- creasing the inflammation and augmenting the discharge. These astringent injections have incurred the discredit of giving a disposition to stricture in the nrethra, and hence many practitioners never employ them. They may have that effect when injudiciously employed, but not when nsed with care and prudence. In the empirical treatment of gonorrhoea we find that particular remedies exert a certain power over this complaint although, from their properties, we should not have expected them to be beneficial in such a disease. One of these a remedy of recent introduction, but, from the experience of its efficacy, much employed, is the cubeb pepper, also called Java pepper, Piper cubeba. This, given in large doses at the very commencement of the complaint, will frequently brine it to an end in a few days; and in other instances, though not completely arresting the complaint, will control the no ent symptoms, so that the patient has simply discharge without pain or ardor urinae. For this purpose we give lot ess than two drams of the powdered pepper, three or even four times a day. The longer the complaint has existed before this remedy is used, the less likely is it to be effectual The existence of active inflammatory symptoms is not a suf- ficient objection to its administration. Another remedy more commonly and more judiciously employed after the4,88 GONORRHOEA. antiphlogistic treatment, is copaiba, balsamum copaiba, which is given in doses of half a dram to a dram three times a day; it may be taken either by dropping it on moist sugar, or on a little water or wine, like castor oil; it may be ad- ministered in some mucilaginous vehicle or emulsion, or m mixture in which it is combined with liquor potassee. Alter the employment of general and antiphlogistic means, the copaiba has a marked effect in bringing the inflammation to a close Copaiba and the various astringent injections are the means most commonly employed in the protracted form ot the affection, called gleet, in which even blistering the penis in the course of the urethra has been resorted to. Copaiba and eubeb pepper are often given in combination, half a dram of the former and one dram of the latter; these quantities with half a dram of liquor potass* and two drams ot mucilage, in an ounce and half of camphor mixture or dis- tilled water, may be given three times daily. The French have ingeniously contrived to enclose the copaiba m capsules of gelatine, by which the strong acrid and nauseous taste of the remedy is got rid of, although the more important m-itatrng ac- tion on the stomach, with the offensive eructations and nausea, still continues. The attempt has sometimes been imprudently made to cut short an attack of gonorrhoea by large doses of copaiba. A young surgeon with whom Iwaswell acquainted did this I do not know the doses he took. In addition to great dis- order of the stomach and intestines, there was a most extra- ordinary and painful irritation of the kidneys and whole nlary system, with such change of the secretion that it lid Lt have been recognised as u*ne turbance and suffering went on, almost unchanged for weeks and months, and although at last somewhat alleviated, led I helieve, to his death at an early age. With proper precaution, as to dose, which should not exceed half a dram, and to generalSECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 489 management, the copaiba may be taken from the beginning of the disease; the solution of the sulphate of zinc, of two grains in the ounce, cautiously increased, may be combined with it. The injection may be used four times, or even oftener, in the twenty-four hours. The copaiba not unfre- quently causes an exanthematous eruption, not unlike that of measles, without material pain or constitutional disturbance. It prevents perseverance with the remedy, and disappears when that is discontinued. The structure and physiological relations of the vagina are altogether different from those of the male urethra, and it has no direct connexion with the urinary system. These considera- tions explain what might otherwise appear anomalous, namely, that copaiba and cubeb pepper have no influence over gonor- rhoea in the female. Gonorrhoea! inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra runs through its course, and comes to a natural end, without entailing future ill consequences on the patient! There are, however, some instances in which secondary symptoms follow gonorrhoea, but they are so few that many practitioners have never seen a case of the kind, and hardly believe the possibility of such an occurrence. They, how- ever, who have had the most extensive experience in the treatment of this complaint recognise the possibility of secondary symptoms from gonorrhoea. This is the case with Mr. Carmichael. He says it is sometimes followed by papular eruption, superficial ulceration of the tonsil, and pains of the joints and limbs; but that the symptoms under such circum stances do not require the employment of mercury for their cure, ordinary antiphlogistic treatment accomplishing all that is necessary. Ia this, as in most other secondary affections the mild use of mercury is advantageous, if not absolute^ necessary. J490 GONORRHOEA: PHIMOSIS. There are some other circumstances occasionally attendant on gonorrhea which require to he mentioned. The disorde r of the urethra may cause inflammation of the glands m the groin; but if you adopt the measures which the local com- plaint requires, and keep the patient at rest, you will not be much troubled by this symptom; at all events, its treatment is to be conducted upon ordinary principles. The gonorrheal inflammation of the urethra when violent spreads, not only backwards along the canal, but forwards to the glans, which swells and reddens, and to the lining of the prepuce, which becomes thickened and hardened, particularly at the orifice, which loses its elasticity, becomes contracted, and no longer capable of being withdrawn, so as to denude the glans. This condition is called phimosis.- Local means must be used to reduce the inflammation, and with proper care the complaint is not serious in a case of simple clap. The inflammation of the glans and prepuce may mcrease, occupying the whole thickness of the latter, which becomes swelled, red, tense, and painful, in addition to the conation of the orifice. The inflamed prepuce may slough to a greater or less extent, and the glans may be found, when exposed, to have ulcerated or even to have sloughed superficially. Such mischiefs may be prevented in an early stage by active means, such as leeching, cold lotions or poultices, with saline aperients and antimony. Careful and effective syringing with poppy fomentation or tepid water should be performed daily, to remove the gonorrhoeal discharge and irritating secretions of the inflamed surfaces retained by the phimosis If the inflammation should continue, the only way to preven the more serious mischiefs to the glans and prepuce is to slit up the latter in its whole length, which gives numerate An opposite condition of the prepuce, ealled paraph,****,PARAPHIMOSIS. 491 is incidental to gonorrhoea and to the inflammation and ulcera- tion of syphilis. The prepuce, partially inflamed and tightened, is drawn back over the glans, perhaps with difficulty, and can- not be restored without pain. It is left in this state, either pur- posely or carelessly, with its sharp, cutaneous margin, in which the elastic tissue resides, pressing on the body of the penis, and soon deeply indenting it, as the glans inflames and swells in front. The indentation, which, if not relieved, soon becomes ulcerated, occupies the upper half of the penis, while in the lower portion, which is not subject to pressure, the lining of the prepuce pushes out in a state of oedematous swelling. The integuments of the penis swell behind, and the parts in front are thickened by inflammatory enlargement, so as to increase the depth of the indentation and to alter considerably the figure of the penis, of which the anterior portion is thrown into a curve with the concavity upwards, and a con- siderable deformity of the entire organ. The object of the surgeon is to restore the parts to their proper relative posi- tion, which will be accomplished by pushing back the glans and the oedematous prepuce, rather than by drawing forward at first the strictured portion of the prepuce, of which the position cannot be immediately altered. In order to reduce the bulk of the glans the penis is immersed in cold water, and steady pressure is then used to squeeze out the blood. The glans thus lessened is pushed downwards and backwards with the finger and thumb of the right hand, while the integuments of the penis are brought forward with those of the left. The object is soon accomplished in arecent case but when the displacement has lasted one or two weeks or even longer, more time and no inconsiderable force may be necessary. SuccesSj Wyei. wm genm% ^ ? by steady perseverance, but with much pain. It may be ne cessary to divide the stricture by means of a curved bistoury"492 GONORRHOEA. and director passed under it through a small cut in the swollen integument hehind the confined part. When the case has been long neglected, and the parts have become swollen with inflammatory effusion, the prepuce and the coverings of the penis are agglutinated and fixed in their unnatural position, with strong curvature and great deformi y of the part. Even here the recovery will take place slowly under rest in the horizontal position, with proper local and general management. The irritation of gonorrheal discharge frequently produces warts on the glans and the prepuce, and still more frequently in .reat abundance on the external organs of generation in the female. The parts are almost unavoidably besmeared with gonorrheal or other discharge, which continues to irritate them, and thus an immense growth of warts fre- quently occurs about the orifice of the vagina, on the nymphse, perinium, and neighbourhood of the anus, the latter being so covered as to conceal the orifice of the intestme while the perineum and external organs are completely beset with them. The treatment of these growths has already been considered under the head of syphilis. Swelled testicle; hernia humoralis.-Gonorrhoea! inflam- mation of the male urethra, commencing at the orifice of tbe canal, to which the infectious matter must e ^ „irvncr fhp canal to a moderate distance, nrmlied soon passes along tne can<u tu Ifdlnot proceed further. Sometimes it creeps slowly ai the JL. without causing much inconvenmnce, and reaches the prostatic portion, and affects, generallyone of he eiacuiaJry ducts, more rarely both The.as defercn becomes inflamed, painful, and enlarge to the s, of writing quill, as may he ascertained by tah.ng the spermatm I:'* hetleen the thumb and finger, and thus irritation to the epididymis, which inflames and enlarges.SWELLED TESTICLE. 493 Thus a considerable inflammatory tumour, apparently in- volving the entire testicle, is presented to our view in the scrotum. This swelling, which is at first painful, and per- haps considerably so, is worse when the patient is in the upright posture and using active exertion, while it may be easy in the recumbent position, more especially if sup- ported by a suspensory bandage. When carefully examined, the swelling is found to be hard and painful behind, soft and free from pain in front. The painful part, about two thirds of the whole, is an inflamed and enlarged, epididymis, while the front and painless portion is the body of the testis, un- affected, and generally surrounded by some serous effusion, probably poured out by the serous covering of the inflamed epididymis. The scrotum is unaffected unless the inflam- mation should be unusually severe, when the integument may be reddened, and even the cellular tissue thickened, so as to render the skin partially adherent to the swelling. The treatment comprises confinement to the horizontal posture and light diet, the application of leeches, from four to eight or ten, to the inflamed epididymis, followed by fomentation and poultice, and the mild use of mercury, three or four grains of gray powder or blue pill three times daily. The mercurial part of the plan is advantageous by removing the enlargement of the epididymis speedily and effectually, and preventing that partial swelling and induration of the texture which often remain behind after careless treatment not without fear that the tube may become closed in that situation, and the testicle be thus rendered useless. Another treatment, of comparatively recent date, is that of compression by means of adhesive plasters, so applied as to cover the whole swelling completely and as firmly as they can be put on. The inflamed organ is insulated and made to project by drawing the sound testicle out of the way ■ it is494 GONOBRHCEAL OPHTHALMIA. then firmly enclosed by strips of plaster, applied tot from behind forwards, and then transversely. For the latter purpose a long strip may be wound round from be o upwards. This plan, which offers so complete a contrast to the nana! mode of dealing with an active inffamm cially in its early stage, answers the intended fs' the pain is Richly relieved, ^^X^ Tt is then advisable to renew the plasteis. ino j. is n„t necessarily confined. I have not ascertained whether tHs method is as snecessfnl as the other in removing * celling of the epididymis. Cases have come under my swelling i compreSsion had been at first observation in which, alter compos apparently successful, the symptoms had returned, and other :::: wL such ^ ^ attention and carelessness on the part of ^*JJ the successful result of the other method, when propeily conducted, I can speak with entire confidence. Gonorrhoea! affection, of tU eyes and ^ Unmoralis disease extends baehwards, by continuity^ » face, from the urethra to the testis, and in the same way disorder of the prostate or bladder. The mis 7J: PT^ forward* in phimosis and paraphimoses 'these* direct iuauences, gonorrhoea excites disease in remote organs, and that of seriouse ra er which is not regarded as a proper part of ti c of production being obscure, as in many of incautious application to the eye of from another person, or from his own urethra, n .11 p.od acute gonorrhoea! conjunctivitis, one of the most violent andGONOEEHCEAL OPHTHALMIA. 495 rapidly destructive inflammations to which the eye is subject. I have seen two or three instances in which it was brought on by persons labouring under gonorrhoea washing their eyes with their own urine, in obedience to a prevalent notion that the practice is good for sore eyes, and several similar in- stances are recorded. In other and more numerous cases we fail to trace the disease to any direct application of infectious matter to the eye, so that its occurrence must have a consti- tutional origin, the nature of which is not at present under- stood. In this affection vascular congestion, with bright redness of the conjunctiva, swelling of the membrane and of the subconjunctival areolar tissue, are carried to the highest Pomt, producing chemosis and general swelling of the lids with profuse discharge of yellow matter, not distinguishable m appearance from that which comes from the urethra in gonorrhoea. The inflammation quickly extends to the cornea m which it causes sloughing, general or partial; interstitial suppuration, or effusion causing opacity; or extensive ulcera- tion; various immediate effects which ultimately destroy or seriously impair sight. The only prospect of benefit is when the patient is seen in the early stage, especially before the cornea xs injured. Energetic antiphlogistic treatment, with he use of mercury, may stop the progress or lessen the amount of themischief. If the ring of ehemosed conjunctiva could e completely excised before the cornea has uf fered there would be a fair chance of recovery. I £ did this successfully where one eye only had been affectc The patient, a medical student, in whom the disease W occurred from matter spurting into the eye as he wT that of a child labouring under JT^*^496 GONOUEHCEAL OPHTIULMU. but even with that advantage the gre renders the proceeding difficult. form, the symptoms tang tag ^ ^ pa;n braM)wittaucreased mucous— aUe yellow tocharge, the °° u to tlie more danger. There is a gradual transrtmn ^ (ration It the cornea is not atteeten, a senous affection there fe M danger, neither ehemosis nor swe lin mea„s, may th„ngh local depletion, with oth r ^ a QOse be advisable, to pre, en^mischicf n the ^ ^ ^ of aperient » S ^ of nitrate of ducing between the hds a drop A silver, of two grains to the ounce, once single application ^ of the AmMeS~ffe The ocular trunhs lying between sclerotica and » anQ ^ „ tbe hecomesof a piuh or purplish portion of the latter m ^ conJunc. red. These in the affection. There „ ^*tJti:r^tnse of tension, and intolerance severe pam m the eye, wi fliiduttK8 on exposure. The of bght, with profuse lacryrn^ ^ ^ inflammation soon ^ ^ The external liancy, assuming a ^ ^ c(mjunctiva bemg redness is increased, the ^ is j ^ The cornea become m0re dxstended. The Qpacity and speck of the m0re or less impanea. inflammation sub- cornea are sometimes produced. A .s sideS3 the iris recovers its free fiction, stored. This affection must be treatec 3GONORRHGEAL RHEUMATISM. 497 general or local, or by both in succession, and by other cor- responding measures. Four or five grains of calomel with one of opium, at becl-time, procure rest and abatement of the symptoms. Two grains of the former, with one third of a gram of the latter, may then be continued every eight hours; tepid local applications are the most comfortable. Colchicum may be used with advantage on account of the rheumatic symptoms which accompany the affection. I have known the same person to experience at different times, in consequence of, or "in connection with gonorrhoea, both mild inflammation of the conjunctiva and this inflammation of the external tunics and iris. The joints most frequently affected in gonorrheal cases are those of the lower extremities, particularly the knee, in which the disease is obviously synovitis, more or less acute as ,n rheumatism. The ankle and foot frequently suffer with the knee Those of the upper extremities and back are occasionally inral™d- As in common rheumatism, the affection passes from joint to joint, or it may leave one set of artmulatrons to appear in another, and may reappear in its ongmal seat. There may he so much of inflammation and pam as to require leeching, fomentations, and poultice. Cotton wool is on the whole the most generally useful as an external apphcatmn Nitre and colchicum are useful internal remedies to whmh the moderate use of mercury may be added. The mdide of potassium is sometimes found advan When":- InttheChrOn!0Stage Mi8t™S "^be necessa" When a jomt remams swollen and stiff, without inflammation pressure by stops of plaster and bandage or bv T„,r 7 coverings, adapted to the joint, wi„ rhmal rheumatism is frequently chronic, occasional! pvovang, and then relapsing, so that much o^^L^ respecting external exposure, and return to usun, ^ 32498 OONOKBHCEAL KHEUMATISM. and habits. I was acquainted with a gentanNl experienced three severe attacks, each of wfcob last^bou eight months, and followed gonorrhoea. S»,6h» » years after the last, I was surprised to observe how c mp tely he had regained health and strength, although nearly all the ioints had suffered on each occasion. Kheumatic in—ion of the i<««— ^ forms of ophthalmic disease, when they take place in con forms op f otber ai8cliarge from the ST t- t£T* - twice contracted gonorrhma, o72ch the symptoms were violent, rheumatic inflammation o The joints and inflammation of the external proper tumcs o 1 eye followed on each occasion. After the second attack the pupil remained contracted and irregular, with adhesions to the capsule of the lens, and some opacity of h!t L ■ vision was greatly impaired. Inflammation some "xi ts at the same time in the urethra, the eyes, and Zl^ , in other instances these parts are affected succe, ^The last-described inflammation of the eye is exactly the vheumatie inflammation of the sclerotica and ins, same as rheumatic a t occurring independently of gonorrhea. Both this and ,T nurulent inflammation of the conjunctiva are to be ded heumatic affections of the organ, excited by simflar at first sigh ^ ^ the parts, which suffer in the and between the svnovial membranes and tne coujGONOEEHCEAL RHEUMATISM. 499 the influence of that unsound state of constitution which leads to these affections of the joints. That the essential cause of this combination of morbid phenomena is peculi- arity of constitution, may be inferred from the repetition of attacks, and from the length of time for which some indi- viduals are harassed by successive appearances of disease in various parts. In one case severe purulent ophthalmia oc- curred in August, 1822, and a similar one foUowed soon after, and in the following eight years six attacks of rheu- matic iritis were experienced. In another case discharge from the urethra, without infection, occurred four times, then inflammation of the foot; three years after, severe inflammation of the chambers of the aqueous humour; then gonorrhoea and mild purulent conjunctivitis, followed by rheumatic inflammation of several joints; and afterwards severe inflammation of the sclerotica and iris. In another instance violent gonorrhoea was followed by acute inflam- mation of the external tunics; a second gonorrhoea excited, first, purulent ophthalmia, then acute inflammation of the external tunics, and subsequently rheumatic inflammation of several joints: two years after, severe rheumatism was brought on by cold. I saw a gentleman with gonorrhoea, mild purulent inflammation of the eye, and rheumatic affec- tion of the foot and back; it was the fourth attack he had experienced of the same combination of symptoms. The long course of severe suffering, which has so often originated in gonorrhoea, makes it advisable to avoid all attempts to stop the progress of the complaint in persons of rheumatic constitution. A gentleman who consulted me for a clap recently contracted, informed me that he had been m the same predicament three or four years previously, when the discharge soon stopped under the use of medicine which I bad prescribed, and that he then suffered severely from an500 GONORRHEAL RHEUMATISM, attack of pain and stiffness in the back, having never expe- rienced anything of the kind before ; he seemed, however to have been visited occasional bv ri—sm u.the 1 advised him to live quietlv and moderately, Wjhe bowels open, and to leave the clap to rts natural coarse. hT ot tired of the discharge, and wished to ta e something for it when I prescribed a mixture wrth eopafoa. He took 1 doles, and'then felt oneasineas in the back, winch alarmed Z. He left off the medicine, the pain ceased, and the discharge soon came to an end.CHAPTER XX. CANCER. The affections hitherto described, with few exceptions, are curable; being attended in many instances with great tem- porary disturbance of the part affected, and often with more or less serious disorder of other parts; but they go through a certain course, subside, and come to an end, leaving the seat of disease in a natural state, or variously altered, still however not interfering further with health in other respects, and thus not endangering life. I pr0ceed to speak of diseases, which entirely change or destroy the structure of the affected organs, spread to all the parts around, and cause, sooner or later, the development of secondary diseases in remote organs, deeply impairing constitutional power, and ultimately destroying life. These bear the formidable name of malignant diseases, which denotes but too truly their dan- gerous character. Cancer, fungus nematodes, and melanosis, agree in pos sessing this destructive character, both as regards their primary seat and the life of the patient. This has led not unnaturally, to their being described together as various forms of one disease in the article « Cancer," of the 'Diction naire de Medecine/ (en 21 t.), by Breschet and Ferrus • and the same course is followed by Eecamier, in his 'Recherches sur le traitement des Cancers/ published in 1829502 CANCER. At the period of these publications the two last-mentioned subjects were very imperfectly understood. As they became better known, differences so important were observed between them that they could not be included in one description without the introduction of exceptions and qualifications in such number as would make the account confused and uncer- tain. For practical purposes, therefore, I think it better to consider the subjects separately, in which plan they will pro- bably be most intelligible to the student. I am aware that my colleague, Mr. Paget, who has studied profoundly the pathological relations of these diseases, having brought to bear on the subject an immense amount of direct observation and examination, with knowledge of all that has been done by other inquirers, has considered it best to throw all the malignant diseases into one group, under the generic name of cancer, which would include several species, perhaps exhi- biting further distinctions as varieties. They who wish for full information will resort to Mr. Paget's lectures, in which they will find a lucid exposition of all that is known on the subject. . Cancer, carcinoma, scirrhous or hard cancer, is a peculiar morbid change of structure in a part, of which induration is the most striking external character. In its primary form at least, it is not seen as an adventitious production, that is a new and separate formation or tumour, but always as a disorganization of some part, often so complete that traces of the original form and composition can hardly be extin- guished. Thus in the scirrhous lump of the female breast the natural structure of the part has disappeared, and a morbid growth has taken its place. M. Lebert, a patient and successful inquirer, characterises the change as a substi- tution. In this respect it offers a strong contrast to fungus hsematodes, or soft cancer, which commences in the503 CANCER. great majority of instances as a new formation or tumour. The change of structure does not continue limited to the organ originally affected; it extends sooner or later to the immediately surrounding structures, and to the neighbouring absorbent glands. About the same time ulceration takes place in the indurated part. Secondary disease is now developed in various forms in internal and remote parts of the body. Pain, emaciation, and serious constitutional dis- turbance arise, until the patient sinks under the aggravation of the local symptoms, and of this cancerous cachexia. • The original induration, constituting the first stage of the disease, has been called scirrhus or occult cancer, while the ulcerated state is termed, in common language, open cancer. The technical term, carcinoma, derived, according to Blancard,* from kclpkivoq, cancer, and vsjuh), depasco, pro- perly denotes .the ulcerated stage, though it is used in a more general sense as equivalent to cancer. Thus the essential character of the disease consists in the succession of these two states, the indurated and ulcerated, and in its destructive agency, both on the affected parts and on the patient's life. The character of hardness belongs to other affections ■ hence, as the term scirrhus implies merely a hard state, it has been applied to various diseased changes, which are innocent. It is still used in this general sense by Boyer, in his < Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales.' The mere circumstance of hardness, however, is not sufficient to characterise a class of diseases \ so that scirrhus, if used in this sense, would include affections totally dissimilar in their nature. Hence modern writers, in order to avoid confusion and mistakes, apply this term scirrhus to such hard disorganizations only as will become ulcerated, or by other extension of mischief destroy life. Cancerous affections may be divided into primary and * Lexicon nieclicum, sub voce.50 i CANCEB OF THE BREAST, secondary. The disease first appears in one organ, and afterwards, in a longer or shorter time, affects the absorbent glands and various internal parts. Those most subject to the primary attack are the female breast, the uterus, the rectum, the stomach, particularly the pylorus and cardia, the tongue, the lower Hp, the female external organs of generation, the penis, and scrotum. The skin, the bones, and most of the viscera are less frequently the seat of the disease in its primary form. The testicle, prostate, and ovary, are not unfrequently enumerated among the parts subject to cancer: it occurs most rarely in these organs, if at all. The secondary affections are seen in the absorbent glands, the skin, in the thoracic and abdominal viscera, particularly the lungs and liver, and the bones. Although the absorbent glands of the first order, but not others, are invariably involved, sooner or later, they are almost exempt from the primary disease; I only remember to have seen such an affection twice, once in the axillary, once in the inguinal glands. Instead of describing cancer generally, which would be vague and unsatisfactory, I shall take the female mammary gland as an illustration; the account of the diseased change, as it occurs in this organ, of its causes, its progress, varieties, treatment, and ultimate effects, will be applicable, with some modifications, to other cases of the disease. Serious and formidable as cancer of the breast appears in the progress to its fatal termination, it begins in a mild and painless manner. This, which is called the indolent period of the complaint, is of various duration; it may last for weeks, months, or longer. A portion of the gland becomes firm to the feel, not enlarged, loosely connected to the parts around, and without adhesion either to the skin or the chest. Its presence is often detected accidentally, when it may have attained the size of a filbert or walnut. Being unattendedINDOLENT PEEIOD. 505 with pain it is supposed to be of no consequence, and is often neglected accordingly. To the question, how long it has existed, the patient often replies that she does not know, that it had attained the actual size when she first noticed it. The unaffected portion of the gland retains its healthy structure. More rarely the affection begins in the centre of the gland, under the nipple and areola, and gradually extends to the circumference. The surface of the growth may be uniform or uneven; it may be circumscribed, or connected more or less firmly to the healthy portion of the gland. In speaking of the disease as first observed, patients com- monly call it a lump in the breast, probably meaning to convey the notion that it is something new or additional, an enlargement or swelling. The expression cancerous tumour is often employed, both by patients and surgeons, in speaking of the disease in any state of its progress. It must not be understood from this language that the affected part is enlarged, for it may be diminished in size, and even considerably, whether it occupies the whole mammary gland, or is confined to a particular lobe. The bulk of the entire gland, when scirrhous throughout, is less than in the healthy state, and the diseased half of a breast is obviously less than that which is sound; the quantity of adipous substance in a voluminous bosom may conceal the dif- ference. Although the disease may begin in any part of the gland it originates much less frequently in the centre, under the nipple, than in a particular lobe. The most frequent seat of its commencement is between the nipple and the axilla • the least frequent is on the sternal side. It may begin below or above, the former being perhaps the most frequent After some months, perhaps a year or more, the complaint passes mto a more active state; the hard part is larger506 CANCER; ACTIVE FER10D. nearer to the surface, no longer easily moveable, but con- nected to the surrounding parts j sometimes there is slight general enlargement of the. breast, with some warmth. The character of scirrhus is now clearly marked by incompressible hardness, with total want of elasticity. At this time there may be occasional pain, described as shooting or darting j or it may still be absent. The adipous texture around the disease is hardened, and thus the skin is drawn in, at first in so slight a degree that it might escape the notice of a careless observer. It may make a conspicuous, and even deep fold, in time, and is then found to have become adherent to the tumour. Sometimes it is reddened, thickened, and hardened, and slightly knotted on the surface; it may adhere extensively and closely to the scirrhous mass; it may become as thick as the sixth of an inch, without discoloration, but with loss of elasticity; and this change may extend to greater or less dis- tance from the disease; the nipple sinks down, flattens, and becomes retracted. When the whole gland is involved, it is drawn to the bottom of a circular depression of the skin; in other cases the retraction is partial. In this more active state of disease there> generally increase of pain, which recurs more frequently, is more severe, and of lancinating character. Another occasional, but not frequent affection of the skin, is the formation of cancerous tubercles in the neighbourhood of the original disease, and thence extending over the front of the chest, but seldom passing beyond that region, in which they are scattered irregularly, not in general numerous, except in some chronic cases which have lasted long. They vary from a size just discoverable by the feel to the third of an inch in diameter, and they may exceed that magnitude. They raise the surface but slightly,' and occupy the cutis and the immediately subjacent tissue. Of a pale pink tint in the beginning, they gradually become bright red andCUTANEOUS TUBERCLES. 507 shining. At first unattended with pain, they may become a source of considerable suffering. It is important not to overlook their existence and extent, especially in reference to the question of operation. The most remarkable case I have seen in respect to the number and extension of these growths was that of an American lady, fifty years of age, in whom a growth as large as a hen's egg, which had never caused pain, had been removed, two years previously, from the left breast, by an eminent surgeon in New York, who said it was a cancer. The left breast, of which the diseased part only had been removed, not including the nipple, nor apparently any of the integument, was a uniform, scirrhous mass adhering to the chest, with a transverse cicatrix under the nipple adhering to the gland. The axillary glands formed a knotted, scirrhous swelling, not very large. Numerous hard tubercles, from the size of a pea to that of a horse-bean, were scattered irregu- larly over the chest, being most numerous on and around the breast; they reached to the opposite side, but there were none in the abdomen j there were some at the back of the chest, and two or three about the neck; they involved the skin, which was slightly reddened over several, but not all of them, and were not painful, neither was the breast. The eyelids, without being swelled, could only be opened imperfectly, so as to present a small slit. The cause was found, on close ex- amination, to be the growth of a substance from the surface of the orbit, firm, incompressible, and closely adhering to the bone. This occupied both the upper and lower portions of the right, but the upper only of the left orbit. It was probably a cancerous growth, and allowed of the upper lids being raised only to a trifling extent. The lady had a cough of" recent occurrence, to which she had not been subject previously. She had an unhealthy, sallow countenanance, and was very thin.508 CANCER—ABSORBENT GLANDS. The absorbent glands in the axilla rarely, if ever, escape par- ticipation in the disease. They are sometimes affected early, sometimes later j one or two of them may be swelled from simple irritation, which may be expected to subside when the primary disease is removed. They gradually become enlarged and scirrhous. The morbid deposit, at first partial, is strongly contrasted with the proper structure of the glands, which soon disappears, the former being substituted for it. The whole set of glands is ultimately involved, forming a hard mass, which fills the axilla. At a later period there is swelling and induration of the glands above the clavicle. As the passage through the lymphatics to the thoracic duct is now com- pletely intercepted, the upper extremity swells, sometimes becoming greatly enlarged. Of cedematous softness at first, it gradually becomes firmer, with redness, heat, and pain. In a large upper limb, this tumefaction may become very con- siderable, with active inflammation; and I have seen large suppuration, both in the upper and forearm. In rare in- stances oedema of the face, neck, and side, has been seen. The structures at the base of the disease become indurated, like those on the other surface, and thus fix it firmly to the great pectoral muscle, some fibres of which are involved in the mass, and must be removed in the operation. Small, separate cancerous deposits are sometimes found among the super- ficial fibres of the muscle. To this state of matters, in which the hard, original scirrhus, with the thick covering of indurated skin blended with it into one hard mass, which is firmly fixed to the chest, the popular name of stone-cancer is not inappropriate. After the skin has become completely involved in the disease, either by adhering to the general surface of the mass, or being drawn to it in a fold more or less deep, ulce- ration may be expected to begin. It takes place in twoULCERATED STAGE. 509 different forms; the one superficial and slow, with sparing discharge, which inorasts, the other rapid and deeper, with copious secretion. In the former the ulceration may begin with a crack at the bottom of the cutaneous fold; a thin scab forms on a surface which is excoriated and raw; it falls off and is repro- duced, often quietly adhering for a considerable time, without any pain, so that the patient hardly notices what has occurred. Sooner or later this becomes a superficial and painful ulcera- tion. More commonly the ulcerative stage, instead of begin- ning to shew itself at first on the surface of the skin, seems to begin by change in the state of the scirrhous growth. A red or livid roundish prominence arises about the centre of the mass, at first hard, but gradually softening so as to have an elastic feel, the discoloration becomes deeper, and the part softer j it then ulcerates, and a thin ichor runs from it. In a large cancerous breast there may be more than one prominence of this kind. Sooner or later a large chasm may be produced by the combination of ulceration and slough- ing, the latter being superficial and occasionally attended with bleeding; the bottom of the sore is irregular, sometimes with red elevations like granulations or with disorganized ash-coloured portions. The whole surface and parts around are of scirrhous hardness, the edges tumid and everted. Thus, though ulcerative destruction is going on in the centre, can- cerous disease is continually advancing in the whole cir- cumference. An ulcer of this kind does not secrete pus, but pours out a bloody, offensive ichor, often in great abundance. The discharge of the superficial ulceration is not fetid, it forms yellowish scabs in the early stage. Indeed, this'su- perficial excoriation has sometimes dried up and healed the scirrhous mass shrinking and lessening, but not dis- appearing.510 CANCEEOUS CACHEX1 A—ORGANIC CHANGES. The active period, in which cancerous disease is spreading to surrounding parts, is attended with pain increasing in severity and duration: the suffering described as a terrible pain, is aggravated and becomes constant in the ulcerative stage, in which the morbid state of constitution or cachexia, which has been gradually advancing, becomes fully established. The patient, worn out with suffering is anxious, with contracted features, pale and sallow, with a peculiar duskiness of coun- tenance, to which the term leaden is sometimes applied. There is loss of appetite, with emaciation, accelerated pulse, and a kind of fever. The pain, which is constant, except when controlled by opium, is described as stinging or burning. Pains are felt over the body, in the spine, shoulders, and hips, and shoot with severity along the arm, which is sometimes motionless from great enlargement. Difficulty of breathing comes on, with harassing cough and pain m the side, and the patient' sinks exhausted by this accumu- lation of miseries. Organic changes.—When the part removed by operation is examined, we find that the substance of the mammary gland has been converted into a compact, dense, unyielding tissue, of peculiar hardness and toughness, so that we can make no impression on it with the handle of a knife. It has the firm- ness of cartilage, but is more tough. A thin slice has a degree oftranslucence. It is light grayish, or very light brownish yellow in colour, and homogeneous, excepting that it some- times contains cells, and that it is occasionally interspersed with small white points and streaks which are probably re- mains of lactiferous ducts containing inspissated lacteal secre- tion. Under the microscope it exhibits an abundance ot nucleated cells, which are considered to afford unequivocal evidence of cancerous character. The disease may appear as a distinct and circumscribed tumour ; or dense cellularORGANIC CHANGES. 511 bands may extend from it into the neighbouring cellular and adipous texture, which, although not diseased, is thickened, indurated, and closely adherent to the scirrhous mass. This change embraces also the skin and part of the pectoral muscle. In old cases of extensive disease, this thickening passes in the intervals, of the ribs to the pleura and the peritoneum lining the diaphragm, which may be thickened and tubercu- lated. Morbid change of the same character as that of the original disease is found also in the absorbent glands. As the lymphatics of the mammary gland pass partly into the chest at the intervals of the costal cartilages, the small glands in the course of the internal mammary vessels are found to be scirrhous after death. White and firmish tuber- cles of various size, are found both on the surface and throughout the substance of the lungs and liver. The uterus is not unfrequently diseased, and tubercles have been seen on the external surface of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. In a patient of forty, who died in the hospital two or three weeks after admission, with active mischief in the chest in less than two years from the commencement of her disease, the whole right mammary gland considerably enlarged, was a mass of scirrhous hardness throughout, fixed to the'side with the skin tense, adherent, and with slight blush of red. The axillary glands, converted into a hard mass filled the axilla. There was inflammation of the pleura W!th seropurulent effusion and scirrhus of the cervix uteri. A corpulent woman, of fifty-five, who had lived as a cook in a gentleman's family for many years, had the mammary gland removed in the hospital for a scirrhous growth the size of a walnut, which had begun within the year. She died512 ORGANIC CHANGES, six days after the operation. There were two small polypi of the uterus j one a soft growth like a bit of flaccid membrane, connected by a slender pedicle and hanging into the vagina the other of a firm texture and unequal surface, with broad attachment to the fundus uteri. The ovary was three times the size of the fist with several cysts. Prom the interior of the latter numerous soft reddish masses were growing. When cut into, they broke down under pressure, and a creamy fluid could be squeezed out of them. The bones are affected with secondary cancer occasionally, not very frequently. Their solid materials are removed or lessened in amount, and cancerous structure is deposited in- stead. This generally happens in an advanced period ot the disease and the constitutional cachexia is impending or has begun. . ., . , A female, about fifty, was under my care in the hospital, she was robust and in good health at the time of admission, but died after remaining a considerable time in the institution. Nearly the whole of the sternum was affected with cancerous disease, the osseous substance having in great measure been removed and a dense, scirrhous texture deposited in its place which had caused an external swelling during life. The whole liver in this case was beset with whitish cancerous tubercles of various sizes, but not equal in firmness to the ongmal dTsSaw iu August, 1843, a lady between forty and fifty for whom a scirrhous tumour of the mammary gland had been amoved in the country in the preceding Decembei She had been very ill after the operation, and had suffered ever since from severe pains in the shoulders, limbs, sides, and particularly behind the sternum. There was a cicatrix on the left mamma, of which one third had been removed; the rest of the gland was not diseased, but there was thickening underPARAPLEGIA. 513 the cicatrix, which was red. The axillary glands were enlarged and indurated. There was a general and undefined enlarge- ment over the lower third of the sternum and the ensiform car- tilage, extending to the sternal end of the cicatrix. It was painful on pressure; the action of the heart was disturbed, and the pulse much accelerated; the countenance sallow and anxious. That the sternum was enlarged by active cancerous disease could not be doubted, and the history made it probable that the affection had begun either previously to the operation or soon after it. A single lady, twenty-nine years of age, had a scirrhous lump in the left breast, with enlargement and induration of two axillary glands. The latter and the entire mammary gland were removed by an hospital surgeon in the country, m September, 1842, after I had seen the patient. In April or May, 1843, a small, hard swelling had formed under the cicatrix, with pains in the back and chest, considered to be neuralgic. Paraplegia came on, with entire loss of power over the sphincters, and she died at the end of July prom the intelligent surgeon who had operated in this case, and who examined the body, I learned that the painful symptoms preceding the paralysis, which had been considered neuralgic had come on in January. She had severe and varying irre- gularly recurring pains about the shoulders and arms, so much augmented by moving them that she remained all day in one posture. Occasionally these symptoms were exhibited m the belly and lower limbs previous to the paraplegia but were greatly relieved by the latter occurrence, and were wholly ' confined to the upper extremities, yet the lower were now and then affected with a peculiar pain, consequent on in voluntary and abrupt catching, of the legs, while the true sensibility and power of motion were gone. The cicatrix was sound, and there was no disease in the axilla. A firm" 33514 CANCER—PARAPLEGIA—FRACTURES. semi-transparent structnre lay beneath the skin two inches below the cicatrix. There were small, cancerous tubercles in the liver. The three upper dorsal vertebra were diseased, and a considerable angle resulted, without any pressure on the cord Tbe bodies of the vertebra were compressed, and much of the bony structure was replaced by an elastic, semi-trans- parent, new substance, so that they could be readily cut with a knife. The plates of these vertebra were much softened, and yielded readily to the chisel. The medulla of the cord was softened for two inches, but not disor- ganized. The sternum could be cut into, indicating plainly that a similar change had been going on here also, where, indeed, pain had been experienced occasionally. There can be no doubt that the vertebral column had be- come affected with cancer in a lady between forty and fifty, for whom a tumour had been removed from the breast by Mr. Eoux. The disease returned, and the entire mammary gland was excised by Sir A. Cooper. After some interval she became affected with paraplegia, and came under my care with complete loss of sensibility and voluntary power in both lower limbs, which were, however, frequently attacked with painful spasms. The sphincters were unaffected. She had good appetite and took food rather largely, and rested tolerably. There was a small hard knot in the cicatrix, which did not increase, and gave no trouble. She lived several months in this state, and at last died exhausted. The body was not examined. In an old woman who had been affected mth eancer for many years the thigh was broken simply by turnmg m bed I saw her two or three months afterwards, when there was no attempt at repair. A woman abont fifty, with.eaneer in the breast, whieh had nloerated but was not pamftd, met with a similar aeeident, and came into the hospftal mm«VARIETIES IN CHARACTER AND DURATION. 515 my care. The general health was not affected. The broken thigh, treated in the ordinary manner, got well in the usual time. The humerus of a lady whom I had seen occasionally for a cancer in the breast, of slow progress, which had not in- terfered materially with health, had a fracture of the humerus from a sudden but not violent exertion of the limb. It got well in a little more than the usual time. The symptoms and progress of cancer are not the same under all circumstances; they exhibit in some degree the same variety as most other diseases, in accordance with winch they might be divided into acute and chronic. In the former there is greater vascular activity, with increased tern- perature, perhaps external redness, much pain, an elastic yield- ing on pressure, and a general enlargement or kind of hyper- trophy, especially noticeable if the whole gland is involved In the chrome form there is general shrinking and hardening a progress towards atrophy. The majority of cases are mor^ of this than the former character. The progress is more rapid m proportion as the patient is younger. SpeaW generally, it may be expected to destroy life in fee^ years remaining in fte ^ ^ ur months, and then lasting for eighteen months or two^ I have seen it terminate fatally within a year both trffl and without operation, as in the following eases A smgle lady, nearly seventy years of age, a remarkablv fine, handsome, and healthy looking person Ihn I 7 % enjoyed good health and led a telerT^ on September 29th 1838 f T ' me t "xucx .oytn, i»d8, for scirrhus of ihn w+ i "» enk~ of g.ands in the asilla,61g CANCER. whole gland having become affected, the pain being constant and severe. Ulceration soon took place and spread over a great part of the chest on the left side, with the; severest pam aggravated by sickness and general ind.sposrt.on, and patient snnk in April, 1839. A lady of fifty, who had borne cbddren, had ceased to ruetstruate, and had always enjoyed good health, amentaly perceived something hard in the right breast, it was free Cpain. It was induration of a portion of the .land I removed the entire gland » February 1827, « wels after the disease had been first noticed, the affected lortion proving to be a well-marked spearmen of scn-rhus. CI healed favorably. Some months —sth, MyfeUoffinhealth without any apparent cause, and she dred in Luary, IBM, ather residence in the country, w.thout any suspicion of the fatal illness having been connected wath the Ite in the breast. The liver, much enlarged, was filled throughout with cancerous deposits. Another lady, fifty-one years of age stout hearty, and , -, i \,aA knip several children and naa a,ways healthy who a smaU ppased to menstruate tliree or wui 3 , rlTin her breast about Christmas, 1826, and consult d lump in her or loosdjr tire mammary gland It wa£ y ^ sorbent gland by the feel j, „ up t0 the vnole chain though not much enla g ffl vessels. ^J^^^^L .uickly affection that I ever saw under such^~ -J^ swelling and induration occupied all the paiVARIETIES IN PROGRESS AND DURATION. 517 cicatrix, the skin being thickened and hardened. This change extended across the sternum to the integuments of the left breast. The skin round the cicatrix was mottled with red, and painful, and a small, foul sore, yielding an offen- sive discharge, broke out. The absorbent glands above the clavicle were swelled and indurated. Another gland behind the angle of the jaw was in the same state. In September the swelling and induration on both sides of the chest was increased. A chain of large, hard knots extended from the right ear along the side of the neck to the clavicle. There was enormous swelling of the whole right upper extremity, with cedematous puffing in the right side of the face; there was great pain, yet the health was not much amiss. The skin on both sides of the chest, that of the right shoulder and side of the neck, was enormously swollen and of brawny hardness. The hard and swollen skin was hot and painful. Subsequently deep but not considerable ulcera- tions formed in the sweUed parts about the breast and neck. Death took place suddenly, after a little affection of breathing and slight cough, before Christmas, 1827. A healthy married lady of forty-seven, who still menstru- ated, observed a swelling in the breast in August, 1843, and although it was free from pain she took surgical advice. In January, 1844, it was a scirrhous induration of the left breast, occupying about one third of the gland. There was some retraction of the nipple; the skin was slightly drawn in and adherent; the breast moved loosely on the chest, and there was no disease of the axillary glands. About tbe end of January I removed the entire mammary gland, of which the diseased part was a specimen of genuine scirrhus. This lady having recovered favorably, returned to her residence in the country in the middle of February She became ill in April, and I was then informed that518 CANCER. tumours had formed in the abdomen, which gradually in- creased to a great size, and she died in the course of the month. There can be no doubt that the fatal affection in this instance was seated in the liver. A contrast to these cases is afforded by other instances, in which disease, sometimes of serious extent, has existed for several years without much pain or material interference with health. I saw E. B—, a female of sixty-nine, tall, stout, and robust, with every appearance of health and strength, who had borne ten children. She had scirrhus of the right breast of eight years' duration. The original and principal seat of disease had been in the interval between the two breasts, of which the skin was thickened, indurated, puckered, and firmly fixed to the thoracic parietes. In the centre, for the space of half- a-crown, it was reddish, livid, knotted, and apparently dis- posed to ulcerate. There was, indeed, a little exposure of surface, and some thin, bloody discharge. The induration spread from this part into the right breast generally, affecting the sternal half more particularly. The breast was not enlarged, nor was there any defined tumour. It was general induration, particularly of the skin. In place of the nipple there was an excavation half an inch deep, red, and moist. No glandular affection could be traced in the axilla, though the arm and forearm were swelled and painful on exertion. She had begun to suffer pain in the central red portion- The health was unimpaired, the appetite good, tongue clean, countenance natural, and there was no loss of flesh. In a lady of sixty, a small, spare person, with cancer of the right breast, which was smaller than the other, and more fixed to the chest, though still moveable, there was a diseased gland about midway between the breast and the axilla. The most striking feature of the complaint was a tucking m of theVAEIETIES IN DURATION. 519 skin just at the inferior margin of the pectoralis major, on the outside of the nipple, which was not retracted, although involved in the disease. The fold of the skin formed a deep cavity, three inches long, the surrounding integuments being puckered and drawn into large folds. The disease had lasted six or eight years, and had never caused pain. The drawing in of the skin had been noticed from the first. The wife of an innkeeper in Surrey had well-marked can- cerous affection, occupying the entire breast. The nipple was retracted, the skin adherent, and cutaneous tubercles had formed around. This disease had lasted twelve years, and ulceration had not yet taken place. She had enjoyed fair health, but died within a year from the time of my visit. A patient died under my care in this hospital in whom disease of cancerous nature had existed for about twenty years. The whole of one breast had been destroyed, the parts having been removed by ulceration and absorption. The same affection had taken place and had nearly destroyed the breast of the other side also. All the front of the chest, from the clavicles down to the upper part of the abdomen, presented an indurated mass, of irregular surface, as hard as cartilage, adhering to the parietes of the cavity. When she first came to the hospital there was a large ulceration occu- pying the interval between the two breasts, with much pain and inflammation. The ulcer was in a foul state, but in other respects she was in good health, looking well, eating, drinking, and sleeping tolerably well. The application of leeches gave great relief, so that during two or three months in the hospital the sore almost completely cicatrized. She was out of the hospital some months, and returned labouring under symptoms of acute inflammation of the chest, of which she died. The disease had existed nearly twenty years. She was about fifty when she died, so that it had begun about520 CANCER—VARIETIES, the age of thirty. There was very considerable thickening of the plenra and of the upper part of the peritoneum. It would seem as if this long-continued disease in the neighbourhood of these serous membranes had gradually extended to them by continuity, and produced considerable alteration of their structure, a sort of cancerous change, with granular and in- durated surface. There was also in her case a cartilaginous thickening of the pericranium, covering a part of the skull, and a corresponding change of texture in the dura mater. When the disease occurs in advanced age, it not only goes on slowly, but is attended with little suffering. It lingers on for years, and in many cases does not shorten life. I saw an old lady occasionally for some years with disease in the right breast. The mammary gland was hard and atrophied. The skin over the nipple was drawn in, making one deep, trans- verse furrow, and there were two or three others less con- siderable joining this. In the hollow of this furrow there appeared a reddish prominence, as if ulcerated, but it was dry. At the age of eighty-two, when the disease had lasted four years, this lady's health was excellent; she was strong and active, with fresh and healthy complexion. In a female of seventy-six, lusty, with every appearance of good health, which she had always enjoyed, and not looking more than sixty, married, but not having borne children, there was a scirrhous induration of the mammary gland on the axillary side of the nipple. There was firm adhesion of the integument, drawn into a long and deep fold. The nipple was greatly retracted, being at the bottom of a narrow cuta- neous funnel an inch in depth. The indurated mass was not adherent behind. The affection, which had existed for two years, had not impaired health, and had caused but little pain. There were occasional sensations of short duration, described as shooting or darting.CAUSES. 521 Causes.—The disease is sometimes ascribed to external injury, such as a blow, and in occasional instances we see the point clearly established, as in the following case. A robust and healthy married woman, about forty, still menstruating, and accustomed to eat and drink freely, received in July, 1828, an accidental severe blow on the left breast, from which she experienced considerable pain. Her medical attendant thought it necessary to bleed, leech, and use other active means, although there was no swelling at the time. A con- siderable and hard swelling soon formed, for which I saw her in October. Free and repeated leeching, with regulated diet, improved health, but had no effect on the part. Soon after, a small gland was found to be swelled in the axilla. I removed the entire mammary gland in December; it was scirrhous, with a large, irregular cavity in the centre, con- taining fluid. It was necessary to cut out the whole chain of absorbent glands, although their morbid change could not have been discovered before the operation; they were enlarged, hardened, and contained interstitial deposition. The wound united by adhesion. I saw this patient in 1832, perfectly well. In the great majority of cases there is no assignable cause. The complaint must be referred to the spontaneous class, as its origin is not noticed by the patient, and its existence is only discovered accidentally. It may occur in two or more individuals of the same family, and then it will generally be found to have existed in persons of the preceding generation, so that we cannot help believing in the transmission of an hereditary predisposition, though we cannot even conjecture in what that consists. It may occur in those of excellent constitution and sound health, in whom hereditary predispo- sition cannot be traced. Although cancer may originate and attain some magnitude522 CAUSES—DIAGNOSIS—AGE. without attracting the patient's notice, and may go on for months without causing uneasiness in the part or the slightest interruption of health, it proceeds more or less slowly but regularly to involve nearer and more remote parts, thus under- mining the constitution and establishing that general and painful unsoundness of constitution or cachexia from which death may be regarded as a welcome release. It must, there- fore, be considered throughout as a constitutional malady. Diagnosis.—The distinction between cancer and other affections of the breast is most important in the early stage, when it is the least easy. The age of the patient affords some assistance. Cancer does not begin either in other parts or the breast in the young j it is most frequent about the cessation of menstruation, from the age of forty to that of fifty. It is very seldom seen before thirty. Sir A. Cooper had seen two cases only, one at twenty-seven, the other at twenty-nine. I had a patient in St. Bartholomew's for whom I removed both mammary glands in succession, on account of scirrhous disease, before the age of twenty-five. She recovered favor- ably from both operations, but did not live long after the last. The circumstances of her death were not known to me. I have seen some other instances in which cancer of the breast has occurred before thirty. The most remarkable of these was that of a young lady, with whose family I was well acquainted. When I first saw her professionally, in the autumn of 1828, there was a small portion, about the size of a filbert, at the sternal edge of the right mammary gland, unattended with pain or inconvenience of any kind, the breast being perfectly natural and healthy with tins exception. She then stated that ten years previously she had felt uneasiness in the part, which she ascribed to the pressure of a broad, steel busk, worn in the front of the stay j her mother hadDIAGNOSIS—AGE. 523 noticed that she frequently drew the upper end of the busk out- wards, apparently to lessen the pressure. She could not have been more than twenty-three at this time, and probably was not so much, as it was just at the period of leaving school. After a few months she told me that some alteration had oc- curred. There was increase of the affected portion, with some general induration of the mammary gland, as far as could be as- certained through a thick stratum of adipous structure. The skin was a little drawn in below the nipple, which was slightly retracted, and an enlarged gland was felt in the axilla. Alarmed by these indications of malignant character, I pro- posed that a surgeon, of the highest rank and character, since dead, should see the case. He at once pronounced the case to be innocent and free from all danger. She married in June, 1829, and went to reside in the country, where she enjoyed excellent health, saw much company, and led a very active life. When I saw her again, early in July, 1830, the breast presented an uniform scirrhous mass, with thick- ened and adherent integument, flattened and fissured nipple, with deep-red and shining prominence on its external side,' and a superficial ulcer as large as a shilling, producing a thin' fetid discharge. I removed the whole mass, with a consider- able area of the surrounding skin, which was still thickened in the course of the incision, and three or four axillary glands. The healing of the very extensive surface thus exposed,' retarded by occasional attacks of inflammation, was not com- pleted till the following April, having been effected at last under the influence of a large issue on the inner side of the arm. The cicatrization was, however, complete and firm, and the state of health satisfactory. Between one and two years afterwards, disease was discovered on the sternal side of the left breast, when she said that she was aware that the pressure of the busk had affected that as well as the opposite side, but524 CANCER—DIAGNOSIS. that she had not thought it necessary to mention the cir- cumstance at the time of my first examination. This was soon developed into a general scirrhous state of the entire gland, which was freely removed, leaving an exposed surface of considerable extent, the repair of which had gone on favorably, hut slowly, when it was interrupted by alarming head symptoms, of a nature to leave no doubt that organic disease had occurred within the cranium, under the slow increase of which the patient graduaUy sank. In a lady who consulted me in the spring of 1832 for cancer of the breast, being then twenty-eight years of age, the disease had commenced two years previously. When I saw her there was scirrhus of the mammary gland, with the skin partially adherent to it, also a small, hard portion, the size of a nut, at the edge of the pectoralis major, and a single enlarged gland in the axilla. Two or three hard knots were observed in the skin, towards the circumference of the mam- mary gland. This lady, who had experienced great distress of mind from having been ill treated by her husband, was in a wretched state of health, so that an operation could not have been thought of, even if it had been otherwise advisable. Although, therefore, cancerous disease may occur unusually early in rare and exceptional cases, there is the strongest probability that an affection occurring earlier than the age of thirty-five cannot be of that character. The mammary gland, or chronic mammary tumour, is distinguished from the scirrhous disease in being a new for- mation or tumour, strictly so called; in appearing at an earlier age, for example, about twenty, before or soon after that time; in its looseness and mobility under the skin and upon the subjacent textures j in remaining unchanged for years, except, perhaps, in bulk; and in the absence of any extension to the skin or other neighbouring parts. I haveDIAGNOSIS—TREATMENT. 525 seen, it of large size at the age of seventeen. It is as painful in its early as in the later stages, sometimes considerably painful, at others free from all uneasiness. It may arise in both breasts at once, an occurrence perhaps unexampled in scirrhus. The soft feel of the swelling, and particularly the sense of fluctuation, general or partial, with slow progress, and absence of pain will generally enable us to distinguish cystic disease of the gland from scirrhus. When this point of diagnosis is doubtful, the use of the grooved exploring needle will generally decide the question. There may be a com- bination of apparently simple serous cysts, with scirrhous disorganization, the former being usually nearest the surface, and the latter lying deeper, although combined into one mass with the cysts. When the cancerous growth, having existed for some time, exhibits obviously its characteristic hardness, with irregularity of surface, drawing in of the skin, retraction of the nipple, and occasional darting pain, in a female from forty to fifty years of age, there can be little doubt respecting the nature of the affection. Treatment.—The first question is whether the opinion generally entertained by the profession and the public, that cancer is incurable, is well founded or not. What is, or ought to be, meant by the cure of cancer ? A cancerous disease may be removed by the knife, or it may be destroyed by an escharotic, and the part may get well, in the former case permanently, in the latter with great probability that it will soon reappear in the same situation, showing that the local cure has been only apparent. After removal by the knife the wound generally heals as in other operations, and in most cases the healing is sound and permanent. The patient may continue in perfect health for years, but the general result of experience is that disease takes place526 CANCER—TREATMENT. sooner or later in other quarters, and ultimately destroys life. We can have no hesitation in stating that cancer cannot be cured, if that expression be considered to imply either the return of the diseased part to its normal or healthy state, or its passing into a quiet condition, without further influence on health, or liability to other and fatal manifestations of disease. The nearest approach to a cure of cancer is in the very rare cases of old persons, in whom the complaint, indolent throughout, has become quiet, the diseased part still existing, but having shrunk and causing no uneasi- ness; here, however, mischief may at any time arise in some other quarter, or death may ensue from some other complaint. If the preceding view be correct, we shall not be surprised at finding that there are no remedies which have any just claim to be regarded as anti-cancerous. In the last century great faith was reposed in the virtues of hemlock (conium), chiefly in consequence of strong representations by a cele- brated physician of the Vienna school. Its reputation has been long and entirely lost. The late Mr. Carmichael, of Dublin, wrote a book in our time extolling the power of iron in this disease. He gave the carbonate in the usual doses, also an oxyphosphate, which does not appear in the Pharma- copoeia. He also used a phosphate and an arseniate of iron locally in ulcerated cancer, the former as a stimulant and corrective, the latter as an escharotic. The internal use of iron can be of no benefit in scirrhus, and probably would injure health in many instances. It may be of some advan- tage as a tonic in the state of weakness connected with the ulcerated period of the disease. The late Mr. John Pearson recommended a reduced regimen, approaching nearly to starvation, as a means of checking the progress of cancer. We can readily believeCANCER—TREATMENT. 527 that irritation and pain may have been alleviated in some cases by a change of diet, not carried to the excess alluded to. Indeed, if a person of full habit, accustomed to eat and drink freely, in whom menstruation has recently ceased or has become deficient in progress towards cessation, should have incipient cancer or, still worse, carcinomatous ulceration, the regulation of diet and of constitutional health would be urgently required to check the progress of the mischief and lessen the amount of suffering from the advance of a com- plaint which cannot be cured. Solid animal food and stimuli should be entirely discontinued, the patient should be con- fined to such light and nutritious articles as do not excite, and should abstain from anything like strong exercise; the state of the uterus should be carefully attended to, as well as that of the alimentary canal and excretions, the local means being all of soothing character, with rest of the upper extre- mity on the affected side. In the advanced stage of the com- plaint, when the strength is reduced, the starvation plan could not be borne, and would certainly be injurious if persisted ii Dr. Lambe published two books, in 1805 and 1815 which he advanced the doctrine that cancer and other co stitutional diseases might be cured by a simple vegetable diet, with the use of distilled water for drinking. The number of nutritious substances, including the various farinaceous ar ticles drawn from the vegetable kingdom, is so great espe cially with the addition of milk and eggs, which are not pro hibited, that the vegetable bill of fare, in the hands of a skilful cook, is by no means deficient in variety or in well flavoured and agreeable dishes. We can believe that it mi^ht often supersede with advantage the more stimulating articles generally considered necessary to keep up health and strength I cannot believe that vegetable diet will cure cancer and I know that it will not prevent its occurrence. I was acquainted m. in con-528 CANCER—TREATMENT. Witt a lady who had lived on vegetables for several years, at least seven or eight, during which she bore and suckled children, enjoying excellent health. While still on tins diet she became the subject of cancer of the tongue; it was attended with the fall usual amount of suffering, which could only be controlled by opium. One of the few instances in which I have seen cancer in the male mammary gland was that of a gentleman who had lived entirely on vegetables for a few years previously. Some years ago a plan of treating cancer of the mammary gland by pressure was brought into public notice, with strong recommendations of its efficacy, as proved by actual experi- ence Long and broad strips of plaster were employed, being carried over the breast and the chest, and further sup- ported by bandages. Diminution of bulk and of pain took place, and the most favorable anticipations of success were entertained. Not knowing how far the benefit extended I conclude that it fell short of a cure, as the method gradually fell into disuse, and is now nearly forgotten. Dr. Weil Amott devised a plan at the time for subjecting the whole surface of even an irregular mass to a perfectly equable com- pression. A patient with a small lump in the mammary gland, not of the most clearly defined character, was submitted to my observation before beginning Dr. Arnott's treatment and m the course of it. The disease disappeared m that case. Putting the specific nature of the disease out of the ques- tion, we may find occasion for ordinary remedies in some o the various forms in which cancerous disease comes under our notice. We may check particular symptoms, lessen suf- fering, and thus palliate when we cannot cure. Determina- tion of blood to the part, with heat, redness, and pain, may be relieved by a few leeches. Three or four may sometim be applied with advantage in the neighbourhood ofTREATMENT. 529 bosom once or twice a week for some time. If the uterus is uneasy, blood may be abstracted in this way from the neigh- bourhood of the anus. Poultice will sometimes be comfort- able. Generally speaking, the softest cotton wool is the most agreeable covering, and maintains uniformity of tem- perature. Diet and general management have been already considered. Much may be done to lessen suffering in the ulcerated stage. Simple poultice of bread or linseed is sometimes soothing; carrot poultice occasionally relieves. When pain is considerable, opiate applications to the surface often afford effectual relief. The Liquor Opii Sedativus, mixed with dis- tilled water, is a convenient form for the purpose. Lint dipped in the lotion should be applied to the ulcerated sur- face, and covered with rag spread with simple cerate or with bread poultice, over which a layer of cotton wool may be placed. At first, the Liquor Opii may be one fourth of the mixture, the proportion being increased if the effect should be diminished by repetition. Opium may be applied to the surface in the form of ointment, one or even two drams of the powder being weU incorporated with seven drams of lard. If the pain is considerable, whether with or without ulceration, the internal use of opium becomes necessary. This remedy' in whatever form, sometimes so disturbs the head or stomach' or both, that it cannot be continued. Here the hypodermic method of employing it comes in with great advantage Ten grams of morphine should be dissolved in a dram of dis tiUed water, so that six minims will contain one grain It is sufficient to inject half of this quantity, that is, three minims The injection is effected by means of a small syrinx ex' pressly calculated for the purpose. The fine tube through which the fluid is expelled terminates in a sharp point which pierces the skin easily. The surgeon raises a amali 34530 CANCER—LOCAL TREATMENT, fold of skin on the back of the forearm, makes a puncture at the base, and deposits the three minims in the cellular tissue. The sedative effect is produced sometimes in a sur- prisingly short time, it is complete, and it lasts for several hours, when it may be repeated. At first, even in a case of severe and continued pain, two injections in twenty-four hours will keep the patient perfectly easy. It may be necessary to make three or four injections within the same time as the remedy loses its effect. Another mode of employing opium, when its internal exhibition cannot be borne, is in the way of clyster. I was consulted in the case of a lady who had been suffering most intensely for a week or ten days from a formidable inflammatory affection of the eyes, by which one had become disorganized and protruded, while a similar fate seemed impending over the other. Opium in its several forms had not only failed to relieve, but aggravated the suffering in the head, which then became intolerable. I never saw a person in greater pam and dis- tress She had not slept for four days, and thought of the approaching night with a feeling of despair. At bedtime an enema was administered of three or four ounces of thru starch with twenty minims of Tinctura Opii. She passed a tolerably good night, with great diminution of pan, -i slept a round of the clock on the followmg after a petition of the enema. She persevered m the plan ~ weeks, entirely free from pain, with such recovery of he: eye as its damaged state would admit of, and an end of all alarm X, condition and fetid discharge of ulcerated eancer are sometimes improved by charcoal poultice The balsam of Peru, copaiba, carbonate of .on water to the consistence of a thin paste, and solution^ lunar caustic from the strength of two to six or eight gramsOPERATION. 531 the ounce may be employed, either with or without poultice. The latter may be useful in checking profuse discharge, but the most efficient remedy, when the surface is extremely painful, is the chloride of zinc in solution of sufficient strength to disorganize the surface. By such an applica- tion pain is often effectually relieved, a healthy granulating surface is produced, and cicatrization may be effected, though the hard margin and base of the cancer remain. The pre- servative fluid of the late Sir W. Burnett is a saturated solu- tion of chloride of zinc available for the purpose just men- tioned, diluted at first with three or four times the quantity of water. A solution of this chloride, disguised by colouring matter, was the escharotic employed by an American quack, who made a profitable visit to this country, as a cancer-curer, some years ago. He boldly attacked the disease in its state of scirrhus, largely destroying the external coverings with strong nitric acid, so as to come to the surface of the disease, of which he produced gradual disorganization by his red fluid. When the mass was thus disposed of, granulation and cicatrization ensued, and the cure was said to be com- plete. No long time elapsed before the real nature of this so-called cure showed itself in cancerous thickening and hardening of the surrounding region. As a means of removing diseased structure, the operation of excision appears to great advantage in comparison with the proceedings of the so-caUed cancer-curers, whether European or American. It is definite, certain, and far less painful. In the method by caustic an important part of the disease is left behind, as the scirrhous glands in the axilla cannot be got rid of in that way. There is a preliminary question whether operation is advisable at all, the performance of it having been sometimes subjected to conditions so strict as to approach nearly to a general prohibition. It cannot be532 CANCER. recommended as a permanent cure, since disease, though not of formidable character, may reappear in the neighbourhood from which the cancerous breast has been removed, and, what is more serious, secondary affections of internal organs come on inevitably, sooner or later, with the certainty of a fatal termination. The questions then remain, whether the opera- tion may prolong life, and to what extent, also whether it may be of advantage in any other respects ? In the cases related at pp. 516 and 517, it will have been seen that death may follow in a short time, even after opera- tions performed in an early stage of the complaint, on patients of sound constitution and in good health. On the other hand, after the operation, which is not dangerous, patients not unfrequently live in good health for some years, and this may happen under circumstances from which we might have been led to expect a different result. I removed, in March, 1825, the entire mammary gland of a lady, forty-two years old, of spare habit, nervous and irri- table temperament, for a scirrhous affection of moderate size at the upper part of the organ, without disease in the axilla. She continued perfectly well till February, 1829, when, after some pain in the shoulder and chest, a tumour of firm con- sistence, as large as a small walnut, with firmly adherent skin, formed at the axillary end of the cicatrix, a chain of small, hard tumours extended into the axilla ; there was little or no pain Her death, announced in the newspapers m March or April, was probably caused by internal disease m the ' I saw the patient, whose case is related at p. 521, in perfect health four years after the operation, and I heard indirectly a good account of her not less than two years afterwards. In August, 1846, 1 removed the mammary gland of a lady, about fortv, of spare habit, nervous temperament, and ratherOPERATION. 533 delicate constitution, but usually enjoying fair health; she was a widow with one son. The tumour, of the size of a small hen's egg, was of twelve months' duration, and growing. It was on the outer side of the left mammary gland, which was naturally small, and it had not given much pain. The wound healed satisfactorily. The part removed was lobulated, the cut surface being granular, and found by Mr. Coote, who examined it carefully, to show many dilated ducts, dividing and subdividing which he discovered, by careful dissection, to be lactiferous tubes. Both Mr. Stanley and myself were struck with the resemblance which it bore to the so-called pancreatic sarcoma of Mr. Abernethy. She came to me in 1858 or 1859, in much suffering and anxiety, with the left side of the chest swollen generally, but more particularly in and around the situation of the cicatrix, the parts being deep red and firm to the feel; she could not use the left arm, which she had before moved freely. An American quack had used burning applications, which had given great pain, and made her very ill, but she was then getting better. She informed me that this had been done to remove a small knot which had formed under the scar. It was below the skin, and not painful, but it had alarmed her. The mischief gradually subsided, and she came to me again in 1860, when a part of the cicatrix, towards the axilla, had become indu- rated, and there were two or three hard knots under the neighbouring skin. I removed the parts freely, and she soon got well. In March, 1861, Mr. Coote excised some small cutaneous and subcutaneous cancerous knots which had formed in the cicatrix. She lives in the country, and I have not seen her since the last operation, but I have heard from a near connection, that she is in good health at present (September, 1862). This case is important in more than one point of view. It teaches us that a primary affection of the534 CANCER. mammary gland, presenting, in the judgment of experienced persons, no character of malignancy, may lead to three relapses in the part not distinguishable from those which may occur in the most characteristic scirrhus. Secondly, it shows the advantage, in respect to the prolongation of life, of removing at an early period secondary formations of scirrhous character in the seat of the original mischief. Another case, of still more striking character in respect to the first of the two points alluded to above, was that of a widowed lady, aged sixty, of healthy constitution and active habits, who had never borne children: she consulted me for a circumscribed and firm tumour, without pain, in the left breast, about the size of a hen's egg. Although she gave an unusually short date to the affection, I considered it to be most likely of scirrhous character, and that operation would probably be advisable. A high surgical authority concurred with me on the latter point, having grievously offended the patient by plunging a needle in the part without her previous consent, and the operation was performed in the beginning of April, 1847. This tumour, carefully examined by Mr. Coote, was of grayish, semi-transparent hue on a section, and lobu- lated so as to resemble closely the chronic mammary tumour. It was pronounced to be of perfectly innocent character, and that not the slightest apprehension could be entertained of any future trouble. The cure of the wound, although retarded by some untoward occurrences, was accomplished satisfactorily, and the patient perfectly recovered health and strength, resuming and enjoying fully her former habits, which had been very active. She left England in 1849, for an extensive tour on the Continent, and on her return from Italy, through France, she found a swelling in the bend of the right thigh, which she supposed to be a rupture. She consulted the late M. Roux, who advised her immediateOPERATION. 535 return to England, and I saw her when she arrived, in the beginning of February, 1850, when there was a firm and solid tumour in the bend of the right thigh, and a similar, but larger mass, within the abdomen in the immediate neigh- bourhood. Soon a second smaller tumour came in the right thigh, and another in the left inguinal region within the abdomen. She died early in May, the disease in the abdomen having attained an enormous size, but without any breach of surface. The two following cases exemplify favorable results in the prolongation of life, by operation, when the circumstances of the case at the time of its performance were altogether dis- couraging. A lady, between forty and forty-five, had an in- duration of the left breast, which had come on gradually, and was proceeding slowly when I saw her. The part was not enlarged, but the mammary gland was scirrhous and knotted, but movable on the chest. The nipple was retracted, and the integuments drawn in at several points near the circum- ference of the gland. The axillary glands were hardened. The circumstances were too unpromising for me to recom- mend the operation, which, however, the patient determined to undergo after receiving all the explanations she required. It was performed in April, 1829, the entire breast, with its integument, being freely removed, as well as the axillary glands. The wound, although large, healed quickly and favourably. She went to the seaside to recover strength, and subsequently experienced some undefined illness, which gra- dually passed off". In August, 1830,1 saw her in good health, and with a perfectly sound cicatrix. She continued well till June, 1842, when the abdomen had become enormously swelled with ascites, her health not having suffered more than it would have done from the incumbrance of the enlargement. The breast continued well, but there was a small hard knot536 CANCER. below the axilla, which had caused no uneasiness. It seemed clear that the liver was diseased, but, as she resided in the country, I do not know exactly how or when the case terminated. A lady, between forty and fifty, underwent an operation in France on account of disease in the right mammary gland, of which a portion was removed, and stated by the operator, the chief surgeon of a large hospital, to have been a specimen of true scirrhus. The health was not much disturbed by the operation, the wound went on favorably, and seemed on the point of closing, when, in the fifth week, an unpleasant change occurred. It opened a little, and a thin, foetid discharge took place, and the patient, alarmed by this occur- rence, came off directly to England, and consulted me in the course of the sixth week after the operation. The lower third of the mammary gland had been taken away, apparently without any removal of skin. Nearly half of the cicatrix had reopened, the edges being somewhat hard, of a dull, whitish colour, without granulations, and the discharge thin, and of bad odour; absorbent glands were diseased in the axilla. The patient readily assented to my proposal, as the only safe and advisable course, that the remainder of the mammary gland, with the cicatrix of the previous operation, and the disease in the axilla should be freely removed, which was accordingly done in the summer of 1850. She was a widow, and married again about four years afterwards. I saw her from time to time, in perfect health, till 1860, when she left London for a distant part of the kingdom, and I have not heard of her since. The sudden appearance of active disease in this case, con- sequent on an incision in a structure presumed to have been healthy at the time, was an occurrence altogether unexpected, especially when the wound of the operation had proceeded so favorably for four or five weeks. It offers a strikingOPEHATION. 537 contrast to what I once saw on a different occasion. It was that of a stout lady, with large bosom, in whom one breast was a uniform mass throughout of scirrhus, with adherent, but not discoloured skin. Near its centre there was a sound cicatrix, about an inch and a half in diameter. I found that this was the result of an application made by a person who had undertaken to cure the cancer. A large hole had been made by caustic in the mass, from which a thin and copious discharge had issued for a considerable time ; this gradually diminished, and the part healed. I could adduce other instances in which life has been prolonged for various periods, from four to ten years or more, by the removal of scirrhous mammary glands, but those now related are sufficient for the purpose. The most favorable time for the operation is when the disease is in the indolent period, though frequently we do not see it till that time is past. If the breast has become fixed to the chest, if the skin covering and surrounding the gland is thickened and hardened, and if cutaneous tubercles are formed in the neighbourhood, the operation cannot be recom- mended. Disease of the axillary glands, which can be removed, and the commencement of ulceration, are not con- clusive against operating, if the breast is loose upon the chest, and all diseased parts can be effectually taken away. To refuse operation is to pass sentence of death on the patient, and that of the most painful, distressing, and often lingering kind; few minds are strong enough to bear this. To delay and temporise, wasting time in treatment which is sure to be fruitless, keeps up a state of uncertainty and anxiety, with indefinite and exaggerated apprehensions of evil, which depresses the spirits, adding unnecessarily to the difficulties of the case, and often leading the sufferer to take refuge in quackery. I consider it a strong reason for538 CANCER. operating, particularly if the breast be large, that it prevents the possibility of death by ulcerated cancer, the greatest calamity that can befal a female. The operation is neither painful nor dangerous; the wound heals, and death may ensue after an uncertain length of time from some internal affection, not usually of much suffering or long duration. The important point to be kept constantly in view in per- forming the operation is the necessity of taking away all parts to which any suspicion of morbid change can attach; the incisions should go beyond the extent of the disease, and this rule holds good in respect to the skin, as well as to the deeper seated parts. The advantage of saving integu- ment enough to close the wound must give way to the imperative necessity of removing all that is diseased. As scirrhous disease of the breast, in the great majority of cases, affects a part of the mammary gland only, and as this, in many instances which afford an opportunity of early operation, is a small part at the circumference, while the rest of the gland is perfectly healthy, it may be a question whether it would be sufficient to remove the diseased part, or prefer- able to take away the entire gland. Patients are naturally averse to the latter proceeding, as involving a painful mutila- tion, which surgeons also would wish to avoid, unless the other course, although recommended for choice at the time, as a comparatively trivial operation, should be found to be followed invariably by fresh disease in the gland, and the subsequent necessity of the larger operation. The rule on which I have acted for many years, and which I believe to be generally followed in this country, though not so elsewhere, is to remove the entire gland. In two instances, at least, I have found a small portion of induration at some distance from the larger mass, and so deeply situated that it could not have been discovered before the operation. Generally, however,OPEKATION. 539 the disease is confined to one spot, the remainder of the gland being found quite healthy on careful examination after the operation. The two cases already related at pp. 507 and 536, illustrate in a most striking manner the importance of adhering to the rule I have now mentioned. In both the portion of gland removed was so considerable, having been in one equal in size to a hen's egg, in the other a third of the entire mass, that the operation could not have been much less serious than if the whole had been taken away, and the part left behind could not have been of any utility. The second case, at page 536, is most interesting in two other respects. The skilful surgeon who performed the operation could not have failed to remove all that was obviously diseased, yet mischief recurred, in a manner not to be mistaken, in five weeks. Again, with this evidence of active disposition to disease, it is very remarkable that the lady should have remained free from disease for so many years after the second operation. A patient may sometimes be desirous of having a small bit removed, though unwilling to lose the entire gland. I took out a small portion of genuine scirrhus, hardly larger than a horsebean, from the circumference of the gland; the breast remained free for four or five years, when it was necessary to perform the larger operation. In a lady, for whom I cut from the border of the breast a lump about the size of a small walnut, disease returned in four years, being then accompanied with swelling of the axillary glands. Small hard knots, to which in general the skin becomes gradually adherent, though they may be more deeply seated, occasionally form near the cicatrix, at some and possibly a considerable time after the operation. Sometimes unde- fined thickening and induration take place under the cicatrix which is involved in the change, becoming red and uneasy or painful. As such occurrences unavoidably excite alarm and540 CANCER—MALE MAMMARY GLAND. anxiety, and the operation is trifling, it is best to remove the diseased parts, and to do it freely. Cancer of the male mammary gland is of rare occurrence; its character and course being essentially the same as in the female. A gentleman, about fifty, stout, rather corpulent, and in good health, which he had always enjoyed, consulted me for a swelling of the left breast, which had existed for one or two years, without pain, until shortly before I saw him, when it was not very painful. It was a well-marked scirrhus of the mammary gland, with adhesion of the skin, but not to the subjacent parts; the axillary glands, appa- rently the whole chain, were enlarged and hard. A gentleman, aged fifty-five, of spare habit, consulted me in August, 1832, for an ulcer in the centre of the left mamma, of irregular surface, without any disposition to heal. It was seated on a hard base, the surrounding skin forming a red margin, half an inch broad. There was a hard knot the size of a nut, with the skin adherent, between the breast and the axilla, and another rather larger in the latter situation. The health was good, and, except an occasional stinging sen- sation, there was no pain. This gentleman, who had lived ten years in the United States, had confined himself for nine years to vegetable diet, not on account of ill health, but from having read books on the subject. The disease had begun with a hard knot, the size of a filbert, under the nipple, which had been removed by Dr. Mott, of New York, with the nipple, in September, 1830. The ulceration had begun a year and a half after the operation; the discharge was some- times offensive. In October, 1832, I removed extensively the original disease and the axillary glands, all the parts being truly scirrhous. The wound healed favorably, and the patient was soon quite well. At the end of May, 1834, he called on me, exhibiting all the marks of cancerous cachexia,MALE MAMMARY GLAND. 541 such as sallow countenance, loss of appetite, tightness across the chest, with short breath. The cicatrix was sound. A small knot, not hard, the size of a large pea, and quite loose, had formed about an inch below the cicatrix. He said that a similar one had appeared below the clavicle, and gone away. He did not seem to suspect that his illness was connected with the previous disease, and he died soon after without any fresh local appearances. An Italian, about thirty-five, admitted under my care into St. Bartholomew's, had perceived a hard tumour in the right breast, fifteen months previously; in about three months it had ulcerated, and a fungus shot up. I saw him three weeks before death, when there was an ulcerated and fungous surface, two inches in circumference, on the right of the right nipple, which was sound. A mass of hard substance occupied nearly the whole anterior part of the right half of the chest; the skin was hard and fixed, and small tubercles were felt under it for some distance round the swelling, and the hard state of the skin reached into and filled the axilla. Hard tumours were felt above the clavicle, and the axillary glands on the opposite side were enlarged. The arm had become oedematous and respiration was affected, but the pulse and appetite were good, and there was not much pain or emaciation. He died in about three weeks. In addition to affection of the axillary glands on both sides; those of the right groin, and the entire chain up to the diaphragm, were found diseased after death, many of the in- ternal glands being considerably enlarged. The right pleura and the peritoneal lining of the right side of the diaphragm were thickened. There was disease of the pancreas and both kidneys. A most striking and altogether novel character of this strange disease was that all the affected parts were of a bright yellowish green colour, being such a sight as I had542 EPITHELIAL CANCER. neither seen before, nor have seen since. The further details of the case will be found in the third volume of the ' Medico- Chirurgical Transactions/ p. 72. Epithelial Cancer.—Such is the expression now employed to designate the disease, as it appears in the integuments and mucous membranes of the body. The characters of this affection, both external and structural, are widely different from those of cancer in the mammary gland, as might be expected from the differences of structure and office in the two cases, but the essential nature of the disease is the same in both. There is thickening and induration in the beginning, ulceration sooner or later, extension of mischief to the immediately surrounding tissues and the absorbent glands, with fatal termination. The appearances are more diversified in this case, according to the stratum of the general integument in which the disease may begin; this may be in the dense texture of the true skin, on its papillary and mucous surface, or in the loose connective tissue of its attached aspect. Again, there are differences of texture in the skin itself, as in the scrotum and the delicate covering of the external generative organs in both sexes, when compared with the general common integument, that must lead to diversities of external appearance in disease. The most frequent seats of the disease are the lower lip, the tongue, the internal surface of the labia, and the parts between them, the scrotum of chimney sweeps, the glans and prepuce. It occurs less frequently in the upper lip and face, on the mucous membrane of the mouth and fauces, the neck of the uterus, the rectum, and the skin of the hand. The origin and progress of the affection are well seen in the lower lip of men: it is very rare in the upper lip, and I do not remember to have seen it in the lip of women. A por- tion of the red edge gradually, and often very slowly becomesLIP. 543 thickened, hardened, and swollen, the surface being irregular and rough, or covered by a thin scab. Taken between the finger and thumb it is felt as a hardish mass. The change extends along the surface, involving the outer skin and the mucous membrane, but not going deeply. Ulceration begins sometimes by a fissure or crack, the surface having been pre- viously raised, and presenting a broken appearance. In a gentleman of fifty, who had never smoked, disease of the lower Hp had existed between five and six years, without pain or material inconvenience. It consisted of a small, indo- lent induration, causing a slight swelling of the red edge and mucous membrane, of circular outline, not larger than a shilling, with ulceration in the centre, covered by a brown incrustation. It had commenced by an indurated tubercle, and had not been long ulcerated. After removal, the diseased part presented a small mass of firm scirrhous induration, while the ulceration had a broken surface like that of some warts. A healthy farmer of seventy had a disease of the upper lip, which had begun ten years before as a wart on the skin, half an inch above the red edge. The hardened part ulcerated, and the complaint slowly spread down- wards to the mucous membrane, which was sound. It then formed an ulcer three quarters of an inch long, and half an inch wide, with a hard base, knotted and irregular margin, with sparing discharge, and covered by a hard adherent incrustation. A section of the part after excision showed the skin converted into a stratum of compact scirrhous structure. The induration extends at the base, in the course of time; thus the disease advances lower in the lip, of which the integument and other tissues become converted into a solid, hard mass. The discharge from the ulcerated portion, not abundant, forms thin and closely adherent scabs. The ab- sorbent glands under the jaw are not soon affected. The544 EPITHELIAL CANCER. disease, which is generally confined to the surface sometimes goes deeper, having a scirrhous formation for its base. Under the mucous membrane of the cheek I have seen, without much alteration of the surface, a whitish and not very hard tumour of round form, and not less than half or three quarters of an inch in thickness. A section of the ordinary labial cancer shows the basis to consist of the integument con- verted into a texture not unlike that of the scirrhous mam- mary gland, but less hard, quite distinct from the other structures, which are unaffected. Microscopical examination detects an abundance of cells resembling the epithelium of the part intermingled with the natural structure. Speaking generally the complaint is not a painful one; patients often say that they have not suffered throughout; sometimes the local disturbance is more active, and there is more suffering. The absorbent glands under the lower jaw become diseased in the progress of the case, one or more being moderately enlarged. At a later period, sometimes several years after an operation of which the cicatrix may remain sound, the glands along the side of the neck enlarge, and soon form a con- siderable firm mass, presenting in that respect a striking con- trast with the small size of the original affection. The disease in the lip clearly owes its origin to an external irritation, from the contact and pressure of the clay pipe in tobacco-smoking, and it is most certainly brought on by using a short pipe resting on and entirely supported by the lip. Fortunately for those classes who in my early years never dreamt of smoking, but now find it a necessary of life, the use of the cigar has never led to cancer of the lip within my experience. Should there be any doubt whether the use of the clay pipe can do all the mischief which has been ascribed to it, I may mention the case of an officer of title, with an obscure affection of the throat terminating fatally after a longLIP. 545 illness, for which treatment had proved ineffectual. It had been mentioned casually that he feared he had injured his tongue by making great use for a considerable time of a short pipe : no evidence of such mischief could be discovered. A large cancerous ulcer was discovered after death, occupying the very back of the tongue from side to side, and extending downwards into the pharynx : it had destroyed the epiglottis, which had disappeared altogether, although no evidence of its absence had been observed during life. On a careful exami- nation of the mouth, a small slit, about one third of an inch in length, with sound and smooth margin, was found at the lower part of the side of the tongue, not far behind the frenum. A director introduced into this passed along a track under the tongue, which came out in the middle of the cancerous disease. Irritating and escharotic applications are often made to cancers of the lip, with the effect of exciting more active enlargement, new growths from the surface, and increased suffering. Vascular and painful growths sometimes take place to a considerable extent, without such irritation. External applications should be of the most soothing kind, such as wetted lint with oiled silk, or preferably the softest wash leather wetted and covered with oiled silk. Such coverings will afford the most effective and comfortable protection in the case of long exposure to the open air, in warm or cold weather, especially with wind. The operation of excision is, however, the least painful, and the most definite and certain remedy. In the majority of instances, and particularly in the early stage, which is the most favorable in all respects, the horizontal cut is the simplest and best method, being quickly effected by transfixing the lip beyond the extent of the disease, and completing the proceeding by cutting out each way. The mus- cular structures, which have been pushed downwards by the 35546 EPITHELIAL CANCER. morbid growth, resume their natural position, and when the cicatrization is completed, very little appearance of loss remains. When morbid deposit has taken place under the diseased skin of the red edge, carrying the mischief lower down, the external integument becomes hardened and adhe- rent, and a different operation is necessary. A V-shaped in- cision is required for removing the entire disease, and the edges must be united after the manner of the operation on hare-lip. Occasionally a still more complicated proceed- ing is resorted to. If the original disease has involved the whole breadth of the lip, or nearly so, a vertical incision is made on each side of the disease, and these are united by a transverse cut; the diseased part is then dissected off to the edge of the mucous membrane. The gap thus produced is to be filled by a portion of soft parts brought up from below. The two vertical incisions are prolonged over the bone into the neck, and a portion of integument is then lifted and drawn up so as to be fastened to the edge of the mucous mem- brane. For the successful result of this plan it is necessary that the mucous membrane of the lip should be sound, at least in great measure, since a lip without a mucous surface answers no useful purpose, not even that of retaining the saliva. If the cancer of the lip is properly removed in an early stage, when confined or nearly so, to the red edge, without any affection of absorbent glands, the patient may remain well for years, and there is generally no return of disease in the part. Sooner or later the glands under the jaw or on the side of the neck become affected, the latter forming a very large mass, the progress of which leads inevitably to a fatal termination. I have known a patient to have one of these large formations in the neck after having remained perfectly well for nine years. They may destroy life without becoming ulcerated.FACE. 547 When a morbid deposit has taken place under the skin, the prognosis of operation is unfavorable. A stout hearty farmer, seventy years of age, with remarkably healthy appearance for his time of life, consulted me on account of an ulcer on the cheek, the size of a shilling, about an inch below the lower eyelid, level with the surface, rather foul and irregular. The basis was indurated, the induration including the skin. There was a thin discharge; a hard gland, about as large as a hazel nut, was discovered just within the angle of the lower jaw. It was not painful, causing little inconvenience, and had been treated with caustic without advantage. It was described to have begun with a wart, and to have existed seven or eight years, and to have been worse for the last year, in the course of which caustic had been used, which did harm. As the character of the affection was doubtful, a consultation was held on the case, in which the slow progress of the disease, the absence of pain, the excellent state of health, and the pro- bable extension of the mischief, with great suffering, were held to be sufficient reasons for operation, although the ques- tion was nicely balanced. In removing the disease, I took care to cut at such a distance round it as to take away all the morbid parts. Three incisions were made through the skin, a horizontal one parallel with the edge of the eyelid, and one third of an inch below it, and two others in an oblique direc- tion, one on each side, meeting below at an acute angle. It was necessary to go deep, as there was more to be removed than had been expected, and thus a considerable excavation was left, extending from a little below the edge of the lower lid to the angle of the mouth, and from the ala nasi to the masseter. The part removed turned out to be a hard (scirrhous) lump, as large as a walnut, of firm texture, and light gray colour, with well defined surface. The surrounding cellular substance and fat compacted and firmer than usual, but not548 EPITHELIAL CANCER. altered in texture, surrounded it so completely that until a section of the mass was made I did not know it to be a dis- tinct tumour : it seemed to be a hard mass of fat. The process of repair went on so favorably that the surface was granu- lating healthily, and cicatrization was beginning on the tenth day, when the patient was able to leave London and take a day's journey home. The operation was performed in June, 1826. I saw him again in November, when I found a firm and sound cicatrix, without any susceptible subjacent indura- tion. The gland under the jaw was larger, but less defined. At the end of June in the following year, I was informed by a gentleman from the neighbourhood of this patient that he was suffering severely from the rapid progress of his disease. There was renewed but not considerable ulceration in the face; great swelling under the jaw, so that it was difficult to open the mouth, and had been necessary to draw teeth for the introduc- tion of food j much pain, and emaciation. Death soon followed. I had occasion to remove a submucous swelling of the cheek, similar to the preceding in size and structure, for a gentleman between fifty and sixty, and one exactly alike for another gentleman a little over thirty. It was necessary in both cases to slit up the cheek, and the swellings were com- pletely removed, although they extended backwards to the ramus of the jaw. These were of grayish-white colour, not so hard as scirrhus, without induration of surrounding tex- tures. The mucous membrane was not much altered iu either case, nor was there any glandular affection. Death ensued from return of disease in the part, together with large glandular swellings. Prom the locality of its origin, and its early progress, the disease in the case of the farmer must be referred to the epi- thelial class of cancers; while the secondary glandular affec- tion and the fatal end, are not different from what isFACE. 549 frequently witnessed in the analogous affection of the lip. Destructive ulcers of the face, which from their intractahle nature, indefinite hut very slow extension, and unfavorable termination, have usually heen called cancers, and are now denominated rodent ulcers, present in some cases points of resemblance in their characters and in the extension of mis- chief to the absorbent glands to the epithelial cases, but differ from them in the possibility of receiving at least temporary alleviation, if not cure, by local means, when they may have become far too extensive to admit of excision. A man, about sixty, was an out-patient at St. Bartholomew's in 1831, with a large ulcer on the side of the face, of uneven surface, with knotted and irregular margin, which had existed twenty- four years. Its boundaries were the bridge and left ala of the nose, the left lower eyelid, which has been nearly destroyed, the temple, and the left angle of the mouth. A dressing of the liquor opii sedativus diluted had been used, with the effect of relieving pain. It was observed that the sore bled copiously on removing the dressing; on this hint leeches were applied to the surface repeatedly, and complete cicatrization slowly took place, except at the external angle of the eye, where a portion of skin was raised and tuberculated with small super- ficial ulcerations. The surface of the cicatrix still remained uneven, and the edge knotted and irregular. An old man was admitted into the hospital in the summer of 1831, with an ulcer at the angle of the mouth of many years' duration, so large that excision would hardly have been practicable, even if there had not existed a considerable indu- rated enlargement of the submaxillary absorbent glands. He had erysipelas of the face, and as he was getting better the sore lessened, and its raised edge sank considerably. It was cicatrizing and in a fair progress to healing, when he left the hospital.550 EPITHELIAL CANCER. Ulcers of the face, commonly called cancerous, whether they really are so or not, are frequently found puzzling in practice from the want of definite and clear practical rules; and it is desirable for the establishment of such rules to know what becomes of patients, who, having been treated success- fully at the time, do not remain under the observation of the surgeon, I therefore mention shortly a case interesting in its origin, and in the permanent success of an operation. A lady, thirty-two years of age, had several small brownish red moles on the face. They were cutaneous elevations, smooth on the surface. A year before I saw her, she picked or scratched one of these on the side of the cheek, a little in front of the ear : it gradually formed a sore, which had been better and worse, but never well. Various applications had been tried without any beneficial effect by a surgeon, who had spoken of it as a matter of no consequence. She had suffered much from irregular and painful menstruation, had grown thin and pale, having lost her former healthy appear- ance. She was in London with her husband on account of her health, under the care of a physician, to whom she men- tioned the sore on the face for the first time, on the evening before her intended departure for Lancashire. This led to my seeing her on the following day, when I found an ulcer as large as a shilling, with a slightly raised red edge, and an irregular sur- face made up of several small, yellowish excavations, yielding a thin clear discharge. The basis was a little swelled and in- durated, quite moveable on the subjacent parts. There was no glandular affection. It was obviously necessary that it should either be excised or destroyed by some efficient escha- rotic, and my recommendation of the former was sanctioned by another opinion of great weight. I took care to remove with the sore a border of sound skin. There was an indu- rated mass under the skin, on the contrary the adipousPACE. 551 substance was quite healthy, and the skin, although thickened and firm, did not exhibit scirrhous change. An irritable condition of the skin caused some trouble in the management of the wound, which was necessarily treated as an open sore. The integuments below and in front of the wound were much inflamed, and large pustules formed on them, with most acute pain. It was found best at last to leave the part as much as possible open to the air, merely dusted with flour. The operation was performed on June 18, 1831, and she left town on July 20, with the wound about half healed, but in a per- fectly satisfactory state; it soon closed. The cicatrix was pefectly sound in 1835, and for many years afterwards. I believe that the patient is still living. The superficial nature of the disease in cases like the last, and in some instances of disease in the lips, might induce us to attempt their destruction by powerful escharotics, the chloride of zinc particularly. The use of the knife is prefer- able, as being definite and certain, removing all that ought to be taken away and no more. At the same time, it is far less painful. A married lady, about fifty, of delicate health, had a small but painful swelling on the left temple from the pressure of spectacles, which she had worn habitually; it was red, of circular form, and would not bear pressure. It was slightly elevated. It was about the size of a sixpence, the mass of induration being inconsiderable, and the ulceration not deep. It was, however, very painful, and thus it became necessary to adopt effectual means of removing what would now probably be called an epithelial cancer. Her sister had died of cancer in the breast, the disease having returned after an operation, and this had given her a thorough dread of the knife. The chloride of zinc was therefore used, which certainly destroyed as much, both in surface and depth, as would have beenEPITHELIAL CANCER. 552 removed by the knife. The application was followed by the most severe pain, which lasted for several days and nights. The separation of the slongh was followed by healthy granu- lation and apparently sound cicatrization. Within a month, however, an indurated tubercle formed in the cicatrix, and became very painful. The patient now readily consented to the use of the knife, and the part was accordingly excised; the patient 3aid that the pain was nothing in comparison with the dreadful agony and long suffering caused by the escharotic. The excision was permanently successful. Caustic and irritating applications are not unfrequently tried in superficial affections of obstinate and enduring character, of which patients naturally desire to get rid, almost invariably with the effect of inducing increased activity and pain in complaints previously indolent and nearly sta- tionary. In such cases there is a choice between two courses, leaving things alone with protection and soothing, or effectual extirpation by the knife. Still the escharotic plan may be preferred occasionally for special reasons. I have removed in two instances a single diseased absorbent gland of moderate size from below and within the margin of the lower maxillary bone, in cases where diseased portions of the lower lip had been previously excised. In one of these, though there had been thickening and hardening of the entire red edge with roughness and some small excrescences, the nature of the disease may have been considered doubtful. The condition of the gland deviated considerably from the healthy structure, presenting appearances sufficiently sus- picious to make me satisfied with having recommended and performed the removal. This took place many years ago; the parts concerned in it, and the lip, have continued perfectly sound. The other instance was that of an hospital patient, who left the institution after the wound had healed.TONGUE. 0°* Cancer of the tongue.—This shows itself under some varieties of form, all of them" equally unfortunate in the certainty of their progress to a fatal termination. The most common is a firm, scirrhous induration, gradually developed on the edge of the organ, becoming ulcerated more or less deeply, and making its way in the muscular substance to the middle line, or further; it attacks the apex less frequently. It is generally confined to a part; but it may extend along the whole edge. There may be an irregular warty or granulated surface, red and fissured, and slightly prominent, but not ulcerated. In twelve or eighteen months, it may advance from a slight warty projection to a mass occupying half the organ, or more. It is painful, but not always equally so; the pain is often severe, described as shooting or burning. As the disease advances, the tongue becomes so hard and stiff that it cannot be protruded from the mouth, nor moved in mastication, articulation, and swallowing, without con- stantly increasing pain and difficulty, with aggravation from pressure against the teeth and contact with them in its motions, especially if there are ragged, sharp, or pointed parts. The ulcer may be somewhat superficial, but it is more generally excavated, with an uneven and sometimes broken surface, the basis and irregular sides being a thick mass of scirrhus, contrasting strongly with the natural softness of the tongue. Small portions of the ulceration may give way by sloughing, and more or less considerable bleedings may take place. Sometimes the disease is confined at the outset to the mucous membrane, of which a portion larger than a shilling becomes thickened and superficially ulcerated. The basis has a firm feel, but does not seem to involve the muscular structures. This may come on the smooth lateral part of the organ, and is not attended with much pain. It pro-554 EPITHELIAL CANCER. ceeds gradually to the more serious painful and destructive state. There are various affections of the tongue, syphilitic and others, attended with swelling, induration, and ulceration, which may he confounded with cancer, so that the diagnosis is not unattended with difficulty. A most cautious exami- nation should he made of the case, with an inquiry into all circumstances before pronouncing an opinion which may seriously alarm the patient and friends. Under circumstances of doubt it will he more prudent to temporise and delay, to give those instructions respecting diet and general manage- ment, which will he necessary at all events, and to observe the effect of such means, before forming, or at least pro- nouncing, a decided opinion. Cancer of the tongue, like other affections of the same nature, belongs to the middle or subsequent period of life; there is little probability that a disease, whatever may be its external character, occurring before the age of forty, or seated on the back of the tongue, leaving the edges free, will prove to be cancerous. A patient, thirty-two years of age, had a swelling at the middle of the back of the tongue, on its left side • the swelled part was red, painful, and occupied by two deep ulcerated fissures, parallel to the long axis of the organ. These ulcers were foul, and from one half to three quarters of an inch deep. The swelled part Was firm, but not of scirrhous hardness. A small gland was swelled near the angle of the jaw. This was a syphilitic case. A gentleman of twenty-four had an ulcerated fissure of uncertain depth at the right side of the back of the tongue, quite at the posterior part. In this case also the complaint was syphilitic. A lady between fifty and sixty, of unhealthy appearance, with red pimply face, who had often suffered from disorder of the digestive organs, had enlargement, induration, and deepTONGUE. 555 irregular ulcer occupying the tongue at its upper and highest part. The appearance was really formidable. It yielded readily to mild and simple means ; to regulation of diet, and of the digestive organs, with mild local applications. She got quite well, and remained so. A patient about forty-eight, who had lived rather freely, and had an unhealthy appearance, consulted me respecting a disease of his tongue. On the upper surface of the organ, in a space about one inch and a half long by an inch wide, the mucons membrane was thickened, indurated, and raised into irregular prominences, which, however, were smooth, and not ulcerated. The whole portion thus affected was hard and swollen. The complaint had existed some months, and had become so painful when he consulted me that he could hardly take food; washes and gargles had done no good, I ordered him compound decoction of sarsaparilla with com- pound decoction of aloes, and five grains of extract of hyos- cyamus every night. At the end of a fortnight the pain had gone, and he was able to eat anything. The tongue was less swelled, and the mucous membrane much improved. He continued to go on with the liquid medicine. To take six grains of hyoscyamus at night. He was soon perfectly well. In a female of twenty-six, there was a swelling of oval shape, the size of a large filbert, on the right side of the tongue, less hard than scirrhus. In its long axis and whole length there •was a deep ulcerated fissure, the edges of which were ir- regular, but not everted. It was not painful. In a girl of nineteen, there was a circular excavated ulcer, the size of a shilling, on the dorsum of the tongue, with grayish surface, raised edge, and considerably indurated basis, painful chiefly in mastication. In a man of twenty-four, the right side of the tongue presented a rough, ulcerated surface, with everted edge, the size of a shilling. At the back of the organ, on the556 EPITHELIAL CANCER. same side, the mucous membrane over a similar space pre- sented a smooth red surface free from papillae, in the centre of which there was a deep foul ulcer, with hard circumference. A man of twenty-six had a general enlargement of the right side of the tongue, extending beyond the mesial line, but not involving the apex. The enlargement, smooth on the dorsum but uneven towards the edge, was almost of scirrhous hard- ness. It was neither painful nor tender to the touch, but it interfered considerably with articulation and deglutition. The foregoing cases, although syphilitic, do not present the most common form of venereal disease affecting the tongue; but the history and the age of the patients, with the characters of the ulcers, which could not be referred to any other origin, were quite sufficient for the purpose of diagnosis. Usually syphilitic ulcers of the tongue are superficial, varying in' number and in size, but generally small, combined or not with tuberculated or fissured thickening of the mucous mem- brane ; independently of other concomitant symptoms, and the history of the case, they could hardly be confounded with cancer. On the other hand, venereal enlargement and in- duration may occur to a degree and extent not only alarming to the patient, but liable to be misunderstood by the medical adviser, if he should happen to be without experience on the subject. A gentleman, under thirty, whom I had seen for primary syphilis, though long previously, had been travelling on the Continent for a year, suffering during the whole time great inconvenience and pain from a disease of the tongue, which had begun in a slight form as he was leaving England. He had consulted physicians and surgeons in Trance and Italy, taking various medicines without benefit, the com- plaint having apparently been deemed cancerous. The tongue, somewhat indurated, was generally enlarged, so as to inter- fere with mastication, and render articulation very indistinct.TONGUE. 55' The mucous membrane was thickened and uneven; there were no other symptoms. This disease yielded slowly but regularly to mercury, which it was necessary to employ by friction, as the bowels would not bear the internal adminis- tration. The cure was not only complete but permanent. I have seen a few other cases more or less similar to the last. Although they may be confounded with cancer, there are sufficient points of distinction, so that, if the history be investigated and the symptoms carefully examined, there will be little risk of mistaking the comparatively mild and manageable venereal affection, for the very painful, and I fear inevitably fatal cancerous disease. I have always seen the latter begin on the edge of the tongue, generally at the middle or back part; it extends slowly into the substance, and may ultimately involve the greater portion or the whole organ. The hardness, which is in the highest degree, as in the scirrhous breast, renders the part incompressible; it is accurately circumscribed, so that we immediately feel the boundary of the disease. The hardness is less marked in syphilis, more diffused, and not confined in its origin to the margin of the tongue. Scirrhous induration does not last long, nor become considerable in extent without the oc- currence of ulceration, while syphilitic enlargement may occupy one half or nearly the whole part, without any breach of surface. The cancerous ulcer is deep, often with an ash- coloured, partially disorganized and bleeding surface. Some- times profuse and dangerous haemorrhage occurs. The margin is hard, raised, everted, or rugged and excavated. The dis- charge is thin and offensive. The induration in syphilitic ulcerations is comparatively inconsiderable; the surface is of better character, and it seldom penetrates deeply. Cancer of the tongue is a hardened mass, which becomes ulcerated. Syphilitic disease is an ulceration, of which the base and558 EPITHELIAL CANCER. edges are sometimes thickened, moderately indurated, and raised. The morbid change in cancer gradually extends to surrounding parts, so that in the advanced stage the tongue is not only indurated but almost fixed. In a patient under my care in this hospital, the ulceration extended from the edge of the tongue to the tonsil, and fatal haemorrhage took place from the artery of the tonsil laid open in the progress of the ulceration. In examining this case after death, morbid change was found to have extended through the whole thickness of the organ, which we had not been aware of during life, for the question of extirpation had been en- tertained not very long before the patient's death. The pain of cancerous ulceration is most severe, and aggravated by exertion of the organ in articulation, mastication, and swal- lowing. The aid of opium is absolutely necessary for pro- curing temporary ease. In syphilitic cases, the uneasiness is comparatively inconsiderable. The absorbent glands be- come enlarged and indurated in cancer; they do not suffer in syphilitic cases, or, if they do, it is from simple irritation. I once saw a considerable excrescence on the side of the tongue of formidable appearance, which might have been supposed, as indeed it had been, to be of malignant cha- racter. It was in a gentleman of forty-two, stout, and of full habit, who had been accustomed for a long course of years to eat and drink freely. He had a large ruddy face, hot skin, very white tongue, and full pulse. The disease had existed two years, having been considered at first to be a common wart; it had grown of late more rapidly, in spite of escharotics. The growth, situated along the left edge of the tongue, was of oval form, at least an inch and a half in the long axis, and an inch across. Its height from the surface was three quarters of an inch. It was attached to the tongue by its whole breadth. The surface was not ulcerated, butTONGUE—TREATMENT. 559 raised into irregular, prominent, convex elevations, the size of peas, with white epithelial surface, like that of the tongue ; the substance was firm. It interfered most incon- veniently with all the movements of the organ, but was not otherwise painful. Never having seen a similar case, I was in doubt respecting its nature, but believed it to be innocent, and decided on removing it by ligature. I passed a large curved needle, armed with a strong ligature, through the substance of the tongue, at the middle of the base of the growth. In order to be sure of including the whole substance, I cut a rather deep notch behind, and another in front of the disease, carrying the front and back threads along these notches respectively, and exerted my utmost strength in tying both threads. The strangulation was not quite perfect in one of the knots, but this did not interfere with the result. As the ligatures were not removed till the fifth or sixth day, the diseased part had become too much changed to admit of its structure being satisfactorily determined. The surface slowly cicatrized, the part remaining rather swollen and sore. Some weeks afterwards there was increase of swelling, with some ulceration, to which I freely applied the potassa fusa, with the desired effect of leading to a sound cicatrix and permanent cure. In the treatment of this distressing malady the principal point for consideration is the value of an operation. The diseased part may be excised completely and effectively in the early, and even in a somewhat advanced stage of the affection. The wounded surface heals readily, and in general there is no relapse in the part. If there should be a return, it may pro- bably be owing to the incision having gone too close to the disease, and thus it affords the useful caution of carrying the knife clearly beyond the extent of the mischief. With the removal of the morbid structures, and the cicatrization of the560 EPITHELIAL CANCER. wound, the pain and other inconveniences are effectually remedied at the time, and some patients have submitted to the operation as a temporary respite from suffering. It may, I believe, be stated as the universal result of experience, that although the tongue remains well, disease occurs in the ab- sorbent glands, under the jaw, and at the side of the neck, often forming very large masses, which may open by a pecu- liar kind of suppuration, yielding either an imperfect pus or a thin discoloured fluid, proceeding to large cancerous exca- vations of broken surface, with abundant ichorous and gene- rally fetid discharge. This renewal of disease takes place more early in cancers of the tongue than in others, sometimes within the year, and seldom after a much longer interval. In one instance, of a patient in St. Bartholomew's, for whom I had removed a circular piece, rather larger than a shilling, of mucous membrane thickened, indurated, and slightly raised, from the upper part of the organ in its anterior loose portion, the affection having been apparently confined to that membrane, there was ultimately the largest cancerous exca- vation under the jaw, and at the side of the neck, that I ever saw. The operation of removing cancerous portions of the tongue cannot be spoken of favorably as a means of per- manent cure, from the result of cases under my own observa- tion. The only case in which it may seem not unlikely that an approximation may have been made to such a result was that of a female of fifty-eight, of spare habit and delicate constitution, who had a small hard knot in the edge of the tongue, unattended with pain. She attributed it to the irritation of a carious tooth, which was forthwith removed. As it continued to increase she came into the hospital under my care. The growth, which had existed about five months, was of the size and shape of a large horse-CANCER OF THE TONGUE. 561 bean, of which one half projected above the surface, there was a small and quite superficial ulceration on the prominent part, and it was free from paiu. The apex of the tongue being held by an assistant, I took hold of the swelling by the vulsellum, passed through the healthy substance beyond its base, and removed it by a single sweep of the knife. There was considerable haemorrhage, but no vessel could be tied. The diseased part was similar in colour and con- sistence to a scirrhous portion of mammary gland, but less hard and tough. The muscular substance taken away with the disease was perfectly healthy. She was still free from disease at the end of eighteen months, and I did not see her after that time. She lived in an almshouse a few miles from London, and had been recommended to my care by friends who resided near the place. I particularly desired her to come to me immediately if any change should take place in the tongue, but I never saw or heard of her afterwards. A gentleman of sixty-one was under my care for some months, on account of cancer of the tongue. For six or seven years before his death he had been subject to autumnal attacks of dyspepsia, under which his tongue became aph- thous, and to a considerable extent raw or excoriated, being so tender that he could not swallow solid food without great difficulty. After a time, rapid recovery would take place. He had been living very irregularly for a twelvemonth, and neglecting all means of relief, when his tongue swelled to so great a degree that he could hardly talk; when this had subsided a tubercle remained at the right side of the tongue, which also impeded his speech. After a consultation of surgeons in Paris, where he then resided, the diseased part of the tongue was cut out in October, 1844. The wound was never firmly cicatrized. When I saw this gentleman, in December, there was a long cicatrix on the right lateral and 3G5G2 EPITHELIAL CANCER. anterior portion of the tongue, which was drawn towards the right side, showing clearly that a considerable portion had been removed. A profuse bleeding after the operation had stopped under the application of ice. The cicatrix was not closed in the centre; under it, and imbedded in the substance, was a hard lump, equal in size to a large nut, and there was an enlarged gland under the jaw. With much care the patient was made comfortable, but the disease soon became active again, with increased swelling, deep and foul ulceration, and severe suffering. In the course of these changes a violent bleeding came on to such extent as to cause serious alarm for life. It left him perfectly pallid and very weak, but sus- pended the progress of the disease for the time, removing the pain entirely, diminishing the swelling, and giving to the ulceration a clean and healthy character. The symptoms returned as the vascular system refilled; there were other haemorrhages, but not to great extent, and the patient died, emaciated and worn out with suffering, in May. The longest interval that I have known between an opera- tion for the excision of scirrhous disease in the tongue, and the return of the disease, was in the case of a lady past sixty, who was under my care for some time in 1845, for extensive scirrhous induration, and partial ulceration of the organ. The whole right half and the middle of the tongue were en- larged and hard, but the ulceration was not extensive. There was glandular swelling under the jaw. She did not suffer much pain. She could take soft and half liquid food, and was well nourished by it. During the time that she con- tinued under my care, the swelling and hardness extended to the left side, which was on the point of becoming ulce- rated. I learned from her medical attendant in the country that the original complaint, which she bad noticed a few days before he saw it, was a small fissure with thickenedTHE TONGUE—OPERATION. 563 edges, which she ascribed to the pressure of false teeth. An eminent surgeon in the neighbourhood was consulted, and recommended an immediate operation, and apiece as large as a walnut was accordingly removed, in 1836. The wound got well quickly and remained well, except occasional slight abrasions of the surface. These had returned more frequently in the last three years, terminating in little fissures. About a month before she came to London the tongue itself had considerably enlarged, and she was only capable of taking liquid food. The sublingual glands were much enlarged, but those of the neck were not affected. She did not suffer acute pain, the third of a grain of morphia at night being sufficient to procure comfortable sleep. As she was reduced in flesh, although the liquid food she took was of the most nutritive kind, she could not have lived long after returning to the country. In operating on the tongue, there are two modes of pro- ceeding, simple excision, and strangulation of the diseased part by ligature. It is necessary in both that the organ should be protruded to its full extent, and firmly held in that position towards the side of the mouth opposite to that of the disease, in order to enable the operator to carry his incision, or the application of the ligature beyond the pos- terior extent of the disease. This essential part of the pro- ceeding must be effectually performed by an assistant seizing the front of the tongue between his finger and thumb, with the intervention of a cloth sufficiently rough to give a firm hold. A French instrument for holding and drawing out the tongue, without bruising it or giving pain, although ingenious, and sufficient for its object under other circumstances, cannot be trusted on these occasions. The closure of the mouth during the time occupied by the operation, which is short, is effectively prevented by an instrument devised by Mr.EPITHELIAL CANCER. 564 Coleman, and held between the teeth of the opposite side, so as to be completely out of the operator's way, and thus very useful and convenient in many operative proceedings within the cavity of the mouth. A point of importance in this, as in all operations for the removal of cancers, is to take away with the obviously diseased parts a portion of the surrounding structures. There is copious bleeding from the exposed surface after excision, which may require, according to its extent, the ordinary means of ligature, cold water, or ice. I have never seen dangerous haemorrhage. In the other mode of proceeding, a strong thread is to be carried through the substance of the tongue at the middle of the base of the disease, with a curved needle; -when the latter is cut away, the two threads must be tied as tightly as possible, one behind and the other in front of the disease. These operative proceedings on the tongue are very painful, and, fortunately, very short in execution, as they do not admit of alleviation by the use of anaesthetics. More or less severe suffering may continue for several days after the application of the ligature. In epithelial cancer of the external organs of generation in both sexes, there is an abundant production of external growths in various shapes and sizes, often in great wart-like and fissured masses, becoming dry and rough by exposure in the male, and sometimes completely hiding the glans, form- ing in the female red and vascular excrescences, of which the surface is uneven, tuberculated, or fissured. An offensive discharge takes place in either sex, and sooner or later ulceration comes on, followed usually by disease of the inguinal glands, which enlarge and ultimately break, opening into large and irregular excavations, with thick and raised margins, abundant thin and offensive discharge. Pain, which is often inconsiderable in the early stage, increases in theOEGANS OF GENERATION—MALES. 565 progress of the disease, and is always severe in the advanced stage, the patient sinking at last under the profuse discharge and incessant suffering. In men the disease may begin on the glans or lining of the prepuce, it involves both as it proceeds, converting the end of the organ into a large and firm mass of irregular warty surface. It does not extend rapidly on the external integument, nor on the body of the penis, the anterior ends of the corpora cavernosa being found quite healthy, although completely inclosed in the diseased mass. The corpus spongiosum of the urethra is also found unaffected. Some- times the disease begins with induration of the glans, pro- ceeding to ulceration, with hardened base and edge, the pro- gress being slow, so that the disease may be seen fully esta- blished, with the prepuce still sound. Occasionally there is an adventitious deposit of firm but not scirrhous structure in the prepuce, with gradual extension of mischief to the glans, and considerable enlargement of the affected parts; the corpora cavernosa may here become involved. As soon as the character of the affection is clearly established, the operation should be performed beyond the seat of the morbid change, and with more favorable chances than in most other cancers, as the absorbent glands are not affected at an early period of the complaint. As this operation is fre- quently performed in an hospital on patients from the country, who return home when the wound is healed, we have no clear evidence on the question of permanent cure. In the case of a gentleman, on whom I had operated early, I heard incidentally, some years afterwards, that he con- tinued quite well. Should excision be performed when the glands are diseased, not merely enlarged but hardened, disease will go on in them to destruction of the patient, although the scat of the operation remains sound. Should566 EPITHELIAL CANCER—FEMALES. the affection of the absorbent glands be discovered to be simple enlargement, -without change of structure, as clearly as the case admits of, the operation might be undertaken on the chance, confessedly quite uncertain, of the glandular swelling subsiding. The disease begins in the female most frequently on the internal aspect of the labia, or in the clitoris, with obvious marks of increased vascular activity, and morbid expansion of natural structures, in various and generally painful forms. As enlargement proceeds, the movement of the parts in progression, and the rubbing of dress, are sources of much suffering and distress. Irritating applications of all kinds are injurious. Free excision is followed by sound cica- trization, and relieves completely for the time, but disease returns in the neighbourhood, and is again removed. Ulti- mately the clitoris, nymphse, and all between the labia to the entrance of the vagina are sacrificed, the whole course of the affair occupying sometimes four or five years. Ulceration may affect the prepuce in the male, the neigh- bourhood of the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina in the female, advancing slowly without great pain. It destroys the mucous membrane, and thus presents an excavated and uneven surface, with indurated and sharp cut edge. It has the character and symptoms ascribed to the rodent ulcer of the face, heretofore regarded as cancer, but having a better prospect of cure from operation. I have only seen this affec- tion in females, when from their natural delicacy they have concealed it too long to admit of operation. In a gentleman with an ulcer of this kind, nearly as large as a half-crown on the lining of the prepuce, I excised, the part, not including the integument, which was sound. I saw him twelve years after, in consequence of an apoplectic attack, from winch he died, and there had been no return of disease in the prepuce.SCROTUM. 567 The disease of the scrotum, peculiar to chimney-sweeps, not to the boys who used to climb the chimneys, but to the adults, whose occupation keeps them constantly more or less covered with soot, belougs to the epithelial class in all its leading features. It begins with an elevation of some kind, called in the trade soot-wart, and spreads around with thick- ening, swelling, and some induration, the surface being uneven, and roughened, or throwing out warty irregularities, with a broken surface. It involves the cellular tissue of the scrotum, and thus may present a more or less considerable mass of disease. In course of time it ulcerates, the sore being sometimes superficial, but irregular and painful; or there may be an ulcerative excavation with raised and thickened edge. It may go on to convert the entire integument and cellular tissue of the scrotum into one thickened and hardened mass, closely surrounding and embracing one or both testicles, which are simply included, but not changed in structure. The disease is accompanied throughout with a characteristic dis- charge of most offensive and disgusting odour. The absor- bent glands in the groin are affected sooner or later, and go through the same course as those of the jaw and neck in cancers of the tongue and lip. Effectual excision is the only remedy for this serious disease. If it is performed freely at an early period, including the testicle if it should be involved in the disease, and if exposure to the exciting cause should be discontinued, a permanent cure may be confidently expected. I removed the entire scrotum with both testicles in one case, and saw the patient alive and well at the end of thirty years. If the absorbent glands should have become recently affected, so that it may be doubted whether they are merely enlarged or changed in structure, it may be advisable to give the patient the chance of the operation, as the glan- dular swelling has been known to disappear after the removal568 EPITHELIAL CANCER. of the exciting cause, and it is an advantage at all events to get rid of the original mischief. I have had occasion, in a few instances, to remove chimney-sweeps' cancer from other parts of the body, for instance before and behind the ear : it has been a solid and firm, but not hard swelling, nearly equal in size to the last phalanx of the thumb, and without breach of surface. Cancer of the skin is sometimes seen on the hand, the skin being thickened and reddened, then ulcerated; the margin of the sore being raised and irregular, the surface uneven, and the discharge thin. There is more or less of pain, and the progress is usually slow. The gland above the internal condyle may be- come enlarged, but those in the axilla suffer more frequently. The only safety for the patient is in removal of the part before the glands have become enlarged. Although general experience is unfavorable to the use of escharotics in such cases, I mention the following as a remarkable example of their successful em- ployment under circumstances which appeared almost des- perate : I was consulted in the first week of September, 1857, by a gentleman of sixty, from the country, respecting a large and painful ulcer of the left hand. It occupied the ulnar side and extended into the palm, with dull red and uneven surface, bounded by thickened and raised integument. There was swelling with uneasiness of the entire limb, glandular enlarge- ment in the axilla, considerable fulness on the corresponding side of the chest, supposed to arise from enlargement of glands under the pectoral muscles, and some increase in number and size of the superficial veins. He considered it to have arisen from a fall, in which the hand came to the ground, in the spring of the same year. This origin was altogether doubtful, as no wound, bruise, or other damage was Occasioned. His own language, in speaking of the cause, was—" I always sup- posed it to come from a fall, and for a long time nothing wasHAND. 569 to be seen, and I suffered but little pain, some itching but no sore, the colour red and blue; after which a very great and raised sore on the palm of the hand appeared, from which I suffered great pain, and continued to get worse." The state of the limb was so alarming that I immediately proposed a consultation. Mr. Quain, whom I had the pleasure of meet- ing on the following day, after a most careful examination pronounced a decidedly unfavorable opinion, in which I entirely concurred. We advised returning home; rest, soothing local applications, and a corresponding plan of general management, to which he had not yet paid attention ; and we gave vague views of improvement with which he was well satisfied, expressing the intention of coming to London, a distance of fifty miles, twice a week, that I might watch his progress. I was agreeably surprised at seeing a slow im- provement, which had become decided both in the state of the sore and the general condition of the limb, by the middle of October, when he came to town permanently. Soon after the favorable change came to an end, and fresh outbreaks took place near the original sore, in spite of various trials and alterations in local treatment. He now heard of the American quack, then in full vogue as a cancer curer. This person did not like the look of the cancer, and would have nothing to do with it. The only choice I could now see was between giving the matter up and sending the patient home, or trying some powerful local remedy, in the belief that the unbroken state of general health and constitutional power might bring things right if the disease in the part could be got rid of. The con- siderable improvement which I had witnessed at one time seemed to let in a gleam of encouraging hope in a prospect otherwise very dark. The patient readily consented to my proposal of a consultation with Mr. Stanley, which took place in the middle of November, when we agreed that if theD/u EPITHELIAL CANCER. patient should be willing, a full trial should be made of the chloride of zinc as a last resource. This was carried into effect on the following day, when a mixture of the chloride and wheat flour in nearly equal quantities, the latter rather predominating, formed into a paste with water, and thickly spread on lint, was applied to all the ulcerated parts. Pounded ice in bladders had been prepared, in the hope of remedying by cold the intense burning pain inseparable from the action of the chloride; this, however, as well as freezing mixtures, and large doses of laudanum, were totally inefficient for the purpose, probably from the great extent of surface to which the caustic was applied. The pain still raged in the hand, which, when taken out of the freezing mixture, was of a deep red colour, and as cold as a lump of ice. I felt quite uncertain how so novel a state of parts might end, and I never saw a more severe agony than that endured by this gentleman for many hours. It gradually abated, and at last came to an end. The separation of the disorganized parts was followed, as usual, by healthy granulations and cicatrization. It was necessary some few times to apply the chloride in a mild form to some points, but the healing process went on favor- ably to a complete and healthy closure of the morbid sur- faces ; the general swelling of the limb, and the alarming state of the axilla and chest, had previously disappeared, and he left town in March, 1858, in perfect health, with a firm cicatrix, which is perfectly sound at the present time, the only imperfection being a bent state of the two last fingers from the contraction of the deep cicatrix on the ulnar portion of the palm. September, 1862. Since the preceding account Mas written, I have been favored with a call from the gentleman to whom it refers. He is an excellent specimen of health, strength, and good looks, for his age of sixty-seven, havingHAND. 0/1 greatly improved in all respects since the recovery from his painful and dangerous disease. The cicatrix is smooth, of good colour, and passes insensibly into the natural integument, which is perfectly healthy over the whole hand. It occupies about one half of the palm, and the entire ulnar edge of the hand from the wrist to the first phalanx of the two last fingers, and is continued towards the back over the metacarpal region of the little finger. It sticks inseparably to the me- tacarpal bone of that finger, and has thus confined it and the ring finger in a bent position, with little inconvenience, as it is in the left hand: the middle and last joints of both these fingers are unaffected.CHAPTER XXI. FUNGUS ELEMATODES. Fungus ELematodes is a disease as intractable and formi- dable as cancer, or ratber more so. Tbe two affections were confounded until a comparatively recent period, tbough tbe difference of consistence is too striking to bave escaped notice altogetber: bence tbis complaint was called soft cancer in the testicle, the only situation in which it had been noticed before tbe beginning of the present century. Tbe late Mr. Hey, who first clearly described the disease, gave it the name of fungus haematodes, because in a certain stage and in some situations it bursts through the skin, when a soft, and frequently bleed- ing fungus, protrudes at tbe opening. It bears other names, which mark its softness, and resemblance to tbe substance of the brain; thus it is the medullary sarcoma of Mr. Abernetby, fungus medullaris; tumeur encephaloide, or cerebriforme of the French. In reference to these names it may be observed that the morbid growth is not always characterised by softness, and tbe bleeding fungus is only an occasional occurrence. In tbis disease there is the growth of a peculiar morbid structure as a new formation or tumour in tbe intermuscular intervals of any part, or its deposition in distinct and circum- scribed masses in tbe substance of any organ. Not infre- quently the new deposition, instead of forming distinct masses, is infiltrated into the substance of somo tissue, as tbeFUNGUS HJEMATODES. 573 cellular, or in some organ, as in muscles or in the viscera. Distinct depositions and infiltration may occur in conjunction, the deposition in both ways being sometimes so abundant as to give the appearance of an organ being converted into a mass of the disease. The newly formed substance often resembles that of the brain in consistence, and even in colour; it is soft, pulpy, breaking down under the pressure of the finger; sometimes described as greasy. It is whitish, grayish, reddish, brownish, often mixed with coagulated blood, of which streaks, spots, or portions of various size, are disseminated through it. The entire mass is sometimes reddened through- out by the admixture of blood; there are sometimes cells containing fluid blood, recent coagula, or serum. The con- sistence varies; it is often soft, elastic, and conveying a sense of fluctuation so deceptive, that even experienced surgeons have sometimes formed wrong opinions respecting the nature of a disease, and have punctured a swelling in the belief that it contained fluid. In other instances the consistence is firm, and even hard, so that the nature of the disease cannot be determined by that single character. Sometimes the disease increases to an immense bulk, dis- tending the skin enormously, and completely disfiguring the affected part. It approaches to the surface, as in other cases ; the skin is thinned and tense, red or livid, and soon rises into a prominence, which is soft, and gives way by ulceration. Then comes the protrusion of a soft, irregular fungus, from which an offensive ichor flows abundantly; this sometimes bleeds, the blood partially coagulating on the surface; some- times it sloughs, and dead portions come away from time to time. Although this disease, like cancer, has usually an in- dolent period, and may even remain in that state for years, its growth is more commonly rapid and painful; suffering increases as it comes near the surface, and passes into the574 FUNGUS HNEMATODES. fungoid state. Constitutional disturbance and pain may attend throughout, with certainty of aggravation in the advanced period by loss of appetite, rest, and flesh, under which the powers of life give way, and the patient sinks. In the progress of the malady secondary disease is de- veloped in various internal organs, particularly the lungs and liver, even in the brain and bones. These are some- times more numerous and varied than in cancer. The original tumour presents on a section a clearly marked lobular arrangement, the distinction of the lobes being sometimes very complete. Their principal bulk consists of the peculiar morbid structure on which their characteristic softness depends, varying in consistence from that of the brain to thick cream. This substance sometimes escapes at once from the cut surface, but more copiously on pressure, and still more abundantly after ' maceration, becoming diffused in the water, with which it mixes readily. After this material has been got rid of, an irregular fibrous framework, by which it had been supported, remains. The firmer specimens present the same lobular character on a section, with solidity of feel and appearance, but a soft substance, of cream-like consist- ence, is brought out, in greater or less quantity, by pressing the knife along the cut surface. There is an indefinite number of intermediate gradations between the softest and the firmest of these growths, and consequently in the relative proportions of the characteristic so-called medullary material and the firmer tissue which contains and supports it. The swellings are covered by a thin capsule, which separates them from the surrounding structure. This insulation presents a striking1 contrast to the invariable extension of cancerous disease to all contiguous structures. Blood-vessels are large and numerous, with thin coats, in the medullary growths ami their capsules, also in the immediately surrounding parts,FUNGUS HiEMATODES. 575 which is immediately found out by the copious bleeding from the entire surface of the wound on their removal. The micro- scopical character comes near to that of cancer in the abun- dance of nucleated cells. The primary disease is frequently seen as a tumour in the limbs or trunk, generally originating rather deeply. The eye in infants, and the testicle in adults, are often attacked by the disease, which may appear in any of the internal organs, the lungs, liver, kidneys, prostate, bladder, uterus, ovaries. It may affect bones, muscles, skin, and the female mamma j I have never seen it in the male breast. The secondary affec- tions occur in the absorbent glands, and in almost all organs; the glands, however, are by no means so constantly involved in the mischief as in cancer. The tumours met with in the intermuscular spaces are clearly new or original formations, and may retain their distinct character throughout, although with considerable increase of size; or the morbid structure may become infil- trated in all the surrounding parts, as we find in examining the immense enlargements formed occasionally in the limbs. A patient received into the hospital under my care, in 1838, had experienced a sudden throbbing pain just below the elbow, from an exertion in lifting a basket of no great weight, in the autumn of 1833. In getting over a hurdle fence, a few days after, she felt the same kind of pain again, when she found, on examining the part, a knot the size of a pea. Producing no inconvenience, it was disregarded, but gradually increased to the size of a walnut in 1836. It had become larger, and was at times very painful, in 1837; she was ad- mitted into the hospital in April of that year, when ampu- tation was recommended as the only effectual remedy, but left the institution in a few days, declining the operation on the advice of her friends. Her country surgeon punctured the5'° FUNGUS IUEMATODES. swelling, supposing that it might be a cyst containing fluid; a small quantity of bloody serum escaped. The part became more and more painful, and the health suffered. She returned, and submitted to the operation. The tumour, which was injected, proved to be of malignant character, to have ori- ginated under the muscles, and to have passed into their substance in some places. The stump healed favorably, and continued sound; she recovered health and strength, and resumed her domestic occupations. On October 29th, a severe attack of pneumonia took place, from which, although recovery had taken place to a considerable extent, she died on January 12th, 1839, without having become materially emaciated. An examination of the body was not allowed. The pulpy substance is deposited as a distinct growth when an organ is affected, as in the eye or testicle. In the former case the disease soon fills the limited space within the globe, then disorganizes, and breaks through the tunics, confounding all the surrounding textures in one morbid mass. The fibrous and serous tunics of the testicle become distended by the new formation, which still retains its distinct character, although under great enlargement, and thus, on careful examination, we find the light brown soft glandular substance of the organ unaltered in texture, but spread over the medullary deposit, like an additional thin tunic. As a primary affection of bone, I have seen the disease only in the femur, and at its lower articular head, and in the tibia at its upper extremity, in the latter rarely. It has been seen in the upper extremity of the femur and of the humerus, and in the lower end of the tibia. The formation of a cir- cumscribed tumour could hardly be expected in such struc- tures, especially when, as frequently happens, the progress of the mischief is rapid; the medullary substance, therefore, seems to be infiltrated in the bony tissue. Much of the latterFUNGUS 1LEMAT0DES. 577 disappears, its place being supplied by the morbid growth. A patient was under my care in St. Bartholomew's, about a year ago, for a considerable general enlargement of the knee, without discoloration. He was robust, with a considerable subcutaneous stratum of fat, although little more than thirty. He was in good health, and represented himself always to have been so, and had followed his usual occupations until the time of admission. The knee, though much swelled, could be moved nearly to the full extent in flexion and extension. There was a feeling of elasticity above and on each side of the patella, with an obscure and, indeed, doubtful sense of fluctuation ; there was some pain. It was concluded, though with hesitation, to be a case of synovitis. The treatment employed under that supposition was ineffectual; the swelling increased, and the pain became so considerable that the patient urgently requested the removal of the limb, under the belief that the operation was his only resource. The undefined fulness, with the sense of elasticity, the uniform enlargement over the whole anterior and lateral aspects of the knee, and the absence of all inflammatory disturbance threatening suppuration, led to the supposition that there might be considerable and extensive swelling and thickening of the synovial membrane. The operation was performed in July, 1861, about five or six weeks after his admission; the thick flaps of integument were necessarily very large from the great bulk of the limb, but the healing process went on favorably in all respects, and the cure was rapid. The external coverings were all healthy, and the interior of the joint was equally so, with a slight exception. A soft, medul- lary mass, of light pinkish and grayish colour, with slight marks of division on its surface, completely enveloped the internal and superior aspects of the joint. The source of this was the internal condyle and shaft of the femur to about the 37578 FUNGUS H7KMAT0DES—CAUSES. height of between two or three inches. In this extent the bony structure had disappeared, its place being occupied by the disease, which had just penetrated the articular surface at one point. The chance of permanent relief by amputation is more favorable when fungus hsematodes occurs in bone than when it exists in other structures. If the whole bone can be removed, as in the case of the tibia, by amputation above the knee, the chance of permanent cure is better. The point is more doubtful in the femur, although the bone may be divided some inches above the diseased part, and where it seems quite sound. Some years ago I amputated above the thigh in a case of fungoid disease in the inner condyle of the bone. The patient was older, over forty, and thinner than in the preceding case, so that the diagnosis was easy before the operation, the event of which was perfectly satis- factory. Although the wound healed well, the stump was still swelled, with some hardness of the soft structures around the bone when the patient left the hospital, so that I warned him to let me know immediately if anything should happen. More than a year afterwards he was quite well. I gave the same caution to the patient whose case is related above when he left the hospital thirteen months after the operation, and nothing has been heard of him since. The cause is just as obscure in this case as in cancer, and we are equally at a loss in both instances for a satisfactory account of the matter. Patients frequently ascribe the origin to some accidental occurrence, often of a trivial kind, as in the instance already related at p. 575, where it seems qurte as probable that disease already begun should have caused the sensation complained of, as that the latter should have pre- ceded and excited the malady. The evidence of an external cause must be admitted in the case of a gentleman, fifty-two years of age, under my care long ago, before the formation ofCAUSES. 579 railroads. He was obliged to travel from London to the north of England, 130 miles, in the autumn of 1833, on the outside of a coach, and felt great pain from pressure of the iron forming the margin of the hard seat against the back of one limb in the ham. The part continued swollen and painful after his return home, so as to require rest and the repeated application of leeches, by which the enlargement was considered to have been cured; it was then covered by strips of adhesive plaster. A relapse of swelling and pain, for which leeches were again tried in vain, was ascribed to the confinement of the part, and a small tumour was discovered at the back of the limb near the ham. This had increased so much by February, 1834, as to require operation, by which a considerable mass of suspicious, but not very clearly characterised morbid structure was removed from the ham. The pain ceased, and the wound healed favorably, excepting a small sinus, at which it again made its appearance, higher up on the back of the limb, and it became necessary, in June of the same year, to repeat the operation, which required a long and deep incision, with removal of muscular portions involved in the disease and altered in colour. This operation, although serious in extent and depth, turned out as favorably as the preceding. After this the health gradually improved, the wound healed, and in a few months he was capable of walking without inconvenience several miles. In the summer of 1837 he again married, his health having continued excellent up to this time, and remaining in the same favor- able state till the following winter. He had retired from the neighbourhood of London, where he had carried on business, to Somerton, in Somersetshire, where he died in December, 1838, under the care of Mr. Valentine, who kindly sent me an account of the examination after death. There had been no return of disease in the thigh. An attack580 FUNGUS HvEMATODES. of pleurisy came on, ascribed to cold, and was treated in the usual manner, with partial recovery. Tumours at length ap- peared and brought him to the grave, worn down by constant irritation, and excruciating agony. Two swellings had formed externally on the left side of the chest, one on the lateral and posterior part, with a sense of fluctuation, and about eight inches in diameter; the other much smaller, over the seventh and eighth ribs, and two inches from the sternum. After death nearly the whole left side of the chest was occupied by a large swelling, with which the lung was in great part con- solidated. This was composed of very thick walls, firm exter- nally, but becoming softer and darker internally, and gradually passing into the dark brown semi-fluid and greasy mass, which formed the whole interior of the tumour. It resembled putrid brain mixed with dark blood, but had no faster, and had caused the sense of fluctuation in the external, which communicated freely with the internal swelling through the fourth and fifth intercostal spaces. About two inches in length of the sixth rib had disappeared, and for several inches before and behind this rib was softened, carious, and divested of periosteum. The smaller tumour was similar to that already described. The two surfaces of the pericardium were closely adherent throughout. Instances in which there appears any reasonable ground for referring the occurrence of fungus nematodes to external causes are insignificant in amount when contrasted with the entire list of cases, and with the still far greater number of bruises, strains, shocks, and indefinite injuries, great and small, which are constantly happening every day and every- where without any serious result whatever. How shall we be able to fathom the cause of diseases arising and pro- ceeding to a fatal termination, as they may, in the first year of the healthiest infants.581 DIAGNOSIS. Diagnosis.—In addition to the circumstance of fungus hsematodes being as strikingly characterised by softness as cancer is by hardness of structure, the two diseases are strongly contrasted in other important respects. While the latter is seldom seen under the age of thirty-five, the former occurs frequently in young subjects. It attacks the eye in infants of a few months, and probably occurs oftener in that organ during the first year than after that age ; it is common enough in adults and older subjects. I have seen the medullary disease fully developed in the testicle, removed by operation, relapsing, and proving fatal within the first year of a remarkably bulky, strong, and apparently healthy infant. From a child under two years, a testicle similarly disorganized was removed in St. Bartholomew's. After death which followed in a few months, there was a chain of dis- eased glands along the corresponding side of the pelvis and spine, numerous tubercles in the lung, and seven in the brain, the largest being equal in size to an orange, the smallest to a chestnut. They were of firm consistence, of dusky red colour with streaks of white, one was of a darker colour, having the appearance of a firm coagulum of venous blood. A complete contrast is found in the relative proportions of the two affections in the organs subject to both. This is seen in the cases of the mammary gland and testicle. Cancer is so common in the former, that the cases probably con- stitute a considerable proportion of the entire number of malignant affections; while the fungoid disease is very rare. Fungus haimatodes is of common occurrence in the testicle, in which cancer is almost unknown. The latter is ex- tremely rare in the eye, where the former is not infrequent. Indeed cancer is rare in all parts except the breast, while the medullary disease is more equally distributed over the several organs and structures. Fungus hamatodes, although582 FUNGUS MMATODES. sometimes seen as an infiltration in the tissues of the affected part, is a new formation or distinct growth in the vast majority of instances, while primary cancer is hardly known as a separate tumour; I do not remember to have seen an instance. The distinction between innocent and malignant tumours mav be generally established on satisfactory grounds by careful examination of the part and investigation of the history. The former are generally superficial in situation, slow in growth and progress, free from pain and constitutional sympathy; the latter are mostly of deep origin, enlarging rapidly with pain, and disturbing the constitution, though in rare instances they may be indolent and remain quiet without much increase for an indefinite period. Clear, however, as the distinction is in many cases, it is by no means equally so in all, so that we may feel uncertain respecting the compo- sition and nature of a swelling until the operation of excisiou offers the opportunity of clearing up what had been pre- viously doubtful. Treatment.—As we know no means of checking the course of the disease or removing it by internal remedies, we must be content with watching its progress, administering to par- ticular symptoms or states of the malady, and giving relief by opiates in the manner least likely to disturb the head or stomach. The latter object will be most effectually attained in many cases by the hypodermic employment of opium. A patient was lately under my care in St. Bartholomew's, who had undergone elsewhere amputation of the foot on account of medullary disease. Although the wound of the operation had closed and remained well, pain was experienced in the stump ; a tumour formed in the thigh, and there was a con- siderable and increasing enlargement in the abdomen, occupying the right hypochondrium and extending forwardsTREATMENT—OPERATION. 583 and downwards. He suffered intolerable pain night and day, over which morphine in considerable doses had little effect, although it disordered him greatly. The hypodermic in- jection under the skin of the forearm of half a grain of mor- phine in three minims of water produced complete relief in less than five minutes, and this lasted for twelve hours, when it was repeated. This plan was continued with the effect of keeping off pain entirely and giving good rest at night. It was necessary to increase the injections, in the same quantity, to three and then to four times in twenty-four hours, and with the same effect during the eight or ten weeks that he passed in the hospital before his death. Opium may be employed locally in the same way as in cancer. The most important point in treatment is the question of operation; and the result of experience is that, whether in the case of medullary tumours or of organs affected with this disease, although, as in cancer, the operation is successful, either the disease returns in its original seat or neighbourhood, or secondary formations take place in various parts; or, again, that these circumstances may be combined, the malady being thus inevitably fatal. Why then, it may be asked, should operation be ever resorted to ? Perhaps the strongest reason is that it sometimes prolongs life, not to great extent, not so frequently, nor for so long a period as in the case of cancer. A gentleman, whose case I shall relate, lived nearly three years after operation; and a lady operated on in the early part of 1851 for well-marked medullary disease, is now alive in perfect health. Secondly, as in cancer, the operation prevents the painful and distressing circumstances of exten- sive ulceration, fungous protrusion, sloughing, offensive dis- charges incidental to the natural progress of the disease. Thirdly, the operation may be called for by the patient as a means of escape from the severe pain and constitutional dis-584 FUNGUS HiEMATODES. turbance attendant on the disease. Fourthly, there are the doubtful cases, in which removal of the disease may be recommended by the surgeon, and will almost certainly be demanded by the patient. As the practical aspect and bearing of this question are somewhat different under different circumstances, the most convenient arrangement will be to consider it separately, in relation, first, to the cure of distinct tumours, and then to that of particular organs. CASES OF MEDULLARY TUMOURS. Case I.—Medullary tumour in the thigh ; operation. A married woman of forty-eight, who had borne a family, consulted me in summer on account of a swelling in the thigh, unattended with pain, and not preventing the performance of her duty in service. In a few weeks I saw her again, the disease having increased considerably, being firm, undefined, deeply rooted, and advancing before the femoral vessels: she was admitted into St. Bartholomew's. After the serious nature of the disease and of the operation for its re- moval had been explained, with the probability of recurrence, she consented to the proceeding, but changed her mind and left the hospital, returning in September with increased bulk of disease feeling elastic or with doubtful fluctuation. On the suggestion that it might be a cyst, a grooved needle was introduced on September 3rd, and two table-spoonfuls of a watery fluid escaped. A free incision external to the femoral vessels through the skin and subjacent fascia exposed the sartorius muscle extended over the tumour, and a firm cap- sule. "When this was divided the disease was found to be of the softest medullary kind, and was easily separated in a large mass by passing the finger round its circumference.TUMOURS. 585 As soon as this was done, the blood rose from the bottom of the wound in an alarming quantity, and streamed over the thigh of the patient, so as to cause some fear of her dying on the table. It was now necessary to adopt immediate and effectual means of stopping the bleeding, and this was accomplished by broad strips of adhesive plaster, so applied as to bring the sides of the wound into firm contact, and then supported by a firm roller. She was taken to bed, and there was no further bleeding. The wound went on favorably, the limb had recovered its natural size before Christmas, and she was thinking of her return home, when pain returned in the part, the wound opened with sanious and fetid discharge, and masses of medullary substance ; bleeding and difficulty of breathing ensued, and death took place on April 16th. Case II.—Medullary tumour of the thigh surrounding the femoral vessels, considerably detached in an operation, and then sloughing in a mass. A robust Welshman, forty-seven, employed as a policeman, who had always enjoyed good health, was received into St. Bartholomew's in October, 1849, on account of a sweUing in the right thigh, which had arisen a fortnight after a kick on the part, and nine months previously, having grown rapidly at first, and then been stationary for ten weeks. It was hard and unyielding to the touch, with tolerably free lateral motion, situated rather above the middle of the thigh. The femoral vessels were supposed to be either behind or towards the inner side of the mass, and to be unaffected as the tibial arteries pulsated equally on both sides. He could walk five or six miles without inconvenience. There was shooting pain in the inner side of the knee and ankle, and pain was excited by pressure on the inner side of the swelling which was not otherwise tender. The propriety of586 FUNGUS HiBMATODES. an operation was determined on in consultation, and I per- formed it on October 13th, beginning with an incision about eight inches in length, over the middle of the tumour, in the long axis of the limb. The sartorius was exposed and divided, when the anterior and lateral connexions of the mass were quickly severed. The tumour presented a smooth, circum- scribed outline; it was hard, but with an elastic feel. A slight incision made into its substance was followed by free arterial hemorrhage. In order to separate the mass from its deep posterior connexions, I held it upwards and kept the edge of the knife close on its surface; a violent bleeding quickly ensued from the femoral artery which was cut across j it was immediately seized and secured by ligature. The deepest attachments still remained, and the whole disease could not have been removed without cutting through the large vessels above the swelling, a proceeding which would have been out of the question even if the patient had not already lost a large quantity of blood during the operation. I therefore closed the wound, with firm support of the parts by adhesive plaster and bandage. He was removed to bed in a very low state, vomiting much, and complaining of pain in the knee, but not in the seat of disease. On the 20th the whole tumour had perished, and was converted into a black mass, surrounded by a healthy granulating surface. This slough which was easily removed on November 10th was as large as an ordinary orange, and perforated by a large artery, and by another canal lying close to it with less dis- tinct coats; these were evidently the femoral vessels. On December 13th, the wound was nearly closed and he could walk with a stick. He was discharged well on the 19th, when he returned to his residence in North Wales, where he died from return of disease in the thigh in eight weeks. Both lungs were studded with larger and smaller masses ofTUMOURS. 587 yellowish grey substance, with the characters of firm me- dullary cancer, and the mass which had returned in the scat of disease had the same appearance. Case III.—Medullary tumour of the arm, removed; relapse, and amputation at the shoulder joint. A lady of twenty-six, of fair complexion, with light hair, had enjoyed good health, but there was generally a scurvy state |of the skin, and some members of her family had suffered from scrofulous ailments. About the end of 1833, she noticed a small hard tumour in front of the right arm, unaccompanied by pain. Early in the following spring, the tumour was observed to have increased, and it was then attended with pain. It grew in spite of various means em- ployed with perseverance, becoming more and more painful. Her nights were restless, and there was much constitutional irritation. In May, 1855, I was consulted by this lady, who also saw Mr. Stanley, and we concurred in advising the removal of the tumour, which I performed accordingly. A tumult of irritative fever succeeded, attended with delirium. At this time the patient was five months advanced in her second pregnancy. This disadvantage was over-ruled by the size of the swelling, its rapidity of increase, and the certain augmentation of bulk if the proceeding had been delayed till after delivery. As the disease was found to be situated under the brachialis anticus, its exposure required a large external incision. The operation was long and severe, and the loss of blood considerable. The tumour, which lay upon the bone, but was not connected to it, having been freely movable laterally, was about the size of a small orange, dark red, firm, and much resembling a kidney in consistence. In July she returned to her residence at the sea-side. The wound was not yet healed. Three or four sinuses had588 FUNGUS HiEMATODES. formed, which continued to discharge. She slowly regained her strength; the sinuses closed, but the cicatrix retained an unhealthy appearance. In September she gave birth to a healthy child. Shortly after she began to complain of pain in the part, which had a hard and unnatural feel. A morbid growth had formed on the bone above the seat of the original disease, the arm was hard, swelled, and most acutely sensitive in its upper third, the axillary glands were unaffected, and there was almost constant lancinating pain. Mr. Stanley and myself now considered amputation to afford the only chance of prolonging life, and on the 31st of January, 1836, I performed it at the shoulder-joint. The number of vessels requiring ligature amounted to between thirty and forty. Everything went on well, and the wound was healed by the end of the tenth week. The morbid growth in contact with the bone, similar in character to that of the first tumour, was not of great bulk. All the sur- rounding vessels were much enlarged. For some time she continued to gain flesh and strength. About February, 1837, she began to complain of oppression of the chest, with diffi- culty of breathing on walking up an ascent. One day, after dinner, she went up stairs faster than usual, whereupon a spitting of blood ensued, which happened again repeatedly during the next three or four months, and was attended with a cough. These symptoms abated, and severe pain in the head came on. From this time sight was affected, gradually almost to blindness, and the senses of smell and taste were im- paired. Subsultus tendinum, and, sometimes, delirium super- vened, after violent paroxysms of pain. Death put an end to a state of the most acute suffering on the 24th of August, 1837. No examination of the body took place. The patient attributed the beginning of her ailments to an accident which had happened about two years before then-TUMOURS. 589 commencement. She was struck by the winch-handle of a swing-bridge, which caused her to complain of pain in her back and chest for some days. It could not be made out for some days that she had complained of any hurt to her arm on the occasion. Case IV.—Medullary disease, originating in the great sciatic nerve; operation. M. A. M—, set. 47, was admitted into St. Batholomew's for a tumour of the hip and the buttock. She had applied for relief two years ago, complaining of excrutiating pain in the side of the foot, which deprived her of rest. Although relieved by opiates used internally and externally; the pain never entirely left her. Shortly before admission, she men- tioned the existence of the tumour, and was received on that account, with a view to its removal. It was a bulky enlargement behind the trochanter, deeply covering the ischiatic notch, and the tuber ischii • covered by the gluteus maximus, less movable upwards and downwards than from side to side. When the muscles were put on the stretch, so as to press upon the tumour, there was a peculiar sensation of pain along the course of the nerve, and in the foot, which ceased when they were relaxed. Her general health was tolerably good. I made an incision of a foot in length through the integuments, and the gluteus muscle, and thus exposed the tumour, which was covered by a firm capsule. Upon dividing this, the swelling proved to be a reddish, vascular, and fungoid growth, of the consistence of brain, yielding readily to the pressure of the finger. It was partially removed; as it could not be detached from the pelvis, the outer and greater part of the mass was cut off; the base was then found so closely connected with the590 FUNGUS HTEMATOPES. ischiatic nerve, that it was necessary to divide the trunk, and remove about three inches, of which the fibres were sepa- rated from each other, spread out and intermingled with the substance of the tumour. Although cut through as near as possible to its exit from the pelvis, the section was necessarily made where the nerve was in the unnatural state already mentioned. Although she did not lose much blood in the operation, she began to sink a short time after, the face became pale and anxious, the features shrunken, the pulse barely per- ceptible. With the help of wine and brandy, the circulation partially recovered. Towards the evening, she again sunk, the pulse became altogether imperceptible, the extremities cold, the teeth firmly closed, and the action of the heart could just be ascertained. Brandy and liquor ammonia} were resorted to, and animation slowly returned, but she con- tinued insensible for three or four hours, tossing about con- tinually. The operation had been performed in December, and she left the hospital well in March, with sensation and power of motion in the front of the thigh, but none in the foot. Some months after, the foot had recovered sensation and motion to such a degree that she could walk well with a stick, and she continued in good health. She went on well for nearly two years, and then died from return of the disease. Case V.—Malignant {medullary ?) tumour on the thigh, with several formations in other parts of the body. Life pro- longed for many years after amputation. The Eev. C. H. S— consulted Sir Astley, then Mr. Cooper, in 1819, for a tumour on the thigh, which had begun six months previously, appeared spontaneously, and had grown rapidly. Mr. Cooper considered the disease to be fungus hsematodes, and recommended amputation, to winchTUMOURS. 591 the patient consented, and took a lodging near London; the day was fixed and the surgeon attended. He was probably alarmed by the state of the patient, and postponed further proceedings until a consultation should be held on the case. Sir Everard Home, Messrs. Cline and Abernethy, who met him on the occasion, were unanimous in the opinion that the disease was malignant, and that an operation would be hopeless. The patient returned to his residence in the countiy, under what seemed equivalent to a sentence of death, and determined in his despair to see Sir David Dundas of Richmond, an excellent practitioner of long expe- rience, who had seen him originally, and did not think quite so badly of the case, not regarding it as desperate. He also requested the attendance of Sir W. Blizard and myself in consultation on his case. We found a large tumour on the inside, and rather to the front of the left thigh, a little above the knee; it was of bright red colour and had an elastic feel. There was a firm, indolent tumour, as large as an egg, deeply seated at the back of the pelvis, and a similar one in the back near the spine; one as large as a nut in the left eyebrow; while several small knots could be felt under the skin in various parts of the body. He was worn down by the irritation of this disease and entire want of rest to the greatest degree of weakness, excessively emaciated, with rapid and feeble pulse, and profuse fetid perspiration. The case seemed to me perfectly hopeless; Sir W. Blizard, who thought that a very slight chance of benefit was offered by removal of the limb, amputated high up two days afterwards. The patient was immediately relieved from the more serious and distressing symptoms, and eventually got well, remaining in a fair state of health, though subject to irregular and often severe pains of nervous character, sensitive to external in- fluences, and obliged to manage himself very cautiously.592 FUNGUS HNEMATODES. In 1825 it had been necessary to remove the superciliary tumour, which had become larger and troublesome, a portion of the supra-orbitary nerve, being closely adherent, was taken away with it. In December, 1828, he consulted me on account of a swelling in the forearm, as large as a walnut, apparently connected with the ulnar nerve, and causing pain with various sensations in the course of that nerve, upwards and downwards. The dorsal and pelvic tumours were un- changed } knots could be felt under the skin in various parts, but were not visible. He was nervous and irritable, with an aged look, and an expression of suffering. In February, 1829, the tumour in the forearm was removed; it was deep, firm in texture, and closely connected with a nerve, of which a portion was removed with it. The wound healed favorably. In De- cember, 1830, a tumour, which had formed since the last ope- ration, was removed from the stump. He had not been aware of its existence until his attention had been directed to the part by violent lancinating pains. This was equal in size to a goose egg, circumscribed, and presenting on division an appearance like that of scirrhus of the mammary gland, but less hard. It extended to the tuber ischn, so that the exposure and complete removal of the mass required an incision in the whole length of the stump. Although never in good health, and occasionally suffering severely, he lived on till about 1846, the tumours on the back and pelvis having remained in their original state. Case VI.—Large tumour of suspicious character in the thigh; operation. Cases of various kinds are frequently met with, for which we are at a loss to find a proper place in our nomenclature and classification, and we are sure to meet with such doubtful examples among tumours, as in the instance of a gentlemanDISEASE OF THE EYE. 593 who had a swelling in the back of the thigh, occupying nearly the entire length of the part. I made an external incision, at least a foot in length, and found the large diseased mass closely covered, and inclosed with the flexors of the knee by the fascia lata. Having made a slit in that structure, I had the pleasure of finding that the connexions of the disease were loose, so that when the division of the fascia had been sufficiently extended, I was able to turn out the mass almost completely with the fingers. The blood welled up so copiously and rapidly from the entire surface of the great cavity thus exposed, that it was necessary for the safety of the' patient to stop the haemorrhage immediately and effectually. This object was accomplished by bringing the sides together, and applying strong pressure by means of adhesive plasters and roller. Expecting the occurrence of subsequent bleed- ing, and of difficulty and delay in the process of healing, my fears far exceeded my hopes. There was, however, no further trouble, the wound healed quickly and well, and nothing unfavourable had occurred in the next year or two. The disease consisted of a rather loose but very vascular texture, of which I do not remember the exact character. MEDULLARY DISEASE IN THE EYE. The organ of vision is one of the most frequent seats of this very serious and alarming disease, which is often met with in healthy children, and in the first year of existence. The morbid substance is usually deposited in the fundus of the globe, where it is distinctly visible through the transparent media, and produces a bright metallic reflection in the pupil which can be hardly overlooked, as it contrasts so remarkably with the natural clear black of that opening. The increase 38594 FUNGUS H7EMAT0DES. of the deposit distends the eye and disturbs its circulation, soon causing opacity of the lens, and pushing the iris against the cornea. The circumstance could not be more favour- able to the complete removal of malignant disease in its earliest stage. This has been repeatedly done with uniform failure by return of disease in the part, and ultimate fatal termination. The hope of benefit from an operation being thus entirely abandoned, we anxiously inquire whether a chance of relief can be discerned from any other source. There is some evidence that the employment of mercury in an early stage of the disease, probably before the crystalline lens and iris have suffered in any way, may sometimes check the complaint, and even lead to what may be called a temporary cure. I was consulted in the case of a boy sis years of age, in good health, in whom the disease had been accidentally dis- covered by the metallic reflexion in the pupil; the eye ap- peared healthy in all other respects, but vision was lost, which had not been observed previously. I ordered the gray powder two or three times daily, in doses of two or three grains, pushing the remedy as far as could be done with safety to health. The lens soon became opaque, and the iris was a little pushed forward. The disease, instead of increasing, became quiet, the lens was slowly absorbed, and an opaque capsule remained behind the pupil, effectually concealing the interior of the globe. The general ap- pearance of the organ was not altered. The health re- mained good for ia year or two from the first notice of the disease. He then had a serious illness, attended with pain in the head, and considered by the attendant physician to be water in the head. From this he recovered, and remained tolerably well for nearly two years. The physician remarked that he looked remarkably well, and actually inquired whichTESTICLE. 595 eye was dark, as both looked so exactly alike. He seemed perfectly well on the evening before his death; on the follow- ing morning at breakfast he was sick and complained of excruciating pains in the head, which went on for six hours, when he expired at the age of ten years and a half. The contents of the cranium were actively congested, and a small portion of firm diseased structure was discovered on tjie inner flat surface of one cerebral hemisphere. In the early part of 1841, I saw a child from Liverpool, in consultation with the late Mr. Thomas and the late Mr. C. Guthrie. It was an unequivocal example of fungus haema- todes of the eye. The lens and iris being unaffected, I pro- posed the long-continued use of mercury in small doses. In June, 1842, I received a letter from Mr. Neill, of Liverpool, stating that " some four months ago, a smart attack of in- flammation took place in the diseased eye, which was re- duced by leeching, &c, since which time a wasting away of the eyeball has been going on similar to that wasting which goes on after a punctured wound in the neighbourhood of the eye, and the eyeball is now a mere yellow shining morsel, not a fourth of the natural size. The other eye is showing symptoms of disorganizing inflammation also, and the vision is becoming very indistinct. The pupil does not dilate by the use of belladonna, the iris is puckered round the edge, and the eye has the appearance as if the posterior humours pushed the iris against the cornea, as is often seen in glaucoma." FUNGUS HNEMATODES OF THE TESTICLE. Medullary disease is frequently met with in this organ, more often in the active period of life, from twenty to forty,596 FUNG-US I17EMAT0DES. than at an earlier or later age. I have already alluded to two cases, of which one terminated fatally in the first, and the other in the second year (see p. 581). The disease may be of the softer or firmer kinds, it may advance more or less rapidly, hut seldom exists for more than a year without having attained a magnitude which leads to the question of operation. The enlargement is of uniform surface, and covered by healthy scrotum. It is not a painful affection. I have never seen it make its way externally, though in an instance where the disease had been left to its full development and secondary formations had taken place in various parts, the original tumour was full ten inches in length. The part is generally removed by operation, although no instance is known of permanent cure from that proceeding. The wound heals in the usnal way, and the cicatrix remains sound, but death is gradually brought on by a large development of disease in the abdomen covering the spinal column behind the peritoneum, and generally involving the pelvic and lumbar glands. The duration of life after the operation varies, as will be seen in the three following cases, of which the last presents the greatest prolongation within my own experience. Case I.—A gentleman, fifty years of age, of healthy ap- pearance, but bearing scars in the neck, indicating that the glands in that region had suffered considerably in early life, consulted me for an enlargement of the testicle to the size of a fist, which had been gradually increasing for two years, mercury having been taken so as to affect the system, and the iodide of potassium having also been given freely without any influence on the complaint. After a consultation ou the case, and assisted by Mr. Stanley, I removed the testicle, which was a well marked specimen of medullary disease, from the cut surface of which thick creamy fluid could beTESTICLE. 5»7 scraped out in considerable quantity. On the tenth day after the operation, when the wound had united well, I was suddenly summoned and found him in a high fever. He was bled from the arm with alleviation of the symptoms, but died in twenty-four hours. On examination, all the thoracic and abdominal viscera were found healthy. Over the large vessels on the vertebral column and behind the peritoneum, the cellular tissue was infiltrated with a large quantity of medullary disease. The lumbar glands were healthy. Case II.—I was called to a clergyman in the country with an enlarged testicle, which his surgeon had declined to re- move, principally on account of swelling and thickening of the cord. At an earlier period this gentleman, a cautious and prudent practitioner, had punctured the swelling, in the belief that it was hydrocele, and he was so firmly convinced on this point that he made a second puncture, as the first had been unsuccessful. The tumour was of firmer con- sistence when I saw the case, and the cord was merely affected by the increased weight of the part. The patient had de- termined to undergo the operation unless some other effectual treatment could be recommended, and I therefore removed the testicle, of which the cord was simply thickened. The testicle presented an example of firm, medullary disease, of a thick reddish fibrous structure, with deposits of coagula throughout. The patient soon got well and seemed perfectly recovered; the wound healed and remained sound. He continued in good health. About a year after that time, he began to waste in flesh, he lost his appetite, and felt ill, without any definite complaint, though the symptoms rather pointed to the chest. He grew worse and worse, and died. Case III.—A gentleman of fifty-one, of robust frame and598 FUNGUS HiBMATODES. considerable bodily power, who had always enjoyed good health, experienced, in the summer of 1849, a swelling of the right testicle, of uniform surface, firm, but not hard, and free from pain. It increased gradually in spite of the use of mercury carried to salivation, and I removed it on Decem- ber 16th. It was a specimen of the medullary disease in its firmer form, and the cord was quite healthy. He recovered so rapidly from the operation as to be able to leave town on the eleventh day after its performance. He continued in full health and strength, discharging his professional duties as a barrister in large practice with perfect ease and efficiency. Just after Christmas, 1851, the left leg began to swell, and the whole limb was considerably enlarged by the end of February, 1852, the health and spirits being good. Soon after the right foot and leg became cedematous, and both limbs were greatly swollen, the state of general power being so good that he still attended in court, and addressed the jury sitting. The general health failed, pain came on in the right loin, he gave up professional duty, and took to his bed in the end of April. Suppression of urine came on in the beginning of May; on the 11th of that month he became uuconscious, and died in a few minutes. A large white mass of disease, consisting of a brain-like or creamy matter, inter- spersed with firmer portions of more solid and yellow material, had formed behind the viscera, covering and closely adhering to the lumbar spine. It extended on either side along the brim of the pelvis, involving the iliac vessels and the ureters, encroaching upon and covering the kidneys, both of which were soft, while the left was small, and showed much white inflammatory deposit. All other parts were healthy. A geutleman, about twenty-five, who had suffered repeat- edly from clap, contracted that complaint again in the autumnTESTICLE. 599 of 1837, the symptoms being extremely violent. They had gradually abated, so that he was able to resume his usual avocations, which required great personal exertion, when, at the end of February, 1838, the discharge not having entirely ceased, the right testicle swelled, and became painful, the complaint being considered and treated as hernia humoralis from clap. The swelling lessened, but did not disappear. In March, 1839, it enlarged'again, without much pain, and resist- ing all remedies both local and internal, had attained the size of the fist, when I saw him in July, and removed it by opera- tion. It was the first case in which I had seen the disease as a distinct new growth imbedded in the substance of the testi- cle. The disease in this case was in the body of the testicle, which presented a uniform oval enlargement, of normal appearance, so far as the external covering was concerned, except at one point, where the membranes were a little raised by a yellowish body, as large as a horsebean. On cutting through the testicle, a large oval tumour was found growing from behind, and surrounded everywhere by a thin layer of the glandular substance of the testicle in a nearly normal state. The tumour was not homogeneous; portions were yellow, others red, whitish, or grayish. It was moderately firm, and a prominent knot of its substance had raised the tunics at the point already mentioned. This gentleman died in about a year after the operation, having become indisposed without any mark of local affection, excepting pain in the abdomen and back. In January, 1841, I removed a diseased testicle exactly similar to the preceding, in the case of a gentleman, aged twenty-nine, who had previously enjoyed good health. The disease had existed four months. The wound healed rapidly, and he had enjoyed excellent health, and looked well when I saw him in September of the same year, but he had expe-GOO FUNGUS H.NEMATODES. rienced lately pains in the back and loins, and sometimes along the front of the thighs. A large tumour could be felt in the abdomen below the epigastric region, and a smaller on the spine below. FUNGUS BLEMATODES IN THE BONES. I have already mentioned this subject, and related two cases in which amputation of the femur had been performed with apparently permanent success, on account of this disease, in the condyloid portion of the bone (see pp. 577 and 578). Having there stated that the chance of perfect recovery is greater when the head of the tibia is the seat of the disease, I think it necessary to mention two cases which throw some doubt on this point. Case.—Medullary disease in the superior articular extremity of the tibia, with secondary affection of the inguinal glands and the liver. I was consulted on February 21st, 1825, by a gentleman, twenty-two years of age, tall, of stout frame, fair com- plexion, and light hair, for a swelling at the knee. There was a general fulness about the tibia, with a slight red- ness. -Pain was brought on by exercise and ceased by rest. I thought it an inflammatory affection of the bone, and treated it accordingly. Having been quite well at the pre- ceding Christmas, he had felt pain in the knee since, and supposing it to be rheumatic had endeavoured to dance it off, and went to Cambridge to pursue his studies. He returned to London in the beginning of March, when the complaint was worse. The late Mr. Okes, of Cambridge, had felt pulsation in the part, and thought the disease aneurismal.BONES. 601 There was now a tumour between the bones, and imme- diately under the knee, with general fulness at the same part, and some swelling below. The most prominent part of the tumour was so elastic that no doubt existed of its containing fluid. There was some pain on pressing the tibia; no pulsa- tion in the swelling, but that of the tibial arteries was sup- pressed, though plain on the opposite side. There was general indisposition, with loss of appetite. The case appeared quite doubtful to two eminent surgeons, who saw the patient in consultation with me. The swelling now enlarged with a considerable protrusion standing out under the knee, without any definite boundary, and continuous so as to include the tibia in its basis. At this time the tibial arteries again pul- sated. There was much constitutional affection, with accele- rated pulse, loss of appetite, and bad nights. The sensation of fluidity was now so strongly marked that a deep puncture was made in the swelling, with the sanction of a surgeon called into consultation on the point; nothing escaped but blood. The necessity of amputation was now apparent, and I removed the limb about the 6th of April. He died of bleed- ing on the sixth day, from the femoral artery giving way in the night. The end of the vessel was found completely open, the ligature with its knot entire lying in the stump. A medullary growth, soft and brain-like, filled a large excavation in the head of the tibia. It extended forwards to form the tumour, and backwards under the calf, just at the division of the popliteal artery, thus accounting for the pulsation in the early stage of the swelling, for the suppression of the pulse in the tibial arteries so long as the tumour was confined by the strong fascia, and its subsequent return when the disease was no longer bound down by this structure. The inguinal glands, which had been observed to be slightly enlarged, were diseased, and presented a marbled appearance602 FUNGUS MMATODES. on section, from intermixture of white medullary matter witli the natural light brown of the gland. One or two glands in the pelvis were diseased in a similar way; and there was a medullary tubercle in the thin edge of the liver as large as a gooseberry. FUNGUS HjEMATODES OF THE FEMALE BREAST. I removed the mammary gland of a lady, about twenty- two, in good health, on account of a firm tumour situated near the centre; it had not been observed long, and was free from pain; there was not glandular affection in the axilla. It is doubtful whether she would have resorted to surgical advice if she had not been engaged to be married within a short time, and then to accompany her husband to India. The disease was a deposition of medullary substance with small portions of coagulated blood, about equal to a large walnut, the gland being otherwise perfectly healthy. Her death occurred in India within two years of her departure from England, without suspicion of its having been con- nected with the former disease in the breast. A married lady, forty-eight years old, of stout frame and healthy constitution, who had borne several children, having experienced some pain in the breast, and bleeding from the nipple, and also found a swelling in the part, consulted me on the subject. In the breast, which was large and otherwise healthy, there was a firm swelling, without retraction of the nipple or enlargement of the axillary glands. There had been discharge of blood from the nipple several times. I removed the entire gland. When it was cut through, a quantity of dark blood, not unlike treacle in colour and con- sistence, flowed out, having been contained in a cellular structure, which seemed to consist of vascular ramifications contorted and confused as in a nffivus. In this was imbeddedFEMALE BREAST. 603 a portion about equal to a filbert, of soft, reddish medullary substance, contained in a cyst, from which it was easily detached by the handle of a knife. The surrounding cellular substance was thickened and compact, so as to give the lump the firm feeling of scirrhus. No other disease was found in the gland. Case of permanent recovery after operation. The most remarkable case which I have seen of fungus hsematodes affecting the female breast is that of a lady, in whom the operation, performed under circumstances all but desperate, was followed by complete recovery, which may probably be deemed permanent now after the lapse of eleven years without interruption or alarm. This lady, rather tall, dark complexion, and apparently healthy constitution, married, but without children, said that there had been some swelling of the right breast in early youth, for which plaster and medicines had been used. It was not further noticed till 1848, when the part was submitted to the exami- nation of a practitioner, who, although he stated that it was of no consequence, and would soon be cured, employed various fomentations and medicines, and recommended gene- rous diet, raw eggs especially, to keep up the constitution, which did not fail till the tumour began to enlarge rapidly, in September, 1850, when it was pronounced to be an abscess. In December appearances like boils began, with swelling of the face, tongue, and throat, till January, 1851, on the 31st of which month she represented that she broke down with extreme sickness, and was obliged to keep in bed entirely. I saw her in the beginning of February, when the first aspect of the disease and of the patient gave so strong an impression of utter hopelessness as required some time and reflection to counteract. There was a oTeatFUNGUS HtEMATODES. 604 mass of disease in a truly frightful state, commencing at the very back of the axilla, including the right breast, enormously enlarged, and reaching over to the sternum. Excepting the axilla, where the skin was not affected, there was not a healthy piece of integument over the rest of the bulk. The distended and thinned skin was of a dusky red throughout, except over .the central portion of the mass, where it had mortified, and now presented a large dirty gray slough, covering a quantity of semi-fluid, disorganizing struc- tures; the rest of the mass had the softness of medullary disease, and the whole was so far movable on the chest as to show that there was no firm connexion at the base. The ignorant pretender to whom this lady had entrusted her health and life for three years had represented that the abscess, as he called it, was about to break, and that she would then be well. The pulse was very feeble, the powers of life being nearly exhausted by pain, want of appetite and sleep. The alternative was clear, certain death within a week, or an operation which might prove fatal. I mentioned my will- ingness to undertake the operation, as affording the only chance of prolonging life, but without guaranteeing its safety. The operation, under the influence of chloroform, carefully administered by Mr. Coote, was performed on February 8th, 1851, the long incisions and the detachment of the mass being executed as rapidly as possible, in order to limit to the smallest amount the inevitable loss of blood; and with the same object the surface was covered with lint firmly held on as fast as it was exposed. Brandy was given previously and during the operation, which was accomplished with little bleeding and hardly any suffering. The constitution was at once greatly relieved, rest being procured by moderate opiates, while fluid nourishment and stimuli were freely taken and well borne. On April 18th, recovery was sufficiently advancedFEMALE BEEAST. 605 to allow of the air being taken in a carriage. I was aware that diseased parts had been left in the axilla and neighbour- in"- side of the chest, as the condition of the patient would not have allowed the prolongation of the operation by what would have required careful dissection, and the exposure of a region which it is always desirable to avoid. The parts thus left seemed to come forward towards the surface, and were thus accessible in two minor operations, on April 23rd and May 27th; and a more considerable proceeding under chloro- form was necessary on July 19th. The entire wound was com- pletely closed by July 31st; and I had the pleasure of meeting the patient with perfect recovery of health, strength, and good looks, at the Exhibition of 1851, in August. She says that her health has been better since the operation than before, and the cicatrix, which I have seen within the present month (October, 1862), is in a perfect state. The enormous stinking mass removed by the operation was too much disorganized for satisfactory examination, but it presented the usual appear- ances of medullary disease, and had undoubtedly been entirely of that structure. The portions subsequently removed were of light pink colour, very soft, and closely resembling foetal brain. The same kind of soft structure in small portions sprung up repeatedly in the part of the wound nearest to the axilla during its healing, so as to retard the process of cicatri- zation. This occurred not less than ten times. I scooped these out carefully with the end of a director, when not larger than a filbert, and rubbed the exposed surface thoroughly with nitrate of silver. There must have been in the case of this lady a strong dis- position to malignant disease. An elder sister died some years before my attendance, without having undergone opera- tion, of disease in the breast with all the characters, as clearly described to me, of medullary cancer. A younger sister,GOO FUNGUS H/EMATODES. unmarried, had disease of both breasts, which I removed in succession. The character of the affection was not so strongly marked as in the former case. There was general change of structure throughout the gland, which could only be referred to the fungoid class. The right breast was removed on June 7th, ] 851, the lady being then forty-four. A soft swelling, the size of a large walnut, was removed from the axilla in July, 1854. The left breast was removed in January 2nd, 1855, the parts on the right side remaining perfectly sound. She died from erysipelas and exhaustion on the 13th of the same month. The uterine functions were performed regularly in both ladies during the whole of their illness. The preceding 'case is calculated to impress a caution against pronouncing absolutely that a case is malignant and necessarily fatal under circumstances that may admit of doubt, and then refusing to give the patient the chance of an operation which might prolong life for a longer or shorter time. These points are strikingly illustrated in a case of serious disease in another quarter, which was under my care in St. Bartholomew's, in 1851. The following narrative was drawn up by Mr. Edmund Archer, my house surgeon, who had the immediate charge of the patient: Case of disease in the right superior maxillary bone, extending across the bony palate, and ending in a considerable swell- ing on the corresponding bone of the left side. H. J—, set. 22, a robust, healthy girl, was seen at the surgery of St. Bartholomew's, in February, 1850, with a small circular livid growth, occupying the interspace of the two upper bicuspid teeth on the right side, and involving also the gums immediately adjacent. It was freely removed, and caustic was applied to the exposed surface. Healing took place rapidly, and no appearance of reproduction oc-SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE—RECOVERY. 607 curred until several weeks after, when the cicatrix was found to have assumed the same livid hue as the original growth had exhibited; the suspicious spot was, therefore, a second time excised, and a portion of the alveolar border of the upper jaw was removed by cutting forceps, the potassa fusa being at the same time freely applied. Cicatriza- tion again took place, but more slowly. The part re- mained, however, without any appearance of reproduction until the expiration of nearly six months, when she was ad- mitted under the care of Mr. Stanley, by whom the livid cicatrix was once more removed, and the subjacent surface of bone carefully scraped. She remained several months in the hospital, during which the growth rapidly returned, involving now the right antrum, and also a portion of the left superior maxillary bone. Nearly all the teeth in the upper jaw became loose; a considerable projection occupied the right cheek, corresponding ala nasi, and the hard palate on both sides. The cavity of the right nostril, and the nasal duct, were completely obstructed, and the glands beneath the jaw were enlarged. The orbit was not involved. Consultations of the surgeons were frequently held on the question of operation, as the patient was very solicitous for its removal at any risk. The unanimous opinion was against the proceeding, partly because the disease had spread over the palate and formed a firm swelling on the left side of the - mouth, and partly in consequence of two small, moderately firm swellings, apparently connected with the bone, which had formed at the vertex of the skull. At length the poor girl left the hospital on February 3rd, 1851, and sought assistance at other institutions, the surgeons connected with which are not ordinarily remarkable for timidity in operative surgery j but no interference was deemed expedient. On February 13th, 1851, she was re-admitted into St. Bartholomew's608 FUNGUS H7EMATODES. under the care of Mr. Lawrence. The case was again care- fully considered by the surgeons of the hospital, and by several eminent foreigners, both continental and American, amongst whom were M. Roux of Paris, and Dr. Warren, of Boston, all of whom concurred in the opinion that the disease was malignant, and that any operation must be utterly useless. The swelling in the right cheek is now about as large as half an orange; the lips stick together during sleep, a bloody discharge issues from the right nostril, especially in the morning. From time to time three loose teeth have been, extracted from the upper jaw, and on each occasion nearly half a pint of blood has been lost, with marked but temporary alleviation. The swellings on the head are no longer perceptible. Complete despair now seemed to have taken possession of the unhappy patient; advice and remonstrance were alike unheeded, and she had determined on self-destruction, unless some operation could be undertaken. Once more the several circumstances of the case engaged the serious attention of Mr. Lawrence, who, still considering, in concurrence with all who had seen the case, that the removal of the entire disease was altogether impracticable, turned his attention to the great and increasing size of the original mass, which already filled the month, so as to render feeding difficult and painful, and almost to prevent articulation; and he came to the conclusion that it was not only justifiable, but almost necessary to take away that part, although the free bleedings which had followed the extraction of the teeth created some anxiety respecting the larger hEemorrhage that must attend the operation. He therefore determined to comply with the urgent solicita- tions of the patient by removing that part of the disease which included the right upper jaw-bone, excepting its orbital portion, which was unaffected, and to leave the leftSUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE—RECOVERY. 609 half behind. This would at least relieve the patient from the present increasing annoyance of the large and offensive mass in the mouth, and afford opportunity for observing the further progress of the affection, deferring the con- sideration of the entire extirpation of the disease, in the event of its proving non-malignant, until amendment in health and spirits might enable him to undertake the task with less fear of so dreadful a result as death on the opera- ting-table. In the operation performed on May 25th, the patient, having been placed under the full influence of chloroform, an incision was made extending from the malar eminence to the angle of the mouth, and dividing the whole thickness of the cheek. The flaps were then dissected in either direction; the connexions of the superior maxillary bone were divided by bone forceps, and the bone, with the diseased growth, was removed. Alarming haemorrhage occurred during the opera- tion, nor was it until some hours afterwards that the state of the circulation was sufficiently recovered to warrant us in regarding her without feelings of serious apprehension. She was placed near an open window, cloths wrung out of cold water were lightly and suddenly thrown on the chest, the part being afterwards quickly rubbed dry, hot bottles were applied to the feet and axillee, and she was assiduously plied with brandy and ammonia. At four o'clock a hare-lip needle with twisted suture was used at the angle of the mouth, and the rest of the wound was closed by four inter- rupted sutures. At eight o'clock warmth had been restored, but the pulse remained extremely feeble and frequent. Two days after the operation, slight inflammatory swelling appeared round the wound. She was thirsty and feverish; pulse frequent, 128; bowels were constipated. Six leeches were applied with marked relief. The bowels acted several 39610 DISEASE OF THE UPPElt JAW. times, after a dose of castor-oil. The sutures were removed on the fifth day, when the edges of the wound were united throughout, and the feverish symptoms had entirely dis- appeared. She left the hospital July 9th, 1851, with the wound firmly united, the aperture in the roof of the mouth much re- duced in size, and interfering but little with articulation by the insertion of a piece of moistened bread into the orifice. There was not any increase of the disease on the opposite side. When the patient went home, the morbid deposit still re- mained in the palate, and there was a firm, round tumour, equal in size to a large walnut, closely connected to the outer and back part of the left superior maxillary bone, and projecting into the mouth. These relics of the malady, which caused neither pain nor inconvenience, lessened very slowly, and at last entirely disappeared. She was fitted with a plate bearing a regular row of upper teeth; mastication and articulation were perfect, and no trace of the disease or operation was observable, either within the mouth or exter- nally. Very close inspection was necessary to discover the line of the cicatrix in the cheek and upper lip, and I had some difficulty in making it out. The morbid growth in this case possessed great vascularity and rapidity of growth, and it had consequently spread to an alarming extent within a short time. It had been seen and examined by many surgeons, both foreign and English, who had unanimously pronounced it to be malignant, although the result of the operation showed that this opinion was incorrect. To the last two cases of operation, performed with suc- cessful result, under the most discouraging circumstances in the presumed nature of the disease, it will be instruc- tive to subjoin an instance of precisely opposite character, in which a dangerous and inevitably fatal secondary disease hasMALIGNANT (?) DISEASE OE TONSIL. 611 appeared after the removal of a part to which not the slightest suspicion of malignant character could attach. A man, about forty-five, who had always enjoyed good health, his occupation through life having been agricultural, came into St. Bartholomew's under my care, for an enlargement of the right tonsil, presenting the usual character of hypertrophy, and obviously requiring excision, an operation which I had never performed, except on much younger subjects. The only complaint was of some difficulty in swallowing, apparently dependent on the enlargement. This was rather beyond the bulk that could be passed into the opening of the so-called guillotine, usually employed, in the operation. I therefore cut off as much as protruded, with the effect of remedying completely what had been complained of. The part removed was simply hypertrophied tonsil. He returned to the country, with a strict injunction to come back if any further inconvenience should be experienced. He came to the hospital again in the month of October, with a swelling as large as an egg, proceeding from the former site, and seeming to fill the pharynx, so as to produce a formidable impediment to the act of swallowing. This I removed with the ecraseur, getting the loop of the chain over the lower end of the swelling, which was at some distance below the tongue, drawing up the ends, so as to include the root of the mass, and then fixing them to the movable branches of the instrument, the action of which caused so much choking feel and involuntary efforts of the surrounding parts, that it was necessary to hasten the process, which was accom- plished almost without loss of blood. The part removed ap- peared as an entire tonsil, simply enlarged by hypertrophy, with slight surrounding covering of cellular tissue in a per- fectly natural state. The section presented a substance of very light brown tint, similar to that of the natural612 MALIGNANT (?) DISEASE OF TONSIL. gland, and in a lobular arrangement. Mr. Savory reported that a most careful microscopical examination detected nothing but gland elements. This patient came once more to the hospital in July of the present year, with a swelling appa- rently glandular, larger than my fist, under the right sterno- mastoideus, of firm but not scirrhous hardness, and covering closely all the important structures at the side of the neck up to the angle of the jaw. It was not painful, and had not been so during its increase, which had been rather rapid. My colleagues and myself regarded this swelling, which had attained its great bulk within a few months after the removal of a primary disease, as a malignant affection, de- ciding, at once and unanimously, that it was not a fit case for operation. If it could have been considered merely as an innocent affection, I should not have hesitated to attempt its removal, although the operation would have been formidable and dangerous to life at the time, besides being very doubtful in its result. Considered as a secondary fatal tumour con- sequent on a primary disease, to which no suspicion of malig- nancy could be attached, it is of no slight practical importance. The diseased structure of two mammary glands, excised in cases of which the details have been previously related, was pronounced to be perfectly innocent after careful examina- tion, including microscopical scrutiny by persons of com- petent experience and judgment. Yet in one of these (p. 532) hard scirrhous knots formed in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix three times, while on one occasion the latter and the subjacent structure were indurated, so as to require removal j while in the other (p. 534) an enormous mass of disease formed within a short time, and filled the abdomen and the neighbouring inguinal and femoral regions on the side opposite to that of the diseased breast. These three cases show us that the character of malignancy may exist when noMALIGNANT (?) DISEASE OF TONSIL. 613 traces of nucleated cells are to be found j so that, however interesting these bodies may be in a pathological point of view, they afford little, if any, assistance in deciding practical questions. The unfavorable result of these three cases is the more puzzling when contrasted with the unexpected and per- manent cure which occurred in the case at p. 606, and more particularly in that at p. 603, in which all the characters of fungus hsematodes were seen in their most unequivocal form.CHAPTER XXL MELANOSIS—OSTEOID CANCER. Melanosis, a greek word of the same spelling, from nikaivw, to blacken, might he equivalent to black disease in English. It is a malignant affection, analogous in consistence to fungus hsematodes, but strikingly distinguished by its colour, which is that of the deepest sooty blackness, owing to the intermixture with its texture of pigmentary matter like that of the choroid membrane of the eye, or of the rete mucosum of the black races. It is sometimes seen in dark tints of blackish brown or gray, and even in lighter shades of those colours. It differs from the medullary disease, inasmuch as it has been seen in the primary form only in the skin and the eye, so far as my own experience goes. In the latter organ, instead of occurring like medullary disease xn early life, it is not seen before adult age. Its secondary manifes- tations are more numerous than even in cases of fungus haematodes. In the skin it has frequently begun in one of the con- genital malformations known in common language as moles, being slightly elevated portions of integument, of brownish or darker colour, smooth or uneven surface, classed among n*vi, and owing their colour to the admixture of pigmentary particles. These moles usually continue unchanged through life, but they may if somewhat large, swell and becomeMELANOSIS—SKIN. 615 painful. The surface may be fretted, by rubbing of dress, into a sore, with painful and occasionally bleeding fungus, and then with melanotic degeneration. This is followed by secondary swellings in the neighbourhood, and gradually in important internal organs, with inevitably fatal termination. I saw a case during life, and witnessed the examination after death under the care of Mr. LangstafF, who has given a detailed account of it in the third volume of the f Medico- Chirurgical Transactions/ It began in a large mole on the shoulder, which had swelled and become troublesome, being of dark, bluish-red colour, and about three quarters of an inch in circumference. It was excised and found to consist of a firm, purple vascular mass growing from the cutis. There was much bleeding, and the part healed slowly. Two tumours had formed in the axilla, and rapidly increased after the operation, forming at last a swelling which weighed four pounds after death. Four other tumours formed in different parts, one in the neighbourhood of the inguinal glands. The integuments of the great axillary swelling became very thin, and sloughed, giving issue to dark blood and ichor. Protuberances of the surface had been occasionally punc- tured, with more or less copious escape of dark blood, and great relief. No pain was complained of for a considerable time, but it came on gradually and increased to the severest suffering, consisting of excruciating and darting sensations in the swelling, in the side of the neck, and along the arms, under which life sometimes seemed to be giving way. Death occurred at the end of five months. The external surface of the swelling was an aggregation of dark-coloured tumours, varying in size, but not large. Some of these consisted of soft medullary substance like brain, with coagulated blood, others of the same consistence but dark gray, and a few were blackish. The fluid expressed from the latter was like the blackGIG MELANOSIS. pigment of the choroid coat, or that of the bronchial glands. The liver was filled with tumours throughout, and the lungs were diseased in the same way; two tubercles were found in the pancreas; there was one in the sternum, one under the pericranium on the top of the head, and a third on the dura mater, under the occipital bone. This case exemplified what has been seen on other occasions, namely, the origination of the complaint in a mole, and the combination in the morbid growth of the melanoid with the ordinary medullary disease, both being equally soft in consistence. I have seen it beginning in the texture of the skin as a dark blue and almost black circular spot, about the size of a split pea, round which other similar spots have gradually • formed at short distances. A case very remarkable for the number of melanotic tubercles during life, and the still more abundant develop- ment of the disease after death, was treated and examined by Dr. Norris, of Stourbridge, in 1817, being, so far as .I know, the first description of the affection in this country. It is fully detailed in a collection of cases published by him in 1857. The patient, aged fifty-nine, of light hair and com- plexion, was in apparently good health when first seen on account of a deep brown tumour on the abdomen, which had arisen from a mole; it was ulcerated, and discharged a fetid ichorous fluid. Several brown nodules of similar structure had sprung up around it. This tumour, half the size of a hen's egg, was excised, and the part slowly healed. In less than six weeks the tumour began to grow again from tbe surface of the cicatrix, and a great number of livid tubercles appeared around it, forming a mass of disease resembling a large bunch of black grapes, extending completely across the abdomen. The inguinal glands were swollen and tender. Health was tolerably good, and the patient was able to takeSKIN. 617 exercise and attend to business. Dark blue spots arose in the vicinity of a mole on the sternum; others appeared in succession on the side and back, and subsequently on the forehead and scalp. Great and increasing pain came on, followed by general dropsy, cough, and dyspnoea, under which he soon died. The original tumour was dark brown throughout; the second, though resembling the first during life, exhibited a true melanotic appearance after death; both were of firm consistence. On puncturing several of the tubercles, a thick black fluid was discharged from them. « When," says Dr. Norris, " the abdomen, chest, and cranium were thrown open, it was a most extraordinary phenomenon : thousands upon thousands of coal-black spots, of circular shape and various sizes, were to be seen closely dotting the shining serous, mucous, and fibrous membranes of most of the vital organs; I should think the most dazzling sight ever beheld by morbid anatomists." Besides disease in all the abdominal viscera except the spleen and bladder, there was a great mass in the loins, from which flowed many ounces of dark fluid, like tar. The lungs were diseased throughout, and minute deposits of melanotic matter, from the size of a pin's head to that of a pea, were found in abundance under the lining membrane and in all the muscular structures of the heart. Some minute black spots were seen under the lining membrane of the superior cava. Deposits were found on the skull-cap, and the dura mater was studded with them. The brain was not affected, nor the extremities, with the exception of a speck in the leg. Dr. Norris states further, respecting this patient, that his father had numerous tubercles at the back of the neck, not melanotic; that they were cauterized, and that he soon died; that his daughter came from "Wales with a hard cancerous kind of tumour of the breast; that his eldest son had an618 MELANOSIS—CAUSES—TREATMENT. enlarged cancerous kind of lip and mouth, and went to Jersey to die; that a younger son had many moles, one in exactly the same spot where the disease in his father had originated, and that he had two brothers, both of whom were marked with numerous moles. Causes.—On this point we are as much in the dark in the case of melanosis as in that of fungus hsematodes and cancer. Dr. Norris, who has seen many instances and paid much attention to the subject, having also lived in the midst of coal and ironworks with the unwholesome atmospheric in- fluences to which they may be supposed to give rise, offers the following remarks on the subject:—" Most of the cases I have seen of the disease, and many of those reported by acute morbid anatomists, have occurred to patients residing in very smoky iron and coal districts, where iron manufactories abound, and the air is constantly polluted by volumes of black smoke; or in large towns such as London, Manchester, &c.; or in men who have smoked immoderately; and in the wives and daughters of those, who living in the same apart- ments, have inhaled fumes of tobacco from parents or husbands." Treatment.—All the cases of cutaneous melanosis that I have seen have terminated fatally. The only chance of pre- serving life is by free extirpation at the earliest period, indeed under circumstances of suspicion, with a view to prevent the development of this hitherto fatal malady. If therefore a mole, having been previously quiet, as they usually are, should pass into an active state, swelling, changing colour to a darker tint, becoming painful or uneasy, and more par- ticularly if the surface should becdme broken, either spon- taneously or by external cause, it should be immediately removed with a good margin of sound skin. Should a dark blue or black spot appear in the skin, the same course should619 TREATMENT. be taken without delay. Dr. Norris, however, relates an exceptional case, the only one that I know of, in which a melanotic disease was removed by himself with permanent success. It occurred in a young woman of twenty-six, of fair and freckled complexion, thin and delicate form. Three years previously, a mole situated between the shoulders had been wounded by the blade of a pair of scissors for the purpose of removing it. A dark brown stain subsequently surrounded the mole, which had begun to increase twelve weeks before Dr. Norris saw it, when he characterised it as the most perfect specimen of melanotic tumour he had ever seen. It was as large as a moderately sized mushroom, oval and flat, soft and elastic, and attached by a thick pedicle. There was a small tumour the size and colour of a black grape at its upper surface. The part was removed with abundance of the surrounding substance. When Dr. Norris published this with other cases in 1857, the patient had continued well for eight years. The origin of the mischief from the accidental injury of a mole and the neglect of early measures were seen in a Cornish gentleman, fifty-three years of age, who had on the left fore- arm a small mole with long hairs growing on it, which he had hurt by friction with a flesh-brush a year and a half before I saw him. A person to whom he showed it said it was a bleeding wart and tied a silk thread round it. A small swelling came in the skin after the mole had dropped off, and there were warty appearances around it. This was freely removed by a surgeon, as well as a small swelling which formed in the scar of that operation. When I saw him there was a cicatrix about two inches long over the radius, and about its middle a firm swelling as large as a nut, a similar swelling over the ulna, another just above the internal condyle, with another as large as a pigeon's e620 MELANOSIS OF THE EYE. apparently of the neighbouring gland, a larger swelling in the axilla, and a firm tumour in the skin of the opposite axilla. The patient had always enjoyed good health, and was quite well when I saw him. MELANOSIS OF THE EYE. The primary seat of this affection is probably in the choroid coat; it is certainly between the sclerotica and the retina, which suffer at first merely from pressure of the morbid growth. Where the melanotic substance is deposited, the choroid cannot be traced, but it is seen, of natural appearance, lining the sclerotica, in the part free from disease. Although no trace of melanotic degeneration in the optic nerve had been observed in either of the two cases subsequently related, that nerve was discoloured in the second, and the dark tumour within the cranium was probably connected with the continuation of the same cord. In a case which I examined after death many years ago, where the contents of the orbit had been converted into a mass of disease nearly black, the same structure was continued through the foramen opticum, and connected with a large deposit of similar colour at the base of the brain. By the operation of excision before the morbid deposit has pierced through the coats of the eye, life may be prolonged for an uncertain period, of which four years may be the out- side, but it is doubtful whether the success has been per- manent in any case. I operated some years ago on a young Irishman, under thirty ; he recovered quickly, and I saw him in good health more than a year afterwards : he promised to return to the hospital if anything should happen to him. I have neither seen nor heard of him since, but do not thereby conclude that he is still living. The longest period of safety,MELANOSIS OF THE EYE. 621 within my own experience was in a case which will follow. At the urgent request of the patient, who was willing to undergo a serious operation as a relief from intolerable suffering, I removed the contents of the orbit in so advanced a stage of the disease that there was no distinguishable portion of the eye left in this protruding mass, from which a somewhat thick fluid escaped in considerable quantity. There was a small, shrunken sclerotica, with some black matter. The front of the bulk was an irregular broken and black surface, which passed off by gradual intermixture into a mass of moderately firm medullary disease. Death followed on the tenth day; the liver was filled throughout with deposits chiefly of mela- notic character. The two following cases exemplify the nature, progress, and serious results of this formidable malady. Case. I.—Melanosis of the left eye; extirpation of the globe at an early period; death in three years and three quarters after the operation, from secondary disease of the liver, pancreas, ovaries, and other parts. E. R—, a female, of rather stout frame and healthy ap- pearance, who had always enjoyed good health, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's, October 7th, 1841, as a venereal patient, on account of superficial ulcerations and mucous tubercles of the external organs. She said that her age was twenty, but she was probably two or three years older. A few days afterwards, she called my attention to the state of her left eye, of which she had made no complaint at the time of admission. It was red, watering, and painful, and presented serious changes in the state of the iris and lens. It appeared, on inquiry, that six months before, without previous suffering, she had discovered accidentally that she was blindMELANOSIS OF THE EYE. 622 on that side. She experienced no inconvenience, until three months after, when pain came on in paroxysms so severe as to induce her to become out-patient at the Ophthalmic Hospital in Moorfields. She discontinued her attendance after two months, in consequence of her confinement, during which time the paroxysms were less frequent and severe. We found the conjunctival vessels and those of the scle- rotica slightly injected; the cornea transparent; the iris dark-coloured, dull, and motionless ; the pupil widely dilated; the crystalline lens of a dull, dingy hue; both iris and lens were in contact with the cornea. Three small sta- phylomatous projections, one above and two helow the middle of the globe, occupied the outer part of the sclerotica, close to the edge of the cornea; large tortuous vessels, of venous character, ran over the two lower. Vision was totally lost; there was constant pain, which was occasionally very severe. The suspicion of melanosis immediately occurred to my mind. The presence of a morbid growth in the back of the globe would account satisfactorily for the changes of appearance and position in the iris, pupil, and lens, as well as for the partial absorption of the sclerotica. Leeches were applied three times to the left temple, with benefit; but the pain was not entirely removed. As the appearances above described might be accounted for by the formation of fluid within the globe, although I did not think it probable, I punctured one of the staphy- lomatous projections with a grooved needle; no fluid es- caped. Entertaining no further doubt respecting the nature of the complaint, I explained to the patient the necessity of the operation, to which she readily consented. The globe was extirpated on the 23rd of October, 1841, the lids being separated by a free incision at the external commissure, andMELANOSIS OF THE EYE. 623 turned backwards, so as to expose fully the front of the orbit, and the posterior connexions being divided as far back as could be accomplished conveniently. Examination of the eye.—The globe, not unnaturally soft, was divided through the centre. There was no trace of vitreous humour; a dark and blackish mass, of soft con- sistence, occupied nearly the whole interior of the globe, pressing the retina, which was healthy, and formed a flattened mass, towards its inner side, and the crystalline lens, which was semi-transparent, against the posterior surface of the cornea. During the examination, the diseased mass dropped out from one half of the section, leaving the inner surface of the sclerotica smooth, but slightly darkened in colour. In that part of the globe which was occupied by the diseased mass there was no trace of choroid membrane, and the growth therefore, filled the space between the sclerotica and the retina, which was folded into a small compass. That portion of the sclerotica towards which the retina was pressed was lined by healthy choroid. The optic nerve was healthy. The eye is preserved in the museum of the hospital. There was but Httle subsequent bleeding; no vessels were tied. Four hours after, she had cold chills, and vomited several times. She quitted the hospital, well, on December 6th. September 6th, 1842.—She was seen in good health; there was no return of disease in the orbit. From the time of her leaving the hospital she was in a laborious situation as domestic servant, and remained well to the latter end of 1844, when she called upon me, complaining of pain and fulness in the abdomen. Suspecting that internal disease might be forming, I advised her to leave her situation, and to come into the hospital. December 12th.—There is a small swelling on the right side of the navel, covered by healthy skin, of which the624 MELANOSIS OF THE EYE. appearance is slightly altered by the dark colour of the sub- jacent growth. There is general fulness of the abdomen on the right side and upper part. The liver is enlarged and uneven on the surface, extending below the margin of the chest. Towards the confines of the lumbar and iliac regions there is a tumour on each side, somewhat movabfe, of inde- finite size and extent. Pain is experienced occasionally. The several functions of the body are performed naturally, but she sleeps badly. March 13th, 1845.—The disease has been making rapid progress. Five dark-coloured, subcutaneous tumours, the size of nuts, can be counted upon the chest, and in the right mamma. The abdomen, which equals in size that of a woman at the full period of utero-gestation, is distended laterally by the enormously enlarged and tuberculated liver, below which other masses may be felt. With the exception of menstruation, the different functions are properly per- formed. She is collected in mind, and suffers pain, either in the head or abdomen, at times only; in the intervals she is quite easy. Small blisters and mustard plasters on the abdomen afford temporary relief. The disease advanced steadily, attended by occasional pains either in the head or abdomen, and eventually by purging of blood, at times in considerable quantity, until June 6th, when she died. Mr. Coote has drawn up the following account of the examination after death: There were two or three small, black tumours in the scalp; the scull-cap, thicker and heavier than natural, contained in the diploe, similar deposits, each about the size of a large pea. Black matter was found about the optic foramen, in the lesser ala of the sphenoid bone, and along the inferior margin of the left orbit. The bony substance was notEYE. G25 swelled, nor apparently altered in structure, in the situation of these deposits. The brain was healthy; there was a small, black spot lying upon the surface of the anterior cerebral lobes under the pia mater. The left optic nerve, from the orbit up to the commissure, was shrunk into a slender membranous cord, without trace of nervous matter; the state of atrophy was continued in a slighter degree along the right, or opposite optic tract, into the optic thalamus. There were five dark-colored, spherical tumours, about the size of nuts, visible through the integuments of the chest, situated chiefly about the right mamma. Three similar tumours were noticed under the integuments of the abdomen; they were loose and seated in the cellular tissue; some were firm and black, others of a brownish hue, consisting of thick fluid contained in a cyst. Black matter was deposited in the cancellous texture of some of the left ribs; a mass of black matter the size of a musket bullet was lodged upon the anterior surface of the dorsal vertebrae. The lungs were healthy. There were numerous black tumours upon the outer and inner surface, and in the muscular substance of the heart; two of considerable size projected into the cavity of the left ventricle. The liver, enormously enlarged, seventeen and a half pounds in weight, occupied the greater part of the abdominal cavity; although much of the surface presented the natural colour, consistence, and organization of the hepatic substance. The enlarged gland consisted principally of a morbid deposit, in larger or smaller masses, which occupied the entire thick- ness of the organ, and projected from the surface in rounded tubercles of various magnitude and generally of black colour. 40MELANOSIS. G26 In the interior the colour varied from a deep black to a light yellowish brown. The consistence varied; it was generally softish, so as to break down under the pressure of the finger. When passed over paper, linen, or the skin, a black or brownish colouring matter was left behind; the morbid substance was contained in a kind of cyst, from which it could be turned out. The larger masses presented a slight lobular arrangement on section. The gall-bladder was healthy, and contained bile. Upon the mucous membrane of the jejunum were seen several small black patches; larger patches were found in the fold of the mesentery, and on the peritoneal covering of the pancreas. The pancreas was filled with numerous deep, black deposits of irregular form, some as large as a musket bullet. Smaller deposits were found in the kidneys; two cysts, resembling in size and shape the human testicle, each con- taining a mass of black matter, were attached to the right kidney. The uterus was healthy. The ovaries were greatly enlarged, and converted into irregular, lobulated masses, about eight inches in length which retained no trace of natural structure; each of these masses consisted of a thin but dense cyst, filled with mela- notic structure, of soft consistence, and of the deepest black colour. The ovaries, with the uterus, are preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Some minute black spots were seen upon the mucous membrane of the vagina, near the os tincse. The blood-vessels were healthy. Under the microscope this morbid deposit was found to be composed of irregularly shaped cells, of larger size than in common medullary disease, and containing dark granules, varying in quantity according to the colour of the part.627 EYE. In those parts which were soft, and brownish in colour, the cells had given way, and allowed the granules to escape. The granules had everywhere a kind of molecular movement. Case II.—Melanosis of the right eye; extirpation of the globe; death at the end of six months from melanotic disease within the cranium. S. K—, set. 43, married, of spare habit, and swarthy com- plexion, but of healthy family, and the mother of six healthy children, never suffered from any illness until two years ago, when, without obvious cause, the right eye became inflamed, the lids swelled, and vision was lost. The inflammation subsided readily under proper treatment, but the sight did not return. Her friends, however, remarked that the eye had a more bright and glistening appearance than the other, and seemed the best of the two. About nine months ago, she had severe pain in the globe, which induced her to examine it in a glass, and on raising the upper lid, she dis- covered a black spot in the white part. This slowly increased and projected slightly till about eight weeks since, when it grew more rapidly, pushing the eye downwards behind the lower lid. For three months after the discovery of the black spot she was free from pain, but it then occurred in paroxysms, increasing in frequency and being particularly severe at night. Yesterday (January 9th), the tumour began to bleed. January 10th, 1845.—There is a dark-colored tumour, the size of a walnut, with four black, tubercular prominences, protruding from the upper part of the right eye, partially covered by the upper lid, which is stretched over it, and rests in a groove on its upper surface. The portion exterior to the lids, directed outwards, is ulcerated, and bleeds freely when touched. In every other part the conjunctiva is entire, but628 MELANOSIS. its vessels are large and tortuous. The development of this tumour above the eye has pushed the globe downwards and outwards. When the lids are separated by voluntary effort, the palpebral aperture is entirely occupied by the morbid growth. On depressing the lower lid, the cornea is brought into view quite transparent, but pushed down to the very lowest part of the orbit. The iris is unaltered, and pressed against the cornea, together with the lens, which is dis- colored and opaque. Vision in the opposite eye is perfect; appetite good; no disease is apparent in any other part. The history of the case, with the appearances just detailed, left no doubt that melanotic disease had formed within the eye, and had made its way through the coats at the upper part of the organ, so as to constitute the dark tumour which projected between the lids. Extirpation of the diseased organ offered the only prospect of benefit. January 11th.—The operation was performed in the usual manner. There was some trouble in separating the upper lid, which was tightly stretched over the tumour, but the globe was satisfactorily removed. The cut surface of the optic nerve presented a dark discoloration in slender streaks j as it had been cut through close to the sclerotica, it was thought advisable to take out another portion. Some dis- coloration was noticed in the situation of the second division. There was no bleeding of consequence; no vessels were tied; wet lint was placed over the orbit, and the patient was carried to bed. Upon making a vertical section of the eye and tumour, it was found that a morbid growth, of soft consistence, and brownish colour, with black portions interspersed, had pro- ceeded from between the sclerotica and choroid in front of the optic nerve, and pushing forwards the iris, which was healthy, and the lens, which was opaque, against .the cornea, bad made629 EYE. its way through the upper part of the sclerotica, just behind the ciliary ligament, and formed a tumour the size of a walnut, covered by conjunctiva. A shred of retina was discovered among some loose fibrous substance. No trace of choroid was seen, nor of vitreous humour, although the morbid growth did not fill the interior of the globe. No unfavorable symptom occurred after the operation. The swelling of the lids subsided when suppuration was established; the wound healed, and she was discharged in perfect health on February 3rd. The unfavorable result of the case, however, is apparent from this portion of the brain, which has been forwarded to us by Mr. S. Freeman, of Stowmarket, the gentleman who attended her at the time of her death, which took place in the early part of this month (July), after a few days' illness. Within a week of her decease she had been able to walk a distance of fourteen miles. The brain, as might be expected in warm weather, reached us in a state not admitting minute examination; you see, however, a mass of black matter the size of a large walnut, in a kind of cyst at the base of the brain behind the orbit, pressing the left optic nerve and stretching the commissure. The carotid arteries are imbedded m its substance; the right is pervious, the left apparently obliterated at one point. The growth is partly of a grayish-brown colour, and partly black, and resembles the original disease in the eye. The soft parts remaining in the bottom of the orbit were sent with the brain; the remnant of the optic nerve formed a firm mass, with dark streaks in its substance, about as large as a small horsebean. The remaining portions of the other orbital uerves were healthy. The thorax and abdomen were not examined.630 OSTEOID CANCER. OSTEOID CANCER. Osteoid Cancer.—Although the external and obvious cha- racters of structure in the hones appear, on first view, not only different from, hut directly opposite to, those of the softer parts, the pathology is essentially the same in the two cases. This is seen in the repair of injuries, in the causes, progress, and nature of morbid affections, and par- ticularly in the liability of the bones to cancer and fungus ha3matodes, both primary and secondary, as well as to mela- nosis in the latter form. This pathological correspondence is carried still further by the circumstance that the bones give rise occasionally to diseased formations, in which bony struc- tures and cancerous elements are intermingled in various proportions, fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous materials also being sometimes present at the same time. Such growths spring from the surface of the hone, the femur most fre- quently, and surround it, the medullary cavity participating in the disease sooner or later. They are distinguished from exostoses and fibro-cartilaginous tumours, which they re- semble in position and firmness, by growing rapidly and with pain, which is often so considerable as to affect the health. The disease involves all the lymphatic glands in the course of absorption, which are enlarged and converted into hard masses of the osteoid disease, and ultimately disease is developed in the internal organs, more particularly in the chest. In some instances the disease has advanced slowly and without pain for several years, and has then assumed a more active form. The result of amputation, which had been performed in many instances, has been invariably fatal. Osteoid cancer is an appropriate denomination for this disease, of which cases are related by Mr. Stanley, under the name of malignant osseous tumour j while the subject is con-OSTEOID CANCER. 0.31 sidered with greater detail, both anatomical and pathological, by Mr. Paget. In a case which occurred under my own care in the hospital, and has been described by Mr. Stanley, a tumour composed of soft fibrous and dense osseous substance completely sur- rounded the lower part of the femur. The whole series of femoral, inguinal, and lumbar absorbent glands were con- verted into osseous tumours, identical in structure with the swelling round the femur, both being composed almost wholly of a solid, dull white, chalk-like osseous substance, which in the femur was continuous with a similar deposit in the medul- lary and cancellous structure of the bone. I am indebted to my friend Mr. Savory for the following case of osteoid cancer now under his care as the present sheet is passing through the press. It is so clear and full, without prolixity, that I should have been happy to adorn my work with other equally instructive and interesting narratives from the same hand. Case of Osteoid Cancer of the Femur. A seaman, forty-five years of age, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital with a tumour which occupied the lower two thirds of the left thigh. It was of an elongated oval shape, and well-defined; the integuments were healthy, and moved freely over it. The tumour evidently involved the femur, and felt as hard as bone. Its bulk was greatest just above the knee-joint, and from this part it could be traced upwards until it appeared gradually to subside upon the sur- face of the femur, at a short distance below the greater tro- chanter. No enlargement of the femoral or other glands, or any disease elsewhere, could be detected. The man first became aware of the existence of a swelling at the lower partOSTEOID CANCER. G32 of the thigh five years previously. For a long time it grew very slowly and with scarcely any pain, so that he was enabled to pursue his occupation, until within the last six months; hut during that period it had rapidly increased, with much suffering, and at length, hardly able to walk, he entered the hospital. The thigh was amputated in its upper third, the femur being sawn through about two inches above the highest point where any enlargement of the bone could be detected. The sawn surfaces presented a natural aspect. Upon dissection the tumour exhibited all the characters of osteoid cancer in a well-marked form. When the integu- ments were reflected the muscles investing the tumour were found pale and softened, wasted and degenerated; and here and there in their substance appeared small circumscribed portions of firm cancer. It was difiicult with the naked eye to define the limits of the growth; it seemed to pass gradually into the adjacent muscles. The surface of the tumour was of a pale buff colour, firm, but easily cut with a knife. At a few lines below this, however, it became very hard, as hard as compact bone. A longitudinal section of the tumour made with the saw displayed its continuity with the femur; indeed the periosteum of the upper portion of the hone ap- peared to be lost over it. No distinction could be drawn between the lower portion of the shaft of the femur and the surrounding growth; the compact and cancellated structure being equally blended with the substance of the tumour into an extremely hard, dense, uniform osseous tissue. The un- ossified circumference of the tumour was composed of firm fibrous tissue, with cancer cells scattered irregularly through it. The structure of the more central ossified portion re- sembled that of ordinary bone. J. 15. AULA lit), HUNTER, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE.London, New Burlington Street, November, 18fi2. IN MEDICINE AND OTHER BRANCHES OF NATUBAL SCIENCE! " It would be unjust to conclude this notice without saying a few words in favour of Mr. Churchill, from whom the profession is receiving, it may be truly said, the most beautiful series of Illustrated Medical Works which has ever been published."—Lancet. " All the publications of Mr. Churchill are prepared with so much taste and neatness, that it is superfluous to speak of them in terms of commendation." — Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. " No one is more distinguished for the elegance and recherche' style of his publica- tions than Mr. Churchill."—Provincial Medical Journal. "Mr. Churchill's publications are very handsomely got up: the engravings are remarkably well executed."—Dublin Medical Press. "The typography, illustrations, and getting up are, in all Mr. Churchill's publi- cations, most beautiful."—Monthly Journal of Medical Science. " Mr. Churchill's illustrated works are among the best that emanate from the Medical Press."—Medical Times. " We have before called the attention of both students and practitioners to the great advantage which Mr. Churchill has conferred on the profession, in the issue, at such a moderate cost, of works so highly creditable in point of artistic execution and scientific merit."—Dublin Quarterly Journal.^Sfl*»—-©*—_ Mil. Churchill is the Publisher of the following Periodicals, offering to Authors a § wide extent of Literary Announcement, and a Medium of Advertisement, addressed to ft all Classes of the Profession. Communications, Books for Review, addressed to the respective Editors, are received and duly forwarded by Mr. Churchill. V THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL REVIEW, AND QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Price Six Shillings. Nos. I. to LX. THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF MICROSCOPICAL SCIENCE. Edited by Edwin Lankester, M.D., F.R.S., F.L.S., and Geo roe Busk, F.R.C.S.E., F.R.S., F.L.S. Price 4s. Nos. I. to VIII. New Series. \* A few Nos. of the Old Series are out of print; the others may be obtained. THE JOURNAL OF MENTAL SCIENCE. Published by authority of the Association of Medical Officers of Asylums and Hospitals for the Insane. . Edited by C. L. Robertson, M.B. Published Quarterly, price Half-a-Crown. New Series. Nos. I. to VII. Archives of medicine: A Record of Practical Observations and Anatomical and Chemical Researches, connected with the Investigation and Treatment of Disease. Edited by Lionel S. Beale, M.B., F.R.S. Published Quarterly, price 2s. 6d. from No. IX.; Nos. I. to VIII., 3s. 6d. THE ROYAL LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL REPORTS, AND JOURNAL OF OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Price 2s. Nos. I. to XVII. I THE MEDICAL TIMES AND GAZETTE. Published Weekly, price Sixpence, or Stamped, Sevenpence. Annual Subscription, £1. 6s., or Stamped, £1. 10s. Ad., and regularly forwarded to all parts of the Kingdom. The Medical Times and Gazette is favoured with an amount of Literary and Scientific support which enables it to reflect fully the progress of Medical Science, and insure for ,t a character, an influence, and a circulation possessed at the present time by no Medical Periodical. THE HALF-YEARLY ABSTRACT OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. Being a Digest of the Contents of the principal British and Continental Medical ^ orks; together with a Critical Report of the Progress of Medicine and the Collateral Science,. Edited by W. H. Ranking, M.D., Cantab., and C. B. Radcliffe, M.D., Lond. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. Vols. I. to XXXV. THE PHARMACEUTICAL JOURNAL. New Series. Published Monthly, price One Shilling. %* Vols. I. to XXL, bound in cloth, price 12s. 6d. each. THE BRITISH JOURNAL OF DENTAL SCIENCE. Published Monthly, price One Shilling. Nos. I. to LXXVI. THE MEDICAL DIRECTORY for the UNITED KINGDOM. Published Annually. 8vo. cloth, 10s. Crf. tame—*- ^ -**>iA CLASSIFIED INDEX TO v < ■> ANATOMY. PAGE Anatomical Remembrancer .. 3 Beale on Liver 5 Flower on Nerves 11 Hassall's Micros. Anatomy .. 14 Heale's Anatomy of the Lungs 15 Holden's Human Osteology .. 15 Do. on Dissections .. .. 15 Jone3' and Sieveklng's Patho- logical Anatomy 17 Machse's Surgical Anatomy .. 19 St. Bartholomew's Hospital Catalogue 24 Sibson's Medical Anatomy Waters' Anatomy of Lung Wheeler's Anatomy for Artists 25 2!' 30 Wilson's Anatomy 30 CHEMISTRY. Abel & Bloxam's Handbook .. Bowman's Practical Chemistry Do. Medical do. .. Fownes' Manual of Chemistry.. Do. Actonian Prize .. Do. Qualitative Analysis .. Fresenius' Chemical Analysis.. Galloway's First Step Do. Analysis 12 Do. Tables 12 Griffiths' Four Seasons .. Horsley's Chem. Philosophy Jones.—Mulder on Wine.. Plattner on Blowpipe Speer"s PathoL Chemistry DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. ^ Ballard on Infants and Mothers 4 Barker on Children * Bennet on Uterus « Do. on Uterine Pathology.. ' Bird on Children Blake on the Skin in Children Eyre's Practical Remarks Hood on Scarlet Fever, &c. .. Kiwisch (ed. by Clay 1 on Ovaries Lee's Ovarian & Uterine Diseases 18 Lee on Diseases of Uterus .. 18 Do. on Speculum 18 Seymour on Ovaria 25 Smith on Leucorrhcea .. .. 26 Tilt on Uterine Inflammation.. 28 Do. on Change of Life .. .. 28 Underwood on Children .. .. 29 West on Women 30 Do. (Uvedale) on Puerperal . Diseases 30 MATERIA MEDICA and PHARMACY—continued. VAOE Pcreira's Selecta e Praescriptis 21 Pharmacopoeia Londinensis . Prescriber's Pharmacopoeia . Royle's Materia Medica .. . Steggall's First Lines for Che mists Stowe's Topological Chart . Taylor on Poisons Wittstein's Pharmacy .. • 22 22 24 20 26 27 31 CLIMATE. Barker on Worthing 4 Bennet on Mentone 6 Dalrymple on the Climate of Egypt 10 Francis on Change of Climate.. 12 Hall on Torquay 14 Haviland on Climate 14 Lee on Climate 18 Lee'sWatering Places of England 18 McClelland on Bengal .. .. 19 McNicoll on Southport ... ..19 Martin on Tropical Climates .. 20 Moore's Diseases of India .. 20 Price on Menton 22 Scoresby-Jackson's Climatology 24 Shapter on South Devon .. .. 25 Taylor on Pau 27 GENERATIVE ORGANS, Diseases of, and SYPHILIS. Acton on Reproductive Organs 3 Coote on Syphilis 10 Gant on Bladder 12 Judd on Syphilis 17 Parker on Syphilis 21 Wilson on Syphilis 31 HYGIENE. Armstrong on Naval Hygiene Beale's Laws of Health .. Do. Health and Disease .. 5 Bennet on Nutrition 6 Carter on Training 8 Chavasse's Advice to a Mother.. 9 Do. Advice to a Wife .. 9 Dobell's Germs and Vestiges of Disease U Granville on Vichy 13 Hartwig on Sea Bathing .. ..14 Do. Physical Education 14 Hufeland's Art 16 Lee's Rhenish Baths 18 Moore's Health in Tropics DEFORMITIES, &c. Bigg on Deformities 0 Do. on Artificial Limbs .. .. 6 Bishop on Deformities .. 6 Do. Articulate Sounds .. G Brodhurst on Spine '. 7 Do. on Clubfoot .. Godfrey on Spine 13 Hare on Spine 14 Hugman on Hip Joint .. ..16 Tamplin on Spine 27 20 Parkin on Disease 21 Pickford on Hygiene .. .. 22 Robertson on Diet 24 Routh on Infant Feeding.. .. 24 Rumsev's State Medicine .. .. 24 Wolls' Seamen's Medicine Chest 29 Wife's Domain 30 Wilson on Healthy Skin .. .. 31 Do. on Mineral Waters .. 31 Do. on Turkish Bath .. ..31 MATERIA MEDICA and PHARMACY. Batcman's Magnacopia .. .. Beasley's Formulary Do. Receipt Book Beasley's Book of Prescriptions MEDICINE. Adams on Rheumatic Gout .. 3 Addison on Cell Therapeutics.. 3 Do. on Healthy and Dis- eased Structure 3 Anderson on Fever 3 Austin on Paralysis 4 Barclay on Medical Diagnosis.. 4 Barlow's Practice of Medicine 4 Basham on Dropsy 4 Brinton on Stomach 7 Do. on Ulcer of do 7 Budd on the Liver 8 Do. on Stomach 8 Camplin on Diabetes 8 Chambers on Digestion .. .. 8 Do. Renewal of Life .. 8 Davey's Ganglionic Nervous System 10 Eyre on Stomach 11 French on Cholera 12 Fuller on Rheumatism .. ..12 Gairdner on Gout 12 Gibb on Throat 13 Granville on Sudden Death .. 13 Gully's Simple Treatment .. 13 Habershon on the Abdomen .. 13 Do. on Mercury .. .. 13 Hall on Apnoea 13 Hall's Observations 13 Headland on Medicines .. ..14 Hooper's Physician's Vade- Mecum 13 Inman's New Theory .. ..16 Inman on Myalgia 16 James on Laryngoscope .. ..17 Jones'Animal Chemistry .. 17 Marcet on Chronic Alcoholism. 19 Pavy on Diabetes 21 Peacock on Influenza .. ..21 Richardson's Asclepiad .. ..23 Roberts on Palsy 23 Robertson on Gout, 24 Savory's Compendium .. .. 24 Semple on Cough 25 Seymour on Dropsy 25 Shaw's Remembrancer .. .. 25 Since on Debility 23 Thomas' Practice of Physic .. 27 Todd's Clinical Lectures .. .. 28 Twccdic on Fevers 28 Wells on Gout 29 What to Observe 19 Williams' Principles 30 Wright on Hcadachos .. ..31-:->t CLASSIFIED INDEX. MICROSCOPE. Beale on Microscope in Medicine* °5 Do. How to Work .. .. 5 Carpenter on Microscope .. .. 8 Schacht on do. .... 24 MISCELLANEOUS. Acton on Prostitution .. .. 3 Bascome on Epidemics .. .. 4 Bryce on Sebastopol 8 Cooley's Cyclopaedia 9 Forbes'Natureand Art in Disease 12 Guy's Hospital Reports .. .. 13 Harrison on Lead in Water .. 14 Lane's Hydropathy 18 Lee on Homoeop. and Hydrop. 18 Marcet on Food 19 Massy on Recruits 20 Mayne's Medical Vocabulary .. 20 Part's Case Book 21 Redwood's Supplement to Phar- macopoeia 23 Ryan on Infanticide 24 Snow on Chloroform 26 Steggall's Medical Manual .. 26 Steggall's Gregory's Conspectus 20 Do. Celsus.. 26 Whitehead on Transmission .. 30 NERVOUS DISEASES AND INDIGESTION. Birch on Constipation .. .. 6 Carter on Hysteria 8 Downing on Neuralgia .. ..11 Hunt on Heartburn 16 Leared on Imperfect Digestion 18 Lobb on Nervous Affections .. 19 Radcliffe on Epilepsy .. .. 23 Reynolds on the Brain .. .. 23 Do. on Epilepsy .. .. 23 Rowe on Nervous Diseases .. 24 Sieveking on Epilepsy .. .. 25 Turnbull on Stomach .. .. 28 OBSTETRICS. Barnes on Placenta PrEevia .. 4 Davis on Parturition 11 Lee's Clinical Midwifery ..' .. 18 Mackenzie on Phlegmasia Do- lens 19 Pretty's Aids during Labour .. 22 Priestley on Gravid Uterus .. 22 Ramsbotham's Obstetrics.. .. 23 Do. Midwifery.. .. 23 Sinclair & Johnston's Midwifery 25 Smellie's Obstetric Plates.. .. 25 Smith's Manual of Obstetrics .. 26 Swayne's Aphorisms 27 Waller's Midwifery 29 OPHTHALMOLOGY. Cooper on Injuries of Eye Do. on Near Sight Dalrymple on Eye Dixon on the Eye Hogg on Ophthalmoscope Holthouse on Strabismus .. Do. on Impaired Vision Hulke on the Ophthalmoscope Jacob on Eye-ball OPHTHALMOLOGY—cow/*1- now Jones' Ophthalmic Medicine .. 17 Do. Defects of Sight .. ..17 Jones's Eye and Ear 17 Nunneley on the Organs of Vision 21 Walton on the Eye .. ... ..29 Wells on Spectacles 29 Wilde on Malformations of Eye 30 PHYSIOLOGY. Beale on Tissues 5 Carpenter's Human 8 Do. Comparative .. .. 8 Do. Manual 8 Heale on Vital Causes .. ..16 O'Reilly on the Nervous System 21 Richardson on Coagulation .. 23 Virchow's (ed. by Chance) Cel- lular Pathology 8 PSYCHOLOGY. Arlidge on the State of Lunacy 4 Bucknill and Tuke's Psycholo- gical Medicine 8 Conolly on Asylums 9 Davey on Nature of Insanity .. 10 Dunn's Physiological Psycho- logy 11 Hood on Criminal Lunatics .. 16 Millingen on Treatment of In- sane 20 Noble on Mind 20 Williams (J.) on Insanity .. 30 Williams (J. H.) Unsoundness of Mind 30 PULMONARY and CHEST DISEASES, &c. Alison on Pulmonary Consump- tion Billing on Lungs and Heart Blakiston on the Chest .. Bright on the Chest Cotton on Consumption .. Do. on Stethoscope Davies on Lungs and Heart Dobell on the Chest Fenwick on Consumption.. Jones (Jas.) on Consumption Laennec on Auscultation .. Markham on Heart .. Richardson on Consumption Salter on Asthma Skoda on Auscultation Thompson on Consumption Timms on Consumption .. Turnbull on Consumption Weber on Auscultation .. RENAL and URINARY DISEASES. Acton on Urinary Organs .. 3 Beale on Urine 5 Bird's Urinary Deposits .. .. 6 Coulson on Bladder 10 Hassall on Urine 14 Parkes on Urine 21 Thudichum on Urine .. .. 27 Todd on Urinary Organs .. .. 28 SCIENCE. FAOE Baxter on Organic Polarity .. 5 Bentley's Manual of Botany .. 6 Bird's Natural Philosophy .. 6 Craig on Electric Tension .. 10 Hardwich's Photography.. .. 14 Hinds* Harmonies 15 Jones on Vision 17 Do. on Body, Sense, and Mind 17 Mayne's Lexicon 20 Pratt's Genealogy of Creation.. 22 Do. Eccentric and Centric Force 22 Price's Photographic Manipula- tion 22 Rainey on Shells 23 Reymond's Animal Electricity 23 Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence 27 Unger's Botanical Letters .. 29 Vestiges of Creation 28 Sequel to ditto 28 SURGERY. Adams on Reparation of Tendons 3 Do. Subcutaneous Surgery 3 Anderson on the Skin .. .. 3 Ashton on Rectum 4 Barwell on Diseases of Joints .. 4 Brodhurst on Anchylosis .. .. 7 Bryant on Diseases of Joints .. 7 Chapman on Ulcers 9 Do. Varicose Veins .. .. 9 Cooper (Sir A.) on Testis .. .. 9 Do. (S.) Surg. Dictionary 10 Coulson on Lithotomy .. .. 10 Curling on Rectum 10 Do. on Testis 10 Druitt's Surgery 11 Fergusson's Surgery II Gray on the Teeth 13 Heath's Minor Surgery and Bandaging 15 Higginbottom on Nitrate of Silver 15 Hodgson on Prostate 15 Holt on Stricture 15 James on Hernia 16 Jordan's Clinical Surgery .. 17 Lawrence on Ruptures .. .. 18 Liston's Surgery 19 Macleod's Surgery of the Crimea 19 Maclise on Fractures 19 Maunder's Operative Surgery.. 20 Nunneley on Erysipelas .. .. 21 Pemberton on Melanosis .. ..21 Pirrie's Surgery 22 Price on Scrofula 22 Smith on Stricture .25 Do. on Hemorrhoids .. .. 25 Steggall's Surgical Manual .. 26 Teale on Amputation .. .. 27 Thompson on Stricture .. .. 27 Do. on Prostate 27 Tomes' Dental Surgery .. .. 28 Toynbee on Ear 28 Wade on Stricture 29 Watson on the Larynx .. .. 29 Webb's Surgeon's Ready Rules 29 Williamson on Gunshot Injuries 30 Wilson on Skin Diseases .. .. 31 Do. Portraits of Skin Diseases 31 Yearsley on Deafness .. ..31 Do. on Throat 31 fmr. churchill's publications. 3 — — ■—*©— MR. F. A. ABEL, F.C.S., Sc. MR. C. L. BLOXAM. HANDBOOK OF CHEMISTRY: theoretical, practical, AND TECHNICAL. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. MR. ACTON, M.R.C.S. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS IN BOTH SEXES. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, £1. Is. With Plates, £1. lis. 6d. The Plates alone, limp cloth, 10s. 6d. THE FUNCTIONS AND DISORDERS OF THE REPRODUC- TIVE ORGANS IN CHILDHOOD, YOUTH, ADULT AGE, AND ADVANCED LIFE, considered in their Physiological, Social, and Moral Relations. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, TOs. 6d. In PROSTITUTION: Considered in its Moral, Social, and Sanitary Bearings, with a View to its Amelioration and Regulation. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. ADAMS, A.M. A TREATISE ON RHEUMATIC GOUT; 0E, CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 8vo. cloth, with a Quarto Atlas of Plates, 21s. MR. WILLIAM ADAMS, F.R.C.S. ON THE REPARATIVE PROCESS IN HUMAN TENDONS AFTER SUBCUTANEOUS DIVISION FOR THE CURE OF DEFORMITIES. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 6s. SKETCH OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SUBCUTANEOUS SURGERY. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. DR. WILLIAM ADDISON, F. R.S. CELL THERAPEUTICS. 8vo. cloth, is. ON HEALTHY AND DISEASED STRUCTURE, and the True Principles of Treatment for the Cure of Disease, especially Consumption and Scrofula, founded on Microscopical Analysis. 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. SOMERVILLE SCOTT ALISON, M.D. EDIN., FRCP THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF THE CHEST IN PUL- MONARY CONSUMPTION, AND ITS INTERCURRENT DISEASES With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. THE ANATOMICAL REMEMBRANCER; OR, COMPLETE POCKET ANATOMIST. Fifth Edition, carefully Revised. 32mo. cloth, 3,. 6^ DR. ANDREW ANDERSON, M.D. TEN LECTURES INTRODUCTORY TO THE STUDY OF FEVER Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 1JJ' •AJXl" TWT. i nrmTn , °R' MCCALL ANDERSON, M.D. PAS, SECTIONS OF THE SKIN, with En^, a 24 mr. churchill's publications. —e>-E ■ ■ *°"*" DR. ARLIDGE. 1 ON THE STATE OF LUNACY ANT) THE LEGAL PROVISION FOR THE INSANK; with Observations on the Construction and Organisation of Asylums. 8vo. cloth, 7s. DR ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG, R.N. OBSERVATIONS ON NAVAL HYGIENE AND SCURVY. More particularly as the latter appeared during^Polar Voyage. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. T. J. ASHTON. ON THE DISEASES, INJURIES, AND MALFORMATIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. PROLAPSUS, FISTULA IN ANO, AND HEMORRHOIDAL AFFECTIONS ; their Pathology and Treatment. Post 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. MR. THOS. J. AUSTIN, M.R.C.S. ENG. A PRACTICAL ACCOUNT OF GENERAL PARALYSIS : Its Mental and Physical Symptoms, Statistics, Causes, Seat, and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, os. MR. THOMAS BALLARD, M.R.C.S. „,,_ _Tr, 1 A NEW AND RATIONAL EXPLANATION OF THE DIS- EASES PECULIAR TO INFANTS AND MOTHERS; with obvious Suggestions for their Prevention and Cure. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. J DR. BARCLAY. ^ A MANUAL OF MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS. Second Edition. I Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. • V DR. T. HERBERT BARKER. t ON THE HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS AND j, CHILDREN. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. W. G. BARKER. ON THE CLIMATE OF WORTHING: its Eemedial Influence in Disease, especially of the Lungs. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. DR. BARLOW. A MANUAL OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. • THE PHYSIOLOGY AND mEATMENT OF PLACENTA PREVIA; being the Lettsomian Lectures on Midwifery for 1857. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. BARWELL, F.R.C.S. A TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE JOINTS, with Engrav- ings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. > A HISTORY OF EPIDEMIC^PESTILENCES, FROM THE EARLIEST AGES. 8vo. cloth, 8... ON DROPSY, CONNECTEDBAWITH DISEASE1 OF^ THE KIDNEYS (MORBUS BRIGIITII), and on some other Diseases of those Or,.n,„s, X | associated with Albuminous and Purulent Urine. Illustrated by numerous Drawings jj from the Microscope. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. *■—*t&m. --■ -wr mr. churchill's publications. 5 -©^— ♦ MR. H. F. BAXTER, M.R.C.S:L. (f ON ORGANIC POLARITY; showing a Connexion to exist between Organic Forces and Ordinary Polar Forces. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. BATE MAN. MAGNACOPIA : A Practical Library of Profitable Knowledge, commu- nicating the general Minutiae of Chemical and Pharmaceutic Routine, together with the generality of Secret Forms of Preparations. Third Edition. 18mo. 6s. MR. LIONEL J. BEALE, M.R.C.S. THE LAWS OF HEALTH IN THEIR RELATIONS TO MIND AND BODY. A Series of Letters from an Old Practitioner to a Patient. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. ii. HEALTH AND DISEASE, IN CONNECTION WITH THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. DR. BEALE, F.R.S. ON URINE, URINARY DEPOSITS, AND CALCULI: their Microscopical and Chemical Examination ; the Anatomy of the Kidney, and General Remarks on the Treatment of certain Urinary Diseases. Numerous Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d~. ii. HOW TO WORK WITH THE MICROSCOPE, illustrated Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. m. THE MICROSCOPE, IN ITS APPLICATION TO PRACTICAL MEDICINE. With a Coloured Plate, and 270 Woodcuts. Second Edition. 8vo- cloth, 14s. iv. ON THE ANATOMY OF THE LIVER, illustrated with 66 Pho- tographs of the Author's Drawings. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE SALTS OF URINE, "URINARY DEPOSITS, and CALCULI. 37 Plates, containing upwards of 170 Figures copied from Nature, with descriptive Letterpress. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 6a!. ON THE SIMPLE TISSUES OF THE HUMAN BODY. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. MR. BEASLEY. THE BOOK OF PRESCRIPTIONS; containing 3000 Prescriptions. Collected from the Practice of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons, English and Foreign. Second Edition. 18mo. cloth, (is. THE DRUGGIST'S GENERAL'RECEIPT-BOOK: comprising a copious Veterinary Formulary and Table of Veterinary Materia Medica ; Patent and Proprietary Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, &c. ; Perfumery, Skin Cosmetics Hair Cosmetics, and Teeth Cosmetics; Beverages, Dietetic Articles, and Condiments • Trade Chemicals, Miscellaneous Preparations and Compounds used in the Arts, &c.; with useful Memoranda and Tables. Fifth Edition. l8mo. cloth, 6s. THE POCKET FORMULARY' AND SYNOPSIS OF THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN PHARMACOPOEIAS; comprising standard and X •approved Formula? for the Preparations and Compounds employed in Medical Practice. 4' Seventh Edition, corrected and enlarged. l8mo, cloth, 6s. X* pSfa £K ve--^S>^.6 mr. churciiill's publications. —— DR. HENRY BENNET. A PRACTICAL TREATISE''ON INFLAMMATION AND OTHER DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. Fourth Edition, revised, with Additions. 8vo. cloth, 16s. II. A REVIEW OF THE PRESENT STATE OF UTERINE PATHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4s. in. NUTRITION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Post 8vo. cloth, 5*. IV. MENTONE, THE RIVIERA, CORSICA, AND BIARRITZ, AS WINTER CLIMATES. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. PROFESSOR BENTLEY, F.L.S. A MANUAL OF BOTANY. With nearly 1,200 Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. HENRY HEATHER BIGG. THE MECHANICAL APPLIANCES NECESSARY FOR THE TREATMENT OF DEFORMITIES. Part I.—The Lower Limhs. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. Part II.—The Spine and Upper Extremities. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. ARTIFICIAL LIMBS; THEIRTONSTRUCTION AND APPLI- CATION. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 3s. DR. BILLING, F.R.S. ON DISEASES OF THE LUNGS AND HEART. 8vo. cloth, e*. f DR. S. B. BIRCH, M.D. CONSTIPATED BOWELS : the Various Causes and the Eational Means of Cure. Post 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6c?. DR. GOLDING BIRD, F.R.S. URINARY DEPOSITS; THEIR DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, AND THERAPEUTICAL INDICATIONS. With Engravings on Wood. Fifth . Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6(2. II. ELEMENTS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY ; being an Experimental Introduction to the Study of the Physical Sciences. Illustrated with numerous Engrav- ings on Wood. Fifth Edition. By Golding Bird, M.D., F.RS., and Charles Brooke, M.B. Cantab., F.R.S. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6c?. MR. BISHOP, F.R.S. ON DEFORMITIES OF THE HUMAN BODY, their Pathology and Treatment. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 10s. '1 i ON ARTICULATE SOUNDS, AND ON THE CAUSES AND | M . CURE OF IMPEDIMENTS OF SPEECH, 8vo. cloth, 4s. 3/ —ch *+~*9*&m— mb. churchill's publications. i . p[ . J«3— MR. P. HINCKES BIRD, F.R.O.S. PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN f AND INFANTS AT THE BREAST. Translated from the French of M.Bouchut, with Notes and Additions. 8vo. cloth. 20s. MR. ROBERT HOWARTH BLAKE, M.R.C.S.L. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN IN CHILDREN. From the French of Caillault. With Notes. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. II DR. BLAKISTON, F.R.S. PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE CHEST; and on the Principles of Auscultation. 8vo. cloth, 12s. MR. JOHN E. BOWMAN. I. PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY, including Analysis. With numerous Illus- trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. ii. ; MEDICAL CHEMISTRY; with IUustrations on Wood. Fourth Edition, carefully revised. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. DR. JAMES BRIGHT. I ON DISEASES OF THE HEART, LUNGS, & AIR PASSAGES; i with a Review of the several Climates recommended in these Affections. Third Edi- | tion. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR. BRINTON. THE DISEASES OF THE STOMACH, with an Introduction on its Anatomy and Physiology; being Lectures delivered at St. Thomas's Hospital. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. THE SYMPTOMS, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT OF ULCER OF THE STOMACH. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. BERNARD E. BRODHURST, F.R.C.S. ON LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE: its Pathology and Treatment. Post 8vo. cloth, with Plates, 3s. ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF CLUBFOOT AND ANALOGOUS DISTORTIONS involving the TIBIO-TARSAL ARTICULATION. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. nt PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF THE JOINTS INVOLVING ANCHYLOSIS, and on the TREATMENT for dm RESTORATION of MOTION. Third Edition, much enlarged, 8vo. cloth, 4s. L. MR. THOMAS BRYANT, F.R.C S )j ON THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE JOINTS CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. PosUto. cloth, 7* 6d. 9«R>!| ♦mr. churchill's publications. DR. BRYCE. fj ENGLAND AND FRANCE BEFORE SEBASTOPOL, looked at from a Medical Point of View. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. BUDD, F.R.S. I. ON DISEASES OE THE LITER. Illustrated with Coloured Plates and Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. ON THE ORGANIC DISEASES AND FUNCTIONAL Dis- orders OF THE STOMACH. 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR JOHN CHARLES BUCKNILL, Sc. DR. DANIEL H. TUKE. A MANUAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE: containing the History, Nosology, Description, Statistics, Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of Insanity. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. DR. JOHN M. CAMPLIN, F.L.S. ON DIABETES, AND ITS SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 6 MR. ROBERT B. CARTER, M.R.C.S. ON THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN PREVENTING DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. j> THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA. Post | 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. —~" DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY, with numerous illus- trations on Steel and Wood. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 26s. PRINCIPLES OF COMPARATIVE PHYSIOLOGY, nitrated with 300 Engravings on Wood. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, '24s. in. A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. IV. THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REVELATIONS, with nume- rous Engravings on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. CHAMBERS. 1. THE RENEWAL OF LIFE. Clinical Lectures illustrative of a Resto- rative System of Medicine. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6rf. DIGESTION AND ITS DERANGEMENTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd. DR. CHANCE, M.B. VIRCHOW'S CELLULAR PATHOLOGY, AS BASED UPON PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. With 144 Engrav- ings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 16s. £^i2B$»— —j<»6— mr. churchill's publications. 9 -ot ■ MR. H. T. CHAPMAN, F.R.C.S. THE TREATMENT OE OBSTINATE ULCERS AND CUTA- NEOUS ERUPTIONS OF THE LEG WITHOUT CONFINEMENT. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. n. YARICOSE YEINS : their Nature, Consequences, and Treatment, Pallia- tive and Curative. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, F.R.C.S. ADVICE TO A MOTHER ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HER OFFSPRING. Sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. ADVICE TO A WIFE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HER OWN HEALTH. With an Introductory Chapter, especially addressed to a Young Wife. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. MR. JOHN CLAY, M.R.C.S. KIWISCH ON DISEASES OF THE OYARIES: Translated, by permission, from the last German Edition of his Clinical Lectures on the Special Patho- logy and Treatment of the Diseases of Women. With Notes, and an Appendix on the Operation of Ovariotomy. Royal 12mo. cloth, 16s. DR. CONOLLY. THE CONSTRUCTION AND GOVERNMENT OF LUNATIC ASYLUMS AND HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE. With Plans. Post8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. COOLEY. COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPOEIAS. THE CYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS, AND COL- LATERAL INFORMATION IN THE ARTS, PROFESSIONS MANU- FACTURES, AND TRADES, INCLUDING MEDICINE, PHARMACY AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY; designed as a Compendious Book of Reference for the Manufacturer, Tradesman, Amateur, and Heads of Families. Third and greatly enlarged Edition, 8vo. cloth, 26s. J SIR ASTLEY COOPER, BART., F.R.S. ON THE STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. With 24 Plates. Second Edition. Royal 4to., 20s. MR. W. WHITE COOPER. ON WOUNDS AND INJURIES OF THE EYE. illustrated by 17 Coloured Figures and 41 Woodcuts. 8vo. cloth, 12s. ii. ON NEAR SIGHT, AGED SIGHT, IMPAIRED VISION t&'ELTiRZigE^ sight. wuKU^fJja '*T^m—«■ ■ \ ^,ve«fc^-€H —— 10 MR. CHUECHILL S PUBLICATIONS. jg ^-©^ . ; MR. COOPER. A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY AND ENCYCLO- PjEDIA OF SURGICAL SCIENCE. New Edition, brought down to the present time. By Samuel A. Lane, F.R.C.S., assisted by various eminent Surgeons. Vol. I., 8vo. cloth, £1. 5s. , MR. HOLMES COOTE, F.R.C.S. A REPORT ON SOME IMPORTANT POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. COTTON. I. ON CONSUMPTION: Its Nature, Symptoms, and Treatment. To which Essay was awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal of the Medical Society of London. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. PHTHISIS AND THE STETHOSCOPE; OR, THE PHYSICAL SIGNS OF CONSUMPTION. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. MR. COULSON. ON DISEASES 0E THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE GLAND, f The Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. I ON LITHOTRITY AND LITHOTOMY; with Engravings on Wood. § 8vo. cloth, 8s. 4? MR. WILLIAM CRAIG, L.F.P.S., GLASGOW. T ON THE INFLUENCE OF VARIATIONS OF ELECTRIC i TENSION AS THE REMOTE CAUSE OF EPIDEMIC AND OTHER j DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. _ MR. CURLING, F.R.S. OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5s. n. _„„,,^ A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE TESTIS, SPERMATIC CORD, AND SCROTUM. Second Edition, with Additions. 8vo. cloth, 14s. ^ ~~ DR. DALRYMPLE, M.D. LOND, F.R.C.S. METEOROLOGICAL AND MEDICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE CLIMATE OF EGYPT, with Practical Hints for Invalid Travellers. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. MR. JOHN DALRYMPLE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. PATHOLOGY OF THE HUMAN EYE. Complete in Nine Fasciculi: imperial 4to., 20s. each; half-bound morocco, gilt tops, 91.15s. DR. D A V E Y. J THE GANGLIONIC NERVOUS *' SYSTEM: its Structure, Functions, | and Diseases. 8vo. cloth, 9s. n. ON THE NATURE AND PROXIMATE CAUSE OF IN- SANITY. PoBt 8vo. cloth, 3s.mr. churchill's publications. u Plates1114° Cut!meous Surface> and t0 "11 the Muscles. Folio, containing Six »«~ DR. HERBERT DAVIES. ON THE PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE LUNGS AND HEART. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. DR. HALL DAVIS. ILLUSTRATIONS OF DIFFICULT PARTURITION. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. — — MR. DIXON. A GUIDE TO THE PRACTICAL STUDY OF DISEASES OF THE EYE. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR. DOBELL. DEMONSTRATIONS OF DISEASES IN THE CHEST, AND THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. LECTURES ON THE GERMS AND VESTIGES OF DISEASE, and on the Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of Disease by Periodical Examinations. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. DR. TOOGOOD DOWNING. NEURALGIA: its various Forms, Pathology, and Treatment. The Jaoksonian Pkizk Essay for 1850. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. DRUITT, F.R.C.S. THE SURGEON'S VADE-MECUM; with numerous Engravings on Wood. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. DUNN, F.R.C.S. AN ESSAY ON PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4*. SIR JAMES EYRE, M.D. THE STOMACH AND ITS DIFFICULTIES. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. n PRACTICAL REMARKS ON ' SOME EXHAUSTING DIS- EASES. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. FENWICK. ON SCROFULA AND CONSUMPTION. Clergyman's Sore Throat Catarrh, Croup, Bronchitis, Asthma. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. MR. FERGUS SON, F.R.S. A SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL SURGERY; with numerous iiks- trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. FLOWER, F.R.C.S DIAGRAMS OF THE NERVES OF THE HUMAN BODY I exhibiting their Origin, Divisions, and Connexions, with their Distribution to the various12 MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. -— — J«3— SIR JOHN FORBES, M.D., D.C.L. (OXON.), F.R.S. I NATURE AND ART IN THE CURE OF DISEASE. Second * Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. FOWNES, PH.D., F.R.S. X. A MANUAL OE CHEMISTRY; with numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. Edited by H. Benoe Jones, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. Hofmann, Ph.D., F.R.S. CHEMISTRY, AS EXEMPLIFYING THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF GOD. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. in. INTRODUCTION TO QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. Post 8vo. cloth, 2s. DR. D. J. T. FRANCIS. CHANGE OF CLIMATE; considered as a Remedy in Dyspeptic, Pul- monary, and other Chronic Affections; with an Account of the most Eligible Places of Residence for Invalids in Spain, Portugal, Algeria, &c, at different Seasons of the Year; and an Appendix on the Mineral Springs of the Pyrenees, Vichy, and Aix les Bains. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. (id. MR. d. G. FRENCH, F.R.C.S. THE NATURE OF CHOLERA INVESTIGATED. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 4s. C. REMIGIUS FRESENIUS. A ELEMENTARY INSTRUCTION IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, f AS PRACTISED IN THE LABORATORY OF GIESSEN. Edited by Lloyd ' Bullock, F.C.S. Qualitative. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. Quantitative. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. DR. FULLER. ON RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATIC GOUT, AND SCIATICA: their Pathology, Symptoms, and Treatment. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. GAIRDNER. ON GOUT ; its History, its Causes, and its Cure. Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. MR. GALLOWAY. I. THE FIRST STEP IN CHEMISTRY. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. A MANUAL OF QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. in. CHEMICAL TABLES. On Five Large Sheets, for School aud Lecture Rooms. Second Edition. 4s. 6rf. MR. F. J. GANT. THE IRRITABLE BLADDER : its Causes and Curative Treatment. | Post 8vo. cloth, 4s 6d. ij/— mr. churchill's publications. « e>[ — IO » DR. GIBB. M.R.C.P. ON DISEASES OE THE THROAT, EPIGLOTTIS, AND * WINDPIPE. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MRS. GODFREY. ON THE NATURE, PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND CURE OF SPINAL CURVATURES and DEFORMITIES of the CHEST and LIMBS, without ARTIFICIAL SUPPORTS or any MECHANICAL APPLIANCES. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. GRANVILLE, F.R.S. THE MINERAL SPRINGS OF VICHY : their Efficacy in the Treatment of Gout, Indigestion, Gravel, &c. 8vo. cloth, 5s. ON SUDDEN DEATH. Post 8vo., 2* 6rf. MR. GRAY, M.R.C.S. PRESERVATION OF THE TEETH indispensable to Comfort and Appearance, Health, and Longevity. 18mo. cloth, 3s. MR. GRIFFITHS. CHEMISTRY OF THE FOUR SEASONS-Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter. Illustrated with Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. THE SIMPLE TREATMENT ^DISEASE; deduced from the Methods of Expectancy and Revulsion. 18mo. cloth, 4s. hooper's physician's Vade-mecum ; or, manual of THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. New Edition, considerably enlarged, and rewritten. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. GUY'S HOSPITAL REPORTS. Third Series. Vols. I. to VHL, 8vo. 7s. 6d. each. ( DR. HABERSHON, F.R.C.P. PATHOLOGICAL AND PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN, comprising those of the Stomach and other Parts of the Alimentary Canal, (Esophagus, Stomach, Cajcum, Intestines, and Peritoneum Second Edition, with Plates. 8vo. cloth, 14s. "moneum. ON THE INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY IN THF TREATMENT OF DISEASE. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. MARSHALL HALL, F.R.S. i PRONE AND POSTURAL RESPIRATION IN DROWNING ' ^tD8vo0™hR5,FORMS °F APN7 °R SU™ED KEsl™S£ \ PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS IN MFDT r CINE. SecortS Snira. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d UiJOllKJao li\ f<a^—«-~~-&t . *e—- u mr. churchill's publications. -hs* *©- . DR. C. RADCLYFFE HALL. TOKQUAY IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT AS A RESORT EOR PULMONARY INVALIDS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. HARDWICH. A MANUAL OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMISTRY, sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. MR. HARE, F.R.C.S. PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE PRETENTION, CAUSES, AND TREATMENT OF CURVATURES OF THE SPINE; with Engravings. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. JAMES B. HARRISON. ON THE CONTAMINATION OP WATER BY THE POISON OF LEAD, and its Effects on the Human Body. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. HARTWIQ. ON SEA BATHING AND SEA AIR. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6c?. ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OP CHILDREN. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6c?. DR. A. H. HASSALL. THE MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY, IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Illustrated with Several Hundred Drawings in Colour. Two vols. 8vo. cloth, £1. 10s. II. THE URINE, IN HEALTH AND DISEASE; or, a Simple Ex- planation of the Physical Properties, Composition, and Uses of the Urine of the Functions of the Kidneys, and of the Treatment of Urinary Disorders. With Twenty-four En- gravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. ALFRED HAVILAND, M.R.C.S. CLIMATE, WEATHER, AND DISEASE; being a Sketch of the Opinions of the most celebrated Ancient and Modern Writers with regard to the Influence of Climate and Weather in producing Disease. With Four coloured Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 7s. ON THE ACTION OF* MEDICINES IN THE SYSTEM. 1 Being the Prize Essay to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fother- gillian Gold Medal for 1852. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d.|$9fe»»~»< — } mr. churchill's publications. 15 - o[ *©- DR. HEALE. A TREATISE ON THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 8s. A TREATISE ON VITAL CAUSES, s™. doth, 9* ft MR. CHRISTOPHER HEATH, F.R.C.S. A MANUAL OF MINOR SURGERY AND BANDAGING, FOR THE USE OF HOUSE-SURGEONS, DRESSERS, AND JUNIOR PRAC- TITIONERS. "With Illustrations. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. HIGGINBOTTOM, F.R.S., F.R.C.S.E. AN ESSAY ON THE USE OF THE NITRATE OF SILVER IN THE CURE OF INFLAMMATION, WOUNDS, AND ULCERS. Second Edition. Price 5s. ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS'ON THE NITRATE OF SIL- VER; with full Directions for its Use as a Therapeutic Agent. 8vo., 2s. 6d. THE HARMONIES OF PHYSICAL^SCIENCE IN RELATION TO THE HIGHER SENTIMENTS; with Observations on Medical Stndies, and on the Moral and Scientific Relations of Medical Life. Post 8vo., cloth, 4s. DR. DECIMUS HODGSON. THE PROSTATE GLAND, AND ITS ENLARGEMENT IN OLD AGE. With 12 Plates. Royal 8vo., cloth, 6s. MR. JABEZ HOGG. THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE : an Essay on its value in the Exploration of Internal Eye Diseases. Second Edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. LUTHER HOLDEN, F R.C.S. I. HUMAN OSTEOLOGY: with Plates, showing the Attachments of tlip Muscles. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. A MANUAL OF THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY With Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. MR. BARNARD HOLT, F.R.C S ^h^LS^FI,,,™™T 0F' STRICTURE OF MR. C. HOLTHOUSE. I. ON SQUINTING, PARALYTIC AFFECTIONS OF THP VYV and CERTAIN FORMS OF IMPAIRED VISION. Fcap. 8vo Jh 4s « » * ^iS,^ STRABISMUS^ at the Westminster Hospital. ySmsr-.n+i-|<S^**s . —**»-<9i0^ 16 mr. ciiurohill*s publications. ■* G*t~ — ■ — JO • DR. W. CHARLES HOOD. SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE PROYISION OF CRIMI- NAL LUNATICS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6a!. MR. P. HOOD. THE SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF SCARLET FEYER; also, OBSERVATIONS ON THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF CROWING INSPIRATIONS OF INFANTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. JOHN HORSLEY. A CATECHISM OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY; being a Familiar Exposition of the Principles of Chemistry and Physics. With Engravings on Wood. Designed for the Use of Schools and Private Teachers. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. DR. HUFELAND. THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. Second Edition. Edited by Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. % 5 MR. W. CURTIS HUGMAN, F.R.C.S. k ON HIP-JOINT DISEASE; with reference especially to Treatment j§ by Mechanical Means for the Relief of Contraction and Deformity of the Affected Limb. ^ i 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. B MR. HULKE, F.R.C.S. t A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE USE OF THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. Being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1859. Royal 8vo. cloth, 8s. DR. HENRY HUNT. ON HEARTBURN AND INDIGESTION. 8vo. cloth, 5*. DR. INMAN, M.R.C.P. ON MYALGIA: ITS NATURE^ CAUSES, AND TREATMENT; being a Treatise on Painful and other Affections of the Muscular System. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. n. FOUNDATION FOR A NEW THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10s. DR. ARTHUR JACOB, F.R.C.S. A TREATISE ON THE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE EYE-BALL. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. * MR. J. H. JAMES, F.R.C.S. ), PRACTICAL 0BSERYATI0NS ON THE OPERATIONS FOR | S$ STRANGULATED HERNIA. 8vo. cloth, 5s. ij/ skmc—^ — —\ M'R. churchill's publications. 17 -~-<s>i — 30 » DR. PROSSER JAMES, M.D. ' SORE-THROAT: ITS NATURE, YARIETIES, AND TREAT- MENT ; including the Use of the LARYNGOSCOPE as an Aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. BENCE JONES, F.R.S. I. MULDER ON WINE. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 11. ON ANIMAL CHEMISTRY, in its relation to STOMACH and EENAL DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. HANDFIELD JONES, F.R.S., So DR. EDWARD H. SIEVEKING. A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. JAMES JONES, M.D., M.R.C.P. ON THE USE OF PERCHLORIDE OF IRON AND OTHER CHALYBEATE SALTS IN THE TREATMENT OF CONSUMPTION. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S. | A MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY; illustrated with Engravings plain and coloured. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF THE ALMIGHTY AS DISPLAYED IN THE SENSE OF VISION; being the Actonian Prize Essay for 1851. With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. ill. DEFECTS OF SIGHT : their Nature, Causes, Prevention, and General Management. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. A CATECHISM OF THE MEDICINE AND SURGERY OF THE EYE AND EAR. For the Clinical Use of Hospital Students. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. A CATECHISM OF THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY OF BODY, SENSE, AND MIND. For Use in Schools and Colleges. Fcap; 8v0 MR. FURNEAUX JORDAN M.R.C.S AN INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL SURGERY- WITH A Method of Investigating and Reporting Surgical Cases. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. JUDD. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON URETHRITIS AND SYPHT " LIS: .ncludmg Observations on the Power of the Monstruous Fluid and of'tL n 1 charge from Leucorrhoea and Sores to produce Urethritis: with a variety of ^'S" Experiments, Remedies, and Cures. 8vo. cloth, £1.5,. y °f Exil>np'cs, '■^m^^i —18 ME. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. i** \ DR. LAENNEC. A MANUAL OF AUSCULTATION AND PERCUSSION. Trans- lated and Edited by J. B. Sharpe, M.R.C.S. 3s. DR. LANE, M.A. HYDROPATHY; OE, HYGIENIC MEDICINE. An Explanatory Essay. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. LAWRENCE, F.R.S. A TREATISE ON RUPTURES. The Fifth Edition, considerably enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 16s. DR. LEARED, M.R.C.P. IMPERFECT DIGESTION: ITS CAUSES AND TREATMENT. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. EDWIN LEE. A THE EFFECT OF CLIMATE ON TUBERCULOUS DISEASE, | with Notices of the chief Foreign Places of Winter Resort. Small 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. THE WATERING PLACES OF ENGLAND, CONSIDERED f with Reference to their Medical Topography. Fourth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, jl 7s. 6d. in. THE BATHS OF RHENISH GERMANY. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. HOMEOPATHY AND HYDROPATHY IMPARTIALLY Ap- preciated. With Notes illustrative of the Influence of the Mind over the Body. Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. ROBERT LEE, F.R.S. I. A TREATISE ON THE SPECULUM; with Three Hundred Cases. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. CLINICAL REPORTS OF OVARIAN AND UTERINE DIS- EASES, with Commentaries. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. in. CLINICAL MIDWIFERY : comprising the Histories of 545 Cases of Difficult, Preternatural, and Complicated Labour, with Commentaries. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. IV. PRxVCTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. With coloured Plates. Two Parts. Imperial 4to., 7s. 6rf. each fart .mr. churchill's publications. 19 . o[ — MR. LISTON, F.R.S. PRACTICAL SURGERY. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. MR. H. W. LOBB, L.S.A., M.R.C.S.E. ON SOME OE THE MORE OBSCURE EORMS OE NERVOUS AFFECTIONS, THEIR PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT. With an Introduction on the Physiology of Digestion and Assimilation, and the Generation and Distribution of Nerve Force. Based upon Original Microscopical Observations. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. LONDON MEDICAL SOCIETY OF OBSERVATION. WHAT TO OBSERVE AT THE BED-SIDE, AND AFTER DEATH. Published by Authority. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. MACKENZIE, M.D., M.R.C.P. THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PHLEGMASIA DO LENS, as deduced from Clinical and Physiological Researches. Being the Lettsomian Lectures on Midwifery, delivered before the Medical Society of London during the Session 1861-62. 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. M'CLELLAND, F.L.S., F.G.S. SKETCH OF THE MEDICAL TOPOGRAPHY, OR CLIMATE AND SOILS, OF BENGAL AND THE N. W. PROVINCES. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, F.R.C.S. (EDIN ) NOTES ON THE SURGERY OF THE CRIMEAN WAR; with REMARKS on GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. MR. JOSEPH MACLISE, F.R.C.S. I. SURGICAL ANATOMY. A Series of Dissections, illustrating the Prin- cipal Regions of the Human Body. The Second Edition, imperial folio, cloth, £3. 12s.; half-morocco, £4. 4s. ON DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. This Work is Uniform with the Author's " Surgical Anatomy;" each Fasciculus contains Four beautifully executed Lithographic Drawings. Imperial folio, cloth, £2. 10s.; half-morocco, £2. 17s. DR. MCNICOLL, M.R.C.P A HAND-BOOK FOR S0UTHP0RT, MEDICAL & GENERAT • tl^t°U. N°tiCeS °f NatUral HiSt°ry °f Di8tri0t- Second Edition. ™vo' DR. MARCET, F.R.S. ON THE COMPOSITION OF FOOD, AND HOW TT T<5 ADULTERATED; with Practical Directions for its'Analysis. Sv^doth, 6s L ON CHRONIC ALCOHOLIC "INTOXICATION OR at™ HOLIC STIMULANTS IN CONNEXION WITH Tirr v/1^ SYSTEM. Second Edition, much enlarged. Foolscap 8vo cloth I 6/ NERV0US20 mr. churciiill's publications. -*~&t •—-—- DR. MARKHAM. DISEASES OF THE HEART • THEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAG- NOSIS, AND TREATMENT. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. SKODA ON AUSCULTATIOn'aND PERCUSSION. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. SIR J. RANALD MARTIN, K.C.B., F.R.S. INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES IN PRODUCING THE ACUTE ENDEMIC DISEASES OF EUROPEANS; including Practical Observations on their Chronic Sequete under the Influences of the Climate of Europe. Second Edition, much enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 20s. DR. MASSY. ON THE EXAMINATION OF RECRUITS; intended for the Use of Young Medical Officers on Entering the Army. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. C. F. MAUNDER, F.R.C.S. t OPERATIVE SURGERY. With 158 Engravings. Post 8vo. 6s. DR. M A Y N E . AN EXPOSITORY LEXICON1'OF THE TERMS, ANCIENT AND MODERN, IN MEDICAL AND GENERAL SCIENCE, including a com- plete MEDICAL AND MEDICO-LEGAL VOCABULARY, and presenting the correct Pronunciation, Derivation, Definition, and Explanation of the Names, Analogues, Synonymes, and Phrases (in English, Latin, Greek, French, and German,) employed in Science and connected with Medicine. Complete in 10 Parts, price 5s. each. The entire work, cloth, £2. 10s. II. A MEDICAL VOCABULARY ; or, an Explanation of all Names, Synonymes, Terms, and Phrases used in Medicine and the relative branches of Medical Science, intended specially as a Book of Reference for the Young Student. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. DR. MILLINGEN. ON THE TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE IN- SANE; with Considerations on Public and Private Lunatic Asylums. 18mo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. W. J. MOOR, M.D. HEALTH IN THE TROPICS;1'or, Sanitary Art applied to Europeans in India. 8vo. cloth, 9s. II. A MANUAL OF THE DISEASES OF INDIA. Fcap. 8m doth, 5s. DR . NOBLE. THE HUMAN .MIND IN ITS RELATIONS WITH THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. Post 8vo. cloth, -Is. 6d. ifi^flfcc-—«»{ — —■: mr. churchill's publications. — MR. NUNNELEY, F.R.C.S.E. <|> I. * ON THE ORGANS OF YISION: their anatomy and phy- siology. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 15s. A TEEATISE ON THE NATUEE, CAUSES, AND TEEATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. O'REILLY. THE PLACENTA, THE OEGANIC NEEYOUS SYSTEM, THE BLOOD, THE OXYGEN, AND THE ANIMAL NERVOUS SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGICALLY EXAMINED. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. LANGSTON PARKER. THE MODEEN TEEATMENT OF SYPHILITIC DISEASES, both Primary and Secondary; comprising the Treatment of Constitutional and Confirmed Syphilis, by a safe and successful Method. Fourth Edition, 8vo. cloth, 10s. MR. PARKES, F.R.C.P THE HEINE: its composition in health and disease, * AND UNDER THE ACTION OF REMEDIES. 8vo. cloth, 12s. T THE CAUSATION AND PEEYENTION OF DISEASE. X 8vo. cloth, 5s. §g MR. JAMES PART, F.R.C.S. THE MEDICAL AND SUEGICAL POCKET CASE BOOK, for the Registration of important Cases in Private Practice, and to assist the Student of Hospital Practice. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. DR. PAVY, M.D., F.R.C.P. EESEAECHES ON THE NATUEE AND TEEATMENT OF DIABETES. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. DR. THOMAS B. PEACOCK, M.D 0NoFtSLinFl^EhN?aa0R EPID™c CATAEEIIAL FEVEE U* 1847-8. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. MR. OLIVER PEMBERTON, M.R.C S OBSEEYATIONS W THE HISTOEY PAT1I0I0GY AND s™^bi™ i cloth, 5s. wtec-**c-_h_* — i^^HB^M 22 mr. churchill's publications. % -~&t _____ S DR. PICKFORD. k HYGIENE; or, Health as Depending upon the Conditions of the Atmo- sphere, Food and Drinks, Motion and Rest, Sleep and Wakefulness, Secretions, Excretions, and Retentions, Mental Emotions, Clothing, Bathing, &c. Vol. I. 8vo. 1 cloth, 9s. .- MR. PIRRIE, F.R.S.E. THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OE SURGERY. With numerous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 24s. PHARMACOPEIA COLLEGiTrEGALIS MEDICORUM LON- DINENSIS. 8vo. cloth, 9s.; or 24mo. 5s. Imprimatur. Hie liber, cui titulus, Pharmacop_ia Collegii Reoalis Medicortjm Londinensis. Datum ex iEdibus Collegii in comitiis censoriis, Novembris Mensis 14to 1850. Johannes Ayrton Paris. Prases. PROFESSORS PLATTNER & MUSPRATT- THE USE OE THE BLOWPIPE IN THE EXAMINATION OF MINERALS, ORES, AND OTHER METALLIC COMBINATIONS. Illustrated by numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. f DR. HENRY PRATT, M.D., M.R.C.P. THE GENEALOGY OF CREATION, newly Translated from the Unpointed Hebrew Text of the Book of Genesis, showing the General Scientific Accuracy of the Cosmogony of Moses and the Philosophy of Creation. 8vo. cloth, 14s. II. ON ECCENTRIC AND CENTRIC FORCE: a New Theory of Projection. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. THE PRESCRIBER'S PHARMACOPGEIA; containing all the Medi- f cines in the London Pharmacopoeia, arranged in Classes according to their Action, with their Composition and Doses. By a Practising Physician. Fourth Edition. 32mo. cloth, 2s. 6_.; roan tuck (for the pocket), 3s. 6d. DR. JOHN ROWLISON PRETTY. AIDS DURING LABOUR, including the Administration of Chloroform, the Management of Placenta and Post-partum Haemorrhage. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. MR. LAKE PRICE. PHOTOGRAPHIC MANIPULATION: Treating of the Practice of the Art, and its various appliances to Nature. With Fifty Engravings on W ood. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. — •— MR. P. C. PRICE, F.R.C.S.E. SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF THE EXTERNAL LYMPHATIC GLANDS: their Nature, Variety, and Treatment; with Remarks on the Management of Scrofulous Ulcerations, Scars, and Cicatrices. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. THE WINTER CLIMATE OF MENTON, with hints to INVALIDS INTENDING TO RESIDE THERE. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. DR. PRIESTLEY. LECTURES ON THE DEYELOPMENT OF THE GRAYID UTERUS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d.„ —M^-^J^j mr. churchill's publications. 23 DR.! ,RADCLIFFE,~ F.R.C.P. LOND. () ON EPILEPTIC AND OTHER CONVULSIVE AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. MR. R A I N E Y. ON THE MODE OF FORMATION OF SHELLS OF ANIMALS, OF BONE AND OF SEVERAL OTHER STRUCTURES by a Process of Molecular Coalescence, Demonstrable in certain Artificially-formed Products. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. F. H. RAMS BOTH AM. THE PEINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF OBSTETRIC MEDI- CINE AND SURGERY. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Plates on Steel and Wood; forming one thick handsome volume. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. DR. RAMSBOTHAM. PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON MIDWIFERY, with a Selection of Cases. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. PROFESSOR REDWOOD, PH.D. A SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPOEIA: a concise bnt T comprehensive Dispensatory, and Manual of Facts and Formulae, for the use of Practi- tioners in Medicine and Pharmacy. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. DR. DU BOIS REYMOND. ANIMAL ELECTRICITY ; Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.K.S. With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. REYNOLDS, M.D., LOND. EPILEPSY: ITS SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND RELATION TO OTHER CHRONIC CONVULSIVE DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, SPINAL CORD, AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 8vo. cloth, 8s. DR. B. W. RICHARDSON. ON THE CAUSE OF THE COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD. Being the Astlby Cooper Prize Essay for 1856. With a Practical Appendix. 8vo. cloth, 16s. THE HYGIENIC TREATMENT'OF PULMONARY CONSUMP- TION. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. III. THE ASCLEPIAD. Vol. L, Clinical Essays. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. MR. WILLIAM ROBERTS. AN ESSAY ON WASTING PALSY; being a Systematic Treatise on the Disease hitherto described as ATROP11IE MUSCULAIRE PROGRESSIVE—©* — —— 24 mr. Churchill's publications. —ot _ 3-e— \ DR. W. H. ROBERTSON. THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF GOUT. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. A TREATISE ON DIET AND REGIMEN. Fourth Edition. 2 vols, post 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. ROUTH. INFANT FEEDING, AND ITS INFLUENCES ON LIFE; Or, the Causes and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. ROWE. NERYOUS DISEASES, LITER AND STOMACH C0M- PLAINTS, LOW SPIRITS, INDIGESTION, GOUT, ASTHMA, AND DIS- ORDERS PRODUCED BY TROPICAL CLIMATES. With Cases. Sixteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. DR. ROYLE, F.R.S., AND DR. HEADLAND, M.D. A MANUAL OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. With numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. RUMSEY, F.R.C.S. ESSAYS ON STATE MEDICINE. 8vo. cloth, lOs. 6rf. DR. RYAN, M.D. INFANTICIDE: its law, prevalence, prevention, and HISTORY. 8vo. cloth, 5s. ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL: A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE ANATOMICAL MUSEUM. Vol. I. (1846), 8vo. cloth, 5s.; Vol. II. (1851), 8vo. cloth, 5s.; Vol. III. (1862), 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. SALTER, F.R.S. ON ASTHMA: its Pathology, Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 10s. MR. SAVORY. A COMPENDIUM OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE, AND C0MPA- NION TO THE MEDICINE CHEST ; intended as a Source of Easy Reference for Clergymen, and for Families residing at a Distance from Professional Assistance. Sixth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 5s. DR. SCHACHT. THE MICROSCOPE, AND ITS APPLICATION TO YEGETABLE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Edited by Frederick Currey, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, Gs. DR. SCORESBY-JACKSON, M.D., F.R.S.E. MEDICAL CLIMATOLOGY ; or, a Topographical and Meteorological JVf Description of the Localities resorted to in Winter and Summer by Invalids of various W classes both at Home and Abroad. With nn Isothermal Chart. Post 8vo. cloth, 12s.MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 25 -e* — DR. SEMPLE. ON COUGH : its Causes, Varieties, and Treatment. "With some practical Remarks on the Use of the Stethoscope as an aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. Gel. DR. SEYMOUR. ILLUSTRATIONS OF SOME ""OF THE PRINCIPAL DIS- EASES OF THE OVARIA: their Symptoms and Treatment; to which are prefixed Observations on the Structure and Functions of those parts in the Human Being and in Animals. With 14 folio plates, 12s. THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF DROPSY; considered especially in" reference to the Diseases of the Internal Organs of the Body, which most commonly produce it. 8vo. 5s. DR. SHAPTER, M.D., F.R.O.P. THE CLIMATE OF THE SOUTH OF DEYON, AND ITS INFLUENCE UPON HEALTH. Second Edition, with Maps. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. MR. SHAW, M.R.C.S. THE MEDICAL REMEMBRANCER; OR, BOOK OF EMER- GENCIES : in which are concisely pointed out the Immediate Remedies to be adopted in the First Moments of Danger from Poisoning, Apoplexy, Burns, and other Accidents; with the Tests for the Principal Poisons, and other useful Information. Fourth Edition. Edited, with Additions, by Jonathan Hutchinson, M.R.C.S. 32mo. cloth, 2s. 6d. „v>. DR SIBSON FRS MEDICAL ANATOMY. With coloured Plates. Imperial folio. Fasci- culi I. to VI. 5s. each. ™™ v~«.- DR. E. H. SIEVEKING. ON EPILEPSY AND EPILEPTIFORM SEIZURES: their Causes, Pathology, and Treatment. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. MR. SINCLAIR AND DR. JOHNSTON PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY: Comprising an Account of 13,748 Deli- veries, which occurred in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, during a period of Seven Years. 8vo. cloth, 15s. MR. ALFRED SMEE, FRS. GENERAL DEBILITY AND DEFECTIVE NUTRITION; their Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. SMELLIE. OBSTETRIC PLATES: being a Selection from the more Important and Practical Illustrations contained in the Original Work. With Anatomical and Practical Directions. 8vo. cloth, 5s. ««.uwu MR. HENRY SMITH, F.R.C.S. ON STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 8vo. doth, 7, e* HEMORRHOIDS AND PROLAPSUS OF THE RECTUM • I jS^^^SS^ with especial reference t0 th0 usc of Nitric A^ & 1 — . .—.—. " Jo-—2G mr. chtjrchill's publications. -Of— —— *0— 1 DR. W. TYLER SMITH. X I. A MANUAL OF OBSTETRICS, THEORETICAL AND PRAC- TICAL. Illustrated with 186 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. ii. THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF LEUCORRHCEA. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 7s. DR. SNOW. ON CHLOROFORM AND OTHER ANESTHETICS: their ACTION AND ADMINISTRATION. Edited, with a Memoir of the Author, by Benjamin W. Richardson, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. STANHOPE TEMPLE MAN SPEER. PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY, IN ITS APPLICATION TO THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Translated from the French of MM. Becquekel and Rodieb. 8vo. cloth, reduced to 8s. dr. steggall students' books foe examination. I. A MEDICAL MANUAL FOE APOTHECARIES' HALL AND OTHER MEDICAL BOARDS. Twelfth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. u. A MANUAL FOR THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS; intended for the Use of Candidates for Examination and Practitioners. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. in. GREGORY'S CONSPECTUS MEDICINE THEORETICS, The First Part, con- taining the Original Text, with an Ordo Verborum, and Literal Translation. 12mo. cloth, 10s. IV. THE FIRST FOUR BOOKS OF CELSUS; containing the Text, Ordo Verb- orum, and Translation. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 8s. v. FIRST LINES FOR CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS PREPARING FOR EX- AMINATION AT THE PHARMACEUTICAL SOCIETY. Second Edition. 18mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. STOWE, M.R.C.S. A T0XIC0L0GICAL CHART, exhibiting at one view the Symptoms, 3 Treatment, and Mode of Detecting the various Poisons, Mineral, Vegetable, and Animal. . To which are added, concise Directions for the Treatment of Suspended Animation. tj Eleventh Edition. On Sheet, 2s.; mounted on Roller, 5s. 9 ^i- ^ft>ti<5&S*-~€H- Jo- MR. churchill's publications. 27 — — fe— DR. SWAYNE. OBSTETRIC APHORISMS FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS COMMENCING MIDWIFERY PRACTICE. With Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. TAMPLIN, F.R.C.S.E. LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE: its Causes, Nature, aud Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 4s. DR. ALEXANDER TAYLOR, F.R.S.E. THE CLIMATE OF PAU: with a Description of the Watering Places of the Pyrenees, and of the Virtues of their respective Mineral Sources in Disease. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. DR. ALFRED S. TAYLOR, F.R.S. A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d, H. ON POISONS, in relation to MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND MEDICINE. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. TEALE. ON AMPUTATION BY A LONG AND A SHORT RECTAN- GULAR FLAP. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. THEOPHILUS THOMPSON, F.R.S. CLINICAL LECTURES ON PULMONARY CONSUMPTION With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. LETTSOMIAN LECTURES ON PULMONARY CONSUMPTION- with Remarks on Microscopical Indications, and on Cocoa-nut Oil. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. ' . , ., DR. THOMAS. THE MODERN PRACTICE OF PHYSIC; exhibiting the symp- Eieven* Edi'tio^" R ^f™' ^ T.reatment °f the Diseases °f * Climates. Eleventh Edition. Revised by Algernon Frampton, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, 28s. MR. HENRY THOMPSON, F.R.C.S. STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA; it, mi TrMmmt Th,J..k,„„,„P„eE„.,(.rl852. Wi.h Plate sM.„d Edition 8v..dl lo*! THE DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE; their Pa.M„gy „,,„ Tre».- ment. Comprising a Dissertat on " On the Hpilthv ™a -\/r i-j a °J „ ! DR. THUDICHUM. A TREATISE ON THE PATHOLOGY OF THE URINE Including a complete Gmde to its Analysis. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 14s. ' __28 mr. churchill's publications. *9:~ D R. TILT. ON UTERINE AND OVARIAN INFLAMMATION, AND ON THE PHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASES OF MENSTRUATION. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. THE CHANGE OE LIFE IN" HEALTH AND DISEASE: a Practical Treatise on the Nervous and other Affections incidental to Women at the Decline of Life. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. GODWIN TIMMS. CONSUMPTION: its True Nature and Successful Treatment. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10s. DR. ROBERT B. TODD, F.R.S. I. CLINICAL LECTURES ON THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. New Edition, in one Volume, Edited by Dr. Beale, 8vo. cloth, 18s. CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS, AND ON DROPSIES. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. TOMES, F.R.S. A MANUAL OF DENTAL SURGERY. With 208 Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. JOSEPH TOYNBEE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. THE DISEASES OF THE EAR: THEIR NATURE, DIAG- NOSIS, AND TREATMENT. Illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 15s. DR. TURNBULL. AN INQUIRY INTO THE CURABILITY OF CONSUMPTION, ITS PREVENTION, AND THE PROGRESS OF IMPROVEMENT IN THE TREATMENT. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH with FERMENTATION; and on the Causes and Treatment of Indigestion, &c. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. TWEEDIE, F.R.S. CONTINUED FEVERS: THEIR DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERS, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CREATION. Eleventh Edition. Illustrated with 106 Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6rf. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. EXPLANATIONS: A SEQUEL TO "VESTIGES." Second Edition. Post ffvo. cloth, 5s.l^m^-** ■ — ; MR. CHURCUILL's "PUBLICATIONS. 29 — ■ *©— DR. UNDERWOOD. TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OE CHILDREN. Tenth Edition, with Additions and Corrections by Henry Davies, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 15s. BOTANICAL LETTERS. ^VanTateT'by Dr. B. Paul. Numerous Woodcuts. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. MR. WADE, F.R.C.S. STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA, ITS COMPLICATIONS AND EFFECTS; a Practical Treatise on the Nature and Treatment of those Affections. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. DR. WALLER. ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY; or, Companion to the Lying-in Room. Fourth Edition, with Plates. Fcap. cloth, 4s. 6d. MR. HAYNES WALTON, F.R.C.S. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE EYE. With Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 14s. MR. SOELBERG WELLS, M.D., M.R.C.S. ON LONG-, SHORT, AND WEAK SIGHT, and their Treatment by the Scientific Use of Spectacles. With Engravings on Wood and Stone. 8vo. cloth, 5s MR. T. SPENCER WELLS, F.R.C.S. PRACTICAL OBSERYATIONS ON GOUT AND ITS COMPLI- d^th1^13' °" Treatment of Joints Stiffened by Gouty Deposits. Foolscap 8vo. f SCALE OF MEDICINES WITH WHICH MERCHANT YES )/ Kf n,RE ^ Fr^SHED by command of the Prify CouncT for Trade" I ^>th Observations on the Means of Preserving the Health of Seamen, &« Jc E Seventh 1 housand. leap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. fm^~** ^ DR. WATERS, M.R.C.P. THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN LUNG. The Prize Essay to which the Fothergillian Gold Medal was awarded by the Medical Society of London. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. & DR. EBEN. WATSON, A.M. ON THE TOPICAL MEDICATION OF THE LARYNX IN CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE RESPIRATORY AND VOCAL ORGANS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. ALLAN WEBB, F.R.C.S.L. THE SURGEON'S READY RULES FOR OPERATIONS IN SURGERY. Royal 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. WEBER. A CLINICAL HAND-BOOK OF AUSCULTATION AND PER- CUSSION. Translated by John Cockle, M.D. 5s.■ . 30 mr. churchill's publications. DR. WEST. LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. DR. UVEDALE WEST. ILLUSTRATIONS 0E PUERPERAL DISEASES. Second Edi- tion, enlarged. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. WHEELER. HAND-BOOK OF ANATOMY FOR STUDENTS OF THE FINE ARTS. With Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. DR. WHITEHEAD, F.R.C.S. ON THE TRANSMISSION FROM PARENT TO OFFSPRING OF SOME FORMS OF DISEASE, AND OF MORBID TAINTS AND TENDENCIES. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, ] 0s. 6d. DR. WILDE, M.D., F.R.C.S. ON THE MALFORMATIONS AND CONGENITAL DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF SIGHT. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6_. DR. WILLIAMS, F.R.S. PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE: An Elementary View of the Causes, Nature, Treatment, Diagnosis, and Prognosis, of Disease. With brief Remarks on Hygienics, or the Preservation of Health. The Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. THE WIFE'S DOMAIN : the Young Couple—the Mother—the Nurse —the Nursling. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. JOSEPH WILLIAMS. INSANITY : its Causes, Prevention, and Cure; including Apoplexy, Epilepsy, and Congestion of the Brain. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. d. HUME WILLIAMS. UNSOUNDNESS OF MIND, IN ITS MEDICAL AND LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. DR. WILLIAMSON, LATE STAFF-SURGEON. NOTES ON THE WOUNDED FROM THE MUTINY IN INDIA: with a Description of the Preparations of Gunshot Injuries contained in the Museum at Fort Pitt. With Lithographic Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. I. THE ANATOMIST'S YADE-MECUM: A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. "Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d.<5$S MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 31 » o[— —— ■ 3o » MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. {continued). II. DISEASES OF THE SKIN: A Practical and Theoretical Treatise on the DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, and TREATMENT OF CUTANEOUS DIS- EASES. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. The same Work; illustrated with finely executed Engravings on Steel, accurately coloured. 8vo. cloth, 34s. in. HEALTHY SKIN : A Treatise on the Management of the Skin and Hair in relation to Health. Sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d. IV. POETEAITS OE DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Folio. Fasciculi I. to XII., completing the Work. 20s. each. v. ON SYPHILIS, CONSTITUTIONAL AND HEREDITARY; AND ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. With Four Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 16s. VI. A THREE WEEKS' SCAMPER THROUGH THE SPAS OF GERMANY AND BELGIUM, with an Appendix on the Nature and Uses of Mineral Waters. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. VII. in THE EASTERN OR TURKISH BATH: its History, Eevival Britain, and Application to the Purposes of Health. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. DR. Q. C. WITTSTEIN. PRACTICAL PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY: An Explanation of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Processes, with the Methods of Testing the Purity of the Preparations deduced from Original Experiments. Translated from the Second German Edition, by Stephen Darby. 18mo. cloth, 6s. DR. HENRY G. WRIGHT. "IfS^2^' thdr °aUSeS and their Cure- TMrd Edition. Fcap. 8vo. MR. YEARSLEY. DEAFNESS PRACTICALLY ILLUSTRATED • w ^ XL ON THE ENLARGED TONSIL AND ELONGATED TTTUT A and other Morbid Conditions of the Throat. Seventh EdZ. 8^f cloth, 5, ^Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. each. 4 CHURCHILL'S SERIES OF MANUALS. "We here give Mr. Churchill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on the Medical Profession, by the series of beautiful and cheap Manuals which bear his imprint."— British and Foreign Medical Review. AGGREGATE SALE, 121,000 COPIES. The ANATOMIST'S VADE-MECUM. A System of Human Anatomy. With numerous Engravings. Eighth Edition. By Erasmus Wilson, F.R.C.S., F.E.S. BOTANY. With numerous Engravings. By Robert Bentley, F.L.S., Professor of Botany, King's College, and to the Pharmaceutical Society. CHEMISTRY. With numerous Engravings. By George Fownes, F.B.S. Eighth Edition. Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. Hofmann, F.R.S. DENTAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. By John Tomes, F.R.S. MATERIA MEDICA. With numerous Engravings. Third Edition. By J. Forbes Royle, M.D., F.R.S., and Frederick W. Headland, l M.D., F.L.S. . V MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Seventh Edition. By Alfred Swaine % Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. By G. Htlaro Barlow, M.D., M.A. The MICROSCOPE and its REVELATIONS. With numerous Plates and Engravings. Third Edition. By W. B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. With numerous Engravings. Fifth Edition. By Golding Bird, M.D., M.A., F.R.S., and Charles Brooke, M.B., M.A., F.R.S. OBSTETRICS. With numerous Engravings. By W. Tyler Smith, M.D., F.R.C.P. OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE and SURGERY. With coloured Engravings on Steel, and Illustrations on Wood. Second Edition. By T. Wharton Jones, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. By C. Handfield Jones, M.B., F.R.C.P., and E. H. Sieveking, M.D., F.R.C.P. PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Engravings. Third Edition. By William B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S. POISONS. Second Edition. By Alfred Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. PRACTICAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. By William Fergusson, F.R.C.S.OUND W