55 development of the skeleton. being found in the adult human body, or in that of the higher vertebrates, except perhaps some slight traces in the soft pulpy centres of the inter-vertebral discs ; although in the cartilaginous fash it remains as a more or less complete structure throughout life. In each of the cartilaginous vertebral bone begins to form and to spread beyond its original point of formation, which is calle a centre or nucleus of ossification; the greater part of the body is formed from one of these centres, and each half of the neural arch from another; whilst small ossific centres arise for the tips of the spinous, transverse, and mammillary processes, and a special plate appears for both the upper and lower surfaces of the body ; the fusion of the various centres together to form a complete vertebra takes place between the twentieth and twenty-fifth year. The atlas has a separate centre for each lateral mass and one for the anterior boundary of the ring. The axis, in addition to the ossific centres found in the vertebrae generally, has one or two for the odontoid process. The seventh cervical vertebra has the anterior bar of its transverse process developed from a separate centre. Each coccygeal vertebra possesses only a single centre, which represents the body of the bone. At the time when the cranio-spinal canal is being closed in by the development of its membranous walls, the germinal layers of the young embryo grow towards its anterior or ventral surface, and meet in the ventral mesial line, so as to enclose the cavities in which the thoracic and abdominal viscera are developed. In the membranous wall on each side of the thoracic cavity twelve cartilaginous rods, the future ribs, are developed; and, connected with the anterior ends of the seven pairs of upper ribs, the cartilaginous sternum is formed. Each rib ossifies from one centre for its shaft, and one each for the head and tubercle. The sternum ossifies in transverse segments,— one for the prse-stemum, one or sometimes two for each1 of the four subdivisions of the meso-sternum, and one for the xiphi-sternum. The complete ossification and fusion of the different parts of the sternum into a single bone does not take place until an advanced age. The Axial part of the skeleton, formed by the vertebrae, ribs, and sternum, is built up of a series of thirty-three transverse segments, equal in number, therefore, to the bones of the spine; so that each vertebra, according as it is, or is not, articulated with a pair of ribs and a segment of the sternum, constitutes a complete or incomplete transverse segment. These several segments are serially homologous with each other, but the homology is not so complete in some of the segments as in the others. In the coccygeal, sacral,