DEVELOPMENT OE THE SKELETON. 61 a limb belong to the appendicular part of the skeleton, but there is a difference of opinion as to the place in the skeleton to which the bones of the shoulder girdle and haunch are to be referred. Owen considers that the scapular and pelvic arches belong to the axial skeleton, and are homologous with the ribs; the scapula and coracoid as the visceral or rib-arch of the occipital vertebra, the clavicle of the atlas, and the innominate bone of the upper sacral vertebra. Goodsir objected to this conclusion of Owen’s on the ground that the shoulder girdle was not in series with the visceral arches, but was developed outside the visceral wall, at the junction of the cervical and thoracic regions, from which region the upper limb receives its nerves, and not from the occipito-atlantal region, whence they would have proceeded had it been an appendage of the rib-arches of those segments. Owen’s chief argument for regarding the scapula and coracoid as the costal arch of the occi- pital vertebra is because in fish the scapula is attached to the occipital bone by a bone which Cuvier called the supra-scapula, and which he believed to be homologous with the supra-scapular cartilage of many other vertebrates. Parker, however, has recently pointed out that the so-called supra-scapula of a fish is not homolo- gous with the supra-scapula of a reptile or mammal, that it is not a cartilage bone, but is a splint or scale-like bone, developed as a part of the dermo-skeleton. Between the scapula and coracoid and the innominate bone, anatomists have long recognised homologies to exist j the scapula is generally admitted to be the homotype of the ilium and the coracoid of the ischium, so that if these elements of the shoulder girdle be not a costal arch, neither can those of the pelvic girdle. The clavicle has by some been regarded as the homotype of the pubis; but in all probability the pubis is homo- logous with the procoracoid bone which is found in the amphibia and some reptiles, but is absent in crocodiles, birds, and mammals j whilst the shaft of the clavicle is represented in the pelvic girdle, not by a bone, but by a fibrous band called Poupart’s ligament. Between the bones of the shafts of the limbs homologies exist : the humerus is the homotype of the femur, the radius of the tibia, the ulna of the fibula ; whilst the patella has no representative in the human upper limb. The scaphoid and semilunar bones in the carpus are homotypes of the astragalus in the tarsus, the cunei- form is the homotype of the os calcis, the cuboid of the unciform; the trapezium of the ento-cuneiform, the trapezoid of the meso-, and the os magnum of the ecto-cuneiform. The tarsal scaphoid is not, as a rule, represented in the human carpus, but its homotype