108 ANATOMY. rib arches, which have been termed the haemal or hypo-skeletal muscles. The epi-skeletal muscles, like the vertebrae themselves, are developed within the proto-vertebrce, but it is not known if the hypo-skeletal group have the same origin. In fishes the epi- skeletal muscles preserve their fundamental arrangement with but little modification. They are disposed in transverse segments or myotonies, which equal in number the vertebrae. These myotomes are separated from each other by bands of fibrous tissue, the inter- muscular septa. In man and the higher vertebrates the simple transversely segmented arrangement is to a large extent lost. Traces are preserved, however, in the interspinales and intertransversales muscles, situated in the intervals between the spines and transverse processes of some of the vertebral segments ; in the external inter- costals and in the recti abdominis muscles, in the last-named of which tendinous bands subdivide the muscle into several transverse segments. More usually, the intermuscular septa either are not formed or disappear, and adjacent myotomes become blended into a continuous mass of muscle. In some instances the fibres of this muscle run longitudinally, and the entire mass subdivides longi- tudinally into separate and distinct parallel muscles, as is seen in the subdivision of the great erector spinal into the sacro-lumbalis, musculus acQessorius, cervicalis ascendens, longissimus dorsi, trans- versalis cervicis, trachelo-mastoid, and spinalis dorsi muscles. In other instances the muscles run obliquely ; some on the back of the body pass obliquely from below upwards and outwards, as the splenius and obliquus inferior; others obliquely from below, up- wards and inwards, as the complexus, obliquus superior, senn- spinalis, multifidus and rotatores spin®; others again, as the external and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen, extend obliquely from behind forwards to the ventral mesial line. _ Of the hypo-skeletal group of muscles, the internal intercostals dis- play the transverse segmentation. As a rule, however, the muscles of this group extend longitudinally, andform the pra-vertebral group, named anterior recti, longi colli, and psoce ; though the diaphragm, triangulares sterni, transversi abdominis, and levatores am, which lie in relation to the inner surfaces of the ribs and visceral cavities, are not longitudinal, but are specially modified in arrangement for functional reasons. The plane of demarcation between the hypo- and epi-skeletal groups of muscles, where they forml th' walls of the great visceral chambers,-the thorax and abdomen,- is marked off by the position and course of the intercostal series spinal nerves.