DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. 57 arches, caUed branchial or visceral, arise in the ventral aspect of the head, and in each of the three first of these arches a rod of cartilage is formed. The arches on opposite sides unite with each othei in the ventral mesial line, but those on the same side are separated from each other by intermediate branchial clefts; these clefts all close up in course of time, except the upper part of the first, which remains as the external meatus of the ear, the tympanum, and the Eustachian tube; whilst the interval between the first visceral arch and the maxillary lobes forms the cavity of the mouth. The con- version of the primordial cartilaginous and membranous cranium into the bones of the head takes place by the formation in it of numerous centres of ossification. The basi-, ex-, and so much of the supra-occipital as lies below the superior curved line, are formed from distinct centres in the cartilaginous floor of the skull; whilst the part of the supra-occipital above the curved line arises from independent centres in the membranous cranium, the whole ulti- mately fusing together to form the occipital hone. The basi- or post-sphenoid, the pre- with the orbito-sphenoids, the ali-sphenoid with the external pteiygoid and the internal pterygoid, also arise in the cartilaginous floor, and they, together with the sphenoidal spongy hones which are formed in the membranous cranium, fuse into the sphenoid hone. The palate is apparently formed by ossifica- tion of cartilage continuous with the bar in which the internal pterygoid arises. The central plate and each lateral mass of the ethmoid also arise in the cartilage by distinct centres. The inferior tnrhinal has also a distinct origin in cartilage. The petro-mastoid part of the temporal arises in cartilage from at least three centres, peri-, pro-, and opisth-otic, and soon blends with the squamous and tympanic elements which arise in the membranous cranium; subsequently the styloid process, which is ossified in the rod of cartilage in the second visceral arch, joins the temporal. The lower end of this same rod forms the lesser cornu of the hyoid; the upper end forms two small bones, the stapes and incus, situated within the cavity of the tympanum. The cartilage of the third visceral arch forms the great cornu and body of the hyoid hone. The name of Meckel’s cartilage is applied to the rod found in the first visceral arch; its upper end is ossified into the malleus, a small hone situated in the tympanic cavity; whilst in the membrane sur- rounding the rest of the cartilage the lower jaw-bone is formed. The parietal and frontal bones arise altogether in the membranous vault; and the nasal, lachrymal, malar, and superior maxilbe arise in connection with the membranous lobes which form the face; the