CEREBROSPINAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 211 continuous with, and derived from the cells of the epiblast. The cells of the mesoblast below and at the sides of this groove then undergo changes. Those immediately below the groove dif- ferentiate into the rod-like chorda dorsalis. Those situated at the sides greatly increase in numbers, and cause the sides of the groove to he elevated into the dorsal or neural laminae. By the continued production and growth of the mesoblast cells, placed at the sides of the groove, which subsequently differentiate into the primordial vertebrae, the two dorsal laminte come in contact, the neural groove is converted into a neural, or axial, or central canal, and the epiblast cells lining it become cut off from their original con- tinuity with the other cells of the epiblast (Fig. 71), which remain as the outer layer or covering of the em- bryo, and give origin to the epidermis. The included epiblast cells form the walls of a cylindriform cerebro - spinal tube (C S). The axial canal becomes the central canal of the cerebro- spinal nervous axis; the layer of epiblast Fig.71.—Transverse vertical section through theblasto- cells next the canal derm of Bufo cinereus. C S, the wall of the cerebro- f .. , spinal tube which has been cut off from the super- forms its epithelial ficial epiblast, E, by growth of the mesoblast, M lining ; whilst the rlle otller letters as in fig. 70. (After Schenk.) layers of epiblast cells situated peripherally to the epithelial layer dif- ferentiate into the greater part, if not the whole, of the nervous tissues of the brain and spinal cord. In the part which becomes the Spinal Cord the central canal persists as the central canal of the spinal cord and is lined by a layer of ciliated cylindrical epithelium. Out- side this layer is formed a mass of grey matter containing nerve cells, which are undoubtedly derived from the epiblast cells, and this grey matter subsequently divides into two lateral crescent-shaped masses. Outside the grey matter white matter is produced, which ultimately becomes arranged in the form of longitudinal columns of nerve fibres; it is as yet doubtful if the columns are derived from a differentiation of the epiblast, or from those mesoblast cells which immediately surround the cerebro-spinal tube. With the formation and growth of these columns and of the internal grey matter, a longi-