CEREBROSPINAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 213 vesicle. In its roof the optic lobes are formed.; in its floor the crura cerebri; whilst the central hollow becomes the aqueduct of Sylvius. At first the optic lobes form a single structure, but about the sixth month of embryo life a median furrow divides this struc- ture into two lateral halves (the corpora bigemina), and in the lower vertebrates the development does not proceed beyond this stage; but in the seventh month of embryo life of the human fcetus each lateral half is subdivided into two by a transverse fissure, so that four bodies (the corpora quadrigemina) are produced. The crura cerebri form the two cerebral peduncles, which, diverging from each other, pass upwards to the hemisphere of the cerebrum. They consist almost entirely of nerve fibres continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the pons, a few of which go to the corpora quadrigemina, but the greater number ascend to the cerebral hemi- spheres. The anterior cerebral vesicle bends downwards from the middle vesicle. The posterior part of this vesicle is at first a simple hollow sac, but subsequently the two optic thalami form in its wall, one on each side of the central hollow, which hollow becomes the third ventricle. This ventricle is prolonged downwards into a funnel-shaped process, the infundibulum, which is connected with the pituitary body, or hypophysis cerebri, in the pituitary fossa in the sphenoid bone, whilst posteriorly the ventricle is continuous with the aqueduct of Sylvius. In its upper and posterior wall the pineal body, or epiphysis cerebri, is developed, and from this body two white peduncles run forwards on the sides of the optic thalami. Immediately below these peduncles the transverse fibres of the posterior commissure are developed, which pass between the two optic thalami. The anterior wall of this ventricle is closed in by the lamina cinerea or lamina terminalis, and behind it are formed the transverse nerve fibres of the anterior commissure, and the vertical fibres of the anterior pillars of the fornix. These fornix fibres pass to the base of the brain, and form the corpora albicantia, prior to entering the optic thalami. The posterior part of the anterior vesicle gives off from eaeh side a flask-shaped prolongation, the primary optic vesicle. The stem of the prolongation, at first hollow, becomes solid, and forms the optic nerve and tract, whilst the expanded distal end forms the nervous elements of the retina. The antero-lateral part of the anterior cerebral vesicle is prolonged forward as two hollow processes, the hemisphere vesicles, which become the cerebral hemispheres, and are separated from each other by a median longitudinal fissure; whilst the hollow in the interior