THE BRAIN—CEREBRUM. 267 proportion to the size of these bridging convolutions. The superior annectent gyrus passes between the postero-parietal and the superior occipital convolutions, whilst the second an- nectent gyrus connects the middle occipital with the angular gyrus. Two annectent gyri also pass from the inferior occi- pital convolution to the lower convolutions of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. These lobes of the cerebrum, though named after the bones which form the vault of the skull, are not exactly co-terminous with them (Fig. 86). The frontal lobe not only lies under cover of the frontal bone, but ex- tends backwards under the anterior part of the parietal; for the fissure of Rolando, which forms its posterior boundary, lies from 1 \ to 2 inches behind the coronal suture. The occipital lobe is not limited to the upper tabular part of the occipital bone, but extends forwards under cover of the posterior part of the parietal, for the parieto-occipital fissure lies about f inch in front of the apex of the lambdoidal fissure. The temporo-sphenoidal lobe not only lies under the squamous-temporal and great wing of the sphenoid, but passes upwards under cover of the lower part of the parietal, for the Sylvian fissure passes from below obliquely upwards postero-parietal area of the skull; the letters are placed on the mid- temporo-sphenoidal convolution; the temporal ridge separates the supero- and infero-parietal regions from each other; a vertical line drawn from the squamous to the sagittal suture through the parietal eminence separates the antero- and postero-parietal regions. X, the convolution of the parietal eminence, or supra-marginal gyrus. 0, the occipital area of the skull lies helow the lamhdoidal suture; the letter is placed on the mid-occipital convolution. Sq, the squamoso-temporal region of the skuU ; the letters are placed on the mid-temporo-sphenoidal con- volution. AS, the ali-sphenoid region of the skull; the letters are placed on the tip of the supero-temporo-sphenoidal convolution* The black lines mark the boundaries of the different cranial areas.