215 CEREBROSPINAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. oblongata, so that when the human brain is looked at from above, none of these structures can be seen. It is only when the brain is turned over and its base exposed that the medulla, pons, cerebellum, and crura are visible; and before the corpora quadi'igemina, optic thalami, and corpora striata can he exposed, portions of the hemi- sphere substance must he removed. The great growth of each hemi- sphere vesicle leads also to a great expansion of its central hollow or lateral ventricle, which is prolonged forwards, backwards, and downwards as the anterior, posterior, and descending cornua. In the descending cornu is a projection, the hippocampus major, along which the taenia hippocampi of the fornix runs; in the posterior cornu is a smaller eminence, the hippocampus minor; and at the junction of these two cornua is a third elevation, the eminentia collateralis. Immediately investing the spinal cord and encephalon a vascular membrane, the pia mater, is developed, processes from which dip into the fissures between the two halves of the cord and between the cerebral convolutions. A broad band, the velmiinterpositum, which possesses two marginal fringes, the choroid plexuses, is admitted into the lateral ventricle through the gap or fissure in the inner wall of each hemisphere vesicle. This fissure is bounded above by the arch-shaped fornix, with its taenia hippocampi. When the two hemispheres are in situ, and the two halves of the fornix are joined together to form the body of that structure, the fissure, with its contained velum interpositum, passes across the mesial plane from one hemisphere to the other, having the fornix and teniae for its roof, and the optic thalami and corpora quadrigemina for its floor; it is known as the great transverse fissure of the cerebrum. The mesoblast cells which constitute the proto-vertebrae dif- ferentiate, not only into the structures which form the spinal column and the muscle plates, from which the epi-skeletal muscles are derived, but into the roots of the spinal nerves, the series of ganglia on the posterior roots, and the spinal nerve-trunks formed by the junction of the anterior and posterior roots. As the walls of the body and the limbs acquire a definite shape, certain of their mesoblast cells differentiate into nerve fibres, which become con- tinuous with the spinal nerve-trunks, and form the spinal dis- tributory nerves. The cranial nerves, except the olfactory bulb and peduncle and the optic nerve, arise from the cells of the meso- blast situated at the sides of the upper or cerebral end of the cerebro- spinal tube.