ANATOMY. 60 the bone, which are formed in cartilage, unite with the intermediate shaft. The scapula ossifies from one centre for its expanded plate and spine, two small centres each for the acromion and vertebral border, and one for the coracoid. In many vertebrates, more espe- cially birds and reptiles, the coracoid is a distinct bone from the scapula, but they articulate with each other to form the glenoid fossa. Each of the three rod-like bones of which the innominate bone is composed ossifies from one centre for the shaft of the bone, and one for each extremity; in the ilium these terminal centres are situated at the crest and acetabulum ; in the ischium, at the tuber and acetabulum ; and in the pubis, at the symphysis and acetabu- lum. Each of the long bones of the shafts of the limbs ossifies from a single centre for the shaft, and one or more centres for each articular extremity. Each carpal and tarsal bone ossifies from a single centre, except the os calcis, which possesses an independent centre for its posterior surface. The metacarpal and metatarsal bones and the phalanges ossify each from two centres, one for the shaft and one for one of the extremities. In the metacarpal bones of the fingers and the four outer metatarsals, the distal end is that which ossifies independently; in the metacarpal of the thumb, in the meta- tarsal of the great toe, and in all the phalanges, the proximal end is that which ossifies independently. As the method of ossification of the first metacarpal and first metatarsal corresponds with that of the phalanges, some anatomists hold that these bones are really the first phalanges of their respective digits, and that the bone which is absent in these digits, when compared with the other digits, is not a phalanx, but a meta-carpal or meta-tarsal bone. When the extremity of a bone ossifies from a centre distinct from the centre from which the shaft arises, it is called an epiphysis. The epiphysis is united to the shaft of the growing bone by an intermediate plate of cartilage, and so long as any of this cartilage remains unossified the bone can continue to grow in length. The ossification is not completed in the different bones until from the twentieth to the twenty-fifth year. In the case of the long bones, the epiphysis situated at the end of the bone, towards which the canal in the shaft which trans- mits the nutrient artery is directed, ossifies to the shaft before the epiphysis at the other end. In the humerus, tibia, and fibula, where the canal is directed downwards, the epiphyses at the lower ends of the bones first unite with the shaft; whilst in the femur, radius, and ulna, where the canal is directed upwards, the ossifica- tion first takes place between the upper epiphysis and the shaft. All anatomists hold that the bones of the shaft and distal part of