Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b2041640422101344265TABLETS OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY BY THOMAS COOKE, F.RC.S., BEKIOR ASSISTANT SURGEON TO THE WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL, AN^ LECTTTRER AT THE SCHOOL OF ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND OPERATIVE SURGERY, Being a Synopsis of Demonstrations given in the Westminster Hospital Medical School in the years 1871, -72, -73, -74, & -75. WITH AN APPENDIX CONTAINING MOST OP THE NEW DISCOVERIES OF IMPORTANCE MADE KNOWN UP TO THE DATE OF PUBLICATION. Anatomy Complete SECOND EDITION. *' The schemes of any of the arts or sciences may be analysed in a sort of skeleton, and represented upon tables, with the various dependencies and connections of the several parts and subjects that belong to them; and the frequent review of these abstracts and epitomes would tend much to imprint them on the brain, when they have been once well learned; this would keep those learned traces always open, and assist the weakness of a labouring memory." ISAAO WATTS, D.D., ON "The Improvement of the Mind." LONGMANS, GREEN, & Co., PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON; W. WOOD & Co., NEW YORK; DAWSON BROTHERS, MONTREAL ; W. THACKER & Co., CALCUTTA AND BOMBAY; G. ROBERTSON, MELBOURNE. 1878. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.05PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. (Anatomy only.) In a Learner's point of view Scientific facts may, the Author thinks, be dirided into those which are daily met with by the Student, and which soon become familiar to him, and those which are learned with considerable pains and afterwards easily forgotten, and which require to be constantly recalled to the mind. The Author has endeavoured to deal with the latter class of facts only. What every one Know3, wiao has at all studied Medicine, he has purposely left out. Greater condensation is thus obtaine'l. - To the non-medical reader the Tablets may appear disconnected, and the descriptions they contain (if descriptions they maybe called) may seem dry and naked. The Author believes that the Student will easily supply the links, and give life and shape to the skeleton sketches. This book is intended neither for the idle, nor for absolute beginners. The idle will find that it contains more details than they will care to master, and that its brevity demands more mental appli- cation than would be agreeable to any one, whose mina has not been trained to close study. Beginners, however, who mean to work, may, after attending a lecture, or reading up in one of the Standard Authors a region they have just been dissecting, advantageously revise the subject in the Tablets} and these partial revisions will be found to fix the main points in the mind, and to facilitate the more important revisional effort, which, even the first year's student is usually called upon to make, wheuever his lecturer has finished describing a part, or he himself has finished dis- secting one. The more or less advanced Students, who are doing, or have done, their work honestly and con- scientiously, are the ones the Author has had mainly in view. 16, WoBURN Place, Eussell Square, September, 1875.I iPREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION (1878). (Anatomy and Physiology.) In the present Edition, only those pages have been recast, which were considerably ont of date; the others, when requiring alteration, have simply been supplemented by an Appendix, which has been incorporated with the work, as far, at least, as could well be done without' Jiivolving considerable took-binder's Jabour. The pages of this Appendix have been marked 8a, 8b, 12a, 12^, 12c, etc., in corre- spondence with the pages they are intended to sapplement or correct; and its headings have been underlined red, to call attention to the new matter. A fresh .Appendix containing new discoveries of importance will be published every two or three years. A ad every succeeding Xppe^cJix^mff issued both separately^and incorporated with the work. The present Appendix to the Anatomy refers to the Viscera, & to the Organs of the Senses. It has been inserted after pages 290, & 360. Dr. Gowers' new description of the Gray Matter of the Cerebellum, and the views of Lockhart Clarke, Stilling, and others on the cranial nerves, etc., will also be found on pages 213, 230, & 250, of the text. Descriptions of the Thymus & Thyroid Bodies and Suprarenal Cap- sules have been added; also a careful description of the Teeth. In the Physiology, new matter is more abundant: The Appendix numbers forty pages. Twelve supplement Circulation j four, Eespiration; eight, Digestion j four, the General Development of the Embryo; eight, the Development of the Organs; and four are included under the heading "Addenda." - The two aspects of Physiology, the old & the new, are thus, to a certain extent, placed side by side. The latter parts of the work,—Nervous System, the Senses, and the greater part of Embryology,—having been re-written very recently, are not, for the present, supplemented. The Embryology will be found fairly complete & up to date. Both the older & the more modern views have been presented with respect to the Pharynx, OEsophagus, & Respiratory Tract, and with respect to the questions arising out of the disputed homologies of the Genital Ducts. A few divisions have been introduced into the study of some of the subjects. The History of the development of the Bones & Teeth concludes the volume; - the former subject "being divided into two parts, Skeletal Matrixy and Ossification of the Individual Bones. The diagrams representing the development of the veins are after those of Dr. Dalton of New York, who has treated the subject most skilfully & completely.* They have been engraved by Mr. W. Gibbs of Fleet Street. Histology & chemical physiology will be treated in a separate volume. ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY COMPLETE - By this phrase it is simply meant that all the subjects have been treated, which appeared susceptible of being treated advantageously in the Tabular form : - " Ina Learner's point of view, Scientific facts may be divided into those which are daily met with by the Student, and which soon become familiar to him, and those which are learned with considerable pains 6^ afterwards easily forgotten, and which require to be constantly recalled to the mind. The Author has endeavoured to deal with the Lattee Class of Facts Only." (V. Preface to the First Edition). * J. 0. Dalton - Treatise of Human Physiology, Philadelphia, 1871, 76.TABLE OF The Bones - Tho vertebrse, 3. The three groups of vertebras, 4. The three groups compare! seriatim, 5. The Peculiar vertebrae, 6. The Atlas & axis, 7. The sacrum, 8. The coccyx, 9. The spine in general, 10. The pelvis, 11. The ribs, 12. The peculiar ribs, 13. The costal cartilages, 14. The sternum, 15. The thorax in general, 16. The frontal bone, 17. The parietal bone, 18. The occipital bone, 19. The temporal bone, 20 & 21. The sphenoid bone, 22. The ethmoid bone, 23. The inner surface of the base of the skull, 2 i & 25. The palate bone, 26. The inferior maxillary- bone 27. The superior maxillary bone, 28 & 29. The small bones of the face, 30. The orbit, 31. The nasal fossce, 32. The lateral region of the skuU, 33. The under surface of the base of the skull, 34 & 35. The scapula, 36 & 37. The clavicle, 38. The humerus, 39. The radius, 40. The ulna, 41. The bones of the carpus, 42 to 44. The metacarpal bones, 45. The innominate bone, 46'to 49. The femur, 50. The tibia, 51. The fibula, 52 & 53. The bones of the tarsus, 51 & 55. Tlie metatarsal bones, 56. The patella, 57. The hyoid bone, 58. The Muscles attached to each Bone - The muscles attached to the bones of the skull, 60. The muscles attached to the bones of the face, 61. The muscles attached to the hyoid bone, 62. The muscles attached to the boues of the thorax, 63. The muscles attached to the spine, 64 & 65. The muscles attached to the bones of the upper limb, 66 to 69. The muscles attached to the bones of the lower limb, 70 to 73. The Joints and Ligaments - The classification of joints, 76. The Temporo-Maxillary articulation, 77. The articulations of the vertebrae, 78. The articulations of the cranium with the spine, 79. The articulations of the ribs, 80. The articulations of the pelvis, 81. The sterno-clavicular articulation, 82. The acromio-clavicular articulation, 83. The shoulder-joint, 84. The elbow- joint, 85. The radio-ulnar articulations, 86. The wrist-joint, 87. The articulations of the hand, 88. The fasciae & synovial membranes of the hand & wrist, 89. The hip-joint, 90. The knee-joint, 91 to 95. The tibio-fibular articulations, 96. The ankle-joint, 97. The arti- culations of the foot, 98. The fasciae & synovial membranes of the tarsus, 99. The Muscles - The muscles of the face, 103 to 106. The elevator muscles of the lower jaw, 107. Tiie muscles of the neck, 108 & 109. The muscles of the upper limb, 110 to 114. The muscles of the thorax, 115. The muscles of the abdomen, 116. The diaphragm, 117. The superficial muscles of the back, 118. The deep muscles of the back, 119 to 122. The muscles of the lower limb, 123 to 129. The Heart and Arteries - The pericardium, 132. The heart, 133. The interior of the heart, 13i' & 135. The structure of the heart, 136 & 137. The coronary or cardiac vessels, 138. The pulmonary vessels, 139. The arch of the aorta, 140. The thoracic aorta, 141. The subclavian artery, 11-2. The branches of the subclavian artery, 143 & 144, The mediastinum, 145. The innominate artery, 146. The common carotid and external carotid arteries, 147. The superior thyroid, lingual, & facial arteries, 148. The occipital, posterior auricular, and ascending pharyngeal arteries, 149. The temporal and internal maxillary arteries, 150. The branches of the internal maxillary artery, 151. The internal carotid artery, 152. The ophthalmio artery, 153, The vertebral & basilar arteries, 154. The arteries of the base of the brain, 155. The abdominal aorta, 156. The branches of the abdominal aorta^, 157. The coeliac axis, 158. The superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, 159. The common iliac artery, 160. The external iliac artery, 161. The internal iliac artery, 162, The branches of the internal iliao artery, 163 to 105. The axillary artery, 166. The branches of the axillary artery, 167. The brachial artery, IGS. Tlie radial artery, 169. The ulnar artery, 170. The femoral artery, 171. The deep tomoral artery, 172. The popliteal artery, 173. The anterior tibial & dorsalis pedis arteries, 17X. The posterior tibial artery, 175. The plantar arteries, 176. The Veins - The innominate veins and superior vena cava, and their tributaries, 178 & 179. The anterior, external, and internal jugular veins, and their tributaries, 180 & 181. The cerebral and cerebellar veins, and the veins of the diploe, 182. The sinuses of the dura mater, 183. The veins of the upper limb, 184 & 185. The common iliac veins and inferior vena cava, and their tributaries, 186 & 187. The veins of the lower limb, 188 & 189. The veins of the pelvis, 190. i he spinal veins, 191. The venae azygos, 192. The portal system, 193. Tableau of the main trunks and their tributaries. The Lymphatics - The thoracic & right lymphatic ducts,' 196. The lymphatics of the head & iiecR, 197. The lymphatics of the thorax, 198. The lymphatics of the upper limb, 199. The yniphatics of the abdomen, 200. The lymphatics of the pelvis, 201. The lymphatics of the lower limb, 202. > The Nerve-Centres & their Coverings - The dura mater, 204. The arachnoid, 205. The pia niatcr, 206. The spinal cord, 207. The structure of the spinal cord, 208 to 210. The medulla oblongata, 211. The structure of the medulla oblongata, 212 & 213. The cerebellum, 214. The etriicture of the cerebellum, 215. The fourth ventricle, 216. The mesocephalon, 217. The structure of the mesocephalon, 218. The surface of the cerebrum, 219 to 221. The parts seenbefore opening lo^ ^*^"J"c^es, 222. The lateral ventricles, 223. The parts seen on the floor of the lateral ventricle, 22i. Tlio parts seen in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, 225, The transverse fissure of the brain & the intra-cerebral portion of the pia mater, 226. The third ventricle, 227. ihe structure of the cerebrum, 228 & 229. The gray matter of the cerebellum, 230.CONTENTS. The Cranial Nerves - The first or olfactory nerve, 232. The second or optic nerve, 233. The nerves of the orbit, 234. The relations of the nerves of the orbit, 235. The fifth nerve, 236. The Ciliary, ophthalmic, or lenticular ganglion, 237. The superior maxillary nerve, 238. The spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion, 239. The inferior maxillary nerve, 240. The otic & submaxillary ganglia, 241. The facial nerve, or portio dura of the 7th pair, 242. The auditory nerve, or portio mollis of the 7th pair, 243. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 244. The pneumogastric nerve, 245. The spinal accessory nerve, 246. The hypoglossal nerve, 247. Tableau of the cranial nerves, 248 & 249. Tlie Spinal Nerves - 252. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves, 253. The anterior divisions of the spinal nerves, 254 & 255. The cervical plexus, 256. The brachial plexus, 257. The median and musoulo-cutfineous nerves, 258. The ulnar, internal cutaneous, & lesser internal cutaneous nerves, 259. The musculo-spiral & circumflex nerves, 260. The lumbar plexus, 261. The lateral branches of the lumbar plexus, 262. The anterior crural nerve, 263. The obturator nerve, 264. The sacral plexus, 265. The pudic nerve, 266. The great sciatic nerve & external popliteal nerves, 267, The internal popliteal & posterior tibial nerves, 268. Tlie Sympathetic Nerves - The gangliated cords and ganglia, 270. The cranial portion of the sympathetic, 271. The cervical portion of the sympathetic, 272. The branches of distribution of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, 273. The nerves of the heart, 274. The cai'diao plexuses, 275. The splanchnic nerves & solar plexus, 276. The inferior abdominal and pelvic plexuses, 277. The tableau of the sympathetic, 278. The Teeth - The periods of eruption, 280. General description, 281. The permanent teeth, 282 & 283. The temporary teeth, 284. The structure of the teeth, 285 to 290. Appendix to the Viscera - The structure of the salivary glands, 291A & 292A. The mucous membrane & glands of the stomach, 293A, The mucous membrane of the small intestine, 294A, The structure of the liver, 295a. The structure of the spleen, 296a. Taste-buds; Follicular recesses of the tonsils & of the base of the tongue; Deville's Gland; Mucous membranes of the pharynx & soft palate; Mucous & muscular coats of the oesophagus, 297A. The Digestive Organs - The tonsils, 292. The tongue, 293 to 295. The salivary glands, 296 & 297. The pharynx, 298 & 299. The soft palate, 300. The oesophagus, 301. The stomach, 303 & 303. The small intestine, 304 & 305. The large intestine, 303 & 307. The rectum, 303. The peritoneum, 309 to 311. The liver, 312 to 314. The external bile ducts, 315. The pancreas, 316. The spleen, 317. The regions of the abdomen, 318. The Respiratory Organs - The interior of the larynx^ 320 & 321. The muscles of the larynx, 322. The cartilages of the larvnx, 323. The ligaments of the larynx, 324. The pleura, 325. The trachea & bronchi, 326 & 327. The lungs, 328 & 329. The thymus and thyroid glands, 330. The Male Genito-Urinary Organs - The kidney, 332 & 33.?. The bladder, 334 & 335. The male urethra, 336. The structure of the penis, 337. The testicle & epididymis, 333 & 339. The vas deferens, vesiculse seminales, & ejaculatory ducts, 310. The prostate gland, 341. The coverings of the testicle, 342. The spermatic cord, 343. The suprarenal capsules, 344. The Female Genito-Urinary Organs - The mamma, 343. The vulva, 347. The bladder, urethra & rectum, 348. The vagina, 349. The uterus, 350. The structure of the uterus, 351. The variations of the uterus according to age, menstruation, pregnancy, and parturition, 352. The appendages of the uterus, 353. The ovary, 351. The Eye - The sclerotic and the cornea, 356. The choroid, ciliary processes, iris, ligamentum pectin- atum, and ciliary muscle, 357. The retina, 358. The aqueous humour; the lens, its capsule, and suspensory ligament; the vitreous body, and its capsule, 359. The appendages of the eye & lachrymal apparatus, 360. The Ear - The pinna, 333. The external auditory canal, 364. The middle ear or tympanum, 385 to 367. The internal ear or labyrinth, 368 & 369. The minute structures of the cochlea, 370. Appendix to the Organs of the Senses - The olfactory cells of Schultze, 370a. Tenon's capsule, 371A. The structure of the cornea, 372A, The Choroid. The Lymph-space between the sclerotic & the choroid : Lamina fusca. Lamina suprachoroidea. The Ciliary Muscle. The structure of the Iris. The ligamentum pectinatum; Canals of Fontana & Schlemm, and cavernous spaces communicating with the anterior chamber, 373a. The structure of the Retina; Schultze's view of the structure & connexions of the eight layers. Separate description of the eight layers. The sustentacular framework; the vessels. Peculiarities of structure at the yellow sp'ot & fovea centralis, and in the ciliarv portion, 374a to 382a. Structure of the lens, 383A. The vitreous body & hyaloid membrane, 384a. Surgical Anatomy - The triangles of the neck, 373. The parts concerned in inguinal hernia, 374 & 375. The surgical anatomy of inguinal hernia, 376. The abdominal aponeuroses, 377. Scarpa's triangle, and parts concerned in femoral hernia, 378 & 379. The peringeura, 380. The muscles of the male perina^um, 381. The pelvic fascia, 382. The side view of the male pelvis, 383. The ischio-rectal region, 384.ADVICE TO STUDENTS. The principal rules of the art of learning are to classify, to condense, and to proportion, according to their relative importance, the attention to be given to the facts that are to be retained. Classify.—Group things that are alike; thus, in learning one, several will be acquired. Condense,—The more concise the wording is, the more facts can be gone over in a given time, and the better they can be remembered. A firm grasp of the facts is what is wanted first; erudition may be courted afterwards. Propoi tion according to their relative impot'tance the attention to be given to the facts that are to be retained. The headings & subheads should be mastered first; then, in succession, the divisions, the sub-divisions, the principal points, the minor points, the noteworthy details, the minutiae. The Tablets are intended to assist the Student in carrying out these rules: The grouping and the condensing are done for him to a considerable extent. The arrangement adopted will further induce him, it is hoped, to proportion his attention rightly: - The Tablets, especially those on Anatomy, show at a glance the general outline of the subject they treat of j this outline should be studied first, and thoroughly understood and mastered before the Student goes any farther. This is of primary iinportance for the successful use of the TabletSy which, the Author would remind the Student, are intended simply to assist him in read- i]ig the standard Authors with greater profit and case, not to take the place of any other work.THE BONES. A.3 THE VERTEBBiE Present for examination t - JBody - Forms a short column, which presents: Ant. Surface - Convex from side to side, concave from above downwards; presents numerous small vascular foramina. Post. Surface - Concave from side to side, flat from above downwards; presents one or more irregular apertures for exit of venae basis vertebrse- Upper & Under Surfaces - Eough & slightly concave, and surrounded by a pro- minent rim. Pedicles - Join tlie body to the laminee. They are constricted, and their constriction gives rise to the Notches - Which latter, by the superposition of the vertebrae, form the intervertebral fora* viina. Laminae - Broad & flat, rough above below for the ligamenta subflava; bound posteriorly the Poramen - Which, by the superposition of the vertebrae, forms the spinal canal. Spinous process - Projects backwards from the point of junction of the laminas. Transverse processes - Two. Project outwards from th"^ sides of the arch. Articular processes - Pour. Projec t upwards & downwards from the point of junction o£ the pedicles with the laminae. The superior ones look backwards, the inferior ones look forwards. N. — But little, which would be applicable to each of the three groups of vertebrae, can, it is believed, be added to this description.4 THE THREE GROUPS of VERTEBRAE. CERVICAL VERTEBRiE — The smallest. Present: - BODY — Small, broad from side to side. Presents: - Upper Surface - Concave from side to side, and rounded off anteriorly. Under Surface - Convex from side to side, and prolonged downwards anteriorly. T5T7TMn?^f.^'®^ Surface - Situated therefore on a lower level than the posterior. Fi^Dli^LiLts —Arise from lower part of body, and of the two — The superior ones are the deepest, and somewhat the narrowest. LAMINA — Long and narrow. FORAMEN — Large and triangular. SPINOUS PROCESS — Projects horizontally backwards, and is short, bifid, & grooved TRANSVERSE PROCESSES - Short, bifid, grooved superiorly, perforated iT'thlS base tor passage of vertebral artery & vein, and situated on the outer side of the mi, „ pedicles^in front of the articular processes* ine existence of the foramen at the base of the cervical transverse pro- cesses, and the situation of these processes on the outer side of the pedicles are owing to tlieir being formed of two roots, which roots correspond, the posterior one to the transverse processes properly so-called, the anterior ARTICULAR PROCESSES _ Form a small vertical column. The superio^ ones look upwards & backwards, the inferior ones look downwards & forwards. DORSAL VERTEBR.ffiS — Intermediate in size. Present; - BODY — Heart-shaped, thicker behind than in front, and has two demi-facets on each side, which demi-facets articulate with the heads of the ribs. ^ A^7^rpJ!^Jl f^om upper part of body, and of the two | T A JrVSlir — The inferior ones are the deepest and broadest. i LAMIJ^^ — Short & broad. ^ FORAMEN — Small & round. ?RiTsVERS^E^PROr^^S^^^^^ triangular oblique, and ends in a single tubercle. | iJiAi^cvii.RbE PROCESSES — Long, thick, obliquely directed outwards & backwards, ana situated behind the articular processes the pedicles. Their extremity is! enlarged, and presents m front an articular facet for tubercle of correspond.) From the back of the extremity of the few lower dorsal transverse proces-'^ ses arise three tubercles, termed external, inferior, & superior, which tubercles correspond respectively to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebree, and to the accessory & mammillary tubercles found, the former on the back ot the transverse processes, the latter on the back of the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. ARTICULAR PROCESSES - Nearly vertical. The superior ones look backwards & outwards, the inferior ones look forwards & inwards. LUMBAR VERTEBRA — The largest. Present- ^SSJn™^^^®' broadest from side to side, rather thicker in front than behind, r J^jDibLEb — Thick; arise fvom upper part of body, and of the two NOTCHES — The inferior ones are the deepest & broadest. LAMINA — Short, broad & thick. ~ quadrilateral, and ends in a rough vertical border TRANSVERSE PROCESSES - Long, slender, directed transversely outWs and situated m front of the articular processes, but behind the pedicles, and in a line with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, to which ^ , , , „ , J correspond. _ Un the back of each, near its base, is a small tubercle the accessory tubercle^ which points downwards & inwards, and which corresponds to the inferior ^■^r^,^ , tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse nrocpsaoq ' ARTICULAR PROCESSES - Thick, strong & vertical. The superior ones are Concave look backwards & lawards, and are farther apart than the inferior ones, which they embrace. The inferior ones are convex, look forwards & outwards, and are nearer to each other than are the superior ones. On the back of each superior articular process is a small tubercle, the mammillary tubercle^ which corresponds to the superior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processes.5 THE THREE GROUPS COMPARED SERIATIM. Body — Cervical - Small, broad from side to side. Presents:- Upper Surface - Concave from side to side, & rounded ojff anteriorly. Under Surface - Convex from side to side, & prolonged downwards anteriorly. Anterior Surface - Situated therefore on a lower level than the posterior- DoRSAL - Heart-shaped, thicker behind than in front, and has two demi-facets on each side which demi-facets articulate with the heads of the ribs. Lumbar - Large, broadest from side to side, rather thicker in front than behind. Pedicles - Cervical - Arise from lower part of body. DoitSAL -Arise from upper part of body. Lumbar - Thick j arise from upper part of body. Notches -Cervical - The superior ones are the deepest, and somewhat the narrowest. Dorsal - The inferior ones are the deepest and broadest. Lumbar - The inferior ones are the deepest & broadest. LaniilXSe - Cervical - Long & narrow. DoKSAL - Short & broad. Lumbar - Short, broad & thick. ForaiXien Cervical - Large & triangular. Dorsal - Small & round. Lumbar - Triangular, larger than in the dorsal, smaller than in the cervical. Spinous Process — Cervical - Projects horizontally backwards, and is short, bifid, & grooved inferiorly. Dorsal - Long, triangular, obliqae, and ends in a single tubercle. Lumbar - Thick, quadrilateral, and ends in a rough vertical border. Transverse Processes — Cervical - Short, bifid, grooved superiorly, perforated at their base for passage of vertebral artery & vein, and situated on the outer side of the pedicles^ in front of the articitlar processes. Dorsal - Long, thick, obliquely directed outwards & backwards, and situated behind the articular processes &= the pedicles. Their extremity is enlarged, and presents in front an articular facet for tubercle of corresponding rib. From the back of the extremity of the few lower dorsal transverse proces- ses arise three tubercles, termed cxteiiial, inferior, & siiperior, which tubercles correspond respectively to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrJB, and to the accessory & mammillary tubercles found, the former on the back of the transverse processes, the latter on the back of the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Lumbar - Long, slender, directed transversely outwards, and situated in front of the aj'ticular processes, but behind the pedicles, and in a line with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, to which they correspond. On the back of each, near its base, is a small tubercle the accessory tubercle, which points downwards & inwards, and which corresponds to the inferior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processes. Articular Processes — Cervical - Form a small vertical column. The superior ones look upwards & back- wards, the inferior ones look downwards & forwards. Dorsal - Nearly vertical. The superior ones look backwards & outwards, the inferior ones look forwards & inwards. Lumbar - Thick, strong & vertical. The superior ones are concave, look backwards & inwards, and are farther apart than the inferior ones, which they embra^oe. The inferior ones are convex, look forwards & outwards, and are nearer to each other than are the superior ones. On the back of each superior lumbar articular process is a small tubercle,, the 7na7nmillary tubercle, which corresponds to the superior tubercles on the lower dorsal fcrssMsi'se procsssesu6 PECULIAR VERTEBEiE Are th&t > Vide following Tablet. Axis 3 Vth Cervical Vertebra, or Vertebra Prominens Spinous process thick, long, prominent, nealy horizontal; ends in a single tuber. cle for ligamentum nuchas. Transverse process large, but slightly grooved, seldom bifid. Its foramen is usually small, sometimes wanting, and seldom gives passage to both artery & vein, 1st Dorsal Vertebra Body broad from side to side and lipped superiorly & behind j presents a complete facet above for head of 1st rib, and a demi-facet below for upper facet on head of 2nd rib. Spinous process thick & but slightly inclined. Articular processes somewhat oblique, as ia the cervical vertebrae. 9th Dorsal Vertebra Usually no inferior demi-facet. lOth Dorsal Vertebra But one costal facet (the superior), which is usually complete. llth Dorsal Vertebra But one costal facet, which is always complete. Transverse processes short, and without articular facets. 12tli Dorsal Vertebra But one costal facet, which is always complete. Transverse processes short, and without articular facets. Inferior articular facets, convex and looking forwards & outwards like those of lumbar vertebraa. 5tli Lumbar Vertebra Body much thicker in front than behind. Spinous process small. Inferior articular processes, farther apart than superior. Transverse processes, large, thick, slightly inclined upwards.7 ^TLAS & AXIS. THE ATLAS Presents anterior & posterior arches, foramen, and lateral maasds. ANTERIOR ARCH -Presents: Anterior Surf. - Convex, in centre of which is a tubei'de for superior oblique portion of longns colli, and for snperfioif*^ anterior occipito-atloid & superficial anterior atlo-axoid ligaments. Posterior SuRr. - Concave, in centre of which is an oval facet, which articulates with odontoid process of axis. Upper & Lower Borders - For deep anterior occipito-atloid & deep anterior atlo- axoid ligaments. POSTERIOR ARCH — Presents just behind the lateral masses the Grooves representing the superior dr' inferior intervertebral notches. - Tho superior grooves, which are the deepest and are sometimes con- verted into complete foramina, transmit the vertebral artery & the suboccipital nerve. The posterior arch then becomes rounded, and is rough above & below for the posterior occipito-atloid & posterior atlo- axoid ligaments. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle for rectus capitis posticus minor. FORAMEN — Large, and divided by transverse ligament (transverse'portion of crucial liga- ment) into a posterior part, the largest, for spinal cord & its membranes, and an anterior part, the smallest, which receives the odontoid process of the axis. LATERAL MASSES — Short & thick columns of bone, which present internally, externally, above & below, a tubercle for the transverse ligament; Transverse Process - Large, not bifid nor grooved superiorly, perforated at its base by a very large foramen; Sup. Articular Surf - Large, oval, concave, converging towards its fellow anteriorly, and looking upwards, inwards & slightly backwards. Inf. Articular Surf. - Rather smaller, flat, circular, and looking downwards & inwarda f THE AXIS Presents the following peculiarities Body - -A- good deal thicker in front than behind. It presents anteriorly a median ridge 6^ two lateral depressions for part of internal or vertical por- tion of longus colli, and is surmounted by the Odontoid Process - Tooth-like, presenting: Apex - For median or suspensory occipito-odontoid ligament, and, laterally, for lateral occipito-odontoid, or check ligaments. Body - Articular in front & behind for anterior arch of atlas & transverse ligament. Neck - Constricted, and bound down by transverse ligament. Pedicles - strong & thick, lie beneath the superior articular surface, and are but very slight- ly grooved superiorly. Notclies - The superior are very shallow, and lie behind the superior articular surfaces : the inferior ones are much deeper and lie in front of the correspond- ing articular surfaces. Lanainse - Thick & strong. Foramen - Large, but smaller than that of atlas. Spinous Process - Thick, bifid, deeply grooved inferiorly. Transverse Processes - Small, pointed; foramen oblique upwards & outwards. Articular Surfaces: Superior - Eest upon the body, pedicles & transverse processes in front of tit ^ notches, and are large, flat, circular, and look upwards & out wards. Inferior - Smaller, look downwards & forwards, and are similar to those of tho other oervicftl vertebr©.THE SACRUM I Consist* of five vertebraB blended together, sometimes of six, occasionally ot four. n Broad, thick, triangular, slightly curved, inclined downwards & backwards from pro7nonforyW\ broadest, least curved & most oblique in female. Presents: AIYTEiHIOH SURFACE — Concave from above downwards along whole or part of its extenB slightly concave from side to side. Presents from the middle line outwards: fl Bodies of the Five Vertebrse separated by Four Ridges. - The bodies arl flattened, and they diminish in size from above downwards. The ridges, whicM mark the original separations between them, lead laterally to thM Four Anterior Sacral Foramina. - These look forwards & outwards, diminish ii^l size from above downwards, and are prolonged externally into! Four Broad & Shallow Grooves, - Which grooves give attachment to the pyri.^ for mis muscle, as do also the \ Three Prominent Ridges, - Which separate them from each other. These grooves & these latter ridges lie upon a portion of the bone some- j times called the lateral mass^ which portion is formed by the blending of what j are sometimes called the anterior transverse pivcesses; these anterior transvern ji processes corresponding to the lumbar transverse processes & also to the external 1 tubercles of the inferior dorsal transverse processes. \ FOSTBRIOR SURFACE — Narrower, convex, uneven. Presents from the middle line out. * wards: - m Three or Four Tubercles - Corresponding to the three or four upper sacral spinous \ processes (the lower ones remaining undeveloped), which tubercles are usually i more or less blended into one prominent median ridge. | A Longitudinal Groove - Corresponding to the laminae. - These lamiuse are broad & j| well developed superiorly, but they are nearly undeveloped inferiorly, where < they merely assist in forming the lateral boundary of the inferior aperture oi i| the sacral canal \\ A Series of somewhat Indistinct Tubercles - Corresponding to the articular (j processes. The two lower tubercles blend together, and form, on either side oi i the inferior aperture of the sacral canal, the sacral cornua, which cornua articu. | late with the cornua of the coccyx; j Four Posterior Sacral Foramina - Smaller & less regular than the anterior ones. 1 A Series of Exp-inenceS - Which are sometimes called the posterior transverseprocesseSi <| and which correspond to the accessory tubercles on the back of the lumbar i transverse processes & to the inferior tubercles on the back of the few lower |! dorsal transverse processes. - Between these latter eminences & the median i tubercles is comprised the sacral g7'oove for origin of erector spinas, ij LATERAL SURFACES — Broad above, where they present anteriorly the I Auricular Surface - Ear-shaped, covered with cartilage for articulation with ilium, - ij and posteriorly Several Deep & Rough Impressions - For posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. - In- w feriorly the lateral surfaces become contracted into a ij; Thin Border - For sacro-sciatic ligaments & gluteus maximus muscle. This border, j! after presenting the prominent j Inferior Lateral Angle, - is depressed into a I Deep Notch - For anterior division of 5th sacral nerve, which notch is further deep-. ened by the vicinity of the transverse process of the first piece of the coccyx, and is even transformed sometimes into a complete foramen by the articulation i of this transverse process with the border of the sacrum, BASE — Broad & expanded, and looks upwards & forwards. Presents the body, pedicles, notches, «| laminae, foramen, spinous, anterior & posterior transverse, & articular processes of | the first sacral vertebra: - 11 Body - Forms part of promontory or sacro-vertebral angle. Foramen - Large, triangular; forms superior aperture of sacral canal. Anterior Transverse Processes - Expanded into a broad flat triangular surface ll continuous with iliac fossa. Posterior Transverse Processes - Form two pointed eminences on the outer side \ of the articular processes, i Articular Processes - Similar to the superior articular processes of the lumbar ver- vertebrse, but farther apart, j APEX — Curves downwards & forwards, and presents the small oval under surface of body of 1 last sacral vertebra, which under surface articulates with corresponding part of first i piece of coccyx, j SACRAL CANAL — Large & triangular above, small & flattened below, where its posterior « wall is rendered incomplete by the non-development of the spines & laminse of the one < or two last sacral vertebrae. Into it open laterally both the anterior & the posterior sacral foraminfti9 THE COCCYX Consists of four, sometimes of five, occasionally only of three vertebrae, which vertebree are both incomplete and more or less rudimentary: - incomplete^ for they are all deficient in pedicles, laminae & spinous processes, and consequently also in spinal canal & inter- vertebral foramina: - more or less rudimentary^ for the transverse & articular processes are distinguishable only in the first two or three vertebrae; the one or two last verte- brae are therefore reduced to mere nodules of bone. The First Coccygeal Vertebra is the largest & broadest. It articulates above with the last sacral vertebra by means of the oval & concave upper surface of its body. Its transverse processes project outwards, deepening the notch for the anterior division of the 5th sacral nerve, somtimes even transforming that notch into a complete foramen by curving upwards and articulating with the lateral margin of the sacrum. Its supenor articular processes are prolonged upwards into the cornua, which cornua articulate with the cornua of the sacrum. The Three Lower Coccygeal Vertebra diminish in size from above down- wards. They are usually joined to each other in the adult, the primitive lines of separation between them being marked by slight transverse furrows; but up to the middle period of life the second coccygeal vertebra is frequently found separated from the first one. At a more advanced age all the four bones become fused into one, which, at a still later period, especially in the male, is frequently joined to the sacrum. The coccyx gives attachment to the coccygeus, gluteus maximus, levator ani & external sphincter muscles, and to the greater & lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments.10 THE SPINE in GENERAL. The spine consists of 33 vertebras, i.e., 7 cervical, 12 dorsal,,5 lumbar, 5 sacral, 4 coccygeal. Its average length, measured along its anterior aspect, is about 28 inches. It presents tbe four following curves: Cervical - Convex anteriorly ; from odontoid process to 2nd dorsal. Dorsal - Concave anteriorly; from 2nd to 12th dorsal. Lumbar - Convex anteriorly; from 12th dorsal to sacro-vertebral angle. Pelvic - Concave anteriorly; from sacro-vertebral angle to tip of coccyx. In the dorsal region it usually presents also a slight lateral curve convex to the right, pro- bably due to muscular action. Its anterior, lateral, & posterior aspects, and the vertebral canal, present the following points of interest: - ANTERIOR ASPECT — The pillar formed by the superposition of the bodies of the verte- brae may be divided with respect to the width of the bodies into the four following pyramids: Cervical Pyramid - Broadest below; from odontoid process of axis to Ist dorsal Superior Dorsal Pyramid - Broadest above; from 1st to 4th dorsal. DoRSO-LuMBAR Pyramid - Broadest below; from 4th dorsal to last lumbar. Sacro-Coccygeal Pyramid - Broadest above; from base of sacrum to tip of coccyx LATERAL ASPECT — The antero-posterior diameter of the bodies increases steadily from above downwards as far as the last lumbar vertebra; it then diminishes rapidly. - The demi-facets for the ribs are seen in the dorsal region. The pedicles are concealed in the neck by the transverse processes. The intervertebral foramina increase in size from above downwards, and lie, in the cervical region, between the tratisverse processes^ in the dorsal & lumbar regions, in front of the transverse processes. The transverse processes lie, in the cervical region, on the outer side of the pedicles in front of the articular processes ; in the dorsal region, behind the pedicles ^ behind the articular processes ; in the lumbar region, behind the pedicles but in front of the transverse processes. - In the dorsal region, the transverse processes, on account of their being inclined backwards, describe a greater curve than do the bodies. The spinous processes, on the contrary, describe a lesser curve on account of their inclination downwards. POSTERIOR ASPECT — The spines, though they normally occupy the median line, are sometimes deviated slightly to one side or to the other independently of disease. The vertebi-al groove is broad ^ shallow in the cervical region, na^-row dr= deep in the dorsal region, narrow but rather shallozu in the lumbar region. The distance between the laminae is greatest in the lumbar region, least in the middle part of the dorsal. The width between the extremities of the transverse processes is gi-eat in the atlas, but much smaller in the axis; this width increases from above downwards in the cervical region, diminishes in the dorsal region, again increases in the lumbar; it suddenly becomes very great opposite the base of the sacrum, and then diminishes rapidly throughout the sacro-coccygeal region, VERTEBRAL CANAL — Follows the curves of the spine. It is broad & triangular in the cervical region, small & circular in the dorsal, triangular & intermediate in size in the lumbar. In the sacral region it is pretty large & triangular above, smaller & flattened from before backwards towards middle, deficient in its posterior wall below.0 11 THE PELVIS. Bonj ring formed by the innominate bones, sacrum & coccyx, and divided into: - FALSE PELVIS — The superior expanded portion corresponding to the iliac fossse. Its walls are deficient in front between the anterior borders of the ilia and the bodies & horizontal rami of the pubes, and deficient also behind between the posterior superior iliac spines & the sacrum. TRUE PELVIS — The inferior contracted portion; presents for examination: - Superior Circumference, Brim or Inlet - Heart-shaped; bounded by crest & spine of pubes, ilio-pectineal line, anterior border of base of sacrum & sacro- vertebral angle. Looks upwards & forwards in the direction of a line drawn from middle of coccyx to umbilicus, and forms in the erect posture an angle of from 60*^ to 65° with the horizontal, the base of the sacrum lying about 3| iachea above upper border of the symphysis (Nagele). Its diameters are as follows:- Sacro-Pubic (ant.-post.) male, 4 inches; female 4^ inches; Ilio-Iliac (transverse) „ 4i „ „ h\ „ Sacro-Iliac (oblique) „ 4^ „ „ 5 „ (Thomson & Cleland). Cavity - Short curved canal broadest towards middle, shallow in front (1-^ to 2 inches along back of symphysis pubis), deep behind (4J to 5 inches along concavity of sacrum & eoccyx). Each of its three diameters measures 4^ inches in the male, 5 or 5| in the female (Thomson & Cleland). Lower Circumference or Outlet - Bounded by pubic arch, coccyx, & tuberosities of ischia. Apparently very irregular, but less so in reality, especially when con- sidered in connexion vrith parturition, for the sacro-sciatic notches are bridged over in the recent state by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and the coccyx is very movable during pregnancy and is easily pressed backwards by the head of the foetus. Looks downwards & forwards in the direction of a line, which, pro- longed upwards, would just touch the base of the sacrum; the top of the coccyx lying, on a average, in the erect posture, from 7 to 8 lines above apex of pubic arch (Xiigele). Its diameters are as follows: - Coccy-Piibic (ant.-post.) male, 3:^ inches; female 5 inches. Bi-Ischiatic (transverse) „ '6\ „ „ 4| „ (Thomson & Cleland). THE FEMALE PELVIS - As compared with the male pelvis, is lighter & more slender, and the muscular impressions on its surface are less marked. It is broader from side to side. The ilia are more expanded, and the iliac spines more widely separated. The inlet of the true pelvis is larger, and also more circular on account of the sacro- vertebral angle being less prominent. The cavity of the true pelvis is more capacious, though shallower, and the spines of the iscbia project less into it. The outlet is more expanded & more dilatable, the pubic arch being wider, its edges more everted, the tuberosities of the ischia farther apart, and the coccvx more movable12 THE RIBS. Twelve. Seven Sternal or True - Connected to the sternum by their costal cartil-, ' ages; these increase in length from above downwards. Five False or Asternal - Of which the three first are connected by their car. ; tilages to the cartilage of the rib above, while the two last, or I floating ribs, are entirely disconnected in front. The asternal or ^1 false ribs decrease in length from above downwards. The breadth of the ribs decreases from the 1st to the last; , so does also the width of the corresponding intercostal spaces. . The degree of obliquity of the ribs increases from the 1st | to the 9th, and decreases from the 9th to the 12th. It is \ most marked between the head & the posterior angle. , i The ribs are both curved & tzaisted upon themselves. The curve of the ribs is most marked in the neighbourhood of the posterior angle. The twist is such that the outer sur- face of the shaft looks slightly downwards behind & slightly I upwards in front, and that, if the lower border of the shaft j be placed upon a fiat horizontal surface from the antei'ior ' extremity of the bone to the posterior angle, the part of the . bone behind the angle, will be found to pass upwards & in- i wards, j COMMON CHARACTERS — a rib presents two extremities & a shaft. POSTERIOR EXTREMITY — Presents head, neck & tuberosity. Head - Presents: two oblique facets, a small superior one & a larger inferior one, which . facets articulate with the bodies of two adjoining vertebrae, , and are separated by a horizontal ridge, to which the interarticular ligament is attached. Neck - Flattened from before backwards, about an inch in length; presents: Antei'ior Surf - Smooth, continuous with inner surface of the shaft. Posterior Surf - Eough for interosseous costo-transverse ligament. Upper Border - Has a rough crest, for superior costo-transverse ligament. Lower Border - More or less rounded. Tuberosity - Most prominent in the upper ribs. Presents: Inferior Internal, or Articular Portion - Has a facet for the extremity of the tranverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae with which the head is connected. Superior External^ or Non-articular Portion - Rough for external costo- transverse ligament. SHAFT — Thin & flat. Presents: Outer Surface - Convex, on which is found posteriorly the Angkf or Posterior Angle - A rough line oblique downwards & forwards, which gives attachment to the tendons of the sacro-lumbalis, . its accessory muscle, & the cervicalis ascendens, and which : separates a ; posterior rounded portion, giving attachment to the lougissimus dorsi, and increasing in length from the 2ud rib to the 10th, and an anterior flattened portion, smooth, looking slightly downwards behind & slightly upwards in front, which presents anteriorly the Anterior Angle - Similar to the posterior but more faintly marked. Inner Surface - Concave, looks slightly upwards behind & slightly down- wards in front, and presents inferiorly a ridge extending over the posterior two-thirds of the shaft, & most marked behind, which ridge gives attachment to the internal intercostal muscles, and forms the inner boundary of the Groove - For the intercostal vessels & nerves, which groove is deepest & most marked just in front of the angle. Upper Border - Rounded; gives attachment to both internal & external inter- costal muscles. Lower Border - Thin & sharp. Forms outer boundary, of foregoing groove, and gives attachment to corresponding external intercostal muscle. ANTERIOR EXTREMITY — Compressed from before backwards, presents a deep oval pitj studded with vascular foramina into which pit tho corresponding costal cartilage is received.13 PECULIAR RIBS. Are the: First Rib - Broad, flat, horizontal, the most curved, and usually the shortest. Ita Surfaces - Look upwards & downwards. Upper Surface - Presents posteriorly a rough impression for scalenus medius, and anteriorly a slightly marked tubercle most prominent internally, for scalenus anticus, which tuber- cle separates two shallow grooves, the anterior one for the subclavian vein, the posterior one for the subclavian artery. Under Surface - Has no ridge nor groove. Borders - Are turned inwards & outwards. Inner Border - Concave, thin; presents inner part of tubercle for scalenus anticus. Outer Border - Convex & rounded. Head - Small, rounded, with a single facet for 1st dorsal vertebra. Neck - Short & rounded. Tuberosity - Large, prominent, situated on outer border. Angle - Blended with tuberosity. Anterior Extremity - Large & thick. Second Rib - is longer, less curved, only slightly oblique, and scarcely twisted. Surfaces - Look slightly outwards & inwards. Outer or Upper Surface - Rough & prominent towards its middle for second & third digitations of serratus magnus; rough posteriorly for scalenus posticus. Inner or Under Surface - Has but a short & slightly marked groove. Tuberosity & Angle - Close together; the latter slightly marked. Tenth Rib Head - Has usually but a single articular facet. Eleventh Rib Head - But a single articular facet. No Neck. No Tuberosity. Twelth Rib Head - But a single anterior facet. No Neck. No Tuberosity. No Angle. No Groove. The two last ribs are but slightly curved, and are short & pointed, the twelfth rib being sometimes the shortest of all.14 THE COSTAL CAKTILAGES. Twelve, The first srvm connect corresponding rib to sternum, the three next are join( lo cartilage of rib above, the last two are unattached in f it In breadth^ they decrease from the first to the last, as do also the intercostal spaces. In length, they increase from the Ist to the 7th, and then diminish from the 8tk to the ' ih. In direction, the first is slightly oblique downwards, the second horizontal, the third slig. ly oblique upwards; the two last follow the direction of the corresponding ribs; a, ht others follow this direction for a short distance, and then ascend more & more < quely to the sternum or to the preceding carti] jjB. They all ta^er towards their sternal end, excepting the two first; the sixth, seventh, eight & { ninth are enlarged at their points of articulation with each ot r. They present: - Anterior Surface - Convex, looks upwards & forwards, - for subclavius, pectoralis maj( & rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligan it Posterior Surface - Concave, looks downwards & backwards, - for triangularis sterni, til versalis, «fe diaphr Upper Border - Concave. For intercostals. Presents the chondro-chondral interarti( k facets in the 7th, 8ch, & 9th cartils la Lower Sorder - Convex. For intercostals, internal oblique & rectus abdominis. Present! he chondro-chondral interarticular facets in the 6th, 7th, & 8th cartih 9S. Costal Extremity - The largest; rough & rounded, implanted into, & continuous with, ant or extremity of correspondingift). Anterior or Sternal Extremity - The smallest. Smooth & triangular, and fits into ste al articular notch, in the case of the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, & 7th cartilages; poi: 'jd, and joins with the cartilage above, in the case of the 8th, 9th, & lOch ; point ^4 free in the case of the 11th & 12th ; enlarged and directly continuous wit lie sternum in the case of th< It15 STERNUM. Long narrow flat bone, oblique downwards & forwards, and slightly convex anteriorly from above downwards, which constitutes the anterior abutment of the clavicle & of the Beven first costal cartilages. It consists originally of six segments, of which segment! the four middle ones are usually joined together in the adult, while the upper one & the lower one remain distinct till a more or less advanced age is reached. This groupment of the primitive segments gives rise to the three parts of the adult bone, which parts are from above downwards the Manubbiuu - The thickest part, broad above, narrow below; supports the clavicle & the first costal cartilage, and partly also the second costal cartilage. Gua)i0LUS - The longest & central part, blade-like, & broadest a little below its middle; sap- ports the third, fourth, fifth & sixth costal cartilages, and partly also the second <k the seventh ones. Is sometimes perforated by the sternal foramen. Ensifoeji ob Xyphoid Appendix - Yery variable, - broad, - pointed, - perforated, - forked, - deflected to one side or other. Partly supports the cartilage of the seventh rib. - The bone presents: - Anterior Surface - Convex from side to side & concave from above downwards in the manu- brium; flat, and marked by three transverse lines in the gladiolus, which lines correspond to the points of junction of the four middle segments, and also to the points of articulation with the gladiolus of the third, fourth, & fifth costal car- tilages. - Gives attachment to sternal portion of sterno-mastoid, pectoralis major, and anterior chondro-sternal & chondro.xyphoid ligaments. Posterior Surface - Slightly concave, smoother; marked in the gladiolus by three transverse lines corresponding to, but less distinct than, those on the anterior surface. Gives attachment to sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, triangularis sterni, median fasci- culus of diaphragm, and posterior chondro-sternal ligaments. Superior Border - Thick; presents in the centre the Interclavicular Notch^ - and laterally the Clavicular Facets - Convex from before backwards, concave from above downwards <& outwards; articulate with the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the sterno- clavicular articulation. Lateral Borders - Present seven costal articular depressions separated by six intervening scallops, which latter diminish in breadth from above downwards. The seven articular depressions are situated as follows: - the first one on the side of the manubrium just below the clavicular facet; second one at the point of articu- lation between the manubrium & the gladiolus (it therefore presents two facets) ; the third, fourth cr= fifth ones on the sides of the gladiolus opposite the points of junction of its four primitive segments; the sixth one on the side of the last segment of the gladiolus; fbiQ seventh one at the point of articulation be- tween the gladiolus & the ensiform appendix. Apex ~Formed by the ensiform appendix; gives attachment to linea alba, anterior abdominal aponeurosis & innermost fibres of rectus abdominis muscle.THE THORAX in GENERAL. Conical with convex walls and axis oblique downwards & forwards; broadest below & from side to side J bounded by dorsal portion of spine, ribs, costal cartilages & sternum. Presents for examination: - OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents: - Anterior Aspect - Oblique downwards & forwards, 8| inches in height. Presents i sternum, costal cartilages, & front part of ribs, which latter present their anteriori|| angles disposed in a line oblique downwards & outwardaj Posterior Aspect-Twelve inches in height, depressed centrally, convex on either side.i Presents : - f In Middle Line - Spines, vertebral grooves, transverse processes, costo-transverse articulations; - Laterally - Prominent convexity of posterior part of ribs, which convexity in- j creases in breadth from above downwards, and is bounded externally by the posterior angles of the ribs disposed in a line oblique downwards & outwards , XiSlterStl Aspect - oblique, rounded, thirteen inches in height, most convex posteriorly,;. In length the ribs & the costal cartilages increase from the 1st to the 7th,i and decrease from the 8th to the 12th; the intercostal spaces increase froiri the 1st to tbe 5th only, and then decrease from the 6th to the 11th. The width of the ribs & intercostal spaces decreases from the Ist to the last, the width oil the latter being greatest in front. The degree of obliquity of the ribs increasesi from the 1st to the 9th, and decreases from the 9th to the 12th; it is mosij marked behind i SUPERIOR APERTURE or APEX — Narrow, heart-shaped, oblique downwards & fori wards, bounded by the sternum, first dorsal vertebra, first rib & first costal cartilagej INFERIOR APERTURE or BASE — Expanded from side to side, widest toward middle, and, from before backwards, diminished behind by prominence of body of las dorsal vertebra, and greatly increased in front by being prolonged upwards & fori wards between the asternal ribs & their cartilages as far as the ensiform appendisi INTERNAL CAVITY — Broadest from side to side, narrowed from before backwards iif middle line, and partly divided posteriorly into two, by the incomplete septum formei' by bodies of vertebrae, on either side of which bodies it is prolonged backwards so as t form two deep grooves widest belov17 THE FKONTAL BONE Articulates witli sphenoid & ethmoid, and witli both parietal, nasal, superior maxillary, lachry. mal & malar. Divided into vertical or frontal, and horizontal or orbito-nasal portions. VERTICAL OR FRONTAL PORTION —Presents: Ext. Surface - Presents in median line: Median suture, usually obliterated a few years after birth, and below which is the Nasal e77iinence; - and laterally from above downwards : Frontal eminence ; Superciliary ridge caused by projection of frontal sinuses, broad inwardly where it joins the nasal eminence; Supraorbital arch, presenting at its inner third the Supraorbital notch or foramen, for supraorbital vessels & nerve, - ' and which arch terminates externally and internally in the external & internal angular processes. EXT. ANaULAR PROCESS - Thick & strong; articulates with malar bone, and presents externally a part of the Temporal ridge. INT. ANGULAR PROCESS - Thinner j articulates with lachrymal bone. and bounds the Nasal notch, which articulates with nasal bones & nasal pro- cesses of superior maxilla, and presents below the Nasal spine. Int. Surface - Concave. Presents in median line and from below upwards : Foramen coecum (completed behind by ethmoid) for small vein to longitudinal sinus and a process of falx cerebri,' Frontal crest, which is continued into Groove for longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri; — and laterally Cerebral impressions and Grooves for branches of anterior & middle meningeal arteries. HORIZONTAL OR ORBITO-NASAL PORTION — Consists of the two orbital plates separated by the ethmoidal notch. ORBITAL PLATES - Present: Under Surface - Concave, on which are seen externally the Lachrymal fossa for lachrymal gland, and internally the Fovea trochlearis for pulley of superior oblique. Upper Surface - Convex, forms part of anterior fossa of base of skull, and presents well marked cerebral impressions. ETHMOIDAL NOTCH - is filled up by horizontal plate of ethmoid. - The under surface of its margin presents: Several half-cells, which complete & close the ethmoidal cells, and Two grooves, which form part of Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal n. & ant. ethmoidal vessels, and of Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch is the Nasal spine, which articulates with nasal bones & perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and forms part of roof of nose, and on the sides of which are the Openings of the frontal sinuses The circumference of the bone is thick in the vertical or frontal portion, where it is serrated for articulation with the parietals, and is bevelled at the expense of the inner table, above, of the outer table, below. In the horizontal portion the circumference is thin & serrated for articulation with the lesser wing of the sphenoid. At the junction of the two portions of the bone the circumference presents a large triangular rough surface for articulation with the greater wing of the sphenoid. A.IS THE PARIETAL BONE Articulates with its fellow, the occipital, temporal, Gphenoid & frontal. - Presents: OUTER SURFACE — Convex, and presents: Parietalforamen at npper & back part j Parietal eminence; Temporal ridge^ below which it forms part of temporal fossa. INNER SURFACE — Concave, and presents: Cerebral eminences & depressions ; Furrows^ for ramifications of middle meningeal artery; Half-g7vove for superior longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri; Depressions for Pacchionian bodies. BORDERS - Four: Superior - Form sagittal suture by articulating with each other j Inferior - Are: In Front - Bevelled externally & overlapped by great wing of sphenoid & squamous portion of temporal;. Behind - Serrated for articulation with mastoid portion of temporal. Anterior - Serrated, and form coronal suture by articulating with frontal. Posterior - Serrated, and form lambdoid suture by articulating with occipital. ANGLES — Four: Anterior Superior & Posterior Superior - Correspond to anterior & ( posterior fontanelles, and form part of foregoing sutures. Anterior Inferior - Received between frontal & great wing of sphenoid, an inch above and behind superior external angle of orbit. - Is grooved internally and sometimes chanelled for anterior branch j of middle meningeal artery. ( Posterior Inferior - Articulates with mastoid portion of temporal, and pre- sents part of groove for lateral siuus.19 HE OCCIPITAL BONE Articulates with parietals, mastoid & petrons portions of temporals, sphenoid & atlas, and presents: OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents from behind forwards: Ext occipital protuberance for ligamentum rnichse; Ext. occipital crest, from which are given off laterally the Sup. curved line, for trapezius, sterno-mastoid & occipito-frontalis; and the Inf, curved line for recti capitis postici major & minor which are also inserted into depression below. - Between the two curved lines are inserted the complexus, splenius & superior oblique. Foramen magnum for cord and its membranes, spinal accessory nerves & vertebral arteries, on outer side of which foramen are the Condyles^ oblong, converging in front, convex from before backwards, looking downwards & outwards; rough inwardly for attachment of check ligaments, and having in front Ant. condyloid foramen for hypoglossal nerve; having behind Post, condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by posterior condyloid fora- men for a small vein to lateral sinus, and having on their outer side the yugular process for rectus capitis lateralis & lateral occipito-atloid ligament; Basilar process presenting in middle line the Pharyngeal spine for tendinous raphe &> superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally a Rough depression for recti capitis antici major & minor. INNER SURFACE — Concave, presents from behind forwards: Crucial ridge, to centre of which corresponds the torcular Herophili, and of which the Upper division ascends to superior angle, and is deeply grooved for superior longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri; Inf division^ or int. occipital crest, descends to foramen magnum where it bifurcates; gives attachment to falx cerebelli. Lateral divisions bound posteriorly the inferior occipital fossae, and are deeply grooved for lateral sinuses & tentorium cerebelli ^ Foramen magnum, near side of which are the Ant. condyloid foramina & sometimes the Post, condyloid foramina. Basilar groove, which supports medulla oblongata & pons, and on each side of which is a half Groove for inferior petrosal sinus. BORDERS -Four: Superior - Form lambdoid suture by articulating with parietals. Inferior - Articulate with mastoid & petrous portions of temporal, and assisfc in forming jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius- ANGLES - Four: Superior - Received between the two parietal bones, and corresponds to posterior fontanelle. Inferior - Joins with body of sphenoid about I8th or 20th year. Lateral - Received between posterior inferior angle of parietal and mastoid portion of temporal; presents on its inner surface outer end of groove for lateral sinua.20 I THE TEMPORAL BONE i Is situated at side of base of skull, and articulates with parietal^ occipital, sphenoid, malar & inferun maxillary bones Is divided into squamous, mastoid & petrous portions. gQUAMOUS PORTION — Presents outer & inner surfaces and circumference. Outer Surface — Convex, forms part of temporal fossa and presents lower part o te7?iporal Hdge\)ehivi.di, zygomatic process in front, SlU^ glenoid fossa below ZYGOMATIC PROCESS — First projects outwards, and is broad & flattened fron above downwards. It then twists forwards and presents BoRDEES - upper long & thin for temporal f.; lower short & thick for masseter. Surfaces - 07iter convex, inner concave also for masseter. Apex - Serrated, articulates with malar bone. Ba5E - Presents three roots : Anterior - Wide & transversely directed forming e77iinentia articularis ; Middle - Forms posterior boundary of glenoid fossa; Posterior - Forms origin o-f temporal ridge. GLENOID FOSSA — Is comprised between anterior & middle roots of the zygome and presents th Glaserian Fissure - For processus gracilis of malleus, laxator tympani m., i tympanic artery, and divides the fossa int Anterior part - Articular, and covered with cartilage which is prolonge over the eminentia articularii Posterior part - Non-articular, bounded behind by vaginal & auditor processes & middle root of zygomj Inner Surface — Concave. Presents cerebral impressions, and grooves for middl meningeal arter Circumference — Thin above and behind, where it is bevelled internally and articulate with parietal; thick in front, where it is slightly bevelled externally an articulates with great wing of sphenoi' MASTOID PORTION — Presents outer & inner surfaces and borders. Outer Surface — Rough; presents: Mastoid foramen for a vein to lateral sinus, and is prolonged into Mastoid process for insertion of sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis & trachelo-mastoi and on the inner side of which is tl Digastric groove for origin of posterior belly of digastric, and further inwards tl Occipital groove for occipital artery. Inner Surface — Forms part of posterior fossa of base of skull and presents descendir portion Groove for lateral sinics. Borders - Post. & Sup. — Thick & serrated for posterior inferior angle of pariet and lower border of occipitf PETROUS PORTION — Tide next Tablet.21 PETROUS PORTION of the TEMPORAL BONE, Pyramidal, directed forwards & inwards and wedged in between the sphenoid & the basi- lar process of the occipital. Presents: Ba^Se — ^ts exposed part presents the Meatus atcditorius externtiSy the lower part of which is snrronnded by the Auditory pi'ocess, to which is attached the cartilage of the pinna. Apex — Presents the Internal orifice of the carotid canal; and forms the posterior & enter boundaries of the foramen lacerum medium. Ant. Surface — Forms posterior boundary of middle fossa of base of skull, and presents from before backwards & outwards the: Internal orijice of the carotid canal, Depression for Gassei-ian ganglion, Hiatus Fallopii with a grooz't leading to it, both for large superficial petrosal nerve and petrosal branch of middle meningeal artery, and near which hiatus are frequently seen Ttuo or three other small forami)ia for small superficial petrosal nerve, petrosal branch of glosso-pharyngeal & branch of glosso-pharyngeal to large superficial petrosal nerve. Eminence corresponding to the superior semi'circular canal, on the outer side of which is a Depression corresponding to the cavity of the tympanum. Post. Surface — Forms anterior boundary of posterior fossa of base of skull, and presents : Meatus auditoriits internus for facial nerve and auditory artery & nerve; Opening of Aqueductus Vestibuli for small artery & vein to vestibule & a process of the dura mater. Inf. or Basilar Surface — Presents in a diagonal line from before backwards & outwards: Rough surface for origin of levator palati & tensor tympani; Inferior orifice of carotid canal; Vagitialprocess which embraces root of " Styloid process, which gives attachment from above downwards to the stylo-pharyngeus, -hyoideus & -glossus muscles, and to the stylo-hyoid k, -maxillary ligts., Stylo-mastoid foramen for facial nerve & stylo-mastoid artery. - Behind & on inner side of the carotid canal & vaginal process are the Jugular surface, which articulates with jugular process of occipital, and the Jugular fossa for sinus of internal jugular vein, which fossa assists in forming jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius, and has near to it: Opening for Arnold's nerz-e, on its outer wall, f Opening for Jacobson's nerve, in front, on bony ridge between it & carotid jj canal. Opening of Aqueductus Cochlece, in front & to inner side, close to posterior border of the petrous bone. Borders — Three: Superior - Grooved for superior petrosal sinus k attachment of tentorium cerebelli. Posterior - Grooved in front for inferior petrosal sinus; presents jugular fossa behind. Anierior - Its IXXER PART articulates with spine of sphenoid; its outer part is joined by J a suture to the squamous portion of the bone. In the angle of junction of these jj two portions are found the Canal for the tensor tympani muscle above, and the _ . ^ Osseous portion of the Eustachian tube oelo^, on the outer side of which latter opening is th« Canal of Huguier for exit of chorda tympani.22 1^ THE SPHENOID BONE Is situated at front part of base of sicdll, and articulates with the 7 other cranial bones & witli Presents for examination : vomer & both malar & palate bones. BODY — Is cuboid, but presents only four free surfaces, the two lateral surfaces being continuousf with the wings & pterygoid processea. UPPER SURFACE — Presents from before backwards: Ethmoidal spine, which articulates with ethmoid; Smooth surface slightly eleyated in median line, and which supports olfactory nerves j Optic groove leading laterally to optic foramen j Olivary process ; Pituitary fossa or sella turcica bounded laterally & in front by middle clinoid processes j £)orsu?7i sella notched laterally for 6th pair of cranial nerves, and presenting posterioip clinoid processes at its superior angles. On each side of body is the | Cavernous groove curved like an italic .S" for internal carotid artery. ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents in middle line the Sphenoidal crest, which articulates with perpendicular plate of ethmoid; on either side th Openings of the sphenoidal sinuses, which are partly closed in front by the Sphenoidal turbinated bones or bones of Berlin. - This surf, articulates laterally with OS planum of ethmoid, and inferiorly with orbital process of palate bone, UNDER SURFACE — Presents in middle line the /Nostrum, which is received between the alse ot the vomer, and is continuous ! anteriorly with sphenoidal crest; on each side of the rostrum is the Vaginal process, which passes inwards beneath, and articulates with, the alse of the vomer, and externally to which is the S Pterygo-palatine groove, which forms pterygo-palatine canal with sphenoidal I process of palate bone. POSTERIOR SURFACE — Articulates with basilar process of occipital bone, with which j GREATER WINGS - Present: ^^i^es at age of 18 or 20, SUPERIOR or CEREBRAL SURFACE — Forms part of middle fossa of base of j skull, and presents from before backwards at its inner part^" Foramen rotundum for superior maxillary nerve; Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small petrosal nerves & small meningeal artery^ on the inner side of which latter foramen is sometimes seen the J Foramen Vesalii for a small vein; Foramen spinosum for middle meningeal artery. EXTERNAL SURFACE — is divided by pterygoid ridge into: Superior part, which enters into formation of temporal fossa, and Inferior part, which assists in forming zygomatic fossa, and presents posteriorly Spine of sphenoid for internal lateral ligament of jaw & laxator tympani muscle. ANTERIOR or ORBITAL SURFACE — Quadrilateral; assists in forming outer wall of I orbit and sphenoidal & spheno-maxillary fissures, and articulates with frontal ; & malar bones. Presents a small spine for lower head of external rectus. CIRCUMFERENCE. ^ ^ ^ . ^ . From Back of Body to Spine - Forms anterior or outer margin of foramen lacerum medium, in front, and articulates, behind, with petrous portion of temporal b. Feom Spine to Tip - Articulates with squamous portion of temporal bone, being bevelled internally below, externally above. From Tip to Front of Body - Presents externally a broad triangular surface for ■■ frontal bone, and forms, internally, lower boundary of sphenoidal fissure, j LESSER WINGS or PROCESSES of INGRASSIAS — Long, thin, triangular: i UPPER SURFACE — Smooth, forms part of anterior fossa of base of skull; UNDER SURFACE — Forms back of roof of orbit and upper boundary of sphenoidal fissure, J which latter is bounded internally by body of sphenoid, and transmits 3rd, j 4th & 6th nerves, and ophthalmic nerve & vein. ANTERIOR BORDER — Articulates with frontal bone; POSTERIOR BORDER — Forms at its inner extremity the anterior clinoid process. INNER EXTREMITY — Presents two roots which bound optic foramen. PTERYGOID PROCESS — consists of two plates which bound pterygoid fossa, and are ' separated below by a triangular notch filled up by pterygoid process of palate bone. - Its ANTERIOR SURFACE — Forms posterior wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents anterior orifice of vidian canal. EXTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE — Broad, thin, inclined outwards. Forms inner & outer walls of zygomatic & pterygoid fossae respectively, and gives attachment to internal & external pterygoid muscles. INTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE - Narrower & longer. Its Outer & inner sttrfaces - Form respectively inner boundary ot pterygoid tossa & outer boundary of posterior nares. At its apex it presents Hamular process for reflection of tendon of tensor palati- ftad at its base Scaphoid fossa for origin of that mnscle.23 THE ETHMOID BONE. lAght, spongy, cuboid, projects downwards from between orbital plates of fronta^i, dnd enters into formation of orbits & nasal fossae. Articulates with frontal^ sphenoid & sphenoidal htrbinated bones^ both nasal, superior maxillary^ , , lachrymal^palate^ inferior turbinated ^ vomer, may be divided into three parts : HORIZONTAL OR CRIBRIFORM PLATE — Keceived into ethmoidal notch of frontal. Forms part of roof of nose & of anterior fossa of base of skull, and presents in the median line the Crista galli, which gives attachment to falx cerebri, and articulates below & in front with frontal bone, completing foramen coecum; - and on each side Three rows of foramina for branches of the olfactory nerve, and more anteriorly a Fissure for nasal branch of ophthalmic nerve. PERPENDICULAR PLATE — Descends from under surface of former, and assists in forming nasal septum. Is more or less inclined to one or other side, and presents numerous grooves for branches of olfactory nerve. Articulates in front with frontal spine and nasal bones, behind with crest of sphenoid & vomer, and joins below with triangular cartilage of nose. LATERAL I/EASSES — Cubold, and enclose a number of irregular cavities, the ethmoid cells, which are divided into an anterior & a posterior set. Their Anterior, Upper & Posterior Surfaces - Present numerous half-cells, which are ' completed respectively by articulation with Lachrymal bones & nasal processes of superior maxilla. Frontal bone., Sphenoidal turbinated bones & orbital processes of palate bones. - The upper surface also presents two grooves which assist in forming the anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina. Outer Surface - Presents a thin smooth plate of bone the os planum which forms inner wall of orbit, and articulates with : Lachrymal bone, in front; Orbital plate of frontal, above; Body of sphenoid, behind; Superior maxillary & orbital process of palate bone, below. Under Surface - Presents under surface of middle turbinated process and the projecting Unciform process, which articulates with inferior turbinated bone, and assists in forming inner wall of the antrum of Highmore. Inner Surface - Porms part of outer wall of nasal fossae, and presents from above down- wards the Superior turbinated process, small and corresponding to post, part of nasal fossae; Superior meatus, which communicates with posterior ethmoidal cells; Middle turbinated process, which extends along whole length of lateral mass ; Middle meatus, which communicates with the anterior ethmoidal cells (and through these with the frontal sinus) by means of a wide funnel-shaped canal, the Infundibulum..24 INNER SURFACE of the BASE of the SKULL Presents three fosssd. ANTERIOR FOSSA - The highest. Formed by orbital plates of frontal, cribriform plate of ethmoid, lesser wings and front j part of upper surface of body of sphenoid, j Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones, and in median line and from above < downwards and then backwards: | Front part of groove for superior longitudinal sinus^ Frontal crest^ Foramen ccecum. Crista galli^ A slightly elevated ridge. On the side of the two latter is the 4 Olfactory groove deep in front, where it is formed by cribriform plate of Ij ethmoid, and presents Three rows of foramina for olfactory nerves, Slit-like opening for nasal nerve. Anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina for nasal nerve and ante- rior & posterior ethmoidal arteries. MIDDLE FOSSA - vide next Tablet. | I POSTERIOR FOSSA - The deepest. Formed by occipital, petrous & mastoid portions of temporal and posterior inferior angle of parietal, and bounded in front by dorsum sellas & superior border of petrous ij: bones, and behind, by grooves for lateral sinuses. I Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones, and in the centre: 1 Foramen magnum for cord and its membranes, spinal accessory nerves & vertebral arteries. In Front of the Foramen Magnum is the Basilar groove, which supports medulla oblongata & pons, and on the sides of which are the petro-occipital sutures^ which are grooved in front for inferior petrosal sinuses and expanded behind into jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius. Behind the Foramen Magnum is the Internal occipital crest, which separates the two Inferior occipital fossce, and ends in the Internal occipital protuberance, which is situated at point of junction of the Grooves for lateral sinuses, and to which corresponds the torcular HerophilL On the Sides of Foramen Magnum are the Anterior condyloid foramina for hypoglossal nerves, and, occasionally, the Posterior condyloid foramina for a small vein to lateral sinus j Jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius, of which the Anterior or inner party smaller and separated from the remainder by a bony ridge, gives passage toglosso-pharyngeal,pneu- mogastric & spinal accessory nerves, while the Posterior part, larger, transmits the internal jugular vein; Postetior surface of petrous portion of temporal bone presenting Interned auditory meatus for facial nerve and auditory artery & n.. Slit-like aperture of Aqueductus Vestibuli for small artery & veitt and a process of dura mat^r.25 \IIDDLB FOSSA of the BASE of the SKULL I: i f Is narrow in median line & expanded laterally. Is formed by body & greater wings of sphenoid, squamous portion and anterior surface of petrous portion of temporal and anterior inferior angle of parietal, and is bounded, by lesser wings of sphenoid & anterior margin of optic groove, in front, and by superior border of petrous bones behind. Presents the sutures between foregoing bones and In Median Line from before backwards: optic groove leading on either side to Optic foramen for optic nerve & ophthalmic artery, Olivary process. Sella turcica on each side of which is the Cavernous groove^ Dorsum sellce presenting at its upper angles the Posterior clinoid processes. Laterally: Cerebral eminences & depressions, and grooves for middle meningeal artery • and more internally, and from before backwards: Sphenoidal fissure or foramen laceru7ti anterius for 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves, and ophthalmic nerve & vein. Foramen rotundum for superior maxillary nerve, Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small superficial petrosal nerves and small meningeal artery, (on inner side of which latter ! foramen is sometimes seen Foramen Vesalii for a small vein), Foramen spinosum for middle meningeal artery, Foramen lacerum medium closed with cartilage. On Anterior Surface of Petrous Bone : Internal orifice of carotid canal, Depression for Casserian ganglion^ Grooves to Hiatus Fallopii for large superficial petrosal nerve and to a smaller and more external opening for small superficial petrosal nerve; frequently Two other smallforajjtina for small petrosal branch of glosso-pharyngeal and branch of glosso-pharyngeal to large superficial petrosal nerve. Eminence corresponding to superior semi-circular canal, on outer side of which is a Depression corresponding to cavity of tympanum.26 THE PALATE BONE Presents horizontal and vertical plates ^-ir am the point of junction of whicli two plates the pterygoid \ process-^TO^eciB backwards & outwards, -while from the upper border of the vertical plate project' upwards, the orbital process in front, and the sphenoidal process behind, j It articulates with its fellow, the superior maxilla, sphenoid, ethmoid, inferior turbinated & vomer. It assists in forming -principally, the floor & outer wall of the nasal fossa and the roof of the mouthy andv! -secondarily, the floor of the orbit, the pterygoid & spheno'maxillary fosscB, and the inner wall of th\ Antrum of Highmorii HORIZONTAL PLATE — Presents : Sup. or Nasal Suetace - Smooth and concave from side to side, forms posterior part of floor of > nasal fossa, j Inf. or Buccal Surface - Rough, marked posteriorly by a Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati, and more externally by a Deep notch, which assists in forming the posterior palatine foramen. A little further back, on the under surface of the pterygoid process, are the i External & posterior small palatine foramina for external and posterior palatine nerves. Anterior Border - Serrated for articulation with palate process of superior maxilla. Posterior Border - Free for attachment of soft palate. Inner Border - Thick, surmounted by a ridge, which forms with its fellow a groove for vomer* presents posteriorly the ^ Postej'ior nasal spine for azygos uvulse. Li VERTICAL PLATE -Presents: l| Inner Surface - Presents the W\ Superior & middle turbinated crests, above, between & below which are seen | A narrow & two wider horizontal grooves, which form part respectively of the superior, middle ij & inferior meatuses. % Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Smooth surface, which forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and is prolonged \ inferiorly into a | Vertical groove, which assists in forming the posterior palatine canal. In front of these is a \ Rough surface, which articulates with the superior maxilla; and further forwards still a i Nai-row smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of antrum. Behind is a i Rough surface, which articulates above with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, j below with the superior maxilla.j| Anterior Border - Thin, irregular, presents a projecting lamina, the Maxillary process, which assists in closing the lower part of the orifice of the antrum, and, \ forming a schindylesis, penetrates into a fissure of the superior maxilla \ -'-'-^ at the lower part of that orifice. ( Posterior Border - Articulates with the inner plate of the pterygoid process. Upper Border - Presents the Orbital process in front, the Sphenoidal process behind, which processes are separated by a deep Notch forming the greater part of the spheno-palatine foramen (which foramen is completed above by the sphenoidal turbinated bone). PTERYGOID PROCESS — Fits into the notch between the two plates of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and presents: Posterior Surface - Triangular, concave, forms part of pterygoid fossa. Two Lateral Surfaces - Bough, articulate with the two plates of the pterygoid process & with the superior maxilla. Under Surface - Forms part of the roof of the mouth, and presents the External & postej-ior small palatine foramina for external & posterior palatine nerves. ORBITAL PROCESS — Projects upwards & outwards from the anterior part of the upper border (| of the vertical plate, and presents: | Three articular Surfaces - Anterior,posterior & internal, - which join respectively with the superior si maxillary bone, the sphenoidal tu7'binated bone & the lateral mass of the ethmoid. I Two Non-articular Surfaces :- Supei'ior or Orbital - Forms posterior part of fioor of orbit; I External or Spheno-maxillary - Forms part of inner wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, and is ij separated from the foregoing by a Rounded border, which forms part of spheno-maxillary fissure. SPHENOIDAL PROCESS — Curves upwards, backwards & inwards, and presents: Upper Surface - Articulates with sphenoid «& sphenoidal turbinated bones, and assists in for- ming pterygo-palatine canal. ''\ Outer Surface - Articulates behind with pterygoid process, and forms in front that small part i of inner wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, which lies behind spheno-palat. foramen. j| "*««EK Surface - Concave, forms part of outer wall of nasal foasa.27 NPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE IB cnrved upon itself, and consists of a middle horizontal portion, the body, and of two lateral vertical portions, the rami. BODY — Presents: EXT. SURFACE — Convex from side to side and concave from above downwards. Presents in median line the Symphysis^ a vertical ridge, at the lower part of which is the Mental process i from which the External oblique line passes backwards, first horizontally, giving attachment to depressores labii inferioris & anguli oris, and then obliquely & becoming continuous with anterior border of ramus. - Laterally above the oblique line is the Incisive fossa for levator menti; and more externally the Mental foramen for mental vessels & nerve. The Buccinator is attached above oblique line behind, and the platysma, below it, in front. INT. SURFACE — Concave from side to side and convex from above downwards. Presents the Symphysis forming a linear depression, close to which near its middle are the superior & inferior pairs of Genial tubercles giving attachment respectively to the genio-hyo-glossi & genio-hyoidei. Below these tubercles begins the Internal oblique line or mylo-hyoid ridge for mylo-hyoid muscle, faintly marked at first, but becoming more distinct as it passes upwards & backwards. - Above & below this line are seen near the sym- physis the Sublingual fossa for sublingual gland; Rough depression for anterior belly of digastric; and more externally Submaxillary fossa for submaxillary gland. Above posterior extremity of mylo-hyoid ridge is attached the superior constrictor of the pharynx. SUP. SORDER — Thickest behind, where it is dejected inwards; presents sixteen alveolag in the adult, ten in the child. INF. BORDER — Thickest and slightly everted anteriorly. R AIVE I — Are quadrilateral, and present: EXT. SURFACE — Marked by oblique ridges for masseter. INT. SURFACE — Presents near middle Apertu7'e of inferior dental canal, of which the anterior margin forms a prominent Spine for internal lateral ligament of lower jaw; - and from which passes downwards & forwards the Mylo-hyoid groove for mylo-hyoid vessels & nerve, behind which groove is a Rough surface for internal pterygoid muscle. UPPER BORDER — Presents the coronoid & condyloid processes separated by sigmoid notch, Co7'onoidprocess - '^r\2i-n^gvX?),r, gives attachment by its surfaces & borders to tem- poral muscle, and presents at its lower & front part a groove which is continued downwards upon the alveolar process, and which gives attachment inferiorly to the buccinator muscle. Condyloid process - Consists of Condyle - Oblong, convex from side to side and from before backwards & nearly transverse, its long axis when prolonged, meeting that of its fellow near anterior margin of foramen magnum. Neck - Flattened from before backwards, convex behind, excavated in front for external pterygoid muscle, presenting externally at tubercle for external lateral ligament of ja'^^, ANTERIOR BORDER — Continuous with external oblique line; thin above, thicker below where grooved for buccinator. LOWER & POSTERIOR BORDERS — Thick and form inferiorly the Angle of the jaw, which gives attachment to masseter & internal pterygoid muscles and to stylo-maxillary ligament.28 SUPEKIOR MAXILLARY BONE - 1st Tablet, Forms the whole of npper jaw bj its union with its fellow. Assists in fonaing : _ I Roof of mouth, flcar & out^-r -wall ofno:e,fioor of orbit ; ' Zygomatk <^ :phirvj-7ruixillary fo::cB ; Spheno-maxillary & ptirygo-'r^mxillary fi::ure:. May be described as presenting a bodv and fotir processes, malar, nasal, alveolar k palate. BODY— Hollowed out to form Antrum of Highmore. - Presents : OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents from within outwards & backwards: Inn-i'j^ or niyrtifor7?i fo::a for depressor al» nasi, Canine foyMy large & deep for origin of levator anguli ons k compressor na at upper part of which fo.^sa. is i Infra-orlitalforamen for infra-orbital vessels & nerce; VertiTMl rifhe, which descends from malar process, and behind which is the Maxillary iuhero:ity, which is rough along its posterior border for articulati with the palate bone & sometimes v.-ith pterygoid process of sphenc INNER SURFACE — Divided into two unequal parts by palate process. PAET ABOVE PALATE PPOCESS - Presents from before backwards the Inferior turbinated cre:t, above and r.^,:o7r --hich are Twovnde antero-po'Jerior grovr.i-., v, ;_.cn form part of middle k infer meatuses, and t>. former of which is surmounted by ' Superior turbinated en:'., v. Lich. lies on inner surface of nasal process A deep grocrrje which is converted into nasal duct by articulation with chrymal & inferior turbinated bon' Aperture of Antruvi of Highmore very large in disarticulated bone diminished in articulated skull by ethmoid, lachrymal, infer turbinated & jjoAaxe bones, and jjresenting inferiorly a fisff into which is received the maxillary process of the palate bo A rough surface which articulates with palate bone and is divided in:o anterior & a posterior portion b; Vertical groove, which forms part of posterior palatine canal. PAET EELOW PALATE PPOCESS - Forms anterior part of roof of mouth. UPPER SURFACE — Forms greater part of Soor of orbit, and is bounded : Oa' Ikxee Side - By a thin edge which articulates from before he/:>v.-a with lachrymal bone, os planum & orbital process of pa^ b'. On Outer Sile - By a rounded margin which forms part of sphe: maxillary fissTi: IN Front - By lower part of circumference of orbit. - It presents behi Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which groove becomes c verted in front ii Infra-orbital canal; - and at its anterior & inner part a Depre:::ion for inferior oblique muscle. Antrum of Highmore or Maxillary Sinus - is a large cavity hollowed ouis body of the superior maxillary bo' Its walls correspond to the three surfaces of the body of the bone; they ; very thin, and contain the infra-orbital & ant post, dental can; Its aperture communicates with the middle meatus of the nasal fossae, anc much diminished in size, and generally divided into two by artir lation v.-ith ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior turbinated t palate bor Several lamirue of bone project into its cavity, as do also the roots of the & 2nd molar teeth, which sometimes perforate its flo29 5UPERI0R MAXILLARY BONE-2nd Tablet. MALAR PROCESS — Triangular, and presents: Ant. Surface - Concave, forms part of canine fossa; Post. Surface - Concave, forms part of zygomatic fossa; Sup. Surface - Eongh for articulation vritli malar bone. NASAL PROCESS — Triangular, and presents: Outer Surface - Concave, gives attachment to orbicularis palpebrarum, tendo oculi, levator labii superioris alseque nasi. Inner Surface - Presents from above doTvnwards : Rough surface^ Tvhicli articulates Tvitli ethmoid bone ; Superior turbinated crest which articulates -with middle turbinated bone; Inferior turbinated crest Tdth the two grooves already described. Ant. Border - Thin, serrated above for articulation with nasal bone, and continuous below vrith margin of the deep notch, which bounds laterally the anterior aperture of the nasal fossae. Post. Border - Presents a groove which forms part of nasal duct, of which groove the hiner margin articulates with lachrymal bone, while the Outer margin forms part of circumference of orbit, and presents the Lachrynial tubercle at its junction with orbital surface. ALVEOLAR PROCESS — Forms a curve of a semi-horse-shoe shape. Is thicker behind than in front, and presents eight alveoli in adults, five in children. PALATE PROCESS — Presents : Upper Surface - Concave from side to side. Forms part of floor of nasal fossa, and presents in front the Incisor foramen or foramen of Stenson, which is completed on its inner side by a thin lamina of bone directed backwards from its anterior to its posterior border (from the latter of which this lamina remains disconnected in youth). This foramen leads below into the Anteriorpalatim canal formed by the junction of the two bones, into which canal when it is viewed from below, are also seen to open two other small foramina, the Foramina of Scarpa situated in the suture between the two laminae. - The foramina of Stenson transmit the anterior palatine vessels, while the foramina of Scarpa transmit the naso-palatine nerves, of which the right one is said to be posterior to the left. Under Surface - Concave, rough, forms part of roof of mouth. - Is channelled by a Groove (sometimes by a canal) for the posterior palatine vessels & anterior or great palatine nerve, and presents behind anterior part of lower orifice of Posterior palatijie canal. Inner Border - Raised into a ridge which forms with its fellow a groove for vomer, and presents in front the Anterior nasal spine. Ant. Border - Forms lower part of anterior aperture of nasal fi^ssas. Post. Border - Articulates with horizontal plate of palate bone. ■ITHE SMALL BONES of the PACE. NASAL BONES — Form bridge of nose. - Narrow & thick above, wide and thin below. Present; Outer Surface - Convex from side to side, concave from above downwards at upper part. 1 Presents several arterial grooves and a foramen for a small vein, -1 Inner Surface - inversely curved; presents a groove for external branch of nasal nerve,' | Superior - Narrow, thick, articulates with frontal; Inferior - Broad, thin, joined to lateral cartilage of nose; has a notch for nasal nerve j External - Articulates with nasal process of superior maxillary bone; Internal - Thick, articulates with its fellow; is prolonged backwards into a crest which articulates with nasal spine of frontal & perpendicular plate of ethmoid. LACHRYMAL BONES — Form front part of inner wall of orbit. Present i Outer Surface - Presents from before backwards: Groove, which forms part of nasal duct; Ridge, which gives attachment to tensor tarsi muscle j Smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of orbit. Inner Surface - Presents a furrow corresponding to foregoing ridge; forms part in front \ of middle meatus, and articulates behind with ethmoid bone. Anterior, Superior, Posterior - Articulate respectively with nasal & internal angular processes of superior maxillary & frontal bones, and with os planum of ethmoid. Inferior - Articulates behind with orbital plate of superior maxillary, and, in front, is prolonged downwards into a pointed process, the hamulus lachryinahs, which arti- culates with lachrymal process of inferior turbinated bone. MALAR BONES — Articulate with temporal, frontal, sphenoid & superior maxillary bones, and form part of outer wall & floor of orbit, and of temporal & zygo- matic fossEe. Present: Outer Surface - Convex; presents a small malar foramen for malar branch of temporo- malar nerve, and gives attachment to the zygomatic muscles. Inner Surface - Articulates internally with superior maxillary bone by a rough trian- gular surface, and is concave externally, where forms part of temporal & zygo- matic foss8B and presents a foramen for temporal branch of temporo-malar nerve. Orbital Process- Proiects backwards forming part of outer wall & floor of orbit & of tem- poral fossa; articulates from above downwards with frontal, sphenoid & superior maxillary bones, and bounds spheno-maxillary fissure anteriorly. - On its inner surface it presents one or two temporo-malar foramina. Frontal Process - Thick, vertical, articulates with external angular process of frontal. Zygomatic Process - Long, horizontal, articulates with zygomatic process of temporal. Borders: Antero-Superior - Forms lower & outer part of circumference of orbit. Antero-Inferior - Articulates with superior maxillary bone. Postero-Superior & Postero-Inferior - Are continuous with superior and inferior margins of zygomatic process. INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES — Thin, and extend along whole length of outer wall of nasal fossa. Present: Outer concave & Inner convex Surfaces, marked by vascular grooves and canals, and the latter of which looks upwards & inwards. Upper Border - Which, from before backwards : Articulates with inferior turbinated crest of superior maxillary; Forms lachrymal process, which articulates with lachrymal & superior maxillary bones and completes nasal duct; Presents maxillary process, which curves downwards and outwards over lower edge of orifice of antrum of Highmore. Presents ethmoidal process, which ascends to join unciform process of ethmoid. Lower Border - is free and slightly thickened. "VOMER —Forms posterior part of nasal septum, and is frequently bent to one or other side. Presents: Lateral Surfaces - Present vascular & nervous furrows, and naso-palatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. Superior Border - Presents a deep groove bounded by two projecting alee, between which the rostrum of the sphenoid is received, and which are overlapped inferiorly by the vaginal processes of the same bone. Inferior Border - Articulates with ridge formed by palate plates of superior maxillary & palate bones. Anterior Border - is grooved above for articulation with perpendicular plate of eth- moid and joined below to cartilage of the septum. Posterior Border - Free, thicker above than below j separates posterior apertures of of the na»-«31 E OBBIT. Qnadrilateral pyramidal fossa looking forwards & outwards and formed by seven bones, tbe frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid ( which enter into formation of both orbits), supe- rior maxillary, malar, lachrymal & palate. Comm-anicates with cranium, and with nasal, temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossae through optic foramen, nasal duct & spheno-maxillary fissure. Presents: HOOF — Formed by orbital plate of frontal & lesser wing of sphenoid. Is concave, and pre- sents the suture between the foregoing bones, and in front the Lachrymal fossa forlachrymal gland, and a Depression (fovea trochlearis ) for pulley of superior oblique. FLOOR — Formed by upper or orbital surface of superior maxillary and orbital processes of malar & palate bones. Presents the sutures between foregoing bones, the Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which becomes converted in front into Infra-orbital canal; and also at its anterior & inner part a Depression for inferior oblique muscle. INNSIl WALL — Formed from before backwards by nasal process of superior maxillary, lachrymal, os planum of ethmoid, body of sphenoid. Is antero-posterior in direction and parallel to its fellow, and presents the sutures between foregoing bones and the Lachrymal groove for lachrymal sac. Crest of lachrymal bone for tensor tarsi muscle. OUTER WALL — Formed in front by orbital process of malar bone, and behind by ante- rior or orbital surface of great wing of sphenoid. I s very oblique forwards & outwards being nearly at right angles with its fellow, and presents the suture between foregoing bones, and the Orifices of one or two malar canals. Small spine for lower head of external rectus. ANGLES: SUP. EXTERNAL - Presents: Articulation of frontal with malar bone & orbital plate of sphenoid. Sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius for 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves and ophthalmic nerve & vein. SUP. INTERNAL - Presents Suture connecting frontal with lachrymal & os planum, in which suture are the Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal nerve & anterior ethmoidal vessels, and the Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. INF. EXTERNAL - Presents Spheno-maxillary fissure for infra-orbital vessels & nerve and ascending branches of Meckel's ganglion. INF. INTERNAL - Presents Articulation of superior maxillary & palate bones with lachrymal & os planum. CIRCUMFERENCE OR BASE — Quadrilateral, looks forwards & outwards. Is bounded by supra-orbital arch and external & internal angular processes of frontal, anterior border of orbital surface & nasal process of superior maxillary, and anterior border of malar bone. Presents Supra-orbital notch or foramen for supra-orbital vessels & nerve j and assists in forming i.achry?nal groove for lachrymal sac. APEX — Corresponds to optic foramen for optic nerve & ophthalmic artery.32 1 THE NASAL POSS-S:.. Two narrow irregular cavities comprised between the orbits & superior maxillary bones, and between tbe roof of the mouth & the front part of the base of the skull. Formed by ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, superior maxillary, nasal, palate, inferior turbiu- i ated & vomer (all the bones of the face except malar & inferior maxillary), j Communicate with orbit (nasal duct), mouth, (anterior palatine canal), cranium (olfactory j foramina), spheno-maxillary fossa (spheno-palatine foramen), and with the i frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, & maxillary sinuses. - Present: ROOF — ISTarrow, and is from before backwards : Oblique upwards & backwards and formed by nasal bone & nasal spine of frontal. Horizontal and formed by cribriform plate of ethmoid. Oblique downwards & backwards and formed by body of sphenoid. - Presents the suturea between the foregoing bones and from before backwards : Groove on nasal bone for outer branch of nasal nerve ; Half crest for perpendicular plate of ethmoid; Olfactory foramina & nasal slit for olfactory and nasal nerves ; Openings of sphenoidal sinuses partly closed by sphenoidal turbinated bones; Articulation of alee of vomer with body of sphenoid. FLOOR — Concave from side to side, and formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & palate bones. - Presents the suture between foregoing bones & the Upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; Half crest for vomer, which terminates in front & behind in the Anterior & posterior nasal spines. INNSR WALL — Formed principally by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid above k in front, and by the vomer below & behind, and secondarily by nasal spine of the frontal, rostrum of sphenoid, crests of superior maxil- lary, nasal & palate bones. Has an angular deficiency in front which is filled up by the cartilage of the septum. - Is frequently inclined to one or other side; and presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and Vascular & nervous furrows & Naso-palatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. OUTER WALL — Formed by: Lachrymal hone & nasal process of superior maxillary ; Inner surface of ethmoid, superior maxillary & inferior turbinated bones; Vertical plate of palate bone & inner plate of pterygoid process. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from above downwards: Superior turbinated process of ethmoid ; Superior meatus, into which open the sphenoidal & posterior ethmoidal sinuses and the spheno-palatine foramen. - Both are short and are situated at the posterior and upper part of the nares; Middle turbinated process of ethmoid j Middle meatus, larger than foregoing, into which open the Antrum of Highmore and through the infundibulum, the anterior ethmoidal cells & frontal sinuses; Inferior turbinated bone ; Inferior meatus, the largest, presents in front the opening of the nasal due*-33 LATERAL REGION of the SKULL Presents from behind forwards the: Mastoid process ; Ext. auditory meatus ; Zygomatic arch & 7'a7nus of the jaw^ which two latter arch over the temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossae. TEMPORAL FOSSA Is formed by the temporal, frontal, & malar bones, the great wing of the sphenoid, & the anterior inferior angle of the parietal, and is deeply excavated below & in front. Is bounded above by the temporal ridge, and opens widely below into the zygomatic fossa, the boundary line between the two being the zygomatic arch & the pterygoid ridge. ZYGOMATIC FOSSA Is an irregular and imperfectly enclosed space, the incomplete walls of which are formed on the anterior, inner, upper & outer aspects respectively by thf Ttibcrosity of the sup. maxillary bone^ Ext. pterygoid plate, Under surface of great wing oj sphenoid as far as pterygoid ridge, and squamous portion of temporal bone. Zygomatic arch & ramus of lower jaw. Communicates with temporal fossa beneath the zygoma, and with the orbit & spheno- maxillary fossae through the spheno-maxillary & pterygo-maxillary fissures. Spheno-Maxillary Fissure - is bounded by superior maxiUary, great wing of sphenoid, malar & palate bones, aud joins internally at right angles with pterygo- maxillary fissure. Opens up communications between the orbit and the temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossae. Transmits infraorbital artery, superior maxillary nerve & ascending or orbital branches of Meckel's ganglion. PterygO-Maxillary Fissure - is comprised between pterygoid process & tuberosity of superior maxillary bone. Joins superiorly at right angles with spheno-maxillary fissure. Transmits internal maxillary artery from zygomatic to spheno-maxillary fossa. SPHENO-MAXILLARY FOSSA — is the narrow & vertically elongated space comprised between the pterygoid process & the maxillary tuberosity, and bounded above & internally by the body of the sphenoid & the vertical plate of the palate bone. Its upper part is the point of meeting of the sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary & pterygo- J"* ■ maxillary fissures. It communicates with the cranium, orbit, zygomatic & nasal fossae by the foramen rotun- dum & spheno- & pterygo-maxillary fissures & the spheno-palatine foramen, and has, opening into it, the vidian, pterygo-palatine, posterior palatine & accessory posterior palatine canals. A.34 UNDER SURFACE of the BASE of the SKULL Is bounded from before backwards by: Alveolar arch <2t^ teeth of upper jaw; Lower border of malar bone, zygojna 6^ imaginary line from zygoma to mastoid process; Superior curved line of occipital bone. Grouping points of interest on under surface of skull, the latter may be said to present from before backwards; Roof of Mouth; Posterior Aperture of Nares : Under Surface of Basilar Process, on eacb side of which is a Quadrilateral Space, the angles of which are formed by the Condyle of the occipital bone, and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatic and Mastoid Processes. This space is the Author's CONDYLO-PTERYGO-ZYGOMATO-MASTOID SPACE. Under Surface of Remaining Part of Occipital Bone. ROOF OP THE MOUTH Is formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & horizontal plates of palate bones, and is bounded laterally & in front by alveolar arch Is concave, uneven & marked by a crucial suture, and presents from before backwards £ outwards Lower opening of anterior palatine canal, into which may be seen to open, laterally Foramen of Stenson for anterior palatine vessels, and in middle line, i /vra;;^/;^^ ^^S^r^i^^a for naso-palatine nerves J ! A groove leading to i Posterior palatine foramen for post, palatine vessels & ant. or great palatine n.i Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati; Accessory or small palatine foramina, posterior dr» external^ for posterior or small, and tb i external palatine nerves POSTERIOR APERTURE OF THE NARES Is bounded by body of sphenoid, horizontal plate of palate bone, and inner plates of pterygoi processes, whicb latter present inferiorl i Hamular process for reflection of tendon of tensor palati, and superiorly, J Scaphoid fossa for origin of that muscle. Is divided into two by vomer, and presents inferiorly Posterior nasal spine for origin of azygos uvulae, and superiorly I Expanded aloe of vomer, which articulate with rostrum & with vaginal processes • I sphenoid, and on either side of which ai J Pterygo-palatine canals formed in part by sphenoid & in part by palate bone I and giving passage to pterygo-palatine vessels & nerveiil UNDER SURFACE OP THE BASILAR PROCESS: *i Presents m middle line Pharyngeal spine for median raphe & superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally, j Rough depressions for insertion of recti capitis antici major & minor. CONDYLO-PTERYGO-ZYGOMATO-MASTOID SPACE — Y.nextTabiei| UNDER SURFACE OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE (Remaining part)-Pr sent Foramen magnunt for cord & its membranes, vertebral arteries «S5 spinal accesso:^ nerves, on outer side of which foramen a| Condyles of occipital bone having Jugular process on their outer side. Anterior condyloid foramen in front. Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by the posterior condyM foramen behini Ext. Occipital Crest giving off laterally Superior Inferior cui"ved lines, and ending posteriorly in External occipital protuberance. For parts just mentioned see Occipital Bono. \35 iCJONDYLO-PTERYGO-ZYCJOMATO-MASTOID SPACE Is formed by the under surfaces of the occipital bone and of the squamous & petrous por- tions of the temporal and of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and is situated on either side of the basilar process. It is quadrangular. ITS ANGLES Are formed by the Condyles of the occipital bone and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatic & Mastoid processes. (Vide these parts in respective Tablets.) It is divided in two by a well marked diagonal line obliquely directed from before back- wards & outwards, and presents points of interest both in froiit of & behind its diagonal line. ITS DIAGONAL LINE Extends from the root of the pterygoid to the mastoid process, and presents from be- fore backwards & outwards the Foramen lacerum medium closed by cartilage, and crossed superiorly by the internal carotid artery & the Vidian nerve; Rough surface for origin of levator palati & tensor ty mpani; Inf. orifice of Carotid Canal j Vaginal process \ Styloid process, which gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid & -maxillary liga- ments and from above downwards to the stylo-pharyngeus, -hyoideus & -glossus muscles: Stylo-mastoid foramen for facial nerve & stylo-mastoid artery. IN FRONT & on the OUTER SIDE of the DIAGONAL LINE Are found from before backwards & outwards the Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small petrosal nerves and small menin- geal artery, and on inner side of which is sometimes found the Foramen Vesalii for a small vein; Foramen Spinosum for middle meningeal artery; Spine of the Sphenoid for internal lateral ligament of jaw & laxator tympani m. Openings of the canal for the tensor tympani muscle (above) of the osseous portion. of the Eustachian tube (below). Glenoid fossa divided by Glaserian fissure into Anterior party covered with cartilage which latter is prolonged over the emimentia articularis; Posterior part non articular, and bounded behind by the vaginal & au- ditory processes and the middle root of the zygoma. neil BEHIND & on the INNER SIDE of the DIAGONAL LINE Are the: Jugular fossa for internal jugular vein. This fossa assists in forming the Jugular foramen or Foramen Lacerum posterius, of which the Anterior or inner part, smaller and separated from the remainder by a bony ridge, gives passage to the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric & spinal accessory nerves, while the Posterior part, the larger, transmits the internal jugular vein ; Jugular process for rectus capitis lateralis & lateral occipito-atloid ligament. Thfs process has in front of it & to its inner side the Anterior condyloid foramen for hypoglossal nerve; behind it & to its inner side the Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by posterior condyloid foramen for a small vein to lateral sinus. Openings for Jacobson's Arnold's nerves, and opening of Aqueductus Cochlea*36 THE SCAPULA —1st Tablet. Lar"-e flat, triangular, situated at back of shoulder, and presents two surfaces, three borders, ° ' ° three angles. ANTERIOR SURFACE or VENTER — Concave; forms subscapular fossa, which fossa is deepest at upper & outer part, and presents from within outwards: narrow marginal surface for serratus magnus, which surface becomes broader & triangular opposite the superior & inferior angles; roiioh obliqtie rid<^es converging upwards & outwards for tendinous intersections of sub- ^ ^ scapularis j roundedpromment ridge descending from neck of scapula j deep vertical groove for lower part of subscapularis. POSTERIOR SURFACE or DORSUM — Divided by spine into: Supraspinous Fossa - The smaller, smooth, broadest internally, for supraspinatus, Infraspinous Fossa - The larger, slightly convex towards middle, concave on either side. Presents internally a few oblique ridges for tendinous intersections of infraspinatus, and externally a rough aponeurotic ridge^ which cuts off a prominent marginal sttrface divided in two by an oblique line & crossed by a groove for dorsalis scapulae artery, which surface gives origin in its narrow upper two-thirds, to the teres minor, and in its lower & broader third, to the teres major & occcasionally to some of the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. TllG Spine - is a prominent triangular plate, which crosses obliquely the dorsum of th© scapula towards its upper part, and which is continued into the acromion It presents:] SURPACES: Upper Lower - Concave, forming part respectively of the supra- & infra spinous fossae. Borders: Anterior - Continuous with the remainder of the bone. Posterior - Broad & thick. Commences internally by a triangular smooth surface covered by tendon of insertion of trapezius; gives attach ment externally to this surface, to trapezius by its upper lip, to deltoid by its lower lip, External - Concave, rounded; lost above upon under surface of aero- mion, below upon neck of scapula. Acromion Process - Overhangs glenoid cavity, and is flattened & somewhat triani gular. It presents {' Surfaces : | Superior - Bough for attachment of deltoid & trapezius. * - Concave & smooth, separated by a bursa from capsule shoulder joinf Borders: Outer Inner - For deltoid & trapezius, the latter presenting a sm oval facet for clavicli Apex ~ Gives attachment to the coraco-acromial ligament.37 THE SCAPULA-2nd Tablet. BORDERS — Three: Superior - The shortest & thinnest. Presents externally the suprascapular notch converted by the transverse ligament into a foramer for suprascapular nerve; - and gives origin just internally to th^' notch to the omo-hyoid musclw. External or Axillary - The thickest. Presents just below glenoid cavity a rough depression for long head of triceps, and below this the vertical groove above mentioned for lower part of subscapularis. Internal or Vertebral, or Base - The longest, thin, prominent opposite root of spine. Presents: anterior lip for serratus magnus; posterior lip for supra- & infraspinati • interspace for levator anguli scapulsD, rhomboidens minor, and aponeurosis & fibrous arch of rhomboideus major. ANGLES - Three: Superior - Thin, prominent, for a few fibres of the levator anguli scapulse & supraspi- natus, and the two first digitations of the serratus magnus. Inferior -Thick, rounded; gives attachment posteriorly to the teres major & occa- sionally to some of the fibres of the latissimus dorsi, and anteriorly to the four lower digitations of the serratus magnus. Anterior or External - Forms the head & the neck of the scapula. HEAD — Presents the Glenoid Cavity - Oval with longest diameter vertical, and with broad inferior & narrow superior extremities, the latter giving attach- ment to the tendon of the long head of the biceps ; small & shallow, but slightly deepened & enlarged by glenoid ligament, which ligament is attached to the prominent margin of the cavity. NECK — Flattened from before backwards, and most distinct behind. Is ' surmounted by the CoRACOiD Process - First thick & broad, and passes upwards & in- wards, being fiattened from before backwards, and presenting internally a rough depression for conoid ligament. It then be- comes smaller, passes forwards & outwards, and is flattened from above downwards; this terminal portion presents: under surface, smooth & concave; upper surface with rough oblique ridge for trapezoid ligament; anterior or inner border for pectoralis minor; posterior border for coraco-acromial ligament; apex for common tendon of coraco-brachialis & of short head of bioepfc.38 ME CLAVICLE Is nsually reckoned as a long bone, thongh, structurally, it rather resembles a sbort bone. It is curved like an italic /and is convex anteriorly & rounded in its inner two-tbirds, concave anterioi^ly and flattened from above downwards, in its outer third. INNER or CYLINDRICAL PORTION — Presents three borders and three surfaces. Borders-Are: Anteriok - Continuous with anterior border of flattened portion, and gives attachment to pectoralis major. Posterior - Extends from rhomboid impression to conoid tubercle, and forms posterior boundary of subclavian groove. Superior - Continuous with posterior border of flattened portion, and gives attachment to sterno-mastoid. Surfaces - Are: Anterior - Convex & continuous with upper surface of flattened portion. la covered externally by platysma, and gives attachment internally to sterno-mastoid & pectoralis major. Posterior - Concave, narrow externally, where it becomes continuous with pos- terior border of flattened portion. Frequently gives origin internally to some of the fibres of the sterno-cleido-hyoid, and presents towards its middle the nutrient canal, which is directed outwards. Inferior - Narrow internally; broader externally, where it becomes continuous with under surface of flattened portion. Presents from within outwards: Articular facet, which articulates with cartilage of first rib, and which is continuous with sternal articular surface; Rhomhoid imp7'ession for rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament; Subclavian groove for subclavius muscle. OUTER or FLATTENED PORTION — Presents: Borders: Anterior - Thin, concave, for deltoid. Posterior - Thicker, convex, for trapezius. Surfaces: Superior - Eough, for deltoid & trapezius. Inferior - Presents internally Conoid tubercle for conoid ligament, from which tubercle passes forwardf & outwards th( Oblique line for trapezoid ligament. INNER or STERNAL END — Enlarged & triangular. Its articular facet is continuou with the costal facet at inner extremity of inferior surface. It is concav from before backwards and convex from above downwards & outwards; i gives attachment at its upper & back part to the interarticular fibro-cartilag of the sterno-clavicular articulation. - The circumference of the end of th bone is rough for the anterior & posterior sterno-clavicular & the interclavi cular ligamentf OUTER or ACROMIAL END — Flattened from above downwards. Presents a sma oval facet, which looks downwards & outwards and articulates with acromioi - The circumference of the end of the bone is rough for the superior > inferior acromio-clavicular ligamenti i I39 THE HUMERUS Presents npper & lower extremities and a shaft. UPPER EXTREMITY — Presents head, anatomical & surgical necks, greater & lesser tubero- sities, and bicipital groove. Head - Represents nearly one half of a sphere, and is much more extensive than the glenoid cavity, or corresponding articular surface of the scapula. It looks upwards, inwards & backwards, and is bounded by the Anatomical Neck - A slight circular constriction, rather irregular, which gives attach- ment to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Greater Tuberosity - Large rounded eminence situated on the outer side of the bicipital groove. It presents from before backwards three small facets for supra- & infra- spinati & teres minor. Lesser Tuberosity - Smaller, but more prominent, situated in front of the head, on the inner side of the bicipital groove. It gives attachment to the subscapularis. Bicipital Groove - Corresponds to the upper third of the bone. It is deep & narrow above, where it separates the tuberosities, but it becomes broad & shallow below, where the tendon of the latissimns dorsi is inserted into it. It contains the long tendon of the biceps surrounded by a tubular prolongation of the synovial mem- brane of the shoulder-joint, and is covered with a thin layer of cartilage. Its anterior or outer lip gives attachment to the pectoralis major, its posterior or inner lip, to the teres major. Surgical Neck - Is the slightly constricted part which joins upper extremity to shaft, LOWER EXTREMITY — Is flattened from before backwards & slightly curved forwards. It presents an articular surface, and the inner and outer condyles. Articular Surface - Extends a little lower than the condyles, and occupies a more anterior position. It is divided into: Eadial Portion, Head, or Capitellum - Small rounded eminence limited to the front part of the bone. It is separated from the trochlear portion by a narrow groove for inner border of head of radius, and is surmounted by a slight depression which receives the anterior border of the same head when the fore.arm is completely flexed. Ulnar or Trochlear Portion - Extends also to the back of the bone. The inner border of the trochlea descends lower down than the outer one; the axis round which the ulna rotates is therefore directed downwards & inwards, and the plane of rotation downwards & outwards. - The trochlea is surmounted in front & behind by the coronoid & olecranon fossas, which receive the corres- ponding processes in complete flexion, or complete extension, of the fore-arm. These fossae are lined by the synovial membrane, and are separated by only a thin plate of bone; their margins give attachment to the anterior & posterior ligaments of the elbow-joint. Inner Condyle - The most prominent & the highest. Gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, & to the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris & flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. External Condyle - The lowest & least prominent. Gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint & to the extensores carpi radialis brevier, communis digitorum, minimi digiti & carpi ulnaris, and to the anconeus & supinator brevis muscles. SHAFT — Cylindrical above; prismatic and flattened from before backwards, below. Presents three borders & three surfaces. Borders-Are: Anterior - From front of great tuberosity to coronoid depression, forming, above, anterior or outer lip of bicipital groove for attachment of pectoralis major. Internal - From lesser tuberosity to internal condyle, forming, above, inner or pos- terior lip of bicipital groove for attachment of teres major, and, below, inter- nal condyloid ridge for internal intermuscular septum, pronator radii teres, inner head of triceps & brachialis anticus. Towards its middle is found the opening of the nutrient canal directed downwards. External - From back of greater tuberosity to external condyle. Is indistinct and crossed by musculo-spiral groove, above; inferiorly it becomes prominent, and forms the external condyloid ridge for external intermuscular septum, supina- tor longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, outer head oftriceps & brachialis ant. Surfaces-Are internal, external, & posterior; the two former becoming more or less an- terior below, where all three are broader & better defined than above. Internal - Rather narrower than external. Presents towards its middle a rough impression for coraco-brachialis, and frequently towards its lower part, the supra-condyloid process of Struthers. External - Rather broader. Presents towards its middle a rough triangular impression for deltoid, and gives attachment below to brachialis anticus. Posterior - Somewhat twisted. Is crossed obliquely downwards & outwards by musculo-spiral groove, and gives origin, above & below the groove, to the outer & inner heads of the triceps.I 4sy THE RADIUS I Is smaller & shorter than than the nlna, and is smaller above than below. Presents: UPPER EXTREMITY — The smaller. Presents: EEead - Cylindrical laterally and cup-shaped above. The cup articulates with the capi. tellum of the humerus, and its inner & broader edge articulates with the groove between the capitellum & the trochlea. The inner & broader part of the cylindrical surface articulates with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the outer narrower part plays upon the orbicular ligament. Keck - Is the constricted & rounded portion, which supports the head. It presents posteriorly a slight ridge for supinator brevis. Tuberosity - Lies at the lower, inner & front part of the neck. It is rough behind for insertion of biceps, and smooth in front, where it is covered by a bursa. LOWER EXTREMITY — Large, thick, quadrilateral, and presents an inferior surface, articular, and four lateral surfaces, of which the inner one is also articular. Inf. Articular Surface - Triangular, concave, divided by a slight antero-posterior ridge into an outer, larger, triangular portion for scaphoid, and an inner, smaller, quadrilateral portion for semilunar. Int. Articular Surface, or Sigmoid Cavity - Narrow, concave, articulates with head of ulna. Ant. Surface - Excavated; gives attachment to pronator quadratus. Its lower pro- minent margin gives attachment to anterior ligament of wrist-joint. Ext. Surface - Is prolonged downwards into the Styloid Process - Thick & conical; gives attachment at its base to supinator longus. at its apex, to external lateral ligament of wrist-joint. On its outei surface is a shalloav groove^ oblique downwards & forwards and divided into two by s slight ridge, which groove transmits the extensores ossis meta- carpi & primi internodii poUicis, both of which are enclosed ii one synovial sheath Post. Surface - Convex, gives attachment below to posterior ligament of wrist-joint, anc presents from without inwards ? broad 6^ shallow groove divided into two by a slight ridge, which groovf transmits the extensores carpi radialis longior & brevier, botl enclosed in one synovial sheath narrow deep groove for extensor secundi internodii pollicis & a synovia sheath h'oad shallow groove for extensores indicis & communis digitorum bot enclosed in one synovial sheath half-groove completed internally by head of ulna, for extensor minimi digit & a synovial sheatl SHAFT — Slightly concave anteriorly, small & rounded above, larger & prismoid below. Pre sents Borders - Three: Anterior - From front of bicipital tuberosity to front of base of styloid process. I prominent above, where it forms the oblique line., and gives attachment to th supinator brevis, flexor sublimis digitorum & flexor longus pollicis; is sharp! marked below for pronator quadratui Posterior - From back of neck to back of styloid process; is most distinct in i\ middle thin Internal - From back of tuberosity to sigmoid cavity, to embrace which it bifurcate inferiorly. Gives attachment to the interosseous ligament, and is sharpet towards its middl Surfaces-Three: Anterior - Narrow & concave in upper three-fourths for flexor longus pollicis, broa h concave in lov^er fourth for pronator quadratus. Presents nutrient forame a little above its middl Posterior - Narrow & rounded above for supinator brevis; broad & convex belc Gives origin towards its middle, where it is rough & slightly concave, to extei sor primi internodii pollicis & to some of the fibres of the extensor ossis met; car] External - Eounded 4 convex. Gives attachment above to supinator brevis at presents towards its middle a rough impression for pronator radii teres.tHE ULNA Ib larger & longer than the raims, and larger above than below. Presents: UPPER EXTREMITY —The strongest part of the bone; presents the coronoid & olecranon processes, and the greater & lesser sigmoid cavities. CorOBOid Process - Prismatic. Projects forwards, and presents • Apex - Slightly curved upwards; received into coronoid fossa in complete flexion of fore-arm; Base - Broad, continuous with shaft; Upper Surface - Articular, concave from before backwards, marked by a slight antero-posterior ridge. Under Surface - Concave, rough for brachialis anticus & oblique ligament; Inner Surface - Eough, concave behind for flexor profundus digitorum. Presents anteriorly & from above downwards: prominent margin for internal lateral ligament of elbow-joint; tubercle for middle head of flexor sublimis; ridge for inner head of pronator radii teres. - A slip of the flexor longus pollicis arises sometimes from this surface. Outer Surface - Presents lesser sigmoid cavity above, and gives origin below to some of the fibres of the supinator brevis. Olecranon Process - Large, slightly curved forwards. Presents: Apex - Prominent, received into olecranon fossa in complete extension of forearm; Base — Contracted, continuous with shaft; Anterior Surface - Articular, concave, marked by a slight vertical ridge; Posterior Surface - Triangular, subcutaneous, covered by a bursa; Upper Surface - Eough behind for triceps; slightly grooved in front, close to margin, for posterior ligament of elbow-joint; BoRDEBS, Inner & Outer - Presenting continuation of same groove for internal & posterior ligamentSc Greater Sigmoid Cavity - Comprised between coronoid & olecranon processes, notched on either side towards its middle, and divided by a slightly elevated ridge into two parts, of which the internal is the broadest. Lesser Sigmoid Cavity - Situated on outer side of coronoid process, narrow, concave from before backwards; its extremities give attachment to the orbicular ligament of the radius. LOWER EXTREMITY — Small, excluded from wrist-joint by triangular fibro-cartilage. Presents• Head - Articular below, where it is flattened and plays upon triangular' fibro-cartilage, and externally, where it is semi-cylindrical and is received into lesser sigmoid cavity of radius. Styloid Process - Cylindrical, descends from inner & back part of head; gives attachment to internal lateral ligament of wrist-joint. - Between these parts there exists below, a Depression - For attachment of triangular fibro-cartilage, and behind, a Groove - Which transmits tendon of extensor carpi ukiaris. SHAPT — Large & prismatic above, smaller & rounded below, slightly curved forwards, and convex externally above, internally below. Presents : Borders - Anterior, posterior, external, best marked in upper two-thirds. Anterior - From ridge on inner surface of coronoid process to front of styloid pro- cess. Gives attachment to flexor profundus digitorum & pronator quadratus. Posterior - From lower & back part of olecranon to back of styloid process. Gives attachment superiorly to an aponeurosis common to flexor & extensor carpi ulnaris and flexor profundus digitorum. External - Bifid superiorly, where it arises from either extremity of the lesser sig- moid cavity, and embraces a rough surface for supinator brevis; is very prominent towards middle; gives attachment to interosseous ligament. Surfaces - Anterior, posterior, internal, all three broader above than below. Anterior - Concave in upper three-fourths for flexor profundus digitorum, also ex- cavated below for pronator quadratus. Presents the opening of the nutrient canal, which is directed upwards. Posterior - Presents above a triangular surface for anconeus, which surface is bounded externally by an oblique ridge for supinator brevis. Below this the posterior surface is divided by a vertical ridge into a narrow inner part, which gives attachment to, or is sometimes merely covered by, the extensor carpi ulnaris, and an outer broader part which gives attachment from above downwards to the supinator brevis and extensores ossis metacarpi pollicis, secundi internodii pollicis, & indicis. Internax - Gives attachment to the flexor profundus digitorum in its upper three- earths ; is subcutaneous in its lower fourth.42 i BONES of the CARPUS — First Eow. SCAPHOID — Presents • Ant, or Palmar Surface - Concave above; presents at its lower & outer part a tubercle for anterior annular ligament of carpus. Post, or Dorsal Surface - Is represented by a rough transverse groove for ligaments. Upper Surface - Is very oblique, and looks backwards & but slightly upwards; is convex & smooth, and articulates with radius. Under Surface - Looks principally downwards, but also a little backwards & outwards. It presents two facets for trapezium & trapezoid. Outer Surface or Angle - Small, rough, for external lateral ligament of wrist. Inner Surface - Presents a superior small semilunar facet for semilunar, and an inferior large concave facet for os magnum. SEMILUNAR -Presents: Ant. & Post. Surfaces - Of which the former is the largest. Upper Surface - Convex; articulates with radius. Under Surface - Concave; articulates with os magnum & os unciform. Outer Surface - Has a semilunar facet for scaphoid. Inner Surface - Has a quadrilateral facet for cuneiform. CUNEIFORM - Presents: Ant. & Post. Surfaces - Of which the former is the smallest, and presents at its inner pari an oval facet for pisiform Upper Surface - Smooth in its outer part only, where it articulates with the triangulai fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation Under Surface - Concave externally, convex internally; articulates with inner surface o unciform bone Outer Surface - Has a quadrilateral facet for semilunar. Inner Surface or Angle - Small, rough, for internal lateral ligament of wrist. PISIFORM - Presents: Ant. Surface - Convex, for anterior annular ligament of carpus. Post. Surface - At upper part of which is an oval articular facet for cuneiform. Outer Surface - Convex. Inner Surface - Concave. 1 ,1 ■ i43. 50NES of the CARPUS - Second Row. TRAPEZIUM — Presents: Ant. Inner or Palmar Surface - Has a vertical groove for tendon of flexor carpi radialis, which groove is bounded externally by an oblique ridge for attachment of anterior annular ligament of carpus & abductor pollicis. Post, outer or Dorsal Surface - Large & rough. Upper Surface - Small, concave; articulates with scaphoid. Under Surface - Convex from side to side and concave from before backwards (the bone being placed in its normal position, that is to s^j with its palmar surface looking almost directly inwards and nearly facing the unciform process of the unciform bone) ; articulates with the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Outer Surface - Broad & rough. Inner Surface - Has a large superior concave articular surface for trapezoid, and a small narrow inferior facet for 2nd metacarpal boae. TRAPEZOID — Presents: Ant. & Post. Surfaces - Eough, the latter of which is the largest and is prolonged downwards & inwards. Upper Surface - Quadrilateral, concave, for scaphoid. Under Surface - Saddle shaped for articulation with base of 2nd metacarpal bone. Outer Surface - Convex, smooth; articulates with trapezium. Inner Surface - Concave & smooth below and in front for articulation with lower part of OS magnum; rough above and behind for an interosseous ligament. OS MAGNUM — May be divided into head, neck, & body. Presents: Ant. & Post. Surfaces - Eough, the latter of which is the largest, and is prolonged down- wards & inwards. Upper Surface - Eounded & smooth for semilunar. Under Surface - Projects inwards in its posterior part, and has three facets (the middle one of which is the largest), for articulation with 2nd, 3rd& 4th metacarpal bones. Outer Surface - Presents from above downwards: a smooth convex surface for scaphoid, a rough groove which forms part of the neck, a small facet for trapezoid at anterior inferior angle, behind which latter is a depression for an interosseous ligament. Inner Surface - Smooth behind for unciform bone, rough in front for an interosseous liga- ment. UNCIFORM BONE - Presents: Ant. or Palmar Surface - Presents the tmciform procsss at its lower & inner part. This process projects directly forwards when the bone is placed in its normal position, and presents outer concave & inner convex surfaces, and an apex, which latter gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament of the carpus and to the flexor brevis & adductor or opponens minimi digiti. Post, or Dorsal Surface - Eough & triangular. Upper Surface or Angle - Narrow, smooth, articulates with semilunar. Under Surface - Has two facets for 4th & 5th metacarpal bones. Outer Surface - Smooth above & behind for os magnum, rough below and in front for an interosseous ligament Inner Surface - Smooth, convex above, concave below, articulates with cuneiform.44 How to Class Shattered Bones of the Carpus into Right & Left. It is easy to recognise whether a bone of the carpus belongs to the right or to the left sida when it is placed in position as follows: Scaphoid Semilunar Cuneiform Largest articular facet above; Kough transverse groove behind | Tubercle on outer side. Convex articular facet above; Largest rough surface in front j Semilunar articular facet on outer side. Pisiform - Convex surface partly articular & partly non-articular, abovej i Flat surface partly articular partfy non-articular in front; Small surface or angle on inner side. Articular facet behind j Non-articular part of same surface below, Concave surface on inner side. Trapezium - Saddle-shaped articular facet below j Eidge in front; Ecugh lateral surface on outer side. Trapezoid - Saddle-shaped articular facet belowj Large rough surface behind j Its projecting part on inner side. Os Magnum - Head above ; Large rough surface behind; Projecting part of the same (or tubercle of the base) on innei side. Os Unciform - Unciform process below & in front; Its concavity to outer side.)| 45 THE METACARPAL BONES Long bones with shaft & two extremities. COMMON CHARACTERS: Shaft - Prismoid & concave anteriorly. Presents: Dorsal Surface - Triangular, broad below, covered by extensor tendons. Lateral Surfaces - Concave, divided by a ridge into two parts for palmar & dorsal interossei. The ridge bifurcates below, and its branches end in the tubercles on either side of head. Carpal Extremity or Base - Cuboid. Presents: Palmar & Dorsal Surfaces - Rough for ligaments; the latter is the largest. Sup. & Lateral Surfaces - Articular, for carpus & adjoining metacarpal bones. DigitalExtremity or Head-Presents: Inf. or Articular Surface - Eounded, extending farther in front than behind, and slightly flattened from side to side. Lateral Surfaces - Depressed; present two tubercles, of which posterior one is for lateral ligt. of corresponding metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. Ant. Surface - Grooved for flexor tendons. Post. Surface - Broad & flat. PARTICULAR CHARACTERS : METACARPAL B. OP THUMB — The shortest. Shaft - Thick & broad ; its palmar surface looks inwards. Carpal Extremity - Saddle-shaped for trapezium (convex from before backwards, concave from side to side) & broadest externally; no lateral facets. Digital Extremity.- Broader & less convex anteriorly than in the other metacar- pal bones; presents two small lateral facets for sesamoid bones. METACARPAL B. OF INDEX — The longest. Carpal Extremity - Larger than in the others, and presents posteriorly a pro- longation upwards & inwards towards os magnum. Has four articular surfaces, one saddle-shaped above for trapezoid, and three others for trapezium, os magnum & 3rd metacarpal bone. METACARPAL B. OF MIDDLE FINGER — The longest but one. Carpal Extremity - Presents a prolongation upwards & outwards behind os magnum, and has four articular facets, one for os magnum, one for 2nd metacarpal bone, and two for 4ith. METACARPAL B. OF RING FINGER — Short. Carpal Extremity - Pretty regularly cuboid. Presents five facets for unciform, OS magnum, 3rd (two facets), & 5th metacarpal bones. METACARPAL B. OF LITTLE FINGER — The smallest & the shortest but one. Carpal Extremity - Has a prominent tubercle on inner side for extensor carpi ulnaris; carpal facet is saddle-shaped for unciform; only one lateral facet for 4th metacarpal bone. N.B.—The foregoing characters supply the three points requisite to place the bones in position, and therefore to distinguish between right bones and left bones. THE PHALANGES. Fourteen, three to each finger, two to thumb. Are long bones and present: Sliaft - Slightly curved anteriorly. Plat from side to side on palmar surface, convex on dorsal. Margins prominent for attachment of sheaths of flexor ten- dons. - The shaft is longer in first or proximal phalanges than in second, in second than in third. Proximal Extremity - The largest. Presents: In First Eow - Oval, concave, articular surface, broadest from side to side. In Second & Third Kows - Two lateral concavities & a median ridge. Distal Extremity - The smallest. Presents: In First & Second Eows - A trochlear surface prolonged farther in front than behind. In THiao Row - A rough horse-shoe shaped eminence on palmar aurfaoe.THE INNOMINATE BONE —1st Tablet. Large irregular flat bone, constricted towards its middle, and expanded above & j below; so twisted upon itself that its superior expansion is directed inwards poa- [ teriorly & outwards anteriorly, while its inferior expansion is curved inwards ia ; front as far as the middle line, i Consists up to the 13th or 14th year of three distinct portions, the ilium, ischium & , pubes, which portions, though they subsequently unite, are usually described sepa- ] rately ILIUM — The superior expanded portion. Presents: Outer Surface or Dorsum - Convex in front, where it looks downwards & out-1 ' wards, concave behind, where it looks downwards, outwards &' backwards. Presents the jl T^ree Curved Lines, superior^ middle^ inferior^ which commence respect- ively two inches in front of the posterior extremity of the crest,;'!) an inch & a half behind its anterior extremity, & at the upper part of the anterior inferior spinous process, and which converge, the two first towards the upper part, & the third towards the middle | of the great sacro-sciatic notch, i Above, and between these lines are seen the Surfaces of origin of the glutei maximus, medius 6^ minimus ; \ Groove (sometimes a ridge), for reflected tendon of rectus. - Below this are thai Upper part of rim of acetabulum ; Triangidar segment of the acetabulum forming nearly 2-5ths of that cavity, which 2-5ths include the greater part of the articular surface. Inner Surface - Presents in front, behind, & below respectively: Internal Iliac Fossa or Venter - Bounded below by the ilio-pectineal line. and presenting inferiorly a nutrient foramen. Sacro-iliac Articular Surface - Which is divided into an Inferior or Auricular Portion - Covered with cartilage, smooth though un- even, and a Superior Rough Portion - For posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Portion of Inner Surface of True Pelvis - Corresponding to upper part ol acetabulum. Upper Border or Crest - Convex from before backwards, curved like an italic / concave externally behind, where it is thickest, convex externally in front, where it is also very thick, divided into: Outer lip for latissimus dorsi, obliquus externus, tensor va- ginae femoris & fascia lata. Inner lip for erector spinsB, quadratus luraborum & trans- versalis; Interspace for internal oblique. Anterior Border - Long, concave, nearly vertical; presents from above downwards: Anterior superior spine for Poupart's ligament, sartorius, tensor vaginas, femoris & iliacus; Notch for lower fibres of sartorius, and exit of external cutaneous nerve; Anterior inferior spine for straight tendon of rectus ; Broad shallow groove for exit of psoas & iliacas. Posterior Border — Shorter, more horizontal. Presents: Posterior superior spine for erector spinae & oblique srcro-iliac ligament; Slight notch ; Posterior inferior spine for part of great sacro-siatic ligament j Upper part of great sacro-sciatic notch.47 [■HE UNNOMINATE B0NE-2ncl Tablet. ISCHIX71VE — The lower, posterior & thick part. Bounds obturator foramen below & behind, and presents body, tuberosity & ascending ramus, Body - Presents three surfaces & three borders: Outer Surface - Presents from above downwards: A little more than ^-^ths of the acetabulum comprising the greater part of the central non-articular depression; Lower part of rim of acetabulum with a portion of the cotyloid notch ; Deep groove for passage of tendon of obturator externus; Posterior part of circumference of obturator foramen for obturator exterms & adductor magnus. Inner Surface - Forms lower part of lateral boundary of true pelvis & posterior part of circumference of obturator foramen. It gives origin to obturator internus, presents two or three large vascular foramina, and is grooved inferiorly for passage of pudic vessels & nerve. Posterior Surface - Quadrilateral, smooth, broadest above, supports the pyri- formis, obturator internus, & gemelli. Anterior Border - Thia; for obturator membrane. Outer Border - Thick & short. Inner Border - The longest. Presents from above downwards: Lower part of great sacro-sciatic notch. — This notch is converted by lesser sacro-sciatic ligament into great sacro-sciatio foramen, which foramen transmits from above downwards: Gluteal vessels superior gluteal nerve; Pyriformis muscle ; Sciatic arteryi greater 6^ lesser sciatic nerves^ pudic vessels 6* nei-ve, nerve to obturator internus ; Spine of ischium - For lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, gemellus superior, coccygeus, & posterior fibres of levator ani. Lesser sacrO'Sciatic notch - Coated with fibro-cartilage, and converted by both sacro-sciatic ligaments into lesser sacro-sciatic foramen for obturator internus muscle, its nerve, and pudic vessels & nerve. Tuberosity - Corresponds to lower and, back part of body, and may be described aa presenting: Outer Lip - For gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, & adductor magnus. Inner Lip - For transversus perinsei, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or cli- toridis, & anterior or falciform prolongation of great sacro-sciatio ligament. Interspace - Presents four rough surfaces: 2 wo Anterior or Inferior separated by a prominent ridge, the externali for the adductor magnus; the internal for the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Two Posterior or Superior separated by a rough line oblique downwards & outwards, the external (the most superior of the two), for semimembranosus; the internal (the most inferior of the two) for common tendon of semitendinosus & long head of biceps. Ascending Bamns - TMn & flattened; passes upwards & inwards, bounding obtura- tor foramen inferiorly, and joins with descending ramus of pubes. Presents; Outer Surface - Rough, for gracilis, obturator externus & adductor magnus. Inner Surface - Smoother, for obturator internus. Upper Border - Thin & sharp, for obturator membrane. Lower Border - Rough, thick; everted, especially in the female; for gracilis, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or clitoridis, transversus perinsei, deep perinseal fascia, & deep layer of the superficial fascia.48 i i I THE INNOMINATE BONE —3rd Tablet. | PXJBES — The anterior & inner part. Bounds obturator foramen above & in front, and pr [ sents body, horizontal ramus & descending rami gQjjy — Quadrilateral, flattened from before backwards & outwards, and presents • , Anteeior Sueface - Eough, slightly excavated, giving origin to the adduci longus immediately below the crest, and, lower down, to obtural: externus, adductors brevis & magnus, & upper part of gracil, PoSTEEiOR Surface - Smooth, convex from above downwards, concave from si to side, giving attachment to obturator internus, levator ani, a pubo-prostatic ligaments or anterior true ligaments of bladd Uppee Border - Presents from within outwards the Angle - In front of which the inner pillars of external abdominal ring ( cussate with each other (as they do also in front of symphysis Crest - To which are attached, anteriorly the conjoined tendon of \ internal oblique & transversalis, and posteriorly the rectus pyramidal Spine - For Poupart's ligament & outer pillar of external abdominal rh Commencement of ilio-pectineal line, for conjoined tendon, Gimbernat's li • ment & the triangular ligamt , Inner Border - Presents a rough oval facet, which forms part of symphysis, Outer Border - Thin, for obturator membrane. j Horizontal Ramus - is far from being horizontal, since it forms part of the briir f the true pelvis, which brim is inclined at an angle of about ' with the horizontal. Prese:;: Upppe Sueface - Presents from within outwards: ! Triangular surface for origin of pectineus, behind which surface is the ' Continuation of the ilio-pectineal line already mentioned; Ilio-pectineal emineyice, which supports brim of acetabulum, and gives atte • ment to psoas parvus when that muscle exi i. Undee Sueface - Presents a Groove oblique forwards & inwards for obturator vessels & ne 5, which groove is bounded internally 1 a Sharp margin forming part of circumference of obturator foramer PosTEBiOE Surface - For upper fibres of obturator internus j forms part of a J- rior boundary of true pe S. OuTEE Exteemity - Form:, dbout l-Sth of the acetabulum. Descending Ramus - Thin & flattened; passes downwards & outwards, and • lis with ascending ramus of ischium. Prese 3: Anterior Surface - Rough, for adductors brevis & magnus, obturator exte is _ „ & gra is. Posterior Surface - Smoother, for obturator internus. Inner Border - Rough, thick; everted, especially in the female; for gra is, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or clitoridis, compri or urethras, deep perinaeal fascia, & deep layer of the superficial fa i p. Outee Boeder - Thin & sharp, for obturator membrane.49 PHE INNOMINATE BONE-4th Tablet. ACETABULUM, or COTYLOID CAVITY — Deep, hemispherical, formed by all the three parts -which make up the innominate bone: - the ilium forming a little less than 2-5ths, including the largest part of the articular ring; the ischium forming a little more than 2-5ths, including the greater part of the central non-articular depression; the pubes forming the remaining l-5th. Looks downwards, forwards, & outwards. la surrounded, except below & in iront, by an elevated margin for attachment of the cotyloid ligament. This margin is most prominent behind, is slightly depressed between the pubes & the ilium, and is deficient between the pubes & the ischium, in which latter situation the resulting Cotyloid notch - Leads into the central non-articular depression j th" margins of this notch give attachment to the round & transverse ligaments. Is divided into an Incomplete Articular Ring - Broadest in its iliac portion, which portion is the most extensive of the three, & deficient opposite the cotyloid notch j and a Central Non-Articular Depression - Rough, nearly circular, continuous with the cotyloid notch, and formed chiefly by the ischium; this depression ^ lodges a mass of fat which forms a bed for the round ligament. OBTURATOR or THYROID FORAMEN, or FORAMEN OVALE- Comprised between the pubes & ischium; large & oval in male; smaller, triangular, narrow inferiorly in female. Closed by obturator membrane, except in its upper part, where the upper border of the membrane converts the groove on under surface of horizontal ramus into a complete foramen for obturator vessels & nerve,, A.50 THE FEMUR j The largest, longest, & strongest bone of the skeleton; slightly oblique downwards & inwards, especially in J ial« I Pr< ats I; UPPER EXTREMITY - Presents: S. Head. - Forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere, and looks upwards forwards & inwards. Presents i j.ttlt DeM^ss:ou for ligamentum teres. below & behind its centre a small c ulai Neck - Flattened from before backwards, e.xpanded inferiorly, thicker above than below, bounded thf i' intertrochanteric lines. Longest & most inclined in youth; shorter and more hoi imta as age advances, especially in female. Pr jnts Ant. Surface - Continuous mth anterior surface of shaft, perforated by numerous vascular fo; ;una •i. Posterior Surface - Concave, rather broader; gives attachment externally to posterior rt oi Upper Border - Short, thick, horizontal. capsule of hi loint Lower Border - Longer, thinner, oblique downwards & backwards to lesser trochanter. I Greater Trochanter - Large, quadrilateral, most prominent posteriorly. Presents: Outer Sui;face - Presents I Oblique line extending downwards & forwards, for gluteus medius; - the surface is 'ooth below & behind this line for a bursa, and sometimes rough above & in front f(isome Inner Surface - Presents the of ^^^^ fibres of gluteus dius. Digital or trochanteric fossa for obturator externus. j Upper Border - For obturator internus & gemelli in front, & pyriformis behind. jl| Lower Border - Marked externally by a rough |l Horizontal ridi^e for vastus externus. . Anterior Border - Rough above & externally for gluteus minimus, below & internally foi astus externus. On its inner side towards its middle is a rough promine ii, the Tubercle of the femur, which marks point of meeting of gluteus minimus, vastus exter i anil obtiu-ator internus & gemelli (Gray), and is continued inferiorly o the Anteriorititertrochantericli7ie,\%'i's,'gxom\\\QX\!^\j\iKa.\j\\.Q posterior, oblique downwards &i ai'ds, rough for front part of capsule; joins inferiorly with superior internal prolong )n of Posterior Border - Longer, more prominent; continued inferiorly into the ,!pera. Posterior i7itertrochanteric line prominent, oblique downwards & inwards to lesser troi inter; Linea quadratiior quadratusfemoris. presents towards its middle the upper extrem of the Lesser Trochanter - Smaller, conical, for psoas; lies at lower inner & back part of neck, at int of meeting of posterior intertrochanteric line, lower border of neck, and superioi ledian prolongation of line; Ijpera. LOWER EXTREMITY — Expanded, broad from side to side. Presents posteriorly the deep ; Intercondyloid Notch - Which separates posteriorly the condyles, which latter are joined in nt by patellar portion of their articular rface. Inner Condyle - The longest, narrowest, most curved, and most prominent inferiorly when th( one is held vertically; ] sents: In7ier tuberosity, more prominent than the external; gives attachment to interna ateral Tubercle, for tendon of adductor magnus, at upper & back part; ligament of ki -joint. Depressio)i for inner head of gastrocnemius, above & behind articular surface; Outer rough surface forming part of intercondyloid notch, & giving attachment antf rly to posterior crucial! iment. Outer Condyle - The shortest, broadest, least curved, & most prominent anteriorly; presents : Outer tuberosity, less prominent than the internal; gives attachment to external lat il liga- Pit obliqjie groove for popliteus, below & externally; °f ^ '-}omi, Depression for outer head of gastrocnemius, above & behind articular surface; l Irmer ro7cgh surface iovi\\ing-i}a\t ot mtQvcoxiAyloid. notch, and giving attachment p. srioilyj to anterior crucial tmeiit.f ARTICULAE, SURFACE — Is divided anteriorly into a patellar & two tibial portions by tw' lightly! depressed posteriorly converging lines, of which the one that bounds thi atellaij portion internally is continued backwards along outer & front part of inner C( yle, sol as to cut off an additional narrow tract from inner side of intercondyl( notchT PATELLAR PORTION - Occupies front of condyles, is trochlear in shape, broadest, highes i mosi prominent externally, and presents a slight prolongation backwards along im sideuj mtercondyloid notch; it is this prolongation that articulates during flexioD I kneel jumt with the small facet on posterior aspect of inner border of patella (Lenoir, )odsii)J ilBlAL PORTION - Covers the slightly flattened under surfaces & the posterior rounded s aces o* SHAFT — Nearly cylindrical, convex forwards & outwards, enlarged & flattened from before backwai belo\v| Borders - Three : esents Posterior, or Linea Aspera - Very prominent; for vasti, adductors longus, brevis, i ,jnus, short head of biceps; trifid above, below below, presenting therefore five prole ations I Superior External - To great trochanter, for vastus externus, gluteus maximus & t er pail c. , . r , of adductc iagnu{ Superior Internal - To inner side of neck, where it joins with anterior intertrochan ic lin<^ c a • «^ m 1 for upper part of vastui .ternuij ^upertor Median - To lesser trochanter, for iliacus, pectineus & upper part of adduc ' brevij Inferior External - To upper & back part of outer condyle, for vastus externus, sh( head T , . r ^ 7 -r, • ^, biceps, plantaris, & outer head of gasti aemiui /«/^«i7r/«/^rwrt/- Faintly marked where it is crossed by femoral artery, to upp & baci part of inner condyle, for vastus internus, adductor magnus & inner head < gastrol nemius. -These two latter prolongations embrace a triangular surface, whic ^apporf Internal - From inner side of neck to front of inner condyle; the popliteal vessel i nervel EXTERNAL-From front of great trochanter to front of outer condyloid,-both rounded & faini 3aarkel Surfaces - Three; all broadest below: Anterior - For subcrureus & inner part of crureus; covered below by upper pnrt of pule External - For outer part of crureus; covered bv vastus extemue. Ip-jo^" Internal - For vastus internus.THE TIBIA Prismoid, expanded above, slightly enlarged below, twisted outwards inferiorly, oblique downwards & outwards in female. Presents: UPPER EXTREMITY or HEAD — Broad from side to side, and formed by inner & outer tuberositio* which tuberosities correspond to & support condyles of femur, and are separated by a slight notch both in front & behind. Presents: Upper Surface - Presents the two condyloid surfaces, oval & slightly elongated from before back- wards, and separated from each other by the spine and by two rough triangular depressions situated one in front of the spine & the otlier behind it. Internal Condyloid Surface - The longest, narrowest, & deepest. External Condyloid Surface - The shortest, broadest, & shallowest. Spine - Surmounted by .two prominent tubercles formed by the prolongation backwards & in- wards, and forwards & inwards, respectively, of the internal & external condyloitj surfaces. Anterior PtOUCH depression - The largest; gives attachment from before backwards to anter- ior extremity of internal semilunar fibro-cartilage, anterior crucial Ugament, anterior extremity of external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Posterior Eough Depression - Rather smaller; gives attachment from before backwards to posterior extremities of external & internal semilunar fibre-cartilages & to pos- terior crucial ligament. Outer Surface - Presents outer surface of outer tuberosity, which tuberosity is the least prominent of the two, and is marked posteriorly by a small circular Facet looking downwards, outwards & backwards, for fibula. Inner Surface - Presents inner surface of inner tuberosity, which tuberosity, the more prominent of the two, gives attachment to internal lateral ligt. of knee-joint, and is marked by a Groove for insertion of one of the tendons of semimeml)ranosus. Anterior Surface - Presents a large rough triangular surface, perforated by numerous vascular foramina, broad above, ending inferiorly in the Tnhercle of the tibia rough inferiorly for ligamentum patella;, smooth superiorly for a bursa. Posterior Surface - Presents the posterior aspect of the tuberosities, which are separated by the Popliteal notcli for posterior crucial ligament & part of posterior ligament of knee-joint. The inner tuberosity gives attachment posteriorly to one of the tendons of semi- membranosus & to principal fasciculus of foregoing ligament. itOWER EXTREMITY — Smaller, quadrangular. Presents : Inferior or Articular Surface - Quadrilateral, concave from before backwards, broadest in front, narrowest internally, where it is continuous Avith inner surface of internal malleolus, marked by a Slight antero-posterior elevation separating two Shallo7u lateral-dcpressions. Anterior Surface - Broad, convex, smooth, covered by tendons of tibialis anticus. extensor proprius poUicis & extensor longus digitorum, and marked inferiorly by a Slight groove for anterior ligament of ankle-joint. Posterior Surface - Rather narrower; presents a Broadsliallo-M groove, oblique downwards & inwards for tendon of flexor longus pollicis. Inner Surface - Prolonged downwards into the Internal ^Ialleolus - Shorter, but rather broader than the external, and presents: - hiner Surface - Subcutaneous, convex; Outer Siirface - Kxi\z\\\^x\ deepens internally the articular surface for astragalus. A7iterior Border-B-ongh, for anterior portion of deltoid ligament. ^' Posterior Border - Presents a Broad deep groove, oblique downwards & inwards, divided by a slight ridge into inner & outer portions for tendons of tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum. Apex - '^QiVl%\\ & slightly grooved for middle portion of deltoid ligament. Outer Surface - Bounded by branches of bifurcation of inner border; presents inferiorly a Narrow co7icavefacet for external malleolus, and superiorly a Rough triangidar depressio7i for interosseous ligament of inferior tibio-ftbular articula- tion. 'SHAFT — Triangular, expanded above & below, narrowest at junction of middle & lower thirds; presents: Borders - Three: anterior or Crest - From tubercle of tibia to anterior border of internal malleolus; curved like an italic S, concave externally above, internally below; very prominent in upper two-thirds; for deep fascia of leg. Internal - From back of inner tuberosity to posterior border of internal malleolus ; gives attachment to pophteus, soleus & flexor longus di.gitorum. External, or Interosseous Ridge - From front of fibular facet to apex of triangular rough surface on outer side of lower extremity, to embrace which it bifurcates inferiorly; thin & prominent, especially towards middle. Surfaces - Three: Internal - Smooth, convex, subcutaneous, except at upper part, where it gives attachment to tendons of sartorius, gracilis & semitendinosus. External - Excavated in upper two-thirds for oridn of tibialis anticus; rounded off curved forwards anteriorly in lower third, where it is covered by tendons of tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis & extensor longus digitorum. Posterior - Presents superiorly a large Triajt^ular surface for poi)liteus, which surface is bounded below by the Obliqitc line for popliteus, soleus, tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum. Below this line is the Nutrient foramen directed downwards, and a Vertical ridge, which di\ides middle third of posterior surface into Jn)U'r broader portion for flexor hmgus digitorum, and Outer narrow portion for tibialis posticus ; and then becomes lost inferiorly upon a Smooth surface covered by tendons of tibiaUs posticus, flexor longus digitorum, & flexM proprius pollicis.52 THE FIBULA —1st Tablet. Very slender, and of about the same length as the tibia. Inclined downwards & forwards, convex posteriorly, convex internally below. Presents a shaft & two extremities. SHAFT — Presents /?«r borders & four surfaces. - (For classical description, see next Tablet). Borders - Are: Antero-external - Usually called anterior. Well marked & prominent. Commences at front of head. Descends along upper 3.4ths of the bone, slightly deviating outwards inferiorly, and bifurcates below to embrace the triangular subcutaneous surface above external malleolus. It girea attachment to the septum between the extensor muscles & the peronei. Antero-internal, or Interosseous Ridge - Lies close to the preceding, espe. cially at the upper part of the bone, where it is sometimes rather in- distinct. It inclines inwards inferiorly, and blends, in the lower l-4tb of the bone, with the oblique line, with which oblique line it ends at apes of triangular rough surface above articular facet of external malleolus/ Postero-external - Usually called posterior. - Well marked & prominent Extends from styloid process to inner Hp of groove on posterior bordei of external malleolus, being directed, in succession, outwards, back wards, backwards & inwards. It gives attachment to the septuir between the peronei & the flexor muscles Posteko-internal, or Oblique Line - Commences at inner side of head, mos marked in upper & middle parts of the bone. Blends in lower fourtl with the antero-internal border or interosseous ridge, with which latte it ends at the apex of the triangular rough surface above articular face of external malleolu Surfaces-Are: Anterior - Very narrow above, rather broader & slightly grooved below; fo extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis peroneus tertius External - Broad, more or less grooved for peronei. Looks in succession foi wards & outwards, outwards, backwards & outwards, and is continue inferiorly into the groove on back of external malleolu Internal - Comprised between the antero-internal border or interosseous ridg and the postero-internal border or oblique line, and exists only in tt upper 3-4ths of the bone. Bather narrow, but less so than the anteri( surface, slightly grooved for tibialis posticu Posterior - Comprised between the postero-external border & the oblique lin Broad, looking inwards below; for soleus & flexor longus pollici Presents towards its middle the nutrient foramen, which is directt downward ■ UPPER EXTREMITY, or HEAD — Small, pyramidal. Rough in front, externally, behind respectively fo peroncKs longus anterior ligament of superior tibio-fibular art ulatio) tendon of biceps, long external lateral Uganient of knee-joint, soleus, &> posterior liga ment of superior tibio-fibular articulation Prolonged upwards externally into the Styloid p7-ocess, for short external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Presents internally a small Articular facet looking upwards & inwards, which facet articulal with outer tuberosity of tib LOWER EXTREMITY, or EXTERNAL MALLEOLUS — Rather larger th head, flattened from within outwards, and descends lower than interi malleolus. Presen Surfaces: Outer - Subcutaneous, convex, prolonged upwards between the divisions ' the anterc'external bord Inner - Presents: Above &> in Front - Articular facet for astragalus, triangular with b i upwards, convex from above downwards, surmounted bj i rough triangular impression for interosseous ligament of infei'' tibio-fibular articulat • Belo^v 6^ Behind - Rough & deep depression for posterior fasciculus f , external lateral ligament of ankle-jo . Borders: Anterior - Thick & rounded, for anterior fasciculus of external lateral li • ment of ankle-jc i» Posterior - Broader, and marked by a groove for tendons of peronei. Apex - Rounded, for middle fasciculus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint.53 ?HE FIBULA-2nd Tablet. CLASSICAL DESCRIPTIONS OF THE SHAFT. There are in tMs country two different classical descriptions of the shaft of the fibnla ; the one is given bv Holden, Quain, & Wilson; the other by Gray. Both descriptions recognise f^n-e borders & t/ircc surfaces, and, at first sight, they appear identical. They are far from being so, however, for of the three borders enumerated in both, there are but two that correspond, viz., the •'-;'.. /' & the pcsurior (antero- external & postero-external borders of the Author) : and c : the three surfaces, there is but one, the external, respecting which the descriptions agree. Of the two ridges which exist on the inner aspect of the bone, the i}t:cycs::ci(S ridge & the oblique line (which ridges the Author has described respectively as the antero-internal & postero-internal borders) , the latter ridge is taken as the inner border of the bone by Holden, Qaain, it "Wilson, while it is the former that is called the inner border by Gray. This first k apparently slight difference brings about other & more important discrepancies in the delimitation k designation of the surfaces : - Thus we find on the inner aspect of the bone : An Inner Surface cr-" a Pestcri^r Sirrf-z:-: (Holden, Quaiu, Wilson) ; An Anterior Surface an lar..-'- Surf.zcc (Gray) ; Gray's Inner Surface'' surface being however very difierent from the "Inner Surface''^ of Holden, Quain, k Wilson, as will immediately appear: - Holden^ Qnain, & Wilscn's Inner Surface - is the smaUest of the three. It is bounded in front by the anterior border of the bone (antero-external border of the Author), and behind by the oblique line above mentioned. It is divided by the intcrcsseciis rilge into an " antcricr JsKisn " for extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis & peroneus tertius, and a '^posterior f jrtion" for tibialis posticus. Gray's Inner Surface " - is on the contrary the largest, and occupies nearly two- thirds of the circumference of the bone: it is bounded in front by the interosseoas ridge, behind by the posterior border (postero-external border of the Author). It is divided by the .7-;;-into an " anterior fortiori" for tibialis posticus, (correspond- iog to the •• ::n " of the former "inner surfao:," ) and a " j!os:erior /artiefz" for soleus oc zexor loii^us pollicis. On the other hand Holden. Qnain. & Wilson's '"'Posterior Surface"(the Posterior Suk- PACE of the Author, for they are identical) - Are bat the posterior part of the Inxek Surface " of Gray; - and Gray's " Anterior Surface '' (^i^d the Ajn-teriok Surface of the Author, for they are both the same) - Are but the anterior part of the " IxyEK Surface " of Holden, Quain, iS: Wilson. It is with the hope of clearing up difficulties which have puzzled many, that the Author has presented a third original description of the shaft of the fibula, and that he has ventured to compare k discuss the descrioti^iis of the bono as girea by eminent and well-known anatomises.BONES of the TABSUS —1st Row. THE ASTRAGALUS Supports tke tibia, rests upon the os caleis, articnlates on either side with the malleoli & in front with scaphoid. Is irregularly cuboid, and presents six surfaces.. Upper Surface - Presents: Tkochlear Surface-Broadest m front, convex from before backwards, slight- ly concave from side to side j in front of which surface ia the Upj>e7' Surface of the Neck - Rough for ligaments. Under Surface - Presents: Deep Groove - Directed forwards & outwards and broadest in front, for in- terosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; this groove separates Two AnTicuLAR Facets - For os calcis; the posterior one, the largest, is con. cave ; the anterior one, the smallest, is convex, continuous with the anterior articular surface and sometimes divided into two parts, one for lesser process of os calcis, one for calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Inner Surface - Presents: Triangular Articular Facet - Small, continuous with trochlear surface, for in- ternal malleolus; below this facet is a Roiioh G7'oove - "Pot deep portion of internal lateral ligament of ankle-joint. Outer Surface -^Presents: Triangular Articular Facet - Much larger, concave from above downwards, also continuous with trochlear surface; in front of which is a Deep Depj'ession - For anterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint. Anterior Surface - Forms the Head - Oval, oblique downwards & inwards, & convex for scaphoid, continuous j, inferioily with anterior facet of under surface, and supported by a constricted part, the Neck. Posterior Surface - "Very narrow, and represented merely by a slight Groove - Oblique downwards & inwards for tendon of flexor longus pollicia, THE OS CALCIS Irregularly cuboid; presents six surfaces. Upper Surface - Presents from before backwards : ■ Upper Surface of Greater Process - Presenting a rough depresssion for exten- sor brevis digitorum; Two Articular Surfaces - For astragalus, and an intervening deep groove oblique forwards & outwards, and broadest in front for interosseous calcaneo- astragaloid ligament. - The posterior & external facet is convex, the largest, and situated on the body of the bone. The anterior or inter- nal facet is concave, the smallest, and situated on the lesser process; it is sometimes divided into two. Rough Saddle-shaped Surface - Belonging to the portion of the bone which projects backwards to form the heel. Under Surface - Rough, convex from side to side, widest behind. Presents from behind forwards: Two T-ubei'cles - The internal, the largest, for abductor pollicis & flexor brevis digitorum; the external, the smallest, for abductor minimi digiti. Rough Surface - For outer head of flexor access. & long caicaneo-cuboid ligt. Tubercle ^ Transverse Groove -'Pov short caicaneo-cuboid ligament. Inner Surface - Concave for passage of vessels, nerves, & flexor tendons. Gives attachment to inner head of flexor accessorius, and is surmounted by the Lesser Process, or Sustentaculum Tali - Which articulates above with the astragalus, is grooved inferiorly for tendon of flexor longus pollici^ and gives attachment by its inner margin to a part of the superficial fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Tubercle-Yov middle fasciclus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint; and in front of the tubercle, Tcvo Grooves - Separated by a slight ridge for tendons of peronei. Anterior Surface - Concavo-convex for articulation with cuboid; is surmounted ex- ternally by a rough prominent tubercle which is an important guide in Chopart's amputation. Posterior Surface - Rough & broad below for insertion of tendo Achillis & plantaris muscle, narrow & smooth above, where it is covered by a bursa.55 JONES of the TARSUS —2nd Row. THE SCAPHOID —Presents: I Anterior Surface - Convex, broadest externally; presents three triangular facets for the cuneiform. Posterior Surface - Concave, for head of astragalus, also broadest externally. Circumference - Kough, convex above, concave below. Presents below & inter- nally a tubercle, for tendon of tibialis portions; and sometimes externally a facet, for cuboid. I THE CUBOID — Presents : Articular Surfaces - Three: j Anterior - Presents two facets, I inner, smaller, quadrilateral for 4th metatarsal, ! otiter, larger, triangular for 5th metatarsal. I Posterior - Quadrilateral, concavo-convex for os calcis. !l Internal - Presents towards middle & upper part a I large anterior facet for external cuneiform ; and sometimes behind this a smaller posterior facet for scaphoid. — The remainder of this surface'is ( rough for ligaments. Non-Articular Surfaces - Three: Superior - Eough, oblique downwards & outwards. Inferior - Presents from before backwards : deep groove oblique forwards & inwards, which transmits tendon of pero- neus longus, and is bounded behind by a prominent ridge for long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which ridge begins externally in a prominent tubercle presenting a small facet for a sesamoid bone; rough surface for short calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and part of the flexor brevis pollicis. Outer - A mere border notched by commencement of peroneal groove. THE CUNEIFORM BONES Three, wedge-shaped, & six sided. All three present COMMON CHARACTERS: Dorsal Surf. - Quadrilateral, and rough for ligaments. Looks obliquely in- wards in the internal cuneiform, in which bone it also presents a small groove o? facet for tendon of tibialis anticus. Plantar Surf. - Eough rounded border in the two outermost. In the inner- most it is a broad rough surface marked behind by a tubercle for the tibialis posticus. Posterior Surf. - Triangular & concave from above downwards. They artic- ulate with the three facets on anterior surface of scaphoid, and lie in the same transverse line. Anterior Surf. - Triangular in the two outermost, kidney-shaped in the innermost; they articulate with the bases of the three innermost metatarsal bones. These surfaces present an indented outline: the middle cuneiform being shorter than the two others, its an- terior surface is depressed. Lateral Surf. - Articulate with each other, the cuboid, both sides of the base of the 2nd metatarsal bone & the inner side of the base of the 4th; the lateral surfaces of the 3rd cuneiform presenting each of them two facets, and the adjoining surfaces of the 1st & 2nd presenting a facet angular in shape & running along the superior & posterior borders. The inner surface of the internal cuneiform is a mere rounded border. DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERS BETWEEN THE THEEE BONES. First - Large size, irregular form, anterior kidney-shaped surface, facet for tibialis anticus, tubercle for tibialis posticus. Second - Small size, square-shape of dorsal surface, angular articular facet along the upper & back part of its inner surface. Third - Intermediate size, two facets on both of its lateral surfaces. BETWEEN THE BONES OF THE TWO SIDES — Are evident in the case of the first & second cuneiform. To have the three points necessary to place the third one in position all that is requisite is to remark that the ant. internal facet is rather larger than the ant. external.56 THE METATARSAL BONES. Long bones with shaft & two extremities. COMMON CHARACTERS: Shaft - Prismoid, concave inferiorly, slightly tapering towards digital end. Present: Dorsal Surface - Triangular, pretty well marked behind, but reduced to a mere border in greatest part of its extent, covered by extensor tendons. Lateral Surfaces - Divided by a ridge into two parts for plantar & dorsal interossei. Tarsal Extremity or Base - The largest; cuboid. Presents: Dorsal & Plantar Surfaces - Kough, the former of which is the largest. Posterior & Lateral Surfaces - Artie, with bones of tarsus & adjoining metatarsal bs. Digital Extremity or Head - Smaller, compressed from side to side. Presents; Ant. or Articular Surface - Rounded, extending farther backwards below than above.' Lateral Surfaces - Depressed; present a prominent tubercle for lateral ligament of corresponding metatarsophalangeal articulation. Plantar Surface - Narrow ; grooved for flexor tendons. Dorsal Surface - Narrow & flat. | PARTICULAR CHARACTERS: FIRST METATARSAL BONE — The shortest & much the thickest. Shaft - Very thick & strong. Tarsal Extremity - Presents a large semilunar facet for internal cuneiform, but has no lateral articular facets. It is prolonged below & externally into a prominent tubercle for tendon of peroneus longus Digital Extremity - Large & broad. Presents inferiorly two grooved facets for sesamoidbsi SECOND METATARSAL BONE —The longest; received posteriorly into the recess rr, -n, T» i. between the three cuneiform bones Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Triangular, for middle cuneiform. Ziz/^-^^z//vzrf/i-- Three:-One internal for internal cuneiform; two external for ex ternal cuneiform & 3rd metatarsal. These two latter facets are often dividec into upper & lower halves by a rough horizontal groove for an interosseous ligt THIRD METATARSAL BONE - A little shorter. Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Triangular, for external cuneiform. Lateral Facets - Two : - One internal & one external for 2nd & 4th metatarsal bs.; th former facet is often divided into upper & lower halves by an interosseous groov( FOURTH METATARSAL BONE - Tarsal Extremity - Presents : Tarsal Facet - Quadrilateral, for cuboid. Lateral Facets - Three : - One ext. for 5th metatarsal, two int. for 3rd metatarsal & e: ternal cuneiform; the facet for the external cuneiform being sometimes absent FIFTH METATARSAL BONE — The shortest but one. Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Triangular, cut obliquely forwards & inwards, for cuboid; Internal Lateral Facet - For 4th metatarsal; i Prominent Fxternal Tubercle - For peroneus brevis. N.B. — The foregoing characters supply the three points requisite to place the bones v. position, and therefore to distinguish between right bones and left bonei THE PHALANGES ' Fourteen; three, which are smaller than corresponding phalanges of hand, to the four outer toes, two which are larger than corresponding phalanges of hand, to the big toe. Art long bones, and present Snait - Slightly curved inferiorly, compressed from side to side & narrowed towards middle ■ Convex from side to side on dorsal surf.; flat on plantar surf., which is very nar row & bounded by two prominent margins for attachment of sheaths of flexo tendons. - The shaft is longer in first or proximal phalanges than in second, ii second than in third. It is exceedingly short in second phalanges of 4th & 5th toes Proximal Extremity - The largest. Presents : In First Row - Oval, concave, articular surface, broadest from side to side. In Second & Third Rows - Two lateral concavities & a median ridge. Distal Extremity-The smallest. Presents: In First & Second Rows - A trochlear surface prolonged farther backwards bel than abo In Third Row - A rough horse-shoe ehaped eminence on plantar surface. !57 PATELLA. Flat, triangular, situated at front of tnee-joint. Is regarded by some as a sesamoid bone developed in tendon of quadriceps extensor femoris, by otters as the homologue of the ole- cranon. Presents two surfaces, three borders, & an apex. SURFACES-Are: Anterior - Subcutaneous, convex, marked by rough vertical striae, & perforated by numerous vascular foramina j is covered by an expansion of tendon of quadriceps, the fibres of which expansion are continuous with superficial fibres of ligamentum patellae. Posterior - Divided into: Upper or Articular Portion - Corresponds to upper three-fourths of the surface, and is divided by a prominent vertical ridge into two concave facets, of which the inner one, the smallest & shallowest, is farther diminished by a slightly marked vertical ridge, which vertical ridge cuts ofl' a nar- row marginal portion corresponding to the inner border of the bone; this marginal portion comes in contact during flexion of the knee-joint with I the inner border of the intercondyloid notch (Lenoir, Goodsir). - In well marked bones the two concave facets are divided by two transverse ridges into three horizontal bands, which rest in succession upon the femoral trochlea during the movements of flexion & extension of the joint (Goodsir). Lo JER OR NoN.ARTicuLAR PORTION - The lowcr fourth; forms a rough transverse groove for attachment of greater part of ligamentum patellae. BORDERS — Are: Superior - Thick, cut obliquely at expense of anterior surface, for tendons of rectus & crureus. Lateral - Thinner, converging inferiorly, for tendons of vasti & capsule of knee-joint. - The inner border is marked posteriorly by the small marginal facet above mentioned. APEX — Direeted downwards j forms part posteriorly of rough groove above mentioned for liga. mentum patellcn.58 I THE HYOID BONE. Horse-shoe shaped, and suspended by stylo-hyoid ligaments from tips of styloid processes > of temporal bones. Consists in youth of five parts, the body and the greater & lesser ; cornua, which parts are joined together by four arthrodiae; the cornua usually join with i the body, the greater ones towards the middle period of life, the lesser ones in advanced age. BODY — Quadrilateral. Presents: Anterior Surface - Convex, looks upwards & forwards, and is marked by a crucial ridge. The part above the ridge gives attachment to the hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus & genio-hyoid; the part below the ridge gives attachment to the mylo-hyoid, the stylo-hyoid & the aponeurosis of the digastric. Posterior Surface - Smooth, concave; looks backwards & downwards, and is sepa- rated from the epiglottis & the thyro-hyoid membrane by a quantity of loose : areolar tissue, in which a bursa is usually found. ( Upper Border - Thick & rounded; gives attachment to genio-hyo-glossus by its an- terior lip, to thyro-hyoid membrane by its posterior lip. Lower Border - Thinner; gives attachment to sterno-, omo-, & thyro-hyoid. GREATER CORNU — Projects backwards & slightly upwards, giving attachment super- iorly to the hyo-glossus, internally to the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and externally to the thyro-hyoid. It diminishes in size from before backwards, jj and is flattened from above downwards. Its slightly enlarged extremity gives jj attachment to the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament, jj LESSER CORNU — Small, conical; projects upwards & backwards from point of junctioit | of body & greater cornu, and gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid ligament. *MUSCLES ATTACHED TO EACH BONE.(50 MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of SKULL. The muscles attached to the FRONTAL BONE Are three in nnmber, and are attached as follows: Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Internal angular process. Corrugator Supercilii - Inner extremity of superciliary ridge. Temporal - Temporal ridge & surface behind it. II OCCIPITAL — Are eleven in number, and are attached as follows: - OccipilO'Frontalis ( Occipital Portion) - Outer two-thirds of superior curved line. Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid - Outer two-thirds of superior curved line. Trapezius - External occipital protuberance & inner third of superior curved line. Splenius Capitis - Outer part of rough surface between the superior & inferior curved lin Coniplexus - Inner part of rough depression between the two curved lines. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major - Inner part of inferior curved line & rough surface beneath Pectus Capitis Posticus Minor- Outer part of inferior curved line & rough surface beneath Obliquus Capitis Stiperior - Rough depression between the two curved lines externally complex Rectus Capitis Anticus Major - Basilar process in front of rectus capitis anticus minor. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor - Basilar process behind rectus capitis anticus major, Rectus Lateralis - Jugular process. TEMFOBAL — Are twelve in number, and are attached as follows: - Masseter - Superjicialportion, anterior two-thirds of lower border of zygomatic arch. Deep portion, posterior third of lower border & inner surface of zygomatic at , Temporal - Outer surface of squamous portion; temporal ridge. Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid - Anterior border & outer surface of mastoid proc . Splenius Capitis - Posterior border & apex of mastoid process. Trac^elo-Mastoid -Posterior border & apex of mastoid process beneath foregoing. Retrahens Aure?n, or Auricularis Posterior - Outer surface of mastoid process. Digastric - Digastric groove on inner side of mastoid process. Levator Palati - Under surface of apex of petrous portion. Tensor Tympani - Under surface of apex of petrous portion behind & externally to f j- go :- Stylo-Pharyngeiis - Inner side of base of styloid process. Stylo-Hyoideus - Middle of outer surface of styloid process. Stylo-Glossus - Anterior & outer aspect of apex of styloid process. SPHENOID — Are eleven in number, and are attached as follows: - Temporal - Outer surface of greater wing. Lnternal Pterygoid - Pterygoid fossa, and more particularly from inner surface of extei 1 pterygoid pi J. External Pterygoid - Pterygoid ridge & portion of under surface of great wing betwee t & base of pterygoid process ; outer surface of external pterygoid pi ). Superior Constrictor - Hamular process & lower third of free margin of internal pteryj i pi 3. Tensor Palati - Scaphoid fossa at base of internal pterygoid plate. Internal 6^ Inferior Recti 6^ Lower Head of External Rectus - Through ligament of Z i, from whole of circumference of optic foramen, except upper & outer j t. Stiperior Rectus 6^ Upper Head of External Rectus -TJiiiter margin & upper part of o ir margin of optic forar i. Lrvaior Palpebra Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing in front of optic foramen k ternally to superior obli 3. Superior Oblique - Under surface of lesser wing in front of optic foramen & internall o levator palpebrse superL 3. PARIETAL BONE - One, the Temporal - Temporal ridge & surface below it.61 USCLES ATTACHED to BONES of PACE. The muscles attached to the SUPEEIOR MAXILLARY BONE — Are eight in number, and are attached as followa:- Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Upper part of nasal process. Levator Labii Superioris Alceque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process below foregoing. Levator Proprius Labii Superioris — Oater surface of body close to margin of orbit. Levator Anguli Oris or Miisculus Caninus - Canine fossa just below infraorbital foramen, Cojnpressor Nasi - Lower & inner part of canine fossa. Depressor Alcz iV^w -Myrtiform or incisor fossa. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar process corresponding to molar teeth. Lnferior Oblique - Depression on orbital plate close to lachrymal groove. INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE — Twelve in number, and are attached as followa Temporal - Apex, inner surface & anterior border of coronoid process down to its rooL Masseter - Angle, and outer surface of ramus & of coronoid process. Lnternal Pterygoid -Angle and inner surface of ramus as high as dental foramen. External Pterygoid - Depression on front of neck of condyle. Digastric - Eough depression on inner lip of lower border of body. Mylo-Hyoid - Whole length of raylo-hyoid ridge. Genio-Hyoid - Inferior genial tubercle. Genio-Hyo- Glosstis - Superior genial tubercle. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar process corresponding to molar teeth. Depressor Anguli Oris or Triangularis Oris - Ext. oblique line externally to mental foramen. Depressor Labii Lnferioris or Quadratus Menti - External oblique line between symphysis & mental foramen. Levator Labii lnferioris or Levator Menti - Incisor fossa PALATE BONE — Three in number, and are attached as follows: - Azygos Uvulce - Posterior nasal spine. Lnternal Pterygoid - Groove on posterior surface of pterygoid process. External Pterygoid - Front part of outer aspect of pterygoid process. MALAR BONE — Three in number, and are attached as follows: - Masseter (Superficial Portion) - Lower border of zygomatic process. Zygomaticus Minor - Lower & front part of outer surface. Zygo??taticus Major - Back part of outer surface. LACHRYMAL BONE - One, the Tensor Tarsi - Ridge & posterior part of outer surface.THE MUSCLES ATTACHED to the * | I 1 HYOID BONE — Are nine in number, and are attached as follows: - i Hyo'Glossus - Side of anterior surface of body above crucial ridge, lesser cornu, whc length of greater cor^jj Cenio-HyO'Glossus - Anterior surface of body above crucial ridge internally to by gloss Genio-Hyoid - Anterior surface of body above crucial ridge, in front of foregoing. Styio-Hyoid - Anterior surface of body below crucial ridge externally to mylo-hyoid. ,i: Mylo-Hyoid - Anterior surface of body below crucial ridge internally to stylo-hyoid. Sterno'Hyoid or Sterna-Cleido-Hyoid - Lower border of body internally to omo-hyoid. Oiiio-Hyoid - Lower border of body externally to sterno-hyoid, ThyrO'Hyoid - Lower border of body & greater cornu, Middk Constrictor - Whole extent of upper surface of great cornu, lesser cormi, ?63 «[USCLES ATTACHED to BONES of THORAX. The muscles attached to the STSHNUM — Are seven in number, and are attached as followa Pectoralis Major - Corresponding half of anterior surface. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid {Sternal Portion) - Upper & outer part of front of first piece. Sterno-Hyoid or Sterno-Cleido-Hyoid - Upper & back part of first piece. SternO'Thyroid - Back of first piece below & internally to sterno-hyoid. Triangularis Sterni — Lower & lateral parts of posterior surface. Rectus Abdominis - Side of ensiform appendix. Diaphragm {Narrow Central Slip) - Posterior aspect of ensiform appendix. FIRST RIB — Are seven in number, and are attached as follows: - Scalenus Anticus - Tubercle on inner border & tipper surface. Scalenus Medius - Upper surface behind groove for subclavian artery. First Levator Costarum or Supracostalis - Posterior part of upper surface. First Digitation of Serratus Magnus - Middle of upper surface & outer border. First External Intercostal - Outer border. First Internal Intercostal - Outer border & under surface. Musculus Accessorius adIliO'Costalem, or ad Sacro-Lumbalem - Angle, SECOND RIB — Are nine in number, and are attached as follows : - Second dr* Third Digitations of Serratus Magnus - Middle of upper or outer surface. Scalenus Posticus - Back of outer surface. Serratus Posticus Superior - Upper border externally to angle. Second Levator Costarum or Supracostalis - Upper border between tubercle & anglti. Musculus Accessorius ad Ilio- Costaletn, or ad Sacro-Lumbalem - Angle. First Internal dr^ First External Intercostals - Upper border. Second External Intercostal - Lower border. Second Internal Intercostal - Inner lip of groove & inner surface. RIBS in GENERAL — Are sixteen in number, and are attached as follows: - Levatores Costarum or Supracostales - Upper border of all between tubercle & angle. External Intercostals - Lower border of eleven upper, upper border of eleven lower. Internal Intercostals - Upper border of eleven lower, inner lip of groove on inner surface of eleven upper, Serratus Magnus - Outer surface & upper border of eight upper. Pectoralis Minor - Outer surface & upper border of the 3rd, 4th, & 5th near anterior ex- tremity Serratus Posticus Superior - Upper border of 2nd, 3rd, 4th, & 5th externally to angle. Cervicalis Ascendens - Angles of the four or five upper. Subcostales or Infracostales - Inner surface of one rib to inner surface of 1st, 2nd, or 3rd rib above. Vary in size & number, and are most numerous between the lower ribs, and in the neighbourhood of their angles, Longissimus Dorsi {Outer Series of Insertions) - Lower border of nine or ten lower internally to angles. External Oblique - Outer surface & lower borders of eight lower. Diaphragm - Inner surface of six or seven lower, iuterdigitating with transversalis, Ilio-costalis, or Sacro-Lumbalis - Angles of the six or seven lower. Musculus Accessorius ad IliO'Costalemi or ad Sacro-Lumbalem - Angles of the six lower inteif- nally to tendons of ilio-costalis, angles of the six upper, Serratus Posticzcs Inferior - Lower border of four lower externally to angle. Latissimus Dorsi - Outer surface of the three or four lower. Quadratus Lumborum - Inner half of lower border of last. COSTAL CARTILAGES — Are eight in number, and are attached as follows: - Pectoralis Major - Cartilages of all the true ribs except the 1st or the 7th, or both, Transversalis - Inner surface of six lower iuterdigitating with Diaphragm, Intei-nal Oblique - Lower border of four lower. Triangularis Sterni - Upper border of 5th, 6ch & 7th, inner surface & lower border of 2nd, 3rd, 4th, & 5th. Rectus Abdominis - Lower border of 5fch, 6th «& 7th close to ensiform appendix. Subclavius - First in front of rhomboid ligament. External Intercostals of Five Lower Spaces - Lower border of cartilage above, upper border of cartilage below. Internal Intercostals - Upper border of eleven lower, inner surface of eleven upper.64 MUSCLES ATTACHED to SPINE—1st Tablet. j The muscles attached to tne ! I ATXjAS — -A.re nine in number, and are attached as follows : - | Longus Colli {Superior Obliqic^ Portion) - Tubercle on anterior arch. , Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor - Front of the lateral mass, and root of transverse prooes Rectus Lateralis - Uoper surface of transverse process. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor - Tubercle on posterior arch. First Intertransversales - Under surface of transverse process. Levator Anguli Scapulce - Tip of transverse process. Splenitis Colli - « Obliqui Capitis Superior Inferior - „ AXIS — -A-^Q ten in number, and are attached as follows: - ' Longus Colli {Vertical Portion) -Yront o^hodij. j Scalenus Medius - Tip of transverse process. | Levator Anguli Scapula - „ Splenitis Colli - First Second Infertransversales - Upper & lower borders of transverse process. Multifidus Spince - Tip of spinous process. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major - „ . j Obliquus Capitis Inferior - „ } First Interspinals ~ Both Hps of lower border of spinous process. FIVE LOWER CERVICAL VERTEBR.^ — Are twenty in number, and are attach as follows Scalenus Anticus - Anterior tubercles of transverse processes of 3rd, 4fcb, 5th, & 6th. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major - „ „ „ Longus Colli {Superior Oblique Portion)- Knt. tubercles of transv. processes of 3rd, 4th, & 5i -Anterior tubercles of transverse processesof 5th&6l (Vertical Portion) - Front of bodies of 5th, 6th, & 7th. Levator Anguli Scapulce - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes, 3rd, 4th, & 5th. Cervicalis Ascendens - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of 4th, 5fch, & 6th. Scalenus Medius - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of all the five lower. Transversalis Colli - „ „ ., Complexus - Transverse process of 7tb, articular processes of the three or four v. abo^ Infertransversales - Transverse processes of all the five lower. Trachclo-Mastoid - Articular processes of the three or four lower. Multifidus Spince - Articular processes of the four lower, spinous processes & adjoi ing portion of the laminas of all the five lowt Semispinales Dorsi - Spinous processes of the the 6th & 7th. Semispinales Colli - Spinous processes from the axis to the 5th. Spinalis Colli - Spinous processes of the one or two last cervical, and of the axis & of o or two vertebr39 belc Supraspinales - Spinous processes of all the five lower. Jnterspinales ~ » j, Trapezius - Spinous process of the 7th. Rhomboideus Minor - „ Splenius - ' Serratus Posticus Superior - „IIUSOLES ATTACHED to SPINE-2nd Tablet. The muscles attached to the DORSAL VERTEBRiE — Are twenty.five in nnmber, and are attached as follows: - Trapezius - Spinous processes of all. Latisshmis Dorsi - Spinous processes of the six or seven lower. R/iojnboideus Major - Spinous processes of the four or five upper. Splenitis - Spinous processes of the six upper. Serratus Posticus Superior - Spinous processes of the two or three upper. Serratus Posticus Inferior - Spinous processes of the two last. LongissijHus Dorsi - Tips of transverse processes of all. Transversalis Colli - Tips of transverse processes of the four or five upper. Trachelo-Mastoid - Transverse processes of the five upper. Spinalis Dorsi - Spinous processes of from four to eight of the middle & upper. Muliifidus SpincB - Tips of transverse & spinous processes of all. Semispinales Dorsi - Transverse prs. from the 10th to the 5th, spinous prg. of the four upper. Semispinales Colli - Transverse processes of the four upper. Rotatores Spince - Upper & back part of transverse prs. of the eleven lower, lower margin & posterior surface of laminae and roots of spinous prs. of the eleven upper. Complexus - Transverse processes of the four or five uppar. Biventer Cervicis - Transverse processes of the two, three, or four upper. Spinalis Colli - Spinous processes of the one or two upper. Levatores Costarum or Supracostales - Tips of transverse processes of the eleven upper. Interspinals - Sometimes to two or three of the upper and lower spinous processes. Intertransversales - Upper & lower borders of a few of the lower transverse processes. Psoas Magmis - Side of body of last. Psoas Parvus - Side of body of last. Longus Colli {Inferior Obliqued Vertical Portions)-Front bodies of the two or three upper. LUMBAR VERTEBRA —Are fourteen in number, and are attached as follows: - The Diaphragm - {Right Crus) - Front of bodies of 1st, 2nd, & 3rd, or sometimes of 2nd, 3rd & 4th. {left Crus) - Left side of bodies of 1st & 2nd, or sometimes of 2nd & 3rd. Psoas Magnus - Sides of bodies and bases of transverse processes of all. Psoas Pa7'vus - Side of body of first. Internal Oblique - Tips of spinous processes of all (by posterior layer of lumbar fascia). Transversalis - Tips of spinous processes, tips & bases of transverse processes of all (by lumbar fascia). Quadratus Lumbortttn {Anterior Portion) - Upper border of transverse processes of the two or three lower. {Posterior Portion) - Apices of the transverse prs. of the four upper. Latissimus Dorsi - Spinous processes of all. Serratus Posticus Inferior - Spinous processes of the two or three upper. Erector Spince - Spinous processes of all. Longissiinus Dorsi {Inner Series of Insertions) - Tubercles (mammillary) on back of super- ior articular processes. {Outer Series of Insertion^) - Posterior surfaces of transverse processes, Multifidus Spince - Tubercles (mammillary) on back of superior articular processes, spinous processes and adjoining portion of the laminae of all. Spinalis Dorsi - Spinous processes of the two first. Interspinales - Spinous processes of all. Intertransversales - Transverse processes of all. SACRUM - -^i"© six in number, and are attached as follows : - Erector Spines - Spinous processes and series of eminences on back of sacrum, whioh eminences represent the articular and transverse processes of the vertebrae. Multifidus Spin<z - Sacral groove. Gluteus Maximus - Post. surf, (by a tendinous expansion) & lower part of lateral border. Coccygeus - Side of lower piece. Pyriformis - Anterior surface between Ist, 2nd, 3rd, & 4th anterior sacral foramina, & grooves leading from them. Iliacus - Portion of base which forms part of iliac fossa. COCCYX — Are four in number, and are attached as follows: - Sphincter Ani - Tip. Coccygeus - ) Levator A7ii- } Gluteus Maximus - Side and back.MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of UPPER LIMB 1 -IstT.' The muscles attached to the CLAVICLE — Are six in number, and are attached as follows: - SternO'Cleido-Mastoid -Anterior surface & upper border of inner third, Pedoralis Major - Anterior surface & anterior border of inner half. Deltoid - Upper surface & anterior border of outer half. Trapezius - Upper surface & posterior border of outer third, Subclavius - Groove on under surface of middle third. Sterna-Cleido-Hyoid - Sometimes, from back of inner extremity, SCAPULA — Seventeen in number, and are attached as follows: - Supraspinatus - Inner two-thirds of supraspinous fossa. Infraspinatus - Inner two-thirds of infraspinous fossa & ridges on ii;s surface. Teres Major - Posterior aspect of inferior angle. Teres Minor - Upper two-thirds of posterior aspect of axillary border. Deltoid - Upper surface & outer border of acromion, whole length of lower lip ( posterior border of spin( Trapezius -Upper surface and inner border of acromion, whole length of upper lip c posterior border of spinf Subscapularis - Inner two-thirds of subscapular fossa & ridges on its surface. Serratus Magnus - Whole length of anterior lip of posterior border. Rho7nboideus Major - Posterior border between spine & inferior angle. Rhoinboideus Minor - Posterior border opposite triangular smooth surface at root of spine, i Levator Anguli Scapulce - Posterior border between spine & superior angle. Omo-Hyoid - Upper border on inner side of suprascapular notch. Long Head of Triceps - Rough triangular depression below glenoid cavity, Pedoralis Minor - Inner border of coracoid process. CoracO'Brachialis J m- n ., ' Short Head of Biceps S " P^^^^'^' j Long Head of Biceps - Top of glenoid cavity. j Latissimus Dorsi - Sometimes, from back of inferior angle. 1 167 SffUSOLES ATTACHED to BONES of UPPER LIMB-2nd T. The musol-es attacihed to the HUMiEjBrUS — Are twenty-four in number, and are attached as follows j - Supraspinatiis - Highest of the three facets on greater tuberosity. Infraspinatus - Middle facet on greater tuberosity. . Teres Minor - Lowest facet on greater tuberosity, and by a few fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down. Subscapularis - Lesser tuberosity, and by a few fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower dowix. Teres Major - Inner or posterior edge of bicipital groove. Fectoralis Major - Anterior or outer edge of bicipital groove. Latissimus Dorsi - Bottom of bicipital groove. Deltoid - Eough triangular prominence a little above middle of outer surface of shaft, 'Coraco-Brachialis - Rough impression a little above middle of inner surface of shaft. Brachialis Anticus - Lower half of inner & outer surfaces of shaft. Inner 6^ Outer Heads of Triceps - Inner head - Posterior surface of shaft below musculo-spiral groove, inner border* Outer head - Posterior surface of shaft above musculo-spiral groove, outer border. Supinator Longus - Upper two-thirds of external condyloid ridge. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior - Lower third of external condyloid ridge. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevier - External condyle. Extensor Communis Digitortmi — „ Extensor Minimi Digiti - „ Extensor Carpi Ulnaris - „ Anconeus - „ Supinator Brevis - „ Pronator Radii Teres (Inner Head) - Inner condyle & internal condyloid ridge im Flexor Carpi Radialis - Inner condyle. Falmaris longus - „ ' ' Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Anterior or Outer Head) - Inner condyle. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum (Inner Head)- ,»68 MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of UPPER LIMB—3rd T The muscles attached to the RADIUS — Are nine in number, and are attached as foUowa j - Biceps - Back part of bicipital tuberosity. Supinator Brevis - Inner, anterior & outer aspects of the bone above bicipital tuberosit & oblique line as low down as insertion of pronator radii terei Flexor Stihlimis Digitorum ( Outer Head) - Oblique line. Pronator Radii Teres - Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft. Flexor Longus Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & outer border. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Middle third of posterior surface of shaft. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of shaft below foregoing. i Supinator Longus - Outer side of base of styloid process. I ULNA — Are thirteen in number, and are attached as follows: - Supinator Brevis - Triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind t depressi( Brachialis Anticus - Under surface of coronoid process. Flexor Subliniis Digitorum (Middle Head) - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid proof above pronator radii ter Pronator Radii Teres (Outer Head) - Ridge on inner surface of coronoid process bel flexor subliin Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner surface of coronoid process, upper tT*;! thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an aponeurosis which is comm to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, upper two-thirds of posterior bord Flexor Carpi^ Ulnaris (Posterior Head) - Inner border of oleoranoD, and by an aponeurc which is common to it & to flexor profundus, upper two-thirds of posterior bord Triceps -Back part of upper surface of olecranon. Anconeus - Rough triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of shaft. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner border. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris - Middle third of posterior border. Usually it simply covf J but sometimes it arises from, narrow portion of posterior surface internal to 5 j vertical ric Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface below insertion of ancom Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior surface. Extensor Indicis - Posterior surface below foregoing.69 jkuSOLES ATTACHED to BONES of UPPER LIMB-4th T. The muscular attachments of the BONES of the HAND & WRIST — Are as follows:- Pisiform - Two muscles: Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Abductor Mtitifm Digiti, or Pisi-Phalangeal. Trapezium - Three muscles: Abductor PoUicis, or Trapezo-Phalangeal - Ridge on anterior surface. Opponens PolUcis, or Trapezo-Metacarpal - Front of the bone below the ridge. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal (Outer Head) - Lower part of the bene. Trapezoides - One muscle: Flexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal (Outer Head). Os Magnum - One muscle : Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-PJtalangeal (Outer Head). Os Unciform - Two muscles : Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, or Unci-Phalangeal - Uniform process. Opponens or Adductor Minimi Digiti, or Unci-Metacarpal - Unciform process. First Metacarpal Bone - Three muscles: opponens Pollicis or Trapezo-Metacarpal - Whole length of outer border. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Back of base. First Dorsal Interosseous Miiscle, or Abductor Indicis - Back of outer side of shaft. Second Metacarpal Bone - Six muscles: Flexor Carpi Radialis - Front of base. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior - Back of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal (Inner Head) - Lower part of front Of base. First Palmar Interosseous - Anterior or palmar half of inner surface of shaft. First Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface of shaft. Second Dorsal Interosseous - Posterior or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. Tliird metacarpal Bone - Six muscles: Flexor Carpi Radialis - Front of base. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brcvior - Back of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-Phala^igcal (Inner Head) - Lower part of front of base. Addiictor Pollicis, or Metacarpo-Phala7tgcal - Lower two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft. Second Dorsal Diterosseous - Wliole of outer surface of shaft. Third Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of inner surface of shaft. Fourth Metacarpal Bone - Three muscles: Seco7id Palmar Interosseous - Anterior or palmar half of outer surface of shaft. Third Dorsal Interosseous - Posterior or doi'sal half of outer surface of shaft. Fourth Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of inner surface of shaft. Fifth Metarcarpal Bone - Five muscles: Flexor Carpi Ulnaris - Front of base, Extetisor Carpi Ulnaris - Back of base. Adductor or Oppottens Minimi Digiti, or Unci-Metacarpal- Wliole length of inner border of shaft. Third Palmar hiterosseous - Anterior or palmar half of outer surface of shaft. Fourth Dorsal Interosseous - Posterior or dorsal half of outer surface of shaft. First Phalanx of Thumb - Four muscles: Abductor Pollicis or Trapezo-Phalangeal - Outer side Of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal - Either side of base, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon. Adductor Pollicis or Metacarpo-Phalangeal - Inner side of base. Extensor Pritni hitemodii Pollicis - Back of base. First Phalanx of Index Finger - Two muscles. First Dorsal Interosseous - Outer side of base. First Palmar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Firsb Phalanx of Middle Finger - Two muscles: Second Dorsal hiterosseous - Outer side of base. Third Dorsal Interosseous - Inner side of base.. First Phalanx of Ring Finger - Two muscles: Second Palmar Interosseous - Outer side of base. Fourth Dorsal hiterosseous - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of Little Finger - Three muscles: Abductor Minimi Digiti or Pisi-Phala7tgeal - Inner side of base. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti or Unci-Phalangeal - Inner side of base. Third Palmar Interosseoiis - Inner side of base. Second Phalanx of Thumb - Two muscles; Flexor Longus Pollicis - Front of base. Extensor Secundi hitemodii Pollicis - Back of base. Second Phalanges of Four Inner Fingers - Two muscles each: Flexor Subliinis Digitorum - A sUp to either side of shaft. Extensor Cotmntinis Digitorum (^Middle slip) — Back of Base. Third Phalanges - Two muscles each : Flexor Pro/jmdus Digitorum - Front of base. Extensor Communis Digitorum {Both lateral sli/s) - Back of base.j 70 MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of LOWER LIMB-lstTj ! i The muscles attached to the i I INNOMINATE BONE — Are thirty-two in number, and are attached aa follows: - \ Ilium - Thirteen:- Glutetis Maximus - Superior curved line on dorsum ilii and rough surface between & posterior fifth of ores Gluteus Medius - Dorsum ilii & outer lip of crest between superior & middle curved line Gluteus Mini7nus - Dorsum ilii between middle & inferior curved lines. Rectus Femoris (Reflected Tendon) - Groove above brim of acetabulum. (Straight Tendon) - Anterior inferior spine. Iliacus - Iliac fossa & inner lip of crest. Sartorius - Anterior superior spine & upper half of notch below it. Tensor Vagince Femoris - Anterior superior spine & anterior fifth of outer lip of cres: Obliquus Extermis - Anterior half of outer lip of crest. Latissimits Dorsi - Posterior half of outer lip of crest. Internal Oblique - Anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest. Transversalis - Anterior three-fourths of inner lip of crest. Quadratus Lumhorum - Posterior part of inner lip of crest for about two or three inch in front of erector spir Erector Spina - Posterior superior spine & posterior fifth of inner lip of crest. Ischium - Fourteen:- Gracilis - Inner margin of ascending ramus. J Adductor Magnus - Ascending ramus & outer side of tuberosity. I Obturator Extermis - Circumference of obturator foramen. j Transversus Perincei - Inner & fore part of tuberosity. Erector Penis or Clitoridis - Pabic arch & fore part of inner side of tuberosity. Obturator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of and behind ( ^ c ^ • -V turator foram Gemellus Superior l Levator Ani > - Spine. Coccygeus ) Ge7nellus Inferior - Upper part of outer lip of tuberosity. Quadratus Femoris - Whole length of outer lip of tuberosity. ^ Biceps (Long Head) - Lower & inner of the two surfaces on back part of tuberositjjl Semitendinosus - Lower & inner of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity. Semimembranosus - Upper & outer of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity, Pubes - Twelve Fectineus - Uio-pectineal line & surface in front of it. Adductor Longus - Front of body immediately below the crest & close to angle. Adductor Brevis - Front of body for about two inches below adductor longus & betw i T i. T gracilis & obturator exteri . Adductor Magnus -Lower part of descending ramus. jk Gracilis - Inner margin of ramus & lower half of inner margin of body. ii Obturator Externus - Circumference of obturator foramen. If Obturator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of & behind • ^ turator foran . Rectus abdominis ^ Pyramidalis C - Crest. | Conjoined Tend, of Int. Oblique 6^ Transv. j ;i Levator Ani - Back of body. '71 I ilUSOLES ATTACHED to BONES of LOWER LIMB-2ndT. The muscles attached to the FEMUK — Are twenty.fonr in nnmber, and are attached as follows: - Vastus Exfernus - Anterior border of great trochanter & horizontal ridge on its outer sur- face j rough line from great trochanter to linea aspera; whole length of outer lip of linea aspera and line from linea aspera to outer condyle. Vastus Internus - Line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera «S; line from linea aspera to inner condyle; inner surface. Crureus - Anterior & outer surfaces from anterior intertrochanteric line to within a few inches of condyles. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and describing the Quadriceps extensor femoris as a Triceps^ we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: - line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle; nearly whole of inncTf anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur. Suhcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface c Psoas Magnus - Lesser trochanter. Iliacus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera in front of pectineus. Pedineus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera, & into the bone be- hind trochanter minor. Adductor Longus - Middle third of inner lip of linea aspera between vastus internus & ad- ductor magnus. Adductor Brevis - Upper part of linea aspera & lower part of line from it to lesser tro- chanter below & behind pectineus. Adductor Magnus - Lower part of line from great trochanter to linea aspera, whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from it to inner condyle; by a strong tendon into tubercle at upper & back part of inner condyle. Biceps (Short Head) - Whole length of outer lip of linea aspera between adductor magnus & vastus externus, and from inferior external division of linea aspera to within two inches of outer condyle. Gluteus Maximus - Eough line from great trochanter to linea aspera. Gluteus Medius - Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. Gluteus Minimus - Anterior border of great trochanter. Pyriformis - Posterior part of upper border of great trochanter. Obturator Internus - Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. } Indirectly, by joining tendon of foregoing. Quadratus Femoris - Upper part of linea quadrati on back of great trochanter. Obturator Externus - Digital fossa. Gastrocnemitis - Depressions at upper and back part of condyles, and lower part of the two inferior divisions of linea aspera. Plantaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera. Poplileus - Anterior & deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femur below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Semimembranosus - Posterior & upper part of outer condyle.72 MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of LOWER LIMB~3rd T.^ The muscles attached to the TIBIA — -A-re ten in number, and are attached as follows: - Tibialis Anticus - Outer tuberosity & upper two.thirds of outer surface of shaft Extensor Longus Digitoriim - Outer tuberosity. Sartorius - Upper part of inner surface of shaft covering tendons of gracilis & semiten-: dinosus. Gracilis - Upper part of inner surface of shaft above semitendinosus, and beneath sartorius. Semitendinosus - Upper part of inner surface of shaft below gracilis & beneath sartorius. Sefuimenibranosus - Posterior part of inner tuberosity; groove on inner side of inner tuberosity. Popliteus - Inner two-thirds of triangular surface on back of upper part of shaft. Soleus - Middle third of inner border, and oblique line on posterior surface of shaft. Flexor Longus Digitorum - Posterior surface of shaft below oblique line & internally t( attachment of tibialis posticus - Tibialis Fostiais -Vosiev'iov surface of shaft below oblique line & externally to attach ment of flexor longus digitorum; PIBULA — Are nine in number, and are attached as follows: - Extensor Longus Digitorum - Upper three-fourths of anterior surface of shaft. i ^jf/^wjijr - Middle two-fourths of anterior surface of shaft internally to ; extensor longus digitorum: Peroneus Tertius - Lower fourth of anterior surface of shaft. Peroneus Longus - Head & upper two.thirds of outer surface & of anterior & posterior bor dere Peroneus Brevis - Lower two-thirds of outer surface of shaft, passing upwards in a pointec process beneath peroneus longus Biceps - Outer side of head. Soleus - Back of head & upper third of posterior surface of shaft. Flexor Longtcs Pollicis - Lower two-thirds of posterior surface of shaft. Tibialis Posticus - Upper three-fourths of inner surface of shaft.73 SffUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of LOWER LIMB-4th T. OS Calcis - Eight muscles: Gastroate7nuts, Plaiitaris, So!eus - Lovrev part of posterior surface. Extensor Brevis Digitorum - Upper and outer surfaces of greater process Flexor Brevis Digitorum - Greater tuberosity. Abductor Pollicis - Greater tuberosity internally to foregoing. Abdicctor Minimi Digiti - Lesser tuberosity, greater tuberosity in front of flexor brevis Flexor Accessorius - Inner & under surfaces in front of tuberosities. Scaphoid - One muscle: Tibialis Posticus - Tuberosity. Cuboid - One muscle : Flexor Brevis Pollicis - Inner part of under surface. Internal Cuneiform Bone - Two muscles: Tibialis Antictcs - Front part of inner & under surfaces. Tibialis Posticus - Back part of under surface. External Cuneiform Bone - Two muscles: Tibialis Posticus - Under surface. Flexor Brevis Pollicis - ,, First Metatarsal Bone - Three muscles: Tibialis Anticus - Inner side of base. Pero7ieus Longus - Outer side of base. First Dorsal Interosseous - Upper or dorsal half of outer surface of shaft. Second Metatarsal bone - Three muscles: First Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of inner surface of shaft. Second Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface of shaft. Adductor Pollicis - Under surface of base. Third Metatarsal Bone - Four Muscles: First Plantar Interosseous - Lower or plantar half of inner surface of shaft. Secoiid Dorsal Interosseotis - Upper or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. * Third Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface of shaft. Adductor Pollicis - Under surface of base. Fourth Metatarsal Bone - Four muscles: Third Dorsal hiterosseous - Upper or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. Second Plantar Intei'osseotcs - Lower or plantar half of inner surface of shaft Fozcrth Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface Of shaft. Addzictor Pollicis - Under surface of base. Fifth Metatarsal Bone - Six muscles: Perotteus Brevis - Outer side of base. Peroneus Tertius - Upper surface of base. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti - Under surface of base. Transversals Pedis - Under surface of head. Fourth Dorsal hiterosseous - Upper or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. Third Plantar Interosseous - Lower or plantar half of inner surface of shaft. First Phalanx of Great Toe - Five muscles: Abductor Pollicis - Inner side of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis - Inner & outer sides of base Adductor Pollicis - Outer side of base. Trajtsversus Pedis - ,, Extensor Brevis Di^itortan (Iimennost Tendon) — Outer side Of base. First Phalanx of 2nd Toe - Three muscles .- First Dorsal Interosseous - Inner side of base. Second Dorsal Interosseous - Outer side of base. First Ltimbricalis - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of 3rd Toe - Three muscles: Thii'd Dorsal Interosseous - Outer side of base. First Plantar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Second Ltimbricalis - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of 4th Toe - Three muscles: Fourth Dorsal Ittterosseotis - Outer side of base. Second Plantar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Third Ltanbricalis - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of 5th Toe - Four muscles: Abductor Minimi Digiti - Outer side of base. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti - „ Third Plantar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Fotirth Ltctnbricalis - Second Phalanx of Great Toe - Two muscles: Extensor Proprius Pollicis - Upper SlU'f ace of base. Flexor Loitgus Pollicis - Under surface of base. Second Phalanges of Four Outer Toes - Two muscles: Exte7tsorLongus Digitorum - Upper surface of base. Flexor Brevis Digito7um - Sides of shaft. Third Phalanges of Four Outer Toes - Two muscles: Extensor Lo7tgus Digitorutn - Upper surface of base. Flexor Lo7igus Digital wii - Under surface of base.i i; IJOINTS AND LIGAMENTS^76 THE CLASSIFICATION of JOINTS. The joints may be divided into: SYNAKTHROSEjS — The bones are immoveably interlocked, and are in almost imtne. diate contact, being separated only by a thin layer of periostenm termed the sutural ligament, and, at the base of the skull, by a thin layer of cartilage. - The varieties are the; ] Sutura Vera - The bones present a series of processes & indentatioss, which fit ir '< with each other. The subvarieties are the S. Dentata - The interlocking processes are large & ramified. - Ex.: Sagittal & • lamboid sutures, i S. Sekrata - The interlocking processes are smaller & more regular. - Ex.: Tern ' porary suture in middle line of f7'ontal bom '■, S. LiMBOSA - The articular surfaces are more or less bevelled, and one overlaps thi j other. - Ex.: Fronto-parietal sutun Sutura Notha or False Suture - A mere apposition of rough surfaces. - Thi subvarieties are the S. Squamosa - Considerable overlapping of extensively bevelled surfaces. - Ex. Temporoparietal sutun ♦ S. Harmonica - Apposition in the mesial line of two symmetrical «fe vertically cu surfaces. - Ex.; Articulation between the two halves of the upper jau Schindylesis - A thin plate of bone is received into a cleft formed by the separatioi of the two plates of another bone. - Ex.: Articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoi with the vome) GoiIipllOSis The implantation of the teeth into the alveolar processes. A]^^PHIAIiTHROS!EJS — The bones are bound together almost immoveably by means ( thick plates of fibre-cartilage extremely adherent to each bone, and by stron \ external ligaments. In some cases the articular surfaces are partly covered b a thin layer of cartilage, and are partly lined with synovial membrane. Tl one class of amphiarthroses resemble the synarthroses, the other class resembl the diarthrose DIARTHROSES — The bones are bound together by means of external ligaments line with synovial membrane, and the articular surfaces are covered with cartilag Plates or rings of fibro-cartilage are sometimes included within the articul; cavity, which cavity they occasionally divide into two distinct parts. - Tl arthrodisB having recently been subdivided by Cruveilhier into arthrodise prope condyloid articulations, & articulations by reciprocal reception, the varieties the diarthroses may now be enumerated as follows (in the order of decreasii variety & decreasing extent of the movements they admit) - : Enarthroses - Globular head received into a cup-shaped cavity. Well defined caps lar ligament. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, abductio circumduction, & rotation. - Ex: Hip-job Articulations by Reciprocal Reception - Articular surfaces inversely convex one direction & concave in the other. Capsular ligament less perfect & comple than in the enarthroses. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, a duction, & circumduction J there is no of axial rotation. - Ex: Articulation ofi metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapcziu Condyloid Articulations - Ovoid articular head, or condyle, received into elliptical cavity. Strong anterior, posterior & lateral ligaments. Flexion & e tension very freej adduction, abduction & circumduction, rather less so; axial rotation. Ex: Wrist-joi GiUglymi - Trochlear surface on the one hand, cavity of reception to correspond, the other. Strong lateral ligaments; anterior & posterior ligaments 1 slightly marked. Flexion & extension only. Ex: Elbow-joi Diarthroses Rotatorii - Pivot.iike process turning in an osteo-fibrous ring, osteo-fibrous ring rotating upon an axial process. Rotatory movements on Ex: Superior (S?^ inferior radio-ulnar articulatio Arthrodise Proper - Articular surfaces flat or nearly so. Thin & loose capsul Only gliding movements, which movements are never very extensive. I Acromio'clavicular articulati77 DEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION Is a double or bilateral condyloid artiemlation (Cruveilhi-er) comprised between the condyles of the lower jaw, on the one hand, and the anterior root of the zygoma & ante-ior part of the glenoid cavity, on the other. The articulation is divided into two by an interarticular fibro- cartilage, and presents two synovial membranes, of which the upper one is the largest & loosest. The interarticular fibrocartilag© is thickest at the periphery, especially behind; its upper surface is concavo-convex from before backwards; its under surface is concave; its circumference is connected externally to the external lateral ligament, internally & in front to the tendon of the external pterygoid. - Occasionally it is perforated in the centre, the two synovial membranes then communicating. LIGAMENTS - Are Capsular - Thin & loose j from Circumference of glenoid cavity dr* eminentia articularis to Neck of condyle. External Lateral - Broad band downwards & backwards from Outer surface &^ tubercle of zygoma to Outer surface d?^ posterior border of neck of condyle. Internal Lateral - Long & thin band from spine of sphenoid to Inner margin of dental foramen. -It is related externally to the external pterygoid muscle, internal maxillary artery, and inferior dental vessels & nerve. Stylo-Maxillary - Long thia band of somewhat secondary importance from Apex of styloid process to Angle ^posterior border of ramus of jaw ^ where it spreads out considerably and marks the separation between parotid & submaxillary glands. MOVEMENTS - Are depression, elevation, projection, retraction, lateral displacement & cir- cumduction. In slight movements of elevation & depression the condyles simply rotate on a transverse axis upon the interarticular fibrocartilages. In more extensive movements not only do the condyles rotate as above, but they also pass forwards with the interarticular fibrocartilages upon the eminentige articu- l-ares, the displacement being due to the laxity of the superior synovial mem- brane & to the action of the external lateral ligament. This displacement also takes place on the two sides alternately in the lateral or grinding move- ment of the jaw, and on both sides Bimultaneously in the projection of the jaw forwards.78 ! ARTICULATIONS of the VERTEBRA. j The vertebrae are joined together by their bodies, articular processes, laminae, spinous processes I & transverse processei gQPIJJS — Form a series of amphiarthrodial articulations, and are joined together by: - ; Intervertebral Discs - Lenticular discs of fibro-cartilage firmly adherent to the Thin plates of cartilage^ which cover upper 6^ under surfaces of bodies of adjoining verfehrc They increase in thickness from above downwards, and form coUectivel about one-fourth of the length of the spine. They are thickest in front in the cei | vical & lumbar regions, behind in the dorsal region. Their cicumference i closely connected in front & behind to the anterior & posterior common ligaments' laterally they form part, in the dorsal region, of the articular cavities for tb' heads of the ribs, and give attachment to the interarticular costo-vertebral lig£ ments. - Their central part consists of a soft pulpy mass, which is a remnant ( the chorda dorsalis, and in which a small synovial cavity is found (Lushka Their outer half or more consists of alternate concentric laminae of fibrous tissr' & of cartilage, of which laminae the more superficial ones tend to bulge outward and the deeper ones to bulge inwards; the strands of the fibrous laminae ai' mainly oblique, and are inclined so as to cross each other in the adjacent lamim Anterior Common Ligament - Broad & strong band covering front of bodies, and e; rr r ' J. tOUdiug fro i Front of body of axis to Prominent margins of bodies of vertebras <Sr= intervertebral discs down to sacrum. Thickest in dorsal region, in median line, & opposite middle or conca^ part of the bodies. Its deepest fibres are short, and extend from one vertebra the adjoining one; its intermediate fibres extend over two or three vertebraB; i superficial ones over four or fiv Posterior Common Ligament - strong band, thicker but narrower than foregoing, e Back of body of axis, where it is continuous with occipito-axoid ligament, to ^^^'^^'^o ^"^^ Intervertebral discs margins of the vertebrcz down to the saci'iim. Broadest in the neck, where it covers almost entirely the bodies of the verf brae, but, in the dorsal & lumbar regions, broad at its points of attachment on and narrow opposite the centre of the bodies. Separated from central part bodies by the venae basis vertebrae, and from the dura mater of the cord, by little loose connective tissue. Consists, as foregoing, of long superficial & of sh( deep fibr ARTICULAK PROCESSES — Form a series of arthrodial articulations, and are joined i gecher Capsular Ligaments - Thin, irregular, looser in the cervical than in the dorsal & lumt regions. Connect! Contigtious margins of the articular processes^ - of which processes the superior ones Ic backwards & upwards in the cervical region, backwards & outwards in the dors backwards & inwards in the lumbar, where they are concave & farther ap:' than the inferior on LAMINiE — -^^e joined together by the Ligamenta Subflava - Highly elastic bands placed, one on each side, between the a . ^ . r c , t J JTj ' t i.. joining laminae, and extending fr( A nterior surface lower border of lamina above to Posterior surface dr» upper border of lamina below. They are made up of nearly vertical bands of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, a are best seen from interior of spinal canal. They are thin, broad & long in \ cervical region, thicker, shorter & narrower in the dorsal region, thickest narrowes: in the lumb SPINOUS PROCESSES — Are joined together by: Interspinous Ligaments - Most developed in lumbar region, least in cervical. Conn Adjacent margins of adjoining spines. Supraspinous Ligament - strong fibrous cord intimately blended with neighbouri aponeuroses, and thickest in lumbar region. Conne Apices of spines from 1th cervical to sacrum. It consists of long superficial & of short deep fibres, and is continued upwai by the ligamentum nuchce to the external occipital protuberance & to the spines the six upper cervical vertebrae; the ligamentum nuchae is however relatively t in man, in whom it is reduced to a kind of intermuscular septi TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Are joined together by the Intertransverse Ligaments - Most developed in the dorsalregion, where they fc short rounded cords connected with the deep muscles of the back. Thin & m( branous in the lumbar region. Insignificant or wanting in the cervical rei?i r r- . . Com Adjacent margins of adjoining transverse processes. N. — See next Tablet for articulations of the two first vertebrae.79 RETICULATIONS of the CRANIUM with the SPINE Are the occipitO'atloid and occijbiio-axoid articulations, from which articulations the atlo-axoid articulation cannot well be separated. OCCIPITO-ATLOID ARTICULATION — Consists of a double arthrodia between. condyles of occipital and superior articular surfaces of atlas; the condyles being convex from before backwards & inwards and looking downwards & outwards, and the articular surfaces of the atlas being concave from before backwards & inwards and looking upwards & inwards. The ligaments are: - Capsular - Two. Thin & loose; surround the arthrodial articulations. The synovial membranes of these articulations often communicate with that of the A K • -J. Ail -J m syndesmo-odontoid articulation. Ant. Occipito-Atloid-Two: Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Basilar process to - Atiterior tubercle of atlas > Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Anterior margin of foramen magnuvi to - Upper border of anterior arch of atlas. Post. Occipito-Atloid - Thin & broad membrane from Posterior maj'gin of foramen magnu7n to - Upper border of posterior arch of atlas* It is perforated on either side by vertebral artery & suboccipital n. Lateral Occipito-Atloid - Two. strong bands from Jugular process to - Base of transverse process of atlas, OCCIPITO-AXOID ARTICULATION — No direct contact between the two bones, but the two bones are firmly connected together, nevertheless, by the following ligts: - OCCipito-Axoid - strong broad band expanded superiorly, and which may be considered as a continuation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae; from Basilar groove of occipital, where it becomes continuous with dura mater of skull, to — Posterior surface of body of axis. — It covers and conceals the Occipito-Odontoid - Three, two lateral & one median. cruciiorm ligament. Lateral Occipito-Odontoid or Check Ligaments - Strong rounded cords from Rough depression on inner side of condyles of occipital to -Sides of odontoidpr. near its apex. Median or Suspensory Occipito-Odontoid Ligament - Strong band from Anterior margin of foramen magnum to — Apex of odontoid process, - This band is situated between, & blended superiorly, with deep anterior occipito-atloid ligt., on the one hand, & upper fasciculus of cruciform iigt. on the other. Vertical Fasciculus op Cruciform Ligt. - V. below. ATLO-AXOID ARTICULATION — is a complex articulation consisting: 1. of a double arthrodia between the articular processes, the articular surfaces of which are large, flat, circular, and inclined downwards & oatwards. 2. of a double diar- throsis rotatorius between the anterior & posterior surfaces of the odontoid process, on the one hand, and the posterior & anterior surfaces respectively of the anterior arch of the atlas & of the transverse ligament, on the other hand, (atlo-odontoid & syndesmo-odontoid articulations, Cruveilhier). The ligaments are : - Capsular - Two. Thin, loose, strongest externally j surround the two arthrodiae. Ant. Atlo-Axoiri - Two: Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Anterior tubercle of atlas to - Base of odontoid proccess <2r* front of body of axis. Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Lower border of anterior arch of atlas to - Base of odontoidprocess front of body ofaxis. Post. Atlo-Axoid - 'f hin & broad membrane from Lower border of posterior arch of atlas to - Upper border ofla7nince of axis. Transverse - strong transverse band, broadest in middle, which divides ring of atlas into a small anterior part, in which anterior part the neck of the odontoid process is firmly constricted, and a much larger posterior part, which transmits the cord & its membranes & the spinal accessory nerves. It is attached on each side to a Tubercle on inner surface of lateral mass of atlas - Its anterior surface is lined with synovial membrane of syndesmo-odontoid articulation, Trom its upper & lower borders, or rather from its posterior surface, are f?iven off" two fasciculi, which pass upwards & downwards to be attached, the one to the basilar groove, the other to posterior surface of body of axis ; with the trans- verse band, these vertical fasciculi term the cricciform ligament. The synovial membrane of the syndesmo-odontoid articulation often communicates with one or both of those of the occipito-atloid arthrodiaa.ARTICULATIONS of the RIBS Are four arthrodiae, the costo-vertebral, costo-transverse, chondro-sternal, & chondro-chondral, of whic i arthrodiae the first is a double one, while the two last ones are frequently more or le! imperfect & deficient in synovial membranes. - To the above articulations must be added tl chondro-cosial articulations, which may be considered as diminutive synarthrose COSTO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS — Are double arthrodiae between the head of the ribs & the bodies of two adjoinin;^ vertebras; the 1st, 11th, & 12fch are, howevei- single arthrodise, since the corresponding ribs articulate with one vertebra only. The ligaments an Capsular - Thin; surrounds articular surfaces. Ant. Costo-Vertebral - Forms three fasciculi from Front of head of rib to - Bodies ofvertebrtz above below and to intervertebral disc. Interarticular Costo-Vertebral - From Crest on head of rib to - Intervertebral disc^ dividing articular cavity into two. In the 1st, 11th, & 12th costo-vertebral articulations there is no intera ticular ligament, and the anterior ligament is attached only to the vert bra abov COSTO-TRANSVERSE ARTICULATIONS — Are ten arthrodial articulations betwei the tubercles of the ten upper ribs & the transverse processes of the lower of the ty vertebrae, with which the head of the corresponding rib articulates. -The ligaments art Post, or Ext, Costo-Transverse - From Apex of transverse process to - Rough outer part of tubercle of rib. Middle or Interosseous Costo-Transverse - Formed of short fibres from Front of transverse process \'0 - Back of neck of rib. Ant., Sup., or Long Costo-Transverse - From Jjpper border of neck of rib to - Lower border of transverse process of the vertebra abo\ The 11th & 12th ribs are connected to the corresponding transver process by a thin & ill-developed middle or interosseous ligament, and to t! transverse process of the vertebra above by a well developed anterior superior ligajnent (Oruveilhier). - There is no anterior or superior ligame connected with the 1st ri CHONDRO-STERNAL ARTICULATIONS — Connect the extremities of the seven fii costal cartilages to the margins of the sternum. The first chondro-sternal articul tion may be considered as a synarthrosis j it presents no synovial membrane. The f others are arthrodiae; these arthrodise are all single arthrodiae (Gray), except t second & third, which latter are divided into two by interarticular ligaments; in eai, life, however, according to Quain, they are all of them, usually, double arthrod excepting the 7th. In advanced age all the synovial membranes disappear, and t cartilages join with the sternum. - The ligaments ai j Capsular - Thin, blended with anterior & posterior ligaments. j Ant. Chondro-Sternal - The thickest, radiates from ij Front of costal cartilage - Front of sternum. Post. Chondro-Sternal - Thinner, radiates similarly from Back of costal cartilage \>o - Back of sternum. Chondro-Xiphoid - Thin band from I Front of xiphoid appendix to - Front of 1th ^ sometimes ofQth cartilages. i Interarticular - From Crest of costal cartilage to - Point of junction of primitive segments of sternum. -Exii; in the 2nd articulation only (Gray), in which it is attached to the cart age between manubrium & gladiolus; usually exists, in early life, in all t joints except the 1st & the 7th (Quai. CHONDRO-CHONDRAL ARTICULATIONS — Are four or five imperfect arthroc which join the costal cartilages from the 5th or 6th to the 10th; the synovial me branes & the articular facets are often wanting, however, in the first articulation a in the one or two last. - The ligaments a: Capsular - Thin, strengthened by a few fibres termed Intercostal, - Which latter extend from one cartilage to the other. j| CHONDRO-COSTAL ARTICULATIONS — Outer extremity of each costal cartih ' is received into an oval depression on end of corresponding rib, and the rib & the c tilage are bound together by the blending of the periosteum & perichondrii81 I.BTIOULATIONS of the PELVIS. SACRO-ILIAC ARTICULATION or SYNCHONDROSIS — u an amphiarthrosis between contiguous surfaces of sacrum & ilium, the auricular por- tions of which surfaces are covered with plates of cartilage separated by a little soft pulpy tissue, and, in the pregnant female, by a small synovial cavity. The liga- ments are the anterior & posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, from which the greater & lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments cannot well be separated, I Ant. Sacro-Iliac Ligament - Formed of thin irregular fibres which connect the ■ Anterior siirjaces of the two bones. Post. Sacro-Iliac Ligament - Consists of several strong & thick fibrous bands from Posterior rough portion of lateral suface of sacrum to Inner surface of that portion of iliuin^ which projects behind sacrum. One superficial fasciculus termed the Oblique Sacro-Iliac Ligament - Extends from Posterior superior spine of ilium to Back of third or fourth piece of sacruju. Great or Post. Sacro-Sciatic Ligament - strong triangular band expanded at both ends and attached by its base to Posterior inferior spine or ilitwiy and posterior surface dr* margins of sacrum ^ coccyx, and by its apex to Inner margin of tuberosity, and inner margin of ascending ramus of ischium. Lesser or Ant. Sacro-Sciatic Ligament - Thinner triangular band attached by its base to Margins of sacrum ^ coccyx in front of foregoing, and by its apex to Spine of ischium. - It separates the greater & lesser sacro-sciatic foramina. PUBIC ARTICULATION or SYMPHYSIS PUBIS — is an amphiar. throsis. The two oval articular surfaces are covered with plates of cartilage adher- ing firmly to the bones by means of small nipple-like processes which fit into corres- ponding depressions of the osseous surfaces. These plates are joined together by an interarticular fibro-cartilage thicker in front than behind, and in the centre of which, at its upper & back part, is usually found a small synovial cavity. - The liga- ments are: Ant. Pubic Ligament - Thick stratum of superficial oblique «fe deep transverse fibres. Post. & Sup^ Pubic Ligaments - Consist only of a few scattered fibres. Inf. or Sub-Pubic Ligament-Strong fibrous arch attached to rami of pubes on either side. SACRO-COCCYGEAL ARTICULATION — similar to articulations between bodies of vertebrae generally. - Presents: Interarticular Pibro-Cartilage - Which sometimes contains a small synovial cavity. Ant. Sacro-Coccygeal Ligament - From Front op sacrum to Front of coccyx. Post. Sacro-Coccygeal Ligament - From Ma?gins of lower orifice of sacral canal to Back of coccyx. ARTICULATION of PELVIS with SPINE, or LUMBO-SACRAL or SACRO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATION. Similar to articulations between vertebras genei ally, but has two additional ligaments, viz., Lumbo-Sacral or Sacro-Vertebral Ligament - Strong, triangular, fasciculus from. Lower and front part of transverse process of^th lumbar vertebra to Side of base of sacrum. Lumbo-Iliac or Ilio-Lumbar Ligament-From Tip of transverse process of hth lutnbar vertebra to • Back of crest of ilium. A.82 STERNO-OLAVICULAR ARTICULATION Is an articulation by reciprocal reception (Crureilhier) between the clavicular facet of tb sternum & the inner extremity of the clavicle, or rather, as is remarked by Gosselin, betwee the clavicular facet of the sternum & the inner surface of the interarticul ar >fibro-cartilagi Between these two latter a,rticular surfaces there is a most perfect reciprocal adaptation: the sternal articular surface is concave from above downwards & outwards and convex ftroi before backwards ; the corresponding surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage is concav from before backwards and convex from above downwards & outward, The interarticular fibro-cartilage divides the cavity of the articulation into two par lined each of them by a separate synovial membrane. The synovial membrane betwee the sternum & the interarticular fibro-car;ilage is the largest & loosest; it is prolonge between the contiguous articular surfaces of the clavicle & of the first costal cartilage. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is thickest at its circumference, especially above & behind its inner surface, as aforesaid, is concave from before backwards & convex from above dowt •wards & outwards. Its outer surface is concave, and is attached to the clavicle at its nppe & back part. Its circumference is attached to the capsular & to the anterior & posteric ligaments, and, inferiorly, to the cartila'^e of the first rib. - Occasionally the fibro-cartilag is perforated in the centre j the two synovial membranes then communieat) LIGAMENTS-Are: Capsular - Thin & ill.defined, from Circitmference of inner extremity of clavicle to { Margiti of sternal articular Jacet. ' Ant. Sterno-Clavicular - Strong & broad oblique band from Front oj inner extremity of clavicle to I Upper &^ front part of first piece of sternum. :! Post. Sterno-Clavicular - Thinner & narrower; obliquely from ! Back of inner extremity of clavicle to Upper 6^ back pari of first piece of sternum. Interclavicular - Thick flat band, which passes in a curved direction from Upper part of inner extremity of one clavicle to Upper part of inner extremity of other^ being closely connected with tho upp margin of the sternuij Costo-Clavicular or Rhomboid - Short flat cord from jy upper &= injier part of ca7^tilage of first rib to 'r Rhomboid impression on iinder surface oJ clavicle. ' This ligament belongs, properly speaking, not to the sterno-clavicul but to the costo-clavicular articulation. It is usually describ here, however, as it contributes materially to retain the clavicle its situation. - The costo-clavicular articulation is, in fact, a ps of the sterno-clavicular, and the articulation of the inner extremi of the clavicle might well be called the sterno'costo-clavicul MOVEMENTS —The stemo-clavicular or sterno-costo-clavicular articulation admits of mo^ ments in every direction, circumduction included, these movemei are not extensive, however, being limited, by the connexion of t clavicle with the scapula & the upper limb. - The interarticu fibro-cartilage moves with the inner extremity of the clavicle, glidi freely on the articular surface of the sternn83 ICKOMIO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION Is an arthrodial articulation. ABTICUL AR SURFACES — small, flat, elongated from before backwards, and oblique downwards & inwards. LIGAMENTS: Sup. Acromio-ClaviCUlar - strong broad band, from Upper part of outer end of clavicle to Adjoining part of upper surface of acromion. Inf. Acromio-Clavicular - Similar to, but thinner than, preceding, from Under part of outer end of clavicle to Adjoining part of under surface of acro7nio7i. CoraCO-Clavicular - Does not properly form part of tbe articulation but is usually described with it, as it powerfully assists in retaining the clavicle in its normal position. Consists of two fasciculi, the Tkapezoid Ligament - The most anterior & external, quadrilateral, from Upper surface of coracoidprocess to Oblique line on under surface of clavicle - Is joined to the following by its posterior border; Conoid Ligament - Posterior & internal to foregoing, and conical with base upwards, from Base of coracoid process to Conoid tubercle on under surface of clavicle. INTERARTICULAR FIBRO-CARTILAGE — Wedge-shaped with base turned up. wards and attached to superior acromio-olavicular ligament. Is fre- quently absent, and rarely divides the articulation into two cavities, so that there is generally but one synovial membrane. PROPER LIGAMENTS of the SCAPULA Are two in number. Anterior^ or Coraco-Acromial - Broad, thick, triangular; from Apex of acromion to Whole length of outer border of coracoid process. - It completes the vault formed by the coracoid & acromion processes above the head of the humerus, and prevents dislocation of the humerus upwards. - A bursa is interposed between it and the humerus. Posterior, Transverse, or Suprascapular - Narrow band from Base of coracoid process to Inner margin of suprascapular notchj which it converts into a foramen for supra- scapular nerve.84 THE SHOULDER-JOINT Is an enarthrodial articulation, thougli not a typical one; for the glenoid cavity of the scapula is in comparison ynth the head of the humerus, remarkably small & shallow, and there is'little more than a mere apposition between the two bones. Considerable mobility « thus provided for. Displacement is, on the other hand, prevented to a great extent by the presence of the acromion & coracoid processes & coraco-acromial ligament. - Th( articular cartilage is thickest in the centre, on the head of the humerus, thickest at th( periphery, on the glenoid cavity LIGAMENTS: Capsular - From JVeci of scapula round marghi of glenoid cavity to Anafoffiical neck of hmneriis^ extending farthest down humerus along its inner aspect. | This capsule is thicker above than below. It is strengthened by the coraci humeral ligament externally, by the tendons of the supra- & infraspinatus & ter minor behind, and by that of the subscapularis in froD It has two, sometimes three openings, through which the synovial men brane is prolonged upon the tendons of the subscapularis & biceps, and sometimi ' upon that of the infraspinatus. The tendon of the long head of the biceps pe forates the lower part of the capsule, and becomes surrounded, within the joir by a complete sheath of synovial membrar It is remarkably loose, and, when the muscles are cut, it admits of the bon being separated more than an inch. The bones are therefore kept in appositic less by the ligaments themselves than by muscular action «fc atmospheric pressui CoraCO-humeral, or Accessory - strong flat band intimately blended with the capsu and extending obliquely frc Root ^ outer boj-der of coracoid pvcess to Front of great tuberosity of hm?ierus. Glenoid - Would be better described as an extension of the glenoid cavity than as a lif ment, for, unlike the cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint, it does not assist ; keeping the bones together. It is a fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on sectic its thickest portion is attached to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and sharp edge is free. It is continuous above with the tendon of the long head oft' biceps, by the bifurcation of which it is partly form( SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Is prolonged through the above mentioned openings in 1; capsii Upon the tendott of the biceps^ in the shape of a complete sheath, which allows the tend to traverse the articular cavity without being contained there: Upon the tendon of the subscapularis in the shape of a pouch of variable size comprif between the tendon & the subscapular fossa ; and sometin Upon the tendon of the infraspinatus in a similar manner; an independent bursa exi ing at other times between the muscle & the infraspinous fossa. - .. independent bursa exists between the upper part of the capsule the coraco-acromial ligament & delto VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the circumflex & supra-scapular vessels & ner^ MOVEMENTS — The shoulder joint is the freest of all the joints of the body, and admits ' movement in every direction. The acromion & coracoid processes & the cora acromial ligament prevent displacement upwards of the head of the burner and limit, unless the scapula be displaced, the elevation of the arm to about i horizontal positi .'86 THE ELBOW-JOINT Is a ginglymoid articulation between the trochlea & the radial tuberosity or capitellum of the humerus, on the one hand, and, on the other, the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna & the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius. - The articular surfaces of the radius & ulna are continuous with those of the superior radio-ulnar articulation. LIGAMENTS -Are: Anterior - Broad & pretty thick layer of superficial oblique & deeper vertical fibres extending from Inner condyle 6^ front ofJiiwierus just above coronoid fossa to Orbicular ligamentof radiiis ^ under surface of coronoid process ofulna^ - to which vertical & oblique fibres a few transverse ones are added. Posterior - Thin & membranous j consists of a few irregular fibres mainly trans- verse, which connect Apex 6^ sides of olecranon process to Margin of olecranon fossa. External Lateral - Thick, strong, triangular, shorter & narrower than the internal; from External condyle to Orbicular ligament of radius 6^ outer border of ulna. Internal Lateral - Thick, strong, triangular; longer «fe broader than foregoing, and divided into anterior & posterior portions extending respectively from Front, and from lower 6^ back part of inner condyle^ respectively to Inner border of coronoid process, and inner border of olecranon. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Lines the coronoid & olecranon fossee, and dips down be- tween the articular surfaces of the superior radio-ulnar articulation. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY - From the superior & inferior profunda, & the radial, ulnar & interosseous recurrent arteries, and from the ulnar & musculo-cutaneous ^ nerves. MOVEMENTS — T'lexion & extension only, which are limited by the locking of the coronoid & olecranon processes in their respective fossae. - The inner border of the trochlea descending lower than the outer one, the axis of rotation is oblique downwards & inwards; the path of motion lieSj therefore, in a plane, oblique downwards & out- wards, which circumstance, as is remarked by Cruveilhier, brings the hand during flexion naturally and without efibrt towards the mouth.86 RADIO-ULNAR ABTIOULATIONS. Three in number, superior, middle, & inferior, the middle one consisting merely of two ligamenis, the interosseous & the oblique or round, j I SUFEHIOE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION — Lateral ginglymus or diarthrosis rotatorius between circumference of head of radius, on the one hand, and lesser sig. moid cavity & inner surface of orbicular ligament of radius, on the other, the lesser sigmoid cavity corresponding to the broad inner part, and the orbicular ligament to the narrow outer part of the radial articular surface. - The only ligament is the Orbicular Ligament - strong flat band, the four-fifths of a ring, which extends, ' round head & upper part of neck of radius, from Anterior extremity to Posterior extremity of lesser sigmoid cavity of ulna. The circumference of its lower border is narrower than that of its upper border, so that the head of the radius is maintained by it both against the ulna & against the capitellum of the humerus. Its inner surface is lined by the synovial membrane, and forms part of the articular surfaces of the joint. Its outer surface gives attachment to external lateral ligament of elbow-joint and to supinator brevis muscle, MIDDLE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. Interosseous Ligament - strong aponeurotic plane of fibres which pass obliquely downwards & inwards between Contiguous borders of radius (2^ ulna.- It is broadest towards middle, perforated inferiorly for anterior interosseous vessels, and deficient above from about an inch below tubercle of radius, thus leaving for posterior interosseous vessels an opening bounded superiorly by the Oblique or Round Ligament - Narrow fasciculus oblique downwards & out- wards from Coronoid process to Radius half an inch below bicipital tuberosity. INFERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATON — Lateral ginglymus or diarthrosifi rotatorius between head of ulna & sigmoid cavity of radius, to which is added an arthrodia between under surface of head of ulna & the triangular fibro-cartilagei of the articulation. - The ligaments are; Ant. Radio-Ulnar - Narrow band from Anterior exfretriity of sigmoid cavity to Front of head of ulna. Post. Radio-Ulnar - Narrow band from Posterior extremity of sigmoid cavity to Back of head of ulna. Triangular Fibro-Cartilage - The principal band of union, triangular, from Lower margin of sigmoid cavity of radius to Depression at root of styloid process of ulna. Its upper & under surfaces are lined respectively with the synovial mem- branes ot the inferior radio-ulnar & radio-carpal articulations, and theyii come in contact, the one with the head of the ulna, the other with the cunei.- form bone. ^ Its margins are blended with the surrounding ligaments. It ia thinnest in the centre, and sometimes perforated; the two synovial mem. branes above mentioned are then continuous with each other. Synovial Membrane - is very loose, and is termed the membrana sacciforwisv It extends between the triangular fibro-cartilage & the head of the ulna, andi' becomes continuous, when the former is perforated, with the synovial mem«!| brane of the wrist-joint j87 PHE WBIST-JOINT Is a condyloid articulation. ARTICULAR SURFACES: The Condyle - Is formed by three bones, the scaphoid, semilunar, & cuneiform. The Receiving Cavity - Is formed by the under surface of the radius & by the trian- gular fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. - The under sur- face of the radius is divided by a linear elevation into two portions, the outer * triangular, the inner quadrilateral, which portions correspond respectively to the scaphoid and the semilunar; the cuneiform articulates with the under surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage. LIGAMENTS: External Lateral - Short strong band, from A/>ex of styloid process of radms to Outer side of scaphoid trapezium, ^ anterior annular li^mnent of carpus. Internal Lateral - Round cord, from Apex of styloid process of ulna to Cuneiform dr* pisiform bones, dr' anterior annular ligament. Anterior -Strong & broad membrane, from Front of head of ulna, anterior margin of radius (2r» its styloid process to Scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, slightly to os magnum. Posterior - Thinner, from Posterior margin of radius to Scaphoid, semilunar cuneiform. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — Anterior & posterior carpal branches of radial & ulnar, anterior & posterior interosseous arteries, ascending branches of deep palmar arch. - Ulnar nerve. MOVEMENTS — All but rotation.88 THE AKTIOULATIONS of the HAND Are Carpali Carpo-metacarpaJ, Mefacarpo-metacarpaty Metacarpo-phalan^^alj 6^ Phalangeal. CAKPAL ARTICULATIONS - Are: - Articulations of Bones of First Row. Scaphoid, Semilunar & CuNEiroRM - Are joined together by two arthrodial artic. uJations, of which the ligaments are; Dorsal J ^ Two of each, of which the interosseous are the strongest & most Fahnary > important, and the palmar the least important j they join dorsal Interosseous. J palmar & upper part of contif^uous surfaces of the three bones. ' PisiFOKM - Is joined to cuneiform by a separate arthrodial articulation having a special synovial membrane, and two strong ligaments, which latter connect the pisiform bone to the unciform & to the base of the 5th metacarpal, Articulations of Bones of Second Row. Trapezium, Trapezoid, Os Magnum & Unciform - Are joined together by three Dorsal i arthrodial articulations, of which the ligaments are: Palmar. \ Three of each, of which the dorsal are the thickest & strongest. Iiiterosseozis - Three, strong. Sometimes only two, the one between trapezium & trape. zoid being occasionally wanting Articulation of the First Row of Bones with the Second Row of Bones- Consists laterally of two arthrodial articulations between the cuneiform I unciform and between the scaphoid and the trapezium & trapezoid, and h the centre, of a kind of enarthodial articulation formed by the reception ol the head of the os magnum & of the upper part of the unciform into concavitj of scaphoid, semilunar & cuneiform .-The liaraments are • Dorsal - Short, irregular. Palmar - GorsxQX^Q towards os magnum. Lateral - Continuous with lateral ligaments of wrist-joint; connect scaphoid to trape. zium, and cuneiform to unciform CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. Articulation of Trapezium with Metacarpal Bone of Thumb - is an artic ulation by reciprocal reception; the articular surfaces are saddle-shaped that of the trapezium being convex from side to side & concave from befon backwards, and that of the first metacarpal bone being concave from sidt to side & convex from before backwards. The bones are joined together by i Capsular Ligament - Thick, but loose, strongest externally & behind, and lined by separate synovial membrane Articulations of Carpus with Four Inner Metacarpal Bones-Are four arthrodis Second Metacarpal Bone and Trapezium, Trapezoides & Os Magnum; Third Metacarpal Bone „ Os Magnum ; Fourth Metacarpal Bone „ Os Magnum & Unciform; Fifth Metacarpal Bone „ Unciform. - The ligaments are: Dorsal - The strongest; two to each metacarpal bone except the 5th which has but one; Pahnar - Thinner ; three to 3rd metacarpal bone. Interosseous - Connect adjacent surfaces of 3rd & 4th metacarpal bones to contiguon inferior angles of os magnum & unciforni METACARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS — The metacarpal bone of th thumb is not connected to the other bones of the metacarpus. The four inner meta carpal bones are connected to each other both at their carpal & at their digital extremities Carpal Extremities - Are connected by three arthrodial articulations, of whic) Dorsal, i ^ . . , the ligaments are; Palmar \ -trregular, mainly transverse. Interosseous - Pass between the bones just below their articular facets. Digital Extremities - Are all joined together by the Transverse Ligament of the Metacarpus - Single transverse band which crosses the who! width of the metacarpus, and blends inferiorly with the glenoid ligaments c the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations METACARPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS — Are condyloid articulation between rounded heads of the metacarpal bones & oval concave articular surfaces of th corresponding phalanges. - The ligaments are Anterior or Glenoid (Cruveilhier) - Thick fibro-cartilaginous structures continuous later ally with the lateral ligaments, and above with tV.e transverse ligament c the metacarpus; their posterior aspect is lined with synovial membrane and forms part of cavity for head of metacarpal bone; their anterior aspec is grooved for passage of flexor tendons, with steath of which tendon it blends on either sid( Lateral - Strong rounded cords from posterior tubercle on sidesof beads of metacarpa bones to glenoid ligament & sides of first phalange; PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS — Are ginglymoid articulations; the distal extremitie of the two first phalanges are trochlear in shape; the corresponding extremities of th second & third phalanges present two lateral articular concavities separated by a me dian ridge. The ligaments are the same as the in foregoing artioolationj jf'or Syaovial Membranes of Carpus, VidQ next Tablet.89 TASCIM & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the HAND & WRIST. FASCIiS — Are rather ligaments than fasciae proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Continuous above with deep fascia of forearm, and below with palmar fascia; extends from Pisifor7n bone d^" tmciform process of tmcifo7'm to Tubercle of scaphoid, &^ ridge on anterior surface of trapezium. It is pierced by tendon of flexor carpi radialis. Beneath it pass the flexores sublimis & profundus dip;itorura enclosed in one synovial sheath, the flexor longus pollicis enclosed in another sheath, and the median n. Into its anterior surface & upper border are inserted a few fibres of the palmaris longus & flexor carpi ulnaris. From its lower border arise in part the abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis pollicis, and the flexor brevis & opponens minimi digit!. Posterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Thinner than foregoing, from Ctmeiforvi pisiform bones y and lower part of ulna to Styloid process cr= ridges on posterior aspect of radius. Presents six divisions or compartments lined each of them with a separate synovial membrane, and which, from without inwards, correspond to the following osseous grooves, and transmit the following muscles :- 1. - Corresponds to shallow groove on outer side of styloid process of radius. - Trans- mits extensores ossis metacarpi p}-imi irJernodii pollicis. 2. - Corresponds to broad shalloiv groove on posterior aspect of styloid process. — Trans7nits extensores carpi radiates longior brevior. 2' - Co7'responds to nai'row deep groove on back of lotver extremity of radius. — Trans77iits extensor secundi internadiipollicis. 4. - Corresponds to broad &^ shallow groove on back of lower extremity of radius. - Trans7?iits extensores i^idicis &^ co77i77mnis digitoru77i. ^. - Cor7'esponds to groove at point of articulation of radius ^ tilna. - T7'ans77iits extensor 77iini7ni digiti,. 6. — Corresponds to gi'oove on back of head of tilna. - T7'a7is77iits extensor carpi ulnaris. Palmar Fascia — Consists of Two Lateral Portions - Thin. Cover muscles of thumb & little finger, and send pro- cesses between them. Central Portion - Thick, strong, triangular; firmly adherent to integument; covers superficial palmar arch, flexor tendons, & median & ulnar nerves, and gives origin internally to palmaris brevis. It is narrow above, where it receives expanded tendon of palmaris longus, and is attached to anterior annular ligament; and broad below, where it divides into four slips bound together by transverse fibres. Each slip subdivides into two processes, which processes embrace the flexor tendons, and become attached to bases of first phalanges & glenoid ligaments. Between the slips are seen the palmar interosseous & digital arteries, the terminal branches of the median & ulnar nerves, & the tendons of the lumbricales. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Five : - J. - Me7nb7'a7ta Saccifor77iis of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. 2. - Sy7iovial 77ie77ibrane of the radio-ca7pal articulation, comprised between the first row of carpal bones & the under surface of the radius & trian- gular fibro-cartilage. J. - Gene7'al synovial 77ie77ibrane of the ca7'pus, comprised between bones of first row, between bones of second row, between the two rows of bones, between the second row of carpal bones & the four inner metacarpal bones, and finally between the four inner metacarpal bones. 4. - Synovial membrane of the carpo-77ietacarpal articulation of the thianb. 5. - Synovial me7nbrane of the articulation between the cuneiform 6^ pisiform. Tendinous - Vide Anterior & Posterior Annular Ligaments.90 THE HIP-JOINT Is the typical enarthrodial articulation. j AETICULAR SURFACES: Acetabulum - Deep, hemispherical, further deepened in the fresh condition by t^e cotyloii & transverse ligaments. Looks downwards, outwards & forwards. Is divided into Incomplete Articular Ring - Broadest above & behind, and deficient below & in front. 1 Central Non-Abticular Depression - Continuous with cotyloid notch; lodges a mass c fat, which forms a bed for the round ligament; Head of Peraur - Forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere, and, in the normal position of th jimb, looks upwards, inwards & forwards. It presents a little below & behind it centre a small circular depression for attachment of ligamentum teres; near thi depression the cartilage is thicker than elsewhert; LIGAMENTS — Are: - Capsular - short & thick, especially above & in front; thinner & looser below & behind; some *^ times perforated beneath psoas. - It extends fron Outer lip of margin of acetabulum within two or three lines of the cotyloid ligament^ and, opposi the cotyloid notch, from transverse ligament edge of obturator foramen t Anterior intertrochanteric line in front; base of neck of femur, above; and, behind, to back of net of femur, within about half an inch from lesser trochanter 6^ posterior intertrochanteric lin IliO-Femoral or Accessory - A. thickened band closely connected with front of capsul which extends obliquely fro A nterior inferior spine of ilium to Lower part of anterior intertrochanteric line. There are also several other accessory bands, viz., one on the outer side of tl ilio-femoral termed the Ilio-trochanteric, one on the inner side of the ilio-femor; termed the Pubo-femoral; also a transverse band at the back of the join Round Ligament or Ligamentum Teres - laterarticular band about an inch long an of very variable strength & thickness, attached, on the one hand, • Depression a little below 6^ behind centre of head of femur, and on the other hand, dividing in two fasciculi, Margins of cotyloid notch', the two fasciculi blending with the transverse ligament. conveys a few vessels to head of femr Cotyloid - Incomplete fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on section, presenting a base attach( to margin of acetabulum, and a sharp free edge which closely embraces head of fomr It is thickest above & behind, and deficient opposite the cotyloid notch, where it is CO tinued into the transverse ligament. It consists of closely interlaced oblique fibr arising from the difierent points of the rim of the boi Transverse - strong flattened band, a continuation of the foregoing, which extends from O] side of the cotyloid notch to the other, transforming it into a complete forame SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Invests whole of anterior surface & greater part of posterior su face of neck of femur, cotyloid ligament, mass of fat at bottom of acetabulum, & ligamentu teres. - It communicates sometimes through a small opening in the capsule with the bur beneath psoas & iliaci VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From obturator, sciatic & internal circumflex arteries, ai from great sciatic, obturator & accessory obturator nerv( MOVEMENTS — Are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, rotation & circumduction. - Flexion is freer then extension: the thigh can be brought forwards till it touches the a domen, but it cannot be carried backwards to anything like the same extent. Flexion, in fai is scarcely interfered with by the posterior part of the capsule, which is thin & loose; exte sion, on the contary, is soon arrested by the ilio-femoral ligament and by the anterior ps of the capsule, which is short & thick Of the two lateral movements abduction is the freest; it is checked by the action of t pubo-femoral band. Adduction is checked mainly by the two limbs coming in contact, I also partly by the action of the ilio-trochanteric baud. When however flexion & adducti are combined, so that one limb passes in front of the other, the double movement may : carried very far; it is at last arrested, by the action of the round ligament. The round lig ment is also tensed when flexion & abduction are combined and carried to a consideral extent, and when the limb is rotated outwan Rotation inwards is freer than rotation outwards ( rotation being measured from the inti mediate position which the foot normally occupies in standing) ; this is partly due to t greater laxity of the capsule behind than in front, and partly also to the direction forwai both of the head of the femur & of the acetabulum. Rotation takes place round an imagina line extending from the head of the fomur to the centre of the knee-joint. - Circumduction, all other movements generally, is much less free in the hip than in the sholder-joi i The weight of the limb at the hip-joint is normally supported by atmospheric pressure In consequence of the complete exclusion of air from the joint through the accurate adap tion of the cotyloid & transverse ligaments to the head of the femur, the latter is firmly tained in the acetabulum even after all the soft parts around the joint have been divided; I air be allowed to penetrate into the joint through a perforation of the acetabulum fr t within, tie limb will immediately dr91 tNEE-JOINT-lst Tablet.^ I May be described as a double condyloid articulation with a superadded arthrodia. This view is supported by comparative anatomy, for in many mammalia the knee-joint consists of three distinct articulations having separate articular" surfaces, separate synovial membranes, & separate ligaments. In man the articular surface of the femur presents three distinct por- tions, the synovial cavity is partly divided into two by the ligamentum mucosum, and the arrangement of the crucial ligaments clearly suggests that they are to be considered as the adjacent lateral ligaments, internal & external, of the external & internal femoro-tibial joints. ARTICULAR SURFACES: Articular Surfaces of the Femur - Three in number, separated by two slightly depressed posteriorly converging lines, of which lines the one that bounds the patellar surface internally is continued backwards along the outer & front part of the inner condyle so as to cut off an additional narrow tract from the inner side of the intercondyloid notch. Patellae Surpace - Occupies front part of condyles, is trochlear in shape, broadest, highest & most prominent externally; it presents a slight prolongation backwards along inner side of intercondyloid notch, which prolongation it is that articulates during flexion of the knee-joint with the small facet on posterior aspect or inner border of patella (Lenoir, Goodsir). Tibial Surfaces - Cover the slightly flattened under surfaces & the posterior rounded surfaces of the condyles. - The tibial sui'face of the inner condyle is more elongated than that of the outer, and it describes anteriorly a curve of a semi-horse-shoe shape, the convexity of which curve is turned forwards & inwards. Articular Surfaces of the Tibia - Two, the two condyloid surfaces, slightly con- cave, separated by the spine & the rough depressions in front of & behind it. Int. Condyloid Surface - The longest, narrowest & deepest. Ext. Condyloid Surface - The shortest, broadest & shallowest. Articular Surface of the Patella - Divided by a vertical ridge into two lateral & slightly concave portions, of which the Outer Portion - Is the largest & deepest, while the Inner Portion - Is the smallest & shallowest, and is further diminished internally by a slightly marked ridge, which ridge cuts off a narrow marginal facet coming in contact, during flexion of the knee-joint, with the inner border of the intercondyloid notch (Lenoir, Goodsir). - In well marked bones the two principal portions of the articular surface are divided by two trans- verse ridges into three horizontal bands, which bands resi; in succession upcn the femoral trochlea during the movements of flexion & extension of the joint (Goodsir). N, — THE INTERAETICULAR FIBRO-CAETILAGES - (Vide Next Tablet) - May also be considered as forming part of the articular surfaces : - They in- crease the extent & depth of tibial sockets, whose form they also modify ia adaptation to the different curves of the several parts of the femoral con- dyles.92 KNEE-JOINT-2ncl Tablet. INTERARTICULAR SEMILUNAR PIBRO-CARTILAGES May be considered as forming' part of the articular surfaces: - They increase the ext & depth of the tibial sockets, whose form they also modify in adaptation to the dif ent curves of the several parts of the femoral condyles; they are everywhere inves by the synovial membrane, except along their convex border. - Each one presei Under Surface - Flat; rests upon head of tibia. Upper Surface - Concave; supports condyle of femur. Concave Border - Thin, free. Convex Border - Thick, blended with capsule (especially in the case of the internal oi attached to head of tibia by numerous short vertical bands forming the coro) i ligaments^ and connected anteriorly to convex border of its fellow by a thi t variable transverse band, the transverse ligav ';. Anterior Extremity - Thin & pointed in the case of the internal one, coarselj . brous, attached to small pits on rough triangular depression in front of spin f tibia, fAe anterior extre77iity of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage lying in j t to the inner side of, and the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fi ■ cartilage lying behind 6^ to the outer side of the tibial attachment of the ant 'r crucial M^dim . Posterior Extremity - Thickest & broadest in the case of the internal one, also coar f fibrous, attached to small pits on rough triangular depression behind the sj i, the posterior extre77iity of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage lying behind i • nally to the posterior ext7'e7nity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and bot f them lying in front of the tibial attachment of the posterior crucial ligan t. INTERNAL SEMILUNAR FIBRO-CARTILAGE - Is narrower & i e elongated than the external one, and covers a smaller portion of the coi i« ponding articular surface of the tibia. It embraces by its anterior & post* ir extremities, the anterior & posterior extremities of the external semilunar £ )• cartilage. Its convex border is blended with the capsule along nearly le whole of its ex t. EXTERNAL SEMILUNAR FIBRO-CARTILAGE — Is broader & more r. cular than the internal one, and covers a larger portion of the correspon g articular surface of the tibia. Its anterior & posterior extremities are embr d by the anterior & posterior extremities of the internal semilunar fibro-carti e. Its anterior extremity is blended with the anterior crucial ligament. Its «• terior extremity gives off three processes, of which two are attached to le inner tuberosity of the tibia in front of & behind the posterior crucial ligan t, while the third one passes up with this ligament to be attached with it to le inner condyle of the femur. Its convex border is less extensively conne id with the capsule than that of the internal one, for, on the one hand, its extr i- ties lie in the centre of the joint, and, on the other hand, the tendon of the p i- teu3 intervenes between it & the capsule at its outer & back I93 InEE-JOINT-3rd Tablet. LIGAMENTS — Are the: - Anterior Ligament or Ligamentum Patellae - Strong flat band about three inches long, a continuation of tendon of rectus femoris, which extends from Apex of patella ^ rough depression below its articular surface to JLowerpart of tz(l>ercle of tidia, being sepsbmied from upper part of the tubercle by a small bursa. - It is separated from the synovial membrane of the knee- joint by a considerable mass of adipose tissue. Posterior Ligament - Consists of three portions (Cruveilhier, Gray) : - Central Portion or Ligamentum Posticum Winslowii (The only portion described either by Winslow, or by Heath, Quain, & many modern Authors) - Broad flat band partly derived from tendon of semimembranosus, and which extends obliquely from Back part of inner tuberosity of tibia to Upper 6^ back part of outer condyle of femur. Two Lateral Portions (Capsule Fibreuse des Condyles, Cruveilhier) - Closely connec- ted with tendons of gastrocnemius, popliteus, plantaris, and formed chiefly of vertical fibres extending from Condyles jicst above their articular surfaces to Back of head of tibia. - These lateral portions are looked upon by many anatomists as a part of the capsular ligament. Internal Lateral Ligament - Broad flat band from Back part of inner tuberosity of femur to Inner tuberosity 6^ tipper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia, - Covers anterior portion of tendon of semimembranosus & inferior internal articular vessels, and is covered by tendons of sartorius, gracilis & semitendinosus, a bursa being interposed. External Lateral Ligament - Consists of two portions: - Long External Lateral Ligament - Strong rounded cord from Back part of outer tuberosity of femur to Outer part of head of fibula. - It is embraced by the two fasciculi into which the ten- don of the biceps divides, and beneath it pass tendon of popliteus & inferior external articular vessels. Short External Lateral Ligament - Accessory & somewhat variable bundle of fibres intimately blended with capsule, lying behind foregoing & on outer side of tendon of popliteus, and extending from Lower back part of otcter tuberosity of femur to Apex of styloid process of fibula. Capsular Ligament - Lies in contact with the synovial membrane, and beneath the other ligaments, which it binds together. It is strengthened by expansions from the fascia lata and from the vasti, biceps, sartorius & semimembranosus; the ex- pansions from the fascia lata & the vasti forming, on either side of the patella, the so-called lateral patellar ligaments. It is attached to Femur just above the articular surfaces^ Upper border sides of patella ^ Margins of head of tibia cr^ semilunar fibrO'Cartilages. Crucial Ligaments-Two, project into the interior of the joint from behind, and cross each other obliquely like the bars of an X. Anterior Crucial Ligament - The most oblique & somewhat the smaller, from Inner part of rough triangular depression in front of spine of tibia between points of attach- ment of anterior extremities of both semilunar fibro-cartilages, and partly also from anterior extremity of the external settiilunar fibro-cartilage i:self to Inner &' back part of outer condyle offetnur. Posterior Crucial Ligament - The thickest & strongest. •Nearly vertically from Back part of rough depression behind spine of tibia, behind points of atlach?fient of posterior extremities of both semilunar fibro-cartilages, and partly from posterior extremity of external semilwiar fibro-cartilage itself to Anterior &> outer part of inner condyle of femur front of inter condyloid notch. Transverse & Coronary Ligaments-Vide preceding Tablet. Ligamentum Mucosum & Ligamenta Alaria - Vide next Tablet94 KNEE-JOINT—4th Tablet. I SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. Is the largest synovial membrane in the body. Its particularities are as follows: - 1. That it forms a large cul-de-sac beneath the extensor muscles of the • gi which cul-de-sac extends upwards for an inch or two above the articular surface! an is supported during the movements of the joint by the subcrurseus muscle, wh i i inserted into it. - This cul-de-sac is sometimes replaced by a bursa, which may >m municate with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint by an opening of variabl iz( 2. That on each side of the patella it extends a considerable distance be atl the aponeuroses of the vasti, covering the tuberosities of the femur, especial th inner one. 3. That below the patella it rests upon a large quantity of adipose tissue, icl adipose tissue, projecting into the joint in the shape of three processes sheathe( ritl synovial membrane, forms the ligamenhun mticosum and the ligavienta alaria. Fh. former is attached to the front of the intercondyloid notch; the two latter pas: bli quely from the ligamentum mucosum, and fit into the space between the tibia, p: 11a and femur. - The ligamentum mucosum supports the synovial membrane & t fa below the patella when the patella tends to descend in front of the knee-joint, .'hi happens when, in the standing position, the body rests against some external c BC< for both flexor & extensor muscles then relax, their action being unnecessary to iin tain the equilibrium. 4. That it invests the semilunar fibro-cartilages except at their convex ( .at tached margin, and surrounds the crucial ligaments laterally & in front. 5. That it extends, under cover of the capsule, beneath the heads of the ga foc nemius, and is prolonged through an opening in the capsule, beneath the ten % o the popliteus. 6. That it is sometimes continued into the superior tibio-fibular articulatioi | VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the five articular branches of th. *p liteal artery, the anastomotica magna, & the recurrent branch of the tibial, and ron the anterior crural, obturator, & internal & external popliteal nerves.95 KNEE-JOINT —5th Tablet. MOVEMENTS - Are 1. " Antcro-posterior combined with a slight amount of rotation of the tibia, inwards in flexion, outwards in extension. 2. - Independent rotatory movements. ANTERO-POSTERIOR MOVEMENTS: 1. The tibia glides backwards & forwards upon tho femoral condyles, rotating slightly inwards in flexion, outwards in extension, the semilunar fibro-cartilages at the same time receding towards the centre, or spreading out towards the peri- phery of the tibial sockets, in adaptation of the size & curve of these sockets to the greater or less convexity of the several portions of the femoral condyles. -It is towards the anterior & posterior extremities of the tibial sockets that tho semi- lunar fibro-cartilages are most movable, and the external fibro-cartilago is the most movable of the two. S. The patella moves in a plane oblique downwards & outwards. In Extreme Flexion 1. The tibial sockets lie in contact with the posterior rounded portion of the femoral condyles, and their concavity is increased & their area dimin- ished by the recession of the semilunar fibro-cariilages towards the centre of the joint. 2. The patella lies on the outer side of the joint. The upper part of its artic- ular surface (or the upper of the three horizontal bands into which, in well marked bones, this articular surface is divided) rests upon the lower part of the patellar surface of the femur; its narrow marginal facet rests upon the inner border of the intercondyloid notch. As the Leg is Brought Forwards 1. The tibial sockets glide forwards, Jiist slozvly 6^ both at the same rate, over the posterior rounded portion of the condyles (over which posterior rounded portion a very slight displacement of the tibial sockets corresponds to a considerable angular movement of the leg), then tnore rapidly, and the inter- val tibial socket more rapidly than the otitcr one, over the inferior flattened portion of the condyles, the tibia rotating slightly outwards. - The semilu- nar fibro-cartilages spread out at the same time towards the periphery of the tibial sockets, both diminishing their concavity and increasing their area. 2. The patella passes upwards & inwards in front of the joint, and the middle part of its articular surface (or the second of the three bands into which, in well marked bones, this articular surface is divided) comes in contact with, and ascends upon, the femoral trochlea. In Complete Extension. 1. The tibial sockets reach the anterior limits of the tibial portion of the femoral condyles ; the semilunar fibro-cartilages still further spread out towards the periplierv of the joint. 2. The patella ascends almost entirely above the femoral trochlea, the lower part only of its posterior surface (or the lower only of the three bands into which, in well marked bones, that surface is divided) still resting upon the femoral articular surface. The bone lies prominently theretore at the upper & inner part of the joint; it is freely movable from side to side when the extensor muscles arerelaxed; its apex is directed downwards «fe outwards. The ligamentiun patella: is stretched in the flexed, and relaxed in the ex- tended position ot tiie joint (if the extensor muscles aie not in a state of con- traction). The lateral k the posterior ligaments are stretclied in the extended, and relaxed in the flexed position. Tiie crucial ligaments are lelaxed in all tho intermediate positions; they only come into play, the anterior one in nearly complete extension, the posterior one in nearly complote flexion. INDEPENDENT ROTATORY MOVEMENTS — Tako placo only in the semi- flexed position ot tho limb, when (Vide above) all tho li^^aments are relaxed. Kotation inwards is produced by the popliteus, and is bounded by tho iuterlockinj; of the crucial ligaments & by the separate aciion of tlie anterior one. Kotation outwards is produced by the biceps, and is bounded by the action of tho lateral ligaments, ot which the inner one is first put on the stretch.TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS j I Are three in number, the superior, middle, & inferior, the middle one consisting merely of t \ interosseous membra | j SUPERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION — Is an arthrodia. The artiou |' surfaces are small, oval, flat, oblique downwards & inwards. The synovial mc. bi-ane is sometimes continuous with that of the knee-joint. The ligaments a ; Anterior Superior Tibio-Fibular -Two or three strong flat bands extendi obliquely fr 'i Front of head of fibula to Front of outer tuberosity of tibia. \ Posterior Superior Tibio-Fibular - Single thick band extending obliquely fiji Back of head of fibula to | Back of outer tuberosity of tibia. | MIDDLE TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION. \ Interosseous Membrane - strong aponeurotic plane of fibres which pass obliqi jr downwards & outwards bet'w ja Contiguous borders of tibia fibula - It is broader above than below, |i presents superiorly a large aperture for the anterior tibial vessels, ii inferiorly, a smaller one for the anterior peroneal. It is continuous be y with the interosseous tibio-fibular ligam 3. INFERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION — Is an amphiarthrosis (Crir |. hier). Inferiorly, over an extent of about two lines, the two bones are flat, smoot |k covered with a layer of cartilage continuous with that of the ankle-joint j above is they are rough, and the tibial surface is concave and the fibular surface conv6 'i- The ligaments i I: Anterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular - Triangular flat band extending obliquely f'31 Front of external malleohts to L Front of lower part of tibia. 1 Posterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular - Narrow & thinner band from I Back of external malleolus to f Back of lower part of tibia - It is continuous inferiorly with the transverse 1!^ nil*. Interosseous - The chief bond of union. Formed of short strong fibres exten lg bet^ jn Contiguous rough su?faces of tibia 6^ fibula, \ Transverse - Long narrow band which projects posteriorly below the margins &ipo bones, and forms part of the articular surface for the astragalus; it tends m Back of external malleolus to Back of lower part of tibia a short distance from the internal malleolus.97 E ANKLE-JOINT Is a ginglymoid articulatiot* ARTICULAR SURFACES: - The Trochlea - is formed by the upper articular surface & the two lateral facets of the astragalus. The upper articular surface is broadest in front, convex from before backwards, & slightly concave from side to side; its outer border is a little longer than the inner one, and is slightly curved inwards posteriorly. Of the two lateral facets, the external one is the largest. The Receiving Cavity - is formed by the under surface of the lower extremity ot the tibia, and by the outer & inner surfaces respectively of the internal & external malleoli. The under surface of the lower extremity of the tibia is quadrilateral, broadest in front, concave from before backwards, and marked by a slight antero- posterior elevation separating two shallow lateral depressions. Of the articular facets of the two malleoli, that of the outer one is the largest. LIGAMENTS -Are.- Anterior & Posterior - Very thin, especially the posterior one, and consisting merely of a few scattered fibres extending between the tibia & the astragalus at the mar- gin of their articular surfaces. - The fibres of the posterior ligament are mainly transverse. Internal Lateral - Consists of two layers: - Superficial Layer, or Deltoid Ligament - Strong triangular band, which radiates from Apex and anterior posterior borders of internal malleolus to Inner part of scaphoid <Sr^ inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; lesser process of os calcis ; and back part of inner surface of astragalus. Deep Layer (Cruveilhier, Gray) - Short thick vertical band from Apex of internal malleolus to Inner surface of astragalus below its articular facet. External Lateral - Consists of three separate fasciculi: - Anterior Fasciculus - Short, thick, nearly horizontally from Anterior border of external malleolus to Astragalus in front of its external articular facet. Middle Fasciculus - Longer, rounded, from Apex of external jnalleolus to Middle o^ outer surface of os calcis. Posterior Fasciculus - The strongest, deeply situated ; nearly horizontally from Depression at inn 'r 6^ back part of external malleolus to Astragalus behind its external articular facet as far as groove for flexor longus pollicis, SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE - Communicates with that of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and the termination of the anterior peroneal, and from the anterior tibial nerve. MOVEMENTS — Are flexion & extension with a slight amount of lateral mobility in the ex- tended position. - In the flexed position the wide anterior part of the trochlea lies in the narrow posterior part of the receiving cavity, and the posterior fibres of tha lateral ligaments are on the stretch ; all lateral movement is then impossible. In the extended position the narrow posterior part of the trochlea lies in the wide anterior part of the receiving cavity, and, the lateral ligaments being relaxed (except in forced extension), a considerable amount of lateral movement is per- mitted: -Adduction is produced by the tibialis anticus, abduction by the peronei. In forced extension, however, the anterior fibres of the lateral ligaments become tensed, and movement from side to side is again prohibited. - Forced extension is accompanied by a slight amount of adduction in consequence of the outer border of the trochlea being a little longer than the inner one and slightly curved inwards posteriorly. A.98 ARTICULATIONS of the FOOT Are tarsal^ tarso-metatarsal, metatarso-metatarsal, metafarsO'phalangeal ^phalangeal. TARSAL ARTICULATIONS — Form three sets: - Articulations of Bones of First Row. Astragalus & Os Calcis are joined by two arthrodial articulations, of which the ligament ir Interosseous Calcaneo-Astragaloid - Broad thick band of vertical & oblique fibres passing from th .e grooye on one bone to the deep groove on the other. It is the principal bond of ic External Calcaneo-Astragaloid - Short thick band from outer surface of astragalus below its t< nal articular facet to outer surface of os Ic Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid-^\amx.^x\>^Vi^^vQxn. posterior surface of astragalus to contiguoi] 3a of upper surface of os lie Articulations of Bones of Second Row. Scaphoid, Cuboid & the Three Cuneiform Bones are joined by arthrodial articulatr j, Dorsal _ ;^urnerous, irregular; the dorsal are the thickest & strongest. "^^'^^ ^^^^ j*' Plantar j ' » ' » \ Interosseous - Four, strong; connect adjacent non-articular portions of the three cuneiform on & the cuboid, and of the scaphoid & «)o Articulations of the First Row of Bones with the Second Row of Bones. The Astragalus & the Scaphoid, on the one hand, and the Os Calcis & the Cuboid, t other, are joined by two arthrodial articulations, of which the ligamei ,ai Sup. Astragalo-Scaphoid-Broa.d^ thin; from upper surf, of neck of astragalus to upper surf, of sc; loi Siip- CVz/f^zwif^^-Cwi^c/a'-Thin & narrow band joining os calcis & cuboid on their superior external jei Long Calcaneo-Cuboid - Long broad & strong band from under surf, of os calcis between t ai & the two post, tubercles, to ridge on under surface of cuboid & to base of 2ud 3r % 4 metatarsal bones. - It transforms the groove for peroneus longus into a complete im Short Calcaneo-Cuboid - Short broad & strong band, which underlies foregoing, and which < en from anterior tubercle & groove on under surface of os calcis to under surface of bo behind peroneal 30i Int. or Interosseous Calcaneo-Cuboid-Short thick band from upper & inner part of greater proct of calcis to inner side of cuboid. Blends posteriorly with the sup. calcaneo-scaph( li; To the foregoing ligaments must be added the two following, which may i co sidered, especially the latter one, as belonging to the astragalo-scaphoid artic ,tic Superior Calcaneo-ScapJioid - Short thick band blended posteriorly with foregoing, and m\ forwards anteriorly to outer side of sc hoi Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid - Very thick, strong, broad, and somewhat triangular band ex idii from anterior border of lesser process of os calcis to under surface of scaph( . supports the head of the astragalus, and forms part of the articular cavity inti rhii the latter is received; it is lined superiorly by the synovial membrane which coi mon to the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid & astragalo-scaphoid artici tioi TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS — Are arthrodial joints between : First Metatarsal Bone and Internal Cuneiform; Second Metatarsal Bone „ All Three Cuneiform Bones, which bones form t eth a deep recess into which the second metatarsal bone is re ive( Third Metatarsal Bone and External Cuneiform ; Fourth Metatarsal Bone „ External Cuneiform (usually) & Cuboid; Fifth Metatarsal Bone „ Cuboid. - The ligaments are: Z>i7r^a/- Thick; join each metatarsal bone to corr esponding tarsal bone, the second me iars bone having three dorsal ligaments, one from each cui forr P/aw^ar - Thinner & less regular, especially those belonging to the 4th & 5th metatarsa lone Those belonging to the 1st & 2nd are much stronger ; those belonging to the 2d '& 3i are strengthened by oblique bands passing forwards from the internal cu ifon Interosseotis - Three, strong; between internal cuneiform & 2nd metatarsal bone, and 5we( external cuneiform & 2nd & 3rd metatars£ )one METATARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS — The metatarsal bones are conn led each other, both at their tarsal & at their digital exti aitie Taesal Extremities - Are connected by arthrodial a' ticulations, except in the case of )lst Dorsal 2nd metatarsal bs., between which there is no direct contact. Tdelig are Palmar C - Of which the interosseous are the strongest & most important, and th dors Interosseous } the least in )rtaii Digital Extremities - Are all joined together by the Transverse Metatarsal Ligament - Transverse band which crosses whole width of metatar J,_ar blends anteriorly with the glenoid ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal artic ition METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS—Are condyloid articulations simi totl Anterior or Glenoid ( Cruveilhier) \ . metacarpo-phalangeal. The ligts. are also sin:i|ar,vii Lateral - Two for each. \ - Vide Metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. | PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS — Are ginglymoid articulations similar to those of th |.nger The ligaments are the same as those of the foregoing artic itw^ For Synovial Membranes of the Tarsus, Vide next Tablet. 199 ^ASCI^ & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the TARSUS. FASCIiE — Are rather ligaments than fasciaB proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior'Annular Ligament - Consists of two portions connected by a thin inter- venirig layer of fascia. Superior or Vertical Portion - Of considerable breadth & contianous super- iorly with deep fascia of leg. It extends from lower part of anterior border of tibia to lower part of anterior border of fibula. Inferior or Horizontal Portion. - Narrower and continuous anteriorly with deep fascia over dorsum of foot. It extends from upper surface of os calcis, in front of groove for interosseous calcaneo-astra^aloid ligament, to internal malleolus & inner border of plantar fascia. Beneath anterior annular ligament pass from within outwards: - J. - Tendon of tibialis anticus contained throughout in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of extensor proprius pollicis contained in a synovial sheath beneath the inferior or horizontal portion of the ligament only. ^. - Anterior tibial vessels dr= nerve. 4. - Tendons of extensor longus digitonun peroneiis tertius enclosed throughout in one synovial sheath. Internal Annular Ligament - strong fibrous band continuous superiorly with deep fascia of leg, and giving origin inferiorly to innermost fibres of abductor pollicis. It extends obliquely from internal malleolus to inner surface of os calcis. Beneath it pass from before backwards & outwards: - X. - Tendon of the tibialis posticus contained in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of the flexor longus digitortim contained in another synovial sheath. 2' - Posterior tibial vessels <2j^ nerve. 4. - Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis also contained in a synovial sheath, and situated at a considerabl3 depth in a groove on posterior surface of astragalus. External Annular Ligament-Narrower & thinner band extending from exter- nal malleolus to outer surface of os calcis, and beneath which pass Tendons of peronei both enclosed in one synovial sheath. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Six: - /. - Synovial membrane of posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. 2.-Synovial membrane co7nmon to the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid <Sr» astragalo-scaphoid articulations. ^. - Synovial membrane of calcaneo-cuboid articulation. 4. - General synovial me?nbrane of the tarsus comprised between the scaphoid & the three cuneiform bones, between the three cunei- form bones, between the external cuneiform bone & the cuboid, between the middle & external cuneiform bones on the one hand and the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones on the other, between the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones. - Sometimes there is a separate synovial membrane between the scaphoid & the cuboid. jr. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the ctcboid and the 4th ^ ^th metatarsal bones. 6. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the first cuneiform bone the first metatarsal. Tendinous - Vide Annular Ligarueats.THE MUSCLES.I103 ! HE MUSCLES of the FACE Are the: OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS. Frontal Portion - Innermost fibres are continuous -with pyramiclalis nasi, the others blend with orbicularis palpebrarum & corrugator supercilii. Occipital Portion - Outer two-thirds of superior curved line of occipital bone, and mastoid portion of temporal. The intervening epicranial aponeurosis is attached behind, between th© two occipital portions, to the external occipital protuberance & to the superior curved lines j laterally it gives attachment to the attrahens & attollens aurem, and, becoming considerably thinned, passes over the temporal fascia to the zygoma. - It is intimately connected to the integument, loosely to the peri- cranium. S., frontal portion by facial nerve, occipital portion by small occipital branch of cervical plexus & by auricular branch of facial. MUSCLES of the EAR. Attollens Aurem, or Auricularis Superior - Temporal portion of epicranial aponeurosis. Upper and anterior part of helix & upper part of concha. - S. by small occipital branch of cervical plexus. Attrahens Aurem, or Auricularis Anterior - Lateral prolongation of epicranial aponeurosis below & in front of preceding. Front part of helix, - S. by facial nerve. Retrahens Aurem, or Auricularis Posterior - Mastoid process. ^ Back of concha - S. by auricular branch of facial. MUSCLES of the NOSE. MUSCLES of the EYELIDS & ORBIT. MUSCLES of the MOUTH. ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the LOWER JAW - Vide following Tablets.104 MUSCLES of the PACE—2nd Tablet. MUSCLES OP THE NOSE. Pyramidalis Nasi - Continuous superiorly with innermost fibres of occipito-froutalig. J Aponeurosis of compressor nasi. j Compressor Nasi - Lower & inner part of canine fosa. j Aponeurosis continuous with that of its fellow over bridge of nose. Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of superior maxilla. I Cartilage of ala of nose and upper lip blending with orbicularis & levator labii superioris proprius. Depressor Alse Nasi - Myrtiform fossa or incisor fossa of upper jaw. ! Septum and back part of ala of nose. Irregular and indistinct fasciculi may be found over the alar cartilages forming thei Levator Proprius Al^ Nasi Posterior or Dilatator Naris Posterior, 1 Levator Proprius Al^. Nasi Anterior or Dilatator Naris Anterior, i Compressor Narium Minor. i MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS. Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Anterior surface and edges of tendo oculi, iuternal an. gular process of frontal, nasal process of superior maxilla in front of lachryma! groove. j Orbicular Portion - Thick & red, forms complete ellipses, and blends superiorly wit! occipito-frontalis and corrugator supercilii. Palpebral or Ciliary Portion - Thin & pale, forms a series of concentric curves, ancljjj is inserted externally into external tarsal ligament & malar bone. TENDO OCULI OR TENDO PALPEBRARUM - From nasal process of superioi! maxilla in front of lachrymal groove. Crosses anterior aspect of lachrymal sac giving off a fibrous lamina, the reflected portion of the tendo oculi, which passes backwards & inwards behind lachrymal sac to be attached to ridge on lachrymal bone. Bifurcates and is attached to inner extremity of each tarsal cartilage, Corrugator Supercilii - inner extremity of superciliary ridge of frontal. Under surface of orbicularis & occipito-frontalis. ; Tensor Tarsi - Ridgo & posterior part of outer surface of lachrymal bone. Crosses posterior aspect of lachrymal sac, and divides into two slips whick are inserted into tarsal cartilages near puncta lachrymalia. - May be coa- sidered as a deep part of ciliary portion of orbicularis. Levator Palpebrse Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen and externally to superior oblique. Upper bnrder of tarsal cartilage.105 PHE MUSCLES of the PACE-3rd Tablet. MUSCLES of the ORBIT. OKIGINS. Internal & Inferior Recti & Lower Head of External Rectus - incomplete fibrous ring termed the ligament of Zinn, which surrounds optic foramen, except at its upper & outer pr fc. - Lower head of external rectus also arises from a small spine on orbital surface of greater wing of sphenoid. Superior Rectus & Upper Head of External Rectus - Upper margin & upper part of onter margin of optic foramen. Levator Palpebrse Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen & externally to superior oblique. Superior Oblique - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen & internally to levator palpebrae superioris. Inferior Oblique - Depression on orbital plate of superior maxilla close to lachrymal groove. INSERTIONS. Tlie Pour Recti - Fore part of sclerotic about four lines from cornea. Superior & Inferior Oblique - Upper & outer part of sclerotic between superior & external recti and midway beteen cornea & optic nerve. Levator Palpebrse Superioris - Upper border of superior tarsal cartilage. NERVE-SUPPLY — Levator palpebrae superioris & superior rectus, upper division ef Zrd nerve; - internal & inferior recti and inferior oblique, lower division ofZrd nei-ve: - superior oblique, Aih nerve; - external rectus, 6//5 nerve.106 i MUSCLES of the FACE—4th Tablet. MUSCLES of the MOUTH. Orbicularis Oris - Consists of three portions : Labial or Marginal Portion - Continued uninterruptedly from one lip to the othei round the commissures of the mouth. Facial Portion - Central fibres decussate with, the others are directly continnoun with, fibres of buccinator. Accessory Portion - Consists for the upper lip of four fasciculi, the musculi acces. sorii orbicularis superiores, arising from superior maxilla opposite incisor teeth & from septum of the nose; and for lower lip, of two fasciculi, the musculi acces-i sorii orbicularis inferiores, from inferior maxilla near the canine teeth. Inserted into this muscle and into the integument covering it from the middle of the upper lip to the middle of the lower lip, are the following muscles (the last excepted), which all blend more or less with each other : - Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of superioi maxilla. Levator Proprius Labii Superioris - Superior maxillary & malar bones close k margin of orbit. Levator Anguli Oris or Musculus Caninus - Canine fossa just below infra orbital foramen. Zygomaticus Minor - Lower and front part of malar bone. Zygomaticus Major - Malar bone near zygomatic suture. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar processes of superior & inferior maxillae correa ponding to the molar teeth, and from pterygo-maxillary ligament (which lattei is a fibrous band extending from apex of internal pterygoid plate to posterioj extremity of mylo-hyoid iddge of lower jaw, and which gives attachment poster iorly to superior constrictor of pharynx). jl Its fibres are continuous with those of facial portion of orbicularis oris, thd; middle ones decussating, the superior & inferior ones passing directly into corresl! ponding lip. Risorius - Fascia over parotid gland & masseter. - Is often described a3 the upper par|' of platysma myoides. Depressor Anguli Oris or Triangularis Oris - External oblique line of lower jaTji externally to mental foramen. Depressor Labii Inferioris or Quadra tus Menti - External oblique line of loweii jaw between symphysis & mental foramen. Levator Labii Inferioris or Levator Menti - incisor fossa of lower jaw, Intecrument of chin close to median line.107 USCLES of the FACE-5th Tablet. ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the LOWER JAW. Masseter. SuPEEFiciAL Portion - Anterior two-thirds of lower border of zygomatic arch. Angle & lower half of outer surface of ramus. Deep PoRTiOiN - Posterior third of lower border & inner surface of zygomatic arch. Upper half of outer surface of ramus & coronoid process. - S. by anterior or smaller division of inferior maxillary nerve. Temporal - Whole extent of temporal fossa, except anterior wall, inner surface of tern- poral fascia. Apex, inner surface & anterior border of coronoid process down to its root. - S. by anterior or smaller division of inferior maxillary nerve. Internal Pterygoid - Pterygoid fossa, and more particularly from inner surface of ex- ternal pterygoid plate, and from groove on pterygoid process of palate bone. Angle and inner surface of ramus as high as dental foramen. - S. by ante- rior or smaller division of inferior maxillary nerve. External Pterygoid. Upper Head - Pterygoid ridge & portion of under surface of great wing of sphenoid between it and base of pterygoid process. Lower Head - Outer surface of external pterygoid plate «fe tuberosity of superior maxillary and palate bones. Depression on front of neck of condyle & interarticular fibro-cartilage of temporo-maxillary articulation. - S. by anterior or smaller division of inferior maxillary nerve.108 MUSCLES of the NECK-lst Tablet. SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES, Platysma Myoides - Clavicle, acromion, fascia over pectoralia major, deltoid, & trapezius. Innermost fibres decussate below cbin & in front of symphysis; others are inserted into lower jaw below external oblique line; others blend with depressores labii inferioris & anguli oris and the other muscles of the mouthj forming risorius. - S. by superficial cervical plexus and facial nerve. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid. Stebnal Portion - Upper & outer part of front of first piece of sternum. Clavicular Portion - Anterior surface & upper border of inner third of clavicle. Anterior border & outer surface of mastoid process and outer two-thirda of superior curved line of occipital bone. - S. by deep external branches oi cervical plexus & by spinal accessory nerve. INFRA-HYOID REGION. Stemo-Hyoid or Sterno-Cleido-Hyoid - Variously from posterior sterno-clavicBla: ligament, and from upper & back part of first piece of sternum or back o inner extremity of clavicle, or from both; sometimes from clavicle only; occa sionally from cartilage of first rib. Lower border of body of hyoid bone internally to omo-hyoid. - S. by i branch from loop between descendens & communicans noni nerves. StemO-Thyroid - Back of first piece of sternum below & internally to sterno-hyoid. Oblique line on ala of thyroid cartilage. - S. by a branch from sam source. Omo-Hyoid - Upper border of scapula on inner side of suprascapular notch and some times from transverse ligament. j Lower border of body of hyoid bone externally to sterno-hyoid. - S. by i branch from loop between descendens & communicans noni nerves. Tliyro-Hyoid - Oblique line on ala of thyroid cartilage. Lower border of body & greater cornu of hyoid bone. - S. by hypoglossal i SUPRA-HYOID REGION. j Digastric - Digastric groove on inner side of mastoid process. - Perforates stylo-hyoi and is held in connection with body & great cornu of hyoid bone by an apoin eurotic loop lined with synovial membrane, from which loop it is reflecte|| upwards & forwards to i Rough depression on inner lip of lower border of jaw bone close to syn physis. - S., posterior belly by facial nerve, anterior belly by mylo-hyoi branch of inferior dental nerve. Stylo-Hyoid - Middle of outer surface of styloid process. Body of hyoid bone at its junction with great cornu. - S. by facial nerv' MylO-Hyoid - Whole length of mylo-hyoid ridge. Body of hyoid bone & median raph6 from hyoid bone to symphysis. mylo-hyoid branch of inferior dental nerve. Genio-Hyoid - inferior genial tubercle. Anterior surface of body of hyoid bone. - S. by hypoglossal nerve.109 MUSCLES of the NECK-2nd Tablet. ANTERIOR VERTEBRAL REGION. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major-Anterior tubercles of the transverse procesaes of the 3rd, 4th, 5th, & 6th cervical vertebrae. Basilar process in front of rectus capitis anticus minor. - S. by anterior branch of suboccipital nerve & by deep internal branches of cervical plexus. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor - Front of the lateral mass of the atlas and root of its transverse process. Basilar process behind rectus capitis anticus major. - S. by sub-occipital nerve, & by deep internal branches of cervical plexus. Rectus Lateralis - Upper surface of transverse process of atlas. Jugular process of occipital bone. - S. by sub-occipital nerve. Longus Colli. Superior Oblique Portion - Anterior tubercles of transverse processes of 3rd, 4th, & 5th cervical vertebrae. Tubercle on anterior arch of atlas. Inferior Oblique Portion - Front of bodies of two or three upper dorsal vertebrae. Anterior tubercles of transverse processes of 5th & 6th cervical vertebrae. Vertical Portion - Front of bodies of lower three cervical & of two or three upper dorsal vertebrae. Front of bodies of 2nd, 3rd, 4th cervical vertebrae. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. LATERAL VERTEBRAL REGION. Scalenus Anticus - Tubercle on inner border and upper surface of 1st rib. Anterior tubercles of transverse processes of 3rd, 4th, 5th, & 6ch cervical vertebrae. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. Scalenus Medius - Upper surface of first rib behind groove for subclavian artery. Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of six lower cervical vertebraa. S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. Scalenus Posticus - Back of outer surface of 2nd rib. Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of two or three lower cervical rertebrae. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus.110 MUSCLES of UPPEB LIMB-lst Tablet. ANTERIOR THORACIC REGION. Pectoralis Major - Anterior surface of inner half of clavicle; corresponding half of front of sternum; cartilages of all the true ribs except 1st or 7th or both ; apon- eurosis of external oblique. Anterior or outer edge of bicipital groove of humerus. - S. by internal & external anterior thoracic nerves. Pectoralis Minor - Outer surface & upper border of the 3rd 4th & 5th ribs near their extremities. . Inner border of coracoid process of scapula. - S. by internal anterior thoracic nerve. Subclavius - Cartilage of first rib in front of rhomboid ligament. Groove on under surface of middle third of clavicle. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. LATERAL THORACIC REGION. Serratus Magnus - By ^li^e digitations from outer surface & upper border of eight i' upper ribs (the 2nd rib having two digitations). Whole length of anterior lip of posterior border of scapula, the two upper digitations being inserted into triangular smooth surface on anterior aspect of superior angle, the three middle digitations into posterior border between superior ! & inferior angles, and the four lower digitations into anterior aspect of inferior angle. - S. by posterior or long thoracic nerve or external respiratory nerve of Sir C. Bell. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. Deltoid - Upper surface & anterior border of outer half of clavicle; upper surface & outer border of acromion; whole length of lower lip of posterior border of spine of scapula. Rough triangular prominence a little above middle of outer surface of shaft of humerus. - S. by circumflex nerve. Subscapularis - inner two-thirds of subscapular fossa ; tendinous laminae attached to i; ridges of said fossa; aponeurosis which separates it from teres major. Into lesser tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down. - S. by the two upper subscapular nerves from posterior cord of brachial plexus. Supraspinatus - inner two-thirds of supraspinous fossa & fascia which covers it. Highest of the three facets on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by j suprascapular nerve. Infraspinatus - inner two-thirds of infraspinous fossa & ridges on its surface; fasciaa i; which separate it from the teres major & minor. Middle facet on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by suprascapular nerve. , Teres Minor - Upper two-thirds of dorsal aspect of axillary border of scapula; intermuscular septa which separate it from infraspinatus & teres major. Lowest facet on greater tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy flbres into the neck for a short distance lower down - S. by a branch of circumflex »erve. Teres Major-Dorsal aspect of inferior angle of scapula; intermuscular septa which i separate it from infraspinatus & teres minor. Inner or posterior edge of bicipital groove of humerus. - S. by a branch from lower subscapular nerve.Ill lUSOLES of UPPER LIMB-2nd Tablet. ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. . Biceps. Short Head - Tip of coracoid process of scapula in common witli coraco-brachialis. Long Head - Top of glenoid cavity of scapula & glenoid ligament. Back part of bicipital tuberosity of the radius. - S. by musculo-cutaneous nerve. Coraco-brachialis - Tip of coracoid process of scapula in common with short head of biceps. Eough impression a little above middle of inner surface of shaft of humerus. - S. by musculo-cutaneous nerve. Brachialis AnticUS - Lower half of inner & outer surfaces of shaft of humerus; front of internal & external intermuscular septa. Under surface of coronoid process of ulna. - S. by musculo-cutaneous & musculo-spiral nerves. POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. Triceps. Long Head - Eough triangular depression below glenoid cavity of scapula, and slightly from capsule of shoulder-joint. Outer Head - Posterior surface of shaft of humerus above musculo-spiral groove; outer border of humerus; external intermuscular septum. Inner Head - Posterior surface of shaft of humerus below musculo-spiral groove; inner border of humerus; internal intermuscular septum. By a strong tendon into back part of upper surface of olecranon proceaa of ulna. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. SubaHCOneUS - Posterior surface of humerus above olecranon fossa. Posterior ligament of elbow joint. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve.112 MUSCLES of UPPER LIMB-3rd Tablet. ! MUSCLES of FRONT of FOREARM. | SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Pronator Radii Teres. Large or Superficial Head - Inner condyle & inner border of humerus im-! mediately above it, deep fascia of forearm, intermuscular septum between it & flexor carpi radialis. Small or Deep Head - Ridge on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna i below flexor sublimis digitorum. Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft of radius. -i S. by median nerve. I Flexor Carpi Radialis - Inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; in-1 termuscular septa on either side. Front of base of 2nd metacarpal bone, & slightly into that of 3rd. - S. by median nerve. Palmaris LongUS - inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; inter, muscular septa on either side. Anterior annular ligament of carpus and palmar fascia. - S. by median nerve. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Anterior or Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon ; deep fascia; intermuscular septum between it & palmaris longus. Posterior or Outer Head - Inner border of olecranon, and by an aponeurosif which is common to it & to the flexor profundus, from upper two-thirds ol posterior border of shaft of ulna. Pisiform bone and slightly into annular ligament & base of 5tl: metacarpal bone. - S. by ulnar nerve. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon, and internal lateral liga ' ment of elbow-joint. Middle Head - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna abov( pronator radii teres. Outer Head ~ Oblique line on front of radius. Sides of second phalanges. - S. by median nerve. DEEP LAYER : Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner side of coronoid procesi of ulna, upper two-thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an apon eurosis which is common to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, from upper two thirds of posterior border of shaft of ulna; inner half of interosseou membrane. Bases of third phalanges. - S. partly by ulnar nerve, partly by an i terior interosseous branch of median nerve. Plexor Longus Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft c \ radius; outer half of interosseous membrane; occasionally by a smalr slip from inner side of coronoid process. Base of last phalanx of thumb. -S. by anterior interosseous brancllj of median nerve. | Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner border oil ulna; aponeurosis which covers inner third of the muscle. I L^wer fourth of anterior surface & outer border of radius. - S. b 1 anterio? interosseous branch of median nerve.113 l USOLES of UPPER LIMB-4th Tablet. MUSCLES of OUTER SIDE of FOREARM. Supinator LongUS - Upper two.thirds of external condyloid ridge of hnmerns, ex- ternal intermuscular septum. Outer side of base of styloid process of radius, - S. by musculo-spiral n. Extensor Carpi Kadialis Longior - Lower third of external condyloid ridge of humerus, external intermuscular septum. Back of base of second metacarpal bone. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior - External condyle of humerus by a tendon common to it & to superficial muscles of back of forearm; external lateral liga. ment of elbow-joint; deep fascia ; intermuscular septa on either side. Back of base of third metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior interosseous a. MUSCLES of BACK of FOREARM. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Extensor Communis Digitorum - External condyle of humerus by the commoH tendon; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of the four fingers. - S. by posterior in- terosseous nerve. Extensor Minimi Digiti - External condyle of humerus by the common tencfon; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Joins corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tendon thus formed is inserted into bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of little finger. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris -External condyle of humerus by the common tendon; middle third of posterior border of shaft of ulna; deep fascia; septum between it & foregoing muscle. Usually it simply covers, but sometimes it arises from,, narrow portion of posterior surface of shaft of ulna internal to the vea-tical ridge. Base of metacarpal bone of little finger. - S. by posterior interosseous n. Anconeus - Back of outer condyle of humerus; deep fascia. Kough triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of shaft of ulna. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. DEEP LAYER. Supinator Brevis - External condyle of humerus; external lateral ligament of elbow-joint; orbicular ligament of radius; triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind the depression. Inner, anterior, and outer aspects of radius above bicipital tuberosity & oblique line as low down as insertion of pronator radii teres. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface of shaft of ulna below insertion of anconeus; posterior surface of interosseous membrane j middle third of posterior surface of shaft of radius. Base of first metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of radius below fore, going muscle; interosseous membrane. Base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior sur. face of shaft of ulna; posterior surface of interosseous membrane. Base of terminal phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Indicis - Posterior surface of shaft of ulna below foregoing muscle; interosseous membrane. Joins corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tendon thus formed is inserted into bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of index finger. - S by posterior interosseous nerve, A.114 MUSCLES of PALM of HAND. MUSCLES of the THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of the THUMB Abductor Pollicis or Trapezoyphalangeal - Ridge on anterior surface of trapc zium & anterior annular ligament of wrist. Outer side of base of first phalanx of thumb. S. by median nerve. Opponens Pollicis or Trapezo-metacarpal - Front of trapezium below the ndgi & annular ligament. Whole length of outer border of metacarpal Tpone of thumb. - S. by median i Flexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezocarpo-phalangeal. Outer or Superficial Head - Lower part of trapezium & anterior annular ligatnen Inner or Deep Head - Trapezoides, os magnum, base of 2nd & 3rd metacarpal bone : Either side of base of first phalanx of thumb, a sesamoid bone being devt loped in each tendon. - S. by median nerve, & deep branch of ulnar. Adductor Pollicis or Metacarpo-phalangeal - Lower two-thirds of anterior su face of 3rd metacarpal bone. Inner side of base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by deep branch of ulnar: MS. of HYPO-THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of LITTLE FINGEI FallXiaris Brevis - Annular ligament & inner edge of central palmar fascia. Skin over inner border of hand. - S. by superficial branch of ulnar nerv Abductor Minimi Digiti, or Pisi-phalangeal - Pisiform bone, and slightly fro tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris. Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch ulnar nerve. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, or Unci-phalangeal - Unciform process unciform bone & annular ligament. Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch ulnar nerve. Opponens or Adductor Minimi Digiti, or Unci-metacarpal* - Uncifor process of unciform bone & annular ligament. Whole length of inner border of metacarpal bone of little finger. -S. 1 deep branch of ulnar nerve. *These names, expressive of the origin & insertion of the corre ponding muscles, are due to Cruveilhi( MUSCLES of tho CENTRAL PALMAR REGION. Lumbricales - First, and sometimes Second, from outer side of corresponding de flexor tendon. - Third and Fourth, from adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd and S &: 4th deep flexor tendons respectively. Outer side of expansion of corresponding extensor tendon on back first phalanges. - S., the two outer by median nerve j the two inner by de , branch of ulnar nerve. Palmar Interossei - Three. - They arise from the whole length of one side of the meii carpal Ijone of one finger, and are inserted into the same side of the base oft' first phalanx of the same finger & into the expansion of the extensor tend which covers it. - They are situated respectively on the inner side of the 2 metacarpal bone & index finger, and on the outer side of the 4th & 5th me carpal bones and corresponding ring & little fingers. They adduct these fingi towards an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger. - Tt are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Dorsal Interossei - Four - They arise by two heads from the adjacent sides oft metacarpal bones, but more extensively from the side of that metacarpal bo which corresponds to the finger into which the muscle is inserted. They i inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first phalanx of the c responding finger & into the expansion of the corresponding extensor tendoi They are situated respectively on the outer side of the 2nd metacarpal bom index finger, on both sides of the 3rd metacarpal bone & middle finger, on inner side of the 4th metacarpal bone & ring finger. The 1st dorsal interosse muscle is larger than the others, and is sometimes called the abductor indi( the radial artery passes between its two heads. - They abduct the fingers ft an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger. - They are suppl by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve.115 IffUSOLES of the THORAX. IiZternal Intercostals - Eleven pairs. Downwards & forwards from lower border of eleven upper ribs to upper border of eleven lower ribs. Commence posteriorly at or near tubercle of each rib. In the six upper intercostal spaces they extend anteriorly to near outer^nd of costal cartilages; in three following spaces they are prolonged some distance between the cartila- ges ; in the two last spaces they extend to the end of the space. When not pro- longed to end of the space they are continued up to sternum by thin tendinous fibres having the same direction as the muscular fibres. Internal Intercostals - Eleven pairs. Upwards & forwards from upper border of eleven lower ribs to inner lip of groove on inner surface of each rib above, & to inner surface of costal cartilages. Commence anteriorly at anterior extremity of costal cartilages, being continuous, in the two lowest intercostal spaces with fibres of internal oblique. End posteriorly at or near angle of ribs, approaching nearest to spine in the upper & the lower spaces. SubCOStales or InfraCOStales - Upwards & forwards from inner surface of one rib to inner surface of first, second, or third rib above. Vary in size & number, and are most numerous between the lower ribs, and in the neighbourhood of their angles. Levatores Costarum or SupracOStales - Twelve. From tips of transverse pro. cesses of seventh cervical & eleven first dorsal vertebrae to upper rough border of rib below, between tubercle & angle, and, in the case of the few lower, to cor- responding part of the second rib below origin. Triangularis Sterni - Radiates from lower & lateral parts of posterior surface of sternum, and from ensiform cartilage & cartilages of three or four lower true ribs, to inner surface & lower border of cartilages of second, third, fourth, & fifth ribs, the lowest fibres being continuous with those of transversalis. Varies con- siderably in difierent bodies, and even on opposite sides of same body. K^CtUS Sternalis - An occasional prolongation, fleshy in middle & tendinous at both ends, of rectus abdominis in front of pectoralis major. Inserted superiorly into sternum in connection with tendon of sterno-mastoid j rarely present on both sides. N. — All these muscles are supplied by the intercostal nerves.MUSCLES of the ABDOMEN. External ObliQUe - Outer surface & lower borders of the eight loiuer ribSj interdigita- i ting by four or five slips with serratus magnus & by three or four with I latissimus dorsi. j By fleshy fibres into anterior half of outer lip of crest of ilium, and its aponeurosis forms in succession : PouparCs ligainent; I Gimberftaf s ligament; Outer pillar of external abdominal ring; \ Inner pillar of external abdominal ring: Superficial part of linea alba by decussating with its fellow, and perhaps also after decussating the Triangular ligament & itttercolumnar fascia of opposite side. (Vide ab- dominal Aponeuroses) ^ Internal Oblique - Outer half of Poupart's ligament; anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest of ilium; posterior layer of lumbar fascia. Lower border cartilages of four lower ribs; linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. Transversalis - Outer third of Poupart's ligament; anterior three-fourths of inner: lip of crest of the mum; inner surface of cartilages of six lower ribs interdigita- ting with Diaphragm; by lumbar fascia from tips of spinous processes, tips | & bases of transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebras. Linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. j Rectus Abdominis - By two heads from crest of pubes & ligamentous fibres covering symphysis. Cartilages of hth, Qth & 7th ribs & side of ensiform cartilage. This muscle is traversed by from 3 to 5 linecz transversce, irregular ten dinous intersections, which interrupt the superficial fibres and adhere firmly t( anterior wall of sheath; these are situated opposite umbilicus, between umbilicui & ensiform cartilage, and, frequently, one or two less complete ones, nearo i below umbilicus. Fyramidalis - Front of pubes & anterior pubic ligament. Linea alba midway between pubes & umbilicus. - Is often absent on oni or both sides. Cremaster - From middle of Poupart's ligament internally to lowest fibres of interna oblique & transversalis, and by a small pointed tendon from front of pubes sheath of rectus, forming large external, and smaller & less constant interna i bundles. Is the everted gubernaculum testis with a few additional fibres of th internal oblique, and sometimes of the transversalis, drawn or pushed down b" ; the testicle during its descent (Curling). i Quadratus Lumborum. I Anterior Portion - Upper border of transverse processes of the two or three lowe ij lumbar vertebrae. Inner half of lower border of last rib. Posterior Portion - Ilio-lumbar ligament, and for about 2 or 3 inches from postei rior part of inner lip of crest of ilium. Apices of transverse processes of the 4 upper lumbar vertebrae, and inne' half of lower border of last rib, N.—These muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, <f i ilio-inguinal nerves. The quadratus lumborum also receive; i branches from the anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves. i■HE DIAPHRAGM 117 Is faii.shaped; the expanded portion of the fan being horizontal, and the narrow portion or handle, ver. tical. It presents for examination its points of origin & the fibres arising from them, its central or •nr\T-KTmci 4^in i^-rtT^-r-i.-F « -r^-r-r^-^^^ oordiform tendoH, its oponings, & its relatioQS. POINTS OF ORIGIN & FIBRES ARISING FROM THEM: ^^^^ff'w^niPS^*^^^^? - Gives attachment to a narrow & sometimes tendinous slip, on either side ot which the costal cartilages & the costal fibres bound a narrow triangular area, over the extent r* «+-T ^ ol which area the pleuras & the peritoneum are separated only by a little areolar tissue. Cartilages & Osseous Portions of the 6 or 7 Lower Ribs - Give rise to the lone arched lateral fibres, which, at their point of or'gin, interdigitate with the transversalis. lilgamentum Arcuatnm Internum - A thickened band of the fascia over the psoas, extendincr from side of body of 1st, & sometimes from that of 2nd lumbar vertebra, to tip of transverse process of 1st & sometimes to that of 2nd. Gives rise to arched fibres similar but rather shorter. Jjlgamentum Arcuatum Externum - A thickened band of the fascia over quadratus lumborum (anterior lamella of posterior abdominal aponeurosis), extending from tip of transverse process ot hrst lumbar vertebra, & sometimes from that of 2nd, to lower border & apex of last rib. •n J- Gives rise to similar arched fibres. ^ n^??D A Third & Fourth Lumbar Vertebrse by means of the LJiUKA — Two thick fibro-muscular bundles, which arise by tendinous fibres as follows • Right Crus- The thickest & longest, from front of bodies & intervertebral substances of 1st, 2nd, & 3rd, or sometimes of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th lumbar v, & from ant. common Hgfc. of spine. Left Crus - The shortest & narrowest, from left side of bodies & intervertebral substances of 1st & 2nd or sometimes of 2nd & 3rd lumbar vertebrse, & from ant. common ligt. of spine. . . tendons ascend for a short distance on either side of the aorta, and then become joined m front of that vessel by means of a tendinous arch formed by the blending of their innermost fibres. The crura then give rise, as well as the intervening arch to two large fleshy bellies, the outer fasciculi of which bellies pass upwards & outwards to the cordiform tendon, while the inner ones first decussate in front of the aorta (those of the right side being the largest & most anterior), then diverge to surround the oesophagus, and finally meet again in Iront of it before they end in the central tendon. (In some very rare cases these fasciculi do not join in front of the oesophagus, a portion of the anterior margin of the oesophageal opening is then tendinous). CENTRAL or CORDIFORM TENDON — The common insertion of all the fibres. Has somewhat the shape of a trefoil leaf; and presents anteriorly three leaflets; the right one is long, broad, & the largest; the left one, long, narrow, & the smallest; the middle one short, broad, & OPENINGS — Are: intermediate in size. Large Openings - Three: Aortic Opening - For aorta, vena azygos m»for, thoracic duct & frequently the left cord of the sym- pathetic. Lies in middle line, and is osteo-fibrous, being bounded behind by bodies of vertebrae, laterally by tendons of the crura, and in front by the fibrous arch which joins the latter. (Esophageal Opening - For oesophagus & pneumogastric nerves. Lies higher up, & a little to the left. Is oval in form & entirely muscular, being formed by the inner decussating fasciculi of thd fleshy portion of the crura; - in some very rare cases a portion of the anterior margin is fibrous, & formed by the posterior border of cordiform tendon. Opening for Inferior Vena Cava - The highest; lies a little to the right between right & middle leaflets of cordiform tendon. Is quadrilateral & fibrous, being bounded by four bundles of tendin- Small Openings - Transmit; ^ fi^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^siea. Right cord of sympathetic, sometimes the left; Right ^ left great, lesser, (Sr' least splanchnic nerves, either separately or conjointly. Vena azygos minor, 6^ sometimes the major - These openings vary therefore in number. ELATIONS - Of Upper Surface: Laterally - Pleurae; lungs. Also at circumference of thorax for a considerable though variable ex- tent, lower ribs & lower intercostal spaces, the lungs not descending under ordinary circum- stances as low as the costal attachments of the diaphragm & the point of reflection of the pleurae The lateral portions of the diaphragm are the most movable; their degree of elevation or depression varies much more than that of the central part in accordance with the respiratory movements, and with the degree of distension, or otherwise, of the stomach, intestines, & uterus. The right lateral portion of the diaphragm, on account of the pressure of the liver on that side, rises by one or two ribs' breadths higher than the left, and reaches the level of In Forced Expiration - 4th costal cartilage ; In State of Repose of Thorax - 5th costal cartilage; In Forced Inspiration - Line from ensiform cartilage, to back of 10th rib. Centrally - Heart & base of pericardium, the fibrous layer of which latter sac blends more particu- larly with the anterior & left part of central leaflet of cordiform tendon, & with the fascia covering the left anterior costal fibres. The central part of the diaphragm is flattened & less movable, and lies on a lower level than the lateral portions, except close to the sternum, in front, & to the vertebrae, behind, where, on the contrary, it rises a little higher. Of Under Surface - This is entirely covered by peritoneum except behind pancreas, kidneys & supra- renal capsules, and at points of attachment of coronary & lateral ligaments of liver, gastro-phrenio ligament, & suspensory ligament of spleen ; it lies in mediate contact with liver, stomach ^ spleen. The diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves & the phrenic plexuses of the sympathetic118 SUPEBFICIAL MUSCLES of the BACK. FIRST LAYER. i Trapezius - External occipital protuberatice & inner third of snperior cnrved line of ^ occipital bone; ligamentum nuchse & spinous processes of the last cervical & of aU the dorsal vertebrae; supraspinous ligament. i Posterior border of outer third of clavicle, inner border of acromion; whole length of upper lip of posterior border of spine of scapula, and; tubercle at outer part of smooth surface at its inner extremity. - S. by spinal accessory nerve & deep branches of cervical plexus. | Latissimus Dorsi - Spinous processes of the 6 or 7 lower dorsal vertebrae; by thj posterior layer of lumbar aponeurosis, from the lumbar & sacral spines and the back part of outer lip of crest of ilium ; from outer lip of crest of ilium fof an inch or more in front of lumbar aponeurosis; from the last three or four rib( interdigitating with external oblique; sometimes by a few fibres from inferioi angle of scapula. ^ Bottom of bicipital groove of humerus a little higher up than teres major by a broad flat tendon twisted upon itself. - S. by long subscapular nerve. SECOND LAYER. Levator Anguli Scapulse - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 3, 4, or f upper cervical vertebras between splenius & scalenus medius. Posterior border of scapula between spine & superior angle. -S. by oneo'! the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by one of the supra-claviculai branches of the brachial plexus. RhombOideus Minor - Liga,mentum nuchas and spinous processes of 7th cervical & Isl dorsal vertebrae. Posterior border of scapula opposite triangular smooth surface at root o spine. - S. by one of the deep branches of cervical plexus and by one of the snpra; clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Rlunoboideus Major - Spinous processes of the 4 or 5 upper dorsal vertebrae and suprajj spinous ligament. ' Base of scapula between spine and inferior angle (Quain, Ellis), or rathe into a tendinous arch attached to the triangular smooth surface at root c spine & to the inferior angle and connected to posterior border of scapula b; a thin membrane (Gray). - S. by one of the deep branches of the ceryioft plexus and by one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. THIRD LAYER Splenius - Lower half of ligamentum nuchse and spinous processes of 7th cervical & fluj upper dorsal vertebrae. i Splenius Capitis - Mastoid process and outer part of rough surface between Bupl! erior & inferior curved lines of occipital bone. ' Splenius Colli - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 2,3, or 4uppercer' vical vertebras. - S. by external branches of posterior divisions of cervical nerveJ Serratus Posticus Superior - Ligamentum nuchae and spinous processes of 7th oer vical & two or thi ee upper dorsal vertebrse, and interspinous ligament. Upper border of 2nd, 3rd, 4th & 5th ribs a little beyond their angle.-£ by external branches of posterior divisions of lower cervical nerves. Serratus Posticus Inferior - Spinous processes of the two last dorsal & 2 or 3 uppei lumbar vertebrae. Lower border of 4 lower ribs a little beyond their angle. - S. by externa branchies of posterior divisions of lower dorsal nerves.119 )EEP MUSCLES of the BACK-Classification. May be divided into j LONG EXTENSOR MUSCLES of the BACK - Lie beneath the trapezius, the latissimns dorsi & the superficial layer of the lumbar fascia, and beneath the splenius & a special layer of fascia in the neck, & the serrati muscles & the vertebral aponeurosis in the back. They form a large elongated muscular and tendinous mass, narrow & principally tendinous and comprised in the sacral groove, below; enlarged & fleshy in the lumbar region,, where it is only partly contained in the vertebral groove, and is tightly sheathed be-- tween the spines, laminaa, & transverse processes of the vertebrae and the posterior &■ middle layers of the lumbar fascia; expanded and complexly subdivided into almost in- numerable muscular and tendinous fasciculi in the back; and, in the cervical region,, partly exhausted, but continued upwards towards the head by numerous superadded^ fibres, & also strengthened by an additional muscle, the complexus. The muscular & tendinous slips of which this mass is composed may be correctly and con- veniently arranged into three main groups forming respectively the ilio-costalis or sacro-lumbalis, the longissinms dorsi^ & the multifidus spines i the two former of which, joined together below, and increased by a few additional fibres, the spinalis dorsi, form the erector spines of the sacral & lumbar regions. (The term erector spines** would be much better applied to the whole of the long extensor muscles of the back than to any one part thereof). Each of these three groups has additional fasciculi superadded to it, by which fasciculi it is continued to the head or to near the head, and by which it is increased in bulk & strengths Thus to the- " ILIO-COSTALIS OR SACRO-LUMBALIS are superadded the I Muscidus accessorius ad ilio-costalem (or ad sacro-lumbalem) «& the cervicalis ascendensi I - to th©^ LONGISSIMUS DORSI are superadded the Transversalis colli the trachelo-mastoid; - to the MULTIFIDUS SPIN^ are superadded the Semispinales dorsi ^ colli & the rotatores spinez. To these groups are also added a few accessory fasciculi, the spinalis dorsi^ the spinalis collie & the biventer cervicis. SMALL MUSCLES of the SPINOUS & TRANSVERSE PROCESSES - Are the SupraspinaleSf interspinales, intertransversales, & extensor coccygis. SHORT POSTERIOR CRANIO-VERTEBRAL MUSCLES -Arotho Recti capitis postici major ^ minor^ & the Ohliqui superior ^ inferior.LONG EXTENSOR MUSCLES of the BACK-lst Tablet. The ilio-costalis or sacro-lumbalis & the longisaimns dorsi arise by a common origiii the erector spina i ERECTOR SPINjE — Posterior fifth of crest of ilium; and, by a broad thick tendoi^ which covers and conceals the muscular fibres, from spines of sacrum, thi spinous processes of the lumbar & three lower dorsal vertebraa, the posterio: i superior & posterior inferior iliac spines, and the series of eminences on bad, of sacrum, which eminences represent the transverse processes of the vertebrsej Divides opposite last rib into ilio-costalis or sacro-lumbalis & longissi mus dorsi. ILIO-COSTALIS, or SACRO-LUMBALIS ~ is the outer and smaller divisior of the foregoing, and is inserted into the Angles of the six or seven lower ribs. • |; Musculus Accessorius ad Ilio-costalem, or ad Sacro-lumbalem - Angler of the six lower ribs internally to tendons of ilio-costalis. Angles of the six upppr ribs. Cervicalis Ascendens - Angles of the four or five upper ribs. j Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of 4th, 5th, & 6th cervical'' vertebrse. j LONGISSIMUS DORSI — is the inner & largest division of the erector spinaeij Has two series of insertions both in the lumbar & the dorsal regions: Inner Series of Insertions - Tubercles (maramillary) on back of superior articu i lar processes of the lumbar vertebrae, & tips of the transverse processes of aLj the dorsal vertebrae. I Outer Series of Insertions - Posterior surfaces of transverse processes of thfi lumbar vertebrae, & nine or ten lower ribs internally to their angles. : Transversalis Colli - Tips of transverse processes of the four or five highest doraallj vertebrae. ; Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the five lower cervical! vertebrae. Trachelo-Mastoid - Transverse process of the five upper dorsal vertebrae, anc: articular processes of the three or four lower cervical. Posterior border of mastoid process beneath splenius & sterno-mastoid.! SPINALIS DORSI — Spinous processes of the first two lumbar and last two dorsal vertebra;. Spinous process of from four to eight of the middle & upper dorsa] vertebrae. - Is intimately connected with the longissimus dorsi, of which it maybe considered as the innermost part (Cruveilhier); the lopgisaimus i dorsi then having three series of insertions, middle, outer, & inner. All the foregoing muscles are supplied by the external branchec of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal & lumbar neryefl. MULTIFIDUS SPINiE - (Vide next Tablet.)121 loNG EXTENSOR MUSCLES of the BA0K-2ncl Tablet. MUIjTIFIDUS SPIN^ — Is the innermost and deepest portion of the musculo. tendinous mass of the long extensor muscles of the back. It lies in the vertebral groove beneath the erector spinas and the longissimus dorsi, and extends along the whole length of the spine connecting the lateral to the postero-median processes of the vertebras from the sacrum to the axis. It is reinforced in the upper dorsal & cervical regions by the semispinales dorsi & colli, which may fairly be considered as its accessory fibres. Its origins are homologous in the several regions of spine ; they are as follows: Sacral J^egion-Sacra.\ groove and deep surface of tendon of erector spinge; posterior superior spine of ilium & posterior sacro-iliac ligament. Lumbar Region - Tubercles (mammillary) on back of superior articu- lar processes. Dorsal Region - Tips of transverse processes. Cervical Region — Articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. Its insertions are into the whole series of the spinous processes and the adjoin- ing portion of the laminae; the length of the individual fasciculi varying, some joining contiguous vertebra, others passing up to the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th vertebra above. Semispinales Muscles - Are additional muscles superadded to the preceding, on the surface of which they lie. Semispinahs Dorsi - Transverse processes of the middle dorsal vertebrae from the 10th to the 5th. Spinous processes of the four upper dorsal & two last cervical vertebrae. Semispinalis Colli - Transverse processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae. Spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae from the axis to the 5th. Kotatores SpinSB - Eleven pairs; lie in the dorsal region beneath the multifidus spinae, of which they form the deepest fibres. - Upper & back part of trans- verse processes. Lower margin & posterior surface of laminae, and roots of spinous processes. COMPLEXUS — Transverse processes of the four or five upper dorsal and last cer- vical vertebrae; articular processes of the three or four cervical vertebras above. Innermost rough depression between the two curved lines of the occipi- tal bone. - Has a tendinous intersection a little above its middle. Biventer Cervicis - is but the inner part of preceding muscle. - Transverse processes of the two, three or four upper dorsal vertebrae. Occipital bone on inner side of preceding. SPINALIS COLLI — Similar to spinalis dorsi, and as intimately connected with the complexus as is the latter with the longissimus dorsi. - Spinous processes of the one or two last cervical & the one or two upper dorsal vertebrae. Spinous processes of the axis and of one or two vertebra below. - Is often wanting. All the foregoing muscles are supplied by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal, & lumbar nerves; the complexus is also supplied by the suboccipital & great occipital nerves.122 SHORT POSTERIOR CRANIO-VERTEBRAL MUSCLES. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major - Spinous process of axis. Into and beneath outer part of inferior curved line of occipital bone. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor - Tubercle on posterior arch of atlas. Into and beneath inner part of inferior curved line of occipital bone. Obliquus Capitis Inferior - Spinous process of axis. Extremity of transverse process of atlas. Oblquus Capitis Superior - Extremity of transverse process of atlas. Occipital bone between the two curved lines externally to the complexusA rectus capitis posticus major. These muscles are supplied by the posterior branch of the subocoipita! nerve; the inferior oblique is also supplied by the great occipital SMALL MUSCLES of the SPINOUS & TRANSVERSE! PROCESSES. I Supraspinales - Small fleshy fasciculi which lie on the cervical spinous processes. j Interspinales - Short fleshy fasciculi placed in pairs between the spinous processes of | the adjoinng vertebrae. - There are six pretty distinct pairs corresponding to tlie j} six lower cervical vertebras; four pairs corresponding to the lumbar vertebrasj sometimes two or three rather indistinct pairs corresponding to the upper and lower dorsal vertebrae. Intransversales - Short fleshy fasciculi which lie between the transverse processes of the adjoining vertebrae. - Are most developed in the cervical region, where they form seven pairs; they are tendinous in the upper part of the dorsal region; muscular, but single in lumbar region & in lower part of dorsal. These muscles are supplied, the two former by the internal, the latter by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical dorsal & lumbar nerves.lUSOLES of LOWER LIMB-lst Tablet, 123 nerve. ILIAC REGION. Psoas Magnus - Bases of transverse processes of lumbar vertebras, and by five slips from sides of bodies of lumbar & last dorsal vertebree & from corres- ponding intervertebral substances; tbe slips being connected by tendinous arches vphich extend across the constricted part of the bodies of the vertebrae. Lesser trochanter of femur. - S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. Psoas Parvus - sides of bodies of last dorsal & first lumbar vertebraB & corresponding intervertebral substance. Ilio-pectineal eminence. - S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. - Is frequently absent. UiaCUS - Iliac fossa & inner lip of crest of ilium; ilio-lumbar ligament; base of sacrum; anterior superior & anterior inferior spines of ilium & notch between them; capsule of hip-joint. Outer side of tendon of psoas, and upper part of line from lesser tro- chanter to linea aspera in front of pectineus. - S. by anterior crural nerve. ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. Tensor Vaginse Femoris - Anterior superior spinous process and anterior part of outer lip of crest of ilium. Fascia lata about | down outer side of thigh. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. SartoriuS - Anterior superior spinous process of ilium & upper half of notch below it. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia covering tendons of gracilis & semitendinosus. - S. by middle or internal cutaneous branch of anterior crural nerve. Rectus Femoris - Anterior inferior spinous process of ilium (straight tendon) ; groove above brim of acetabulum (reflected tendon). Upper border of patella in common with vasti & crureus. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Vastus ExternuS - Anterior border of great trochanter & horizontal ridge on its outer surface; rough line from great trochanter to linea aspera; whole length of outer lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to outer condyle j external inter- muscular septum. Outer border of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Vastus Internus - Line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle j inner sur- face of femur; internal intermuscular septum. Inner boi'der of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Crureus - Anterior & outer surfaces of femur reaching from anterior intertrochanteric line to within a few inches of condyles. Upper border of patella in common with rectus & vasti. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and describing the Quadriceps extensor femoris as a Triceps, we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: - line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle; nearly whole of inner, anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur; internal intermuscular septum; - and that it is inserted into tendon of rectus & borders of patella, and slightly into head of tibia. SubcrureUS- Lower part of anterior surface of femur. Upper part of synovial membrane of knee-joint. - S. by anterior crural124 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-2ncl Tablet. INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. PectinenS - IHo.pectineal line & surface in front of it. Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera, & into femi behind trochanter minor. - S. by obturator or anterior crural nerve; - by accei sory obturator nerve when the latter exists. Gracilis - inner margin of rami of pubes & ischium & lower half of inner margin of boc of pubes. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia above semitendinosus, ar beneath sartorius. - S. by obturator nerve. Adductor LongUS - Front of pubes immediately below the crest & close to angle. Middle third of inner lip of linea aspera between vastus internus & a( ductor magnus. - S. by obturator nerve. Adductor Brevis - Front of pubes for about two inches below adductor longus between gracilis & obturator externus. Upper part of linea aspera & lower part of line from it to lesser trocbar; ter below & behind peetineus. - S. by obturator nerve or anterior crural nerve. Adductor Magnus - Lower part of descending ramus of pubes j ascending ramus outer side of tuberosity of ischium. i Lower part of line from great trochanter to linea aspera, whole length ( inner lip of linea aspera & line from it to inner condyle; by a strong tendo into tubercle at upper & back part of inner condyle. -S. by obturator & grea sciatic nerves.125 lUSCLES of LOWER LIMB—3rd Tablet. GLUTEAL REGION. Gluteus Maximus - Superior curved line on dorsum ilii & roTigli surface between it & posterior fifth of crest of ilium ; sides of lower part of sacrum and coccyx & ten- dinous expansion over back of sacrum; posterior surface of great sacro-sciatic ligament. Fascia lata covering outer side of thigh, & rough line from great trochan- ter to linea aspera. - S. by inferior gluteal nerve. Gluteus Medius - Dorsum ilii between superior & middle curved lines & outer lip of crest between them ; fascia covering anterior part of the muscle. Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. Gluteus Minimus - Dorsum ilii between middle & inferior curved lines. Anterior border of great trochanter. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. Pyriformis - By three fleshy digitations from front of sacrum between first, second, third, & fourth anterior sacral foramina & from grooves leading from them; margin of great sacro-sciatic foramen & anterior surface of great sacro-sciatic ligament. Posterior part of upper border of great trochanter. - S. by one of the mus- cular branches of sacral plexus. Obturator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of and behind ob- turator foramen; inner surface of obturator membrane & fibrous arch which completes canal for obturator vessels & nerve. Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Gemellus Superior - Outer surface of spine of ischium. Upper part of tendon of obturator internus. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Gemellus Inferior - Upper part of outer lip of tuberosity of ischium. Lower border of tendon of obturator internus. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. QuadratuS Pemoris - Outer border of tuberosity of ischium. Upper part of linea quadrati on back of great trochanter. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Obturator Externus - inner two-thirds of outer surface of obturator membrane; cir- cumference of obturator foramen, and fibrous arch which completes canal for obturator vessels & nerve. Digital fossa of femur. - S. by obturator nerre.MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-4th Tablet. POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION (Hamstring Muscles). iceps. Long Head - In common with semitendinosus from lower & inner of the two sn faces on back part of tuberosity of ischium. Short Head - Whole length of outer lip of linea aspera between adductor magn & vastus externus and from inferior external division of linea aspera to wit! two inches of outer condyle. Outer side of head of fibula by a strong tendon, which divides into t parts to embrace long external lateral ligament of knee-joint, sends a fibre prolongation to outer tuberosity of tibia, and gives off an expansion to fascia leg. - S. by great sciatic nerve. Semitendinosus - in common with long head of biceps from lower & inner of the t surfaces on back part of tuberosity of ischium. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia below gracilis & beneath si torius - S. by great sciatic nerve. Semimembranosus - Upper and outer of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosi of ischium above & on outer side of origin of biceps & semitendinosus. By a tendon which divides into three portions, into: Posterior part of inner tuberosity of tibiae sending an expansion Oi' poplitei Groove on inner side of inner tubejvsity of tibia beneath interi lateral ligament of knee-joii Posterior & upper part of outer condyle of femur, forming chief pi of posterior ligament of knee-joint. - S. by great sciatic ner127 lUSOLES of LOWER LIMB-5th Tablet. ANTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. Tibialis Anticus - Outer tuberosity & upper two-tbirds of outer surface of shaft of tiUa j adjoining part of the interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & extensor longus digitorum; deep fascia. Inner & under surfaces of internal cuneiform bone & base of first meta- tarsal. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor Longus Digitorum - Outer tuberosity of tibia j upper three-fourths of an- terior surface of shaft of fibula; interosseous membranej septa between it and I tibialis anticus & peronei muscles; deep fascia. Bases of 2nu & 3rd phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor Proprius Pollicis - Middle two-fourths of anterior surface of shaft of fibula internally to extensor longus digitorum; interosseous membrane. Base of last phalanx of great toe. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. PeroneUS Tertius - Lower fourth of anterior surface of shaft of fibula; lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & peroneus brevis. Base of 5th metatarsal bone. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. FIBULAR REGION. Peroneus Longus - Head & upper two-thirds of outer surface & of anterior & posterior borders of fibula; intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg ; deep fascia. Outer side of base of first metatarsal bone. - S. by musculo-cutaneous branch of external popliteal nerve. Peroneus Brevis - Lower two-thirds of outer surface of shaft of fibula, passing upwards in a pointed process beneath peroneus longus j intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg. Base of fifth metatarsal bone. - S. by musoulo-cutaneoua branch of exter- nal popliteal nerve.128 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-6th Tablet. POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Gastrocnemius. Inner Head - Depression at npper and back part of inner condyle. Outer Head - Depression at upper & back part of outer condyle above groove forjl popliteus. - Both beads also arise from lower part of the two inferior divisions oti ^ linea aspera. By a strong aponeurosis which covers front of the muscle, and contracts,; into a tendon which joins with that of soleus, into lower part of posterior surface of OS calcis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. Soleus - Back of head & upper third of posterior surface of shaft of fibula; middle thirdJ of inner border and oblique line on posterior surface of shaft of tibia; tendinous arch between tibial & fibular origins of the muscle beneath which arch pass^ posterior tibial vessels & nerve. By a strong aponeurosis which covers posterior surface of the muscle and contracts into a tendon which joins with that of gastrocnemius (Tendo Achillis), into lower part of posterior surface of oa calcis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. Plantaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera & post, ligament of knee-joint Joins inner border of tendo Achillis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. DEEP LAYER. Popliteus - Anterior & deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femni; below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Inner two-thirds of triangular surface on back of upper part of tibia above oblique line. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. i Flexor LongUS Pollicis - Lower two-thirds of posterior surface of shaft of fibula i lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it l\\ peronei; fascia over tibialis posticus. 'I Base of the last phalanx of great toe. -S. by posterior tibial nerve. ' Flexor LongUS Digitorum - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line iji internally to attachment of tibialis posticus; fascia over tibialis posticus. jj Bases of last phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by posterior tibial nerve. Tibialis Posticus - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line & externall; to attachment of flexor longus digitorum; nearly whole of posterior surface o interosseous membrane; upper three-fourths of inner surface of shaft of fibula fascia between it & foregoing muscles. Tuberosity of scaphoid and internal & external cuneiform bones. - Supplie' by posterior tibial nerve.129 lUSCLES of the FOOT. DORSAL REGION. Extensor Brevis Digitorum 7 Outer & upper surfaces of greater process of os calcis, calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, anterior annular ligament of tarsus. First phalanx of great toe & outer sides of long extensor tendons of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th toes. - S. by external branch of anterior tibial nerve. PLANTAR REGION. FIRST LAYER. Flexor Brevis Digitorum - Greater tuberosity of 03 calcis; central part of plantar fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Sides of second phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by int. plantar n. Abductor Pollicis - Greater tuberosity of os calcis; internal annular liga- ment; intermuscular septum between it and flexor brevis di:^'itorum. Inner side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by int. plantar n. Abductor Minimi Digiti - Lesser tuberosity of os calcis, greater tuberosity in front of flexor brevis, and slightly from under surface of os calcis in front of tuberosities; plantar fascia; intermuscular septum between it & flexor brevis. Outer side of base of first phalanx of little toe. - S. by trunk of ex. ternal plantar nerve before its bifurcation. SECOND LAYER. Flexor Longus Digitorum. Flexor Accessorius - inner & under surfaces of os calcis by two heads which embrace the long plantar ligament. Outer border and upper & under surfaces of tendon of flexor longus digitorum. - S. by trunk of external plantar nerve before its bifurcation. Lumbricales - Tendons of flexor longus digitorum, the innermost from one, the others from two tendons. Inner side of extensor tendons & inner side of bases of first phalan- ges of four outer toes. - S., the two inner ones by internal plantar nerve, the two outer ones by deep branch of external plantar. Flexor Longus Pollicis. THIRD LAYER. Flexor Brevis Pollicis - By a tendinous process from adjoining borders of cuboid & external cuneiform, & from expansion of tendon of tibialis posticus. Inner & outer sides of base of first phalanx of great toe, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon of insertion. - S. by int. plantar n. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti - Base of 5th metatarsal bone & sheath of peroneus longus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of little toe. - S. by superficial branch of external plantar nerve. Adductor Pollicis - Bases of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th metatarsal bones & sheath of peroneus longus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by deep branch of external plantar nerve. Transversus Pedis - Head of 5th metatarsal bone & transverse ligament of the metatarsus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by deep branch of external plantar nerve. FOURTH LAYER. Plantar Interossei - Three. Arise from lower or plantar half of inner side of shaft of 3rd, 4th, & 5th metatarsal bones, and are inserted into inner side of base of first phalanx of corresponding toes, & into the expansion of the corresponding long extensor tendon. - They adduct the toes towards the second toe. - S. by external plantar nerve. Dorsal Interossei - Four. Arise from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones, as follows: - from the whole extent of the side of the metatarsal bone which corresponds to the toe into which the muscle is inserted in- feriorly, from the upper or dorsal half only of the side of the other. They are inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first i>halanx u( the toe to which they belong. - They are found on both sides of the 2.id toe and on the outer side of the 3rd & 4th toes. - They abduct therefore the three middle toes from an imaginary line drawn through the second toe. - S. by external plantar nerve. A.1 i! 1'THE HEART AND ARTERIES.132 THE PEEIOARDIUM. Fibro.serous sac containing the heart & the commencement of the large vessels. - The serous layer forms a common sheath to the aorta & pulmonary artery as far; about two inches from their origin. It is then reflected upon the anterior aspect of t venae cavas & pulmonary veins, and upon the inner surface of the fibrous layer. Marshall's "vestigial fold of the pericardium" containing the remains of the left su erior cardinal vein of the embryo, may be seen in front of the root of the left lung. The fibrous layer is prolonged upon the great vessels of the root of the neck, ai becomes continous superiorly with the deep layer of the deep cervical fascia, that is say with the layer of fascia which encloses the omo-hyoid muscles, the carotid vesse & the trache The pericardium is conical iu shape, and presents : - Anterior Aspect - Covered by loose areolar tissue & remains of thymus gland, lungs, pleur middle piece of sternum, and costal cartilages of the left side from the 3rd to the 7t Posterior Aspect - in contact with roots of the lungs, oesophagus & descending aorta. Lateral Aspects - Covered by pleurae, and crossed by phrenic nerve & superior phrenic vesee Apex • Directed upwards upon great vessels. Base - Attached to central or oordiform tendon, & to left anterior oostal fibres of diaphragm. 1133 HE HEART Liee within the pericardinm, between the two lungs, behind the lower two-thirds of the sternttm, and projects abont three inches into the left; side, & one into the right side of the thorax. - It presents: Base - Formed by the anricles, attached to the great veaseTs, directed upwards backwards & to the right; corresponds to the interval between the 5th & 8th dorsal vertebras. Apex - Formed by the point of the left ventricle, directed downwards, forwards & to the left; corresponds to the 5th intercostal space of the left side, two inches below and ons to the inner side of the nipple. Anterior Surface - Formed chiefly by right ventricle, the anterior interventricular groove lying near the left border; convex, looks upwards & forwards, and extends from level of upper borders of third costal cartilages to a line drawn from lower end of gladiolus to situation of apex. Posterior Surface - Formed chiefly by left ventricle, the posterior interventricular groove lying near the right border; flattened; rests upon diaphragm. Right Border - Long, thin, rests upon diaphragm; formed by right ventricle. Left Border - Short, thick, much less inclined than the right one; formed by left ventricle.134 INTERIOR of the HEART-lst Tablet. RIGHT SIDE. Is largei* in it3 auricular portion, and has thinner walls than the left. AUBICLE — Divided into: Appendix Auriculae - Narrow indented pouch, which overlaps the arch of t, aorta, and presents on its inner surface the musculi pedinati, whi | extend somewhat into the aim j Sinus - The central cavity; presents :- Opening of the Superior Vena Cava - Somewhat smaller than that of \ inferior cava; situated at the upper & front part; looks dov' wards & forwards, and has near it \ Tubercle of Lower - Small eminence, scarcely visible in man, situated right wall of auricle between the two ven^ ca^ Opening of the Inferior Vena Cava - Somewhat larger than that of i superior cava; situated at the lower & back part near the septu looks upwards & inwards, and presents \ Eustachian Valve - Semilunar in form with concave free, and convex tached margins; situated below the opening of the inferior V€ cava between it & the auriculo-ventricular opening, and passes i wards & to the left to the anterior margin of the annulus ova Small in the adult. Contains a few muscular fibi Opening of the Coronary Sinus - Situated below the opening of the infer vena cava & the Eustachian valve. Presents; Coronary Valve or Valve of Thebeshis. Foramina Thebesii - Some of which are the openings of the venee cor minimse, while others are but small blind depressic AuRicuLO.Ventricular Opening - With the tricuspid valve (Vide below). Foramen Ovale - In the foetus. Situated at the lower & back part of sept above opening of inferior vena cava; replaced in adult by Fossa Ovalis - Oval depression surrounded by a prominent circular rim,' Annulus Ovalis^ - and which often presents a small valvular opening its upper pj VENTRICLE — Triangular in shape, and has much thinner walls than the left c Prolonged upwards & to the left into the Infundibuliim or Co arteriosus. Present; AUEICULQ.Ventricular Opening - Oval, broadest from side to side. Situa behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal c tilages, on the right side of the aortic & left auriculo-ventricr openings. Guarded by Tricuspid Valve - Presents three triangular segments, which are attacl superiorly to the margin of the auriculo-ventricular ring & laters to each other, and of which the left one is the largest. They formed by a central fibrous lamina attached superiorly to the rous ring of the opening and covered by a duplicature of the en cardium. Their under surface & borders give attachment to chordce tendir Opening of the Pulmonary Artery - Situated at the apex of the conus ai riosus opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of left side close to the sternum. Guarded by Se?7iilunar Valves - Three; formed of fibrous tissue surrounded by a plicature of the endocardium, and prese Convex margin - Attached to the fibrous ring of the orifice; Free ?nargin - Slightly concave, strengthened by a bundle of tendin fibres, presenting in the centre a fibro-cartilaginous nodule, corpus Arantii, and laterally two thin lunated portions, lumdcB. Above the valves are three small pouches, Sinuses of Valsalva. Columns Carney - Three sorts, which are attached respectively by one a by both extremities, by one extremity only, to the wall of the v tricle. The latter are Musculi Fapillares - Three or four 5 give origin to the Chordcs Tendinea \135 NTERIOE of the HEART-2nd Tablet. LEFT SIDE. Has thicker walls than the ri?ht, and is smaller in its anricnlar portion, AURICLE — Divided, as is the right, into two parts, the Appendis AuricnJaB- Longer, narrower, more cnrred & indented than on right side, Etd constricted at its orifice; its muscnli pectinati are smaller & les3 numerons. Overlaps pulmonary artery. Sinus - More regularly cuboid than on right side, - Presents: Openings op the Pulmonaey veins - Four, at upper part, two on the right close to septum, two on the left, the latter sometimes uniting. ArRicriG-TEXTEicrLAE Opening - With the Mitral valve (Tide below). VENTRICLE — Eounded & conical; its walls are thicker than those of the right. Presents: ArBicuLo-VENTEicriAR Opening - Situated opposite centre of sternum on a level with third costal cartilages, between & behind the aortic & right auriculo-ventricular openings, or rather directly behind the aortic open- ing (Sibson). Somewhat smaller than on right side. Presents the Mitral Valve - Larger, thicker stronger than the tricuspid. Consists of two principal segments, of which the largest is in front. The chordaa tendineae attached to its under surface are stronger & thicker, but are less numerous, than those on the right siJe. Aortic Opening - Situated behind centre of sternum on a level with lower border cf 3rd costal cartilage, and directly in front of the left auriculo.ventri- cular opening. Presents the Semilunar Valves - Larger, thicker & stronger than those of pulmonary artery; lunuls wider, corpora Arantii more prominen-, and sinuses of Valsalva deeper. CoLUiiN^ Carney - Those attached by one side and those attached by both extre- mities are smaller & more numerous. The musculi papillares are but two in nxunber, but are larger, and are attached, one to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall of the ventricle.136 STEUCTURE of the HEART-lst Tablet. Presents for examination the fibrous rings of the arterial & anricalo.ventricular openingr and the musoalar fibret FIBHOUS RINGS — The aortic & the two auriculo-ventricular rings lie close together behinc the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal cartilages, and are bounc together by a fibro-cartilagiaous mass which becomes ossified in some of the large animals. - The aortic ring lies in front of the left auriculo-ventricular; the rigli auriculo-ventricular ring lies between, & to the right of, the two others. - The fibrou ring of the pulmonary artery is situated at the apex of the infundibulam opposite th upper border of the 3rd costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. These rings give attachment to the mitral .tricuspid & semilunar valves, to th muscular fibres of the auricles, and to some of the most superficial fibres of the ven tricles. The margin of the arterial rings which is turned towards the auricles,] scalloped into three semilunar notches filled up by corresponding projections of th middle coat of the artery, the attachment of the arteries to the rings being strength ened externally by the pericardium and internally by the endocardiaa MUSCULAR FIBRES — -A-re striated, but are about ^ smaller than those of striated ram cles generally, and their striation is not so distinct. They divide and anastomos with each other, and they often contain fat cells. Their perimysium is but scantj Fibres of the Auricles - Are mostly transverse, superficial, & common to hot auricles; some however He deeper, and are proper to each aurioh SuPEEFicjAL, Transverse, or Common Fibres - Surround mainly the base of th sinuses, and are most marked anteriorly. Some dip into the intei auricular septuti Deep or Proper Fibres - May be divided into: Looped Fibres - Arch over each auricle from before backwards, and are a tached to the auriculo-ventricular rings both in front & behinc Annular Fibres - Encircle the appendi'ies auriculae, and the vense cavse, pu ; monary & coronary veins, extending for some distance upon the veins Fibres of the Ventricles - Vide aexb Tablet. j137 STRUCTURE of the HEART-2nd Tablet. FIBRES OP THE VENTRICLES Form seven layers diflferin<? from each other by the direction of their fibres. These layers are continuous with each other at the apex & at the base of the heart M follows : - the 1st, or most external layer, with the 7th, or most internal layer. „ 2nd, „ 6th, „ 3rd, „ 5fch, The fibres of the 4th or central layer return upon those of the same set. Together, the Ist & 7th layers form a kind of double ring inclosing all the other layers; the 2nd and 6th layers, a kind of double ring inclosing the 3rd, 4th, and 5th layers; the 3rd and 5th layers, a kind of double ring inclosing the 4th layer. As a conse- quence the double ring formed by the Ist and 7th layers extends farther towards the apex & the base of the heart than the double ring formed by the 2nd & 6th lavers, which latter double ring extends farther than the double ring formed by the 3rd & 5th layers; and the 4th or central layer is the least extensive of all. This explains the greater thickness of the walls of the ventricles towards the middle of their length than at either extremity. - The outer layers, it may be added, are thinner than the inner ones. The fibres of the three outer layers are inclined downwards & to the left on the anterior aspect of the heart, downwards & to the right on the posterior aspect; and they become less vertical in each successive layer. The fibres of the 4^h layer are horizontal or transverse. The fibres of the three inner layers are inclined upwards & to the left on the anterior aspect of the heart, upwards & to the right on the posterior aspect, crossing the fibres of the three outer layers, and becoming more & more vertical or longitudinal in the successive strata. Some of the superficial fibres, especially those of the posterior surface, pass round and en- close both ventricles; the mass of the fibres, however, enclose but one ventricle. In the three outer layers the anterior fibres proper to the left ventricle issue from the inner & front part of the corresponding arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings & from the front of the interventricular septum; these anterior fibres pass downwards & to the left, with a few of the anterior common superficial fibres, and get to the back part of the apex. The posterior fibres proper to the left ventricle issue from the outer & back part of the corresponding arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings & from the back of the interventricular septum; these posterior fibres pass downwards & to the right, with a somewhat considerable number oF the posterior common superficial fibres, and get to the front of the apex. Here all the fibres, both anterior & posterior, curl inwards in a whirl.like manner, the anterior fibres going to form the three inner strata on the posterior wall of the ventricle, and the posterior fibres going to form the three inner strata on the anterior wall. In the right ventricle the fibres of the three outer layers issue partly from the correspond- ing arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings, and are partly continuous with the posterior common superficial fibres. Descending spirally from left to right on the posterior aspect of the heart, and from right to left oa the anterior aspect, they reach the anterior interventricular groove. Here a few fibres are continued on to the left ventricle, forming the anterior common superficial fibres; the greater number pass backwards, however, in the interventricular septum, at the back of which they decus- sate with the fibres of the left ventricle, and blend with the posterior common super- superficial fibres. It must be added that none of the fibres, except a few of the most superficial ones, can now be said to arise from the arterial & auriculo-ventricular rings. The strata are merely Gontinued opposite these rings, the superficial ones into the deep ones, and vice virsa*138 ! ! CORONARY or CARDIAC VESSELS. I i CORONARY OR CARDIAC ARTERIES — Two. From npper part of the bulfingf corresponding to the two anterior sinuses of Valsalva just above free margin of serai. lunar valves, Left or Anterior - The smaller. Forwards & to the left between pulmonary artery & left auricular appendix, and divides into branclieg: HomzoNTAL - The smaller; along left auriculo-ventricular groove, and joins with horizontal branch of right or posterior coronary. Descending - The larger; along anterior interventricular groove to apex of heart, where it joins with descending branch of right or posterior coronary, j Right or Posterior - The larger. Forwards & to the right between pulmonary artery & right auricular appendix, and then backwards along right auriculo. ventricular groove, sending a large branch down riarht border of heart, and divides into branches: Horizontal - The smaller; along left auriculo-ventricular groove, and joins with horizontal branch of left or anterior coronary, Descending - The larger; along posterior interventricular groove to apex of heart, where it joins with descending branch of left or anterior coronary, CORONARY OR CARDIAC VEINS. Great Cardiac Vein - Ascends from apex of heart along anterior interventricular groove, turns backwards along left auriculo-ventricular groove, receiving an ascending branch of some size from left border of heart, and opens into left extremity of the coronary sinus, its opening beiag guarded by two valves. Posterior Cardiac Vein - Ascends from apex of heart, where it communicates with preceding, along posterior interventricular groove, and opens into right extremity of coronary sinus, its opening being guarded by a valve. It receives the veins from the posterior surface of both ventricles, Coronary Sinns - Thick trunk about an inch long situated at back part of left; auriculo-ventricular groove, and partly covered & concealed by muscular fibres of left aaricle. It receives the great & posterior cardiac veins, and a small vein, the remnant of the left superior cardinal vein of the embryo (Marshall), which passes downwards & to the right along back part of left auricle. It opens into the lower & back part of the right auricle close to the septum, below the opening of the inferior vena cava & Eustachian valve. Its opening is guarded by the valve of Thebesius. Small or Anterior Cardiac Veins & Venae Cordis Minimse - Several small branches, which collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and from the muscular substance of the heart, and which^open separately into the lower part of the right auricle (foramina Thebesii); on* larger than the otheica? ^uns along the right border of the heark Ir 139 PULMONARY VESSELS. PULMONARY ARTERY. Short thick trunk about two inches long, which oonveyg the venous blood from the right side of the keart to the lungs. Arises from apex of infuudibulum of right ventricle opposite upper border of Srd costal cartilage of left side close to sternum. Upwards, backwards & to the left, winding spirally in front & then to the left^ of ascending portion of arch of aorta, the two vessels being contained in one tubular sheath of the serous layer of the pericardium. - On either side of the artery are the auricular appendices & the coronary arteries ; behind it are the aorta & the left auricle. Pierces fibrous layer of pericardium, and divides below & in front of transverse portion of arch of aorta into: — Right Pulmonary Artery - The larger & longer. To the right behind ascending aorta & superior vena cava to root of right lung, in which it lies, both from before backwards and from above downwards, between the pulmonary veins & the bronchus. Divides into: Superior Branch - The smaller, to superior & middle lobes. Inferior Branch - The larger, to inferior lobe. Left PulniOIiary Artery - The smaller & shorter, connected at its root by remains of ductus arteriosus to under surface of arch of aorta. To the left in front of descending aorta, lying, in root of left lung, above the veins & the bronchus, but behind the former & in front of the latter. Divides into: Superior Branch - The smaller, to superior lobe. Inferior Branch - The larger, to inferior lobe. PULMONARY VEINS. Usually four. Commence upon the intercellular passages & air-cells in the capillary network of the pulmonary artery, but are also continuous with some of the terminal ramifications of the bronchial arteries. Their smaller divisions are bat very little larger than the corresponding branches of the pulmonary artery, and they accompany these singly, and form a single trunk for each lobule. Their larger branches are destitute of valves, and form a single trunk for each lobe, the trunk from the middle lobe of the right lung uniting with that from the upper. The two trunks from right lung pass behind superior vena cava, right auricle & ascend- ing aorta, and those from left lung cross anteriorly the descending aorta; all are invested anteriorly by serous layer of pericardium. In the lung the pulmonary vessels are generally found to lie in front of the correspond- ing bronchial tubes, the artery being above the vein. In the roots of the lungs the pulmonary veins lie in front of the arteries, and the arteries in front of the bronchus; and the order from below upwards is veins, artery, bronchus, on tlie right side, veins, bronchus, artery, on the left. There is sometimes a small distinct vein for middle lobe of right lung. The two left pulmonary veins often unite int o one trunk.140 THE ARCH of the AORTA. From upper part of left ventricle to left side of lower border of body of 4th dorsal vertebra (some authors say 3rd, some say 5th), describing a curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards & to the right. Is divided into: - ASCENDING PORTION — About two inches long. Upwards, forwards, & to the right from opposite centre of sternum on a level with lower border of 3rd costal cartilages to upper border of 2nd costal cartilage of right side close to sternum. Contained in pericardium together with trunk of pulmonary artery. - RELATIONS: In Front - Pulmonary artery, right auricular appendix, pericardium, loose areolar tissue, remains of thymus gland, sternum. Behind - Right pulmonary vessels, & root of right lung. To THE Right - Superior vena cava, right auricle. j To THE Left - Trunk of pulmonary artery. I TRANSVERSE PORTION — Backwards & to the left from upper border of 2&d| costal cartilage of right side close to sternum to left side of body of 3rd dorsal^; vertebra (some authors say 2nd, some say 4th). - RELATIONS- In Front - Left pneumogastric & phrenic nerves, cardiac branches of sympathetic, left lung & pleura,; Behind - Trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, left recurrent laryngeal nervOj great or deep cardiac plexus • Above - Left innominate vein, innominate, left common carotid, & left subclavian arteries 1 Below - Left bronchus, right pulmonary artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve ; remains of ductus arteriosus DESCENDING PORTION — Along left side of 3rd & 4th to lower border of 4tl i dorsal vertebra (some authors say along left side of 2nd & 3rd to lower bor der of 3i d, some say along left side of 4th & 5th to lower border of 5th),wher( it becomes thoracic aorta. - RELATIONS In Front - Pleura, root of left lung. Behind - Body of 4th dorsal vertebra (some authors say of 3rd, some say of 5th) To the Right - (Esophagus, thoracic duct. To the Left - Left lung & pleura. The aorta is somewhat dilated just above its origin, where it pre sents externally three small bulgings corresponding to the sinuses c Valsalva; two of these bulgings are anterior, and one is posteriorj an from the two anterior ones the coronary arteries are seen to arise. Th most prominent part of the arch lies about J of an inch behind the pos terior surface of the sternum. The height to which the arch usuall rises in the chest is about 1 inch below the upper border of the sternuui BRANCHES - Left or Anterior, & Right or Posterior Coronary, Innominate, Left Common Carotidj Left Subclavian.141 THE THOBACIC AORTA. Oommanoes at left side of lower border of 4fch dorsal vertebra (some Authors say 3rd, some tnj 6tb). JDesoends through posterior mediastinum, curving slightly forwards and inclining slightly to the right, and ends at aortic opsning of diaphragm in front of 12th dorsal verte- bra. -RELATIONS: In Feont - Root of left lung, pericardium, oesophagus. Behind - Yertebrsa, vena azygos minor. To THE Right - (Esophagus (above), vena azygos majors thoracic duoti To THE Left - Left lung & pleura, oesophagus (below). BEANCHES: Pericardiac - Small, irregular; forwards to pericardium, ' Bronchial - The nutrient vessels of the lungs. On left side, generally two arising from thoracic aorta one above the other; on right side, but one usually arising either from first aortic intercostal, or from front of aorta in common with artery of left side. Along back of corresponding bronchus, dividing & subdividing upon bronchial tubes, and supplying bronchial glands & cellular' tissue of lung; give a few twigs to oeaophagu^. CEsoplia^eal - Usually four or five from front of aorta. Descend obliquely upon oesopha- gus anastomosing with each other, and with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid, inferior phrenic & gastric. Posterior Mediastinal - Small irregular branches to glands and cellular tissue of mediastinum. Aortic Intercostals - From back of aorta. Usually ten in number, sometimes only nine, the second intercostal space being sometimes supplied, as well as the first, by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. To corres- Iponding intercostal space, passing on Left Side - Beneath smaller azygos & left superior intercostal veins, and left cord of sympathetic; Right Side - Round bodies of vertebrae beneath oesophagus, thoracic duct, greater azygos, & righc cord of sympathetic, - and divide into anterior & posterior branches. j Anterioe Branch, OE Intercostal Proper - Upon external intercostal muscle and j beneath pleura & a thin layer of fascia, to lower border of rib above, and divides between the two intercostal muscles into branches: Superior - The larger; along groove on inner surface of rib above; Inferior - The smaller; along upper border of rib below, - which branches supply intercostal muscles, and anastomose with thoracic branches of axillary & anterior intercostal branches of internal mammary. The three last intercostals are prolonged between abdominal muscles, and anastomose with epigastric, inferior phrenic & lumbar; the first one anastomoses with superior intercostal. — In the intercostal spaces the vein usually lies above the trunk of the artery & its superior branch, and the nerve below. PosTEEioE OR DoRSAL BRANCH - Backwards on inner side of superior or long costo- ' transverse ligament with posterior branch of corresponding spinal nerve, and divides into branches: Spinal - Through intervertebral foramen to cord & its membranes and pos- terior aspect of bodies of vertebraa. Muscular - Divides into internal offset to multifidus spinas & integument near spine, and external offset^ which passes between sacro-lumbalia & longissimus dorsi to superficial muscles & integument.142 THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. From innomiaafce artery behind upper border of sterno-clavicular arfciculatioa (right side) from end of transverse portion of arch of Aorta (left side), to outer border of first riu Divided into three parts: FIRST PART — From origin to inner border of scalenus anticus. Differs on the two sides. RIGHT SIDE —Arches upwards & outwards across root of neck, and is shorter & morl superficial than on left side. - Relations j In Front - Sterno-clavicular articulation, sterno.mastoid,.hyoid, & -thyroid,dee layer of fascia; - and the artery is crossed by i Internal & anterior jugular and vertebral veins, pneumogastric i, phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of sympatheti( Behind - Longus colli, transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, cord of sytr pathetic, recurrent laryngeal nervf Below - Pleura. Subclavian Vein lies below & in front of artery immediately behind claviol LEFT SIDE —Ascends nearly vertically, and is longer & more deeply situated. - Relation; In Front — Same, plus left lung & pleura, left innominate v., left com. carotid; - ac Pneumogastric & phrenic nerves & cardiac branches of sympath' tic are nearly parallel to the arter; Behind - Same, plus oesophagus & thoracic duct. On Inner S.-TYabch.ea,f aesophagus, thoracic duct, left common carotid artery. On OuterS.-F\e\ira,. BRANCHES — Vertebral, Internal Mammary, Thyroid Axis - Ari close together near inner border of scalenus anticus, ! interval measuring usually from ^ an inch to 1 inch being 1( ' between the origin of tlie artery & its first branch. Oa t left side the Superior Intercostal also usually aris from this part of the arte) SECOND PART — Lies behind scalenus anticus at a somewhat variable level above cla icle. Short; forms higest pard of arch described by the artery. - Relation In Front - Scalenus anticus, subclavian vein, phrenic nerve. Behind - Scalenus medius. Adove - Brachial plexus. ii Below - Pleura. ' If Subclavian Vein lies below & in front of artery, from which it is separated scalenus antio' BRANCHES — Superior Intercostal on right side; generally no branch ^ left si( THIRD PART — From outer border of scalenus anticus to outer border of first rib. Cross lower & inner part of posterior triangle of neck, lying in the small spa bounded by omo-hyoid, clavicle & scalenus ant. - Relation In front - Skin, superficial fascia, platysma, descending branches of superfioi cervical plexus, deep fascia, transversalis colli vei Clavicle, subclavius & its nerve, transversalis humeri vessels, exte nal jugular vein with the plexus frequently formed by t saprasoapular & transversalis ool Behind - Scalenus medius. Above - Brachial plexus, omo-hyoid. Below - Outer surface of first rib. Subclavian vein lies below, in front, & to inner side of arterj^ > BRANCH — Frequently the Posterior Scapular, which is otherwise deriv from the transversalis O0 |i|143 JRANCHES of the SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY-lst T. Vertebral - Vide "Arteries of the head & Neck." Internal Mammary - From under surface of subclavian, opposite thyroid axis. Downwards behind phrenic nerve and internal jugfular & subclavian veins to pos- terior aspect of costal cartilag-es a short distance from sternum. Descends between thoracic wall & pleura, giving off branches: - Perforating^ Anterior Intercostal^ Anterior Mediastinal, Conies Nervi Phrcnici^ and divides between 6th & 7th costal cartilages & beneath triangularis sterni into branches Musculo-phreniCi ^ Superior Epigastric. Its two venae comites unite into one trunk before they open into the innominate. Perforating - Five or six. Forwards through intercostal spaces, and then outwards to pectoralis major, integument, & mamma. Ant. Intercostal - Five or six. Outwards in five or six upper intercostal spaces between internal intercostal muscles & pleura, and divide between internal & ex- ternal intercostal muscles into superior & inferior branches which inoscu- late with corresponding branches of corresponding aortic intercostala, and are similarly distributed. Anterior Mediastinal - Small, irregular ; to pericardium, remains of thymus gland & cellular tissue of anterior mediastinum. Comes Nervi Phrenici (Superior Phrenic) - From upper part of artery. Long, slender; with phrenic nerve to diaphragm, and anastomose with musculo-phrenic, & inferior phrenic from abdominal aorta. Musculo-Phrenic - Downwards & outwards behind cartilages of false ribs, supplying diaphragm, which it perforates opposite 8th or 9th rib, & abdominal muscles, and giving off a small anterior intercostal branch to each of the lower intercostal spaces. Superior Epigastric - Enters sheath of rectus posteriorly, and anastomoses with epi- gastric branch of external iliac, lower intercostals & lumbar; gives twigs to rectus & to integument of middle line of abdomen. Thyroid Axis - Vide next Tablet.] Superior Intercostal - From upper & back part of 1st portion of subclavian on left side, of 2nd portion on right side. Passes backwards for a short distance, and gives off its deep cervical branch ; it then descends in front of neck of 1st rib, or in front of necks of 1st & 2nd ribs on outer side of 1st dorsal gang- lion of sympathetic, gives off one or two branches similar to the aortic intercostals, and joins with the first of the latter arteries. Deep Cervical or Profunda Cervicis - Sometimes arises directly from subclavian. Backwards between neck of 1st rib & transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, and ascends between complexns & semispinalis colli, anasto- mosing with vertebral artery & deep branch of arteria princeps cervicis.144] EEANCHES of the SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY-2nd T. THYROID AXIS — Short thick trunk from front of first part of subclavian close to inni border of scalenus anticus. Divides almost immediately into; Inferior Thyroid - Tnrtuous course upwards & inwards behind common carotid arte & sympathetic nerve, (the middle "ervical ganglion, when present, restingnp it) to under surface of thyroid gland, and anastomo'ses with the other thyrc arteries. - Gives off branohe Ascending Cervical - Ascends between scalenus anticus & rectus capitis antioi major; gives branches to deep muscles of neck, and, through the int( vertebral foramina, to spinal cord & its membranes and bodies of t vertebi Laryngeal - Upon trachea to back of larynx; supplies muscles & mucous me bra:j T' '»'^TIEAL - Join below with bronchial. ^v,, CEsophageal - Descend upon ossophagus. Suprascapular or Transversalis Humeri Crosses lower part of scalenus anticus under cover of sterno-raastoid. Outwards behind clavicle, beneath omo-hyoid. Beneath trapezius, and over transvierse ligament of scapula to supraspinous fosi where it ramifies between the muscle & the boi. Crosses neck of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Anastomoses with the otl ] scapular arteries, supplies shoulder .joint & subscapularis, and gives of! small supra-acromial tvr j Transversalis Colli j Crosses upper part of subclavian triangle in front of scaleni & brachial plexd passing sometimes between the trunks of the plexus, and divides baneaj trapezius inj Superficial Cervical - Ascends beneath trapezius to muscles & glands ot back j neck, and anastomoses with superficial branch of arteria pn'ncr cervii PosTEETOR Scapular - Beneath levator angali scapulas to superior angle of scapn and then along posterior border of the bone be leath rhomboidei as as its inferior angle, anastomosing: with the other scapular arteriea the intercostals. Frequently arises from 3rd parD of eabolavi145 •:he mediastinum Is the antero.posterior septum comprised between the two lungs & pleurae. It is divided into three parts by the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. Anterior Mediastinum - is the part in front of the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. It is narrow above, where it contains the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, the upper part of the left internal mammary vessels, a large quantity of loose areolar tissue, & a few lymphatic glands. It is narrower still behind the middle piece of the sternum, where the two pleurae come in direct contact as low down as the 4th costal cartilage. Quite inferiorly, in consequence of the notch in the lower part of the anterior border of the left lung, it expands to the left behind the 4th & 5th intercostal spaces of the left side; here it contains the lower part of the left internal mammary vessels, & that part of the triangularis sterni muscle, which overlies the apex of the heart. Middle Mediastinum - Isthepart which contains the pericardium, heart & large vessels (ascending aorta, pulmonary vessels, superior vena cava; - the inferior vena cava enters pericardium through opening in cordiform tendon of diaphragm), and also the phrenic nerves. It is the widest part of the mediastinum. Posterior Mediastinum - Is the part behind the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. It contains the descending aorta, trachea, oesophagus; the venae azygos major & minor & the left superior intercostal; the pneumogastrio & splanchnic nerves; the thoracic duct; fat & lymphatic glaad.<j.146 INNOMINATE ARTERY Arises from commencement of arch of Aorta in front of left common carofcid. Upwards & to the right to tipper border of right sterno-clavicular articulation, where divideili into right common carotid & right subclavian' Gives oflf occasionally the thyroidea ima. Its length is usually from an inch to an inch & i half.—RELATIONS I In Front — Sternum, sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, remains of thymus gland; j Left innominate & right inferior thyroid veins; i Inf. cervical cardiac br. of right pneumogastrio. Behind — Trachea. On Inner Side — Left common carotid, remains of thymus gland. On Outer Side — Right pneumogastrio n., right innominate vein, pleura. Thyroidea Ima — is very variable in size, when present. Usually arises from in nominate, sometimes from right common carotid or from Aorta. Ascends ii front of trachea to thyroid gland147 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. Eight common carotid arises from innominate artery behind steno-clavicular articulation. Left common carotid arises from highest part of arch of Aorta, is longer, and has a thora- cic portion deeply situated within the thorax. THORACIC PORTION OP THE LEFT COMMON CAROTID ART. Upwards & outwards to root of neck. — RELATIONS : In Front — Sternum, sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, left innominate v., re- mains of thymus gland. Behind — Trachea, CESophagus, thoracic duct. On Inner Side — Innominate artery. On Outer Side — Left pneumogastric & phrenic ns. & left subclavian art., left lung & pleura. CERVICAL PORTION OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. Upwards & outwards from behind sterno-clavicular articulation to upper border of thyroid cartilage, where divides into external & internal carotid arta. Direction from sternal end of clavicle to midway between angle of jaw & mastoid pr. In same sheath of deep cervical fascia as int. jugular v. & pneumogastric n. Deeply situated at origin; superficial at termination. — EELATIONS: In Front, Lower part — Skin, superf f., platysma, ant. jugular v., deep f; Sterno-mastoid, -hyoid, -thyroid, omo-hyoid, middle thyr. v. Upper part — Skin, superf. f. platysma, deep f, inner border of sterno-mastoid. Sterno-mastoid art., facial, lingual & sup, thyroid veins, descendens noni n. Behind — Cervical vertebra, longus colli, rectus capitis anticus major, inf thyroid artery, sympathetic & recurrent laryngeal ns. On Inner Side — Trachea, thyroid gland, larynx, pharynx; iuferior thy- roid art., recurrent laryngeal n. On Outer Side — Internal jugular vein, pneumogastric n. — At lower part of neck int. jugular v. diverges from artery on right side, approaches and crosses it on left side. External carotid artery From upper border of thyroid cartilage to interval between neck of condyle & external audi- tory meatus, where divides into temporal & internal maxillary. At its origin it is more superficial & nearer middle line than int. carotid. — RELA- TIONS : Covered by — Skin, superficial f, platysma, deep f., ant. border of sterno-mastoid; Lingual & facial veins, hypoglossal n., digastric & stylo-hyoid ms. Parotid gl., facial n., junction of temporal & internal maxillary vs. On Inner Side — Wall of pharynx, portion of parotid gland, sup. laryngeal n. Behind —Sup. laryngeal n., stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus, glosso-pharyngeal n., in- ternal carotid art. BRANCHES: Superior Thyroid, Lingual, Facial; Occipital, Post. Auricular; — Ascending Pharyngeal; Temporal, Int. Maxillary.148 ANTERIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. i SUP. THYROID — Arises from front of external carotid close to its origin beneath thin anterior margin of stemo-mastoid, and is quite superficial when this mnsole is dissected from its sheath, for the latter then retracts and exposes the carotid vessels & their branches. ; Tortuous course upwards & forwards, and then downwards & forwards beneath omo- & | sterno-hyoid & -thyroid to anterior surface of thyroid body. Gives off brs: Hyoid - Small; along lower border of hyoid bone beneath thyro-hyoid, and joina with its fellow. Stemo-Mastoid or Superficial Descending - Descends to middle of stemo-mastoid, crossing carotid vessels. Sup. Laryngeal - "With superior laryngeal nerve to interior of larynx through outer part of thyro-hyoid membrane. Crico-Thyroid - Small j crosses crico-thyroid membrane and joins with its fellow. LINGUAL — Arises a little below hyoid bone beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Upwards & forwards upon middle constrictor to great cornu of hyoid bone. Horizontally forwards above great cornu beneath hyo-glossus, digastric & stylo-hyoid. Upwards on genio-hyo-glossus. Forwards with gustatory nerve on under surface of lingualis inferior, and then beneath' mucous membrane to tip of tongue under name of ranine. - Gives off brs :i Hyoid - Small J along upper border of hyoid bone and joins with its fellow, Dorsalis Linguae - A-Scends on genio..hyo-glossus to dorsum of tongue, epi. glottis, soft palate & tonsil Sublingual - Forwards between mylo-hyoid & mucous membrane to sublingual gland Ranine - The terminal branch j joins with its fellow at tip of tongue. Pjj\,CI AL — Arises above preceding beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Forwards & upwards beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid & submaxillary gld Crosses jaw bone in front of masseter. Forwards and upwards to angle of mouth npon buccinator & beneath platysma. Upwards beneath zygomatici and upon levator anguli oris and the levators of the lip I' ala of the nose to inner canthus, where becomes angular artery and joini with ophthalmic Is very tortuous in its course. Facial vein lies behind it, and is less tortuous. Gives of branches Inferior or Ascending Palatine - Dips beneath ramus of jaw. Ascendi between stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus and then upon superior constric tor in front of ascending pharyngeal, and supplies tonsil & soft palate Tonsillar - Ascends upon and perforates sup. constrictor to tonsil & root of tongue Submaxillary - Three or four, to submaxillary gland & surrounding muscles. Submental - Forwards on under surface of mylo-hyoid, and between it an( digastric to symphysis, where ascends upon chin Inf. Labial - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, below following artery t( tissues of lower lip Inf. Coronary - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, and tortuous cours( through substance of orbicularis and between it & mucous membrane anastomosing with its fellow Sup. Coronary - Larger and more tortuous; similar course along free edge o upper lip, giving twigs to ala and artery of septum to septum of nose Lateralis Nasi - To ala and dorsum of nose. Angular - To inner canthus, supplying lachrymal sac and anastomosing wit! nasal branch of ophthalmic All these branches anastomose freely with each other, with those of the oppa site side, and with the mental, transverse facial, infra-orbital, ophthal inic, sublingual, posterior superior or descending palatine and ascending pharyngeal arteries149 OSTERIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. OCCIPITALi — Arises just below ^sterior belly of digastric, and is crossed close to its origin by hypoglossal nerve. Upwards and backwards beneath posterior belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid, & portion of parotid gland, crossing internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, glosso.pharyngeal, pneumogastric & spinal accessory nerves, - and then between mastoid process & transverse process of atlas. Horizontally backwards in occipital groove beneath sterno-mastoid, digastric, splenius & trachelo-mastoid, - and then between trapezius & complexus. Pierces upper part of trapezius, ascends beneath integument with great occipital nerve, and divides into numerous branches to upper & back part of head. Gives off branches: Muscular - Numerous small ones, and one large one to upper part of sterno- mastoid. Auricular - To back of ear. Meningeal - Through jugular foramen to dura mater of posterior fossa. Arteria Princeps Cervicis - Descends beneath splenius, and divides into: Superficial Be. - Descends between splenius & complexus, and anasto- moses with superficial cervical branch of posterior scapular. Deep Bb, - Descends beneath complexus, and anastomoses with vertebral & with deep cervical branch of superior intercostal. POST. AURICULAR — Arises beneath or above digastric & stylo-hyoid, and ascends under cover of parotid gland & beneath facial nerve to groove between cartilage of ear and mastoid process, where divides into Ant. & Post. Branches - Which communicate respectively with posterior branch of temporal & with occipital, and of which the former gives off numerous branches to back of ear. - Gives off StylO-mastoid Art. ( Sometimes derived from occipital). - Through stylo- mastoid foramen to tympanum & semicircular canals, joining with tym- panic branch of internal maxillary, with which it forms in young sub- jects ft vascular circle round membrana tympani. NTERNAL BRANCH of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL — Long, slenderj from back of external carotid near its origin. Ascends vertically to base of skull, in front of internal carotid artery and between that vessel & side of pharynx, giving off branches: External - Small, irregular, to 8th, 9th, and sympathetic nerves, and adjoining muscles. Pharyngeal - Three or four J to the three constrictors, stylo-pbaryngeus. Eus- tachian tube, soft palate & tonsil. Meningeal - To dura mater through foramina lacera posterius & medium, and sometimes through anterior condyloid foramen.150 TERMINAL BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. TEMPORAL — The smaller. Commences in substance of parotid gland between neck of condyle & external auditory meatus. Ascends in groove between condyle & external auditory meatus, and crosses posterior root of zygoma. Ascends for about two inches upon temporal muscle & fascia, and beneath skin & attra. hens aurem, with branches of facial & auriculo-temporal nerves, and divides into: i Ant. Temporal - The smaller. Forwards over forehead, and joinB i with supraorbital & frontaL . Post, Temporal - The larger. Upwards & backwards, and joins with posterior auricular & occipital, | Gives off before its division: 1 Twigs - To parotid gland & temporo-maxillary articulation. ! Transverse Facial - Forwards through parotid ^land, and across face be- ii tween Steno's duct & zygoma; joins with facial & infraorbital. Middle Temporal - Through temporal fascia to temporal muscle, joining with deep temporal branches of internal maxillary. Often gives oS Orbital Bkanch - To outer angle of orbit along upper border of zygoma & between the two layers of temporal fascia. Ant. Auricular - Two or three small branches to external ear, INTERNAL MAXILLARY — The larger. Commences in substance of parotid gland behind neck of condyle. May be divided into three portions: FIRST or MAXILLARY PORTION — Forwards beneath tendon of external pterygoid, and between neck of condyle & internal lateral i ligament of jaw, crossing inferior dental nerve. Gives off Tympanic, Middle meningeal, Small meningeal, i Inferior dental. ! SECOND or PTERYGOID PORTION — Forwards & upwards on outer i surface of external pterygoid, between it & temporal muscle. Gives off two Deep temporal. Masseteric, Pterygoid, & Buc-1 cal. THIRD or SPHENO-MAXILLARY PORTION - Into spheno-max- illary fossa between the two heads of external pterygoid, i, Gives off Alveolar, Infraorbital, Vidian, Pterygo-palatine, > Sup. or descending palatine. Nasal or Spheno-palatine. Sometimes the artery passes behind, and alonj? inner surface of, external pterygoid muscle, between it & internal pterygoid.15] JKANCHES of the INTERNAL MAXILLARY. Tympanic - Throngli Glaserian fissure to tympanum, where joins with stylo-mastoid. Middle or Great Meningeal - Through foramen spinosum, and divides into: Anterior Branch - Across great wing of sphenoid to groove or canal on anterior inferior angle of parietal, and divides into numerous branches to dura mater & skull. Posterior Branch - Crosses squamous portion of temporal bone, and divides into similar branches. Gives twigs to facial nerve through hiatus Fallopii, which twigs join with stylo-mastoid. Small Meningeal - Arises frequently from preceding; through foramen ovale to dura mater of middle fossa. Inferior Dental - With inferior dental nerve, similarly dividing opposite first bicuspid tooth into incisor & mental branches^ and likewise giving off Mylo-hyoid branch - Along mylo-hyoid groove to mylo-hyoid muscle. Deep Temporal - Two, anterior and posterior. Ascend between temporal muscle & pericranium. Pterygoid - Vary in number and precise mode of origin. Masseteric - Through sigmoid notch to masseter. Buccal - Forwards upon buccinator to structures of cheek, joining with facial. Alveolar - Descends upon tuberosity of superior maxilla, and divides into numerous branches to molar teeth, gums & lining membrane of antrum. Infraorbital - Through infraorbital canal with superior maxillary nerve. Sends small twigs into orbit, and others to front teeth through canals in anterior wall of antrum, and divides beneath levator labii superioris into: Ascending branches - To inner angle of eye, where they join with nasal j Descending branches-^ow^'QQvYv^l join with transverse facial, superior coronary & buccal. Vidian - With vidian nerve through vidian canal to upper part of pharynx & Eustachian tube; gives a twig to tympanum. PterygO-Palatine - With pharyngeal or pterygo-palatine nerve through pterygo-palatine canal to upper part of pharynx & Eustachian tube. Superior or Descending Palatine -= Descends with anterior or great palatine nerve through posterior palatine canal, sending twigs to soft palate. Forwards in groove on hard palate, giving twigs to mucous membrane & gums, and ascends through incisor foramen to join artery of septum. Nasal or Spheno-Palatine - Through spheno-palatine foramen with superior nasal & naso- palatine nerves, and divides into : Internal Branch or Artery of Septum - Downwards «& forwards along septum, and joins with termination of descending palatine. ExTEENAL Branches - Two or three to mucoua membrane of outer wall of nose, and to ethmoidal & sphenoidal cells & Antrum.152 INTEKNAL CAROTID ARTERY Commences at bifurcation of common carotid opposite upper border of thyroid cartilage & in \ the so-called superior carotid triangle. It is at first very superficial, being covered only! by thin anterior border of sterno-mastoid, platysma & fascia, and lying on outer side of, & rather behind, external carotid artery.: May be divided into cervical, petrous, cavernous & cerebral portions. i CERVICAL PORTION — Ascends vertically to carotid foramen, passing (as does also external carotid) Beneath - Digastric & stylo-hyoid muscles, occipital artery, hypoglossal nerve, & parotid gland, - then ascending beneath, and being separated from external carotid by Stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus & the styloid process, the glosso-pharyn. geal nerve and sometimes the pharyngeal branch of the vagus.- Its deep relations are; On Inner Side - Pharynx, tonsil, ascending pharyngeal art., superior laryngeal n. Behind - Rectus capitis anticus major & transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae; - superior cervical ganglion & main trunk of sympathetic, and superior laryngeal nerves, Behind & Externally -• Internal jugular vein, and, lying between & behind the two vessels, the pneumogastric nerve. Usually gives off no branches. PSTROUS PORTION — Ascends in carotid canal in front of tympanum, being surrounded by carotid & cavernous plexuses, and then curves forwards & inwards. - Sends a small Tympanic Branch, - To tympanum through a minute foramen in pos- terior wall of carotid canal CAVERNOUS PORTION — Ascends to sphenoid bone, and then runs forwards in caver- nous groove, lying in inner wall of cavernous siuus, by lining membrane of which it is covered, and being, on its outer side, crossed by 6th nerve and more distantly related to 3rd, 4th, & ophthalmic branch of the 5th. Gives off: i Ophthalmic Artery - Vide next Tablet. I Arterise Receptaculi - Several, small, to walls of cavernous sinus & dura mater. CEREBRAL PORTION — Ascends between optic nerve & anterior clinoid process, perfo« rates dura mater of roof of sinus, receives sheath from arachnoid, and after giving off Post. Communicating & Ant. Choroid, divides opposite inner extremity of fissure of Sylvius into Ant. & Middle Cerebral - Vide next Tablet. Ant. Choroid Artery - Arises from internal carotid, or sometimes from middle cerebral. Backwards through lateral part of transverse fissure of brain to descen- ding cornu of lateral ventricle, and supplies choroi d plexus.153 PHTHALMIO ARTERY Arises from internal carotid as that vessel emerges from cavernous sinus between optio nerve ik anterior clinoid process. Through optic foramen below & on outer side of optic nerve. Over optic nerve, and forwards beneath superior oblique to anterior superior angle of oi'bit, where divides into frontal & nasal. BRANCHES — May be divided into: ORBITAL GROUP: Lachrymal - With lachrymal nerve & above external rectus to lachrymal glana & upper eyelid. Gives off small malar & temporal branches, which per- forate temporal bone to temporal fossa & cheek. Supraorbital - With frontal nerve & above the muscles to supraorbital foramen, where divides into superficial & deep branches to integument & muscles of forehead & pericranium. Iitllllioidal - Anterior & posterior. Through anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina (former with nasal nerve), giving branches to ethmoidal cells & dura mater, and then through foramina in cribriform plate of ethmoid to septum & outer wall of nose. Palpebral - Superior & inferior. Encircle eyelids near free margin & beneath orbicularis, and anastomose with infraorbital & with orbital branch of temporal. Frontal - From orbit at its superior internal angle to skin & muscles of forehead & pericranium, joining with supraorbital. ITasal - Above tendo oculi, and divides into dorsalis nasi to dorsum of nose and anastomotic branch to angular branch of facial. OCULAR group: IVIUSCTllar - Very variable, usually divided into: SuPEEioE - Smaller, to levator palpebrae superioris, superior rectus & supe- rior oblique; Inferior - Larger, to inferior oblique & the other recti, and gives off most of the anterior ciliary arteries. Ciliary - May be divided into: SHORT POSTERIOR - Surround optio nerve, and through sclerotic a line or two from the nerve to ciliary processes & choroid. LONG - Two. Through back part of sclerotic, and between sclerotic & choroid on either side of eyeball to ciliary body, where bifurcate and form great arterial circle of iris, from which small twigs converge to free margin of iris forming lesser arterial circle. ANTERIOR - Chiefly from muscular. Through sclerotic a line or two from margin of cornea to great arterial circle of iris. Centralis RetinSS - Pierces optic nerve, and forwards in its substance to retina. In foetus a small branch passes forwards through vitreous body to posterior part of capsule of lens. IVERTEBRAL ARTERY Arises from upper & back part of first portion of subclavian. Upwards & backwards to foramen in transverse process of 6th cervical vertebra, passing beh; vasculo-nervous bundle of the neck and more particularly behind inferior thyroid arter ; internal jugular vein, and then between scalenus anticus & longus C( j. Upwards through the series of foramina in the transverse processes as far as upper border of a ij with the vertebral vein and a plexus of the sympathetic, the artery lying between the -v ji which is in front, and the cervical nerves which emerge behind from the intervertel i foram; I. Upwards & outwards to, and then through, foramen in transverse process of atlas. | Backwards & inwards behind lateral mass in groove on posterior arch of atlas, lying in the tri j. gular space between the recti & obliqui muscles, and being crossed by the posterior bra i of the suboccipital nerve and covered by the comple: i Pierces posterior occipito-atloid ligament, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum ' Winds round medulla oblongata between hypoglossal nerve and anterior root of suboccipi ,. ascends obliquely between anterior surface of medulla oblongata & basilar process, ji joins its fellow opposite lower border of pons Varolii to form basilar tri BRANCHES — Are cervical & cranial. CERVICAL: Muscular - Several, small, to the deep muscles of the neck. j XiStterd/l Spinal - Through intervertebral foramina, and divide into: Ani. Branch - To posterior surface of bodies of vertebraB j FosL Branch - To roots of nerves, cord & its membranes. CRANIAL: Posterior Meningeal - Two or three, small, to dura mater of cerebellar fossi Posterior & Anterior Spinal - Arise respectively behind upper part of ' Ij and in front of med!», The two posterior descend behind the roots of the spinal nerves; The two anterior unite into a single trunk, which descends along mi e line of (1. Both join with, and are reinforced by, the numerous spinal branches der d from the vertebral, ascending cervical, inferior thyroid, the interco 1, lumbar, ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral; and are thus each of them i- tinned as small tortuous vessels, or rather as a series of inosculg g vessels, down to the extremity of the cord, where they resolve into t ;s to Cauda eq' % Posterior Inferior Cerebellar - Backwards round medulla between pne ^ gastric & spinal accessory nerves, and over restiform body to m€ in fissure or valley on under surface of cerebellum. Gives ofi" an offsi io tinder surface of cerebral hemisphere and twigs to choroid plexus ol ih vent: e. BASILAR ARTERY Formed by junction of the two vertebral arteries opposite lower border of pons Varolii, and exti to upper border of the si % BRANCHES: COLLATERAL: Transverse Arteries of the Pons - Directly outwards over pons. :One aci i- panics auditory nerve into internal auditory meatus, and becomes le auditory ar h Anterior Inferior Cerebellar-Along cms cerebelli to anterior part of u ir surface of cerebel i- Superior Cerebellar - Winds round crus cerebri with 4fch nerve to upper sui of cerebellum and gives twigs to velum interposi i- TERMINAL: Posterior Cerebral - Two. Vide arteries of base of brain. I155 |RTERIES of the BASE of the BRAIN. Are the anterior & middle cerebral branches of the internal carotid and the posterior cerebral of the basilar, which are joined together by the anterior & posterior communic ating. Anterior Cerebral - Anterior & smaller of the branches of bifurcation of internal carotid opposite inner extremity of fissure of Sylvius. Forwards & inwards towards longitudinal fissure, being connected with each other by Anterior Communicating, - A small branch about two lines in length. Bound genu and along upper surface of corpus callosum, and join with posterior cere- bral. Give off small branches to anterior perforated space and to inner & under surfaces of frontal lobe. Middle Cerebral-The larger of the two terminal branches of internal carotid. Forwards & outwards along fissure of Sylvius, giving twigs to anterior perforated space, and divides into branches to pia mater of frontal, parietal & temporo- sphenoidal lobes, and to central lobe or Island of Eeil. - Sometimes gives off anterior choroid. Posterior Communicating - "Very variable in size. From back part of internal carotid just before its bifurcation. ' Backwards parallel to its fellow, and inosculates with posterior cerebral. Posterior Cerebral - Two; terminal branches of basilar. Forwards and outwards for a short distance giving numerous branches to posterior perforated space, and join posterior communicating. Backwards & outwards on crura cerebri in front of 3rd nerve, and, curving slightly inwards, divide into numerous branches to inner, under, & outer surfaces of occipital lobe. CIRCLE OF WILLIS — is formed in front, laterally & behind respectively by: Anterior cerebral arteries joined by the anterior communicating^ Trunks of internal carotids & posterior coffimimicating, Posterior cerebral & basilar. Within the circle of Willis are comprised from before backwards the lamina cinerea, optic commissure, tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, corpora albicantia & posterior perforated space.156 ABDOMINAL AORTA Curves slightly backwards & to the left from aortic opening in front of 12th d al vertebra to a little to the left of 4th lumbar vertebra, where it di es into the two common i }s. RELATIONS In Fbont - Lesser omentum, stomach, coeliac axis, solar plexus; Splenic vein, pancreas, left renal vein; Transverse portion of duodenum, mesentery, aortic plexus. Behind - Yertebrse, left lumbar veins, receptaculum chyli, thoracic dm To THE Right-Inferior vena cava, vena azygos major, receptaculum I'll, thoracic duct, right semilunar ganum To THE Left - Cord of sympathetic, left semilunar ganglion. BRANCHES — Phrenic, Cceliac Axis, Superior Mesenteric; Suprarenal, Renal, Spermatic; Inferior Mesenteric, Lumbar, & Sacra-Media.157 ANOHES of the ABDOMINAL AORTA-lst Tablet. Inferior Phrenic - Two. Arise separately or by a common trunk either from oceliao axis.or from aorta immediately above the latter. Upwards and outwards behind CBSophagus on left side, behind vena cava on rio^ht side, to central tendon of diaphragm, and divide into : Internal Beanch - To front part of diaphragm communicating with its fellow & with musculo>phrenlo, External Branch - To side of thorax, communicating with intercostala. Gives off small superior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule. CoeliaC Axis - Vido next Tablet. Superior Mesenteric - "Vide next Tablet but one. Suprarenal - Two. Small in adult, but in foetus as large as renal. To suprarenal capsules, anastomosing with capsular branches of phrenic & renal. Henal or Emulgent - Two. Large, from sides of aorta just below superior mesenteric. Nearly horizontally outwards behind renal vein, and divide, each of them, into four or five branches, which penetrate into hilum of kidney in front of pelvis. - Give ofl small inferior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule, and twigs to pelvis & ureter. Right artery passes behind inf. vena cava, is longer than left one, and lies a little lower. Renal arteries vary considerably in coincidence with variations of kidneys in situation, size, and number. - They may arise from front of aorta near its bifurcation, or from common or internal iliac; - they may divide into branches sooner than usual, or may be replaced by several arteries which arise separately from side of aorta J - one may be wanting, or there may be a supernumerary artery corres- ponding to a supernumerary kidney. Spermatic - Two; long & slender. From front of aorta a little below renal. Downwards and outwards beneath peritoneum to brim of pelvis crossing psoas & ureter and, on right side, inferior rena cava. Forwards in front of external iliac artery to internal abdominal ring, being crossed on right side by termination ot ileum, on left side by sigmoid flexure of colon. Through inguinal canal and down to back of testis with other constituents of spermatic cord, becoming tortuous near its termination, and giving twigs to epididymis, which twigs join with artery of vas deferens j pierces tunica albuginea to sub- stance of testis. OVARIAN ARTERY - In female. Same course down to brim of pelvis, then passes down. wards & inwards to attached margin of ovary between layers of broad ligament of uterus; joins with uterine on side of uterus; gives branches to Fallopian tube and twigs to round ligament, which twigs are sometimes continued through in- gu nal canal to integument of labium & groin. Both these arteries are short during first part of foetal life, when testes & ovaries lie just below kidneys, and become elongated only when these organs descend into pelvis. Inferior Mesenteric - Vide next Tablet but one. Lumbar - Usually four; from back of aorta. Round bodies of lumbar vertebrae beneath psoas, the two upper ones passing also beneath pillars of diaphragm, and those of right side beneath inferior vena cava ; and divide between transverse processes into: Abdominal Branch - Behind quadratus lumborum (the lowest one sometimes in front), and beneath abdominal muscles, joining with epigastric, internal mammary, intcrcostals, ilio-lumbar & circumflex iliac. Dorsal Branch - Sends a ppinal branch through intervertebral foramen to cauda equina & posterior surface of bodies of vertebrae, and passes backwards to muscles & integument of back. Sacra Media - Smallfrom back of aorta at point of bifurcation. Descends upon middle of sacrum, anastomosing with both lateral sacral.BRANCHES of the ABDOMINAL A0RTA-2nd Tablet. CCELIAC AXIS. Short thick trunk, from front of aorta between pillars of diaphragm. Forwards above pancreas and between lobus Spigelii & right semilunar ganglion on the right, a left semilunar ganglion & cardiac end of stomach on the left, for about half an inch, a divides in GASTRIC, OR CORONARIA VENTRICULI - The smallest. Upwards and to the left to cardiac orifice of stomach. Along lesser curvature between layers of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum to pylor where inosculates with pyloric branch of hepatic; gives branches to both s faces of stoma HEIPATIC - Intermediate in size in the adult; the largest in the foetus. Upwards and to the right in front of foramen of Winslow, between the two layers along right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, - ductus commi choledochus lying to the right, and the vena portse behind, - and divides transverse fissure of liver into two branches, which accompany division! vena portse & hepatic duct to right & left lobes. Gives oS brand Pyloric - To pylorus, and along lesser curvature, inosculating with gastric. Gastro-dUOdenalis - Large; downwards behind duodenum, and divides int Gastro-epiploica dextra - Along greater curvature of stomach heU, layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stom and to omentum, and inosculates with gastro-epiploica sinis Pancreatico-duodenalis Superior - Descends between pancreas and ( denum ,and anastomoses with inferior pancreatico-duodenalii branch of superior mesent( Oystic - Arises from right division. - Upwards to neck of gall bladder, ramifies on its under surface, and between it & li > SPLENIC - The largest. Tortuous course to the left behind upper border of pancreas and above splenic i i and divides into numerous branches which enter hilum of sple( • Gives : Pancreaticse parvse - Numerous, small. Pancreatica magna - From left to right along posterior surface of panoi ■ Vasa brevia - From five to seven in number; between layers of gastro-spl 5 omentum to splenic end of stom • Gastro-epiploica sinistra-Along greater curvature of stomach bet^ i layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stoma' to omentum, and inosculating with gastro-epiploica de: "159 IRANCHES of the ABDOMINAL AOBTA-Srd Tablet. SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY From front of aorta just below coeliac axis and behind splenic vein & pancreas. Forwards between pancreas & transverse portion of duodenum, and cross^ front of the latter. Curves downwards to the right between layers of mesentery to right iliaq fossa, and inoscu- lates with its oVn ileo-oolic branch. BRANCHES : Inferior PancreaticO-dUOdenal - Given off behind pancreas. I Ascends along concave border of duodenum and joins with srlperior pancreatico- duodenal. Vasa intestini tennis - Ten or twelve or more, and arise from convex side of artery. Descend between layers of mesentery and divide each of theiri into two branches, by junction of each of which with the neighbouring pranch, a first series of arches is formed, to which 2nd, 3rd, 4th, & eveif 5th rapidly dimi- nishing tiers succeed, the terminal branches encircling the intestine and ramifying in its coats. IleO-COlic - The lowest branch from concavity. Between layers of mesentery towards ileo-colic valve, and divides into: Ascending Branch - To beginning of colon, and inosculates with colica dextra. Descending Branch - To end of ileum, and inosculates vtith. termination of superior mesenteric, both branches forming arches as above. Colica dextra - From middle of concavity. Beneath peritoneum and in front of right kidney to middle of ascending colon, and divides into Ascending & Descending Branches, - Which inosculate respectively with the colica media & the ileo-colic, also forming arches as above. Colica media - From upper part of concavity. Between layers of transverse meso-colon towards middle of transverse colon, divi- ding as preceding arteries, and similarly inosculating with colica dextra & colica sinistra. INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY From left side of aorta one or two inches above bifurcation. Descends along left side of aorta and front of psoas towards left iliac fossa, and then, under the name of superior hsemorrhoidal, curves to the right in front of left common iliac & vireter, and descends into the pelvis behind rectum, between layers of meso-rectum. BRANCHES: Colica sinistra - Beneath peritoneum and in front of left kidney to middle of descen- ding colon, and divides into Ascending & Descending Branches, - Which inosculate respectively with the colica media and the sigmoid artery, and supply intestine as above described. Sigmoid Artery - Across psoas to sigmoid flexure of colon, and divides into tvv'o branches, which inosculate with colica sinistra and sup. hccmorrhoidal. Sl'perior hsemorrhoidal - The continuation of the inferior mesenteric. Follows course above described, aiid divides opposite middle of sacrum iuto two branches, whlQh descend on each side of rectum to near its lower end, and ioin with middle hsemorrhoidal.160 COMMON ILIAC ARTEEY. Downwards & outwards from bifurcation of aorta a little to the left of 4th Inra vertebra to opposite sacro-rertebral articulation (some Authors say opposite sacro.i; synchondrosis), where it divides into external & internal iliacs. Is about two ino long, the right artery being slightly the loni BELATI2NS : Right Side: In Front - Small intestine, peritoneum, sympathetic nerve, um' near bifurcat , Behind - Both common iliac veins. Outer Side - Eight common iliac vein, inferior vena cava, p! mm Leftside: In Fbont - Same, plus rectum & superior haemorrhoidal artery. ; Outer Side - Psoas. Left Common Iliac Vein - Lies at first on inner side of its artery, and 1 passes beneath artery of right f Right Common Iliac Vein - Lies at first behind its artery, and then oc ' outer I BRANCHES — Very small & not named, sometimes Renal & lUo-lumbar.161 XTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Downwards & outwards along inner border of psoas, extending from bifurcation of oom- mon iliac opposite sacro-vertebral articulation (some Authors say opposite eacro-iliac synchondrosis) to beneath Poupart's lifyament midway between anterior superior spine of ilium & symphysis pubis, where it becomes femoral artery. Rather larsrer in the adult than internal iliac ; half the size in the foetus. RELATIONS:- In Front - Intestine, peritoneum, thin layer of fascia derived from the iliac; spermatic vessels & nerves, genital branch of genito- crural nerve, circumflex iliac vein, sometimes ureter near oriorin. Behind on Right Side - External iliac vein, which lies on inner side at femoral arch. On Inner Side - External iliac vein, & vas deferens. On Outer Side - Iliac fascia & psoas muscle. Ze/f External Iliac Vehi lies altogether on inner side of its artery. Right External Iliac Vein lies at first on inner side of its artery, and then behind it. BRANCHES: - Epigastric - Somewhat the larger. From front of external iliac a few lines above Poupart's ligament. Descends slightly to reach level of the ligament. Ascends obliquely upwards & inwards in subperitoneal areolar tissue, passing behind inguinal canal & along lower & inner boundaries of internal abdo- minal ring, and hooking round vas deferens in the male, round round ligament in the female. Pierces sheath of rectus between its middle & lower thirds, and ascends behind the muscle, dividing into muscular & cutaneous branches, which anasto- mose with lower intercostal?, lumbar, superior epigastric of internal mammary, & superficial epigastric of femoral. - Gives o£F branches : Ckemasteric - Small, descends upon spermatic cord and supplies cremaster; anastomoses with spermatic. Pubic - Usually email; descends behind pubes on inner side of femoral ring, and anastomoses with obturator. Sometimes greatly increased in size so as to form the origin, or one of the origins, of the obturator artery, which artery is then said to arise from the epigastric (Vide obturator artery). - The two epigastric veins unite into one trunk, which opens into the external iliac. Circumflex Iliac - Somewhat the smaller. From outer side of external iliac near Poupart's ligament. Upwards & outwards behind the ligament, and along anterior half of inner lip of crest of ilium, joining with gluteal. Pierces transversalis, runs backwards between it & the internal oblique, and joins with ilio-lumbar. Gives off numerous muscular branches; one, rather large, ascends from anterior superior spine of ilium, and joins with the epigastric & lumbar. - The two circumflex iliac veins unite into one trunk, which crosses the external iliac artery and opens into the corresponding v.162 INTEKNAL ILIAC ARTERY. I I Short thick trunk which extends from bifurcation of common iliac artery opposite sacr vertebral articulation (some Authors say opposite sacro-iliac synchondrosis) upper border of great sacro-sciatic foramen, near which it divides into anteri & posterior divisions. Usually 1| inches long, but its length may vary from J an inch to 3 inches. Eather smaller in adult than the exteriial iliac. Twice as large in foetus: - Under t name of hypogastric artery, it then continues the common iliac along side bladder, and ascends to umbilicus where it becomes one of the umbilical arteri i RELATIONS: In Front - Peritoneum, ureter. Behind - Pyriformis, internal iliac vein, lumbo-sacral cord. On Outek Side near Obigin - Psoas & external iliac vein. BRANCHES — Are given off as follows, from: - ANT. DIVISION - Sup. Middle & Inf. Vesical, Middle Haemo rhoidal, and in female, uterine & Vaginaji Obturator, Sciatic, Pudic. POST. DIVISION - Ilio-Lumbar, Lateral Sacral, Gluteal.163 JBANCHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-lst T. BRANCHES FROM ANTERIOR DIVISION. VISCERAL BRANCHES: Vesical-Two or three; but other twigs pass to bladder from middle hgemorrhoidal, uterine, vaginal, & obturator. Superior Vesical - Is that part of hypogastric artery which extends to side of ! bladder, and which remains pervious after birth. Gives off aj-tery of vas deferens, and the Middle Vesical, - Which is often wanting. Inferior Vesical - Usually arises in common with middle haemorrhoidal. To base of bladder, prostate, & vesiculae semiuales. IVEiddle Hsemorrlioidal - Joins with superior hsemorrhoidal branch of inferior mesenteric, and with inferior hsemorrhoidal branch of internal pudic. Uterine - Downwards to neck of uterus, and then upwards in a tortuous course along side of body between folds of broad ligament; communicates with ovarian. Vaginal - Descends upon vagina to neck of bladder & rectum. NON-VISCERAL BRANCHES: Obturator - Usually arises (2 cases out of 3) from anterior division or sometimes from posterior division of internal iliac. In one case in it arises from the epigastric, that is to say that its anastomotic branch with that artery is enormously increased in size while its proper root is proportionately dimin- ished. Sometimes both roots are nearly equally developed (1 case in 73). Occasionally the artery arises from termination of external iliac. In cases of abnormal origin from epigastric the obturator artery usually arises from near the root of the latter, and then descends into the pelvis close to the external iliac vein and on the outer side of the femoral ring. Some- times, however, it arises from the epigastric higher up, that is to say at a distance from the root of the latter; it then passes inwards above the femoral ring and descends into the pelvis on the inner side of that ring behind Gimberat's ligament. It is in this latter case only that the obturator artery is exposed to be wounded in the operation for strangulated femoral hernia. When it arises from the internal iliac it passes forwards along outer wall of pelvis below obturator nerve, giving off small iliac & vesical branches and a pubic branch which communicates on back of pubes with its fellow and with the epigastric. I Through upper part of obturator foramen, and divides into: Internal Br. - Eound inner margin of obturator foramen; supplies obturator & adductor muscles, pectineus & gracilis and anasto- ' moses with internal circumflex. External Br. - Round outer margin of obturator foramen to inter- val between gemellus inferior & quadratus femoris, sends an , j articular branch tohip-joint through cotyloid notch, and anasto- moses with external circumflex & sciatic arteries; supplies obtu- rator externus & the lower external rotator muscles. Sciatic - The largest of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery, and the largest branch of the artery after gluteal. Downwards in front of pyritormis & sacral plexus, lying a little behind & to outer side of internal pudic. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis and between great sciatic nerve & pudic vessels & nerve. With small sciatic nerve over gemelli, obturator internus & quadratus femoris and in front of gluteus maximus. Gives off branches: Muscular, Articular to hip-joint j Coccygeal, Inferior Gluteal; Comes Nervi Ischiadici - Long, slender; with, and subsequently within sheath of, great sciatic nerve to lower part of thigh. Fudic - Vide next Tablet.BEANOHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-2nd '. PUDIC ARTERY. The smaller of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliao artery. Descends in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying to the inner side & a little in f jit of sciatic I ery. With pudic nerve through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis or iiner side of sciatic nerves & sciatic ; j3ry. Winds round spine of ischium and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa below pudic nerve, being covered by obi ator fascia, and lying at first 1| inches above lower extremity of tuber ischii, but appro |iing surface as it prog jses. Pierces deep layer of deep perinaeal fascia, and ascends along pubic arch between tl two layers of that fascia to near symphysis ibis Pierces superficial layer of deep perinaeal fascia, and divides into artery of corpus caver |su and dorsal artery oi m BEANCHES: I Inferior HSBmorrlloidal - Two or three, small. - Arise in ischio-recta' )3sa, which they cross to lower part of rectum < nus, Superficial PerinSBal - Arises near transversus peringei muscle, which it sses super illy. Between accelerator urinse & erector penis to skin of scrotum & rtos, or of/jiani. Transverse Perinseal - Small, arises frequently from superficial perinaeal. j Inwards below transversus perinaei to structures between bulb an' l.nus. Artery of the Bulb - Large and surgically important. | Inwards to bulb & Cowper's glands between the two layers of deep p' aasal Scia. May be small or even absent, or may be double. May arise earl aid cross perinseum further back than usual, and would then 1 jvery liable to be divided in lateral lithotomy. May arise from an aC' sory pudic, and then lie more forward and be altogether out of iger- Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum - Pierces crus penis, and runs f( [ards in corpus cavernosum by side of septum pectir rme. Dorsal Artery of the Penis - Between crus and symphysis. Through sus sory ligament and forwards beneath skin on dorsum of penis to glans & i ^uce. ACCESSORY PUDIC ARTERY — Exceptional branch of internal iliac ^bich exists when pudic artery, being smaller than usual, fails to give oflf terminal branches & sometimes even the artery of tl bulb- Arises from near origin of pudic, passes forwards along base of bladder & upp par' of prostate, pierces triangular ligament, and takes the place of termn por- tion of normal teJ?-165 ANCHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-3rd T. BRANCHES FROM POSTERIOR DIVISION. Ilio-Lunibar - Arises from upper part of posterior division. Ascends beneath psoas to npper part of iliac fossa, where it divides into ; Lumbar Branch - To psoas & quadratus lumborum, communicating with last lumbar artery, and sending a small spinal branch through interver- tebral foramen between last lumbar vertebra & sacrum; Iliac Branch - To iliacus & ilium, and along crest anastomosing with circum- flex iliac. Lateral Sacral - Usually two, superior & inferior. Downwards and inwards in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, and along inner side of anterior sacral foramina, anastomosing with middle sacral and giving ofi Dorsal Branches - Through anterior sacral foramina to contents of spinal canal, and then through posterior sacral foramina to skin & muscles on back of sacrum. Gluteal - The largest branch of internal iliac, and the continuation of its posterior division. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen above pyriformis, and then between latter mus- cle & gluteus medius, and divides into: Superficial Branch - Gives off numerous branches to gluteus maximus & in- tegument over sacrum; Deep Branch - Forwards between glutei medius & minimus, and divides into: Superior Division - Along upper border of gluteus minimus towards an- terior superior spine of ilium, and joins with circumflex iliac. Inferior Division - Crosses gluteus minimus towards great trochanter, and joins with ascending branches of external circumflex.166 AXILLABY ARTERY From outer border of first rib to lower bordei of tendons of teres major & latissimus do being eitber straight or slightly curved upwards or downwards according to position limb, and lying deeply at its origin & superficially at its terminati May be divided into three parts : First Part - Above pectoralis minor j rests upon thoracic wall. Second Part - Behind pectoralis minor; passes obliquely from thorax to a Third Part - Below pectoralis minor j lies on inner side of neck of humerus, RELATIONS: FIRST PART: In front - Pectoralis major, costo-coracoid membrane j cephalic & a( mio-thoracic veins; external anterior thoracic ne;. Behind & on Inner Side - First intercostal space, first digitation of i • ratus magnus, posterior thoracic ne:. On Inner Side & in Front - Axillary vein. On Outer Side - Brachial plexus. SECOND PART: In Front -jPectorales major & minor. Behind - Upper part of subscapularis & posterior cord of brachial pie i. On Inner Side - Axillary vein & inner cord. On Outer Side - Coraco-bi'achialis & outer cord. , THIRD PART: j In Front - Pectoralis major (except at lowest part), junction of the- p heads of median ne i. Behind - Lower part of subscapularis, tendons of teres major & latissi ' dorsi, musculo-spiral & circumflex nei . On Inner Side - Axillary vein, inner head of median, ulnar, inte 1 cutaneous & lesser internal cutaneous nei Ov Outer Side -p ©a^^co-brachialisj, outer head of median nerve, muse • cutaneous ne ^167 BRANCHES of the AXILLABY ARTEEY Vary considerably in mode o£ origin, size & number. Ai-e still usually described after Haller as being given ofi" as follows, from FIRST PART: Sup. Thoracic — Small, inwards along upper border of pectoralis minor, and then between latter muscle & pectoralis major j anastomoses with iutercostales &, internal mammary. Acromio-tlioracic — Short, thick, from fore part of artery. Forwards to upper border of pectoralis minor, and divides int-o branches: AcKOiiiAL - Join with suprascapular & with both circumflex. Thokacic - Two or three. To pectorales & serratus maguus, and join with iutercostales & internal mammary. Humeral - One, rather large. Downwards with cephalic vein between pec- toralis major & deltoid. SECOND PART: Long Thoracic or Ext. Mammary — Large branch. Along lower border of pectoralis minor to mamma, pectorales &, serratus, and to axillary glands & subscapularis. Joins with the other thoracic & with subscapular. Alar Thoracic — Small & often wanting. To axillary glands & cellular tissue. THIRD PART: Subscapular — The largest" branch. Along [lower border of subscapularis to lower angle of scapula, where joins with posterior scapular. Gives off twigs to surrounding muscles, and DoRSALis ScAPUL.E - Arises an inch & a half from origin of subscapular. Eound outer border of scapula between teres major, teres minor & long head of triceps, and then between teres minor & the bone. Gives off: Branches to subscapular fossa between subscapularis & bone; join with posterior- & suprascapular. Descending br. between teres major & minor. Branches to infraspinous fossa ; join with posterior- & suprascapular. Ant. Circumflex — The smaller. Outwards beneath coraco-brachialis, short head of biceps & deltoid, giving off twig to shoulder joint; joins with following & with acromial branch of acromio-thoracic. Post. Circumflex — The larger. Through quadrangular space between teres major, teres minor, long head of triceps & humerus, and round neck of humerus beneath deltoid. Gives twigs to shoulder joint, and joins with preceding & with acromial branch of acromio-thoracic.168 BKAOHIAL ARTERY i i i i 1 Commences at lower border of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi. | Down inner & anterior aspects of arm in groove along inner border of coraco-bracliialis & biceps, lying at first on inner side, and then in front of, humerus,- its more precise I direction being marked by a line drawn from outer side of axilla to midway between condyles of humerus Divides into radial & ulnar half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposite neck of radius. RELATIONS ALONG THE ARM: ; In front - Skin and fascia, inner border of coraco-brachialis & biceps; mediad nerve.'! Behind - Long and inner heads of triceps, superior profunda artery & musculo-i spiral nerve; coraco-brachialis, brachialis anticu-s,' On Inner Side - Skin & fascia, internal cutaneous nerve, basilic vein; ulnar nervei in upper part, median nerve in lower part,] On Outer Side - Coraco-brachialis & biceps, humerus in upper part. AT BEND OF ELBOW: In front - Skin, superficial fascia, median basilic vein, branches of anterioi division of internal cutaneous nerve; bicipital or semilunar fascia Behind - Brachialis anticus & elbow joint. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, median nerve. On Outer Side - Tendon of biceps, supinator longus, musculo-cutaneous & mus. culo-spiral nerves BRANCHES: Muscular — irregular, to coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus. i Nutritious] — From near middle of artery. Enters nutrient canal near insertior of coraco-brachialis, and descends towards lower extremity of the bone Sup. Profunda — From upper part of artery. With musculo-spiral nerve ir groove of same name between inner & outer heads of triceps, and then between supinator longus & brachialis anticus, where joins with radial recurrent Gives ofi* muscular branches, and an articular branch to back of elbow joint which joins with interosseous & posterior ulnar recurrent, and with inferioi profunda or anastomotica magna Inf. Profunda — Small, from near middle of artery. With ulnar nerve through internal intermuscular septum, and then between inner condyle & olecranons anastomoses with posterior ulnar recurrent & anastomotica magna, Anastomotica Magna — From lower part. Through internal intermuscular septum, and round back of humerus forming an arch above olecranon fossa with articular branch of superior profunda. Joins with anterior & posterior ulnar recurrent & with inferior profunda.169 RADIAL ARTERY The smaller branch of bifurcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow or opporti© neck of radius* Down front of outer side of forearm to a little to inner side of styloid process of radius. Round outer side of carpus beneath extensor tendons of thumb. Through upper part of first interosseous space between the two heads of abductor indicis. Over bases of metacarpal bones & interossei, and beneath flexor tendons, lumbricales & nerves to base of 5th metacarpal bone, where inosculates with communicating branch of ulnar, forming deep palmar arch. Lies a finger's breadth above level of superficial palmat arch. RELATIONS in FOREARM: In Front - Skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, supinator longua. Behind - Tendon of biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimifi digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, lower end of radiu3. On Outer Side - Supinator longus, radial nerve in middle third. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis. BRANCHES: IN FOREAEM: Radial recurrent — From upper part. Between brachialis anticus & supinator Ion. gus, and anastomoses with interosseous recurrent & superior profunda. Muscular — Numerous, to muscles on either side. Ant. carpal — From lower part. Joins with anterior carpal branch of ulnar beneath deep flexor tendons; gives twigs to articulations of carpus. Superficialis V0I39 — From termination of artery in forearm. Small, and ends in m&scles of thumb; or of more considerable size, and joins with & com- pletes superficial palmar arch, ON BACK OP WRIST : Post, carpal — Over back of carpus beneath extensor tendons. Joins with posterior carpal branch of ulnar to form posterior carpal arch, which anastomoses with termination of anterior interosseous artery of forearm, and gives ofl'; Dorsal Interosseous Arteries of Third & Fourth Spaces - Anastomose at upper part of interosseous spaces with perforating branches of deep palmar arch. - Are usually exhausted in sheaths of tendons, interossei & integument over back of first phalanges, but are sometimes larger than usual, and are then prolonged upon dorsum of fingers in the shape of dorsal digital branches similar to those of thumb & outer side oi index, and of toes. Metacarpal, or Dorsal Interosseous Art. of Second Space — Arises be. neath extensor tendons of thumb, sometimes in common with posterior car- pal, and is similar to, but larger than, the foregoing interosseous arteries. Correspond together to a first dorsal interosseous artery. Dorsales pollicis / The former supplies dorsal digital branches to both sides of back licis f licis j T . ,. . (of thumb, the latter forms the dorsal digital branch of outer side DorsallS mdlClS \ of back of index. IN PALM OF HAND : '\ Correspond together to a first palmar interosseous artery, PrincepS pollicis f The former supplies palmar digital branches to both sides of •ts J • 1 ■ ■ J • • i front of thumb, the latter forms the palmar digital branch of KadiallS mdlClS J outer side of front of index. Perforating — Three. Through upper part of three inner interosseous spaces, and anastomose with corresponding dorsal interosseous arteries. Deep palmar interosseous — Usually three or four, but very variable in size & number. Descend in front of interosseous spaces, join with superficial pal- mar interosseous branches from superficial palmar arch, and then bifurcate to form palmar digital branches to 3^ fingers on inner side of hand.170 ULNAR ARTERY The larger branch of bifurcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposit( neck of radius Deeply to near middle of inner border of forearm, lying upon brachialis anticus & flexoi profundus and beneath median nerve and all the superficial muscles except fiexoi carpi ulnaris, and being at a distance from ulnar nerve i Beneath skin and fascia only along front of inner border of forearm, lying, with ulnar nerv(' on its inner side, between flexor carpi ulnaris & flexor sublimis digitonim Over anterior annular ligament on outer side of pisiform bone & slightly in front of nerve. i Crosses palm of hand beneath skin & fascia and in front of flexor tendons & divisions o [ median & ulnar nerves, forming superficial palmar arch. This arch lies on a leve with lower border of abducted thumb, a finger's breadth below deep palmar arch and usually joins with superficialis volse or radialis indicis, or sometimes witl princeps pollicis BRANCHES: Ant. ulnar recurrent — Small. Between pronator radii teres & brachiali anticus, and anastomoses with inferior profunda & anastomotica magna Post, ulnar recurrent — Larger. Beneath flexor sublimis, and then betweei olecranon & inner condyle beneath flexor carpi ulnaris, and anastomosei with interosseous recurrent, and with inferior profunda & anastomotic! magna Interosseous — Thick, an inch in length, to upper border of interosseous membrane where divides into " Ant. Interosseous — Down front of interrosseous membrane with corres ponding branch of median nerve and between flexors longu pollicis & profundus digitorum. Behind pronator quadratus, an through lower part of interosseous membrane to back of carpui where joins with posterior interosseous & posterior carpal arch.- Gives off a long slender twig to median nerve, and their nutrier arteries to radius & ulnr Post. Interosseous — Between interosseous membrane & oblique or roun ; ligament, and then between superficial & deep muscles of back ( forearm to back of carpus, where anastomoses with termination ( anterior carpal & with posterior carpal arch; gives o Interosseous Recurrent —Beneath anconeus & supinator brevis t interval between olecranon & external condyle, and aiiastc moses with superior profunda & posterior ulnar recurren Ant. Carpal — Joins with anterior carpal branch of radial beneath deep flex( tendons; gives twigs to articulations of carpu Post, carpal — Beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and over back of carpi , beneath extensor tendons, joining with posterior carpal branch of radia and forming posterior carpal arch (Vide Eadial artery). Sends a sma branch along metacarpal bone of little finge Communicating — Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and joii with termination of radial to complete deep palmar arc. Superficial palmar interosseous (Digital) —Usually four, but rather var able in size & number. Descend with terminal branches of median & ulni , nerves, first in front of, and then between, the flexor tendons ( and on inm side of the innermost), and join with deep palmar interosseous brancb from deep palmar arch. The trunks thus formed divide at clefts betwee fingers to form digital branches to 3^ fingers on inner side of ban171 FEMORAL ARTERY Commences beneath Ponpart's ligament midway between antero-superior spine of ilium & symphysis pubis, and a little to inner side of head of femur. Passes down front & inner side of thigh, being at first at a distance from, and then close to, the shaft of the bone. Terminates at junction of middle and lower thirds of thigh, becoming popliteal artery in opening in lower part of adductor magnus. - Some Authors describe a coinvwn femoral artery descending as low down as the origin of the deep femoral, the main trunk below this branch being called the superficial femoral. Its direction is marked by a line drawn from midway between antero-superior spine of ilium and symphysis pubis to inner side of inner condyle of femur. RELATIONS — Must be examined in Scarpa's triangle, or in upper third, and in middle third of thigh. IN SCARPA'S TRIANGLE — The artery divides the triangle into two nearly equal parts, and has In Fkont - Skin, superficial fascia, fascia lata (except opposite saphenous ope- ning, where latter is replaced by cribriform fascia), sheath; internal cu- taneous nerve & filaments of crural branch of genito-crural n.; inguinal lymphatic glands. Behind - Posterior part of sheath; psoas, pectineus, adductor longus ; profunda artery & vein. On Inner Side at Upper Part - Femoral vein, which becomes posterior below. On Outer Side - Psoas muscle, anterior crural & long saphenous nerves. IN MIDDLE THIRD OF THIGH — It lies behind sartorius in Hunter's canal, -a deep depression between vastus internus & tendons of adductors longus & magnus closed in anteriorly by a band of fascia,-and has femoral vein behind it & to its outer side, and long saphenous nerve to its outer side & in front. BRANCHES: Superficial Epigastric — Arises close to Poupart's ligament. Through saphe- nous opening, and then upwards and inwards in superficial fascia of abdomen, and anastomoses with deep epigastric & internal mammary. Superficial Circumflex iliac — Arises close to Poupart's ligament. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of saphenous opening, and upwards & outwards be- low Poupart's ligament to crest of ilium. Anastomoses with circumflex iliac & gluteal arteries. Superficial or Sup. External Pudic — Arises near preceding. Inwards through saphenous opening, and then across spermatic cord or round liga- ment to integument of abdomen, penis & scrotum, or labia. Deep or Inf. External Pudic — Arises with or near preceding. Inwards be- neath fascia lata, which it pierces opposite pubes, to integument of perinseum & to scrotum or labia. Profunda Femoris, or Deep Femoral — Vide next Tablet. Muscular Brs. — Numerous, and given off along entire course. Anastomotica magna — Arises in Hunter's canal. Descends upon tendon of adductor magnus, and divides into; Superficial Branch - With internal saphenous nerve to integument of inner side of kn-ee. Deep Branch - Through substance of vastus internus to inner side of front of knee, and anastomoses with superior internal & superior external articu- lar arteries & with recurrent branch of tibial. COLLATERAL CIRCULAT. — Is reestablished after ligature of the common femoral through the gluteal, ilio-lumbar & circumflex iliac arteries, which join with the external circumflex, through the obturator & sciatic, which join with the internal circumflex, through the comes nervi ischiadici, which join with the terminal & perforating branches of the profunda . - After ligature of the superficial femoral it is reestablished mainly through the deep femoral & its perforating branches, which join with the articular branches of the popli- ioaL172 DEEP FEMOKAL ABTERY From outer & back part of femoral one or two inclies below Poupart'a ligament, and nearly equals superficial femoral in size. Passes: - Downwards & outwards in front of iliacus, on outer side of femoral artery; Downwards & inwards behind femoral vessels & profunda vein, and in front of pectineus: Backwards between pectineus & adductor longus ; Downwards behind adductor longus, in front of adductors brevis & magnus; - and ends in a small branch, which perforates lower part of adductor magnus to mus- cles of back of thigh, and anastomoses with inferior perforating & with branches of popliteal. BRANCHES: EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX — The larger. From outer side of artery close to its origin. ; Outwards between branches of anterior crural nerve and beneath sarto- i rius & rectus, and divides into branches: ■ Ascending - Beneath tensor vaginae femoris, and anastomose with gluteal & ] circumflex iliac, i Descending - Usually three or four & of considerable size. - Beneath rectus i muscle to vasti, principally the external. One large branch descends with nerve to vastus externus as low as knee, and anastomoses with > articular branches of popliteal. ; Transverse - Smaller. Wind round femur below trochanter major in substance i of vastus externus, and anastomose with internal circumflex, sciatic & superior perforating. INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX — The smaller. From inner & back part close to origin. Backwards between pectineus & psoas, and winds round inner side of neck of femur to interval between quadratus femoris and adductor i magnus, and anastomoses with external circumflex, sciatic & supe- rior perforating. Gives ofi" branches: Ascending - To adductor muscles, gracilis & obturator externus; anastomoses w with obturator, j Descending - Between adductors brevis & magnus, which it supplies. \ Articular - Into acetabulum through notch beneath transverse ligament; ' supplies adipose tissue, and sends twigs along round ligament to head ! of femnr. PERFORATING — Usually three & of good size. - Arise behind adductor longus, above, in front of, and below, adductor brevis, and pass to back of thigh, the SUPERIOR, — Perforating the adductor magnus above the brevis ( some- perforating adductor brevis also); MIDDLE, — Perforating both these adductors; INFERIOR, — Perforating the adductor magnus below the brevis; and supply hamstring muscles & anastomose with each other, sciatic, internal circmflex & termination of profunda, the middle one, the largest, giving ofi" ascending & descending branches, and nutrient artery of femur. !173 POPLITEAL AUTERY Commences at opening in lower part of adductor magnus. Downwards & outwards to back of knee-joint, and then vertically downwards to lower border of popliteus muscle, where divides into anterior & posterior tibial. RELATIONS: In Front - Inner & posterior surfaces of femur, posterior ligament of knee-joint, popliteus muscle. Behind - Skin & fascia ; quantity of fat & lymphatic glands; semimembranosus; gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus; popliteal vein, internal popliteal nerve. On Inner Side - Semimembranosus; inner condyle; inner head of gastrocnemius. On Outer Side - Biceps; outer condyle; outer head of gastrocnemius, plantaris. Popliteal vein lies close to artery, and is superficial & external to it except at lower part, where it crosses to inner side; it is frequently double at lower part. - Internal popliteal nerve is more superficial & exter- nal above, and is superficial & internal below. BRANCHES: MUSCULAR: Superior— Two or three, small, to hamstring muscles & vasti. Anasto- mose with perforating & articular arteries. Inferior or Sural — Two, large, to heads of gastrocnemius & plantaris. CUTANEOUS: — A few, slender j arise separately or with sural. Over gastroc- nemius to integument of back of leg. ARTICULAR-Five: Superior - Two. wind round femur above condyles to front of knee, pas- sing, the Internal, - Beneath tendon of adductor magnus; External,- Beneath tendon of biceps; and both dividing into Superficial & deep brs. - to vasti, femur & joint, and anastomosing with each other, and with inferior articular arteries, anas- tomotica magna & descending branch of external cir- cumflex. AzygOS - Arises behind posterior ligament of knee-joint, which it pierces to supply interarticular ligaments & synovial membrane. Inferior - Two. Arise beneath gastrocnemius, and wind round head of tibia beneath internal & external lateral ligaments, the external artery passing above head of fibula & beneath tendon of biceps. Divide into numerous branches to front of knee, and anastomose with each other, and with superior articular & the recurrent branch of tibial.ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY Anterior & smaller branch of bifurcation of popliteal opposite lower border of poplitem i mnscle Forwards between the two heads of tibialis posticus, and between tibia & fibula througl; opening in upper part of interosseous ligament' Downwards in front of interosseous ligament, shaft of tibia & ankle joint ( where becomei dorsalis pedis), passing between tibialis anticus & extensor longus digitortun between tibialis anticus & extensor proprius pollicis, between tendon of extensor pro ' prius pollicis, which crosses it, and innermost tendon of extensor longus digitormn >- lying in a line from inner side of head of fibula to midway between malleoli, anc being deeply situated, above, between muscles on either side & beneath tendon o. extensor proprius pollicis, and superficially, below, beneath skin, anterior annnla ligament & fascia Has two venae comites. Anterior tibial nerve is first external, then anterior then again external to it BRANCHES : Recurrent tibial — Arises in upper part of leg. Upwards through tibialis anticn to front of knee, and anastomoses with inf. articular branches of poplitea Muscular — Numerous small branches to muscles on either side. Malleolar — Two; rather variable in size. Arise near ankle, and pass, the Internal, - To inner ankle beneath tendons of extensor proprius pollicis & tibia lis anticus External, - To outer ankle beneath extensor longus digitorum, and anastomose respectively with posterior tibial & internal planta and with tarsal & peronea DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY From bend of ankle to back of first interosseous space, resting upon bones of tarsus b( tween tendon of extensor proprius pollicis & innermost tendon of extensor brer digitorum, which crosses it near termination, and having anterior tibial nerve on i outer sid , BRANCHES: | Tarsal — Arches outwards beneath extensor brevis digitorum, and anastomoses wit metatarsal, external malleolar & external planta ; Metatarsal — More or less obliquely forwards in front of preceding. Gives off t^: Three outer Dorsal Interosseous Arteries - Along corresponding interosseoii; spaces. Are joined by anterior & posterior perforating branches, ai; supply dorsal digital branches to 3^ toes on outer side of foolj Dorsal Art, of Great Toe — is the first dorsal interosseous artery, and suppli«j| dorsal digital branches to 1^ toes on inner side of focj, CominUllicating — Between the two heads of first dorsal interosseous muscle, arji inosculates with external plantar, completing plantar arch. Gives ( plantar digital branches to 1^ toes on inner side of foot175 POSTERIOE TIBIAL ARTERY Posterior & larger branch of bifurcation of popliteal opposite lower border of popliteus mnscle. Downwards & inwards upon tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, lower end of tibia & ankle joint, being covered by gastrocnemius, soleus and deep layer of fascia in upper two-thirds, and, in lower third, by integument & fascia only on inner side of tendo Achillis. Divides into the two plantar arteries midway between internal malleolus & heel, and between tendons of tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum, which are anterior & internal to it, and tendon of flexor longus pollicis, which lies posterior & external. Internal popliteal nerve is first posterior & internal to it, but soon crosses to its outer side. BRANCHES: Peroneal — Arises an inch below lower border ef popliteig. Downwards & outwards upon tibialis posticus & flexor longus pollicis & between fibres of latter muscle, and beneath soleus & deep layer of fascia, and ends on outer side of os calcis, joining with external malleolar & sxternal plantar. Gives ofi" branches ; Muscular - To soleus & muscles of deep layer, and peronei. Nutrient to Fibula - Downwards in nutrient canal towards lower extremity of the bone. Communicating to Post. Tibial - Inwards beneath flexor tendons a little above ankle joint. Ant. Peroneal - The largest branch. Through interosseous membrane two inches above malleoli. Downwards beneath peroneus tertiua to outer side of tarsus, and joins vnth external malleolar & tarsal. Muscular — To soleus & muscles of deep layer. Nutrient to Tibia — The largest of the nutrient arteries. - Downwards in nutrient canal towards lower extremity of the bone. Communicating to Peroneal — Outwards beneath flexor tendons a little above ankle joint. Internal Calcan^n — To integument & fat about tendo Achillis & heel.176 THE PLANTAR ARTERIES Brandies of bifurcation of posterior tibial beneath internal annular ligament & origin of al duotor pollicii INTERNAL PLANTAR - The smaller. Forwards between abductor pollicis & flexor brevis digitorum, and ends at extremity < first metatarsal bone in a small branch which runs along inner border of gre? toe, and joins with the corresponding plantar digital artery from communicatiiii branch of dorsalis pediii EXTERNAL PLANTAR - The larger. Outwards between flexor brevis digitorum & flexor accessorius, and then forwards h'\ tween former muscle & abductor minimi digiti as far as base of 5th metatarsi] bonl Bound outer border of flexor accessorius, and inwards upon interossei & bases of tt'' metatarsal bones,-beneath adductor pollicis, flexor tendons & lumbricales,-■ back of first interosseous space, where inosculates with communicating branc .i of dorsalis pedis, thus completing plantar araij branches: Posterior perforating —Three -Through back part of three outer intercj seous spaces, and inosculate with dorsal interosseous branches fro metatarsf Plantar interosseous (Digital) -—Four. Forwards upon interosseous spac (outermost crossing under surface of 5th metatarsal bone und cover of abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti), and supply plant digital branches to 3^ toes on outer side of foot. The three innenno give off tl Akt. Pbejoeating arteries - Three. Through anterior part of thre outer interosseous spaces, and inosculate with the dorsal interc seous branches from metatarsal just before they bifurcate.r THE VEINS.178 DESCENDING TRUNKS of FIRST ORDER. INNOMINATE VEINS — Two large trunks formed by junction of internal jugular A ]1 subclavian behind corresponding sterno-clavicular articulation. |1 RIGHT INNOMINATE — An inch & a half long, somewhat smaller than the left, and nearly vertical. Lies superficial & external to innominate artery, and is separated externally from right lung by right phrenic nerve & pleura. Joins with left innominate just below cartilage of 1st rib to form superior cava. Receives; Right Lympliatic Duct - At its origin, in angle of junction between right subclavian vein & right internal jugular. Tributary Cranclies: - Right Vertebral^ internal Ma?nmary^ Inferior Thy' roidi &^ Superior Intercostal. LEFT INNOMINATE — Three inches long, & somewhat larger than the right. Descends obliquely from behind left sterno-clavicular articulation to ! just below 1st costal cartilage of right side, lying in front of innominate, left common carotid & subclavian arteries, and behind sterno-hyoid & -thyroid muscles, remains of thymus gland, & sternum. Receives ^ Tributary Branches : Irft Vertebral, internal Mammary^ Inferior Thyroid^ | Superior Intercostali and sometimes some small Thymic Pericardiac ' Veins. - The innominate veins have no valves, i SUPERIOR VENA CAVA — short thick trunk (2^ to 3 inches long), slightly curved, & convex to the right. Descends vertically along right side of ascending portion of arch of aorta & in front of root of right lung from just below 1st costal cartilage of right side, enters fibrous bag of pericardium about an inch and a half above the heart, becomes invested anteriorly by serous layer on the same bag, and opens into upper & front part of right auricle; is separated externally from right Inng by right phrenic nerve & pleura, and its anterior relations are the same as those of the innominate. - Receives Tributary Branches ; - Vena Azygos Ma/orj &nd some svasdl Pericardiac & Mediastinal Veins* - Has no valves. I179 THEIR TRIBUTARY BRANCHES. Vertebral - Commences in deep mnscles of upper & back part of neck, and then accompanies vertebral artery through foramina in transverse processes of the vertobrsB from the atlas to the 6th, and opens into back part of innominate close to its origin, crossing, on the right side, the first part of the subclavian artery; its opening is guarded by a pair of valves. Sometimes double inferiorljg one of its trunks passing through small foramen in transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra. Receives Tkibutary Branches : - Dorsi-Spinal^ Meningo-Rachidianj Ascending Deep Cervical, Internal Mammary - Two to each artery. Accompany artery receiving corres- ponding branches, unite into one trunk at upper pare of thorax, and open into front of innominate. Inferior Thyroid - On© on each side, sometimes more. Commence in venous plexus upon thyroid gland, communicating with middle & superior thyroid; descend in front of trachea, communicating with each other by numerous transverse branches, and, inclining outwards beneath sterno-thyroid, open, the left one into middle of left innominate, the right one into termination of right innominate, their opening being guarded by a valve. Receive Teibutary Bkanches : - Tracheal 6^ Inferior Laryngeal, Superior Intercostal - The right one is smaller than the left, and closely corres. ponds to its artery. The left one, in addition to corresponding to its artery^g receives the intercostal veins from the two, three, or four first spaces, varying" in size in correspondence with the increased or diminished size of the le'ft superior azygos J it also receives the left bronchial vein. - These veins are occasionally seen to take a descending course, and to open into the vena azygos major. Vena Azygos Major - V. Spinal veins, 2ad Tablet. Thymic - \ Pericardiac > Small, irregular; open, most of them into left innominate or X superior cava, some into internal mammary. Mediastinal-;180 VEINS of HEAD & NECK—1st Tablet. TRUNKS. ANTEHXOR JUGULAR VEIN — Commences in snbm axillary region and descenda beneath platysma between sterno-mastoid & middle line of neck, and then deeply beneath sterno-mastoid, beneath which muscle it communicates with external & internnl jujyulars, and usually also with its fellow by a long & narrow transverse branch. Ends usually in subclavian close to external jugular, some- times in terminal portion of external jugular. Eeceives Lateral Tributary Branches: - A few laryngeal veins & sometimes an inferior thyroid vein. - Varies greatly in size, and is frequently absent on one side or other. EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN — Formed by coalescence of temporal, internal maxillary, & posterior auricular, and commences in substance of parotid gland opposite angle of jaw. Descends perpendicularly over sterno-mastoid & along its posterior border, beneath platysma & over superticial cervical n., and, perforating deep fascia, opens into subclavian externally to internal jugular. Has two pairs of valves situated, one at its opening into subclavian, the other about an inch & a half above clavicle. - Receives Lateral Tributary Branches : - Suprascapular, Transversalis Colli, Posterior External yugular, sometimes the Occipital; - and communicates with the anterior & internal jugulars, with the latter by a large branch in sub- stance of parotid. INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN - The continuation of lateral sinus opposite jugular foramen, in which foramen it is expanded into the gulf or sinus of the internal jugular vein. Descends vertically, lying first on outer side of & a little behind internal carotid, then on outer side of common carotid, and finally, ou the left side, on outer side & in front of common carotid, and, on the right side, externally to & at a certain distance from it, in front of first part of subclavian. The eighth & ninth nerves lie on inner side & in front of its sinus; lower dowa the spinal accessory crosses the vein posteriorly, and the glosso-pharyngeal & hypoglossal pass forwards on its inner side, between it and the internal carotid; the pneumogastric lies along whole of neck between & behind the two vessels; behind the vein are the recti capitis lateralis, anticus major, & the longus colli. -Joins subclavian behind sterno-clavicular articulation to form the innominate, a pair of valves being situated at or a little above its termination. - Receives Lateral Tributary Branches : - Occipital (usually), Facial, Lingual, Pharyngeal, Sup- trior 6^ Middle Thyroid; - and communicates by a large branch with external jugular in substance of parotid. I i ■1181 VEINS of HEAD & NECK-2nd Tablet. THEIR TRIBUTARY BRANCHES. TRIBUTARY BRANCHES OP THE EXTERNAL JUGULAR: Temporal - Commences on side of vertex by anterior & posterior branches, which join respectively with frontal, & with posterior auricular & occipital, and then unite just above zygoma. The trunk receives the viiddle temporal transverse- facial, accompanies its artery through parotid gland, and joins with internal maxillary. Internal Maxillary - Eeceives branches corresponding to those of artery, and joins with temporal to form principal origin of external jugular, the temporo- maxillary trunk giving off in substance of parotid a large branch of communi- ; cation to facial. - The veins corresponding to the branches of the internal ! maxillary artery form the pterygoid plexus, which occupies the space between 'i the temporal & pterygoid muscles, and which communicates with the cavera- : ous sinus & the facial vein. Posterior Auricular - Commences above and behind ear, communicating with occipital & posterior branch of temporal, receives stylo-mastoid, and opens into ! temporo-maxillary trunk just above origin of external jugular. ' Occipital - Vide below. Posterior External Jugular - Lies between trapezius & splcnius, and returns , the blood from integument & superficial muscles of upper & back part of neck. ; Opens into external jugular just below middle of its course. TRIBUTARY BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR: Occipital - Commences at back of vertex, accompanies its artery, receives mas- toid vaiu, find opens into upper part of internal jugular, or sometimes into the external jugular. - Tiie mastoid vein establishes a communication between it & the lateral sinus. Facial - The continuation of angular vein opposite inner canthus. Downwards & outwards behind facial artery, taking a similar but less tortuous course beneath zygomatic! and over levatores labii superioris & anguli oris & buccinator; crosses lower jaw in front of masseter; and, descending over stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric & beneath platysma, opens into the internal jugular. 'SiQce.iYQB Siiprao'bital & fj ontal (forming together the angular), palpebral, iiijra- orbital, superior <Sr= inferior labial, buccal, masseteric, submental, injerior palatine, sub- maxillary, &= ranine, and a large branch of communication from temporo- maxillary trunk; communicates freely with ophthalmic vein & pterygoid plexus. Lingual - Commences on dorsum, side, & under surface of tongue, follows artery and opens into internal jugular. Pharyngeal - Commences in a minute plexus at back & side of pharynx, receives iiiemugeal, vidian, & spheno-palatine veins, and opens, usually into the internal jugular, sometimes into the facial, lingual, or inlerior thyroid. Superior Thyroid - Commences in substance & on surlace of tliyroid gland, accompanies its artery, receiving the superior laryngeal, and opens into the internal jugular below the lingual. Middle Thyroid - Commences in lower part of lateral lobe of thyroid gland, receives a lew small branches from larynx & trachea, crosses common carotid beneath sterno-mastoid, and opens into lower part of internal jugular. - Before opening into the internal jugular, the facial, lingual & superior thyroid veins otten join into a plexus in front of upper part of common carotid. The vertebral vein has already been described.182 CEREBRAL & CEREBELLAR VS. & VS. of the DIPLOli CEREBRAL VEINS — Have very thin c?at3 devoid of mascnlar tisme, aad no r»lTE Thev may be divided into snperScial & doe SUPERFICIAL — Mainly loagei in :::e sulci. They receive branches from the sn stance of the brain, and open into the sinuses of the dura mater. They are divid. int Superior - Seven or eight on each side. Pass forwards & in-svards to lon^itudin fissure, where they receive the internal cerebral veins from inner surface hemispheres, become invested by a tubular sheath from the arachno and open into the superior longitudinal sinuses, most of them towards : posterior part, and most of them from behind forwan Internal - Collect the blood from the inner flat surface of hemispheres, and ascend join the foregoing to open into the superior longitudinal sin' Anterior Inferior - Collect the blood from under stirface of frontal lobe, and op into cavernous sini Inferior Lateral - Collect the blood from under surface of temp.">ro-sphenoidal lol and open into the lateral i superior petrosal sim:sc Inferior Median - Crl^eot the Mood from interpeduncular space & from under s: face o: occipita: ".ote, and open into the straight sinus behind the venae (rale DEEP —Are two teriiiinal trz-k?, fbe vens Galeni, formed by junction behind anteri pillars of fornix of the choroid vein with the vena corporis stria Clioroid Vein - E^^s forwards & inwards in choroid plexus along outer mai^n velum interpositum, receiving branches from hippocampus major, fornix, corpr.s callosam, and joins with the vena corporis striati behind anteri pillar of fon Vena Corporis Striati - Commences in groove between oorpos striatum & op tnalamus, receiving numerous branches from both th^e parts, and joins wj the choroid vein behind anterior pillar of fom Vena Galeni - Backwards along middle line of velum interpositum; through trai verse fissure between tubercula quidrigemina & posterior extremitj splenium of corpus callosum; and opens into anterior extremity of strai: sinus. Receives a few of the superior cereb: ' -. .' CEREBELLAR VEINS — Occupy the surface of the organ, and are divided iaio; S aPerior - P-^s fcr- i-rd? i-jwards ever hemispheres .5: superior vermiform prwe and open, most of them into the straight sinus, some of them into the re Inferior - P -s? outwards, and open most of them into the lateral sinuses, some ii the superior petrosal sict* VEINS of the DIPLOE — Are seen, when the outer table of the skull is removed meaiis c: 'ze n'.e, to form an irregular network of venous canals hollowed out in i substance of the bones, and lined by a thin stratum of elastic tissue & a laver squamous epithelium. They present a few pouch-like dilatations or culs-de-«ie, a are mo5t developed in the aged. In early life, and as long ns the cranial bones; nnimited, each bone has its separate set of veins, but when the sutures have beco j ossified, the veins of one bone communicate with those of the adjoining ones. 1 j veins of the diplce may then be divided into four sets, as follows (Bresohajij Frontal - Descend in central part of frontal bone, and open into the supraorbitalt !| by an aperture in the supraorbital not I Anterior Temporal - Descend in lateral portion of frontal bone & in great wing \ sphenoid, and open into one of the deep temporal TUi I Posterior Temporal - Descend in parietal bone, and, at its posterior inferior I t _ _ open into the lateral sia || Occipital - Descend in occipital bone, and open, either into the occipital vein,«i I the occipital^w I The veins of the diplce have numerous communications with the meiiiiiSjl veins & sinuses of the dura mater, and with the veins of the perioraiw m183 SINUSES of the DURA MATER. Venous cabals fifteen in number, and more or less trian:?ular in shape, the outer coat of which is formed by the splitting of the dura mater, while their inner coat is a continuatioa of the inner or serous coat of the veins. They are divided into; PosTERO-Superior Group: - Superior LongHudinal, Inferior Longituditul, Strai^ktt Lateral^ ^ O.cipital, all converging towards the Torciilar Herophilu -Xntero-Ikfeeior Group: - Cavernous, Circular, Transverse, Superior er» Inferior Petrosal, all converging towards the sella turcica* Superior Loilg'itn.d.ilial Sinus - CommeTices at foramen coscu-ti, through which it frequently commun- icates by a minute branch with veins of Schneiderian membrane of nose. Eans backwards in attach- ed margin of falx cerebri, grooving middle line of frontal, aijacent borders of parietals & superior division of crucial ridge of occipital, and opens into torcular Heropaili. Xumerous fibrous bands the chordce Willisii, cross inferior angle of its cavity, and the glandidce Paccaionii project into its base. It receives the superficial veins of upper part of hemispheres, numerous veins from diploe & dura mater, and, at posterior extremity of sagittal suture, the parietal veins from the pericranium. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus - Sometimes called a vein on account of its cylindrical form. Follows posterior part of free margin of falx cerebri, and opens into anterior extremity of straight sinus behind the vec« Galeni. It receives several small veins from the falx, and accasioaally a few from inner surface o: hemispheres. Straisllt Sinus - Enns downwards & backwards in line of junction of falx cerebri with tentorium cere- belli, and opens into torcular Herophili. Eeceives venae Galeni, inferior longitudinal sinus, inferior median cerebral, & superior cerebellar veins. A few fibrous bands cross its superior angle. Occipital Sinuses - Usually two, small, contained in attached margin of falx cerebelli. Arise near pos- terior border of foramen magnum in several small veins which communicate with posterior longi- tudinal spinal veins. They pass backwards & upwards, and open separately or together into torcular Herophili. Lateral Sinuses - Two, large. Commence at torcular Herophili; pass outwards in posterior attached margin of tentorium cerebelli as far as base o:" petrous portion of temporal bone, grooving occipital & posterior inferior angles oi parietals; curve downwards & inwards grooving mastoid portion of temporals and again the occipital at its lateral angles; and are continued into the internal jugu- lar vein through posterior outer or larger part of foramen lacerum posterius. - T-iey receive the inferior cerebral & inferior cerebellar veins & some veins from the diplce, they are connected to the cavernous sinus by the superior & inferior petrosal sinuses, and they communicate through the mastoid foramen with the mastoid & posterior condyloid veins of the pericranium. The right one is generally somewaat the larger of the two. Torcular Herophili - An irregular expansion of the postero-superior group of sinases pretty nearly cor- responding in situation to the external o-^cipital protuberance, and formed by the coalescence of t.e superior longitudinal, straight & occipital sinuses, which pour their blood into it, and of the lateral sinuses, which convey t:.e blood from the torcular to the internal jugular veins. Cavernous Sinuses - Two large but short sinuses, extending on either side of sella turcica from sphe- noidal fissure to apex of petrous portion of temporal bone, and communicating with each other through circu'ar & transverse sinuses, and with the lateral sinuses through the superior & inferior petrosal. Their cavity is intersected by numerous fibrous bands & small vessels; hence their name. Against their inner wall, separated from the blood by the lining membrane of the sinus, are the cavernous portion of the internal carotid artery, the 6ch nerve, & the carotid & cavernous plexuses of the sympsthetic; in their outer wall lie from above downwards & from within outward^ the 3rd, 4th, ^ ophthalmic nerves. They receive the ophthalmic & anterior inferior cerebral veins. Circular Sinus - Placed superficially in ring of dura mater which surrounds pituitary body. Eeceives small veins from this body, adjacent bone, & dura mater, and communicates on either side with the cavernous sinus. Its posterior half is generally larger than the anterior. Transverse Sinus - Small & short. Crosses fore part of basilar groove, connecting cavernous & inferior petrosal sinuses of one side to those of the other; is sometimes double. Superior Petrosal Sinus - Small, along upper border of petrous portion of temporal bone in anterior attached margin of tentorium, connecting lateral & cavernous sinuses of same side. Receives inferior cerebellar & inferior lateral cerebral veins. IXifeiiW Petrosal Sinus - Somewhat larger than foregoing. Along uroove in petro-occipital suture, connecting cavernous sinus to termination of the lateral in jugular foramen.184 VEINS of UPPER LIMB-lst Tablet. SUPERFICIAL VEINS - Are: Radial, , Ant. Post. Ulnars Mediant Median Cephalic, Median Basilic, Cephalic, Basilic. Hadia>l - Commences at outer side of arch on dorsum of hand. Receives branches from back of thumb & index finger, ascends along front of outer side of fore-arm, communicating with median, and joins at bend of elbow with median cephalic to form the cephalic. Anterior Ulnar - Commences on anterior aspect of wrist & inner side of palra of hand, ascends along front of inner side of fore-arm communicating with posterior ulnar & median, and, at bend of elbow, joins with posterior ulnar, & then with median basilic, to form the basilic. Posterior Ulnar - Commences at inner side of arch on dorsum of hand, receiving vena salvatella from little finger, ascends along back of inner side of forearm, and, at bend of elbow, joins with anterior ulnar, & then with median basilic, to form the basilic. IMedian - Commences in superficial structures of palm of hand, ascends along middle of front of fore-arm communicating with radial & aaterior ulnar, and, after re* ceiving a large branch from vens8 comites of brachial, divides at bend of elbow , into median cephalic & median basilic. IVEedian Cephalic - Usually the smaller. Ascends in groove betweea biceps & sup- inator longus, lying mainly in front of branches of anterior division of external cutaneous nerve, and joins with radial vein to form the cephalic. Median Basilic - Usually the larger. Ascends in groove between biceps & pronator radii teres, being more or less surrounded by branches of anterior division of internal cutaneous nerve, and lying in front of brachial artery, from which it is separated by bicipital or semilunar fascia. Cephalic - Somewhat smaller than basilic. Ascends in groove along outer border of biceps and then in interspace between pectoralis major & deltoid, in which latter situation it is accompanied by humeral or descending branch of acromio-thoracic artery, and ends in axillary vein between coracoid process & clavicle, its opening being guarded by a pair of valves. It communicates sometimes with external jugular or subclavian by a small branch which ascends in front of clavicle. Sasilic - Somewhat larger than cephalic. Ascends in groove along inner border of biceps, pierces deep fascia witii internal cutaneous nerve a little below middle of arm, and ends in one of the brachial veins or in the axillary. N.—Numerous varieties are obsei-ved in the disposition of the veins of the bend of the elbow: the median vein with both its terminal branches may be en- tirely wanting, or, the vein itself being wanting, its two terminal branches may be supplied either by the radial or the anterior ulnar.185 I TEINS of UPPER LIMB-2nd Tablet. DEEP VEINS Accompany the arteries, the vena comites being two in number to each artery, except in the case of axillary & subclavian. Thus there are veins: * Two Digital, Superficial Palmar^ Ulnar; „ Deep Palmari Radial; Anterior 6^ Posterior Interosseous ; Brachial; interosseous veins opening into the ulnar. AXILLARY VEIN — Commences at lower part of axilla as a continuation of the brachials & median basilic. Ascends on inner side of 3rd & 2ad parts of axillary artery, and on inner side & somewhac in front of 1st part, increasing greatly in size by receiving both the branches corresponding to those of the artery, and, near its termination, the cepha-lic. Is continued into subclavian opposite outer border of 1st rib. Is provided with a pair of valves opposite lower border of subscapulari~. SUBCLAVIAN VEIN — From outer border of 1st rib to behind sterno-clavicular ar- ticulation, where it joins with internal jugular to form the innominate. It lies in succession { Below, in front, to inner side of 3rd part of artery, resting upon pleura ; Below in front of 2nd part, grooving upper surface of ist lib in front oftubet» cle for scalenus a)iticus, and being separated from artery by scalenus anticus ^phrenic na-ve; - this portion of the vein sometimes rises in the root of the neck as hiofh as the artery. In front of ist part of the artery behind inner extremity of clavicle, lying belovt the arte7y on the right side, crossi?ig it on the left. It receives, externally to the scalenus, the external & anterior jugular reins, and sometimes a small branch from the cephalic. It is usually provided^ with valves about an inch from its termination in the innominatp.ASCENDING TRUNKS of FIRST ORDER. I i COMMON ILIAC VEINS — Formed hy junction of external & internal iliacs po. site sacro-vertebral articulation (some authors say opposite sacro-fKa© syncr dr. osis). Obliquely upwards, the left one more obliquely than the ri^ht, to a lit ji to the right side of intervertebral disc between 4th & 5th lumbar veartebrjse, when :iey unite to form the inferior va. RIGHT COMMON ILIAC — Shorter & less oblique than the left one ; lies i IrBt behind & then on outer side of its artery. Ej ves Tributary BranclieS: - IHo-Ltimbar^ & sometimes LateraZ Sacral. LEFT COMMON ILIAC — Longer & more oblique than the right one; lies s jirst on inner side of its artery, and then passes behind artery ol ght side. "^Ef [res Tributary Branches: - IHo'Lumbar, & sometimes the Lateral mk Sacral. - The com.mon iliac veins have no t res. INFERIOR VENA CAVA — Formed by janction of the two common iliacs a ktle to the right side of intervertebral disc between 4th & 5th lumbar ver ir». Along right side of aorta in front of right lumbar & renal arteries & right crus c lia. phragm, passing in succession behind attached border of mesentery, fcransvers or- tion of duodenum, pancreas, & portal nk. Through groove or canal in posterior border of liver, where the hepatic veins open i )it- Perforates central or cordiform tendon of diaphragm between its middle & right le 9ts« ■Enters fibrous bag of pericardium, becomes invested anteriorly by serous layer of nie sac, and opens into lower & back part of right auricle near interauricular s€ its opening being guarded by the Eustachian valve. Ec Tes Tributary Branches: - Middle Sacral, Lumbar^ Renal, Hepatic, Righ i*r* matic. Suprarenal, <Sr» Inferior Phrenic, the middle sacral flom< opening into the l^t oommoD M*187 THEIR TRIBUTARY BRANCHES. Ilio-Lumbair - Open into common iliac. Lateral Sacral - Open either into common or into internal iliao. Middle Sacral - Open into left common iliao or inferior cava. Lunibar - Thre^ or four on eacli side. Correspond to the lumbar arteries, and collect the blood by dorsal branches from the muscles & integument of the back, and by abdominal branches from the walls of the abdomen. Round sides of bodies of vertebrDB beneath psoas, receiving branches from the spinal plexuses, and open into back part of vena cava; the left lumbar veins pass beneath the aorta, and are longer than the right ones. The two or three highest usually join into a plexus, from which arises an ascending trunk, the ascending lumbar vein^ which forms the most frequent origin of the corresponding vena azygos. Spermatic - Ascend along front of spermatic cord, forming a branched & aon- yo\utQdi "ple-Kxis^ the plexus pampinifo7'j?zis ; enter abdomen and coalesce into two branches which run up upon psoas on either side of spermatic artery, the vessels of the left side passing beneath the sigmoid flexure of the colon; and open by a common trunk, on the right side into the inferior cava, on the left side into the left renal. - The ovarian veins of the female form their pampiniform plexus within the broad ligament of the uterus, and communicate freely with the uterine; their subsequent course is the same as that of the spermatic veins in the raale.- Valves are found in the spermatic veins, and occasionally also in the ovarian. Henal - Large, short; lie in front of artery. The left vein is the longest, and usually opens into the inferior vena cava a little lower than the right one; it crosses aorta below origin of superior mesenteric artery, and receives the left sperma* tic, suprarenal, & inferior phrenio* Suprarenal - Open on right side into inferior cava, on left side into renal. Inferior Phrenic - Open on right side into inferior cava, on left side into renal. Sepatic - Communicate within lobules of liver with lobular branches of portal vein, and also indirectly with terminal branches of hepatic artery (Kiernan), and form in succession the intralobular & sublobular veins, and the hepatic veins proper (V. Structure of the Liver). These latter form three trunks destitute of valves, and open into the inferior cava whilst that vessel is contained in the groove in posterior border of lirer.188 I VEINS of LOWER LIMB-lst Tablet. SUPERFICIAL VEINS. EXTERNAL or SHORT SAPHENOUS — The smaller; commences at ou Bide of arch on dorsum of foot. Accompanies external or short saphenc nerve behind outer malleolus, along outer border of, & over, tendo Aobill and between the two heads of gastrocnemius j it then perforates deep fa8< at lower part of popliteal space, and opens into the popliteal. It recei\ numerous branches from back of leg, and communicates with deep veins dorsum of foot & behind external malleolus. It is provided with two valv one of which is always found near its terminatic INTERNAL or LONG SAPHENOUS — The larger ; commences at inn side of arch on dorsum of foot. Accompanies long or internal saphenous ner in front of internal malleolus, along inner side of leg, & behind inner condyl it then inclines forwards along inner aspect of thigh, and, passing throu; saphenous opening, terminates in the femoral about an inch & a half belc Poupart's ligament. It receives numerous cutaneous branches from leg thigh, (the branches from inner aspect of thigh frequently uniting into o large trunk); and it also receives near its termination, the superficial epiga trie, supe ficial circumflex iliac & superficial external pudic. It commut cates with the internal plantar, anterior & posterior tibial, & femoral, ai contains from two to six valves, which valves are usually more numerous the thigh than in the le189 BINS of LOWER LIMB-2nd Tablet. DEEP VEINS. Accompany the arteries, the venaj comitea being two in number for each artery, except in the case of the popliteal, femoral, & external iliac. Thus there are veins: - Two External^ Internal Plantar, Posterior Tibial, <S>» Peroneal; 5, Dorsalis Pedis, Anterior Tibial. POPLITEAL VEIN — Formed by junction of ven£© comites of anterior & poster- ior tibial. Is first superficial & internal to the artery, and then super- ficial & external to it. Receives the external or short saphenous vein in addition to the veins corresponding to the branches of the popliteal artery. Its valves are usually four in number. FEMORAL VEIN — Posterior & external to the artery in Hunter's canal, but gets progressively to its inner side by time it reaches Poupart's ligament. Eeceives the long or internal saphenous vein, and the branches corres- ponding to those of the femoral artery, except the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, & superficial external pudic, which latter branches open into the internal saphenous. Has usually four or five valves. EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN — Vein of left side lies altogether on inner side of its artery; vein of right side is first internal to its artery, & then posterior to it. -Receives epigastric & circumflex iliac veins, and joins with internal iliac opposite sacro-lliac synchondrosis to form the common iliac. Has no valves.190 VEINS of the PELVIS. Are the internal iliaos and their branches, which branches correspond to the branches the internal iliac arteries, the nmbilical arteries except, INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN —Is internal & posterior to its artery, except superiorly & on right side, where it becomes posterior to it. Joins with external iliac oppoi [ sacro-iliac synchondrosis to form common iliac. - Receiv Visceral Branches - Form plexuses remarkable for their large size,their frequent a stomoses, & the number of valves they contain. These plexuses are t ; HEMORRHOIDAL - Surrounds lower end of rectum, and forms an import i communication between general & portal systems of veins, for fror . arise the superior, middle, & inferior hEeraorrhoidal veins, which o . respectively into inferior mesenteric, internal iliac, & pu • Vesico-Prostatic - Surrounds neck & base of bladder & prostate gland, i increases greatly in size as age advances. It communicates posteri( ' with haemorrhoidal plexus, and receives anteriorly the dorsal veii f the penis. - This vein runs along groove on dorsum of penis receiv ; veins of glans & of corpus spongiosum and numerous superfi veins, and unites with its fellow near root of penis to form one tn , which trunk perforates triangular ligament beneath pubic arch, I divides into two branches which open into the vesico-prostatic plexn . Uterine - Situated along sides & superior angles of uterus between la; 3i of broad ligament. Receives the large veins of uterus (uterine siniif >: and communicates freely with the pampiniform plexus of the ova; i V( > Vaginal - Surrounds mucous membrane & erectile structures at orific f vagina, and communicates with the vesical & hsemorrhoi . Non-Visceral Branches (Obturator, Sciatic, Pudic, Ilio-Lumbar, Lateral Sac l, Gluteal) - Follow course of corresponding arteries, and do act req 9 any special no v191 I StoAL VEINS. May bo divided into extra-spinal or dorsi-spinal veins, and into intra-spinal veins or veins of the cord & its membrane*. EXTRA-SPINAL or DORSI-SPINAL VEINS — Form a dense & complicated net. work which surrounds the laminas & the spinous, transverse, & articular processes of the vertebras from the atlas to the coccyx. Posteriorly they receive small branches from the muscles & integument behind the spine, and communicate with the intraspinal veins by branches which perforate the ligaraenta subflava. Anteriorly, after again communicating with the intraspinal veins through the intervertebral foramina, they open into the vertebral veins, in the neck, the intercostal veins, in the back, and the lumbar & sacral veins, in the loins & pelvia. INTRA-SPINAL VEINS — May be divided into anterior longitudinal, posterior longitudi. nal, & meningo-rachidian. - They are not provided with valves. Anterior Longitudinal - Two large irregular tortuous trunks most developed in the dorsal & lumbar regions, which descend over back of bodies of vertebrao along whole length of spine on either side of posterior common ligament. They communicate with each other opposite each vertebra by a transverse branch, which passes beneath the common ligament and receives the vense basis verte- bras. Opposite the intervertebral foramina, they communicate with the dorsi. spinal veins, and also with the vertebrals, in the neck, the iutercostals, in the back, and the lumbar & sacral veins, in the loins & pelvis. The vencB basis vertebrarum, or veins of the bodies of the vertebrae, are contained in large tortuous canals very similar to those found in the diploe of the bouo^ of the skull. They arise from the whole of the periphery of the bodies, where they communicate with the small veins which enter through the foramina on the anterior surface, and, passing horizontally backwards, they converge towards one or two principal trunks which open into the branches of communi- cation between the anterior longitudinal veins Posterior Longitudinal - Somewhat smaller than foregoing, but equally tortuous. Descend along anterior aspect of laminae, coramunioating with each other, the anterior longitudinal, & the dorsi-spinal. MeningO-Rachidian - Emerge from the cord chiefly along its postero-median fissure, and form a minute plexus which surrounds the whole of the cord between the pia mater & the arachnoid. Near the base of the skull they unite into two or three small trunks, which communicate with the vertebral veins, and open into the inferior cerebellar. They join with the other veins of the spinal canal through branches which accompany the spinal nerves as far as the interver. tebral foramina.192 1 I i THE VENM AZYGOS. * Collect the blood from the intercostal spaces, and are three in number, the major, mir 4 left sup ir. VENA AZYGOS MAJOR, or RIGHT AZYGOS — Commences in the rigl s. cending lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from the inferior cava o le right 1 il. Through aortic opening of diaphragm on right side of thorncic duct, behind m right side of aorta; - sometimes through risfht s,, Along right side of spine in front of right intercostal arteries to 3rd dorsal vert a. | Arches forwards over root of right lung, and opens into superior vena oav? st j before it enters pericardium. Kecf 3: I Tributary Branches : - JVine or ten lower intercostal veins of right side, vena . w i minor, several small oesophageal, mediastinal 6^ spinal veins, the right broi i/, | sometimes the right superior intercostal^ and occasionally the k u, VENA AZYGOS MINOR, or LEFT LOWER AZYGOS - Arises in left as J. ing lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from left i iL Perforates left crus of diaphragm (passes sometimes through aortic opening) id ascends along left side of spine in front of left intercostal arteries to 6th c ;li dorsal verl a. Crosses spine behind aorta & thoracic duct, and opens into vena azygos n m Kec 8! Tributary Branclies I - -Fotir or five lower intercostal veins of left side, several '// mediastinal, oesophageal 6^ spinal w. LEFT UPPER AZYGOS — Eeceives the blood from those left intercostal veins, us ly two or three in number, which are situated between the intercostal veins it open into the left lower azygos and those that open into the left superior r* costal. It therefore varies greatly in size, diminishing as these latter veir a- crease, & vice versa ; often it does not exist at all, or one or more of the 5th \ & 7th left intercosal veins may merely open directly into the vena azygos e i". When there is a distinct left upper azygos, it opens either into the azygos r ii"! or into the left lower azygos. ^ A few imperfect valves are found in the azygos vein; distinoc valves are found in the intercostal ^'193 :ORTAL SYSTEM, PORTAL TRUNK — Formed by junction of splenic & superior mesenteric veins behind upper border of head of pancreas. Upwards & to the right in right or free border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, lying between & behind hepatic artery & bile duct, in front of foramen of Winslow. Expands near right extremity of transverse fissure of liver into the siuiis of the portal vein, and divides into right branch, the larger & shorter, and left branch, the smaller & longer; which branches ramify in portal canals with branches of hepatic artery, bile ducts, deep lymphatics, & nerves. (For distribution of portal vein in the liver and its continuation into the hepatic veins, vide Structure of Liver). - Receives veins: Gastric Cystic - The former runs from cardia to pylorus; the latter frequently opens into right branch of portal vein. Splenic Vein - Arises by five or six branches of considerable size, which emerge from hilum of spleen and join to form one large trunk, which trunk takes a straight course from left to right behind upper border of pancreas, below splenic artery, and, at upper border of right extremity or head of pancreas, joins with superior mesenteric to form the portal trunk. Receive? veins: Inferior Mesenteric (Vide below), Vasa Brevia, Left Gastro-Epiploic, Pancreatic 6^ Panci eat'co-Diiodenal, Superior Mesenteric Vein - Arises from area of distribution of superior mesenteric artery, (small intestine, coecum, ascending portion & right half of trans- verse portion of colon), its branches corresponding to those ot the artery. Its trunk lies to the right & a little in front of the artery, and passes with it in front of transverse portion of duodenum & behind pancreas, and, at upper border of head of pancreas, joins with splenic vein to form tho portal trunk. Inferior Mesenteric Vein - Arises from area of distribution of inferior meseu. teric artery (upper part of rectum, sigmoid flexure, descending portion & loft half of transverse portion of colon), - ir,s superior hsemorrhoidal branch anastomosing with the middle & inferior hajmar- rhoidal branches of the internal iliac & pudic, and thus establishing an important communication between the portal & general venous systems, which communication is supplemented, according to Kiernan, by communications between the right renal vein & the veina of the ascending colon & duodeaum, and by communications in the coronary ligament of the liver between the phrenic & the superficial branches of the portal vein. Ascends beneath peritoneum and behind transverse portion of duodenum & pancreas, and opens into splenic The portal system contains uo valves. I194 THE MAIN TRUNKS AND THEIR TRIBUTARIES. EXTERNAL JUGULAR- TEMPORAL, INTERNAL MAXILLARY, & POSTERIOR AURICULAR SUPRASCAPULAR, ' TRANSVERSALIS COLLI, POSTERIOR EXTERNAL JUGULAR, OCCIPITAL (Sometimes). INTERNAL JUGULAR. OCCIPITAL (Usually). FACIAL, LINGUAL, PHARYNGEAL, SUPERIOR THYROID, INFERIOR THYROID. RIGHT INNOMINATE. RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT, VERTEBRAL, INTERNAL MAMMARY, INFERIOR THYROID, SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL. LEFT INNOMINATE. THORACIC DUCT, VERTEBRAL, INTERNAL MAMMARY, INFERIOR THYROID, SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL, THYMIC & PERICARDIAC (Sometimes). SUPERIOR CAVA. VENA AZYGOS MAJOR, PERICARDIAC. MEDIASTINAL. RIGHT COMMON ILIAC. ILIO-LUMBAR, LATERAL SACRAL (Sometimes*). LEFT COMMON ILIAC. ILIO-LUMBAR, LATERAL SACRAL (Sometimes*), MIDDLE SACRAL (Usually). INFERIOR CAVA. MIDDLE SACRAL (Sometimes), LUMBAR, RENAL, HEPATIC, RIGHT SPERMATIC, EIGHT SUPRARENAL, INFERIOR PHRENIC. At other times these veins open into the internal, iliacs.THE LYMPHATICS.THE THORACIC & RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCTS. THORACIC DUCT — Commences in receptaculum chyli, passes throngh aortic opening o diaphraofm, and then ascends in front of spine as high as 4th dorsal vertebra^Myiu; behind oesophagus, between aorta & vena azygos major. It then inclines to the left and ascends first behind arch of aorta and then behind first portion of subclaviat artery of left side; and finally, opposite upper border of 7th cervical vertebra, it arche; forwards above pleura & in front of scalenus anticus, and opens into angle of junotior between left internal jugular & subclavian veins, its opening being guarded by a paii of valves. It is somewhat tortuous in its course, constricted at intervals on accoun of the valves it contains; of the size of a goose-quill at its commencement, somewha narrower in the thorax, again enlarged at the root of the neck. Sometime it bifurcates, its left division taking the usual course, its right division joinini the right lymphatic duct. - It is the common trunk of all the lymphatics of the bodj except those of the right side of the head, neck, & thorax, right upper lirab. righ lung, right side of the heart, & part of the convex surface of the liver Receptaculuni Chyli - is a dilatation of the commencement of the thoracic duct which liea in front of the 2nd lumbar vertebra, behind & to right side of th aorta, and between it and the vena azygos major & the right crus of th diaphragm. It receives the trunks of the lacteal vessels, and four or fiv large trunks from the lumbar lymphatic glandi KIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT — is a short thick trunk from half an inch to an inon ii length and of about a line or a line & a half in diameter, which collects the lympl from the right side of the head, neck, & thorax, right upper limb, right lung, righ side of the heart, & part of the convex surface of the liver. It opens into the angli of junction between the right internal jugular & right subclavian veins, its opeainj being guarded by a pair of valves197 .YMPHATICS of the HEAD & NECK. VESSELS — Are superficial & deep. Superficial Vessels Op the Cranium - Divided into • Frontal - Accompany frontal artery to inner can thus. Temporal - Accompany anterior & posterior divisions and trunk of temporal artery, pnss through parotid glands, and open into deep glands of neck. Posterior Aiiriadar - Accompany posterior auricular artery to glands near upper end of sterno-mastoid. Occipital - Accompany occipital artery & its branches to glandg at back of head. Op the Face - Converge from inner canthus, nose, eyelids, & lips, some of them passing through glands on surface of buccinator, and open into submaxillary glands beneath angle & body of jaw. Op the Neck - Cross sterno-mastoid towards glands along its posterior border; some pass beneath the muscle and open into deep glands of neck. Deep Vessels Of the Cranium - Divided into: Meningeal - Accompany meningeal vessels through foramina at base of skull, and open into deep cervical glands. Cerebral - Lie between arachnoid & pia mater, and in choroid plexuses of lateral & 3rd ventricles; accompany carotid & vertebral arteries through foramina in base of skull, and open into deep glands of neck. Of the Face - The lymphatics of the muscles of the face, and those of the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, & pharynx, and of the cavity of the eyeball, converge towards the parotid, submaxillary, & deep cervical glands. Of the Neck - All converge towards the chain of glands which accompany the caro- tid vessels. - At the lower part of the neck, after receiving the superficial lymphatics, & some of the lymphatics from the thorax, they unite into a single trunkj which opens on the left side into the thoracic duct, on the right side into the right lymphatic duct. GLANDS —Are superficial & deep. Superficial Glands - Are the occipital & posterior auricular, which lie at the back of the liead & behind the ear, and receive the occipital & posterior auricular lym- phatics; the superjicialparotid, •which, receive part of the temporal vessels; the buccal, which lie on the surface of the buccinator in the course of the facial lymphatics; the subjnaxillary, which lie beneath the angle & the body of the jaw and receive all the superficial & many of the deep lymphatics of the face, and some of the efferent lymphatics from the posterior auricular glands; and finally the superficial cei^vical, which lie in the course of the external jugular vein & along lower part of posterior border of sterno-mastoid, where they communicate with the axillary glands ; they receive the superficial lympha- tics of the neck & most of the efferent vessels of the occipital & posterior auricular gland?. Deep Glands - Are the deepglands, which lie in the substance of the parotid, and the chain of deep cervical g^andSj which accompany the carotid vessels.198 LYMPHATICS of the THORAX. PAKIETAL LYMPHATICS — Are superficial & deep. i Superficial - Pass from within outwards over the pectoralis major, in front, over i trapezius & latissimus dorsi, behind, and converge towards the axillary glan j The lymphatics from the mamma pass through a chain of small glands along lovl border of pectoralis major, which glands communicate superiorly with the axilla! Deep - Ave the intercostals, internal mammary & diaphragmatic vessels, with the c responding and the anterior & posterior mediastinal glands. ' The intercostal lymphatics accompany the intercostal vessels, receiving the ly phatics from the intercostal muscles & pleura, and from the spinal canal & muscles behind the spine, and, after passing through the intercostal glands, fcl open into the thoracic duct, ^he intercostal glands are small, variable in numl and situated, most of them, beneath the pleura near the costo-vertebral artici tions, some between the two planes of intercostal muscles. The internal ma^nmary lymphatics arise in the epigastric portion of the abdo i nal parieties. They accompany the superior epigastric vessels, ascend betw \ the anterior fibres of the diaphragm, and accompany the internal mammary veas:, communicating with the intercostal lymphatics and passing through the inter I mammary glands; they then opon, on the left side, into the thoracic duct, on ) right side into, the right lymphatic duct. The internal mavimary glands are sm variable in number, and situated at the anterior extremity of each intercostal sp ) by side of the internal mammary vessels. The diaphragmatic lymphatics follow the course of the phrenic vessels, and O] , some into the anterior mediastinal & internal mammary glands, some into 3 intercostal & posterior mediastinal glands. The anterior mediastinal glands lie, some of them upon the diaphragm in fi fc of the pericardium, others round the large vessels at the base of the heart; 1 f communicate with the internal mammary glands, and receive many of the 1 !• phatics of the diaphragm & of the convex surface of the liver. { The posterior mediastinal glands form a continuous chain by the side of the a a & oesophagus; they communicate with the intercostal, lumbar, & deep cer\ 1 glands, and receive the lymphatics from the oesophagus & surrounding structure VISCERAL LYMPHATICS - Belong to the Lungs & Bronchi - The lymphatics of the lung are superficial & deep. The for r arise in a minute plexus beneath the pleura ; the latter accompany the blood-vee 3 & bronchi. They all converge towards the bronchial glands. The bronchial gl ^ lie, the larger ones, round the bifurcation of the trachea & the bronchi, the sm; r ones, in the root of the lung, and round the larger bronchial tubes to some disti o within the substance of the organ. Their colour darkens as age advances, and : 7 are dark brown in the adult, black in the aged. Their efferent vessels trav e the tracheal, oesophageal & posterior mediastinal glands, and open into o thoracic duct on tho left side, into the right lymphatic duct on the right 5' Heart - The lymphatics of the heart arise, the superficial ones, beneath the pericard i, the deep ones beneath the endocardium. They converge towards two diffe t trunks. The trunk from the right side of the heart crosses the root of the ij ascends along the right side of the trachea and opens into the right lymphatic d } the trunk from the left side ascends along the pulmonary artery, and, after pas g through some of the mediastinal glands, opens into the thoracic duct. CTiSOphaguS - The lymphatics of the oesophagus traverse the posterior medias' il glands, communicate with those of the lung, and open into the thoracic < Thymus Gland - The lymphatics of the thymus gland arise from its posterior as *i and open separately into the internal jugular veins.199 LiYMPHATICS of the UPPER LIMB- VESSELS. Superficial - Arise from skin of hand. Eun along sides of fingers, chiefly on dorsal aspect, and ascend along forearm dividing into: Inner Set - The more numerous. Accompany ulnar veins, and, at bend of elbow receive greater part of following set and open into superficial glandSj when such glands exist j they then accompany basilic vein and open into axillary glands. Outer Set - The less numerous. Accompany radial vein to bend of elbow, where greater part join foregoing ; the rest accompany cephalic vein, some crossing biceps obliquely to end in axillary glands, others continuing between pectoralis major & deltoid to end in subclavian glands. Deep - Accompany radial, ulnar, & interosseous arteries, passing through glands occa- sionally found along these arteries, and communicating at intervals with super- ficial lymphatics. They then pass through glands on inner side of brachial artery, and through axillary & subclavian glands, and open, on left side into thoracic duct, on right side into right lymphatic duct. GLANDS. Superficial - Not constant} occasionally two or three small ones at bend of elbow, and one or two just above inner condyle. Deep - May be divided into: Eadial I _ -^^^ constant. Occasionally two or three small ones along corresponding Ulnar ) arteries. Brachial - Form a chain of small glands-along inner side of artery. Axillary - Ten or twelve, much larger. Lie : - /. Round axillary vessels^ - receive lymphatics of upper limb; 2. Along lower border of pectoralis majors - receive lymphatics from front of chest & mamma; 3. Along lower border of teres major <2r» latissimus dorsi, - receive lymphatics from integument of back. Subclavian - Two or three, beneath clavicle; connect axillary glands to deep glands of neck.200 LYMPHATICS of the ABDOMEN. PARIETAL LYMPHATICS — Those of the hypojrastric, lumbar, & epigastric region i accompany respectively: - 1. the epigastric <5r» circumflex i/iac vessels, and open, the super ficial ones into the superior or abdominal group of inguinal lymphatic glands, the dee i ones into external iliac glands; - 2. the siiperior epigastric vessels, and join with th lymphatics of the thorax; - 3. the lumbar &=> ilio-htmbar vessels, and open into the lum bar glandi VISCERAL LYMPHATICS — Those of the Intestine - Are superficial & deep, the former running longitudinally beneath the peri toneum, the latter circularly in the submucous tissue. The lymphatics of th small intestine or lacteals open into the mesenteric glands, which glands vary i number from a hundred to a hundred & fifty, and iu size from that of a pea t that of a small almond, and are largest & most numerous near the duodenur & near the ilio-ccBcal valve. The lymphatics of the large intestine are les numerous; they pass through the glands found in the meso-colon along th arches formed by the colic arteries, and they then open, those of the ccecun ascending & transverse colon, into the mesenteric glands, those of the descenc ing colon & sigmoid fl 'xiire, into the lumbar glandi StomSbCll - Are superficial & deep, the former arising beneath the peritoneum, the lattf in the submucous coat. They accompany the gastric & gastro-epiploic vessels ■ the vasa brevia, and open into the pyloric & splenic glaads, and some of thet into one of the lacteals previous to its termination in the thoracic due Liver - Are superficial & deep. SuPEKPiciAL Lymphatics - Those of the Upper Surface - Form four groups as follows: - 1. Some wind rouii anterior border of liver, and join lymphatics of under surface. 2. Sora ascend in suspensory ligament, perforate diaphragm, and open into at terior mediastinal glands. - 3. Some pass to the left, perforate diaphragn and open into anterior mediastinal glands. - 4. Some pass to the righ and either perforate diaphragm to enter anterior mediastinal gland- or cross right crus of diaphragm and open directly into thoracic due Under Surface - Form three groups as follows : - 1. Those surrouncY ing the gall-bladder accompany the hepatic vessels, and open into tb; glands along lesser curvature of stomach. - 2. Those on the rigl side of the gall-bladder enter the lumbar glands. - 3. Those on the le side of the gall-bladder open into the glands along lesser curvature i stomach & into the oesophageal gland ■ Deep Lymphatics - Accompany the hepatic artery, bile duct, & portal vein in th portal canals, and, emerging at the transverse fissure, either join one (i the lacteal vessels previous to its termination in the thoracic duct or ope, into the glands along the lesser curvature of stomach k behind tt pancrea Spleen - Are superficial & deep. They pass through some small glands at the hilur; receive the lymphatics of the pancreas, and open into the thoracic due Kidney - Are superficial & deep. Receive the lymphatics from the suprarenal capsule ureter, and open into the lumbar gland20J aYMPHATICS of the PELVIS. GLANDS — Are tho External Iliac - Form an nninterrnpted chain ronnrl the external iliac vessels, three or iour of them lyings round the commencement of these vessels just behind Poupart'g lifjament. They receive all the lymphatics of the lower limb, except the gluteal & the sciatic; their efferent vessels open into the lumbar glands. Internal Iliac - Burronnd the internal iliac vessels; and receive the gluteal & sciatic lymphatics, & the lymphatics from the pelvic viscera. Sacral ~ Lis on the anterior aspect of the sacrum within or sometimes externally to the meso-rectum, in the course more particularly of tlie rectal lymphatics. Lumbar - Large & numerous. Lie in front of lumbar vertebrae, round common iliac vessels, aorta & vena cava, and receive the efferent vessels of all the for-^going glands, that is to say, the united trunks of the lower limb & pelvis; their (I' ji ent vessels unite into four or five large trunks which, with the lacteals, open into the receptaculum chyli. VESSELS — Those of the Bladder - Arise from its whole extent. They run mainly beneath the peritoneum on Its posterior surface, and, after passing through a few small glands in that situa- tion, they join with the lymphatics of the vesiculae seminales & prostate, and open into the internal ili ic glands. Rectum - Are large & numerous. They pass thi'ough a few small glands on the outer surface of tho organ & in the meso-rectum, and then ascend through tho sacral to the lumbar glands. Uterus & Vagina - May be divided into supoificial & deep. Those from the cervix uteri & vagina open into the sacral & internal iliac glands. Those Irom tho body & fundus of the uterus pass outwards within the broad ligament, receive the lymphatics from tho ovaries & Fallopian tubes, and ascend with the ovarian vessels to open into the lumbar glands; they are small in the unimpregn:ited state of the uterus, but they enlarge greatly during gestation. Testicle - May be divided into superficial, arising beneath the tunica vaginalis, and deep, arising from the body of the organ & the epididymis; they form several large trunks which accompany the spermatic vjssels along the cord & iut ) the abdomen, and open into the lambar glands. FeniS & Labia - Their deep lymphatics accompany tho internal pudic vessels, and open into tho internal iliac glands.202 LYMPHATICS of the LOWER LIMB. VESSELS — Are superficial & deep. Superficial - Arise from skin of foot, chiefly on dorsal aspect, and ascend npon leg dividing intotj Inner Set - The larger & more numerous. Ascend some in front of & some behinc internal malleolus, accompany internal saphenous vein along innei side of leg, behind inner condyle, & along inner aspect of thio:h, and opei: into the inferior or femoral group of inguinal lymphatic glands OuTEE Set - Smaller & less numerous. Some of them pass upwards & inwardi over front of leg, and, crossing the tibia, open into the inner set. Other ascend behind external malleolus with external or short saphenous vein accompany that vein along back of leg, and open into the popliteal glands Deep - Accompany the anterior & posterior tibial & peroneal vessels, and open into th( popliteal glands, the efferent vessels of which glands accompany the femora vessels and open into the deep inguinal glands. - The deep lymphatics of th( gluteal & ischiatic regions accompany the gluteal & sciatic vessels, and opei into the gluteal & sciatic glaudf • ;| GLANDS —Are superficial & deep. Superficial Inguinal Glands — Nine or ten in number, and divided into two groflptjjj Superior OR Abdominal Group - The smaller, placed transversely near Poupart'i ligament; receive the superficial lymphatics of the penis, scrotum (o labia), perinseum, lower part of the abdomen, & butfcocli Inferior or Femoral Group - The larger, vertically disposed round upper parte saphenous vein; receive the superficial lymphatics of the lower liml Their efferent vessels join the deep inguinal glands & the small glam which is found in the femoral canal Deep Glands - Are the: I Anterior Tibial - Not constant; frequently one or two in front of upper part c- interosseous membrane by side of anterior tibial artery; receive the an terior tibial lymphatic; Popliteal - Four or five, imbedded in cellular tissue of popliteal space; receiv posterior tibial & peroneal lymphatics, and the lymphatics which accom pany the external saphenous veil Deep Inguinal - A few small glands accompany the femoral vessels, and coffl municate with the superficial inguinal glands through the saphenon opening of the fascia lati Gluteal & Sciatic - Lie opposite great sacro-sciatic foramen, the former above, tb latter below the pyriformis muscle; they receive the correspondin lymphatic vessels, and their efferent vessels open into the internal ili« glandI THE NERVE CENTRES. 1204 j COVEEINGS of the BRAIN & CORD —1st Tablet. The immediate coverings of both are three in number, and though presenting marked differ. M ences, they bear the same names, dtira mater^ arachnoid ^ pia mater* jl THE DURA MATER — is a thick, dense, fibrous membrane, which is lined internally ! by the parietal layer of the arachnoid. Dura Mater of the Brain - Forms the internal periosteum of the skull; it is pro- Jonged round all the cranial nerves, blending with their sheaths and becoming at their point of exit continuous with the pericranium; it is also prolonged into i the orbit. Its outer surface is rough &fibrillated; it is most adherent opposite the sutures at the base of the skull, and presents superiorly numerous glandules Pacchionii. Its inner surface is smooth; it sends three processes inwards, the falx cerebri the tentorium & falx cerebelli, in the attached margins of which processes are re- pectively contained the superior longitudinal, the lateral & superior petrosal, & the occipital sinuses, the falx cerebri having also the inferior longitudinal sinus r in its free margin. j Its arteries are derived from the middle & small meningeal, and from the meningeal 'j branches of the anterior & posterior ethmoidal, internal carotid, ascending pharyn. ' geal, occipital & vertebral, which arteries however supply principally the bonea | of the skull. Its veins, with the exception of the two which accompany the middle i meuingeal, join with the diploic veins and open into the sinuses. - Its nerves are ! small branches from the fourth cranial nerve, the Casserian ganglion, the ophthal- mic branch of the fifth, the eighth, & the sympathetic. Dura Mater of tlie Cord - Differs from that of the brain in that it does not form the internal periosteum of the bodies & laminge of the vertebrae, which periosteum is a distinct fibrous membrane separated from the dura mater by loose areolar tissue ; & by a plexus of veins, in that it sends no prolongations inwards, contains no sinuses, and forms, especially in the cervical & lumbar regions, but a loose sheath ; round the cord and the roots of the spinal nerves. It is attached superiorly the circumference of the foramen magnum, and anteriorly | i it is slightly adherent along its whole length to the posterior common ligament j of the spine. j Laterally when viewed from within, it is seen to give attachment to the processes of I the ligameutum denticulatam, and to present a double series of foramina for the | passage of the anterior & posterior roots of the nerves; when viewed from without it is seen to form a separate sheath to the roots of the nerves as far as their point of junction, and then to be continued upon the nerves, forming part of their neurilemma. Opposite the ter?ni)tation of the cord it blends with the pia mater to form the ligaraen- |; tum centrale, which passes down to the back of the coccyx, and which, in its upper ' part,^contains the filiform prolongation of the grey matter of the cord termed the filum terminale. \205 I lOVERINGS of the BRAIN & 00RD-2ncl Tablet. THE ARACHNOID Is a serous membrane of which the parietal layer lines the dura mater with a layer of squamoua epithelial cells, while the visceral layer surrounds the brain & cord, from which it is sepa- rated by the subarachnoidean space. Visceral Layer of the Arachnoid of the Brain — On the upper surface of the hemispheres it is thin & transparent, and passes over the convolutions without dipping into the sulci. - At the base of the brain it is thicker and slightly opaque. Crossing from side to side between the two temporo-sphonoidal lobes and between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum & the medulla oblongata, it bounds infcriorly the anterior 6^ posterior subarachnoidean spaces. It is reflected roun* the cranial nerves in the shape of loose sheaths as far as their point of exit from the skull, where it becomes continuous with the parietal layer. Visceral layer of the Arachnoid of the Cord — Forms, especially in the lower partj but a loose sheath round the cord & the roots of the nerves. This sheath is single round the two roots of each spinal nerve, and ia continued as far as their exit from the dura mater; the arachnoid is also reflected over the processes of the ligamentum dentioulatum. THE SUBARACHNOIDEAN SPACE Is comprised between the pia mater & the visceral layer of the arachnoid, and contains the cerebro-spinal fluid. It usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain by an opening in the layer of pia mater which bounds the fourth vcutriclo inferiorly. It is narrow on the surface of the hemisplieres, but is greatly expanded both at the base of the brain in the situation of the anterior & posterior subarachnoideau si)acos, and also round the spinal cord. It is crossed by numerous fibrous bands in the situation of the base of the brain and at the upper part of the back of the cord, and is partly subdivided by an incomplete membranous septum which connects the arachnoid with the pia mator oi^posito the posterior median fissure.m COVERINGS of the BRAIN & CORD —3rd Tablet. THE PIA MATER On the cerebrnm & cerebellum the pia mater is a delicate areolar membrane, very thin & rascnlar. It is thick, dense, and bnt slightly vascular, on the pons, the crura cerebri & the cord. It is everywhere intimately adherent to the nervous substance? it dips down between the convolutions of the cerebrum and the laminae of the cerebellum, and passes into the ante, rior and posterior median fissures of the cord; it is prolonged upon the nerves and their roots. The pia mater of the brain penetrates into the ventricular cavities through the transverse fissure, and forms the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses. - It usually presents an opening at the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle, by which opening the subarach. Hoidean space of the brain & cord communicates with the ventricular cavities of the brain. The pia mater of the cord presents anteriorly the linea splendens, a whitish longitudinal fibrous ' band, and laterally, the ligamentum denticulatum. This latter descends along the whole ; length of the side of the cord between the anterior & the posterior roots of the nerves; its ' outer edge is denticulated; the denticulations, about twenty-two in number, cross the ' subarachnoidean space with the arachnoid reflected over them, and become attached to' < the dura mater in the intervals of the successive pairs of spinal nerves. The first denticn« , lation is situated opposite the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery & the hypo- glossal nerve. — Opposite the termination of the cord the pia mater blonds with the dura j mater to form the ligamentum ceutrale, which latter passes down to the back of the coccyx, and, in its upper part, contains the filiform prulongation of the grey matter of the cord, termed the filum terminale. iidi207 '.HE SPINAL CORD Extends from point of decussation of anterior pyramids (which point corresponds pretty nearly to the upper border of the atlas) to lower border of body of first lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a slender filament, the filum terminale, which descends lor a short distance into the ligamentura centrale. Is from 15 to 18 inches long & slightly flattened from before backwards. Presents two enlarge - ments, the cervical and the lumbar. The cervical, the lax-ger, extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra, and is widest from side to side; the lumbar, the smaller, is situated opposite the last dorsal vertebra, and is widest from before backwards. Presents fissures and columns. FISSURES: Antero-Median - Wider than the posterior, and penetrates to about one third of the thickness of the cord, its depth increasing slightly infer- iorly. It contains a well-marked prolongation of the pia mater, and is bounded behind by the anterior or white commissure. Postero-Median - Narrower than the anterior. It penetrates to the very centre of the cord, is most marked above and below, and contains but a very delicate process of pia mater. It is bounded in front by the posterior or grey commissure. Antero-Lateral (So-called) - Consist simply of a linear series of fora. mina corresponding to the points of emergence of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. Postero-Lateral - Correspond to the line of attachment of the posterior roots, and lead down to the grey matter. Postero-Intekmediary (Hirschfeldt, Sappey) - Two delicate longitudinal furrows situated on either side of the postero-median fissure and most marked in the cervical region. COLUMNS - Are demarcated by the fissures, ana are termed Anterior, Lateral, Posterior and Postero-Median - The two formei being usually joined under the name of antero-lateral, and the postero- median being usually included in the posterior. Gives off 31 nairs of nerves.208 STRUCTURE of the SPINAL CORD —1st Tablet. Presents for examination the grey & the white matter and the neuroglia. GREY MATTER. Its Arrangement - internal. Most abundant in the enlargements & in the lumbar region, and exists alone towards lower end of cord; least abundant in the dorsal region. Disposed in a series of superimposed masses or segments, which form the nuclei of origin of the spinal nerves (Stilling). In the greater part of the cord it presents on a transverse section two anteriorly converging crescentic masses, con- vex internally & joined by a transverse band, and offers therefore for description : Anterior Cornua - Short & thick, dentated at their extremity. Pass forwards & outwards towards antero-lateral fissure. Posterior Cornua - Long & narrow; longest in the cervical region, narrowest in the dorsal, rather thicker in the lumbar. Pass backwards & outwards to very near posterior lateral fissure. Their extremity is somewhat enlarged, and presents superficially the substantia gelatinosa, a modification of the grey matter which is slightly transparent. Posterior or Gtrey Commissure - Lies behind the anterior or white commissure, a little in front of the centre of the cord. It contains the central canal of I the cord, which canal is about l-lOOth of an inch in diameter, is lined with columnar ciliated epithelium, and opens superiorly into the cavity of the 4th ventricle. To the foregoing parts the two following have beea added by the ia- vestigations of Mr. Lockhart Clarke :- Lateral Intermediate Tract - Projects outwards from the concavity of the crescent opposite the grey commissure. Extends along the cord from upper part of cervical region to upper part of lumbar, being interrupted however at lower part of neck; is largest in the dorsal region. Posterior Vesicular Tract - Lies in, and partly fills up, the recess between the grey commissure & the posterior cornu. Extends from middle of cervical region to lower part of lumbar, and increases in size in the cervical & the ' lumbar swellings. Towards the lower part of the cord the grey matter is collected into a central crucial or indented mass. Its Structure - Consists of nerve-cells, which are of two kinds, the large & the small, and which are more or less intermixed with nerve-fibres & neuroglia. Large Nerve-Cells - From l-200th to l-400th of an inch. Most abundant in the anterior cornua, where they are disposed in an inner & an outer group. Eather less abundant & smaller posteriorly, where they are mainly collected in the posterior vesicular tracts. Small Nerve-Cells - Average from l-600fch to l-1200th of an inch; some are said to be as small as l-3000fch of an inch, but many of these very small cells are now believed to belong to the neuroglia. The small cells are scattered throughout the whole of the grey matter, bat are principally collected in the substantia gelatinosa & the lateral intermediate tract. WHITE MATTER — External; entirely surrounds the grey matter, except in the situation of the posterior or grey commissure. Deficient at the lower end of the cord; steadily increases in quantity from below upwards. - In structure it consists of neuroglia & of nerve-fibres of various sizes, the course of which fibres will be ex- amined in the two following Tablets. NEUROGLIA — The neuroglia or connective tissue is very abundant, especially in the posterior cornua of the grey matter, and in the immediate vicinity of the central canal. It forms a delicate network sometimes difficult to distinguish from the nervous substance itself, in which network are seen here and there, both free nuclei and also, according to KoUiker, a few nucleated cells with numerous ramifying processes. On the inner aspect of the posterior columns it forms, with a few delicate nerve-fibres, the two cuneiform bands of Goll.209 STRUCTURE of the SPINAL C0RD-2nd Tablet. WHITE FIBRES Are the fibres of the roots of the nerves and the proper fibres of the white columns, which latter are to a great extent the continuation of the former after they have entered into and again emerged from the grey matter. FIBRES OP THE ROOTS OP THE NERVES. Fibres of Anterior Roots - Cross antero-lateral columns horizontally & in distinct bundles to anterior cornu of grey matter, and divide into three sets Ikner Set - Through large cells of inner group, and then through anterior or white commissure to anterior & lateral columns of opposite side. Middle Set - Radiate through the grey substance, and become ascending, descending & antero-posterior, the antero-posterior fibres either ending in the cells of the lateral intermediate tract or joining the fibres of the posterior roots of the nerves. Outer Sei -Through large cells of outer group into anterior & lateral columns of same side. Fibres of Posterior Roots - Biverge in the substantia gelatinosa, and then divide into three sets. Oblique Set - Run upwards &dcwnwards for a variable distance with proper fibres of posterior columns before they enter the grey matter. Some of the ascending fibres pass up directly to the ganglia of the base of the brain without entering into any connection whatever with the vesicular substance. Inner Set - Through posterior or grey commissure to lateral & posterior columns of opposite side. Outer Set - Through grey substance to anterior & lateral columns of same side, some becoming continuous with fibres of anterior roots. - Many of the fibres of the two latter sets are more or less oblique upwards or downwards. PROPER FIBRES OF THE COLUMNS — Pass upwards & downwards for a variable distance connecting the cells of the different segments of the grey matter. Some are believed to pass up uninterruptedly to the ganglia of the base of the brain.210 STRUCTURE of the SPINAL CORD-3rd Tablet. Continuation Upwards of the White Fibres of the Columns into 5 the Medulla Oblongata. 3 ■| j Anterior Colunan - Is thrust aside in the medulla oblongata by those autero-internal i; fibres of the lateral column, which, after decussating in the middle line, form the i innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. It then divides into three bundles as follows: Innermost Bundle - Joins externally the above mentioned antero-internal fibres of the lateral tract, and forms the smaller & outermost part of the anterior pyramid of the same side. Middle Bundle - Surrounds the olivary nucleus, above which it forms, with a few fibres arising from this nucleus, the olivary fasciculus or fillet. EXTERNA.L OR POSTERIOR BUNDLE - Passes upwards & backwards to join the processus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Lateral Colunm - Dimities into three bundles as follows: Antero-Internal Bundle -Passes forwards & inwards between the anterior columns, i thrusting these columns aside, and forms, after decassating in the middle | line, the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side, Middle Bundle-Ascends with the fasciculus gracilis beneath the grey matter of j the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fasciculus teres, i [ External or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the fasciculus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Posterior Column - Divides into two bundles as follows : Internal Bundle or Fasciculus Gracilis - The smaller. Ascends beneath the grey ji matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, and goes to form part of the fasci* j| cuius teres, ji i Extepnal Bundle or Fasciculus Cuneatus - The larger. Diverges from its fellow at !i- the apex of the calamus scriptorius, and passes upwards & outwards to form i| J the greater part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum, jil N.—The reader is here reminded once for all that by the "continuation" of !| nervB-fibres referred to in this & other Tablets, the Author means, not the J continuation of the individual tubular fibres (respecting the absolute origin 1 & termination of which tubular fibres little is "yet positively known), but jp the continuation of the several bundles of nerve-fibres, which continuation is marked by the general direction of the fibres.211 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The upper enlarged part of spinal cord. Extends from lower border of Pons Varolii, aoove, to point of decussatioa of anterior pyramids- below, which j)oint corresponds pretty nearly to upp.-^r borde^' of aUas. Flattened from above downwards and forwards, and presents : Anteuo-infeeioe Aspect - Rests upon basilar groove. PosTEEO-suPEiiiOR AsPECT - Forms part superiorly of floor of 4th ventricle, and is con- tinuous inferiorly with posterior surface of cord. Divided, as is the cord, into two lateral halves, by Antero-Median Fissure - Continuous below with that of cord, being partly interrupted, however, by decussation of anterior pyramids. Terminates above, just below the pons, in a small recess, the foramen coecum. Postero-Medtan Fissure - Continued above into ventricle of Arantius & postero- median fissure on floor of 4th ventricle, and below into postero-median fissure of cord. SURFACE OP THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Each half presents from before backwards between the two median fissures! Anterior Pyramid - Pyramidal.shaped bundle of white fibres, the apparent pro- longation of anterior column of cord ; narrow below, enlarged and rounded ofi" above, consti-icted just below the pons. Gives origin in its upper part to 6th cranial nerve. Olivary Body - Oval prominent mass broader above than below, shorter than, bun about as broad as, the pyramid. - It is separated from the pyramid by a narrow groove, which gives origin to 9th or hypo-glossal nerve, and from the lower part of which numerous arciform fibres are seen to proceed. These wind upwards and outwards round lower end of olivary body, sometimes crossing its surface. A few arciform fibres emerge from the anterior median fissui'e, and. cross anterior aspect of pyramid (Sappey, Hirschfeld). Lateral Tract - is continuous with lateral column of cord. It is broad below, where it includes all that part of the medulla comprised between anterior pyramid and restiform body ; above it is pushed backwards, and is narrowed, by the pro- jection of the olivary body. It is separated from restiform body by a slight groove situated in a line Avith posterior lateral fissure of cord, and gives origin from above downwards to the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric & spinal accessory nerves. Restiform Body or Fasciculus Cuneatus - is the outer & larger, while the Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - is the inner & smaller portion of a wide & thick bundle of white fibres continuous below with posterior column of cord, which bundle diverges from its fellow superiorly, and thus both exposes grey matter of floor of 4th ventricle and forms lower part of lateral boundary of that cavity. This wide & thick bundle used to be called, and is still sometimes called f/ie restiform body. - From its inner edge there projects inwards a thin lamina of white matter tei'med the ligida., which may be considered as forming part of roof of 4th ventricle. Opposite apex of calamus sci-iptoriu3 the posterior pyramid presents an enlargement, the processus clavafus. In front of the processus cuneatus, behind & a little below olivary body & in a line with postero-lateral fissure of cord, is a small greyish eminence, the g7-ey tubercle of Rolando^ which is formed by the projection of the substantia gelatinosa. Grey Matter of Floor of 4th Ventricle - Vide 4th Ventricle.212 STRUCTURE of the MEDULLA OBLONGATA-lst Tablet. Pre?ents for examination longitudiiial, antero-posterior & transverse fibres, and grey matter. LONGITUDINAL FIBRES — Form five bundles continuous on the one hand with the columns o( i the cord, and on the other Avith the longitudinal fibres of the mesocephalon, i.e.., three large, ones, anterior pyramid, lateral tract <2r= fascictihis ameattis, and two smaller ones, ohvary fasciailin or fillet, ^ posterior pyramid or fascictilus gracilis. Their mode of Continuation with the Columns of the Cord - is as follows.- - A^"rEl^I0R Pyramid - With ontero-internal bundle of lateial column of opposite side, and witb innermost bundle of anterior column of f-ame side. The former bundle forms the innermost decussating & by far greater portion of the anterior pyramid; the latter bundle forms that small outer portion of the ant. pyramid, the fibres of which do not decussate in the middle line Lateral Tract - \Vith lateral column of same side. Fasciculus Cuneatus - \yith external & greater part of posterior column, and with external oi posterior bundles of anterior & lateral columns all of same side, Olivaky Fasciculus or Fillet - Partly with middle bundle of anterior column of same side; its other fibres are derived from the olivary nucleus Posterior Pyramid ok Fasciculus Gracilis - With posterior column of same side. Their mode of Continuation with the Longitudinal Fibres of the Meso-cephalon- Is as follows: - Anterior Pyramid - Ascends through the mesocephalon to the inferior or fasciculated portion oi the cms cerebri, from whence its fibres are prolonged to the corpora striata, N.—The cerebellar fibres & the fibres to the olivary body, which are said in some of out best standard woiks on Anatomy to be derived from the anterior pyramid, are derived not from the anterior pyramid itself, that is to say not from the pyramidal-shaped bundle, which, in the surface description of the cord, is called the "anterior pyramid," but from the middle & external bundles of the anterior cohimn of the cord. (Vide continuation upwards of the white fibres of the columns of the cord into the medulla oblongata). Lateral Tract - Divides into three bundles as follows (or rather it is the lateral /ohimnoftlu co7'd which thus divides, for the division here referred to takes place a little below the point of decussation of the pyramids, that is to say below the point which is usually taken as the boundary between the medulla & the cord): - Antero-internal Bimdle -VtiZzes upwards & inwards, decussating with its fellow, and forms the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. ' Middle Bundle - Ascends with the fasciculus gracilis beneath the grey matter of the floor of the ' 4th ventricle, forming part of the fasciculus teres. JExternal or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the fasciculus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Fasciculus Cuneatus - Passes up to the cerebellum with the external or posterior bundles of the: ! anterior & lateral columns of the cord, forming with them the inf. peduncle of the cerebellum.!i ; Olivary Fasciculus or Fillet - Divides into two bundles as follows : - Antero-intei^nal Bundle - A&CBnds through the mesocephalon with the middle bundle of fibres , of the lateral tract, and joins the upper part or tegmentum of the crus cerebri. Postero-exte) nal Bundle - Passes upwards & outwards through the mesocephalon, issues from the transverse fibres of the pons externally to the crus cerebri, and finally ascends over the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to the tubercula quadrigemina, decussating with its fellow above the aqueduct of Sylvius. Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - Ascends with the middle bundle of the lateral column beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fascicn- lus teres. ANTERO-POSTERIOR FIBRES — Form a median septum most marked at the upper part of the medulla. They partly decussate with each other (Clarke). Some emerge from the antero- median fissure, or pass between the anterior pyramid & the olivary body and emerge below the roots of the 9th nerve; these two sets form the arciCorm fibres mentioned in the surface de- scription of the medulla. Others emerge from the postero-median fissure, and form the linesei , transversa? of the floor of the 4th ventricle, ' TRANSVERSE FIBRES — The arciform fibres form a supoificial set. A deep set join the olivarj nuclei & the nuclei contained in the posteiuor pyramids & processus cuneati. ^REY MATTER —Vide next Tablet. ||213 STRUCTURE of the MEDULLA OBLONGATA-2ncl T. IGRQY MATTER — May be examiiied in three principal situations as follows: Inferiorly, or at Junction of Medulla with Cord - It is here disposed as ia the cord, except tliatthe transverse commissure is broader, and that, with tne central canal (which latter is usually blocked up with a little granular matter) it progressively approaches the posterior aspect of the medulla. Towards Middle of Medulla - The following changes take place : - I. Antekiok CoimuA & Lateral Intermediate Tracts become indistinc': and soon vanish away in the form of a radiating network of fibres & cells. In front of this network, i.e., between it & the anterior pyramid, there soon appears on either side, the olivary nucleus or corpus dentatum, which latter is uncon- nected with the grey matter prolonged upwards from the cord. - The corpus dentatum is a hollow bag or capsule of grey matter open at its upper & inner part, and presenting on section a dentated outline. Some of the deep trans- verse fibres of the medulla pass into this capsule; other fibres emerge from it, and joining the middle bundle of fibres of the anterior column of the cord, form the olivary fasciculus or fillet, which passes up through the mesocephalon both to the corpora quadrigemina & the cerebral hemispheres. II. PosTEUiOR CoRNUA become more & more transverse in direction and finally curve slightly forwards. The substantia gelatinosa, which caps their extremity, expands into a large rounded mass, which reaches the surface below & in front of the restiform body and forms the grey tubercle of Rolando; higher np, this mass becomes the chief nucleus for the sensory portion of the 5th nerve. Behind the posterior cornua two new cornua appear, which extend, the one into the fasciculus cuneatus, the other into the posterior pyramid; both these new cornua increase in size from below upwards. Superiorly, where Medulla passes into Mesocephalon - The central canal expands into 4th ventricle, and the grey matter spreads out on floor of that cavity. Here it forms in the upper half of the space the nuclei for the Gch & 7th nerves, and in the lower half & close to the postero-median fissure, the nucleus for the hypoglossal nerve, & externally to this nucleus & from above downwards, the nuclei for the following nerves, i.e y auditory, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric & accessory portion of spinal accessory; the nuclei of the hypo- glossal & accessory portion of the spinal accessory being also prolonged for some distance into the concealed portion of the grey matter, the former ni;cle::.^ in front of the central canal, the latter behind it (Stilling, Clarke). Note - From recent statements by Mr. Lockbart Clarke there appear to Iexist tJu-ce oihcr midd on the floor of the fourth ventricle in addition to those above described, namely, iwo miclei for ih^ h(h Nerve., one sensory & one motor, and an additionalmiclcns Jor /he Auditory yV^ rve. The two nnclei for the bth Nerve are situated at the outer an-ie of the floor of the fourth ventricle; the more external or sensory nucleus is continuous below with the grey tubercle of llolando; the more internal or w^-Z^^r nucleus lies just internally to foregoing. In addition to the Auditory Nucleus above described, which nu- cleus is now termed the internal auditory nucleus, there exists another nucleus higher up & more to the outer side, between the two nuclei for the 5th nerve, above, and the nucleus for the glosso-pharyngeal Inerve below; this is the external auditory nucleus. - In correspond- ence with the above statements, the auditory nerve would have another, deeper, or more anterior set of fibres. These fibres arise from the external auditory nucleus; thoy pass outwards thiou h the substance of the restiform body, and join, externally to that body, with the bundle & fibres hitherto recognised. Some of the fibres of the Ath Nerve are said to arise from a I nucleus on outer side of locus coeruleus.214 THE CEREBELLUM. Oblong from side to side & flattened from above downwards. Presents two surfaces & a cir- cumference, and consists of two lateral hemispheres connected by a median lobe, the vermiform process, which latter is divided into two parts, the superior & the inferior. UPPER SURFACE — Flattened on either side, slightly elevated in the centre. Presents: Superior Vermiform Process - Presents from before backwards three slight elevations, the LoBULus Centralis, MoNTicuLUS Cerebelli, & Commissuka Simplex, which latter , joins with the commissura brevis of the inferior vermiform process. ; Lateral Hemispheres - Divided by a deep fissure into Anterior or Square Lobe, the anterior, inner & broader portion, and the Posterior or Semilunar Lobe, the narrow, posterior or marginal portion. i UNDER SURFACE — Rounded & elevated laterally and depressed in the centre. Presents: j Inferior Vermiform Process - Lies in a deep depression, the valley or vallecula com. j prised between the two hemispheres, and presents from behind forwards the ! Commissura Brevis, Pyramid & Uvula, the former of which joins with the com. missura simplex of the superior vermiform process. | The uvula is situated between the two tonsils, with which it is connected j a by a grey commissure the furro%ved band. Its rounded apex, the nodule or ' J lammatcd inbercle of Malacarne projects into the 4th ventricle, and is con- j nected with the flocculi by a thin valvular fold of white substance, the posterior medullary velum or commissura ad Jlocculmn, which fold is partly ' covered in & concealed by the tonsils, 1 Lateral Hemispheres - Present five lobes: j Flocculus, Sub.Peduncular Lobe, or Pneumogastric Lobule - Prominent tuft ! subdivided into several small laminas and situated below & behind the i middle peduncle of the cerebellum, behind the roots of the pneumogastric i nerve. < Amygdala or Tonsil - Eather larger than foregoing and similarly subdivided; I projects into the valley on either side of the uvula, to which it is connected by the furrowed band, j Digastric Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the anterior part of the square lobe i of the upper surface, ij Slender Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the posterior part of the foregoiag ij square lobe. Posterior Inferior Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the posterior or semilu- ; i nar lobe, j ; CIRCUMFERENCE — Deeply notched in front & behind by the Incisurao Cerebelli Anterior & Posterior, - Of which the former embraces the tubercula quadrigemina & the superior peduncles, while the latter receives : the falx cerebelli; - also divided into upper & lower lips by the j Great Horizontal Fissure - Which extends uninterruptedly from one middle • peduncle to the other. T/ie other fissures are more or less parallel to the foregoing, and describe ; more or less concentric curves concave forwards & inwards; some fissures | however are more or less oblique, and coalesce with the others so as not to j extend over the whole breadth of the hemispheres. The largest fissuresIM separate the lobes above described, the smaller ones demarcate the laminaa j,H or folia, which latter cover the surface of the cerebellum and project also I ■ into the bottom of the larger fissures, j ■215 STRUCTURE of the CEREBELLUM. APPARENT TO THE NAKED EYE: Central White Stem, - Which contains the corpus dentatum, and from the surface of which from 12 to 16 primary laminos are given off. These laminae, aa well as the secondary laminas which they give off in their turn, and also the tertiary laminse given off by the secondary, are covered with Grey Matter - Divided into two, and in some places into three layers, which layers are respectively from without inAvards dark grey, pale or rusty, light grey. The arborescent appearance of these two substances, when viewed together on section, is termed the arbor vita. CoKPUs Dentatum - Is a plicated bag of grey matter open above & in front, and situated in the white stem not far from the middle line. On section it presents a wavy dentated outline. White fibres are contained in its interior, which fibres issue forth from it and join the superior peduncle. MINUTE OR MICROSCOPICAL. White Fibres - Are of two kinds: Central or Peduncular - Converge from the central part ofthe laminae towards the three peduncles, into which they are continued (Vide below) Superficial or Non-peduncular - Pass superficially from one lamina to another Grey Matter - Contains : Large Caudate Neuve-cells with nucleus, nucleolus & granular contents, which cells, with the finely granular material in which they lie, form the most superficial & the deepest of the three layers of the grey matter. Their caudate prolongations are continued into branched processes mainly turned towards the surface of the organ, which processes j)robably join the terminal ramifications of the nerve-fibres (Kolliker, Gerlach). Cell-Nuclei densely aggregated without any intervening substance. These nuclei form the greater part of the pale intermediate layer of the grey matter. Terminal Extremities of the Nerve Fibres - End in a fine network, the ramifications of which are probably continuous with the caudate prolongations of the nerve-cells (Kolliker, Gerlach). Large Pellucid Cells, and other Cells & Nuclei belonging to the con- nective tissue. (See Page 230.) STRUCTURE of the PEDUNCLES. They consist of white fibres only. Superior, or Processus e Cerebello ad Testes - Arises in the laminae of the inferior vermiform process and also in the intei'ior of the corpus dentatum, passes upwards & inwards on either side of the middle line, being joined to its fellow by the valve of Vieussens, and ascends beneath the tubercula quadrigemina to the crura cerebri & optic thalami, partly decussating in the middle line. Middle, Processus e Cerebello ad Pontem or Crus Cerebelli - The great transverse commissure of the cerebellum. Connects the laminae of the lateral parts of one hemisphere to the corresponding laminae of the opposite side, and forms the pons Varolii & the deep transverse fibres of the mesocephalon. Inferior, or Processus e Cerebello ad Medullam - if traced from below upwards, it may be said to proceed from all three columns of the cord, i.e.^ from the iDostero-external bundles of the anterior & middle columns, & from the fasciculus cuneatus or external bundle of the posterior column, the latter bundle being much the largest of the three. It ends in the laminfB of the middle part of the cerebellum, especially in those of the upper surface.216 THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. Rhomboidal cavity bounded by the medulla obloaj?ata & mesocephalon below & in front and the cerebellum above & behind, and closed in inferiorly by the layer of pia matter ex- tending between these parts. Presents• FLOOR — Lozengc-shaped, oblique downwards & backwards, covered by a stratum of grey matter from which arise the 6th, 7th, 8fch, & 9th nerves * (Vide structure of medulla oblongata, 2nd Tablet); bounded on either side below by the posterior pyramids & restiform bodies, and above by the processus e cerebello ad testes. Presents the following parts, which give rise to the appearance termed the calamus scriptorius' Postero-Median Fissure - Continued above into the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, below into the ventricle of Arantius or short upper expanded part of the central canal and into the postero-median fissure of the cord. LiNEyE Tkansveus^. - A few white fibres very variable in number sometimes scarcely recognisable, which emerge from the lower part of the postero-median fis- sure, cross the eminentise teretes, and join, some of them the crus cere- belli, others the roots of the auditory nerve j a few sometimes ascend to the locus coeruleus. EMINENT!^ Teretes - Two spindle-shaped elevations, greyish & slightly marked below, whiter & more prominent above, due to the fasciculi teretes, as they ascend beneath the grey matter on either side of the postero-median fissure. - On either side of these eminences is a GuoovE, or rather, in well marked bodies, two small fosse, which lie, the posterior, inferior & narrowest one, near the lower extremity of the ventricle, and the anterior, superior & broadest one, opposite the crus cerebelli. The latter fossa leads upwards to the Locus CffiKULEUS - A bluish spot due to an accumulation beneath the surface, of dark vesicular matter termed the substantia ferruginea. From this spot the Tinea Violacea, - A bluish streak, the continuation upwards of the locus casruleus, ascends on the outer side of the eminentia teres to the opening of the aque* duct of Sylvias. ROOF — Formed above by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieus- sens, below by the tonsils, the inferior vermiform process with the uvula, the nodule or laminated tubercle of Malacarne, & by the posterior medullary velum or commissura ad flocculum. Still lower down is the ligula. LATERAL BOUNDARIES — Formed by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum above, and by the diverging restiform bodies & posterior pyramids below. UPPER EXTREMITY — Presents the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. LOWER EXTREMITY - Usually presents an opening in the layer of pia mater which bounds the ventricle inferiorly, through which opening the ventricular cavities of the bram communicate with the subarachdoidean space of the brain & cord. Choroid Plexuses of 4th Ventricle - Vide intra -cerebral portion of the pia mater. *Note - -'^n*-! also the 4th and 5th nerves, and the external or deep root of the Auditory.217 THE MESOCEPHALON Is the connecting link between the cerebrum, cerebellum & medulla oblongata. It consists of the following parts: - Pons Varolii or Ttiher Anmilare with the superficial & deep transverse fibres of the Middle Peduncles of the Cerebelhim ; Crura Cerebri divided into tinder or fascic7ilatedportion and ubper part or tegmentum ; Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebelhim, and Superior Peduncles with the Valve of Vieussens; Tubercula Quadrigemina & Pineal Gland. Pons Varolii or Tuber Annulare - Broad transverse band of white fibres which arch like a bridge from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other, forming laterally the middle peduncles of the cerebellum. Presents : - Under Surface - Marked by a median shallow groove for basilar artery. Gives off laterally the two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, of the 5th pair of cranial nerves. Upper Border - The most prominent & the most convex, from beneath which the crura cerebri are seen to emerge. Lower Border - Less prominent & less convex, into which the anterior pyramids, olivary fasciculi & lateral tracts of the medulla are seen to penetrate, and from the anterior aspect of which the Gfch cranial nerves are sometimes given otf. - Laterally the pons Varolii is continued into the two Middle Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Crura Cerebelli - Which form its two lateral portions. Crura Cerebri - Two thick cylindrical or slightly flattened bundles of white fibres about | of an inch long & rather wider in front than behind, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons and pass forwards & outwards to the corpora striata & optic thalami. They ai*e crossed externally by the 4th nerve & inferiorly by the optic tract, the anterior border of which latter is slightly adherent to them. Their inner border bounds posteriorly the interpeduncular space, and gives origin to the 3rd cranial nerve. They are divided into an under or fasciculated portion & an upper portion or tegmentum, between which two portions is a small mass of grey matter, the locus niger. Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad Medullam - Two thick bundles of white fibres which descend from the inner & under pait of the cerebellum to the back of the medulla, where they join the processus cuneati. They form the lower part of the lateral boundary of the 4th ventricle. Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad Testes - Two thick bundles of white fibres which ascend from the upper & mner part of the cere- bellum to the testes, forming part of the roof & of the lateral boundary of the 4th ven- tricle. They are connected together by the Valve of Vieussens - Thin transparent lamina of white matter narrow in front, where it presents a slight median ridge, the frenulum, and, on either side of thia', the roots of the 4th nerve, broader behind, where it is continued into the under surface of the superior vermiform process and is crossed by a few transverse bands of grey matter prolonged upwards from tiie cerebellum. It forms the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius & a part of the roof of the 4th ventricle. Tubercula Quadrigemina - Four small rounded eminences separated by a crucial depression, and situated below the posterior extremity or splenium of the corpus oallosum, above & behind the posterior commissure & the 3rd ventricle, above & in front of the super- ior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieussens. Anterior or Nates - Are larger, darker, slightly oblong from befoi-e backwards,and connected with the optic thalami & the commencement of the optic tracts by two broad white bands, the brachia anteriora. Posterior or Testes - Are smaller, lighter in colour, more exactly rounded, and connected with the optic thalami & the commencement of the optic tracts by two narrower bands, the brachia posteriora. Pineal Gland or Conarium - Small conical reddish-grey body situated between the nates, retained in position by a fold of pia mater derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, and connected with the remainder of the cerebrum by means of a few transverse fibres belonging to the posterior commissure, and also by means of its Peduncles - Two on each side : Anterior or Superior - Run forwards over upper & inner part of optic thalami to anterior crura of fornix, with which they unite. Posterior or Inferior - Descend vertically upon inner surface of optic thalami. The pineal gland consists of grey matter with a few white fibres, and is very- vascular. In its interior are ono or two small cavities, which sometimes com- municate with the 3rd ventricle, and which contain a transparent viscid fiuid «fe a small amount of sabulous matter termed the acervulus cerebri.218 STRUCTURE of the MESOOEPHALON Presents for examination transverse, longitudinal & antero-posterlor fibres, and gi matt TRANSVERSE FIBRES — Connect from side to side the laminae of the lateral p tions of the cerebellum, forming two set • Superficial Set - Constitute the pons Varolii properly so-called, and are separai by the superficial set of longitudinal fibres from t Deep Set - Which-lie between, and are more or less intermingled with, the supe cial & middle sets of longitudinal fibres, and are also largely intermingled w grey matt LONGITUDINAL FIBRES - Form three sets Inferior or Superficial Set - Lie between the superficial & deep sets of the tra verse fibres being, however, posteriorly, more or less intermixed with the latl They are derived from the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata; tl form superiorly the inferior or fasciculated porcion of the crus cere Lliddle Set - Lie behind the deep set of transverse fibres with which however they ' more or less intermingled anteriorly. They are derived from the fascici » gracilis, from the middle set of fibres of the lateral tract of the medulla & fr . the antero-internal division of the olivary fasciculus or fillet (the fibres fi the two former sources being joined together under the name of fascict i teres. They ascend beneath the gray matter of the floor of the 4th ventri , and go to form the upper portion or tegmentum of the crus cere . Deep or Supeierior Set - Are derived on the one hand from the laminae of 3 inferior verrailorra process & from the interior of the corpus dentatum of 3 cerebellum, and on the other hand from the postero-external division of 3 olivary fasciculus or fillet, the former set of fibres forming the superior pedui 3 of the cerebellum. They join the upper part or tegmentum of the crus cere . ANTERO-POSTERIOR FIBRES — Are derived partly from the floor of the i ventricle, and partly from some of the transversa fibres, whicb bend backwards f >> shrrb distance before they cross to the opposite 6 . GREY MATTER — Is largely intermixed with the deep transverse & middle longitud I fibres, and forms the locus niger of the crus cerebri & the greater part of the tnl • cula quadrigemina & pineal gla >219 rHE SURFACE of the CEREBRUM. The cerebral hemispheres are now described as presenting? five lobes : the frontal, parietal, occipital & temporo-sphenoidal lobes, and the central lobe or Island of Eeil. These lobes are seen most extensively on the upper or convex surface of the hemispheres. UPPER OR CONVEX SURFACE OF THE CEREBRUM : -Presents: FOUR PRINCIPAL FISSURES — Which partly separate the five lobes : ASCENDING & HORIZONTAL LIMBS OF THE FISSURE OF SYLVIUS -- The former ascends in front of the central lobe and amongst the frontal convolntions.-The latter passes backwards behind the central lobe, and separates the temporo-sphenoidal lobe from the frontal & parietal lobes. FISSURE OF ROLANDO — Begins near the middle of the longitudinal fissure and passes downwards & forwards to near the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, separating the frontal & parietal lobes. EXTERNAL PARIETO-OCCIPITAL FISSURE — Separates the parietal and occipital lobes above.-I3 very variable in extent, and is sometimes scarcely recognisable except by its being continuous with the internal parieto.occipital fissure, or perpendicular fissure of the inner surface of I the hemispheres. f OUTER SURFACE OF THE FIVE LOBES: Frontal Lobe - Presents : AscEXDixG Frontal Coxvolutiox - Forms the anterior boundary of the fissure of Rolando, and is continuous round the lower end of that fissure with the ascending painetal convolution. It is joined in front ro the |i Superior, Middle & Ixferior Transverse Frontal Convolutions, - "Which pass I forwards one above the other to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere. 1! Parietal Lobe - Presents : I Ascending Parietal Convolution - Foi^ms the posterior boundary of the fissure ' Rolando, and is continuous below round the lower end of that fissure, with the ascending frontal convolution. - Behind this convolution are three complex and variable convolutions termed the parietal lobule, the supra- marginal convolution & the angular gyrus. Parietal Lobule - Is situated on the side of the longitudinal fissure between the parieto-occipital fissure, & the fissure of Rolando, and, is contin- uous in front with the upper part of the ascending parietal convolution, and joined behind to the superior occipital by the first annectant con- Ivolution. SuPRA-iiARGiNAL CONVOLUTION - Is situated below and in front of the preceding and in front of the angular gyrus. It is separated from the ascending parietal convolution by the intra-parietal fissure, and is connected behind wdth the angular gyrus. i AJfGULAR Gyrus - Is situated behind the preceding, below and behind the par- ietal lobule. It blends below with the superior & middle teraporo-sphe- [ noidal convolutions, and is connected behind with the middle occipital -I by the second annectant convolution. Temporo-Sphenoidal Lobe - Presents three well marked antero-posterior con volutions, which are superposed to each other. Sup. TEiiPORO. Sphenoidal Convolution - Lies between the horizontal limb the fissure of Sylvius and the parallel fissure, and is continuous behind with the angular gyrus. Middle Tejiporo-sphenoidal Convolution - Is separated from the lower one by the inferior temporo-sphenoidal fissure, and is continuous posteriorly with the angular gyrus and connected by the third annectant with the middle occipital convolution. Inp, Temporo-sphenoidal Convolution-Is partly seen on the under surface of the cerebrum, and is con-nected behind to the third occipital by the fourth annectant convolution. Occipital Lobe - Presents three rather badly defined convolutions, which are superposed to each other, and are more or less antero-posterior. Sup. Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the parietal lobule by the first annectant convolution. Middle Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the angular gyrus & to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the second and third annec- tant convolutions. Inf. Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the fourth annectant convolution. Central Lobe or Island of Reil - Ts deeply situated between the frontal & temporo-sphenoidal lobes at the bottom of the outer part of the fissure of Sylvius. It presents five or six convolutions, which are nearly straight and mainly directed upwards and outwards, and of which the posterior ones are the largest.220 UNDER SURFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents from before backwards | IN THE MEDIAN LINE: j Anterior part of the Longitudinal Fissure - Bounded behind by the anterioi ^ extremity or genu of the corpus callosuni Anterior Extremity or Genu of the Corpus Callosum - Curves down; V7ards and backwards. Its narrowing reflected portion, beak or rostrutr! is connected with the lamina cinerea, and gives off two white bundles, th i peduncles, which cross the anterior perforaced space to the eatrance cl the fissure of Sylvius; Lamina Cinerea - A. thin layer of grey substance stretching, above the optic com missure, with which it is connected, from the rostrum of the corpu: i callosum to the tuber cinereum, and continuous laterally with the gre, matter of the anterior perforated space". Optic Commissure or Chiasma with the Optic Tracts - Vide Optic Nerve Interpeduncular Space - Lozenge-shaped, comprised between the crura cerebt and the optic tracts, and containing from before backwards Tuber Cinereum with the Infundibulum & Pituitary Body - The former c which is a conical eminence of the grey matter of the floor of the 3ri i ventricle connected by a hollow infundibuliform process, the infundi j bulum, with the latter, which latter is a small reddish grey vascula mass divided into an anterior & a posterior lobe, and the natm-e c which, especially in its anterior lobe, is very similar according to Di Sharpey, to that of the ductless or vascular glands. It is proportiona tely larger in the foetus, and is then hollow, its cavity being continuou with that of the 3rd ventrick Corpora Albicantia - Two small round white bodies formed by the twistinj; upon themselves of the anterior crura of the fornix before they pas up to the optic thalam Posterior Perforated Space - Formed by a layer of grey substance, whic constitutes the posterior part of the floor of the 3rd ventricle and i continuous around the corpora albicantia with the base of the tube cinereum. It is perforated by numerous small foramina for th passage of blood vessels to the optic thalam-i Crura Cerebri-Vide Me socephalon. I LATERALLY: j Under Surface of the Frontal Lobe - Presenting internally the lower end c| the marginal convolution, on the outer side of which is the olfactor ! sulcus containing the olfactory nerve and bull' Anterior Perforated Space -Formed by a layer of grey substance correspon- ding to the unuer surface of the corpus striatum, and perforated b;i| numerous small foramina for the passage of vessels to that body. It ij bounded in front by the posterior and inner part of the frontal lobe an(ii the roots of the olfactory nerve, and behind & to the inner side by thi 1 optic tract & commissure, and is continued externally into tin } Fissure of Sylvius - Which separates the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobei ana divides on the outer surface of the cerebrum into two branches o i! limbs, which enclose the middle lobe or Island of Keil| Under Surface of the Temporo-sphenoidal Lobe. i Behind these parts appear when the medulla oblongata & cerebellum an removed, in the median line Middle part of the Transverse Fissure - ('omprised between tin corpora quadrigemina and th Posterior Extremity or Splenium of the Corpus Callosum ■ Behind which is thi Posterior Part of the Longitudinal Fissure - And laterally the Under Surface of the Occipital lobe.221 [NNEK SUEFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents foi' examination: Marginal Convohitioii & Convolution of the Corpus Callosum separated from each other by tliu Calloso-marginal Fissure; Quadrate Occipital Lobules separated from each other by the Internal Parieto-occipital Fissure, and separated by the Calcarine Fissiire from the internal temporo-sphenoidal convolutions; Internal Tonporo-sphenoidal Convolutions, three in number, superior (dentate convolution), middle (gyrus uncinatus) & inferior, and separated from the foregoing by the above-mentioned calcarine fissure and from each other by the Dentate Collateral Fissures. Marginal Convolution - Forms the lateral boundary of the anterior half of the longitudinal fissure. Beginning at the anterior perforated space, it first passes forwards on the inner side of the olfactory sulcus as far as the apex of the frontal lobe, and then curves upwards & backwards along the upper margin of the hemisphere to a little behind the fissure of Rolando. Convolution of the Corpus Callosum or Gyrus Fornicatus - Begins anteriorly with the foregoing, and then winds backwards along the convex surface of the corpus callosum from which it is separated by the so-called ventricle. Posteriorly it joins above with the quadrate lobule, and then, becoming slightly constricted, is reflected downwards & forwards round the splenium and continued into the gyrus uncinatus. CalloSO-Marginal Fissure - Separates the two foregoing convolutions along their whole length, and then ascends to the upper margin of the hemisphere separating the marginal convolution from the quadrate lobule. Quadrate Lobule - Quadrilateral. Bounded above, in front, & behind respectively by the margin of the hemisphere, and by the calloso-marginal & internal parieto-occipital fissures. Blends inferiorly Avith the gyrus fornicatus. Occipital Lobule - Triangular. Bounded behind, in front, & below respectively by the inner margin of the hemisphere and by the internal parieto-occipital & calcarine fissures. Internal Parieto-Occipital Fissure - Separates the two foregoing lobules. It is continuous superiorly with the external parieto-occipital fissure; inferiorly it joins with the calcarine fissure. Calcarine Fissure - Extends horizontally forwards from the apex of the occipital lobe to the point of junction of the gyrus fornicatus with the gyrus uncinatus. It separates the occipital lobule from the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution, and joins anteriorly with the internal parieto-occipital fissui'e. Superior Tempcro-Sphenoidal or Dentate Convolution - Is but a narrow band of grey matter which lies internally to the fascia dentata. It blends anteriorly with the uncus. Dentate Fissure - Corresponds to the hippocampus major, and separates the dentate convolution from the gyrus uncinatus. Middle Temporo-Sphenoidal Convolution or Gyrus Uncinatus - Comprised between the calcarine & collateral fissures, and extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It is slightly constricted towards its middle & enlarged in fi ont & behind; anteriorly it presents a small hooked prolongation, the uncus, which curves upwards & backwards, and joins with the dentate convolu- tion & with the corpus fimbriatum. Collateral Fissure - Extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, separating the gyrus uncinatus from the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolu. tion. It corresponds towards its middle to the eniinentia collateralis. Inferior Temporo-Sphenoidal Convolution - Appears both on the inner & under surfaces of the hemispheres, and is joined behind by the fourth annectant to the inferior occipital convolution.222 INTERNAL STRUCTURE of the HEMISPHERES. ■ I PARTS SEEN BEFORE OPENING THE VENTRICLES: ! Centrum Ovale Minus - With the puncta vasculosa & the convoluted margin ol the divided grey matter ! Ventricle of the Corpus CalloSUm - Comprised between the corpus callosum I the gyrus fornicatus Centrum Ovale IVEajus - I^ito which the fibres of the corpus callosum are continueci! on either side j Corpus Callosum - Thick stratum of transverse & radiating white fibres which cod] nect the two hemispheres; arched from before backwards, thickest V broadest behind, thinnest towards centre. It presents Upper Sueface - Convex from before backwards, striated transversely, marked by a median depressed raphe which is bounded by two slightly elevate( bauds termed the nei-ves of Lancisi. More externally, beneath the gyru fornicatus, are other similar bands, the strice longitudinales lateralesx Under Surface - Blended behind with the fornix. In front, where it forms tb roof of the lateral ventricles, it is connected with the fornix by the septun lucidun Anterior Extremity or Genu - Curves downwards & backwards, presenting a narrowing reflected portion, the beaJz or rostrum. This latter is connected i with the lamina cinerea, and gives off two small white bands or pedimdesl which cross the anterior perforated space to the entrance of the fissure o i Sylvius^ Posterior Extremity or Splenium - Thick «fe rounded. Forms upper boundarj of middle portion of transverse fissure, and is joined in front with the fornia223 'HE LATEBAL VENTRICLES. Consist of a central cavity or body, and three prolongations or cornua. Central Cavity or Body - Presents Koop - Formed by under surface of corpus callosum. Inner Wall - Formed by septum lucidum. Floor - Formed from before backwards by the corpus striatum^ tanta semidrcu!aris, thalamus opticus, choroid plexus, corpus fimbi'iatum & fornix. Ant. Cornu - Passes downwards & outwards round anterior extremity of corpus striatum. Post. Cornu or Digital Cavity - Curves backwards, downwards, outwards, and then backwards, downwards & inwards in substance of occipital lobe. On inner part of its floor is the hippocampus minor, a longitudinal eminence which corresponds to calcarine fissure of Huxley. Middle or Descending Cornu - Curves backwards, outwards & downwards round optic thalamus, and then forwards & inwards to near anterior extremity of temporo- sphenoidal lobe. Its floor presents the hippocampus majory pes hippocampi, pes accessorius, corpus fimbriatumy choroid plexus, fascia dentata & transverse fissure.224 PARTS SEEN on FLOOR of LATERAL VENTRICLE Are from before iDaclcwards CORPUS STRIATUM — Large pear-sTiapod mass of gvej matter embedded externally in whii substance of frontal lobe. Presen ji Ant. Extremity - Broad ; projects into anterior part of body of lateral ventricle, forming piji of its floor, and into anterior cornu of the same cavi,, Post. Extremity - Narrow; passes backwards and outwards on outer side of optic thalamus! The corpus striatum is divided into two portions, the intra- & extra-ventricul i by a layer or sti-atnm of nscending & diverging white fibres which form the pec\ or the corona radiata of Rcil. Part of those fibres are derived from the inferior or f j. ciculated portion, and also from the upper part or tegmentum, of the crus cereV| part of them originate in the corpus striati j. TCENIA SEMICIRCUL ARIS — Whitish semi-transparent band of fibres, which descends i teriorly in connection with anterior crus of fornix, and is lost posteriorly in descend! j cornu of lateral ventricle; it partly conceals the vena corporis stria! OPTIC THALAMUS — Large ovoid mass of grey matter white superficially, similar to cor| striatum, behind & internally to Avhich it is situated, and similarly traversed by numen i ascending & diverging white fibres, which are partly derived from upper portion of ci \ cerebri, olivary fasciculus, fasciculus teres, processus e cerebello ad testes & corpora quae gemina, and which partly originate in the thalamus. Presen- Ant. Extremity - Narrow, situated behind anterior crus of fornix; forms posterior boundary ' foramen of Mor , Post. Extremity - Broad & rounded. Projects into descending cornu of lateral ventricle, a , is continuous on inner side with tubercula quadrigemi Upper Surface - Anteriorly it forms part of floor of lateral ventricle, and presents a slij : elevation, the anterior tubercle; posteriorly it is covered by fornix, which rests upor . Under Surface - Continuous with posterior rounded extremity. In its posterior part it foi i roof of descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and presents two small eminences, i corpora genictdata internum et externnm, which are connected respectively with innei ; outer bands of origin of optic tract. In its anterior part it rests upon the crus cere' \ and is penetrated by the radiating fibres above mention , Inner Surface - Forms lateral boundary of 3rd ventricle. Is joined to its fellow by the midi ^ soft, or grey commissure, and presents inferiorly the grey matter of the interior of > thalamus uncovered by the white. The superior peduncle of the pineal gland se ■ rates this surface from the upj \ Outer Surface - Continuous anteriorly with posterior narrow extremity of corpus striati , and embedded posteriorly in white substance of temporo-sphenoidal Ic . CHOROID PLEXUS — The thick, convoluted & fringe-like margin of the velum interpositun ■ Vide Velum interpositi . CORPUS FIMBRIATUM or TAENIA HIPPOCAMPI - The thin lateral margin of |. posterior crus of the fori FORNIX — Triangular longitudinal lamella of white matter broad behind, narrow in front, situa . below corpus callosum with which it is joined behind, and to which it is connected in fri _ by septum lucidum; forms roof of third & posterior part of floor of both lateral ventric !• Presen! Body - Presents: - Joined behind with corpus callosum, and connected in front to the sa by septum lucidum; forms posterior part of floor of both lateral ventric l Under Surface-'^I^xVq.^ posteriorly by a few transverse & anteriorly converging fibi i which form the lyra. Forms centrally the roof of 3rd ventricle; rests laterally uj | optic thalami. Is covered by velum interpositi j Anterior Crura - Descend behind anterior white commissure & in front of optic thalan , forming anterior boundary of foi-amen of Monro, and perforate grey substance ' floor of 3rd ventricle to corpora albicantia, in which they twist upon themselves; tl then ascend to corresponding optic thalan > Posterior Crura - Diverge into the descending cornua of lateral ventricles, becoming coutinu ji with inner border of hippocampus major. Their thin lateral margin is the corpusj • briatum or tcenia hippocah • i225 ARTS SEEN in DESCENDING CORNU of LATERAL VENTRICLE, HIPFOCAMPU3 MAJOR or CORNU AMMONIS - Is a white eminence which curves downward?, forwards, & inwards along floor of descending cornu of lateral ventricle^ and which coi-responds to the dentate fissure & to the reflected portion of the convolution of the coipus callosum or gyrus fornicatus, which portion has been des- cribed of late years as the anterior part of the gyrus tincinatiis. It enlarges anteriorly, and ends in the PES HIPPOCAMPI - The anterior rounded extremity of the hippocampus major; it more or less resembles the paw of an animal, being marked along its margin by slightnotcbes or depressions separating rounded intervening elevations. PES ACCESSORIUS or EMINENTIA COLLATERALIS - A small rounded eminence, simlar to the preceding, situated between the two hippocampi at junction of middle & posterior cornua. It corresponds to the collateral fisiure. CORPUS FIMBRIATUM or T^NIA HIPPOCAMPI - Ti e prolongation of the thin lateral margin of the posterior crus of the fornix j is continuous with inner border of hippocampus major. CHOROID PLEXUS - Vide next Tablet. FASCIA DENT ATA - The grey serrated border of the dentate convolution, which is separated from the gyrus uncinatus by the dentate fissure of Huxley. It lies beneath the corpus fiiuLriatum & the margin of the cl oroid plexus. TRANSVERSE FISSURE - Vide next Tablet.226 TRANSVERSE FISSURE of the BRAIN and INTRA^ CEREBRAL PORTION of the PIA MATEIi TRANSVERSE FISSURE OF THE BRAIN Is of a horse.shoe shape, and about 3 inches wide. lis central part is horizontal and comprised between the tabercula quadingemina the posterior extremity or spleuium of the corpus callosu Its lateral portions curve downwards & forwards, and are comprised between t optic thalami & crura cerebri below & in front and the hippocampi majores corpora fimbriata above & behir This fissure transmits the pia mater into the interior of the brain. INTRA-CEREBRAL PORTION OP THE PIA MATER Forms on the one hand the velum interpositum & the choroid plexuses of the late: & the 3rd ventricles, and, on the other, the choroid plexuses of the 4th ventric Velum InterpOSituiM. - is a triangular fold of pia mater which is reflected into i interior of the brain through the transverse fissure. It presen Central Portion - Invests pineal gland, and covers under surface of fornix. Fr the under surface of this central portion two small vascular fringes, i choroid plexuses of the 3rd ventricle, hang down into the latter cavi Lateral Makgins - Spread out on either side beneath the corresponding mai'giti | the fornix & its continuation, the corpus fimbriatum, into the body & d cending cornu of the corresponding lateral ventricle, resting, as do margins of the fornix, upon the optic thalami. These lateral margins thick, convoluted & fringe-like; they constitute the choi-oid plexuses of i lateral ventricles further described beli ' Posterior Margin oi; Base - Is turned backwards towards the transverse fissi It is continuous with the general pia mater ; it receives the anterior posterior choroid arteries and emits the venae Gait Anterior Bifid Extremity - Continuous through the foramina of Monro Avith anterior pointed extremities of the lateral margins above described choroid plexuses of the lateral ventric Choroid Plexuses of the Lateral Ventricles - Are nothing more than the thi ■ convoluted & frin<^e-like margins of the velum interpositum. When they - described separately, that is to say irrespectively of the velum interposit of which they are a portion, they may be said to penetrate into the desce ing cornua of the lateral ventricle through the lateral portions of transverse fissure. Hence they ascend into the body of the lateral ven cle along the side of the corpus fimbriatum, winding round the postei extremity of the optic thalamus. Then continuing along the side of foi-nix, they taper to a point, and passing through the corresponding fo men of Monro, they join with each other and with the anterior bifurca extremity of the central & thinner portion of the velum interpositi j Choroid Plexuses of the 3rd Ventricle - Arc two small vascular fringes wb l hang down from tlie under surface of the central portion of the vel !. interpositum into the cavity of the 3rd ventricle: they diverge sligl |i behi;! Choroid Plexuses of the 4th Ventricle - Are two similar fringes which proj jj into the 4th ventricle from the layer of pia mater which closes that ven; ii cle inferiorly; they pass upwards & outwards from near the point of infcrior vermiform pi'ocess to the outer margin of the restiform bo227 PHE THIRD VENTRICLE Is a narrow median fissure comprised between the optic thalami, and extending to the base of the brain. It presents : Roof - Foi'med by under surface of fornix and by velum interpositnmo Floor - Corresponds to interpeduncular space on under surface of cerebrum, and is formed from before backwards by the lamina cinerea, tuber cinereum & infundibulum, corpora albicantia and locus perforatus posticus. It is oblique downwards & forwards, and is covered by a thick layer of grey matter. It presents in the foetus the opening of the iter ad infundibulum. Lateral Walls - Formed by inner surface of optic thalami, which surface is bounded above by superior peduncles of pineal gland, and is covered below by part of the grey matter of the third ventricle prolonged upwards from its floor. - The lateral walls are joined together by the middle or soft commissure, a transverse band of grey matter continuous with the remainder of the gi ey matter of the 3rd ventricle. Ant. Extremity - Formed by anterior crura of fornix. In front of these is the anterior commissure, a transverse band of white fibres, which perforates laterally the corpora striata & spreads out into the substance of both hemispheres. - Between the crura & the optic thalami are the foramina of Monro, through which the lateral & 3rd ventricles communicate, and the anterior extremities of the velum interpositum pass from the 3rd into the lateral ventricles to form the choroid plexuses of the latter. Post. Extremity - Formed by posterior commissure, a transverse band of white fibres con- necting posteriorly the optic thalami. Below this is the opening of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculura, and above are the tubercula quadrigemina & the pineal gland. For nans above nientioncd see foregoing Tal)leis.228 STRUCTURE of the CEREBRUM —1st Tablet. WHITE FIBRES — Are peduncular & commissural. PEDUNCULAR OR DIVERGING FIBRES — Present for examination their origin their course & their termination | Their Origin. - They are derived from the five following sources, viz.: Criwa Ce}-ebj-i, Superior Peduncles of the CercheUiinii Tubcrc7ila Quadrigrmina, Corpora Genictdata Jntcrmun Externum, Corpora Striata <ff Optic Thalami. Fibres prom the Cruka Cerebri - The most numerous. They form two sets re spectively derived from the inferior or fasciculated portion of the crus, & frotii its Tipper portion or tet^mentum. The fibres from the inferior or fascic;ilatc( portion of the crus are the continuation of the fibres of the anterior pyramids | The fibres from the upper portion or tegmentum are the continuation of thi fasciculus teres & of the antoro-internal division of the olivary fasciculus a! fillet; the fasciculus teres being itself derived (Vide structure of the meso cephalon) on the one hand, from the middle set of fibres of the lateral trac of the medulla, and on the other hand, from the fasciculus gracilis or inne j set of fibi es of the posterior column of the cord \ Fibres fiioji the Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum - Arise, as it ha already been stated, in the laminae of the inferior vctmiform process and als in the interior of the corpus dentatum. These fibres join the upper part o tegmentum of the crus cerebri; On a plane posterior & superior to that of the two foregoing sets of fibre lie the fibres derived from th TuBERCULA QuADRiGEMiNA and from the CoRPOKA Geniculata INTERNUM & EXTERNUM. - The fibres derived from the Corpora Stiuata & Optic Thalami are added in these bodies to the fibres de . rived from the cru! Their Course - is through the corpora striata & optic thalami as follows: - Fibres of the Fasciculated Tortion of the Crus Cerebri -Perforate the corpn [ striatum forming the pecten or corona radiata of Keil, and dividing tL corpus striatum into intra- & extra-ventricular portion! Fibres or the Tegmentum & of the Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellus AND Fibres derived from the Tubercula Quadrigemina & the Corpor Geniculata - Perforate the optic thalami in a similar manner. Their Termination. --fn f-he cerebrum they radiate towards the convolutions, de cussating with the fibres of the corpus callosum, and forming a kind of holloa cone curved outwards & downwards COMMISSURAL FIBRES — Are of three kinds, transverse, antero-posterior, & gyral. Transverse - Form three sets as follows. Those belonging to the Corpus Callosum - Pass laterally into the substance of both hemispheres, an radiate towards the convolutions, decussating with the peduncular fibrei Anterior Commissure - Peiforate the corpora striata, and then bend backward for some distance in the substance of the hemisphere! Posterior Commissure - Perforate the optic thalami, and are similarly lost i the hemisphere!( Antero-Posterior - Form the following parts : TcBnia Sernicirciilaris, j Fornix with its Anterior &> Posterior Cntra, : Peduncles of the Pineal Gland, j| So-called ''Nerves " op Land si 7vith the Stria Longitudinales Laterales, & //|| longitudinal fibres on the under surface of the corpus callosum (Vide aij these parts in respective Tablets | Gyral-Vide grey matter of the cortical substance. - One set of these gyral fibre those of the gyrus fornicatus & of its continuation, the gyrus uncinatus, noa be placed among the antero-posterior commissural fibres; they form a almost complete circle extending round the corpus callosum from the fror to the back of the anterior perforated space ( Foville229 STRUCTURE of the CEREBRUM ~-2nd Tablet. GREY MATTER. Grey Matter of the Cortical Substance — The cortical substance eousists, not of grey or vesicular matter alone, but of vesicular matter and white fibre?, arranged in alternate strata four in number over the greater part of the cerebrum, six in number in the vicinity of the corpus cal- losum. Thus on a vertical section Ave find from Avithout inwards over the greater part of the cerebrum : - 1. A thin layer of white matter most marked over the under & inner surfaces of the hemispheres, especially over the internal temporo-sphenoidal convolutions. - 2. ^ relatively thick layer of grey matter. - 3. A thin layer ofzvhite jnatler. A thin layer of grey matter, which latter lies iu contact AA'ich the central white substance. In the vicinity of the corpus callo« sum an additional Avliite layer divides the superficial grey layer into two, making six layers altogether. The cells of the grey matter are of variable size, some of the smallest belonging, it is believed, not to the nervous substance, but to the connective tissue. They contain a nucleus, a nucleolus & granular material, give off can- date prolongations, and lie- in a granular matrix. Those of the innermost layer often contain a little pigmentary matter. There are also among them some free nuclei or nucleus-like bodies. The white fibres, though mainly collected into the two or three Nvhite layers above mentioned, also pervade to some extent the whole of the cortical f substance. They run parallel to the surface, intersecting each other in every direction, and being intersected in their turn by the radiating peduncular fibres. They connect, some of them adjoining, others more or less distant gyri, and may therefore be termed Vao gyral fibres ; but their precise mode of origin & termination, as Avell as that of the peduncular fibres, is still unknown. - One set of these gyral fibres, those of the gyrus fornicatus & of its continuation, the gyrus uncinatus, may be placed among the antero-posterior commissural fibres; they form an almost complete circle extending round the corpus callosum from the front to the back of the anterior perforated space (Foville). Grey Matter of the Base & Interior of the Brain - Forms a series of continuous deposits, some superficial,— lamina cinerea, tuber cinereum, grey matter of the anterior & posterior perforated spaces,— some deeply situated,— optic thalami, corpora geniculata, corpora striata, tubercula quadrigemina. The superficial deposits, and also the grey commissure & the i pineal gland, connect the deeper masses from one side of the cerebrum to tha other. - For the arrangement of the grey matter in each of these parts vide respective Tablets.230 GREY MATTER of the CEREBELLUM. (DR. GOWERS' NEW DESCRIPTION.) The description of the Grey Matter of the Cerebellum given by Dr. Govvers in the 8' edition of Quain's Anatomy differs fiom the hitherto received descriptions mainly in tv points, namely, the greater importance given to tbe nuclei or granules, and the better de cription of the large pellucid cells, c r cells of Purkinje. These cells form a separate distinct layer between the inner & outer parts of the grey matter, which grey matter m.' therefore be divided into three layers, as follows : - Middle Layer - Cells of Purkinje - These are large cells, varying from gijj to-jJi of an inch in diameter, most abundant towards the apices of the lamellae, main flask-shaped, and disposed perpendicularly to the surface. They present a lar^ oval nucleolated nucleus. They give off hvo sets of processes^ the innner ones, & the outer ones. The innerp-ocesu's are short, delicate, & non-ramified. They dip into the inm or granule layer, and are probably continuous with the axis-cylinders of fibres the white substance. The outer processes are larger, granular or finely striated, & ramified. Some their ramifications are connected with the angular corpuscles, or caudate ner cells of the outer layer. Most of them appear however to be lost near the surfa^ of the organ. Some are said to turn backwards and to end on the granule layc possibly by joining with the radiating fibres of the white substance. Outer Layer - is of a clear grey coloux'. It contains granule-like bodies of various siz( the smaller of which are connective tissue corpuscles connected with a network connective tissue fibres. Others, larger, are caudate nucleated cells connect( with the outer pi'ocesses of the cells of Purkinje. Some appear to be similar the granules of the inner, or granule layer. These bodies lie in the midst of numerous fibres, most of which pass outwan towards the surface of the organ. Some of these fibres are connective tissue fibre as above stated; and these are joined by a broad basis to the pia-matral covem Others are the outer processes of tiae cells of Purkinje. Near these cells of Pu kinje are a few nerve fibres, which run parallel to the sux-face. Inner^ or Granule Layer - is of a reddish grey colour. It presents dense groups granule-like bodies, embedded in a gelatinous matrix, and varying in diamet from ^-jioo^ to ^-^^j^ of an inch ; the larger granules being somewhat less dense scattered round the cells of Purkinje. The granule layer also presents a fine flexus of nerve fibres running betwee the granules, and a few caudate nucleated cells with which these fibres are probabl connected. A few granules are met with i»i the outer portions of the central whil substance. (Dr. Gower's description is partly based upon the invesbigations of Mr. H. O. Sankey of University College.)CRANIAL NERVES. NOTE - The Modern Views regarding the Deep Origins of the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, & 9th Cranial Nerves are given on page 213, with the description of the Grey Matter of the Medulla. - See also note on page 250.232 SECOND or OPTIC NERVE Presents for exainination the optic tract, the optic commissure & the optic nerve proper. OPTIC TRACT Beg ins in the anterior & posterior quadrigejninal bodies by two distinct bundles of fibres, which pass between the corpora geniculata internum et externum^ become respectively connected with and receive fibres from the latter, unite, and receive additional fibres from the optic tJialavms. Ii Winds obliquely forwards across under surface of crus cerebri, being flattened in shape and slightly attached to the crus by its anterior margin. Leaves the crus as a round bundle and becomes connected v>\ih. the lamina cinerea & ike tuber cinereum, from both of which it is said to receive additional fibres. Joins its fellow to form optic commissure. OPTIC COMMISSURE or CHIASMA Is formed as follows: A few of the outer fibres of each optic tract pass into the optic nerve of the sa^ sid The mass of the fibres decussate, and pass into the optic nerve of the opposite side. A few of the innermost fibres, termed the inter-cerebral fibres, pass back to the cere- brum, forming the posterior fibres of the commissure and the innermost fibres of the optic tract of the opposite side. A few similar fibres, termed the inter-retinal fibres, pass along the anterior border of the commissure fi'om one optic nerve to the other. OPTIC NERVE Through optic foramen, being surrounded by a tubular process of the dura mater, which, as the nerve enters the orbit, subdivides, and both continues the sheath of the optio nerve, and forms the periosteum of the orbit. Pierces sclerotic and choroid about one tenth of an inch to the isner side of the axis of the eye, and expands into the retina. - The arteria centralis retinae pierces the optic nerve, and runs forwards in its substance to the retina.233 FIRST or OLFACTORY NERVE Arises by three roots. THE THREE ROOTS - Are the : External or Long Root — Arises from the posterior border of the fissure of Sylvius^ and is said to bo traceable to the corpus striatum, the antei'ior commissure, the tha- lamus opticus & the Island of Reil. It passes forwards and inwards along the anterior margin of the locus perforatua anticua. Internal or Short Root — Arises from the posterior and inner part of the anterior lobe, and is said by Foville to be connected with the longitudinal fibres of the gyrus fornicatus or convolution of the corpus callosmn. It passes forwards & outAvards, and joins the foregoing root just above the origin of the middle or grey root. Middle or Grey Root — Begins in a pyramidal eminence, the caruncula mammilla- ris, of the grey matter of the posterior part of the antei ior lobe, and is continued upon the upper surface of the nerve with a few white fibres derived from the corpus striatum. The three roots coalesce and form a prismoid band, the OLFACTORY PROCESS, — which passes forwards in a deep sulcus along the side of lon- gitudinal fissure, and expands into the OLFACTORY BULB, — fvom the under surface of which are given off about twenty TERMINAL BRS., — which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the eth- moid, and — forming three sets distributed respectively over the roof of the nose, oyqv the tipper third of the septutn, and over the superior <^ middle turbinated bones — proceed between the fibrous & mucous layers of the Schneiderian membrane, ramify and uni- te and form a plexus with narrow elongated meshes, and probably terminate in the deep processes of the olfactory cells of Sclmltze. These latter colls are spindle-shaped nucleated bodies, which stand vertically in great numbers among the columnar epithelial cells of the olfactory region ; their extremities are continued into two thread-like processes, one of which terminates abruptly on a level with the free extremities of the epithelial eel's, while the other passes downwards towards the attached surface of the mucous membrane. The olfactory nerve contains a large proportion of the grey matter, and is soft a;id pulpy. Its filaments are deficient in the white substance of Schwann, and are granular and nucleated like the gelatinous nerve-fibres of Remak.234 NERVES of the ORBIT Are the: SECOND or OPTIC N. — "V'ide foregoing Tablet- THIRD N. or MOTOR OCULI Arises from inner border of crus cerebri immediately in front of pons Varolii. — Deep origin . is from locus niger & grey nucleus on floor of aqueduct of Sylvius below tubercula quadrigemina. Pierces dura mater on outer side of and a little behind, anterior clinoid process. 1 Through outer wall of cavernous sinus above 4th nerve & ophthalmic branch of 5th, being joined by filaments from caveimous plexus. Divides into superior & inferior branches, which pass through sphenoidal fissure between , the two heads of external rectus, i Superior Br. - The smallest. Inwards above optic nerve to levator palpebra ■ stiperioris & superior rectus. Inferior Br. - The largest. To internal inferior recti and inferior oblique. — i Short or Motor root of Lenticular Ganglion is derived from nerve to i inferior oblique. FOURTH N., TROCHLEARIS or PATHETICUS Arises from upper part of valve of Vieussens immediately behind the testis. — Deep origin is fx'om two grey nuclei situated on floor of aqueduct of Sylvius & on upper part of floor of 4th ventricle. Crosses processus e cerebello ad testes and winds round under surface of crus cerebri I immediately in front of pons Varolii. Pierces dura mater in free border of tentoriumcerebelli near posterior clinoid process. Through outer wall of cavernous sinus below 3rd nerve and above ophthalmic branch of the 5th, receiving filaments from ophthalmic branch & from carotid plexus: Through highest and broadest part of sphenoidal fissure. Inwards above levator palpebrsa superioris to orbital surface of superior oblique. OPHTHALMIC BR. of the FIFTH N. — Vide Fifth Nerve. ORBITAL BRS. of the SUP. MAXILLARY N. & of MECKEL'S G. - Vide Sup. Maxillary N, and Meckel's G. SIXTH N. or ABDUCENS Arises by several filaments from constricted part of corpus pyramidale close to pons Varolii i' or from louver border of pons itself. — Deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle. Pierces dura mater on basilar groove immediately below posterior clinoid process. Forwards on floor of cavernous sinus on outer side of internal carotid, artery, receiving filaments from carotid plexus, Meckel's ganglion & ophthalmic nerve. Through sphenoidal fissure beneath the other nerves & above ophthalmic vein, receiving filaments from sympathetic. Between the two heais of external rectus to ocular surface of that muscle.235 RELATIONS of the NERVES of the ORBIT in CAVERNOUS SINUS Third & Fourth Ns. & Ophthalmic br. of Fifth — Pass through outer wall of cavernous sinus in their numerical order both from above downwards and from within outwarda Sixth N. — Itiea on floor of cavernous sinus on outer side of internal carotid artery, on inner side of ophthalmic nerve. SPHENOIDAL FISSURE: Fourth N., Frontal & Lachrymal Divisions of Ophthalmic N. — Enter orbit above external rectus. The other Ns. — Pass between the two heads of external rectus in following order from above downwards; Superior division of^rd N., Nasal branch of Ophthal- mic, Lower division 0/ 3rd M, Sixth Nerve. ORBIT: Fourth N., Frontal & Lachrymal Divisions of Ophthalmic N.— Lie above the muscles immediately beneath periosteum The other Ns. — -A-re found in the following order from above downwards: Sup- erior division of 3rd N, Nasal branch of Ophthalmic crossing optic N., Optic N.^ having lenticular ganglion on its outer side, Inferior division of the 3rd N.y Sixth Ne>-ve.236 FIFTH NERVE Arises by two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, from side of pons Varolh nearer to upper than to loiver border. Its deep origin is said to be from lateral tract of medulla bcliind olivary body, from grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle between restiform body & fasciculi teretes, from tubercle of Rolando; its motor root appears to arise from external angle of floor of fourth ventricle (See pages 213 & 250). Through opening in dura mater near apex of petrous portion of temporal bone. Sensory root to Gasserian ganglion; motor root to inferior maxillary nerve outside cranium. Gasserian ganglion - Crescentic. Situated in a depression near apex of pe- trous portion of temporal bone, and receives filaments from carotid plex. Gives oS" imteriorly ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves, and laterally, small branches to tentorium cerebelli & dura mater of middle fossa, and one to 6th nerve in cavernous sinua, OPHTHALMIC NERVE — The smallest of the three divisions of the 5th pair. Through outer wall of cavernous sinus below 3rd & 4th nerves, being joined by filaments from cavernous plexus and frequently from 4th nerve, and giving off' recurrent branches to tentorium, Divides near sphenoidal fissure into lachrymal, frontal, nasal. LACHRYMAL N. - The smallest. Through outer & narrowest part of sphenoidal fissure, and along upper border of exter. nal rectus to lachrymal gland, conjunctiva & skin of upper eyelid. — Joins with orbital branch of superior maxillary nerve. FRONTAL N. — The largest. ^ Through highest & broadest part of sphenoidal fissure; Along middle line of orbit between levator palpebrae superioris & periosteum, and divi- des into: SUPRAORBITAL BR. — The largest. Through supraorbital foramen or notch, and ascends to corrugator supercilii, occipito-frontalis & orbicularis pal- pebrarum, and to periosteum & integument, the cutaneous branches, two in number, lying at first beneath the muscles. SUPRATROCHLEAR BR. — The smallest. Above pulley of superior oblique, and same distribution Joins with infratrochlear branch of nasal. NASAL N. — Intermediate in size between the two others. Between the two heads of external rectus, and forwards & inwards across optic nerve. Through anterior ethmoidal foramen, and through groove on cribriform plate & slit by crista galli to nose, where divides into Internal Br. — To mucous membrane of fore part of septum; External Br. — In groove on inner surface of nasal bone, between that bone & lateral cartilage, and downwards to tip of nose beneath compressor nasi supplying mucous membrane & integument. Gives off": GANGLIONIC BR. — Long & slender; to posterior superior angle of ciliary ganglion, forming its long or sensory root. LONG CILIARY NS. — Two or three; join ciliary nerves from ciliary gang- lion. (Vide Ciliary Ganglion). INFRATROCHLEAR BR. — Beneath pulley of superior oblique, where joins with supratrochlear branch of frontal, to orbicularis, lachrymal sac, carun- cula, conjunctiva & skin of eyelids.237 CILIARY, OPHTHALMIC or LENTICULAR GANGLION. Eeddisli grey quadrangular body of the size of a pin's head sih;ated at back of orbit on outer side of optic nerve. — Presents: THREE ROOTS: Sensory, or Long & Slender Root — From naml hi-anch of ophthalmic to post. erior supei'ior angle of ganglion; is accompanied by the sympathetic root, which is sometimes blended with it. Motor, or Short & Thick Root — From branch of Srd nerve to inferior oblique to posterior inferior angle; is occasionally divided into two parts. Sympathetic Root—Long & slender filament from cavei-nous plexus; accom- panics sensory root, with which it is sometimes blended. BRS. OP DISTRIBUTION: Ciliary Ns. — Ten or twelve from anterior angles of ganglion, forming a small superior & a large inferior bundle j Forwards above & below optic nerve with ciliary branches of nasal j Through back part of sclerotic, and in grooves on its inner surface to ciliary muscle, cornea & iris.238 SUPEBIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Intermediato in size between ophthalmic & inferior maxillary nerves. - Commences at middle of Gasserian ganglion Throngh foramen rotundum, spheno-maxillary fossa & infraorbital canal to infraorbital foramen, and divides beneath levator labii superioris into palpebral^ nasal 6^ labial branches^ which branches anastomose with facial nerve forming infraorbital plexus and supply muscles, skin & mucous membrane. BRANCHES: Orbital or Temporo-malar Br. - into orbit through spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into; Temporal Br. - In groove & through foramen in malar bone, joining with laclirymal; Pierces temporal muscle & fascia to skin of temple, and joins with facial & auriculo-temporal. Malar Br. - Through foramen in malar bone to skin of prominent part of] cheek. Spheno-palatine Brs. - Two. To Meckel's ganglion, of which they form tho sensory root. Post. Dental Brs. - Two: Anterior or Superficial - Over maxillary tuberosity to gums & buccinator. Posterior or Deep - Forwards in outer wall of Antrum^ joining anterior dental nerve, and supplies molar & second bicuspid teeth & mucous, membrane of Antrum. Ant. Dental Br. - Arises just before exit of superior maxillary nerve from infra- orbital canal. Downwards & forwards in anterior wall of Antrum joining with posterior dental nerve, and supplies incisor, canine & first bicuspid teeth and mucous membrane of inferior meatus. A twig joins superior nasal branch of Meckel's ganglion above eye-tooth, and presents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Bochdalek,239 SPHENO-PALATINE or MECKEL'S GANGLION. Triangular, of a reddish g"rey colour and situated in spheno-maxillary fossa near spheno- palatine foramen, mainly behind spheno-palatine branches of superior maxillary nerve, the fibres of these branches not being, or being but partly, involved in the ganglion as they descend to the nose & palate. Presents : THREE ROOTS: Sensory Root — From superior maxillary nerve through its two spheno- palatine branches. Motor Root — From facial nerve through Vidian nerve. Sympatlietic Root — From carotid plexus also through Vidian nerve. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION - Are divided into: Ascending Brs. — Two or three small filaments, which pass up through spheno. maxillary fissure to periosteum of oi'bit. Descending Brs. — Are the: ANT. OR GREAT PALATINE N. - Through great posterior palatine canal, giving ofli" inferior nasal branches to middle meatus & to middle & inferior turbinated bones, and a twig to soft palate ; Forwards in groove on hard palate, and joins termination of naso-palatine nerve. EXT. PALATINE N. - Through external palatine canal to tonsil & soft palate. Is sometimes wanting. POST. OR SMALL PALATINE N. - Through small posterior palatine canal to tonsil, soft palate and levator palati & azygos uvulae. Internal Brs. — Are the: SUP. NASAL BR. - Small. Through spheno-palatine foramen to mucous mem- brane of superior & middle spongy bones & upper & back part of septum. A twig joins anterior dental nerve in outer wall of antrum of Highmore above eye-tooth & pi-esents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Bochdalek. NASO-PALATINE BR, - Through spheno-palatine foramen & across roof of nose to seiTtum, and downwards to anterior palatine foramen. Through central division of the anterior palatine foramen, or foramen of Scarpa, right nerve being posterior to left one. Joins its fellow in common anterior palatine canal and ends in mu- cous membrane of hard palate, joining with anterior or great palatine nerve. Posterior Brs. — Are the : VIDIAN N. - Backwards through Vidian canal (if the nerve be traced from Meckel's ganglion), giving twigs to back of roof & septum of nose and to termination of Eustachian tube, and divides into : Large Petrosal N. - Through cartilaginous substance of foramen lace- rum medium, and then in groove on anterior surface of petrous portion of temporal bone beneath Gasseriau ganglion & through hiatus Fallopii to geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangli- forniia of facial. Carotid Br. - Soft and of reddish grey colour. Through cartilaginoun substance to carotid plexus on outer side of internal carotid artery, PHARYNGEAL or PTERYGO-PALATINE N. - Small. Through pterygo- palatine canal to mucous membrane of upper part of pharynx.240 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The largest of the three divisions. Both sensory & motor, its two roots uniting imixieaiateij! after their exit from foramen ovale. I Divides a few lines below base of skull into: t ANTERIOR or SMALLER DIVISION — Piincipally motor. Divides into : Masseteric Br. - Outwards above external pterygoid muscle and through sigmoid notch to masseter. Gives off a twig to teniporo-maxillary articulation & some- times one to temporal muscle. Deep Temporajl Brs. - Two, anterior & posterior. Outwards above external ptery. goid^muscle and reflected upwards at pterygoid ridge to temporal muscle. Are sometimes joined, anterior one with buccal nerve, posterior one with masseteric. Buccal Br. - Pierces external pterygoid, and forwards on buccinator, giving filaments to temporal muscle, integument & mucous membrane. Pterygoid Brs. - Two, to internal & external pterygoid muscles. Branch to internal pterygoid gives off motor root to otic ganglion. Branch to external pterygoid is frequently derived from buccal.' POSTERIOR or LARGER DIVISION — Sensory with a few motor fibres. Divides into: Auriculo-temporal N. - Has generally two roots which embrace middle meningeal' artery. Backwards beneath external pterygoid & neck of condyle; Upwards with temporal artery between condyle & external ear under cover of' parotid gland, and divides into: Auricular Brs. - Inferior & superior, to outer surface of pinna, join. ing with great auricular. Temporal Bks. - Anterior & posterior; with brarches of temporal 1 artery to skin of temporal region & vertex.; Joins facial nerve behind neck of condyle u-ually by two branches; gives i off sensory root of otic ganglion and filaments to parotid gland & I temporo-maxillary articulation, i Gustatory or Lingual N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where it lies on inner side & in front of inferior dental nerve, and is joined by chorda tympanij Above deep portion of submaxillary gland & along side of tongue, crossing Whar- ton's duct. Supplies mucous membrane of mouth & gums, submucous glands, conical & fun- I giform papillge and mucous membrane of tongue, i Gives sensory branches to submaxillary ganglion, and anastomoses with hypo- glossal nerve on anterior margin of hyo-glossus & near tip of tongue. Inf. Dental N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where lies behind & on outer side of gustatory; Between ramus & internal lateral ligament of temporo-maxillary articulation to dental foramen, where gives off nerve to mylo-hyoid muscle. Along inferior dental canal, giving branches to molar & bicuspil teeth, & divi- i des at mental foramen into: Incisor Br. - Onwards in dental canal to canine & incisor teeth. Mental Br. — Divides beneath depressor anguli oris into numerous branches to muscles, skin & mucous membrane of lower lip. NERVE TO MYLO-HYOID - Along groove on inner surface of ramus to under surface of mylo-hyoid & anterior belly of digastric N. — All the terminal branches of the 5th nerve upon the face. join with facial nerve. i i241 OTIC GANGLION Small oval shaped flattened body of a reddish grey colour situated on inner surface of inferior maxillary nerve & around origin of its internal pterygoid branch, just below foramen ovale, close to tensor tympani muscle & cartilaginous portion of Eusta- chian tube which lie on its inner side, and to middle meningeal artery which lies behind. It presents: THREE ROOTS: Sensory Root - From auriculo-temporal nerve, and also from glosso. pharyngeal through small petrosal nerve. Motor Root - From inferior maxillary nerve & its internal pterygoid branch; also from facial nerve through small petrosal. Sympathetic Root - From plexus on middle meningeal artery. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION — Small branches to tensor palati & tensor tympani. SUBMAXILLABY GANGLION Reddish grey circular body about the size of a pin's head situated between gustatory nerve & deep portion of submaxillary gland. It presents: THREE ROOTS: Sensory Root - From gustatory nerve by several small filaments. - ■ Motor Root - From facial nerve through chorda tympani. Sympathetic Root - From plexus around facial artery. BRSi OF DISTRIBUTION — Five or six to mucous membrane cf !rY)uth, Wharton's duct & submaxillary gland.242 FACIAL N. or PORTIO DUBA of the 7th PAIR. Arises from upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove between olivary & restifon bodies. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle & ivovsx nucleu of motor root of 5th nerve, and also, by its accessory portion or portio intermedia c Wrisberg, from lateral column of core Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter an( portio intermedia of Wrisberg lying between the twc Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: Cz^^w^^r^/j'- between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where present geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangliformi^ Backxvards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downwards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behini ramus of jaw into temporo-facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anserinus Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION - Are: In Meatus Anditorius Internus: One or two filaments to Auditory N, In Aqueductus Fallopii: Large Petrosal N.-to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levatorpalati ^ azygos uvulct \ Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati 6^ tensor tytnpanh Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise froi posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterio belly of digastrici Auriculo-temporal - From temporo-facial branch. Great Auricular - From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches, On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N. BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Are: In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; i CIIOllDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & "base of pyramidl Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of Glaserian fissure j Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles j To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior.' After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAR N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens aurer & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricn laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastric BRS. to STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY op DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, an;l join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngea' On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, am divides into te}?iporal, malar &^ inf raorbital branche CERVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divide into bzucaly siipram axillary 6^ inframaxillary branch These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles ( expression of the face & the platysma, and anastomose with tb ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves and with th* --- -- great auricula;I243 HUDITORY N. or POETIO MOLLIS of the 7th PAIR. Arises from the floor of the ventricle^ its fibres of origin forming the linece transversa. Outwards behin'd the restiform body and forwards below the lower border of the pons^ re- ceiving filaments from the former and perhaps also from the latter. Is also said by I Foville to bo connected with the flocmlus and with the grey matter of the cerebelhun. Enters the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, which lies in a groove upon its surface, the portio intermedia of Wrisberg lying between the two. The two nerves aro • connected within the meatus by one or two filaments. Divides into two branches, the vestibular & the cochlear nerves. VESTIBULAR NERVE jl Divides into three branches, the subdivisions of which pass through the small openings at the upper & back part of the cul-de-sac at the bottom of tae interaal tory meatus, and are distributed to the utricule, the saccule & the ampullae opposite the masses of otoconia. COCHLEAR NERVE 1' Divides into numerous filaments, which pass through the small openings at the base of I the modiolus, and through the minute canals in its axis. These filaments bend outwards between the plates of the osseous zone of the lamina spiralis, forming j a plexus in which ganglion-cells are found; branches from this plexus perforate the lower edge of the osseous zone, forming radiating bundles ccanprisied partly within the osseous and partly within the membranous zone. The terminal fila- ments are believed to be connected with the spindle-shaped cells of the organ of Corti. (Vide Minute structures of the Cochlea), Note - From recent statements by Mr. Lockhart Clarke, the auditory " nerve would appear to have another set of fibres in addition to those above described. These fibres would arise from the recently discovered External Auditory Nucleus (V. notes on pages 213& 216) Y and they would pass outwards throicgh the substance of the restiform body to join externally to that body with the bundle of fibres V hitherto recognised.244 GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. The smallest of the three divisions of the 8fch pair. Arises from lateral tract of medulla oblongata abovepneujnogastric. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle, jj Through anterior & inner part of jugular foramen in front of pneumogastric & spinal accessory and in a separate sheath, grooving lower border of petrous portion of temporal hone and presenting two ganglia! Sup. or Jugular G. or G. of the Root — Small, and involves only the outer fibresj Inf. of Petrous G. or G. of Andersch — Larger, and involves whole of fibres. Gives oflffrom petrous ganglion: Tympanic branch or JacobsofUs nerve^ described below; Anastomotic br. to ganglion of the root dr^ to auricular br, of the pneumogastiic J and from a little below the ganglion: Anastomotic br. to facial nerve. — This branch pierces post, belly of digastrio, Downwards & forwards in front of pneumogastric & between int. carotid & int. jugular rein. Beneath styloid process & muscles connected with it to lower border of stylo-pharyngeus, Curves inwards upon stylo-pharyngeus & middle constrictor. Beneath hyo-glossus to mucous membrane of fauces & base of tongne. BRANCHES: Tympanic Br. or JaCObSOn's N. — Arises from petrous ganglion. Ascends through small canal in petrous bone to tympanum, where divides into i|l i Bks. op Communication — To carotid plexus and great ^ small petromll \ branches of fackL ^ \ Brs. or Distribution — To fenestra rotunday fenestra ovalis 6^ mucous brane of Eustachian tube.' Carotid Brs, —Descend on internal carotid artery, and join pharyngeal bra. of , pneumogastric, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic. || Pharyngeal Brs. — Three or four,* form pharyngeal plexus by joining opposite |j middle constrictor with pharyngeal brs. of pneumogastric, sup. laryngeal & i sympathetic. Muscular Brs. — To stylo-pharyngeus ^ constrictors of pharynx. )i ij Tonsillar Brs. — To tonsil, forming tonsillar plexus, branches of which are distri- buted to soft palate & fauces. Lingual Brs. — To mucous membrane of base & side of tongue.245 PNEUMOGASTEIO NERVE A rises from latoal tract of medulla oblongata below glcsso-pharyngeal ^ above spinal accessory, — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of fourth ventricle. Through jugular foramen behind glosso-pharyngeal & in same sheath as spinal accessory. Presents two ganglia, one in and one below jugular foramen: Sup. or Jugular G. or G. of the Eoot — Small, greyish, rounded. Anastom. with facial^ glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory sympathetic, [nf. G. or G. of the Truxk — Reddish, cylindrical, nearly an inch in length. Anastom. witli hypoglossal, spinal accessory, syjnpatJutic, loop beizveen two first cervical lunes^ Descends behind & between int. & comm. carotid arteries & int. jugular v. and in same sheath j Then, On Eight Side : Between subclavian art. & v. and along side of trachea to back of root of lung, where spreads out into posterior pulmonary plexus. Along side of oesophagus in the shape of two or more separate cords, which form oesophageal plexus with nerve of opposite side. As a single cord along back of oesophagus to posterior surface of stomach, and joins solar & splenic plexuses. On Left Side : Between and in front of left comm. carotid & left subclavian arteries behind left; innominate vein. Across arch of aorta to back of root of lung, where similarly spreads out and joins with its fellow. Along side of oesophagus as above. As a single cord along front of oesophagus to anterior surface of stomach, and joins left hepatic plexus. BRANCHES Auricular Br. — Arises from g. of the root, and joins with glosso-pharyngeal. Across jugular fossa «&; through opening in temporal bone near styloid process j Between mastoid process & ext. audit, meatus to integument of back of pinna. Gives off: Ascending Br., which joins trunk of facial in aqueductus Fallopiij Descending Br., which joins aru-icular branch of facial. Pliaryngeal Br. — Arises from upper part of ganglion of the trunk; Crosses internal carotid art. either in front or behind ; Anast. with glosso-pharyngeal, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic, and forms pha- ryngeal plexus to muscles & mucous membrane of pharynx. Sup. Laryngeal N. — Arises from middle of ganglion of the trunk. Descends by side of pharynx behind int. carotid artery, and divides into; EXT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Joins with pharyngeal plexus & sup. car- diac nerve, and supplies ci-ico-thvi'oid & inf. constrictor. INT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Pierces thyro-hyoid membrane to aryte- noid muscle and mucous membrane of larynx, base of tongue & aryteno-epiglottidean folds. ReCUrr. Laryngeal N. — Ar, in front of, and passes below & behind, subclav. art. on right side, arch of aorta, on left, giving twigs to deep cardiac plexus; Behind comm. carotid & inf. thyroid arteries, and in groove between trachea & oesophagus. Beneath inf. constrictor to all the muscles of the larynx except crico-thyroid. Gives brs. to inf. constrictor, and anastomoses with ext. laryngeal. Cardiac Brs. — Divided into: Cervical Cardiac )-rr.-I xt /.at. tt j. Thoracic Cardiac ^^^^^^ Pulmonary Brs. — Divided into Anterior and Posterior, and form the ant. & post. pulmonary plexuses. (Tide nerves of the lung.) Esophageal Brs. — Arise, some above, but most of them below, the pulmonaw. Gastric Brs. — Right pneumogastric supplies post, aspect of stomach and joins so. lar & splenic plexuses; left pueumog. supplies ant. aspect, and joins left hepatic plexus.2IG SPINAL ACCES.30KY NERVE Consists of two portions, the portion accessory to the pnenmogastric & the spinal portion PORTION ACCESSORY to the PNEUMOGASTRIC - The smaller. Arises from lateral tract of medulla oblongata bdozo pneumo^astric. — Deep origin fro grey nuclcns on lower part of floor of 4th ventric Joins ganglion of root of pneumogastric in jugular foramen by two or three filamen and is entirely added to the pneumogastric below the ga glion of the tnir Assists in forming pharyngeal^ superior inferior laryngeal brs. of pneumogastric. SPINAL PORTION — The larger. Arises from lateral column of cord as low as hth or Qth cervical n. — Deep origin fn anterior horn of grey matt Ascends between ligamcntum denticulatum & posterior roots of the spinal ns., a enters skull through foramen magnu Passes out through jugular foramen in same sheath as, and on outer side of, pneuir gastric n. and behind glossO'pharyngeal, joining with acci sory portit Backwards behind hypoglossal & pneumogastric, beneath and then behind inten jugular vein and digastric & stylo-hyoid muscles to npj part of sterno-masto Pierces deep fibres of sterno-mastoid, giving branches to it and joining in its 8i 'stance with 8rd cervical ner iCrosses posterior triangles of the neck, joining with 2nd, 3rd, 4th «& 5th cervical i and is distributed to under anrface of trapczir 247 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE Arises by ten or twelve filaments from groove between anterior pyramid 6^ olivary body in a line continuous with that of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. These filaments form two bundles which perforate dura mater separately, and pass together through anterior condyloid foramen. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on lower part of floor of 4th ventricle. Passes downwards and forwards between pneumogastric & spinal accessory ns., with former of which it is intimately connected, and between int. jugular vein & int. carotid. Loops round occipital artery and passes forwards across external carotid below post, belly of digastric. beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid and crosses hyo-glossus, near ant. border of which it anastomoses with gustatory, beneath mylo-hyoid to muscles & substance of the tongue. BRS. OF COMMUNICATION - Join with: G. of the trunk of the pneumogastric; Sup. cervical g. of the sympathetic j \ Arise near base of sknlL Loop between the two first cervical ns. J ' Gustatory n. — Arises near ant. border of hyo-glossuB. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION - Are the: Descendens Noni — Long & slender. Arises just beneath occipital artery. Passes downwards & forwards across sheath of carotid vessels. ( Sometimes within the sheath, either over or beneath int. jugular vein). Near middle of neck forms a loop with Communicans Noni, from convexity of which loop, brs. are given off to sterno-hyoid & -thyroid and omo-hyoid. This br. is believed to derive its real origin principally from the 1st &2nd cervical ns., and to have little more than an apparent origin from the hypoglossal, due to a temporary adhesion of its fibres to those of that nerve. Sometimes, owing to similar 5^ i adhesions, it appears to arise from the pneumogastric either ^ ' - • wholly or in part. }■ V ■ * ^rs. to Thyro-hyoid & Genio-hyoid — A^risc on surface of hyo-giossus. ^ Brs. to Stylo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyo-glossus & subs- tance of the tongue. — Arise beneath mylo-hyoid.248 TABLEAU of the CRANIAL NERVES. First or Olfactory - Arises by three roots \ ^ ^ ^ . ^ _ ^1 Ext. or Long Root - From posterior border of fissure of Sylvius. . - Jnt. or Short Root - From posterior & inner part of anterior lobe. Middle or Grey Root - From caruncula mammillaris. - Presents olfactory process, olfactory bulb, terminal branches. Second or Optic - From anterior &>posterior quadrigeniinal and internal &^ external geniculate bodies J and optic thalamus. - Presents optic tract, optic commissure or chiasma, & optic nerve proper. Third or Motor Oculi-From inner border of crus cerebri just in front of Pons Varolii,- Supplies all the muscles of the orbit except superior oblique & external rectus, and gives off motor root to lenticular ganglion. Fourth, Trochlearis or PatheticUS - From upper part of valve of Vieussens. - Supplies superior oblique. Fifth, Trigeminal or Trifacial-Vide next Tableau* Sixth or AbducenS - From constricted part of corpus pyramidale close to pons Varolii or from lower border of ports itself. - Supplies external rectus* Facial or Portio dura of the 7th - From upper part of lateral tract of medulla Oblongata Itl groove between olivai-y & restiform bodies* Anastomoses - With atiditory, glosso-pharyngeal, piteumogastric, auriculo-temporal,great aurictdar; - also large, small, & external petrosal nerves join Meckel's d» Arnold's ganglia 6^ sympathetic^ Branches - Large, small, ^ external petrosal, tympanic, chorda tympanic posterior aurictdari muscular (to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric), temporo^ dr* cei-vico-faciaU Auditory or Portio Mollis of the 7th -■ From foor of 4<th ventricle, its fibres of origin forming the liiiece transversce, and also from the restiform body & perhaps from pons "Varolii. - Divides into vestibular & cochlear nerves. GlOSSO'pharyngeal - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata above pneumogastric. Presents two ganglia in anterior or inner part of jugular foramen, the superior or jugular, and the inferior or petrous. Anastomoses - "With pneumogastric & facial, and through Jacobson's nerve with carotid plexus and great small petrosal neives. Branches - Tympanic^ ca7'otid,pharyngeal, muscular (to stylo-pharyngeus & constric- tors), tonsillar, lingual. Pneumogastric - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata below glosso-pharyngeal ^ above spinal accessory. - Presents two ganglia,- superior or jugular, small, rounded, situated in jugular foramen,- inferior or petrosal, large, cylindrical, situated below the foramen. Anastomoses - "With facial, the two other branches of the Sth, hypoglossal, sympathetic, loop between the two first cervical nerves. BLANCHES Auricular,pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, inferior or recurrent laryngeal, cardiac, pubjionary, oesophageal gastric* Spinal Accessory - ACCESSORY PORTION - J'rom lateral tract of medulla oblongata below pneumogastric. Joins ptieilmogastric, and assists in forming the pharyngeal, superior & ,^ inferior laryngeal branches of the latter. ^ SPINAL PORTION - From lateral column of the cord as low as Bth or 6th cervical nei'ves.'* Enters skull through foramen magnumj leaves it through jugular fora* men in same sheath as pneumogastric, and supplies under surface of trapezius. Hypoglossal - Froni groove between anterior pyramid & olivary body by teti or twelve filaments, which form two bundles. Leaves skull through anterior condyloid foramen. Anastomoses ^ Witk pmcumogastric, sympathetic, two first cervical nerves & gustatory. Branches <^ Descendens noni, muscular (to thyro- & genio-hyoid), lingual (to stylo* •Jglossus, hyo-gloseus, genio.iiYo.glossus eabetange of the tongue},249 TABLEAtr of the FIFTH NERVE. From side of pons Varolii by two roots, anta'ior small or motorj posterior large or sensory. Sensory root to Gasserian GanglioD, motor root to inferior maxillary nerve outside cranium. Gasserian Ganglion gives offj OPHTHALMIC — The smallest. Through outer wall of cavernotis sinus below & externally to the other nerves, and divides into: Lachrymal - The smallest of the three divisions of ophthalmic. Frontal - The largest. Nasal - Intermediate in size. Gives off branches: ganglionic^ long ciliary, in* fratrochkar. Ophthalmic; Ciliary or Lenticular Ganglion. Three Boots - Sensory, from nasal branch of ophthalmic* Motor, from branch of ^rd no-ve to inferior oblique* Sympathetic, from cavernous plexus. Branches - The ciliary nerves. SUPEEIOR MAXILARY — intermediate in size between ophthalmic & infer- ior maxillary. Through foramen rotundum, spheno-maxillary fossa, & infraorbital canal to infraorbital foramen, where divides into palpebral, nasal, labial. Gives off branches: orbital or temporo-malar^ spheno-palatine,posterior & anterior dental, Spheno-palatine or Meckel's Ganglion. Three Roots - Sensory, from superior maxillary. Motor, from facial through vidian. Sympathetic, from carotid plexus also through vidian. Branches : Ascending - Small filaments to periosteum of orbit. Descending - Anterior or great palatine^ external palatine, posierior or small palatine. Internal - Stcperior nasal, naso-palatine. Posterior - Vidian, pterygo-palatine. INFERIOR MAXILLARY — The largest, both sensory & motor. Divides just below base of skull into: Anterior or Smaller Division - Principally motor. Divides into branches: masseteric, two.deep temporal, buccal, two pterygoid. Posterior or Larger Division - Sensory with a few motor fibres. Divides into aurictdo-ti^mporal, gustatory, inferior dental, the latter giving off the mylo-hyoid branch. Otic or Arnold's Ganglion. Three Eoots - Sensory, from auriculo-temporal, and also from glosso' < pharyngeal through small petrosal. Motor, from inferior maxillary & its internal pterygoid branch, also from facial through small petrosal. Sympathetic, from plexus on middle meningeal artery. Branches - To tensor palati & tensor tympani* Submaxillary Ganglion. Three Roots - Sensory, from gustatory* Motor, from facial through chorda tympani. Sympathetic, from plexus on facial artery. Branches - To mucous membrane of mouth, Wharton's duct, & submax- illary gland, i250 NOTES on the DEEP ORIGINS. The 2nd Nerve appears to derive deep origins, not from both Tabercula Quadrigemina, but fr the anterior one only. >. The points of origin of the %rd ^th Nerves on the floor oE the Aqueduct of Sylvius are so closely connected, that a nnckzcs co'iiimon to both nerves is sometimes described. - h. similar remark may be made respecting the origins of the Qth 6^ facial Nerves on the upper part of the floor of the Fourth Ventricle. A few of the fibres of the 2,rd nerve are said to run downwards with the longitudinal fibres (A the mesocephalon. ■ The 4//z Nerve^ in addition to the fibres arising from the two nuclei described in the text (the Olid on floor of Aqueduct of Sylvius & the one on upper part of floor of Fourth Ventricle), has some fibres which decussate with their fellows in the middle line of the valve of Vieussens. The two roots ofthe ^th Nerve appear to arise mainly from two tiuclei near the outer angle of the floor oftlu 4:ih ventricle. If traced from the nerve, the sensory fibres are seen to turn outwards, and to end ina nucleua which is continuous below with the Grey Tubercle of Rolando; while the motor fibres are seen to turn inwards, and to end in a group of large cells on the inner side of the foregoing nucleus. - A few of thel sensory fibres appear, however, to run, some of them inwards towards the middle line, some down* wards towards the lower part of the meddulla (Lockhart Clarke). v. Some of the fibres of the Facial Nerve decussate with their fellows in the middle line of the floof of the Fourth Ventricle. Respecting the Auditory Nerve, see note on page 243, See also Note on page 213,SPINAL NERVES.252 THE SPINAL NERVES, I'hirly.one pairs, - 8 cervical, 12 dorsal, 5 lambar, 5 sacral, 1 coccypreal, - tlie first or sub- occipital nerve being counted as a cervical nerve, and each of the other nerves bein^ named in correspondence with the vertebra beneath which it emergeSk. They arise by two roots, anterior or motor, & posterior or sensory. ANTERIOR ROOTS — The smaller, except in the case of the 1st cervical nerve. They arise from the so-called antero-lateral fissure. of the cord, a somewhat irregular lirear series of foramina gradually approaching the antero-median fi?sure infer- iorly. Their fibres are collected into two bundles belbre they pierce the dura nri ater. POSTERIOR ROOTS — The larger, except in the case of the 1st cervical nerve, but their fibres are more delicate than those of the anterior roots. They arise from the postero.lateral fissure, coalesce into two bundle^, receive a sheath from- the dura mater, and enter the corresponding ganglion. Ganglia on the Posterior Roots — Oral, of a reddish grey colour, proportionate in size to the root upon which thoy lie, and generally situated in the inter, vertebral foramina just externally to the point where the anterior & posterior roots perforate the dura mater. The two first and the sacral & coccygeal ganglia must however be excepted: - the two first ganglia lie upon the posterior arch of the atlas & the laminae of the axis respectivelyi the sacral & coccygeal ganglia lie in the sacral canal, the coccygeal ganglion being situated about the middle of its root. Internally these ganglia receive the two bundles of the posterior root, and are sometimes bilobate j immediately beyond them, the anterior & posterior roots coalesce to form the trunk of the corresponding spinal nerve. - The 1st ganglion is sometimes wanting, and, when present, is sometimes situated within the dura mater. The roots of the 1st cervical nerve are small, short, horizontally directed or slightly ascending, and the anterior one is the larger of the two. The roots of the following cervical nerves, and of the 1st dorsal, increaaa in size, length & obliquity; and the posterior ones are considerably larger than the anterior ones. The roots of the other dorsal nerves are small & nearly uniform in size, and the posterior ones are but a little larger than the anterior ones. The roots of the lumbar & upper sacral nerves, again increase from above downwards, and the latter are the largest of all. Oa the contrary the roots of the lower sacral nerves diraiaish rapidly, and those of the last sacral nerve & of the coccygeal nerve are the smallest of all; the posterior roots of these lumbar, sacral & coccygeal nerves are also but a little larger than the anterior ones. The length and the inclinatioa of the roots of the nerves increase from the first to the last. The roots of the upper cervical nerves are, as those of the first nerve, short and nearly horizontal, for their point of exit from the spinal canal is nearly opposite their point of origin from the cord. The roots of the following nerves become larger and more oblique j - The intra-spinal course of the roots of the lower cervical nerves is measured by about the breadth of one vertebra, and that of the roots of the lower dorsal nerves by about the breadth of two vertebrae. The cord not descending lower than the first lumbar vertebra, the length of the roots of the lumbar, sacral, & coccygeal nerves increases from nerve to nerve by the breadth of one vertebra. . p The trunk of each spinal nerve separates immediately into anterior & posterior primary divisions (Yide three following Tablets). - For the minute anatomy of the roots of the nerves Vide Structure of the Spinal Cord, 2nd Tablet.253 POSTERIOR DIVISIONS of the SPINAL NERVES. Smaller than the anterior, the two first excepted POSTERIOR DIVISION OP First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Larger than anterior. Enargea between occipital bone & posterior arch of atlas just behind vertebral artery, enters triangle form3d by small poster- ior cranio-vertebral muscles, supplies these muscles & complesus, and joins with posterior divisioa of 2nd cervical nerve. Sometimes gives off a small cutaneous branch, which branch when it exists, aocompanies occipital artery to integument of lower & back part of occiput, and I'oins with great & small occipital. Second Cervical Nerve - Three or four times as large as anterior division, and the largest of the posterior cervical nerves. Emerges between posterior arch of atlas & lamina of axis, sup'p'ies infer- ior oblique, and after joining with posterior division of Ist & 3rd cervical nerves, divides into : ExTEKNAL Branch - Similar to external branches of six lower posterior corvical nerves, bat soniewhafc larger, joins with corresponding branch of 3rd posterior corvical nerve, and supplies the sama muscles, & also the complexus. Internal Branch (Great Occipital Nerve) - Crosses triangle formed by posterior cranio-vertebral' muscles, pierces complexas & trapezius, joins with small occipital & with ascending twig from internal branch of posterior division of 3rd, and supplies integumeat of back of head as°far as vertex; gives off an auricular branch to bac'c of ear. Six Lower Cervical Nerves - Smaller than the anterior, and diminish in size from above down- wards. Pass backwards and divide into: - External Branches - Small; supply spleniu', cervicalis ascendens, transversalis colli & trachelo-mastoid. Internal Branches - T/iree lower. Small; pass inwards beneath semispinalis colli, which they supply, and are lost in the interspinales, mult.fidus spinee, & complexu?: twigs to the integu- ment near the spine are however described by Cruveilhier, Sippey, & Hirschfaldt. - The ^rd, 4th, cr* j^/z. Much larger, pass inwards between semispinalis & complexu-s, which they supply, pierce splenius & trapezius close to spine, and curve outwards to supply integu- ment over trapezias. - Internal branch of 3rd nerve gives off beneath trapezius a small twig, which ascends on inner side of great occipital nerve, and pierces trapezius to supply integu- ment of lower part of occiput; this twig is sometimes called the 3.*d occipital nerve. The name of "posterior cervical plexus" (Cruveilhier), is sometimes applied to the com- munications between the three first cervical nerves beneath the complexus. IDorsal Nerves - Smaller than the anterior, and all pretty nearly of the same size. Pass backwards be- tween transverse processes, and divide into: - External Branches - Six upper. Small; pass backwards & outwards to interval between longis- eimus dorsi, transversalis colli & trachelo-mastoid on the one hand and the ilio-costalis & its accessory muscles on the other, and supply these muscles & levatores costarum. - Six lower. Larger J supply foregoing muscles, pierce serratus posticus inferior & latissimus dorsi in a line with angles of ribs, and bending outwards supply integument of back. Internal Branches - Six upper. Large; pass inwards between semispinalis dorsi & multifidas spinsB, which tbey supply; pierce serratus posticus superior, rhomboidei & trapezius close to spine, and bead outwards to integument of back. - The six lower ones are smaller, and end in. foregoing muscles without giving off any cutaneous filaments. XiUmbar Nerves - Diminish in size from above downwards. Pass backwards between transversa processes and between erector & multifidus spinee, and divide into : External Branches - the largest. Supply erector spinse & intertransversales. The three first then pierce aponeurosis of latissimus dorsi, cross crest of the ilium, and supply integumeat of back part of gluteal region. The two last are lost in the muscles, an anastomotic filament joining however the 5th lumbar nerve to the 1st sacral. Internal Branches - Tass backwards in grooves on articular processes, and are lost in multifiius spinae. - A few small twigs to integument near spine are described by Sappey & Hirschfeldc Sacral Nerves - Small, and diminish in size from above downwards. The four upper issue from sacral canal through posterior sacral foramina, the last issues through termination of spinal canal. The three upper divide into: External Branches - The largest. Join in a first series of anastoriot'c loops on upper & back part of sacrum with last lumbar & 4th sacral, and pass outwards beneath gluteus maximug to posterior aspect of great sacro-sciatic ligament; here they join in a secoul series of loops and end in two or three cutaneous branches, which perforata lower & back part of gluteus _ maximu=!, and run outwards over its surface. Iktefnal Brs. - Small, and lost in multifidus spinae. The two last posterior sacral nerves are small, and do not divide into external & internal branches. They join with each other and with posterior division of coccygeal nerve, and are distributed to the fibrous structures on back of coccyx. Coccygeal Nerve - Very small. Separates from anterior division in sacral canal, from which it issues through its terminal aperture. Communicates with last posterior sacral nerve, and ends in fibrous stiuctures on back of coccyx. N.—^From the foregoing description it may be seen that the cutanoo .8 nerves of the back are derived from the m/^;7Z ?/branches of the 2nd, 3rd, 4:h, & 5ch cervical, and six upper dorsal, and from the external branches of the six lower dorsal, & three first lumbar.254 ANTERIOR DIVISIONS of the SPINAL NERVES.-1st T. Larger tlian tlie posterior (tho two first excepted), and connected by one or two filanienta with the sympathetic. ANTEEIOR DIVISION OF First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Small. Eaiergeg between occipital bone & posterior arch of atlas below vertebral artery. Passes forwards oa inner side of vertebral artery & rectus lateralis muscle, crosses foramen in transverse process of atlas, and descends in front of this process to join with ascendinf^ branch of the second. Supplies the rectus lateralis & the recti capitis antici major & minor, and communicates with the pueumogastrio, hypoglossal, & superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Second Cervical Nerve - Larger than foregoing, but still much smaller than the poster. ior division of the same nerve. Emerges between posterior arch of atlas & lamina of axis, passes forwards between transverse processes of the same vertebrae on outer side of vertebral artery, and divides into an ascending branch, which joins the first nerve, and a descending branch, which joins tho third, . Gives off the small occipital nerve, HTlVCd Cervical Nerve - Much larger than the two foregoing, and larger than the poster. ior division of the same nerve, as are also the anterior divisions of all the following nerves. Passes downwards & outwards beneath sterno-mastoid, and divides into • - Ascending Branch - Joins with second, sympathetic & spinal accessory, and divides into great auricular & superficial cervical. Descending Branch - Descends in front of scalenus anticus, and joins with 4bh. Gives ofi" a few of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexaa. Fourth Cervical Nerve - Joins with 3rd & 5th, and usually also with the phrenic, passes downwards & outwards beneath sterno-mastoid, and gives off the greatei part of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexD FoUl' Lower Cervical Nerves ~ Much larger than foregoing, and enter into formatic of brachial plexus (Yide Brachial Plexas| Dorsal Nerves - "Vide next Tablet. Lumbar Nerves - Larger than the dorsal, and increase in size from above downward8.j They communicate with the ganglia of the sympathetic by long slender filament which accompany the lumbar arteries round the sides of the bodies of the vertebra beneath the psoas. The four upper nerves join to form the lumbar plexus, branch from the 4th joins the 5th to form the lumbosacral nerve or cord (Yic Lumbar & Sacral Plexuses.] Sacral Nerves - Diminish in size from above downwards. The four upper onerf emerg from the anterior sacral foramina j the 5th, together with the anterior division of the coccygeal nerve, after emerging from the spinal canal through its terminal aper. ture, curves forwards between the sacrum & the coccyx. The two first, which are much the largest, the 3rd, and a part of the 4th, join with the lumbo-saoral cord to form the sacral plexus (Vide Sacral Plexus). The remainder of the 4th entei'S into the formation of the inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexas, (as do also a few twigs Irom the 3rd nerve, and sometimes also twigs from tho 1st & 2nd), joins with the 5tii nerve, and supplies the coccygeus, levator & sphincter ani, & the integument behind the anus. The 5th nerve communicates with the 4fch, descends upon the coccygeus to tip of coccyx, and then perfo-ates the muscle to integument between anus & cocc/x; it joins with 4th & coccygeal. Coccygeal Nerve - Yery small. Emerges from termination of spinal canal, comes forward between sacram & coccyx piercing the sacro-sciatio ligaments & the coccygeus, joins with 5th sacral, and is lost in the integument at back & side of coccyx,255 ANTERIOR DIVISIONS of the SPINAL NERVES-2ncl T. DOESAL NERVES (Intercostal) ~ Twelve on each side, connected to the corresponding ganglion of the sympathetic, each of them by one or two very short filaments, and not joined into a plexus. Ma,y be divided into two setsg « Six Upper or Thoracic InterCOStals - Along six upper intercostal spaces below vessels, lying first between the pleura & the external intercostals, then between the two intercostals, and finally between the pleura and the internal intercostals & triangularis sterni, crossing the internal mammary vessels. They give off branches : - Muscular - To corresponding intercostals & triangularis sterni; at the front of the the chest some cross the costal cartilages from one space to another. Lateral Cutaneous - Pierce intercostals & serratus magnus midway between vertebroe & sternum, and divide into : - Anterior Offset - Forwards to integament of side of chest & mamma, and to upper digitations of external oblique. Posterior Offset - Backwards to integument over latissimus dorsi & scapula. The posterior ofi'set of the lateral cutaneous branch of the 2nd intercostal nerve, is called the intercosto-humej-al nerve. It crosses the axilla, joins with lesser internal cutaneous nerve or nerve of Wrisberg & with internal cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral, and pierces deep fascia to integument of upper inner & back part of arm ; its size varies inversely with that of the nerve of Wrisberg. Tliere is frequently a second intercosto-humeral nerve derived from the 3rd intercostal. Anterior Cutaneous - The terminal prolongation of the trunk. Pierce internal inter- costals & pectoralis major by side of sternum, and turn outwards to integu- ment of mamma & front of chest. The second joins with the clavicular branches of the superficial cervical plexus. Six Lower or Thoraco-Abdominal Intercostals - Along five lower intercostal spaces, as foregoing, and behind costal cartilages (the last nerve runs along lower border of last rib in front of quadratus lumborum). Between internal oblique & transversalis to sheath of rectus, which they perforate. Give off branches ; Muscular - To corresponding intercostals, & abdominal muscles. Lateral Cutaneous - Pierce extei-nal intercostals & external oblique in a line with corresponding branches of foregoing, and similai'ly divide into: Anterior Offset - To integument of abdomen as far as rectus. Posterior Offset - To integument over lower part of latissimus dorsi. Anterior Cutaneous - Become cutaneous near linea alba, and turn outwards towards lateral cutaneous nerves; their number & exact position are somewhat variable. - A second set are desci-ibed by Gruveilhier & Hirschfeld as existing along the outer edge of the rectus. The First Dorsal Nerve - Has no latei*al cutaneous branch ; or rather the branch of the 1st dorsal nerve, which corresponds to the lateral cutaneous branches of the other dorsal nerves, is a large trunk which enters into the formation of the brachial plexus. The continuation of the nerve along the first intercostal space is small, and ends in the first anterior cutaneous nerve. The Last Dorsal Nerve - The largest. Occasionally connected with the first lumbar nerve by a slender branch, the dorsi-luinbar nei-ve^ which descends in the substance of the quadratus lumborum. Runs along lower border of last rib, as above stated, and communicates between the internal oblique & transversalis with hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric. Its lateral cutaneous branch is large; it pierces internal and external oblique above crest of the iliam, and crosses the crest to supply integument of front part of gluteal region.256 CERVICAL PLEXUS. Formed by anterior branches of ibur upper cervical nerves & loops connecting them, and lies beneath sterno-mastoid, in front of levator anguli scapuIaD & scalenus medius & the four upper vertebrae. Communicates through loop between 4th & 5th nerves with brachial plexus, and, through its deep communicating branches, with pneumogastrio, spinal accessory, hypoglossal & superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. - Its superficial branches communicate with facial & great occipital. Its branches are superficial & deep. SUPERFICIAL BRANCHES — wind round posterior border of sterno-mastoid ono above the other in the following order, which is also the order in which they arise. Sm3<ll Occipital - From 2nd cervical; variable in size & sometimes double. i Ascends boh.nd sterno-mastoid to attollens aurem & posterior belly of occipito. I frontalis, and perforates deep fascia to integument of back of side of head & j upper part of back of pinna; its auricular branches being sometimes supplied ' by great occipital. Joins with great occipital, great auricular, & posterior i auricular branch of facial. - The second small occipital, or smallest occipital, ! when it exists, arises from 3rd nerve, and sends twigs to back of neck. , Great Auricular - From 2nd & 3rd cervical nerves. I Ascends upon sterno-mastoid & beneath platysma to near lobule of ear, where it | divides into branches: Auricular - Several, large; to integument of back of pinna, joining with pos. i terior auricular branches of facial & pneumogastrio. Some twigs supply, outer surface of lobule, and one reaches outer surface of pinna through a fissure between antihelix & concha, i Mastoid - To integument behind ear, joining with post, auricular branch of facial,il Facial - To integument of face, and to parotid gland joining with facial. Superficial Cervical - The largest; from 2nd & 3rd. Crosses sterno-mastoid beneath platysma & external jugular vein, and divides into brs.; Ascending - Gives off an ascending twig to external jugular vein, joins with cervico-facial branch of facial, and, supplying platysma, pierces it to integument of upper & front part of nect. i Descending - Pierces platysma to integument of lower & front part of neck, j Superficial Descending - Several large branches from 3rd & 4th. Descend between sterno-mastoid & trapezius, and divide into branches: Sternal - Cross origin of sterno-mastoid to integument of front of chest as far as middle line. Clavicular - Cross clavicle (sometimes one of them perforates the bone) to integument over pectoralis major & deltoid, communicating with cuta. neous branches of the superior intercostal nerveti. Acromial - Over acromion & clavicular origin of trapezius to integument of outer & back part of shoulder. DEEP BRANCHES — Divided into internal & external. INTERNAL - Are- Communicating - From loop between 1st & 2nd cervical to pneumogastrio, hypoglossal & superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic; and also from 3rd & 4th to cord of sympathetic below the ganglion.; Muscular - From 1st & 2nd, to recti capitis antici major & minor, and rectus lateralis, Communicans Noni - From 2nd & 3rd. Downwards & forwards across sheath of carotid vessels (sometimes within the sheath, and then either in front of or behind internal jugular vein), and, near middle of neck, forms a loop with descendens noni; from convexity of which loop branches are given off to the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid and omo-hyoid. Phrenic or Int. Respiratory of Sir C. Bell - From 3rd, 4th, and usually also from 5th. Downwards & inwards in front of scalenus anticus. Between subclavian vein & 1st part of subclavian artery crossing internal mammary,: and receiving a filament from sympathetic, sometimes another from 5th & 6th ^ i cervical nerves, and occasionally on the left side, one from the ansa hypoglossi. | ^ Crosses arch of Aorta & pulmonary artery, on the left side. ^sscends, on the right side, on outer side of right innominate vein & sup. vena cava. In front of root of lung & along side of pericardium to diaphragm, and divides in I T, t, *° branches which perforate the diaphragm and supplv it by its under surface. Both nerves give off twigs to the pericardium & pleura, and join with the phrenic plexus of the sympathetic, the right nerve sending also a few filaments to the EXTERNAL - Are: diaphragmatic gangta Communicating - Join spinal accessory in substance of sterno-mastoid, in occipitali triangle, & beneath trapezius.; Muscular - To sterno-mastoid (from 2nd nerve), levator anguli scapulse (from 3rd), scale. nus medius & trapezius (from 3rd & 4th) ! mm257 BBACHIAL PLEXUS. Ji ormed as follows by anterior divisions of 5th, 6tli, 7th, & 8th cervical and 1st dorsal ns.: Fifth Sixth Ce7-vical unite between anterior & middle scaleni, and are soon joined hj part of the seventh, the outer cord ofthe plexus being thus formed. Eighth &> First Do7'sal unite behind scalenus anticus, and form the inner cord. Remaining pai-t of Seventh is joined a little lower down by two anastomotic branches given off by inner & outer cords, the third or posterior cord being thus formed. Varieties, more apparent than real, are frequently met with, resulting from the correspondingly increased or diminished size of the above mentioned anastomotic branches, and of the portion of the 7th. nerve which assists in forming the posterior cord; the posterior cord being formed almost completely, in the one case, by the branches given off by the two other cords, and in the other, by the 7th nerve itself. Other varieties may also result from the two anastomotic branches arising from the inner & outer cords either higher or lower than usual, and from their joining the remainder of the 7th nerve at a higher or at a lower level. Broad between anterior & middle scaleni, where anterior divisions of the nerves lie above 2nd part of subclavian artery; contracted opposite clavicle, where inner & outer cords lie at fore part of plexus on outer side of 3rd part of subclavian artery & of 1st part of axillary; again expanded in axilla, where the three cords lie on inner, outer & posterior aspects of 2nd part of axillary, and where they break up into the large nerves of upper limb. Communicates with the cervical plexus through loop between 4th & 5th nerves & through branch from 5th nerve to phrenic, and with middle & inferior ganglia of sympathetic. BRANCHES -- Are ABOVE THE CLAVICLE: Post, or Long Thoracic, or Ext. Eespiratory of Sir C. Bell - From 5th & 6th nerves, the two roots uniting in substance of sca- lenus anticus. Deeply along side of chest behind axillary vessels & cords of brachial plexus as far as lowest digitation of serratus magnus. Suprascapular - From back of trunk formed by union of 5th & 6th. Backwards & outwards beneath trapezius & through suprascapular foramen to supraspinous fossa, where lies between supraspina- tus & the bone. Round spine of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Supplies supra- & infra- spinati (two twigs to each), shoulder-joint & scapula. IVEuSCUlar - To rhomboidei & frequently to levator anguli scapulse (from 5th nerve), subclavius (from 5th & 6th, anastomoses frequently with phrenic), scaleni & longus colli (variably from 6th 7th & 8th.) Cozmxiunicating - From 5th cervical to phrenic on anterior scalenus. BELOW THE CLAVICLE — The branches are given off from the three cords as follows, from: Outer Cord - External anterior thoracic, outer head of median, mus- culo-cutaneous or external cutaneous. Inner Cord - Internal anterior thoracic, inner head of median, ulnar, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous or n. of Wrisberg. Posterior Cord - The three subscapular nerves, musculo-spiral & circumflex(. Anterior Thoracic Nerves - Two, connected together by a loop on inner side of axillary artery. External or Superficial - The largest. Crosses both axillary artery & vein to under surface of pectoralis major. Internal or Deep - The smallest. Between artery & vein, and gives twigs to under surface of both pectorales. Subscapular Nerves - Three: Upper - The smallest; to upper part of subscapularis. Lower - To lower border of subscapularis & to teres major; the latter muscle having sometimes a separate nerve.- LoNG - The largest. Along lower border of subscapularis to latissimus dorsi. Nerves of the Arm - "Vide three following Tablets.258 MEDIAN & MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVES. MEDIAN NERVE. From inner & outer cords of bracHal plexus by two roots which surround 3rd part of axillary artery. - Lies at first on outer side (more or less so, but never quite in front) of 3rd part of axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Crosses brachial artery usually in front, and lies on its inner side at bend of elbow. Between the two heads of pronator radii teres, and down middle of front of forearm, lying deeply at first between flexor sublimis & flexor profundus digitorum, and then super- ficially between tendon of flexor carpi radialis & outermost tendons of flexor sublimis. Beneath anterior annular ligament to palm of hand, where lies in front of flexor tendons, and becomes enlarged and flattened, and divides into two TERMINAL BRANCHES: External - Supplies abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis poUicis, and gives palmar digital branches to thumb & outer side of index finger. Internal - Supplies the two outer lumbricales, and gives palmar digital branches to contiguous Bides of index, middle and ring fingers. - The digital nerves are superficial to the digital arteries. LATERAL BRANCHES: None in upper-arm. In fore-arm: Muscular - Arise near elbow j to all the superficial muscles of front of fore-arm except flexor carpi ulnaris. Ant. Interosseous - With anterior interosseous artery between flexor longus polhois & flexor profundus digitoram, supplying the former & the outer half of the latter, and ends in pronator quadratus. Palmar Cutaneous ^ From lower part. Pierces deep fascia a little above anterior annular ligament and supplies integument of palm of hand & ball of thumb, joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar, and with radial or anterior branch of external cutaneous. MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS or EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. From outer cord of brachial plexus in common with outer head of median. Through coraco-brachialis, and between biceps & brachialis anticus to a little above external condyle, where perforates deep fascia, and divides, behind median cephalic vein, into: Anterior Branch - Along front of radial side of fore-arm as low as wrist, where lies in front of radial artery, and joins with radial nerve. Sends filaments over ball of thumb, and accompanies radial artery to back of carpus. Posterior Branch - Along back of radial side of fore-arm, joining with radial and with external cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral. Supplies coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus, and sends twigs to humerus & to ^ elbow-joint.259 ULNAB, INT. CUTANEOUS, & LESSER INT. CUTAN- EOUS NERVES. ULNAE NERVE. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, internal cutane- ous & lesser internal cutaneous nerves. - Lies at first on inner side of 3rd part of axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Pierces internal intermuscular septum with inferior profunda, and descends in groove between olecranon & internal condyle. Enters fore-arm between the two heads of flexor carpi ulnaris. Descends on flexor profundus, being covered in upper part of fore-arm by flexor carpi ulnaris, lying superficially in lower part between tendon of latter muscle & inner- most tendons of flexor sublimis digitorum. - Ulnar artery lies on outer side of nerve, and is distant from it in upper part of fore-arm. Crosses anterior annular ligament a little behind artery & on outer side of pisiform bone, and divides into two TERMINAL BRANCHES: Superficial - To palmaris brevis, integument & fingers on inner side of hand, joining with median. ]5eep - Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and beneath flexor tendons with deep palmar arch. Supplies muscles of little finger, interossei, the two inner lumbricales, adductor pollicis & inner head of flexor brevis. LATERAL BRANCHES: None in upper-arm. In fore-arm : Articular to Elbow Joint - Several, small, arise behind elbow. Muscular - To flexor carpi ulnaris & inner half of flexor profundus. Palmar Cutaneous - Arises a little below middle of fore-arm. With ulnar artery to integument of front of wrist & palm of hand, joining with palmar cuta- neous branch of median & frequently with internal cutaneous. Dorsal Cutaneous-Large, arises a little above wrist. Winds inwards beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and supplies integument & IJ fingers on inner side of back of hand, joining with radial. Articular to the Wrist. INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. I From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & lesser I internal cutaneous nerves, j Along inner side of brachial artery in front of lesser internal cutaneous, giving off a cuta- j neous filament to integument over biceps. ! Pierces deep fascia with basilic vein, and divides into: Anterior Branch - in front of, or sometimes behind, median basilic vein to in- tegument of front of inner side of fore-arm as low as wrist, frequently joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar. Posterior Branch - Over internal condyle to integument of back of inner side of fore-arm to near wrist, joining with lesser internal cutaneous & dorsal I cutaneous branch of ulnar. LESSER INTERNAL CUTANEOUS N. or N. of WRISBERG. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & internal jj cutaneous nerves. f Along inner side of axillary vein & brachial artery & behind internal cutaneous nerve to integument of back of lower third of arm, joining with intercosto-humeral & posterior branch of internal cutaneous, j Its size & communications vary considerably. Frequently intercosto-humeral nerve la large, and takes the place of nerve of Wrisberg, joining brachial plexus by a small filament only, or not at all.260 MUSCULO-SPIRAL & CIRCUMFLEX NERYES. MUSOULO-SPIRAL NERVE The largest branch of brachial plexus. Arises from posterior cord in commoa with circunaflex, and lies at first behind Srd part of axillary artery & upper part of brachial. Downwards & outwards in front of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi, and in spiral groove with superior profunda artery. Between brachialis anticus & supinator longus to front of external condyle, where it divides into radial & posterior interosseous nerves. Its branches are: Muscular - To triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, ex. tensor carpi radialis longior. Cutaneous - Three, small, one internal, two external; to integument of inner & posterior, and of outer & anterior aspects of arm, and of outer aspect of fore-arm. RADIAL NERVE - The smaller. Down front of outer side of fore-arm beneath supinator longus, lying on outer side of radial artery, which artery is distant from it in upper third & close to it in middle third. Winds outwards & backwards beneath tendon of supinator longus about three inches above wrist, pierces deep fascia, and divides into branches External - The smaller. To outer side & ball of thumb; joins with posterior branch of external cutaneoua Internal - The larger. To integument, & remainder of 3^ fingers on outer side of hand; joins with external cutaneous & with dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar. - Adjoining sides of middle & ring fingers may be supplied by same nerve, which may be either the radial or the ulnar POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE — The larger. Through substance of supinator brevis to back of fore-arm. wi Between superficial & deep muscles of posterior aspect of fore-arm, supplying them all except anconeus, supinator longus, & extensor carpi radialis longior.| Beneath exteasores secundi internodii pollicis &, communis digitorum to back of carpus, where it becomes ganglionic and supplies articulations of wrifltjj CIRCUMFLEX NERVE I: From posterior cord of brachial plexus in common with musculo-spiral. Downwards & outwards behind axillary artery in front of subsoapularis. Backwards, with posterior circumflex vessels, through quadrilateral space bounded by teres major, teres minor, long head of triceps, & humeroS.! Gives off a small twig to shoulder-joint, and divides into;: Superior Branch - The larger. Round neck of humerus as far as anter* ior border of deltoid; supplies deltoid, and gives oflf cutaneous filaments which perforate the muscle to integument over lower part of shoulder, Inferior Branch - The smaller. Supplies teres minor, back partj: of deltoid, & integument over back of shoulder; has freqaentljj; a gangliform ealargement on branch to teres miiM*i261 LUMBAB PLEXUS. Formed by anterior divisions of four npper lumbar nerves, and situated in substance of psoas, in front of transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrge. Harrow above, where it usually receives a small branch from last dorsal nerve ; broad below, where it is joined to the sacral plexus by a branch from 4th lumbar nerve & by lumbo- sacral nerve or cord. Its arraogment is as follows: - (Vide Quain's diagram). 1st Lumbar Nerve - Gives off: Jlio-hypogastric, Ilio-inguinal, Small part of Genito-crural, Conwmnicatmg branch to 2nd Lumbar* 2nd Lumbar Nerve - Completes Genito-crural, - and gives off Greater part of External Ctctaneoiis, and Conimunicating branch to 3rd Lumbar, from which communicating branch the Anterior Crural, Obturator, Accessory Obturator nerves (when tha latter exists) are partly derivedj 3rd Lumbar Nerve - Completes External Cutaneous, and pives off Greater part of Anterior Crural, Obturator ^ Accessory Obturator Nerves (when the latter exists), and a Communicating branch to 4th Lumbar. 4th Lumbar Nerve - Completes Anterior Crural, Obticrator, &^ Accessory Obturator Nerves, (when the latter exists), and gives off a Large branch to^t^ Lumbar, Yihioh. large branch forms with the latter nervo the Lumbo-Sacral Nerve or Cord,262 LATEKAL BBANCHES of the LUMBAK PLEXUS. ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC — From 1st lumbar. Emerge? from icpper part of outer border of Psoas. Crosses quadratus lumborum. Perforates transversalis, and divides between it & internal oblique into branches: - Iliac - Pierces internal & external oblique just above crest of ilium, and supplies skin of li gluteal region behind lateral cutaneous branch of twelfth dorsal nerve. '| Hypogastric - Forwards between internal oblique & transversalis, communicating with t ilio-inguinal. Pierces internal oblique & aponeurosis of external oblique a little above the external abdominal ring, and supplies skin of hypogaa. trio region. I ILIO-INGUINAL — From 1st lumbar; smaller than foregoing. Pierces psoas, and crosses quadratus lumborum immediately below ilio-hypogastric. Pierces transversalis, and communicates with hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastrio between that muscle and the internal oblique, which it pierces a little further on, ii Through inguinal canal in front of spermatic cord; and supplies skin of upper k I inner part of thigh and of scrotum & penis, or of labium pudendi. : Is sometimes small, and then ends by joining the ilio-hypogastric near crest of ilium J in that case a branch of the ilio-hypogastrio takes the place of the ilio-inguinal. i{ GENITO-CRURAL — From 2nd lurnbar nerve, and by a few filaments from the Isc. i Descends obliquely through substance^ and afterwards on anterior surface of psoas^ and ii | divides into branches:- ; Genital - Over external iliac artery, and through inguinal canal behind spermatic cord, ; to cremaster muscle & scrotum j - in female behind round ligament to labium, j Cetjeal - Beneath Pouparts ligament on inner side of psoas. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of femoral artery, and suppl/as skin of upper and front part of thigh; communicates with middle cutaneous. EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and, by a few filaments, from the 3rd. jj Pierces psoas muscle towards its middle and crosses iliacus. Passes beneath Poupart's ligament thro'igh notch below anterior superior spmeBI ilium, and divides into branchesapil Anterior - Pierces fascia lata about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and suppIiW li skin of anterior & outer aspects of thigh as low as knee. \ PosTERiOE - Supplies skin of outer & posterior aspect of thigh. i263 [antebioe crural nerve. The largest branch of lumbar plexus. — Arises mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerves, but receives also a fasciculus from the 2nd. Descends through substance of psoas, and emerges from lower part of its outer border. Passes down between psoas & iliacus, giving off small branches to iliacus & femoral artery. Enters thigh beneath Poupart's ligament half an inch to outer side of femoral artery, and divides into anterior & posterior divisions. ANTERIOR DIVISION - Gives off": Middle Cutaneous Nerve - Pierces fascia lata & generally sartorius also ( which muscle it then supplies ) about three or four inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into two branches to integument of front of thigh as low as knee. - Joins with crural branch of genito-crural, internal cutaneous & internal saphenous. Internal Cutaneous Nerve - Crosses upper part of sheath of femoral vessels giving off a few cutaneous filaments, and divides into: Anterior or External Branch - Pierces fascia lata about lower third of thigh, and divides into branches to integument of inner & outer sides of knee; joins with middle cutaneous & long saphenous. Inner or Posterior Branch - Along posterior border of sartorius, joining in a plexiform network beneath fascia with long saphenous & obturator. Pierces fascia lata a little above inner side of knee; supplies integument of inner sides of thigh & upper part of leg, joining with int. saphenous. Long or Internal Saphenous Nerve - The largest branch of anterior division ( arises sometimes from posterior division). Along whole length of outer side of femoral artery, lying first at a slight dis- tance from it, and then close to it. Pierces fibrous band which extends from vastus internus to tendons of adduc- tors longus & magnus and forms anterior wall of Hunter's canal. Pierces deep fascia between tendons of sartorius ^ gracilis^ and joins with internal cutaneous. Passes with internal saphenous vein along inner side of leg & divides into two branches 5 one terminates at inner ankle, the other passes in front of ankle to integument of inner side of foot. Joins in plexiform network above mentioned with internal cutaneous & obtura- tor nerves; - gives off to integument of front of knee a large branch, nervus cutaneus patella3, which, joining with external, middle & internal cutaneous nerves & other branches of long saphenous, forms plexus patellae in front of knee; - gives off numerous branches to integument of front & inner side of leg. POSTERIOR DIVISION - Gives off: Muscular Branches To all the muscles of front of thigh except tensor vaginee femoris supplied by superior gluteal n., and Sartorius supplied by filaments from middle or sometimes from internal cutaneous nerve, [pectineus is partly supplied by obturator nerve] Articular Branches Two: - one from nerve to vastus externus, long & slender & distributed to front of capsule J one from nerve to vastus internus, accompanies deep branch of anastomotica magna to inner side of capsu^'*^264 I OBTUBATOR NERVE Arises mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerve?, but receives also a fasciculus from the 2ad (Sappey, Hirschfeldfc, & Quain's diagram of lumbar plexus). Descends through inner fibres of psoas, and emerges from inner border of that muscle opposite brim of pelvis. Along outer wall of palvis above obturator vessels to upper part of obturator foramen; enters thigh, and divides into: Anterior Brancll - The smaller. Descends in front of adductor brevis, and behind pec- tineus & adductor longus, to femoral artery, upon which it is distributed below the latter muscle. Gives ofi" branches: - Articular - To hip-joint; arises near obturator foramen. Muscular - To gracilis & adductor longus, and sometimes to pectineus & adductor brevis; Anastomotic to Internal Cutaneous & Internal Saphenous Nerves - Arises opposite lower border of adductor longus, and forms with the foregoing nerves a plexiform network beneath deep fascia of thigh. Sometimes this anterior branch of the obturator nerve, and its communicating oflFset to the internal cutaneous & internal saphenous nerves, are larger than usual. The latter then give^ off cutaneous filaments to the skin ol { the lower & inner part of the thigh, and descends along the posterior bor- i der of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee-joint; here it pierces the deep fascia, communicates again with the internal saphenous nerve (which is then smaller than usual), and supplies the skin of the inner side of the leg as low as its middle. Posterior Brancll - The larger. Pierces upper fibres of obturator externus, and dea-1 cends behind adductor brevis in front of adductor magaus; gives ofi j branches:-| Muscular - To obturator externus & adductor magnus (and to adductor brevis, i when the latter is not supplied by the anterior branch of the nerve). Artfcular - Through opening in lotver part of adductor magnus, and upon the pop-: liteal artery to back of knee-joint, i ACCESSORY OBTURATOR NERVE j Arises (when it exists) either directly from obturator nerve, or, by separate filaments, from the 2nd, 3rd, & 4th lumbar, Descends along inner side of psoas, crosses front of pubes, gets behind pectineus,. and divides into branches to pectineus & hip-joint. Communicates with anterior branch of obtursvtor nerve; the communicating branch is some- times large, and is then prolonged as a cutaneous nerve to the thigl & leg (Gray)265 SACRAL PLEXUS. Formed by lumbo-sacral cord & anterior divisions of the three first sacral nerves, and part of that of the fourth. Triangular in shape, - its constituent nerve-fibres converging to form one broad flat cord, which leaves pelvis through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis, and immediately divides into Small sciatic, Great sciatic & Padic. Eests upon pyriformis, and is covered by the pelvic fascia & by the two terminal branches (sciatic & pudic) of anterior division of internal iliac artery. BRANCHES : Superior Gluteal - From back of lumbo-sacral cord. With gluteal vessels through upper part of great sacro-sciatic foramen above pyriformis, and divides into: Superior Branch - Along middle curved line on dorsum ilii with superior division of deep branch of gluteal artery. Supplies glutei medius & minimus. Inferior Branch - Directly forwards between glutei medius & minimus, which it also supplies, and terminates in tensor vaginae femoris. Muscular - To pyriformis, obturator internus, gemelli & quadratus femoris. - The nerve to obturator internus passes behind spine of ischium and through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to inner surface of the muscle. - The gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris are supplied by a common branch, which runs between capsule of hip-joint and the obturator internus & gemelli, and gives off an articular filament to the joint. Small Sciatic - From lower & back part of sacral plexus. With sciatic vessels through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis. Descends beneath gluteus maximus on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Along back of thigh beneath fascia lata to lower part of popliteal space. Perforates deep fascia, and accompanies external saphenous vein to skin of back of leg; communicates with external saphenous nerve. Gives off branches: Inferior Gluteal - Several, large j to under surface of gluteus maximus. Inferior Pudendal - Forwards below tuber ischii to skin of perinaBum and upper & inner part of thigh, and to scrotum or labium. Cutaneous - Descending. To skin of inner & outer sides of back of thigh, popliteal space and back of leg. Ascending. Wind round lower border of gluteus maximus to integument over its surface. Great Sciatic - Vide next Tablet but cue. Pudic - Vide next Tablet.266 I I i ! PUDIO NERVE. From lower part of sacral plexus. With pudic artery through lower part of great sacro-soiatic foramen on inner side c great sciatic nerv Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramer where it gives ojff inferior haemorrhoidal nerve Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa above pudic artery, both nerve & arter; being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into perinaeal nerve & dorss nerve of the peni FEHINj^AL NERVE — The larger. Accompanies superficial perinseal artery, and divide into branches: Cutaneous or Superficial Perinseal - Two in number: PosTERioK OR INTERNAL - Gives filaments to skin in front of anus (and to th | sphincter ani. Gray), and communicates with the inferior haemorrhoids nerve. It then passes forwards to the scrotum or labium on the inner aid of the following nerve with which it communicates anteriorlj Anterior or External - Forwards on outer side of foregoing to scrotum & integu | ment of penis, or labium. Communicates with foregoing, and with inferio pudendal, and gives a few twigs to levator ani ]y[uscular - Generally arise by a common trunk, which passes forwards and inward j under cover of transversus perinsei, and supplies anterior extremity c sphincter ani, transversus perin^i, erector penis, accelerator urinae & com pressor urethras; a twig is given to the bulb of the urethraij DORSAL NERVE OF THE PENIS — The smaller. With pudic artery along rami ci ischium & pubes between the two layers of deep perineal fascia, ami through suspensory ligament and along dorsum of penis to glans. Sapplienj skin of dorsum & sides of penis, and gives a large branch to corpuMi cavernosum. - Dorsal nerve of clitoris in female is smaller, but similarljij distributee |i Inferior HsBmorrhoidal Nerve - May be derived directly from sacral plexus |' Crosses ischio-rectal fossa towards lower end of rectum, and gives off nnni'H erous branches to sphincter ani & integument round anus; communicates | with superficial perinaeal & inferior pudendal |; i!267 }REAT SCIATIC NERVE Arises from the lumbo-sacral cord & the four upper sacral nerves, and is the continuation of the sacral plexus. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis, on outer side of pudio vessels & nerve. Downwards between trochanter major & tuber ischii, behind external rotator muscles & adductor magnus, to lower third of back of thigh, where it divides into external & in- ternal popliteal* Is covered by gluteus maximus & biceps. Gives off branches : - Articular - To back of hip-joint. Muscular - To hamstring muscles & adductor magnu3. EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The smaller of the two terminal branches of great sciatic. Along outer side of popliteal space close to biceps. Pierces peroneus longus an inch below head of fibula, and divides into anterior tibial & musculo-cutaneous. Gives off branches: - Articular - Three; accompany the two external articular & the recurrent tibial arteries to knee-joint. Cutaneous - Two or three; supply integument of outer & back part of leg; one, the communicans fibularis, crossses outer head of gastroc- nemius, and joins the communicans tibialis to form external or short saphenous nerve (V. next Tablet). Anterior Tibial Nerve - Beneath extensor longus digitorum to front of interosseous membrane; along outer side, in front of, and again along outer Eide of anterior tibial artery to front of ankle-joint. - Supplies muscles of front of leg, and divides into : External Branch - Beneath extensor brevis digitorum, which it supplies; becomes ganglionic, and supplies articulations of tarsus. Imteenal Branch - "With dorsalis pedis artery along inner side of dorsum of foot; supplies adjoining sides of great & second toes, and joins with musculo-cutaneous. MuSCUlO-CutaneOUS Nerve - Between peronei muscles, which it supplies, and extensor longus digitorum ; pierces deep fascia about lower third of front of leg, and divides into: Internal Branch - Supplies inner side of great toe, adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd toes, & integument of inner side of foot; joins with internal saphenous & anterior tibial. External Branch - Supplies adjoining sides of 3rd, 4th, & 5th toes, and integ. ument of outer side of foot; 'oins with external or short saphenous.268 INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The larger of the two terminal branches of great sciatic. Through middle of popliteal space to lower border of popliteus, where it becomes posted tibii Is first superficial & external and at a distance from, then superficial & internal and old to, popliteal vessels. - Its branches ai Articular - Threej accompany the two internal & the azygos articuk arteries to knee-joi^ Muscular - To gastrocnemius, plantaris, popliteus, soleus. Comniunicans Tibialis - Between heads of gastrocnemius to middle! back of leg, where it pierces deep fascia and joins communicai fibularis to form ii External Saphenous Nerve - Behind outer malleolus with extern saphenous vein, and supplies integument of outer side offii & little toe; joins with musculo-cutaneous. Is sometin larger than usual, and then supplies both sides of little t and outer side of 4 POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. Commences at lower border of popliteus. Beneath arch of soleus, superficial muscles, & deep layer of fascia to interval I tween inner malleolus & heel, where it divides into internal & external plantii Is first internal & posterior to posterior tibial vessels, but soon passes to th( outer side. - Its branches at Muscular flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, tibialis postiori Plantar Cutaneous - Perforates internal annular ligament to integume| of heel & inner part of sole of fO( Internal Plantar Nerve - The larger. With internal plantar artery between abdn tor pollicis & flexor brevis digitorum, and divides into four digit branches to 3| toes on inner side of foot. Supplies flexor bre? digitorum, abductor & flexor brevis pollicis, two inner lumbricale integument of sole of foot & articulations of tarsus; joins wi) external plants External Plantar Nerve - The smaller. with external plantar artery betwee flexors accessorius & brevis, and then between flexor brevis &ai ductor minimi digiti; supplies the first & the last of thei muscles, and divides int( Superficial Bkanch - Supplies 1^ toes on outer side of foot, flexor breT minimi digiti & interossei of 4th space; joins with internil plants' Deep Branch - Accompanies plantar arch; supplies remaining interossei j lumbricales, adductor pollicis, & transversus pedijSYMPATHETIC NERVES.GANGLIATED CORDS & GANGLIA. GANGLIATED CORDS — Lie on each side & along tlie whole length of spinal column, con; verging inferiorly upon the coccyx in the ganglion impar, and being prolonged superiorl; into the head along internal carotid artery. They are usually single, sometimes double occasionally wanting here & there. Relatively to the size of the ganglia they are larges in the dorsal region. They are divided into Cervical Portion - ^^^^ front of transverse processss of cervical vertebrae behind internal jugular vein, and presents three ganglia (Yide Cervical portion of Sym' pathetic] j Thoracic Portion - Lies in front of heads of ribs & intercostal vessels, beneath pleurae I on outer side of venae azygos, at first at a small distance from, and then close tc i bodies of vertebrae. It presents eleven or twelve gangha Lumbar Portion - Penetrates into abdomen, on right side through a small opening ii right crus of diaphragm, on left side either through aortic opening or through i small separate opening in left crus. It lies in front of bodies of vertebrae on inne side of psoas, behind inferior vena cava on the right side, behind abdominal aorta oi the left. It presents four or five gangha' Sacral Portion - I^ies in front of sacrum on inner side of anterior sacral foramina, and converging towards its fellow inferiorly, usually ends in the ganglion impar PREVERTEBRAL GANGLIA — Usually three cervical, eleven or twelve dorsal, four o five lumbar, four sacral, one coccygeal. More or less oval or triangular in shape, an- elongated from above downwards Cervical - "Vide cervical portion of sympathetic. JJorsal - I^ie most of them in front of heads of ribs, the nine or ten first at a little distanc from, the two or three last close to, bodies of corresponding vertebrae; occasionall; one or two ganglia lie opposite the corresponding intervertebral foramina. The; are smaller than the cervical & lumbar. The first one is the largest and is ofte: blended with the inferior cervical. The last one is usually stellate in shape, aa is sometimes blended with the first lumbar. - They present EooTS, OR Branches or Communication with the Dorsal Nerves - Usually two i number: - Either both ascend obliquely upwards & outwards to join th dorsal nerve above just before its bifurcation, or one ascends as above de scribed, and the other descends to join the dorsal nerve below in corres ponding situation. Sometimes one or two ganglia have a third root resultin; from bifurcation of one of the roots to adjoining dorsal nerves, and ever' occasionally, an additional root to second dorsal nerve abov£! Internal Branches, or Branches of Distribution - Those from five or six upper gang! lia are small & greyish; they mainly supply thoracic aorta & its brancheej & bodies of vertebrae & their ligaments; those from third & fourth ganglia joiii posterior pulmonary plexus. Those from six or seven lower ganglia are large]} & whiter; they give ojffa few small branches to aorta, and join to form thd great, lesser, & last splanchnic nerves (V.Solar Plexus); LUXUbar - Hather larger & more distinct than the dorsal, and situated at a greater distandjl from the corresponding intervertebral foramina, the first one often lying oppositij: body of second lumbar vertebra, and the last one opposite sacro-vertebral articulalj tion. - They present || Boots, or Branches or Communication with the Lumbar Nerves - Two or three for eachjj Are longer & more slender than those of dorsal ganglia, and pass beneath thf i fibrous arches of psoas in company with lumbar arteries & veins | Internal Branches, or Branches of Distribution - Give a few twigs to bodies of ver tebrse & their ligaments, and assist in forming the aortic & hypogastric i plexuses S&Cral - Smaller than the dorsal & lumbar, and diminish in size as they descend ;_li«,, close to inner side of anterior sacral foramina, those of opposite sides approximatingij as they descend, and usually blend in front of coccyx in a median ganglion, th< coccygeal ganglion or ganglion impar. - They presen , Boots, or Branches of Communication with the Sacral Nerves - Usually two for eacl; ganglion; are short & small IWTEfiifAL Branches, or Branches op Distribution - Those of the two upper ganglia joii inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus; the others descend upon the arterii aacra media, and supply the sacrum & coccyx & their ligaments, and th' coccygeal glaucIRANIAL PORTION of the SYMPATHETIC Consists of the carotid & cavernous plexuses and of their prolongations upon the branches of the internal carotid arteries. CAIiOTIID PLSXXJS — Is situated on the outer side of the petrous portion of the internal carotid artery just before its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and is formed principally by the outer, but partly also by the inner, of the two divisions of the ascending branch giv^en off by the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. A small ganglion, the carotid ganglion, is sometimes found on one of its branches. Its Communications are with : TYMPA^'IC Branch op the Glosso-pharyngeal or Jacobson's Nerve through posterior wall of carotid canal; Spheno-palatine Ganglion — This communicating branch crosses inferiorly the cartilaginous substance which closes the foramen lacerum medium. Then, under the name of carotid branch of the Vidian nei've, it joins the cranial branch of the same (great petrosal branch of the facial) and the two together, under the name of Vidian nerve, pass through the Vidian canal to the back of the spheno-palatine ganglion; Sixth Cranial Nerve — One or two filaments join this nerve as it lies on the outer side of the internal carotid artery j Gasserian Ganglion. CAVERNOUS PLEXUS — Is situated below, and to the inner side of the cavernous portion of the internal carotid a7'tery by the side of the sella turcica, and is formed principally by the inner, but partly also by the outer, of the two divisions of the ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Its Communications are with: Third, Fotirth & Sixth Cranial Ns., ^ The respective brs. of comm. join these Ophthlmic Br. of the Fifth j 5 ns. as they penetrate into the orbit. Lenticular or Ciliary Gangl. — This branch of communication accompanies the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, or passes separately to the ganglion. THEIR PROLONGATIONS upon the Brs. of the INT. CAROTID These form plexuses tipon the cerebral artei'ies to the pia mater of the brain, and upon the ophthalmic arteries to the contents of the orbit, a minute plexus accompanying, it is said, the arteria centralis retinae, into the interior of the eyeball, — A small ganglion, the ganglion of Ribes, is said to exist sometimes on the anterior communi- cating artery, and to connect the sympathetic nerves of the right & left sides.272 CEBVIOAL PORTION of the SYMPATHETIC Consists on eacli side of three ganglia, the superior, middle & inferior cervical (of which the middle one is sometimes wanting), and of their respective branches of communication! & distribution. THE THREE GANGLIA: Superior Cervical Ganglion - The laro^sf, usually fusiform in shape and situated] between the rectus capitis anticus major & the internal carotid opposite the 2nd > 3rd cervical vertebra; sometimes irregular in shape & situated a little lower than| .usual. Middle Cervical Ganglion - When present, is the smallest of the three and is situatec opposite the ^th cervical vertebra in the vicinity of the inferior thyroid artery. Inferior Cervical Ganglion - intermediate in size between the two others, and situatec between the neck of the first rib ^ the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra oi inner side of superior intercostal artery j is irregular in form, and is frequently joined with the first thoracic ganglion. THEIR COMMUNICATIONS: These ganglia communicate zvith each other through the main cord of the sympathetic^ aud with the cerebro-spinal nerves as follows : SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION — With: Petrosal Ganglion of the Glosso-pharyngeal; Both Ganglia of the Pneiimogastric ; Trunk of the Hypoglossal; Four upper Cervical Ner7)es - (Sometimes with the two upper nervei only, the branches of communication with the 3rd & 4th nerves occasionally joining the cord of the sympathetic a little below the ganglion). ^, MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION — With: * Fifth 6^ Sixth Cervical Nej'ves - (In case of absence of the middle cervi cal ganglion the 5th & 6th cervical nerves join with the cord i of the sympathetic between the superior & inferior ganglia, i INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION — With: Seventh Eighth Cervical Nerves. THEIR BRANCHES OP DISTRIBUTION - Vide next Tablet.273 BES. of DISTRIB. of the CERV. G. of the SYMPATHETIC. These ganglia give off branches to the neighbouring arteries and to the viscera as follows: BRS. to the NEIGHBOURING ARTERIES: SUP. CERVICAL GANGLION - Gives off: ASCENDING BRANCH to INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY & its BRANCHES — Large, soft, of a reddish grey colour, and appears to be the direct continua- tion of the ganglion. It passes along the posterior aspect of internal carotid artery and divides on reaching the carotid canal into internal & external branches. Internal Branch - The smaller; ascends on inner side of internal carotid artery, communicating with the outer branch, and goes to form the greater part of the cavernous plexus. External Branch - The larger; ascends on outer side of internal carotid artery, communicating with the inner branch, and goes to form the greater part of the carotid plexus. ANTERIOR BRANCHES to EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY & its BRANCHES — Form delicate plexuses which accompany the external carotid artery its branches^ and on the filaments of which small ganglia are sometimes found. - From the plexus on the trunk of the external carotid artery a communica- ting branch is given off to the digastric branch of the facial nerve; from the plexus on the facial artery is derived the sympathetic root of the sub- maxillary ganglion; from the plexus on the internal maxillary artery ia derived the sympathetic root of the otic ganglion and also a twig to the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial. MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION - Gives off: THYROID BRANCHES — Accompany the inferior thyroid artery, communicating with superior cardiac nerve, and reach the thyroid body, in which they communicate with the recurrent & external laryngeal nerves. INF. CERVICAL GANGLION - Gives off: BRANCHES to VERTEBRAL ARTERY — Form a plexus round that vessel, and communicate with the cervical nerves as high as the 4th. BRS. to the VISCERA — Are the: Cardiac Nerves - Vide Next Tablet. Pharyngeal Branches of the Superior Cervical Ganglion - Join with the pharyngeal branches the glosso-pharyngeal^pneumogastriCf &> external laryngeal to form the pharyngeal plexus, which plexus supplies the muscles & the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Thyroid Branches of the Middle Cervical Ganglion - Vide above.274 NEBVES of the HEART Are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which plexuses are formed by the cardiac branch i of the sympathetic and of the pneumogastric & recurrent laryngeal, ; CARDIAC NERVES — Are the three cardiac nerves of the sympathetic, the cervicr cardiac & the thoracic-cardiac nerves of the pneumogastric, and the cardiac bra ches of the recurrent laryngeal. CARDIAC NERVES OP THE SYMPATHETIC - Are three in numb. superior or superficial^ middle or great, 6^ inferior, and arise normally from the C( responding cervical ganglia. The' superior cardiac nerve, however, frequeni, arises partly from the communicating cord below the superior ganglion, and t inferior one partly from the first dorsal ganglion; when the middle ganglion absent the middle cardiac nerve arises from the communicating cord betweii the superior & inferior ganglia. These nerves pass downwards & inwards to the base of the heart either singly or in C( nection with each other or with the other cardiac nerves, varying considerat in their relative size and in their precise relations to adjoining structur( when one of them is smaller than usual one of the others is increased in size. On the right side of the neck the superior cr* the middle cardiac ner' pass downwards behind the common carotid artery, the former passing also in fn of the inferior thyroid artery & recurrent laryngeal nerve. They then cross subclavian artery either in front or behind, and descend upon the trachea to i \ right side of the great or deep cardiac plexus. - On the left side the superior card \ nerve usually descends into the thorax between 6^ in front of th.Q left cotnmon can left subclavian arteries and crosses anteriorly the arch of the ao7-ta to the supe cial cardiac plexus ; sometimes however it lies deeper than usual and then pas behind the aorta to the deep cardiac plexus. - The left middle cardiac nerve pas into the thorax between 6^ behind the left common carotid left subclavian arte) and then descends behind the arch of the aorta to the left side of the deep cart,.^ plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve passes downwards & inwards to the deep card plexus behind the subclavian artery, and also, on the right side, behind the innomin i, CARDIAC NS. of the PNEUMOGASTRIC & RECURR. LARYNGEil Are divided into: '[ Cervical Cardiac - Are divided into: Upper Cervical Cardiac - Small branches which join the cardiac ner: of the sympathetic. Lower Cervical Cardiac -vOne large branch which, on the right side, Cii cends along the innominate artery and joins one of the cardiac nerj destined to the deep cardiac plexus, and, on the left side, crosses i arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. Thoracic Cardiac - Arise on the right side both from the trunk of the pneui,' gastric & from its recurrent laryngeal branch, but on the left side from i' recurrent branch only. They all go to the deep cardiac plexus either sin or in connection with the other deep cardiac nerves.275 THE CARDIAC PLEXUSES. The cardiac nerves form two primary cardiac plexuses termed the superficial & the deep or great, and two secondary plexuses, the anterior & the posterior coronary, which two latter plexuses are derived from the preceding, as are also in part the anterior & the posterior pulmonary plexuses. SUPERFICIAL CARDIAC PLEXUS — The smaller. Is situated beneath arch of aorta in front of right pulmonary artery and on right side of ductus arteriosus. It com- municates by several filaments with the left half of the deep cardiac plexus. It is formed by the left superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, the left inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, and by several filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. It often presents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Wrisberg. It gives off the greater part of anterior coronary plexus, and several filaments to anterior pulmonary plexus of left side. DEEP OR GREAT CARDIAC PLEXUS — The larger. Is situated between trachea & arch of aorta, its right half lying above right branch of pulmonary artery, its left half lying rather on left side of trachea and being connected by several filaments with the superficial plexus. It is usually formed by every one of the cardiac nerves excepting the left superior cardiac nerve of sympathetic & left inferior cervical cardiac nerve of pneumogastric. Its right half sends branches - behind right pulmonary artery to posterior coronary plexus & to right auricle; - in front of right pulmonary artery, outwards, to right anterior pulmonary plexus, inwards, in front of pulmonary trunk to anterior coroaaiy pi ex as. - Its left half gives off": - several filaments to superficial cardiac plexus, numerous fila- ments to posterior coronary plexus & to left auricle, a few branches to left anterior pulmonary plexus. ANTERIOR CORONARY PLEXUS — Is derived chiefly from the superficial cardiac plexus, but partly also from the deep. It passes forwards between aorta & pulmonary artery and accompanies the left or anterior coronary artery & its branches. POSTERIOR CORONARY PLEXUS — is derived chiefly from the left half of the deep cardiac plexus, but partly also from the right. Its branches accompany the right or posterior coronary artery and its branches. The filaments of the coronary plexuses ramify in the substance of the heart and beneath the pericardium & endocardium. Numerous small ganglia are found upon them, especially in the vicinity of the boundary rings between the auricles & ventricles.276 SPLANCHNIC NERVES & SOLAR PLEXUS. gpL^^jjQjjjq-IQ NERVES — Usually three in number, and termed great^ lesser^ & least. Arise as follows from the six or seven lower dorsal ganglia : Great Splanchnic Nerve - Ganglia from 5th or 6th to 9th or 10th: - Is also con. nected with the dorsal ganglia above as high as the 3rd, or sometimes even as high as the 1st. Lesser Splanchnic Nerve - 10th & 11th ganglia. Least Splanchnic Nerve-12th ganglion. Pass downwards & inwards upon bodies of vertebrae being either more or less separate h distinct from each other, or more or less plexiform, and frequently presenting, when plexiform, either one relatively large ganglion, the ganglion splanchnicum, or several smaller ones. Perforate diaphragm conjointly or separately. End, the two first mainly in solar plexus, the last mainly in the renal. - The majority of the fibres of the great splanchnic nerve descend directly to the semilunar ganglion of same side. The great splanchnic nerves are white & firm in texture, as are also the branches of the superior mesenteric plexus. SOLAR or EPIGASTRIC PLEXUS Is formed mainly by the splanchnic nerves & the right pneumogastric, but is also reinforced ' to some extent by the left pneumogastric h by both phrenics. It lies behind the stomach, between the suprarenal capsules, above the pancreas; and sur. rounds the cceliac axis & root of superior mesenteric artery with a dense network of ! nerves & ganglia, the two largest of which ganglia are the Semilunar Ganglia - Irregularly semilunar in shape, and lie in front of crura of diaphragm on inner side of suprarenal capsules. Their upper enlarged extremity receives the greater part of great splanchnic nerve. Their smaller & lower extremity, and their outer convex & inner concave borders 1 give oflP large ofisets to solar plexus. || Its filaments spread out upon the branches of first part of abdominal aorta & their divisions, jj forming plexuses proportionate in size to, and, of the same name as, the arteries on i| which they are found j the plexus is then continued downwards upon the aorta into ii the aortic or lumbo-aortic plexus. \ From the solar plexus are thus derived the: Phrenic Plexus - From upper part of semilunar ganglion; joins with phrenic nerves |j from cervical plexus, and sends filaments to the suprarenal capsules. - On i' the right side, on which side it is the largest, it presents a small ganglion, | the ganglion diaphragmaticum, from which ganglion small twigs may be |l traced to suprarenal capsules, vena cava, & hepatic plexus, ijj CoeliaC Plexus - Large, partly formed by left pneumogastric. Divides into plexuses: [ Gastric - With gastric artery along lower curvature of stomach; joins with pneumc / gastrics & pyloric plexus. Hepatic - To liver upon hepatic vessels & bile ducts; joins with left pneumogastric I & right phrenic. Kamifies on hepatic artery & vena ports©, and gives off i plexuses:. Pyloric- To pylorus; joins with gastric. j Castro-duodenalis - Descends behind duodenum, and divides into right gastro. ! epiploic & superior pancreatico-duodenal 11 Cyslic - To gall-bladder. | Splenic - From solar plexus, right semilunar ganglion & right pneumogastric. Upon » ; Fana-eatic splenic artery to spleen, giving ofi" plexuses: 1 Left gastro-epiploic \ and ! Twigs to stomach along vasa brevia. Superior Mesenteric Plexus - From lower part of solar plexus «& right pneurao. gastric. Descends into mesentery, presenting numerous ganglia at its upper part, and gives off plexuses: Infenorpancreatico-duodenal, ileo-colic, right colic, middle colic, and twigs to small intestine which divide & anastomose like the arteries, but with less regularity, and reach intestine along its attached border. Suprarenal Plexus - From semilunar ganglia, splanchnic & phrenic nerves; presents the ganglion suprarenale. - The suprarenal capsules receive also a few twigs directly from phrenic & renal plexuses. Renal Plexus - From splanchnic nerves, especially the least, solar & aortic plexuses. Gives off a few twigs to suprarenal capsule, & on right side to inferior vena . cava, and forms greater part of spermatic plexus. Spermatic Plexus (Ovarian Plexus in Female) - Mainly derived from renal plexus and also to some extent from the aortic. Accompanies spermatic or ovarian artery to testis, or to ovary & fundus of uterus277 [NFEEIOR ABDOMINAL & PELVIC PLEXUSES. AORTIC or LUMBO-AORTIC PLEXUS Is situated upon sides & front of aorta between superior & inferior mesenteric arteries. Is derived mainly from the solar & renal plexuses and semilunar ganglia, but partly also from the lumbar ganglia. It often presents a few small ganglionic masses. It gives o£f the inferior mesenteric plexus, part of the spermatic, & filaments to the inferior vena cava, and is continued below into the hypogastric plexus. Inferior Mesenteric Plexus - Mainly derived from left side of the aortic. Ac- companies trunk & branches of inf. mesenteric artery, giving off plexuses: Left Colic, Sigmoid, & Superior Hemorrhoidal, ~ Which latter plexus joins with inferior hsemorrhoidal offset of pelvic plexus. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS Is a flattened plexiform mass which lies between the two common iliac arteries in front of last lumbar vertebra, & promontory of sacrum. Is derived from the aortic plexus & lumbar ganglia. Rarely presents any ganglia of its own. Inferiorly it divides into the two pelvic plexuses. PELVIC PLEXUSES (Sometimes called Inferior Hypogastric Plexuses). Two, situated on either side of rectum in the male, of rectum & vagina in female. Formed by bifurcation of hypogastric plexus, and by filaments from the two first sacral ganglia & four first sacral nerves, the third nerve supplying the greater number of these spinal fibres. Sends plexiform filaments to all the pelvic viscera along branches of internal iliao artery; the ovary, however, receiving but few filaments from this source. Are thus formed the following plexuses: Vesical - From front part of corresponding pelvic plexus. Consists of filaments rich in spinal nerve-fibres, & white in colour which are distributed to sides & base of bladder, and in the male, to vesiculse seminales & vasa deferentia the filaments to the vasa deferentia joining with spermatic plexus at comi mencement of cord. Inferior Hsemorrhoidal - From back part of pelvic plexus; - a few small filaments, which join with superior haemorrhoidal plexus. Uterine - Derived mainly from upper part of pelvic plexus before addition to the latter of anterior divisions of sacral nerves. Accompanies uterine artery along side of uterus, presenting a few small ganglia, and penetrates into sub- stance of the organ dividing into pencils of branches which anastomose but pMghtly with each other, and which are mainly distributed to the necl' <fe lower part of body; some filaments are prolonged upon the Fallo- pian tube & round ligament. - The lundus of the uterus frequently re- ceives a few twiga from the ovarian plexus, the ovary receiving at the same time a few filaments from the uterine. The enlargement of the nerves of the uterus in the gravid condition is due to the thickening of their neurilemma and to the persistence of the medullary sheath, which, in the unimpregnated state, disappears soon after the nerves enter the uterus (Farre, Cleland). Vaginal - From lower part of pelvic plexus. Contains a large proportion of spinal fibres, and supplies the mucous membrane, & the erectile tissue at anter- ior part of the canal. Prostatic - From lower part of pelvic plexus. Passes forwards between prostate & levator ani, and sends a few filaments to the vesiculse seminales. It is then prolonged into the cavernous plexus. Cavernous - Derived from foregoing, and receives also a few filaments from pudio nerve. Gives off: Small Cavernous Nerves - Several; perforate fibrous covering of penis near its root. Large Cavernous Nerve - Forwards on dorsum of penis, joining with dorsal nerve, and supplies anterior part of corpora cavernosa & spongiosum.278 TABLEAU of the SYMPATHETIC. Consists of GANGLIA: Prevertebral - Usually three cervical, eleven or twelve dorsal, four or five lumbar five sacral, one coccygeal. - (V. next Tablet). Spinal - Thirty.one j lie on posterior roots of spinal nerves. - With these may be classed the Gasserian ganglion, & the ganglia near the roots of the glosso. ! pharyngeal & pneumogastric nerves. - (V. Cranial & Spinal Nerves). \ Cranial - Four: - Ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic & submaxillary (V. Cranial | Nerves), 1 Visceral - Numerous j lie in the thoraco-abdominal plexuses. - (V. these Plexuses). ; BRANCHES: Of Communication I Between the Ckanial & Prevertebral Ganglia & the Cranial Nerves. - (V. cranial nerves & cervical portion of the Sympathetic). Between the Prevertebral Ganglia - Form with these ganglia the two grand cords of the sympathetic. - (V. next Tablet). Betweeu the Prevertebral Ganglia & the Spinal Nerves - Usually two for each ganglion. - (V. next Tablet). Between the Prevertebral & Visceral and Between the Yisceral Ganglia - Form with these latter ganglia the thoraco-abdominal plexuses - (Y. these Plexuses). Of Distribution - Pass through the foregoing plexuses to the thoraco-abdominal viscera, & to the arteries of the trunk & limbs. For structure of the ganglia & sympathetic nerves - Y. Structural Anatontf*I I THE TEETH.280 PEEIODS of EBUPTION. (PROM DENTAL CHRONOLOGY, Physiology page Temporary Teeth.-Appear at about the following dates, those of the lower jaw slightly Central lNcisoRS-7th m. after birth. [anticipating those of the upper one-: Lateral Incisors - 9th month after birth. First Molars - 12th month after birth. Canines - 18th month after birth. ^ Second Molars - 24th month after birth. M Fernianent Teeth-Appear at about the following dates, those of the lower jaw slighW First Molars - 6th year. anticipating those of the upper one: - Central Incisors - 7th year. Lateral Incisors - 8th year. Anterior Bicuspids - 9th year. Posterior Bicuspids - 10th year. Canines - 11th to 12th year. Second Molars - 12th to 13th year. Third Molars - 37th to 25th year. For a year or so before the shedding of the temporary incisors, i.e., between about the 5th or 6th & 7th years, there are forty- eight calcified teeth present in the jaws, namely, all the temporary teeth, and all the permanent ones except the wisdom-teeth.281 HE TEETH—1st Tablet. Temporary Set - Twenty: Four incisors^ two canines, four molars, in each jaw. Permanent Set - Thirty-lwo: Four incisors, two canines, four bicuspids, six molars, in each jaw. The upper dental arch describes a wider curve than the lower one. This is due partly to the somewhat wider curve of the superior alveolar arch, and partly to the implanta- tion of the teeth: The teeth of the upper jaw are inclined forwards in front and outwards behind; those of the lower jaw are vertical in front, and inclined slightly inwards behind. Owing to the greater breadth of the two upper central incisors, the teeth of the upper jaw are somewhat external or posterior to those of the lower jaw : They come in contact partly with the corresponding tooth below, and partly with the one next following; the cusps of the upper molars lie a little behind the corresponding cusps of the lower molars. Since, however, the upper molars, especially the wisdom teeth, are smaller than those below, the dental arches terminate behind nearly at the same point in both jaws. A tooth presents: - Crown - Projecting above the gum. - The crowns diminish slightly in height from the incisors to the last molar, - those of the canines, which project beyond the level of all the other teeth, being excepted. Hoot or FaXlg - implanted into the alveoli. The alveolus is lined with a periosteum, the periodental membrane, which is continuous above with the fibrous structures of the gum. Neck - Constricted portion between the crown and the fang.282 THE TEETH—2ncl Tablet. PERMANENT TEETH. INCISORS - Eight. Present the following peculiarities: - Crown - Chisel-shaped j bevelled at expense of posterior aarface. Presents: Edge - Sharp, horizontal; presents at first three small tubercles separated two slight notol Anterior Surface - Vertical, convex, smooth. Posterior Surface - Oblique, concave, slightly furrowed. Pang - I^oiigj simple, conical, compressed from side to side, thickest from bef( backwards J has sometimes a slight groove on either side, especiallj teeth of lower ji UPPER & LOWER Compared. * Lower - Smaller (central ones the smallest); vertical; overlapped superior oi Upper - Larger (central ones the largest) j oblique; overlap inferior oi \ fangs less compress I CANINES - Pour, larger and stronger than the incisors. Present the following peculiariti'j| Crown - Thick & conical; tapering to a single central cusp, which rises abi; level of all the other teeth; convex in front, slightly hollowed out belli' Fang - Simple, conical, longer than in any of the other teeth; compresjj laterally, & slightly grooved on either side; so thick from befjf backwards as to cause a projection on front of alveolar ai UPPER & LOWER Compared. Upper (^ye.Teei/i) - The larger and longer; lie a little external to, i| slightly overlap the lower oi Lower - Smaller and shorter; correspond to intervals between upper inciE & upper canines; slightly overlapped by upper oi283 THE TEETH—3rd Tablet. PERMANENT TEETH, BICUSPIDS - Eight J smaller and shorter than the canines, and of ahont the same height as the incisors. Present the following peculiarities: Crown - slightly compressed laterally; rounded in front & behind; surmounted by two cusps, one inner one & one outer one, of which the outer one is the largest. Fang - Compressed laterally; deeply grooved, and has a marked tendency to become double. UPPER & LOWER Compared. Upper - Larger; cusps more prominent; fangs generally bifid at apex, especially in case of second bicuspid, which is frequently cleft for a consider- able distance. Lower - Smaller j cusps less prominent, especially in case of first bicuspid, the posterior cusp of which is sometimes absent. MOLARS - Twelve; large & thick. Present the following peculiarities: Crown - I^ow & cuboid; compressed from without inwards; rounded in front & behind. Grinding surface presents cusps, usually four in number (one at each angle) in the upper teeth, and five in number (two inner, three outer) in the lower teeth, separated by a more or less crucial depression. Fangs - Multiple; more or less composite when there are but few. THE three MOLARS Compared. First Molar - The largest. The tipper tooth has three fangs, two external short & divergent, one internal larger & longer, which is frequently grooved and sometimes bifid at its apex. The lower tooth has two broad compressed fangs, one anterior, one posterior, grooved on their contiguous surfaces. Second Molar - Similar but somewhat smaller. The upper one is somewhat smaller than the lower one. Third Molar - The smallest. The crown is small & rounded, and its two inner cusps are frequently blended j usually but one single composite fang, short, conical, irregularly curved. The third upper molar is a good deal smaller than the third lower one.THE TEETH-4th Tablet. TEMPORARY TEETH. INCISORS & CANINES - Resemble the corresponding permanent teeth, U are smaller. MOLARS - Pi'esent the following peculiarities: - - In both jaws, the second or last molar is mnch larger than the first OB It is the largest of the milk-teeth; it is even larger than the second bicuspi which afterwards takes its place. - In the lower jaw it has five cusps, t? internal, three external. In the tipper jaw it has four cusps. The first tipper molar has but three cusps, two external, one internal. Tl first lower molar has four cusps.285 ITRUOTURE of the TEETH-lst Tablet. Ivory or Dentine - Forming the greater part of the tooth; Enamel - Thin layer over crown; Cement, or CrUSta Petrosa - Thin layer over fang 5 Pulp - Lodged in Pulp"Cavity - in interior of dentine, shaped somewhat like tooth: Widest opposite or a little above neck; prolonged into each fang down to its apex, where it presents a small opening for entrance of vessels and nerves; also prolonged into each lateral angle of crown of incisors, & into each cusp of the bicuspids & molars.286 STRUCTURE of the TEETH—2nd Tablet. DENTINE Resembles very compact bone both in general aspect and in chemical compositi Contains per cent/il Animal Matter, - 28, resolvable into gelatin by boiling j Earthy Matter, - 72, chiefly phosphate of lime, with a little carhonatti' of lime, phosphate of magnesia, fluoride of calcium, etc Structurally it presents: Transparent Homogeneous Solid Material, or Matrix. Dentinal Tubules - Delicate wavy canals which radiate from the pulp-cavity towardi the periphery of the tooth, and which contain minute prolongations of the super i ficial cells, or odontoblasts, of the pulp. Towards their inner extremity their diameter is about ^J^^th of an inch, an( the distance between them is about two or three times their width. | As they pass outwards they divide dichotomously several times, at first withou; greatly diminishing in size ; and they give off numerous fine lateral branches, som(i| of which anastomose with each other-, while others end in blind extremities. % Thei^j course is doubly undulatory : the undulations form an uninterrupted series o r minute spires, the primary tmdulations^ whose general direction is marked by twi or three wide and gentle curves, the secondary undulations. The latter undulation.'jj give rise to concentric shaded lines, Schreyer's lines, which must not be confoundeijj with the incremental lines or interglobular spaces hereafter described. !; Towards the periphery, both the principal tubes greatly reduced in size, ancjj their lateral branches greatly increased in number, terminate partly in minute frei extremities, partly in loops, and partly in anastomoses either with the canaliculio , the cement or with the fissured spaces of the enamel. ,| The dentinal tubules are described as having a proper wall, the dentinal sheath\ probably elastic in nature. Under ordinary circumstances this wall is undistinj' guishable from the matrix, but it becomes visible when sections of decalcifiefj; dentine are steeped in strong hydrochloric acid: the acid destroys the matrixbnjj leaves the membranous tubes intact. j| In the temporary teeth the tubules are more or less moniliform or beadecl. ;i287 TEUOTURE of the TEETH-3rd Tablet,, DENTINE (Continued). Though the matrix be homogeneous in structure (Sharpey), its calcification in super- imposed strata and by means of globular or spheroidal deposits (Vide Development of the Teeth) gives rise to A Tendency to split into Lamellsa - This tendency becomes evident after decalcifi- cation by the prolonged action of weak acids, or after prolonged boiling with caustic potash: The softened dentine is then easily torn into cribriform lamellse parallel, or nearly so, to the surface of the pulp; a thin transverse section similarly treated breaks up into concentric rings like the year-rings of wood (Salter). - These lamellfe & rings mark the size & shape of the pulp-cavity during the successive stages of calcification. Incremental Lines, Interglobular Spaces - These are dark lines of imperfect calcification separating the above lamellae. They vary greatly in number & breadth, but are always more or less apparent in a fine longitudinal section of a fully formed tooth. Under a high power they are seen to consist of small cavities bounded by, and therefore receiving their shape from, the minute nodules or globules of dentinal deposit (Salter). Granular Layer of Purkinje - is a layer of small interglobular spaces which usually surrounds the fang just beneath the cement, and sometimes the crown just beneath the enamel. The more superficial of the incremental lines are con- tinued into this layer.288 STRUCTURE of the TEETH-4th Tablet. ENAMEL. Thickest on cutting edge or grinding surface 5 becomes gradually thinner near neck. Consists of dense hard hexagonal fibres disposed perpendicularly to the surface of the cro\( and of about -g^^Q of an inch in diameter. Their inner ends are implanted into mimi hexagonal depressions in the dentine. Their outer ends, somewhat larger, & free, g:, a tesselated appearance to the surface of the tooth. They are striated transversely. Their course is somewhat wavy, especially near the dentine, where they are grouji in strata or ranges, which cross each other in direction, so as to give rise to the appe i ance, on a longitudinal section, of lines, alternately dark & pale, radiating from theinii to the outer surface of the enamel. Numerous fine dark concentric lines termed the coloured UneSi are also seen crossi the enamel fibres; they are of a brownish colour, but whether they are due to a depc! of pigment or not is not known. Small fissures are usually seen in the deeper parts of the enamel between the strf ! or ranges of fibres as they pass down to the dentine; these fissures communicate w:i the dentinal tubules. ; Enamel contains but 3-5 per cent, of animal matter, the remainder, or 96-5 per oefj consisting of phosphate of lime with a little carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnes! fluoride of calcium, & other salts. When submitted to the prolonged action of dili, acids, the enamel is therefore almost entirely dissolved. A delicate membrane, the cuticle of the enamel or NasmytKs membrane^ is said to co^jj the enamel of unworn teeth, the surface of which teeeh is always crossed by more or 1(' marked concentric ridges easily distinguishable with a common lens. This membra 11 is of an epithelial or horny nature; it therefore withstands the action of acids289 STRUOTUEE of the TEETH—5th Tablet. CRUSTA PETROSA, or CEMENT. A. layer of true bone which surrounda the fang or fangs, being thickest at the lowel part and in the grooves of compound fangs. Its lacuncs are somewhat larger and less regular than those of bone generally. In the deeper parts the canaliculi anastomose with the dentinal tubules; in the mora superficial parts they radiate towards the periodental membrane. Haversian canals^ & lamellcSi and perforating fibres (Sharpey), are found where the layer is thickest. Its chemical composition is similar to that of ordinary bone. There is but a small amount of cement over the fangs of the deciduous teeth. Over those of the permanent teeth the quantity increases greatly as age advances, and frequently gives rise in the aged to bony growths. The cement is said to be very sensitive when exposed, at the neck of the toothj through the retraction of the gum. A.290 STRUCTUKE of the TEETH,—6th Tablet. THE PULP Soft, vascular, sensitive. fl Consists of jelly-like connective tissue with fine fibres of white fibrous tissue, caudal anastomosing nucleated cells, blood-vessels, & nerves. The superficial cells are termed odontoblasts. They are elongated perpendicular to the surface of the pulp, and their superficial processes, of which several may arii from one cell, are prolonged into the dentinal tubules. They are joined to eati other by lateral processes, and to the deeper cells by radical processes. - Throug;! being more or less adherent to the dentine, they are sometimes described as f ormiBj the me77ibrana eboris. i The arteries are from the inferior dental, and from the alveolar & infraorl branches of the internal maxillary. The nerves are from the inferior dental branch of the inferior maxillary division and from the anterior & posterior dental branches of the superior maxillary divisi<ill of the fifth. Towards the surface of the pulp, they are said to end in fine nol* modulated fibres which enter the dentinal tubules with the processes of wj odontoblasts.APPENDIX TO THE VISCERA.29H THE STRUCTURE of the SALIVARY GLANDS. Basement Membrane. Is formed, not simply of more or less elongated epithelioid cells dovetailed one into,, the other, as in the case with most basement membranes, but also of branched or stellatejj cells. These cells form a close network with foramina here & there, rather than a perfectly continnous membrane. They are further said to send processes inwards, which processes form su^ inter-cellular network between the salivary cells; but whether the inter-cellular network allude^ to is a sustentacular network of cell-processes (Boll), or a plexus of nerve-fibres (Pfliiger), or plexus of salivary capillaries (Saviotti), is still uncertain. Salivary Cells. These are of two kinds, (1) the Itntng cells of the ahedlit & (2) the dee^ or half-tnoon-cells^ (1) Lining Cells of the Alveoli - These are large ovoid cells, more or less flattened where they press one against another, which line, or rather almost fill up, the secreting follicles. Th^ consist of a mass of granular photoplasm enclosing a nucleus, the position of which nucleus is a point of considerable interest. This position varies : - The nucleus is sometimes pushed oi wards towards the basement membrane, sometimes drawn inwards towards the lumen. Kespecting this varying position of the nucleus, physiologists are divided into two cam some follow the views of Pfliiger, others those of Heidenhain. The former views are to the e£ that, during life, the nucleus always occupies the more central position, and that its occasio: displacement outwards after death is due, when it occurs, to the swelling up, through imbibitiofi of water, of the mucus said to be frequently found in the inner part of the cell: - When thro irritation of the chorda tympani, this mucus has been shed previous to death, the nucleus woi be found, after death, in its normal & more central position. The latter views are, on the contrary, to the effect that, as in case of the pancreas, alternating displacement of the nucleus occurs during life, in coincidence with the periods of act of secretion, which periods are marked by the appearance & disappearance of the half-m cells described below (Y. Appendix, page 40°). (2) Deep, or HALr-MooN Cells - These lie between the lining cells above described & basement membrane, by pressure against which they appear to be flattened out j and they are dark & granular. The divergence of views above alluded to with reference to the lining cells of the alveoli, coa- tinnes with respect to these half-moon cells. According to the followers of Pfliiger, they appear only after death, and are due to^ the same post.mortem changes which press outwards the nucleus of the lining cells: - The lining cells, becoming distended, through imbibition of the mucus they contain, press outwards the smaller peripheral cells, which contain no mucus, and flatten them against the basement membrane. According to the followers of Heidenhain, on the contrary, these cells appear & disappear alternately in coincidence with the several periods of the process of secretion. They appear during the intervals of the periods of excretion, and correspond in function to the outer or zymogen-forming portion of the secreting cells of the pancreas. They disappW during the periods of excretion: - The granular & protoplasmic material they contain then paflWfl into the lining cells. In support of this it is shown that these half-moon cells are granular & easfly stained with carmine, while the lining cells are neither granular nor easily stained, except pj; short time after the disappearance of the half-moon cells; then also is their nucleus pushed inwarflfl by the granular protoplasmic & easily staining material which distends their outer portions. Irritation of the chorda tympani brings about all the changes which characterise the period of excretion (V. Tablets on physiology, Appendix, page 36 & SS-^). 1InterGelli^lar Eetldilmn. An intercellular reticulum is said to surround the cells, and to enclose them on all sides. But whether this reticulum is a sustentacular network of cell-processes, or not, is still uncertain. By Pfliiger, as will be seen below, it is described as consisting, in part at least, of a plexus of fine nerve-fibres. According to Saviotti, Langerhans, & others, it is a plexus of " Salivary Capillaries," i. (?., of minute canals communicating with the alveoli; and in support of this view it is stated that, when a salivary gland is injected from its duct, the injection matter, after filling the alveoli, passes into, and distends, these capillaries. According to G-ianuzzi, it is a plexus of lymphatics. Mug§gs_^ccmn4 the ^^^^^^^^ Pfliiger believes that he has been able to trace the nerve-fibres into direct continuity with the secreting cells. These nerve-fibres would terminate in one of the four following ways: - 1. - The nerve loses its sheath as it perforates the basement membrane j it then divides into smaller fibres, which run between the cells. Each of these fibres perforates the wall of a cell, and ends in its nucleus. 2. - Some of the nerves terminate upon the cells in a kind of expansion or foot, the so-called "protoplasm foot," whose substance is intermediate in nature between glandular tissue and nervous tissue. 3. - The bases of the cells which line the ducts present a varicose prolongation which per- forates the basement membrane, and becomes continuous with several nerve-fibres. These pass up towards the nucleus, giving rise to the striae which mark the peripheral portion of the cell. 4. - Sympathetic nerve-fibres terminate in multipolar ganglion-cells, the caudate^ oflEsefei of which penetrate into the glandular cells, and end in their nucleus. By most physiologistSi this account has not been favourably received. Epithelimn of the Ducts. In the very smallest ducts, i. in those which are continued from the alveoli, there is a single layer of slighly flattened spheroidal epithelium. In the ducts a little larger, the epithelium suddenly becomes columnar, or rather conical or pyramidal: the smaller ends of the cells are turned towards the lumen, and are homogeneous or granular; their larger ends are turned towards the basement membrane, and are slightly striated vertically. As above stated, this striation is due, according to Pfliiger, to flne nerve-fibres passing up towards the nucleus. In the largest ducts, the epithelium becomes tesselated j and a few white, yellow elastic, & muscular fibres surround the basement membrane externally. The lymphatics are described as commencing in fissures between & around the alveoli (Gianuzzi). 3294 THE TONGUE —2nd Tablet. MUSCULAR FIBRES Form extrinsic & intrinsic muscles, EXTRINSIC MUSCLES Are the: ' Stylo-glosSUS - Anterior & outer aspect of styloid process near its apex & stylo- maxillary ligament. Side of base of tongue externally to hyo-glossus, dividing into : Longitudinal portion - Forwards along side of tongue, and blends with lingualis inferior in front of hyo-glossus. Transverse portion - Decussates with hyo-glossus & with its fellow. Hyo-glossus - Side of body, lesser comu & whole length of great cornu of hyoid I bone (basio-glossus, chondro-glossus, cerato-glossus). ] Side of under surface of tongue between stylo-glossus & lingualis inferior. Genio-hyO-gloSSUS - By a short tendon from superior genial tubercle on ; inner surface of boly of jaw-bone^ close to symphysis, j Whole length of under surface of tongue internally to lingualis in- ■ ferior, side of pharynx, body of hyoid bone. Palato-glossus or Constrictor Isthmi Faucium - Anterior surface of soft palate close to uvula. Side of base of tongue, blending with stylo-glossus. INTRINSIC MUSCLES H Are the: j^m Lingualis transversus - Median septum. "( Sides, and sides of dorsum. - Forms the chief bulk of the tongue. Lingualis Superior - stratum of longitudinal or slightly oblique fibres thickest in front, and covering dorsum of tongue beneath the mucous ^ membrane to which the individual fibres are attached, jj Lingualis Inferior - Longitudinal band of fibres along whole length of under surface of tongue between hyo-glossus & genio-hyo-glossus. Blends with stylo-glossus in front of hyo-glossus. Lingualis Perpendicularis - Set of vertical or slightly oblique fibres from i centra] part of dorsum to sides of under surface, forming curves concave upwards & outwards, i The outer parts, or cortex, of the tongue are firm, and consist mainly of ! longitudinsbl fibres j the central part, or nucleus, is softer, and ' consists mainly of transverse & vertical fibres intermingled with :| ■^■ ■■^^ adipose tissue* I ;! Ji295 THE TONGUE-3rd Tablet, MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Thick & rough on anterior two-thirda of dorsum, sides, & tip j thin & smooth on posterior third of dorsum & on under surface. Consists of a cutis or corium dense & very similar to that of the skin, and of a thick layer of squamous epithelium; and presents: PAPILLA — Highly sensitive vascular projections divisible into simple and compound. The former are similar to the papillae of the skin, and cover whole of tongue; the latter, which are themselves studded with simple papillse, are found on rough surface only, and are divided according to their size & shape into • Papillse Maximsa or Circumvallatse - From 7 to 12 j situated at junction of middle & posterior thirds of dorsum, where they are arranged in two rows oblique backwards & inwards, which rows meet at foramen coecum and form together an inverted V. They consist of a central conical projection, the base of which is free while its apex is attached, which projection is contained in a cup-shaped depression bounded itself by a prominent circular rim. - The foramen coecum is the central depression, usually large, which lodges the central papilla, itself frequently small. Papillse Mediae or Fungiformes - Club.shaped, and present narrow attached & rounded free extremities. Sparingly scattered over anterior two-thirds of dorsum, collected in greater numbers over sides & tip. Papillae Minimse, or Conicse et FiliformeS - Tapering or cylindrical, closely packed over whole of rough surface, and arranged in rows which are vertical on borders & tip, and which are, on dorsum, parallel, posteriorly, to the rows of circumvallate papillae, but, anteriorly, more directly transverse. - The simple or secondary papillse borne by the filiform papillae contain a few elastic fibres, and their epithelial sheaths are prolonged beyond them sometimes to the extent of forming a pencil of almost hair.like fibres. In the fungiform & circumvallate, and probably also in the filiform papillae, the nerves form plexuses, from which small brush-like filaments are given off to the secondary papillae. These filaments are believed to terminate in the deep extremities of spindle-shaped nucleated bodies similar to the olfactory cells of Schultze(Billroth, Key). GLANDS—Are: Follicular - Aggregated on posterior third of dorsum behind papillae circumvallataa, and very similar to the follicular recesses of the tonsils. KaceniOSe - I^i© beneath & in front of foregoing, and over sides & under surface of tongue. On under surface near tip they are collected into two small oblong masses first described by Blandin & Nuhn.295'^ THE STETJCTURE of the LIVER. Biliary Capillaries Commence between & around the individual cells in a network much finer & closer tha that of the blood-capillaries. The vessels which form this network can be seen under hig powers as minute apertures between the flattened contiguous sides of adjacent hepatic cells, be they can scarcely be injected except through Chrzonszczewsky's method of "natural injet tion," which is as follows: - A solution of sulph-indigotate of soda is injected into ti internal jugular vein of a living animal (dog or sucking-pig), and the animal is killed short] afterwards. The blue colouring matter is then seen to have penetrated, according to the tlm the animal was allowed to live after the injection, first into the vessels of the liver, then int the hepatic cells, and finally into the biliary capillaries. \ It is believed that these capillaries have a proper wall of their own, though this wall lail not yet been demonstrat ed. They open into a fine intralobular plexus, the walls of which plexus ai i formed of an incomplete basement membrane lined with short polygonal cells which nearly fill i' the lumen. The succeeding interlobular plexus presents a complete basement membrane lin^ J-iie Larger Me-dnQts. 1^^^*^ columnar cell! The larger ducts contained in the portal canals have strong & distensible areolar coai containing a good deal of elastic tissue, and, in the largest ducts, a few plain muscular fibre The largest ducts are beset with true mucous glands; but, in addition to these glands, both the largest ducts, & those that are somewhat smaller, present numerous csecal recesses believed at oi ; time to be glandular. Some of these recesses are saccular in form j others are tubular j some a ' branched; some form an anastomosing network beset with smaller dilatations; and the dilatations are sometimes so numerous that they partly conceal the parent trunk. Hence t belief, once entertained by Henle & others, that it is these recesses, and not the hepatic cells, that a The Eegatic ^rtery. [engaged in the secretion of the bt Within the portal canals, the divisions of the hepatic artery give oflE three sets of brancb capsulari vaginal^ dj- interlobular. The ira^j^z/^^r branches spread out under the fibrous coat, whi I they supply. The vaginal branches ramify within the portal canals, and supply Glissoi! capsule and the walls of the blood-vessels & bile-ducts. The interlobular branches pass c between the lobules, in company with the interlobular branches of the portal vein, which brand are much larger than they. They supply that part of the capillary network of the lobul which is intermediate between the branches of distribution of the portal vein & the branches of orij of the hepatic veins, i.e., between the lobular branches of the portal vein & the intralobu! hepatic veins. This is shown by the results of post-mortem examinations in cases of active c( gestion of the liver, and by the results of Chrzonszczewsky's "natural injections" in anim; whose portal vein bas been tied : in both cases the lobules are stained in their central part (with bio i The Portal Vein. [orinjectionmatter, as the case may be), while their peripheral partis pj' Within the portal canals, the divisions of the portal vein receive capsular & vaginal branch which return the blood distributed to the liver by the corresponding brs. of the hepatic arte { The branches of distribution of the portal vein, i.e.y the interlobular & the lobular^ have aires I been described, page 314, the former as passing out between the lobules, the latter as peneti | ing into the lobules and forming a plexus within their peripheral part. This is shown by i results of post-mortem examinations in cases otportal congestion, and by the results of Chrzoi | czewsky's "natural injections" in animals whose hepatic artery has been tied: in both ca j the lobules are stained in their peripheral part (with blood or injection matter, as the case may 11 while their central part is pale. - From the plexus within the lobules arise the intralobular hep£: SejjOEttiC Veins [veins, already described with the sublobular & the larger hepatic veins. V. page X The minute intralobular veins appear to open at once into the sides of the adjacent sull hular veins, which latter have very thin walls, and are closely adherent to the lobules. I, larger hepatic veins run alone, and have no intralobular veins opening directly into them. Tlji walls are somewhat thicker, but they are still separated from the lobules by only a very thin laill of cellular tissue : when any of the hepatic veins are divided their mouths remain open. Capillary Plexus. | The capillary plexus of the liver is an exceedingly close one. Its vessels are large, (^J an inch), and the spaces between them do not exceed the diameter of one or two of the hepi cells. These vessels converge from the branches of distribution of the portal vein to the brancjl of origin of the hepatic veins, z.^., from the lobular branches of the portal vein to the intralobi f hepatic veins. They a»e not in immediate contact with the hepatic cells, but are separeii from them by a narrow space lined with flatttened cells, which space serves for the passagJ lymph. In the human subject, owing to the imperfect isolation of the lobules, the capilll| The Lymphatics [plexus appears continuous here & there from one lobule to anot j- Originate in the above mentioned spaces around the capillaries. A few lymphoid nod are connected with them. They take the course already described, page 314. Hepatic Cells. ^ The hepatic cells are arranged in a network radiating from the centre of the lobules ; periphery, the openings of which network are all but completely occupied by the capillaries. Their diameter raries from ^^fe^ to of an inch. They have no cell wall. - Y.p.296''- THE STRtrCTtTRE of the SPLEEN. Trabecular Framework. Consists not only of the fibro-elastic coat with the sheaths of the vessels & the larger tra- becnlse hitherto described (V. page S17), but also of a delicate network of retiforra tissue which pervades & supports the pulp. This network consists of branched connective-tissue covm •pKi^GiQ^^ihQ supporting cells of the pidp (Schafer), which are joined together by their processeg. When they are well developed, these supporting cells may contain either pigment granules resulting from the disintegration of the blood-corpuscles, or even entire corpuscles more or lesa altered in form & colour. But they are frequently reduced in sizej and occasionally they have entirely disappeared, leaving only a reticulum of simple fibres. Small Arteries, Capillaries, & Small Veins. In the spleen, these are modified as follows t - 1. - The small arteries lose their external coat j or rather this coat becomes transformed into a stratum of lymphoid tissue expanded here «fc there into small spheroidal masses, the Mai* ^ghian Corpuscles ( Vide below). 2. - The cells which form the walls of the capillaries, become transformed into con- nective tissue corpuscles. In the largest capillaries, these corpuscles are closely packed & imbricated. In those a little smaller, they form but a single layer, and are merely joined edge to edge. Further on, they cease to lie in immediate contact, and are connected one to another merely by processes of varying & increasing length. The capillaries thus become first fenestrated, then more & more deficient in continuous parietesj and finally, losing their tubular character entirely, they merge into the retiform network of the pulp, and cease to exist as distinct vessels. Thus the arterial capillaries open directly into the areolar spaces. From these spaces the venous capillaries arise in the same way in which the arterial capillaries end. The small veins frequently present transverse markings, which are probably due to the arrangement of the retiform tissue on their surface. They run apart from the small arteries', which are disposed in tufts or pencils. They anastomose freely with each other, while the arteries anastomose but very little (V. page 317). Malpighian Corpuscles. ^ These are localised expansions, or thickenings, of the lymphoid tissue above described as forming the outer coat of the small arteries. They vary in size up to -^-^ of an inch, their average diameter being about ^ or of an inch. The larger ones are clearly visible to the naked eye, and appear, on a fresh section, as pale coloured spots on the dark background of the pulp. They are more or less spheroidal in shape. In the lower mammalia, they are usually placed either on one side only of the arterial wall, or in the angle of separation between two arteries. In man, they are mostly developed all round the vessel, generally a small one, which then peae-* trates their substance, and by which they are suspended, so to speak, from a larger trunk. Their reticulum is very slender & open, especially towards the centre, where it is also most densely packed with lymphoid corpuscles and most abundantly supplied with capillaries. Towards the periphery, the reticulum becomes a little closer; no distinct boundary exists, however, between the corpuscle & the surrounding pulp. 7297^ "Taste-Buds/* Are flask.like bodies discovered by Loven & Schwalbe m the thick epithelial layer which surrounds the sides of the circuravallatiB papillse of the base of the tongue, and which have also been found of late on some of the fungiform papillse and on the epiglottis. They are pyriform in shape. Their bases rest upon the chorium. Their apices project between the superficial epithelial cells, and present a minute opening, from which a bundle of thread-like processes are seen to emerge. They consist of modified epithelial cells, disposed perpendicularly to the surface, whick cells may be divided into superficial & deep. The stiperjicial cells are flattened, or ribbon-like^ tapering at each end, and joined together at their sides, so as to enclose the deeper cells, as, in the flower-bud, the external scales surround the internal folioles. The deeper cells are spindloS shaped, enlarged in their middle, where they present a prominent nucleus, and tapering at eithei end. Their deeper end, which is sometimes branched, passes down into the chorium, and, it % said, becomes connected with a nerve-fibril. Their more superficial end is prolonged into oned the thread-like processes, which are seen to project from the opening of the taste-bud. surrounding epithelial cells are flattened round the taste-buds, so to enclose them in a 8a| or nest. The taste-buds are now believed not to be connected with the sense of taste, since tl«|i are found on the epiglottis, which is not endowed witb taste. Follicular Recesses of the Tonsils, & of the Base of the Tongue. Beneath the raucous covering of these organs are found, not closed follicles, as was forme stated, but closely packed nodular masses of retiform or lymphoid tissue (V, Struct^ Anatomy). Deville's Gland, Dr. Deville has demonstrated the existence beneath the fmucous membrane of the und surface of the tongue, not far from the tip, of a large racemose horse-shoe-shaped glandular ma stretching across the middle line, with its convexity in front & its concavity behind. Mucous Membrane of the Pharynx. In addition to the simple & compound follicular and racemose glands described, page there exist numerous lymphoid follicles, or masses of reticular or lymphoid tissue simil those of the intestine. A collection of these masses stretches across the back of the pha between the Eustachian tubes. Mucous Membrane of the Soft Palate. In the foetus, the mucous membrane over the whole of the posterior surface of the'^ palate is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium; and, in many instances, the epitheliam the gland-ducts retains this character. Except near the Eustachian tubes, the surface epif lium subsequently becomes squamous. y Mucous Membrane, & Muscular Coat of the CEsophagus. A thin layer of plain muscular fibres disposed longitudinally bopMj externally the mucous membrane of the lower part of the oesophagus, and is continued inferiffldj into the corresponding but better developed structure of the mucous membrane of stomach. The blood-vessels are mostly longitudinal in direction. Lymphatics and a little lymj tissue are found both in the mucous & sub-mucous coats. The nerves form gangliated pl( between the two layers of the muscular coat. iTHE DIGESTIVE ORGANS.292 THE TONSILS. Bounded, slightly elongated from above downwards, & rather variable in size j lie in reoeil between anterior & posterior pillars of soft palate, and correspond to angle of Preseml Outer Surface - contact with superior constrictor of pharnyx, which separates it fxoii internal carotid & ascending pharyngeal arteriwj Izmer Surface - Forms part of lateral boundary of isthmus faucium, and presents tl openings, from twelve to fifteen in number, of large recesses, from which sinallif | recesses or follicular depressions branch out into the substance of the glam These recesses & follicular depressions are lined by a continuation of the mucoii membrane & of the epithelial layer of the throat. Their walls are thick, consist mainly of a layer of closed capsules, similar to those of Payer's patob^ and imbedded in the submucous tifioj Vessels & Nerves - Abtebies. Ascending & descending palatine, dorsalis lingU) ascending pharyngeal. - Veins. Open into tonsillar plexus on outer tti of tonsil. - Nebves from fifth & glosso-pharyngMi293 THE TONGUE-1st Tablet. Presents for examination! BASE - Connected to: Soft palate - By anterior pillars of fances j Pharynx - By superior constrictors of pharynx & mucous membrane j Epiglottis - By three folds of mucous membrane, the glosso-epiglottic ligaments j Hyoid bone - By hyo-glossi & genio-hyo-glossi muscles. APEX-Free. UPPER SURFACE OR DORSUM Rough in its anterior two-thirds, where it presents the papillae minhnce or conicce et filiformeSf and the papillae medvz or fungi- formes \ smooth in its posterior third, or behind the papillae maxi??ue or drcumvallatce, where it presents the projecting orifices of nnmerous mucous glands. UNDER SURFACE — Connected to hyoid bone & lower jaw by hyo-glossi & genio-hyo- glossi muscles, and from sides of which the mucous membrane is reflected over floor of month to inner Burfaoe of gums, forming in front a prominent fold, the fraenum lingua. STRUCTURE of the TONGUE Presents for examination: Osteo-fibrous Support - Consists of: Hyoid Bone ; Median Fibeous Septum - Thickest behind, where it is attached to epi- glottis. Hto-glossal Membrane - Connects under surface of tongue to hyoid bone. To these may be added tho Thick mucous Membrane on the dorsum of the organ. Muscular fibres - Vide next Tablet. Mucous Membrane - "Vide next Tablet but one. Vessels & Nerves. Arteries - Lingual^ inferior or ascending palatine branches offacial, ascending pharyngeal. Veins - Partly correspond to arteries, partly open into pterygoid plexus. Lymphatics - To submaxillary glands. Neryes - Are the : Gustatory to mucous membrane of anterior two-thirds, & sides; Glosso-pharyngeal to mucous membrane of posterior third or base; Hypoglossal to the muscles. Jwtcmat branch of the superior laryngeal a ends a few twigs to mu- cous membrane of base. — A few small ganglia are found (Kolliker, Remak) upon the glosso-pharyngeal and, in the sheep & calf, upon the gustatory.S94 THE TONGUE — 2nd Tablet. MUSCULAR FIBRES295 THE TONGUE —3rd Tablet, MUCOUS MEMBRANE, i- ~- . Jr r—-.— ^ PAPILLA Pap:296 THE SALIVARY GLANDS-1st Tablet. Are the parotid, submaxillary & snblingual, and numerous smaller glands situated beneath' the mucous membrane of the mouth. They are all conglomerate or racemose glands, i| PAROTID GLAND Lies below & in front of external ear, and stretches forwards to a variable extent on outer 11 surface of masseter, often presenting in that situation and just below zygoma, a small detached portion, the soeia parotidis. Is bounded by: Above - Zygoma. Below - Line drawn from angle of jaw to sterno-mastoid. Behind - External auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno-mastoid, posterior belly of digastric. Presents: Outer Surface - Lobulated. ^Covered by integument, fascia & a few fibres of 0 platysma. Inner Surface - Prolonged deeply in front of and behind styloid process to- wards internal carotid & internal jugular vein, wall of pharynx & deep part of glenoid fossa. Ant. Surface - Grooved externally for posterior border of ramus, and pro- longed forwards, internally, between the two pterygoid muscles. Post. Surface - Kests upon external auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno- mastoid, posterior belly of digastria Is perforated by several Arteries - External carotid with its posterior auricular^ internal maxillary & temporal branches, and the transverse facial offset of the latter. Veins -Internal maxillary & temporal forming origin of external jugular^ and a branch of communication between the latter & the internal jugular, i Nerves -Facial^ auriculo-temporal & deep facial branches of great auricular, ITS VESSELS & NERVES are — Arteries & Veins, from or to above mentioned (, trunks. - Lymphatics, to two or three lymphatic glands in substance & on !' surface of parotid, and from thence to superficial & deep glands of neck. ! - Nerves, from carotid plexus, auriculo-temporal & great auricular. PABOTID DUCT ( Steno's or Stenson's ) — From anterior border of the gland, ^ and from socia parotidis when it exists. Over masseter a finger's breadth I below zygoma, its direction being marked by a line from lower part of concha to i midway between free margin of the lip & ala of the nose. Through fat of cheek & tuccinator, and obliquely beneath mucom membrane, which it perforates opposite i , . ' and molar tooth of upper jaw»297 HE SALIVARY GLANDS —2nd Tablet. SUBMAXILLARY GLAND Intermediate in size between parotid & sublingual. Presents two portions t Superficial Portion - The largest. Covered by - Skin, superficial fascia, platysma, deep fascia, body of lower jaw. Rests upon - Stylo- & hyo-glossi & mylo-hyoid. Separated posteriorly from parotid by - Stylo-maxillary ligament- Grooved posteriorly <Sr» above by - Facial artery. Deep Portion - The smallest. Prolonged upwards forwards inwards round Wharton's duct, between mylo- hyoid and hyo- & genio-hyo-glossi & below gustatory nerve. WHARTON'S DUCT — Upwards forwards & inwards with deep portion of the gland on inner side of sublingual gland, and opens on summit of a small papilla on side of fraenum linguae. Is about 2 inches long, and has much thinner walls than Steno's ductj it receives a few of the ductus Riviniani. Vessels & Nerves - ^r^^nVj, from facial & lingual. - iV^rz'^j, from submaxillary ganglion, sympathetic & mylo-hyoid branch of inferior dental. SUBLINGUAL GLAND The smallest, flattened, & almond-shaped. Projects beneath mucous membrane of floor of mouth in the shape of a firm antero- posterior crest. Lies upon mylo-hyoid by side of fraenum linguae & in sublingual fossa of lower jaw. Has behind it <Sr» on its inner side genio-hyo-glossus, gustatory nerve, Wharton's duct & deep portion of submaxillary gland. DUCTUS RIVINIANI — From 8 to 20. Open most of them directly into the motith, some into Wharton's duct. One, longer than the others, the duct of Bartholin, which is sometimes derived in part from submaxillary gland, accompanies the Whartonian duct, and opens into it or near it on floor of mouth. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries^ from sublingual & submental branches of facial. - Nerves, from gustatory.THE PHAKYNX Is a nmsoulo-membranoiis bag extending from base of skull to lower border of cricoid ca tilage in front; & 5th. cervical vertebra behind j abont 4| inches long; broadest fro side to side, its greatest breadth being comprised between comna of hyoid bori It is bounded above by petrous portion of temporal bone and by under surface of body I sphenoid; - not, as has hitherto been stated, by basilar process of occipital, the rec( capitis antici muscles passing forwards between roof of pharynx & whole length i| It is continuous below with oesophagus. It is connected behind by loose areolar tissue to the cervical vertebrse & the longi colli In front it is attaclied from above downwards to: Initmal pterygoid plate; Pterygo-maxillary ligament; Lower Jaw ; Base of tongue ; Cornua of hyoid bone stylo-hyoid ligament; Thyroid dr» cricoid cartilages. Laterally it is in relation with styloid process, styloid & pterygoid muscles, internal oaroll artery, internal jugular vein, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accesaorjl hypoglossal & sympathetic nerves; and also, below, with lateral lobes of thyroid glan common carotid artery & sterno-hyoid, and, in front, with hyo-glossus muscle ai It presents seven openings: -nares, Eustachian tubes, mouth, larynx, oesophagus. that process (Thomson & Clelancl^ recti capitis antici muscle lingual artery & nervi 299 ITBUCTURE of the PHARYNX Presents three coats, which, from without inwards, are muscular, fibrous, mucous; and vessels & nerves. MUSCULAR COAT - Is formed by j Inferior Constrictor - Side of cricoid cartilage • oblique line on outer surface of ala of thyroid cartilage & surface behind it, and inferior cornu. Raph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its inferior fibres being hori- zontal & continuous with those of oesophagus, and its superior fibres passing obliquely upwards and overlapping those of the middle constrictor. - S. by pharyngeal plexus and external & recurrent laryngeal nerves. Middle Constrictor - Whole extent of upper surface of great cornu of hyoid bone, lesser cornu, stylo-hyoid ligament. Raph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its inferior fibres descending beneath inferior constrictor, its middle fibres being horizontal, and its sup- erior fibres overlapping superior constrictor & stylo-pharyngens. - S. by pharyn- geal plexus. Superior Constrictor - Lower third of free margin of internal pterygoid plate, its haraular process, & contiguous part of palate bone; pterygo-maxillary ligament; alveolar process of inferior maxilla above mylo-hyoid ridge; side of tongue. Raph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its superior fibres ascending by means of strong fibrous band below mentioned, to pharyngeal spine on basilar process, its lower fibres being horizontal. - S. by pharyngeal plexus. Stylo-pharyngeUS - Inner side of base of styloid process. With palato-pharyngeus into posterior border of thyroid cartilagre & side of pharynx. - S. hy pharyngeal plexus & glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Palato-pharyngeus ~ Posterior surface of soft palate by two heads separated by levator palati. With stylo-pharyngeus into posterior border of thyroid cartilage & side of pharynx. - S. by pharyngeal plexus. SalpingO-pharyngeUS (Santorini) - Small fasciculus from outer surface of cartila- ginous portion of Eustachian tube to stylo-pharyngeus, with which it blends inferiorly. Is often wanting. Other accessory muscles, the petro-, spheno-, & occipito-pharyngei, are also described; but they are rarely met with. Relations - The constrictors overlap each other from below upwards. The stylo- pharyngeus passes between superior & middle constrictors; the superior laryngeal nerve between the middle & inferior constrictors; the recurrent laryngeal nerve beneath the inferior. - (Vide also relations of pharynx in foregoing Tablet), FIBROUS COAT, or PHARYNGEAL APONEUROSIS — Thick above, thin below. Attached to petrous poi-tion of temporal bone, under surface of body of sphen- oid, and, by means of a strong fibrous band (cranio-phaiyngeal ligament, Thomson & CI eland), to pharyngeal spine on under surface of basilar process. MUCOUS MEMBRANE —- Thick on under surface of body of sphenoid; covered with coluranar ciliated epithelium as low down as floor of nares, with squamous epitheliam below. Beneath it are foiind numerous glands, which are simple & compound follicular and racemose. VESSELS & NERVES -- Arteries. Ascending pharyngeal, pterygo-palatine, superior or descending palatine, superior thyroid. - Veins. Open into the superior thyroid & internal jugular. - Lymphatics. Open into deep glands of neck. - Nerves. From pharyngeal plexus, and from external & recurrent laryngeal nerves.300 THE SOFT PALATE. Musoulo-membranous fold, which forms an incomplete septum between the mouth a pharynx. Present i Anterior Surface - Concave; presents a median raph6, continuous with that of hard palat Posterior Surface - Convex, continuous with floor of nasal fossae j presents the median pi jection of the azygos uvulae. Upper Border - Attached to posterior border of hard palate. Lower Border - Free; presents the uvula and the anterior & posterior pillars, which t latter embrace the tonsil. ' ANTErioR PiLLAES - Downwards & forwards to sides of base of tongue j contain pala glossi muscles. Posterior Pillars - Downwards & backwards to sides of pharynx j contain pala pharyngei muscles Are rather broader and approach nearer to each otl than the anterior. Isthmus Faucium - Is the space bounded by the free border & pillars of the s palate, the tonsils, and the base of the tongue. STRUCTURE of the SOFT PALATE Presents for examination: APONEUROSIS — Blended with tendon of tensor palati. Is thickest above, whil it is attached to posterior border of hard palate. MUSCLES — Five on each side : Levator Palati - Under surface of apex of petrous portion of temporal M and outer aspect of cartilaginous portion of Eustachian tube. Posterior surface of soft palate between the two heads of origin j palato-pharyngeus. - S. by post, or small palatine branch from Meckell'sl Tensor or Circumflexus Palati - Scaphoid fossa at base of internal pte gold plate; spine of sphenoid j anterior aspect of cartilaginous port* Eustachian tube. Winds round hamular process and expands upon anterior surfr aponeurosis of soft palate. - S. by a branch from otic ganglion. Palato-glossUS -Anterior surface of soft palate. Posterior part of side of tongue, where it blends with stylo-glos Palato-pharyngeus - Posterior surface of soft palate by two heads sep" by the lerator palati. Posterior border of thyroid cartilage & sides of pharynx. Azygos UvulSB - Posterior nasal spine of palate bone & aponeurosis of 8 palate. Uvula. - S. by posterior or small palatine branch from Meckell's gaiil MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thin; covered with squamous epithelium, except ne;* Eustachian tube, where the epithelium is columnar & ciliated. Numeroj mucous glands are found beneath it, especially over posterior surf^ceji uvula, in which latter situations they form a continuous layer. ^, - j VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Inferior or ascending palatine, posteriorji descending palatine, ascending pharyngeal, dorsalis linguae, tonsillar. i{ Veins. Join the tonsillar & pterygoid plexuses. - Lymphatics. To glaii ! beneath angle of jaw. - Nerves. From fifth, facial & gloaso-pharyngeal^j301 ?HE CESOPHAGUS Commences in middle line of neck opposite 5th cervical vertebra & lower border of cricoid cartilage. Downwards & to the left behind trachea, left lobe of thyroid gland & left recurrent laryngeal nerve, coming into close contact with left common carotid. Downwards & to the right behind lower end of trachea & commencement of left bronchus, and between arch of aorta & thoracic duct on the left & the vena azygos major on the right, regaining middle line opposite 5th dorsal vertebra. Again to the left between heart & pericardium in front and lower part of thoracic aorta be- hind, being surrounded by the pneumogastrics, which tend, the left one to the front, the right one to the back. Through oesophageal opening of diaphragm, and opens into stomach (cardiac or oesophageal opening) opposite 9th dorsal vertebra. Is from 9 to 10 inches long, STRUCTURE. Three coats • Muscular Coat - Thicker than in any other part of intestinal canal except lower end of rectum; red above, where it consists of striped muscular fibres, pale below, where it is made up mainly of plain fibres. These fibres are: External Longitudinal - Above they form three fasciculi: One anterior - From ridge on back of cricoid cartilage ; Two Lateral - From sides of cricoid cartilage, blending with inferior constrictor. Below they form a uniform layer, and become continuous with longitudi- nal fibres of muscular coat of stomach. - One or two bundles of fibres are sometimes inserted into the left pleura & left bronchus (Hyrtl). Internal Circular - Form rather oblique rings towards middle of oesophagus, but horizontal rings above & below; these rings are continuous inferiorly with circular & oblique fibres of stomach. Cellular Coat - Forms a loose connection between muscular & mucous coats. Mucous Membrane - Thick, pale, covered with a thick layer of squamous epithelium, thrown into longitudinal folds except during passage of food. Presents a few papillae, and some small compound racemose glands which are especially abun- dant at lower part. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries, four or five of good size from thoracic aorta, and twigs from inferior thyroid, phrenic & coronaria ventriculi. - Veins open mainly into yena azygos major. - Lymphatics, into posterior mediastinal glands. - Nerves from pneumogastrics & sympathetic.802 THE STOMACH Is situated in the left hypocliondriac, epigastric, & part of right hypoohondriad regions, and presentsi; /e- ■ i Ant. Surface - Looks upwards & forwards, and is in contact with under suriace os lirer, diaphragm, and anterior wall of abdomen opposite pit of stomacU Post. Surface - Directed downwards & backwards, and covered with peritoneum o lesser sac, by which sac it is separated from pancreas, great vessels of abdomensl crura of diaphragm & solar plexus. Rests upon transverse meso-color Great or Splenic End, Great Cul-de-sac or Fundus - Lies beneath the si lower left ribs, in contact with the spleen to which it is connected by tb^ gastro-splenic omentunj Lesser or Pyloric End ~ in contact with anterior wall of abdomen, under surfaoj of liver, & neck of gall-bladdei|' Greater Curvature ~ Lies above transverse colon, and gives attachment to greaj omentum Lesser Curvature - Connected to transverse fissure of liver by lesser or gastro-hepati omentum, and to under surface of diaphragm by gastro-phrenic ligameni j QlSOphageal or Cardiac Opening - Funnel-shaped, and situated above & behin' | the pyloric openingj Pyloric Opening - Guarded by pylorus, and is more movable than the oesophageal, j When the stomach is distended its greater curvature is elevated & carriejj forwards, while its anterior surface is turned upwards, and its posterior surfac downTfardt | I 'I 1303 iTRUCTUBE of the STOMACH. Its walls are thickest towards pylorus; they present four coats, and vessels & nerves. SEROUS COAT — Covers whole surface of stomach except points of attachment of gastro- splenic and greater & lesser omenta. MUSCULAR COAT - Consists of: Longitudinal Fibres - Superficial. Continuous with those of oesophagus & small in- testine. Thinly scattered over the surfaces; most marked along the curvatures, especially the lesser. Circular Fibres - Deeper. Form a complete & nearly uniform layer over whole of stomach, & a strong circular ring round pylorus. ObliC[Ue Fibres - The deepest. Form two sets, which embrace the right & left as- pects of the oesophageal opening, and spread out over anterior & posterior aspects of stomach except near lesser curvature. They are the continuation of the circular fibres of the oesophagus. CELLULAR COAT — Serves for the division of the blood vessels before they enter the mucous membrane. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thin towards cardia, thick towards pylorus, and covered with columnar non-ciliated epithelium. Thrown in contracted state of stomach into longitudinal plaits or rugae, which are most marked along greater curvature and towards lesser end, and which disappear on distention. - When examined with a lens it has, especially near pylorus, a honey-combed appear- ance due to shallow polygonal depressions or alveoli from 1 to 2 hundredths of an inch in diameter, in bottom of which alveoli are the openings of the Gastric Follicles, - which are of two kinds: Peptic Glands - Situated near cardia. Are simple tubular glands lined in their upper fourth with columnar epithelium, and filled with nu- cleated cells & nuclei in their deeper parts. Mucous Glands - Situated near pylorus. - Terminate in dilated saccular extremities, or are subdivided into from two to six tubular branches; they are lined throughout with columnar epithelium. Lenticular Glands - Are also found in small numbers, principally near pylorus & along lesser curvature. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Are the gastric or coronaria ventriculi, pyloric, gastro-epiploicse dextra & "sinistra, and the vasa brevia. They all break up in the cellular or submucous coat, and then send up branches between the glandular tubes; these branches form a deep capillary plexus round the tubes and a superficial one round their orifices. - Veins. Follow the arteries. - Lymphatics. Are superficial & deep, and open into the glands along the two cm-vatures. - Nerves. Are from the sympathetic and from the right & left pneumogastrio nerves, the right pneumogastrio supplying the posterior, and the left one« the anterior surface of the orga«.304 THE SMALL INTESTINE I Is a slightly narrowing convoluted tube about 20 feet long, connected to the spine loj the me. sentery in the greatest part of its extent It is divided into: I DUODENUM — Vide below. SMALL INTESTINE PROPER — Is rather arbitrarily divided, no define- limit existing, intot JEJUNUM — The upper two fifths. Wider, thicker, & more vascular, an has its villi & valvules conniventes more, and its Payer's patches lesf numerous & developec ILEUM — The lower three-fifths. Narrower, thinner, & less vascular, and ha its villi & its valvules conniventes less, and its Payer's patches mor( numerous & develope THE DUODENUM | Is the shortest, widest & thickest part of the small intestine, and has no mesentery. I length is from 8 to 10 inches, or about twelve finger breadths. - Into it open by || common orifice the common bile & pancreatic ducts, and the villi & valvulsB conu ventes are larger & more numerous immediately below this opening than in other part of the small intestine. - Its course ijf Upwards 6^ to the right to under surface of liver ^ neck of gall-bladder: Downwards in front of right kidney ; Transversely to the left to left side of 2nd lumbar vertebra^ where it is crossfj by superior mesenteric artery, and where mesentery be, RELATIONS: First, or Ascending Portion - Above - Under surface of liver & neck of gall-bladder; Behind - Right border of lesser omentum, hepatic artery, bile dud portal vei Second; or Descending Portion - vi- In Front - Hepatic flexure of colon j Behind - Eight kidney; On Inner Side - Head of pancreas, ductus communis choledochua, creatico-duodenal artei Third, or Transverse Portion - In Front - Descending layer of transverse meso-colon, superior me teric vessel Behind - Aorta, inferior vena cava, crura of diaphragm; Above - Lower border of pancreas, superior mesenteric vessels.305 STRUCTURE of the SMALL INTESTINE. Fotir coats, and vessels & nerves. SEROUS COAT — Completely surrounds small intestine proper, except along its posterior or I, attached border. The duodenum is but incompletely covered : Its first part is situated between the two layers of gastro-hepatio omentum; its second part is covered in front only by peritoneum ; its third part lies behind descending layer of transverse meso-colon. MUSCULAR COAT — Thicker above than below; consists of fibres: External Longitudinal - Thinly scattered around intestine; Deep Circular - Form a thick uniform layer. CELLULAR or SUBMUCOUS COAT — A nidus for the division of the vessels before they enter the mucous coat. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Shaggy; thick & vascular above, thin & pale below; covered with columnar uon-ciliated epithelium. - Presents for examination: Valvulse Conniventes or Valves Kerkringius - Crescentic reduplications of the raucous & sabmucous coats, which reduplications surround two-thirds or three- quarters or more of circumference of small intestine. - They begin one or two inches beyond pylorus, and are largest & most numerous immediately below open- 1 ing of common bile & pancreatic ducts, and also very large and numerous as far as middle of jejunum. They diminish from this point, and nearly disappear in lower part of ileum. Villi - Minute vascular projections of the mucous membrane one-third or one-fourth of a line in length, and largest & most numerous in upper part of small intestine; Usually flattened or conical, sometimes cylindrical or club-shaped. - They consist of a prolongation of the basement membrane & epithelial layer, and contain numerous granular corpuscles & fat globules, and also, towards the surface, a capillary plexus, and towards the centre, one or two lacteals which are surrounded ' by a thin layer of longitudinal muscular fibres. Tubular Glands or Crypts of Lieberkuhn 7 Minute tubular depressions lined with columnar epithelium, found all over small intestine, and even in large intestine & stomach. Lenticular, or Vesicular Glands - Solitary & agminated. Solitary - Scattered throughout small intestine, particularly in lower part. Agminated, or Payer's Glands - Oval patches placed lengthwise on portion of intestine most distant from attachment of mesentery, and largest & most numerous in ileum; these patches are usually from twenty to thirty in number, and from half an inch to four inches in length. The individual glands are small sacculated bodies * from half a line to a line in diameter, and without any excretory duct; they consist of a wall of connective tissue, & of greyish semifluid contents. - A rich plexus of blood & lymphatic vessels surrounds them, and fine capillary loops dip into their cavity. - Crypts of Lieberkuhn are collected into circles around the glands, and villi are scattered between & sometimes over them. Brunner'S Glands - Small conglomerate glands found only in duodenum & commence- ment of jejunum. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Terminal branches of superior mesenteric encircle intestine beneath serous coat, pierce muscular coat, to which they supply two sets of capillaries corresponding in direction to the two layers of fibres, subdivide in mucous coat, and end in a dense capillary network to the valvulse, villi, & glands. - Veins accom- pany the arteries. - Lymphatics form a rich plexus in the mucous & submucous coats, a longitudinal stratum between the two layers of muscular fibres & a subperitoneal plexus in the neighbourhood of the mesentery. - Nerves. From superior mesenteric plexus; form richly gangliated plexuses in submucous coat & between the two layers of muscular fibres. See Appendix, page 305^-306 THE LARGE INTESTINE. Abont 5 feet long, sacculated. Diminishes in size till just above anus, where it is consideral: enlargj Consists oicacunii ascending^ transversey (Sr» descending colony sigmoidflexure & rectum. CiEjCUM or CAPUT CiECUM COLI — The cul.de-sac situated below entrance of sm intestine into the large; is the most dilated part of col Lies in right iliac fossa, where it is retained by the peritoneum which covers its front sides, and sometimes surrounds it entirely in a distinct fold, the meso-csecn Presents: Appendix Vermiforniis - a tubular prolongation from 2 to 6 inches long & of ab( the diameter of a goose-quill connected with lower & back part of caecui usually directed upwards & inwards behind it, and retained by a fold of pe toner Ilio-Csecal or Ilio-Colic Valve, or Valve of Bauhin - Situated at entrance small intestine into the large at upper inner & back part of csscii Formed by two crescentic folds of the mucous & submucous coats & circular m' cular fibres of the gut, which folds are separated by a narrow antero-poster apertB The upper fold is nearly horizontal, and is the smallest. The lower fold is oblique, and is the largest. At their points of coalescence they are continued upon wall of gut into two pi minent folds, the frm Their surface turned towards the small intestine is covered with villi, the otl surface has no villi, and is quite smooij ASCENDING COLON - Upwards to under surface of liver on right side of gall-bladder, where it curves to i left, forming hepatic flexi Bound down against quadratus lumborum & right kidney by peritoneum which covers front & sides, and sometimes encloses it in a distinct fold, the ascending meso-ool TRANSVERSE COLON or ARCH of the COLON - Curves forwards & to the left between confines of umbilical & epigastric regions left hypochondrium, where it bends downwards, forming splenic flexure. Is v( movable, being comprised between the two ascending layers of great omentni which layers join again behind it to form transverse, meso-oolij Its relations are: Above - Liver, gall-bladder, great curvature of stomach, lower end of spleenj In Front - Great omentum, anterior wall of abdomen ; Behind - Transverse meso-colon, 3rd portion of duodenum. DESCENDING COLON - Downwards in front of left crus of diaphragm, left kidney & quadratus lumborum 1 left iliac fossa, where it ends in sigmoid flexure. Covered by peritoneum in fronif at sides, sometimes entirely surrounded by a distinct fold, the descending meso-ooljl; SIGMOID FLEXURE - jj Commences at crest of ilium, ascends to right or left, descends, and ends in ream opposite left Bacro-iliac synchondrosis. Freely movable, being retained by o)'l| a loose fold of peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-ooli307 TEUOTURE of the LARGE INTESTINE. Four coats t SEROUS — Thrown, especially on transverse colon, into numerous small pouches filled with fat, the appendices epiploicte* MUSCULAR — Consists of fibres External Longitudinal - Are most of them grouped, orer (cascum & colon, into three longitudinal bands about half an inch wide, though a few spread out in a thin continuous layer over remainder of circumference of gut; - to these bands, as they are shorter than the intervening parts of the tube, is due the eacculation of the large intestine. These bands are situated as follows s Posterior - Along attached border of intestine j Anterior = In front j on transverse colon it lies along attached margin of great omentum. Lateral ~ On inner surface of ascending & descending colon, on under sur- face of transverse. Internal Circular - Are accumulated in large numbers between the sacouli, CELLULAR — A nidus for the division of the vessels before they enter the mucous coat. MUCOUS — Pale, destitute of villi & valvulse conniventes, thrown into crescentic folds in intervals between the sacculi. Presents a few solitary lenticular glands or closed folli- cles ; its tubular glands are larger & more numerous than those of small intestine; its epithelium is columnar. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries, from superior & inferior mesenteric; are distri- buted in same way as over small intestine. - Veins open into corresponding veins, which form part of portal system. - Lymphatics form a plexus in the mucous & submucous layers j those of caecum & of ascending & transverse colon enter into mesenteric glands, those of descending colon & rectum, into lumbar glands. - Nebves from superior & inferior mesenteric plexuses j form same gangliated plexuses as in small gut308 THE RECTUM Commences opposite left sacro-iliao Bynchondrosis. Passes downwards & to the right to middle, or to a little to the right of middle, of th piece of sacn' Curves forwards tipon concavity of sacrum & coccyx, regaining middle line if latter;' been pass Inclines downwards & backwards to anus. Is smooth & cylindrical, not sacculated ; about 8 inches long. Rather narrower above tl sigmoid flexure, but it increases as it descends, and is greatly dilated just ab anus. - Divided into three pai UPPER PART — From sacro-iliac synchondrosis to middle, or to a little to the righ middle, of third piece of sacrum j about 4 inches lo Almost completely surrounded by meso-rectum. Separated by small intestine from bladder, in the male, & from uterus & vagina, in female; and connected inferiorly with latter organs by the folds of peritone which form margins of recto-vesical & recto-vaginal pouches respectivt Rests upon pyriformis muscle & sacral plexus of left side. Has to its left side left ureter & branches of left internal iliac artery. MIDDLE PART — From middle of third piece of sacrum to tip of coccyx; about 3 inolj lo Covered by peritoneum in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, s at all be! In relation below & in front with: In the Male - Triangular portion of base of bladder, vesiculse seminale vasa deferentia, and under surface of prostf l^ THE Female - Middle part of posterior wall of vagina, to which it is clos adhere LOWER PART — From tip of coccyx to anus; about an inch in length. Invested by the internal & external sphincters & by the levatores ani. Separated by a triangular space, the perinseum, from membranous portion of urethn! bulb, in the male, from vagina, in the femii STRUCTURE — Presents: Serous Coat - Covers upper & middle parts of rectum, the former almost compi tely, the latter in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, i at all bell I Muscular Coat - Very thick ; consists of fibres: j External Longitudinal - Form a thick uniform layer all round intestine, j; Internal Circular - Are most numerous at lower end of rectum, where tl form internal spuincj' Cellular Coat - Forms a loose connection between the muscular & mucous ooaj Mucous Membrane - Thick, very vascular, freely movable upon muscular co ! Presenii Longitudinal Folds-Most marked below; due to contraction of sphino : and disappear on distent! | Permanent Transverse Folds, or Folds of Houston - Three principal od semilunar, sometimes half an inch in depth, situated at upper part right side, near middle of rectum on left side, and at front pi opposite base of bladd Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From superior, middle & inferior hcemorrhoid they form a rich network beneath & within mucous membrane, the mesl of which network are mainly longitudinal in lower part of rectum, a connected opposite anus, by large transverse branches (Quain),-Ve Also mainly longitudinal near anus; open partly into internal iliacs partly into inferior mesenteric. - Lymphatics. Open into glands in holl of sacrum, or into lumbar glands. - Nerves. From sacral plexus,^^ •acral & inferior hoemorrhoidal nerves, and from inferior mesenteric hypogastric plexns309 »ERITONEUM - 1st Tablet. The peritoneum is by far the most extensive & complex serous membrane of the body. To aesoribe it completely it is necjessary to trace: 1. - The two sacs separately in the vertical direction & in the middle line; 2. - The two sacs together in the vertical direction; 3. - The greater sac horizontally below the level of the umbilicus; 4. - The two sacs together horizontally above the level of the umbilicus, or through the foramen of Winslowj 5. - The ligaments formed by the peritoneum, and the omenta & mesenteries. Along the colon & upper part of the rectum the peritoneum is thrown into numerous pendu- lous processes filled with adipose tissue and termed the appendices epiploic39. THE TWO SACS SEPARATELY. THE GREATER SAC. Starting from umbilicus the peritoneum passes; - Over anterior wall of abdomen & diaphragm; Over upper surface of liver, forming suspensory or falciform lig&ment <Sr» upper layer of Over under surface of liver to transverse fissure; coronary ligament, To lesser curvature of stomach & first portion of duodenum, forming anterior layer Over anterior surface of stomach; ^ ^ of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum ; Downwards in front of intestine, forming anterior layer of great omentum ; Upwards to transverse colon, forming posterior layer of great omentum ; Over under surface of transverse colon ; To spine, forming inferior layer of transverse meso-colon & covering under surface of transverse portion of duodenum ; (In the foetus, also occasionally in the child, and even, though very rarely in the adult, the layer of peritoneum which continues the posterior layer of the great omentum ascends in front of the transverse colon without adhering to it, or adhering to it but slightly, and then passes backwards to the spine above the transverse meso-colon. The transverse meso-colon is then formed by the peritoneum again passing forwards from the spine to the transverse colon, sur- rounding the latter, and for the second time passing backwards to the spine. The pouch between the transverse meso-colon & the posterior layer of the great omentum subsequently disappears by degrees, adhesions amounting finally to complete fusion of the two layers into one, beiag established between the two walls of the pouch before adralt age is reached). Along superior mesenteric artery, round small intestine and back to spine, forming Downwards in front of spine & Aorta; mesentery. Over upper part of rectum, forming meso-rectum ; Forwards: In Male : - To bladder, forming posterior false ligaments of bladder <Sr» recto- vesical pouch ; In Female : - To vagina & uterus, forming posterior ligaments of uterus & recto- vaginal pouch', and then over uterus & from uterus to bladder, forming anterior ligaments of uterus & uterO'Vesicalpouch ; Over bladder and from bladder to anterior wall of abdomen; Up to umbilicus, covering urachus & obliterated hypogastric arteries. THE LESSER SAC, or SAC of the OMENTUM. Begins at the foramen of Winslow. Foramen of Winslow - is a constriction of the peritoneum bounded by* In Front - Lesser omentum containing first part of duodenum, hepatic artery, bile duct & portal vein j Behind - Right crus of diaphragm & inferior vena cava; Above - Lobus Spigelii of liver (or rather lobns caudatus) j Below - Hepatic artery as it passes forwards from Aorta. From this point the peritoneum passes: - Downwards to lesser curvature of stomach, forming posterior layer of lesser or gastro- Over posterior surface of stomach; hepatic onientum. Downwards in front of intestine and then upwards, forming the two internal layers of Over upper surface of transverse colon ; ^^^^^ omentum; To spine, forming upper layer of transverse meso-colon ; Over pancreas; To under surface of liver, forming inferior layer of coronary^ ligament, and over posterior part of under surface of liver to foramen of Wiaslow.310 PERITONEUM-2nd Tablet. The two Sacs traced together in Vertical Direction. From transverse fissure of liver: - To lesser curvature of stomach, forming lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum; Separate to surround stomach; Descend iu front of intestine, forming the two anterior layers of great omentum • Ascend to transverse colon, forming the two posterior layers of great omentum ; Separate to surround transverse colon; Backwards to spine, forming transverse meso-colon; rate: One descends and forms in succession the mesentery, meso-rectum, recto-ves ,1 pouch (or recto-vaginal & utero-vesical pouches),}. The other ascends in front of pancreas and passes over back part of under sur e of liver to foramen of Wins k (In the foetus, also occasionally in the child, and even, though very ra; |r, in the adult, the two posterior layers of the great omentum ascend in froi j)f the transverse colon without adhering to it, or adhering to it but slightly, id then pass backwards together to the spine above the transverse meso-colon. '. !'e they separate: - One layer descends, and forms in succession the tram Isi meso-colon, the mesentery, meso-reotum, &c.; the other layer ascends, as a e stated, over the pancreas & liver. The pouch between the transverse n > colon & the great omentum subsequently disappears by degrees, adhei is amounting finally to complete fusion of the two layers into one, being ei p- lished between the two walls of the pouch before adult age is reached. Greater Sac traced Horizontally below Level of Umbilicus. From median line of anterior wall of abdomen : - To right iliac fossa, where it forms meso-ccecum & lower part of ascending meso-colon ; Along lateral & posterior walls of abdomen to spine, where it meets superior mesen to To left iliac fossa, where it forms sigmoid meso-colon ; Along lateral & anterior walls of abdomen to median line. |0 The two sacs traced together Horizontally above Level of Umbili is or through Foramen of Winslf From median line of anterior wall of abdomen : - Over anterior & lateral walls of abdomen & over right kidney j ^ Through foramen of Winslow j Over front of pancreas; To spleen & then to back of stomach, forming posterior layer of gastro-splenic otnentum^ Over posterior surface of stomach; Back to foramen of Winslow, forming posterior layer of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum] Reflected outwards in front of bile duct, hepatic artery & portal vein, forming an Over front of stomach; ^^^^^ ^/ ^^^^^^ gastro-hepatic omen Round spleen & to under surface of diphragm, forming anterior layer of gastro-s^ 'ic Over left kidney; omentum 6^ suspensory ligament of s} * / Over lateral & anterior walls of abdomen to median line. '311 EEITONEUM —3rd Tablet, LIQAMENTS — Reflexions of peritoneum from walls of the abdomen or pelvis to viscera which are not portions of the intestinal canal. Belong to liver, bladder, uterus, & spleen. Ligaments of the Liver - Four: Suspensory or Falciporm Ligament - Triangular or sickle-shaped fold refleoteA over obliterated umbilical vein or round ligament, and attached to upper surface of liver, diaphragm, & sheath of rectus. Coronary Ligament - Consists of two layers separated by a considerable inter- space, in which interspace the posterior border of the liver is connected to the diaphragm by firm areolar tissue. Its superior layer & the right half of its inferior layer are formed by greater bag; the left half of its inferior layer is formed by lesser bag. Lateral Ligaments - The two triangular & pointed extremities of coronary liga- ment. The left one is the longest & most distinct. Ligaments of the Bladder - Five in number, and termed false ligaments: Post. False Ligaments - The margins of recto-vesical pouch, in the male, of utero-vesical pouch, in the female., Contain obliterated hypogastric arteries & ureters. Lateral False Ligaments - From sides of bladder to sides of pelvis. Sup. False Ligament - Over urachus and obliterated hypogastric arteries to umbilicus. Ligaments of the Uterus - Six: Broad Ligaments - From sides of uterus to sides of pelvis. Their free margia contains from before backwards round ligament. Fallopian tube, & ovary. Ant. & Post. Ligaments - The margins of utero-vesical & recto-vaginal pouches. Obliterated hypogastric arteries & ureters are contained in both these folds. Suspensory Ligament of the Spleen - Connects upper end of spleen to diaphragm, OI^EjI^'PA Folds proceeding from one viscus to another. Three: Lesser or Gastro-hepatic Omentum - From transverse fissure of liver to lesser curvature of stomach. - Its right free border contains hepatic artery, bile duct & portal vein, and forms anterior boundary of foramen of Winslow, Great or Gastro-COlic Omentum - Consists of four layers, of which the most an- terior & the most posterior belong to greater bag, and the two internal to lesser bag. The two anterior layers descend from great curvature of stomach & spleen j the two posterior ascend to transverse colon (at least in adult; for arrangement in foetus see foregoing Tablets). Gastro-SpleniC Omentum - Connects hilum of spleen to great cul de sac of stomach. Contains splenic vessels & vasa brevia, and is continuous in. feriorly with great omentum. MESENTERIES ~ Folds connecting greater part of intestine to posterior wall of abdomen. Seven: Mesentery Proper - its root extends from left side of 2nd lumbar vertebra to right sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Its free border contains the small intestine. It is continuous superiorly with inferior layer of transverse meso-oolou, inferiorly with meso-csecum & ascending meso-colon. Meso-CSeCUm - Usually peritoneum merely passes in front of csecum ; and also merely in front of ascending colon, forming the Ascending Meso-colon. Transverse Meso-colon - Formed by junction behind transverse colon of the two ascending layers of the great omentum. Backwards from transverse colon to spine, where it meets transverse portion of duodenum, and becomes continuous with mesentery. Descending Meso-colon - Similar to ascending meso-colon. 'Sigmoid Meso-colon - Broad & well marked foldj which allows of considerable mobility on the part of sigmoid flexure. i^Eeso-rectum - Surrounds almost completely first portion of rectum, and coven second portion in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, not »i All helQW.312 i THE LIVER. The largest gland in the body, of a dull reddish brown colour, situated in right hypochondriac epigastric & part of left hypochondriac regions. - Its transverse & antero-posterior dia meters, and its greatest thickness are usually about twelve, six, & three inches respectively > It weighs from three to four pounds. - Presents: UPPER SURFACE — Smooth, convex, divided into right, largest, & most convex lobe I and left lobe, smaller & flatter, by suspensory or falciform ligament. In relatioi with under surface of diaphragm, & the six or seven lower ribs, and to a slight exten in the upright posture & during deep inspirations, especially in women & childreL^' with anterior wall of abdomen. UNDER SURFACE — Vide next Tablet. ANTERIOR BORDER -— Thin, inclined downwards & to the right, notched deepl;! opposite round & falciform ligaments, and usually more slightly so opposite fundn.; of gall-bladder. In recumbent posture & during expiration it usually correspondi to lower border of ribs & costal cartilages, in upright posture & during deep inspirsi tions, especially in women & children, it descends a little lower. i POSTERIOR BORDER — Thick & rounded, especially to the right, in relation witV pillars & under surface of diaphragm, to which it is connected by coronary ligamenij and with aorta & inferior vena cava, for passage of which latter vessel it is deeplij grooved & sometimes channelled. j j RIGHT EXTREMITY — Thick & rounded, attached to diaphragm by right latertl' ligament J descends lower than the left. i LEFT EXTREMITY — Thin & flattened, attached to diaphragm by left lateral ligi ment j ascends higher than the right* LIGAMEMTS OP THE LIVER — Mve in number: Round Ligament - The obliterated remains of umbilical vein & ductus venosui Ascends in free margin of falciform ligament from umbilicus to longitudint fissure on under surface of liver, where it joins inferior vena cava. Falciform or Suspensory Ligament '\ Coronary Ligament .... ^Formed by peritoneum. -Tide Peritoneiaj Lateral Of Triangular Ligaments313 UNDER SURFACE of the LIVER. Concave uneven, looks downwards & backwards, and covers stomach, duodenum, hepatic flexure of colon, right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. Presents four fissures, one of which is divided into two, and two primary lobes, of which the right one, or right lobe proper, presents three sub-lobes or lobules. FISSURES "Are the: Longitudinal Pissnre - Separates right & left lobes, and extends from deep notch on anterior border as far backwards as posterior border. It is divided into: Umbilical Fissure - Its anterior & deepest two-thirds, situated in front of trans- verse fissure; contains umbilical vein in the foetus, and its obliterated remains in the adult. Is often bridged over postei'iorly by a band of liver substance, the pons hepaticus. Fissure for the Ductus Venosus - Its posterior & shallowest third; contains the duc- tus venosus in the foetus, & its obliterated remains in the adult. Transverse Fissure - Extends transversely to the right from longitudinal fissure for about two inches, lying nearer to posterior than to anterior border. - It transmits hepatic artery, bile duct, portal vein, lymphatics & nerves, the hepatic artery lying to the left & in front, the bile duct to the right & in front, and the portal vein behind. Fissure or Fossa of the Gall-Bladder - Shallow, broadest in front, nearly parallel to longitudinal fissure on right side of which it is situated, and extends from an- terior border to near right extremity of transverse fissure. Fissure for the Inf. Vena Cava - Extends from behind lobus Caudatus to poster- ior border of liver, where it joins with fissure for ductus venosus. Is often trans- formed into a complete foramen, by a prolongation of the lobus Spigelii. It gives exit to the hepatic veins which here open into the inferior cava. LOBES — Are the: Right Lobe - The largest. Presents the three last named fissures, and also, further to the right, the impressio colica for hepatic flexure of colon, behind which is the im- pressio renalis for right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. - It also presents the three following sub-lobes: Lobus Quadratus - Situated in front of transverse fissure, between fissure for the gall-bladder & umbilical fissure; quadrilateral & broadest from before backwards. Lobus Spigelii - Situated behind transverse fissure, between fissure for ductus venosus, & fissure for inferior vena cava; more prominent than former, but less regular in shape. Projects into lesser sac of peritoneum. LoBUS Caudatus - A prominent ridge extending from front part of lobus Spigelii to under surface of right lobe proper; forms anterior boundary of fissure for inferior vena cava & upper boundary of foramen of Winslow. L©ft Lobe - Is smaller than the right. Its under surface rests upon the stomach, and sometimes extends as far as upper border of spleen.314 STRUCTURE of the LIVER* Presents for examination: Serous Coat - Covers the whole of the surface of the liver except the points of attachment of the ligaments & the bottom of the fissures. It adheres firmly to the fibrous coat. Fibrous Coat - Covers the whole of the liver, hut is of difficult demonstration except at the points of attachment of the ligaments & at the bottom of the fissures. It is continuous at the transverse fissure with the capsule of Glisson, and, on the surface of the organ, with the delicate areolar tissue sepa- rating the lobules. Lobules - Small granular bodies from 1-lOth to l-20th of an inch in diameter, more or less rounded or polygonal, imperfectly isolated from each other in man by thin strata of cellular tissue & by small vessels. They are chistered around the sublobular branches of the hepatic veins ^ to one of which branches each lobule is appended by its intralobular vein. The Hepatic Cells, which form the lobules vary from I-IOOO//^ to 1-2000//^ of an inch in dia- meter j they are rounded or polygonal, and contain a micleus with a highly refracting nucleolus^ yellow particles of colouring matter, granules of glycogen & oil globules. They adhere to each other in raws circularly disposed round the intralobular vein. Portal Vein - its branches are at first contained in the portal canals, where they lie with the branches of the hepatic artery, bile ducts, deep lymphatics & nerves in the loose cellular tissue, which forms the capsule of Glisson. Rather large branches, the vaginal branches (Kiernan) are given off by the portal vein within the portal canals. From these vaginal branches, and from the vaginal plexus which they form, as well as directly from some of the larger branches of the portal vein, smaller interlobular branches are given off. These pass out between the lobules, giving off still smaller branches, the lobular branches, which latter penetrate into every lobule of the gland, and form a capillary plexus within its periphery. Hepatic Veins - Their radicles communicate within the lobules with the lobular branches of the portal vein. They converge towards the centre of the lobule, where they form a central vein, the intra- lobular vein. This intralobular vein issues from the base of the lobule forming the sublobular vein, to which the lobule, as aforesaid, is, so to speak, appended. The sublobular veins join to form the larger hepatic veins. Sile Ducts - Arise within the lobules in a plexiform network surrounding the hepatic cells (Kiernan), To this intralobular plexus succeeds an interlobular plexus, the larger branches of which coalesce and form vaginal branches, which lie in the portal canals with the other vessels & nerves. These vaginal branches coalesce in their turn, and give rise to two large trunks which join in the transverse fissure to form the hepatic duct. - The walls of the larger bile ducts present numerous lateral saccular dilatations formerly described as mucous glands, but now generally regarded aa minute reservoirs or gall-bladders, in which the stored-up bile undergoes perhaps some further elaboration. The epithelium of these Id^vgQv dixiGis is columnar; that of the smaller ducts is mous; that of the smallest, spheroidal. - A few aberrant bile-ducts not surrounded by liver tissue are found in the left lateral ligament of the liver and in the fibrous bands which sometimes re- place the pons hepaticus & the prolongation of the lobus Spigelii behind the inferior vena cava. Hepatic Artery - Accompanies the other vessels through the portal canals, and gives off correspon- ding vaginal & interlobular branches. These latter give off but few direct branches to the lobules, and are mainly distributed to the cellular tissue, the walls of the vessels & the investing membranes of the liver. They terminate however in a capillary plexus which communicates with the terminal branches of the vena portce ( Kiernan ) ; the blood of the hepatic artery is thus distributed indirectly to the glandular tissue. Lymphatics - Are superficial & deep. The deep lymphatics accompany the other vessels in the portal canals, enter the glands situated along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and end in the thoracic duct. Some of the superficial lymphatics take the same course, but most of them join the anterior mediastinal glands and end in the right lymphatic duct. Nerves - Are derived from the solar plexus & from the lef pneumogastrtc & right phrenic. They form the hepatic plexus, the branches of which accompany, most of them the hepatic artery, some the portal vein, *See also Appendix, page 314*'315 THE EXTERNAL BILE DUCTS. Hepatic Duct - Formed in transverse fissure by junction of the two largo excretory ducts from right & left lobes. Downwards & to the right between the two layers of lesser or gastro-hepatio omentum & behind first portion of duodenum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portse behind, and joins with cystic duct to form ductus com- munis choledochus. Is about an inch & a half long, and is intermediate in size between cystic duct & ductus communis choledochus. GALL-BLADDER — Pear-shaped, three or four inches long, an inch wide at largest part; holds from 8 to 12 drachms. Obliquely directed downwards, forwards, & to the right, & lies in a fissure or fossa on under surface of liver between lobus quadratus «fe right lobe proper. Presents* Under Surface - Covered by peritoneum, which in most cases merely passes over it; in relation with hepatic flexure of colon & first part of duodenum j some- times with pyloric end of stomach. - Occasionally the peritoneum entirely surrounds the gall-bladder, which latter is then connected to the liver by a small mesentery. UPPER Surface - Connected to the liver by firm areolar tissue & vessels; sometimes ^ by a small mesentery. Anterior Enlarged Extremity, or Fundus - Covered by peritoneum; touches ab- dominal parietes opposite tip of 10th costal cartilage. Posterior Constricted Extremity, or Neck - ¥■ - ma tw- rums upon itself like an italic/, a; : is coui.uiied into the cystic duct. Cystic Duct - Downwards & to the left between the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum and behind ascending portion of duodenum, having the cystic artery on the left & the vena portse behind, and joins with hepatic duct to form ductus communis choledochus. Is about an inch long, and is rather narrower than the hepatic duct. Ductus Communis Choledochus - Downwards & slightly to the left between the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portse behind. Between head of pancreas & descending portion of duodenum on right side of pancreatic duct, and with pancreatico-duodenal arteries which lie slightly ■n - , , . in front. Jfertorates muscular coat of intestine in common with the latter duct. Both ducts then run together for about three-quarters of an inch between coats of intestine, and, becoming slightly constricted, open by a common & promi- nent orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four inches from pylorus. - The common bile duct is about three inches long. STRUCTURE — The external bile ducts, as well as the larger intra-hepatic bile ducts, present fibro-muscular & mucous coats, in addition to a Peritoneal Investment - Covering under surface & fundus of gall-bladder. Fibro-Muscular Coat - Consists of a dense meshwork of brilliant fibres of white fibrous tissue interlacing in all directions, and of plain muscular fibres, which latter are mainly longitudinal. 3V[UC0US Coat - strongly tinged with bile, covered with columnar epithelium and raised in the gall-bladder into a network of prominent rugae, in the polygonal depressions bounded by which rugae are seen the openings of numerous mucous follicles. Where the neck of the gall-bladder curves upon itself the mucous membrane projects inwards in the shape of a prominent valvular fold. In the cystic duct it is elevated into a series of oblique crescentic folds, which, together, present somewhat of the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. - The arteries & nerves of the gall-bladder are from the cystic branch of the hepatic artery, & the casliac plexus j its veins open into the vena portse.316 i THE PANCREAS Lies behind stomach & lesser bag of peritonenm opposite first lumbar vertebra. It is long, , narrow, flattened from before backwards, & of a reddish cream-colour, and presents: Head; or Right Enlarged Extremity - Curves downwards, and is embraced by con- cavity of duodenum, the ductus communis choledochus & the pancreaticc i duodenal arteries lyin^ between the two organs, the former behind, the latter i in front. - The lower & back part of the head (sometimes detached from the ' remainder of the gland, and then called the lesser pancreas J, passes to the left t behind superior mesenteric vessels, forming the posterior wall of an incomplete canal in which these vessels are enclosed. Body, or Central Flattened Portion - Presents: Anterior Surface - Convex, covered by peritoneum belonging to lesser bag, & by i posterior surface of stomach, i Posterior Surface - Concave; in relation with: i Pillars of diaphragm, left quadratus lumborumj left kidney <Sr» left suprarenal \ capsule; • Aorta, vena cava, mesenteric vessels, commencement of vena porta, left renal I vessels. ' ! "Upper Border - Thick, corresponds to coeliac axis, and is deeply grooved for splenic artery & vein, i Lower Border - Thinner, separated from transverse portion of duodenum by superior i mesenteric vessels. | Lesser End, or Tail - I^ies a little higher than the head, in contact with left kidney & left suprarenal capsule, & lower & back part of spleen, to which latter organ it is slightly adherent. | PANCREATIC DUCT, or CANAL OF WIRSUNG — Runs from left to right through whole length of the gland, lying in the vicinity of its anterior surface it & lower border. In the head it curves downwards on left side of ductus com- l! munis choledochus. Both ducts then perforate together the muscular coat i of the intestine, run side by side for about three-quarters of an inch beneath i mucous membrane, and open by a common orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four ij inches from pylorus. The duct from the lesser pancreas opens into canal of li Wirsung near its termination, or, sometimes, forms a supplementary canal || which opens separately into duodenum an inch or more above canal of 1; Wirsung. ^ STRUCTURE — The pancreas is a racemose or conglomerate gland and is very similar to !i the salivary glands, excepting that its tissue is somewhat softer & looser. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries from the splenic and superior & inferior pancreatico^ duodenal. - Veins open into the splenic & mesenteric. - Lymphatics QHQn into the lumbar glands, - Nerves are from solar plexus. ■317 See Appendix, page 317^- THE SPLEEN Is compressed & oval in form, soft, brittle, & of a dark reddisli-blue colour, and lies in left hypochondrium, embracing cardiac end of stomach, to which it is connected by gastro- splenic omentum. It presents: Outer Surface - Convex, in relation with under surface of diaphragm; corresponds to 9th, 10th, & 11th ribs. Inner Surface - Concave. Presents a little behind its middle the hilum, a vertical fissure pierced by several irregular foramina for the blood-vessels, lymphatics & nerves, and is related with: In Front - Great cul-de-sac of stomach; Behind - Left crus of diaphragm, left suprarenal capsule & usually a process of lesser sac of peritoneum; Below - Tail of pancreas. Upper Extremity - Thick, rounded, attached to diaphragm by suspensory ligament. Lower Extremity - Pointed, in relation with splenic flexure of colon. Anterior Border - Thin, frequently notched. Posterior Border ■- Thick, rounded, lies on left kidney. STUUCTUREj — The spleen is one of the vascular or ductless glands, and presents! Serous Coat - Closely adherent. Covers whole of organ except points of attachment of suspensory ligament & gastro-splenic omentum. E*ibro-elastic Coat - Formed of white & yellow elastic fibrous tissues, and contains numerous unstriped muscular fibres in some of the mammalia, but none, it ia believed, in man. - It is reflected inwards at the hilum upon the vessels in the shape of sheaths; and both from its inner surface and from these sheaths trabeculas are given ofi", which bound lacunar spaces or areolsG all communi- cating with each other. Proper Substance - Soft, reddish.brown, pulpy mass, contained in the areolae. Presents: Malpighian Corpuscles - Large ovoid cells* from 1.25th to 1.60th of an inch in diameter, attached in groups of six or eight to the small arterial twigs, sessile & usually placed, in mammalia generally, in the angle of divi- sion between two arteries, pedunculated & usually pierced by an artery in man. Consist of an indistinctly fibrous capsule partly derived from sheath of supporting artery, on which capsule numerous arterial & venous capillaries ramify, and of semi-opaque granular contents traversed by capillaries, in which contents a few nucleated cells & free nuclei are found. These corpuscles are largest & most numerous in early life; they diminish in size & number when the nutrition fails either through ill health or old age. Coloured Elements - Are red blood-corpuscles free or sometimes, though rarely in man, included in cells, unchanged or altered in form & colour, also pigment granules, and reddish or black corpuscles or crystals closely allied in composition to hssmatin. Colourless Elements - Consist of finely granular albuminous matter, nucleated & non-nucleated cells and free nuclei; all these undergo a marked in- crease towards close of digestive period, and are most abundant in healthy & well fed animals, in which they form one-half or more of the mass of the pulp. Splenic Artery - Very large & tortuous. Divides in the hilum into five or six branches which supply each of them one particular segment of the spleen, anastomosing Lut very little with each other. The smaller branches sub- divide into tufts or pencils of capillaries, which lie in direct contact with the pulp, some of which capillaries are continued into the veins, while the others open into the lacunar spaces (Gray, Miiller). Splenic Vein - its radicles arise partly in the capillary network, and partly^ in the lacunar spaces, which are therefore intermediate between the arteries and the veins (Gray, IHuUer). XiVmphatiCS - J^ew in number in man. Are superficial & deep; pass through glands at hilum to thoracic duct. Nerves - Are branches of the solar plexus, and are derived partly from semilunar ganglia & partly from right pneumogastric.318 THE REGIONS of the ABDOMEN Are nine in number^ and are demarcated by two horizontal lines joining the antero-superior spin \ of the ilium the cartilages of the ninth ribsy and by two vertical lines passing, on eitb side, from the eighth costal cartilage to the middle of PouparCs ligament. ' From above downwards these regions are : In the middle line — Epigastric, Umbilical, Hypogastric j - On either side — Hypochondriac, Lumbar, Iliac. , THEIR CONTENTS-Are as follows :- Epigastric R. Middle part of stomach ^ pylorus ; \ Left lobe of liver; Aorta, inf. vena cava, vena azygos major, thoracic duct; cceliao axis Semilunar ganglia. Right Hypochondriac R. Ascending part of duodemim ; Hepatic flexure of colon ; Eight lobe of liver & gall-bladder; Upper half of right kidney, & right supra-renal capsule. Left Hypochondriac R. Cardiac end of the stomachy spleen ; Splenic flexure of colon j Tail of pancreas; Upper half of left kidney & left supra-renal capsule. Umbilical R. Transverse colon ^ great omentum ; Transverse portion of duodenum, & body of pancreas; Convolutions of small intestine; Aorta. Right Lumbar R. Descending portion of dtiodenumy ^ head of pancreas ; Ascending colon; \ Lower half of right kidney ; Convolutions of small intestine. Left Lumbar R. Descending colon; » Lower half of left kidney; v Convolutions of small intestine. Hypogastric R. Upper part of bladder in children, and also in adults when the organ Uterus in pregnancy; [distendei: Convolutions of small intestine. ii Right Iliac R. || Ccecum^ ureter, spermatic vessels; Convolutions of small intestine. Left Iliac R. Sigmoid flexure of colon ^ ureter, spermatic vessels} Convolutions of small intestine.THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS.THE LARYNX —1st Tablet. INTERIOR of the LARYNX. Is divided in two by the glottis or ntna glottidis. GLOTTIS or RIMA GLOTTIDIS — Antero-posterior opening comprised bfl tween the inferior or true vocal cords in its anterior three-fourths, and betweei the arytasnoid cartilages in its posterior fourth. In tranquil breathing it is triangular with base backwards. It is lozeng^i shaped when fully dilated, as in violent inspirations. It is reduced to a narror slit when sound is emitted; the vocal cords then lying parallel to each othei and their degree of approximation & tension increasing with the height of tt sound produced. In the adult male it is nearly an inch long, and may be dilated to nearli half an inch. In the female, and in the male before puberty, its dimensions ar about one-third lesi Inferior or True Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angli of thyroid cartilage below the false vocal cords to anterior or interiiE; angle of the base of the arytsenoid cartilages. They consist of a stroni band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the inferior thyro-arytcenoid ligamm\ which band is continuous inferiorly with the lateral portion of the cricc; thyroid membrane, is covered internally by a very thin «& adherent layei of mucous membrane, and is strengthened externally by the thyrc| arytaenoid musclij PART ABOVE the GLOTTIS — is broad & triangular, & presents for exami nation! i Superior Aperture of the Larynx - Triangular, obliquely inclined downwarc & backwards, and bounded in front by the epiglottis, & laterally by tl arytseno-epiglottidean fold; Superior or False Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angleti thyroid cartilage above the true vocal cords to the anterior surface of thi arytasnoid cartilages; they consist of a fold of mucous membrane cor|' taining a thin band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the superior thyr\ arytcBiioid ligament, from which a delicate expansion extends over th'| sacculus laryngis. They bound superiorly the openings of till Ventricle of the L arynx - Deep oblong saccular depression comprised betweej! the superior & inferior vocal cords, and corresponding externally to tljj tbyro-arytEenoid muscle. It is continued superiorly & in front by ana i row opening into tl j Sacculus Laryngis or Laryngeal Pouch - A prolongation of the foregoin i which passes upwards & forwards between the superior vocal cord J the thyioid cartilage, and is covered externally by the thyr , epiglottideus & by the thin upper fasciculus of the thyro-arytaenoi i and internally by the arytaeno.epiglottideus inferior or compress I eacculi laryngis. The mucous lining of the pouch is supported by £;: expansion from the superior vocal cord, and presents the openings ;| from 60 to 70 mucous glands, whose secretion lubricates the inferi i; vocal corc', PART BELOW the GLOTTIS — is flattened from side to side above, circul j below, continuous inferiorly with canal of trache j321 'HE LARYNX-2nd Tablet. MUCOUS MEMBRANE Is stretched, on entering the larynx, between the arytsenoid cartilages & the epiglottis, forming the arytceno-epigjottidean folds. These contain the thyro- & the arytseno- epiglottidean mnscles, the cornicula laryngis & the cartilages of Wrisberg, and a large amount of loose cellular tissue, the occasional infiltration of which tissue constitutes the so-called oedema of the glottis. It is thin, and of a pale rosy colour. It is particularly thin & adherent over the epiglottis, and still more so over the true vocal cords, where it is transparent enough for the ligamentous fibres to be seen through its substance. Its epithelium is columnar ciliated below the superior vocal cords, and also, in front;, as high as the middle of the epiglottis; above these points it loses its cilia, and gradu- ally assumes the squamous form. It is squamous over the true vocal cords. It is highly sensitive in the npper part of the larynx. MlJCOUS GLANDS — Simple tubular, and conglomerate; particularly abundant over the posterior surface of the epiglottis, in which situation they are rpceived into num- erous small pits in the substance of the cartilage; but they are found everywhere beneath the mucous membrane, excepting over the true vocal cords. The glands of the sacculus laryngis, from 60 to 70 in number, pour out their secretion upon the in- ferior or true vocal cords which it is destined to lubricate. The so-called arytcenoid glands are colleC^ed into a somewhat large mass in the arytaano-epiglottidean folds, in front of the arytaenoid cartilages. ViESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Are the laryngeal branches of the superior & inferior thyroid. - Veins. Open into the superior, middle & inferior thyroid. - Lym- phatics. Terminate in the deep cervical glands. - Nerves. Are the superior and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric, and filaments from the sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane, the crico-thyroid muscle, & in part the arytaenoid; the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve supplies in part the arytaenoid, and all the other muscles, excepting the crioo« thyroid. A.322 THE LARYNX-3rd Tablet. MUSCLES of the GLOTTIS — Are four on each side, and one in the middle line. CricO-ThyroideuS - Front & sides of cricoid cartilage. Lower border & inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage. - S. by superior laryi i geal nerve. I Tilts the thyroid cartilage forwards ^ and thus elongates 6^ tenses the vocal cords. Tliyro-ArytsenoideUS - Lower part of receding angle of thyroid cartilage, & posteri(, surface of crico-thyroid membrane. By two fasciculi into anterior surface of arytssnoid cartilage, and inl anterior or internal angle of its base. - S. by recurrent laryngeal nerve. Dratvs the aiytcenoid cartilage forwards^ and thus shortens and relaxes the voc cords; it also assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis. The former action is thj of its lower & stronger fasciculus, which lies parallel with, & on the outer sid of, the inferior or true vocal cord; the latter action is that of its upper & thinnt fasciculus, which lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis.. CricO-Arytsenoideus Lateralis - Side of upper border of cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S. by reoui rent laryngeal nerve. Rotates the arytenoid cartilages so as to bring together their anterior or interm angles dr» the true vocal cords which are attached to them^ and thus constricts the glotti CricO-Arytsenoideus Posticus - Broad depression on side of posterior surface ( cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S, by recui rent laryngeal nerve. Rotates the arytcenoid cartilages so as to separate their anterior or internal angi dr= the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus dilates the glottis. ArytssnoideuS - Posterior surface & outer border of both arytseuoid cartilages, pn senting superficial oblique & deep transverse fibres. - S. by both the superior i the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. Brings together the two arytcenoid cartilages, and thus constricts the glottis, esp. daily in its posterior part. - Sometimes a small fasciculus, the Kerato-cricoidei . (Merkel), extends, below the preceding, from the criooid cartilage to the inferio cornu of the thyroid cartilage. MUSCLES of the EPIGLOTTIS — Are three in number. I Thyro-Epiglottideus or Depressor Epiglottidis - Inner surface of thethyroii cartilage externally to origin of thyro-arytaanoid. Margin of epiglottis & aryteeno-epiglottidean fold. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Inferior or Compressor Sacculi Laryngis - Ary tsenoid cartilage just above false vocal cord. Margin of epiglottis. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Superior - Apex of arytsBnoid cartilage. Arytaeno-epiglottidean fold. Constricts the superior aperture of the larynx during the second act of deglutition. The oblique fibres of the arytaenoideus are sometimes considered as belonging t(; the arytaeno-epiglottidei, which muscles would then decussate in the middl( line behind the horizontal fibres of the arytaenoideus, or arytaanoideus properTHE LAEYNX —4th Tablet. CARTILAGES — Nine; three single, three pairs: - THYKOID — The largest. Consists of two quadrilateral plates or ala joined in front at an acute angle, the highest & most prominent part of whioh angle is termed the Outer Surface - Presents on either side the pomum Adami. Presents: Obixque Line - For sterno-thyroid & thyro-hyoid \ passes obliquely downwards & for- wards from tubercle near root of superior cornu. The surface behind gives attachment to inferior constrictor. Inner Surface - Covered by mucous membrane externally & above. Presents in middle line the Receding Angle - To which are attached the true & the false vocal cords, the thyro- arytaenoidei & -epiglottidei muscles, and the thyro-epiglottio ligament & apex of the epiglottis. Upper Border - Deeply notched opposite pomum Adami, rounded & prominent on either side of notch, concave laterally; gives attach, to thyro-hyoid membr. Lower Border - Shorter, straighter, connected to cricoid cartilage by crico-thyroid membrane & muscle. Posterior Border - Thick & rounded; gives attachment to stylo- & palato.pharyngei, and is prolonged upwards & downwards respectively into the Superior Cornu - Long, narrow; points upwards, backwards & inwards, and gives attachment to lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. Inferior Cornu - Shorter & thicker; points downwards forwards & inwards, and presents internally a small facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage. CRICOID — Annular in shape, broad behind, narrow in front; thicker & stronger, but smaller than foregoing. Presents: Outer Surface - Gives attachment in front & at sides to crico-thyroideus & inferior con- strictor ; and then presents on either side from before backwards: Tubercle - Surmounted by an articular facet, for articulation with lesser cornua of thy- BroadRough Depression -For attachment of crico-arytaenoideus posticus^ ^oid cartilage; Median Vertical Ridge - For attachment of longitudinal fibres of oesophagus. Inner Surface - Smooth, lined with mucous membrane of larynx. Upper Border - inclined downwards & forwards. Gives attachment in front & at sides to crico-thyroid membrane & crico-arytaenoideus lateralis, and presents at its posterior & highest part, on either side of a slight median notch, two small oval facets for articulation with arytaenoid cartilages. Lower Border - Horizontal; connected to first cartilaginous ring of trachea by fibrous membrane of that canal. AHYTiEjNOID — Two, small, pyramidal. Rest upon posterior & highest part of upper bor- der of cricoid cartilage, and present: Anterior Surface - Convex, rough ; gives attachment to false vocal cord & upper fasci- Posterior Surface-Excavated for attach.of arytseaoideus. cuius of thyro-arytaenoideus. Internal Surface - The narrowest, flattened, covered with mucous membrane. Base - Broad. Presents a smooth concave facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage, and three angles, of which angles two aire prominent & important, viz., Antero-Inttrnal Angle - Long & pointed; gives attachment to true vocal cord & to lower fasciculus of thyro-arytaenoideus. Postero-Ext. Angle - Short & rounded; gives attach, to the crico-arytaenoidei lateralis & Apex - Pointed, curved backwards & inwards; articulates on either side with the posticus. CORNICULA LARYNGIS or CARTILAGES of SANTORINI - Two small conical nodules of yellow elastic cartilage sometimes joined to apices of arytaenoid cartilages, which apices they prolong backwards & inwards. CUNEIFORM CARTILAGES or CARTILAGES of WRISBERG-Two small rods of yellow elastic cartilage directed upwards & outwards in free border of arytaeno- epiglottidean folds a little in front of arytaenoid cartilages; their anterior ex- tremity is slightly enlarged. EPIGLOTTIS — Median lamella of yellow elastic cartilage in the form of a leaf with the stalk below, and the lamina or expanded part above. Presents: Apex - Long & narrow; attached by thyro-epiglottio ligament to upper part of receding Base - Broad, rounded, free. angle of thyroid cartilage. Anterior Surface - Free in its upper part, where it curves forwards towards base of tongue, to which it is connected by the three glosso-epiglottic folds; ad- herent below, where it is attached by hyo-epiglottic ligament to upper bor- der of hyoid bone. Posterior Surface - Free, smooth, concave from side to side, convex from above down- wards. Covers superior aperture of larynx during second act of deglutition, and is studded with numerous small pits for the reception of mucous glaade. Lateral Margins - Convex, directed backwards j connected to arytaenoid cartilages by . .. . the arytseno-epiglottidewa folds*324 THE LARYNX-5th Tablet, LIGAMENTS — Are: EXTRINSIC — Three; connect larynx to hyoid bono. - They aret i Thyro-Hyoid Membrane - Broad fibro-elastic membrane from Upper border of thyroid cartilage to | Upper border of hyoid bone^ being separated from posterior surface of hyoid; bone by a little loose cellular tissue in which a bursa is usually found It is thickest towards middle and perforated laterally by superior laryn. i geal vessels & nerves. Behind it are the epiglottis & the mucous mem. brane of the base of the tongue, with a considerable amount of adipose tissue & some mucous glands. Lateral Thyro-Hyoid Ligaments - Rounded fibro-eiastic cords from Superior cornua of thyroid cartilage to Extremities of greater cornua of hyoid bone. - These ligaments often contain a small cartilaginous nodule, the cartilago friticea i INTRINSIC —Connect cartilages of larynx as follows: On the one hand the cricoic to the thyroid & arytsenoid, on the other the epiglottis to the thyroid.-: They are: i Crico-Thyroid Membrane - Yellow elastic lamina divided into: , Central Portion - Thick, triangular, broadest below; connects Contiguous margins of cricoid dr* thyroid. Lateral Portions - Thinner; extend from j Upper border of cricoid cartilage as far back as cricO'thyroid arthrodia to Lower border of inferior or true vocal cordy uniting firmly with the lattervij especially in front. - The central portion is concealed by crico.thyroi( muscles, except in mesial line, and is crossed by crico-thyroid branchei of superior thyroid arteries; the lateral portions are covered by the thyro; & lateral crico-arytsenoid muscles, and are lined internally by muoouii membrane of larynx j Crico-Thyroid Capsules - Thin, strongest behind ; enclose the arthrodia jj articulations between cricoid & inferior cornua of thyroid, and an j lined internally with synovial membranft Posterior Crico-Arytsenoid Ligament - Short but strong band from Back of cricoid cartilage to Back of base of arytcenoid. . Crico-Arytsenoid Capsules - Thin; surround the arthrodial articulationi; between upper border of cricoid cartilage & bases of the arytsenoidi and are lined internally with synovial membranej Thyro-Epiglottic Ligament - Long & slender band connecting Apex of epiglottis to Upper part of receding angle of thyroid. Hyo-Epiglottic Ligament - Somewhat indistinct; extends amidst a con; siderable amount of adipose tissne fronij Anterior surface of epiglottis to ;j Upper border of hyoid bone. i j To the foregoing llrgaments must be added the superior & inferio; thyro-arytsenoid described with the vocal cords, and the somewba indistinct nbro-cartilaginous capsules frequently found between th( arytEenoid cartilages & the cornicula laryngis325 THE PLEUKA Surrounds the lung, lines the parietes of the thorax, and forma the lateral boundary of the mediastina. Tracing it horizontally from the sternum it passes; - Over costal cartilages^ ribs^ «Sr» intercostal spaces; Forwards along side of posterior mediastinum ; Outwards over posterior aspect of root of lung ; Round posterior part of inner surface^ posterior border^ outer surface^ anterior bordery antci rior part of the inner surface of lung ^ dipping into the fissures between the lobes'} Inwards over anterior aspect of root of lung-; Forwards along side of pericardium to sternum. Inferiorly it covers the diaphragm, from which a thin triangular fold, the ligamentum latum pulmonisy passes up along the side of the pericardium to the inner surface of the lung & to the lower border of its root. Superiorly it ascends into the neck an inch or an inch & a half above the first rib, and, uuder cover of the scaleni, comes in contact with the first & second portions of the subclavian artery. It is thinnest & most adherent over the lung & over the diaphragm. It is thickest & least ad- herent over the thoracic walls. Its inner surface is covered by a layer of pavement epi- thelium, and is moistened by a serous fluid. Its arteries are from the intercostals, internal mammary, phrenic, inferior thyroid, pericardiac, & bronchial. - Its veins correspond to its arteries. - The lymphatics of the visceral layer join with those of the lung; the lymphatics of the parietal layer join with those of the mediastina & the thoracic walls. - Its nerves are derived from the pulmonary plexuseg (Kolliker), and from the phrenic & sympathetic nerves (Lushka). The two pleurae come in contact behind the middle of the sternum.326 THE TBACHEA & BRONCHI. THE TRACHEA. From 5th cervical vertebra to 3rd dorsal. Pirnij rounded, & supported by cartila ginous rings in front, flattened & membranous behind Relations. In Front - Isthmus of thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, & thyroidea imt artery (when the latter exists) Remains of thymus gland, left innominate vein, arch of aorta wit! innominate & left common carotid arteries, great or deep cardia( plexus, bifurcation of pulmonary artery; Sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, anastomotic branch between the anterioi jugular veins, sternum, fascia, & skin Behind - j CEsophagus, which deviates to the left towards lower part of neckj i right recurrent laryngeal nerve On Either Side - Lateral lobe of thyroid gland; common carotid artery, internal jugu. lar vein, pneumogastrio & sympathetic nerves; inferior thyroic i artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve (the right nerve lies somg. what behind the trachea) Innominate & common carotid arteries, pneumogastrio & left recur rent laryngeal nerves; - and farther oflF, but internally to tht pleurae, right innominate vein & right phrenic nerve, on the righl i side, left subclavian artery & left phrenic nerve, on the left | THE BRONCHI Commence opposite the 3rd dorsal vertebra a little to the left of the middle linejl the internal septum which marks the separation of the two tubes being slightly!I deviated to the left by the preponderance in diameter of the right bronchus over the left one. Both divide in the root of the lung into a large inferior and a somewhat smaller superior branch, the former of which, on the right side, gives off" a small branch to the middle lobe of the right lung. RIGHT BRONCHUS - About an inch in length, wider, more horizontal than the left: one J enters root of lung opposite 4th dorsal vertebra. - It lies behind the superior vena cava & the right auricle; the right pulmonary artery lies at first below it, and then in front of it; the vena azygos major arches over it from behind. LEFT BRONCHUS — Smaller, more oblique, nearly two inches long; enters root of lung opposite 5th dorsal vertebra. - It passes beneath the arch of the aorta j the left pulmonary artery lies at first above it, and then in front of it; behind it are the descending portion of the arob, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct. '327 STRUCTURE of the TRACHEA & BRONCHI Presents for examination • - Cartilages - 6 to 8, 9 to 12,16 to 20, respectively, to right & left bronchi and trachea. They form two-thirds of a circle, and are flat externally & convex from above downwards internally. - The first & the last cartilages of the trachea are thicker & broader than the rest; the lower edge of the latter is prolonged downwards towards its middle, and is at the same time curved backwards, so as to divide the lower circumference of the cartilage into two imperfect rings, which rings form the commencement of the bronchi. Occasionally some of the cartilages bifurcate at one of their extremities, others sometimes join with the neighbouring ones. Fibrous IVEenibraiie - strong, but extensible. Connects the margins of the cartilages, and, dividing into two layers, extends over both of their surfaces; the layer that covers the outer surface of the cartilages being the thickest. Muscular Fibres - Form a continuous pale reddish layer between the fibrous & mucous membranes in the posterior flattened portion. They are External Longitudinal - Arise from the ends of the cartilages, and pass upwards & downwards. Deep Transverse -Connect the extremities of the cartilages. Elastic Fibres - I^ie beneath the mucous membrane, and are longitudinal in direction. They are most abundant in the membranous portion, where they form thick bundles, which bundles give rise to visible elevations of the mucous membrane. IMUCOUS Membrane - Of a pale rosy colour. Covered with columnar ciliated epithelium resting on a bed of stratified nucleated cells; the action of the cilia tends to drive the secretions upwards. Qlands - Are of three sizes, and are found in three situations: ~ Large conglomerate glands lie between the meshes & upon the outer surface of the fibrous membrane in the posterior or membranous portion; smaller glands are found between the layers of the fibrous membrane connecting the cartilaginous rings; still smaller glands are everywhere scattered beneath the mucous membrane. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From the inferior thyroid & the bronchial. - Veins. Join the thyroid plexuses & the bronchial veins. - Lymphatics. Open into the mediastinal glands, - Nerves. From the trunk & the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric, & from the sympathetic.328 THE LUNGS. i Light, porous, crepitant, elastic. j Of a pinkish white at birth, of a mottled slate colour in the adult; the mottling bi coming darker & darker as age advances. Smooth & shining, marked out by dar lines into polygonal spaces corresponding to the bases of the superficial lobule -which spaces are variously crossed by other more delicate line Conical in shape, and present : - ' Outer Surface - Convex, deepest behind. Presents on either side a deep fissure obliqi downwards & forwards from near apex to base, and, on tbe right side, anothd fissure oblique upwards & forwards from the middle of the foregoing. By thei. fissures the left lung is divided into two lobes, the right one iato three; the inferi( lobe is the largest in both lungs, and the middle lobe of the right side, the smalle of al' Inner Surface - Concave, deeply excavated in front, especially on the left side, to mat room for the heart; presents tbe hilum a little above & behind its middl Anterior Border - Thin, oblique, shorter than the posterior, deeply notched inferior! on the left side so as to expose the pericardium; comes in contact with its fello behind middle of sternum, the pleurae alone being interposei Posterior Border - Thick, rounded, vertical, longer than the anterior. : SsiSe - Broad, concave, oblique downwards & backwards; rests upon diaphragm, and i' I circumference fits into the groove between the diaphragm & the ribs. Descenc. lower down on the left side than on the righ Apex - Passes up into root of neck an inch or an inch & a half above first rib, and, undt 1 cover of the scaleni, comes into close contact with first & second portions of sn! | clavian arter ; The Right Lung is the shortest in consequence of the diaphragm ascendin higher on the right side than on the left; the broadest owing to the inclinatic | of the heart to the left j and somewhat the largest. - The Left Lung is the longei \\ narrowest, and somewhat the smalk ! THE ROOT of the LUNG i Consists of the bronchus, pulmonary & bronchial Vessels, lymphatic vessel! k glands, and pulmonary plexuses of the pneumogastrio & sympathetit which parts are all enclosed in a pleural sheath, and are bound togethe by areolar tissue in the following order; F£OM Before Backwards On Either Side'. - !j Pulmonary veins with the anterior pulmonary plexus ; I Pulmonary artery ; i Bronchus with the bronchial vessels^ lymphatics vessels glands^ ait : the posterior pulmonary plexu\\ Feom Below Upwards .| On Right Side - Pulmonary veins^ pulmonary artery, bronchus, with &< : On Left Side - Pulmonary veins, bronchus, pulmonary artery. THE EOOT of the RIGHT LUNG — Lies behind the superior vena cava & tb j right auricle; the vena azygos major arches over it froi'i behincj THE ROOT OF THE Ll^FT LUNG — Passes beneath the arch of the aorta; beliinil| it are the descending portion of the arch, the oesophagus < ■ the thoracic duct. - The root of each lung has also in fron i of it the phrenic nerve, and behind it, the pneumogastric i I329 STRUCTURE of the LUNGS Presents Serous coaty Stib-serous areolar tissue^ dr* Parmehyma* I . ,. . ! PARENCHYMA of the LUNGS — Presents for examination» - - - ' "' ' BHONCHIAL TUBES — They are circular, and they divide & subdivide diohotomonsly. Sometimes, however, three branches arise together j and single lateral branches are also occasionally met with. Their structure, which is but a modification of that of the trachea & bronchi, remains essentially the same up to the point where, their diameter being reduced to about ^ or | of a line, or to from ^ to -g^ of an inch (Rainey), they penetrate into the lobules (lobular bronchial tubes), and become continuous with the intercellular passages. They present therefore: - Caetilages - Thin laminse of various forms & sizes, irregularly scattered over the whole circumference of the tubes; largest & most distinct in the angles of bifurcation. Fibrous Membrane, The same as in the trachea & bronchi, except that the mus- MuscuLAR Fibres, / cular & elastic longitudinal fibres and the glands spread out uni- Elastic Fibres, \ formly round the whole circumference. The muscular fibres Mucous Membrane, i however, are mainly circular j and these circular fibres form Glands, j an almost continuous layer. The bronchial tubes are generally found to lie between & behind the corres- ponding branches of the pulmonary artery & vein. LOBULES — Are miniature lungs, pyramidal with base outwards, large a line to a line) on the surface, smaller & polygonal, in the interior of the lung. They present: - LOBULAR BRONCHIAL TUBE - The terminal ramification of the bronchial tube, to which the lobule is suspended. Is similar in structure to the larger bronchial tubes. Its diameter is reduced to about ^ or ^ of a line or to from to -^l of an inch (Rainey). INTERCELLULAR PASSAGES-The ramifications from four to nine in number, of the lobular bronchial tube within the Jobule. Their walls are covered with lateral saccular dilatations. Their structure is much more simple than that of tlie trachea, bronchi, & bronchial tubes: - The Cartilages, Muscular Fibres & Glands of the latter have disappeared, and there re- mains of the primitive structural elements of the air-passages at this point of their course but a FiBKQ.Elastic Membrane formed of longitudinal bundles of white & yellow elastic fibrous tissues, and a Mucous Membrane, - the epithelium of which is no longer columnar & ciliated, but is simply squamous, as in the air-cells. AIR-CELLS - Small alveolar recesses separated from each other by thin septa, and com- municating freely with the intercellular passages. - Their diameter varies from *° 200 inch, and is greatest at the apex & borders, and on the surface of the lung. - In structure they are reduced to the greatest degree of simplicity; their walls are formed of a basement membrane, supported by a few elastic fibres, lined internally with pavement epithelium, and in the substance of which the pulmonary vessels j amily. PULMONARY VESSELS. PULMONARY ARTERY - Forms a very dense capillary plexus on the walls of the inter- cellular passages & air-cells j the interspaces between the capillaries of which plexus are smaller than the capillaries themselves. PULMONARY VEINS - Arise from the above plexus, and also from some of the terminal ramifications of the bronchial arteries. - The pulmonary vessels are generally found to lie in front of the corresponding bronchial tubes, the artery being above the vein. - The vessels of the different lobules are distinct from each other. BRONCHIAL VESSELS. BRONCHIAL ARTERIES - Supply mainly the larger bronchial tubes, the interlobular cellular tissue & the walls of the pulmonary vessels. Some of the terminal rami- fications reach the smaller bronchial tubes, and join with the pulmonary veins. BRONCHIAL VEINS - Open into the vena azygos major on the right side, into the supei'ior intercostal on the leit. LYMPHATICS — Superficial & deepj end in the bronchial glands. NERVES — From the anterior & posterior pulmonary plexuses of the pneumogastric & sym. pathetic. Small ganglia are found upon the sympathetic nerves. INTERLOBULAR CELLULAR TISSUE — Binds all these parts together pretty firmly in the adultj more loosely in the foetus, for the lobules of the foetal lung can easily be separated by dissection. - In the adult & the aged it contains a large amount of the peculiar dark colouring matter of the lung, which probably consists of a mixture of animal matter & carbon not included in cells.330 THE THYROID GLAND. ! Soft, brownish, very vascular, weighs from one or two ounces; is normally a little larger in females than in mal Lies in front & at sides of upper part of trachea & oesophagus, and of lower part of larynx & pharynx; lateral; it also covers the common carotid & inferior thyroid arteries, the internal jugular vein, the pneua I gastric, sympathetic, & recurrent laryngeal nerves. It is covered by the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, and om \ byoid muscles, and, laterally, by the sterno-mastoid. [ted a muscle, the levator glandulce thyroidt \ It presents two lateral lobes & an isthmus^ and sometimes a thh'd lobe or pyra?nid; and with it is sometimes connc '•■ Lateral Lobes-Somewhat conical, broad below, narrow above j about two inches long, & thrj quarters of an inch wide, the right lobe being a little longer than the left one; passupwar & backwards from opposite fifth or sixth ring of trachea to inferior cornu & adjoining pa' of ala of thyroid cartilage, to which they are connected by loose areolar tissue. I Isthmus - Joins the lateral lobes in their lower third, and usually covers the third & four rings of the trachea; it varies, however, a good deal as regards position. Third Lobe, or Pyramid - A conical mass of gland-tissue (sometimes of fibrous tissue only which, when it exists, passes up, usually from left lobe, or from left part of upper bord of isthmus, as far as the hyoid bone, to which it is attached by loose fibrous tissue. ; Levator GlandulSB Thyroidese - Consists of a few muscular fibres usually derived frc! the thyro-hyoid, which, when they exist, pass up to the hyoid bone either from the pyramic STRUCTURE [process or from the isthmi Presents a thin fibrous capsule, surrounding a multitude of closed vesicles grouped togeth i by areolar tissue and more or less flattened by mutual pressure. These vesicles vary in si from of an inch to the size of a millet seed; they consist of a basement membrane, yellow glairy contents coagulable by heat & by alcohol, and of a few nucleated cells, whic in the foetus & young child, are arranged in a continuous layer on the inner surface of 11 basement membrane, but, in the adult, are usually found floating about in the fluid. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries, irova sup. & inf. thyroid, and from thyroidea ima Neubauer, when it exists; remarkable for their large size & numerous anastomoses j it minatein a capillary plexus around the vesicles.' F^-w^, openinto sup., middle, & inf. thyroid vj Lymphatics, originate in connective tissue between the vesicles & beneath the capsule; for numerous large anastomosing trunks, and end in deep lymphatics of neck. Nervesi Ava middle & inf. cervical ganglia of the sympathetic; accompany the arteries, and present here i [thereafewganglion-cells; theirmodeofterminationisnotknoi™ THE THYMUS GLAND. i Soft, pinkish-gray, lobulated body, lying in upper part of anterior mediastinum & lower part of front of nec ^ Attains its full size towards end of second year, when it weighs about half an ounce, and measures tv inches in length, one and a half in breadth, and three or four lines in thickness. It subsequently^dwindl away, and has all but disappeared at puberty.'- Consists of two lateral lobes placed side by side and fori j ing together a pyramidal-shaped mass, broad below, narrow above. Sometimes there isathird lobebetwet Apex - Frequently reaches up as high as lower border of thyroid gland, [the two others. Presents; | Base - Rests on upper part of pericardium. Anterior Surface - Convex, covered by upper piece & upper part of middle piece of sternui. & by sterno-hyoid & -thyroid ms.; crossed laterally in thorax by internal mammary vessel : Posterior Surface - Concave, rests upon pericardium, arch of aorta, left inaominate vein, & lar{ I STRUCTURE [arteries of root of neck, and, in the neck, upon the traohe :| The organ is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, and divided by trabeculae into lobnLjj primary & secondary. These lobules are now shown to consist of numerous small masses •[[ lymphoid tissue similar in every respect to those which form the lenticular glands of tli| intestine, the Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen, etc., i,e., of masses of delicate retifor! tissue, whose meshes are closely packed with lymph-corpuscles, and pervaded with^fcaplij laries. And it may be added that the error long entertained in respect of all such structure!! to the effect that they consist of a capsule filled with semifluid contents, is due partly to j slight condensation of the retiform tissue towards the periphery of the lymphoid masses, ar , partly to the circumstance that the more delicate internal meshes easily break down a sho; | time after death. The appearance of a great central cavity, the so-called reservoir of tl;! thymus," ramifying in all the lobes & lobules, is also deceptive. And so also, most likel | is the embryonic appearance, described by Mr. Simon, of a primitively linear tube froi which ramifying diverticula branch out: the tube so described is probably a collection (i multiplying cells enclosed within proliferating trabeculse & a thickening capsule. j Vessels & Nerves: - Arteries from the int. mammary, inf. & sup. thyroid, subola^ij ian, & carotid; said to penetrate directly, in some animals, into the centre of the lobules, an l there to form a plexus, from which branches would radiate towards the periphery. Tk \ arrangement would explain the appearance of a vascular membrane lining the so-calle! i reservoir & its prolongations. In most animals, however, the arteries ramify mainly, as :, I . the case with the lenticular glands of the intestine, on the surface of the lobules, whenc smaller twigs converge towards the centre. Veins, open mainly into the left innominat V Lytnphatics, originate around, and partly enclose, the masses of lymphoid tissue, formin [ an^ intralobular plexus. This plexus is succeeded by an interlobular plexus,^ the larg( i branches of which openinto the anterior mediastinal glands. Nerves: little is known aboi them, except that sympathetic fibres run along the arteries which supply the gland. ATHE MALE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS.332 THE KIDNEY Is situated in lumbar region behind peritoneum, and extends from 11th rib to near oreafc I ilium, right kidney lying a little lower than left oj i Presents : Ant. Surface - Convex, looking slightly outwards, covered at upper & outer part by peritoueu; and in relation wii On Right Side - Right lobe of liver, descending portion of duodenum, ascending col( | On Left Side - Tail of pancreas, lower end of spleen, descending colon. [M Post. Surface - Fiat j rests upon 11th & 12th ribs, crus of diaphragm, psoas magnus, and anter " lamella of aponeurosis of transversalis, which latter separates it from quadrat lumboru' Sup, Extremity - Thick, rounded, directed inwards, covered by suprarenal capsule. Corr ponds on left side to upper border, on right side to lower border, of 11th r Inf. Extremity - Smaller, flattened, directed outwards. Descends to near crest of ilium. Outer Border - Convex, directed backwards & slightly upwards. Inner Border - Concave, directed forwards & slightly downwards. Presents the h'hm, a IcI gitudinal fissure most marked behind, which leads into the sinuSf and contains fr( before backwards renal vein, renal artery & uret' The kidneys are subject to frequent VARIATIONS in: Form & Size - One or both being longer & narrower, or shorter & more rot ded; or one being more or less enlarged & the other proportionati diminishi Situation - One or both being situated lower down than usual, occasionai| in the peli-jl Number - There being but one kidney sometimes of a horse-shoe shape & sitifl ted in front of the vertebrae, or there being a supernumerary kidn!i| THE URETER. The excretory duct of the kidney commences in the CaliceSf - small tubes from 7 to 13 in number. Which embrace each of them one, or more papillae, and join to form Infundibular - larger tubes usually three in number, which join to form the Pelvis - funnel shaped dilatation of upper part of ureter compressed from befc backwards, and situated at lower & back part of hilu The ureter passes : Downwards & inwards upon psoas, beneath peritoneum & spermatic vessels, and, the right side, on right side of inferior vena cav Over common or external iliac artery, being covered by termination of ileum on t right side, by sigmoid flexure of colon, on the le Forwards &. inwards, - In the Male - In posterior false ligament of bladder, and on outer side of v deferens & below obliterated hypogastric artenj In the Female - In posterior ligament of uterus and over side of cervix ut(, & upper part of vagina j| to posterior angle of trigonum vesicse, passing obliquely throuij walls of bladder for about | of an im j It is from 16 to 18 inches long, and of about the diameter of a crow-quill. ! The calices, infundibula, pelvis & ureter are formed of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats. T ] muscular coat consists, in the greater part of the ureter, of two longitudii i layers comprising an intermediate circular onej the epithelium of the mucci| coat is spheroid J 1333 STRUCTURE of the KIDNEY. Fibrous Capsule - Thin, smooth & firm, but easily torn off Medullary Substance - Dense, dark, striated, collected into from 8 to 18 pyramids of MalpighU the apices of which terminate in the calicos by rounded eminences, the papillce. - Is formed by the straight tubuli nriniferi or tubes of Bellini, and by the looped tubes of Henle. Cortical Substance - The three-fourths of the gland. Soft, reddish, granular; sends prolonga- tions inwards between the pyramids. - Is formed by the tubuli contorti & the Malpighian corpuscles, and also, near the bases of the pyramids, by the prolongations of the tubes of Bellini termed tubes of Ferrein. Intertubular Stroma - Most abundant in cortical substance & in young subjects, and much more abundant in the lower animals than in man. Is nearly homogeneous, and contains but a few Vessels & Nerves - Vide below. [nuclei & connective tissue corpuscles. TUBULI URINIFERI. Commence in the capstdes of the Malpighian corpuscles^ and constitute in succession the tubuli con- torti^ the looped tubes of Henle ^ 2bX\dL the straight tubes of Bellini^ which two latter systems of tubes are joined together here & there by larger convoluted tubes of junction (Sohweigger-Seidel), and perhaps also by a system of small anastomosing tubules with occasional blind diverticula (Chrzonsz- czewsky). - They are all formed of a homogeneous basement membrane lined with a thick layer of spheroidal epithelium. MALPIGHIAN CORPUSCLES - Small rounded bodies about -j-i^ of an inch in diameter, disposed in double rows between the pyramids of Ferrein, among the convoluted tubes of the cortical subs- tance. Consist of a vascular tuft, plexus or glomerulus enclosed in a dilatation always terminal in mammals of a uriniferous tube, and formed by an afferent artery & by an efferent vessel, which latter is not a vein, for it breaks up again into a capillary network round the tubes of the cortical substance. The glomerulus haugs naked in the Malpighian corpuscle (Bowman), or is covered by a thin layer only of epithelium. CONVOLUTED TUBES or TUBULI CONTORTI - Form the greater part of the cortical substance, and the whole of its outer portion. They are continuous on the one side with the capsules of the Malpighian corpuscles, and on tht other, not, as was believed until lately, with the straight tubes of the medullary substance, but with the looped tubes of Henle. Their diameter is of an inch. LOOPED TUBES of HENLE - Have been described of late years only, and it is but very recently that their true connections have been made out. - They are the continuation of the tubuli contorti of the cortical substance. They descend a variable distance in the substance of the pyramids between the straight tubes or tubes of Bellini, and then turn up abruptly & reascend to the bases, or to near the bases of the pyramids. Here they open into the tubes of Bellini, either directly, or through the intervention of larger convoluted tubes of junction (Scheigger-Seidel), and perhaps also of a system of small anastomosing tubules with occasional blind diverticula (Chrzonszczewsky). - Their diameter is but about J or | of that of the straight tubes, while their walls are rather thicker. STRAIGHT URINIFEROUS TUBES or TUBES OF BELLINI — Form the greater part of the py- ramids of Malpigi, and also, under the name of tubes of Ferrein, a portion of the central part of the cortical substance. They are not, as was believed up to very recently, the continuation of the tubuli contorti, their only connection with these tubes being through the looped tubes of Henle. - They open on the apices of the pyramids by minute orifices about 1,000 in number, and, if traced from this point, are seen to pass up towards the sides & bases of the pyramids in slightly diverging lines, biturcating again & again at very acute angles. Greatly increased in number, but diminished in size from of an inch, their diameter at the apices of the pyramids, to of an inch, they then pass, under the name of tubes of Ferrein, into the cortical substance, where they are at first collected into small diverging bundles, the pyramids of Ferrein. Near the bases of the pyramids they are believed to anastomose loopwise with each other, and again to course inwards. The tubes of Henle open into them at different points of their course, either fdirectly or indirectly, as above explained. VESSELS & NERVES. Renal Artery - Divides just before entering the sinus into four or five branches, the subdivi- sions of which pass up between the pyramids as far as their bases, and then form a series of anastomotic arches between the medullary & the cortical substances. From these arches smaller branches ascend between the double rows of Malpighian corpuscles, giving oft' to each corpuscle its afferent artery. The efferent vessel leaves the corpuscle in close vicinity to the afferent ar- tery, and again breaks up, in the cortical substance, into capillary meshes, which are rounded among the convoluted tubes and elongated among the tubes of Ferrein; branches to the cap- sule of the kidney join freely with twigs from the lumbar arteries. The arteries of the medullary portion are derived either Irom the foregoing capillaries, or from the arches at the base of the pyramids; they pass down between the straight tubes, breaking up into capillaries and joining in anastomotic loops. - Renal Vein. Its radicles have a stellate arrangement on the surface of the organ; they then pass down to the bases of the pyramids, where they form anastomotic arches, and are joined by the veins of the medullary substance. The larger branches descend between the pyramids to the sinus. - Lymphatics. Superficial &i deep, most abundant in the cor- tical substance, where they form freely communicating lymphatic spaces; they open into the lumbar glands. - Nerves. Derived from renal plexus & from lesser splanchnio nerves; contain filaments both from sympathetic & from oerebro-spinal systems. Their precise mode of termina- tion is noi know?"334 THE BLADDEB I When Empty, - la deeply situated behind pubes, iu front of rectum, in the male, of uterus & vagina, ir female, and ia compressed from before backwards & triangular with base downwards Moderately full, - Is rounded, and partly fills pelvis; Distended, - Becomes egg-shaped, curves slightly forwards, and rises into abdominal cavity some times as high as urabilious I In Female bladder is normally smaller, though sometimes larger through disten tion, and is widest from side to side. In Children it is conical, and points up highej into abdomeii Presents: Ant. Surface - Destitute of peritoneum, and in relation with triangular ligamen of urethra, pubes & pubo-prostatic ligaments, and with anterior wall of ab domen in children, and also in adults when bladder is disteudec Poi^t. Surface - Covered by peritoneum, and separated by convolutions of sraal intestine from rectum in the male, and uterus in the female Lateral Surfaces - Crossed towards their middle by obliterated hypogastric artery, below & behind by ureter, above & behind in male by vas deferens which latter first crosses hypogastric artery externally, and then passe between bladder & ureter. - Covered by peritoneum above & behind hypo gastric artery, and rest below & in front on pelvic fascia Apex - Connected to umbilicus by urachus & by obliterated hypogastric arteries behind which it is covered by peritoneum Base or Fundus - The enlarged part directed downwards & backwards, - L relation witl In the Male - Second portion of rectum, upon which rests the part boundet by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, the vesiculge seminales d vasa deferentia, and the prostate gland. - Is covered behind by peri toneum, the recto-vesical fold descending to about four inches from th^ anus when the bladder is distended, and nearly reaching the prostat( when the bladder is empty In the Female - Anterior wall of vagina & lower part of cervix uteri. Neck - Directed downwards & forwards, and now known to be the lowest part o the bladder both in the male & female, when in the erect posture; is sur rounded in the male by the prostate gland LIGAMENTS of the BLADDER Are five true ligaments, and five false onea formed by peritoneum. TRUE LIGAMENTS — Anterior & Lateral formed by pelvic fascia & Superior or Urachus, a remnant of allantois, ANT. OR PUBO-PROSTATIC LIGAMENTS — From back of pubes on either side of symphysis to front of neck of bladder & upper surface of prostate. Contain a few muscular fibres passing to bladder, and are separated by a narrow groove containing dorsal vein of penis, i LATERAL LIGAMENTS — Broad & thin; formed by recto-vesical layer of pel-i vie fascia as it passes from upper surface of levator ani to capsule of proa. tate & side of bladder. URACHUS, OR SUP. LIGAMENT — Fibro-muscular cord extending from apex of bladder, where it is wide & expanded, to umbilicus, where it is contracted and lost in umbilical cicatrix. Sometimes partly pervious, communicating with bladder, sometimes completely pervious forming umbilical urinary fistula. FALSE LIGAMENTS — Posterior, Lateral & Superior. POST. FALSE LIGAMENTS — The margins of the recto-vesical pouch of perito- neum in the male, of the utero-vesical pouch in the female, where they are much smaller. Contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries & ureters. LATERAL FALSE LIGAMENTS — From sides of pelvis to sides of bladder. SUP. FALSE LIGAMENT — Over urachus & obliterated hypogastric arteries to ^. umbilicus,335 ! iJTRUCTURE of the BLADDER. Four ooata, and vessels & nerves: - Serous Coat - Covers posterior surface & sides, and partly also the base or fundus, the peri- toneum descending upon the latter part of the organ to about four inches from the anus when the bladder is distended, and nearly reaching the prostate when the bladder is empty. Muscular Coat - Consists of: - External Longitudinal Fibres - Arise from front of neck, from anterior true or pubo-prostatic ligaments, & from sides of prostate; they spread out mainly over anterior & partly over lateral surfaces of bladder, some being con- tinued into urachus, and those of anterior surface also passing over apex and down posterior surface to back of neck, & to prostate or vagina. Intermediate Circular Fibres - Are thinly scattered over body of bladder, but they form round the neck a thick circular ring, the sphincter vesicce, which ia continuous in front with circular fibres of prostatic portion of urethra. Internal Longitudinal or SuBiiucous Fibres (Ellis) - Form a delicate layer most marked in lower part of bladder, and continued inferiorly upon prostatic portion of urethra. Two Oblique Bands, the Muscles of the Ureters (Sir C. Bell) - Extend from behind orifice of ureters to back of middle lobe of prostate. A Strong Teansverse Band - Joining the orifices of the ureters (Ellis). N. - According to Dr. Pettigrew all these muscular fibres will be seen, if traced continuously, to form figure-S loops, which loops point towards the apex & the base of the bladder, and are so arranged as to present their two extremities on one aspect of the bladder & their point of decussation on the opposite aspect J these loops would form four sets, viz., anterior & posterior well developed, and two lateral less developed. Cellular Coat - Connects the muscular & mucous coats, and is more intimately joined to the latter than to the former. ]V£UC0US Coat - Soft, of a light rosy colour, often thrown into prominent folds or rugge (fas- ciculated bladder) through hypertrophy of the muscular coat, sometimes depressed into saccular pouches (sacculated bladder) through the effects of stricture. Its epithelium is intermediate between the columnar & the squamous. It presents a few mucous follicles, and, near the neck, some small racemose glands, and ia loosely connected to the muscular coat, except over the Tkigonum Vesica - Triangular smooth area, pale in colour, bounded by the orifices of the urethra & ureters and by the projections of the muscles of the ureters & of the transverse muscular band joining the orifices of the latter. It corresponds to the interval at the base of the bladder bounded by the vesi. culae seminales & vasa deferentia, the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, & the prostate gland; and from its apex there projects into the neck of the bladder the Uvula Vesica - A slight elevation formed by the submucous tissue and by the internal longitudinal or submucous muscular fibres (Ellis), and also, in morbid cases, by the hypertrophy of the middle lobe of the prostate. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. Are the superior, middle & inferior vesical, and twigs from the middle haemorrhoidal, uterine, vaginal & obturator. ~ Veins. Form a compli- cated plexus round the neck & sides of the base, and open into the internal iliacs. - Lymphatics. Open into the pelvic glands. - No-ves. Are from the sacral & hypo- gastric plexuses, the former supplying principally the base & neck, and the latter, the upper part of the bladder.336 THE MALE URETHRA Is about 8| inches lon^, and extends from neck of bladder to end of penis, ■ It presents beneath the pubes a fixed curve concave superiorly, and in front of the pubes I the flaccid state of the penis, a second flexible curve concave inferior ■ It is divided into: - | PBOSTATIC PORTION — The widest & most dilatable part, spindle-shaped, 1| incl; long} passes through the prostate from base to apex, lying nearer its upper than lower surface. Its transverse section is of a horse-shoe shape concave inferior | On its floor are the following parts; Ubethkal Crest, Yerumontanum or Caput Gallinaginis - Longitudinal elevation 8 oi lines in length and 1^ lines high at its central & highest part, consisting, accoi ing to Kobelt, of muscular flbres & erectile tissue. On either side of the cn is t. Prostatic Sinus - A longitudinal groove into which open the ducts of the lateral lobe the prostate. On the front part of the crest is t Utricle, Sinus Poculabis or Vesicula Prostatica - An expanding cul-de-sac, whi passes backwards into the substance of the middle lobe of the prostate for abo a quarter of an inch, and upon or within the margins of which are the slit-li openings of the ejaculatory due MEMBRANOUS PORTION —The shortest, and, excepting the meatus, the narrowest ps of the canal. It extends from apex of prostate to bulb of corpus spongiosum, and situated between, the two layers of the deep perinseal fascia, which layers are pi longed around it, the one downwards & forwards, the other upwards & backwan Its upper surface is concave superiorly, f of an inch long, and situated about an in below & behind the pubic arch, from which arch it is separated by the anterior fibi of the compressor urethrse muscle & by the dorsal vessels & nerves of the penis, ] under surface is convex inferiorly, only ^ inch long (in consequence of the bulb pi jecting backwards beneath the urethra), and separated from the rectum by a triang i lar space, broad below, narrow above, the perinaou SPONGY PORTION — Commences within the bulb below & behind the symphysis pub ascends a short distance in front of the symphysis within the corpus spongiosui curves downwards with the latter in the flaccid state of the penis, and ends at the meat urinarius. It is about six inches long. In the greatest part of its course it is unifoi; in size, and intermediate between the prostatic & membranous portions; it is dilate however, within the bulb & within the glans penis (in which latter situation the dil tation forms the fossa navicularis), and is greatly constricted at the meatus. 1! transverse section is elongated from side to side except withia the glans penis, whe! it is elongated vertically. On its walls, and more particularly on its floor, are the ope ings of numerous mucous glands, the glands of Littre, which openings are directed fo wards, and are sometimes large enough to intercept the passage of small catheter this is especially the case with one of them, which is situated on the upper wall oft! i fossa navicularis, and which constitutes the lacuna magna. On the floor of its pc terior dilated portion comprised within the bulb, and sometimes termed the bulbo! portion, are the openings of the ducts of Cowper's glanc STRUCTURE — Three coats: - | Mucous Coat - Thin, pale in the prostatic portion, rosy in the membranous & spon{J portions, in which it is thrown into longitudinal folds (except when the canal ; distended with urine). Covered with columnar epithelium except in the fosi navicularis, where the epithelium is squamous. Presents the glands of Litt above described, which glands are most abundant in the spongy portion, ar, presents also, near the meatus, a few papilli \ Muscular Coat - Consists of external longitudinal & internal circular unstriped mu cular fibres, both most abundant in the prostatic portio i Srectile Coat - Thick in the spongy portion, where it forms the corpus spongiosu ■ (Yide Structure of the Penis). From this a thin layer of erectile tissue is pr ; longed upwards round the membranous & prostatic portions as far as the net of the bladder, forming in the prostatic portion, according to Kobelt, the ver montanum or oaput gallinagini >337 STRUCTURE of the PENIS, Consista of three cylindrical masses of erectile tissue contained in stronor fibrous sheaths, of which masses of erectile tissue, two, the corpora cavernosa^ are placed side by side along the upper part of the penis, and one, the corpus spongiosum^ which encloses the terminal portion of the urethra, lies below & between the former on the under surface of the organ. CORPORA CAVERNOSA — Arise from the anterior & inner part of the two ischial tuberosities, and from the ascending rami of the isohia & descending rami of the pubes, by two pointed prolongations, the crura penis. These pass forwards & inwards, present a slight enlargement, the bulb of the corpus cavernosum, and unite to form the body of the penis. - The body of the penis presents on its upper surface a narrow median groove for the dorsal vessels & nerves of the organ, and, on its under surface a broader groove, which receives the corpus spongiosum. It ends anteriorly in a rounded extremity over- lapped by the base of the glans. CORPUS SPONGIOSUM — Commences between the two converging crura of the corpora cavernosa by an expanded portion, the bulb of the urethra. This latter is penetrated superiorly by the membranous portion of the urethra, is marked inferiorly by a partial division into two lobes, and is surrounded by the accelerator urinae muscle & by a pro- longation of the anterior or descending layer of the deep perinseal fascia. - It passes for- wards, as an erectile tube, round the spongy portion of the urethra, and terminates in the glans penis^ a conical enlargement, which overlaps the anterior rounded extremity of the two corpora cavernosa. STRUCTURE of the CORPORA CAVERNOSA & SPONGIOSUM - They consist of: Fibrous Investment - Thick, dense, firm, especially over the corpora cavernosa, highly elastic, but incapable of more than a certain degree of distention; formed of white & yellow elastic fibrous tissues and of unstriped muscular fibres disposed longitudinally in the superficial strata, circularly in the deeper ones. It forms but an incomplete septum between the two corpora cavernosa in their points of contact: - The septum is thick & imperforate behind, but it only consists in front of a, few vertical bands arranged somewhat like the teeth of a comb, and forming the septum pectiniforme. It gives off numerous trabeculae from its inner surface. - In the corpora cavernosa the trabeculaa are strongest towards the periphery, and the com- partments they bound are transversely or circularly disposed & largest towards the centre. In the corpus spongiosum the trabeculsa are more deli- cate, and the compartments are longitudinal & more uniform, except in the glans penis where their arrangement is somewhat complex. Erectile Tissue - Consists of afferent arteries, a venous plexus, & efferent veins. Afferent Arteries - Are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa & the arteries of the bulb, and twigs from the internal pudic & the dorsal arteries of the penis. Some of the branches of these arteries terminate in capil- lary plexuses as in other parts of the body. Others, the helicine arteries, which are said to be especially numerous towards the root of the penis and to be wanting in the glans, become convoluted, and forming tendril.like twigs, project singly or in tufts into the venous spaces, and end in dilated extremities which are either open or closed (Miiller). This is denied however by Valentin, who describes the smallest branches of the arteries as ending in wide funnel-shaped orifices, which open directly into the venous spaces. Venous Plexus - Is very intricate. So numerous & large are the communica- tions between the veins that the blood appears to be effused into a system of extra-vascular structures. Bfjeeent Veins - Some emerge from the corona glandis and from the upper & under surfaces of the corpora cavernosa, and join the dorsal vein of the penis j most pass out at the root of the penis, and join the prosta- tic plexus & the pudic veins. The proper nerves of the cavernous structures are derived mainly from the pelvic & prostatic plexuses of the sympathetic, but partly also from the pudic nerve. A.338 THE TESTICLE & EPIDIDYMIS. j i THE TESTICLE la oval & compressed laterally, and so suspended by the spermatic cord as to present j Upper Extremity - The largest, directed forwards & outwards. Presents a small pad j, culated body, the hydatid of Morgagni, probably a remnant of Muller's di Lower Extremity - The smaller, directed backwards & inwards. fl Lateral Surfaces - Looking respectively forwards & inwards, and backwards & outwa!! Anterior Border - Convex, directed forwards, downwards & outwards. - All these pj are free, smooth, and entirely invested by the tunica vaginalis prop Posterior Border - straight & flattened, directed backwards, upwards & inwards, cove by the epididymis & vas deferens, and only partly invested by the tunica vaginj The left testicle lies a little lower than the right one, and is frequently a li \ larj THE EPIDIDYMIS f| Lies on the posterior border and back part of the outer surface of the testicle, and i the vas deferens on its inner side. It presei Globus Major or Head - its upper enlarged extremity, connected to the testicle by i efferent ducts of the lal| Body - I'ree, surrounded by the tunica vaginalis, which dips in between it & the test! along its outer border, and connects its inner or posterior border to the poste border of the test: Globus Minor or Tail - its lower pointed extremity, attached to the testicle by d( fibrous tisj The tunica vaginalis covers the whole of the upper or outer surface of epididymis, as well as the under surface of its body. - The vas a fans of Haller communicates with the canal of the epididymis or v the commencement of the vas defer! I339 ITBUCTURE of the TESTICLE & EPIDIDYMIS. I STRUCTURE of the TESTICLE — Presents for examination: - THREE IMMEDIATE COVERINGS : - Tunica Vaginalis - Vide Coverings of the testicle. Tunica Albuginea - Thick, dense, bluish-white, fibrous membrane, covered exter- nally by the tunica vaginalis propria except along the points of attach- ment of^ the epididymis & vas deferens, and reflected into the interior of the testicle along its posterior or upper border in the shape of an incom- plete vertical septum, the mediastinum testis or Corpus Highmorianum. This latter body supports the vessels & nerves and the excretory ducts of the testicle in their passage to or from the gland, and gives off numerous trabeculsB, which radiate towards the whole extent of the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and inclose the numerous pyramidal spaces con- taining the lobules of the gland substance. Tunica Vasculosa or Pia Mater Testis - Consists of a plexus of blood-vessels held together by delicate areolar tissue, and formed by the subdivision of the superficial set of brs. of the spermatic arte.ry. Branches given off by this plexus, penetrate into the substance of the gland, supported by the trabeculae. PROPER SUBSTANCE or PARENCHYMA — Consists of numerous pyramidal lobules contained in the pyramidal spaces bounded by the trabeculae, and pre- senting a base directed towards the surface of the testicle and an apex directed towards the mediastinum. Of these lobules the central ones are the largest. The degree to which the lobules are isolated by the trabeculae is somewhat vari- able, hence the different estimates of their number, 250 (Berres), 400 (Krause). £ack lobule consists of from otic to three or more tubuli seminiferi, the number & the length of which tubuli has also been variously estimated,- 300, sixteen feet in length (Monro), 840, two feet & a quarter in length (Lauth). - The diameter of the tubuli is from g^i^ to of an inch. They consist from without inwards of a delicate fibro-areolar coat, a basement membrane, and sometimes a layer of granular nucleated epithelium. The epithelium is absent, however, when tho gland is particularly active; the tubuli are then filled with cells of different sizes without any regular arangement. tubuli seminiferi commence towards the surface of the testicle, sometimes by free coecal or blind extremities, but more commonly by anastomatic loops. They are exceedingly convoluted in the peripheral part of the gland ; their convolutions are of two orders, viz., a fine & regular undulation giving a granular appear- ance to the whole of their mass, and a more complicated folding of the undulating tube. Towards the apices of the lobules they become straighter, and they coalesce into from twenty to thirty straight tubes the vasa recia^ which are from to of an inch in diameter. The vasa recta enter the mediastinum, and passing upwards & backwards, they form within that body a network of anastomosing tubules, the rete testis or rete vasculosum testis. The rete testis is continued superiorly into from twelve to fifteen or twenty vasa efferentia The vasa efferentia perforate the tunica albuginea at the upper & back part of the testicle. In their extra-testicular course, which is about 6 or 8 inches long, they are at first straight & relatively wide, but they soon become convoluted & slightly narrowed, and form a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosis which latter constitute together the globus major of the epididymis. They are lined with ciliated epithelium. The excretory ducts of the testicle open finally into the commencement of the canal of the epididymis at apparently narrow intervals, which intervals however, are seen, when the canal of the epididymis is unravelled, to measure from two to three inches in length. STRUCTURE of the EPIDIDYMIS The epididymis consists of a single tube about twenty feet long, by which the tubuli seminiferi open into the vas deferens. It is at first very thin & exceedingly convoluted, and of a diameter of about of an inch. It diminishes a little in size for a short distance, but it soon increases con- siderably, the thickness of its walls increasing also, and its course becoming less tortuous. A little fine areolar tissue binds its convolutions together, thicker septa being interposed between the larger masses of coils termed lobes, which latter are mostly transverse in direction. The epithelium of the canal of the epididymis is ciliated (Becker, Kolliker). - The Vas aberrana of Haller (Vide spermatic cord) is usually connected either with the canal of th© epididymis or with the commence- ment of the vaa deferens.340 i THE VAS DEFEBENS, VESICULA SEMINALES, & EJl- CULATORY DUC1L ! i VAS DEFERENS j Ascends on inner side of epididymis along lt»wer three-fonrths of posterior l)order of ij, tide, to whicli it is attached by firm areolar tif 5, Along back of spermatic cord to external abdominal ring ; Through external abdominal ring, inguinal canal & internal abdominal ring; Downwards, backwards, inwards to base of bladder, passing on outer side of epigasti & obliterated hypogastric arteries and then on inner side of ur( . Forwards & inwards between bladder & rectum, along inner side of vesicula semii g becoming enlarged & saccula ; Narrows to a point, and joins opposite base of prostate with duct of corresponding ^ . cula seminalis, to form the common seminal or ejaculatory (" p. Its canal is very small. Its walls are very thick & dense, and consist from wit't inwards of a cellular coat, of a muscular coat presenting two longitudinal lays i , an intermediate circular layer of fibres, and of a mucous coat covered with col . ' nEW non-ciliated epithel;. The vas aberrans of Haller communicates with the canal of the epididj j or with the commencement of the vas defer . VESICULA SEMINALES Two lobnlated membranous pouches about 2J inches long obliquely disposed bet\ 1 base of bladder & second part of rectum, and present; Post. Diverging Extremities - Enlarged, and reach as far back as- . mination of ure . Ant. Converging Extremities - Pointed; join at base of prostate with ter: . ; ation of the corresponding vas deferens to form the common semini jr ejaculatory (; Upper Surface - in contact with base of bladder. Under Surface - Rests upon second part of rectum, from which it is t rated by a process of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic faii They have the enlarged & sacculated vasa deferentia to their inner side, and bo) laterally a triangular portion of the base of the bladder which correspt to trigonum ves Xach vesicula seminalis consists of a tube from four to six inches long, and of abouti diameter of a crow quill. This tube is irregularly coiled upon itself, gives off numerous coecal diverticula, which, as well as the coils of tube, are bound together by firm areolar tissue. Its walls are thin, t consist of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats, the epithelium of the la ' being squam ' EJACULATORY DUCTS Two small canals about | of an inch in length formed by the junction opposite Mie ] of the prostate of the vas deferens with the duct of the vesicula semiri They pass forwards & inwards through the substance of the prostate along the sidi the vemmontanum, and terminate by a slit-like opening upon or within the i • gins of the vesicula prostatica or sinus po^i !' Their walls are thin, and consist of a delicate fibrous ooat & of mnsoular & mucous w i341 HE PROSTATE GLAND Is a pale firm glandular structure of about the size & shape of a horse-chesnut, situated beneath the trigonum vesicae and around the neck of the bladder & commencement of the urethra; below and behind the symphysis pubis & the pubo-prostatic ligaments or anterior true'Iiga- ments of the bladder; above & in front of the second part of the rectum and the-point of decussation of those anterior or inner fibres of the levator ani which form the levator prostatse; between the two lateral halves of the posterior or ascending layer of the deep perinseal fascia or triangular ligament, and between the two lateral halves of the ascending- portion of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. It measures normally from to inches in its antero-posterior diameter, If inches in its greatest transverse diameter (Sir H. Thompson), and about f of an inch in depth; these measurements undergo, however, great variations in old persons, who are frequently the subjects of enlarged prostate. It consists of two lateral lobes separated behind by a deep notch, and of a third or middle lobe which is normally but a small rounded or triangular mass fitted in between the two lateral lobes in the under part of the organ, and lying between the ejaculatory ducts immediately beneath the neck of the bladder. The degree of development of this middle lobe, ia however, very variable^ it being often much enlarged in advanced life, and then pro- jecting into the neck of the bladder so as to impede the passage of urine. Ct presents for examination: BASS — Directed backwards & upwards towards the trigonum vesicae & the neck of the bladder, and notched posteriorly. AF£jX — Passes downwards & forwards between the posterior or ascending layers of the deep perinseal fascia or triangular ligament. UPPER SURFACE — Covered by and connected to the pubo-prostatic ligaments or ant. true ligaments of the bladder and the front part of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. Is situated about | of an inch below & behind the symphysis pubis, and presents a slight longitudinal furrow. UNDER SURFACE — Eests upon the lower part of the second portion of the rectum (just opposite the bend between the second & third portions), a process of the recto- vesical layer of the pelvic fascia being interposed between the two organs. Presents a slight depression, or sometimes two converging grooves which correspond to the ejaculatory ducts and which demarcate the central lobe. LATERAL SURFACES — Covered by the layers of fascia above mentioned, by those anterior or inner fibres of the levatores ani which go to form the levator prostatse, and by the reflections of the peritoneum from the bladder to the sides of the pelvis which reflections form the lateral false ligaments of the bladder. It is perforated by the urethra, which usually lies nearer its upper than its lower surface, and also by the ejaculatory ducts which pass forwards & inwards through the lower part of the gland along the side of the verumontanum, and terminate by a slit-like opening upon or within the margins of the vesicula prostatica or sinus pooularis. STKUOTURE — structurally the prostate presents: Fibrous Capsule — Distinct from the fibrous investment derived from the two halves of the posterior or ascending layer of the deep perinseal fascia & from the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, and separated from these by prosta- tic plexus of veins. It sends ofi" fibrous prolongations into the interior of the gland. Glandular Subtance — Consists of follicular pouches which are grouped around, and open into, numerous elongated canals, by the junction of which from twelve to twenty excretory ducts are formed; these open into the prostatic sinus on the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. Muscular Fibres — Are abundant in the fibrous capsule. The urethra is surroun- ded, as it passes through the prostate, by a thick layer of circular fibres con- tinuous behind with the fibres of the sphincter vesicae, and in front with those of the membranous portion of the urethra. Vessels & Nerves — Arteries are derived from the internal pudic, vesical & middle haemorrhoidal. Veins form an important plexus around sides & base of prostate: they receive in front the dorsal vein of the penis, aud open behind into internal iliac vein. Lymphatics ramify on the outer surface of the capsule. Nerves are derived from hypogastric plexus.342 COVERINGS of the TESTICLE Are the: - Scrotum - Consists of two layers f Integument - Thin & brownish j presents a few sebaceous follicles & thinly scatter® crisp hairs, and is divided into two lateral halves by a median raph6, whic raph6 is continued forwards on under surface of penis and backwards alon middle line of perinasum to anus. Is closely applied to the testes and is com. gated transversely when the dartos is contracted, that is to say, usually in young & robust, and in all under the influence of cold, and is elongated flaccid when the dartos is relaxed, that is to say, usually in the debilitated aged, and in all under the influence of warmt: Daetos - Is a thick stratum of loose reddish tissue, a modification of the superficii fascia of the surrounding regions, consisting of areolar tissue with numeroi i superadded muscular fibres and without any fat; it sends inwards betwee j the two testicles a septum, the septum scroti^ which divides its cavity into two. It is contractile, but its contractility is slow in its action, and especially excite I by cold, not by electricit | Intercolumnar or External Spermatic Fascia - Thin cellular layer derived fro the margins of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testis, ar continuous above with the intercolumnar fibres, which bound that ring superior! Cremasteric Fascia - Consists of the scattered bundles of fibres of the cremaster & iuterni, oblique muscles united by a little areolar tissil Fascia Propria - Relatively thick layer, the continuation of the infundibuliform process d the fascia transversalis, which layer supports both the cremasteric fascia & til tunica vaginalis reflexj Tunica Vaginalis - is derived from the peritoneum, of which it is at first a continnatio j but from which it is subsequently cut oflTby the closure of that part of the peritonei pouch, which extends from the internal abdominal ring to a short distance from tl: | testicle. - Is divided ink j ViscEBAL Portion ok Tunica Vaginalis Pkopria - Surrounds the testicle, and corei j both the upper or outer surface of the epididymis and also the under surface • ^ its central part or body, penetrating, along its outer border, between it&tl ; testicle, and thus forming the digitalfosi Paeietal Portion, or Tunica Vaginalis Reflexa - Is reflected from the posterior bo | der of the testicle upon the inner surface of the fascia propria, extendin; however, a short distance up the cord upon its anterior & inner aspeotj343 rHE SPERMATIC CORD Conaista of the portion of the vas deferens which extends from the testicle to the internal ab- dominal ring, and of the accompanying arteries, veins, lymphatics, & nerves and contains the vas aberrans & the organ of Giraldes. These structures are bound together by delicate areolar tissue, and are invested from within outwards by: Tunica vaginalis^ below j Fascia propria^ along the whole Cramasteric fascia^ along nearly the whole of the course of the cord; Intercolumnar fascia^ dartos & skin of the scrotum^ below the external abdominal ring. Vas deferens - Lies at the back. Arteries - Are the spermatic^ the artery of the vas deferens from the superior vesical, and the cremasteric branch of the epigastric. Veins - Are the spermatic veins, which pass up in front of the vas deferens, forming the pampiniform plexus^ and then unite in a single trunk, which accompanies the abdomi- nal portion of the spermatic artery and terminates in the left renal vein, on the left side, in the inferior vena cava, on the right. Lymphatics - Terminate in the lumbar glands. Nerves - Are the ilio'inguinoly the genital branch of the genito-crural, frequently a branch of the ilio-hypogastric, and the spermatic plexus of the sympathetic, which latter is derived from the renal, aortic & hypogastric plexuses. Vas Aberrans (Haller) -a narrow tortuous tube from \\ to 14 inches long, connected with the commencement of the vas deferens or with the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, and passing upwards for 1 or 2 inches among the other vessels ot the spermatic cord. It ends in a blind extremity, and is sometimes unconnected with the seminal ducts. It was probably connected in the foetus with the Wolffian body. Organ of Giraldes - a collection of minute convoluted tubules, probably a remnant ot the WolflBlan body, found in the lower & front part of the cord close to the head of the epididymifc344 I THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. Small yellow or brownish crescentic flattened bodies, weighing from one to two drachms each, which lie oi npper & front part of kidney. - The right one is nearly triangular, lies a little lower, and is somewha smaller J the left one is more semilunar, lies a little higher^ and is somewhat larger. They present:. Anterior Surface - Covered on right side by right lobe of liver, on left side by tail o pancreas & spleen. Presents a small fissure, the hilum, from which the suprarenal vein emerges Posterior Surface - Rests upon cms of diaphragm opposite 10th dorsal vertebra. Lower Border or Base - Thick, concave, rests upon upper & front part of kidney. Upper Border - Thin, convex, directed upwards & inwards. In relation internally witl great splanchnic nerves & semilunar ganglia; and also with the aorta, on the left side and with the inferior vena cava, on the right side STRUCTURE. Three opinions are still held; - (1) The suprarenal capsules are vascular or ductless glands J (2) they form part of the sympathetic system; (3) their cortical substance oonsti. tutes a ductless gland, while their medullary substance is an appendix to the nervous system. The latter opinion is that of KoUiker. - They present for examination: - Fibrous Capsule. - Thin, and easily torn; sends numerous processes inwards. Its i deeper strata appear particularly rich in connective tissue corpuscles, but^ deficient in elastic fibres. Cortical Substance. - Firm, striated, of a deep yellow colour, separated from tb^l medullary substance by a layer of loose cellular tissue; forms the greater part? of the organ. It may be divided into one principal or relatively wide & inter- mediate layer or zone, the zona fasciculatay and two narrower or secondary zones, one external, the zona glonierulosai one internal, the zona reticularis (J. Arnold).! The principal or wide & intermediate zone, or zona fasciculata^ consists of ? column-like groups of cells arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and supported- by a relatively strong fibrous stroma. The groups of cells are about of an inch in diameter. The cells of which they are formed vary from -^^-q to of: an inch. They are polyhedral or many-sided through mutual pressure, finely granular, and scarcely stained by solutions of yellow chromate of potash; they contain a clear round nucleus, and frequently a few yellowish oil-globulea. The columnar arrangement is wanting in the outer & inner zones. In both, i the groups of cells are more rounded, and the stroma more equally distributed. In the outer zone (zona glomerulosa) are found oval spaces, of which it is difficult \ to say whether they communicate with the extremity of the columns or not. i The inner zone (zona reticularis) in the darkest part of the cortical substance. \ Medullary Substance - Absent from the edges & from the thin upper part of the j adult organ; probably everywhere present in the early condition. Much darker i than the cortical substance: frequently of that brownish black hue which gave I rise to the name of " atrabiliary capsules" formerly given to these organs. Also much softer: sometimes quite pulpy, and so easily lacerated that, by some ana> ; tomists, a central cavity was described in the interior. Consists of groups of cells i supported by a delicate stroma, the main points of interest in respect of which cells are the distinctions between them & the cells of the cortical substance, and their supposed connexion with nerve-fibres: They are coarsely granular & destitute of oil globules, and they are stained deeply by solutions of yellow chromate of potash. Some of them are branched, and their processes are said by Lushka to be continued into nerve-fibres. Hence they would be nerve- cells (Leydig, Lushka). This is denied,however, by other anatomists, who admit nevertheless that some of the ceils of the medullary substance are ganglion- cells placed in the course of nerve-fibres. The opinion of KoUiker is given above. Arteries - Are the suprarenal brs. of the abdominal aorta, renal, & inferior phrenic. Entering from the surface generally, they first pass up between the columns of the cortical substance, enclosing each column in fine elongated capillary meshes, i A network of more roanded meshes pervades the medullary substance. Veins - Converge from the centre of the organ towards the hilum on the anterior surface, which they generally leave as one trunk. They open on the right side jj into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the left renal. jj Lymphatics - Are but imperfectly known. They maybe divided into superficial* I deep. They open into the lambar glands. 11 Nerves - Are exceedingly numerous, and are derived from the solar & renal jj plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the phrenic & the pneumogastric |j nerves. They enter mainly towards the inner border & the base. " They pass j| up between the columns of the cortical substance, which they do not appear to supply. They then spread out in the zona reticularis and enter the medullary substance, where they form a complicated network. They consist mainly of meduUated fibres. Numerous small ganglia are formed upon them, both outside & within the organ.THE FEMALE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS.346 THE MAMMA. Budimentary in the malei email in the female before pnberty; inoreaees in iise during pregnancy & after delivery. - Present!j POSTERIOR SURFACE, or BASE — Somewhat concave; nearly circular, but e slightly elongated from below upwards & outwards. Rests upon pectoralis major i & fascia covering it, and extends from 3rd rib to the 6th or 7th, and from side of sternum to azillai ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents, a little below its middle, the nipple surrounded by the areola. ! Nipple - Cylindrical or conical; pt«9sents at its apex the openings of the lactiferouB ducts. Its surface is of a pink or brownish hue, wrinkled, provided with papillae, and, near its base, with some sebaceous glands. It is susceptible of a sort of erection due mainly to the contraction of its muscular fibres. < Areola - Rosy in the virgin j larger & darker in colour after the second month of pregnancy & during lactation (when its sebaceous glands enlarge consider. ably), and also somewhat so during the remainder of life. STRUCTURE of the MAMMA — Presents: ' Mammary Gland - Compound conglomerate gland, pale, firm, of same shape aif, j but smaller than, the breast taken as a whole. Each of its several lobeB I consists of lobules, themselves made up of acini & of small excretory { ducts, the latter uniting to form larger ones. The large excretory duota, tubuli lactiferi or galactophori^ from fifteen to twenty in number, con. verge towards the areola, beneath which they form dilatations or ampullv, I which serve as reservoirs for the milk. At the base of the nipple they become 1 contracted, and they then pursue a straight course to its apex, where they i end by separate apertures considerably narrower than the ducts them, i selves. - The nipple contains numerous blood-vessels intermixed with plain | muscular fibres, j FibrO" Areolar Tissue - Forms a firm capsule to the gland & septa between its lobes, and surrounds the organ, except beneath the areola & nipple, with a thick stratum of adipose tissue, which greatly increases its size. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From the thoracic branches of the axillary, the j intercostals, & the internal mammary. - Veins. Form an anastomotic I circle round the base of the nipple, from which circle large branches | radiate towards the circumference of the gland, and end in the axillary & ! internal mammary veins. - Lymphatics. Open into the glands alongf lower border of pectoralis major. - Neeves. From anterior & lateral cuta- neous nerves of the thora*347 THE VULVA. Comprises all the external genitals of the female, i.e.: - Mons Veneris - Bounded eminence in front of pubes^ formed by a collection of adipose tissue, and covered with hair after puberty. Labia Majora - Two prominent folds, thickest in front, formed externally of integument, internally of mucous membrane, and containing a large quantity of areolar & dartoic tissues, which folds are joined together at the mons Veneris, where they form the anterior commissure^ and also in front of the perinaeum proper, where they form the posterior co?nmissure &vl6. bound posteriorly the fossa navicularis, which latter fossa is bounded anteriorly by the fourchette. Labia Minora or Nymphse - Two small folds of mucous membrane, narrow inferiorly, where they become lost on inner surface of foregoing, broad superiorly, where, dividing, they embrace, and form the prepuce of, the Clitoris - A diminutive penis in appearance & structure, presenting crura, body, glans, prepuce, suspensory ligament, & muscles analogous to those of the male, but no urethra, the female urethra being imbedded in the anterior wall of the vagina, and its Meatus UrinariuS - Lying somewhat prominently about an inch below clitoris, at lower part of vestibule. Vestibule - A. triangular depression bounded laterally by the nymphaa and inferiorly by the Aperture of the Vagina - Which latter is surrounded by the sphincter vaginae muscle, and is partly closed in the virgin by the Hymen - -A. fold of mucous membrane usually semilunar with free concave border turned upwards towards pubes; sometimes absent; sometimes developed into a septum, complete, or with small central, or numerous cribriform apertures j replaced after sexual connection by the carunculce myrtiformes^ small irregular eminences due to the cicatrisation of the ruptured hymen.348 BLADDER, URETHRA, RECTUM. BL ADD!EjR — Is normally smaller than in the male, though sometimes larger through dis- tention, and is very broad from side to side. Its posterior surface cornea in contact with the uterus, and its base rests upon the vagina & the lower part of the cervix uteri. Its other relations are the same as in the male. UKSTHR A — Is about an inch & a half long and very dilatable. It passes downwards & forwards in the anterior wall of the vagina, being slightly curved with con. cavity upwards. It perforates the triangular ligament as in the male, and is surrounded by the compressor urethras muscle. - In structure it presents from without inwards: - 1. Musctdar coat - Consists of a thick layer of circular fibres continuous with those of bladder. 2. Thin layer of erectile tissue. 3. Mucous membrane - Covered with squamous epithelium, except near the bladder, where the epithelium is spheroidal, and thrown into numerous longi- tudinal folds, of which one, situated on the floor of the canal, more or less resembles the verumontanum of the male. RECTUM — Is less curved and more capacious. The first & third portions are similar to what they are in the male. The second portion is adherent inferiorly to the posterior wall of the vagina, and superiorly is less completely mvested by peritoneum.349 THE VAGINA Curves downwards & forwards, following at first axis of pelvic cavity, then axis of its ontlet. - Four inches lonj? along anterior wall, five or six along posterior wall, which latter is attached to cervix uteri higher up than the anterior. Dilated at its uterine extremity, constricted at vulva. Its anterior wall supports urethra & base of bladder. Its posterior wall is covered in its upper fourth by peritoneum of recto.vaginal pouch, and rests in its lower three-fourths upon anterior wall of rectum. Its sides give attachment superiorly to broad ligaments, inferiorly to levatores ani & recto- vesical layer of pelvic fascia, STRUCTURE — Three coats, from without inwards: - Muscular - Consists of external longitudinal & deep circular fibres, partly con- tinuous superiorly with superficial fibres of uterus, partly attached to recto- vesical layer of pelvic fascia. Erectile - Most developed inferiorly. Mucous - Covered with squamous epithelium j elevated into two prominent ridges, one in front, one behind, the columns of the vagina, Vfhich. 3iVe mos.^ prominent inferiorly, and from which smaller transverse ridges pass outwards on either side. BULBUS VESTIBULI, & GLANDS OF BARTHOLIN. The former are two oblong masses of erectile tissue corresponding to the two halves of the bulb in the male j they are about an inch long, rounded below and behind, where they lie on either side of the opening of the vagina, narrow above & in front, where they are connected to the crura clitoridis & to the rami of the pubes. - Just in front of each is another smaller mass of erectile tissue, continuous both with the bulbus vestibuli & with the clitoris, and re- garded as corresponding to the part of the male corpus spongiosum, which lies in front of the bulb ; it is termed the pars intermedia (Kobelt). The glands of Bartholin lie on either side of the opening of the vagina behind the posterior extremity of the foregoing j they are oblong, of a reddish colour, and of the size c f a small bean j their ducts open on the inner side of the nymph39 externally to the hymen. They correspond to Cowper's glandi in the malo.350 THE UTERUS. Pear-shaped & flattened from before backwards. Lies between bladder & rectum, projects inferiorly into upper end of vagina, and is re- i tained in position by its broad & round ligaments. Presents: - Fundus - broad & rounded, directed upwards & forwards, covered with peritoneum; lies i a little below level of brim of pelvis. < Body - Narrows gradually from fundus to neck, and presents • Anterior Surface - Flattened, covered by peritoneum in its upper three-fourths, j adherent to bladder in its lower fourth. ( Posterior Surface - Convex, entirely covered by peritoneum, and separated from rectum by convolutions of small intestine. Lateral Margins - Bounded from before backwards, concave from above down wards. Give attachment superiorly to the Fallopian tube, and below that tube, to the round ligament in front, & the ligament of the ovary behind. Cervix, or Neck - Constricted. Gives attachment to upper end of vagina, which canal extends a greater distance upwards behind than in front. Vaginal Extremity - Free. Presents the OS uteri bounded by a thick anterior, and a lon^ & narrow posterior lip. Cavity - Very small in conipariron with size of organ, and flattened from before backwards; triangular in boclj-, fusiform in neck, the two parts of the cavity being separated by a constriction, the os internufUy somewhat narrower than the os externum.- The cavity of the body is prolonged at each superior angle into an infundibuli- form process, at the apex of which is the minute opening of the Fallopian tube. The cavity of the cervix presents on each wall a prominent median raphe, the stem, from which small oblique rugae, the branches of the arbor vita, proceed up. wards & outwards. The so-called ovula Nabothi, closed & distended follicles at one time mistaken for ova, are frequently seen among the above rugse. LIGAMENTS OP THE UTERUS — Eight in number of which six, the anterior, poster- ior, & transverse, are formed by the peritoneum. Round Ligaments - V. next Tablet but one. Anterior Ligaments - The margins of the utero-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. Posterior Ligaments - The margins of recto-vesical pouch. Transverse orBROADLiGTS.-Formed by the peritoneum extending from side of uterus to Bide of pelvis} their free margin contains from before backwards the round ligament, Fallopian tube, & ovary.351 STEUCTURE of the UTERUS. Presents three coats, serous, nmsoular, mnoous, and vessels & nerves. SEIROUS COAT — Covers fundus, posterior surface, & upper three-fourths of the anterior. MUSCULAR COAT — The chief bulk of the organ, thickeafc opposite middle of body & fundus, thinnest opposite Fallopian tubes; dense, firm, & greyish in the unirnjjregnated state, softer, & more highly coloured during gestation. Consists of plain muscular fibres abundantly intermixed, especially near the surface, with fibro-areolar tissue, and dis- posed in three layers as follows; Outer Layer - Thin stratum of transverse fibres, which, on both surfaces of the organ, converge towards its superior angles, and are from thence prolonged upon the round ligament, the Fallopian tube, & the ligament of the ovary, and into the broad & posterior ligaments of uterus. Middle Layer - Thick irregular stratum of fibres crossing each other in all directions. Inner Layer - Forms complete circular rings round the two infundibuliform prolonga- tions of the cavity of the uterus towards the Fallopian tubes, rings individ- ually incomplete, but completed by those of the opposite side, round the body of the organ, and finally a transverse band round the cervix. MUCOUS COAT Thin, smooth, firmly adherent, covered with columnar ciliated epithe- lium, except in lower part of cervix near os externum, where the epithelium becomes squamous; presents numerous follicles, which, in the body of the organ, are long tubular glands arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and of which, among the rugaa of the cervix, a few are frequently seen to be closed & distended by their own secretion, forming the so-called ovules Nabothi, VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Are the uterine, & twigs from the ovarian; they anastomose frequently, and are very tortuous in their course. - Veins. Accompany the arteries, and are very large, especially in pregnancy, when, in the substance of the uterus, they are transformed into real sinuses. - Lymphatics. Those of the cervix open into the sacral & internal iliac glands; those of the fundus open into the lumbar elands. - Nerves. From the inferior hypogastric & ovarian plexuses, and from the * 3rd & 4th sacral.VARIATIONS of the UTERUS ACCORDING to Age In infant the neck is larger than the body, and the organ lies above the brim of, , the pelvis. At puberty the uterus is pyriform in shape; it has descended into the | pelvis, and the arbor vitse is well marked. In old age, the uterus becomes pale, dense, ' & atrophied; the body & the cervix become less distinct; both the os internum & the - 05 externum diminish in size and sometimes close; the labia of the os externum almost entirely disappear, | ]y[eiistrusiti011 ■• -A-t each, period, especially when menstruation is first established, the uterus becomes enlarged, & more vascular; the os externum, more rounded, & its labia turgid & swollen; the mucous membrane of the cavity, thicker, softer & darker in colour. { | Pregnancy - During pregnancy the mucous membrane of the uter*us becomes thick, soft, 6 vascular, and is soon diflferentiated into decidua reflexa, decidua serotina, & de. j cidua vera. The muscular structure increases both by new formation and by the li hypertrophy of its pre-existing elements until about the sixth month, the weight of j the uterus increasing from about an ounce to from 1| to 3 lbs.; the subsequent en- largement of the uterus is due to distention. In shape the body becomes more | rounded and more directly continuous with the cervix, and towards the close of ges- 1 tation the cervix itself becomes distended, and its cavity becomes continuous with | that of the body. While thus increasing in bulk, the uterus makes its way betweea the layers of its broad ligaments, and, after first sinking somewhat within the cavity of the pelvis, it subsequently rises into the hypogastric region & into the lower part of the umbilical.; Parturition - Brings about the partial return to the virgin state. The weight of the j uterus usually remains, however, from two to three ounces; its cavity, larger; its OS externum, wider and more transverse with its margins puckered & fissured, i;353 THE APPENDAGES of the UTERUS Are tlie round ligarnent, iha Fallopinn tnbe, and the ovary & its lij^ameat, which lie, m Iho above-mentioned order from before backwards, in the broad h'gamont of the uterus, the Fallopian tube occupying the free margin of that ligament. B itwcen the ovary & the Fallopian tube is also the organ of Rosenmiiller. Hound Ligament - Commences at superior angle of uteras, passes? outwards & forwards between folds of broad ligament below & in front of Fallopian tube, traverses inguinal canal, and become^; lost in corresponding labium major. It contains a few muscular fibres prolonged from the uterus, & a few twigs from the ovarian arteries. In the foetus a tubular process of peritoneum, the canal of Nuck, accompanies it in the inguinal canal; but this process is generally obliterated in the adult. Fallopian Tube, or Oviduct - Oommenceg at superior angle of uterus b/ a very minute opening, the ostium intemtwi, and its canal remains very narrow along inner half of the tube. Passing outwards in free margin of broad ligament, and then curving downwards & backwards towards ovary, it gradually expands Into a wide trumpet-shaped extremity (fimbriated extremity or viorsus diaboli)^ surrounded by a series of fringe-like processes, the fimbricBy one of which is attached to the outer end of the ovary; the opening of which extremity, termed the ostiwn abdominale, is, however, somewhat contracted, - In structure it presents: Serous Coat. Muscular Coat - Consists of external longitudinal & internal circular fibres derived from the uterus. Mucous Coat - Covered with columnar ciliated epithelium, and thrown into numerous longitudinal folds, which folds are thick & broad in the outer & wider part of the tube, and narrower & broken up into delicate ar- borescent processes in the inner & narrow part. This coat is continuous externally with the peritoneum. Ovary - Vide nexb Tablet. Ligament of the Ovary - Rounded bundle of fibrous tissue & muscular fibres, the latter derived from the uterus, extending from superior angle of latter organ to inner extremity of ovary. Organ of Rosenmiiller or Parovarium - A group of closed tubules lined with epi- thelium, scatttTed ti ansvei sely in broad ligament of uterus between Fallopian tube & ovary, and connected together externally by a larger vertical tube, which descends for some distance alon^ side of uterus. Is probably a rem- nant of the Wolffian body. A.354 THE OVARY. Oral, flattened from above downwards. Lies in posterior part of broad ligament, below behind the Fallopian tube; and is attached internally to the uterus by the ligament of th" j ovary, and externally to one of the fimbriaa of the morsus diaboli. It is whitish in ooloni [ and its surface is smooth in the child, uneven & puckered in the adult' STRUCTURE of the OVARY — Presents SEROUS COAT — investing the whole organ except its anterior attached margin which forms the /liltWi FIBROUS COAT, or TUNICA ALBUGINEA — Firm, dense, enclosing the STROMA — A reddish white vascular structure, the fibres of which, although forming i felted tissue, radiate somewhat from the hilura towards the periphery of th j organ. Its peripheral or cortical portion contains th( i Graafian Vesicles, or Ovisacs - About 70,000 in number, varying in sizi from -gL to -gL of an inch in diameter j from ten to twenty or thirty of then being after puberty enlarged to from to of an inch or more. Eacl vesicle presents 1. Externalfibro-vascular coat, 2, Internal coat, or oz'i-capszile. Layer oj nucleated cells, the meuihrana orautdosa. 4. A transparent aronminoHS flnid^ in which the ovam is first suselj pended. - When the Graafian vesicle and its contained ovum are mature the cells of the membrana granulosa are heaped up at one point into { pyramidal eminence, the discnsproligerus, in which the ovum is then found - The Graafian vesicles enlarge one after the other, and appi'oach the sur face of the ovary, forming small projections beneath the peritoneum, and at each menstrual period, one of them bursts and projects its contents into the Fallopian tube. The oz!zun, when mature, varies in size from to of an inch iuj diameter. It consists externally of a thick colourless transparent envelope;! the vitelline membrane or zona pelhicida^ internally to which is the yelk on vitellnSi composed of granules of various sizes imbedded in a more fluid sub- stance. In the yelk is the vesicula genninativa, or genninal vesicle, firsf situated in the centre of the yelk, and then towards the periphery near the surface of the ovary. Finally this p;erminal vesicle presents super- ficially a minute spot, the macula germinativa or germinal spot^ of from ^ to 2^0^ of an inch in diameter. The rupture of the Graafian vesicle and the subsequent process of repair' of the surface of the ovary give rise to the corpus luteum (Vide Physiology). VESSELS & NERVES — Artehies. The ovarian, anastomose with the uterine, and enter at the anterior or attached border of the organ. - Veins. Follow the arteries, forming the pampiniform plexus, and open on the right side into the interior cava, on the left side into the left renal. - Lymphatics. Accompany the blood-vessels, and open into the lumbar glands. - Nerves. From the ovariau plexus of the sympathetic, the Fallopian also receiving a branch from one oli Ih© uterine nerves,-THE EYE356 THE EYE Ig formeS of t'nree coats or tunics and three refracting media or humours. The outer coat is formed by the sclerotic and the cornea. The middle coat is formed by the choroid, behind, and, in the anterior part of the eye, by the ciliary pro cesses and the iris, on the outer side of which two latter are the ligajnentum jpectinatum and the ciliari, muscle. . j The inner coat forms the retina, which presents a prolongation non-nervous m structure, the ciliari i jportion of the retina, which latter extends as far forwards as the base of the iris. The refracting media or humours are| The aqueous humour ; j The leiis and its capsule, which are held in position by the suspensory ligament of the lens, or zonula a, Zinn. The vitreous hody and its hyaloid memhrane. The External Tunic of the Eye. The Sclerotic Is a strong fibrous membrane thicker behind than in front, which covers the posterior | of the eye. Its outer surface is v/hite and smooth. It gives attachment to the recti and obliqui muscles, and is covers^ in front by the conjunctiva. Its inner surface is brownish. It is connected with the choroid by a very fine cellular membrane, th lamina fiisca, and is marked by slight grooves for the passage of the ciliary vessels and nerves. Ii front, close to the cornea, it covers, and gives attachment to, the ciliary muscle, and presents a circ groove, which forms the outer wall of the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm. Behind,-whexe the optic nerve penetrates into the eye, i.e. aboiit ^ of an inch to the inner side of the axiso:, the latter, it becomes continuous externally with the fibrous slieath of that nerve, and forms internal!] { a thin cribriform lamella, the lamina cribrosa, which is perforated by small openings for the passagf | of the nervous filaments and of the arteria centralis retina. - j In front it hecomes continuous with the cornea by direct continuity of tissue, the latter membrane bein^i slightly encroached upon by the sclerotic, especially above and below. A few small blood-vessels permeate the fibrous structure of the sclert)tic. The Cornea Constitutes the anterior sixth of the outer tunic of the eye, on the front of which it forms a slfgif hemispherical projection belonging to a smaller sphere. «». It is nearly circular, being, however, anteriorly a little wider in its transverse than in its vertical diameter Its circumference joins the sclerotic by direct continuity of tissue, and is slightly overlapped by the opacitvj of the latter, especially above and below. Its posterior surface is, therefore, rather more extensive thai j the anterior, and is more exactly circular, lis degree of curvature varies in different individuals, and is greatest in youth. STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA.—The cornea consists of a thick fibrous structure, th© cornea proper! covered in front and behind by an elastic lamina and an epithelial coating. The Cornea. Proper—is formed of fibrous tissue continuous with that of the sclerotic, with which it if structurally homologous, its fibres being, however, softer and less distinct. It is divided intcl! frequently communica.ting strata about sixty in number (Bowman), between which is found i], homogeneous fluid material, which probably contributes to the transparency of the cornea ii Pressure renders the cornea opaque by deranging the relative position of the strata, and modifyingi iheir relation to the fluid between them. HfflE Anterior and Posterior Elastic Lamina (Bowman)—are perfectly transparent homogeneoui; membranes, very thin and brittle. When they are torn they curl up with their attached surfac( | innermost. j The posterior elastic lamina gives attachment towards the periphery of the cornea to the fibres p: | white fibrous and elastic tissue (Bowman), which form the ligamentum pectinatum, give origii', to the cihary muscle, and constitute the inner wall of the sinus circularis iridis or canal o; I Schlemm. i The Anterior Epithelial Coating—is formed of two or three layers of transparent nucleated cells; thf | posterior of a single layer of cells only. i The blood-vessels of the cornea terminate in loops at its circumference. They are principally de ' rived from the vessels of the conjunctiva ; in man very few are derived from the ciliary vessels ii through the sclerotic (Kolliker).—The nerves, from 20 to 30 in number, are derived from the! ciliary nerves, and pass into the cornea from the sclerotic; they at first retain their dark out line, but soon become transparent, ramify and form a net-work within the cornea proper.- !357 THE MIDDLE TUNIC of the EYE Is formed by the choroid, behind, and, in the anterior part of the eye, by the ciliary processes and the Iris, on the outer Bide o£ which two latter are the ligamentum pectinatum and the ciliary muscle. The Choroid Is a vascular and pigmentary membrane of a dark brown colour, thicker behind than in front, which lies between the sclerotic and the retina in the posterior five-sixths of the eye. It transmits the nerves and a part of the vessels, whicU supply the anterior parts of the eye. Its oiitei' surface is connected with the sclerotic by a fine cellular web, the lamina fusca. Its inner surface is smooth and lies in contact with the retina. Behind, it is pierced by the optic nerve. It is continuous in front, opposite the fore-part of the sclerotic, with the ciliary processes, the iris, the ciliary muscle, and the ligamentum pectinatum. STRUCTURE.—The stroma of the choroid is formed of a network of fusiform cells and of anastomosing Star-shaped pigment cells (Kolliker), and may be divided into three layers as follows:— External, or Venous Layer, contains a rich network of veins, the venae vorticosge, which form variously disposed curves, and converge towards four or five equidistant trunks, which latter issue from the eye-ball midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. The larger branches of the short ciliary arteries pass forwards between the veins before they curve downwards to join the capillary layer. Middle, or Capillary Layer, or tunica Ruyschiana, presents a very fine capillary plexus, the meshes of which are smaller and more delicate near the optic nerve than in any other structme, but become larger in front, in which situation they are continuous with those of the ciliary processes. Internal, or Pigmentary Layer, consists of a single layer of remarkably regular hexagonal nucleated cells placed side by side, and so loaded with epithelium that their nucleus can scarcely be perceived. The lamina fusca contains a few star-shaped pigment cells, and is considered by Kolliker to form part of the choroid. The Ciliary Processes Form, with the ciliary muscle, which lies on their outer side, a thickened anterior annular portion of the second coat of the eye continuous in front with the ligamentum pectinatum and the iris, and marked on its inner or posterior surface by prominent converging plaits or folds, to which the above name is applied, which folds are intimately adherent both to the subjacent ciliary portion of the retina and suspensory ligament of the lens, the latter of which presents similar folds between which the ciliary processes of the choroid are received. The ciliary processes consist of large and small irregularly alternating folds, numbering altogether between sixty and eighty, the number of the small folds being about one-third of that of the large ones. Each fold or process presents a rounded inner extremity situated behind the peripheral portion of the iris, and an outer taper- ing prolongation which is lost on the inner surface of the choroid. The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid, but less vascular. The Iris Presents a peripheral borc?er attached to the contiguous margins of the cornea and sclerotic by means of the ligamentuts pectinatum and continuous with the ciliary processes, the ciliary muscle, and the choroid. This border is surrounded Df a venous canal, the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm ; jin inner edge, which forms the boundary of the pupil; , An anterior surface variously coloured in different individuals, and marked by wavy converging lines ; A posterior surface covered with a layer of dark pigment, the uvea. STRUCTURE.—The iris consists of a stroma of circular and radiating unstriped muscular and connective tissue fibres, scattered through which are a few ramified pigment colls, and on the posterior surface of which is a thick layer of rounded pigment cells continuous with the i)igmentary covering of the ciliary processes and choroid. It is still undecided whether in the adult the posterior epithelial layer of the cornea is prolonged over the anterior surface of the iris as it is in childhood. The radiating fibres of the iris are continued into the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea, forming festoon-like pro- cesses, which constitute the properly so called ligamentum pectinatum. The circular and radiating muscular fibres of the iris form what have been called respectively the sphincter and the dilator muscles. The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior ciliary, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes. Its nerves are derived from the ciliary nerves, which break up in the ciliary muscle before entering the iris. The Ligamentum Pectinatum Is a structure first described by Hueck, which forms the principal connection between the middle and outer tunics of the eye. It is formed of radiating fibres of elastic and connective tissue (Kolliker), which arise from the margin of the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea and from the point of junction of the sclerotic and cornea. Some of these fibres pass into the iris, forming the festoon-like processes which constitute the properly so called ligamentum pectinatum, the others give origin to part of the fibres of the ciliary muscle, and form the inner boundary of the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm. The Ciliary Muscle Is a yellowish-white ring of radiating unstriped muscular fibres, situated on the outer side of the ciliary processes and front part of the choroid. Its fibres arise from the ligamentum pectinatum, and from the inner surface of the sclerotic close to the cornea. They pass backwards and outwards, and join the choroid opposite and beyond the ciliary processes. Beneath, and concealed by, the radiating fibres, is a ring of circular muscular fibres, which was long described as the ciliary ligament. , ^ , , Ophthalmologists are far from being agreed as to the mode of action of the ciliary muscle, home beheve that it draws the lens and the whole ciliary apparatus forwards, and this is certainly the case in some birds (R. J. Lee) ; others believe that it T relaxes the elastic suspensory ligament of the lens, and thus allows the latter to assume a more circular form (Helmholtz). The experiments of Helmholtz appear to prove that through the action of this muscle a change is produced in the shape oi the lens, which change consists in an increased convexity and a projection forwards of the anterior surface of that body, and in the slightly increased convexity without or nearly without displacement, of its posterior surface. The vascular and nerve-supply of the ligamentum pectinatum and ciliary muscle is the same as that of the iris.358 THE EETINA Is a delicate nervous membrane, thicker behind than in front, translucent and of a light pinkish colour | when fresh, but becoming white and opaque very soon after death. , Tf li-nP^ in its loosterior portion, or retina proper, the posterior 4 of the eye, and is continued forwards as far as i ?he base Sf the his by its ciliary portion, a greVish membrane destitute of nervous elements, which is I t StimSy blended with the ciliary processes, which he in front of it, and with the peripheral portion of | ^ the suspensory ligament of the lens or zonula of Zmn, wnich lies behind, Its ototer surface is in contact with the pigmentary layer of the choroid. Its inner surface rests upon the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body. In front the retina proper ends in a jagged margin, the ora serrata. Behind about of an inch to the inner side of the axis of the eye, the retina, becomes continuous Tdth the | optic nerve^and presents a slight rounded eminence, the coUiculus, which is forma by the expansion o ! the nei-ve fibres, and from the centre of which the arteria centrahs retime is seen to emerge. _ Exactly in the centre of the posterior part of the eye, the retina presents an eUiptical elevated yellowish spot, 1 optic nerve?and presents a slight rounded eminence, the coUiculus, which is formed by the expansi^on d the veUow^'spot,' Ta^'cu'irTuteiTmbusTuteus of So^meringrin the centi^ of which is £ slight depression, tlie fovea centralis, formerly termed the foramen of Sommering, on account of its presenting somewhat ol the appearance of a hole. STKUCTUEE.—The retina presents for examination three layers, the membrana limitans and the fibres Muller. ! Externa on Columnar Layer, or Jacob's Membrane-Is formed of rods perpendicularly disposed' intermixed between which are bulbous particles or cones, of which the broad ends rest upon tJit, granular layer, while the pointed extremities are turned towards the choroid. Both rods and cones _ Ippear to be delicate ceUs with granular albuminous contents UvoUiker).. To the base of each cone | corresponds a pyriform ceU, which forms the extremity of a fibre of Muller; whether the rods are simi lai-ly connected with MiiUerian fibres is uncertain. I Middle, or Granular Layer—is formed of two strata of nuclear particles and cells containing a ven i large nucleus (Kolliker), which strata are separated from each other by an intermediate transparent layer slightly fibrillated in the vertical direction. *The outermost stratum is the thickest. IJif, particles of the inner stratum are larger than those of the outer, and are flattened. ,i Internal, or Nervous Layer—consists of an outer stratum of nerve-cells, and of an inner stratum o il nerve fibres, which latter stratum is formed by the expansion of the fibres of the optic nerve. Tli( nerve-cells present from two to six ramified offsets, by which they are connected with each other with the termination of the nerve-fibres, and with the corpuscles of the internal granular layer. Th( nerve-fibres are continuous with those of the optic-nerve; they are disposed in small radiating anc inter-communicating bundles, which form a delicate web with narrow elongated meshes. They have lost their dark outline, and consist of an axis-cylinder only. They terminate by joining the of the nerve cells. Membrana Limitans—Is an extremely thin and delicate nucleated membrane, which separates the_ retina from the vitreous body. On its retinal surface it receives the insertions of the delicate fasciculi. ' connective tissue, of which it is now believed that the inner part of the MuUerian fibres consists Fibres op Muller.—Their history is still incomplete. Henle, indeed, believes that they are but artificial products, the result of coagulation by re-agents. They were first described as extending verticallyi from the ends of both the rods and the cones to the membrana limitans, becoming connected in their course with the nuclear particles of the granular layer; their connection with the rods is, however, uncertain. It would also appear that the vertical fibres described in the inner layers of the retina are: only cellular in nature. ^ver the Yellow spot the nerve-fibres are absent; Jacob's membrane is formed of cones only, and these! are small, though closely aggregated. Over the fovea centralis the granular layer is absent, as are also the fibres of Muller. The retina is,; therefore, very thin, so much so that the dark pigment of the choroid is distinctly seen through it, so as to give rise to the appearance of a foramen. The Ciliary Portion of the Eetina is formed of elongated nucleated cells, with fiat or forked bases i resting upon the membrana limitans, which cells are believed by Kolliker to correspond to the above- mentioned pyriform cells of the MuUerian fibres. The Arteries or the Eetina are derived from a branch of the ophthalmic, the arteria centralis retinae, which pierces the optic nerve, passes forward a.mong its fibres and through the porus opticus, and divides into four or five branches, which latter are at first situated between the retina and the mem- brana Umitans, but soon pass between the bundles of nerve-fibres and form a delicate network in the ,: stratum of the nerve cells. These branches extend as far forward as the ora serrata, where they form a | circular capillary plexus (Kolliker), but not a distinct circular vessel, as is the case in some animals. The vclnf> fi)llow the same course as the arteries-359 THE HUMOURS or REFRACTING MEDIA of the EYE Ai e: The Aqueous Ilitviour. The Lens and its Capsule, "which are held in position by the suspeoiory ligament of the lens, or zonula of Zimi. The Vitreous Body and its Capsule or Syaloid Membrane. Aqueous Humour Differs little from water, for it contains but a very small amount of solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium. It fills the space between the cornea in front, and the lens with its suspensory ligament behind. This space forms in front of, and behind the iris, what used to be called respectively the anterior and pos- terior aqueous chambers of the eye. These terms were, however, based on an anatomical error, for the iris is now known to lie in the greatest part of its extent in immediate contact with the lens; the only space therefore which remains behind the iris to represent the posterior chamber is a narrow angular interval between the peripheral part of the iris, the suspensory ligament of the lens, and the ciliary processes. The Lens Is a double-convex transparent body, the convexity of which is greater on its posterior than on its anterior surface. It is situated between the iris and the vitreous body, and is held in position by its suspensory ligament. It is closely surrounded by its capsule. Its anterior surface is in contact with the iris towards the pupil, but recedes slightly at the periphery. lt& posterior surface rests upon the vitreous body. Its circiimference is surrounded by the canal of Petit. STKUCTUEE.—The lens consists of superposed concentric layers, the density of which increases with their depth, the superficial layers being soft and almost pulpy, the central ones forming a hard nucleus. These layers are formed of transparent flattened fibres, which adhere to each other by slightly serrated margins, and in some of which are found transparent nuclei. They are divided in the foetus and infant into three triangular segments, the planes of separation between which segments accurately correspond on each of the two surfaces of the lens, but do not correspond with the planes of separation of the segments on the opposite surface, being on the contrary so arranged that each plane on one surface corresponds to the interval between two of the planes on the opposite surface. The fibres of eacn segment arise from the various points of the two planes bounding the segcieni, and pass to the periphery of the lens nearly parallel to each other. Having curved round the edge of the lens, they belong, on its opposite surface, to two different segments, and converge towards the boundary plane which corresponds to the bisecting line of the segment on the first surface. Thus the fibres do not pass from pole to pole, but from a plane on one side of the lens to a plane on the other. Those which arise near the pole on one side terminate near the peripheral extremity of a plane on the other, and vice versa. In the adult the planes bifurcate and multiply, and the segments become more numerous. The arrangement of the fibres of each segment with respect to the planes remains, however, the same. Capsule of the Lens Is a transparent, structm^eless, elastic, brittle membrane, thicker in front than behind. When ruptured, ib curls up with its outer surface innermost. It closely surrounds the lens, from which it is, however, separated in front hy a single layer of granular nucleated polygonal cells, which absorb moisture and break down soon after death, and thus give rise to the liquor Morgagni, wrongly described at one time as existing during life. It gives attachment in front to the suspensory ligament of the lens, and is joined behind with the hyaloid membrane. Suspensory Ligament of the Lens, or Zonula of Zinn Is a firm, transparent, structureless membrane, which is attached in front to the fore part of the capsule o.t the lens close to its circumference, and which joins posteriorly the hyaloid membrane opposite the ora serrata. Its anterior surface presents small radiating folds, the processus ciliares zonuije, which are received betweeii the ciliary processes of the choroid. Its posterior surface is separated from the hyaloid membrane by the canal of Petit. The Vitreous Body and its Capsule, or Hyaloid Membrane. The vitreous body fills the space between the retina and the lens, both of which it supports, and for tho reception of which latter it is excavated in front. It consists of a perfectly transparent albuminous fluid, enclosed in a delicate structiu*eless membrane, the hyaloid, from the inner surface of which it has been said, but not proved—at least not in the adult-* that delicate fibres are given off to form more or less perfect septa within the fluid part. The hyaloid membrane is connected opposite the ciliary processes with the suspensory ligament of the lens; further inwards it forms the posterior boundary of the canal of Petit; behind the lens it ifl inti- mately united vrith the liosterior lamella of the capsule of that b'^'^y.APPENDAGES of the EYE & LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The appendages of the eye are the eyebrows, eyelids & conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, which latter consists of the lachrymal gland, lachrymal canals, lachrymal sac & nasal duct, Eyebrows.—consist of thickened integument covered with oblique hairs. Eyelids. Two tMn movable folds, separated by the fissura palpebrarum, tho angles of which fissure form the external & internal canthi. The inner canthus is expanded into the lams lachrymalis, in which are seen the caruncula lachrijmalis & the piica semilunaris.—The edge of each eyelid is semilunar & thick (except opposite the lacus lachrymalis), and presents internally the papilla lachrymalis on the summit of which is the punctum lachrymale. The upper eyelid is the largest of the two, and the most movable on account of its connection with the levator palpebral superioris. The eyelids consist of:— 1. Integument, subcutaneous areolar tissue,.palpebral portion of the orbicu- laris ; 2. Tarsal cartilages with the palpebral & tarsal ligaments, the tendo oculi & the tensor tarsi muscle ;—and also, in the case of the upper eyelid the tendon of the levator palpebrse superioris.—The superior tarsal cartilage is the thickest, and is broadest in the middle; it gives attachment to the tendon of the levator palpebrte superioris. The inferior one is nar- row, and nearly uniform in breadth. 3. Palpebral portion of the conjunctiva. 4. Meibomian glands and eyelashes. Conjunctiva.—Presents an ocular & a palpebral portion, between which are comprised the superior & the inferior palpebral folds, of which folds the former is the deepest. Ocular Portion—is the thmnest and least vascular, and is subdivided into : Corn!eal Portion—Consists ahnost entirely of an epithelial layer, the underlying membrane being extremely thin & transparent and inti- mately blended with the anterior elastic lamina of the cornea.—Its vessels form delicate capillary loops round the circumference of the cornea, over which, in the fcetus, tliey extend for some distance. Sclerotic Portion—is thicker and more vascular than the foregoing, but still transparent & nearly colourless, and is loosely connected to the globe.—At the inner canthus of the eye it covers the caruncula lachry- malis and forms the plica semilunaris. Palpebral Portion—is thick, opaque, & highly vascular, and presents nume. rous papillae, which, when hypertrophied, constitute the disease called granular lids. Laclirynial Gland — is a conglomerate gland of the size & shape of almond, and is situated in a depression of the outer & front part of the roof of tlie orbit.—It presents:— Upper convex, & under concave surfaces. Posterior border—Receives the vessels & nerves of the gland. Anterior part, or Palpehral Portion—is separated from the remain, der of the gland by a slight depression, and is adherent to the uppei eyelid & ccnjunctiVa. It gives off from 6 to 8 excretory ducts which open into the upper fold of the conjunctiva. LacliryKial Canals—Begin at the puncta lachrymalia on the summit of the papillse lachrymales.—They pass respectively upwards & downwards for a short distance, and then bend inwards & open into the lachrymal sac. Lachrymal Sac—is the upper dilated part of the nasal duct. It lies in the lachrymal groove, and is crossed in front by the tendo oculi, and behind by the reflected aponeurosis of the same, & by the tensor tarsi muscle. It consists of a fibro-elastic coat lined internally by mucous membrane. Nasal Duct—is a membranous canal | of an inch long, contained in an osseous canal formed by the superior maxillary, lachrymal & inferior turbinated bones. It is directed downwards, backwards & a little outwards, and opens into the inferior meatus. It is narrowest towards its middle. Its inferior orifice is partly closed by a fold of mucous membrane forming an imperfect valve.THE EAR.THE EXTERNAL EAR Consists of the pinna or auricle, & tlio external auditory canal. Pinna or Auricle Presents for examination tho:— Concha,—Central deep cavity, oread above, narrow below, leading into thd auditory canal. It has in front of it the Tragus,—A conical eminence frequently covered with hairs on its under sur. face; and behind it the Antitragus,—A smaller eminence separated from the former by a deep notch, the incisura intertragica.—Tho JJolix,—The prominent curved margin of the pinna, internal to which is the Fossa of the Helix,—A long narrow groove -which follows the inner margin of the helix, and is bounded internally by the Antihelix,—Another curved ridge broader than the helix, and which forms the posterior boundary of the concha. It bifurcates above, so as to enclose the iossa of tiie Antihelix, — A triangular depression comprised between the front part of the helix and the two divisions of the antihelix. Lobule,—The soft pendulous portion of the auricle. Stractura of the Pinna or Auricle—Presents for examination the r Cartilage of tiie Pinna,—Represents the greater part of the pinna, minus the_]obule._ The portions which form the concha and the tragus are also prolonged inwards to form the outer or cartilaginous portion of the external auditory canal. It is attached by dense fibrous tissue to the rough margin of the externa] auditory meatus of the temporal bone. It IS wanting between the tragus & the front part of the helix. It presents several fissures or slits : a vertical fissure on the lower & front part of the helix; a vertical fissure on the front part of the tragus; the helix and part of the anti. helix are separated below from the antitragus by a deep vertical slit which cuts off a pendulous tail-lilce process, the processus caudatus; two or three irregular fissures, the fissure of Santorini, divide transversely the portion of the cartilage which enters into the structure of the external auditory canal. Fibrous Tissue—Fnis up the deficiencies of the cartilage, and bridges over the slits, forming the intrinsic ligaments. Ligaments—The extrinsic ligaments are two in number, and connect the helix & the tragus to the root of the zygoma, and the concha to the mastoid process. Muscles—Are :— Extrinsic :—Attollens, Attrahens & Eetrahens Aurem (v. Ms. of the Face), IntjunsiC—Are six small bands of pale muscular fibres termed : Helicis IIajo7'—Lies vertically upon the anterior border of the helix. Ilelicis Minor—Lies obliquely upon the portion of the helix, which springs from the bottom of the concha. Tragicus—Lies vertically on the outer surface of the tragus. Ant itragicus—Extends obliquely from the outer surface of the antitragus to the processus caudatus of the helix. Transversus Auriculce—Eadiates on the cranial surface of the pinna, from the convexity of the concha to the prominence corresponding to the fossa of the helix. Ohliquus Auricidoi—Extendson the cranial surfaceof the pinna, from the convexity of the concha to prominence corresponding to the fossa of tlie antihelix. Inte's IliT.ent—is closely adherent to tho cartilage, and presents numerous '<^'<t*'jeous glands, especially in tlie concha & in the fossa of the helix.— "With the subjacent areolar tissue it forms entirely the lobule. Vessels & Nerves.—The vessels are derived from, or open into, the occipital, posterior auricular iSb temporal; the nerves are derived from the great auricular & auriculo.teiQpcrsJj and from the auricular branches of the pneumogastric & facial.EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL ta an irregular narrowing canal 1;^ inches long, and directed;— forwards & inwards,—inwards, backwards & upwards,—inwards, forwards & downwards in the first & second quarters, and in the second half of its course respectively (Sappey, Soemmering). If, however, the pinna, and with it the outer or cartilaginous portion of the canal, he drawn upwards & backwards, the canal will he straightened to a great extent, and will then he seen to pass nearly directly forwards, inwards & slightly downwards. It is flattened from before backwards externally & from above downwards inter- nally, and is narrowest towards its middle. Its floor is longer than its roof, owing to the obliquity of the membrana tympani. Structure of the External Auditory Canal—The external auditory canal is formed of cartilage, fibrous tissue & bone lined by integument, and is divided into a cartilaginous & an osseous portion. Its integument is thin and closely adherent, and presents hair follicles & sebaceous glands near the orifice, and also numerous ceruminous glands in the dense subdermic tissue of the cartilaginous portion. Its vessels are derived from, or open into, the posterior auricular, temporal & internal maxillary; its nerves are chiefly derived from the auriculo-temporal. Cartilaginous Portion—Is about ^ an inch long. It is formed by the prolongation inwards of the portions of the cartilage of the pinna, which form the concha & the tragus, and is firmly attached to the margin of the external auditory meatus of the temporal bone. The cartilage is deficient at the upper & back part of the canal, where it is replaced by strong fibrous tissue. Osseous Portion—Is about f of an inch long. It is formed beloAv & in front by a curved plate of bone, Avhich results from the extension outwards of the tympanic plate or ring of the foetal bone. Its outer end is dilated, and presents a rough margin for the attachment of the cartilage of the pinna. The circumference of its inner end is marked, except at its upper part, by a narrow groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani.365 MIDDLE EAR or TYMPANUM Is an irregular cavity compressed from without inwards, situated between ^ the external auditory meatus and the labyrinth, between the carotid canal and the mastoid cells, between the anterior surface of the petrous bone and the jugular fossa. Outer Wall Is formed by the membrana tympani, and by a small portion of bone surrounding it. The membrana tympani is nearly circular, its vertical diameter being, how- ever, rather the largest. It is obliquely directed downwards and inwards. Its circumference is contained in a groove which surrounds, except at its upper part, the circumference of the inner end of the meatus. It is formed of three layers, cuticular, fibrous, and mucous. The handle of the malleus descends between the inner and middle layers in their upper half, and draws the membrana tympani inwards. Behind, and in front of, the upper part of the membrana tjrmpani are the apertures of the iter chordre posterius, and of the iter chordae anterius, or canal of Hugnier, by which the chorda tympani enters and leaves the tympanum. A little below the latter opening is that of the Glaserian fissure, which gives passage to the long process, or processus gracilis, of the malleus and to the laxator tympani muscle, the former being, in the adult attached by bone to the sides of the fissure. Inner Wall presents: A large rounded eminence, the promontory, formed by the projection in- wards of the first turn of the cochlea; its surface is grooved for the passage of the branches of Jacobson's nerve. Behind the promontory are seen, the fenestra ovalis above, and the fenestra rotunda below . The former leads into the vestibiTle, and is closed by the base of the stapes and its annular ligament. The latter leads into the scala tympani of the cochlea, and is closed by the membrana tympani secundaria. Behind and between the two fenestra is the pyramid, a small conical eminence, the apex of which presents an opening from which the tendon of the stapedius muscle, contained in the pyramid, is seen to proceed. Above and behind the foregoing parts is a slight ridge which indicates the position of the aqueductus Fallopii as it passes backwards and then downwards in the 2nd and 3rd parts of its coarse. Posterior Wall Presents the openings of the mastoid cells. Anterior Wall Presents at its upper part the orifice of the canal for the Tensor tympani muscle and, below this, the opening of the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube. The two canals are separated by a thin plate of bone, the processus cochleariformis. The opening of the former is situated upon a small eminence, the anterior pyramid. The Floor Corresponds to the jugular fossa. It presents the small opening through which Jacobson's nerve penetrates into the tj-mpanum. The Roof Is formed by a thin plate of bone, which corresponds to the anterior surface of the petrous bone.THE OSSICLES of the TYMPANUM Are three in number, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes, / The malleus and the incus, taking a general view of their arrangement, are elongated from above downwards, and from without inwards, and are parallel to each other and to the membrana tympani, to the upper part of which they correspond. The malleus is situated in front of the incus, and adheres by its outer side to the membrana tympani, which it draws inwards. The stapes is placed horizontally at the lower extremity of the incus, and is at right angles, or nearly so, with the incus and also with the malleus. The three bones are jomed by two delicate articulations; they are moved by four muscles (counting the laxator tympani minor as a muscle), and are held in position by four ligaments. The Malleus presents a head which is attached to the roof of the tym- panum by its suspensory ligament, and which articulates with the incus :—• A Neclc, which gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle (Gray, Quain). The manubrium inserted between the mucous and fibrous layers of the membrana tympani;— The processus gracilis, which extends forwards and outwards into the Qlaserian fissure and gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle (Sappey, Gray). In the adult it is connected by bone to the sides of the fissure. Theprocessus brevis-projects outwards towards the upper part of the mem- brana tympani, and gives attachment to the laxator tympani minor. The Incus presents a bodi/, which articulates with the head of the malleus, and is attached to the roof of the tympanum by the suspensory ligament of the incus;— The long process, Avhich is nearly parallel to the handle of the malleu.^, and presents at its extremity a nodule of bone :— The Os orbiculare, which is separate in the foetus ;—• The short process attached by the posterior ligament of the incus to the posterior wall of the tympanum. The Stapes presents a head articulated with the long process of the incus:— A nech, into which the Stapedius muscle is inserted ;— Two Crura, which connect the neck with the base ;— The Base, connected by its annular ligament to the margin of the fenestra ovahs.THE MUSCLES of the TYMPANUM Are four in number, counting the Laxator tympani minor :— Tensor Tympani. Or.—From under surface of apex of petrous bone and from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. Passes backwards and outwards in its canal, from whence it is reflected outwards over the processus cochleariformis. Insert.—Into the inner part of the manubrium of the malleus near its root.—Suppld. by a br. from otic ganglion. Laxator Tympani. Or.—From Spine of Sphenoid and from Eustachian tube ; passes backwards and outwards through Glaserian fissure. Insert.—Into processus gracilis of malleus (Sappey), or into neck of malleus just above the processus (Gray, Quain).—Suppld. by tym- panic br. of facial. Laxator T3rmpani Minor. Or.—From upper and back part of meatus auditorius ext. Insert.—Into the processus brevis and into the handle of the malleus.— Is generally considered to be only a ligament. Stapedius. Or.—From the interior of the pyramid.—Emerges from apex of pyramid. Insert.—Into back of neck of stapes.—Suppld. by tympanic br. of facial. ACTIONS. The Tensor tympani draws inwards the manubrium of the malleus, and consequently the membrana tympani, and thus increases the tension of the latter. The Laxators produce the contrary efifect. The Stapedius inclines the stapes backwards, and is believed to compress the fluid contents of the vestibule. Vessels and Nerves of the Tympanum. Arteries. The tympanic, from the internal maxillary, and the stylo- mastoid, from the posterior auricular, form a vascular circle round the membrana tympani.—The other arteries are small ; they are the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal entering through hiatus Fallopii, twigs from internal carotid perforating posterior wall of carotid canal, twigs from ascending pharyngeal ascending along Eustachian tube. Veins. J^oin middle meningeal and pharyngeal veins. Nerves, Are :—a filament from otic ganglion to tensor tympani;—tym- panic branch of facial, to stapedius and laxator tympani;—tympanic branch of glosso-pharyngeal or Jacobson's nerve , supplies mucous mem- brane of tympanum, and gives oflf branches of communication to carotid plexus, great petrosal nerve and otic ganglion chorda tympani.368 THE INTERNAL EAR or LABYRINTH Consists of a series of cavities, the osseous labyrinth, channelled out ot the substance of the petrous bone lined throughout by a thin fibro-serous membrane, the free surface of which secretes a lympid fluid, perily j or liquor Cotunnii, in which fluid floats a closed rnemhranoug sac, the mambranous labyrinth, which h] is very similar in shape to, but is smaller than, the osseous vestibule and semi-circular canals, and whiJ itself filled with a serous lympid fluid, endolymph. Some minute structures recently discovered in the coci also form part of the labyrinth. Osseous Labyrinth Consists of the vestibule, the semi-circular canals, and the cochlea. 1 Vestibule Is the central cavity of the labyrinth. It is situated on the inner side of the tympanum. It comnj h cates, in front, by a large opening, with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and behind, by it- openings, with the semi-circular canals. On its outer, or tympanic wall, is the fenestra ovalis, which is closed by the base of the stapes and its ano ligt., by which fenestra the cavity of the vestibule communicates with that of the tympanum. \ ] Its inner wall presents in front a small circular depression, the fovea hemispherica, which corresponds to p \ saccule, and at the lower part of which several minute foramina, forming the macula cribrosa, are see p 1 give passage to the filaments of the saccular branch of the vestibular nerve ; behind the fovea, i bounding it posteriorly, is a vertical ridge, the crysta or pyramidal eminence. Behind this is the opei !j i of the aqueductus vestibuli. • ' On its roof, above and behind the fovea hemispherica, and separated from it by the pyramidal eminenci la I the fovea semi-elliptica, a small transversely oval depression, which corresponds to theutricule, and pres js another similar macula cribrosa for the passage of the utricular and ampullar branches of the vestib f nerve. Semicircular Canals ii Are situated behind and a little above the vestibule. They are three in number, and are termed re.spectiBll superior, posterior, external. Each one is at right angles with the two others. f' The superior and the posterior are vertical. The former ]s placed at ngiit les v\ith, the latter is parallel | the posterior surface of the petrous bone. They both present a dilatation, or ampulla, the former a1 j} outer, the latter at its inferior, extremity. They join at their opposite extremities, which open by a c • . mon orifice at the posterior and inner part of the vestibule. The external semi-circular canal is horizontal, and directed outwards and backwards. It is ampullated a1 outer extremity. Cochlea Is situated in front of the vestibule. In shape it resembles a snail shell. Its base is directed inwards, and corresponds to the anterior of the two depressions at the bottom of ) internal auditory meatus. It is perforated by numerous small openings for the passage of the filami > of the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. Its apex is directed forwards and outwards. The cochlea presents for examination the modiolus or columella, the spiral canal, and the lamina spiralis. The Modiolus—is the central axis of the cochlea. It is conical in shape. Its base corresponds to the basjf I the cochlea, and presents the apertures above-mentioned. Its apex is situated within the last coil ani;|bj the apex of the cochlea, and it is expanded into a semi-funnel-shaped lamella, the infundibulum, wl (V blends externally with the parietes of the cupola. Its outer surface forms the inner wall of the sj \ canal. Its centre is channelled by the tubulus centralis modioli, and by numerous smaller canal£i the passage of small arteries and of the filaments of the cochlear nerve. j The Spiral Canal—takes two turns and a half. It diminishes in size as it approaches the apex of' cochlea, and terminates in a closed extremity, the cupola. It has been described till lately as \>>!? divided by the lamina spiralis into two scalce, the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli, the for r of which is turned towards the base, and the latter towards the apex of the cochlea. The Lamina Spiralis—Winds spirally round the modiolus. It presents an osseous part or osseous z broad at the base of the cochlea, much narrower at the apex, which zone extends from the modiolus ali t half way across the spiral canal, and is continued to the opposite wall by a membranous portjjj or membranous zone. The osseous zone consists of two thin lamellae of bone, between which [fl numerous minute canals for the passage of the filaments of the cochlear nerve. For the membrai zone see minute structures of cochlea. t The scala tympani is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, and communicates with the ajj duct of the cochlea. The scala vestibuli communicates with the vestibule. The two seal® communij with each other at the apex of the cochlea by a common opening, the " helicotrema."369 THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH Is a closed sac corresponding in shape to, but smaller than, the osseous vestibule and semicircular canals, in which it is contained. It floats in the perilymph, contains the endolymph, and supports the terminal rami- fications of the vestibular branch of the auditory nerve, by which it is held in position. The canalis cochleae of Keissner (see minute structures of the cochlea) communicates with the saccule, and is now described as a part of the membranous labyrinth. Vestibular Portion Consists of two sacs, the utriculo and the saccule, which are generally believed to have no communication with each other. The Utricule is the largest. It is transversely oval, and is situated behind the saccule, opposite the fovea semi- elliptica, at the upper and back part of the osseous vestibule. It communicates behind by five openings with the membranous semicircular canals. The Saccule is the smallest. It is globular, and is situated a little below, and in front of the utricule in the fovea hemispherica close to the opening of the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. Membranous Semicircular Canals Are similar to the osseous semicircular canals in number, form and situation, but are only aboiit one-third their diameter. They open into the utricule by five orifices. The membranous labyrinth is semi-transparent, and is usually described according to Kolliker as being formed of three layers ; the outer layer containing the blood vessels, the terminal ramifications of the vestibular nerve and pigment cells, and being very similar to the outer layer or lamina fusca of the choroid ; the middle layer being transparent and similar to the hyaloid membrane of the eye, but being slightly striated ; the inner layer consisting of polygonal nucleated epithelial cells. Both Hirschfeld and Sappey, however, recognise only an outer layer of connective tissue containing vessels and nerves and a few pigment cells, and an inner layer of pavement epithelium.—The walls of the utiicule and saccule are thickest at the points where the filaments of the vestibular nerve, are distributed to them, and they present at those points two small collections of a pulverulent calcareous material, the otoconia, formed of minute crystalline grains of carbonate of lime (Breschet). It is only in the lower vertebrata that the o1 ocoraa is colJt cted into two hard masses or otoliths" (Breschet, Sappey), A simila,r calgareoug material exists in tlie cells lining the ampullae of th^ semicircular canals, (Bowmau), The Auditory Nerve Pivides in the internal auditory meatus into two branches, the vestibular and the cochlear nerves. Vestibular Nerve Divides into three branches, the divisions of which branches pass through the small openings at the upper and back part of the cul-de-sac at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and are distributed to the utricule, the saccule, and the ampullae opposite the masses of otoconia. Cochlear Nerve Divides into numerous filaments, which pass through the small openings at the base of the modiolus, and through the minute canals in its axis. These filaments bend outwards between the plates of the lamina spiralis, form- ing a plexus, in which ganglion-cells are found ; branches from this plexus perforate the lower edge of the osseous zone of the lamina spiralis, (habenula perforata) and form radiating bundles comprised partly within the osseous and partly within the membranous zone ; the terminal filaments of the cochlear nerve are believed to be connected with the spindle-shaped cells of the organ of Corti. (Kolliker). The Arteries of the Labyrinth Are first the internal auditory artery, a branch of the basilar artery or of the superior cerebellar, which artery presents a similar distribution to that of the auditory nerve, secondly branches from the stylo-mastoid arteiy. They form a minute capillary network on the walls of both the osseous and the membranous labyrinth. The veins accompany the arteries. A.THE MINUTE STRUCTURES of the COCHLEA Were described by Eeissner and by Corti in 1851, but they remained nearly unknown up to a comparatively recent date. The membranous zone of the lamina spiralis is novr known to be composed of two membranes, the membrana basilaris or basilar membrane, which bounds the scala tympaui, and the membrane of Corti. The membrane of Corti, mernbrana tectoria, ai'ises from the inner part of the limbus laminae spiralis or denticulate lamina of Todd and Bowman, which latter is a thick periosteal development, which covers the upper or vesti- bular surface of the osseous portion of the lamina spiralis in its outer fifth, and which presents numerous tooth-like processes. Between the denticulate lamina and the margin of the underlying bone is a groove, the sulcus spiralis, the lower edge of which it is that gives attachment to the basilar membrane. Both the Basilar membrane and the membrane of Corti are attached close together to the outer wall of the spiral canal, the ligamentum spirale (which is perhaps muscular in structure, Todd and Bowman) serving for the attach- ment of the former. Between the basilar membrane and the membrane of Corti is comprised a narrow canal, the scala media (Kolliker). Another membranous partition, the membrane of Eeissner, arising from the inner part of the limbus laminae spiralis becomes also attached to the outer wall of the spiral canal, and cuts off from the scala vestibuli a three-sided prismatic canal, the canalis cochleae. The canalis cochleae passes upwards into the cupola, where it ends in a blind pointed extremity, and downwards to near the vestibule, where it ends in the same manner ; a small duct, the canalis reuniens (Hensen) joins its vestibular end to the saccule, and renders its cavity continuous with that of the latter. The scala media contains the organ of Corti. This latter consists of rods and elongated cells which stand on the membrana basilaris on each side of an intervening space. The rods are arranged in two rows. They incline towards each other, and meet like the beams of a roof over the intervening space. Where they meet they are flattened, and form quadrilateral plates, which are directed outwards, those of the inner row overlying those of the outer, and both together presenting an appearance similar to that of the rows of keys of a piano. The cells are arranged vertically, or in a slightly oblique direction, on each side of the rods, and have stiff cilia projecting from their upper extremity. The inner set of cells, cells of Claudius, form a single line. Those of the outer set, pedunculated cells of Corti, are three deep ; a few spindle-shaped cells, cells of Deiters, are interposed between the latter. A very delicate membrane, the membrana reticularis (Kolliker), mainly formed of squamous epithelial cells, extends from the line of contact of the rods to the outer wall of the cochlear tube. It is perforated by the cilia of the cells of Corti. Its use is supposed to be to keep the cells and rods in their places. The remaining part of the basilar membrane is covered with hexagonal epithe- lial cells. Large epithelial cells also fill the sulcus spiralis. The free edge of the osseous zone is perforated, just above the attachment of the basilar membrane, by numerous small apertures for the passage of the ra.diating branches of the cochlear nerve, and is termed the habenula perforata. The terminal filaments of the nerves are probably connected with the spindle-shaped cells of the organ of Corti.9 370^ APPENDIX TO THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES. The Olfactory Cells of Schultze, Two kinds of epithelial striactures are found in tlie olfactory region, columnar cells & gpindle-sliaped cells. The latter consist of a large clear nucleus surrounded by only a small amount of granular protoplasm, and they are by far the more numerous. The deep ends of the columnar cells taper to a point, and are prolonged into processes, which branch, anastomose with each other, and form a plexus in the deeper strata of the epithelium. The spindle-shaped cells are grouped round the tapering ends of the columnar cells, an^ amongst their anastomosing processes. They give ofE two processes, a superficial one & a dee^ one. The superficial processes are cylindrical or very slightly tapering ; they pass up to the free surface between the columnar cells, and are now stated to terminate abruptly, in man & mammals, at the same level as these.* The deep processes are less regular, more delicate, & varicose. Statements diflEer with respect to the connexions with nerves of the deep processes of the structures just described. According to Exner, the deep processes of both structures join in one & the same plexus, the fibres of which are continuous with nerve-fibrils. According to Schultze, it is the deep processes of the spindle-shaped cells only that are continued into nerve-fibres. Mr. Newell Martin npholds the views of Schultze. "* In birds, amphibia & reptiles, the superficial processes of the spiudle-shaped cells are prolonged into fine bristles.10 371-^ Tenon^s Capsule, or Tunica Vaginalis Oculi, The old description of Tenon's capsule has recently been revived in a modified form by Schwalbe and by the Editors of the 8th Edition of " Quain'a Anatomy" : - This capsule would con- sist of two membranous layers lined with flattened epithelioid cells; and these layers would enclose a lymph-space which would communicate with the lymph.space between the sclerotic & choroid. This capsule separates the eyeball from the fat of the orbit, and enables it to glide freely on the surrounding structures. The tendons of the recti & obliqui muscles perforate the capsule in front, to reach-the sclerotic.THE STRUCTURE of the CORNEA. 11 372* According to the careful description of Eollet, which is endorsed by Profs. Sharpey & Schafer, What has hitherto been known as the anterior elasiic lamina of Bow??ian is no longer to be described separately: This stratum does not differ materially from the remainder of the cornea proper, as will presently be shown. Counting from the surface towards the deeper parts, the layers of the cornea are therefore as follows : - Anterior layer of epithelium, cornea proper, posterior elastic lamina, posterior layer of epithelium, or endothelium, as Rollet calls it. - The new discoveriea in connection with these layers may be summarised as follows : - ^ Anteeior later of Epithelium - Is of the stratified variety. The deepest cells are colum- nar in shape. Their base, which rests upon the cornea proper, is flattened ; and, when seen iu profile, it presents a highly refractile line, the basal hem or border. Their apex is rounded, and capped by one or more of the cells of the layer above. Above these columnar cells, are two or three layers of rounded or polygonal cells, with more or less marked angular projections or ribs, separated by intervening furrows. Some of these cells, the fingered or digitate cells of Prof. Cleland, Bend elongated processes between the columnar cells below. Quite superficially, there are three or four layers of flattened cells, most of which have retained their nucleus. Cornea Proper - The fibres of the several inter-communicating strata described by Bow- man appear to cross each other at right angles. They are collected into small bundles separated by the matrix or ground substance, which latter is especially abundant between the strata. It is between these strata that the corneal corpuscles, the corneal cell-spaces, and the canals of Reck- Unghatisen are found. The corneal corptiscles correspond to the corpuscles of other connective tissues. They are large branching cells, the processes of which join with those of their neighbours, both of the same & of adjoining strata. They are flattened from above downwards, and expanded laterally : in vertical sections they appear as fusiform swellings; it is only in horizontal sections that their true form & relations are seen. Their protoplasm is clear & hyaline, except near the nucleus, where it is more or less granular. These corpuscles lie in the corneal cell-spaces, which, though being a little larger than the contained corpuscles, correspond to them in figure; and give off anastomosing tubular offsets, which ensheathe the processes of the cells. The system of these cell-spaces & tubules forms what are called Recklinghausen's canals. These are continued into the cell-spaces of the sclerotic, and serve for the passage of lymph & leucocytes. They can easily be injected by introducing the nozzle of a small syringe into the corneal tissue, using a thin fluid, and employing a low pressure: a network of stellate anasto- mosing figures then immediately appear. If too consistent a fluid be used, or too great force employed, the injection matter becomes extravasated between the bundles of fibres of the corneal tissue; and the appearance produced is that of minute varicose canals running at right angles to one another in the several strata. The so-called Anterior Elastic Lamina op Bowman is simply a layer of corneal tissue sligbtly condensed, free from corpuscles & cell-spaces, and in which a few oblique fibres, the binding fibres, or fibra arcuatce of Stutzfiasern, are seen to pass towards the surface. The Posterior Elastic Lamina, or Membrane of descemet or demours, is perfectly trans- parent & apparently structureless; firm & elastic, but very brittle; unaffected by acids, alkalies, or boiling water. It is covered posteriorly with a single layer of flattened polygonal nucleated cells (Y. page 356}. The Nerves of the cornea have been carefully studied of late by Cohnheim, Eollet, Klein & others. They are derived from the ciliary nerves, and are from forty to fifty in number. They at first retain their dark outline, but soon become transparent. They then ramify, and form a relatively go2,vqqpri?nary plexus throughout the laminated structure. From this primary plexus, two sets of branches are given off, those which supply the cornea proper and those which supply the anterior epithelial layer. The fibres which supply the cornea proper form a secondary plexus, much finer & closer than the primary one above described, but the cords of which still consist of several nerve-fibres. From this secondary plexus, arises a terminal or tertiary plexus of ultimate fibrils. The fibres which supply the epithelium similarly form a fine secondary or sicb-epithelial plexus close to the anterior surface of the cornea proper. Prom this plexus, a tertiary or intra-epithelial plexus, finer still, extends almost to the free surface. - A few nuclei are found at the points of junction of the larger cords of the primary plexus; they appear, however, not to be nerve-cells lying in the course of the nerve-fibres, but rather to belong to the ensheath- ing cells described below. No proper Lymphatics appear to exist in the cornea. Tubular sheaths of flattened epithelioid cells, apparently in continuity with the canals of Eecklinghausen, surround, however, the larger branches of the nerves, and ramify with them.12 373^ THE MIDDLE TUNIC of the EYE. Choroid. The first point of interest in connexion with the choroid is that it is to bo described, no longer as a vascular &^^t'omcn/arf memhrsijie, but simply as a vascular membrane : - What was formerly- known as its pigmentary layer is now considered a part of the retina. The reason of this is that the pigmentary layer is developed, in common with the retina, from the primary optic vesicle, i. c., from the anterior cerebral vesicle, i. e., from the epiblast; while the vascular^ layer is developed from the mesoblast, in common with the sclerotic, the cornea proper, the muscios, vessels, & nerves (except the optic), etc. There are, however, a good many stellate pigment cells in the outer part of the stroma of the choroid. Lymph-Space between the Sclerotic & the Clioroid: Lamina Fusca. Laminai ' ' Supra-Choroidea.! A Jai'ge lymph-space is described by Schwalbe as extending between the sclerotic & thei choroid throughout the whole extent of these membranes. In birds, this space is bounded by twoi smooth walls, and it resembles a serous sac. But in most animals, it is traversed by numerous^ trabeculas; and, in man, these trabeculse are so numerous that they form quite aplexiform tissue. That portiou of this plexiform tissue, which, after detachment of the sclerotic from the choroid, remains adherent to the sclerotic, is what is called the lamina fusca; that portion which remains adherent to the choroid, is what is called'the lamina sitpra-choroidea. Ciliary Muscle. The circular fibres, which lie beneath the radiating ones, and which form what is frequently called the circiilar ciliary muscle of Miiller, appear to be greatly developed in hypermetropic eyes, and only slightly developed in, or even entirely absent from, myoptic eyes (Iwanoff). The signi- ficance of this fact does not seem as yet to be very clearly made out. It would appear that some of the radiating bundles of the ciliary muscle are occasionally inserted into the sclerotic (Waldeyer). Structure of the Iris. The main points of interest made out by Iwanoff are to the following effect: - The posterior epithelial layer of the cornea is certainly prolonged over the anterior surface of the iris, but with this modification, however, namely, that the cells become smaller and more granular than they are over the membrane of Descemet or Demours. Both the sphincter & the dilator muscles lie in the substance of the iris nearer to its posterior than to its anterior surface. The sphincter is about a millimetre wide, and it surrounds the pupillary margin. Near this margin it is thin, its fibres are closely packed, and they form complete circles. More externally, the fibres are more distant from each other, the circles they form are less complete, and the muscle is thicker. The radiating fibres of the dilator muscle form either a thin continuous layer, or a network of inter-communicating bundles, pervading the whole structure of the iris from its ciliary to its pupil- lary margin. Near the pupil, these fibres blend with those of the sphincter in the following manner: some arch round, take a circular direction, and come to form part of the sphincter j others con- tinue in their primitive direction, and, crossing the fibres of the sphincter, run inwards till they reach the pupillary margin. Near the outer, or ciliary margin of the iris, the dilator muscle breaks up into separate fasciculi, which are arranged in two layers lyingone upon the other. The fibres then curve round, become circular in direction, and form a kind of annular muscular plexus. Ligamentum Pectinatum; Canals of Fontana & Schlemmj and Cavernous Spaces communicating with the Anterior Chamber. The festoon-like processes of white and yellow elastic fibrous tissues surrounded hy epithelium, which curve inwards from the membrane of Descemet or Demours towards the periphery of the iris, leave intervals between them, which lead more or less directly into a series of cavernous spaces situated at, or close to, the point of junction of the cornea, sclerotic, iris, ciliary muscle, & ligamentatum pectinatum. These spaces have given rise to much dis- cussion. Some of them appear to be directly continuous with, and to serve for the passage of lymph into, the anterior chamber of the eye; and the canal known in many animals as the canal of Fontana would simply be the largest of these cavernous lymphatic spaces (Schwalbe). Even the sin7is circtilaris iridis, or canal of Schlemtn, which is evidently a circular vein*, is said to be in more or less direct communication with the anterior chamber: - Both the cavernous spaces, and the veins of the anterior part of eye, become filled, it is said, with any coloured fluid injected into the anterior chamber. The reason why the blood does not find its way into the anterior chamber, is probably that greater resistance is offered to its passage in this direction than to its return by the ordinary venous paths. The statement respecting the Sinus circularis iridis is, however, denied by Leber, who says that it is only a diffusible colouring matter, that can penetrate into the veins, when injected into the anterior chamber. * Or rather, perhaps, a plexiform system of veins united at intervals into one trunk. iTHE STRUCTURE of the RETINA. 13 The Retina should now be described as a nervous and pigmentary membrane. It is divisible into eight layers ; and the way in which eight layers are now comited, instead of the three hitherto recognised, is as follows:-On the outer aspect of the retina is first counted, as an additional layer, what used to be called the pigmentary layer of the choroid. Then what used to be called the " Middle or Granular Layer," instead of being divided into three strata, is now divided into four strata; and each stratum is counted as a separate layer. Further inwards, the two strata, which used to be called together the " Internal, or Nervous Layer," ie., the stratum of nerve-cells, and the stratum of nerve-fibres, are also counted now as tw^o separate layers. It should be added that the membrana limitans, which has hitherto been described as coverino- the inner surf ace of the retina, is now frequently described as forming one of the layers of this membrane; and that a second membrana limitans is sometimes de&oribed on the inner aspect of the layer of the rods and cones; the first membrana limitans is then called the membrana limitans interna^ and the latter one, the membrana limitans externa. This would bring the number of the layers of the retina to ten. Counting from within outwards, the eight layers generally recognised are :- (1) - Tke Layer of Nerve-fibres ; (2) - The Layer of Nerve-cells^ or Ganglionic Layer; (3) - The Lnner Molecular Layer; (4) - The Ln7ier Nuclear Layer ; (5) - The Outer Molecular Layer; (6) - The Outer Nuclear Layer ; (7) - The Cohwmar or Bacillary Layer^ or Layer of the Rods Cones ; (8) - The Pigjuentary Layer. Schuitze's View of the Nature & Connections of the Several Layers, """This view, whether absolutely correct or not, has at least the advantage of facilitating the comprehension of the facts, by binding them together into one general conception: It is given here as an introduction to the following & more precise histological description, by which it will have here & there to be corrected. This view may be summarised as follows: - " The Retina is the membranous expansion of the optic nerve." " Its principal elements are : - (1) - N'erve-fibres^ in the course of which are found (2) - Ordinary nerve-cells^ bipolar or multipolar, and also (3) - Variotisly modified nerve-cells, the so-called Internal &^ External Granules. The nerve-fibres break up into exceedingly delicate plexuses in two situations, namely, in the inner & the outer molecular layers; they end in (4) - Peculiar terminal organs, the Rods & Cones.'" " Its subordinate elements are : - (1) - A modified connective tissue (spongy connective tissue of Schultze). (2) - ^ layer of pigment-cells; (3) - Blood-vessels; (4) - Lyjnphatics.'' " The connexions of the principal, or nervous elements, are as follows" : - "The non-medullated fibres of the first or Nerve-pibre Layer are continued into the proximal offsets of the nerve-cells of the second or Ganglionic Layer." " The distal offsets of these nerve-cells, which are somewhat thicker than the proximal ones, enter the Inner Molecular Layer, where they break up into a first and exceedingly fine plexus of primitive nerve-fibrils." "In the next layer, or Inner Nuclear Layer, we see these nerve-fibrils (1) taking a more or less vertical course, either singly or in very fine bundles; (2) passing through modified bipolar nerve-cells, the inner granules (of which there is but one for each fibril or bundle of fibrils); and (3) becoming collected into relatively large bundles, which enter the following, or outer molecular layer." " In the Outer Molecular Layer, we find the relatively large bundles above mentioned breaking up into a second exceedingly fine plexus similar to the one already described as existing in the inner molecular layer." " In the next layer, or Outer Nuclear Layer, we foand an arrangement very similar to the one which prevails in the inner nuclear layer: - The nerve-fibrils are again collected into bundles, some relatively thick (cone-fibres), others much thinner (rod-fibres) ; all relatively thick, however, as compared with the bundles, or separate fibrils, which traverse the inner nuclear layer. Like these latter bundles, or separate fibrils, the bundles of the outer nuclear layer (].) take a more or less vertical course, (2) pass through a second set of modified bipolar nerve-cells, the granules (of which also there is but one for each bundle of fibrils), and (3) become coUectedinto relatively thick bandies (upper part of the cone-and rod-fibres). " Finally, in the Columnar or Bacillary Layer, or Layer of the Rods & Cones, we see the relatively thick bundles last named expanding into the lowei', homogeneous, or slightly granular, basal portion of the rods & cones."SEPABATE DESCRIPTION of the EIGHT LAYERS, Layer of Herve-Fibreg. Is the direct continuation of tlie optic nerve. At its point of entrance into tlie eye, the optic nerve pierces the sclerotic & choroid, and all the layers of the retina, except this layer of nerve-fibres, which it forms by its expansion. Its fibres then radiate from the colliculus to .the ora serrata, forming delicate inter-communicating bundles supported by a few flattened connective tissue corpuscles. These fibres consist of axis-cylinders only, without either primitive or medullary sheaths; they vary a good deal in size, and are wanting at the yellow spot. Ganglionic Layer, or Layer of Nerve-Cells, Consists, over the greater part of its extent, of a single stratum of nerve-cells, bipolar or multipolar. Over the yellow spot (the fovea excepted), & in its neighbourhood, the cells are more thickly set (sometimes they are eight or ten deep), but they are smaller. Towards the ora serrata, they form but an incomplete layer. These cells present one delicate unbranched internal process, and one or more external processes, a good deal thicker, and branched. The internal process arises from the inner ex- tremity of the cell, which is always more or less rounded, and it passes obliquely into the layer of the nerve-fibres, with one of the fibres of which it probably becomes continuous. The origin of the external branched process, or processes, is from the outer and usually tapering end of the cell; these processes pass up into the inner molecular layer.15 376^ Inner Molecular Layer. Is a comparatively thick stratum of granular looking substance, respecting the nature of wMcb, we quote from Max Schultze's masterly article on the Betina in Strieker's Handbook of Histology. " The peculiar appearance of the inner molecular layer is clue to the admixture of a very fine plexus of spongy connective tissue, given off from the radial supporting fibres (fibres of ■ Miiller), with immeasurably minute nerve-fibrils. The latter form an essential constituent of this layer. They may be isolated for short distances, when they appear as extremely delicate & very tortuous fibres beset with fusiform varicosities. The thicker and branched ganglion- cell processes, which dip into this layer, can be &till more distinctly followed, though little is known in respect of their mode of termination. It is doubtful whethei", besides the nerve-fibres & the plexuses of the connective substance, a certain number of minute gramiles of unknown nature are not also present, as appears to be the case; or whether the nerve-fibres and the spongy connective substance give rise by their peculiar dispositioa to the finely granular appearance. In regard to the coarse and ultimate destiny of the processes of the ganglion cells and fine nerve-fibres of this layer, we must admit the impossibility of giving any positive statement: The internal molecular layer interrupts our knowledge of the course of the nerve- fibres, which again become visible in the outer layers of the retina." N.B. - It is but right to state that Schwalbe is of opinion that the Miillerian fibres, not only traverse the inner molecular layer without giving o2 any offsets to it, but are of a quite different chemical composition. Inner Nuclear Layer. Is composed of several strata of transparent nucleus-like bodies known as "inner granules." These are of three different kinds. The more numerous ones are regarded as bipolar nerve-cells with a large nucleus & but a relatively small amount of protoplasto, - the latter being collected mainly at the inner and outer ends of the cell, and prolonged into two delicate processes, an inner one & an outer one. The inner processes are the finer and usually the longer; they are unbranched, and they exhibit minute varicosities similar to those observed on ultimate nerve-fibrils; they are clearly seen to dip down into the inner molecular layer; and it is more than likely that some of them become continuous with the outer branched processes of the nerve-cells, while others are probably continued into some of the fibres of the optic nerve. The outer processes are thicker, branched, non-varicose, and usually shorter. They dip into the outer molecular layer, and break up into branches usually two in number. These pass off nearly at right angles ; and "break up into a plexus of exquisitely fine fibrils. The two other kinds of «inner granules " are first a few nucleated bodies connected with the fibres of Miiller (V. fibres of Miiller); and then some large rounded cells accumulated, some in the inner, others in the outer strata of this layer, and either not prolonged into any process, or prolonged into one process only.377^ Outer Molecular Layer. Is a thin granular stratum very similar in appearance to the inner molecular layer. Three kinds of elements are made out, at least in the horse, as entering into its structure. There is a close network of exceedingly fine connective tissue fibrils similar to those which enter into the structure of the inner molecular layer; there are the branched & granular cells, each with a large clear nuclec lated nucleus, from which the above fibres are derived; and, finally, there are fine varicose nerve- fibrils probably derived from the outer prolongations of the bipolar nerve-cells of the inner nuclear layer. Outer Nuclear Layer. Consists of vertical fibres, or bundles of fibres, which traverse its entire thickness, and in the course of each of which is found an oval nucleated body termed an "outer granule." Both fibres & granules are of two kinds. There are the rod- & the cone-fibres, which are continuous superiorly, the former with the rods, the latter with the cones of the columnar layer; and the rod- & the cone- granules, situated, the former in the course of the rod-fibres, the latter in the course of the cone- fibres. As, in the greater part of the colamnar layer, the rods are much more numerous than the cones, so, in the greater part of the outer nuclear layer, are the rod-fibres much more numerous than the cone-fibres. They are also much more delicate, and marked by minute varicosities, which the cone-fibres do not present. Internally, they appear to terminate upon the outer molecular layer in a varicosity somewhat larger than the others, and from which exquisitely fine fibrils radiate into this outer molecular layer. The cone-fibres are much thicker, and less numerous. They are continuous externally with the pear-shaped enlargement of a cone. They terminate internally in a large expanded & pyramidal extremity, or base, which rests upon the outer molecular layer, and from which exquisitely fine fibrils radiate into the substance of this layer. While the rod-fibres are apparently structureless, a delicate striation, or fibrillation, is sometimes visible on the cone-fibres. The rod-granules are ovoid enlargements which may be situated in any part of the course of the rod-fibres. They are occupied by a very large nucleus devoid of nucleolus, but which exhibits a remarkable cross-striped appearance : - The highly refracting substance of this nucleus is divided into three relatively dark transverse bands by two clearer & less refracting ones; sometimes there are but two dark bands & one clearer one. The cone-granules are pyriform enlargements usually situated in the upper or peripheral part of the course of the cone-fibres, close to the so-called membrana limitans externa. Their larger end is turned outwards, and is directly continuous with the base of the corresponding cone; or there is at most but a short thick trunk uniting them. Their narrow end is turned inwards, and continued into a cone-fibre. The cone-granules are larger than the rod-granules, but they present no transverse striation. It should be added that the real difference between the two kinds of granules is probably not so great as would appear at first sight. As regards the transverse striation of the rod-granules, it is considered by Krause to be a post-mortem phenomenon due to the partition of the nucleus. And, as regards the superficial position of the cone-granules in the outer nuclear layei*, it may immediately be stated that it does not prevail everywhere : - At the yellow spot, where there are only cones in the columnar layer and only cone-fibres & cone-granules in the outer nuclear layer, and where these structures are therefore more closely packed than elsewhere, the cone-granules are arranged in several strata separated from the bases of the cones by a considerable distance, and connected to them by an attenuated stalk. Both rod-granules & cone-granules are indeed considered by Max Schultze as nerve-cells with a very large nucleus & only a small amount of protoplasm. Similarly also are the rod-fibres considered by this Author to be nerve-fibres, and the cone-fibres to be bundles of the same. The rods & cones of the columnar layer, next to be described, would then be the terminal organs of the optic nerve-fibres. -617 378^ Columnar or Bacillary Layer, or Layer of the Rods & Cones. Is probably the layer which contains the terminal organs of the optic nerve-fibres, £<?., tho organs in which impressions of light originate through the conversion of luminous vibrations into sensory nerve-movement. These terminal organs are of two kinds, the rods & the cones, the general arrangement of which has been given in the old description, page 358. The rods are much more numerous than the cones, except at the yellow spot, where only cones are found. Both rods and cones consist of two very different segments, an inner one and an outer one; the separation between which segments occurs, in the case of the rods, about the middle of their length, and in the case of the cones, towards the junction of their middle & outer thirds. In the rods both segments are very nearly of the same size & shape, the inner segment being simply a little bulged towards its middle. In the cones, on the contrary, the inner segment is much wider than the outer one, the latter appearing merely as a pointed appendix to the former; both segments are also shorter, the outer one especially: The cones do not reach the pigmentary layer, while the rods are partly embedded in it. The inner segments of both rods & cones are marked by two sets of longitudinal strice, the external or superficial, & the internal or deep. The external or superficial strice are well represented in the figure on page 613 of the Eighth Edition of "Quain's Anatomy." These striae appear to be due to delicate longitudinal fibres of connective tissue, which, on the one hand, are continued from the connective tissue of the outer molecular layer, and, on the other hand, are prolonged upon the outer segments, giving rise to the superficial striation which these also present (Max Schultze). These fibres form " basket works " or " cradles " for the support of the rods & cones. The deep or internal strice are well represented in the figure on page 612 of the above- mentioned Edition of " Quain's Anatomy." They are faintly visible also in the figure on page 613, where, in the upper three-fourths of the inner segment of the cone, they are seen to be superadded to the superficial striae, which alone exist in the lower fourth. This internal striation exists only in the outer part of the inner segment. It ends somewhat abruptly, in the rods at the junction of the middle & outer thirds, in the cones at the junction of the middle & inner thirds. Thus both rods and cones present an inner or basal portion (inner third of the cones, inner two-thirds of the rods) which presents no deep or internal striation, and is either homogeneous or more or less granular. Both in the rods and in the cones, this homogeneous basal portion is continuous internally with the corresponding fibre & granule of the outer molecular layer, - with the corresponding rod-fibre & rod-granule in the case of the rods, with the corresponding cone-fibre «fe cone-granule, in the case of the cones. The outer segments of both rods & cones also present a double striation: firstly the longi- itidinal striation above described as being prolonged upon them from the inner segments (which longitudinal striation is less evident, however, on the outer segments of the cones than on the outer segments of the rods); and secondly a well marked transverse striation especially evident on the outer segments of the cones. This transverse striation corresponds to the lines of separation of a series of superimposed discs, into which the outer segments have a tendency to break up, especially when dipped into aqueous fluids, or otherwise submitted to the effects of imbibition. Eespecting the nature of the rods and cones, it is suggested by Max Schultze that only the inner segments are nervous elements; that the outer ones are mere physical or mechanical appen- dages comparable to the auditory hairs, the hair-like processes of the olfactory membrane of amphibia, reptiles, etc.; and that the two segments are connected together merely by a common sheath formed by the longitudinal fibres of connective tissue already described. This view is sup- ported by the fact that, while the inner segments are easily stained by carmine, iodine, etc., the outer ones, on the contrary, are scarcely coloured by these reagents. Pigmentary Layer. Has been very carefully described by Max Schultze, who has shown that it is intimately blended with the outer part of the layer of the rods & cones. It consists of a single layer of hexagonal nucleated cells. The upper or outer part of these cells—that which is turned towards the choroid—is flattened, devoid of pigment, and usually contains the nucleus. The lower or inner part is loaded with pigment granules, and is prolonged into numerous dependent processes, which partly fill up the intervals between the rods & the tapering ends of the cones. It is these processes, which, in the embryo, obliterate little by little the cavity of the primary optio vesiclo by joining its two walls into one membrane.378 SCARPA'S TRIANGLE-1st Tablet. Is a broad triangular depression Situated at upper, inner, & front part of thigh; Botmded by Poupart's ligament, sartorius & adductor longus; Continued downwards inwards into a superficial furrow, which marks position of temoral artery in {5'.n^?r-!f i^*""" without inwards by iliacus, psoas, pectineus, & small part of adductor bre^l"*^'''^ "^"^ It contams femoral vessels & anterior crural nerve, and the «uui,uui: uiovib. PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA - These parts are:- SKIN — Thin, freely movable, more or less studded with hairs at upper & inner part. SUPERFICIAL FASCIA — Divided into two layers by superficial vessels & nerves & inguinal SUPERFICIAL LAYER - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and il^c^Kunuol^with subcutaneous tissue of surrounding regions; is rather thinner & less loaded with fat DEEP LAYER - Thin & membranous. Adherent superiorly to P^^rt'''stSes over saphenous openmg under the name of " cridri/orm fascia," which fascia is per- forated by internal saplienous vein & by numerous smaller blood & lymphatic vessels, and IS attached firmly to outer margin of the opening, & slightly to the inner margin. Superficial Vessels & Nerves and Lymphatic Glands - Are the: Internal saphenous vein ; Superficial epigastric, siiperficial circuntjiex iliac, superficial external pndic arteries Vfiih the correspondmg veins, which latter op4 into internal sShenous neaMts Ilio-ing,unal crural Wanch of genito-crural, <S- external cutaneous nerves. ' I^ymphatic glands - Form two groups. Those of the "^^^ smaller, and are placed transversely near Poupart s ligament; - they receive lymphatics of penis, scrotum, perina;um ,,f . r y , lower part of abdomen & buttock;-those of the ■^Z'Z^^'' ■^T'T^ C""'^ ~ the larger, and are vertically disposed round upper part of saphenous vein ; - they receive the lymphatics of lower limb. DEEP FASCIA or FASCIA LATA .- Dense, fibrous. Presents the saphenous opening for easier descnptiou of which it is usually divided into two portions, the iliac & the pubic ILIAO PORTION - The thicker. Attached to crest of iiium, Poupart's ligament & spine of pubes in'?P n/*^ downwards & outwards from this latter point, first bounding the superior angle, or sTiperw?-cor7m of the opening, then forming its outer margin This outer margin is the Jalctform process of Burns; its upper part is often called Hey's femoral (^v ;7f Superiorly this margin overlies the sheath of the femoral vessels. Infei-- ^ curved WW *wrf;''"'^l'''^? J^''^'*^"" ^^'^ ^^^^^^ 1^^*^ ^ ^^^11 defined T>TT«T« -D ' mf enor angle, or inferior cor^tu of the opening. PUBIC PORTION Mu^^^^^^^^^ ,t ,^pp^^ iYon thf. n dnV ^-r^Jii'^''^^ Of saphenous opening a rom this point it is prolonged upwards & outwards behind femoral sheath & in front of pectineus, and becomes attached to ilio-pectineal line. SaphenousOpening - Ts formed therefore by the slitting of the fascia lata & by the folding of the two sides of the slit one over tlie other. It is oval in shape, broad belowt OUTER BO^NB^Y. ITS SUPgUOR ANO.^^S^ are formed liy iliac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process & femoral of Jhe^eiloTi't JSh"?'f ^ ^'''^''^ passes\ipward? ^finwai-dt inTon ot the femoral sheath, and becomes attached to Poupart's ligament & spine of INNER BOUNBARY Depressed & clearly defined is formed by the pubic poSSf ofVhe femorils^^ ^Y-^^'^^ P'^^^^^ upwards & outwards behind tenioial sheath & m froat of pectineus, and becomes attached to the ilio-pectineal INFERIOR CORJ.^^^ by the Junction of the iliac & pubic portioS'of'thl WTPTv>r^-o * X ^ ''^^"'''S inisvntd saphenous vein info the femoral. FEMORAL SHEATH - Vide next Tablet.379 SCARPA'S TRIANGLE-2nd Tablet. FEMORAL SHEATH — Ib a thin tube of fascia divided by two delicate septa into three compartments, of whicli compartments the outermost contains the femoral artery & the crural ])rancli of the genito-crural nerve, the middle one the femoral vein, and the innermost, winch is called the femoral canal, some fat & a lymphatic gland. It is e.xpanded superiorly, where it is continuous beneath Poupart's ligament with the fasciaj of the abdomen, the fascia transversalis & the fascia iliaca passing down to form it, the former in front of, and the latter behind, the femoral vessels. It is narrow inferiorly, and blencs about two inches below Poupart's ligament with the common areolar sheath of the femoral vessels. Anteriorly it is covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament), Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, and, opposite the saphenous opening, by the cribriform fascia. Posteriorly it rests upon the pubic portion of the fascia lata & the pectineus muscle. Its outer wall is vertical, lies in immediate contact with the artery, and is perforated by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. Its inner wall is oblique downwards & outwards from base of Gimbernat's ligament to inner surface of femoral vein. It is pierced superiorly, where it corresponds to the femoral canal, by numerous lymphatic vessels, and, inferiorly, or below the femoral canal, by the internal saphenous vein. FEMORAL CANAL — Is the innermost compartment of the femoral sheath. Or rather it is the nar- row interval comprised, at the upper part of the femoral sheath, between the inner wall of the sheath & the femoral vein; for it can hardly be said to exist as a distinct canal unless the wall of the sheath has been separated from the vein either by dissection or by the pressure of a hernia. - It contains a little fat & a lymphatic gland. It extends from the femoral ring to the upper part of saphenous opening, and measures from i to an inch in length. It presents four walls & two openings. Anterior Wall - Formed by the fascia transversalis, and supported by Poupart's liga- ment, deep crural arch, & iliac portion of fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament); Posterior Wall - Formed by the fascia iliaca; rests upon pubic portion of fascia lata & pectineus muscle; Inner Wall - Formed by junction of fasciie transversalis & iliaca; Outer Wall - Formed by the thin septum on inner side of femoral vein; Superior Opening, or Femoral Ring - Vide below. Inferior, or Saphenous Opening - Vide foregoing Tablet. Femoral Ring - Is the opening of the femoral canal into the abdomen. - Its boundaries are:- In Front - Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch; Behind - Pubes covered by pectineus muscle, & pubic portion of fascia lata; Internally - Gimbernat's ligament with the triangular ligament, the conjoined tendon, & the deep crural arch. Externally - Femoral vein & the thin septum between it & crural canal. Its relations are as follows: Femoral vein, on outer side; Epig:astric artety, crossing upper & outer angle; Spermatic cord or ixnc7id ligament, ^y' pubic branch of epi^^astric above & in front; Obturator artery, on inner side, in those rare cases in wihich the artery presents the double abnormality of arising from the epigastric artery, and of arising from that artery at some distance from its root;-the obturator artery then passes first inwards above the ring, and then downwards into the pelvis behind Gimbernat's ligament. It Is nearly circular, about \ an inch wide in the male, a little wider in the female, and is closed by the SEPTUM CRUPv-ALE (J. Cloquet) - A more or less condensed layer of superitoneal areolar tissue adherent to margins of femoral ring, and perforated by numerous apertures for lymphatics. Its upper surface is concave, and separated from the peritoneum by a less condensed layer of the same tissue and sometimes by a lymphatic gland; its under surface is convex & turned towards the femoral canal. The femoral canal & both its openings are constricted by extension & eversion, and relaxed by flexion & inversion of the thigh. COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HERNIA - Are: - From Within Outwards : - Peritoneum, subperitoneal areolar tissue (a portion of which, thickened & caused to assume a membranous appearance by the pressure of thff hernia, Avas described by Sir A. Cooper under the name of fascia propria), septum crurale, crural sheath, crib> iform fascia, superficialfascia, skin. From Within Outwards : - Sidn, superficial fascia, criiriform fascia, crural sheath, septum crurale^ subperitoneal areolar tissue, peritoneum. The deep seated stricture is to be divided upwards & inwards, in which direction no important vessel Is likely to be met with.20 Peculiarities of Structure towards the Ora Serrata, & in the Pars Oiliaris. Towards the ora^ these peculiarities are—(1) the gradual thinning of the retina as a whol (2) the gradual disappearance of the principal or nervous elements, and (3) the relative increa of the connective tissue elements, & more particularly of the fibres of Miiller. Then come at the oruy a somewhat abrupt change, -which takes place in a zone of about of an inch breadth. All the structures of the retina (except the pigmentary layer, which is continued upo the ciliary processes), are replaced by the single layer of cells of the pars ciliaris. The layer of the rods & cones disappears first, the cones extending a little further tha the rods. The nerve-fibres & nerve-cells disappear next. The inner molecular layer continue a little further, but it is made up to a great extent of Miillerian fibres; it ends in a some what rounded margin. Further on, the two nuclear layers merge into one layer, which become continuous with the layer of cells of the pars ciliaris. The pars ciliaris consists of a single layer of cells—columnar, striated, or finely granula with a clear oval nucleus in their outer part, near the pigmentary layer. These cells are first of a considerable height, but they soon become much shorter. What their real nature is, a question which has given rise to much discussion. By Kolliker they are considered to corre spend to the larger cells which form the bases or feet of the Miillerian fibres, and which giv( rise, by their union with each other, to the membrana limitans interna. Schultze inclines favour of this view. Schwalbe, on the contrary, opposes it on the strength of his belief that! the membrana limitans interna is not formed by any part of the Miillerian fibres, and that is furtha* prolonged upon the pars ciliaris. The inner end of these cells varies a good dea in shape; it may be rounded, pointed, square, branched, etc. Their sides are sometimes pro longed into processes, from which delicate fibres are given off.21 382* THE STEUGTURE of the LENS. The drawings of Babuchin & Arnold, reproduced on pages 625, 764 & 765 of the Eighth Edition of " Quain's Anatomy," will facilitate the comprehension of the following additional details from Prof. Babuchin's article on the lens in Strieker's Handbook of Histology, from which article our most recent information on the subject is to a great extent derived. The lens may ba regarded as consisting of a thin anterior wall composed of a single layer of cells, and of a thick posterior wall composed of cells elongated into fibres, between which •walls is comprised a cavity, real in the foetus, virtual in the adult. Both cells & fibres are perfectly transparent, in fact invisible, when fresh, but after a time, or after treatment by reagents, they become cloudy, and they then show their contour & their nucleus. The central cells of the anterior wall are flattened; the peripheral ones become cubical, or elongated perpendicularly to the surface. Farther outwards the cells become still taller, and also oblique & conical, their inner ends inclining forwards towards the anterior surface of the lens, and their broad bases being turned backwards towards the posterior surface. Still farther outwards the cells become longer still, and their direction still more oblique,' their anterior extremities curving farther & farther forwards to meet more & more central cells of the anterior surface. Thus the transition from the cells of the anterior wall to the fibres of which the posterior wall is composed, is effected by the simple elongation of the former. The mode of formation of the posterior wall is as follows: - Flattened fibres unite to form lamellae, which, covering one another concentrically like the coats of an onion, first increase in size from the point of transition between the walls towards the axis of the lens, and then diminish towards the central part or nucleus, attaining their smallest diameter at, or a little behind, the centre of the organ. The peripheral or equatorial, or transitional, lamellae are curved outwards, that is to say, they present their convexity towards the axis of the lens. They are slender in the centre & expanded at their extremities, these extremities resting, the anterior one on the flattened cells of the anterior wall of the lense-cavity, the posterior one on the posterior lamella of the capsule. As we pass from the periphery of the lens towards its axis, we find the several lamelljB first becoming straight, and then curving inwards, and at the same time becoming longer:- Each successive lamella projects beyond the superjacent ones, and, both in front & behind, the lamellae overlap each other like the tiles of a roof. All the lamellae above described extend from the cells on the anterior aspect of the lens, in front, to the posterior lamella of the capsule, behind. Beneath them, i.e., nearer the nucleus, is, however, a more central set of lamellae, whose anterior and- posterior extremities terminate within the lens in a more or less complex manner. In some fishes & amphibia, these latter lamellE© meet in the axis of the lens, both in front & behind. In the torpedo, the posterior ex- tremities meet in the axis, while the anterior ones form a raphe, which appears in the shape of a transverse line. In some mammals, such as the rabbit, the hare, etc., both the anterior & the postei-ior extremities of the lamellae terminate as above, the anterior & posterior raphes, however, crossing each other at right angles. In the human foetus, the anterior and posterior raphes become stars with three rays, usually described (V. page 359) as the "planes of separation" between the " segments." In the adult, the rays multiply, and the stars become more complex. - As to the course of the individual fibres of the " segments," the statements on page 359 are confirmed. The lense-fibres are more or less flattened six-sided prisms with slightly serrated edges. They fit so exactly one to the other, that, except in the planes of separation between the segments, where the extremities of the fibres meet, there is but little cementing substance between them. In the early condition, each fibre presents an oval nucleus which is first situated a little behind, and then, as the fibre elongates, a little in front of the middle of its length. In the adult, these nuclei disappear, except towards the periphery of the lens, where they remain to form the nuclear zonCi or, as it is sometimes called, Meyer^s zone. The lense-fibres have probably no distinct limiting membrane or sheath, though their outer parts are denser and less easily acted upon by reagents than the more central ones. This is also the case with the more central parts of the length of the fibres as compared with their extremities. In the adult, the lens & its capsule receive no vessels: - The capsulo-pupillary membranet and the branch of the arteria centralis retinae which reaches it through the canal of Stilling, disappear a little before birth, ?.(?., as soon as the aqueous chamber begins to expand. The capsule of the lens is apparently structureless. It is thinnest opposite the posterior pole, and thiokest where it blends with the suspensory ligament or zonula of Zinn. For further details the reader is referred to " Quain's Anatomy," and to the translation of Prof. Babuchin's article by Mr. Henry Power.22 383 THE VITREOUS BODY. Althougli, in the fresh condition, the vitreous body appears structureless, or very ne;} so, in hardened preparations a more or less distinct concentric lamellation can be perceive 1 the portion nearest the retina, which '^portion is also firmer than the more central part. . ( from this appearance it is conjectured that the peripheral portion of the vitreous body is divi i by exceedingly delicate membranes into flattened lamellse parallel to the surface, and inclu one within the other. A radial marking has also been observed in sections made transverse!; o the axis of the eyeball. Scattered throughout the vitreous body are a variable number of corpuscles. Some j a off processes presenting bud-like enlargements like strings of pearls; others contain la j vacuoles by which their nucleus is pushed to one side; many are apparently white bl j corpuscles endowed with the power of amoeboid movement. [ The fluid part of the vitreous body consists of water with a little albuminate of sc. traces of mucin, and a small proportion of salts. A blind canal, the canalis hyaloideiis, or canal of Siilling, traverses the vitreous body fr the papilla optici to the back of the lens. It is a remnant of the canal which, in the foBi transmitted the branch of the arteria centralis retincR to ihe capsulo-ptipillary 7ne??ibrane. I about a line in diameter, but slightly widened behind, and is filled with a watery fluid. I best seen in the fresh eye. It may be injected by forcing a coloured solution under the f matral sheath of the optic nerve. The Hyaloid Membrane (Profs. Sharpey & Schafer^s Description).. The hyaloid membrane entirely invests the vitreous body, except in front, where it pasi forward to the anterior part of the circumference of the lens, forming the suspensory ligam, of the lens, or zonula of Zinn. The posterior part oE the hyaloid membrane, or hyaloid proper, is exceedingly thin a i apparently structureless; but against its inner surface are generally found what appear to b ll few migrated white blood corpuscles capable of amoeboid movement. This part of the me il brane is adherent to the retina near the point of entrance of the optic nerve, at which poin ij few retinal vessels entered the hyaloid during foetal life; elsewhere it may readily tl detached, when it usually becomes thrown into folds. I The more anterior part, that which forms the zonula of Zinn, is strengthened | numerous radiating fibres apparently intermediate in character between the elastic & wh fibrous varieties (Schwalbe), which fibres commence opposite the oraserrata. This part furth f presents small radiating folds, the processus ciliares zonula, which fit into the intervals of t i ciliary processes of the choroid, and to which a little of the retinal pigment commonly remai j! attached. Quite in front, i.e., between the ciliary processes and the margin of the lens, the hyalo membrane again becomes smooth. It is here that it forms part of the posterior boundary the aqueous chamber, and also of the anteinor boundary of the so-called canal of Petit. Tl so-called canal of Petit is a zonular space triangular on section comprised between the hyalo \ membrane, the vitreous body, & the circumference of the lens. During life, it is believed to i 1 very limited in its extent, or even not to exist, the vitreous body normally reaching, or extendir i very near to, the point of attachment of the hyaloid to the anterior lamella of the capsule : the lens. The Hyaloid Membrane (DifFerent Vieyys of Henle, Iwanoff & others). The vitreous body is not, as has hitherto been generally admitted, surrounded by f special membrane, the so-called memhra^ia Jiyaloidea. This membrane is identical with ti| vievihrana li?nitans interna of the retina. It is a constituent part of the retina, and is applied ■. the vitreous body only as far as the retina extends, that is as far as the ora serrata. From th; point, the membrana limitans becomes continuous with the pa7's ciliaris retincB, which latter i separated from the vitreous body by meridianally running fibres. Henle, who demonstrated tli non-existence of any distinct " hyaloid membrane," gave to the membrana limitans interna <j the retina the name of mcir.hrana limitans Jiyaloidea.23 384* THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. It is now known that the membranous semicircular canals ana ampulias ao not jtoat m the perilymph, as was believed up till lately, but that, on the contrary, they are flattened against, and attached to, the side of the osseous semicircular canals which corresponds to the convexity of their curve. Only that part of their circumference, which forms the concavity of their curve, is free, and bathed by the perilymph. It has further been shown that the utricule & saccule communicate with each other by means of a small coecal canal lined with epithelium, which lies in the aqueductus vestibuli: At its outer extremity this canal divides into two branches, which open, one into the utricule, the other into the saccule. As the saccule is continuous with the canalis cochleae by means of the canalis reicniens of Hensen, the cavity for the endolymph is uninterrupted from one end of the membranous labyrinth to the other, as is also the cavity for the perilymph throughout the osseous labyx'inth. The walls of the semicircular canals, ampuUse, utricule, & saccule, are shown to consist, as was stated by Kolliker, of three layers, namely, an outer fibrous layer, a ttcnica propria^ and a layer of epithelium. The fibrous layer contains a few irregular pigment-cells. It is thinnest over the attached surface of the tube, where it blends with the periosteum, thicker over the [free surface, and thickest at either extremity of the transverse section, i.e.^ where the wall of the membranous canal leaves the osseous canal. And in these latter situations it is prolonged into numerous fibrous bands, which traverse the endolymph to became attached to the periosteum; many of these bands contain blood-vessels, and some of them reach the opposite side of the osseous Bomiciroular canal, ue., the side erf its concavity. The tunica propria is a clear, glassy, homogeneous membrane, also thinnest over the attached surface, thicker over the free surface, and thickest at either extremity of the trans- verse section. Externally it is not always very clearly demarcated from the fibrous coat. Internally it is raised, except where it is thinnest, into numerous papilliform eminences, which project into the interior of the canals. Where the ampullae, and the utricule & saccule, are attached to the osseous wall, both this coat & the fibrous coat become somewhat modified; the fibrous coat fo]?ms a loose-meshed tissue traversed by the nerves, as explained below, and the tunica propria is considerably thickened. Hence result internal projections termed the crista acusticce, or, in the ampullae, the septa transversa. In man, the epithelial layer consists of a single stratum of flattened cells, except over, and in the neighbourhood of, the cristce aatsticcBi where it undergoes the important modifications described below. In some of the lower mammalia it is considerably modified, however, in other situations. Over the cristae acusticae there are three or four diffet-ent kinds of epithelial structures: - Projecting from the surface, there are numerous long stiff cilium-like processes, the auditory hairS) which dip into the endolymph. Beneath these is a layer of large columnar cells of which the deep or attached extremity tapers to a point. Between the deeper ends of these columnar cells are some smaller spindle-shaped cells armed with elongated processes, which processes pass up towards the free surface between the columnar cells. In the deeper strata there are, accor(ing to Schultze, some elongated pyramidal cells, with broad attached bases, the upper tapering ends of which cells pass up between the structures already described, which structures it appears to be their office to support. Finally, there are, according to Eetzius, several rows of nucleated bodies in the region of these pyramidal cells. All these structures rest upon the loose-meshed tissue of the fibrous layer. The nerves traverse first this tissue and then the tunica propria. They lose their medullary sheath & dark contour either in the tunica propria (Schultze), or a little beyond it (Retzius), and they are then continued as simple axis-cylinders. These latter break up into ;a network of very fiae fibrils. Statements differ as to which of the superficial structures it is, that receive the terminal filaments of the auditory nerve, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, support the auditory hairs. According to Schultze, the filaments of the auditory nerve enter the deep ends of the spindle-shaped cells, and it is the superficial processes of these cells that support the auditory hairs j and further, according to Eiidinger, it is the nerve-fibrils themselves which, after traversing the spindle-shaped cells, and becoming connected with the nuclei, project beyond the free surface as auditory hairs. According to Eetzius, on the contrary, it is the columnar cells which, on the one hand, receive the terminal filaments of the auditory nerve, and, on the other hand, support the auditory hairs. It is not known what precise relation the otoliths bear to the other structures, or what their functions are.24 THE MINUTE STBUCTURES of the COCHLEA. Sucli are the uncertainties which still prevail with respect to the details of this subjecil that, notwithstanding the most careful consideration, no basis for the tabulation thereof coul-; be found, which would not have been open to many objections. The subject is still in embryi. and should be gone into very thoroughly, or it will not be understood. In the Author's opinioi * the best advice to be given to those who wish to master it, is first to study carefully the admii i' able rt'siime given in the Eighth Edition of "Quain's Anatomy," and then to supplement this stud by that of Waldeyer's Article on the Auditory Nerve & Cochlea in Strieker's Handbook of Hii tology, the translation of which by Mr. Henry Power (for the New Sydenham Society), will t • found in every public library. There is, also a short but very good description in the Eight : Edition of Gray's Anatomy." ' % It would appear that the membrane of Corti, or membrana tectoria, ends in a thin fre edge above the outer set of hair-cells, or cells of Corti; the so-called scala inedia is therefore li part of the canalis cochlece. Hence the spiral canal is divided into three parts only, the scala vestibuli above, the scali tympani below, & the canalis cochlese in the middle. The scalse vestibuli and tympani ari continuous with the cavity of the osseous labyrinth, and are filled with perilymph. The canali jj cochlesc is joined to the saccule by the canalis reunions of Henle, and is filled with endolymph For a General View of the subject, see page 370. ISURGICAL ANATOMY.373 rHE TRIANGLES of the NECK. The classical descriptions of the side of the neck, though a pretty faithful oxpos^ of the parts seen as they lie on the dissecting-room table after a few hours of careful work with the scalpel, become inaccurate & useless when taken to represent the parts as they exist in the ttndissected body, and as they present themselves to the surgeon in the person of his patient: - To mention but one of the facts hitherto set aside by descriptive Anatomists, the sterno-mastoid is now known to cover the whole of the vasculo-nervous bundle of the neck, and even to extend forwards superiorly as far^is, or very nearly as far as, the angle of the jaw, as long as its sheath of deep cervical fascia remains intact. - What becomes then of the anterior triangle? This Tablet will therefore be found to contain little more than the mere boun- daries of the triangles & sub-triangles as they are usually described, and a co-ordinate enumeration of the jjrincipal vessels, nerves, etc., which they have hitherto been said to contain. - The Author's description of the neck will appear among the Tablets on " Operative Anatomy." ANTERIOR TRIANGLE Is bounded by sterno-mastoid, middle line of neck, lower border of jaw & line from angle of jaw to mastoid process. It is divided by anterior belly of omo-hyoid, and by stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric into: Inf. Carotid Triangle - Bounded by sterno-mastoid, anterior belly of omo-hyoid, & middle line of neck; contains beneath sterno-hyoid & -thyroid: Common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, pneumogastric (S^ sympathetic ; Inferior thyroid artery, recurrent laryngeal nerve ; Trachea, thyroid gland, loiver part of larynx. Sup. Carotid Triangle - Bounded by sterno-mastoid, anterior belly of omo-hyoid, stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric ; contains : Termination of common carotid artery, internal ^ external carotid arteries, cs^ first branches of the latter ; Superior thyroid, lingual, facial, internal jugular veins ; Pneumogastric, superior laryngeal, &^ sympathetic nei-ves : Hypoglossal descendens noni nerves. Upper part of larynx, lozver part of pharynx. Submaxillary Triangle - Bounded by median line, jaw-bone & line from angle of jaw to mastoid process, and by stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric; contains: Submaxillary gland, facial artery & vein ; Submental artery, viylo-hyoid artery & nerve; Lower pai-t of pai-otidgland, facial ne)-ve, external carotid artery with its posterior auricular, temporal &^ internal maxillary branches ; Internal carotid, internal jugular vein, pneumogastric, syjupathetic all separated from external carotid by stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus glosso-pharyngeal n. POSTERIOR TRIANGLE Is bounded by sterno-mastoid, trapezius & clavicle. Its floor is formed from above downwards by splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulaB, posterior & middle scaleni, and superior digitation of seri-atus magnusj - a part of the complexus is sometimes seen above the splenius. It is divided by posterior belly of omo-hyoid into: Sup. or Occipital Fortion - The largest, contains: Superficial cervical plexus & spinal accessory nerve^ Transversalis colli artery & vein, Fat & lymphatic glands. Inf. or Clavicular Portion - The smallest, its size varies greatly with the extent of clavicular attachments of sterno-mastoid & trapezius, situation of omo- hyoid, and elevated or depressed position of shoulder. Contains.' Third part of subclavian aj-tery, Brachial plexus, Transversalis htimeri & transversalis colli vessels. External jugtdar vein. Fat & lympJiatic glands.S74 PARTS CONCERNED in INGUINAL HERNIA-1st T. form the ingitinal & scrotal regions. From the latter are derived the superficial coverings of large hemijc, wl [f superficial coverings are the same as those of the cord & testis. The former comprises the parts v 0'u directly concerned in the occurence of the protrusion, and in the surgical operations thereby requi] SCROTAL REGION — vide " coverings of Cord & Testis." INGUINAL REGION — Bounded by Poupart's ligament, median line, horizontal line through antei superior spine of ilium. Presents for examination the following strata, between which the ingui canal is comprig Skin - Thin, freely movable, depressed over Poupart's ligament. Superficial Fascia - Continuous with that of thigh, scrotum (dartos) & perinseum. Divided into superflc & deep layers by the superficial vessels & nerv Superficial Layer - Thick, areolar, & more or less distended with fat. Passes over Poupart's ligami without adhering to i Deep Layer - Thin, membranous, contains no fat; adheres to Poupart's ligament. , SUPERFICIAL VESSELS & NERVES — Are : Arteries - Superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, superficial external pudlc l Veins - Corresponding ; open into internal saphenous. Lymphatics - Converge towards the Suj>erior or Abdoinmal set of Inguinal Lymphatic Glands - Three or four, sma obliquely disposed along Poupart's ligament; receive lymphatics of penis, scrotu; perinseum, lower part of abdomen & buttoc Nerves - Ilio-inguinal, & hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastric. Aponeurosis of External Oblique - its fibres are oblique downwards & inwards, and form in successii Poupart's ligniiient, Gimbt;mat's ligament, Ojtter or Infe^'ior pillar of exter7tal abdo77iinal ri)ig, Inn or S7tperior pillar. Superficial part of Lmea Alba, by decussating with their fellows, and perhaps als after decussating, the Triangular ligajnent & the Intercolianfiarfibres of opposite sideQf i^Q Ah&omva Aponeuroses). Continuous with this stratum of fibres is the Inte7'cobimnar or exter7ial sperm tic fascia, thin, closely adherent to margin of external abdominal ring, and prolonged dowmvar into a tubular process around cord and testi Lower Part of Internal Oblique - Thin & pale, its fibres, which arise from outer half of Poupart ligament, pass i/iwards over speri/iatic C07-d (or roimd Iiga77ie7tt), and then curve do%v7iwards beJmtd & behind external abdominal ring & Gimbernat's ligament, covering inner two-thirds of Hesselbacli triangle and forming part of conjoined tendon of internal oblique & transversalis, and, becomir tendinous, are inserted over the extent of about half an inch into crest of pubes in front of rectus at into ilio-pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligamen The Cremaster Muscle - (Vide " Muscles of the Abdomen " & Coverings of the Testicle ' I is connected with lowest fibres of internal oblique, and occasionally also with some of the lowes jP fibres of transversalis ijl Lower Part of Transversalis - Also thin & pale. Its fibres, which arise from outer third of Poupart ligament, take the same course as preceding, and, also becoming tendinous, are inserted with ther into crest of pubes and ilio-pectineal line to the extent of about an inch, completing conjoined tender Fascia Transversalis - Part of the general layer of fascia which lines the abdominal & pelvic cavities. Ii the inguinal region it is thick and dense, and presents the following points of interest:'{ AT CIRCUMFERE^^CE OF INTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING - It is prolonged into a tubulal process of membrane, the infu7idibulifor77i fascia, which descends round the con; & testis, forming the fascia propria round the latter' AT LOWER PART OF REGION - It is, - In Frojit of Femoral Vessels - First thickened into an oblique band adherent to Poupart'iji ligament & termed the deep crural arch, and then continued downwards beneatl Poupart's ligament in fijont of the vessels to form anterior wall of femoi"al sheathi Externally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to outer part of Poupart's ligament, and con' tinuous with fascia iliacal Internally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to crest of pubes & ilio-pectineal line behindl conjoined tendon & Gimbernat's ligament.j That part of the fascia transversalis which lies above Poupart's ligament between outer border of rectus muscle & epigastric artery (Hesselbach's triangle) is interesting as being the part whichj forms a covering to direct inguinal hernia.1 Subperitonial Areolar Tissue - More or less distended with fat. Forms a bed in whi«ii the epigastric artery passes upwards & inwards along lower & inner boundaries of internal abdominal ring ; is con-i _ tinned into a loose sheath round the cord.1 Peritoneum - Presents, before the superficial strata of the abdominal wall have been dissected, the twol /7igui7ial Fossce, i7tternal &^ exte7'7ial, which fosste correspond respectively to the external & internal abdommal rings, and are separated by an oblique crescentic fold of variable width & prominence,! formed by the epigastrie & obliterated hypogastric arteries.'375 PARTS CONCERNED in INGUINAL HERNIA- 2nd T„ INGUINAL OR SPERMATIC CANAL Is an oblique passag-e 1| or 2 inches long situated a little above, and parallel to, inner half of Poupart's ligament. It gives passage to the spermatic cord or round ligament, and presents for examination its two openings or rings, and its boundaries or walls. iElxternSll Abdominal Ring - Triangular & oblique downwards & inwards, about 1 inch long & J inch wide in male but rather smaller in female, bound:d later- ally by external & internal pillars, above by the intercolumnar fibres, below by the crest of the pubes. Gives off from its margin the intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia, which is prolonged into a tubular process around cord & testis (V. Abdominal Aponeuroses). Internal Abdominal Ring - -A. tubular opening in the fascia transversalis formed by the prolongation of this fascia round the cord & testis (infundibuliform fascia, fascia propria), oval with large diameter directed downwards & out- wards ; situated midway between anterior superior spine of ilium & spine of pubes about ^ an inch above Poupart's ligament; bounded above & externally by the lower arched fibres of internal oblique & transyersalis, below & inter- nally by epigastric vessels. Boundaries or Walls - Formed by: In ¥ ROUT - Aponeurosis external o^h'^ue along whole length; lowest fibres of internal oblique along outer third. Behind - Fascia transversalis along whole length; conjoined tendon of internal oblique & transversalis, & also triangular ligament along inner third. Above - Arched fibres of internal oblique & transversalis. Below - Poupart's ligament blended posteriorly with fascia transversalis.SURGICAL ANATOMY of INGUINAL HERNIA. Principal points of interest are the coverings of the hernia, and the relations of the neck of the sac & of the seat of stricture. - For the rest see "Inguinal Hernia" among Tablets on Surgery. COVERINGS — Differ in the oblique & direct forms, and are slightly modified also in thei congenital & infantile varieties of the former, and in the external & internal varieties! of the latter. They are as follows:— OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA Of the Adult From within Outwards : Pcritoneiuii^ subserous areolar tissue, infundibuliform fascia^ cremasteric fascia, inte^xolumnar fascia, superficial fascia, skin. From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, inte7'columnar fascia, cremasteric fascia^ ] infundibuliform fascia, subserous areolar tissue, peritoneum. \ Congenital Variety - Descends directly into tunica vaginalis through pouch of peritoneum which accompanies cord & testis into scrotum, ; and which has abnormally remained tmclosed. Its coverings are tlia same as those of testicle: - Skin, dartos, intercohcmnar fascia, cremastetmM fascia, fascia propria, tunica vaginalis rcflexa. HI Infantile Variety - Descends into the still patent upper part of the imp^^ fcctly closed pouch of peritoneum, and becomes more or less completelpB invested, especially in front, by the posterior part,of the tunica vagin- * alis reflexa. Its coverings are the same as those of foregoing variety with two additional layers of peritoneu?n DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA Internal or Common Variety - (Protrudes through inner part of Hessel- 1 bach's triangle, on inner side of obliterated hypogastric artery). '\ Fkom within Outwards : Peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, fascia transvei'salis (the 1 geneial f. tr., not the infundibuliform process) conjoined tendon i (or 7tot, since it is frequently ruptured instead of being pushed ' foYwSiV&B) infe?-columnar fascia, superficial fascia, skin. \ From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercohcmnar fascia, conjoined tendon (or not), fascia transversalis, subsej'ous areolar tissue peritoneum. External Variety - (Protrudes through outer part of llesselbach's triangle, on outer side of obliterated hypogastric artery, & externally to the ■ conjoined tendon) - This exceptional form of inguinal hernia, passes . through a considerable portion of the inguinal canal, and greatly re- sembles the oblique hernia both by presenting a certain degree of ' obliquity and by having very nearly the same coverings; the covering j derived from the cremasteric fascia is alone rather less complete. RELATIONS OF NECK OF BAG & SEAT OF STRICTURE — The neck of the sac lies i IN OBLIQUE INGUINAL HEENIA - On otiter side of epigastric artery and in j frotit of spermatic cord, the elements of which may, however, be more or ! less scattered round the neck of the sac. j IN DIEECT INGUINAL HEENIA - On inner side of epigastric artery, in front j & slightly on inner side of spcrviatic cord. On account of the uncertainty of the diagnosis between the oblique & i direct hernias it is an accepted rule in surgery to divide a deep i seated stricture directly upzvards from middle of upper 7nargin of constricting ring, that is to say in the direction of the epigastric vessels.377 THE ABDOMINAL APONEUROSES Are the anterior ahdoiiiinal apo)ieurosis, or nhdotninal aponetirosis proper, which is strengihened posteriorly by the fascia transversalis, and the hntibarfascia. ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL APONEUROSIS — is formed by aponeuroses of external & internal oblique, and by anterior aponeurosis of transversalis, which aponeuroses may be considered as expanded tendons of insertion. They all three assist in forming tlie linea alba & the sheath of the rectus. APONEUROSIS OF EXTERNAL OBLIQUE — The strongest & widest of the three, and widest at its lower part; blended with aponeurosis of internal oblique in front of rectus and for some distance on either side, especially at upper part. Its fibres are oblique downwards & forwards, and form in succession Poupart's ligainc7it, Gitnbernat's Ugaineiit, Outer or inferior pillar of external abdo/ninal ring. Inner or Superior pillar,_ Superficial part of linea alba by decussating with their fellows, and perhaps also after decussating, the Triangular ligament & the hiiercolum' nar fUn-es of the opposite side. Poupart'S Ligament - Strong curved band extending from anterior superior spine of ilium to spine of pubes, convex downwards & outwards, blended interiorly with iliac fascia, internally with outer pillar of external abdominal ring, posteriorly with deep crural arch. Gimbernat'S Ligament - Small triangular process reflected do-wuwards, outwards & backwards from inner part of Poupart's ligament to ilio-pectineal line, and of which the outer concave margin forms inner boundary of femoral ring. Outer or Inferior Pillar of External Abdominal Ring - Blended with Poupart's ligament and attached with it to spine of pubes. Curves round inferior aspect of spermatic cord so as to form a groove upon which the cord rests. Inner or Superior Pillar of External Abdominal Ring - Broad, thin; interlaces with its fellow in front of symphysis. Linea Alba - Vide Below. Triangular Ligament - A triangular band lying behind inner pillar of external abdominal ring & Gimbernat'S ligament and in front of conjoined tendon, and extending from lower part of linea alba to ilio-pectineal line. It is formed according to some anatomists by prolongation across median line of lov/est of those fibres of aponeurosis of external oblique of oppsite side which enter into formation of linea alba. Inter columnar Fibres - Are interwoven at right angles with, and bind together, the fibres of aponeurosis of external oblique, and more particularly those fibres which form the pillars of external abdominal ring. They extend downwards and outwards from middle & lower parts of linea alba to middle of Poupart's ligament describing curves convex interiorly, and are said to l)e the continuation beyond the linea alba of middle fibres of aponeurosis of c. ' j:nal oblique of opposite side. - Continuous with this layer of fibres is the intercoluinnar or external spermatic fascia, thin closely adherent to margins of exter- nal abdominal ring, auA prolonged downwards into a tubular process around cord & testis. APONEUROSIS OF INTERNAL OBLIQUE — Thinner & lather narrower than fore- going, and narrowest at lower part. Divides opposite upper three-fourths of rectus into two layers, which l>lend, the one with aponeurosis of external oblique, the other with that of transversalis, and which pass, the one in front of, the other behind rectus, and again unite at linea alba. Passes wholly in front of lower part of rectus. ANTERIOR APONEUROSIS OF TRANSVERSALIS - The narrowest of the three, especi- ally above, Avhere some muscular fibres extend a little behind rectus. Passes behind rectus in its upper three-fourths, blending with posterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique. Passes in front of rectus in its lower fourth, blending with aponeurosis of external & internal obli(iue. SHEATH OF RECTUS — Is therefore complete in front and incomplete behind, Avhere it corresponds only to upper three-fourths of the muscle ; the deficiency in posterior wall of sheath being marked superiorly by the Fold of Douglas, a well defined fibrous band concave interiorly. In front it is formed by all three aponeuroses below, but only by aponeurosis of external oblique & anterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique, above. Behind, it is formed, where it exists, by aponeurosis of transversalis & posterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique. LINEA ALBA — Tendinous raphe from ensiform cartilage to pubes, bounded by inner borders of recti; narrow below & broad above ; perforated by numerous vascular & nervous foramina, and by umbilicus, opposite which it is closely adherent to integument. LINE^E SEjMILUNARES — Two curved depressed linear spaces produced on either side of recti, by absence of muscular fibres between these muscles and inner margin of muscular portion of internal oblique & transversalis. POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL APONEUROSIS OR LUMBAR FASCIA - Formed by posterior aponeurosis of transversalis, the posterior layer of which aponeurosis is blended with vertebral aponeurosis and with aponeuroses of latissimus dorsi & serratus posticus inferior. POSTERIOR OR VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS OP TRANSVERSALIS - Divided mto three layers. Posterior or Superficial Layer - Tlie strongest. Attached to apices of spinous processes of lumbar & sacral vertebrtc, and blends with aponeuroses above mentioned. Gives origin to middle fibres of internal obliijue, and binds down erector spina;. Middle Layer - Of considerable stren.gth. Separates erector spinao from quadratus lumborum, and becomes attached to apices of transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae. Anterior Layer - The thinnest. Covers anterior aspect of quadratus lumborum, forming super- iorly the ligameutum arcuatum externum, and becomes attached to bases oj transverse processes^378 SCAEPA'S TRIANGLE - 1st Tablet. Is a broad triangular depression Situated at upper, inner, & front part of thigh- Bounded by Poupart's ligament, sartorius & adductor longus- Contznueddown.vards <£h inwards into a superficial furrow, which marka position of femoral artery iai iMnVf^vM^^^^^^^^ PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA - These parts are:- SKIN - Thin, freely movable, more or less studded with hairs at upper & inner part SUPEEFICIAL FASCIA - Divided into two layers by superficial vessels & nerves & inguinal DEEP LATER - Thin & membranous. Adherent superiorly to P^SV iSS ''sS!fc over saphenous opening under the namp of " ^^^/^^)! ^,}^^^}^^^\- Stretches Superficia Vessels & Nerves and Lymphatic Glands - Are the: internai, saphenous veijt; OUTER BOUNDARY & ITS SUPERIOR ANGLE^'ofro™''^'^i-""?^'^' ^"^^^ ^^i^^' I^BK Bo™«.v-^Be™ .e„„M is fo,-rr.ei the puMc poSM FEMORAL SHEATH - Vld. »st labir '"^379 SCARPA'S TRIANGLE-2nd Tablet. FEMORAL SHEATH — is a thin tube of fascia divided by two delicate septa into three compartmenta, of wliich compartments the outermost contains the femoral artery & the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, the middle one the femoral vein, and the innermost, wlucli is called the femoral canal, some fat & a lymphatic gland. It is expanded superiorly, where it is continuous beneath Poupart's ligament with tlie fascia? of the abdomen, the fascia transversalis & the fascia iliaca passing down to form it, the former in front of, and the latter behind, the femoral vessels. It is narrow inferiorly, and blenos about two inches below Poupart's ligament with the common areolar sheath of the femoral vessels. Anteriorly it is covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament), Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, and, opposite the saphenous opening, by the cribriform fascia. Posteriorly it rests upon the pubic portion of the fascia lata & the pectineus muscle. Its outer wall is vertical, lies in immediate contact with the artery, and is perforated by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. Its inner wall is oblique doAvnwards & outwards from base of Gimbernat's ligament to inner surface of femoral vein. It is pierced superiorly, where it corresponds to the femoral canal, by numerous lymphatic vessels, and, inferiorly, or below the femoral canal, by the internal saphenous vein. FEMORAL CANAL — Is the innermost compartment of the femoral sheath. Or rather it is the nar- row interval comprised, at the upper part of the femoral sheath, between the inner wall of the sheath & the femoral vein; for it can hardly be said to exist as a distinct canal unless the wall of the sheath has been separated from the vein either by dissection or by the ijressure of a hernia. - It contains a little fat & a lymphatic gland. It extends from the femoral ring to the upper part of saphenous opening, and measures from i to J an inch in length. It presents four walls «& two openings. Anterior Wall - Formed by the fascia transversalis, and siipported by Poupart's liga- ment, deep crural arch, &i iliac portion of fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament); Posterior Wall - Formed by the fascia iliaca; rests upon pubic portion of fascia lata & pectineus muscle; Inner Wall - Formed by junction of fascite transversalis & iliaca; Outer Wall - Formed by the thin septum on inner side of femoral vein; Superior Opening, or Femoral Ring - Vide below. Inferior, or Saphenous Opening - Vide foregoing Tablet. Femoral Ring - is the opening of the femoral canal into the abdomen. - Its boundaries are:- In Front - Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch; Behind - Pubes covered by pectineus muscle. & pubic portion of fascia lata; Internally - Gimbernat's ligament with the triangular ligament, the conjoined tendon, & the deep crural arch. Externally - Femoral vein & the thin septum between it & crural canal. Its relations are as follows: Femoral vem, on outer side; Epigastric artery, crossing upper & outer angle; Sj>er!)iatic cord or )-oiind ligavtent, &^ pubic branch of epigastric above & in front; Obturator artery, on inner side, in those rare cases in which the artery presents the double abnormality of arising from the epigastric artery, and of arising from that artery at some distance from its root; - the obturator artery then passes first inwards above the ring, and then downwards into the pelvis behind Gimbernat's ligament. It is nearly circular, about \ an inch wide in the male, a little wider in the female, and is closed by the SEPTUM CRURALE (J. Cloquet) - A more or less condensed layer of superitoneal areolar tissue adherent to margins of femoral ring, and perforated by numerous apertures for lymphatics. Its upper surface is concave, and separated from the peritoneum by a less condensed layer of the same tissue and sometimes by a lymphatic gland; its under surface is convex & turned towards the femoral canal. The femoral canal & both its openings are constricted by extension & eversion, and relaxed by flexion & inversion of the thigh. COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HERNIA - Are: - From Within Outwards : - Peritoneujt!, subperitoneal areolar tissue (a portion of which, thickened & caused to assume a membranous appearance by the pressure of the hernia, was described by Sir A. Cooper under the name of fascia propria), septum crurale, crural sheath, crib> iform fascia, superficialfascia, skin. From Within Outwards : - Sinn, superficial fascia, criSriform fascia, crural_ sJieath, septum crurale^ subperitoneal areolar tissue, peritoneum. The deep seated stricture is to be divided upwards & inwards, in which direction no important vessel is likely to be met with.380 THE PERINEUM Consists of the structures whieli close outlet of pelvis anteriorly to line drawn from front part of one tuber ischii to that of the other. It is triangular in form, and is bounded laterally by rami of pubes & ischia and posteriorly by above men- tioned line. The width of its base (rather the smallest side of the triangle) is usually about 2| inches in the male adult, but it is sometimes considerably reduced ; the operation of lateral lithotomy is then greatly impeded. The part is convex in middle line & slightly depressed laterally, and presents the following layers: Skin - Thin, dark, freely movable, marked by a prominent median raphe, studded with thin crisp hairs, and provided with numerous sebaceous follicles. Superficial Fascia - Divided into two layers. Superficial Later - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and is continuous with sub- cutaneous tissue of surrounding regions. Deep Layer - Thin & aponeurotic ; lies in close contact Avith the muscles. 071 either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia externally to crura penis ; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perinfcuni; and is prolonged beneath sphincter ani, becoming continuous behind transversus perina^i & in front of rectum with inferior layer of deep perinajal fascia ; In fy-ont it is unattached, & continuous with dartos ; SiiJ>erio; ly it gives off a median septum, which is rather deficient in front but pretty well marked behind. It binds down the superficial structures, and bounds inferiorly, and also, through its attach- ments, laterally & behind, a space, in which if urine be effused, this fluid will be directed forwards towards scrotum, perinasum, & lowrr loit : 1 ('rireri, and prevented from passing backwards towards anus, or outwards to vvards thighs. TLis layer is sometimes called the siepej-Jia..'perimealfascia. Superficial Genito-Urinary Muscles - Are the: Erector Penis - Covering the crus; Accelerator Urinji: or Ejaculator Seminis - reading out upon bulb of urethra; Transversus PEr.iN.Ei -Se- aratiu^ penniTcmu proi)cr f .)Ui Ischio-rectal region. These muscles bound a triangular area, wLid! is crossed superficifilly by the superficial perinseal vessels & nerve, behind which area ] asses transversely inwards the transverse perineal artery, ^nd through which area crai be seen deeply tlie superficial layer of the deep perinpcal fascia. In lateral lithotomy the knife is carried backwards & outwards through inner & back part of this area on left side. Inferior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia, or Triangular Ligament of Urethra - Vide below. Membranous Portion of Urethra, Ccmpressor Ureihrse, & Deep Transversus Perinsei, Pudic Vessels & N., Vessels & N. of Bulb, Cowper's Glands & their Ducts - Vide these parts. Superior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia - The deep pcrineeal fascia is a complex structure triangular in form, which supports the urethra, and closes anterior part of outlet of pelvis. On either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia internally to crura penis ; Beliiud it is connected to central tendinous point of perinteum, and is continuous both with thin fascia on under surface of levator ani, and, behind transversus perinjei, with deep layer of superficial fascia of perinaeum ; In front it is attached to pubic arch & sub-pubio ligament. It consists of two aponeurotic layers which are separated in the centre, but united laterally & behind ; of these two layers the ANTKRion, Inferior, or Superficial Layer-The thickest, is continued dowuAvards & forwards upon anterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and is lost upon the bulb. This layer is perforated by the nrethra about an inch below symphysis pubis, by do7'sal -vein of penis in front of urethra, & by pitdic vessels &^ nerve on either sitle of the vein ; it is the only layer that can properly be called the triangular ligament of the urethra, though the term is sometimes applied to both layers taken together. Posterior, Superior, or Deep layer - Thinner. Is contiimed upwards U backwards round posterior part of meml)ranous portion of urethra, and becomes continuous with pelvic fascia. Between these two layers are comprised the parts above mentioned, viz,, mejnhrnnons por- tion of icretJira with compressor n^-etlirce isr' deep transversus perinan iiucsch'S, pjidic vessels nerve with vessels nerve of bulb, Co'ivp>cr s glands &^ their ducts. Above these parts are found in centre of perinjcum the Prostate Gland & Neck of Bladder, - and laterally the Anterior Part of Levator Ani & of Pelvic Fascia - The latter fascia is continued posteriorly upon posterior part of levatur ani, upon rectum & between it & bladder, and belongs as much to ischio-rectal region as to the perinseal.