CHANGES IN THE UTERUS. 49 inner surface to the vascular layer, so that a vertical section of the membrane exhibits them cut quite as often obliquely or transversely as longitudinally. They are also generally dilated, but the dilatation is by far most marked at the mouths of the glands,, which come thus to have a funnel-like shape, and in the deeper part of the membrane, where the dilatations look in sections like a series of cavities, lined by cubical or flattened epithelium, and separated from one another by a relatively small amount of intcrglandular substance. This gives a spongy appearance to the part in question, and it has been accordingly termed the .siralum spongiosum of the decidua (fig. 51*, B, sp). The deepest part of the glands, that, namely, which is in contact with and is imbedded in the superficial portion of the muscular coat, does not share in this dilatation, and its epithelium also retains the columnar character. The part of each gland between the funnel-shaped mouth and the dilatations above described, also becomes enlarged, but not to so great an extent, the hypertrophy of the mucous membrane being here chiefly confined to the interglandular tissue, which becomes filled with large epithelium-like cells (dcciclual cells of Friedlander) and with numerous and large capillary blood-vessels. This layer of the decidua has been termed the stratum compadum in contradistinction to the stratum spongiosum external to it (fig. 51*, B, c). After the fifth month, by which time the great increase in size of the ovum with its contained embryo has brought the decidua reflexa into close contact with the decidua vera, the latter begins to undergo an atrophic process, the result to all appearance of the compression and distension to which it is thus subjected. Its tissue becomes thinner and less vascular, and both the funnel-shaped mouths of the glands and those parts of the glands which run through the stratum compactum become gradually obliterated, so that eventually hardly any trace remains. In the Fig. 52.—Diagrammatic section through the deciduae at the edge of the placenta (from Kundrat and Engelmann). c, up, m. as in fig. 51*, B ; d v, decidua vera ; d s, decidua serotina ; d r, decidua reflexa. stratum spongiosum the spaces which have resulted from the dilatation of the gland tubes lose the lining epithelium, and become flattened out conformably to the surface, so that they now appear as a layer of compressed lacunae, sepa- rated by thin fibrous trabeculae (fig. 52, sp.). £p , Similar changes occur in the decidua reflexa. ( That this is truly a fold of mucous membrane is evidenced by the fact that gland tubes can be 7rt * seen to open upon both its surfaces. These gland ~6L~v ll^T tubes early become enlarged, and acquire an oblique or tortuous course, with dilatations in their deeper parts, i.e., in the middle of the thickness of the d. reflexa, so as to form here also a sort of spongy tissue. But the decidua reflexa sooner becomes expanded by the growing ovum into a relatively thin membrane, and the atrophic changes in the glands occur at an earlier stage, so that by the time that it has coalesced with the decidua vera hardly any traces of them can be discerned. In the decidua serotina (placental decidua) similar changes have been described in the glands, the final result being the formation of a spongy layer, with irregular clefts flattened out conformably to the surface, and from which the epithelium has entirely disappeared, accompanied by complete atrophy and disappearance of all the parts of the glands which are superficial to this layer, the only portions which remain nearly unaltered being the deepest parts of the tubes, which are partly voi.. r.