THE LIMBS. 163 Ribs and Sternum.—The ribs are formed by separate cartilaginous transfor- mation in extensions of the protovertebral mesoblast between the muscle-plates. According to some, they grow out from the cartilaginous vertebrae, but become separate before ossification begins. Similar deposits are formed in connexion with the other vertebrae (except the coccygeal in man), but they here become united by ossification with and form parts of the vertebrae (see Osteology, Yol. II.). At their ventral Fig. 192.—Sections of the veb.tebb.al column of a human fcetus of eight weeks. (From Kolliker.) A, transverse longitudinal section of several vertebrae. 1, 1, chorda dorsalis, its remains thicker opposite the intervertebral discs ; 2, is placed on one of the bodies of the permanent vertebrae ; 3, on one of the intervertebral discs. B, transverse horizontal section through a part of one dorsal vertebra. 1, remains of the chorda dorsalis in the middle of the body ; 2, arch of the vertebra ; 3, head of a rib. Fig. 193.—Sagittal section of a dobsal intebvebtebbal ligament of an advanced sheep’s embbyo. (Kolliker.) La, l.p, anterior and posterior ligaments ; l.i, intervertebral ligament ; Jc, /A cartilaginous ends of two vertebral bodies, w, w'; c, enlargement of notochord in the ligament ; c', c", enlargements in the cartilaginous ends of the vertebra1. extremities the first seven (thoracic) cartilaginous ribs become united on either side into a longitudinal cartilaginous plate, and this afterwards joins its fellow of the opposite side to form the sternum (manubrium and body). The xiphoid is of later formation (Parker). This mode of development of the sternum explains many of the malformations in the shape of fissures of the sternum of different gradation which have been observed. The Limbs.—The limbs arise as outgrowths from the lateral part of the trunk in the thoracic and pelvic regions in the third day in the chick and in the third and fourth week in the human embryo. They appear as flattened semilunar thickenings of the parietal mesoblast covered by epiblast, budding out from a lateral ridge which is seen in the early embryo near the line of cleavage of the mesoblast and close to the outer margins of the muscle-plates, and several of which subsequently send prolongations into each limb (*) ; they are therefore connected with several mesoblastic somites, as is also indicated by their nerve supply. 1 This is the case in elasmobrancks (see fig. 194, from Balfour), but, according to Paterson,