THE WOLFFIAN' DUCT AND BODY. 117 presently projects as a distinct vascular organ along the dorsal part of the peritoneal cavity on either side of the mesentery. Subsequently another duct becomes deve- loped along the outer side of the Wolffian body, along which it runs backwards to open also into the cloaca : in front it communicates with the pleuroperitoneal cavity by one or more funnel-shaped apertures (fig. 143, z). This is the Mullerian duct, so named after Johannes Muller ; in some of the lower vertebrates it arises in common with the Wolffian duct. From the lower end of each Wolffian duct a hollow pro- trusion (fig. 125, C and I), N) grows upwards into a mass of mesoblast continuous with that of the Wolffian body ; with the branches of this protrusion glomeruli and convoluted tubes also become connected, and thus the 'permanent kidney (hind-kidney, metanephros) is produced. Lastly, the coelomic epithelium covering the inner side of the Wolffian body becomes thickened (fig. 143, a), and within it are found larger cells, from which the generative products in both sexes (ova and spermatozoa) arc eventually derived. This epithelium is accordingly known as the germinal epithelium. The duct of Muller becomes in the female the oviduct or Fallopian tube ; in the male it becomes atrophied. The Wolffian duct in the male becomes the epididymis and vas deferens ; while the vasa efferentia and tubes of the rete testis are formed as outgrowths from the Wolffian body; in the female these parts have no permanent function. The head kidney, although permanent and functional in fishes, is only a rudi- mentary organ in the embryo of higher vertebrates, and soon disappears. The Molffian body is well developed in all vertebrates ; in fishes and amphibia it is an important part of the permanent urinary apparatus, and also serves to carry away the male sexual products (fig. 138). In higher vertebrates (amniota) it no longer continues to perform excretory functions, but still supplies the efferent apparatus of the testis. The details of the development of these parts may next be considered. The Wolffian duct and body.—The commencement of the Wolffian duct is seen at a very early period of development (second day in the chick, eighth day in the rabbit) as a thickening of the intermediate cell-mass in the anterior region of the trunk (fifth somite) (fig. 39, Wd). The outgrowth projects towards the epiblast, and Fig. 139. Transverse section of an embryo chick of thirty-six hours. >3° (E. A. S.) n.c, medullary tube ; p, protovertebra ; ep, epiblast; vie, lateral mesoblast split into splanchnopleure on tl,0nmrit0iP/CU1ie 5 %°?en,t0neal cavity between them ; cos', cavity of protovertebra, continuous Woltnbtdy?ViSoSJtd? mesoblastic cleavage; W.d., Wolffian duct; JO., mesoblast of developes from before backwards; a solid cord of mesoblast thus becomes formed, which gradually becomes detached from the remainder of the intermediate cell-mass, lying c ose to t ie epiblast (fig. 139, uny). Soon after it is thus formed, a lumen appears in it and extends both forwards and backwards. The posterior end, which is still solid is presently found to be attached to the epiblast, and apparently continues to grow me wards along and at the expense of the epiblast until it reaches the posterior end