no THE THYROID BODY. progresses in growth, giving off as it proceeds lateral diverticula, which form the secondary bronchi, and those again giving off others until the whole complicated bronchial ramification is eventually pioduced. bike the first sprouts from the median diverticulum, all the secondary and other sprouts are dilated at their termination, and have a lobulated aspect (fig. 125, Ly .- figs. 131,132,133. This is due to the fact that they are undergoing a further division or sprouting. This process goes on until the sixth month of intrauterine life, by which time all the dilated ends of the growing and sprouting tubes have reached the surface of the lung. These dilated extremities which now appear grouped together, and apparently springing several from a common tube, form the infundibula, but their walls are not at first beset with air-cells. The forma- tion of these takes place when the bronchial ramifica- tion is completed (sixth month, Kolliker), as small, closely-set, pouch-like protrusions of the walls of the infundibula, and of the terminal bronchial tubes. The trachea and larynx are formed by a separation from the oesophagus of the original median diverticulum, from the lower angles of which the bronchial rudiments have sprung, the separation commencing below, and leaving a relatively small connection between the two tubes above : this connection is the rudimentary glottis. As development advances, both the tracheo-laryngeal and the oesophageal tubes lengthen, the latter relatively more than the former, so that the lung rudiments no longer lie, as was the case at first, in front of and on either side of the stomach, but extend downwards somewhat short of that organ (fig. 125), separated from one another by the oesophagus behind, and the heart and pericardium in front. As they thus grow backwards with the lengthening of the trachea, the lung rudiments project into the anterior part of the body-cavity or coelom (dorsal portion), and receive a covering from its lining mem- brane, at first only below and on the external surface, but subsequently on the internal aspect, so as to separate them from the oesophagus. The portions of the body-cavity into which the lungs project become shut off from the remainder on the formation of the diaphragm and pericardium, and form the pleurae. The pulmonary blood-vessels are comparatively late in being developed, the arteries penetrating into the lung tissue only on the twelfth day in the chick. The thyroid body is developed partly as a median diverticulum of the pharyn- geal hypoblast opposite the ventral ends of the second visceral arches (fig. 125, B, Sd); partly as a (bilateral) diverticulum of the posterior wall of the fourth visceral cleft. The median diverticulum in most animals early becomes separated from the pharyngeal hypoblast, and is thus converted into an island of epithelium imbedded in mesoblast. In the human embryo, as His has shown (fig. 134, A, thr), it remains for some time in the form of a hollow bifid vesicle, which is connected with the upper surface of the tongue by a small duct (ductus thyreoglossus, d); subsequently, however, the vesicle becomes solid, and the duct is obliterated and disappears, with the exception of a small portion near tbe orifice, which becomes converted into the foramen mcum of Morgagni,/.c. Occasionally even in the adult a comparatively long: duct is found, leading downwards and backwards from the foramen cfficum. This, which has been termed the ductus linyualis, is the remains of the original thyrolingual duct connecting the median part of the thyroid with the tongue. It may further happen that the lower part of this connection also remains in the shape of a tubular prolongation of the median portion of the thyroid towards the root of the tongue (ductus thryoideus ; when well developed this forms the pyramid). The so- called accessory thyroid bodies (supra-hyoid, proshyoid glands, &c.) which are occasionally found near the hyoid bone, are also referable to the thyrolingual duct (His, Anatomie Fig. 133.—LTINGS OP A HUMAN EMBKTO STILL MOKE ADVANCED. (His.)