165 THE CRANIUM. concavity looking forwards in the upper limb and backwards in the lower limb. The limbs also come to be folded ventrally against the body of the embryo. From the manner in which the flattened limb-bud grows out from the lateral ridge, it is obvious that its surfaces must at first be dorsal and ventral. The dorsal surface afterwards becomes extensor and the ventral flexor. The anterior edge is respectively the radial and tibial; the posterior, the ulnar and fibular. As Fi". 195-—Outlines or the anterior extremities OP HUMAN EMB1VYOES AT DIFFERENT AGES. (After His.) A, at four weeks; B, at five weeks ; C, at seven weeks ; D, at nine or ten weeks. development proceeds, a half rotation occurs in opposite directions in the two limbs, resulting in the middle flexure (elbow, knee) being directed forwards in the upper, backwards in the lower limb. The bones of the limbs are laid down as cartilages which appear as separate differentia- tions of the more centrally placed mesoblast, a portion of mesoblast remaining for a time undifferentiated opposite eacn synovial articulation. Within this a cleft subsequently appears, and enlarges to form the synovial cavity, the mesoblast which bounds the cleft developing eventually into the synovial membrane and capsular ligaments of the joint. The cranium.—In the head the notochord extends as far forwards as the mid-brain. Here also it is invested by a continuous mass of mesoblast, which sends lateral prolongations over the neural canal as in the trunk (membrana reuniens). A \ B Fig. 196.—Diagrams of the cartilaginous cranium. (Wiederslicim.) A, First stage. r' not,och°l't* 5 Tr, trabecul® cranii; P.ch, parachordal cartilages ; P, situation of pituitary body ; A, A, 0, situations of olfactory, visual and auditory organs. B, Second stage. B, basilar cartilage (investing mass of Itathke) ; S, nasal septum and ethmoidal cartilage ; Etli, Elk, prolongations of ethmoidal around olfactory organ, completing the nasal capsule ; 01, foramina for passage of olfactory nerve fibres ; iV, E, 0, Ch, Tr, as before. The main difference in development between the cranium and vertebral column consists in the fact that no separate cartilaginous deposits to form vertebrae occur