DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL ARTERIES. 147 even beyond the origin of the allantoic arteries, the middle sacral artery being in fact the extremity of the aorta. Occasionally the union remains incomplete, a median septum being sometimes found as a malformation of the descending aorta. The common iliacs are formed by persistence of the roots of the allantoic arteries; when the lower limbs are formed they give off to these the external iliacs. Since their discovery by Rathke in 1825, the arterial arches have been regarded with much interest as corresponding with those from which the blood-vessels of the gills in fishes and amphibia are derived. Along with the (subdivided) aortic bulb they give rise, by various transformations, to the permanent pulmonary and aortic stems and the principal vessels which spring from them. Most of what is known regarding the mode of their transformation in different animals is due to the researches of Rathke. In the human embryo the subject has been recently investigated by His, whose account will be here mainly followed. Fig. 177.—Profile view of a human embryo of about fifteen days, with the alimentary canal in LONGITUDINAL SECTION. (His ) Two arterial arches are formed at this stage. Fig. 178.—Similar view of a somewhat older embryo, showing five arterial arches. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, are opposite the respective secondary cerebral vesicles ; from the side of the fore-brain the primary optic vesicle is seen projecting ; ot, otic vesicle, still open in 177 ; p.v, septum between mouth and pharynx (primitive velum). This has disappeared in 178 ; l, commencing liver in septum transversum \ v, vitelline stalk; all, allantois enclosed within stalk ; j.v, jugular vein • c v cardinal vein; s.r, sinus venosus within septum transversum; u.a, left umbilical (allantoic) artery •’ u v loft ofmdeveTopmTnt. P CU1'Ve °f ^ tl'Unk °f th° embr*°towards the ^^-sac is normal at this period From the point of insertion of the aortic bulb the arterial arches have a radial disposition as they pass into their respective visceral arches (fig. 181). They at first effect, as above stated, a complete communication between the aortic bulb and the descending aorta, but subsequently in most cases the communication becomes obliterated, and the completeness of the vascular arch is thus obscured, the only arches which in mammals remain pervious through their whole extent up to the L 2