101 THE PHARYNX. The shallow and widely open stomodseum soon deepens and is now seen to be specially bounded by certain prominences placed above, below, and at the sides, within and from which the several parts of the face are eventually pro- duced (figs. Ill, 110). These prominences are the Jronto-nasal which projects over the stomodaeum, and is formed primarily by the prominence of the fore- brain, but afterwards acquires a considerable thickening of mesoblast, which ex- tends into it from the basis cranii; the mandibular or first visceral arch, which Fig. 119.—Profile view of a human embryo of ABOUT THREE WEEKS, SHOWING ALL THE CEPHALIC VISCERAL ARCHES AND CLEFTS. mx, maxillary process ; run, mandibular arch ; d.C, duct of Cuvier ; jv, jugular vein ; c.v, cardinal vein ; v.v, vitelline vein ; u.v, umbilical vein ; u.a, umbilical artery ; all, allantois ; pi, placental attach- ment of allantoic stalk ; olf, olfactory depression ; ot, otic vesicle. after passing obliquely round the fore- gut, takes a horizontal direction on its ventral side, and meets its fellow in the middle line, the two together forming the ventral boundary of the stomodmum; and the maxillary process, which grows from the base of the mandibular arch, and projects on either side of the stomodmum, filling up the gap between the fronto- nasal process and the mandibular arch, and forming the lateral boundary. The separation of the stomodseum into an upper or olfactory and respiratory part and a lower permanent buccal cavity, together with the changes which occur in the fronto-nasal and maxillary processes to produce the result, has already been referred to in describing the de- velopment of the nose (pp. 95 to 97). Pharynx.—The remainder of the ali- mentary canal below the mouth is nearly simple, at first consisting, as before men- tioned, of a tubular portion in front—the fore-gut; a shorter tubular portion behind —the hind-gut; and a middle part which is freely open to the yolk (fig. 117). The hind-gut remains simple throughout, from its ventral aspect.1 But in front a „ ance, the cephalic part becoming enlarged to form the pharynx, while almost immediately behind this another enlargement forms the stomach. The hypoblast lining the cavity of the pharynx grows out on either side successively at four distinct evels, and to a less extent the epiblast dips in opposite the hypoblastic outgrowths, n is way eventual y four deep clefts between the pharynx and the exterior become ormed ; these arc known as the cephalic visceral clefts (figs. 110, 119, in external except that the allantois grows out differentiation soon makes its appear- ed!, 1 which1’“ united0Arm*??* t0 bo formccl by a (livcct continuation of the lateral alkntok (bum^^^ars6aaa! Wind pmlS tub#’ "’hilc tbu ^ of tbc tllbc “ *h«