RECENT LITERATURE OF BLASTODERM. 27 of this with ectoderm at the margin of the blastopore, and in the higher forms, especially mammals, may even be largely derived from ectoderm. It is nevertheless for many reasons probable that the origin in a pair of hollow diverticula, as above described, is to be looked upon as the typical one, and that as a solid outgrowth, subsequently becoming split or hollow, as a secondary modification.1 2 It is questionable, however, whether there is so considerable a difference between the external and internal portions of the wall of the diverticulum that Fig. 29.—Sections across an amphioxus embryo of about the stages shown in fig. 28, I. to III. (Hatschek.) n.g., neural groove ; n. c., neural canal ; ch, rudiment of notochord ; vies, som., mesoblastic somite. In I., its cavity is in free communication with the alimentary cavity ; ep, epiblast ; hy, hypoblast ; al, alimentary cavity. In III. the cavity of the somite has extended on either side of the alimentary canal and forms a coelom, or body cavity (cos). these two plates of mesoblast should be regarded each one as of equal morphological importance with the epi- and hypoblast. It may also be doubted whether the parablastic cr mesenchyme elements are essentially different in their origin from the rest of the mesoblast.3 In forms which are regarded as most typical, such as Sagitta and Amphioxus, they are not distinct in origin from that layer. In the simpler forms amongst the Crahiata, as Cyclostomata and Amphibia, no origin distinct from the rest of the mesoblast has been described for these elements, nor has it been seen in mammals, in which, indeed, it is difficult to conceive an independent source for them. It is only in the highly modified meroblastic ova that appearances have been noted which have seemed to justify the ascribing a peripheral origin to the parablastic elements. But the evidence which has been hitherto adduced in favour of this view cannot be regarded as sufficient to justify its unconditional adoption, and it must be regarded as equally open to consideration whether the derivation from that part of the blastoderm which is most closely connected with the source of nutriment, viz., the yolk, of those elements which are to form the blood and blood-vessels, and otherwise to minister to the nutrition of the early embryo is not to be explained by the modified physiological conditions of these teloleeithal ova. RECENT LITERATURE. Balfour, F. M., On the structure and homologies of the germinal layers of the embryo. Quart. Journ. Mierosc. Sc., vol. xx., 1880. Balfour, F. M. and F. Deig-hton, A renewed study of the germinal layers of the chick. Quart. Journ. Microsc. Scienc., vol. xxii., 1882. Beneden, Ed. van, llec/ierches sur Vembryologie dcs mammifires. La formation des fcuiUels chez le lapin. Archiv. de biologie, t. i., 1880 ; Sur Involution de la ligne primitive, la formation de la notocorde et du canal cordal chez les mammiferes (lapin et murin). Bulletin de l’academie royalc de Belgique. Ann. v., ser. iii., t. xii., 1886. Beneden, Ed. van und Ch. Julin, Observations sur la maturation, la fecondation et la segmentation de l'amf chez les cheiropteres. Arch, de biol., t. i., 1880. Bonnet, B.., Ueber den Pnmitivstreifen und die Chorda der Wiederkaucr. Sitzungsber. d. Gesellschaft f. Morphologie u. Physiologie zu Munehen, 1886 ; Beitrdge zur Embryologic der Wiederkauer. Arch, fiir Anat., 1884, 1889. 1 R. and 0. Hertwig, “Die Ccelomtheorie,” Jena, 1881. 2 Cf. Balfour, “Comparative Embryology,” vol. ii. pp. 296, 297.