DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL ARTERIES. 146 into it from the compact outer layer of muscle, and unite with one another to form a spongework of muscular trabeculae, while the endothelium of the cavity becomes depressed between and over these trabeculae, and lines all the spaces between them, which thus communicate with the cavity of the ventricle. The ventricles are therefore now in the same condition in which they are found permanently in many of the lower vertebrates (e.g. frog). Ultimately the compact outer layer of muscle becomes greatly increased in thick- ness, and the spongework of trabeculae occupies a relatively much smaller portion of the cavity, being developed in part into the column® carneae of the adult heart. Peculiarities of the foetal heart.—Besides the peculiarities of structure, which have been above described, the foetal heart differs in position, in relative size, and in the thickness of its several parts, from the organ after birth. Thus it is at first placed immediately under the head, but subsequently, with the development of the neck, it gradually assumes a position farther back. In early foetal life it is much larger in proportion to the size of the body than at a later period, and at birth it is still proportionally large. The walls of both ventricles are of equal thickness during foetal life, a peculiarity which is evidently connected with the fact that in consequence of the communication of the pulmonary artery, through the ductus arteriosus, with the aorta, the blood pressure which they have to overcome is the same. DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL ARTERIES. From the point of insertion of the aortic bulb into the ventral wall of the foregut, first one, and then in succession four other arterial arches, become formed, and pass on either side, one into each visceral arch. Half encircling this part of the Fig. 176 —Diagrammatic out- lines OP THE HEART AND PRI- MITIVE VESSELS OF THE EMBRYO CHICK AS SEEN FROM BELOW AND ENLARGED. (A. T. ) A, soon after tlie first establish- ment of the circulation ; B, C, at a somewhat later period ; 1,1, the veins returning from the vas- cular area; 2, 3, 4, the heart, now in the form of a notched tube ; 5, 5 (upper), the two primi- tive aortic arches ; 5, 5 (lower), the primitive double aorta; a, the single or united aorta ; 5', 5', the continuation of the double aortic beyond the origin of the large omphalo-mesenteric arteries, 6, 6. The division above 4 is repre- sented as carried rather too far down. alimentary canal, they are continued above it into two descending or primitive aorta. These two vessels run down the trunk on either side of the notochord, yielding, as they descend, lateral offsets to the body walls and to the yolk sac. Finally they give off’, at the lower or posterior extremity, two large vessels, which accompany the allantois, and furnish blood to the foetal part of the placenta (umbilical 01 allantoii arteries). The primitive aortas do not long remain double. As was first shown by means of sections by Allen Thomson, they unite in the middle line, the union beginning in the dorsal region and extending forwards and backwards ; in the latter direction