137 DEVELOPMENT OE THE HEART. mammal shows distinct indications of division into its several parts ; indeed, these parts are apparent even while the two tubes are still distinct, as the accompanying sketches of the rabbit’s heart clearly show (fig. 159). The heart does not, however, Fig. 162.—Transverse section through the region oe the heart in a babbit EMBRYO OE NINE DAYS, SHOWING THE COMMENCING FUSION OE THE TWO TUBES. «>. (Kolliker.) jj, jugular veins; ao, descending aortas; ph, pharynx ; hp, epiblast of body-wall ; ill, endothelial lining of the still divided heart; ah, outer wall of the heart; p, peri- cardial coelom ; elf, elf, visceral mesoblast (somatopleure); e!, prolongation of the hypoblast of the foregut and the anterior wall of the pericardial cavity into the partition between the two halves of the heart; hi, bilaminar portion of blastoderm forming pro-amnion ; net, ent, its two layers (epiblast and hypoblast). long retain its symmetrical position. It soon becomes bent upon itself, so as to assume the shape of an S, the anterior part of the tube bending over to the right and the posterior to the left (fig. 164, B). At the same time the posterior, or sino-auricular Fig. 163.—Section through the region of the heart in a rabbit embryo of 10 days, after THE TWO TUBES HAVE UNITED INTO A SINGLE MEDIAN ORGAN. (Kolliker.) ao, descending aortas ; ha, bulbus aortas ; ah, its external wall ; mp, posterior mesocardium, uniting the heart to the ventral wall of the pharynx, ph, and here separating the pleuropericardial coelom, p, into two halves, which are, however, united on the ventral side of the heart ; ent, hypoblast of yolk sac ; elf, its mesoblast; elf, mesoblast of pharynx ; ect, epiblast. Fig. 164.—Outlines of the anterior half or the embryo chick viewed from below, showing the heart in its earlier stages of formation. (After Remak.) A, embryo of about 28 to 30 hours ; B. of about 36 to 40 hours ; a, anterior cerebral vesicle; h, proto-vertebral segments ; c, cephalic fold ; 1, 1, vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric veins entering the heart posteriorly ; 2, their union in the posterior part of the heart; 3, the middle part of the tube corresponding to the ventricle ; 4 (in B) the arterial bulb. cud of the heart, gradually comes to lie behind or dorsal to the ventricular part, which arches transversely from left to right, where it turns sharply upward (towards the head), and terminates in the bulb. The tube is divided by slight constrictions into successive portions, viz. : (1) the part formed by the junction of the principal veins, sinus venosus ; (2) the auricular part; (3) the ventricular part; and (4) the aortic bulb.