DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL CORD. 57 DEVELOPMENT OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. • As has been already described, the whole of the central nervous system takes origin from the thickened walls of a dorsally situated axial groove, subsequently converted into a canal, which runs forwards in front of the primitive streak, and the anterior end of which becomes enlarged and converted by constrictions into three successive vesicles, around which the several parts of the brain are formed, and which are known as the primary cerebral vesicles. The remainder of the neural canal is of nearly uniform diameter, and its walls become converted into the substance of the spinal cord, while the cavity itself becomes eventually the central canal of the cord. The walls of the neural groove are of course composed of epiblast, and it therefore follows that the whole structure of the central nervous system is laid down in epiblast, and consists in the main of more or less modified epiblastic elements, except where mesoblastic tissues subsequently penetrate into it, conveying blood-vessels into its substance. As was shown by Balfour, the same is in all probability true for all the nerves of the body, cranial and spinal, which either, as with the fibres of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, grow directly out from the neural epiblast, or, as with the fibres of the posterior roots, are formed and grow from masses of epiblast cells, which are separated off at the junction of the neural and general epiblast to form the ganglia, from which the posterior root fibres appear to take origin (His). An exception must, however, be recorded for the olfactory tracts and bulbs and optic tracts and nerves, which, although derived from the neural epiblast, yet have a different mode of origin from all other nerves, both cranial and spinal, since they arise not as solid outgrowths of that epiblast, but as hollow protrusions from the brain, which only become solid at a later stage of development. We have then to consider the manner in which are developed (1) the spinal cord ; (2) the several parts of the brain ; and (3) the spinal and cranial nerves and their ganglia, as well as the ganglia and nerves of the so-called sympathetic nervous system. DEVELOPMENT OP THE SPINAL CORD. Soon after the neural canal is closed (fig. 32, p. 31), it takes the form, along the greater part of the length of what is afterwards to become spinal cord, of a cleft- like cavity, with thick sides, and a relatively thin dorsal and ventral boundary (roof and floor). The parietes of the canal are wholly composed of long columnar epithe- lium cells, whose free borders, which are at first smooth, but later become ciliated, line the cavity, and whose attached extremities rest upon a homogeneous limiting membrane which early makes its appearance, bounding the embryonic cord, and separating it from the surrounding structures. These cells, therefore, extend at first through the whole thickness of the embryonic cord, and they have the closely- set, palisade-like character, with the nuclei at different depths, such as it is usual to find in long columnar epithelium. After a time, it is found that the cells (which have become always longer with the increasing thickness of the wall of the neural canal) show a tendency to branch and to unite with the branches of neighbouring cells. In this way a network or spongework is produced, which extends throughout the greater part of the thickness of the embryonic cord ; at the same time the inner parts of the cells which immedi- ately line the canal retain their palisade-like arrangement, while the external or attached ends often exhibit a radiating disposition, which gives a characteristic radial character to the external layer of the reticular structure. The reticulum is