113 THE PANCEEAS. the suspensory ligament. That which unites it to the ventral wall of the stomach and duo- denum also becomes thinned out; it forms the small or gastro-hepatic omentum. The liver is at .first an exactly symmetrical organ, the right and left lobes being equal in size and symmetrically placed. After the fourth month the right lobe begins relatively to increase in size, and at birth the proportion of this to the left lobe is as 1‘6 to 1. The liver also at first "•rows very rapidly, so that by the second month it nearly fills the abdomen, and causes a well marked prominence on the ventral aspect of the embryo. At this time it is calculated to constitute nearly one half the weight of the body. The proportion, however, gradually decreases, until at term the relative weight of the liver to the whole body is as 1 to 18. The. further changes which the blood-vessels which pass to the liver undergo will be considered with the development of the venous system. The pancreas is developed as a hollow hypoblastic diverticulum from the dorsal wall of the duodenum opposite the hepatic diverticula, and somewhat later than these (fig. 125, B, C, D, p). This hollow process grows into the mesogastrium or gastro- duodenal mesentery, which at this time is well developed, and ramifies within this, producing by its off-shoots the ducts and alveoli as with other compound acinous glands. As the duodenal loop becomes formed, and this and the pyloric end of the stomach are turned over towards the right side, the pancreas loses its median sym- metrical position, and with the mesentery which encloses it now lies across the back of the abdomen. This is the condition in which the gland is found in most mammals. But in man, with the fusion of the mesogastrium (great omentum) to the transverse mesocolon, the posterior layer of the mesenteric fold which encloses the pancreas becomes absorbed (Toldt), and the gland becomes fixed across the back of the abdomen, and is now apparently altogether behind the peritoneum (see fig. 12,129). RECENT LITERATURE. Bemmelen, J. F. van, Enhvikkeling en metamorphose cler Tcieuw of viceral-spalten en der aorta- bogen bij embryonen van Tropidonotus natrix en Lacerta muralis, Kin. Akad. v. Wet. Amsterd. Afd. Natuusk., 1885; Die Visceraltaschen u. Aortenhogen bei lieptilien u. Vogcln, Zool. Anzeiger, 1886 ; Die Ilalsgcgend der Reptilicn, Zool. Anz., 1887. Bonnet, R., Ueber die Entwicklung der Allantois und die Bildung des Afters bei den Wieder- kauern und uber die Bedeutung der Primiticrinnc und des Primitivstreifs bei den Embryonen der , Sdugethiere, Anat. Anzeiger, 1888. Born, G-., Ueber die Derivate der embryonalen Schlundlogcn und Schlundspalten, Arcbiv f. mikr. Anat., Bd. xxii., 1883. Cadiat, Du diveloppement des fentes et arcs branchiaux chez I’embryon, Journal de l’anat &c 1883. •> ■> Chievitz, J. C., Beitrdge zur Entwicklungsgesehichte der Soeicheldriisen, Arch. f. Anat u Physiol., Anat. Abtlieil., 1885. Demon, F., Diveloppement de la portion sousdiaphragmatique du tube digestif. Lille, 1884. Dohrn, A., Die Thyroidea bei Petromyzon, Amphioxus u. Tunicaten, Mitth. aus der zool Station z. Neapel, 1886. Fischelis, Ph., Beitrdge zur Kenntniss der Entwicklung sgesehichte der Gl. thyreoidea u Gl thymus, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., Bd. xxv., 1885. His, W., Ueber den Sinus prcecervicalis und die Thymusanlage, Archiv f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abtli., 1886; Zur Bildungsgeschichte der Lungen beim menschlichen Embryo, Archiv f. Anat! und Physiol., Anat. Abtheilung, 1887 ; Schlundspalten u. Thymusanlage (Brief an F. Mall) Arch f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abtli., 1889. Kastschenko, N., Das Schicksal der embryonalen Schlundspalten bei Saugethiercn, Archiv f. raikrosk. Anat., Bd. xxx., 1887 ; Das Schlundspaltcngebiet des Iliihnchcns, Arch. f. Anat u Phvs Anat. Abth., 1887. ‘ ,.,.'^i®E’sner> E > Bin Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Kiemenspalten und Hirer Anlagen bei amnioten Wvrbelthieren, Morpliolog. Jahrbuch, Bd. xiii., 1888. Mall, F. P., Entwicklung der Branchialbogen und Spalten des Huhnchens, Arch. f. Anat. u. i hysiol., Anat. Abtli., 1887 ; The branchial clefts of the dog, with special reference to the origin of the thymus gland, Studies from the Biol. Laboratory of John Hopkins University, iv., 18S8. Meuron, P. de, Becherches sur le diveloppement du thymus et de la glande thyroide, Recueil zooLfeuisse, m., 1886 ; Sur le diveloppement de l'cesophagc, Compt. rend., 1886. Minot, Ch. S., Evolution of the Lungs, Proceed, of the Zoolog. Society of London, 1S86. Anz^g"r°L389ff’ A ’ ^ nlastoPorm u- d- Schwanzdarm bei Eideclisen u. Selachiem, Zool. Ioaf^Umvm^ ^ ^ Entwi°UunV dcr Trachca> Mitth' au3 <*• embryol. VOL. I.