1G SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. EARLY CHANGES IN THE OVUM CONSEQUENT ON FERTILIZATION—SEGMENTATION FORMATION OF THE BLASTODERM-THE PRIMITIVE STREAK AND GROOVE. Segmentation of the ovum.—Immediately after the completion of the process of fertilization, the ovum begins to show signs of division into two cells or segments. The division is preceded by the formation of a spindle-shaped system of achromatic Fig. 13.—First stages op segmentation op a mammalian ovum : semi-diagrammatic. (Drawn by Allen Thomson after E. v. Beneden’s description.) z.p, zona pellucida ; p.gl, polar globules ; a, division into two segments ; ect, larger and clearer segment; ent, smaller, more granular segment; b, stage of four segments ; c, eight segments, the ecto- meres partially enclosing the entomeres ; d.e, succeeding stages of segmentation showing the more rapid division of the clearer segments and the enclosure of the darker segments by them. fibres and by changes in the nucleus which are similar to those which take place in the division of an ordinary cell (v. Histology). According to v. Beneden’s observa- tions in Ascaris these changes occur in each of the two pro-nuclei (fig. 12), and one-half the number of resulting Y-shaped filaments then passes from each to form each daughter nucleus, which thus contains male and female chromatin elements in equal amount. Each of the two segments which are thus formed speedily again divides in the same manner, so that four cells or segments now occupy the interior of the ovum. By a further process of binary division eight cells are formed, then sixteen, thirty-two, and so on until the originally simple ovum is eventually subdivided into a large number of small segments, each of which is a nucleated cell, which are aggregated into a solid spherical mass, not much larger than the original ovum, and known as the mulberry mass. The cells are not similar throughout, for those at the surface are clearer and less granular than those which occupy the interior of the mass. According to v. Beneden’s observations in the rabbit and bat, this difference in the appearance of the cells is traceable even in the first pair of daughter cells, one of which is larger and clearer than the other, which is darker and more granular (fig. 13, a)} The cells or segments which result from the division of each of these retain their respective characters, and since the clearer cells divide somewhat more rapidly than the darker ones, there are for a time at certain stages of the process of segmen- tation more of the clear cells ; thus, at one stage there are eight clear cells, and only four darker ones, the latter having not yet undergone division, and later there arc 1 This statement is denied by Kolliker and other observers, who assert that there is no difference in the size and appearance of the first segments.