10S FORMATION OF THE ANUS. pletely adhere (4th month and onwards) ; and this causes the pancreas to appear to lie alto- gether behind the peritoneal cavity, in place of being situated between the two layers of the mesogastrium as is at first the case in the human embryo, and as is frequently found in other mammals during life. The free or floating part of the great omentum is formed by an extension of that part of the omental fold which turns upwards towards the greater curvature of the stomach from the surface of the transverse colon. The fold is at first clearly double, and in some animals remains so, but in man its two layers coalesce a little while after birth, and after a year or two can no longer be separated. It extends gradually, first over the transverse colon (third month), later over the coils of the small intestine. The spleen becomes formed within, the substance of the mesogastrium (fig. 127, spl). It is developed wholly from mesoblast, and in close connection with the pancreas. It appears during the second month in the human embryo, and grows slowly during foetal life, the Malpighian corpuscles being the last parts to appear. Formation of the anus.—The anal invagination of the epiblast, which eventu- ally by absorption of the septum between it and the hypoblast of the hind-gut opens into the alimentary tube, is termed the proctodamm. The junction with the hind- gut occurs at a little distance from the posterior extremity, so that there is a blindly terminating post-anal or subcaudal portion of the gut beyond the junction with the proctodamm ; this, however, shrinks and disappears even before the absorption of the septum. This part of the hind-gut represents a cloaca, since it receives through the allantois the ducts of the urinary and genital organs. The sepa- ration of the permanent anus from the urogenital orifice, which occurs in all mammals above monotremes, is the result of a later process of development (see p. 127). In mammals the actual amount of proctodaial invagination is very small. The septum between the hind-gut and the exterior (anal membrane) is throughout formed Fig. 130.—Longitudinal section through the posterior end op a sheep’s embryo, showing the anal membrane. (Bonnet.) cp, epiblast; Jit/, hypoblast; mes, mesoblast ; Jt-'J, hind gut; am, amnion ; an, anal membrane ; p.s, primitive streak ; all, allantois-rudiment. by two epithelial layers only, viz., hypoblast and epiblast, which here are in contact with one another without the intervention of mesoblast (fig. 130, an). This con- dition of juxtaposition of the two layers is in fact directly derived from the union of the two layers which occurs at the primitive streak and groove, and if the latter be looked upon as representing the blastopore, the anus may in a sense be considered to be formed from a part of that aperture. In some lower vertebrates the anus has been shown to be directly produced from the blastopore.