123 THE MOLLEIilAN DUCT. duct (fig. 140). To this duct it presently adheres intimately, and then continues Fig. 147.—Four sections through the anterior part of the SEGMENTAL DUCT OF A SCYLI.IUM EMBRYO. (Balfour.) The figure shows how the segmental duct becomes split into the Wolffian duct dorsally and the Mullerian duct or oviduct ventrally; Wd, Wolffian duct; ocl, Mullerian duct or oviduct; sd (in D), segmental duct. to grow backwards for a certain distance as a thicken- ing of the epithelium of that tube, the thickening becoming gradually separated off from before back- wards, and the lumen passing along it. Further back it ceases to grow thus in connection with the Wolffian duct, but is prolonged as an independent cellular cord, which lies in a groove along the side of the Wolffian duct (Balfour and Sedgwick). Entering the genital cord} the two Mullerian ducts lie at first on the mesial side of the corresponding Wolffian ducts, but lower down pass behind them; they finally come again between these ducts, lying close together, and, according to Mihalkovics, approach close to the sinus urogenitalis, which by this time is formed out of the ventral part of the cloaca (see p. 128) without actually opening into it for some time. The Mullerian ducts fuse together below into a single tube (fourth month) ; the fusion begins not at the lower end, Fig. 148. Sections from the chick showing two of the peritoneal invaginations which give rise TO THE anterior part of the MUllerian duct. (Balfour and Sedgwick.) yr2, second invagination ; go-3, third invagination ; r2, epithelial ridge between them : Wd, Wolffian duct, these structures form the pronephros of Balfour and Sedgwick (see note, p. 115). Fig. 149.—Two sections from the chick showing the junction of the ter- minal SOLID PORTION OF THE MuL- lerian duct with the Wolffian duct. (Balfour and Sedgwick.) In A, the terminal portion of the duct is quite distinct; in B it has united with the wall of the Wolffian duct, md, Mullerian duct; Wd, Wolffian duct. but a short distance away from this (fig. 150, 3), and proceeds both downwards towards the future orifice and upwards for a BAgMsfl ■infill ■teal mMIMM Jut n*am*t gTn t0, t!lc thickened mass of tissue which surrounds the Wolffian ducts as thev course together to the cloaca behind the stalk of the allantois (afterwards the base of the bladder). *