100 FORMATION OF THE VISCERAL SKELETON OF THE HEAD. within the head, nor can any parts be distinguished which strictly represent vertebra. Ihe cartilage oi the basis cranii makes its appearance in the form of two longitudinal iais lying on either side of the notochord (parachordal cartilages), and of two other bats (habccuhc cranii of Rathke) which embrace the pituitary body, and which become united together in front and with the parachordals behind to form a con- tinuous mass, which posteriorly completely invests the notochord (fig. I9G). The cartilaginous basis cranii may therefore be distinguished into the parachordal and prechordal parts. Of these the first represents the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid the second the presphenoid and ethmoid portions. From the basis cranii continuous cartilaginous plates grow on either side over the cerebral vesicles to a greater or less extent in different animals, least in mammals, where only the occipital region becomes thus roofed in by cartilage. Anteriorly the united trabeculae cranii stretch f01 w aids into the fronto-nasal process, where they form the ethmoid cartilage and uasal septum, besides enclosing the nasal pits externally (cartilaginous nasal capsule). From the sides of the presphenoid portion the orbito-sphenoids (lesser wings), containing the optic foramina, are developed, and from the sides of the basi-sphenoid, the basilar portion of the week. Fig. 197.—View prom below op the cartilaginous CRANIUM WITH ITS OSSIFIO CENTRES IN A HUMAN fcetus of about four MONTHS. (After Huxley.) The cartilage is dotted to distinguish it from the bone which is shaded with lines. b.o, basi-occipital; a.o, lateral occipitals ; f.m, foramen magnum ; o.c, o'.c', bony deposits in the periotic capsule ; p.s, post-sphenoid ; pr.s, pre-sphenoid ; o.n, orbito-sphe- noid ; s.n, septum nasi. the greater wings or alisphenoids. A cartilagi- nous capsule, connected with the parachordal portion of the basis cranii, invests the otic vesicle {periotic capsule). Within this, bony centres are eventually formed, which unite to form the petro-mastoid. In the humau embryo, chondri- fication begins in the fourth or fifth week in skull, and is nearly completed by the eighth Formation of the visceral skeleton of the head: cartilaginous bars cf the visceral arches.—A cartilaginous bar extends from the periotic capsule and basis cranii, within each of the first three visceral arches, and passes forwards to meet its fellow in the middle line. The bar of the mandibular arch is known as Mechel's cartilage. It is visible in all sections of the foetal jaw up to the seventh month. Its proximal end is attached at first to the basis cranii, afterwards to the periotic capsule; its distal end joins that of its fellow in the middle line of the lower jaw. Only near this conjoined part does Meckel’s cartilage take part in the formation of the lower jaw bone, the greater part of this bone being developed by ossification at several places in the connective tissue around the cartilage. In some animals a short cartilaginous bar is formed in the maxillary process (palaio-ptcrygoid bar, fig. 198, A, ppg). Close to it the palatine and pterygoid bones are formed in membrane, but the bar itself entirely disappears. The second or lipoid bar arises from the skull close behind the attachment of Meckel’s cartilage, and passes along the second arch. It disappears in part, but in part is converted into the styloid process, stylo-hyoid ligament, and lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. The body of the hyoid bone (basi-hyal) is an intermediate formation between the second and third arches. The bar of the third arch is known as the iliyro-hyoid. Its lower end forms the greater cornu of the hyoid bone ; but its attachment to the skull early disap-