151 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL VEINS. internal carotid, as stated by Ratlike, and the ventral prolongation of the truncus arteriosus forms, not the external carotid, but a small branch from the subclavian, or innominate artery, to the front of the trachea. These observations have not been as yet extended to mamnlals. Zimjnermann has described, both in the rabbit and in the human embryo, an arterial arch between the aortic and pulmonary arches. If this is of constant occurrence it must be reckoned as the fifth arch, and the pulmonary will become the sixth. The histogenetic changes involved in the development of the blood-vessels are described in the chapter on Histology. The first vessels appear, as has been already stated, in the mesoblast of the vascular area ; the lamina of mesoblast in which they are formed' is sometimes distinguished as the vascular lamina. They are said (by His and others) to grow inwards from the vascular area, but the manner in which the principal arteries and veins of the body are first developed is not clear, beyond the fact that they are at first merely endothelial tubes. The muscular tissue of the primitive aortas is derived from the lower part of the proto-vertebra (E. Muller). DEVELOPMENT OP THE PKINCIPAL VEINS. In this subject also the description given by His of the condition and changes of the veins in the human embryo will be followed, although it dilfers in certain particulars from that which has usually been received. In the early embryo, before the development of the allantois, two vitelline or omphalo-meseraic veins, right and left, bring back the blood from the vascular area upon the yolk sac, and unite to form a common trunk, which is continued as the sinus venosus into the auricular extremity of the rudimentary heart. At the commencement of the placental or allantoic circulation (fourth week in man) two umbilical veins are seen coming from the placenta and opening into the sinus near the vitelline veins (fig. 168). Into this also opens on either side a transverse vein, the duct of Cuvier or superior vena cava, which is formed by the junc- tion of the primitive jugular vein, bringing blood from the head, and the cardinal vein, which returns the blood from the Wolffian bodies, the vertebral column and the body walls (figs. 179, 180). The trunk or sinus into which all these veins pour their blood is now transversely disposed, immediately below the diaphragm, and forms the saccus reuniens of His, which has been already alluded to (p. 139). The vitelline or omphalomeseraic veins enter the abdomen along the vitelline duct and ascend at first along the front of the alimentary canal, but higher up they are seen on either side of that tube (duodenum and stomach). Here transverse communications form between the two veins, two in front of and one behind the duodenum, so that this is encircled by two vascular rings (figs. 180, 183). Above these venous circles the direct communication with the sinus becomes lost, the inter- mediate venous vessel or either side becoming broken up within the substance of the liver (which has by this time developed around them) into a vascular network, the middle part of which becomes capillary. The vessels which pass from the upper venous ring to the capillary network are known as vence advehentes, they become the branches of the portal vein ; those which pass from it into the sinus are the vence revehentes, they become the hepatic veins. The lower communication between the vitelline veins takes the form of a com- plete longitudinal fusion of the two vessels, at least for some distance. This fused part leceives veins from the intestine and stomach, and becomes the commencement of the portal vein. The umbilical veins are for a long time double within the abdomen, although ffiey have fused within the umbilical cord into a single trunk. They diverge from this and pass up to the sinus on either side in the somatopleure, just where this is becoming bent round into the amnion. After a time, however, it is found that this direct communication with the sinus is partially interrupted by the development of a