DEVELOPMENT OE THE NOSE. VOL. i. 07 processes • between, the two processes (lateral nasal and maxillary) the lachrymal oroove passes from the eye to the nose (figs. Ill, 112). The maxillary processes also abut in front against the outwardly curving ends of the processus globulares, which together form as just mentioned, an intermaxillary process, and the three eventually coalesce to form the upper boundary of the mouth, which is thus shut ofi‘ from the anterior orifice of the nasal fosste (fig. 113). But further back the Outline op a transverse vertical section through the nose and upper jaws of a sheep’s embryo with open palate. (From Kolliker.) The lower jaw and tongue are removed ; m, the mouth ; d, dental germs ; p, the palate plates approaching each other in the middle ; /, the nasal fossai; c, nasal cartilage; s, septal cartilage ; j, the two organs of Jacobson with their cartilages internally. olfactory depressions, which are now developed into cleft-like cavities, and are in- creasing in complexity by the development of the projections wdiich are to form the turbinate bones, are still freely in communication with the buccal cavity, and it is only by the growth of the palatine processes of the maxillae (fig. 115, and their coalescence in the middle line with one another, and with the lower part of the nasal septum, that the nasal cavities are cut off from the mouth and from one another, and now only open posteriorly into the upper part of the pharynx by the posterior nares (chocmce). The median or septal part of the external nose, with its columella below, is formed, as above stated, of the coalesced mesial nasal processes, the ate nasi being developed from the lateral nasal processes. The septum is at first broad and de- pressed, so that the nostrils are widely separated from one another (fig. 114), a con- dition which remains to a certain extent permanent amongst some of the dark races of mankind. From the above description it will be seen that the olfactory organs are at first altogether distinct from the mouth, that they subsequently pass backwards, as grooves, deepening into distinct clefts, along the roof of the mouth and forming in fact the upper part of the embryonic buccal cavity, and that finally they are again gradually separated from that cavity by the growth of a horizontal septum to form at first the hard and afterwards the soft palate. The median union of the palate begins in front about the eighth week and reaches the back pare and is completed about the tenth week. Imperfect coalescence of these parts pro- duces the malformations of hare-lip and cleft palate in their various degrees. Usually, how- ever, in man the coalescence is completed at a comparatively early period of foetal life, although a vestige of the original separation may be found in front at the junction of the maxillary processes with the coalesced globular processes (intermaxillary), as the naso-palatine canal or incisor foramen, which is occupied by connective tissue, blood-vessels, and a branch of the fifth nerve. In many mammals, however, an actual communication remains through- out life between the nostrils and mouth in this situation. The organ of Jacobson is early visible on either side of the nasal septum at its lower part in the form of a narrow tube, oval in section, running horizontally in the substance of the septum and opening anteriorly near the upper orifice of the naso-palatine canal. Wfien the cartilage of the septum becomes formed, a special curved plate of cartilage is seen partially enclosing this organ ; but both the orgun itself and the cartilage are less conspicuous in man than in most mammals. According to Gegenbaur the rudiment which has been described in n