9 MATURATION OF THE OVUM'. (alecMal ova, as in mammals. Amphioxus, eohinoderms). It is clear that these conditions of arrangement of the proto- and deuto-plasm within the ovum are the mam factois in detc - mining variations in the process of segmentation. Maturation of the ovum. Formation of polar globules.—Either before its escape from the Graafian follicle, or immediately after, the ovum undergoes a peculiar change, preparatory to, but nevertheless altogether independent of fertiliza- tion which consists of a process of unequal cell-division or germination, and results in the extrusion from the vitellus of two minute spherical bodies (fig. 8), which have Fig. 3. Ovum of the kabbit from the fallopian tube, twelvei HOURS AFTER IMPREGNATION. (Bisclioff.) On the zona a, spermatozoa are seen, and others in the perivitelline space ; b, the polar globules. been termed the polar globules or directive corpuscles, from a supposition that their presence determines the pole at which the first segmentation will take place should the ovum become fertilized. It is, however, uncertain whether there is any constant relationship of this kind, but it is none the less clear that the extrusion of the polar globules is an event of the highest importance for the due development of the ovum, since until this has happened the ovum appears to be incapable of complete fertilization and segmentation.1 What is actually extruded is a small part of the nucleus of the ovum, or, to speak more precisely, two small parts of its nucleus in succession, probably surrounded by a very thin investment of protoplasm. Prior •to this extrusion, the germinal vesicle approaches the periphery of the vitellus, loses its distinctness of outline, and after passing through phases which are charac- teristic of a nucleus which is about to divide, does actually undergo a division into two, the one part being extruded into a space (perivitelline), which has become formed in consequence of the shrinking or contraction of the ovum, and the other part remaining in the vitellus, only, however, to repeat the process of division, and to form a second extruded globule. The remainder of the germinal vesicle, which is now termed the female pro-nucleus, leaves the periphery of the vitellus for a situation nearer to the centre, where, if fertilization should supervene, it awaits the advent of the male pro-nucleus, which is formed from a spermatozoon. After the two pro- nnclei have come together, a new and complete nucleus is formed by their conju- gation. The actual formation of polar globules has not hitherto been observed in the human ovum, although there is no doubt whatever that it takes place. In the rabbit various stages in the process have been traced by E. v. Beneden and Rein, and it has also been noticed in other mammals. But the details of the process have been made out most precisely (by Fol. Hertwig, and others) in the transparent ova of echinoderms, and more recently and minutely (by 3. v. Beneden, Carnoy, Boveri, Zacharias. and others) in Ascaris megalocephala, a thread-worm parasitic in the horse, in which all the changes can be followed in one and the same ovum, or the various phases fixed by means of reagents in different ova, and these may afterwards be stained and studied with the utmost minuteness. The successive changes in such ova arc represented in figs. 9 and 10. The polar globules remain visible for a time in the peri- vitelline fluid, and are even seen, should the ovum become fertilized, during the early stages of segmentation, but they ultimately disappear and are not known to take any further part in the subsequent changes which the ovum undergoes. The fact that throughout the whole animal kingdom the extrusion of polar globules from the ovum as it becomes mature is almost universal, and that a similar process has also been observed to occur in plants indicates the great importance of the phenomenon. The signifi- cance will be further discussed after the process of fertilization of the ovum has been described. 1 The ovum may, however, receive a spermatozoon before the completion of the formation o£ polar globules.