120 THE WOLFFIAN DUCT AND BODY. When completely formed, the Wolffian bodies are seen on opening the abdomen of the embryo as long prominent vascular organs projecting into the peritoneal cavity on either side of the intestine, and showing in section numerous Malpighian corpuscles and uriniferous tubules variously cut (fig. 143). Soon after having attained its complete condition of development, the Wolffian body begins to undergo atrophic changes. These proceed much further in the Fig. 143.—Transverse section of the WOLFFIAN BODY OF THE CHICK ON THE fourth day. (Waldeyer.) m, mesentery ; L, body wall ; a', thickeued epithelium from which the involution of the anterior part of the Mullerian duct z, is taking place ; a, thickened germinal epithe- lium in which are seen primitive ova, o; E, modified mesoblast which will form the stroma of the ovary ; WK, tubules of Wolffian body variously cut; y, Wolffian duct. Two glomeruli are shown in the Wolffian body. female sex than in the male, but the tubules of the organ do not entirely disappear in either sex. In the female they form the rudimentary organ which is known as the par- ovarium (epoophoron of Waldeyer), while the main tube of that struc- ture represents a remnant of the Wolffian duct. But in many animals, e.g., the sow, the Wolffian duct re- mains as the duct of Gartner, a strong, slightly undulated tube, which is traceable, at first free in the broad ligament of the uterus, and lower down becoming incorporated with the wall of the uterus and vagina, upon which last it becomes lost. Traces of this tube can sometimes be seen in sections across the body or cervix of the adult human uterus, and even lying in the wall of the vagina. In the male the Wolffian duct forms the tube of the epididymis, the vas deferens, and the ejaculatory duct ; the seminal vesicle being formed as a diverticulum from its lower part. The coni vasculosi and tubuli efferentes are in all probability formed by the persistence of some of the tubules of the Wolffian body. The Malpighian corpuscles of these tubules have long disappeared, but previous to their disappearance solid columns of epithelial cells, afterwards becoming tubules, grow from the walls of those corpuscles towards the germinal epithelium (fig. 153), where, in the male, they become continuous with and enclose cells derived from that epithelium (which subsequently form the epithelium of the seminiferous tubes), and thus produce the walls of the seminiferous tubules and the rete testis. In the female sex there is also a growth of solid cellular columns towards the germinal epithelium, but no connec- tion becomes established between them, and the columns do not become tubular. The organ of Giraldes and the vasa aberrantia of Haller are probably the remains of one or more Wolffian tubules. Suprarenal capsules.—These organs are intimately connected in their development with the Wolffian bodies. According to the observations of Weldon some of the cellular columns which grow from the Malpighian corpuscles of the upper part of the Wolffian body towards the germinal epithelium give offsets which pass upwards towards the inferior vena cava, and there become developed into the cortical substance of the suprarenal capsules. (Mihalkovics, on the other hand, states that the strands of cells which grow from the upper part of the