development of the brain. .6] general sustentacular substance of both white and grey matter is probably derived from the spongioblasts, and is therefore, like the nerve-cells themselves, of epiblastic or.gm. DEVELOPMENT OP THE BRAIN. We have already traced the development of the cephalic part of the neural tube as far as the formation of the primary cerebral vesicles. These, which are at first three in number (fig. 40), become subdivided so as to form five in all which may be termed in succession from before back, the first, second, third, fourth, and lift secondary vesicles. Of these five parts the first two, which represent the cerebral and thalamic parts of the future brain (third ventricle), are derived from the first primary vesicle and the last two, the cerebellar and bulbar parts (fourth ventricle), nom the third primary vesicle, while the third, middle, or quadrigeminal part, represents the undivided second primary vesicle (Sylvian aqueduct). These relationships, as well as the several parts of the brain which are eventually respectiv ely formed in connec- tion with the vesicles, are shown in the subjoined table. Anterior end of third ventricle, fora- mina of Monro, lateral ventri- cles, cerebral hemispheres, olfac- tory bulbs and tracts, corpora k striata, corpus callosum, fornix. ( Third ventricle, optic nerve and retina, optic thalami, pituitary ( and pineal bodies. ( Aqueduct of Sylvius, corpora quad- ( rigemina, crura cerebri. / Cerebellum. Pons. ) Fourth ven- ) ) tricle ) \ \ Medulla oblongata. I. Anterior primary vesi- cle or fore-brain ! First secondary vesicle {prosencephalon') Second secondary vesicle ' (thalavienccphalon) II. Middle primary vesicle ( Third secondary vesicle or mid-brain \ {mesencephalon) III. Posterior primary vesi- cle or hind-brain Fourth secondary vesicle {cpencephalon) Fifth secondary vesicle {metenccplialon) The first and most striking change which occurs in the primary brain is the outgrowth on either side of the first primary vesicle of a hollow protrusion (primary optic vesicle), which becomes developed eventually into optic nerve and retina (fig. 68). The changes which it undergoes in the formation of these structures will be considered when the development of the eye is dealt with ; suffice it for the present to say that the free hollow communication (optic stalk), which at first exists between the forebrain and optic vesicle, becomes gradually narrowed and at length obliterated, and that as development proceeds, the connection of the optic stalk becomes relatively shifted backwards, so that when the anterior part of the fore-brain is distinct from the posterior part, or thalamencephalon, the optic vesicle is connected wholly with the latter, a relationship which is maintained permanently, although partially obscured afterwards by the later connection which is formed between the optic tract and the mid-brain. Subsequently another pair of hollow outgrowths sprouts from the fore-brain, and these rapidly extend forwards, laterally and back- wards ; they form the vesicles of the cerebral hemispheres. From the roof of the fore- brain (second vesicle) a median hollow protrusion grows upwards and forwards for a certain distance towards the vertex, and from the floor of the same vesicle another somewhat similar protrusion passes downwards and backwards towards the roof of the mouth. The former is the rudiment of the pineal gland, the latter of the infundibulum, which becomes involved in the formation of the pituitary body. The principal parts of the brain appear as thickenings in different parts of the