107 (ESOPHAGUS, STOMACH, A NO INTESTINES. The large intestine is not at first marked off from the small by any difference in calibre. Its commencement is distinguishable about the sixth week m the human embryo by the appearance of the caecum, which gradually grows out (figs, l-o, D, and 127) ffirm-ino- at first a lateral protrusion of uniform calibre, but subsequently re- maining narrow at its blind extremity to form the vermiform appendix, while the remainder of the caecum and the colon increase in size. This protrusion occurs on the U -shaped loop above described, and a little beyond the attachment of the vitelline duct. . .. , , With the increasing length of the gut it becomes thrown into coils, and the earliest and most important of these is that by which the limb of the U-shaped loop Fig. 129.—Diagrams illustrating the development of the creat omentum. (0. Hertwig.) A, earlier stage. B, later stage. st, stomach ; s.o, small omentum ; s', o', omental sac ; o', mesogastrium, springing from the posterior wall of the abdomen, near which in A it encloses the pancreas ; o-, attachment of mesogastrium to greater curvature of stomach ; o3, fold of mesogastrium or great omentum growing over coils of small intestine ; me, mesentery ; m. c, transverse mesocolon : o4 (in B), dotted line showing the situation of that lamella of the mesogastrium which at first assisted in enclosing the pancreas but which has now disappeared. The next part of this lamella has coalesced with the adjacent lamella of the transverse mesocolon, and has also disappeared. The coalescence is indicated by the black line. with which the large intestine is continuous turns over on to the right side of the peritoneal cavity, and thus throws the colon in an archlike disposition across the commencement of the small intestine, and parallel with the longitudinal axis of the stomach (commencement shown in fig. 126). Within this arch of the large intestine the coils of the jejunum and ileum become disposed as the intestine lengthens. Their mesentery spreads out at its intestinal attachment so as to adapt itself to the increasing length of the gut, while its vertebral attachment, relatively much shorter, loses to a great extent its primitive disposition, and acquires oblique and transverse lines of attachment; this is notably the case with the transverse mesocolon. Although the mesentery in most parts increases in length and expansion with the further growth of the intestine, the contrary is the case with the mesentery of the duodenum, and of the ascending and descending colon. All these parts possess at first a complete mesentery like the rest of the intestine, but that of the duodenum disappears entirely, so that this part of the intestine becomes fixed to the posterior wall of the abdomen, and the same process takes place to a lesser and variable extent with the ascending and descending mesocolon. Since the trans- verse colon lies across the abdomen immediately below the stomach, it and its mesentery, trans- versely disposed, also lie immediately below and behind the mesogastrium (now folded into the great omentum). The two membranes come in fact into close contact, and eventually com-