98 RECENT LITERATURE. the human embryo as the organ of Jacobson is not really that structure, but represents a special gland which occurs in some lemurs in the lower part of the nasal septum. The epiblast of the olfactory area early becomes thickened, and resembles in structure the neural epiblast (His). As in the latter, some of the cells (neuroblasts) become pyriform and nerve-fibre processes grow out from them, whilst the remainder form long sustentacular columns, which partially anastomose to form a spongeworlc. The neuroblasts subsequently pass out towards the olfactory lobe as already described (p. 81). All the complexities of the nasal l'ossse (and they arc far more complex and labyrinthic in many animals than in man) are produced by folds and outgrowths of the original simple depressions, and the thickened epithelium of these depressions extends over all parts of the cavities which are thus formed. But it is only in the upper part of the nasal fossas that the connexion by nerve-fibres with the olfactory lobe becomes established, and it is in this part only that the true sense-epithelium becomes developed, fn the lower, or respiratory part of the fossae the epithelium remains relatively thin and becomes ciliated. RECENT LITERATURE. Eye and Nose. Born, <3-., Die Nasenhohlc u. der Thrdnennasengang der amnioten Wirbelthiere, Morph. Jahrb., 1879 u. 1883. Disse, J., Die Aushildung der Nasenhohlc nach der Geburt, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth. 1889. Ewetzky, Th., Zur Entwichelungsgeschichte des Thrdnennasengctrtges beim Menschen, Archiv f. Ophthalmol., Bd. xxxiv., 1888. Gottschau, Zur Entwickelung der Sdugethierlinse, Anat. Anzeiger, 1886. His, W., Anatomie'menschlicher Embryonen, Leipzig, 1880—85 ; Unsere Korperform, Ac., Leip- zig, 1875 ; Die Eormentwichelung des mensc/dichen Vorderhirns, Abhandl. d. k. Sachsischen Gesell- schaft, 1889. Keitel, E., Zur Entwickelung des Glaskorpers, Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abth., 1886. Kessler, Zur Entwickelung des Auges der Wirbelthiere, Leipzig, 1877. Kolliker, A., Zur Entwickelung des Auges und Geruchsorganes menschlichcr Embry onen, Fest- schrift der Schweizer. Universitiit Zurich gewidmet, Wurzburg, 1883. Koranyi, A., Beitrdge zur Entwickelung der Krystallinse bci den Wirbelthieren, Intemat. Mo- natsschr. fur Anatomie u. Physiologie, 1886. Legal, Die Nasenhbhle u. der Thrdnennascngang, Morph. Jahrb., 1883. Ear. Bag-insky, B., Zur Entwickelung der Gehorschneckc, Verbandl. d. physiol. Gescllschaft zu Berlin, 1385-86. Beard, J., On the segmental sense organs of the lateral line and on the morphology of the vertebrate auditory organ, Zool. Anzeiger, No, 161, 1884. Boettcher, A., Ueber Entwickelung u. Bau des Gehorlabyrinths, Yerhandl. d. kaiserl. Leop. Carol. Acad., Dresden, Bd. 35. , , . , His, W., jun., Zur Entwichelungsgeschichte des Acustico-facialis-Gebictesbeim Menschen. Arch, f. Anat.’u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1889, Supplement Bd. TTr.fFma.nn, C. K., Ueber die Beziehung der ersten Kiementasche zu der Anlage der Tuba Eustachn und des Cavum tympani, Archiv f. mikrosk. Anat. xxiii., 1884. Noorden, v., Die Entwickelung des Labyrinths bci Knochenfischen, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1883. , Riidinger, N., Zur Entwickelung der hdutigen Bogengangc der innercn Ohres, Sitzungsber. d. Akademie d. Wissenseli. zu Miinchen, Bd. xviii., 1888. Tuttle Alb. H., The relation of the external meatus, tympanum and Eustachian tube to the first visceral cleft, Proc. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1884. Vassaux, Jleclicvch.es suv les pvcviicrcs phases clu ddvcloppcTfieiit dc l ceil chcz Ic lapm. Arch. d’oplithalm., 1888.