FORMATION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. ibi VOL. i. M posterior) direction (fig. 101, i.m), and it may presently be observed that they arc becoming developed into longitudinal groups or segments of muscle-fibres which stretch between the original intervals between the pro to vertebrae. The destination of the outer layer of the muscle-plate has not been traced with certainty. Balfour 191.—Horizontal longitudinal SECTION OP THREE PROTO VERTE- BRA! IN A SNAKE EMBRYO. (v. Ebner.) cp, cutaneous epiblast ; e. in, exter- nal layer of muscle-plate ; f, its mar- gins folded round into i.m, internal layer of muscle-plate composed of flattened cells which are becoming elongated into muscular fibres ; n.c, _ .— neural canal, in outline only ; n'.c', neural epiblast forming its walls. Between these and the muscle-plate .. — is a continuous mcsoblastic tissue , . , . . , ,, which has been derived from the inner parts of the .protovertebrae, partly interrupted by the ganglion rudiments, nl. The original intervals between the protovertebrae here are still indicated by vessels, v. i.cl, cleft in the deeper protovertebral tissue (according to Ebner this is the remains of the ongmal protovertebral cavity). described it as also eventually becoming transformed into muscle-fibres (in elasmo- branchs), but others have failed to confirm this opinion, and it is by some beiieveo that it may assist in the formation of the cutis vera. Although the muscle-plates are originally mainly concerned with the formation of the muscles which move the central skeletal axis, it is probable that all the skeletal muscles both of the trunk and limbs are eventually derived from them (see below, p. 163). Formation of tire muscles of the Read and evidences of Bead segmentation. Although perhaps no part of the cranium actually represents a vertebra, there is nevertheless abundant evidence of an original segmentation of the head corresponding with the mcsoblastic somites of the trunk. Such segmentation is shown by the existence of the visceral arches, which in the typical and least modified vertebrates (e.y., elasmobranchs) are at least nine in number, by the successive separation of the part of the body cavity which extends into the head into separate portions, or head cavities, one corresponding to each visceral arch, the parietes of which develop into muscles, and which therefore correspond with the muscle- plates of the protovertebras of the trunk (this is in fact the typical mode of formation of mesoblastic somites, v. page 26), and lastly by the mode of development of the cranial nerves and their relations to the visceral and branchial arches, which correspond in a general way with the relations of the ventral branches of the spinal nerves to the ribs. The formation and destination of the head cavities have been investigated of late years (chiefly in elasmobranchs, but also in reptiles and birds) by Balfour, Milnes Marshall, and van Wijhe, and the result of these investigations tends to show that, in' all, nine portions of the original head cavity become separated off on either side, their formation proceeding from behind forwards. Each somite cavity becomes subsequently divided into a dorsal part corre- sponding with the protovertebrse of the trunk and a ventral part, corresponding with the pleuroperitoneal cavity, and lying in the middle of the corresponding visceral arch (’). Both parts give rise by differentiation of their parietes to muscles ; the visceral arch portions to the muscles of the jaw and hyoidean and branchial apparatus ; the dorsal portions, some (first, second, and third) to the muscles which move the eyes, some (seventh, eighth, and ninth) to the muscles which connect the head with the shoulder girdle, whilst some, viz., the fourth, fifth, and sixth, are said to disappear. The first head cavity forms the eye muscles, which arc supplied by the third nerve; the second, the muscle supplied by the fourth (superior oblique) ; and the third, the muscle supplied by the sixth (external rectus). In higher vertebrates, the formation of the head cavities and their subsequent destination have not been as yet clearly followed out, although indications of their existence are not wanting. 1 According to v. Wijhe the intermediate part of the typical somite cavity represents a segmental (iiriniferotis) organ, but this intermediate part is not seen in the head, although it begins to appear in the immediately succeeding somites.