23 HISTORY OF BLASTODERM. which has been above alluded to as invaginated ectoderm (primitive groove) as the homologue of part of the entoderm of more typical forms. If this view be correct, many of the difficulties in the way of regarding the aperture of the invagination as the blastopore, and in explaining the differences in tho mode of origin of the mesoblast arc removed; but, on the other hand, other difficulties are introduced, and the subject is left by no means clear. Another view, which was formerly extensively held, regards the blastopore of the meroblastic vertebrate ovum as bounded by the thickened edge of the bilaminar blastoderm (Haeckel). According to this view, the cavity of the gastrula is entirely filled up by a mass of unsegmented or but partially segmented yolk, which also projects for a considerable distance through tho blastopore, forming in fact the great mass of the ovum. The primitive groove is regarded as a linear prolongation of this thickened edge of the blastoderm towards the centre of the blastoderm (Balfour), so that the embryo, which developes in front of the primitive streak, thus comes to have a pseudo-central position in the blastoderm instead of developing altogether from its margin as in the lower vertebrata and in inverte- brates. In conformity with this idea, it may be noted that at the thickened rim of the blastoderm of these meroblastic ova, the two primary layers are continuous with one another as in the primitive streak. In elasmobranchs an intermediate condition is observed, viz., a short groove, the margins of which are freely continuous with the margin of the blastoderm. If, as His and others have described (vide infra), the mesoblast is in part (vascular and connective tissue part) derived from the thickened rim of the blastoderm, this would furnish another point of resemblance between the primitive streak and that margin. Ed. v. Beneden has promulgated an entirely different opinion as to the mammalian blasto- pore from those above described. He regards the condition of the ovum, after the completion of segmentation and before the formation of a blastodermic vesicle, as representing the gastrula stage, and looks upon the point where the granular inner mass of cells comes to the surface between the clear cells which form the outer investment as the blastopore (fig. 14, a). In conformity with this view he considers the layer of clear cells to represent the whole of the primitive ectoderm, and the granular inner mass the primitive entoderm. But since all the more recent observations upon early mammalian ova agree in affirming the formation of the three blastodermic layers from the granular inner mass, and that Rauber’s layer either takes no part at all, or only a subordinate part in the formation of the ectoderm of the embryonic area, v. Beneden’s view, in spite of the superficial resemblance of the ovum at this stage to certain gastrula forms, has not met with general acceptance from embryologists. Inversion of the blastodermic layers in some mammals. — In the guinea-pig (Bischoff), rat and mouse (Fraser, Selenka), and in some other rodents, an inversion of the usual position of the blastodermic layers is found to occur, the epiblast being innermost, the hypoblast outermost. The foundation of this inversion is laid early by a process of invagination and formation of a central cavity in the mass of entomeres, so that when the blastoderm is differentiated, the innermost cells which are next the (secondary) cavity thus formed become the epiblast, and the outermost the hypoblast, the mesoblast subsequently forming between the two by proliferation of epiblast at the primitive groove, as in other mammals. (For details as to this process of invagination, the student is referred to the papers by Selenka.) Historical.—The existence of several lamince in the germinal substance of the egg was first suggested by C. F. Wolff in his celebrated work Thcoria Generationis, published in 1759, and in his later Memoir On the Development of the Intestine, first published in Nov. Comment. Acad. Petropol. in 1767 and republished in German by J. F. Meckel in 1812. It is, however, to the researches of Pander, conducted under the direction of Dollinger of Wurzburg, and pub- lished in 1817, and those of v. Baer (1826-1837), that we owe the first consistent attempt to connect the development of the several organs and systems of the embryo with the different constituent parts or layers of the blastoderm. Pander recognised a trilaminar structure of the blastoderm and distinguished the three layers composing it, in their order from above down- wards, or from without inwards in the egg, as the serous, vascular, and mucous layers. In 1850-54 a further important advance was made in the know ledge of the constitution of the blastodermic layers, by the discovery by Remak that the greater part of the middle layer soon after its formation comes to be divided into two laminae, separated by a space which corresponds to the perivisceral cavity (coelom)—a fact which had been partially stated by von Baer. So marked a division of the middle layer and distinction of the parts which are afterwards developed from its two laminae, has seemed sufficient to some authors to warrant the recognition of four distinct layers in the blastoderm ; but it will be found on the whole more convenient to consider the fundamental layers as only three, to which, following the nomenclature of Foster and Balfour, the designations of epiblast, mesoblast, and hypoblast are applied, terms which are synonymous with those of ectoderm, mesoderm, and entoderm, employed by many authors. The terms ectoderm and entoderm were first applied to the two fundamental layers, shown y Iuxley in 1849 to constitute the whole body of ccelenterates, and which were correctly regarded by him as homologous with the two layers of the bilaminar blastoderm, to which we