157 T11E LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. CHANGES IN THE CIRCULATION AT BIRTH. The changes which occur in the organs of circulation and respiration at birth, and which lead to the establishment of their permanent condition, are more immediately determined by the inflation of the lungs with air in the first respiration, the accompanying rapid dilatation of the pulmonary blood-vessels with a greater quantity of blood, and the interruption to the passage of blood through the placental circulation. These changes are speedily followed by shrinking and obliteration of the ductus arteriosus, and of the hypogastric arteries from the iliac trunk to the place of their issue from the body by the umbilical cord ; by the cessation of the passage of blood through the foramen ovale, and somewhat later by the closure of that foramen, and by the obliteration of the umbilical vein as far as its entrance into the liver, and of the ductus venosus behind that organ. The process of obliteration of the arteries appears to depend at first mainly on the contraction of their coats, but this is very soon followed by a considerable thickening of their substance, reducing rapidly their internal passage to a narrow tube, and leading in a short time to final closure, even although the vessel may not present externally any considerable diminution of its diameter. It commences at birth, and is perceptible after a few respirations have occurred. It makes rapid progress in the first and second days, and by the third or fourth day the passage through the umbilical arteries is usually completely interrupted. The ductus arteriosus is rarely found open after the eighth or tenth day, and by three weeks it has in almost all instances become completely impervious. The process of closure in the veins is slower ; but they remain empty of blood and collapsed, and by the sixth or seventh day are generally closed. Although blood ceases at once to pass through the foramen ovale from the moment of birth, or as soon as the left auricle becomes filled with the blood returning from the lungs, and the pressure within the two auricles tends to be more equalised during their diastole, yet the actual closure of the foramen is more tardy than any of the other changes now referred to. It is gradually effected by the union of the forepart of the valve of the fossa ovalis with the margin of the limbus of Vieussens on the left side ; but the crescentic margin is generally perceptible in the left auricle as a free border beyond the place of union, and not unfrequently the union remains incomplete, so that a probe may be passed through the reduced aperture. In many cases a wider aperture remains for more or less of the first year of infancy, and in certain instances there is such a failure of the union of the valve as to allow of the continued passage of venous blood, especially when the circulation is disturbed by over-exertion, from the right to the left auricle, as occurs in the malformation attending the morbus coeruleus. THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. The development of the lymphatic system has been studied in the chick by Budge. Here there exist a network of lymphatics agreeing in their general distribution with the blood- vessels in the vascular area. This is the first lymphatic circulation ; a second one is formed later, corresponding with the allantoic circulation. The lymphatics of both systems communi- cate with the ccelom, but only those of the second circulation communicate with veins. The lymphatics lie in the vascular area above and close to the blood-vessels, but are separated near the embryo by a layer of mesoblast continuous with the splanchnopleure. The method of development of lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands, is dealt with in the chapter on Histology.