PECULIARITIES OF THE FCETAL ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 155 right auricle, an arrangement which is also met with in birds and in ceitain mammals, and which results from the vessels of the left side being developed similarly to those of the right, while the cross branch remains small or absent. A case is recorded by Gruber in which the left vena azygos opened into the coronary sinus, and was met by a small vein descending from the union of the subclavian and jugular. Here, then, the jugular veins had been developed in the usual manner, while the left vena azygos continued to pour its blood into the duct of Cuvier. PECULIARITIES OF THE FCETAL ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. It may be useful here to recapitulate shortly the peculiarities of structure existing in the advanced stage of the formation of the foetal organs of circulation, Fig. 188.—Diagrammatic outline op the ORGANS OP CIRCULATION IN THE PCETUS op six months. (Allen Thomson.) RA, right auricle of the heart; RV, right ventricle; LA, left auricle ; Ev, Eustachian valve ; LV., left ventricle ; L, liver ; K, left kidney ; I, portion of small intestine ; a, arch of the aorta ; a', its dorsal part; a!', lower end ; ves, superior vena cava ; vci, in- ferior vena where it joins the right auricle; vci', its lower end ; s, subclavian vessels ; j, right jugular vein; c, common carotid arteries ; four curved dotted arrow lines are carried through the aortic and pulmonary opening, and the auriculo-ventricular orifices; da, opposite to the one passing through the pulmonary artery, marks the place of the ductus arteriosus; a similar arrow line is shown passing from the vena cava inferior through the fossa ovalis of the right auricle, and the foramen ovale into the left auricle ; hv, the hepatic veins ; vp, vena port® ; x to vci, the ductus venosus ; uv, the umbilical vein ; ua, umbilical arteries; uc, umbilical cord cut short; i V, iliac vessels. with reference to their influence in determining the course of the blood during intra-uterine life, and the changes which occur in them upon the establishment of pulmonary re- spiration at birth. The foramen ovale retains the form of a free oval opening in the septum atriorum up to the fourth month, but in the course of that month and the next the growth of the valvular plate which fills up the floor of the fossa ovalis, becomes complete, so that in the last three and a half months the blood can only pass from the right into the left auricle, not in a contrary direction. The Eustachian valve constitutes a crescentic fold of the lining structure o the heart, which is so situated as to direct the blood entering the auricle by th< interior cava towards the opening of the foramen ovale.