DEVELOPMENT OP THE PRINCIPAL VEINS. 154- The left duct of Cuvier is obliterated. But even in the adult, traces of this vessel can always be recognised in the form of a fibrous band, or sometimes a narrow vein, A B Fig. 186.—A and B.—Diagrammatic outlines of the vestige of the left superior, cava and of a case of its persistence. (Sketched after Marshall.) J . The views are supposed to be from before, the parts of the heart being removed or seen through. 1, 1', internal jugular veins ; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3, right innominate ; 3', right or regular superior cava ; 4, left innominate, normal in A, rudimentary in B ; 5, in A, the opening of the superior intercostal vein into the innominate ; 5', vestige of the left superior cava or duct of Cuvier ; 5, 5', in B, the left vena cava superior abnormally persistent ; 6, coronary sinus ; 6', coronary veins ; 7, superior intercostal trunk of the left side (left cardinal vein) ; 8, the principal azygos (right cardinal vein) ; 7', 8', some of the upper intercostal veins ; 9, the opening of the inferior vena cava, with the Eustachian valve. which descends obliquely over the left auricle ; and in front of the root of the left lung there remains an indication of its former presence in the form of a small fold Fig. 187.—View of the fo?tal heart and great VESSELS, FROM THE LEFT SIDE, TO SHOW THE VESTIGE OF THE LEFT SUPERIOR VENA CAVA IN SITU. (This figure is planned after one of Marshall's.) a, right auricle ; b, left auricle and pulmonary veins; c, the conus arteriosus of the right ventricle ; d, the left ventricle ; e, descending aorta ; +, vestigial fold of the pericardium ; /, arch of the aorta, with a part of the pericardium remaining above ; g. main pulmonary artery and ductus arteriosus; g', left pulmonary artery ; 1,1', right and left internal jugular veins ; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3, 3', right innominate and superior vena cava ; 4, left innominate ; 5, 5', remains of the left superior cava and duct of Cuvier, passing at 4- in the vestigial fold of the pericardium, joining the coronary sinus, 6, below, and receiving above the superior intercostal vein, 7 ; 7', 7', the upper and lower intercostal vein. of the serous membrane of the pericardium, the vestigial fold of Marshall, to whom is due the first full elucidation of the nature and relations of the left primitive vena cava superior. The left duct of Cuvier has been observed persistent as a small vessel in the adult. Less frequently a right and a left innominate vein open separately into the