DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL CORD. 60 increase in extent. The anterior fissure is simply a cleft left between the enlarging lateral halves of the cord ; the anterior commissure is formed across the bottom of the cleft, which is thereby separated from the central canal. As for the posterior fissure, it is uncertain whether it is in part formed from the dorsal portion of the constricted canal, which has become occupied by an ingrowth of pia mater, and converted into a mere septum of connective tissue, or whether this lissurc with its connective tissue septum becomes formed independently of the central canal, which, as the fissure extends, gradually atrophies until it is eventually converted into the rudimentary epithelial tube which is persistent during life. In the sacral region of birds, the central canal expands into the rhomboidal sinus, and in the /Hum terminate of the human cord it remains relatively large. An open enlargement analogous to the rhomboidal sinus of birds, although relatively smaller, has been described by Tiedemann in a nine-week human foetus. The cord is at first oblong oval in section, with an angular depression in each side which serves to mark off the situation of the future posterior columns and their corresponding grey matter from the antero-lateral region. These two parts of the lateral neural epiblast may be distinguished as the dorso-lateral (alar) and the ventro-lateral (basal) laminae; with the former, the afferent nerve-fibres become Fig. 67.—Brain and spinal cord exposed from behind in a foetus of three months (from Kolliker). h, the hemispheres ; m, the mesencephalic vesicle or corpora quadrigemina ; c, the cerebellum ; below this are the medulla oblongata, mo, and fourth ven- tricle, with remains of the membrana obturatoria. The spinal cord, s, extends to the lower end of the sacral canal, and shows brachial and crural enlargements. connected, whilst from the latter the efferent fibres take origin (His). In the human embryo of six weeks, they are well marked off from one another, and their respective connections with the posterior and anterior nerve-roots are very distinct (fig. 6G). In the upper part of the cord, the lateral nerve-roots (spinal accessory) also arise from the basal lamina. The characteristic cylindrical form of the cord is only attained with the development of the lateral columns. The cervical and lumbar enlargements are mani- fest at the end of the third month. Up to the fourth month, the cord and the vertebral canal increase in length pari passu, but the vertebral column then begins to grow more rapidly than the cord, so that by the time of birth the coccygeal end of the cord is opposite the third lumbar vertebra, while in the adult its limit is the lower end of the first lumbar. Along with this relative shifting of the cord and its containing tube, the lower nerve-roots lose their regular rectangular course, and become oblique. They alone, with the filum terminale, occupy the lower end of the neural canal, where they form the caucla equina. The nerve fibres of the white columns are at first entirely non-medullated, and the white substance has a greyish transparent appearance. The medullary sheath is not formed simultaneously in all parts, but appears at different times in different parts corresponding with the tracts of conduction ; the last of these tracts to become medullated are the pyramidal tracts. The membranes are formed from mesoblast of the proto vertebras, which extends over and under the cord, and becomes enclosed along with that structure within the developing vertebral canal. The septa of connective tissue which are seen penetrating into the substance of the cord from the pia mater grow in from this mesoblast, carrying blood-vessels amongst the nervous elements. The neuroglia or