21)6 DISEASES OF JOINTS. by ice might not advantageously be employed in some cases where the tendency to inflammation is unusually decided, either from constitutional peculiarity or the nature of the wound. We do not as yet know the lowest temperature at which a part of the body in a normal state may be kept by dry cold, without serious interference with its nutrition; still less do we know to what depth of temperature a wounded part may be safely lowered. Should it be found that a lower temperature than that produced by ice can be borne, its production could be effected without much difficulty by the employment of various frigorific mixtures, graduated according to the temperature required. These could without difticulty be prevented from coming in contact with the wound, by enclosing them in thick gutta-percha bags, and by laying a sufficiently large sheet of the same material between the bag and the wounded part. In applying ice to a wound, common bladders ought never to be used if gutta-percha can be obtained, as they very soon allow the water to ooze through, and, notwithstanding the low temperature, soon undergo decomposition. Moreover, gutta- percha is cheaper, and bags can be made very easily, by simply wetting the margins of the pieces to be joined together with chloroform, and holding them in apposition until they dry. In the removal of loose cartilages from the knee-joint, by sub- cutaneous or direct free incision, I have found that ice con- stantly applied to the part after the operation until all tendency to inflammation had ceased, was of great service in helping to ward off the serious consequences which have so frequently followed these operations. If, after applying cold constantly to the part, we find that the disease progresses—if the joint continues to swell, and suppuration is threatened, we must first apply warm anodyne fomentations, and afterwards, if necessary, make free incisions around the joint wherever matter has formed. Poultices should then be applied, or folds of lint moistened with tepid water con- taining a small proportion of tincture of iodine or of Condy's fluid, and the limb must be kept in a state of perfect repose. In