CLINICAL CASES ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. Case of Subclavian Aneurism, in which the Arm was Amputated at the Shoulder-joint. On the 22d of March 1864, Mr. F.T., engineer on board H.M.S. , was placed under my care on account of aneurism of the right subclavian. He infoimed me that about the beginning of 1860 he was under the necessity of doing some hard work with large heavy hammers. After his exertions he was much troubled with pains in his right shoiilder, which were considered rlieumatic, and treated as such in an hospital, to which he was confined for five weeks. The i>ams were then so severe that he could not move the arm from the side, without suffering the greatest torture. He recovered to a great extent, hnt never was able to use his arm at all freely without experienc- ing pain shooting down the arm and round the shoulder. These pains were often present when the arm was at rest, and there were, exacerbations at frequent intervals. Six months before I saw him, the arm began to feel cold and numb, and the ring and little fingers became insensible ; in which state they continued until his admission. Fourteen days before he came to me, he for the first time became aware of the existence of a swelling at the root of the right side of the neck. On examining him I found a pulsating tumour conimencing in the interA\al between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid, extending out- wards, and occupying the whole subclavian space ; there was also more pulsation than usual below the clavicle. The right radial pulse was almost imperceptible, the right arm cold, numb, and somewhat cedematous ; the hand was purple and mottled ; the veins of the arm, shoulder, and right side of the neck were engorged. Shooting pains were almost constantly felt in the arm. A distmct aneurismal bruit was heard over the tumour with the aid of the stethoscope. No further appreciable disease could be detected in the heart or great blood-vessels. The lungs were healthy, with the exception of a liability to frequent but slight attacks of catarrh. His general health had, how- ever, been somewhat impaired by service on the west coast of Africa. Tongue was slightly furred. Appetite pretty good. Bowels regular. Pulse 72, of veiy fair strength in the healthy arm. Urine normal. His complexion was sallow and bilious-looking. I had him placed in a private ward, and directed the limb to be WTapped up in cotton wadding, and sujjported in a sling ; and ordered him occasional doses of rhubarb and potash, with citrate of magnesia. The cotton wadding raised the temperatiu-e of the arm several degrees, but the pain, though it abated when the patient was kept at rest, frequentl}' recurred in severe paroxysms.