278 DISEASES OF BONES. of the textures favoiirs compression, so that bleeding is in general very easily arrested. After the operation is completed, we place the limb in a splint and swing it, to insure rest and prevent frac- ture of the substitute bone at any weak point. The after- treatment is simply that of a granulating wound. In cases in which sequestra have been removed, and where discharge continues, exhausting the patient, whilst no dead bone can be felt, we must lay open the cavity in which the seques- trum had been situated, and insert a slip of lint soaked in tincture of iodine or other stimulant, to excite healthy action and destroy the pyogenic membrane. Stimulating lotions should then be injected from time to time, until the soft parts contract and close in upon tlie cavity. In cases where large sequestra have been removed, or where the substitute bone is not much developed, or in which we require to remove a large portion of it to reach and remove a deep-seated sequestrum, it is advisable <to place the limb on a wire or light wooden splint, and sling it so as to give support to the remaining substitute bone, and prevent fracture, either from the patient turning in bed or from the action of the muscles. And this is absolutely essential when there is only a single bone, as the femur or humerus. The constitutional treatment in cases of necrosis must be carefully attended to. Nourishing diet, cod-liver oil, prepara- tions of iron—especially the phosphates—and iodide of potassium, are indicated to support the patient's health, and act as altera- tives on the strumous diathesis. The question of amputation frequently arises in the treat- ment of necrosis under different circumstances. I would therefore now conclude this subject by directing your attention to the conditions under which this question may arise. In cases of acute necrosis of great extent, when the patient is suffering from irritative fever, with symptoms almost of blood-poisoning, and when the intense suffering, gastric irri- tation, and debility, leave us little hope of his being able to pass through the long process required for throwing off the dying bone, amputation presents itself as a chance of relief, but I