FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF HUMERUS. 373 (Plate xvi. Figs. 5 & 6). The surgeon can, however, move the limb, though this causes pain to the patient. When the arm is forcibly extended we feel crepitus. We may rotate the shaft of the humerus without producing any, but if we rotate the arm after extending it, so as to bring the broken surfaces of the bone in contact, crepitus is produced. Fracture of the surgical neck is almost always caused by direct violence, such as falls or blows oil the shoulder. As we have already stated, fracture of the humerus between the tuberosities and the head of the bone, that is through the ana- tomical neck, occurs also, thou.gh not so frequently as the former fracture, and chiefly in young children, where the cartilaginous head of the bone is but loosely connected with the tuberosities. An unusual force applied to the elbow or shoulder may produce it. There is much difficulty in diagnosing between this dias- tasis and dislocation. When the comparatively small portion forming the proper head of the bone is left in relation to the glenoid cavity, the arch of the acromion projects, the tuber- osities fall into the axilla and are drawn towards the chest, the shoulder is square and not rounded, so that all the appearances of dislocation may be produced. Then the symptom of crepitus is wanting in this fracture on account of the semi-cartilaginous state of the bones in the young subject. StiU. we can, by a little extension, and by putting the arm in position, bring the tuber- osities up into contact with the acromion process, and then the roundness of the shoulder is restored, and the axis of the shaft of the humerus is restored also. These results, however, are only temporary, for whenever we take away the support the bone falls out of position, showing that the case is not one of disloca- tion but of fracture or separation. Fracture of the anatomical neck also occurs in adults, perhaps more frequently than is supposed, but generally it is partly extra-capsular as well as intra-capsular. One part of the fracture, therefore, corresponds to the anatomical neck, the other occurs obliquely through the tuberosities. This is ahnost invariably the case in adults.