512 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. its extremity, and had specially directed attention to it as essential. Unfortunately he had taken an erroneous view of the sources of that condensed structure, supposing in fact that it was derived from condensation of tissues included in the ligature along with the artery, instead of perceiving its true character as new matter effused from the vessels of the surround- ing parts. Hence the erroneous and dangerous practical de- duction which he drew from these false premises—namely, that the more of the surrounding parts included in the ligature, the greater the security against secondary haemorrhage, doubtless did much to prevent future investigators from attending to this part of the process. It now only remains, as regards this part of my subject, that I should point out some practical deductions as to the operation of tying an artery, drawn from a consideration of the development - and functions of the external plastic effusion. Is;;, As the plastic effusion is furnished not only by the vessels of the sheath, but also, and principally, by vessels of the surroiinding tissues in the deep-seated part of the wound, we must be careful to avoid, not only undue separation of the sheath from the arterial parietes, but also all unnecessary manipulation of the surrounding parts, lest we induce suppuration, which may either prevent the formation or end in the destruction of the lymph. 2cl, If the surrounding tissues, owing either to accident or disease, be in a state of impaired vitality, the requisite plastic effusion can scarcely be expected to take place, and tying a large vessel under such circiimstances must always be attended with a risk of secondary bleeding on the separation of the ligature. Therefore, in some cases, the ligature ought rather to be placed on the vessel at some point nearer the heart, where it -is surrounded by healthy parts. I am aware that this has been severely reprobated in cases of opened arteries, as where the vessel has sloughed in consequence of severe burns, or other causes, and where the unhealthy action is still going on. It has been said by Mr. Guthrie, that in such cases tying the artery higher up is bad practice, as the free collateral circulation