NECROSIS. 2G7 * See Plate xii. Fig. 2. thickness of the shaft is occasionally spoken of by surgical authors, and formerly the long sequestra resulting from acute necrosis used to be appealed to as evidence of this—the rough irregular patches on their surface, or the deficiency in their cir- cumference, being attributed to the action of the absorbents on the dead bone !* No one now believes in this action of absorbents, and I have already explained that such deficiencies are due to the separation of portions of living bone during the progress of the disease. If death of the entire shaft did occur, we would ex- pect to find the bone lying loose from the periosteum, unaltered in form, and presenting a uniform smooth surface lilce a macerated bone, and separated at either extremity from the epiphyses. But though my own museum presents a very large collection of specimens of necrosis and some very large sequestra, and though I have examined carefully many public collections at home and on the Continent, I have never yet met with such a specimen as death of the shaft of a long bone in its entirety. Even in the most rapid cases, portions of living bone separate from the shaft along with the periosteum, or in connection with the epiphyses. In some cases, after sequestra have been removed or thrown off by the efforts of nature, the discharge does not cease, but continues thin and gleety, and the constitution begins to suffer. In some cases the discharge is so copious as to be exhausting and demand very decided measures. In others, an unhealthy fungoid growth springs from the cavity, bleeding occasionally, and so exhausting the patient. This last condition occurred in the case of the woman already referred to, and was accompanied by all the symp- toms of malignant action. She was yellow from antemia caused by loss of blood, worn to a shadow, and there were enlarged glands in the groin. These symptoms supervened about eighteen months after the sequestrum had been extruded, and I amputated her thigh some three or four months later, and she made an ex- cellent recovery. All the symptoms were due to exhaustion from pain and loss of blood, not to malignant action, and I have seen several cases of somewhat similar kind.