SUBCLA VIAN ANEURISM. 573 chief disturbing cause. The operation, however, has been almost uniformly unsuccessful. The last time it was performed in this country was by the late Professor Lizars, in a case of true aneurism formed after a slight injury (not a wound) of the sub- clavian, arising from a fracture of the clavicle. I never saw an operation performed in a more masterly style. The vessel was very little disturbed, and the circiimstauces of the case were most favourable, the vessels generally being healthy. The patient went on well for some time, but on the 13th day fatal haemorrhage came on. Hence the operation, though not a difficult one, has been generally given up on account of the \in- fortunate results. The third method of treatment is Brasdor's operation of tying the axillary artery on the distal side of the aneurism ; but it has proved little, if at all, more successful than either of the other methods. In most cases gangrene of the arm came on before the collateral circulation was fully established, while, at other times, secondary haemorrhage resulted. Another method has been suggested that of cutting di- rectly into the sac of the aneurism, and tying the vessel on either side—first clearing the innominate artery so as to allow of direct compression on it. But though we may command the innominate artery, we cannot control the vertebral arteries, which would pour their blood into the sac; and even supposing the vertebral circulation could be commanded, we should be compelled to tie the subclavian at the worst part of its course—namely, in the middle portion, just where the thyroid axis comes off. This operation should, therefore, never be performed. The question is thus narrowed to the plan of tying the innominate artery, or of having recourse to the mode of treat- ment recommended by Sir Wilham Fergusson—namely, ampu- tating the arm at the shoulder-joint in cases of aneurism of the middle or third portion of the subclavian artery, and tying the axillary artery as high up as possible: we should thus be per- forming Brasdor's operation, while wc should also remove the source of attraction of the blood from the distal side of the aneu-