DISEASES OF BONES. 268 In some instances where necrosis occurs near or at the junction of the shaft with the epiphysis, deformity occurs in consequence of the epiphysis getting loosened and altered in its relation to the shaft, as we often see in necrosis in the lower part of femur in children. The appearances of a limb affected by necrosis will vary under different circumstances. In a thickly covered bone, such as the femur, the inflammatory swelKng and pain which precede necrosis give rise at first to tension, acute oedema, and deep-seated sup- puration ; so that all the soft parts of the limb become altered, thickened by infiltration of plastic exudation and solid oedema, so as to become firm and unyielding, and present openings of sinuses leading, more or less directly, to the diseased bone. In necrosis of a superficial bone like the tibia, in acute cases we have the swelling and erysipelatous redness of the skin, effusion of lymph into the subciitaneous areolar tissue, and when abscesses burst or are opened, and when incisions are made, we see the dead bone bare and white. In chronic necrosis of the tibia, the deposit of new substitute bone altering its form, and the thicken- ing of the whole limb caused by solid oedema, give the leg an unshapely appearance ; whilst the skin is usually congested and discoloured, and, as in all cases of necrosis, we have the cloacae or sinuses leading to the sequestrum, or cavity where a sequestrum has been. The constitutional symptoms will vary as the necrosis is acute or chronic. In the former we have all the intense symptoms I described when speaking of acute ostitis and periostitis, the worst form of irritative fever and exhaustion. After this stage has passed, and when death of the bone has taken place and suppu- ration begun, the irritative fever is relieved ; but hectic, more or less marked, sets in. In chronic cases there may be severe ex- acerbations depending on formation of abscesses, but the irritative fever is never so intense as in the acute form. When suppu- ration occurs and is kept up by the presence of the dead or dying bone, hectic symptoms occur as after the acute, being caused in both cases by the continued irritation and discharge. There is a form of necrosis which is occasionally met with in