WOUNDS OF VEINS. 459 the vein, and also upon any distension of the vessel; for the distension of the vein acts in two ways. A valve, which, in the normal condition is sufficient to close the vein, would become insufficient if the vein were distended, even if it were a valve implanted on the lining membrane. When, however, the vein is enlarged in calibre the lining membrane is drawn upon by the distension, and the valves formed by its projections are therefore diminished in size. Keeping these facts in view, we shall now consider Wounds OF Veins.—When a vein is wounded, the blood flows from it in an even stream, without any jerking or saltatory movement. The blood is of a dark colour, and the bleeding is generally easily arrested by pressure on the opening, or beyond it, on the distal side of the wound, or by the removal of any barrier to the venous circulation which may exist between the wounded point and the heart. Thus, in bleed- ing from the veins at the bend of the arm, all that is re- quired to stop the bleeding is to remove the fillet round the upper arm and apply a compress and bandage. If a veia be opened by an indirect wound under the skin, it gives rise to effusion of blood into the loose cellular tissue aroimd it, fonning a tumour of greater or less size, called a throiiibti.s, which is nothing more than a clot of blood. Such a tumour should never occur during or after venesection, for we shoidd always choose a vein which is fixed, and the external opening in the skin should be sufficiently large to allow of the free escape of the blood. In cases of accident, however, or when a vein has been badly opened in bleeding, a thrombus may occur. Even if it does, no bad consequences will follow. If we close the open- ing in the vein, apply cold and evaporating lotions over the tumour, and keep the part quiet, the thrombus wOl gradually disappear. In opening a vein in the arm, a thrombus may be formed, and if placed over the brachial artery it has been said that it might be mistaken for an aneurism of that vessel, and so might lead to a serious mistake. But this is not very likely to happen.