400 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. force acting on it may meet with less obstruction. In this way the head of the bone often slips readily enough into the acetabulum. In dislocation into the ischiatic notch the direction of the extension is somewhat the same, only more oblique. We require, in drawing upon the bone, to keep it away from the notch. The difficulty of reduction is greater in this luxation, and is partly due to the ligamentous textures. The head and neck of the bone also come in contact with the rounded surface of the OS innominatum, near the acetabulum, thus causing an obstruction to the reduction. By tilting the head of the femur from the notch, whilst extension is made downwards and for- wards, and the pelvis kept fixed, the reduction can generally be effected, though with a little more trouble than in tlie dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium. When the dislocation into the ischiatic notch occurs secondarily in reducing other luxations, there is generally no diiiiculty in effecting its ultimate restoration. The difficulties are much greater when it is a primary dislocation, especially if some time has elapsed after the receipt of the injury. We can sometimes reduce the dislocation with the hand when the case is seen early. This, however, does not often happen, in conse- quence of the great bulk and muscular power of the thigh. As a rule, therefore, when there is any difficulty, instead of wasting- time in attempting to reduce the dislocation by the hand, we should try it with the pulleys, and in drawing on the bone with pulleys we must take care to keep up the force steadily and evenly, and not in jerks. You can sometimes facilitate the process of reduction, by bending the knee across the opposite leg- to a still greater extent than it has already assumed. You thereby make it act as a lever, by which the head of the bone is drawn outwards from its lodgment on the dorsum of the ilium, and where otherwise it would be firmly retained by muscles and other tissues. It is also occasionally advantageoris to alter the directions of the force, and to rotate with the same object, for often during reduction, after the first part has been effected, the head of the bone may be checked in its course by becoming locked at the ridge of the acetabulum.