524 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. allude to tlie investigations into the causes of the symptoms and lesions so frequently noticed after ligature of the carotid arteries. From the time that operation has been practised, the very general, almost constant occurrence of cough and laryngeal irrita- tion, or difficult deglutition, and not unfrequently pulmonary congestion, has drawn the attention of surgeons to this subject. The late Sir Charles Bell supposed that the sense of constriction and suffocation sometimes felt arose from an increase of the aneurismal swelling during the first days after the operation. But this could not account for these symptoms, as they occurred in cases where the artery had been tied for other causes. Next, an opinion was pretty generally entertained that, in consequence of the irregularity of the cerebral circulation after ligature of the carotid, the functions of the brain were disordered, and that the respiration was affected secondarily through the medium of the pneumo-gastric nerve. But why, Professor Miller has well observed, that unfortunate nerve should have been singled out as the representative of the general cerebral irregularity, was never very clearly explained. Of late years attention has been again directed to this subject by the researches of M. Eobeit (de Lamballe), and also by the late Professor Miller of this university. M. Eobert found in the experiments he performed that the most frequent lesion was pulmonary congestion, and he in- ferred that this results from the lost balance of circulation con- sequent upon the obstruction of these large vessels in the imme- diate vicinity of the heart. Professor Miller coincides with M. Eobert's views. Now, whilst I am not disposed to deny that the cause assigned by M. Eobert and Professor Miller may, to a certain ex- tent, influence the propagation of these symptoms, 1 cannot admit it as being the only or the primary one. Otherwise, we ought to meet with the same symptoms as frequently after ligature of the subclavian as of the carotid, and indeed, in some degree, after the ligature of every large vessel; for in all such operations the