332 DISEASES OF JOINTS. where they extend for a considerable distance along the flexor tendons, and so allow of very free movement. The uses of bursse are so obvious that we need hardly allude to them. We often find bursae being formed adventitiously where more than usual pressure or movement takes place, as in talipes varus or club-foot, where bursas form, sometimes of a large size, so as to obviate the effects of constant friction, and the weight of the body, on a part of the foot not intended to bear pressure. Ganglion is the name given to an adventitious bursa arising under such circumstances. Ganglia are most frequently met with amongst the extensor tendons on the posterior aspect of the wrist, and result from continuous use of the fingers, as in play- ing the piano, drawing, and knitting. The distended thecal bursas, situated amongst the common flexor tendons in front of the wrist, do not belong to this class. They arise from an affec- tion of the proper sheath of the tendons. (Plate xiii. Fig. 7.) Bursae, like other textures, are liable to inflammation, which may be either acute or chronic—generally chronic, although in the more exposed bursae, such as that over the patella, often of the acute form. In Acute Bursitis the symptoms are as follow :—The posi- tion of the bursa becomes marked by a tense rounded swelling which suddenly arises. This is accompanied by pain, redness on the surface, and much stiffness of the joint. The swelling- conveys to the touch a feeling of distinct fluctuation, and the patient begins to suffer from symptomatic fever. There is in- creased secretion of fluid, causing increase in the size of the swelling ; the fluid becomes vitiated in character, and very soon has a tendency to become purulent. At first there can be no difficulty in the diagnosis of the disease, but, as it progresses, the decided diagnostic symptoms become less noticeable, and very speedily—often in less than a couple of days—the whole limb swells from the inflammation. The vessels relieve themselves into the cellular tissue, giving rise to acute oedema of the sur- rounding textures, with erythematous inflammation spreading from the site of the bursa ; and the case might now be mistaken