CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 327 like deposit, of a glistening smootli appearance and great hard- ness. This causes the movements between the opposite surfaces to take place with a peculiar creaking noise. From its appear- ance and qualities it has been called the porcellaneous deposit, heuce the disease has been termed " porcellaneous disease" of the joint. These terms express only parts of one diseased action: the alterations described do take place; but they are changes going on from one structure to another,, and we require to look at all the textures in studying the disease. We find that both the acetabulum and the head of the femur become altered in form ; the cotyloid ligament running round the margin of the cavity is filled with earthy deposit, so as to become almost ossified. The bone itself is denser, and the cartilage is absorbed, its place being taken up by fibrous texture, throughout which we see the por- cellaneous deposit appearing. Projecting from the synovial membrane are a variety of small fimbriated structures which pass into the openings of the cavities, or enlarged Haversian aper- tures seen in the bone. These fimbriae are highly vascular. Every texture in the joint is affected, the fibrous being perhaps those first affected. The disease is a rheumatic one, and comes on very slowly in after-life, and in patients whose general health is otherwise good, and who have usually much muscular power. The history of the disease is somewhat as follows:—Towards night the patient feels great pain of a rheumatic character about the hip and the knee joints. The pain ceases in the day-time, and recurs at night. The patient probably takes medicines, which give relief for a time, but some exposure to damp or cold brings with it a return of the symptoms. By-and-by he begins to experience a sense of lameness ; he cannot walk erect as for- merly, nor bear any weight on the limb, and there is some swelling and deformity beginning to present itself, together with a corresponding degree of stiffness, so that the patient cannot flex the joint, and cannot go up and down stairs as formerly. This arises from the progressing changes, which are taking place in the joint and in the fibrous textures surrounding the aceta-