571 TRAUMATIC CAROTID ANEURISM. Tbaumatic or False Aneurism of the Carotid Artery.— A wound of the carotid artery generally causes almost immediate death from the haemorrhage which results ; but if the artery be merely punctured, and if it be compressed at the time, the external flow of blood is stopped, but it is extravasated, and forms a false aneurism. There is formed a distinctly pulsating tumour, the pulsation at those points where the clot is formed in the cellular tissue not being so marked as it is directly over the vessel. It is sometimes so far circumscribed, but generally it diffuses itself backwards under the sterno-mastoid. In such cases an incision should be made through the skin, along the line of the lower part of the sterno-mastoid, so as to lay bare the artery, and permit compression to be made on the vessel between the heart and the wounded point, without interfering with the aneurism. A small incision, just sufficient to admit the finger, is made over the aneurism, and the clot broken up by the finger, so that it can be easily removed. The artery is then compressed at the wounded part by the point of the finger, and the clot of blood turned out. Ligatures are then passed, one above and the other below the wound in the vessel, and tied. This is not always easy, on account of the matting and discoloration of the parts, and great care is required in tying the vessel. There may be some difficulty in finding the wounded point, and hence the necessity for making an incision in the lower part of the neck, so as to give us the power of compression on the proximal side of the wound. If, without taking these precautions, we cut down on the aneurism at once, as we should do in a false aneurism at the bend of the arm, an immense and probably fatal gush of blood would take place immediately, since there would be no control over the artery. Aneurisms of the Subclavian Artery may occur at almost any part of the vessel—very generally at the middle part ; in which case there is a pulsating tumour projecting the sterno-mastoid forwards. Some aneurisms of the aorta may simulate subclavian aneurism, and cause a difficulty in the diagnosis. In Allan Burn's Anatomy of the Head and