THE VEIN TRUSS. 4G7 stocking, tliougli more expensive at first, is better, and per- haps as cheap in the end. The laced stocking should fit Avell, and should have small pieces of whalebone let in at different points, so as to prevent dragging, and ensure an equable pres- sure. These form the principal palliative measures for ordinary superficial varix. In varix affecting the deep-seated veins of the limb, where the femoral and saphena are both affected, and where there is a bulging at the upper part of the groin, great benefit has been sometimes obtained from the application of a small truss, with back lever-pressure, placed just over the saphenous opening, so as gently to compress the vein there. At first sight this has the appearance of interrupting the circulation, and might be thought likely to aggravate the disease. In such cases, however, we have to deal with a disease actually existing in which the valves have become incompetent, and where there is a column of blood above, which has a tendency to press downwards and increase distension. The truss prevents this gravitating tendency of the blood, and so does good. The use of the elastic or laced stocking- should always be conjoined with the truss. The form of varix, however, in which the vein-truss is most useful, is that affect- ing the veins of the sj)ermatic cord, termed cirsocele or varicocele. These veins are sometimes so distended as to resemble a hernia, though generally they have a tortuous, worm- like feeling. In some such cases we can completely arrest this condition in the earlier stages by the application of a proper truss placed over the inguinal ring. The truss is made to press upon the lower part of the canal, so as to prevent too much blood passing into the veins from above, but not sufficiently firm to prevent return of the blood upwards. This, along with an elastic suspensory bandage, produces very great benefit, and often saves the testicle from becoming atrophied. We must always remember that Avhen we perform the radical operation on the veins of the cord, if we really obliterate all the principal veins, there is a great risk of atrophy of the testicle taking place, even though the artery be left uninjured. The venous blood