POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 585 the lower iDart of the thigh, but in this case secondary htenior- rhage came on. The external iliac was then tied; the same result again took place, and the patient died. But why tie the common femoral for traumatic aneurism of the super- ficial femoral, when there are so many collateral branches coming off from it? It would be better to clear out the con- tents of the sac of the aneurism, and tie the vessel above and below the opening. "Where a false aneurism has existed for some time, and where it is so far circumscribed, if it be pretty solid, we may then adopt either the usual plan of treatment, or, what I consider better, we may tie the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle, as in cases of true aneurism. The treatment of traumatic varicose aneurism and aneurismal varix has been already fully discussed, and I would refer you to the instance given amongst the Clinical Cases for the method which I would recommend of treating varicose aneurism of the femoral. Popliteal Aneurism is that which probably more than any other becomes the subject of surgical treatment. This aneurism is generally situated towards the middle or lower part of the popliteal space, though it may exist at any part of it. The symptoms are as follow :—The patient is generally aware of something giving way during some exertion; then slight lameness follows, accompanied with a dull aching feeling in the limb, but this passes off. After a time a small pulsating tumour forms. Sometimes the patient is not conscious of the first symptom, nor even of the presence of the swelling until the surgeon recognises it. He often complains of rheu- matic pains in the limb, of coldness of the foot, and numbing pains in the back of the leg. These extend sometimes along the course of the sciatic nerve, arising either from direct pres- sure on the nervous trunks, or from enlargement of the neuri- lemma! vessels. On examining the state of the parts, we see how the pressure on the nerves would give rise to these symptoms— direct pressure backwards upon the popliteal or posterior tibial nerve causes the tension and irritation, and this takes place to some extent even when the tumour is still fluid. On placing the