492 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. the Mcdico-Chirurgical Transactions. His conclusions in his first paper are as follow :— " That the coaptation of the wounded surfaces of the cuti- cular coat of an artery, if preserved for a short period after the infliction of the wound, renders its obliteration certain, is a fair inference from these experiments. A more extended scale of inquiry, however, is required to establish the uni- formity of their results. They afforded evidence that the circulation was arrested, by the absence of the pulse in the artery continuing after the removal of the ligature ; and the vessel was therefore concluded to be as impervious as if the ligature had remained upon it. But upon this event I think it would be impossible to calculate with confidence, unless the ligature were suffered to remain upon the vessel for a time sufficient to insure the organised adhesion of its sides. In Jones's experiments, the return of the circulation was invariably ascertained after the removal of the ligature ; and he seems to have regarded this as a proof that the subsequent obliteration of the canal was effected by a process independent of the coagulation of the blood. But in all these and similar experi- ments, the blood, as blood, has no concern in the obliteration of the vessel; the conical coagulum of blood is not formed in the first stage of the obstruction ; its formation is gradual, and appears to require a change in the properties of the vessel consequent upon the abolition of its function. And although the presence of the conical clot satisfactorily demonstrates the obstruction of the canalj it is sometimes very inconsiderable, and at other times deficient, where the obstruction is comj)lete. It is a mistake, therefore, to regard the coagulum of blood among the immediate effects of the ligature; it is an incidental con- sequence only of the permanent obstruction which it has been supposed to constitute ; without which it never could be formed, nor, if formed, ever be competent to the purpose of permanently obstructing the canal of an artery." Again, in his second paper, he says— " It is now well known, that the result of tying an artery,