496 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. Sir A. Cooper in England, and Pliysick and Jameson in America, tried the use of animal and metallic lio'atures, such as catgut, strips of deer-skin, threads of gold, silver, lead, and the like, in hopes that they might be absorbed or remain quiet, but the results hitherto obtained have all gone to prove that the ligatures must be expelled sooner or later, and that, like other foreign bodies, they are incapable of being absorbed. The plan of cutting off both ends of the ligature recommended by Lawrence, however, has been found useful in those cases where we do not wish or cannot hope to obtain union of a wound by the first intention, and where the presence of the ends of several ligatures would irritate the granulating surface as so many foreign bodies. It now only remains for me, before I close this history of the ligature, to speak of the views of some surgeons who differ both from Scarpa and Dr. Jones as to some of the essentials for obliteration, or at least as to the mode in which the process is effected. Sir Charles Bell, in his work on Operative Surgery, pub- lished in 1814, says:—"The principle which shall direct our endeavours in the stopping of hasmorrhage will be discovered, if the question can be satisfactorily answered, What is it which preserves the blood fluid in the vessels ?" and he concludes by stating as his opinion, " that there is an influence of life in the coats of an artery, which prevents the blood adhering and coagulating within it; but that, when this natural influ.ence is destroyed or disturbed, presently the hloocl coagulates within the vessel, and if the vessel be of moderate size, the flow of blood is obstructed." Adverting to the use of the ligature and its form, he says—" To the full effect of a ligature upon an artery it is necessary that the mouth be securely closed, and the thread in close contact with the coats of the vessel. In tying an artery firmly, the inner coats are cut through; but it is a mistake to suppose that it is necessary to the union of its coats, or that there must be, as it were, an incised wound to secure the adhesion of the sides of the vessel. When this notion was first broached, I cautioned my pupils against the next step; I thought an