ANEURISM. 547 tliose parts wliere little or no clot exists. This fact accounts for the inequality of the pulsation as felt externally. Again, we can no longer efface the tumour by pressure, nor can we make it completely flaccid by compressing the main trunk, for both these processes are interfered with by the presence of the coagulum. In this stage certain local symptoms, which vary in their nature according to the seat of the disease, are com- plained of by the patient. The tumour, as it is now nearly in the condition of a solid mass, gives rise to symptoms which did not exist in the same degree when its contents were still fluid. In carotid aneurism, for example, there may be symptoms of spasmodic or constant difficulty of breathing from pressure on the up23er part of the trachea, and in popliteal aneurism, intense pain may be felt in the limb from pressure on tlie popliteal nerve, though this may be present to a less extent even when the contents of the sac are fluid. As the disease advances, the tumour may press upon the larger veins, and oedema of the limb will be the result. In the upper extremity, especially, this symptom is of very frequent occurrence. Again, if the tumour attain to a very large size it may lead to gangrene of the limb, from the pressure on the veins and on the collateral branches causing the circulation to be almost completely arrested. Lastly, by the constant pressure which it exercises upon all surrounding parts, it will alter and condense the soft texture, and eat out, by corrosion, any bony surface with which it may come into contact. An aneurism, if allowed to go on without treatment, may terminate in various ways. It may rupture, causing effusion of blood and coagula into the tissues of the limb, and some have called such a case a false aneurism, but this leads to confusion, and it is therefore better to consider it as a true aneurism which has become diffuse in the last stage. Eupture, again, may occur through the skin, or into one of the internal cavities, causing the sudden death of the patient; and, lastly, the sac may not rup- ture, but go on enlarging imtil it attains an enormous size, the blood of the patient being more and more withdrawn into it from the circulation, so that he may finally become exhausted by