447 OPERATION FOR WRY-NECK. from long-continued irritation, or clironic inflammation of the muscle and its fascial slieatli; and I have operated successfully in adults well advanced in life. The part of the sterno-mastoid which most usually requires division is the sternal attachment or inner head of the muscle. When the contraction is present, this portion seems narrowed, distinct, and prominent, so that you might suppose that a touch of the tenotomy-knife would sever it at once. In reality, however, there is greater breadth and thickness of muscular and tendinous texture than the appearance of the contraction would lead you to expect, and it is well to be pre- pared for this, for the part of the muscle to be divided lies in the neighbourhood of important structures. Large veins passing down to join the internal jugular lie close behind, and the great jugular itself is not far removed, so that it is important that, if possible, the whole resisting tissues be divided without having to re-enter the sharp-pointed knife after partial division. Indeed, when any resistent structure remains deep seated, it is better to use a fine probe-pointed knife, introduced through the original wound. In some cases the contraction involves the fascial textures, which become thickened to a considerable depth. In operating in cases of this kind I have considered it safest to do so by exposing the parts to be divided by free incision instead of the subcutaneous method. In performing the operation under ordinary circumstances, the head is placed so as to put the contracted portion of the sterno-mastoid on the stretch. The surgeon pinches up a fold of skin over the contracted muscle near its sternal origin, enters the tenotomy-knife, and glides its blade between the skin and muscle till it is fairly beyond the free edge of the sternal attachment. Then, turning the cutting edge towards the muscle, he divides it whilst an assistant keeps the head back (Plate xx. Fig. 1). When the contraction is fairly divided, a little pad of lint is placed over the part, and the position of the head maintained by means of a circlet of bandage round it, from which lateral bands pass to another circular bandage round the upper part of the chest,