266 DISEASES OF BONES. portion separated is termed either exfoliatioii or sequestrum, according to its form. Thus the superficial thin laminae of dead bone separated from the cranial bones, from the popliteal space of the femur, or from the surface of the tibia, in acute necrosis, are termed exfoliations ; whilst the larger cylindrical portions, comprising a considerable thickness of the bone, or portions of dead Haversian structure from the medullary canal, are termed sequestra. Necrosis may either be superficial or internal. In the latter case, or in cases where a considerable cylindrical portion of the shaft of a bone dies, as the process of separation is slow, new bone, as I have said, forms around or bridges over it, and so forms a barrier to its extrusion. Hence, in the two last-men- tioned forms of necrosis, the substitute bone must be destroyed by the ulcerative process to make way for the exit of the seques- trum ere nature can extrude and so get rid of it; and I need hardly say that this is necessarily a very tedious process. The sketch I show you (Plate xi. Fig. 2) is from the case of a woman aged 30 years, in whom the disease began when she was about 13 years of age. I had seen her from time to time during fifteen years on account of exacerbations caused by the presence of the se- questrum, but she refused to submit to any operation. At last the sequestrum was extruded by the natural process, so that I merely required to draw it out with my fingers, but this only after great suffering and risk. The sequestrum was composed of about three-fourths of the thickness, and nearly the whole length, of the tibia of a girl of 13 years, and maintained its original shape, marking the period at which its death had oc- curred. The presence of a sequestrum in the vicinity of the articular end of a bone is always attended with risk of exciting unhealthy inflammation in the cancellated texture of the epiphysis, and so involving the joint; and this complication forms an important element in our prognosis as to the probable termination of the case, or in regard to surgical interference. Death of a long bone throughout the whole length and