540 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. The tendency of an atheromatous deposit is to go on accumu- lating, until, having reached a certain size, its lining membrane is attacked by a species of ulceration which presently allows the escape of the atheromatous matter into the current of the blood. A cavity is thus formed, which is called an atheromatous ulcer. It may penetrate only through tlie serous lining, but in the nlajority of cases it also involves the middle coat, and, in a degree corresponding to its depth, it weakens the wall of the vessel, which at this point becomes very liable to be affected with aneurism. Prior to the occurrence of calcareous or atheromatous deposit, pathologists now recognise a stage of inflammatory action, more or less chronic in its nature, which is important as regards the causation of the disease, it being precisely in those localities most subject to irritation of various kinds that degeneration of the vessel and aneurism are most likely to occur. For example, in certain cases we find that the atheromatous deposit arises at some point where there is a considerable amount of force affecting the vessel, as at the arch of the aorta, which meets with the first full impulse of the blood coming from the heart. In health, this impulse is met by the resistance of the elastic and muscular coats, but when degeneration has occurred, these ultimately yield from the constant strain upon them. Again, near the bifurcation of a vessel, where it is becoming thinner, and where the blood meets with a slight interruption to its eq[uable flow, Ave find that there is often a tendency to the production of aneurismal dilatation. Opposite any joint, also, which is much used, as in the popliteal space behind the knee, disease of the arterial trunk is very likely to occur. Thus, before the days of railway travelling, post-boys used to be very frequent subjects of popliteal aneurism, and now this form of disease is chiefly met with in persons who, from their occupa- tion, constantly employ the knee-joint. For the same reason, all athletic exercises, if excessively indulged in, have a like tendency. After a certain period of life—say about forty or fifty years of age—if an individual continue to addict himself to