OPERATION FOR SQUINT. 445 cases of convergent squint, and the external rectus in the divergent form. Besides' thorough division of the muscle, it will often be found that division of thickened bands of sub- conjunctival tissue requires to be made to free the eye, especially when the convergent squint is persistent and of long standing. The operation is very simple and ef&cacious if properly performed. The only instruments required are a pair of finely- toothed, rather broad-pointed forceps, to raise the conjunctiva for division; a small blunt or probe-pointed hook of steel or german-silver, to slide under and raise the muscle ; and a pair of ordinary straight scissors, blunted at the points. I used formerly to employ a very small sharp hook to fix the eye and draw it outwards ; but it is really not necessary, and is liable to lacerate the conjunctiva. Suppose a case of convergent strabismus is to be operated on. The eyelids having been separated and held by an assistant, whilst the opposite eye is closed, the operator desires the patient to look outwards, or if chloroform be used, the eye is drawn outwards by the forceps, and then the surgeon, raising a fold of the conjunctiva, makes an incision through it with his scissors about midway between the corneal margin and the inner canthus. In most cases, if his incision has been complete, the blunt hook can be readily passed back and beneath the internal rectus, so as to enable the surgeon to draw it forwards and divide it Avith the scissors. The muscle should be distinctly seen, and the surgeon should make sure that the whole is on the hook, for the muscle is broad, flat, and closely applied on the sclerotic, and a thin flat liook may perforate it and leave some fibres unraised. For this reason I prefer the probe-pointed steel hook of Grsefe, as being less liable to injure either the muscle or the sclerotic coat of the eye. When the muscle is fairly cut, the patient is iinable to invert the eye to any great extent. If any power of inver- sion remains, it is necessary to examine, lest fibres either of muscle or thickened sub-conjunctival tissue still require to be divided. Afterwards the conjunctiva is smoothed down, the