GELA TINO US D EG EN ERA TION. 307 starting whenever the opposed surfaces touch one another. It is, in fact, really ulceration of the cartilage, but arising in a different way from what is generally understood by that term. In gelatinous degeneration of a joint, all the textures are ultimately involved ; not only the synovial membrane and the cartilage, but also the fibrous textures and the cellular tissue. This gives rise to disorganisation and the formation of abscesses and sinuses in all directions. (Plate xi. Fig. 4.) The atrophy of the muscles may arise in two ways, either from disuse of the limb or from some peculiar change in its muscular texture. At one time the former view was held, but in a great many cases of synovial and other diseases of joints we find that the limb affected is always atrophied, and that when the diseased condition is so far got rid of, and the patient able to move about, whilst the healthy limb regains its normal state, the affected one never does so completely. This is due to the fact that the muscles of the affected limb have undergone a fatty degeneration, so that the atrophy arises partly at least from a positive alteration in the structure of the muscles. Although the joint usually affected is the knee, yet the disease is not unc6mmon in the ankle and elbow. The ankle-joint is that in which I would have most hesitation in having recourse to operative procedure, because I have seen many remarkable recoveries from disease of this joint in young children, even where suppuration and ulceration had taken place. In the elbow gelatinous degeneration also occurs frequently, but I cannot recollect of having seen a case of this synovial de- generation in the shoulder-joint. We now come to consider the Treatment of gelatinous dege- neration. At one time the disease was considered incur- able. Sir Benjamm Brodie held that it was the most incurable of all joint-diseases, and that, sooner or later, the patient either had to undergo amputation or died. On the other hand, Mr. Scott afi&rmed that the disease was always curable by his plan of treatment, which consisted principally in rest and graduated pressure on the joint by plasters, together with proper