584 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. Tkaumatic Aneurism of the Femoral Artery may occur from a wound of that vessel. Here, as in all other false aneurisms, the treatment consists in enlarging the wound, and tying the vessel above and helow the injured point. If the femoral vein be wounded, as well as the artery, amputation may be required, though we should always give the patient the chance of retaining the limb by first tying the artery above and below. When in applying a ligature to the artery we happen to wound the vein, it is generally transfixed, so that a part of the coats of the vein is tied along with the artery, and then pyaemia and gangrene will probably result, unless we withdraw the ligature at once, and reapply it more carefully to the artery alone. In an accidental wound the circumstances are different, for if the artery be tied the venous bleeding will soon cease, and bad symptoms may not follow, though the risks of gangrene are very great. A traumatic aneurism occurs in this way :—The patient receives a stab, which wounds the artery, say in Hunter's canal, and the bleeding is arrested at the time. A false aneurism follows, which is somewhat diffused, though still circumscribed by the anatomical disposition of the parts. What treatment should be adopted in such a case ? As a general principle, in all false aneurisms we should cut down on the tumour, and put a double ligature round the artery ; but in the case of a wound of the femoral artery in Hunter's canal, there are some peculiar conditions to be attended to. If the aneurism be not very diffuse, I should feel very much inclined to use the Hunterian method of treatment, and tie the femoral at the lower part of Scarpa's triangle. The vein may have escaped injury by the wound, but the parts are all matted together, and the risks of interfering with them are very considerable, lest the vein be wounded in the operation. The Hunterian plan of treatment has proved successful in several cases ; and though the ordinary method is quite satisfactory, the Hunterian plan may, as an ex- ception to the ordinary rule, be employed advantageously in such a case as this. In one of the Continental hospitals I have seen the common femoral ligatured for a traumatic aneurism in