GELA TINO US DEC EN ERA TION. 305 and becomes more distinctly localised, the patient generally re- ferring it to one particular spot in the joint. At length we are consulted for its relief, and on examination—say six weeks after the commencement of the disease—we find a partial swelling on either side of the patella, and extending towards the posterior as- pect of the lateral ligaments. This increases around the patella, and the markings of the bone are gradually lost in it. The swelling presents either a peculiar elastic or a doughy feeling. The enlarge- ment seems greater than it really is, owing to the emaciation of the limb, for even at an early stage of the disease the thigh and leg of the affected limb become perceptibly atrophied. As the disease goes on, the symptoms become more marked. The colourless swelling increases, the joint becomes more tense and has a glazed appearance. The patella is somewhat raised, though not so much as in synovitis, and the general appearance of the joint bears a close resemblance to what we see in that disease. The pain is not aggravated by pressure on the part; but move- ment of the limb causes an increase of it, more especially if in doing so the articular surfaces are pressed against each other. The lateral ligaments after a time yield, the swelling be- comes more general than in synovitis, and the surface is marked by superficial veins, which become prominently en- larged and conspicuous. The whole joint becomes altered in con- sequence of disorganisation of its fibrous textures, and the limb becomes rapidly atrophied. As the disease advances, abscesses begin to form in the surrounding parts, and then pain, sometimes severe, is felt in the swollen joint itself. At a further stage of the disease the pain in the joint becomes very acute, and different in character. At night it becomes extreme, and there are spasms and startings in the Kmb, from an uncontrollable convulsive movement of the muscles, so that the patient cannot sleep. Thus his strength becomes exhausted, his appetite fails, his general health breaks down, and severe irritative fever, tending towards hectic, sets in. The acute pain at night, to- gether with the spasms, are met with in another affection of the joints—namely, in acute ulceration of the cartilages ; X