581 INGUINAL ANEURISM. guisli it from inguinal aneurism, tliougli it never resembles tliat disease so closely as the soft malignant tumour does. The special symptoms of an aneurism in the groin, or in- guinal aneurism, are generally pain in the lumbar region, along the crest of the ilium, in the neighbourhood of the testicle and scrotum, and also down the front and outer side of the thigh. This is referable to the stretching of the branches of the ilio- lumbar nerve, passing in front o-f the vessel. The anterior crural nerve is not directly pressed upon unless the aneurism be very large. The painful symptoms, therefore, are chiefly referable to pressure on the ilio-lumbar nerves, and impeded circulation in the limb. The other aneurisms occurring here are connected with the vessels arising from the internal iliac, and may be either true or traumatic aneurisms. The ischiatic artery is very rarely affected with aneurism, the vessel most commonly affected in that region being the gluteal artery, which may be wounded by a person sitting down on any sharp instrument. An aneurism may also form spontaneously on the gluteal artery ; and in that case I hold that the proper plan of treatment is to tie either the internal iliac or the common iliac artery. This is certainly better than cutting into the sac and dealing with the aneurism there, which is unsatisfactory in its results, for in cases where a cure has been supposed to be effected by this operation, the disease has afterwards returned; and hence I think it is better to tie the internal or common iliac artery by the Hunterian method, preferring the internal iliac in all cases where that is possible. Another reasoir for adopting this plan of treatment is, that we cannot be sure that we are dealing with a case of aneurism of the gluteal artery, as the diseased vessel may be some other branch of the internal iliac. In cases of Tkaumatic Aneurism of the Gluteal Artery, arising from a wound in the hip, the tu.mour will be diffuse, and must be treated like any other false aneurism. The abdo- minal aorta must be compressed, and a free incision, nearly a foot in length, made into the tumour, the contents of the sac