539 FA TTY DEGENERA TION. affecting not only the whole of the vascular system, but also the various organs of the body, more especially the liver and kidneys. It produces a thickening, and consequent diminution of elasticity, in the walls of the vessels ; and, when attacking the liver or kidneys, its advanced stage is marked by the depo- sition within the cells and intervascular spaces of a homogeneous substance, the accumulation of which enlarges the organ, and gives its section a semi-translucent waxy or lardaceous appear- ance, from which the disease has derived its various names. The fatty and calcareous degenerations are essentially diseases of advanced life, their traces being found almost universally in greater or less degree within the arterial walls of old people after deatli. They are, however, met with very frequently in middle life, and they may be noted from time to time even in the comparatively young. The iwst-mortcm appearances of an artery which has undergone this form of degeneration are very charac- teristic. Its coats have a thickened, leathery appearance, due to degenerative changes having occurred more or less throughout all its tissues; and, if the vessel be slit open, well-marked patches, of varying size, and of a greyish-yellow colour, will be found scattered over its inner surface. These are called athero- mata. They are depots of fatty debris, the product of degenera- tion, collected under the inner serous lining of the vessel; and if one of them be cut open, its cheesy contents will be found, with the aid of the microscope, to consist of a great quantity of fatty molecules, intermixed with scales of cholesterine, and a varying number of granular masses, composed of the carbonate and phosphate of lime, which effervesce on the addition of an acid. Deposits of pure earthy matter niay alternate with the atheromatous patches, and in many cases they are exceedingly marked, whole arteries becoming converted into bony canals, quite devoid of elasticity and much diminished in calibre. The part supplied by such a vessel necessarily suffers in its vitality, and, as was explained when considering that subject, gangrene not unfrequently results, especially the dry form of it known as gangrcna senilis.