HYDROPS ARTICULL 301 the balance between the exlialants and the absorbents. The limb must of course be kept at perfect rest, and should also be bandaged from the foot or hand upwards, which further helps the process of absorption. In many cases the tendency to the return of the effusion is very great, the disease being cured for the time only. When this treatment fails to cure the disease effectually, we must then adopt more active measures. We must tap the joint and inject iodine into it, as in hydrocele. This mode of treatment, however, is not unattended with a con- siderable amount of danger. In many cases no bad symptoms may follow ; but in others, violent inflammation and suppura- tion are the result. When we simply puncture the joint and draw off the fluid, the danger is perhaps greater than when we also inject iodine. The iodine excites a healthy form of inflammation, and prevents the formation of purulent matter in the synovial sac. It seems to possess an antipyogenic power. In the slighter cases we are not warranted in having recourse to this treatment, but only in such as have resisted the ordinary measures. Internal remedies are also to be given, and the state of the constitution attended to. Movable Cartilages in Joints are met with occasionally. The general symptoms are very similar to those of subacute or chronic synovitis. There is pain, with more or less fluid swelling of the joint. When the knee is affected, the patient probably at first experiences in walking or in taking a sudden step, a feeling of excessive pain in the joint. This is sometimes so severe as to cause him to fall. This symptom is due to the loose cartilage having slipped between the condyles of the femur and the head of the tibia. In other cases the pain is not so marked; but the patient can generally tell when the cartilage gets between the ends of the bones. When the joint is much swollen and distended with fluid, it is not always easy to make out the presence of the loose cartilage, especially if it be small and flat. Should there be any difficulty, it is best to keep the patient quiet for a few days until some of the effusion has become absorbed, and then examine the joint. The cartilage