606 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. Lawrie, who attended the family, and on examination I found the humerus broken at the neck, the broken end of the shaft considerably displaced inwards to the axilla, and the elbow tilted outwards. Mr. B—— was exceedingly sick and faint, having only a short time pre-viously recovered from a severe attack of rheumatic fever, and suffering at the time of the accident from bowel-complaint. I The fractiu'e was readily adjusted, scarcely any force whatever being necessarj' to extend the shaft of the bone and withdraw it from the axilla. I put it up in the usual manner, with a soft compress in the axilla, placing the forearm in a sling, and confining the arm and elbow to the side by means of a broad soft shawl. I then ordered him an opiate to arrest the diarrhoea, and left him. Next morning I saw him with Dr. Lawrie. He had passed a very restless night owing to the bowel-complaint, and also from pain at the frac- tured part, and numbness in the hand. On loosing the bandages, the hand and forearm were found not much swollen, but they were much colder than those of the opposite side, and no pulsation could be felt either in the brachial, radial, or ulnar arteries, at any point, but distinct and full pulsation could be felt in the axillary, immediately above the fracture ; there was considerable ecchymosis and bruising over the jjoint of the shoulder and deltoid, also some swelling along the inner side of the biceps, but there was no pulsatory movement in the swelling, nor any appearance of its communicating witli the artery. It was evident, however, that the axillary had suffered, that circulation through it was obstructed, and that the treatment of the fracture must be considered secondary to that of the injury of the vessel. I accordingly did not replace the pad in the axilla, but got a soft cushion made sufficiently long to reach from the axilla to the hand, jointed at the elbow, and thicker above than below. This I placed on the inner side, and another soft cushion and thin pasteboard sjjlint on the outer side of the arm and forearm. The elbow was kept only slightly bent, the splint and cushions secured with slip-knots, and the whole limb covered with flannel. This plan, whilst it interfered but little with the restoration of the circulation through the collateral branches, kept the broken ends of the bone pretty well in position. I continued it for the first fifteen days, when, although I could feel no pulse in the larger vessels, I was satisfied, from the restored heat and sensation of the part, that the circulation was re-established sufficiently to allow of the ordinary apparatus being used. Accordingly, I replaced a soft elastic hair-cushion in the axilla, and a leather splint, well padded, along the outside of the arm and forearm (from the point of shoTilder to the extremity of the fingers). The forearm was supported in a sling, and the arm kept to the side by a soft shawl. Under this treatment the patient went on favourably, except that, about the end of third week, he complained much of severe pam in the part, and of a sense of suff'ocation, and a feeling of weight across the chest, which he attributed to the position of the forearm across the body. The sling was lowered so as to change this position, but still the feeling con- tinued ; alterative medicine was given with some relief. As it became of great importance for him to get home to London at this time, and as the union of the bone seemed sufficiently fijrm to warrant