NECROSIS. 200 extremely strumous patients, or in persons of strumous constitu- tion, with a syphilitic taint either hereditary or acquired. The symptoms are generally of a low type. There is but little pre- ceding inflammation or swelling of tlie limb or bone. An abscess may form, enabling us, after opening it, to touch bare bone at some one point only ; whilst, in fact, the whole, or a large part of the shaft, is affected by little patches of necrosis, the dense structure of the shaft is opened out and carious-looking, and there is little or rather no attempt at repair—no new bone thrown out around the dead portion. In this form the bone is very friable, and fracture is apt to occur. In the case of the lad from whom I obtained the specimen I show you, an abscess formed in the popliteal space, and the surface of the femur there was felt bare and rough. As it did not exfoliate, he got tired and left the hospital. I was sent for to him in a great hurry shortly after- wards, and foxmd the femur broken a short distance below the lesser trochanter. I had him carried to hospital, and there amputated the thigh just below the trochanter. There had been no swelling, pain, or deformity, nor any symptom of disease, except at the popliteal region, and yet you see the state of the bone at the broken part, and for some extent upwards and downwards from that point. The lad made a good recovery from the amputation, but when about to leave the hospital, general dropsy suddenly supervened, with albuminuria ; this yielded readily to treatment, and after being in the country for some months, he returned quite ruddy and feeling strong, but his urine was as albumi- nous as when he left. I saw him from time to time for seven years, always seemingly in good health, no oedema or other bad symptom, but the urine always so coagulable by heat as to be nearly solid. He was suddenly seized with lumbar pains ; sup- pression of urine took place ; and when I saw him, twenty-four hours after his seizure, he was comatose and moribund, and died two hoiirs later. I mention this case and show you the specimen as typical of this form of patchy necrosis. Before proceeding to speak of the treatment, I desire to draw your attention to the necrosis of scrofulous patients and its re- lations to caries.