288 DISEASES OF JOINTS. texture. Bursse mucosse, as they are named, are just sacs of synovial character placed over joints or bones, or between tendons and the skin or muscles, to protect them from external pressure, and at the same time permit of easy motion. They are sometimes formed adventitiously when a part is exposed to continued abnormal pressure. Their anatomical character, the nature of their secretion, and functions, differ little if at all from those of the synovial sac, and there is therefore consider- able similarity in their pathology. Eequesting you to keep in mind these general views of their structure, I now proceed to speak of the diseases affecting joints. Inflammation of a joint may arise idiopathically from some constitutional predisposition, such as the rheumatic, stru- mous, or syphilitic, excited perhaps by exposure to cold or damp, or without any very obvious exciting cause. Or it may arise from injuries, such as sprains, bruises, or penetrating wounds. The invasion and progressive symptoms of the inflammation will be modified by the circumstances giving rise to it, and our prognosis will be much influenced by the constitutional pre- disposition or diathesis of the patients in whom it occurs. In cases where the inflammation arises from cold or damp, it generally partakes more or less of the rheumatic character, and the fibrous articular textures are first affected. There is not much swelling at first, but deep-seated pain in the part, aggra- vated by motion, especially by particular movements in diff'erent joints. The pain is most severe at night, and partakes of a peculiar tense aching character. Febrile symptoms supervene. The pulse rises, becomes hard and frequent. A hot dry skin occasionally alternates with profuse perspirations. The tongue is foul and loaded, and the urine scanty and high coloured. Sometimes the fever is, from the first, of the irritative type. "When these symptoms have continued for a short time, swelling begins, at first slight and cfidematous, in consequence of the vessels relieving themselves into the areolar texture external