428 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. risks, a bandage is put round the foot, and a splint placed either before or behind the limb, according to circumstances, and kept there for a short time. When the bones of the leg are thrust backwards upon the os calcis, there is sometimes a little more difficulty in reducing the dislocation than in the former case, where reduced retentive apparatus is applied to prevent displace- ment, as in the other dislocation. In Compound Fractuiies and Dislocations about the Ankle.—I am convinced that, whilst we may occasionally ob- tain very good results, in the greater proportion of cases the results are so disastrous, that, as a rule, amputation is better than attempting to save the limb. In many cases the external injury is apparently very slight. The external wound may be small, and we may be able with very little force to replace the parts in position. Splints are applied, and the case may go on very well for a week or two, but then irritative fever sets in, Avith abscesses and erysipelatous action about the parts. Even in cases which ultimately do well, these bad symptoms come on, causing great risk to life. I have had five very successful cases, of this injury in adults; but on looking back to those cases, and considering the dangers the patients ran, and the long time they took to get well, I have come to believe that, as a general principle, it is safer to amputate the foot. I know that, in many cases where I have attempted to save the limb under as favour- able circumstances as in these five successful cases, the results were fatal. It is seldom that we can perform secondary amputa- tion, on account of the fever and pyaemia which set in. There- fore in the adult at or above middle life, in compound dislocations and fractures at the ankle joint, we should, as a rule, amputate rather than attemj^t to save the limb. But if we are to try conservative measures, we must proceed on certain principles, and in children and young persons I would always endeavour to save the limb, unless in very scrofulous patients; but I would not be content with simply reducing the dislocation and keeping the parts in position. I would take care, if it was a small wound, to enlarge the opening, and remove the cartilage