240 DISEASES OF BONES. all cliance of union. So that there was nothing wonderful in the fact that in the latter case the bone should not unite. It was quite impossible it could do so. In some of Mr. Syme's experi- ments portions of tinfoil were placed between the periosteum and the bone, and it was found that new bone was thrown out between the tinfoil and the periosteum, but I know of no experi- ment showing it to be formed on the exterior of the fibrous periosteum. I believe therefore that tlie internal lamina of the periosteum, together with the lining membrane of the Haversian canals, are the only formative textures engaged in the nutrition and reproduction of bone. In the shorter bones, and in the cancellated texture of the epiphyses of long bones, the osseous structure is looser, yields more readily, and so allows changes to take place without so much destruction as in the denser texture of the shaft. In the shaft of a long bone the veins are not large in proportion to the arteries, the returning circulation being principally carried on by large veins which pass out from the neighbourhood of the epiphyses. Keeping these structural peculiarities in view, let us now pro- ceed to consider the diseased conditions affecting bone. Like every other texture, it is subject to inflammatory action ; and you will easily understand, from what has been said, that the symptoms will be very intense, and the effects destructive. In inflammation of the soft parts the pain and risk are always less in proportion as the vessels can relieve themselves easily by effu- sion or exudation into the loose tissue of the part. The denser the texture, therefore, the greater are the destru.ctive effects, and the more severe are the general and local symptoms. Whilst the soft tissues open out and allow a more healthy action to take place, dense textures, su.ch as tendons and fascise, slough. They possess less vitality, and a comparatively small amount of exudation poured out into their structure produces destructive effects, and intense pain from the greater pressure on the nerves. When bone is inflamed all these conditions are at the maximum. Inflammation of bone may be either