xix EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. the clots. The ligature had just separated, and was lying loose in the little c\;p-like cavity formed by the lymph. The lymph immediately around the knot was somewhat softer than the rest, but there was no appearance of purulent matter. The external exudation had followed ia the track of the ligature, filled up the parts it had divided, come in contact with the internal plastic lymph, and thus the divided ends of the artery were re-united. The blood-clots were only firmly adherent at their bases. Fig. 7. Artery thirteen days after the separation of the ligature. The point which had been tied is seen enveloped by a firm mass of consolidated lymph, which has united the separated ends of the vessel. Fig. 8. Section of the same artery. Exhibits the connections and struc- ture of the plastic exudation at the seat of ligature. There were no clots on either side of the deligated point in this case. The section of the consolidated h^mph shows that the external and internal plastic exudations have coalesced so as to form a firm uniting structure of a fibroiis character, and possessing a considerable amount of elasticity, as was proved by stretching the vessel. Plate XXII.—Page 510. {From nature hy John Wintour.) Fig. 1. Carotid artery of a large dog, sixty hours after deligation. The coats of the artery and the ligature are seen imbedded in plastic lymph. The vessels having been injected with coloured size, the external plastic mass is seen to be liighly vascularised even at that early jjeriod. Fig. 2. The same artery opened, to show the internal changes and their relation to the external lymph. (See page 510.) Fig. 3 exhibits a partial section of ; a carotid artery twelve days after deligation ; the ligature had separated four days previously. On clearing the artery from the surrounding parts, and making a section of the lymph connecting the ends of the arteiy, and also of the distal portion of the vessel, so as to show the relations of the external and internal changes induced by the ligature, the arterial parietes were seen covered with a network of minute vessels. The section of the lymph, between the divided ends of the vessel, exhibited a vessel of considerable size passing upwards through its centre into the internal plastic lymph, and also into the base of the blood-clot. (See page 515.) Figs. 4 and 5. The carotid artery of a dog. The ligature had separated without any hemorrhage. The external appearances, as shown in Fig. 4, presented the usual appearances of solid exudation round the deligated part of the vessel. On making a section of the vessel and plastic Ipuph, the appearances delineated in