FRACTURE. 343 The reduction of a fracture consists in making extension and counter-extension on the lower and upper parts of the bone, if the ends of the bone are overlapping, until the broken ends of the bone come into contact. Coaptation is the exact fitting of the broken surfaces to each other. "When this is effected, the fragments must be kept in position by means of retentive appa- ratus. In applying this, we must keep in mind to fix the neigh- bouring articulations as well as the broken ends of the bone, so that no movement can be made which would affect the fractured point. The mechanical retentive apparatus is generally very simple, consisting usually of a wooden or pasteboard splint on either side of the limb, passing from the joint immediately above the fracture to that immediately below it, and retained by slip- knots or a bandage, so as to fix the limb completely. In other cases a pad in certain places is necessary, to prevent the bone being drawn in towards the trunk. In treating a fracture, whether by retentive apparatus, such as splints or bandages, or by attention to the position of the limb, it is most important always to keep in mind what are the displacing causes of the fracture; what are the conditions, whether muscular or other- wise, which led to the displacement originally, which tend to displace the bone after it has been set, and which therefore re- quire to be obviated. Without attending to these points we can never treat a fracture on principle. The displacing causes vary of course in different cases. In each fracture there are certain particular displacing causes; but there are some which are common to them all, such as the muscular displacing causes, the weight of parts which have lost their support, the force causing the injury, from the direc- tion of that force, and the direction of the obliquity of the surfaces of the bone. In fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, for example, the upper end of the shaft of the bone is drawn in towards the chest. This is caused by the action of the pectoralis major, the latissimus dorsi, and teres major, the deltoid still further lielping to produce this effect. These muscles also draw the lower fragment upwards as weD as inwards. The