CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 627 of an operation being required, and had carefully weighed in my mind what method of procedure I should adopt, and had decided, for reasons which I shall explain hereafter, to tie the superficial femoral above and below the aneurism without opening the sac. Accordingly, on the 8th of April 1868, assisted by Drs. Dunsmure, Gillespie, Littlejohn, Taylor, and Mr. Miller, I proceeded to perform the operation I had planned. The patient being put under the influence of chloroform, I made an incision 7-J- inches long, commencing about 2 inches below the middle of PoiajJart's ligament, and continuing downwards in the course of the femoral artery. This incision passed over the long axis of the aneurism, and crossed the course of the sartorius muscle, so that I might reach the artery mider the inner border of that muscle at the upper part, and under its outer margin at the lower part of the thigh. In making my incision I was careful to cut lightly over the tumour, so as not to divide more than the skin and fat. I next proceeded to clear the artery in the lower part of Scarpa's triangle. In doing so I found the parts more matted together and thickened, and the depth increased from the plastic and serous effusion to a much greater extent than the external appearances would have led me to exjject. I required to take great care in clearing and drawing aside the inner edge of the sartorius, which, instead of being loosely connected as irsual, was adherent. The sheath of the artery, however, was not so affected, and was readily recognised and carefully opened, and the artery cleared for passing the aneurism-needle. The vein, much distended, was felt bidging under the artery. The armed needle was then carefully passed round the ve.ssel, tlie ligature left imtied, and the ends held by an assistant, I next proceeded to tie the femoral below the aneurism in Hunter's canal. The fascia over the outer edge of the sartorius was freely divided, and the edge of the muscle cleared. Here a difficulty occurred, not from adhesion of the margin of the muscle at the part cleared, but owing to the body of the muscle over the aneurism being blended with the tumour, and forming part of the false sac. I found I could not turn over the muscle or draw it aside, so as to expose the aponeurosis covering the artery, without using such force as would have endangered breaking up the lunitation of the aneurism. I had, howe\'er, foreseen this difiiculty, and accordingly, as I wished to tie the artery as close as I could to the aneu- rismal tumour, I divided about half the breadth of the sartorius, so as to expose and reach the vessel, which here lay very deeply, the depth being increased by the proximity of the tumour. When I had passed this ligature, I tied it firmly, and then proceeded to tie the upper ligature, which had also been applied as closely as possible to the swelling. So soon as the upper ligature was tightened, all pulsation and sound ceased, and the appearance of tumour was almost effaced. The long wound was then closed by points of suture, a slip of dry lint placed over it, and retained by slips of adhesive plaster ; the foot, leg, and knee were wrapped in cotton wadding, and the patient placed in bed, with the knee very slightly bent, and laid on its outside on a soft pillow. When the patient recovered from the chloroform he was a little sick, and vomited. An opiate was administered. The milk and farinaceous diet were ordered to be continued. He progressed very favourably, and the wound healed well, little treatment having been reqiiired, except medicine