474 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. every artery. Each has a layer of fine condensed cellular tissue surrounding it, and having vascular connections with it and the surrounding tissues. The function of the arteries is to distribute the blood over every part of the body, and nature has provided that if the cir- culation be interrupted at any one point, there shall be other branches to carry it on beyond the interruption. This consti- tutes what is called the collateral circulation. In the femoral artery, for example, there are certain branches coming off from the profunda which are termed the collateral branches, and which run in directions somewhat parallel to the superficial femoral. These communicate freely with each other, by oblique or trans- verse branches, termed anastomosing branches, so that when the main trunk is tied the circulation is still carried on. The term collateral was originally applied specially to branches run- ning parallel to the main artery, but now the terms collateral and anastomosing are used almost synonymously. I have men- tioned this anastomosis of arteries as a provision in case of in- terruption to the circulation at any point, but its effects in cases of wounded vessels must also be kept in mind. Thus, when an artery is wounded, the blood at first flows freely from the proxi- mal side of the wound; and if the vessel be tied there, the flow of blood is re-established from the distal side of the wound, in consequence of the free collateral circulation and anasto- mosis. When an artery is wounded, the bleeding takes place much more quickly from it than from a vein. If the opening in the artery be of any great size, the blood—of a bright red colour —flows per saltum and very profusely ; and the effect produced upon the system is much more rapid as regards the faintness and sickness than in the case of a wounded vein. The character and form of the wound will modify the effects. If the opening be a slit parallel to the direction of the vessel, and across the course of the circular fibres, then if the limb be on the stretch, comparatively little bleeding takes place; but whenever the limb is relaxed, the bleeding becomes profuse, and this