316 DISEASES OF JOINTS. marked differences in the symptomatology of the two diseases in the earlier stages—the one being characterised by pain on being pressed in certain directions, while the other is painless ; and the one being generally marked by a greater amount of swelling than the other. Any joint may be affected by this disease, but those most commonly attacked are, the hip, knee, shoulder, and elbow joints. The ankle is sometimes affected with it, but not so often as with gelatinous degeneration. One difference between this disease and gelatinous degeneration is, that in the former the patient feels pain and uneasiness at night at a very early period, leading to want of sleep and startings in the limb. The pain is generally of a subacute character, and the patient instinctively avoids resting any weight upon the limb. The nature and locality of the disease may be often ascertained by the attitude the patient assumes. When the hip-joint is affected, he bends the knee somewhat, and rests upon the opposite limb. When the knee- joint is the seat of disease, the limb is always bent, the thigh being flexed upon the pelvis, and the leg upon the femur, so that the articular surfaces of the bones are separated, and prevented from pressing against each other. In the very early stage of ulceration of cartilage there is not much swelling, though even then there may be some effusion into the joint, and there may be a certain amount of irritation from affection of the synovial membrane. As a rule, this is not the case as it is in gelatinous degeneration, and if there be any swelling it is noticed in the ends of the bones, the markings of which are not lost as in other joint-diseases. In the case of the knee-joint the head of the tibia appears larger than usual, and all the bones concerned are enlarged to a certain extent. This enlargement appears to be greater than it reaUy is, owing to the atrophy of the muscles, and these become atrophied at a very early period. In this, as in the foregoing disease, we shall take the knee- joint as an example. On ej^amining the joint, if we press on either side of the patella, we produce no pain ; the patient says