G18 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. comparative cliances of success between ligature of the external iliac, or the lower part of the superficial femoral, the latter plan was decided on, and the patient willingly gave his consent. But as the case did not seem a very hopeful one, it was thought as well to try the plan of flexion of the leg upon the thigh. On bending the limb fully, all pulsation was at once and completely arrested, and the limb was bandaged in that position. But the patient could not bear such flexion to be kept up ; accordingly, a slipper, with a bandage sewed to the heel, was fastened on the foot, and the slip of bandage was then fastened to a loop connected Avith a broad bandage round his jjelvis, and this gradually tight- ened so as to increase daily the flexion of the leg on the thigh. Tliis treatment was commenced on the 20th of May 1859. On the 23d the pulsations were weaker, b\it returned when flexion of the limb was dis- continued. On the 27th the pulsation diminished ; tumour smaller and fii'mer. There was still a tendency to increase of pulsation when the limb was allowed to remain straight for any length of time. On the 6th of June the pulsation was scarcely to be felt in the aneurism, even when flexion was discontinued. The tumour felt solid and smaller, and enlarged anas- tomosing vessels could be felt over it and round the knee. The patient was now allowed to walk about with crutches, the affected limb being sus- pended ru a flexed position. When in bed, or sitting in the ward, he was desired to extend the leg occasionally, and not to keep it constantly bent. On the 23d of June there was not the slightest j^ulsation to be felt in the aneurism, which was firm, and considerably diminished in bulk. Several very large anastomosing vessels could be felt over the tumour, the limb was of good heat, and there was no stifEness of the knee-joint. I kept the patient for about three weeks longer in hospital under observation, and he was dismissed cm-ed. Since then he has retiu'ned to his usual occupation of a coal-carter, which requires him to walk considerable distances ; but wlien I last saw him, two years after the operation, there was no tendency to return of the disease. Remarhs.—These two cases of aneurism present some features of interest. In J. F.'s case, tlie arterial system seemed very generally affected, and there was evidence of valvular disease of the heart. When the common femoral was compressed so as to control the circulation, the course of the superficial femoral could be readily traced for some distance, the rigid state of its coats maintaining the form of the vessel even when empty. The con- dition of the patient was therefore by no means favourable ; and from the rigid feel of the artery, I felt apprehensive, lest its coats might give way under the small round ligature. Still, the rapid increase of the tumour necessitated the operation to give the patient a chance of life, as it was evident that otherwise the aneurism would soon have given way. I therefore tied tlie