TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF JOINTS. 295 increase of pain. Ee-application of ice always reduced the former and removed the latter. The semi-anaesthesia produced by ice is generally sufficient to remove the pain until suppuration sets in ; afterwards, its influence in that respect is not so decided. In order, however, to keep the patient at perfect ease, the bag must be promptly re-filled as soon as the ice has melted ; for, unless an equable low temperature be preserved, pain is not completely removed. In some cases it is even increased, and possibly this may, to some extent, explain the difficulty with which ice is borne by some patients of irritable temperament. The low temperature, so far from being hostile to the nutrient changes requisite for primary union, is, through its power of preventing inflammation, one of the best aids to primary union that can be adopted. During the late campaign in Schleswig-Holstein, the surgeons of both armies applied ice to all wounded joints, and to nearly every stump after amputation ; and the general conclusion arrived at was, that where it was employed, primary union was more frequent and more extensive, and that the ensuing sup- puration was always less. These results ensued whether the ice was applied only until the commencement of inflammation, as practised by Langenbeck; or when it was kept applied until the wound had almost entirely healed by the second intention, as recommended by Esmarck. The practice of continuing the appli- cation of cold after inflammation has set in, has generally been considered a dangerous one by the surgeons of this country; but, contrary to what might have been anticipated, the cases treated on the principles of Esmarck succeeded almost as well as those where Langenbeck's practice was adopted. That treatment by ice is not always sufficient to prevent inflammation, even in those cases where the wound is incised and clean, is evident from what takes place in patients who are of an unhealthy constitution. In them the inflammation progresses rapidly, notwithstanding the local means used for subduing it. It would, however, be worth while to investi- gate, whether or not a lower temperature than that produced