552 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. prove effectual in a case, the circumstances of which were peculiar. I had tied the femoral artery, and this had apparently cured the aneurism, but about eighteen months afterwards the tumour began to return very rapidly, and I then tried the treatment by flexion alone. This quite stopped the circulation, and the cure was permanent, the aneurism having never returned. It is not always quite safe, however, to trust to flexion alone. In the case of another man who had disease of the aorta and of the heart, and who was not in a favourable condition for tying the femoral artery, I employed flexion, and the aneurism be- came hard and solid, and was apparently cured in a very short time, but after some injudicious movements of the patient it suddenly gave way and became diffuse. Compression was im- mediately made upon the artery higher up, so that the diffusion of blood was very limited, and I at once tied the femoral in Scarpa's triangle, but subacute gangrene supervened, and secondary amputation was required. If in this case compression and flexion had been employed conjointly, an effectual cure might have been obtained and the risk avoided. In another case of popliteal aneurism, at present in hospital, I tried flexion and compression together for about six months, but without much effect, for the aneurism was a fusiform one. I then brought him into the hospital, where I tied the femoral, and a successful result has been obtained. Though the principle of all these methods is the same, I must say that I consider ligature of the superficial femoral for popliteal aneurism to be preferable either to flexion or compression. We may try flexion first as a means of pre- paration for the ligature of the artery, and at the same time em- ploy compression over the vessel in Hunter's canal; but the ligature, if properly applied, is certainly the most effectual. There is still another method of treatment which seems at first sight to be directly opjMsed to correct principles,—that is, tying the artery on the distal side of the aneurism, at a healthy point beyond the aneurismal sac. We should suppose that the impulse of the blood on the sac when the current was arrested on its distal side would burst the aneurism, but it is found that on