INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 392 along with the hand, then there is no fracture. We may have it move for a time very nearly synchronously with the hand, in consequence of the two fragments lying in close apposition, still it is not the same smooth movement that there is if the bone be entire. Again, by fixing the shaft of the radius and ulna, and moving the upper part of the radius, we can make one fragment toiich the other, and then crepitus is felt. The treatment of this fracture consists in placing the fore- arm in splints, which should be somewhat narrower than those used for fracture of the ulna, and keeping the arm bent at a right angle. There are two special fractures of the radius lower down —above and below the pronator quadratus. The more, common of these is that which takes place immediately above the styloid process. In the higher fracture, the hand falls in and is pronated. There is a swelling in front and behind. The pronator quadratus and the pronator teres, together witli the extensors and the supinator longus, are here the chief displacing causes. The supinator longus tilts up the styloid end of the radius. The pronator teres cannot draw forwards and inwards the upper fragment readily, because it is counteracted by the supinator brevis, and this fragment lies therefore nearly in position. The biceps also tends to prevent this portion of the bone from being rotated inwards, so that in this fracture we have, as a general rule, the lower fragment lying in front of the upper, being rotated towards the ulna, by the almost unopposed action of the pronator quadratus. In the lower fracture we meet with the very opposite con- dition. In it the lower fragment invariably lies behind. The displacing causes are more numerous than in the former case. We have the pronator quadratus, or at least the greater portion of it, above the site of the fracture ; the few fibres which are connected to the lower fragment are so injured that they do not act. In this fracture the muscle rotates inwards and pronates the upper portion of the radius, whilst the supinator radii longus