582 INJURIES AND DISEASES QF BLOODVESSEIS. turned out, and a double ligature applied to the vessel. In doing this, we must remember that when the gluteal trunk is wounded it generally retracts partly within the pelvis, leaving a long tubular prolongation, which, if tied, will almost certainly give way. Therefore the vessel must be secured higher up, where it is not abnormally dilated, as it is a very long artery, without any collateral branches till where it gives off the epigastric and circumflex ilii. The operation to be performed will depend on the position and extent of the aneurism. If it be not extensive, or situated high up, we may place a ligature above the affected part; but if there be not room for this, then the common iliac must be tied. In all these aneurisms compres- sion and flexion are out of the question, and there is therefore no other treatment which can be adopted than ligature of the common iliac. Aneurisms of the external iliac may attain a very large size, even though the artery be not very much affected. By its length the aneurism may displace the upper healthy part of the vessel, raising it on its surface, or pushing it aside or upwards. In these aneurisms we sometimes require to cut down on the sac, turn out its contents, and tie the vessel above and below. This is a very complicated operation, though it may be beneficial sometimes when the aneurism is to a certain extent diffuse ; but still it is very uncertain. The coats of the vessels are very likely to be diseased ; and, besides, the operation is attended with some uncertainty as to Avliat is tied. In one case the external iliac, the internal iliac, and the common iliac, were supposed to be tied, but after death it was found that the external iliac was the only one of the three vessels M'hich had really been ligatured. It is best to make a free incision through the abdominal parietes, and examine the artery carefully, both above and below the aneurism, before opening the sac and apply- ing the ligature ; but this operation is only applicable to excep- tional cases of true aneurism. Aneurisms of the Common Iliac Artery, or of the abdominal aorta, are not of unfrequent occurrence. These, however, are