414 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. the foot, for if we do, we push up the long splint, and with it the lower fragment of the femur, and so certainly cause shortening of the limb. The slip-knots must be tied on the inner side of the limb, for if tied on the outside, whenever they require to be tightened or loosened, the long splint must be so far displaced, which is avoided if the knots are on the inner side. Sometimes the long splint is fastened to the limb by a bandage instead of the sheet; bx;t this is very troublesome, because when we want to look at the fracture we are obliged to undo the whole bandage. The sheet should be fastened with pins, so that we can then examine the fracture without displacing the splint (Plate xvii. Fig. 1). I wish to take this opportunity of stating more fully my views regarding some princijoles to be attended to, in treating fractures of the shaft of the femur with the long splint. Doubt- less, in every case, the careful setting of the fracture at the first, making sure that the broken limb is fully the same length as the sound one, and that there is no obliquity of the pelvis, or other source of fallacy, which might deceive as to the apparent length, is all important and essential. I^o one can be more opposed than I am to the use of the long splint as a rack to elongate forcibly an imperfectly adjusted fracture of the femur. On the other hand, I am eqiially convinced that, however well adjusted at first, there will be great danger, almost certainty, of retraction and shortening, iinless we keep up the extension we have effected, for the first ten or fifteen days at least. In a fracture of the femur, the extensor and flexor muscles alike tend to shorten ; and as the displacing muscles are pretty equally balanced, we cannot relax them as in treating a simple fracture of the leg. Hence, if the extension and counter-extension be not kept up, the muscles tend to draw the broken fragments over each other. If all fractures of the femur were transverse, so that the broken surfaces, when properly adjusted, would serve to check each other when lateral displacement was prevented by the lateral splints, or if muscles ceased to act whenever the fracture was set, then our plans of treatment might be much simplified. Unfortu-