325 QUESTION OF EXCISION. well marked, aud limited to the bone, without much suppuration, and where the general health has not suffered much, are better suited for excision than those cases in which there is an un- healthy condition of the synovial membrane. The most suc- cessful cases I have had have been in young females under thirty, where the general health has not been much affected, but where the local disease was very great. In male patients again, the results have not been so successful, though why it is so is not very clear. It is not every case of diseased knee-joint that is suited for excision ; but in properly chosen cases, the operation is likely to be successful. Were it done in all cases in which amputation used to be performed, we would find that the statistics of excision would be much less favourable than those of amputation. When we contrast the amputations performed for disease of the knee-joint with excisions for the same disease, we find, as a general rule, that the former are much more suc- cessful—the deaths from amputations being 1 in 7, those after excision 1 in 3 or 4. Excision of the knee-joint is an admirable operation in many cases, but if we wish to preserve its character we must take great care to ascertain the cases best suited for its performance. In disease of the ankle-joint excision is not often required, for even after suppuration and great disorganisation of textures has occurred, we often find that by persistent constitutional treatment, and with perfect rest, a cure wiU be accomplished by anchylosis. In the wrist-joint, in a great many cases, especially in adults, amputation of the forearm is to be preferred to excision of the joint. But if we see the patient early in a case of acute ulcera- tion of cartilage, excision should be performed, for though it be a far more difficult and tedious operation, it leaves a very useful hand. When the parts are much disorganised, amputation must be performed. In two cases of gelatinous degeneration, for which I performed the operation of excision at an early period, though both did well for some time, yet they afterwards required amputation. The state of the constitution attendant on gelati- nous degeneration is not so favourable as that met with in other