ACUPRESSURE. 529 tain, that if the hfemostatic mechanism, of whatever kind it is, can with safety be withdrawn within twenty-four, forty-eight, or seventy-two hours, a great source of anxiety will be got rid of, and the result will be speedy compared with the slow process by which the ligature ulcerates its way towards final sej)aration. There are seven or eight prescribed methods of applying acupressure, some four of which are usually practised. Three of these are modifications of the direct or Edinburoh mode ; the fourth, and perhaps the most useful for small vessels, is the indirect or Aberdeen twist. The Edinburgh plan is to insert the needle into the tissues, on the near side of the artery, causing its point to emerge close to the side of the vessel, then to re- insert it into the tissues on the opposite side. This makes it bridge over the artery, and so compress it. Thus, its course is at right angles to the artery, and it runs straight across it. The Aberdeen plan consists in transfixing a small portion of textui'e by inserting the needle in a line parallel to the artery, then turning it round until it traverses either a quarter or half circle, as the case may be, and reintrodiicing it firmly into the tissues. Thus compression is effected, partly by direct pressure with the needle on the artery, and partly by the tension and resistance of the twisted tissues. For fuller details regarding this subject, I cannot do better than refer you to Sir James Simpson's original work on acu- pressure, or to the recent treatise by Messrs. Pirrie and Keith, Aberdeen. In my own practice I have not yet used acupressure to such an extent as to enable me to speak authoritatively of its advan- tages or disadvantages. In arresting bleeding; from small o o o o vessels after the removal of tumours, it can be used with perfect safety, and with the advantage of easy removal of the needle in a short time ; and in wounded arteries, such as the radial or ulnar, or even the brachial, I would have little hesitation in trusting to it. I have used it with advantage to compress the vessels of the cord in castration, as it not only arrests the bleeding, both tem- porarily and definitely, but also effectually prevents all risk of