505 OCCASIONAL ABSENCE OF CLOT. still further established the fact of the absence of the clot in many instances where the vessels were fairly obliterated. Thus, in two preparations, where the dogs had been killed about two months after ligature of both carotids and both vertebrals, I found that in both instances the vertebrals and one carotid were pervious close up to the deligated points ; whilst, in each of them, one carotid (in the one instance the right carotid, in the other the left) exhibited the presence of a considerable clot. In a stump of a leg which I dissected six weeks after ampu- tation, I found the anterior and posterior tibial arteries pervious to common wax-injection up to the point tied, and contracted in calibre, but presenting no appearance of a clot. I have also in my own possession two specimens of femoral arteries eight Weeks after amputation, where the stumps had cicatrised without the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage. In one there is a large firm coaguhmi adherent to the sides of the arterial canal. In the other, there is not the vestige of a clot, but the artery is contracted to- wards the deligated point, and compressed externally by the firm lymph effused around its extremity (Plate xxiii. Figs. 1 and 2). All these cases seem to prove that the presence of the sanguine- ous coagulum is an incidental circumstance, and not an essential to obliteration of the vessel Dr. Jones, it is true, had stated as his opinion that the clot was not essential; but of all his experiments with the ligature, 1 can only find one—namely. Experiment xiii. (page 155)—where there was no clot, and in that case the vessel is stated to have been much contracted and thickened in its coats. I had therefore regarded his statement more as a matter of opinion than as a fact proved by his experiments. Moreover, the value of the clot had been latterly more insisted on. The carefully-conducted experiments of Manec, and the deductions he drew from them as to the essentiality of the clot at the period of the separation of the ligature, seemed to me so plausible, that I had come to adopt them, and consequently, as I have already said, until I began these experiments, I looked upon the clot as the principal