342 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. the less of which we have, the better. Those who hold the former view say that the large osseous mass formed, makes the bone stronger than ever. In such instances, however, it will be found that the apparent thickening of the bone at the point of union, is really due to overlapping of the fractured ends, and that new material is thrown out only to fill u.p the inequalities. In a properly-set fracture, I repeat, there ought to be little swelling, and no provisional callus. The union of the bone talces place, just as in the soft parts, from the plastic material thrown out between the opposed surfaces. What we see in the case of a fracture in the lower animals, in experiments made on them, is simply the natural process of cure. The blood effused is of use in preventing the action of the muscles, which would other- wise cause further dis|)lacement; but the clot is of no use in formincf new bone. Some hold that the union of the ends of O the bone is due to the clot of blood thrown out between them becoming ossified. They say that the medullary canal becomes re-established, and the circulation is again carried on through it, so that, excepting the thickening at the fractured point, we could tell no alteration in the bone. If, however, we look at a fractured bone, no matter how long after the injury, we see that the medul- lary canal is never re-established, but that at the fractured point there is always a septum, a line of dense bone, which can in all cases be recognised; the Haversian structure has become con- densed and ossified at the fractured point, where the new material was thrown out between the ends of the broken bone. These considerations are important practically, for if we trust to the provisional callus and a certain amount of swelling being present in all cases, we are very apt to have badly set and im- perfectly united fractures. If, on the contrary, we treat the fracture as we do a wound, by keeping the ends of the bone in accurate contact—a slight amount of new matter only being thrown out to unite the bone—we will have well-set and firmly united fractures. The fracture should be set at once, and the fragments kept in position by proper retentive apparatus, and means taken to modify any inflammatory action which may arise.