vii CONTENTS. Disijlacing Causes—Method of Treatment—Evulsion of the Ligamentum Patellfe—Its Diagnostic Appearances—Nature and Treatment Pages 412-417 LECTURE LVI. Dislocations of tlie Knee-joint—Risks attending the Injury—Mode of Reduction —Question of Primary Amputation or Resection—Diastasis in Children simulating Dislocation. Fractures of Bones of Leg—Transverse and Oblique Fracture of both Bones immediately above the Ankle—Different Methods of Treatment—Fracture of Fibula at its Upper and Lower Parts—Pott's Fracture, with Dislocation— Fracture of the Internal Malleolus—Methods of Treatment—General Re- marks ........ 418-426 LECTURE LVIL Dislocations of the Ankle—Methods of Reduction and After-Treatment—Com- pound Fractures about the Ankle—Risks—Question of Amputation—Con- servative Treatment—Dislocation of the Astragalus—Dislocations of the Tarsus—Fracture of the Os Calcis—Complications in Consequence of the Nature of the Accident—Fractures of the Metatarsus . . 427-437 LECTURE LVIIL Rupture of Muscular Fibre—Causes—Symjitoms—Necessity for careful Examina- tion of the Limb—Prognosis—Treatment—Rupture of Muscular Fibre from Direct Injury—Risks—Division or Rupture of Tendons—Sjrnptoms—Treat- ment—Rupture or Division of Tendo Achillis—Method of Treatment—De- formities resulting from Alteration in Muscles and Tendons—Other Causes in Operation in such Cases of Deformity—Special Deformities and their Treatment — Strabismus or Squint — Wiy-Neck — Contracted Tendons of Knee—Treatment ...... 438-448 LECTURE LIX. Club-Foot—Classification of the different Forms—Former Methods of Treatment —Subcutaneous Tenotomy—Necessity for After-Treatment by Apparatus— —Talipes Equinus—Talipes Calcaneus—Talipes Varus and Talipes Valgus— Causes of Deformity and Treatment of each . . . 449-456 LECTURE LX. Anatomical and Physiological Peculiarities of Bloodvessels—Veins—"Wounds of Veins—Thrombus—j\[ode of healing in Wounded Veins, and re-establishment of Circulation thi'ough them—Treatment of Venous Hasmorrhage—Diseases of