436 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. glenoid ligament, and the long tendon of the biceps, so that the articular structures were detached from the scapula, and were readily dragged downwards with the broken fragment by the weight of the limb and the muscular displacing causes. Feactuee of Neck of Humeeus with Dislocation of Sbpaeated head into Axilla. Case 1. While Mr. , a farmer was riding into town, his horse fell with him, and rolled on him. He recollected that in falling he threw out his arm to break the fall, and that his hand came in contact with the ground. He was brought to the hospital by a medical man shortly after the occurrence of the accident. The appearance of the shoulder left no doubt that dislocation had occurred, but there was also the distinct crepitus of fracture felt and heard on moving the hiimerus. On feeling for the head of the bone in the axilla it was found lying loose and detached, so that it could be grasped and moved readily, leaving no doubt as to its dislocation from the glenoid cavity and capsular ligament, and its separa- tion by fracture from the shaft. Attempts were made by extension and coaptation to separate the shaft widely from the glenoid cavity, and by manipulation to press back the loose head of the bone into its place, but ■\\dthout success ; and the patient refused to submit to further attempts at the time, and insisted on going home, so that I heard no more of him. The nature of the accident was very distinct and palpable, and the history of the case shows, I think, very well, how this unusual accident occurs. In falling the man threw out his arm instinctively to break the fall, and alighted with his whole weight upon his hand—the very way in which a dislocation at the shoulder was likely to occur; and, whilst thus situated, his horse rolled over him, thus causing the fracture of the dislocated bone, for I cannot conceive of any kind of force which could cause luxation of the head and tuberosities of the humerus when broken off from the shaft. Case 2. J. A. Fracture of the neck of the humerus, and disloca- tion of the separated head of the bone downwards into the axilla. Tlie patient, who was fifty-three years of age, had, while cleaning a stair, slipped her foot, and, after falling with her whole weight on the right arm, rolled down the stair. She came to the hospital imme- diately after the accident, and then the right shoulder presented the usual appearances of dislocation downwards into the axiUa. On further exami- nation, however, there was found to be a fracture of the neck of the