388 INyURTES OF BONES AND JOINTS. work on fractures. If the ligament be completely torn through, the displacement will be much greater, for in that case there is nothing left to resist the action of the triceps. In most cases the fracture is readily enough detected—even when the displacement is not very great—from the mobility of the small upper frag- ment. In some cases the bone may be split obliquely or almost longitudinally, so that we have the two fragments of the olecra- non attached to the tendon of the triceps, and therefore not separated by it. In transverse fracture of the olecranon we meet with the greatest amount of separation. When the fracture is detected in time there is no difficulty in effecting co-aptation. To do this the limb has to be straightened, in order to bring the ulna as far back as possible, also to relax the triceps, and so approximate the upper fragment to the shaft. The two separated portions are thus brought into as close contact, as possible, and in order to keep them so, we place the arm extended, and apply a splint in front, sufficiently long to reach from the middle of the upper arm to the middle of the forearm. Sometimes a longer sj)lint is required when we wish to fix the hand and wrist. The splint is secured by a roller and the usual figure-of-eight bandage round the elbow (Plate xvi. Fig. 12). We are sometimes advised to put on the figure-of-eight ban- dage first, and then apply the splint and secure it, so as to have the ends of the bone dragged together accurately by it. If we attempt to do too much at first we are not likely to succeed so well as if we proceed more gradually. The fracture is attended with much effusion and swelling into the joint. The upper fragment floats, as it were, on tlie fluid, and so long as the effusion is there we cannot expect absolutely perfect coaptation, and therefore we should not try, by the figure-of-eight bandage, to force the parts into contact. We should apply the retentive apparatus lightly at first, allow the swelling to subside, which it soon does, and then re-apply the bandage and splint more firmly, so as to keep the limb perfectly straight, and prevent all flexion.