562 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. noise of machinery softened by distance," " the sound made by the fly-wheel of a watch much intensified ;" perhaps the best is the somewhat ludicrous one—" the noise made by a blue-bottle fly confined in a thin paper bag." The sound, however, is so remarkable that it can hardly be mistaken for any other. In aneurismal varix, the affected vessels, both veins and arteries, undergo changes in structure and function. The arteries have been found dilated and attenuated in their coats, so as to resemble veins in being thin and distensible ; and this condition is not limited to the part of the artery wounded, but extends for some distance, and even into the collateral branches. Whilst the neighbouring veins have their valvular structure impaired, and become tortuous and thickened, sometimes that portion of the vein in which the aperture of communication is situated, and which is more immediately exposed to the force of the arterial cur- rent, yields, bulges, and forms a remarkable, pulsating, dilatation. There is, however, no formation of an aneurism ; for though the natural course of the circulation is disturbed, there is no such obstruction or resistance to the blood-current as takes place in aneurism, and hence there is little risk of such distension as would lead to rupture of the dilated vessel, or of ulceration occurring as in the case of an aneurism. This diseased condition therefore may exist for years, or the greater part of a lifetime, without any marked alteration locally, except perhaps a larger number of veins becoming varicose and pulsating. In some cases, however, it has been observed that patients suffer in general health, owing to the admixture of venous with arterial blood. But in many cases of this form of arterio-venous dis- ease, nothing except the local changes are observed. Varicose Aneueism consists in the formation of an aneurism, the sac of which has communication with both the artery and vein, and the blood from the artery is projected from the intermediate sac into the vein. Dilatation of the vein implicated, and also of the neighbouring veins, takes place, as in the aneurismal varix, and is accompanied by the same peculiar "bruit," and pul- satory motion in the vein. This form of aneurism is, as I have