506 lAJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. obstacle to secondary liaemorrhage. But although I think that my experiments and the facts just stated sufficiently disprove such a view, it is well in all cases to investigate the causes of different opinions, and such an inquiry may serve to explain what I consider the source of fallacy in M. Manec's views. He pro- ceeds upon the supposition that the primary adhesions between the divided edges of the tunics of the vessel are destroyed by the Tilceration necessary to free the ligature, and that, con- sequently, if there be no clot to oppose the current of blood, secondary haemorrhage must occur at that period. Now, I con- ceive that there are two errors in the views on which this theory is founded : 1st, That the internal effusion of lymph is limited to the mere union of the divided edges of the internal coats of the artery. 2d, That in the event of the primary adhesions of the internal tunics being destroyed, there would be nothing to prevent hfemorrhage except the clot. As regards the former of these errors, it is doubtless to a cer- tain extent true that the ulceration necessary to separate the ligature from the vessel will in most cases affect the recent ad- hesions immediately contiguous ; but if the process goes on favourably, the suppuration is so trivial, that it can only do so to a very slight extent. The internal effusion of lymph, instead of being a mere layer uniting the divided edges of the internal coats of the vessel, is in fact of very considerable extent within its canal, sometimes from two to three lines in depth. So that, though the surface immediately in contact with the ligature be destroyed, there is still sufficient firmness of union to resist a considerable impetus of blood, and to prevent it passing through tliat part of the vessel at the separation of the ligature. This resistance is still further favoured by the other conditions of the artery at this period ; these we shall notice immediately. The constancy of the existence of an internal coagulum of plastic lymph blocking up the canal of the vessel for some distance, and ■uniting the surfaces of the internal tunics beyond their divided edges, can be readily demonstrated, and is indeed generally ad- mitted. I insist more particularly on this point, because, in