389 FRACTURE OF OLECRANON. Sometimes we have to deal with a fracture of the lower part of the humerus along with a fracture of the olecranon. This happens occasionally, though not often. In such cases we must make a sort of compromise in our treatment. The best method of dealing with the humeral fracture would be to keep the arm at a right angle. This would cause a wide separation of the broken portions of the ulna, and we are therefore obliged, in order to meet both conditions, to keep the arm bent at an obtuse angle. Under any circumstances this is a difficult accident to treat properly. In fracture of the olecranon we find that the union is gene- rally by ligamentous texture and not by bone. This does not affect the usefulness of the limb afterwards, if the bone be well set, for then the ligamentous texture is short and firm, and, in- deed, the great object is to have the uniting medium as short as possible. The same thing occurs in fracture of the patella. Fracture of the Coronoid Process of the ulna sometimes happens, in which that portion of the process giving attachment to the brachialis anticus is separated from the ulna. The brachialis anticus retracts to a certain extent, and the small fragment is drawn .upwards by it in front of the arm, and so forms an obstacle to flexion of the limb. The joint also projects back- wards in flexion, for want of the check afforded by the process and its attachments to prevent the ulna from going back, and this may give the appearance of dislocation of the ulna alone without the radius. On attempting flexion, we find that we can- not easily accomplish it, in consequence of the position of the upper fragment. On bringing the bone into position again, we can produce crepitus, showing that it is a case of fracture. This injury is very rare, and it is very obscure when it does occur. Some surgical authors state that dislocation of the ulna back- wards cannot take place without fracture of the coronoid process ; but I have never seen a case of that dislocation in which the coronoid process was broken. The way to treat fracture of the coronoid process is to flex the limb, and place a pad of wadding in the bend of the elbow, supported by a figure-of-eight bandage.