NECROSIS. 273 the original essential nature of the disease, however modified, be the same in both cases. But even the slight vitality of the carious surface may be doubted ; for when we look at the white, spicular, and altered structure, we see but little to indicate vitality; it is, in fact, molecular death; whilst here, as in ordinary necrosis, we have active reparative efforts at deposition of new bone. In fine, we see, in many cases of necrosis of the shafts of bones, carious-looking bone, beyond the exfoliation, and in many cases of " caries," distinct exfoliation going on. What, then, is the essential nature of these conditions ? I hold, that they are both manifestations of scrofula, affecting the osseous texture, leading to altered and impaired nutrition, pre- disposing to and often exciting an unhealthy form of inflammation. In other words, the unhealthy and impoverished condition of the blood, characteristic of scrofula, furnishes an exudation of plasma less fitted for proper nutrition, under ordinary circumstances, or to resist disease when excited, and under certain conditions undergoes peculiar and abnormal transformation. Thus, as we see, the deposition of tubercle in some textures, or the gela- tinous degeneration in synovial membranes, so in bone, the unhealthy blood-plasma exuded from the capillaries ramifying in the Haversian structure leads to the diseased states I have been considering. We observe this most evidently in the altered condition of the cancellated texture of bones in strumous patients, where the altered medulla or lardaceous deposit is so marked, that we frequently see, under some increased irritation, tuber- cular alteration and ulceration occur. Here it is easily recog- nised, because the looser texture and greater vascularity of the cancellated bone favour its occurring more readily and in a larger quantity, whilst the same conditions of the bone prevent the diseased action leading to rapid or complete death. In the shaft of a long bone, or in the fibrous shell of the short and flat bones, a much less amount of such exudation, slightly if at all capable of healthy transformation, blocking up the Haversian structure, speedily leads to complete death of a portion of such bone, when affected by any increased irritation T