382 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. eniug of the limb, while the overlapping of the tapered ends of the broken bone produces the distortion. In such cases, by extension and counter-extension, coaptation can be readily effected. In treating fractures of the shaft of the humerus, the elbow should be unsupported, so that the weight of the lower part of the arm may act as an extending power. On the other hand, in fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, the elbow should be supported; if it be not, the weight of the upper arm may drag away the large lower portion of the humerus from the small upper fragment, as stated when speaking of the treatment of that fracture. In fractures of the humerus lower down, in the neighbour- hood of the elbow-joint, most careful attention is required in forming a diagnosis, more especially if the patient be young. In children there is a very great tendency to the occurrence of dis- location at that part, and in them we also meet with separation or diastasis of the articular ends of the bone from the shaft, and these two accidents bear a close resemblance to each other. In this region we meet with splitting of the condyles, sometimes in one direction, sometimes in another. These injuries are attended with immediate swelling; a great deal of effusion takes place into the joint at an. early period, and renders the difficulty of diagnosis very great unless the parts be examined immediately after the accident. We require to be very careful in our ex- amination of such cases, for on making an accurate diagnosis everything depends. If we have to do with a dislocation, we can easily reduce it at once ; but if we fail to do so, thinking the injury is a fracture, the consequences may be very serious. If we find the arm of a child shortened and swollen before and behind, and if we find that we can neither flex nor extend the elbow, the probability is that we have to deal with a disloca- tion. In most cases we have a guide which should prevent us from mistaking a dislocation for anything else, even when there is much swelling. In the natural state of parts, when the arm is semi-flexed, the point of the olecranon is much below the