415 77?^^TMENT—DOUBLE-INCLINED PLANE. * Plate xvii. Fig. 5. nately, fractures of tlae femur are often oblique, aud the op- posed planes tend to glide upon each other and produce shortening from very slight movement, and muscles contract and cause displacement even after the most careful adjixstment. For these reasons, T hold that we must take means to prevent such shortening by keeping lop the extending 'power, not increasing it— merely keeping the advantage we have ohtctined—and all that is required for this purpose is to keep tight the perinaeal band at the upper part of the splint, which, by pressing down the splint, retains the limb of the proper length. I have more than once seen surgeons proceed to increase extension by tightening the handkerchief or bandage which fastens the foot to the lower part of the splint, the effect of which is simply to pusli up the splint, and with it the lower broken portion, and so cause shortening. If the lower bandage requires to be re-adjusted, extension and counter-extension should either be made by assistants, as when setting the fracture originally, or else firm counter-pressure should be made by an assistant pressing down or fixing the splint from above whilst the foot bandage is being tightened. In adjusting fractures of the femur at first, I make it a rule that the fractured limb should be fully half an inch longer than the sound one, so as to allow for the yielding of the intervening articulations of the knee and ankle. The double-inclined plane, or Listen's splint, is an improve- ment on IVI'Intyre's splint.'"" When applied it should be well padded, so that the limb may rest on rather than in the splint. The lower part of the splint is fastened to the bed, or slung. Care must be taken not to let the patient's heel fall through the large opening at that end of the splint. A slip of bandage should be placed across it to prevent this. In this splint the weight of the body acts as a counter-extending power. It answers very well in certain fractures of the thigh, but, as a general rule, I prefer the long splint in these cases. For, if the lower end of the femur should come below the angle of the splint, it would be projected upwards, and cause deformity, if not