460 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. There is one peculiarity of wouuds of veins which I have frequently verified in experiments on animals—namely, that they heal principally from without. If we look at a vein which has been fairly cut across and tied, or which has been com- pressed, we find that it is pervious close down to the point where it was divided. Around the vein at the wounded point there is a quantity of lymph effused externally, but there is little or no tendency to change in the interior lining membrane. In a wounded artery we always find complete obliteration of the vessel at the injured point. The blood never circulates again through that part of an artery which has been wounded, whilst if a vein has been merely wounded, and not fairly divided, the circulation goes on through it as before. The small opening made, closes externally by effusion of lymph, while the interior of the vein remains in its natural condition; so that in former days, when venesection was more common than it is now, a patient used to be bled several times from the same vein. This peculiarity arises in great measure from the sac-like distensi- bility of the vein, which allows it to be kept flaccid for a time, and afterwards allows the circulation to go on as perfectly as before. It is important to keep this in mind in reference to the radical cure of varix, for we may partly obliterate a vein, and yet the circulation may be re-established through it. In all cases of wounded veins there are two things to be done—first, to close the external opening by compress and bandage; and second, to favour the circulation returning towards the heart by atten- tion to position of the part, and by removing all articles of dress which might constrict the limb above the wound or ulcerated opening in the vein. If we leave any obstruction between the opening and the heart, haemorrhage may recur from time to time and exhaust the patient. The first of the Diseases of Veins which we have to con- sider is Phlebitis, or Inflammation of Veins. This is either acute and diffuse, or subamte, circumscribed, and fihrinotis. Acute Phlebitis may arise in various ways from irritation of a wounded vein, as from punctured wounds in their vicinity, or