C26 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. tendons at the back of the limb, which, however, improved every day. He called on me on Monday, 23d inst., and stated that he had been to Leith on the previons Friday, that he had walked hurriedly home from the station, and for the first time felt 'a beating' in the part, bnt no pain. On examination, a little above the wound, I found a pulsating tumour, which I diagnosed as a false aneurism. He was ordered home, and en- joined perfect rest and quietness." I found the patient a lad of slender form, and tall for his age, of delicate appearance, and somewhat ana3mic. On examining the right thigh, I observed a cicatrix as of a recent punctured wound, situated on the outer border of the sartorious muscle, five inches and eight lines below tlie middle of Poi^jiart's ligament. Extending from the puncture there was a pulsating swelling, not very prominent, somewhat fiattened, of an elongated oval form, two and a half inches long, by one and three-quarter inches broad. About two inches of the swelling were on the proximal side of the wound, i.e. towards Poupart's ligament, and about half-an-iuch on the distal side. Besides this distinct pulsating tumour, there was also an undefined fulness on the inside of thigh, close iip to Poupart's liga- ment, caused by the dilated femoral vein, and the upjjer part of internal saphena was also dilated. The aneurismal swelling at the wound was seen to jDulsate, and the pulsation was very strong when the hand was placed on the tumour, and accompanied by a most peculiar thrill, almost start- ling, when first felt. On using the stethoscojDe, besides the " blowing" sound, there was also heard a loud buzzing or whizzing bruit, which has been not inaptly compared to the noise made by a " blue-bottle fly confined in a paper bag." This latter sound was so loiid as to be heard even at a little distance, and without the stethoscope. The thrill and whizzing murnrar extended upwards from the wound both in the aneurismal tumour, and in the dilated femoral vein nearly as high as Poupart's ligament, but they were much less distinct in the lower part of the aneurism—only barely appreciable. The pulsations of the anterior and posterior tilnal arteries seemed rather weaker than in the sound leg. The patient felt the limb somewhat cold, but the thermometer showed no diiference in the actual temperature. I directed that he should be kept perfectly quiet in bed, with the thigh flexed on the pelvis, and that graduated comjjression should be maintained upon the common femoral artery, at the brim of the pubes, where it emerges from the abdomen, by Carte's compressor, modified so that the pressure was made by means of a leaden weight instead of the full screw action. He was ordered to have a nutrient, non- stimulating diet, consisting of milk, with white of eggs, and farinaceous and a little animal food. Under this treatment the pulsations and bulk of the aneurism diminished, but I found that the compression, though as far as possible limited to the artery, interfered Avith the venous circulation, and gave rise to so much pain and swelling in the thigh, and irritation of the inguinal glands, that it was obliged to be abandoned. Ice was then applied over the swelling and to the groin, and was beneficial in allaying the irritation resulting from the compression, but it had little effect on the aneurism ; and I therefore determined to oj^erate so soon as the local irritation was subdued. I had from the first contemplated the probability