DISEASES OF BONES. 248 ease, such as fever, or by exposure to cold. In such cases the patient is much weakened before the diseased action comes on, and tliis will modify the symptoms. In a typical case, when the acute inflammation has come on suddenly, with rigors and violent symptomatic fever, without much apparent swelling or discolor- ation, the first thing to do is to enjoin absolute rest of the limb, which should be perhaps somewhat elevated, the muscles being relaxed as much as possible. If the bone be deeply covered, leeches followed by warm fomentations may be applied to the part, so as to relieve congestion and relax tension by depleting the superficial vessels. The bowels should be freely opened, and opiates given to procure rest at night, combined with some medicine, such as ipecacuan or guaiac, to determine towards the skin and restore its secretion. Gentle diuretics may also be given to act on the kidney. In most cases, however, these means are insufficient for relieving the symptoms. If the bone lie near the surface, like the tibia, and this is the bone most gene- rally affected with acute periostitis, our measures must be more active. When redness and tension come on, as they very soon do, then free incisions should be made down to the periosteum. Sometimes even cutting through the periosteum will afford great relief, by allowing exudation to escape, and thereby preventing pressure. A mere linear incision will not necessarily lead to necrosis; it will in many cases prevent that result. After making the incisions, warm or anodyne fomentations should be applied; they will afford great relief to the patient. The sympto- matic fever will thus be relieved, and the irritative fever pre- vented, or at least modified in character. The incisions always bleed smartly at the time; but we need not be afraid of dan- gerous haemorrhage taking place—the loss of a little blood in fact does good. In cases, however, of acute periostitis after fever, we might hesitate to make incisions or punctures, or even to apply leeches, for fear of the bad effects of depletion on the patient when in an exhausted state. By delay in making the in- cisions, however, we keep up the debilitating cause and the irrita- tion, and loss of sleep will do much more harm than the mere loss