622 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. l^lained of intense pain in the liinb. On examination, it was evident that the aneurism had ruptured, and accordingly manual pressure was applied over the femoral artery to prevent further extravasation of blood. After consultation, it was determined to tie the femoral artery, which was accordingly done, the limb being wrapped up in wadding immediately after the operation. On the 16th of August, being the seventh day after the rupture of the aneiirism and ligature of the femoral, gangrene of the limb having set in, amputation at the lower third of the thigh was per- formed by the long anterior flap. Bemarks.—The propriety of tying the femoral artery may be questioned, hut, by arresting the circulation, it afforded a reasonable hope that the rent iu the sac might become occluded, and the extravasated blood, which was not very large in amount, absorbed; while, even if gangrene did supervene, amputation could be performed before the attending constitutional symptoms had developed themselves. Case of Fusiform Popliteal Aneurism, cured by ligature OF Femoral Artery, after flexion and compression HAD FAILED. Adam B., setat. 39, a custom-house officer, was recommended to my care by Dr. Struthers of Leith, on account of a peculiar form of popliteal aneurism. The patient stated that liis attention had been first directed to the part by pain of a dull aching character, and on putting his hand on it he felt the strong beating, and thereupon consvilted Dr. Struthers, who directed him to keep the limb perfectly quiet. After keeping him under observation for a few days. Dr. Struthers sent him to me. This was in April 1866. The swelling in the popliteal sjDace had not the ordinary distinct form of popliteal aneurism, but felt like an enormously dilated artery, becoming smaller above and below. Its contents were quite fluid, and could be easily repressed into the circulation ; and when this was done, or when the sac was rendered flaccid by compressing the femoral artery in the groin, the swelling filled again rapidly on pressure being re- moved. The ]5atient seemed otherwise in good health. The heart's action was normal. The femoral arteries at the grom were not firmer or larger than natural, either in the affected or the sound limb, whilst the radial, ulnar, and brachial arteries were also healthy. He complained chiefly of cramps in the affected leg, and stated that the size and pulsation of the swell- ing had been increasing of late. The posterior saphena and popliteal veins of that limb were somewhat more dUated than those of the sound limb. On considering the circumstances of the case, I determined to try the treatment by flexion, combined with graduated compression of the femoral artery in Hunter's canal. With this view I had him kept in bed, and the leg was gradually flexed on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, till he