DISEASES OF JOINTS. 302 may be either completely loose, or fixed by a long narrow pedicle. If it be quite loose, it will be felt sometimes at one side of the joint, sometimes at the other ; at one time above the condyles of the femur, at another over the head of the tibia. The patient can generally find out the position of the cartilage sooner than the surgeon can, from the sensation which he has of its position. When the cartilage is small it is sometimes very difficult to ascertain its presence. There is another disease which may be mistaken for loose cartilage. I refer to disorganisation of a slow character in the knee-joint, leading to destruction of the attachments of the semilunar cartilages. These cartilages, when so loosened, glide backwards and forwards, and catch the patient while walking. Hence the symptoms are almost identical with those of the ordinary movable cartilage ; but the treatment, as we shall see, is different. The Treatment of movable cartilages is either palliative or radical. The former consists in bandaging the limb, and apply- ing means of retention, such as the laced knee-cap with pads, to fix the joint and prevent the cartilage from getting in between the ends of the bones. When so protected the patient can generally go about in comparative comfort, and without any swelling of the knee taking place. The radical treatment con- sists in removing the loose cartilage, either by a free incision made upon it through the skin, fascial and synovial textures, or by subcutaneous incision. In the latter method, a tenotomy knife is introduced some distance from where the cartilage is held firmly fixed, then the edge is turned so as to cut down upon the loose cartilage. The cellular tissue in its neighbour- hood is separated so as to make a sort of cavity into which the cartilage can be carried. It is left there, and the wound closed. If the cartilage afterwards give rise to any irritation, it can be cut down upon and removed from the cavity in the cellular tissue. If not, it is left alone. Some apply blisters over it, so as to cause consolidation. This method of operating always seemed to me to be incomplete. What good does it do to leave the cartilage in