424 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. above the malleolar extremity, witli very little displacement and with no eversion of the foot; but if, along with this fracture of the fibula, we have separation of the internal lateral ligament from its malleolar attachment, or if that ligament be torn, to any extent, then we find that the displacement is considerable, the foot is turned round, and the sole looks outwards. This injury is called Pott's fracture and dislocation (Plate xvii. Figs. 9 and 10). It only occurs when the fracture of the fibula happens along with separation of the internal lateral ligament. Tlie peronei muscles then meet with no resistance, and act on the foot so as to turn it outwards. The foot is, however, readily replaced, and the limb can be brought into accurate position; but we must take care to keep up the inversion of the foot, for the peronei muscles have always a tendency to turn it outwards, and so cause a falling-in of the upper end of the malleolar fragment of the fibula. If the internal malleolus be broken off and the external lateral ligament torn, the foot is inverted, though the displacement is not so great as in the former case, the displacing causes in this accident being the tibialis anticus and the flexor muscles passing behind the inner ankle. If we have the mere point of the external malleolus broken off, whilst there is no injury to the tibia, we sometimes have slight in- version of the foot. In fracture of the external malleolus, with laceration of the internal lateral ligament, the foot is displaced outwards. In fracture of the internal malleolus, with rupture of the external lateral ligament, the foot is displaced inwards. The method of inverting and everting the foot, to keep the bones in position, is very simple. Pott used the simple lateral wooden splints, and these with foot-pieces, keep the foot in very good j^osition. Still there is a tendency to eversion of the foot, and therefore Dupuytren's splint is the one generally used for these fractures of the malleoli. This splint reaches from the knee to two inches or so beyond the ankle. It is padded with a sheet which is folded double opposite the ankle, so as to form a soft fulcrum. Supposing the fibula to be broken, and eversion of the foot to have occurred, our object will be to