546 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. that tlie risk of a return of the disease after the collateral circu- lation is established is more to be apprehended in such a case. Important indications for treatment are derived from these tendencies on the part of nature in effecting her cure ; but before considering the treatment let us notice the Diagnostic Symptoms of the disease, as these will vary in each variety, and according to its stage of progress. In the first stage an almost invariable sj'mptom of a true aneurism is pulsation, equal in all direc- tions, expansile in character, and synchronous with the heart's action. The tumour also, though tense and elastic, can, by gradual compression, be effaced, its contents being temporarily pressed into the vessel with which it communicates ; but on re- moval of the pressure it fills again with a bound, and pulsates as before. It is affected in like manner by direct pressure on the main trunk higher up, this rendering the sac at once flaccid, and stopping all pulsation in it. There is a peculiar In-idt audible in most aneurisms." Its presence will depend partly on the form of the sac, and partly on the condition of its contents, as, for instance, to what extent a coagulum may have formed ; but one condition, when present, very markedly gives rise to it, namely, a comparatively small opening or neck to the sac ; the peculiar rushing sound is then heard very loudly. It often exists in other circumstances, but, as a rule, it is not so mai'ked when the opening is large, for the blood then flows into the sac more smoothly and slowly. In the ovoid or fusiform variety the hruit is very peculiar. It is sometimes double, but on the whole it is std gener is, and scarcely admits of description. These, then, are the symptoms of aneurism in its first stage, that is, before coagulation has taken place to any extent. The pulsation is equable throughout the sac ; there is generally a hruit present; and the tumour is caj)able of being obliterated by pressure. In the second stage, after coagulation has occurred, the symp- toms are modified. The pulsation is still full and expansile, but not now equally forcible at all points, for in the greater part of its extent the sac is filled with coagulum, and thus protected from the force of the blood, which can only act strongly upon