514 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. In the deductions drawn from my first series of experiments, I stated my conviction tliat the clot was not essential to safe obliteration of an artery, and I did so because I had repeatedly found it absent Avhile no untoward occurrence had taken place during the process. But whilst I still look upon the clot as not absolutely essential to obliteration, it is so very generally present, and so obviously useful as an adjuvant to the other parts of the process when present, that it has always obtained a considerable degreee of attention, and various theories liave from time to time been propounded as to its formation, organisation, and ulti- mate connection with the arterial coats. To M. Manec we are indebted for the most carefully-detailed investigation on the subject of the coagulum. He regards it as acting as a firm plug within the vessel, ultimately becoming organised and adherent to its inner surface; and, according to his view, it is the only obstacle to secondary haemorrhage at the period of separation of the ligature. As to this latter point, I have already shown that its presence cannot be absolutely essential, as it is frequently absent without secondary bleeding taking place, and that, even supposing the internal adhesions to be as completely destroyed as M. Manec supposes, at the separation of the ligature, the external plastic effusion around and between the ends of the vessel forms a sufficiently firm barrier to prevent the secondary haemorrhage. In corroboration of this view, I would again refer to the experiment in the second series, where the internal adhesions had been destroyed and the clot displaced, and where the external lynjph had effectually prevented bleeding. But apart from his peculiar view of the absolute essentiality of the coagulum, M. Manec's account of its gradual formation, and the general changes which take place in it and the part of the artery with which it is in contact, is corroborated in most respects by my own observations, in cases where the coagulum was present. I have not, however, observed the strong organised adhesions of the clot to the sides of the artery, remarked and described by Manec, till a late period. On the contrary, I have never found the coagulum firmly connected, except at its base, and this led me to examine more carefully as