511 EXTERNAL PLASTIC EXUDATION. absorbed, and its remains assume the form of the filjrous texture between the ends of the vessel, the new tissue is still remark- able for its vascularity.* The plasticity and vitality of the plastic eifusion round the vessel fit it admirably for the reparative functions of nourishing and supporting the arterial coats, for aiding the internal changes requisite for obliteration, and for preventing the occurrence of secondary hajmorrhage, in case of the internal adhesions being disturbed. Of this I had an example in one of these experiments, where, from some cause, the union of the internal coats had been destroyed, and the clot displaced both on the proximal and distal side of the deligated part of the vessel; but where the consolidated lymph around the artery had completely prevented haemorrhage taking place (Plate xxii. Figs. 4 and 5). I consider that the facts and reasons I have stated sufficiently warrant my conclusion regarding the value of the external plastic effusion, as one of the essentials to the safe obliteration of an artery after ligature, but I am far from regard- ing it as pre-eminently the essential, independently of the other parts of the process. For although in some of these experi- ments the external lymph seemed ultimately to be the only obstacle to secondary htemorrhage, still, it must be recollected that in these cases the internal adhesions must have formed the barrier until it had been sufficiently consolidated to resist; and hence that, without the aid of these other parts of the process, the external plastic effusion would not, in itself, have been sufficient. I have already said, that very little attention has been hither- to directed, in this country at least, to the value of the plastic effusion on the exterior of an artery after ligature. For although the constancy of the presence of that part of the process must have been noticed by all who have investigated the subject, they seem to have regarded it more as an incidental occurrence than as essential. Pouteau, indeed, had at a very early period noticed the closure of the vessel by means of the condensation around * See Plate xjciii. Fig. 3.