432 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. portion sufficiently to enable me to saw through about half its thickness, and I completed the section mth a pair of strong bone-pliers. I then did the same to the end of the lower fragment, and snipped off some irregular portions. There was very little bleeding, and no vessel required ligature. The incision was closed with four points of suture, dry lint applied, and the arm placed in a rectangidar splint, so adjusted as to allow the wound to be dressed without moving the limb. No constitutional disturbance followed the operation ; the pulse never rose above 80. The patient suifered almost no pain, and the wound united entirely by the first inten- tion. . Indeed so little swelling or irritation appeared at first, that I was afraid this operation also would fail, but at the end of ten days there was firm limited swelling at the seat of fracture, and the patient stated that he felt the sensation of constant pricking j^ains in the part. Result.—At the end of six weeks from the operation, there was hard swelling, involving the ends of the fractured bone, and it seemed firmly consolidated. I therefore sent him home to the comitry, but directed him to keep on the splints for some time. I subsequently saw him on several occasions, and I allowed him gradually to use the arm ; but in November 1854,1 found that from using too much liberty with the arm, it had bent considerably at the united part, showing that it had not quite consolidated. I therefore fractru'ed it fairly across, and re-adjusted it. This was attended with more pain and swelling than had yet occurred after any operation ; but in two months afterwards, when I removed the splints, I found firm osseous union, and he can now use the arm with perfect freedom. Commcntarij.—In reviewing the case just related, there are two points which, I think, deserve attention; first, the causes which originally prevented osseous union; and second, the plans of treatment adopted. The causes, generally mentioned as leading to want of union in fractures, are either some state of the constitution debilitating the reparative powers, or some error in the treatment, such as mal-adjustment of the broken bones, too early movement of, or too much interference with, the injured limb. Occasionally, also, the interposition of some portion of muscular tissue between the ends of the fracture prevents firm union. In this case there was nothing in the treatment which could have led to want of union : the parts had been well adjusted, and accurately retained in position, and there was neither shortening, overlapping of the ends of the bone, nor any other deformity w^hen I first saw him. As regards constitutional causes, he stated his health to be