476 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. artery the ends of the vessel retract within the loose cellnlar tissue in the neighbourhood, and within the loose cellular sheath surrounding the proper coats of the artery. A quantity of blood is thrown out in the cellular tissue, but at first, owing to the force of the circulation, it does not get time to settle there. As the faintness comes on, and the blood begins to flow more slowly, it collects in the cellular sheath and cellular tissue. Whilst this is taking place, the coats of the artery proper have not only retracted, but have also contracted towards the centre, so that the orifice of the vessel is almost closed, the middle and inner coats contracting and retracting more than the outer. There is thus a mass of coagulum within the wound, and contraction of the cut end of the vessel, which prevent any further flow of blood, provided the current be not very strong. If it is, the clot may be thrust out from the end of the vessel, and the bleeding renewed. Under more favour- able circumstances, the blood which passes through the vessel is obstructed in its course, and thrown upon the collateral circulation which takes off a certain amount of the force of the circulation from the wounded point. The current of blood flows more slowly in the wounded artery. If the coats of the vessel be at all bruised, the blood soon ceases to flow through it; the vessel no longer re-acts on the current of blood, and a clot is formed in its interior, as well as externally. This clot only ex- tends for a short distance up the vessel—never beyond the nearest large collateral branch—and soon becomes consolidated, and forms a firm plug in the mouth of the artery, while the fibrinous mass outside has also become consolidated, and so no further bleeding takes place. But, if the wounded artery be of large size, this natural hjemostatic process is not likely to prove effi- cient in arresting the haemorrhage. In cases where a vessel is merely punctured the haemorrhage may be more troublesome, for then there is no retraction of the vessel. If it be, how- ever, a comparatively small vessel, the natural haemostatic j)ro- cess will generally suffice to stop the bleeding permanently. The blood is thrown out, and a clot is formed at first in the loose