429 DISLOCATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. of incrustation from the surface of the tibia, from the internal surfaces of the malleoli, and from the upper part of the astraga- lus. I would also remove any loose, torn portions of the syno- vial membrane, then bring the parts into position, so as to get the surfaces of bone into contact, and so make it rather a com- pound fracture than a compound dislocation. Tliis is the plan I would recommend, but in people above middle life I must say that my few successful cases recovered with so much danger to life that I wovdd advise amputation rather than any attempt to save the limb. Dislocation of the Astragalus sometimes happens from a person falling with great force upon the heel. The astragalus is thrust forwards, and completely dislocated from the other bones of the tarsus. At other times it is partially broken through, and in most cases it is almost impossible to reduce the bone—some, indeed, have declared it to be utterly impossible. In these cases I generally recommend that an incision should be made, and the loose bone be removed at once ; but at the same time there are cases in which I have seen the bone reduced, and I would there- fore always attempt reduction before making an incision to remove the bone. There is a difference of opinion as to whether the bone, when irreducible, should be removed immediately, or whether a certain amount of inflammation should first be allowed to supervene. The advocates of the latter plan say that nature has altered the joint by this time, and the removal of the bone would therefore not be likely to set up irritation ; but I think the best way is to remove the bone at once, provided that it can- not be reduced, and afterwards employ the ice treatment, which I would advise as giving a better chance of success than any other plan, especially in young subjects, where there is a very fair chance of a good recovery by this means. The astragalus may be thrown to the outer or inner side of the foot, and in a few cases we may effect reduction by extending the foot and pushing up the astragalus. Dislocation of the Taksus is not very common, but I have seen it occur, and I have also seen it reduced after it had existed for