337 THECAL GANGLIA. of the solid bodies. Tliere is, tlierefore, ouly one efficacious plan of treatment—namely, to make an opening into the swelling and remove the loose bodies. In performing the operation, an incision is first made through the central line of the swelling above the wrist, and the upper cavity completely emptied. The finger or a director is then passed down in front of the tendons till the annular ligament is felt. Under this we glide a probe- pointed bistoury, and divide the constriction subcutaneoixsly without injuring the skin of the palm. The contents of the pal- mar portion of the sac can then be easily pressed out through the upper opening. The surface is then lightly painted over with iodine, which prevents too much suppuration from taking place, and also greatly facilitates the cure. Subsequently warm-water dressings are applied, and the hand and wrist bandaged. The patient must be made to move his fingers slightly, so as to prevent adhesions from taking place between the tendons and their sheaths. In this way the disease is completely got rid of; but such treatment is only to be adopted when the case has resisted the other methods before spoken of The ganglia or adventitious bursaj vary in size and in con- sistency.* If they are very small, they often disappear without any treatment. Formerly, blisters and other remedies were ap- plied. If these failed, the patient was made to clench his fingers, and the surgeon tried to burst the ganglion by a hard blow, but this very often failed to effect a cure. Eupture took place only at the weakest point of the bursa, allowing the effusion to escape, but the wound in the cyst healed and fresh effusion was formed. The plan I have found most effectual is to pass a small tenotomy-knife or a large cataract needle obliquely through the skin till the bursal swelling is en- tered. The point of the instrument is then moved about so as to tear up the wall of the cyst or sac of the bursa in all directions, and so cause sufficient inflammation to produce ad- hesion, and prevent re-accumulation of effusion. Slight pressure is then to be applied on the part by means of a firm compress and bandage, and the hand kept quiet for some time. ■ * Plate xiii. Fig. 7. Z