378 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. above the elbow and pulling downwards, or downwards and outwards, as the case may require. In general the reduction is readily effected. The heel should be pressed outwards away from the chest and towards the arm, so as both to avoid injury to the ribs, and act more efficiently as a fulcrum for the arm. The forearm should be bent to relax the long head of the biceps, and also to enable the surgeon to rotate the humerus at the same time that he extends. More extending power can be obtained, if necessary, by applying a worsted laque, or large handkerchief, in the form of the clove-hitch, above the elbow, and pulling by the ends of the laque so formed. (Plate xix. Kg. 5.) In cases where we use pulleys, a wetted bandage is placed round the limb before applying the laque, to obviate the risk of the laque slipping, and prevent excoriation of the skin. In these methods, the knee in the one case, or the heel in the other, serves as a fulcrum over which the shaft of the humerus is used as a lever to raise its dislocated head from its abnormal position. A third method of reduction, sometimes used, is as follows : The surgeon standing, or sitting on a chair, behind the recum- bent patient, desires an assistant to fix the patient's body. He next places the sole of his foot against the upper surface of the acromion, so as to fix the scapula; then, seizing the dislocated arm by the hand and wrist, he draws it outwards, upwards, and backwards, until it is brought up almost parallel to the patient's head and neck, and, by continuing extension, the head of the humerus may slip into the glenoid cavity. Sometimes pulleys are used for purposes of extension, while the trunk and scapula are fixed by laque to a ringbolt or some fixed point. An assistant at the same time draws the arm outwards at the dislocated part by means of a towel placed around it. This is simply a modification of the modes already described, by which a greater degree of force, gradually and evenly applied, is brought to bear on the operation