TREATMENT OF WOUNDED ARTERIES. 477 cellular tissue, and afterwards more directly between the cellular sheath of the artery and the coats of the vessel. This effused blood presses upon the artery, and so compresses its canal and diminishes or stops the current of blood passing through it. Sometimes the extravasated blood passes round the vessel, but generally it presses only on one surface of the vessel above and below the wounded point. In this way, if the clot con- solidates, lymph is effused from the irritation and inflammation set up, and the part heals. But in a large vessel, so soon as the circulation becomes strong again, on the occurrence of reaction the clot which has formed will probably become dis- placed, and unless internal haemostatic changes, from effusion of lymph and the formation of a clot within the artery, have taken place, secondary haemorrhage will occur. It is important to remember this in treating wounds of arteries. If we meet ■with a wound of a large artery, like the radial, pretty high up, and if the bleeding be completely arrested at the time by a clot over the end of the vessel, should we tie the ar- tery above and below the wounded point, or trust to the natural hasmostatic process? My own opinion is, that if the vessel be of a large size we should not trust to nature, but should at once secure it above and below. This is certainly the simplest and safest plan of treating such a case, for secondary haemorrhage does sometimes occur even after temporary arrest by a clot, and then the vessel requires to be tied under less favourable circumstances, as, owing to infiltration, the parts be- come very much matted together, making it difficult to distinguish or separate one texture from another. Some sixrgical authors say that it is unnecessary to tie the vessel until consecutive htemorrhage has occurred, but I do not approve of this plan. Two cases in my wards last year* afforded good illustrations of the contrast between the two rules of practice. In one case the femoral artery was divided just where it becomes the popliteal, and a clot had formed in it, so that there was no bleeding at the time, but I did not * 1867.