TREATMENT OF RICKETS. 283 therefore useless, or worse. The diseased state consists, not in any deficiency of earthy matter, but in the want of power to assimilate it. For this reason the medical treatment ought to be directed towards the restoration of that power, and for this purpose preparations of iron, cod-liver oil, and especially pep- sine wine, seem to be the most suitable remedies, together with such gentle laxatives as may be required for the proper regu- lation of the bowels. The use of pepsine wine seems to be specially beneficial, as it improves the digestive powers and so assists nutrition. In the local treatment of this disease, mechanical appliances may be necessary. These are designed with a view to assist the lower extremities in sustaining the weight of the body, and prevent them from being injured by the superincumbent weight. They should not be had recourse to without great caution, and, if used, should be constructed with nicest care, and of very light materials ; otherwise they will tend rather to aggravate than remedy deformity. I have mentioned gentle exercise, but this must, of course, be regulated by the stage and extent of the disease. Thus, when the bones of the lower extremity are soft and pliable, walking or standing is obviously contraindicated; and the patient requires often to be kept in the recumbent position. In slighter cases, care must be taken to prevent the patient from remaining long in one posture, either in standing or sitting, or whilst engaged in writing or drawing, as the position so assumed very frequently becomes permanent. Gymnastics, therefore, ought to be so regulated as to meet the morbid tendency. MoLLiTiES OssiUM is the term which is generally applied to that condition in the adult or aged which resembles rachitis in the child. This resemblance, however, only holds good as regards the softening of the bone which is found to exist in connection with each, for pathologically there is no similarity whatever be- tween the two diseases. The one is a suspension of the func- tions of assimilation in regard to the formation of bone, and is only of temporary duration. The other is an atrophy or