BRACHIAL ANEURISM. 579 bladed knife, and where compression had been used at first, the blood passed i;pwards under the fascia and skin of the upper arm as well as towards the forearm, and gave rise to enormous dis- tension, having formed a huge sac of blood, partly fluid, partly coagulated. In other cases, when the original wound has been small, and compression has been applied so as to arrest the escape of blood to some extent, a small circumscribed false aneurism forms, and from effusion of lymph condensing the surrounding tis- sues the blood is limited by an adventitious sac, and this limita- tion causes the aneurism in some respects to resemble a true aneurism as regards the chances of coagulation of the contained blood. In cases of aneurism in the arm or at the bend of the elbow, when the disease has existed for any time, there is generally numb- ness of the thumb and of the fingers supplied by the median nerve, owing to that structure being stretched or pressed on by the swelling; and from the same cause and the tension of the aponeurosis of the forearm and semilunar fascia, the elbow is slightly bent and the fingers contracted. In regard to Treatment, the safest method is to lay open the sac, turn out its contents, and then tie the artery immediately above and below the wounded point, as described in Lecture LXXI. at page 559, and figured in Plate xxv. In cases of old- standing circumscribed false aneurism, the Hunterian method may be adopted, as in true aneurism, and has proved siiccessful in certain cases of false aneurism of the femoral. I have stated my opinion that this plan has advantages, on account of the anatomical complications in that region. But in the case of the brachial, I believe the direct method of opening the sac and tying the vessel above and below the wounded point to be the surest of success. In cases of False Aneurism of the Radial or Ulnar Ar- teries, the direct method is the only one we can employ, owing to the very free anastomoses between the vessels of the forearm. Even in those peculiar true aneurisms of the radial, occa- sionally met with on the back of the wrist near the thumb, I think that, to ensure a cure, a ligature above and below the