440 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES. ■ cisions into the effused blood, we are very likely to set np an unhealthy form of suppuration, while, by leaving it alone, it will disappear of itself, and therefore we should never interfere unless when matter has begun to form. Eupture of muscular fibre may occur from direct injury of the muscle, but here we mvist remember that other textures may also be affected from the nature and degree of the force. Gangrene may even result, in some cases, from extensive rupture of muscular fibre, even though the skin shows no symptom of injury, for the vessels lying in the neighbourhood of the muscle may be destroyed. A boy, lately imder my care in the hospital, was struck by a planing-machine on the thigh, over Hunter's canal. There was an indentation containing fluid over the part, and there the femorah artery could be readily felt pulsating. The fibres of the sartorius were ruptured and retracted, the vessel vs'as thus so far uncovered, that the feeling of pulsation was very distinct. At first I was afraid that the vessel v^^as injured, but, on examining it with the stethoscope, I found that the current of blood was quite natural; the extravasated blood must have been from small vessels. The case went on well, and the muscle united again by a shorter uniting mediiim than we can generally expect in the case of the sartorius muscle. Division ok Eupture of Tendons may occur in various ways. They may be wounded in any direction. Not un- frequently we find the whole flexor tendons of the wrist divided by machinery, or by a knife, and the extensors on the back of the hand also injured. The treatment of such cases is just that of a simple wound, but we must take care to keep the limb in such a position that the ends of the tendons may be as near together as possible, so as to get a short uniting medium. I have seen the whole of the flexor tendons at the wrist divided, and the lower end of the radius fairly cut through, yet the parts united, aiid a very useful hand was left. At the ankle I have also seen the extensor muscles and anterior tibial artery divided, and the tibia cut obliquely into the joint by a reaping-machine.