TALIPES EQUINUS. 451 almost unused. In sucli a case we must remember that if the anterior muscles be permanently paralysed, division of the tendo Achilles, though it will let down the heel and do good so far, yet will not be productive of much benefit as regards the use of the limb. On the other hand, if the anterior muscles have been only temporarily paralysed, by exercising these muscles, we may make them come into action again, and so counterbalance the effect of the gastrocnemius and soleus, and then division of the tendo Achilles -will be of permanent benefit. "We should remember, in regard to the former class of cases, that we have a certain power of increasing musciilar development, and also that muscular development does not depend altogether on nervous energy, for we can divide the nerve of supply to a muscle, and yet keep up its development to a great extent by means of galvanism. It is true that if the normal nervous energy be destroyed, we cannot go on long keeping up the development of the muscle, but by using electro-galvanism along the course of a muscle, we can do a great deal to restore its power. In many cases the nervous power has not been entirely lost, but has been in abeyance as it were, and we can then restore it. Hence, in talipes equinus, along with division of the tendon, we should employ such means as galvanism, friction, and the tepid or cold douche, to restore the muscular power of the limb in front, and so equalise the muscular forces on the anterior and posterior aspects of the leg. The operation for division of the tendo Achilles in talipes equiniis is a very simple one. An assistant holds the foot so as to press the heel upwards, and relax the tendon and the skin over it (Plate xx. Fig. 9). The surgeon then pinches up a fold of skin over the tendon, glides the tenotome between the skin and tendon with the blade in a flat position, then turning the cutting edge towards the tendon, he desires the assistant to draw down the heel so as to render the tendon tense, and presses his knife against the resist- ing structure till he feels it snap and its ends retract. Should any fibres, however few, have escaped division, their section