FRACTURE. 347 get them rightly placed at first, especially "when there are any small fragments lying across the direction of the fracture. There are, moreover, dangers in the after-progress of such a fracture, both as regards the limb and otherwise. There is, first, the risk of the irritation produced by the fragments lying between the ends of the bone tearing the muscles and other textures, and so acting as an obstacle to union. Again, portions of the comminuted bone are sometimes so completely detached by the violence of the force causing the injury, that necrosis often follows. When this takes place, inflammation is excited by the dead bone acting as a foreign body, and suppuration sets in, which may lead to serious results, from the long-continued discharge and the difficulty of getting rid of the necrosed bone without interfering too much with the fracture. Where necrosis occurs in this form of fracture, when considerable portions of dead bone are removed, there is of course a loss of substance in the bone, so that extension and counter-extension cannot be well kept up ; there must be more or less shortening of the limb, and there is thus a greater risk of deformity after a comminuted than after a simple fracture. As to the treatment of the simple comminuted fracture. In the slighter cases, there may be no great difficulty in setting the bone properly at first; but if the bone is lying loose, and broken up into minute fragments, we should try to model the limb as near as possible into the natural form. The limb is, therefore, extended and counter-extended ; and if there be any portions of bone lying laterally, we must try to bring them into line with the natural axis of the limb. When the limb is thus modelled as much as possible to its natural form, it is then placed in a splint, and here a particular retentive apparatus is appKed for each special fracture. In such a fracture, of the leg for example. Listen's splint, or the double-incliaed plane, answers best. The thigh and leg are kept nearly at a right angle with each other, the foot being fixed and extended, and the whole is kept in posi- tion by slip-knots or a circular bandage. The general modelling of the limb is looked to from time to time ; and if there be any