THE LIGATURE. 481 former failures and tlie means of obviating them, and so re- establish the practice on firm grounds. The Ligature, as a means of arresting haemorrhage or for the cure of aneurism, seems to have been used from a very early period in the history of medicine, although the ancients who mention the practice appear to have been guided by no distinct principle in its application. Indeed their ignorance regarding the circu- lating system generally must have prevented their arriving at any correct principle. But that it was used by them as a means of arresting haemorrhage long previously to the times of Pare is incontestable. Celsus speaks of the ligature of wounded veins, Galen directs it to be used for wounded arteries ; whilst ^tius and Paulus Egineta give directions for cutting down upon and tying arteries in cases of aneurism. It is undoubtedly to Ambrose Pare, however, that we are indebted for reviving the practice of tying arteries—Avhich had fallen into disuse—but even he seems to have directed little of his attention to the principle of its action, beyond its evident mechanical agency iu preventing the flow of blood at the time of its application. This is scarcely to be wondered at, when we consider that the caoes in which he used it were generally those of amputation or of recently wounded arteries, and as in such cases secondary ha3morrhage would be very rare, the new agent would appear so evidently superior to the wretched contrivances formerly used, that he would simply rest satisfied with its practical utility, without caring to investigate its modus operandi. When, however, the ligature came into more general use, and more especially when it came to be used in cases of aneurism, the secondary hcemorrhage which occasionally followed its applica- tion caused his more scientific successors to direct their attention to the subject. M. Petit seems to have been amongst the first of those who proceeded to investigate the question of the arrestment of haemor- rhage experimentally. The results of his experiments were communicated to the French Academy. He attempted to prove that the essential agent in arresting haemorrhage was 2 I