/INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. 61G aneurism when he left Edinburgh, that, had the patient given himself a fair chance, the result might have been more favour- able. As it was, whilst the ease cannot be considered a cure, the operation was so far successful as to show the correctness of the principle, and to warrant employment of the plan, in any similar case. It certainly prolonged life beyond the time that the ligature of the innominate would have been likely to do. Were I to per- form this operation again, I would begin by tying the axillary in its upper third, if healthy, so as to command the circulation, and restrain the terrible haemorrhage from the dilated collateral vessels. Popliteal Aneurism. J. F., iron-moiilder, £Bt. 43, admitted 13tli December 1858, stated that about fourteen days previously he first noticed a beating sensation, some- what painful, in the popliteal space of the leg. At first he paid little at- tention to it, but as the pain and pulsation steadily mcreased, he applied at length to the Disjjensary, whence he was remitted to the Koyal Infirmary on the above date. On admission, the tumour was about the size of a small orange,and pulsat- ing powerfully. At first the limb was simply ^^laced in the flexed position, and the patient f)ut on low diet and small allowance of fluids. After- wards compression was superadded, together with the exhibition of small doses of antimony, and this method of treatment continued till the 4th January 1859, without any eft'ect, however, in arresting the jirogress of the disease. Accordingly, on the 5th January the femoral was tied ; but, owing to the diseased state of the heart and great vessels, no chloroform was ad- ministered. Pulse 120. Ordered an opiate. For a few days after the operation, the patient complained of pain in leg and foot, and slept little ; but on the 10th the restlessness and pain had diminished and the pulse sank to 95. On the 27th, the ligature came away, and everything was looking well, until 8.30 A.M. the following morning, when hsemorrhage broke out at the point of ligature. About two ounces were lost before the tourniquet could be applied ; and at 11.30 p.m. same evening, and 3 a.m. next morning, about an ounce of blood escaped in all. Ordered wine and an opiate. 30^^.—Slept well ; less nervous. Pulse 90. In the early part of the month of February the patient sufl'ered a good deal from rheumatic pains in various parts of the body, and as the exhibi- tion of opiates was almost imperative, the bowels became somewhat costive. Ordered a powder composed of Chlor. Hydrarg. and Pulv. Ehei aa gr. v. At this time, also, the diet was gradually increased, and on the 17th he was placed on full allowance. March 12th.—Wound healed. Patient still complains of pain about the ankles and toes, although it is much less severe. After the above date nothing worthy of remark occurred, and on the 9th May he was dismissed cured.