465 VARIX. tliaii in the right leg, because the sigmoid flexure of the colon is placed on that side, and is said to press upon the left iliac veins, and so to cause varix of the left leg. The truth is, that the disease is almost as common on the right side, and the csecum, if dis- tended, would press upon the right iliac veins just as miich as the colon would on those of the left side. Tumours of any kind may lead to varix. Tumours in the pelvis and in the abdomen, congestion or chronic affections of the liver, may conduce to varix, either in the form of piles, or of varicose veins in the lower extremities. Affections of the heart and lungs may, as already stated, also lead to it. Hsemorrhoidal varix is very common as a result of interrupted pulmonary cbculation. In the female, pregnancy is a frequent cause of varix, and the disease often becomes permanent from a want of attention to the state of the veins in the interval between different pregnancies. During the first pregnancy the venous circulation is interrupted, the vein becomes dilated, but not much altered in condition. The valves are rendered temporarily incompetent, but not to any great extent; and after confinement, the cause of the venous obstruc- tion being removed, the vein returns to its normal state. If the incipient varicose condition of the vein be not attended to after the confinement and during subsequent pregnancies, it will probably give rise to much after-trouble. The venous coats will gradually become thickened, the valves will be rendered permanently incompetent, and the varicose condition then be- comes of a chronic established character. The disease has always a tendency to involve other veins. The blood passing through a vein affected with varix is no longer sufficiently supported, the weight of the column of blood presses downwards, and leads to further distension of the vein. But the blood must be returned to the heart, and therefore it is thrown upon the collateral branches. The deep-seated veins are less liable to distension, as they are subject to the action of the surrounding muscles, which assists in returning the blood towards the heart. The collateral superficial branches therefore principally enlarge, their cavities become distended, 2 H