HYSTERICAL AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 329 affected in the first instance, leading to ulceration of the cartilage of the acetabulum, and thus producing acute disease of the hip- joint. The amount of irritative fever attendant on it is very con- siderable, and is often of the typhoid type, as in acute necrosis. It may arise in scrofulous and rheumatic patients, from expo- sure to either cold or damp, and I have seen it follow upon uterine irritation, either from operation on, or exploration of that organ. From the acu.teness and urgency of the symptoms these cases are attended with great anxiety. The general treatment, although more active, must be con- ducted on the same principles as guide us in the treatment of acute ostitis and morbus coxarius. Attention was first directed to Hysterical Affections of Joints by Sir Benjamin Brodie, who stated that they were a fre- quent source of wrong diagnosis, and in that way often led to very serious results. The joints most commonly affected Avith it are the hip and knee. The symptoms simulate those of almost all articular diseases. It generally occurs in females, or in males who are otherwise in weak health. The symptoms are the same as those of disease of a joint-—the pain is extreme, there is sleeplessness at night, and jerkings of the limb, the patient is unable to bear any pressure on or movement of the limb, but there is no apparent swelling. It is sometimes very difficult to arrive at a correct diagnosis, especially if, as often happens, remedies, such as fomentations and blisters, have been applied previously to relieve pain, and have caused a certain amount of swelling and stiffness in the joint. The patient has a quick pulse, an irritable tongue, and often an anaemic appearance. She complains of excessive pain, which is increased at night. On making an examination we cannot feel much swelling in the joint, though we may find a slight degree of effusion into it. From the similarity of the symptoms to those of joint-disease, the diagnosis is very difficult, and operations have sometimes been performed for what is really a neuralgic affection, under the belief that the joint was diseased. We may, however, find both hysterical affection and the incipient joint-disease existing