531 THE WIRE-COMPRESS. specimen, tlie vitality of the part even directly compressed does not necessarily suffer, and consequently plastic changes go on there, and a continuous lymph-plug seems to be rapidly formed and organised. I think, however, that it would be very desirable, to have experiments performed, so that the principle of the hiemo- static process, as effected by acupressure, and the differences between its action and that of the ligature, might be thoroughly investigated, as otherwise, notwithstanding the success which seems to have attended its use by some, there must always remain lurking in the minds of surgeons doubts as to the risks of hajmorrhage and a want of confidence which will prevent its general use. When employed, instead of the ligature, in the case of a continuous artery, as in an aneurism, I must say that I consider acupressure unsuitable, because, when the vessel is deeply seated, the needle would require to be not an ordinary acupressure- needle, but one with a curve, and it is excessively difficult, almost impossible, to withdraw such a needle from a deeply-placed artery, such as the carotid, subclavian, or innominate, without great disturbance of parts. These difficulties, as regards its application to deep-seated continuous arteries, I have tested on the dead subject, and they would be still greater in the living body. As to my own practice, I have already said that I do not consider the benefits of acupressure so decided as to lead me to adopt it, as a general method, as a substitute for the ligature. The WiHE-coMPRESS, a modification of acupressure, has been used, and with some success, even in securing the carotid artery. It consists in passing a wire instead of a thread under the artery. The ends of the wire are brought up, and the wound is closed. On the surface of the wound a piece of cork is placed, and the ends of the wire are tied over the cork, so as to make it press downwards towards the deeper parts. The wire is tightened till the circulation is completely stopped, and the cork is then fas- tened down with strips of plaster. This plan seems to have answered very well in some cases, and I once entertained great