567 CAROTID ANEURISM. carotid, and some little time afterwards the first part of the right subclavian. By doing this the circulation is diverted into the left subclavian and left carotid, and the force of the current of blood ])assing through the aneurism becomes less and less, until a coagulum forms within the sac; but still there is the disturbing cardiac circulation, which, as it passes through the arch of the aorta, will always tend to wash away the clot in the lower part of the sac, even though it may be perfectly consoli- dated in its upper part. Cakotid Aneurism, though not very common, is met with occasionally, and generally in patients somewhat advanced in life. It usually occurs at the bifurcation of the common carotid artery, though sometimes lower down, and occasionally also on the internal carotid. Besides the pulsation in the tumour and the other symptoms common to all aneurisms, there are certain special symptoms to be noticed in carotid aneurisms. If the aneurism be situated near the bifurcation of the common carotid artery, the patient is generally troubled with a constant irritating hacking cough, and spits up mucus, and suffers from much irritation about the larynx. This also occurs when the aneurism is lower down, where it not unfrequently gives rise to spasm of the larynx from pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. If the aneurism be higher up, this symptom is caused by pressure on the superior laryngeal nerve. There is also sometimes difficulty in swallowing from direct pressure of the tumour ; the fascia prevents the aneurism passing towards the surface, and it therefore presses in towards the larynx, trachea, and pharynx. In some instances, on looking into the throat, the case looks like one of abscess of the tonsil or pharynx ; but in carotid aneurism the projection is generally rounded and circumscribed, and throbbing, while in pharyngeal abscess the swelling is more diffuse. When a carotid aneurism presses inwards, it may give rise to very serious dyspnoea if the tumour be of large size ; and even after tying the artery, we sometimes find that trache- otomy is required owing to the general swelling, hardening, and