407 DIAGNOSIS. the joint, leading to irritative fever and death of the patient. This result, of which I show you a specimen, is exceedingly rare. I have never seen a case of it • during life, although it is, I think, remarkable that we so seldom meet with such cases. The head of the bone is broken off completely from the shaft. All the small vessels which pass into it must have suifered great injury from the fracture, and its only vascular supply is derived through the vessels of the ligamentum teres. Certain cases of fracture at the neck of the femur may be mistaken for dislocation of the hip. In ordinary intra- caj)sular fracture the symptoms are somewhat like those seen in dislocation of the head of the femur on the pubes. No one, how- ever, could mistake the two injuries, for in the dislocation we have the head of the bone projecting on the pubes, and we have also a certain amount of congestion in the limb, caused by the pressure of the head of the bone on the vessels in the neighbourhood. There is, however, a fracture of the neck, or upper part of the femur, which occurs chiefly in old people, and which simulates dislocation of the hip backwards. The force causing the fracture may be very slight, perhaps a mere fall in a room, generally on the hip. In the fracture just mentioned, the limb is shortened to a slight extent, the toes rest on the metatarsus of the opposite foot, the limb is drawn up, but the hip not so much swollen as in the ordinary fracture of the neck of the femur, and the knee is inverted, not everted as in that injury. This fracture is not a very common one. Its direction is very oblique, passing through the neck of the femur in front, close to the trochanter. The greater portion of the trochanter and the digital fossa posteriorly are left in connection Avith the head and neck of the femur. The external rotator muscles have nothing to counteract them, and therefore rotate the head of the bone outwards, while at the same time they draw the trochanter upwards and backwards. In front, again, if any part of the glutens medius be left in connection with the sliait, it is only its anterior fibres, and these., along with the tensor vagina femoris, act as internal rotators, and turn inwards. This readily