319 MORBUS COXARIUS. takes place, and exudation is gradually thrown out between it and the cartilage. The nutrition of the cartilage is thus inter- rupted, and at last it ulcerates and exfoliates. Subsequently when the opposed surfaces of the inflamed bones come into contact, ex- cruciating pain is the result. We see, therefore, that ulceration of cartilage may take place in two ways: either spontaneously, from changes within itself, in which case it is attended with no pain ; or it may arise adven- titiously, from inflammation of the bone beneath it, and then it is attended with acute pain. In the former case the disease progresses slowly, but in the latter the ulceration goes on rapidly. The pain in ulceration of cartilage, as distinguished from that in gelatinous degeneration, is almost invariably dependent on dis- ease or change in the osseous structure, leading to ulceration or exfoliation of the cartilage, and so causing exposure of the in- flamed bones (Rg. 3, Plate xi.) As another example, let us take Morbus Coxaeius, or disease of the hip-joint. This disease almost always occurs before the age of thirty, generally in early childhood. It may pass off at that time, and then recur when the patient is advanced in life. On examining the patient we find that, on the affected side, the limb is somewhat everted, and that the fold of the nates passes obliqixely downwards, giving the hip a flattened appearance. (Fig. 1, Plate xiii.) The patient stands with the knee projecting for- wards, and with the body stooping somewhat, so that the affected limb looks longer than the other. There may be some slight real lengthening of the limb, but the apparent lengthening is gener- ally due to loss of power in the muscles, by reason of which they allow the hip to droop. It may also be, in part, due to the position which the patient instinctively assumes in order to pre- vent the head of the femur touching the acetabulum. If we ask the patient whether he feels much pain, he answers no, except at night, or when walking. At these times he feels pain, not in the hip itself, but on the inner side of the knee. This pain is very often of an intense character, so much so that, in a great many cases of hip-joint disease, we find that the patient has been