336 DISEASES OF JOINTS. a large fungating mass on the surface, which looks like a malignant growth, but is really ulceration of the bursa. In one case lately under my care the bursa over the patella was filled with a bloody grumous fluid like that of hsematocele. This is called haematocele of the patellar bursa, but it is a very rare form of disease. The bursitis of thecal bursse is subacute or chronic in form. It occurs often after exposure to cold or wet. It is generally met with in the tendons of the peronei and tibialis posticus about the ankle. There is pain in the tendons, and also a peculiar creaking noise when they are moved. This is partly due to a subacute form of rheumatic affection of the fibrous texture of the sheath, with effusion between it and the tendon. The creaking sensation is owing to friction between the surfaces roughened by exudation. At the wrist-joint, after frequent at- tacks of this diseased condition, we have the thecal bursa invest- ing the flexor tendons becoming affected. The effusion begins to assume a chronic form, and is more or less constantly pre- sent, interfering with the movements of flexion and extension. There is a distinct swelling in the central part of the forearm near the wrist, which seems to stop suddenly where the flexor muscles terminate in their tendons. In the palm of the hand there is also a fulness, though less noticeable. This is due to the thick palmar fascia not allowing the projection of the fluid so much as the thinner fascia in the forearm does. On pressing the swelling in the forearm, the palmar fulness increases, whilst the indentation at the wrist becomes more marked. The indentation at the wrist is caused by the strong annular liga- ment forming a constriction there. (Plate xiii. Fig. 6.) In thecal bursitis the ordinary plans of treatment may be had recourse to, and will generally cure the disease if applied in the early stages. After a time there is always more or less swelling, which returns whenever the hand is moved. This is generally due to a number of disc-like bodies and loose fibro- cartilages which form in the thecal bursa. The deobstruent remedies, which are useful in the other forms of bursitis, are of no use here. By using them we may get rid of the fluid, but not