455 OPERATION FOR TALIPES VARUS. found any difficulty or bad consequences result from this. The division of the tendo Achilles is effected thus :—The assist- ant extends the foot so as to bend the heel towards the back part of the leg. The skin over the tendon being thus relaxed, the operator pinches up a fold of it immediately over the lower part of the tendon, glides his tenotome between the skin and tendon, then turns the cutting edge towards the tendon, and desires the assistant to stretch the heel. He then presses his knife till the section is completed, which is easily recognised by the sudden snap and the laxity of the heel (Plate xx. Fig. 9). In dividing the two tibial muscles, we cannot easily pinch up the skin, and therefore put the foot on the stretch by trying to evert it. The tibialis anticus is thus made tense. The surgeon enters the tenotome over the inner side of the tendon, carefully avoiding the saphena vein, then passes the knife over the tendon, and cuts firmly upon it till he feels it separate. In dividing the tendon of the tibialis posticus, I feel for the internal edge of the tibia, immediately above the malleolus, and holding the tenotome flat, and its edge directed downwards, I pass it in till I feel it project over the edge of the tibia, and then press it across the course of the tendon, altering the position of the blade, so that the edge is turned towards the tendon and tibia, and the back towards the posterior tibial vessels. I the-n carry it, with a decided stroke, towards the bone, whilst the foot is everted, and in this way the tendon is thoroughly divided. I have already stated the reason why we cannot, in cases of varus, divide this tendon in the foot, as was once proposed. In every case the internal, and at least the inner part of the middle portion of the plantar fascia must be divided. Having divided the tendons and fascia, and applied pads of lint and bandage, I seldom use any apparatus to stretch the foot for the first two days, or at most only a leather or gutta-percha splint. The second day after the operation I apply a strong leather splint, formed into a leg-piece and straight sole, and thus bring and maintain the foot more in its natural position, without overstretching the thin skin over the divided tendons. In two