597 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. Case op Hemorrhage prom Sloughing op the Brachial Artery AFTER Severe Gunshot Wound. John D., Eet. 34, residing at Newlands. Admitted 17th October 1867. From the rambling statement of the patient, whose intellectual facul- ties seem in some degree impaired, it would appear that, when out poacli- ing on the night previous to his admission to the hospital, he engaged in « quarrel with another poacher. A struggle between them ensued, during which one of the guns went off close to the patient's left side. He was brought to the hospital on the morning of the following day. On exami- nation, it was found that a large portion of integument on the lower and inner side of the arm, immediately above the elbow, had been carried away by the contents of the gun. The tendon and part of the muscular tissue of the triceps were torn off, while parts of the brachialis anticus and biceps muscles were laid bare. A large portion of the ulnar nerve was M'anting. The median was exposed for about an inch, and close beside it the large brachial trunk was seen to pulsate, apparently, however, un- injured ; but one of the vense comites was opened. There was great lacera- tion of the skin and deeper-seated textures, but the bone was untouched. It was decided that amputation was not imperatively called for, and that, with rest and proper treatment, a useful limb might be saved. Oct. 18.—Patient feels very little pain from the arm. Wound looking slightly sloughy. Pulse 106. Oct. 23.—Wound sloughy. Tongue coated. Pulse 124. VesiKre.—Haemorrhage occurred from the wound about 5.45 P.M., but was immediately arrested. Mr. Spence was sent for ; and, finding that the bleeding proceeded from the brachial artery, he cleared the vessel and tied it above and below the opening. Very little blood was lost. 11 P.M.—Temperature of the hand and fore-arm equal to that of the opposite arm. Faint pulse at the wrist. Oct. 24.—At a consultation to-day, Mr. Spence's opinion (that no inter- ference was at present required) was agreed to. Oct. 25.—Radial artery at wrist quite perceptible. Pulse 120. Oct. 26.—Pulse 130. Considerable sloughing taking place at lower and inner j)art of woiuid, but quite healthy near the artery. Oct. 29.—Greater part of slough separated. Wound looking clean. Pulse 132. Nov. 3.—Going on well. Pulse has gradually come down to 102. Ordered four ounces of port wine. Nov. 10.—Still impro^dng. Pulse 96. Ordered amnionio-citrate of iron. Nov. 16.—Wound dressed with red lotion, and gentle support given with a flannel bandage. Patient allowed to rise. Nm). 23.—This morning the back of the little and ring fingers of left hand are covered with large blisters. (The weather is intensely cold.) Nov. 28.-—Small sloughs have separated from the fingers. Dec. 19.—Wound of arm contracted to about the size of a shilling. The little finger is now quite well. Other fingers nearly so.