TREA TMENT OF GELA TINO US DE GENERA TION. 309 In gelatinous degeneration a certain amount of synovial effusion may be present, and we may be tempted to apply a blister at an early stage to cause absorption, but it is very likely to excite too much action, and do harm. A blister should not be applied till the increased temperature has be- come reduced, but after that it may be of considerable service. When the blister has healed, support by bandaging should be resumed, and occasionally the surface may be painted over with iodine, in order to keep up gently the deobstruent action. Sub- sequently we may begin what is called the plaster-treatment, which was first adopted by Mr. Scott. This consists in bandag- ing from the foot upwards to near the knee, as we have already indicated, and then applying broad strips of adhesive plaster round the joint. The ends of the plaster should be made to cross over the joint for some distance, and each layer made to overlap the preceding one to two-thirds of its width. The plasters should be made to extend weU up the thigh, and then the band- age from the leg continued upwards over it. The limb is then slung in a splint, and the plaster left on for a few weeks without being removed. In some cases, medicated plasters, such as the Emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro, are used, but I have found that the irritation of the skin produced by them is often so great as to excite too much action, causing vesications on the limb, and hence leading to its being disturbed too soon. I therefore prefer the simple adhesive plaster, which is generally quite sufficient to stimulate to absorption of the exudation, though in some cases of a more chronic character the medicated plasters may be useful. By keeping the limb at perfect rest in the above way, by giving nourishing diet, and by attending to the patient's general health, we may, in a very large proportion of cases, get rid of the diseased condition, but great care must be taken that the affected limb be not used for some time. Should ab- scesses form about the joint, they must be evacuated in the manner advised for opening chronic abscesses. In the upper extremity, at a comparatively early stage of synovial disease, the question of excision of the joint comes before us, and this is