299 REMOVAL OF ANCHYLOSIS. straightened, either with or without division of any contracted tendons, will generally prove sufficient, and if the disease has not been extensive, some of the natural motions of the joint may even be restored. In cases of firm osseous anchylosis such treatment would be useless. Hitherto the methods generally adopted have been either to break up the anchylosis by forcible extension, after division of contracted tendons, or to perform resection by removing a wedge-shaped portion of the anchylosed bones, so as to enable us to place the parts in the straight position, the after-treatment being the same as after excision of the knee. I have in several cases had recourse to the former method successfully, but it is excessively rough surgery, and not unattended by danger. We must recollect that if there has been much irritation of surrounding tissues, the great vessels behind the knee-joint may have become locally diseased. At all events, they as well as the tendons have become con- tracted and adherent, accommodating themselves to the new position of parts. Hence their coats may suffer from the sudden forcible extension necessary to break up the anchylosis. This is no imaginary danger, for I have known of subacute gangrene following such extension. Again, in young persons, instead of the osseous union breaking up, the force often separates the epiphysis of the tibia, and the limb, though straightened, remains somewhat deformed. The resection of a wedge-shaped portion of the anchylosed bones, though free from the dangers alluded to, is a serious operation, being a form of excision of the knee-joint. Dr. Gross of Philadelphia, the son of Professor Gross of that city, employs a procedure which, in suitable cases, is both simple and efficient. Instead of forcibly breaking up the anchylosed knee-joiat, he makes a sub- cutaneous incision, and then, by means of a drUl, cuts through the osseous union so far that the remainder yields to very slight force. The incision is then closed, and the limb treated in the straight position, division of contracted tendons being had re- course to if necessary. I can understand many cases in which