561 ANEURISMAL VARIX. to arterio-venous disease, and to point out the two forms in whicli it occurs. Since then numerous cases of both have been recorded, and observations published in reference to their exact pathological conditions. In both diseases there is communica- tion between the vein and artery; and therefore, as we might expect, there are several symptoms common to both. The similarity of name, and community of general symptoms, have led occasionally to some confu.sion in regard to treatment; and it is to be regretted that even some writers, who are distinct enough in their description of the two forms of disease, are not equally careful to keep cases of aneurismal varix separate from cases of varicose aneurism when discussing the subject of treatment. It is most essential to remember, in reference to treatment, that however much the two lesions may have in common as regards certain symptoms and appearances, such as the peculiar " bruit," the varicose condition of the neighbouring veins, or the constitutional affection arising from the admixture of venous and arterial blood, their pathological condition differs in one most important point bearing upon practice, and more especially upon the question of operative interference. Keeping this in view, I shall now describe the symptoms and pathology of aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism, and next consider the rationale of the treatment of each. In Aneurismal Varix the wound has implicated the artery, and some vein in close contact with it. The bleeding has been arrested by firm pressure at the time, and the parts have healed. The artery and vein adhere directly and closely at the wounded point, so that at each pulsation a jet of arterial blood is projected into the vein, dilating it and destroying the competency of its valves, and gradually leading to a varicose condition of neighbour- ing veins both deep and superficial. The force with which the arterial stream enters the aperture to the vein, and the meeting of the opposing blood-currents, give rise to a pulsatory move- ment in the affected veins, attended with a peculiar thrill, and a whizzing sound, which can often be heard even at a little dis- tance. This sound has been compared to various noises—the 2 0