DISEASES OF BONES. 270 Most of our surgical works would lead us, by their language, to suppose that, in constitutional forms of necrosis, if we once but remove the " sequestrum," all will go on satisfactorily. Such, however, is very far from being the case in many instances, and for this simple reason, that the originating or predisposing cause, the constitutional diathesis, still continues after the local irritation has been removed ; and hence, in many cases, after removing a " sequestrum," we find the exposed surface still continues to discharge, and fresh portions become necrosed— nay, in many cases the cavity left after removal of the necrosed portion continues to furnish discharge so persistently as to exhaust the general health and necessitate amputation to save life. Again, we meet with various forms or modifications of the disease. In some the death of a portion of the affected bone is rapid and complete, and a comparatively healthy surface is left; or the reparative efforts of nature may have furnished a case of substitute bone ere the sequestrum is thrown off. In others, the progress is slow, the affected bone retaining slight vitality, and not becoming completely separated for a lengthened period—the texture of the bone from which it separates is seen to be dis- coloured, friable, and of low vitality; and in other cases we find the shaft of a bone affected at different points, with independent patches of necrosis, without the slightest effort at repair. We have already examined the condition termed caries. Let us now compare it with necrosis, and ascertain in how far these conditions differ from or resemble each other in their essential nature, whether they be absolutely different diseases, or merely the same diseased action differing in degree, or modified by the texture of the bone in which it occurs. "When we view two specimens, such as caries of the articular surface of the tibia and necrosis of the shaft of a long bone, there seems at first sight but little in common ; but it is not by extreme forms that we must judge of the essential character of disease, but by tracing it through intermediate links, and having done this, we wiU. often find, even in the extremes, more points of resemblance than at first appeared. Thus, if we take a