698 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. Dec. 24.—Both fingers now well. Dec. 26.—There is a vesication as large as a fourpenny piece on the ring finger, and another of the same size on the point of the little finger. Jan. 3, 1868.—Patient having gone on steadily improving, was allowed to leave to-day. Remarks.—This case liad many points of interest considered as a gunshot injury, but I refer to it at present in reference to the haemorrhage which occurred from sloughing of the brachial artery. On being summoned to see the patient, I found a small clot of blood over the part corresponding to the site where the artery had been exposed, and this clot moving with each pulsa- tion of the vessel. But, recollecting that one of the venae comites had been wounded, and that possibly the easily-arrested bleeding might have been venous, I caused Dr. Yellowlees to compress the brachial at the upper part of the urm, and then, having brushed away the clot, I desired him to relax his com- pression, when the full jet of arterial blood at once settled all doubt as to the nature and source of the bleeding. I then dis- sected along the course of the vessel, so as to clear it at a healthy point not too far removed from the opening. As the parts v.'ere matted and sloughy, and the vessel flaccid from being compressed above, some difficulty might have been experienced in recognis- ing and clearing it, especially on the distal side of the opening, but for the simple and old-fashioned expedient of gently intro- ducing a common probe through the opening into the canal of the artery, so as to render it perfectly distinct and easily cleared and secured. The occurrence of secondary haemorrhage from a large arterial trunk implicated in an incised wound, however matted the sur- rounding parts may be by inflammatory action and previous attempts at compression, would scarcely induce any surgeon in the present day to think of amputation. But here the case was more complicated ; for not only was the original wound such as rendered the prospect of saving a useful hmb somewhat problem- atical, but I knew positively that two of the most important col- lateral branches—namely, the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna—were destroyed ; and hence the anastomoses, on which