369 DISLOCA TIONS OF CLA VICLE. The Dislocations of the Clavicle are two in number- namely those of the acromial and sternal ends. Dislocation of the sternal end occurs less frequently than that of the acromial end. It is caused by the patient falling on the point of the shoulder. The sternal end of the bone is thereby thrust forwards forcibly, so as to rupture the anterior part of the capsular ligament of the joint, and project forwards upon the sternum, where it forms a large and very marked swelling. The symptoms of this dislocation are so marked that the dia- gnosis is very easy. The bone is reduced by drawing back the shoulders. The elbow is then brought to the side, and a broad figure-of-eight bandage, with a pad over the dislocfited end of the clavicle, applied. Dislocation of the sternal end may also take place backwards and upwards behind the sternum towards the neck, but this rarely happens. It then presses upon the oesophagus and the great vessels at the root of the neck, and may give rise to serious consequences. This condition may also arise in consequence of disease of the spine, and then it is a sort of secondary disloca- tion. In such cases it has been found sometimes necessary to cut down upon the clavicle and remove the sternal end of the bone, so as to get rid of the pressure caused by it. This is ex- ceedingly rare, and is hardly a dislocation proper. Dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle is not very un- common. There is comparatively a very small surface of the broad end of the clavicle articulated with the acromion, and if a person falls on the point of the shoulder, the end of the clavicle may be projected from the acromion, and dislocated. The ligaments which keep it in position give way, and it remains merely attached to the coraco-clavicular ligaments, which do not generally yield. Hence the arm does not fall very much at first, though it may do so afterwards, and then the acromial end of the clavicle projects, giving rise to appearances somewhat like those seen in dislocation of the humerus. On looking at them from the front, the two cases appear very much alike, as they both present a marked elevation at the point of the shoulder, 2 B