339 FRACTURE. liar diagnostic symptom of fracture. We cannot, however, always trust to this symptom, as in the young, when the bones are not quite ossified, little or no crepitus will be heard or felt. The symptoms of dislocation or luxation, as compared with those of fracture, are, distortion, as in fracture, owing to dis- placement of the limb, swelling and pain, the latter being increased on attempting motion. Tlie altered form of the ]Dart is caused by the absence of the articular end of the bone from its normal position, and its projection in some abnormal direc- tion. The deformity caused by this is generally greater than in fracture, owing to the larger size of the articular extremities of bones as compared with their shafts. These general symptoms of fracture and dislocation are somewhat in common : distortion, pain, swelling, and deformity, caused by displacement—the character of the deformity being slightly different in the two cases. The absolute differences between luxation and fracture are, absence of crepitus, immobility of the dislocated limb, whether motion be attempted by the patient or surgeon. Thus in the shoulder-joint the arm cannot be moved from the position in which it is fixed, and this used to be stated as the absolute diagnostic between dislocation and fracture. This is not true in every sense, for in certain dislocations there is sometimes abnormal mobility, though not the normal movement of the joint. In these dislocations the parts can be moved in directions where movement could not have been exercised before ; thus, at the elbow, when the joint is dislocated, free lateral movements can be made, which could not have been effected in the normal state of the parts ; but the natural movements of flexion and extension cannot be performed. Still this is no objection to the term im- mobility being used, for it is used with regard to the natural movement of the joint. In dislocation there may be either lengthening or shortening of the limb, while in fracture, with one or two exceptions, there is always shortening. Such excep- tions are certain fractures of the pelvis, and fracture of the trochanter major, where, from the muscles which support the limb losing their attachments, the limb is apparently lengthened