INJURIES OF JOINTS. 362 times reduced to a semilunar form (Plate xv. Fig. 2), part of it and also of the head of the humerus being marked by a porcellaneous deposit. A new joint has been formed, so that it would be of no use to reduce such a dislocation, as the glenoid cavity has become altered in shape. So also when the head of the radius has been dislocated backwards, the joint becomes completely altered in form, and the head of the radius is also altered ; and here too it would be useless to attempt reduction, for the natural move- ments of the joint could not be restored. Whenever we have a dislocation long unreduced, where there is considerable motion of the joint reduction is contra-indicated. In ordinary cases reduction may be attempted in the dislocations of the hip or shoulder joints, even after some months, while in joints like the elbow reduction after a few weeks is excessively difficult, often impossible. The treatment of luxation is termed reduction, and consists in restoring the dislocated bones to their natural position. This process is effected by forces applied generally in the form of extension and counter-extension, and kept up until the object is attained. Counter-extension consists in fixing the articular sur- face nearest the trunk, so as to prevent it yielding to the extend- ing force employed to act on the dislocated bone. It is usually managed by means of a sheet or laque, or the hands of an assistant, or by the surgeon placing his knee or foot so as to fix the part, whilst he makes extension with his hands, or by means of pulleys, according to the degree of force required. Extension is usually made by drawing down the dislocated bone in the axis in which it has been displaced, whilst at the same time the foot or knee which is used to fix the articular surface from which it has been dislocated is also made to form a fulcrum, over which the shaft of the luxated bone is made to act as a lever to raise its articular extremity from its abnormal position, and bring it within the action of forces which tend to replace it. In other cases, instead of using extension, the reduction is accomplished by fixing the trunk, and then moving the luxated bone in such a manner as to tilt its articular extremity from the abnormal posi-