CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. G15 state of tlie arui already referred to. The principle of the method is obvious. We not only secure all the benefits likely to arise from Brasdor's plan, but the removal of the u]Dper extremity, to which the circulation, through the subclavian, is principally directed, removes the attractive force of the tissue to be supplied —the vis a fronte, as it has been termed. The function of the affected vessel is arrested, and the circulation, no longer required in that direction, will be thrown upon other vessels. The force of the blood being thus removed from the diseased vessel, and its function being abrogated, I trusted that gradual diminution of the sac, and coagidation within it, would lead to obliteration and cure of the aneurism. In many respects these hopes were realised. The marked diminution, almost effacement of the tumour, which immediately followed the operation, showed, I think, that the force of the circulation through the subclavian was very decidedly lessened, and I think it probable, had it been a saccular aneurism, that coagulation and complete cure would have followed. In this fusiform aneurism, however, all that resulted for some time was flaccidity of the dilated portion, and this permitted re-distension when the circulation became stronger. Ultimately, considerable hardness from coagulation did take place, and the aneurism, though not cured, became small in size, and somewhat consolidated. There were also j)eculiar circumstances in this case unfavour- able to the desired result. I intended tying the axillary very high up, and accordingly, aiter securing its cut end, I dissected it upwards; but, a little above the lower border of the lesser pectoral muscle, the vessel dilated so suddenly, and looked so thin in its coats, that I did not venture to tie it higher up than that point. The ligature was higher than the origin of the subscapular, but still a greater number of branches were left between the aneurism and the ligature than I could have wished. Another cause to which I attribute failure was, that owing to the patient's previous habits, stimulants were necessitated from the first, and, as can be easily understood, excited the circulation, and so interfered with the cure. I believe, from the state of the