ACUTE CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 259 rise to acute projection of the spinous processes of the vertebrce affected, or Acute Curvature of the Spine, has, from its true nature having been very accurately described by Pott, received the name of Pott's Curvature. Essentially it consists in carious or ulcerative absorption of the cancellated structure of the bodies of the vertebrte, with alteration and destruction of the inter- vertebral substance, or elastic fibro-cartilage, causing the bodies of the adjoining vertebrce to approach each other, and so gradually to project the spinous processes until the projection becomes acute. Long ere any projection is noticeable, however, the real disease is in action, and as it is in this early stage we have most hopes of doing good, I will briefly point out to you the progress of such a case. Caries of the bodies of the vertebrae, like most manifesta- tions of scrofula, is a disease of early life, usually beginning in childhood ; and for a time the disease may^ indeed generally does, advance without much pain or other marked symptom. The gait of the little patient, when walking, may attract at- tention. The head is carried erect and a little back, and the shoulders also seem carried well back, and as the child moves very circumspectly, it is sometimes noticed as having a " fine carriage." By-and-by the child is noticed to be very cautious in going down a stair, or any declivity, and to complain of pain in doing so, or after making any exertion. The general health now begins to suffer; there is heat of skin, restlessness and starting in sleep, and want of appetite. The patient cannot sit or stand long in the erect posture, and complains of pain at some part of the back. On examination there is a slight fulness observed at some point in the spinal region, and on pressure there the patient winces or screams. In most cases the abdomen is tumid, and the lower limbs wasted, and twitchings of the muscles of the limbs are noticed. If the spinal swelling be only slightly marked, and the pain not very severe on pressure on the spine, a very good method of diagnosis is to throw down some toy on the ground and bid the child pick it up. "When the dis- eased condition is present, the child, instead of stooping in a