405 FRACTURE OF NECK OF FEMUR. lies, and partly to the fact that blood and synovial fluid are effused between the broken ends. Then the two portions of the broken bone are not likely to correspond with each other, so that you. might roll about the bone for a long time without ever bringing the fractured surfaces into contact. The reason why intra-capsular is not marked at first by so much shortening as extra-capsular fracture is, that in the extra- capsular fracture all the muscles Avhich draw up the lower part of the thigh act iipon it directly and at once, so as to make the displacement visible from the first, the capsule of the joint being torn through. Whereas in the intra-capsular fracture the capsular ligament surrounding the head of the bone attaches the two fragments so far to each other, and it is only after some stretching of the ligament that the lower portion is drawn up- wards and outwards. Hence, when there is marked shortening of the limb and trochanteric projection at the very first, the probabilities are that the fracture has taken place below the capsule, and the case may therefore be safely diagnosed as one of extra-capsular fracture, but when the shortening does not occur for some time, then we may consider it to be an intra- capsular fracture. Mr. Smith, of Dublin, in his work on fractures, draws atten- tion to the cervical ligament of the femur, and considers that that texture prevents the immediate shortening in the intra-capsular fracture, but it seems to me that the attachment of the strong re- sisting capsular ligament is tlie real obstacle. It is important to know whether the fracture be intra or extra capsular, for if it be the latter, we have a very good chance of obtaining bony union, and then the limb again becomes useful, whereas in intra- capsular fracture osseous union is exceedingly rare. Indeed, it is very doubtful whether the fracture ever unites by bone. In old people, it is not always advisable to persist in keeping on splints at the risk of the general health. If we know that we have to do with intra-capsular fracture, we have less hesitation in leaving off the special treatment; whereas if the fracture be extra-capsular, we are warranted in persisting, even at some little