583 FEMORAL ANEURISM. rather medical tlian surgical cases. The abdominal aorta has been tied several times for aneurismal disease or haemorrhage, but never with success. The operation is not likely to prove successful, and is not to be recommended. The term Femoral Aneurism is applied to an aneurism aris- ing on any part of the femoral artery, from the point where it passes through the opening in the adductor magnus up to where it becomes the external iliac artery. The term is, tlierefore, a very wide one, and the methods of cure are very different in different cases. When the aneurism, as generally happens, is high up, in or near Scarpa's triangle, it is too close to the origin of the superficial femoral to allow us to tie that vessel, and in such cases the external iliac artery should be ligatured. But many femoral aneu- risms occur below this point, and then it is not necessary to tie the external iliac, as there is plenty of space between the aneurism and a healthy portion of the femoral artery to allow us to tie the latter vessel. In these cases there is a better chance of a cure being effected (because there are fewer collateral branches, which might cause a reappearance of the aneurism), than if the external iliac were tied Avhen the aneurism is low down in the thigh, for then there would be a large number of branches of communication between the aneurism and the ligature. In femoral the pain is not so severe as in popliteal aneurism. It is chiefly complained of on the inner side of the knee, owing to pressure on the obturator and saphenus nerves. The common femoral is a very short vessel, and gives off many collateral branches, such as the superficial epigastric, the circumflex ilii, and inguino-pudic, and then it divides into the superficial and deep femoral arteries. On this account I would never tie the common femoral artery, except for direct wound. When a femoral aneurism is situated above Hunter's canal, and towards the groin, the external iliac is the proper vessel to tie; but when the aneurism is lower down, the superficial femoral should be tied. It is not safe to put off much time by trying compression in cases of femoral aneurism ; the sooner the ligature is applied the better.