574 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. rism. The blood would no longer be required for the arm, and the function of the affected artery would be done away with. In one case, lately, I performed this operation in a case of fusiform aneurism of the subclavian artery with benefit, but without effect- ing a complete cure : still I believe that, under more favourable circumstances, a successful result would be obtained. The patient on whom I operated is still alive* When he left the hospital the aneurism was all but consolidated, but three or four years afterwards the swelling began to return, this being due, I believe, to a fresh dilatation of the vessel rather than to any change in the consolidated sac of the aneurism. I feel quite sure, however, that if the innominate artery had been tied in this case, the patient would have died long ago. I would, therefore, try this operation again in preference to tying the innominate artery, and in doing it I should tie the axillary as high up as possible— namely, just at the clavicle—before removing the arm, partly to avoid the bleeding from the large number of muscular branches given off by the artery, and partly also because we should be able to tie the vessel as near as possible to the distal side of the aneur- ism.*!" We should always remember, in reference to this subject, that the innominate artery may not be present, the carotid and subclavian arteries in those cases arising directly from the aorta. In one of Mr. Listen's cases such was the arrangement, such also occurs in the preparation which I now show you. Aneurisms of the Axillary Artery are much more fre- quent and much more amenable to treatment than those of the subclavian. They arise from various causes, as from great muscular exertion of the arm. They may be either fusiform or saccular, as when there is ulceration of the middle and internal coats, with dilatation of the external coat of the artery. When it is a true lateral saccular aneurism, it forms a rounded projection on one side of the artery, and as it enlarges we find peculiar symptoms connected with it, but such as are apt to mislead unless we are on our guard. A great many cases of this aneurism have been overlooked, imder the belief that they were cases of rheumatism of the arm and shoulder. The * Died in 1868. See Clinical Cases. f See Clinical Cases.