507 INTERNAL PLASTIC EXUDATION. speaking of the coagulum, writers have not been sufficiently care- ful to distinguish between the true plastic effusion, which is constant and essential to safe obliteration, and the simple bloody coagulum, which is only incidental and not essential. The dis- tinction between these two parts is best seen in a vessel exarained from the ninth to the fifteenth day after ligature, in which there is a large clot. If such a vessel be opened immediately on the animal being killed, and a section of the coagulum made in situ, the dis- tinction between the plastic and mere bloody coagulum is very apparent, even to the naked eye, and still more so when examined by a low magnifying power. In Plate xxii. Fig. 6, I have given a view of the femoral artery of a dog, at the seventeenth day after ligature, viewed by a low magnifying power, the drawing being made whilst the natural colours remained unchanged. In this artery the plastic coagulum, occupying its canal immediately above the point of deligation, exhibited on its section a peculiar gelatinous appearance of a yellowish-pink colour, perfectly distinct from the dark sanguineous clot which is seen lying in contact with it. It is necessary to keep in view these two distinct original portions of the coagulum, to under- stand their respective constancy and value in the process of obli- teration, and also the subsequent changes which take place as to the vascularisation of the sanguineous clot when it is present, to which I shall have again to refer more particularly. So much for what I consider the first erroneous notion on which M. Manec founds his views of the necessity of a clot within the vessel as essential to safe obliteration after ligature. His second proposition, deduced from the former, can, I believe, be shown to be almost as erroneous. For, even supposing the internal adhesion were completely destroyed by the process necessary for separation of the ligature, I hold there are other conditions of the artery which would guard against secondary hfemorrhage at that period. The walls of the vessel are thickened, and its canal contracted for a considerable distance beyond the deligated point; thus opposing a considerable obstacle to the flow of blood through it, a fact long noticed by many writers.