555 ANEURISM. cases the patient complains of pain in the sac of the aneurism and along the course of the vessels, and there is perhaps some oedema in the neighbourhood. The pain increases at night, and there is a slight redness on the surface of the tumour; the pulse also is quick and irregular from the general disturbance of the circulation. These symptoms indicate inflammation of the aneurismal sac. This condition may terminate in two ways : either by the more rapid coagulation of the blood within the sac, or more generally by partial decomposition of the blood and suppuration. If the suppuration takes place slowly, a natural cure may be effected ; but, in many instances, when suppuration occurs, the abscess opens externally, and haemorrhage comes on. Frequently, also, decomposition takes place, and portions of the broken-up and decomposing clot are carried into the circulation, and gangrene supervenes, or death results from embolism or blood-poisoning. When inflammation has occurred, the surgeon should not think of tying the artery until the excitement in the sac has subsided. A more frequent condition is that the aneurism increases rather rapidly, and becomes pretty solid, causing pressure on the larger veins and on the collateral circulating branches. From these conditions oedema takes place, the limb assumes a mottled appearance and has a lower temperature than usual, and symptoms of gangrene gradually come on. Sometimes, with- out the other symptoms, there may be great oedema from the venous obstruction, and from the pressure on the collateral circulation. If these conditions exist with a very large aneurism —say in the popliteal space—the case is unfavourable for liga- ture. In some cases, by tying the artery above the aneurism, the bulk of the tumour decreases, and an amelioration of the other conditions takes place. But where the symptoms are very much marked, with coldness of the limb, and a mottled appear- ance of the skin, the case is very unfavourable for ligature of the artery ; and if there be any doubt whether a partial diffusion of the aneurism have taken place, tlie case is one where ampu- tation is preferable to ligature, or any other mode of treatment.