556 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. If we tie tlie artery when the limb is in tliis condition, the swelling will obstruct the collateral and venous circulation, and such obstruction, superadded to the diminished supply of blood consequent on the ligature of the main trunk, would almost certainly induce gangrene. Therefore, under such circumstances, amputation is preferable to ligature. A true aneurism may burst and become diffuse, and gangrene of the limb may supervene. In this case also amputation is required. "VVliere the aneurism has burst fairly into the limb, and where the collateral circulation is pressed upon by the mass of blood thus thrown out, there can be no question as to the propriety of amputation. In certain cases of aneurism, how- ever, in the axilla and elsewhere, we may first adopt the method of laying open the tumour, turning out the coagulated blood, and tying the vessel above the opening in the artery, so as to give the patient the chance of saving the limb without in- curring much risk ; but whenever gangrene is threatened, with coldness and mottling of the limb, then amputation must be performed. Amputation may also be preferred to ligature of certain arteries, such as the innominate, the ligatme of which has almost uniformly proved fatal. In one case of aneurism^ of the second and third parts of the subclavian, where the patient was suffering great pain, the limb being cold, there was no choice but between amputation of the arm and ligature of the innominate artery. In that case I amputated the arm at the shoulder-joint, and tied the artery as near the outer side of the aneurism as possible. The patient went on well so far as regards the amputation ; the aneurism diminished in size, and for some weeks a cure seemed to have been effected, but after a little the aneurism began to return in consequence of the irregular con- duct of the patient; under proper treatment it afterwards again diminished in size, and it has not since enlarged. It is now about four years since the operation. Though the aneurism never entirely disappeared, it was very much reduced in size, and contained a considerable amount of solid matter. Whilst this case, properly speaking, was not a successful one, still I con-