INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 352 cerned, we should remember that here the risks are less, the vital powers are greater, the management of such a fracture is easier than in the leg, and the chances of saving the limb are therefore greater. Moreover, if we save the hand and wrist, even though it be deformed, still it is more useful than any artiiicial limb which can be obtained; while in the lower limb, on the other hand, the risks are greater, and the saved limb may be less useful than an artificial one. The risks of gangrene must be con- sidered in connection with the degree of force causing the injury, and the age and constitution of the patient must also be kept in mind. In old persons, and those in middle life, the chances of success are less than in younger patients, especially those under adult age, who possess greater vitality than older persons. In the young, even though a considerable extent of bone be lost, a large amount of new bone is thrown out, filling up the vacant space, and so leaving a pretty useful limb. Secondary amputation is sometimes required in compound fracture. Spreading gangrene may necessitate it, but this has been spoken of before under the subject of mortification. Where there is necrosis of the bone, with long-continued suppuration from any cause, when the patient's health is giving way, whenever hectic supervenes, and when the limb would evidently not be a useful one if saved, then secondary amputation ought to be performed. As a general rule, secondary amputations for injury are by no means so successful as primary ones, and hence the necessity for the surgeon making up his mind at first whether to amputate or not. In these cases irritative fever is often present, and this should be considered, as in such, cases the stump takes on an unhealthy action and pytemia is likely to follow. In compound commi- nuted fracture the rules for amputation are the same, but here we have one advantage over the simple comminuted fracture as regards local treatment, for we can readily remove any loose por- tions of bone through the wound, and thus often save a very serviceable limb. As regards the different complications of fractures, it would