367 FRACTURES OF CLAVICLE. spon ding exactly to that interval. The more general site is a little external to the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, and therefore beyond the reach of their direct counteracting in- fluence, so that the resulting displacement is often considerable. There is no difference in the level of the bone, but the fractured ends are displaced in the antero-posterior direction. As the displacement does not occur immediately, this makes the fracture more difficult of diagnosis. There is often no alteration visible at the time of the accident, but great deformity may arise subse- quently, if the fracture be not recognised and treated at first. You will be best enabled to do this by running the finger along the line of the bone, and placing it deeply over the seat of pain. Then, by fixing and rotating the scapula and humerus, you will generally be able to make out a deep-seated crepitus. Fracture at this site is by no means imcommon. It is met with less frequently than fractvire of the middle portion, but oftener than at the sternal extremity. As I have already stated, it occurs generally beyond the outer portion of the coraco-clavicular ligaments, and leaves them, therefore, undisturbed in their position. The active displacing agents will be evident to you. These are partly muscular, and partly due to the weight of the arm. The shoulder is drawn inwards, and becomes narrower. It does not droop much. The outer portion of the bone becomes gradually drawn round, until it lies in an antero-posterior direc- tion to the shaft. This arises from the pectoralis minor, assisted by the rhomboidei muscles rotating the scapula, so as to depress and draw forwards the point of the shoulder, together with tlie outer fragment of the bone. The rhomboideus major and minor and other muscles depress and rotate forwards the anterior angle of the bone ; whilst the trapezius, which would naturally oppose that action, acts only on one part of the scapula, and tends rather to carry it backwards, so that the acromial fragment of the clavicle is placed at a right angle with its shaft. This causes great deformity and comparative uselessness of the arm. If we put up the fracture at once, keeping the shoulder back, and confining the movements of the scapula, it will unite with-