SUMMARY OF AUTHOR'S VIEWS. 525 "eneral circulation is affected. I tliiiik that these "entlemen have overlooked the first liuk in the chain of diseased action, the source of direct irritation. In short, I believe all the symp- toms of laryngeal, bronchial, and pulmonary irritation, after ligature of the carotid, may be accounted for, in the first instance, by reference to the same law of nervous irritation which has been so generally acknowledged in regard to the painful symptoms in the extremities after ligature. This arises in consequence of the increased vascularity of the nervous structure and distension of the vessels of the neurilemma. And when we reflect upon the close proximity of the pneumo-gastric to the carotid artery, the great increase of vascularity which it exhibits, and the pressure of the plastic effusion upon it after the application of the ligature, we may easily comprehend how these will act as a source of direct irritation to that important nerve, deranging its functions, and giving rise to symptoms of irritation or disease in the respiratory organs to which it is distributed. As to the pathological conditions found in the cases examined by M. Eobert and others, we must bear in mind that different causes may produce the same effect. Of one thing at least I am quite sure, from considerable practice in experiments upon the pneumo-gastric—namely, that all the symptoms and pul- monary lesions described by M. Eobert are produced with equal certainty by irritation or injury of that nerve as they could possibly be by the cause he has assigned. "Whilst tlie ligature of other arteries equally deranging the circulation, but more remote from the pneumo-gastric nerve, are not so generally attended witli these symptoms of disordered respiration. Having thus concluded my remarks on the special parts of the jirocess, I shall give a summary of what I hold to be the essential effects of the ligature of an artery, according to the results of my experiments. \st, It divides the two internal coats, AA'hich retract, and are puckered inwards. It constricts, without breaking, tlie cellular coat, so as to completely prevent the circulation through the vessel, the blood previously flowing through being determined on the collateral branches, Avhich