600 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. dressed with dry lint, and supported by a moderately tight bandage. I saw him again on the Saturday, and dressed tlie wound ; there had been no oozing after the removal of the dead bone, and the wound was looking well. As I happened to be residing in tlie neighbourhood for a few days, his brother called on me on the Monday forenoon following, and told me that he seemed much easier, and in better sj)irits than for some time back. About ten p.m., however, I received a message from his brother, stating that on reaching home he had found that alarming bleeding had occiu'red about a quarter to nine p.m., and that Dr. Hislop wished me to come immediately to the case. I accordingly went, and reached the patient's house about half-past eleven p.m. He had by that time somewhat recovered from the first effects of the loss of blood under the use of stimuli, but was nervous and excited. I learned that the bleeding had taken place slowly and unnoticed until he felt sick. He was talking with his mother and sister at the time, and on his complaining of faintness, they happened to look at the bed, which they found covered with blood. Dr. Hislop was sent for, and arrested the bleeding by pressu.re. Having applied a tourniquet over the femoral artery, I cut up the bandage, and found the leg more swollen than when I last saw it, as if from coagula. I accordingly removed the lint from the large incision in the leg, with my finger removed the coagula, and then with a sponge cleared the large exposed surface. The edges of the wound being held apart, I directed the tourniquet to be gradually slackened till all compression was taken off the femoral. No jet of blood was noticed. I again examined the wound with my finger, and as the lymph seemed firm, I placed slips of lint into the deep part of the wound, and then a larger compress, and secured them by a roller applied from the toes upwards. An opiate was then given to procure sleep. I remained at his house all night, and at nine o'clock, before I left for Edinburgh, I saw him with Dr. Hislop. There had been no recurrence of the bleeding. I was still suspicious, however, from the amount of blood lost, and the long-continued difi'use suppuration which had previously existed, that the fibular artery might have been disorganised and given way from sloughing. I accordingly came back from to'WTa as soon as I could, and on reaching Liiiton I found that bleeding had just recurred to a considerable amount. Assisted by Dr. Hislop and my friend Dr. Littlejohn, who had accompanied me, 1 agaia examined the wound. The extent of the incision enabled nie to see the whole deep part of the wound, on clearing which of coagula, I found the textures generally covered vv'ith firmly adherent lymph, but some of the deeper parts looked sloughy and unhealthy. The bleeding welled up from the surface of the wound, but not in a jet. The patient's state demanded that some decided measures should at once be adopted, since direct graduated compression had failed. As to direct ligature on the bleeding point, although I suspected the fibular artery, yet, though the large incision exposed the surface of the wound fully, there was no jet or distinct indication of bleeding from any one point, whilst the disorganised sloughy condition of the deep surface of the wound rendered it more than doubtful that a vessel, even if dis- covered, would have held ligatures. There remained, therefore, only the alternatives of ligature of the femoral ai-tery, or amputation. The latter.