CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 611 After careful consideration and consultation, I decided on amputating tlie arm at the slioulder-joint, and with that view had him kept quiet in bed for several days previous to the operation, which I performed on Aj^ril 6.—Cutting from without inwards, I dissected a large flap, compris- ing the greater part of the deltoid, and then disarticulated, bringing the knife out, so as to divide the remaining soft parts, thereby allowing the mam artery to be compressed before its division, as the circulation through tlie subclavian could not be commanded. The enlarged anastomosing branches bled very freely. After securing all the smaller vessels with ligatures, I cleared the axillary artery, with a view to tie it as near the aneurism as possible ; but, on reaching the lower border of the pectoralis minor, I found the vessel dilate so suddenly, and its coats to be so thin, that I deemed it unsafe to clear it further, and therefore tied it at that point. The edges of the wound were brought together with silver sutures, and an opening left for discharge at the lower angle. The patient was then placed in bed, an opiate was administered, and external warmth applied. During the afternoon and evening there was severe vomiting from the effects of the chloroform, which was very ill borne by him. Ice, brandy, and soda-water were given, and mustard apf)lied to the epigastrium ; in the evening \ gr. of morphia was given in the form of suppository'. Evening indse, 108. April 7.—He had very little sleep during the night, owing to the vomiting, which continued at intervals during the night and following day. Pulse 120, rather weak. To have -|- a gr. of morphia in a suj^jDository, and 3 oz. of wine dailJ^ April 8.— Vomiting ceased. Slept very badly; copious discharge from stumjj. Tumour in neck is not more than haK the size which it was previous to the operation. Pulse 124. Opium pUl at bedtime, with two Colocynth and Hyoscyamus pills, to be followed by an enema in the morning, as the bowels have not been moved for three days. A2»-il 9.—Slept pretty well. Tongue furred ; pulse 100 ; bowels freely moved ; a little erythema at the lower edge of the wound ; two stitches removed. To have white of egg and milk as a drink. April 10.—Slept well ; pulse 98, of improved strength ; cramps frequently felt which were referred to the lost arm ; more stitches removed, and hot fomentations applied to the stump. A large opiate at bed-time, on account of great pain in the stump. Ap)ril 11.— Pain abated. The tumour is now so small that it cannot be seen, and the feeling of pulsation is much diminished ; wound looking well ; more stitches removed. April 14.—All stitches removed ; there is a little bagging under the short flap, but the discharge has free vent ; pulse 86 ; tongue slightly furred ; appetite improving. April 17.—Doing well ; stump looks healthy. Ap)ril 18.—Tongue rather dry in the centre ; pulse 82 ; complains of great pain and numbness in the stump ; discharge coi)ious and healthy ; wound dressed with chlorinated soda lotion. A small counter- opening was made in the short flap, and a considerable quantity of pus evacuated. April 20 (14th day).—Two ligatures separated ; discharge from stump moderate and healthy ; pulse 82, of fair strength. April 21.— Three ligatures separated ; no hfEmorrhage ; April 24.—Another ligature separated ; rather more pulsation is now percejJtible in the tumour ; general health excellent ; wound healthy ; dressed with a lotion containing sul- phate of zinc.