204 DISEASES OF BONES. and blocks up the canaliculi and corpuscular portions of the bone. Thus vascular supply is diminished, and nutrition inter- rupted, in a dense unyielding texture, the vitality of which, owing to its peculiar nutritive apparatus, speedily yields to acute action, and acute or rapid necrosis is the result. A large portion of the surface of the affected bone is felt or seen to be bare, and gene- rally of a white appearance, as in a cleanly-macerated bone, but occasionally of a brown colour, if there has been much disor- ganisation and decomposition of surrounding textures. In all cases of necrosis the pus, or discharges, have a peculiar foetid odour. In acute necrosis the actual extent of death of bone is less than it appears to be. Very often a mere thin layer dies and separates, and that not from all the exposed surface. The surrounding soft parts are thickened and vascular ; and more espe- cially we notice changes in the periosteum, which has separated from the affected surface. It has a thick, fleshy, and extremely vascular appearance, and in its substance there are felt small nodides of osseous matter (see Fig. 1, Plate xi.) At one time these were considered as being formed in the periosteum ; but if we care- fully examine a recent preparation of a bone so affected, we find that, corresponding to each of these osseous masses in the perios- teum, there is a depression in the dead surface of the bone from loss of substance. In fact, these osseous points are portions of living bone which have separated with the periosteum; a layer of granulations having separated them from the dead texture, gives them the appearance of being imbedded in the periosteum. In some cases, where the diseased action has affected the medullary Haversian structure, a portion of the shaft may die throughout nearly its whole thickness, but rarely, or rather I would say never (Fig. 2, Plate xii.); for even in very extreme specimens a longitudinal line of irregular rough surface marks where a portion of living bone has separated from some part of the circumference. In the more chronic forms of necrosis, or, to speak more properly, where necrosis results from a more chronic form of