498 INyURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. operating for true aneurism ; and in a footnote at page 94 of his work on the Great Operations of Sm-gery, he makes the following remarks:—" Mr. John Bell and Mr. Abernethy, and M. Maunoir of Geneva, have been advocates for tying the artery twice and cutting it betwixt the ligatures. It is a practice which may have advantages, but the idea that they thereby made the artery as secure as when tied in amputation was undoubtedly a great mistake. Has the profession still to learn the difference of the condition of an artery, where the limb is cut off, and with it is removed the stimulus to the activity of the vessels, and of an artery tied in the centre of a limb, where the member still influences the condition and activity of the trunk and its branches ?" The latest, and one of the most elaborate, monographs on the ligature of arteries is that of M. Manec. He coincides in the opinions of Jones as regards the use of the small round ligature, and as to the effusion of lymph and union of the internal coats of the artery in the first instance. But he considers that these changes would, in themselves, be insufficient to prevent secondary haemorrhage at the period of the separation of the ligature, and states that his experiments and observations led him to the conclusion, that the coagulum, together with its gradual and vital connections with the internal coat of the artery, form the essential j)art of the process of final obliteration. After carefully describing the gradual formation of the clot, its increase in length in the first instance, and then in thickness from the centre towards the circumference of the canal of the artery, and the effusion of plastic lymph upon the internal coats of the vessel, until these come into contact, he states that " The first effects of the vital impulsion made upon the coagulum, and the coagulable lymph by which it is united to the sides of the vessel, begin to be visible between the sixth and tenth hour after their union is completed, and are indicated by the surface of the coagulum and the substance connecting it with the internal membrane of the vessel assuming a filamentous appearance, which soon becomes areolar. This gradual change of coagulated