564 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BIOODVESSELS. is founded on a consideration of their pathology. In aneiirismal varix we have seen that although there is some alteration in the structure and function of the vessels affected, there is no resistance to the blood-current. There is little more than mere dilatation of the vein connected with the artery, and hence little tendency to such distension as would be likely to lead to rupture or ulcera- tion, and the history of such cases shows us that the disease may exist for years without any great alteration taking place. In aneurismal varix, therefore, operative measures are seldom called for, and all that requires to be done is to give support to the circulation, and prevent further venous dilatation, by ban- daging the ' limb from below upwards, or by the use of elastic or laced stockings. In varicose aneurism, on the contrary, we cannot leave the disease to take its own course, for though it might be slow in its progress, it would certainly continue to increase, and ulti- mately either become diffuse throughout the limb, or ulcerate and give way externally. We therefore must have recourse to active treatment. Compression, even at an early stage of the disease, does not answer well, owing to the distended state of the veins, and seems to produce more local irritation and oedema than when applied in other forms of aneurism. The operation of ligature is the best plan of treafanent. In the varicose aneurism at the bend of the elbow, the usual plan has been to treat it as a case of ordinary false aneurism, by the direct method of cutting into the sac, and tying the artery above and below the wounded point, and in that region this answers well enough. In other parts of the body, as, for example, the thigh, the plan would be attended with great risk, from the implication of the femoral vein. Mr. Hodgson, in his work on the bloodvessels, recom- mends ligature of the femoral by the Hunterian plan, trusting that coagulation would take place within the sac, and that the wound of the vein would heal. But the communication through the sac with the vein would offer a free passage for the retrograde circulation; and that, together with the reflux venous current, would form obstacles to coagulation which do not exist in a