STARCH AND GYPSUM BANDAGES. 425 invert the foot; the splint is therefore applied on the inner side of the leg, and kept fixed by slip-knots in the usual way (Plate xvii. Figs. 11 and 12). The part of the foot to be acted on is just above the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone, and we should act on the transverse arch of the foot, not on the heel. In this way we can see the position of the limb at once by look- ing at the foot. When there is inversion of the foot from frac- ture of the internal malleolus, and where therefore we want to evert the foot, we must apply the splint on the outside of the limb. When there is great separation of the bones of the foot, with retraction and inversion, we may use the stirrup splint, as already stated, by which the foot can be inverted and everted, just as with Dupuytren's splint, whilst retraction of the heel is prevented. With exceptional instances, I have always employed these simple methods so long and successfully used in this hospital; and after very extensive experience in treating fractures in hospital, dispensary, and private practice, I see no reason for changing to other methods, which certainly could not afford me better results, and which seem to me attended with some risk, from which these ordinary plans are free. I allude, particularly, to the use of the starch bandage and the plaster of Paris methods of treatment, which are now much used on the Continent. In regard to the dextrine or stucco bandage applied after the lapse of some weeks, when all risk of swelling or other results of the local irritation produced by the accident have passed away, and, as a means of abridging the period of the patient's confine- ment, I not only have no objections to it, but have recourse to it very generally. But, used from the very first, I think it objec- tionable, as preventing the surgeon from observing the state of the limb, and guarding against mischief. The advantage which some claim for it, that the patient may walk about with a crutch in a day or two after the injury, I look upon as no advantage ; but, on the contrary, I think the patient would be then much better in his bed, even supposing he felt the inclination to walk about. The plaster of Paris method, of course, has all the