CHRONIC PERIOSTITIS. 245 canals are mucli larger and more opened out tlian normally ; tlie dense texture of the bone is also lighter than usual. It becomes granular and spongy, and approaches in character the cancellated texture, though afterwards it becomes consolidated, when the diseased action goes on longer. There is often also a nodulated condition of the bone from the deposition of new osseous matter on the surface. The enlarged Haversian canals can then admit vessels of a very considerable size, which are able to relieve themselves of their serous or plastic contents, and the symptoms of the disease are therefore rendered less intense ; but as in all other forms of chronic inflammation, the exudation tends to pro- duce orranic changes. A larc^er amount of nutrition goes on than natural; and at last the exudation becomes consolidated, till the canal of the bone may be entirely closed, and in some cases become positively solid. The bone is thus enormously thickened and irregular; but when the diseased action ceases, gradual absorption takes place, and the bone tends to regain its normal form. Nodes, or masses of new bone, often form in the ostitis of syphilitic patients ; they are also met with occasionally in those of a rheumatic diathesis. In all cases of disease of bone, and of the periosteum perhaps more than the bone itseK, there is a tendency for other fibrous textures to become affected second- arily. Of these the fibrous pericardium is that most generally attacked, especially in the acute form of periostitis, in patients of a rheumatic diathesis ; and we should carefully watch for this dangerous complication. The terminations of inflammation of bone are various. The most favourable is resolution, in which the inflammation sub- sides, and the bone resumes gradually its normal character and type. In some cases there remains the deposition of new matter, forming irregularities or nodes on the bone. Another termiuatioii of the disease is Suppuration. This occurs in two forms — 1st, Subperiosteal. An abscess may form between the bone and the periosteum. This result gene- rally occurs after chronic periostitis in patients of an un- healthy constitution. There is slight redness, swelling, paiii,