EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xiv the new bone. Disease of the knee and ankle joints subse- quently necessitated amputation. The sequestrum has been re- placed ; the line of section made for its removal is seen on it. (Drawn on stone from nature.) Fig. 2. Large sequestrum from the fibula, the result of acute necrosis in a child. It involved nearly the whole extent of the fibula, and approaches nearer than any specimen I have seen to complete death of a bone : at the same time, it will be observed that portions of living bone have sejjarated both at the upper and lower extremities of the fibula. (Drawn on stone from nature.) Fig. 3. Cario-necrosis of os calcis.—A carious cavity is seen in the anterior part of the bone ; whilst, posteriorly, a large sequestrum of can- cellated texture is lying loose. The surface of the cavity in wliich the sequestrum lies is carious. The portion of the os calcis be- tween the two carious cavities is dense and smooth like ivory, the condition described by Goodsir. (Drawn on stone from nature.) 'Fig. 4. Characteristic specimen of articular caries of the head of humerus, removed by excision. (Drawn on stone from nature.) DISEASES OF JOINTS.—Plate XIII.—Page 318. Fig. 1 shows the appearances present in the early stage of morbus coxa- rius : the aff'ected hip flattened, tlie limb apparently lengthened, resting on the toes, the heel elevated, and knee slightly bent. Fig. 2. Appearances in advanced stage of same disease. Shortening of the limb, projection at hip, with inversion of knee ; marks of old abscesses. Fig. 3 shows one of the altered conditions of the bones in a case of hip- joint disease. The head of femur is absorbed or destroyed, and the acetabulum is carious and altered in form. Fig. 4. Bracketed long splint used in cases of morbus coxarius, also in compound or complicated fractures of thigh, when we require to dress a wound, or wish to avoid pressure on any part of the limb. Fig. 5. External appearances in a case of strumous disease of the elbow- joint. Fig. 6. Chronic thecal bursitis at the wrist. (Sketched from a cast.) Fig. 7. Ganglion of very large size, situated amongst the extensor tendons on the back of thumb. (Drawn from a cast.) Fig. 8. Chronic bursitis over patella,—" Housemaids' knee." Fig. 9. Section of a patellar bursa removed by operation. Its walls are thickened so as to render it nearly solid. Septa run across its cavity, dividing it into cysts. (Drawn from nature.) Fig. 10. Specimen showing patella, with the bursa over it converted into a solid tumour. (Drawn from nature.)