308 DISEASES OF JOINTS. nutrition. The truth lies between these two extreme statements. A very large proportion of cases, especially where the disease is situated in the knee-joint, require amputation or excision sooner or later; but at the same time it is equally true that many cases can be cured by milder measures, if we see them at an early period, and if the patient can be kept under treatment for a sufficient length of time. And so it happens, that in the upper classes we do not so frequently require to perform amputation for gelatinous disease, as we have to do in hospital practice, where the patient cannot be kept long enough under treatment. A patient not imfrequently is dismissed from hospital cured, but owing to his poverty he is obliged to return to his work. By too early and frequent use of the limb, and insufficient nu- trition, too great a strain is put upon an originally feeble con- stitution, and so the disease is reproduced. In the treatment of this disease, rest is indispensable in every stage. The limb should be placed in the position in which it will be most useful to the patient afterwards. In the lower extremity the limb is kept perfectly straight, or nearly so. If it be partially bent, it should be put up in a wire splint, so formed as to suit the angle of the limb ; then, by gradually straightening tlie splint and the knee together, we bring the latter straight by degrees. If the swelling be white and colour- less, as it generally is, we must examine to see whether there be any heat of skin, for the inflammation is deep-seated, and there may be no redness on the surface. If we find that the tempera- ture is greater than that of the corresponding healthy joint, then we must apply tepid solutions of acetate of lead, and morphia, to allay the irritation. This treatment should be kept up for some time ; the limb being at the same time bandaged from the foot upwards, and thin strips of lint or cotton, soaked in the solu- tion, brought over the knee-joint, in the form of a many-tailed bandage, so as to give support to and exert a moderate degree of pressure on the joint. This pressure may be increased from time to time as the patient can bear it without much pain, but if it be not done gradually, it will give rise to an increase of the excited action.