483 MR. JOHN BELL'S VIEWS. arrestment of the blood and tlie obliteration of the vessel, even up to the collateral branches, to simple contraction of the diameter of the vessel: according to Mr. Kirldand, " nature suppresses htemorrhages from divided arteries by the natural contraction of their muscular fibres." Mr. John Bell, in his explanation of the action of the ligature, in the first volume of his Principles of Surgery, published in 1801, says :—" This process, then, may be explained in a few words : the ligatures applied round an artery operate by making the several points of the arterial canal pass through the several stages of inflammation, from adhesion in one point to gangrene in another." "The space included betwixt the liga- tures " (he is describing the ligature of the bi'acliial above and below the wounded point) " falls into gangrene ; the space im- mediately under the stricture of each ligature adheres. This adhesion prevents the gangrene or the inflammation passing along the higher parts of tlie arterial canal; but the inflam- mation affects the arterial tube a little way upwards and down- wards, so as to thicken its walls and contract its cavity, whence the canal of the artery is obliterated a little way beyond the exact place where it is tied." " That arteries never bleed from the flat surface of an ampu- tated stump, is a still more decisive proof of this doctrine; we pull out those with the tenaculum and forceps, tie them with a small thread, and pull that thread away by the third or fourth day (!). No one will suppose, when the ligature is drawn away, that such an artery is prevented from bleeding by a clot stopping the mouth of the artery, as Petit imagined ; nor that the canal of the artery is compressed by the inflammation and thickening of the surrounding cellular substance, as alleged by ]M. Pouteau ; for we draw out the artery, and tie it quite clear of any cellular substance, or muscle, or adjacent nerve." " The artery, when tied thus, can be obliterated only hy adhesion of its internal surfaces ; the part directly under the compression of the ligature unites by adhesion ; the part below the ligature is destroyed like a polypus, fades and dies ; and it is the fading of the lower part