472 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. vessel at the injured point, or to the peculiar form of disease called aneurism. The internal coat of an artery possesses con- siderable vitality, and has a peculiar viscid or plastic secretion. It has, indeed, no direct vascular supply, but receives its nutri- tion from the middle coat, which itself is supplied from the external tunic, by the blood-plasma from the vessels ramifying in the fibro-cellular coat. The internal coat is so closely connected with the middle coat as to be almost inseparable from it, except in some of the larger vessels. If we make traction on a vessel in the longitudinal direction, the internal coat does not yield because of its connection with the other coats, nor does it yield on transverse pressure; but if we apply sharp and direct pressure on the external coat and across' the direction of the artery, the internal and middle coats give way as if cut with a knife. The muscular elastic or middle coat is that which gives to arteries their peculiar rounded form and elasticity, and is met with in all the larger systemic vessels. It consists of yellow elastic or muscular fibre, arranged in circles, and is pos- sessed of contractile power. An artery, when cut across, does not collapse like a vein, but remains with open mouth. This is due to the muscular coat, which gives firmness and re- sistance to the vessel, and serves, by reacting on the blood, as a means for carrying on the circulation, and preventing abnormal or irregular distension of the artery. If the vis a tcrgo were the only means of carrying on the circulation, the force of the blood would act more directly on some parts of the arterial system than on others, and the parts would yield, and distend irregularly. The muscular or elastic coat equalises the force of the circulation throughout the vessel, and so prevents any irregular distension, hence this coat is of very great importance. In regard to dis- eases of arteries, it is important to remember this, for the above conditions actually do take place when this coat becomes affected. It sometimes happens that the middle coat of an artery, for the space of an inch or so, becomes altered, and loses its contrac- tility and elasticity, and has no longer any power of reacting on the circulation. The vessel, however, above and below this part