494 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSEIS. coagulum of blood supporting the septum of lymph is an additional preventive to haemorrhage under extraordinary impulses. It may be formed at twelve, or may not be formed at twenty-four hours ; the nearest collateral branch being equally distant, and the obstruction equally complete in both cases. Kith, A period of twelve hours is sufficient for the obstruction of the vessel by lymph, so as to admit of the removal of the ligature, and the wound or division of the artery, without danger of haemorrhage. 6//i, The addition of the pressure of the ligature to the wound which it inflicts accelerates the adhesive process ; thus, within a certain limit, the earlier the removal of the ligature, the more remote is the period of obstruction. If applied for six hours, it is unsafe to open the artery in less than twenty-four hours ; if for twelve hours the artery may be opened immediately, ^tli, The ligature applied for twelve hours u]5on the truncated artery is equally safe as upon that which is con- tinuous. Wi, The coagulum of blood is larger and more ex- tensive in the truncated than in the continuous artery, and is not bounded by collateral vessels, but extends into them; probably owing to the feebler propagations of the heart's impulse along the divided and retracted vessel, and the consequently greater qiiiescence of the fluid blood." The same results, however, Avere not uniformly obtained by other experimenters, and although successful in some cases, when applied to the ligature of arteries in the human subject, in others the results were unfavourable. Mr. Hutchinson, in a case of ligature of the superficial femoral, removed the ligature at the end of six hours, and in less than a minute the artery became distended with blood, and fresh ligatures required to be applied ; secondary htemorrhage occurred, and the case terminated fatally. Sir A. Cooper found the circulation re-established after a period of thirty-two hours. Travers himself, in a case where he had tied the femoral artery, removed the ligature at the end of twenty-five hours, and was ultimately obliged to tie the vessel again in the usual manner to complete the cure. He therefore ceased to commend this practice, and as far as I know it has