CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 599 we depend for carrying on the circulation to the parts beyond the ligature, seriously interfered with. I confess that at first I merely looked to the ligature as a temporary measure to save immediate loss of blood, and allow the patient time to rally before amputating ; and, as the case was likely to be a medico- legal one, I directed a consultation to be called for the next morning. However, on my visit late at night, I was agreeably surprised to find the hand of a good temperature, and a distinct, though feeble, pulse in the radial artery of the injured limb. Next morning the pulse was quite distinct, and the condition of the limb, as regarded the fully re-established circulation, such as left little room for difference of opinion as to persevering in con- servative treatment. I think that scarcely any case could better illustrate how much we may trust to vascular supply, even after many of the larger anastomoses are cut off. And when we consider the sloughy state of the wound, the impaired nervous supply from division of the ulnar nerve, and the swelling from exudation, which, to a certain extent, would press upon and obstruct the smaller vessels, together with the debility of the patient from the great loss of blood at the time of the accident, no case could well appear less favourable as regarded the prognosis. Acute Necrosis of Fibula ; Hemorrhage ; Ligature of Super- ficial Femoral ; Recurrence of Hemorrhage ; Amputa- tion ; Recovery. Mr. A. T., aged 23 years, residing at East Linton, came under my care on the 15th of August 1862, on account of acute necrosis of the fibula, which had begun about the middle of July 1852. On Thursday the 9th September, as his general health was suffering severely, I pro- ceeded to remove the diseased bone. Dr. Hislop having administered chloroform, I passed a probe-pointed bistoury down to the bone, through the incision over the middle of the fibula, enlarged the opening upwards and downwards to the extent of 51 inches, and extracted a long sequestrum, consisting at one part—of about an inch in length—of the whole thickness of the bone. I next enlarged the upper incision to the extent of three inches, and extracted another sequestrum, but some small portions seemed still attached to the head of the fibula. There was no great amount of bleeding, and the wound was