441 RUPTURE OF TENDO ACHILLES. The patient, an elderly woman, made a good recovery under the ice treatment. Injury of the Tendo Achilles is a common accident. It may occur from a cut, or the tendon may be ruptured by violent exercise. Not unfrequently it happens when a stout elderly gentleman indulges in dancing. There can be no difficulty in the diagnosis of the case if complete rupture has taken place. The patient falls suddenly to the ground, and we find the gap between the two ends of the tendon very apparent. The treatment of the case is simple. A great deal of atten- tion has been bestowed on this particular accident, though there is nothing very peculiar in it. The second Monro met with this injury. He very naturally paid special attention to the treatment of his own case, and afterwards published a memoir on the subject, which drew attention to the injury. In treating rupture of the tendo Achilles, the leg should be bent as much as possible, and a well-fitting sock or slipper placed on the foot. To the sole of the slipper we fix a piece of tape, which is brought up and buckled to a ring of bandage placed round the thigh, so as to flex the limb and relax the tendon, very much in the same way as in the treatment of popliteal aneurism by flexion (Plate xx. Fig. 3). We should also at first apply a roller to prevent retraction of the gastroc- nemius, and two lateral pads, so as to compress the tendon slightly on each side and prevent it from moving about, which it is otherwise apt to do. After five or six weeks, but not sooner, we may begin to relax the limb gradually. The patient must not be allowed to use the limb even then, because the uniting medium being still soft, if the foot were used it would be lengthened, and a good cure might thus be spoiled. We must wait till the u.niting medium has acquired such a degree of firmness and solidity that it will not be likely to be- come stretched by use. In some cases the tendon may not be completely ruptured at first, and the patient, though lame, may consider it a simple sprain, and walk about, and then some false step may complete the rupture.