624 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. aneurisms arising, as they do, from dilatation of all the coats of the artery, are less favourable for curative treatment of any kind than the lateral or sacculated aneurism, as the tendency to coagulation is nmch less. The reasons which induced me to give so prolonged a trial to flexion and compression in B—'s case were—1st. Because I was afraid that, as the aneurismal portion contained no coagulum, the free inosculations of the branches of the profunda femoris, with the articular and other branches arising from the dilated popliteal, would almost directly restore the circulation in the aneurismal portion immediately after ligature of the superficial femoral, and so prevent a cure. 2dly. Because I trusted that, if I did not accomplish a cure, by the flexion combined with compression, this treatment would at least con- duce to some coagulation or deposit of fibrine taking place within the aneurism, and so prepare for the ligature of the artery being attended with a greater chance of success. The combination of compression with the flexion method obviated the risk of any accidental rupture of the aneurism occurring, as in the case of A— N—. Case of Femoral Aneurism successfully treated by Ligature OF THE Femoral Artery in Scarpa's Triangle. W. W., set. 32, labourer, admitted Jan. 4. About four months ago, patient observed on the inner aspect of his riglit thigh, a firm, throbbing swelling, of the size of a walnut. Origin spontaneous, and increase gradual. On admission, an aneurism as large as a small apple was found at the upper entrance of Himter's canal.* On compressing the femoral artery, pulsation ceased, but the tumour could not be completely emptied of its contents. Ordered rest, and milk diet. Jan. 10.—Professor Spence tied the superficial femoral artery in Scar- pa's triangle, which produced immediate cessation of pidsation. The limb, was kept slightly flexed, and enveloped in wadding. Convalescence pro- gressed uninterruptedly, and -the ligature separated on the tenth day after the operation. Patient dismissed cured, after having been two months in hospital ; the tumoiu' was hard, painless, and not larger than half a walnut. The femoral aneurism is a form not commonly met with. According to Dr. Crisp, " of 551 cases of aneurism, 157 affected * See Plate xxvi. Fig. 1.