EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xxl consolidated coagula. The patient died of delirium tremens about five weeks after the operation. (From nature by Mr. Livesay.) Fig. 2. Saccular aneurism of the innominate artery, showing the natural curative process. The sac is filled with strata of coagula, con- solidated except at one part corresponding to the origin of the vessel from the aorta. At this point the disturbing force of the cardiac circulation has prevented the consolidation of the blood. A section of the wall of the aorta has been made to show the origin of the aneurism fully. (Mr. Livesay.) Fig. 3. Dissecting aneurism. A rent of the internal tunics is seen in the ascending aorta, which is dilated just below the origin of the innoniiiiata. The blood has been propelled through this so as to dissect the coats from each other upwards along the innomi- nate and also along the descending aorta.' Fig. 4. Fusiform aneurism of the axillary artery. This is a specimen of the " true aneurism of Scarpa," formed by dilatation of all tlio arterial tunics at the affected part. Fig. 5. Dissecting aneurism of the common iliac artery. This occurred in a patient affected with senile gangrene. The vessels of the lower extremity were obstructed, as seen in the sketch ; and, under an excited state of the circulation, the blood seems to have been forced backwards, so as to dissect the internal tunics from the external coat in a direction towards the heart. Plate XXV.—Page 558. Figures 1 and 2 exhibit the operation for false aneurism at the bend of the arm, as described at page 559. Fig. 1 shows the tourniquet apjilied to control the circulation, and the first incision through the integuments and superficial fascia. The deep fascia, distended by coagula, is seen bulging forwards in the wound. Fig. 2. Wound after the clots have been cleared out. The opening in the artery is shown, with tlie ligatm'es placed one abo-^-e the other below the wounded point. Fig. 3. Ajipearance of the thigh of Mr. K 14 months after the o^jer- ation for traumatic varicose aneurism. The small white cross marks the cicatrix of the original wound, and to the inner side the long cicatrix of the operation-wound is seen, marked by dilated superficial veins ; these are somewhat exaggerated in the sketch to make them distinct. See Clinical Cases. Plate XXVI.—Page 576. Fig. 1. Sketch of a case of femoral aneurism at the upper part of Hunter's canal, cured by ligature of the superficial femoral artery.—Case of W— W—; see Clinical Cases of Aneurism.