409 FRACTURE OF FEMUR. long splint may be kept on for the first eight or ten clays. Afterwards it may be taken off, if necessary, for separation of the ends of the bone is not likely to take place after that time. If no constitutional symptoms require the removal of the splint, it should be left on as long as possible, and I must say that there are very few cases in which the splint cannot be applied, if proper care be taken. Bandaging the two limbs together is just a way of making the sound limb act as a splint for the broken one. In some cases I have applied the splint on the sound limb, and then fastened the broken limb to it with advantage. In Fractures of the Upper Part of the Shaft of the Femur the displacement is very great. The nearer the fracture is to either extremity of the femur the greater is the difficulty in the coaptation of the end of the bone and the treatment of the frac- ture. This is due to our having no power whereby to act on the smaller fragment, or to overcome the action of the strong muscles attached to it. In fractures high up in the thigh, for example, the upper fragment is elevated by the iliacus and psoas mi:scles, and the shorter this portion is the more power these muscles have in displacing it, and the less power we have in controlling them. When the fracture is lower down, the upper fragment has still a tendency to be drawn upwards, but not nearly so much as in the higher fracture. In treating these fractures we must be very careful to bring the fragments into accurate position at first, and therefore, I think, it is advisable to piit the patient thoroughly under chloroform, then extend the limb and set it very carefully, and apply the proper splints and bandages at once. In almost all fractures of the femur I prefer the long splint to any other retentive apparatus ; in this fracture it can be assisted by the i;se of short splints, so as to prevent the elevation of the upper fragment. A small Gooch's splint is padded and placed on the front of the thigh to prevent the elevation of the upper fragment, and another is placed posteriorly, while extension and counter-extension are kept iip by the long splint. Some surgical authorities say that we sliould treat these fractures on