INJURIES OF BONE. 358 duce -union of the fracture. If we take down a fracture at the end of five weeks, and find it not united, we should then carefully reapply the retentive apparatus, fix the parts in every direction, keep up moderate extension, and then retain the limb rmmoved for some time. Even here I do not like the use of the starch bandage, for it is very apt to get loose, instead of fitting firmly to the limb ; and hence I prefer an ordinary bandage, the condition of which can be easily seen. By carefully reapplying the retentive apparatus, and paying proper attention to diet, etc., such a fracture will often be made to unite, but not always, and then what is to be done ? The plan of treatment which I have found very useful is a method proposed by the late Professor Miller—namely to tear up, subcutaneously, with a long needle the fibrous texture on the ends of the bone, and so expose again the osseous structure. The periosteum should also be torn up for some little distance beyond the fracture, so as to excite some irritation. The retentive apparatus is then reapplied very carefully, and the limb kept in position for several weeks, and under this treatment I have found some ununited fractures unite perfectly. This method of subcutaneous incision and tearing up of the fibrous texture ought, I think, always to be tried before having recourse to any of the more severe methods of treatment; but to be of any use it must be done thoroughly—we must tear up the fibrous texture completely, and feel tliat the needle is be- tween the ends of the bone. We should also tear up the perios- teum for some little distance, so as to excite action in it and cause the deposition of earthy matter from its interior, and so give a better chance of consolidation. When this method fails to bring about union, we must then adopt more severe measures. The most general method used to be the introduction of setons. An incision was made down upon the ends of the bone, and a seton passed between them, and brought out on the opposite side of the limb, taking care, of course, to avoid the great vessels and nerves of the limb. The object of this was to excite action. The seton Avas left in, till some inflammation and suppuration came on, and was then re-