DISEASES OF JOINTS. 298 tion during the cure. Osseous anchylosis is considered by some to be a very rare occurrence ; but though much less frequent than fibrous anchylosis, it is by no means uncommon. I have met with a great many cases in practice; and in my own private collection I have numerous specimens of very complete osseous anchylosis of almost every joint in the body, including the knee, hip, ankle, elbow, and vertebrae—the shoulder and wrist being the only joints of which I do not possess specimens. Although in some respects anchylosis is considered a favour- able result in cases of injury or disease of joints, as regards the cessation of the constitutional symptoms ; and, though in many cases our treatment is directed to procure this result; yet, unless under certain circumstances, anchylosis cannot be considered absolutely favourable, as it often leaves a useless, or worse than useless, limb. In injury or disease of the knee-joint, for example, if by careful treatment we succeed in obtaining firm anchylosis in the straight position, then the result is favourable, as the limb, though not capable of performing all the natural move- ments, gradually becomes very useful. On the other hand, in cases where a joint becomes anchylosed at an inconvenient angle, the limb is rendered useless, and if it be the lower limb it is an encumbrance. In such cases the surgeon requires to interfere to remedy the deformity resulting from the anchylosis. In cases such as that of the elbow-joint, excision, removing considerable portions of the articular ends of the bones so as to form a new mov- able joint, is decidedly the proper treatment. If the operation be properly performed, and first passive and then gradually active motion be judiciously persisted in, the result will be exceedingly favourable, and the arm will become almost as useful as ever. In the lower extremity, however, say at the knee, a movable joint after excision does not prove useful, and hence the treat- ment is generally directed to obtain straightening of the limb, and a stiff joint. The methods of treatment adopted for this purpose are various. In cases where the deformity is recent, and the anchylosis fibrous, gradual extension by means of the screw-lever splint (Fig. 2, Plate xx.), or the wire-splint gradually