ANEURISM. .551 It then gradually diminishes in size, and becomes finally re- duced by the process of absorption. The same principle has, since Hunter's time, been carried out by other means than the ligature, for example by simple Com- pression. In the treatment by compression, pressure is applied upon the affected vessel on the proximal side of the aneurism,—on the superficial femoral, for exapiple, in cases of popliteal aneurism. This is effected either by pressure by the fingers of relays of intelligent assistants, who relieve each other at intervals, or by means of special apparatus, with which we exercise a graduated compression on the vessel at some distance on the cardiac side of the aneurism. The nature, forms, and mode of applying the different apparatus, will be better understood by looking at the plate than by any description. Compression slows or diminishes the force of the current of blood, and throws it upon the collateral branches, but not so abruptly as when the ligature is used, for the artery is rarely if ever occluded at the compressed point. The compression is continued until the coagulation has converted the tumour into a solid mass in the manner already described. The objections to this method seem to me to be that very few patients can bear the compression, and that it is also by no means so cer- tain as ligature of the vessel, which operation is often required after the compression has been used for some time. Another method of slowing the current of blood through the sac is by flexion, which may be advantageously used along with compression. In popliteal aneurism, if we firmly flex the knee- joint, we find that the pulsation ceases. We have stopped the flow of blood into the tumour by the flexion of the vessel on which it is situated. It must, of course, be done gently, and by gradually flexing the leg upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the pelvis, otherwise the patient will not be able to bear it. By the acute curves or flexures of the vessel, which we effect by this position, we are enabled to slow the blood-current, and to cause coagulation and consolidation of the contents of the sac. The apparatus required is very simple, and is similar to that used for the treatment of ruptured tendo Achillis. I have seen this method