DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. 439 Where muscular fibre is partially ruptured, especially in the leg, we should examine very carefully the state of the wliole limb, because not unfrequently the same symptoms indicate the first stage of popliteal aneurism. Therefore, even when the general symptoms indicate very clearly the tru.e nature of the injury, yet it is absolutely essential to examine very carefully into the state of the whole limb, and not be satisfied with the mere history of the case, or with the account of the patient's feelings. If, on examination, we find it to be a case of rupture of muscular fibre, the treatment, to be successful, requires to be very careful at first. The prognosis is, that the patient will not walk well for some time, and that the limb will probably be stiff and lame for a year after the accident, but that he will ultimately gain perfect use of the limb. The best treatment at first is to keep the patient absolutely quiet, with the limb flexed, so as to relax the muscular fibres and allow them to heal by as short a uniting medium as possible, and so have the efficiency of the muscle fully restored. The shorter the uniting medium is, the better. Whether in muscle or in tendon, this is uniformly formed of fibrous, never of muscular texture. It is like a central tendon, and forms the line of connection in what has become a sort of digastric muscle. If this fibrous texture be short, then the muscular fibres attached to it on either side will act as well as before, bnt if we allow a long soft uniting medium to form a large gap be- tween the muscular fibres, we obtain a large central tendon, and the efficiency of the muscle is thereby impaired to a corre- sponding extent. Hence the necessity for keeping the limb at rest and the muscle relaxed in the first instance. Tepid opiate or anodyne fomentations, followed by evaporating lotions, should be applied to the part to allay the pain, and to get rid of any effused blood. If there be "reat effusion of blood in the neiQ'h- bourhood at the time, we should be very cautious about interfering with it by making incisions, even though there be fltictuation, because there is a risk of mistaking the fluidity of the effused blood for the fluctuation of suppuration. If we make in-