SYNOVITIS. 289 to tlie fibrous ligaments, and tlius filling ujd the depressions, so that the natural form of the joint is somewhat lost or altered. Shortly, however, the synovial membrane becomes involved. The pain then becomies more diffuse, and of an acute character, and the joint becomes distended with increased and altered secretion, causing either a uniform swelling or bulging at those parts where there is least resistance. Thus, in the knee-joint, if the patient be recumbent, the swelling is at first greatest on either side of the ligamentum patellte, and over the lower and fore part of the thigh. If the patient be erect, the bulging is over the upper part of the tibia. Laterally and posteriorly the strong fibrous structures resist the distension for a time, though by-and-by they gradually yield before the pressure of the fluid. In cases where the joint is superficial, as the knee, the skin becomes hot and often inflamed, and either tension or acute oedema may arise. When the synovial membrane is primarily affected by inflammation, tlie pain is generally of an acute character, and is referred to one particular spot at first. The patient often says that he could cover it with the point of his finger, and this even when from the swelling it is evident that the action must be diffused. The same peculiarity as to the localisation of pain is often observed in cases of pleurisy, and occasionally in peritonitis at the commencement. In synovitis the progress of the swelling is more rapid than when the fibrous textures are originally affected ; but in either case, when once the synovial membrane is involved, the after progress of the symptoms, whether local or constitutional, is the same. As regards the physical signs. Besides the swelling in cases of synovitis, we have in the early stage, before effusion is extensive, a feeling of friction on moving the surfaces gently on each other. Or a friction-sound is heard if we apply the ear over the joint when slight passive movement is made, but we elicit it most readily by manipulation. When the effusion into the joint is considerable the friction is lost, but is felt again as the effusion becomes absorbed. u