OPERA TIONS FOR NECROSIS. 211 This dissection, of course, is limited to laying bare the substitute bone to a sufficient extent to enable us to deal with it according to circumstances. Before proceeding to operate, we if possible ascer- tain the length and thickness of the sequestrum, its proportion to the cloaca or opening in the substitute bone, and the pro- bable thickness of the substitute bone, and are so far prepared to act on some plan. It will, however, often happen that on laying bare the bone, we find it necessary to alter our proposed plan, and hence our apparatus should in tliis operation be ample. The instruments usually required in dealing with the bone are, the trepan, straight and curved bone-pliers, a fine nar- row saw, gouges of different sizes, necrosis forceps straight and bent, probe, elevators and ordinary dressing or polypus for- ceps, for small sequestra or narrow openings. When the seques- trum is large and long, and the substitute bone not very thick on one side, as little of the latter as possible should be removed. In such cases we try to catch and divide the long sequestrum across by means of bone-pliers, then push the fragments up or down, and extract first the one and then the other through the opening in the substitute bone.* In other instances, where the case of new bone is very dense, we apply the trepan to make an opening in it, and enlarge that further with a fine saw or bone-pliers, till we can insert and use our extracting forceps. In such operations the trepan is always preferable to the tre- phine, as it renders the operation less fatiguing to the surgeon, and works more rapidly, and there is of course no risk in using it here. In some cases we split up a large sequestrum, both longi- tudinally and transversely, and extract it in small portions, so as to save the substitute bone. In dealing with superficial necrosis, or with sequestra, where little new bone has been thrown out, there is not much difficulty experienced in detaching and removing them. After operating on cases of necrosis, the bleeding is to be arrested, large vessels must be tied; but as the profuse bleeding alluded to formerly arises from the general vascular surface, we usually command it by stuffing the cavity with lint. The density * Plate xii. Fig. ].