FRA CTURE OF FIBULA. 423 we do not tlien bring the heel forwards to the splint (Plate xvii. Fig. 8). The stirrup splint answers admirably also in dislocations at the ankle-joint, in preventing any return of the displacement. If there be any tendency to lateral displacement, we may prevent that by applying two narrow pasteboard splints, so as to give lateral support, while we also press the heel forwards. In these cases there is often inversion or eversion of the foot, and by the use of the stirrup-splint we can prevent the retraction of the heel, and at the same time turn the foot either inwards or outwards, by using the outer or inner horn of the splint as a fulcrum over which to turn the foot. If we want to evert or invert the foot, to prevent displacement recurring, we can do so with the stirrup- splint without applying any other apparatus. This form of splint is certainly that which gives most power in drawing the heel forwards, and in keeping back the bones of the leg; but, unfor- tunately, in many cases, which would otherwise be suitable for it, we cannot apply the stirrup-splint, from the injury to the soft parts in front, which is often present, and on account of which the patient cannot bear the pressure in front. Before the stirrup- splint came into use, Baron Dupuytren's plan was that generally adopted—namely, a posterior splint. When there is great re- traction of the heel, with bruising on the front of the leg, then we may apply two lateral pasteboard splints, somewhat narrower than usual, so as to prevent any lateral displacement, and a well- padded Gooch's splint at the back of the leg, which keeps the heel into position, and prevents any possible retraction (Plate xvii. Fig. 6). When the fibula alone is fractured, at the upper or middle part, we can hardly tell that there is a fracture, for it generally occurs transversely, and the fragments are kept in position. The frac- ture gives" rise to pain only on movement, and is attended Avith very little displacement or swelling. In fracture of the fibula low down, immediately above the external malleolus, there is very great displacement, at least under certain circumstances. We may have fracture of the fibula about an inch and a half