CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 617 Recurrence of Popliteal Aneurism after Ligature of Super- ficial Femoral; Treatment by Compression unsuccessful. Cured by Flexed Position of Leg. T. H., coal-carter. This patient was first admitted into my wards in May 1857, on account of a popliteal aneurism, which he had only noticed about four weeks previously to his applying for advice. The tumour was then about the size of an orange, its contents fluid, and it pulsated strongly and equally over its whole extent. For some days the patient was kept at perfect rest and on low diet, but the tujuour increased so rapidly, and became so tense, that I considered it necessary to tie the superficial femoral without further delay. This was done, and everything went on most favourably. The tumour became flaccid, and ceased to pulsate, and the only cause of anxiety was the low temperature of the foot and leg. The incision healed by the first intention, with the exception of the point where the ligature hung out. The thread separated on the twenty-ninth day after the operation. About the period when the ligature separated, slight undulatory pulsation could be perceived in the tumour, which was much diminished in size ; but as this not imfrecpiently occurs, I did not pay much attention to it, until the pulsation became gradually more and more l^owerful ; but even then I was deterred from using any great amount of compression, owing to the low vitality of the foot and the absence of pul- sation in the tibial arteries. After a time, however, by bandaging the limb, and cautious compression of the femoral, and direct compression by a compress of lint over the aneurism, the swelling gradually diminished, and the pulsation was reduced to a line corresponding to the course of the artery, and not larger than the popliteal of the opposite limb. After leaving liosjntal, the patient returned to his usual avocations and habits, occasionally showing himself at the Infirmary. In August 1858, he returned to hospital, and said tlie swelling had suddenly increased within two or three days. On examination, I found the tumour to be as large, and pulsating as violently, as before the artery had been tied. On consultation with my colleagues, compression was determined on, and a carefully con- ducted and extended trial of this plan of treatment was given, at first with some promise of success. It was persevered in for upwai'ds of five months, when it was discontinued, as the tumour again began to increase instead of diminish. The patient left the house for some weeks, but returned, desiring to submit to any operation that might be thought necessary. On examining the aneurism at this time, its condition was as follows :—It was the size of a pretty large oi'ange, and pulsating strongly ; the femoral artery could be felt to pulsate for about four inches below Poupart's ligament, ceasing to beat about an inch or less above the point where the superficial femoral had been tied. Pressure on common femoral completely and readily arrested pulsation in the sac. Compression of the superficial femoral above the point tied also did so, but required very firm pressure to be made directly backwards. Compression along the course of the superficial femoral, below the point tied, produced no effect until it was made over the lowest part of Hunter's canal, when the pulsation of the aneurism became tho- roughly commanded by it. Under these circumstances, after weighing the