458 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. through, the body, regularly and continuously, and so the interior of the vessel is smooth, and its canal uninterrupted by any inequalities, and even when any obstruction does occur, the col- lateral branches carry on the circulation. In the case of the veins it is different. There are a variety of hindrances to the return of the venous blood; we find that owing to different states of the viscera or muscles, the free return of the blood is interfered with. Hence the veins require to have a power of distension, or of forming reservoirs for the accumulation of venous blood under certain circumstances. We find the sinus- like dilatation of veins allowed by a peculiar condition of their coats, and this condition has a great bearing upon the wounds of veins and the way in which they heal. Valves to support the returning column of blood are found in nearly all the systemic veins, but in the lower extremity they are much more marked than elsewhere, for there they are most required. In the portal system of veins and in the haemorrhoidal veins there are no valves ; but even in the veins of the neck, where, owing to the direction of the blood-current, there is but little tendency to obstruction of the venous circulation, there are valves at different intervals, though there they are fewer and less marked than in the veins of the arm and leg—ia which the re- turning column of blood requires mechanical support. It is also necessary to trace the arrangement of the lining membrane with regard to the valves, in order to understand some of the diseases of veins. The lining membrane in veins is analogous to the same structure in the arteries—it is perfectly smooth, and lines the whole interior of the vessel. When we trace it to a valve, we find no implantation of a structure like a valve upon the lining membrane, but the latter seems to project and form a duplica- ture, so as to make a valve. These valves are more or less com- plete. They project towards the centre of the vein, and when the column of blood has passed beyond them they are thrown back so as to close and support it. In the normal condition it is evident that the efficiency of these valves is important. Their competency will depend on the state of the lining membrane of