TALIPES VARUS. 453 the principal deviation from the natural position is the turning in of the anterior part of the foot at the line of articulation of the OS calcis with the cuboid, and of the astragalus with the scaphoid, that is just in front of the ankle. The os calcis is drawn up to a certain extent, but not much if at all inverted. When the heel is very much drawn up the deformity is sometimes termed talipes equino-varus. The ligamentous textures on the outside are stretch- ed and more expanded than natural, whilst those on the internal aspect are shortened and thickened. In old cases these changes in the ligaments are very marked, and the forms of the tarsal bones are altered. Even in infants some slight deviations from the normal form of the bones exist, but not of a kind to give rise to any practical difficulties in the treatment. In the plantar fascia the most marked alteration is the contraction and thicken- ing of the internal division of that structure. In its natural con- dition the internal portion of the fascia is thin and weak, as compared with the strong central portion; but in varus it is often almost, if not altogether, as resistent as the middle portion. The latter also is contracted so as to shorten the foot and arch the instep. The morbidly contracted muscles, which maintain the parts in this abnormal position, are the anterior and posterior tibial muscles; the gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris gracilis. Division of the tendons of these muscles, together with the contracted resistent portions of the plantar aponeurosis, con- stitutes the operation for talipes varus, enabling us to apply an apparatus effectually. In regard to this operation, the surgeon must keep in view not merely the anatomy of the parts in their natural condition, but • in the abnormal state in which he requires to operate. The alteration chiefly affects the posi- tion of the tendons. The bloodvessels are very slightly if at all displaced. The posterior tibial is somewhat relaxed from the altered position of the foot, and seems to curve slightly for- wards above the inner ankle, and the great saphena vein is also occasionally somewhat displaced; but the surgeon can and ought always to ascertain the position of this latter vessel before operat- ing. In regard to the tendons, tlie relations of the tibialis anticus