xviii EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. HEMOSTATICS—EFFECTS OF LIGATURE.— Plate XXI.—Page 482. {From nature by John Wintour.) Fig. 1. Eight common carotid artery of a dog, forty-eight hours after the application of a small round ligature. The artery and vagus nerve are imbedded in a mass of plastic exudation. A portion of this has been dissected off at one part, to show a deeper layer of plastic material adherent to the external surface of the artery, and covering in the ligature. Fig. 2. The same artery opened. This exhibits the relations of the changes induced by the ligature on interior and exterior of the vessel. The section of the deligated point shows the circle of the ligature embedded in lymph. Above and below this the divided coats are seen to be united by plastic matter. On the proximal side of the ligature a considerable blood-clot has formed ; on the distal side two small decolorised clots. The relations and attachments of the deep layer of the external exudation are well shown. The section shows the lymph to be closely adherent to the exterior of the artery, forming a continuous layer from below to above the deligated point, and bulging into the hollow formed by the constriction of the ligature. Appearances presented ninety-six hours after application of the ligature. The mass of plastic material on the exterior of the vessel is diminished in bulk, but firmer and more highly organised than in the Figures 1 and 2. Same artery opened. A very large blood-clot is seen on the proximal side of the ligature ; a smaller conical clot on the distal. The point of the vessel embraced by the ligature is beginning to undergo destructive changes ; it has a contracted and withered appearance. The deep layer of the external lymph has assumed a firm filamentous or membranous structure, and is seen connecting the ends of the vessel above and below the point of deligation. Carotid artery of a dog nine days after the application of the ligature, which was in the act of separating. The external plastic exudation was firmly consolidated around the artery, projecting into the groove formed by the ligature, and filling up the space from which the thread had passed, thus com- mencing re-union of the divided ends of the vessel. The knot of the ligature was contained in a cup-like cavity or cyst of lymph, and its ends were enveloped in a tubular pro- longation of lymph, extending from the vessel to the external woimd. Fig. 6. Section of the same artery, exhibiting the relations and con- nections of the external and internal plastic exudation and of Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fig. 5.