431 CLINICAL CASES. CLINICAL CASES ILLUSTEATIVE OF THE SUBJECT OF FEACTUEE AND DISLOCATION. Case of Un-united Fracture of Humerus, cured by Modified Eesection. History.—On the lltli November 1852, A. Johnston, cet. 22, had his arm canght in a threshing-mill, by which the hnmerus was broken at two points ; there was one fracture two inches below the surgical neck of the bone, and another at the junction of the middle and inferior thii-ds of the bone. He was seen by Mr. Falconer of Loanhead, who adjusted the fractures, and put lip the limb in pasteboard splints. I saw him in the beginning of February 1853, at the request of Mr. Falconer, as the lower fracture had not united. On examining the arm, I found the upper fracture firmly united ; the lower one, however, was quite movable, but there was no overlapping of the ends of the bone, nor any deformity when the limb hung by the side. Treatment; Splints.—As the inji^ry was comparatively recent, I advised a further trial of the splints, with pads, so as to keep the parts in accurate contact, the use of nutritious diet, and exercise in the open air. This plan was persisted in till the end of March 1853, when I again examined the arm. There was no attempt at union, and the ends of the bone were felt as if atrophied. Subcutaneous Puncture.—I tried to excite action by introducing, by subcutaneous puncture, a strong sharp needle, or rather narrow knife, down to and between the ends of the bone, so as to break up the fibrous structure between them, and to scrape their sirrfaces. The splints were then carefully re-applied, and the arm firmlj' supported. At the end of sis weeks, I found that no change had been produced. Seton.— In September 1853, I passed a seton between the ends of the bones, and retained it for some days, till sujipm'ation occurred. Even this gave rise to very little local excitement, scarcely any inflammatory swelling supervening. What little there was, passed off very quickly on the seton's being withdrawn, and no benefit resulted from its use. Resection.—I had previously proposed resection of the ends of the bone, but at the same time thought it right to explain that it was attended with more risk than the methods hitherto adopted, and the young man's friends were at first opposed to its performance. After some months had j)assed, however, the patient was so anxious to give it a trial, that his friends con- sented, and I performed the operation in April 1854. Operation.—I made a longitudinal incision on the outer side of the arm, about three inches in length, its centre corresponding to the seat of fracture. Tlie arm was then bent at the false joint, so as to render pro- minent the ends of the bone, and the incision was carried down to them. I had determined to separate the bone as little as possible from the sur- rounding parts, and therefore merely cleared the lower end of the upper