CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 601 from the state of the patient and the extensive suppurating surface, might ultimately be necessary even for other reasons ; but I was very unwilling to sacrifice the limb, and, moreover, from the faint condition of the patient at the time, he would not have been able to bear the operation. I there- fore determined to tie the superficial femoral, in order to control the general circulation of the limb, and^ to assist it by moderate graduated pressure directly applied to the wound. The patient having been brought under the influence of chloroform, I at once proceeded to tie the vessel, which was readily accomplished without removing the patient from bed. All oozing from the wound ceased immediately. Some lint was placed over the wound, supported by a thin flannel roller lightly applied. On the second day after tying the vessel I saw him again. He was much better, the wound looked healthy, and everything seemed to promise well, as the circulation in the anterior and posterior tibial arteries was fully re-established. All went on well till the 21st September, when I was sent for in the afternoon, as bleeding from the leg had again occurred. I found the patient recovered somewhat from the first eifects of loss of blood, which had not been to a large amount; but I felt I could no longer persevere in attempts to save the liml:>, as any farther bleeding might have proved fatal, since the deep part of the wound was still sloughy, a portion of the necrosed fibula close to the knee had still to separate, and the patient was exceedingly debilitated from the previous exhausting disease, as well as from the htemorrhage. It was decided to amputate the limb at the lower part of the thigh. I had foreseen that this usually simple operation would be complicated in this case, both on account of the greater number of vessels which would require ligature in consequence of the enlargement of the collateral branches after ligature of the femoral, but especially from risk to the deligated artery itself, by any traction exercised on it during the operation, as it was about the period when the ligatixre begins to separate by ulceration, and accordingly I had obtained the assistance of my friends Dr. Handyside and Dr. Littlejohn. Dr. Hislojj administered chloroform, and as soon as the patient was under its in- fluence he was carefully turned round, and drawn towards the edge of the bed, and the limb steadily siipported. Dr. Handyside having compressed the common femoral, I removed the limb by double flap above the knee. The mouth of the superficial femoral was readily recognised, but I first secured the enlarged collateral branches, which could not be so completely commanded by compression. Before ^ying the superficial femoral, Dr. Handyside, at my reqiiest, relaxed the compression somewhat, and blood flowed from its mouth, but, as might be expected, not in a jet. It was then tied; the flaps were approximated by sutures, and the stump was dressed. There was little blood lost during the amputation, but the patient was very weak, and it was some time before he fully rallied under the use of stimuli, and he required careful watching during the night to prevent the circidation flagging ; indeed Dr. Littlejohn and I watched him constantly. Towards morning reaction became fairly established, and he took some food ; an opiate was given him, which procured him some refreshing sleep. I returned to town, but took the precaution of leaving my senior apprentice, Mr. Rhind, in constant charge, in case of accident, till the femoral ligature