416 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. * Plate xvii. Fig. 2. remedied. In certain fractures of tlie leg, this is the most useful of all splints, especially if the fracture be either com- pound or comminuted. Feacture of the Patella is very common, and results from the patient falling or receiving a direct blow on it. The fracture may be eitlier transverse, oblique, or stellate. In transverse frac- ture of the patella the two fragments are widely separated from each other, the upper being drawn upwards by the quadriceps extensor femoris, and if the thigh be flexed the distance between the fragments is increased. In the stellate and oblique fractures the different portions of the bone are attached to the ligamentum patellae, and also to the quadriceps extensor, and there is there- fore no displacement, whereas in the transverse fracture the displacement is very marked. Fracture of the patella is analogous to fracture of the olecranon in the upper extremity. The frag- ments do not often unite by bone, but by a strong fibrous texture. The usefulness of the limb afterwards, depends a great deal on whether the uniting medium be long or short. If it be long, there will be very little use of the limb afterwards. If it be short, the limb will be as useful as if the union had been by bone. In fact, I have seen a second fracture occur through the bone, while the fibrous uniting medium of the former fracture had not given way. Fracture of the patella, like that of the olecranon, is one of the most simple to treat. All that is required is to j)lace the limb on an inclined plane, the heel must be raised, the foot fixed, and the limb slung.* After a few days we can put up the fracture in a long Gooch's splint, with a bandage from the foot to above the patella, the limb being slung as before. This position relaxes the quadriceps extensor, and allows us to bring the fragments into pretty accurate contact. At first there will be a good deal of swelling, and therefore we cannot attempt to drag the two frag- ments forcibly together. We must wait till the effusion dis- appears, which it very soon does, and then we can act on the fragments and try to force them together by a figure-of-eight