462 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. veins, aud very often in the right side of the heart, in cases of phlebitis, more especially in cases where the symptoms proceed very rapidly to a fatal termination, with pain and oppression and dyspnoea. In other cases, where the progress of the disease is slower, we have affections of the joints. 'V\nierever there is a large venous circulation, there venous congestion and effusion take place, irritation is set up, and circumscribed suj)puration or secondary abscesses follow. Hence we meet with such ab- scesses most frequently in the liver, lungs, and in the interior of joints. In Subacute, Ciecumscribed, or Fibrinous Phlebitis, the symptoms are not so severe or dangerous. The patient com- plains of great pain in the neighbourhood of the inflamed and swollen vein, and there is some constitutional disturbance. The pulse rises, but there is not so much fever as in the acute diffuse phlebitis, nor have we the articular affections taking place. These differences arise from the fact that in this form the disease has supervened on a chronic affection of the vein, giving rise to thickening and the deposition of a certain amount of fibrinous matter, and so blocking up the venous circulation. In many cases we even find abscesses forming in a vein, which we open just as we would any other abscess, without bad effects, and without a drop of blood escaping from the vessel, because the vein has been blocked up on both sides of the abscess by the fibrinous deposit, and thus the disease is localised. If, however, the disease be allowed to go on, and if the fibrinous deposit break up, owing to any freshly-excited action, then we have the acute diffuse phlebitis supervening on the chronic form of the disease, and the symptoms may become ultimately quite as rapid and disastrous as in the originally diffuse form of the disease. In the chronic form the action is limited in extent, but if it break through the barrier of fibrinous deposit, it may spread along the coats of the vein, or, what is still more dangerous, por- tions of the fibrinous clot may be displaced, and give rise to thrombosis or embolism. The best Treatment of Acute Phlebitis, in the first instance,