250 DISEASES OF BONES. a remedy to whicli we trust much in the more chronic forms of inflammation, especially when we suspect any syphilitic taint—also in scrofulous cases ; but it is of no use in the acute stage. When we want to get rid of some of the organic changes which have taken place—deposits between the bone and the periosteum—or, when the pain is probably caused by the exudation thrown out still remaining, the iodide of potassium, in 5-grain doses, twice or thrice a-day, will be found a very valuable remedy. In other cases belladonna may be applied on the surface, to relax the parts and relieve the pain; but this is merely a local anodyne application. As regards depletion in chronic periostitis, cupping or incisions are the best methods of effecting it; a soft poultice should then be applied to the part. Great care should be taken not to expose the patient to cold while cupping or leeching, as that will certainly do harm, and only a moderate quantity of blood should be abstracted. In cases of abscess in the cancellated texture of a bone, when it does not communicate with a joint, if there be much tension, an incision should be made into it and a poultice applied to favour the escape of matter. Abscesses external to the bone must of course be opened at once, and the ordinary treatment of acute abscess adopted. In abscess in the cavity of a long bone, where there is a great difficulty in the diagnosis, Sir Benjamin Brodie proposed trepanning, which is the proper treatment when we are certain of the disease, as it will at once get rid of all the excessively painful symptoms, and prevent further mischief, and even though no matter has formed the patient experiences great relief from the operation. In one case in which I was consulted, I found that, after an attack of sub- acute periostitis, there was enormous thickening of the limb, the pain was intense and localised, there were repeated rigors, and the patient's health was failing. Trepanning was performed under the belief that an abscess had formed in the bone, but no pus was found. A good deal of bleeding took place, but from the time the operation was performed the man began to recover, and was soon perfectly weU. Thus in some cases, when the symp-