473 GENERAL ANATOMY OF ARTERIES. is quite normal, but at tlie diseased point it becomes distended, and forms an ovoid aueurismal pouch. The muscular coat has a great power of resistance as regards controlling the circulation, but it yields very readily to force, such as a ligature applied transversely; and also to great force applied longitudinally. Owing to the arrangement of the fibres, they are apt to separate from each other when such force is applied, and thus aneurisms are sometimes formed. The external or fibro-cellular coat of the artery is very strong Its fibres are arranged both obliquely and transversely, and offer resistance to force applied in any direction, by direct trac- tion, by ligature, or by compression. It is the most resistant coat of the artery, both physically and as regards its vitality, and requires a great deal of force to break or tear it. As regards its vitality, we have seen that neither the middle nor internal coats have a direct vascular or nervous supply, but the external coat has both. The numerous vasa vasorum derived from the cellular tissue of the surrounding parts run upon and into this coat of the arteries, giving it a peculiar net-like appearance on the surface. On this direct nutritive supply, derived from the vessels of the sheath, depends the vitality of all the coats of the artery— the middle and internal tunics receiving their supply secondarily from the outer one. In operating on arteries, anything in our manipulations which interferes injuriously with these vasa vaso- rum will always do harm by impairing vitality, and cause a risk of rapid ulceration of the coats of the artery, and therefore a great risk of secondary hgemorrhage. Hence the reason why the surgeon should always be very careful not to disturb the con- nections of the vessel with its cellular sheath, lest he destroy these nutrient vessels of the arterial coats. The sheath of an arter}'' consists of loose celhilar tissue en- closing the vessel, and separating it from other textures. Tor example, we speak of a common sheath inclosing the carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the vagus nerve, but there is besides this a distinct septal sheath between the artery and the other structures, separating the artery from them. So it is with