335 CHRONIC BURSITIS. loose movable bodies of different sizes. Thus we find that not only is the natural surface in a state of inflammation, but there is really an altered structure, and therefore the ordinary plan of treatment will not effect a permanent cure. Eest is, of course, essential. An incision should be made into the tumour, the fluid evacuated, and all the loose movable bodies removed. The surface of the sac should then be painted over with strong tincture of iodine. When the tumour is smaller in size, and its contents completely fluid—that is, when no foreign bodies can be felt in it—we may treat it as already indicated, or we may use the trocar and canula, as in hydrocele, to draw off all the fluid, and then inject the iodine. There is not the same danger in injecting iodine into a bursa as into a joint. When the bursa is not very large, the best plan is, I think, to make a free longitudinal incision, and then paint the interior of the sac with iodine, and afterwards bandage the limb from the foot upwards. If the tumour be large, and no foreign bodies can be felt in it, the treatment by the trocar and canula will answer better. The disease may go on to other changes. The fibrous tex- ture often becomes enormously thickened, and the cavity dimi- nished in proportion. The external texture becomes dense, and fibrous bands project across the interior.* This thickening pro- cess goes on till the tumour becomes almost or altogether solid. It then contracts slightly in bulk. Under these circumstances, the simplest plan of treatment is excision of the solid mass. An incision should be made longitudinally over the tumour and the solidified bursse, together with any adherent skin, dissected out. There is no risk incurred in the operation. If we are afraid of injuring the patella or the capsule of the joint, we can leave a thin portion of the fibrous texture behind. There is no chance of a return of the tumour, as there would be if it were malignant. Excision is the only method of treatment appli- cable to these growths when they become solid or nearly so. Injecting iodine would do little good ; it might obliterate the cavity, but would leave the solid part unaffected. The tumour, instead of becoming entirely solid, may present * Plate xiii. Figs. 9 and 10.