CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 591 inflammation attacked the hand and forearm, ending in suppuration on the back of the hand. Cm-ed. 6. J. V. received a deep punctured wound in the textures lying be- tween the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore-finger. The wound bled considerably at the time, and on three subsequent occasions the bleeding issi;ed from the bottom of the wound as if the radial had been opened into. On admission—there being no liBemorrhage—pads were placed on the radial and ulnar vessels at the wrist, also on the wound, which was on the palmar surface, and on the dorsirm directly opposite. The pads were secured by bandaging, the limb elevated and the elbow flexed. After this there was no recurrence of haemorrhage. Cured. 7. W. B., set. 45, a brewer, received a punctured wound over the ulnar side of the superficial palmar arch. The patient was admitted a week after receipt of the injury, on account of repeated attacks of haemorrhage. Pads were placed over the vessels and wound, as in the case of J. V. Bleeding did not recur, but acute inflammation set in afterwards along the course of the synovial sheaths of the muscles of the forearm, terminating in sup- pi^ration. The matter was evacuated by a deep incision a little above the wrist. Dismissed cured. 8. A child, aged eighteen months, had received a wound of the radial artery in the lower third of the forearm eight days before it was brought to the hospital. The bleeding had been arrested at first by a com- press and bandage, but repeated haemorrhage had occurred. The infant was much exhausted. The pressure had caused sloughy ulceration of the wound, and there was considerable inflammatory thickening and an erythematous blush on the surroimdiug skin. It was evident, how- ever, that ligature was imperative, and I therefore enlarged the wound upwards and downwards, and cleared the artery above and below, so as to tie it where the coats were still healthy. Simple tepid-water dressing was then applied. Everything went on favourably : the ligature separated on the seventh day \\ithout any haemorrhage, and the wound contracted and healed rapidly. This case affords an instructive example of the danger of trusting to compression, instead of tying the wounded vessel at once, especially in the case of a child, where the integuments soon ulcerate under firm compres- sion, and where the loss of even small quantities of blood is so dangerous. Moreover, the effects of compression always render the vessel less fitted for ligature, and the operation, so simple if performed in the first instance, is I'endered difficult from the inflamed, adherent, and altered character of the surrounding parts ; and if the ulcerative action continue in the wound, the risk of secondary hemori'hage is considerable. Fortunately, in most cases, as in this, the ulceration ceases after ligatures are applied, when compres- sion is no longer necessary. Bemarlcs.—Even in recent surgical works, a rule is laid down that in primary hsemorrliage no attempt should be made to tie the wounded artery unless it be bleeding. This law is certainly very applicable to small bloodvessels to which there is no direct