333 ACUTE BURSITIS. for erysipelas of the thigh or leg. There may also be a diffi- culty in distinguishing it from disease of the knee-joint, as the swelling is not defined, but the fluid is superficial to the patella or ligameiitum patellae, and does not therefore correspond to the fluid within the synovial sac. In the patellar bursa, how- ever, the symptoms of acute bursitis are perhaps more marked than in any other. The Treatment is very simple. Absolute rest, with the limb in a straight position, is essential, as in all affections of joints. Leeches and warm fomentations should be applied over the in- flamed bursa. These remedies, if employed early, will very often arrest the inflammatory action, and cause the disease to ter- minate by resolution. If the diseased condition should continue, we must take measures to obviate the effusion into the surrounding tissues, and localise the inflammation as much as possible. When the symptoms have become more marked, the patient may have a rigor, ,which affords an indication that suppuration has begun. The fluid is still confined within and distends the sac, the sooner, therefore, the bursa is opened the better. There is a difficulty, of course, as to the absolute diagnostic symptom of matter being pre- sent in the sac, in consequence of fluctuation being present from the very first; but when the symptoms increase in intensity, and rigors come on, the bursa should be opened, for even if pus has not fairly formed, we generally find that a large qu,antity of vitiated bursal fluid is got rid of, and the disease is cut short more easily. Hence we ought never to hesitate, in cases of acute bursitis over the patella, or wherever the bursa is superficial, to treat it in this way. When the bursa is deeply seated, we require to act with more caution, for we may have to deal with inflammation of the joint as well as with acute bursitis, and the swelling may be caused by disease of the joint, or by the formation of abscesses within it, and so the diagnosis becomes more difficult. But in all cases, the presence of acute pain, tension, and suppuration, indicate that we should make a free incision, and let out the matter. In cases of acute bursitis over the patella, we sometimes meet with abscess stretching up the thigh and down the leg.