344 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. head of the bone is scarcely at all displaced, for the subscapu- 'laris counteracts the effect of the supra- and infra-spinatus and teres major. This is an example of muscular displacing causes. In this case no splint is required ; a pad is placed in the axilla, so as to throw out the upper end of the lower portion of the humerus, and the elbow is supported so as to keep the parts in position, the upper arm being at the same time bandaged to the side ; and this is all the retentive apparatus required for the treatment of this particular fracture. In fracture of the clavicle at its middle, again, we have an example of muscular and other displacing causes. The outer end of the sternal portion of the bone projects upwards, and is called the "riding" end of the bone, while the acromial end is depressed and the arm falls down. The principal displacing cause here is not muscular, it is simply the weight of the arm and scapula, unsupported by the clavicle, drag- ging down the acromial end of that bone. At the same time, how- ever, the shoulders are narrowed from side to side, and the elbow tilted outwards, and this is caused by the action of certain muscles; the pectoralis minor, acting on the coracoid process, and also the pectoralis major, draw in the scapula and shoulder, whilst the subclavius, attached to the lower surface of the outer portion of the clavicle, tends to draw it downwards below the inner end of the bone. The displacement of the sternal portion of the clavicle is sometimes attributed to active muscular causes, the outer head of the sterno-mastoid dragging it upwards, and so causing it to project. But this is not the case, because, opposing the sterno- mastoid, and more than counterbalancing its action, are the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major, which tend to draw the bone in the opposite direction. The sternal portion of the bone is really in its normal position, the outer fragment only being displaced. As a general rule, the fractured bone is more or less influenced by the muscles attached to different parts of it; and, in the femur for example, if it be fractured at one point, the ends of the bone are forced in one direction by the ac- tion of certain muscles attached to it, whilst in other fractures, very close to the same part, the ends of the bone are displaced in