SIR CHARLES BELL'S VIEIVS. 497 attempt would be made to tie a ligature on the artery of an aneurismal limb, and take it off again ; this has since been done and failed. I at the same time showed, that although any sort of injury to the coats of the vessel would in certain circum- stances cause a coagulum to form, and the artery to be closed, yet, that so far from the cutting of the inner coat being the sole means of producing the union by ligature, it was not even necessary ; for if the ligature was cast about an artery, and left without being drawn, so that the blood might still pass it, the consequences will be the inflammation of the coats, the formation of a coagulum, and the final closing of the vessel." The parts of the process, then, which Sir Charles Bell seems to regard as essential are the two last mentioned-—the adhesive inflammation of the coats, and the formation of a coagulum within the artery. With regard to the form of ligature, his rule of practice is, " proportion the ligature to the size of the vessel," apparently with a view to avoid division of the arterial coats. And in his work on the Great Operations of Surgery, published in 1821, in describing the operations for aneurism, he directs the ligature to be composed of "three stroiig silk threads laid parallel and waxed," which would form a small flat ligature ; but he differs materially from Scarpa and his adherents as to the precepts he gives for operating, which may be summed up as follows :—That in exposing the vessel, the surrounding parts should be disturbed as little as possible. That the sheath be opened immediately over the vessel, and merely to a sufficient extent to disclose it. That, whilst the proper coats of the artery are exposed to the contact of the ligature, injury to its cellular connections and the vasa vasorum must be carefully avoided. That the parts be relaxed by attention to position of the limb whilst the surgeon passes the ligature, to avoid traction on the vessel; and lastly, that the loop and knot be sunk into the coats sufficiently to prevent the pulsation of the vessel shifting the ligature, but not drawn so tight as to cut the inner coats of the artery. In opposition to the practice advised by John Bell, Abernethy, and Maunoir, Sir C. Bell prefers a single ligature in 2 K