563 VARICOSE ANEURISM. already said, generally the result of wound. In the first instance, probably, the compression has not been so effectual as to prevent some blood being extravasated, or to maintain the wounded vessels in perfectly close apposition, and hence blood escapes into the cellular tissue, separating them to a greater extent. The cellular tissue and the textures around become con- densed by effused lymph, and thus a false aneurism is formed intermediate between the vein and artery, and common to both these vessels. The distinguishing features of arterio-venous aneurism are— the varicose state of the veins of the affected part; the pulsatory vibrating sensation felt, or even seen, in these varicose veins ; the peculiar whizz or " bruit," more extensively heard towards the trunk than in the distal part of the tumour ; the compara- tive slowness with which the sac enlarges; and the little promi- nence of the swelling. Most of these peculiarities depend on the abnormal communication with the neighbouring vein. The pulsatory varix, and the peculiar "bruit," are common to varicose aneurism and aneurismal varix, and the causes of their symptoms are similar, and so obvious that I need not repeat what I said when speaking of the latter disease. It differs as to its symp- tomatology by the presence of a distinct aneurism. I have said that occasionally in aneurismal varix that part of the vein in con- tact with the artery may bulge, and form a remarkable pulsating swelling, but it is merely a dilatation of the wounded vein, and not at all like the aneurismal tumour in varicose aneurism. In relation to ordinary false aneurism, it differs in respect of its free communication w^th the vein, on which account the blood-current in the aneurism meets with no resistance in that direction. There is little pressure on the walls of the sac, and hence the comparatively slow enlargement and little prominence of the tumours, for the blood-current does not impinge with much force on the walls of the sac, but finds its way into the circula- tion through the veins. This last-mentioned condition is most important as to its bearing on the treatment. The Treatment of these two conditions of arterio-venous disease