INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 390 rEACTUKE OF THE SHAFT OF THE Ulna may occur at any point. It generally happens low down, but sometimes, from direct violence it may be broken bigb up. If the fracture take place along with a corresponding fracture of the radius, the treatment is not difficult. If the ulna alone gives way above, or at its middle part, without fracture of the radius, there is sometimes great difficulty experienced in treating it, for in that case we have DO power to act directly on the bone so as to bring the dis- placed fragments into position. The muscles acting on it draw the different portions of the bone inwards, thus narrowing the interosseous space and curving the bone on itself In a similar fracture of the radius, without a corresponding fracture of the ulna, we can act on the broken bone by extension through the medium of the hand ; but, in connection with the ulna, we have no such power, and sometimes in a muscular limb there is very great difficulty in bringing the fracture into accurate position. The displacing causes in fracture of the shaft of the ulna are the various muscles of the forearm. The pronators and supinators draw the bone inwards and twist it, while the flexors and extensors shorten it. When the fracture is lower down, the displacement is not so great, and there is not so much difficulty in the treatment. The other conditions are the same. In fracture of both radius and ulna together, the displace- ment and the difficulty of treatment are less. Here we have a command over the broken bones through the hand and forearm and we can thus bring the fragments into accurate apposition. We require to be very careful in the after-treatment of these cases, for the muscles of the forearm have a constant tendency to draw the bones inwards towards the interosseus space, and if union take place in that position, the motions of pronation and supination will be prevented. Splints, therefore, must be care- fully applied. They should be broader than the arm, that the bandage may not act on the sides of the bones, and so force them in towards each other, and a pad must be placed in front over the interosseous space. This tends to force down the muscles into the interosseous space, and helps to prevent displacement