419 FRACTURE OF LEG. amount of bleeding from the smaller vessels. In other cases when the skin is cut through, and the condyles of the femur project while the vessels remain uninjured, the question of ex- cision must be considered. When there is nothing to contra- indicate this operation, and when circumstances enable us to treat the patient properly, it is certainly far preferable to amputation, and causes less shock to the system, but it is not suit- able in cases where the soft textures around are much injured. The appearances of dislocation of the knee-joint vary in different cases. For example, the condyles may be turned out- wards and the bones of the leg thrust backwards, the patella being drawn inwards. In such a case reduction could be effected easily enough by extension and counter-extension, and then flexing the limb. When the dislocation has been re- duced, the limb must be kept quiet for some weeks by means of a splint and bandage. Afterwards, gentle passive movement of the joint should be begun, lest the parts should become stiff from fibrous anchylosis. Another injury which is very likely to occur in young child- ren, and which might be mistaken for dislocation of the knee- joint, is diastasis of the condyloid portion of the femur. All the injuries about the knee-joint are comj^aratively rare, but if the case be seen early, the above rules ought to be followed out, and applied according to circumstances. Feactures of the Bones of the Leg are amongst the most common accidents in surgery. They occur either from direct or indirect violence. If from the latter, then the weakest parts of the bones give way. For example, should the fracture occur by the patient jumping from a height, it generally takes place at the neck of the fibula and low down in the tibia ; but the lower part of the fibula is likewise weak, just opposite where the tibia is fractured, and it often gives way there also, so that then the fibula is fractured in two places, as in this specimen. The fracture may, however, occur at any point. In young subjects especially we meet with a direct transverse fracture of the tibia and fibula with little or no displacement,