EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. XV FRACTURE.—PL.VTE XIV.—Page 348. Fig. 1. Compoimd diastaisis of the bones of leg. The tibia was separated from its lower epiphysis, stripped of its periosteum, and projected as shown. The posterior tibial vessels and nerve are seen torn and twisted. (Sketched, from nature, from a case under my care in the Royal Infirmary, by S. Mackenzie. Primary amputa- tion was performed.) Fig. 2. Compound comminuted fracture of the leg,—result of a railway injury. Primary amputation. (Sketched, from nature, by Dr Caton.) Plate XV.—Page 356. Fig. 1. Fracture of neck of scapula. Plastic material has been thrown out, rendering the textures less distinct. The neck of scapida and glenoid cavity are displaced downwards. See CUnical Cases. Fig. 2. Scapula, showing altered shape of glenoid cavity in an old xinre- duced dislocation. It is worn away so as to be lunated instead of ovoid, and the worn surface is covered with porcellaneous dejiosit. Fig. 3. Specimen of false joint occurring after non-union of fractured clavicle. Fig. 4. Section of a fracture of distal end of radius, showing union four weeks after accident. There is no redundant or provisional callus ; a narrow line of new% nearly ossified material, unites the broken fragments.—Patient died suddenly of apoplexy. Fig. 5. Specimen of strong fibro-cartilaginous union after intra-capsular fracture of neck of thigh-bone. (Drawn on stone from nature.) FRACTURE AND DISLOCATION.—Plate XVI.—Page 368. Fig. 1. Ordinary method of treating fractured clavicle—with axillary pad and handkerchiefs. See page 368. Fig. 2. Special apparatus for fractui'es and dislocations of the clavicle. Fig. 3. Appearance of the shoulder in dislocation of the humerus down- wards. Squareness of shoulder and hollow under acromion, a contrasted with the opposite limb. Fig. 4. Outline and skeleton sketch explanatory of the appearances in Fig. 3. Fig. 5. Outline sketch of appearance of shoulder and position of arm in fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus. Fig. 6. Diagram explanatory of the deformity, and of the displacing forces in Fig. 5. The head of humerus is little altered in position. A indicates the action of the deltoid muscle, tilting out the elbow and raising and pushing inwards the upper end of the shaft ;