DISEASES OF BONES. 258 to excise the diseased bone at the shoulder-joint, so as at once to remove the disease, and to obtain a more useful movable limb, than if the operation were delayed, and at the same time to relieve the constitution from the exciting cause of the ex- hausting discharge and hectic. The same rule applies with still greater force to the elbow and wrist joints. In the case of the knee-joint, the extent of disease and other conditions must make us weigh the comparative advantages of excision and amputation. Where one or more of the bones of the \ tarsus are affected by caries, the treatment will depend on circumstances. Thus, if the disease be confined, say, to one of the cuneiform bones on its upper surface, I would enlarge the opening leading to it, remove the exposed carious surface with the gouge, and when the oozing of blood had ceased, apply dilute nitric acid or finely-levigated red oxide of mercury to the surface to cause exfoliation or destruction of any doubtful structure which might be left. In many cases this suffices ; the soft parts heal, and the cure is effected. In some cases I have excised one or more of the cuneiform bones, and also the cuboid bone entire, with success ; but these are always tedious, difficult, and uncertain operations, and in some cases diseased action is set up in the foot leading to disastrous results. If the tarsus were pretty generally affected, I would amputate at the ankle-joint rather than leave the os calcis or astragalus, or any portion of them, as in such cases the risk of these bones assum- ing the diseased action is very great. The foregoing are examples of cases in- which the caries is so situated, that the surgeon can reach and deal directly with the diseased bone — cases, therefore, in which the treatment by operation or local applications constitutes the most evident in- dication, although constitutional measures are also important. As an example of the treatment of caries when so situated as to be out of reach of direct local interference, and as showing the curability of the disease even under such circumstances, let us take a case of caries of the bodies of the vertebrae. This diseased condition, which in its advanced stages gives