536 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. warm water, but no bleeding point could be observed. The ligature had separated from the femoral artery, but there was no clot at that part of the stump ; and when the tourniquet was slackened, the artery could be felt and seen pulsating, but not a drop of blood escaped there. Stimulants were given to excite the force of the circulation, but still no source of the hcTmorrhage could be detected, and, after waiting for some time, I closed the stump and applied a bandage. No further bleeding or oozing occurred, and the patient made a good recovery. What the cause of bleeding may have been I cannot conjecture, unless it were from the medullary canal of the femur ; but the absence of any indication of the source of the haemorrhage made me all the more anxious about the case. In cases where you find that the bleeding proceeds from one of the larger vessels in a stump or operation wound, the best plan is to clear the artery higher up, and tie it at a healthy part. In cases where the coats of the vessel are in a doubtful state, or the surface of tlie wound in its vicinity unhealthy, acupressure by the long needle and looped wire, applied across the course of the vessel higher up, should be tried, in preference to much dissection of the parts, or before we tie the main trunk higher up in the limb. In cases of secondary bleeding from small vessels—as after excision of tumou.rs—acupressiire, or compression, or touching the bleeding point with perchloride of iron, solution of chloride of zinc, or spirit of turpentine, is generally sufficient for the purpose of stopping it. "When secondary hfemorrhage follows ligature of a continuous artery—as in cases of deligation for aneurism—it is very serious, and our measures must be prompt. Compression should be made on the trunk of the artery nearer the heart, to command the bleeding, the wound opened out, clots removed, and tlie artery cleared and tied above and below the ulcerated point. This is absolutely necessary in the first instance. Whether we may require to tie the vessel, at different parts of its course, much nearer the heart, will depend on circumstances, such as, the state of the vessel—that being so altered as not to be