430 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. some ten or twelve weeks. This was done by dividing the tendons which prevented its reduction. Avery useful limb was left. When the dislocation is recent the reduction is not a difficult matter, Feacture of the Os Calcis is not an uncommon injury. It is caused by a person falling from a height with great force upon the foot. Sometimes the bone is simply broken across, or it may be split up and comminuted. In most cases the injury is a severe one, not only from the bone being broken up, but also because the very degree and kijtid of force causing the accident are likely to cause some injury of the head, so that there is generally concussion, and not unfrequently symptoms of fracture of the base of the cranium. We must, therefore, look to more than the local injury. In some cases the tibia is split up, as well as the os calcis broken, and in most cases, even when the fracture is simple, necrosis with suppuration and great irritation follow, and ampu- tation becomes necessary sooner or later. In one of my cases however, where the os calcis was much broken and comminuted, by keeping the patient at perfect rest for a time, a successful result was obtained without any suppuration occurring. The ordinary plan of treatment is to keep the foot at a right angle with the leg, and apply a bandage from the foot upwards. Sometimes a pasteboard splint is placed along the sole of the foot. The limb is placed on a pillow, and the leg is very much flexed, so as to prevent the action of the gastrocnemius on the posterior part of the bone. If there be a great tendency for this portion of the bone to be dragged away, I would have little hesitation in dividing the tendo Achilles, as it would unite readily afterwards, and that is the only way to prevent the bone from being drawn backwards ; but I have never met with this difficulty in my own practice. The bones of the metatarsus are sometimes broken by direct violence, but they do not require any special treatment unless all of them are broken. If only one metatarsal bone is broken the others act as splints, and all the treatment required is to place a pad on the sole of the foot and apply a bandage.