3G8 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. . ■ out much deformity; but if we neglect this, the usefulness of the arm will be much impaired. Fractures of the clavicle generally mend by osseous union ; and, if the parts be maintained in accurate apposition, and at rest, the process of repair is completed in a very short time. After union, the site of fracture is often marked by a consider- able thickening of the bone, and often by a decided deformity. This depends chieily on the direction in which the solution of continuity occurs. Transverse fractures unite most readily; and the greater the degree of obliquity, the greater is the diffi- culty of maintaining apposition, and the greater the risk of resulting deformity. The indications of Treatment hxe obvious. They consist in the restoration of the displaced parts to their normal position, and the retention of them there. This is effected by carrying the shoulder upwards, outwards, and backwards. The apparatus employed for this purpose requires to be varied according to cir- cumstances. For fractures at the inner or middle thirds of the bone the axillary pad will generally be found an efficient means to employ; while for those which occur in the outer third, either within or external to the ligaments, it will generally be found necessary to brace back the shoulders by means of a figure of eight bandage or two handkerchiefs, or the special apparatus (Plate xvi. Fig. 2), which is in reality by far the most efficient method. In connection with the axillary pad, three handkerchiefs are used. One is employed for the purpose of securing the pad. It is made to cross over the op- posite shoulder, and then tied under the corresponding axilla. The second handkerchief is used for a sling, and the third serves to fix the arm to the side of the body. The arm should be flexed to an acute angle, so that the fingers almost touch the opposite shoulder (Plate xvi. Fig. 1). Various ingenious me- chanical contrivances are in use, but they are designed on the same principles, and are better or worse modes of effecting the same objects.