DISLOCATIONS OF ELBOW. 385 corouoid process touching the humerus, and there will tlicn be very little opposition to reduction. The best plan therefore is to extend the hand and forearm backwards, and when the parts yield a little, then flex. In children this dislocation is generally very easily reduced. In dislocation of both bones, backwards and laterally, either to the outer or inner side, the displacement is much more marked than in the former case, but the symptoms are much the same. There is the shortening of the limb, and the projection before and behind the elbow, as already described. In some cases we have the ulna alone dislocated, the radius remaining in situ. The injury is readily enough ascertained from the ulna projecting very far back, and the olecranon lying higher up than usual. The mode of reduction is the same as in disloca- tion of both bones backwards, and by pressing on the bones laterally, at the same time that we extend we facilitate the reduc- tion. So also in the two former dislocations, besides using extension and flexion, we may apply direct pressure on the ends of the bones, so as to assist the extending power. The radius may'be dislocated by itself, either backwards or forwards. In fracture of the outer condyle of the humerus we have appearances very like those exhibited in the former of these. In the dislocation backwards the annular ligament and the external lateral ligament are torn, and the head of the bone plays on the back of the outer condyle. In dislocation forwards, on attempting to flex the arm we feel a sudden check; the round- ness of the forearm is very marked. The mode of reduction is slightly different in the two dislo- cations. In the dislocation forwards the forearm should be drawn downwards and outwards, and the hand supinated as far as pos- sible, so as to rotate the head of the radius out^'ards from its abnormal position. By acting through the medium of the hand, we obtain power over the radius. In the dislocation back- wards we extend the arm and then attempt to pronate the hand and flex the forearm. So far as the mere reduction goes, it is easy enough if the case be seen early. In dislocation of the 2 0