544 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. membrane, for the iuner coat of the vessel is raised aud roughened by the atheromatous deposit, and the blood rushing continually over such a surface will naturally produce some degree of irritation. In this aneurism the vessel does not dilate in its whole circumference equally as in the ovoid variety, but it slowly projects the external coat at the seat of the atheromatous ulcer till it forms a round or sometimes ovoid-looking swelling upon the side, of the vessel. It may grow to a great size—the opening of communication with the vessel slowly increasing with the growth of the sac. These are the forms of true aneurism, and in each of them it will be observed that the two essential characters are present, namely, a diseased state of the arterial texture, and cl SRC formed by the dilatation of one or more of the arterial coats. There are certain tendencies in true aneurism which must be noticed, as they serve as indications in the treatment of the disease. Of the greatest importance is the tendency to coagula- tion within the sac. This varies in intensity according to the degree of stagnation, being grea,test in the saccular form, where the cavity of the sac is, as it were, withdrawn from the vascular current, and, for the opposite reason, least in the fusiform. As the coagulation advances, changes take place in the collateral circulation. The presence of an aneurism, even though there be a free channel through it for the blood, is always a cause of more or less retardation to the local circulation, the normal resiliency of the vascular walls being lost at the seat of disease. Meeting with such an obstruction, the blood is more and more diverted into the collateral branches which arise from the main trunk on the proximal side of the aneurism, and these, to meet the exigency, become slowly and gradually enlarged. These two processes,—coagulation within the sac, and gradual diversion of the current of blood to the collateral circulation, —may steadily proceed until the blood pass so slowly through the sac as to allow of complete coagulation, and a spontaneous cure. In the fusiform aneurism this is not readily effected, owing to the smoothness of the lining membrane, and the com-