CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 621 compression failed, the choice was limited to ligature of the external iliac, or of the lower part of the superficial femoral. Under all the circumstances, the former seemed unfavourable, as in all probability the anastomosing branches would be so much enlarged after ligature of the femoral, that the circulation would speedily be restored in the aneurism through the inosculations of the internal iliac with the profunda. Or if, on the contrary, these inosculations were not enlarged, then the risk of gangrene of the limb would be very great; and, had it occurred, ampu- tation, if admissible at all, must have been performed very high up in the thigh, or at the hip. Whilst, on the other hand, the ligature of the superficial femoral low down in Hunter's canal had only one grave objection, that of being near the diseased part. Fortunately, the simpler plan of flexion of the limb pre- vented the necessity for any operation, and, from what I saw of that plan in this case, I would have great hopes of its success as a curative measure,—far simpler and more efficacious than any form of compression I have seen employed, devoid of all its risks, and not interfering with, but rather beneficial as a preparation for, ligature of the artery, should it fail itself in accomplishing a cure. Popliteal Aneurism treated by Flexion. Accidental Eupture OF Aneurism aeter it appeared consolidated. A. N., fet. 36, was admitted on July tlie 8th, 1862, with an aneurism oc- cupying the lower part of the popliteal space, which, judging from the jjatient's statements, had piohably existed for four months. The patient also suf- fered from extensive cardiac disease, having a double aortic and a mitral regurgitant niurmiu', with hypertrophy, especially of the left ventricle. There was general visibility of the pulses, and the radials were slightly corded. Treatment by flexion was adopted, the limb being gently flexed both at the knee and hip joints, and placed on its outer side on an air- pillow. Tills position was maintained by a strap stretching from the heel of a slipper to a figure-of-eight bandage passed round the thigh and abdo- men ; wliile perfect rest was enjoined, with a nourishing but non-stimulant diet. A certain degree of pain, which at first attended this treatment, passed off, and the case seemed to be progressing most favourably, as the tumour had become much smaller and harder, and the articular arteries were distinctly enlarged around the knee. Suddenly, however, on the morning of the 18th August, the patient experienced a sensation as if something had given way behind the knee-joint, and immediately com-