METHODS OF REDUCTION. 377 escape the pressure. Sometimes in this dislocation there is con- siderable oedema and coldness of the limb, from the interrupted circulation, both venous and arterial. In dislocation downwards there is lengthening of the limb ; whilst in this dislocation the limb is shortened and the elbow is more tilted out, and the axis of the shaft more oblique. In dislocation of the head of the humerus backwards, the head of the bone rests on the dorsum of the scapula, the elbow is tilted forwards and outwards, and there is the same squareness of the shoulder as in the two former cases. This injury should be easily diagnosed, from the head of the bone forming a projection on the dorsum of the scapula, and there would be a marked alteration in the position of the arm. We must now attend to the method of reduction in these dislocations. In dislocation of the head of the humerus, we have a better chance of success, even some time after its occur- rence, than we would have in treating a hinge-like joint for the same injury. Yet, in all cases, the sooner reduction can be effected the better. If the case be recent and uncomplicated, all that we require to do may be to fix the scapula with the knee in the axilla, and draw upon the arm, when the dislocation is reduced almost spontaneously. The patient should be seated on a chair. The surgeon places himself beside him, separates the arm sufficiently to admit his knee into the axilla, then resting his foot on the chair, he grasps the arm just above the elbow with his right hand, and fixes the acromion with his left. He then draws down the arm over his knee, and reduces the dislocation. As a general rule, the best method of reducing dislocations of the humerus is to place the patient in the recumbent posture, and bring him thoroughly under the influence of chloroform. The surgeon sits down beside and fronting the patient, separates the injured arm from the side, to enable him to place his heel in the axilla, so as to fix the scapula, and form a fulcrum over which he extends the dislocated bone by grasping the arm