THE PERIOSTEUM. 239 to pass tlirougli it. At one time it was disputed Avliether the periosteum was a simple fibrous investing or a formative mem- brane. It is now known, from tlie researches of Oilier of Lyons, that it is a complex structure, consisting of the proper fibrous membrane, and a lining nucleated or germinal membrane continuous with that of the Haversian canals. This internal membrane assists in the formation of new bone, but the fibrous periosteum has no power of so doing. The direct experiments on living animals, which used to be considered conclusive as to the formative power of the periosteum, were complicated with so many sources of fallacy, inseparable from the operative procedure, as really to prove little more than the undisputed practical conclusion that, if we destroy the periosteum, we give rise to a want of nutrition and loss of reproductive power just in pro- portion to the destruction of the periosteum and vessels passing from it into the bone. Some of these sources of fallacy I may briefly mention, having tested them whilst planning a series of experiments which I contemplated, but abandoned as not likely to be satisfactory—\st. On the limbs of dead animals I found it impossible, even with the most careful manipulation, to separate the periosteum from the bone to any extent, without at the same time drawing out in connection with it the vessels and membranes from the Haversian canals, and hence, apart from what Oilier has since pointed out, I saw that there would always be some germinal structure from the lining of the Haversian canals removed along with the periosteum, and in the living animal this would serve to furnish new bone. 2rf. "\A^ien the periosteum was separated, and an inch or two of bone resected and removed, leaving the periosteum ; besides the source of nu- trition above mentioned, the sheath of periosteum left, acted as a mechanical means of keeping up the continuity between the ends of the divided bone, and prevented other structures inter- vening. Whilst when the periosteum was removed along with the bone, the divided ends were left loose and without any bond of continuity, and the muscles and other tissues around bulged into the intervening space in such a manner as would prevent