CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 623 was able to bear the greatest degree of flexion. At the same time, by means of Signorini's tourniquet, compression was made on the femoral in the situation of the upper part of Himter's canal; and this also was gradually increased in force until he was able to bear complete obstruction of the circulation for very considerable periods. As he was a very intel- ligent man, and perfectly understood the principle and object of the treatment, he was instructed how to relax and tighten the instrument, and to note the eff'ect produced. At the end of five weeks the size and pul- satory force of the timiour were so much diminished, as little to exceed those of the healthy vessel; but there was no appearance of solidi- fication or obliteration of the vessel at the afl'ected part. I therefore recommended the treatment to be continued. This was done for tliree months, when, as the pulsation and size of the vessel felt nearly natural, he was allowed to walk a little, at times resting the limb in the flexed position. At first all seemed to go on satisfactorily, but gradually the vessel dilated, and the pulsation returned in force. Again the treatment by flexion and compression was tried, compression being made both at the groin and also over the artery in Hunter's canal. So long as he remained quiet this treatment produced diminution of the anevu'ismal swelling, but never seemed to cause any consolidation, the sac apparently being merely rendered flaccid. The patient's health was beginning to sufi'er from the long confinement, and he was therefore allowed to get up and go out occasionally ; and as the swelling soon resumed its original size, and indeed increased in bulk, he determined to submit to the operation of ligature of the femoral. With this view he entered the Royal Infirmary on the 16th November 1866 ; and as at that time his general health seemed much deranged, I fortunately determined to wait for a week before operating. In the course of four days the symptoms of typhus fever manifested themselves, and he left the hospital for his own home. He made a good recovery from the fever, and returned to my wards in the infirmary on the 18th of January 1867, much improved in health, but the aneurism considerably increased in size. On the 23d January I tied the femoral artery at the lower part of Scarpa's triangle. The operation was very easily accomplished, as there was scarcely any oozing of blood. The coats of the femoral were beauti- fully healthy, and the aneurism needle very easily passed without dis- turbance of the parts. The only thing noticeable was the great depth of the vessel from the surface, owing to a large amount of fat, both super- ficial to the sartorius and between the fascia and the sheath of the vessels, a condition remarkable in a patient so recently recovered from typhus fever. The wound was dressed in the usual manner. Nothing of importance occurred in the after progress of the case. The ligature separated on the 11th of February, and he was dismissed cured on the 6th of March 1867. When I last heard of him he continued in perfect health, and free from any aneurismal disease. BemarTcs.—In accordance with tlie views, and for the reasons I have stated in niy lectures, I believe that the fusiform or ovoid