450 DISEASES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. foot very nearly to its natural position at tlie time, without using any great force, but if we merely put the foot in a strong leather boot, and send the child away, telling its parents that nothing more is required, then probably the foot will be as bad as ever in a very short time. We must use means to keep the foot in the proper position, and keep the divided tendons far apart during the healing process, so as to get a long uniting medium. The contracted ligaments must be stretched, but this must be done gradually. If done at once, we expose the thin skin to a great deal of traction, which might probably cause it to ' ulcerate. We at first bandage, without stretching the parts 1 very much for a day or two, then put up the foot in a splint to keep it in its natural position, and afterwards apply a form of apparatus, the foot-piece of which is movable transversely, and which also keeps down the heel. In this way a permanent cure may be effected. In some cases the club-foot is partly due to inversion of the whole limb, and then there is no use in dividing too many tendons ; the eversion must be effected by other apparatus. Children are often brought to hospital for the cure of club-foot when only a few weeks old. It is, however, better not to operate so soon, for the bandages round the foot are constantly kept wet by the child's urine, notwithstanding the use of oil-silk or other protective measures, and the sore becomes irritable from this cause. Hence, though there is no risk in operating on very young children, I think it is better to delay doing so till the child is somewhat older. Talipes Equinus (Plate xx. Fig. 4) is a form of club-foot where there is pointing of the foot arising from contraction of the gastrocnemius, soleus, and tendo Achilles. In a great many cases of simple talipes equinus, we find that the muscles of the anterior part of the limb are paralysed. The condition has arisen in childhood, either after infantile diseases, or from what is termed infantile paralysis. The anterior set of muscles having lost their power, there is nothing to counterbalance the action of the muscles of the calf, which then draw up the heel, and become increased in power as it were, the anterior muscles remaining