568 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. coagulation within the sac of the aneurism and the effusion of lymph around the nerves in the neighbourhood aggravating the symptoms. The special symptoms of carotid aneurism are the constant cough, irritation about the larynx, and difficulty of deglutition, arising from pressure on the vagus and its branches, the latter symptom being most marked when the nerves of the pharyngeal plexus are pressed upon. In a case of abscess in one of the glands of the neck these symptoms will not be so marked ; and in the superficial glands the swelling would press towards the skin rather than deeply. According to the situation of the aneurism the symptoms accompanying it will vary. In carotid aneurism, occurring, as it usually does, at the bifurcation of the common carotid trunk, cer- tain points are to be attended to as regards diagnosis. From below the anterior beUy of the omo-hyoid muscle, the carotid ar- tery lies merely covered by the akin and fascia; but under the deep fascia in this region is a chain of glands passing from the subcla- vian space upwards, which come to lie superficial to the artery. Those at the lower part of the neck lie generally behind the vessel, but others pass up from the subclavian space below the sterno-mastoid muscle, and lie in front of the artery, sometimes below the fascia, but still in front of the vessel. One of these glands may enlarge, inflame, and suppurate ; the suppuration may be of a chronic form, there may be no discoloration of the skin, and the symptoms may be those of carotid aneurism. The pulsation may be pretty strong, and the patient may complain of pain and the other symptoms of aneurism; but if they arise from a gland which has become enlarged, there are certain circumstances in the history of the case, and also in the state of the parts at the time, which ought to guide us in forming a correct diagnosis. If the swelling be fluid, or nearly so, and if it pulsates pretty freely, then it can only be either a carotid aneurism in the earlier stage of its formation, or a suppurating gland, and if the patient say that the swelling was first hard and then became soft, we can have no doubt that it is a gland which has inflamed and suppurated, for an aneurism would be soft and fluid in the first