ANEURISM. 541 such pursuits with the same ardour as in his youth, his mus- cular force being perhaps as strong as ever, he is not unlikely to have an aneurism, because the arterial coats may have been slowly degenerating with advancing years, so as to be now unable to resist the additional strain put upon them by the muscular exercise. Mr. Liston long ago drew special attention to this fact, and his own case unfortunately illustrated too well the truth of his observations. There are other conditions, such as dissipated habits, which lead to arterial disease and the formation of aneurisms ; and the existence of the syphilitic cachexia is thought by many authorities to act very powerfully as a predisposing cause. An Aneukism may be defined as a tumour containing fluid or coagulated blood, situated upon an artery and communicating directly with its canal. Pulsation is a symptom almost invari- ably present. A sanguineous swelling, such as a thrombus, though it may be situated on an artery, is not an aneurism, because its cavity does not communicate with the canal of the artery. The above definition includes all forms of aneurism, both true and false. Under the head of True Aneurism I would class all aneurisms arising from disease of the arterial texture, whether the diseased condition be a degeneration and dilatation of all the coats of the vessel, or an ulceration of one or more of them, leading to dilatation of the external or fibrous coat. The existence of arterial disease is the essential character of a true aneiirism as distinguished from a false ; and it is that M hich indicates the great practical difference in the mode of treatment. The circumscription of the aneurism by a sac derived from one or more of the arterial coats is another character of true aneurism always present in its earlier stages, but it is not so important in a practical point of view as the diseased condition of the coats of the vessel. A False Aneurism is nothing more or less than a wounded artery, the blood, prevented from escaping externally, being coagulated in the cellular tissue, Avhich becomes condensed, and forms a sort of cyst, though generally a very imperfect one, as