350 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. the force causing this injury is very much greater than that causing the more simple fractures. We must not estimate the danger of a compound fracture by the size of the wound accom- panying it; the fracture may be very dangerous, and the soft parts around it very much injured, though the external wound be very small In other cases there may be a very large external wound, and a serious fracture of the bone, which may heal com- paratively readily—the very extent of the wounded surface really diminishing some of the dangers by preventing the tension and inflammation which might otherwise arise. The specialties of treatment in compound fracture are the different forms of apparatus, so applied that the wound may be dressed readily, whilst the fragments of bone are kept con- stantly in position. In fracture of the leg, for example, it is laid on the double-inclined plane, so that the greater portion of the limb is exposed. The foot, knee, and thigh are fixed, but the whole of the anterior portion of the limb, and both sides of it, are exposed, so that the wound can be very readily dressed. In fractures of the thigh, if the wound be on the outer side of the limb, the two portions of the long splint are connected by an iron hoop over the wound (Plate xiii. Fig. 4). Extension is thus kept up, while the wound can be easily dressed ; the splints must of course be altered according to the position of the wound and the site of the fracture. If the wound of the thigh be at the side, we may use the anterior and posterior splints as well as the long splint. The general symptoms must be carefully attended to. The state of the wound and of the soft parts must be constantly noticed, and care taken that no undue pressure is caused. When the shock of the injury has passed off, we must ascertain the state of the great bloodvessels, to see that there is no interruption to the circula- tion in the limb. This must be done even in some cases of simple fracture, for an artery may be torn without much effusion of blood at the time. If this has occurred, the parts will become Uvid, and would soon become gangrenous. A considerable