402 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. but, apart from sucli cases, tliere is seldom any difficulty in diagnosing this injury. The method of reduction is simple. The pelvis is fastened by a sheet, and then another sheet is placed under the injured limb towards the upper part of the thigh, and brought over the neck of the assistant. The limb is extended a little at first, but not very mu.ch, for it is already longer than usual. We only extend it so as to over- come any muscular resistance, and then draw it inwards across the opposite limb, using the foot and leg as a lever to tilt the head of the femur outwards from the thyroid foramen. In this way the dislocation can easily be reduced. If we were to extend the limb in this case obliquely downwards and outwards, we would not be likely to reduce the dislocation, for we would be pressing the head of the bone away from the acetabulum. Dislocation on the pubes is very rare indeed. The symptoms are shortening of the limb, eversion of the foot and knee, and a swelling felt upon the pubes where the head of the bone is lodged. I have never seen a case of this kind in the early stages, though I have seen an old case of unreduced disloca- tion on the pubes. The head of the femur lies upon the pubes, and on rotating the limb we have a very evident swelling in front. This stretches the vessels of the part and presses upon them to some exteirt, causing a certain amount of congestion. The heel also inclines towards the opposite one. This dis- location is said to resemble ordinary fracture of the neck of the fennir, where there is eversion of the foot and knee, as in the dislocation. There should, however, be no difficulty in the diagnosis, for in the fracture we have not the head of the femur forming a swelling on the pubes. This dislocation is not to be reduced in the same w^ay as the others. We must, in this case, extend and tilt the bone in a particular way. The patient is placed on the oj)posite side, and here it will not do to draw straight down. The extension must be made backwards, so as to tilt the head and trochanter aw^ay from the pubes. After the extension has been continued in this direction for some time with slight rotation, the head of the bone will slip into the