442 INJURIES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Under these circumstances the injury is apt to be neglected, and when a medical man is called in he finds that the tendon has so far healed by a very long and soft uniting medium, and the heel droops unsupported. Under these circumstances the treat- ment is to maintain the part at rest for a time in the position already indicated, and tlien to give support to the limb by proper apparatus. The simplest and best is an elastic and laced stocking, with a strong leather support in the position of the ruptured tendon, tlie leather gradually becoming thinner above and below, and extending from under the heel to the i;pper part of the calf of the leg. This support enables the patient to walk comfortably, and favours consolidation and contraction of the new uniting structure. When the tendo Achilles has been cut through, after closing the wound we treat the limb as in the former case, or we' may pass a stitch or two of silver wire through tlie skin and the ends of the tendon, so as to keep them accurately in position. If the stitch cause any irritation it must be taken out. The rest of the wound is brought together by the ordinary suture. The Deformities resulting from Morbid Contraction of Muscles and Tendons are either congenital or accidental—most generally the former, for injuries of tendons seldom cause per- manent contraction if they be properly treated. The various forms of club-foot, and some forms of wry-neck and strabismus, are examples of deformity due to the permanent morbid con- traction of muscular fibres. The subject of deformity, arising from contraction of muscles, has always attracted considerable attention, and more especially in recent times since the treatment by subcutaneous section was introduced; so much so, that it now forms a sort of specialism or subdivision of surgery—Orthopedic Surgery. Whilst I admit that the attention given to this department by gentlemen who have devoted themselves specially to the treatment of such deformities, has done much to improve our methods of treatment, I yet doubt whether the benefit derived from such specialisms is not more than counterbalanced by the tendency to make too much of the