630 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. In considering what method of operation I should follow in the case of K , I could find but little information in surgical works as to the treatment of traumatic varicose aneurism of the femoral, either as regarded general principles or the results of actual practice. As I have already said, most of the observations of Hunter, Park, Hodgson, Bresehet, Sabatier, and Dupuytren, had reference to varicose aneurisms at the bend of the arm, and the general rule laid down, as drawn from such cases, was to open the sac and tie the vessel as in false aneurism—a rule repeated, I see, in the last edition of Professor Erichsen's " Sur- gery," as applicable to varicose aneurisms generally. The only author who differs from this practice is the late Mr. Lizars, who, speaking of this form of aneurism at the elbow, advises tying the artery above and below the wounded point without opening the sac. His reason is, the risk of phlebitis, if we interfere with the vein ; and I recollect seeing him perform this operation in a small varicose aneurism of the brachial in the Eoyal Infirmary. At the bend of the arm, however, the results of the ordinary operation have shown that the risk Mr. Lizars dreaded was so slight tliat his plan has not been generally followed. In looking to the history of cases of this aneurism in the thigh, I could find very few cases recorded, still fewer where any operation had been performed. Several of the cases which had done well without treatment were evidently cases of aneuris- nial varix, and not of varicose aneurism. It is essential to remember, in reference to treatment, that whatever symptoms these two diseases may have in common, such as the peculiar liruit the state of the veins in the affected limb, or the con- stitutional effects consequent on admixture of venous with arterial blood, they differ in this important feature, that in aneurism al varix we have the vein and artery closely adherent and communicating directly, and that, although both vessels undergo dilatation and some alteration in structure and function, there is no aneiirismal tumour involving the risks incident to all aneurisms, and consequently in it all that is generally re-