CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 435 agreed to remain in hospital. During the interval which had elapsed he had been drinking, but the bandages had not been much disturbed. The apjjaratus was re-adjusted, the patient kept in bed, and warm-water dressing was applied to the wound over the orbit, which had begun to suppurate. Everything seemed to go on well for about ten days ; he suffered from no feverishness, and complained of no pain till the evening of the first of February, when he said his eyes felt painful. Warm-water dressing was applied over the eye and the orbital wound, and a purgative was given. Next morning, he suddenly became insensible ; the wound looked dry, and its edges were erysipelatous. The erysipelas spread rapidly, and the semi- comatose state changed to violent delirium, under which the patient sank. The cause of death was meningitis, I'esulting from the injury of the frontal bone ; and a suppurative clot was found blocking up the longitudinal sinus. This unfortunate result gave an opportunity of examining and determining the exact nature of the injury of the shoulder. The fracture was found to pass obliquely from below, upwards and forwards, commenc- ing about \ of an inch behind the origin of the long head of the triceps, and separating the neck and abnost the entire glenoid cavity from the scapula. The .long head of the bicejis and the whole of the glenoid liga- ment had also been torn from the upper remaining fragment of the glenoid cavity, and carried along with the displaced jDortion (Plate xv. Fig. 1). Fracture of the neck of the scapula is admitted by all to be a very rare accident, and by many the possibility of its occur- rence has been doubted. Mr. Pirrie mentions three cases where the symptoms were apparently well marked. Sir Astley Cooper also describes a case in which he was consulted ; but, on the other hand, Mr. South, in his translation of Chelius's Surgery, states that there is no preparation illustrative of such an injury in any museum in London. One dissection of this injury by Duverney is, however, mentioned in Cooper's Surgical Dic- tionary. The principal value of this case consists in the fact, tliat, by its fatal issue, a proof of the existence of such a fracture was established, and an opportunity was afforded for examining its exact anatomical nature, and the connection between it and the symptoms observed shortly after the occurrence of the accident. It should be noticed that the fracture did not pass from the scapular notch directly through the neck separating the glenoid cavity and coracoid process from the body of the scapula, as described by Sir A. Cooper, but obliquely through the neck, detaching nearly the entire glenoid cavity, the whole of the