530 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. the cord or vessels of the cord being retracted within the canal; a risk, however, which is much more imaginary than real. I have also used it in amputations at the ankle ; and on three occasions advantageously, to compress the facial below the lower jaw, in cases of removal of tumours of the upper jaw. In the greater amputations I have not tried it, partly because I have found the ligature answer very well, and I am by no means satisfied of the evils said to be induced by it, but chiefly because my experience of the gradual manner in which the hcemostatic pro- cess is effected after ligature of an artery, and a consideration of the unfortunate results which followed the attempts of Travers and others to remove the ligature at the expiry of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, have prevented me feeling that confidence which I should desire to have against the risk of haemorrhage occurring from a large artery on withdrawing the needle at a very early period. At the same time there are some points of difference. The withdra,wal of the needle is effected much more easily and with less disturbance of parts than that of a ligature could be. The haemostatic process would likewise seem to be somewhat different. In a specimen of tlie brachial artery, for which I am in- debted to the politeness of Mr. Lawson Tait of Wakefield, amputa- tion of the arm had been performed under very unfavourable cir- cumstances. Mr. Tait used acupressure by the needle and looped wire method ; the man sank in thirty-eight hours after the operation. On examining the portion of artery sent me, and which is represented in Plate xxiii. Fig. 7, I found a delicate blood-clot slightly adherent to the arterial wall. This, however, as might have been expected, was not resistent enough to have prevented haemorrhage ; but at the point of acupressure, and for a short distance on either side, the vessel was firmly occluded by plastic lymph, and there seemed no division of the inner coats of the artery. In ligature, no plastic material is thrown out at the point of deligation, i.e. immediately under the constricting ligature ; the plastic process takes place on either side of the ligature, or in an artery divided, as in amputation, immediately above the point of constriction. So far as I can judge from this