CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. G31 quired is moderate support to the venous circulation by band- ages or elastic or laced stockings. In varicose aneurism, on the contrary, the false sac, which communicates with both vein and artery, has a constant tendency to increase, burst, and diffuse its contents into the limb, or else lead to ulceration of the skin and fatal haemorrhage. The records of traumatic varicose aneurism of the femoral or popliteal are very meagre. I can find only two cases detailed, and one doubtfully alluded to by Sabatier. Both the detailed cases were in the popliteal artery. One case occurred under M. Larrey, Director of the Military Medical School at Toulouse, and uncle of Baron Larrey. In that case amputation was performed. In the other case, under the care of Dr. Dorsey of Philadelphia, the disease followed a gunshot wound. The femoral artery was tied in the middle of the thigh, and hfemorrhage supervened and destroyed the patient Mr. Hodgson, in his work on the blood- vessels, suggests that ligature of the femoral in Scarpa's triangle would be the proper plan of treatment. The diminution of tlie force of the blood after the ligature, he thinks, would favour the formation of a coagulum, which would finish by filling up the sac, and obliterate its opening of communication with the vein ; but he adds, " I do not think, however, that any one has yet tried this operation." Since operating on the lad K , I have learned from Mr. Paget that Mr. Lawrence operated by Hunter's method in a case of varicose aneurism of the thigh ; but gangrene came on, ampu- tation was found to be necessary, and the patient died. There is a brief notice of the case in the Catalogue of the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, vol. ii.. Description of Casts; but there are no details given. In deciding on the method I should adopt, when I found that compression could not be continued with anj^ hope of success, it appeared to me that I could scarcely trust to ligature of the superficial femoral in Scarpa's triangle; for, though I believe that to be the safest procedure in certain cases of simple trau- matic aneurism in the thigh, the conditions are very different in