246 DISEASES OF BONES. and a feeling of fluctuation after a time, though it is only imperfect. It occurs principally towards the centre; there is some elasticity also towards the sides and base. The swelling may be pretty large, and yet contain very little purulent matter. On opening such an abscess we find a small quantity of grey- ish imhealthy-looking pus ; part of it is a sort of gelatinous mass, and the rest looks like unhealthy serum. When we examine the fluid part we find pus-cells in it, but they are small and very imperfect, and there is a quantity of molecular debris mixed up with it. After opening the collection we find that the wound does not heal well, and it is this form of abscess which experience warns us against opening. As a result of acute periostitis we also often find pus forming in the soft parts around the bone, in consequence of the irritation produced by the in- flammation ; but in these cases the pus is generally healthy, and requires speedy evacuation. This is quite different from true periosteal abscess, which is a collection of ill-matured purulent fluid and aplastic exudation between the periosteum and the surface of the bone. 2d. An abscess may form iu the interior of the bone itself In the substance of the cancellated texture and condyloid portions of bones in the neighbourhood of joints, abscesses often form with a distinct pyogenic membrane, the cavity of the bone being hol- lowed out, so that when the bone is cut into there is a gush of matter from the osseous texture. In bones like the os calcis they may also form and discharge themselves by destroying the thin shell of the bone, the cancellated texture allowing suppuration to take place much more readily than the denser texture would. Hence in the articular ends of bone suppuration is much more likely to take place than in the denser osseous structure, where the same amount of irritation would probably lead to necrosis. In bones of a denser character, as in the lower jaw, abscesses sometimes form, and the bone is often very much thickened. In such cases we find that matter has formed at one point within the dental canal of the bone—which is partly composed of can- cellated texture—and that its pressure has bulged the bone out-