290 DISEASES OF JOINTS. The pathological changes which arise from simple inflam- mation of joints are, thickening and altered, form, and after a time either softening or chronic consolidation and shortening of the fibrous ligamentous structures, and in some cases fibrous anchylosis and distortion. In synovitis we find at first effusion or exudation of lymph on the free synovial surface, giving it a granular appearance, and leading to the friction of the surfaces already mentioned. Next rapid effusion of thin, almost serous synovial secretion collects within the joint. In some cases plastic lymph is effused between the opposed surfaces of the synovial sac, forming adhesions. These are short and soft when recent, but when old, they gradually elongate to admit of motion, and become thin and membranous, similar to what we see in old adhesions of serous membranes ; this result, however, is com- paratively rare in the synovial. In some cases, where the joints have suffered from repeated attacks, we find some slight alter- ation in colour, opaque patches, or thickening, and nothing more. In others, and especially in rheumatic cases, a very peculiar fimbriated structure is found, and sometimes projections of a kind of fatty alteration in large masses. Inflammation of a joint may also lead to suppuration. Then the tension increases, the fever becomes intense and of an irri- tative type, and finally hectic supervenes. When this happens, it is often followed by disorganisation of all the articular struc- tures, but such a result seldom occurs in cases of rheumatic or simple synovitis. Generally it arises in connection with some strumous condition of the constitution, or takes place when the inflammation supervenes in consequence of penetrating wounds. The Treatment of acute idiopathic inflammation of joints requires to be active at first, both .in reference to constitutional and local measures, modified of course by considerations of con- stitutional tendencies and the state of the patient's health. When acute articular inflammation arises in a robust healthy person, local depletion by cupping or leeches should at once be