DISEASES OF BONES. 254 * Plate xii. Pig. 4. , extremities of tlie long bones—in a word, to the cancellated texture. In Caries the portion affected presents to the naked eye a granular or reticular appearance, of a brown colour; the part affected is greater in superficial extent than depth, and the surface is softer than natural—rotten as it were — so that a probe passes into its substance without any pressure being used."'' The surrounding soft parts are swollen and irritable, with sinuses leading to the diseased bone, or thickened, with everted edges and pulpy projecting flabby granulations. I have said the surface is of a brown colour, and granular in appear- ance ; but when a portion of bone so affected is removed and carefully macerated, then, when we examine it with a low magnifying power, we see that the granular appearance is due to minute white short hair-like spiculai, projecting from or lying on the surface. A deeper section wiU show further changes in the bone beyond, which explain the low form of action and difficulties of repair characterising caries. The alterations of texture beyond the carious surface to which I allude exist in two different forms. First, as we often see in the bones of the tarsus, the texture is opened out, and the enlarged cancelli are filled with altered medulla, or rather a lardaceous substance, varying in colour from a pale yellow to a dark reddish-brown or purple ; and not unfrequently in certain bones, as the head of the tibia and the bones forming the elbow-joint, the cancellated structure is loaded with tubercular looking matter. The second condition is one more apt to be overlooked, but one which, if possible, shows greater alteration of natural structure. It is a condition the very opposite of the former, and consists in a peculiar condensation of the bone beyond the carious surface. It was first described in relation to dental caries by Mr. ISTasmyth of this city; and the late Professor Goodsir has very well described it in the caries of ordinary bone. " In true caries," says he, " for a certain depth below the surface of the affected part, the corpuscles and canaKculi have