281 RICKETS. their eartliy constituents. In rickets this deficiency is due to non-development and nial-assimilation of the materials necessary to the formation of bone, while in mollities ossiurn it arises from absorption and degeneration of already existing bone. The one is therefore a disease of childhood, the other of advanced life. Eickets occurs in children either as a primary disease or as a consequence of the debility induced by infantile complaints, such as measles, scarlatina, hooping-cough, and the irregularities attendant on dentition. Most usually the subjects of it are originally of weak constitution, and, as I have already indicated, it has always been regarded as one of the many manifestations of scrofula. Still, we must bear in mind, tliat although often very closely associated with scrofula, it does not seem to possess a well-established claim to the hereditary character of that disease. The children of very young parents are peculiarly liable to it, and that independently of any already existing disease. Although softening of the bones, and the resulting deformi- ties, are the most prominent effects of rickets, yet the disease presents many other symptoms. The patients are of a pale sallow complexion, dull-looking, fretful, and peevish. The body is generally attenuated, or if not, the flesh is soft and flabby, not firm and bright as in health. The chest is contracted and deformed, the belly prominent and tumid. The lower limbs, being unable to support the body, become bent and twisted under the conjoined forces of gravity and muscular contraction. Bending of the limbs, however, does not necessarily imply the presence of rickets, for the limbs of any child, however healthy, will become distorted if it be allowed to rest its weight upon them too early, and before the shafts of the bones have become sufficiently ossified to sustain it. In rickets, not only is there a deficiency of earthy matter originally, but there would almost seem to be a want of power in the system to assimilate the earthy salts, for during the pro- gress of the disease there is often a great elimination of phosphate of lime from the system, as shown by deposits in the urine. In