DISLOCATION DOWNWARDS. 401 The method by " manipulation," as recommeuded by Dr. Eeed of Eochester, U.S., has been employed successfully in reducing these dislocations in some cases. The patient is put under chloroform, and then by flexing the leg on the luxated thigh, carrying it across the sound one, flexing it slowly upwards over the pelvis to the umbilicus, then abducting and rotating outwards, the reduction is accomplished. The other two dislocations of the hip are comparatively rare. Dislocation of the head of the femur into the obturator foramen is the more common of the two. Here we have also symptoms of a very marked character, though perhaps not quite so striking at first as we might imagine from looking at the skeleton. This is the only dislocation in which the lower limb is lengthened. The lengthening is due to the position of the head of the femur, for it lies below its natural level. The foot points directly downwards, or is slightly everted, and the limb seems to lie away from the other. When the patient is lying flat on his back w^e find that we cannot bring the injured limb parallel to and in close contact with the sound one ; and we cannot cross it over the opposite thigh without re- ducing the dislocation. I have seen what seemed to be an exception to this rule in the case of a patient who was very much in-kneed; but such exceptions are rare. There is another thing which strikes us on looking at the limb—namely, a depression corresponding to the point where the great tro- chanter was situated, instead of the elevation of the trochanter seen in the two former dislocations. There are some cases which it is possible to mistake for this dislocation. The late Mr. Listen met with one of these in which the patient had suffered from incipient disease of the hip-joint, and had fallen on the hip, causing swelling and all the appearances of dislocation. Mr. Listen asked him if he had ever been lame on that leg, and found that at the age of twenty he had been. I have had a similar case in my own hospital practice. I have also seen in young patients separation of the head of the femur, which might be mistaken for a dislocation ; 2 D