242 DISEASES OF BONES. * See Plate xi. Fig. 1. phlegmonous erysipelas, and leeclies are perhaps applied with some temporary benefit, or punctures or incisions are made ■with still greater benefit, or opiates may be given, and the patient obtains some rest. But the relief is only temporary; the pain returns ; the fever alters in character ; indeed, there is a great tendency for it to assume an irritative type from the first. The pulse becomes rapid and irritable ; the tongue red and glazed at the edges, with a dry centre ; and there is delirium at nifiht. Tlie secretions are arrested. The irritative fever some- times succeeds on the symptomatic within forty-eight hours. These conditions used to be attributed to the erysipelas having led to disease of the bone, but they are really due to acute periostitis and ostitis, the surface being affected secondarily from the inflamed bone. In such cases the periosteum is found very much thick- ened, and instead of presenting the usual thin appearance, it has become fleshy and highly vascular ; and where it has given way, the bone is exposed—bare, white, dense, and smooth—with hardly any change in its structure ; the diseased action having been too rapid to allow the dense portion to open out.* In the chronic form of inflammation time is generally aflbrded for the dense texture to open out, and for the vascular canals to dilate in proportion to the distension of the vessels, but in acute ostitis the action is too rapid for this ; the exudation poured out blocks up the Haversian structure, and canaliculi circulation and nutrition are arrested, and complete death of the part ensues. The denser structure of the bone does not allow of the vessels relieving themselves as in softer tissues, and the texture dies from the pressure of the exudation. The secondary effects, the redness and tense swelling, and acute oedema, arise from the vessels of the periosteum and of the soft parts becoming implicated, and the inflammation then assumes the erysipe- latous character. When the inflamed bone is deeply seated, like the femur, there is not generally at first much, if any, ten- sion of the limb, and the cause of this should be understood. Between the deeply-seated bone and the skin are very dense