METHODS OF TREATMENT. 421 iu front, and slip-knots are applied to keep tlie rest of the splint in position (Plate xvii. Fig. V). The advantage of this plan is, that we can trace the line of bone in front, and see how the fracture is lying without disturbing it. If we find that the heel gets drawn backwards, or that any other displacement occurs, the splints must of course be re-adjusted. The limb requires to be bent at different angles according to circumstances. AVhen the fracture is towards the lower third of the leg, or when tliere is a tendency to retraction of the heel, the leg must be flexed towards the ham, so as to relax the gastrocnemius, which is the chief displacing cause. ^Vllen the fracture is higher up, we do not require to flex the limb so much. Ey attending to these rules, and by keeping the splints carefully aj)plied, you will find this to be the best and simplest method of treating simple fractures of both bones of the leg. When we have a very oblique or comminuted or compound fracture, or where the fracture is very high tip, Liston's splint, well padded, answers better (Plate xvii. Pig. 5), as giving greater power of extension and preventing the fragments moving on each other. The foot should be supported by a handkerchief placed imder the heel, and this should be fastened to a hook in the foot-piece. I object to the application of a continuous roller round the splint, for then we cannot tell how the limb is lying without undoing the bandage. It is far better to have a few slip-knots, or interrupted circles of bandage, and then we can see how the fracture lies, and can adjust any little displacement, if it occur, without much trouble. As a general rule, in all cases of fracture of both bones of the leg, the position of the limb should be such that the ball of the great toe and the inner edge of the patella are in a line with each other. There is one rule which I would lay down regarding this splint—namely, that in all fractures at or below the middle of the leg the thigh- piece should be brought as much as possible to a right angle with the leg-rest. In oblique fractures the upper portion of the tibia gradually becomes forced down, causing displacement; and the remedy for this is to increase the angle of the splint, and sHng