357 FALSE JOINT. and tlie reparative powers are injured. In syphilis, from the cachexy existing in certain tertiary forms of the disease, this want of reparative power may cause non-union. Scurvy also, may prevent union, and may even cause the union which has taken place to give way ; this has been mentioned before when speaking of the scorbutic ulcer. The previous habits of the patient, or excessive natural discharges, as in cases of menorrhagia, often impair or frustrate the uniting process. An- other general cause of non-union is pregnancy, when a larger amount of blood than usual is directed to one organ for a time ; the reparative power seems to go on in the other parts less perfectly ; still I cannot say that I ever saw, in my own experi- ence, a case of non-union of fracture occurring in a pregnant woman, though such cases have sometimes been met with. When union does not occur, we may have two or three dif- ferent conditions of the broken bone. We have sometimes simply non-union, as when a portion of necrosed bone prevents it, but where, after removing this dead portion of bone, union takes place. In certain cases whilst osseous union does not take place, there may be a certain amount of fibrous texture uniting the ends of the bone, and so forming one kind of false joint. In other cases the ends of the bone are atrophied, rounded off, covered with glistening fibrous tissue, and connected with each other by a fibrous capsule, continuous with the periosteum of the broken bone, thus allowing free movement, and forming the most perfect example of false joint. Various methods have been adopted to bring about union in these cases. The constitutional treatment is important, and here one condition in particular should be attended to. In patients with fracture of the lower extremity, we may find that at the end of four weeks or so there is little or no union, even though the patient has had full diet without stimulants. If the patient has been in the habit of taking stimulants the fracture is not likelj' to unite so long as he is deprived of them, and even when he has not been much ac- customed to them it is often necessary to give stimulants to pro-