560 INyURTES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. cision tliat will barely enable him to insinuate bis forefinger, so that it fills up the aperture. He breaks down the coagula within the sac, so that they may be turned out rapidly, and then feels for the opening in the artery, to which he is guided by the flow of warm blood. Keeping bis finger firmly pressed ujjon the wounded point, he rapidly lays open the sac, and turns out its contents, so as to be ready to deal directly and at once with the vessel. In the case of the brachial, when the clots are evacuated, the wound in the artery can sometimes be readily seen, and then ligatures are applied above and below the opening in the vessel, and the operation completed. (Plate xxv., Figs. 1 and 2.) There is often, liowever, a difficulty in discovering the wound in the artery, and in such cases, after fairly clearing out the -sac, the tourniquet should be slacked a little; this causes a gush of blood to flow from the opening in the artery, which can thus be readily detected. Both ligatures should be placed rotind the vessel before either is tied, for if the upper ligature be tied first, there may be great difficulty in finding the lower part of the vessel, which becomes flaccid and is not easily recognised : I have seen this occur in practice. Hence it is safer and quite as easy to apply both ligatures properly before tying either. In false aneurism the coats of the vessel are perfectly healthy, thus differing essentially from the state of the arterial coats in true aneurism, and with the double ligature there is scarcely any danger of secondary haemorrhage. One ligature alone cannot be trusted to effect a cure on account of the free retrograde circula- tion ; the vessel must be secured above and below the wounded point. Under the head of Traumatic or False Aneurisms, I have to direct your attention to two peculiar forms of aneurismal disease —Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism; for although these conditions may arise from disease in some rare cases, they are much more generally caused by a wound implicating an artery and some neighbouring vein. Dr. William Hunter was the first to draw special attention