FALSE ANEURISM. 559 femoral, is to cut clown on the tumour, turn out the coagula, and tie the artery above and below the wounded point. Suppose we are about to operate in a case of false aneu- rism at the bend of the arm;—A tourniquet is applied at the upper third of the arm to compress the brachial and so com- mand the circulation during the operation, and the care of the tourniquet is confided to an assistant. The arm and forearm are held as straight as possible, and supine. The surgeon then makes a very free incision through the skin and superficial fascia, from above to below the swelling, taking care to avoid the larger superficial veins, or, where that is impossible, to secure them before proceeding further. This first incision must not be made at random ; for though our main objects are to open the sac, turn out the contents, and look for the wounded point, it is nevertheless very important to make the incision correspond to the course of the artery, so as to render the after-part of the operation more easy and certain. If we trust entirely to the cicatrix of the original wound as a guide, that may have been displaced by the swelling, and may not now correspond to the wound of the artery in the deeper part, and hence may mislead the operator. The incision above should be made along the inner edge of the biceps, and then carried down over the tumour with a slight degree of obliquity from above, downwards and outwards. When the first incision is completed, the strong glistening aponeurotic fascia, distended by blood, bulges out, forming a more or less rounded swelling. The operator makes an incision into this at the point which seems likely to corre- spond to the wound of the vessel, introduces his forefinger, and then with a probe-pointed bistoury enlarges the incision up- wards and downwards to the full extent of the false sac, and turns out the coagula. This method of opening the false sac is that usually adopted in cases where, as in the brachial, we can fully command the circulation on the cardiac side of the tumour ; but in cases such as diffuse or traumatic aneurisms in the cervical or iliac regions, it must be modified. In such cases, the surgeon makes an in-