CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 613 the axillary was affected. As to its general characters, careful examination satisfied me that it was one of those elongated, OYoid, or fusiform dilatations of the vessel arising from an altera- tion affecting the contractile and resilient functions of the middle coat, and allowing of gradual dilatation and alteration of all the coats. As we very generally find in such cases, there was no- hardness, or other symptom of coagulation ; the swelling was compressible, and it gave a peculiar feel to the compressing finger, as if a flaccid vessel with tliickened coats was pressed upon. Now, in cases of aneurismal dilatation of this form, from the integrity of the internal tunic, there seems less tendency for the molecules of the blood to adhere to the sides of the sac, whilst the circulating fluid, rushing with equal force in all direc- tions, acts more generally as a disturbing force, than in cases where we have ulceration of the two inner coats, with lateral dilatation of the fibro-cellular tunic. Hence the aneurism in this case was not very favourable for any treatment in which we had to trust principally to coagulation; indeed the absence of this natural tendency to a cure is unfavourable to any plan. The state of the patient's general health was not very pro- mising. Although a powerful, muscular man, he had long been in service in an unhealthy climate, and had suffered from rheu- matism, remittent fever, and hepatic derangement, whilst the nature of his profession as engineer in one of H.M. ships, together with concomitant circumstances, had rendered the state of his general health by no means favourable for an operation. I now come to the consideration of the circumstances which determined me to make a trial of Sir William Fergusson's proposal. The methods whose respective merits, or rather demerits, I liad to consider were—1st, The Hunterian plan, by tying either the innominate or the first part of the subclavian. 2d, The direct ligature, by dissection towards the innominate, so as to enable an assistant to command the circulation through it, and then to open the aneurism, and tie the orifices entering the sac : the modification of the old method of operating recently revived