504 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. what respects they seem to elucidate some points on which a difference of opinion existed at the time when I entered on the investigation. My experiments on the effects of tlie ligature of arteries con- sisted of two series. Of the first series, a brief abstract was publislied in tlie Edinburgh Medical Journal for June 1843. In it I sought more particularly to draw attention to two points which appeared to me to have sufficient importance to merit further investigation. These points were, the essential value of the external plastic effusion, and the non-essentiality of the in- ternal coagulum. The second series of my experiments was instituted to investigate still further some points which had not been quite satisfactorily ascertained in the first—namely, to ascertain the further process of organisation and vascularisation of the external plastic lymph—the various changes which the internal coagulum undergoes when it is present—the extent of oblitera- tion in the deligated artery, and some questions connected with the collateral circulation. The results of these experiments directed my attention more particularly to the relative value of two points in the process of obliteration of an artery by ligature—namely, the clot and the external effusion of lymph. When I commenced these experi- ments, I held the opinions expressed by Manec :—That the presence of a coagulum within the vessel, filling up its canal for some distance and ultimately becoming adherent to and incor- porated with its parietes, was an essential to perfect obliteration and the principal obstacle to secondary hfemorrhage at the de- cidence of the ligature. My experiments showed me that, however common the presence of a clot, or however valuable as an accessory it might be when present, it was not an essential in the process. Inasmuch as the obliteration was as perfect, and without any occurrence of secondary htemorrhage, in cases where the coagulum was wanting as in those where it was present. This caused me to re-examine some preparations which I had formerly made after ligature of arteries, and these