261 TREATMENT OF SPINAL CURVATURE. disease;—first, by allaying the deep-seated subacute inflam- mation of the bone, and so arresting the ulcerative process before much structure is implicated; next, by maintaining the parts as far as possible at perfect rest, and preventing the super- incumbent weight of the head and trunk above the disease acting on the carious part of the vertebrae; and, at the same time, favouring the process of osseous or fibrous anchylosis. To fulfil these indications, we at first direct that the child should be placed on a couch arranged on an inclined plane, and kept as much as possible in the prone position, so as to avoid all pressure on the spinous processes, and to take off the super- incumbent weight from the diseased part of the spine. The prone couch, as it is called, is usually fitted with a little table or slab of wood projecting in front, on which the child's toys are placed, so as to induce it to remain in the prone posture. Of course the child, when at all free from pain, will not remain in one position, it will occasionally turn on its side ; but the form of the couch prevents it resting on the back, which we prin- cipally wish to avoid. During this stage, great attention is requisite to regulate the bowels and to nourish the child by diet, cod-liver oil, and chalybeate tonics, and to afford it as far as possible the benefit of fresh air and passive exercise. With a view to the last-mentioned objects, the prone couch may be fitted with wheels, so that the patient can be moved about the room, or out into the open air when the weather permits. If there be much or persistent tenderness on pressure over the spine at the affected part, with, perhaps, slight puffy swelling, the actual cautery should at once be applied at a little distance from the diseased point, so as to create counter-irritation and establish an issue. The effect of the cautery is often marvellous in arresting the deep-seated pain and allaying the diseased action. And when the eschar separates, the surface is slow of healing, and so the discharge is kept up for some time, and thus diminishes the deep-seated action. There is no other form of counter-irritation or issue equal to it, in cases of diseased bone; and as we can put the child under chloroform, the pain of the application is