CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 605 alone, without controlling the force of the circulation by ligature on a healthy point of the vessel higher up, must often prove abortive, and repeated hsemorrhage from rapid ulceration of the deligated part of the artery be the result. In fact, everything depends upon the state of the arterial tissue in the neighbour- hood of the lesion, and the probable destructive power of the agency producing it. I have instanced burns by fire; on the other hand, ulceration from caustics generally leaves the parts whence the slough has separated healthy, and, curiously enough, the very patient whose case I have just narrated nearly lost his life on a previous occasion from ulceration of the radial, caused by nitrate of silver applied to a bite. On that occasion I-also saw him, but, knowing the limited action of the caustic, I exposed and tied the radial above and below the ulcerated point with success. But it would have been a very different matter in the sloughy condition of the fibular in the present instance, even if there had been any indication to guide me to the bleed- ing point. In the present case the ligature of the femoral did effectually prevent all haemorrhage for a time; it allowed the patient time to rally ; and when, on the circulation being fully ■established, the bleeding recurred, it was both less active and less in amount, and, had the patient been even tolerably strong, I doubt not but that moderate and regulated pressure might have ultimately succeeded in arresting further htemorrhage. But, debilitated as he was by the previous exhausting disease and the repeated bleeding, and peculiarly depressed by the fear of hsemorrhage from a remembrance of the risk he formerly ran, I felt that even a very trifling loss of blood might prove fatal, and the danger to life seemed so great as to forbid any further attempts to save the limb. Injury of the Axillary Artery from Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus. Mr. J. B , aged sixty-three, in coming do\\Ti stairs from the drawing-room, tripped on the carpet, and fell down with his whole weight on the elbow and point of shoulder. I was sent for on the part of Dr.