468 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. must be returned from the testicle ; if it is not, then the arterial supply very soon becomes diminished in qiiantity, and so the gland becomes atrophied almost as much as if the artery itself had been obliterated. Division of the falciform edge of the fascia lata has been tried as a palliative remedy in varix of the 'saphena, but not with much success, nor is the practice likely to be followed. The Baclical treatvient was at one time very much studied, and various plans have been proposed. Amongst the earlier methods was that of cutting down upon the vein and tying it, but phlebitis very often resulted, and therefore ligature of the vein for the radical cure of varix was soon abandoned. The next plan was to apply potassa fusa to the surface of the skin, over the affected vein, and leave it on till it made its way into the vein and caused obliteration of it. It was found that the caustic sometimes burned into the vein and caused haemorrhage, and even when a clot formed, it was ajDt to break down and lead to secondary haemorrhage, while in other cases extensive suppuration resulted, so that this plan also had to be given up. Another method was to cut across the vein by subcutaneous section, without dividing the skin, and to place a pad of lint over the wound. Notwithstanding that the vein was completely divided, the circulation was sometimes restored through it; but in a few cases obliteration of the divided vein occurred, and a successful result was obtained. The plan most generally adopted now is to obliterate the vein with a harelip-needle, by a form of acupressure. The vein-clamp, as it is called, was used at one time to compress the vein laterally, but now it is never used. In the radical cure at present adopted, the needle is introduced below the vein, and a thread applied round it, as in the ordinary harelip-suture, so as to make mediate pressure on the venous coats, and not the direct pressure of the ligature, the skin being left between the needle and the vein. The needles are applied at the healthy parts of the vein between the tortuosities, and as many as six