256 DISEASES OF BONES. * Plate xiii. Fig. 5. The progress of the local and constitutional symptoms in a case of caries may be briefly described. At first there is slight pain and indolent swelling in the neighbourhood of the diseased bone ; gradually the deep-seated pain becomes more severe, the swelling becomes discoloured—of dark lake-colour, tense and shining or else boggy ; at last pus forms, and is dis- charged either artificially or by ulceration. The pain is now somewhat relieved, but the swelling remains indolent. In some cases the openings which have discharged the pus close, except small pouting orifices, vphich continue to discharge their gleety and often very offensive matter."'' When a probe is intro- duced into one of these openings, it comes in contact with the carious bone. In other cases, the openings of discharge extend by ulceration; the edges become infiltrated and everted ; fun- goid masses of unhealthy granulations occupy and project from the centre of the ulcer, and on destroying these, the carious bone can be seen, presenting the softened rotten surface of the dark-brown or purplish hue already mentioned. The severity of the pain and character of the inflammation which precede the suppuration and exposure of the caries are very variable. In some cases, as in articular caries, the pain is exces- sive, especially at night ; and even in cases of caries of the tarsus or carpus, the pain and swelling are acute, but more usually the symptoms are such as I have described. The general health is often affected to a much greater degree than the local disease or amount of discharge from the surface or sinuses would account for ; but then we must recollect that the disease is one of the manifestations of scrofula, and hence the hectic fever, constitutional irritation, and debility, which might, at first sight, seem to be out of proportion to the local cause. At the same time the caries is the exciting cause ; and if the diseased portion of bone be removed, it is remarkable how rapidly the general and local conditions improve. Keeping these things in mind, it is evident that our prognosis in caries must be favourable in proportion as the carious surface