255 PATHOLOGY OF CARIES. * See Plate xii. Fig. 3. more or less completely disappeared, so that the subjacent unaltered osseous structure is covered in by a layer of appa- rently solid bone, resembling marble, and analogous too in some respects to the enamel of the teeth, amongst others in being incapable of absorption, and hence requiring either to exfoliate or to be removed artificially."'" Now the first of these condi- tions shows a peculiar deposit infiltrating the cancellated texture, loM'ering its vitality, and predisposing it to an un- healthy form of ulceration. The second—the peculiar condensa- tion of the bone underlying the carious surface—forms a barrier to the vascular supply necessary to support due vitality, and prevents absorption of disintegrated texture. Beyond the condensed structure, however, healthy action goes on, as is evidenced by the active deposition of new bone in the vicinity of the carious surface. To understand the true pathology of caries, however, we must look beyond the local changes to the constitutional conditions which induce and modify them. The carious ulceration is the result of a low type of inflammation of bone which is met with in two constitutional conditions—the strumous and syphilitic. Now, in both scrofula and syphilis, we find a tendency to deposits of vitiated albumen taking place in certain tissues, and bone is frequently so affected. In fact the exudation thrown out by inflammation in scrofulous and syphilitic patients is aplastic, and not fitted for repair, having little or no tendency to be converted into permanent tissue, and so, besides its bulk and pressure, interfering with vasca- larisation of the part; even when in small amount, it remains inert, difficult of absorption, unfit for repair, and chiefly got rid of by disintegration and discharge. It is this condition, depending on the constitution, that leads to the local changes, and which renders the diseases of bone in such patients so difficult of treatment. Indeed, the surrounding soft tissues in caries show the same tendency even after the diseased bone has been removed ; and it is all-important that we keep this in mind in reference to prognosis and treatment in cases of caries.