DISEASES OF BONES. 284 degeneration of bone already existing, which is not temporary but progressive, and continues to extend from bone to bone with- out any interruption or attempt at reparation, until at length the general health becomes involved, and the patient dies from exhaustion. Various opinions are held as to the true nature of the changes which take place in the bones during the progress of this disorder, and indeed there is reason to believe that these are not the same in every case. Sometimes the earthy matter of the osseous tex- ture seems to be absorbed, and its place filled by a brown larda- ceous soft substance ; whilst in other cases the change seems to partake more of the character of a simple softening. Mr. Paget seems to view the disease as a fatty degeneration of bone, similar to that which occurs in other textures late in life, and the correctness of this opinion receives strong confirmatioli from the results of the analysis of such bones, for they are found to contain free fat in very large proportions. Eokitansky, on the other hand, seems to hold that the changes consist in simple softening of the bone, from abstraction of its earthy matter, and persistence of its cartilaginous base, constituting rickets of the adult. This latter class of cases is that already alluded to as occurring in adult females, and is a distinct disease from true mollifies, which is continuously progressive. Mollifies ossium is always attended with intense and inces- sant pain, which increases with the progress of the disease. The patients become enfeebled and emaciated, their appetite fails, they are sleepless, irritable, and subject to profuse perspirations. So that, in addition to the local discomfort, there are very marked evidences of a constitutional cachexia; in fact, the symptoms present all the characters of malignancy. From what I have stated regarding the progress of the disease, you will, no doubt, gather that the Treatment can only be of a palliative kind. The indications are to regulate the digestive organs, preventing torpor of the bowels, and to exhibit anodynes from time to time, for the relief of pain. Fkagilitas Ossium denotes a condition of the osseous textures