DISEASES OF JOINTS. 320 treated for disease of the knee, by blisters, warm fomentations, splints, and the cautery. If we touch, the knee, the patient com- plains of pain; but if the femur be fixed, and then the heel pressed upon, so as to cause pressure on the knee-joint, there is little uneasiness produced. The pain is neuralgic in its charac- ter, and sometimes extends to the outer side of the joint, but generally resides in the filaments of nerves on the inner side. If there be swelling about the knee, it is sometimes rather difficult to tell whether or not that joint is itself affected with disease; but on viewing the hip we can readily perceive that the disease is situated there, from the peculiar atro- phied and flattened appearance of the nates. If the limb be rotated outwards, some slight pain is felt, so also when the limb is flexed ; but if we press directly inwards upon the trochanter, and rotate the foot, the patient complains of excessive pain, which becomes greater as the pressure is increased, and this pain is felt even at an early stage of the disease. There is a low form of strumous inflammation of bone, leading to scrofulous caries, and this condition exists for some time without the cartilage being thrown off. Gradually, however, the patient goes on from bad to worse: the limb, instead of being- longer than the other, becomes shortened, though this may not be very noticeable at first. Abscesses may form round the hip, either at an early stage or not until the last stage. The limb is sometimes much bent and drawn up, and the foot turned in. There is a slight projection of the trochanter major and an atrophied appearance of the hip behind. The shortening of the limb increases, and sometimes the thigh is flexed at nearly a right angle with the body. These changes go on till dislocation of the head of the bone occurs. In the later stages we find the inflam- mation taking place in the surrounding textures; abscesses form in the neighbourhood of the hip, which require to be opened.* Great irritation arises in front of the limb, and, in some cases, it is attended with enlargement of the glands. Abscesses some- times form in the perineum, which may burst through into * Plate xiii. Fig. 2.