INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 420 so mucli so tliat tlie diagnosis is often difficult, but in this case we make the bones move laterally, and we can then feel crepitus. In other cases the displacement which occurs is very marked. In oblique fractures, whether the obliquity be in the antero-posterior or in the lateral direction, the dis- placement and shortening are very great. If the fracture be oblique from behind upwards and forwards, there is great dis- placement of the lower fragment, the foot and heel being drawn back by the action of the gastrocnemius and soleus. If the fracture occur transversely, close to the tubercle of the tibia, there is no displacement forwards of the lower fragment, but the upper portion is raised and tilted forwards by the action of the extensor muscles. If the tibia be fractured about the middle, the projecting ends of the bone can generally be felt readily. As we approach the malleolar portions of the bones, the fractures become much more complicated. Separation of one malleolus is apt to be attended with considerable displacement, and separation of both malleoli is always attended with great dis- placement of the foot backwards. When the bones are broken transversely, immediately above the malleoli, the lower fragment with the foot are retracted, while the shafts of the bones are pushed forwards. In fracture of both bones of the leg about the middle or upper part, the bones must be accurately adjusted at first, and in the oblique fractures the treatment must be very careful throughout. The general method of treatment which I adopt, and which I find far the most satisfactory in fractures of both bones of the leg, when they are not very oblique, and when there is not any very great displacement, is to apply two lateral pasteboard splints. The limb is flexed and laid on the outside, and the splints, which are first moulded to the limb, are then applied. In aj)plying them we should see that the greater part of the foot-piece corresponds to the sole of the foot. The sole-piece is of great assistance in keeping the foot in proper position at right angles to the leg. A figure-of-eight bandage to above the ankle secxires the foot-piece completely ; a narrow pad is placed