257 TREATMENT OF CARIES. is limited and can be reached, so as to enable us to remove it before the constitution is exhausted by long-continued irritation. Hence, in cases admitting of operative measures for removing the diseased parts by excision or amputation, our prognosis is favourable as to the result, unless other , organs be affected, which unfortunately is sometimes the case. In cases where the diseased bone or bones are so situated that we cannot interfere to remove the carious surface—as, for example, in caries of the bodies of the vertebrte—it must be evident that the resrdt is more doubtful; and when repeated formations of abscess and long-continued purulent discharge have exhausted the patient, the prognosis is very unfavourable. Even su.ch cases, however, are not hopeless, nor do I consider that caries is incurable except by operation, as some surgeons state. No doubt, when we can reach and remove the disease early by operation—as I have al- ready said, that gives a great advantage ; but we must not con- clude, on the other hand, that cases such as caries of the spine are hopeless. They are often brought to a successful issue by proper treatment hopefully persisted in. The idea of their incurability is often the cause of their not being cured, by lead- ing to trifling and intermittent instead of energetic and persistent treatment. The Treatment of caries in cases which admit of operation might be briefly summed up as consisting in the early re- moval by excision, gouging-out, or amputation of the affected part. In cases where that is impracticable, absolute rest to the affected part, the r;se of the actual cautery as a counter-irritant before suppuration has set in, and the exhibition of chalybeate tonics, cod-liver oil, and nourishing diet—careful attention being given to the state of the different secretions and excre- tions. It will be better, however, to take special cases of caries as illustrative of the treatment. Take, for example, a case of caries of the head and tuberosities of the humerus, where sup- puration has taken place, and in "which, through the opening of the abscess, we feel the bone bare. In such a case, so soon as the irritative fever had abated, I would proceed s