596 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. much in the same circumstances as an artery wounded by a cutting instrument, it differed from it in tliis material point. The vitality of its coats was impaired, and these partook of the weakened action of the surrounding parts from the effects of the burn, so that I could not have trusted to ligature above and below the opening, because the action of the ligature on the vessel would have proceeded too rapidly, and the impulse of the circulation would, in all probability, have caused secondary hsemorrhage in a day or two, on the decidence of the ligature. On the other hand, ligature of the arterial trunk higher up, whilst it would have arrested the flow of blood from the upper part of the vessel, would not have sufficed to arrest the retro- grade bleeding. I therefore adopted the practice of tying the main trunk high up, where it was healthy, and situated amongst healthy parts, in order to divert the impulse of the blood from the canal of the wounded vesseL The ligatures above and below the opening at the bend of the arm prevented the retrograde bleeding sufficiently long to allow of consolidation of the surrounding textures, and permanent obliteration of the vessel, obviating the necessity for bandaging and compresses. The necessary dressings to the general burned surface were not in- terfered with. Of course the nature of the agent causing the sloughing must be taken into consideration, as this may mate- rially influence the line of practice. Whilst writing out these remarks, I was called to a young gentleman in the country, who, by applying nitrate of silver over the course of the radial artery, had opened that vessel. The eschar separated whilst he was out shooting, and he had lost a very large quantity of blood. In this case I merely cut down upon and tied the vessel a short distance above and below the wounded point, because I knew that the adjacent structures, after the separation of an eschar caused by nitrate of silver, are generally in a state of healthy action, and not in that condition of impaired vitality which characterises the tissues implicated in a severe burn by fire.