ANA TO MY OF JOINTS. 287 their supply. On the other hand, the protection which the cartilacfe of incrustation affords to the articular ends of bones during motion or contact, explains how certain symptoms arise, when, either by acute or chronic action, the cartilage has been removed, and this protection more or less lost. In some articulations we meet with what are termed inter- articular fibro-cartilages. These, owing to their fibrous connec- tions becoming relaxed or destroyed, may become sources of mechanical obstruction to movement, and lead to or keep up irritation in the joints. The true fibrous ^ligamentous texture of joints, whether in the form of capsular, flat, or cord-like liga- ments, possesses the usual characters of fibrous tissue ; a dense resisting structure with a moderate vascular supply and innerva- tion. This texture is capable of undergoing rapid alteration of structure from acute inflammation, or gradual change and thicken- ing from chronic inflammation, also calcareous alteration, or ossification as it is sometimes termed. The most peculiar anatomical structure in joints, perhaps, and that which is most frequently affected either primarily or secondarily, is the synovial membrane. This invests the articular ends of bones, the cartilage of incrustation and the internal surfaces of the fibrous structures of joints being reflected from off one surface to another. The synovial closely resemble the serous membranes in their anatomical arrangement and functions. Like them they are shut sacs, possessing a smooth serous-looking surface, and their function is to secrete a lubricating fluid, the synovia, which, though more viscid than serum, serves similar purposes. Although the membrane is ap- parently possessed of little vascularity in its ordinary state, yet under any irritation its vessels readily enlarge, the membrane becomes injected, and its secretion increased and altered. This vascularity spreads rapidly and diffusely over its free surface, inducing changes in action and aff'ecting indirectly other textures. Besides the articular structures proper, there exists, near most articulations and around tendons, another apparatus very analo- gous in its structure and uses to the synovial,—I mean the bursal