366 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. arm and shoulder downwards and inwards towards the chest. The appearances, therefore, of the narrowing of the chest, and the riding of tlie bone, are readily accounted for—the principal displacing cause being the weight of the limb. When we lay the patient flat on his back in bed, and raise the elbow, the fractured bone is easily returned to its normal place; and if the patient were kept always in this position, no other treatment would be necessary than to keep the arm fixed across the chest. The clavicle may also be broken very near its sternal end, sometimes quite close to the articular surface, so that the injury may resemble very closely a dislocation of the clavicle from the sternum. In this fracture the displacement is downwards and forwards. The shaft, or outer part of the bone, has its inner end drawn inwards upon the sternum by the subclavius and pectoral muscles acting on the clavicle and arm. The broken end of the bone can be distinctly felt moving on the sternum, as if it were dislocated, but the fractured surface and the crepitus on reduction distinguish this injury from a dislocation. The movement of the broken end of the shaft in front of the sternum causes consider- able pain to the patient. Any movement of the arm also causes pain. The fracture, therefore, is easily recognised, and the treatment very simple, all that is necessary being to reduce the fracture and keep the parts at rest in the proper position for two or three Aveeks until union has taken place. Fracture at this site is, however, much rarer than in the middle third of the bone. The clavicle is also sometimes fractured between the two portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament—in the interval lying between the conoid and trajDezoid. The injury is generally caused either by a direct blow on the bone at or near the point (Jf the shoulder, or by a counter-stroke received in falling u.pon the shoulder. This accident is attended with very little dis- placement, either primary or secondary. When the fracture occurs exactly between the two portions of the ligament, there is little if any displacement, for the ligamentous textures keep the two ends of the bone so far fixed to the scapula and to each other. But it is very seldom that we find the fracture corre-