52G INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. become enlarged. 2cl, Plastic lynipli is effused on the exterior and interior of the vessel tied. In the interior, between the cut edges of the internal coats, and also on their internal surface, for some distance on each side of the ligature, uniting these coats and forming an internal mass of plastic organisable lymph, on the exterior of the vessel, compressing it in the vicinity of the ligature, acting as a medium of nutrition, gradually consolidating round the artery, contracting closer adhesions to and ultimately becoming incorporated with its external coat, filling up the groove formed by the thread, and following in the track of the ligature as it ulcerates through the part upon which it is immediately applied. This external effusion of plastic lymph unites the ends of the artery divided by the ulcerative process, and supports the internal plastic coagulum and its adhesions at the period of the separation of the ligature. It becomes blended with it, being gradually diminished in bulk and altered in structure, so as ultimately to become an impervious fibrous cord. 3(i, The ligature causes complete obliteration of the vessel at the point tied, and for some distance above and below that point, such obliteration never passing beyond the nearest collateral branch, but not necessarily extending up to the nearest collateral branches, if these are remote from the point tied—the whole space of the vessel, which is completely obliterated, seldom exceeding an inch and a half or two inches, although there mav exist no collateral branches to oppose its further obliteration. Aih, It causes enlargement of all the collateral branches in the first instance, by which two purposes are effected :—The circulation formerly carried on through the tied vessel to the parts beyond the ligature is then carried on by the anastomoses of its various collateral branches, and so re-established. The vessels of the sheath and vasa vasorum also become enlarged, increase the vitality of the arterial coats, and adapt them for the changes requisite for safe obliteration. Subsequently the smaller vessels contract, and resume their natural size and functions, whilst the circulation is re-established in the main trunk, principally by the anastomoses between some of the larger collateral branches.