DISLOCA TION OF THUMB. 395 tion has been effected, the displacement does not recur ; whilst in the fracture, as soon as the extension and counter-extension are left off, the parts again become displaced. The reduction of this dislocation will be easily accomplished by extension and counter-extension, drawing forward or back- ward the hand, according as the dislocation is behind or in front of the bones of the forearm. All the after-treatment required is to keep the parts in position for a few days with a bandage. Feactures and Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones AND Phalanges have next to come under our notice. Dislocations of the Thusib are not uncommon, and their reduction is sometimes difficult on account of the small size of the portions of bone on which we have to make extension. In dislocation between the proximal phalanx and the meta- carpal bone of the thumb, the head of the bone is generally thrust back and the lateral ligaments of the joint remain still entire or twisted, and in that position they constrict the liead of the bone. This dislocation is the most common one in my experience. The under surface of the proximal end of the phalanx lies fixed on the posterior aspect of the meta- carpal bone, where it causes a projection so evident that there can be no difficulty in diagnosing the injury. I have gene- rally found little difJlculty in reducing the dislocation; but still I know that such a difficulty has been met with, and it may occur in any case where the ligaments are only partially torn, and where the head of the bone has been thrust back forcibly between them, and fixed and constricted by their agency. In one of Mr. Listen's cases, he was compelled to divide the lateral ligaments before he could reduce the dislocation ; but in most cases we can do so by drawing upon the end of the bone, de- pressing the point of the thimib forcibly, and drawing it down- wards and forwards. By putting the patient under chloroform, we are able to get rid of all muscular opposition. Once the dis- location is reduced, all the treatment required is to apply a bandage round the thumb, and keep the hand quiet for a few