355 NON-UNION. freely ; only gradual passive movement of tlie hand and wrist should be allowed. We are obliged to choose between two evils, and therefore choose the less. On examining a fracture after eiglit or ten days, we may find it apparently solid, but about foiirteen days after the injury we find it less so. The cause of this is that the swelling of the surrounding parts has by this time disappeared. In almost all cases we find consolidation commencing about the end of the third week, the plastic lymph which has been thrown out becoming ossified. Sometimes the union fails. ISToN-UNlON of fracture, or the occurrence of ununited fracture, depends on a variety of cir- cumstances. In tlie first place, it may depend on improper treatment. The surgeon not having been quite sure at first where the fracture was, may meddle with it from time to time, and then the chances are very much against the fracture uniting. Constant movements of the limb by the patient are also a very frequent cause of the non-union of fracture. These belong to the class termed unavoidable ; but although rmavoidable on the part of the surgeon they are not unavoidable on the part of the patient, therefore the term is an improper one. The limb should be well set at first, and kept in a position by proper retentive apparatus, and not interfered with much afterwards. It is not powerful movements of the limb which cause non- union. The patients seldom do much harm in the first fortnight when there is still some pain, but after that there is a strong in- clination to move the limb slightly. In the upper extremity patients have then a great tendency to use the fingers, and to prevent this we generally use splints for two or three weeks, which pass beyond the fingers both in front and behind. In fracture of the upper arm we are sometimes obliged to put on splints over the forearm to prevent the wrist and fingers being moved, especially if it be a fracture of the humerus close to the elbow, where movement of the wrist would keep the lower end of the humerus constantly in motion. Absolute rest of the fractured bone is essential to union, and for the purpose of en-