478 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. trust to this, because I felt sure tliat when the patient became less faint and the circulation got stronger, the clot would pro- bably be forced away, and secondary hEemorrhage would occur. I therefore adopted the safer plan, and tied the vessel, thus avoiding any risk. In another case, where the brachial had been wounded, and the bleeding temporarily arrested, repeated hfemorrhage necessitated an operation a fortnight after the in- jury, and the operation was very troublesome owing to the altera- tion and matting of structures. (See Clinical Cases.) Hence, in all cases of wounds of large arteries it is safer not to trust to the natural haemostatic process, but rather to enlarge the wound a little, and tie the vessel above and below the wounded point. In wounds of small arteries, such as the radial low down, the natural process is generally sufficient to arrest the bleeding, but still, if we can get at the vessel readily, it is better to tie it, for it is always unsafe to trust to the natural haemo- static process. When arteries are twisted, as in lacerated and contused wounds, we have a form of artificial hfemostatic—Torsion. The external coat of the artery is twisted and drawn out, whilst the internal coats are divided, retract, and are thrown towards the centre of its canal. The elasticity and vitality of all the coats are impaired for some little distance above the wound, so that the current of blood in the injured vessel is diminished or altogether arrested for some distance, and bleeding is prevented at the first (Plate xxiii. Fig. 6). In such cases there is a variety of circumstances favouring the formation of the clot and other parts of the haemostatic process, and hence there is not much necessity for applying a ligature. When, however, as in injuries, the great vessels are twisted in this way, the case is generally one which, for other reasons, requires amputation. Such artificial methods of arresting haemorrhage, as styptics, the potential and actual cautery, have all much the same action as the natural process—namely the formation of a clot and the pre- vention of bleeding for a time, allowing nature to bring aloout more permanent haemostatic changes afterwards. The actual