312 DISEASES OF JOINTS. years afterwards, showing how much relief may be afforded, even under unfavourable circumstances, by removal of a painful and debilitating local affection. It is necessary, however, to remem- ber that, notwithstanding the advantages which often result to consumptive patients suffering from gelatinous disease, still there are many cases in which it would be wrong to amputate the limb unless the patient's health be pretty good so as to bear the protracted after-treatment. The diseased condition, however, of which I have greatest dread in connection with gelatinous degeneration, is one which is also to be met with in certain forms of scrofulous necrosis, but I have specially noted it in relation to gelatinous degeneration. I allude to disease of the kidneys, and as it is a complication which may not attract attention till too late, I would seek to impress you with the necessity for great care, not only in the examination of patients prior to operations, but during the pro- gress of the after-treatment. Not unfrequently all seems going on well, the wound heals, and perhaps the only thing noticeable is that the pulse does not come down in frequency, or at least is variable. Some weeks after, when the patient seems convales- cent, the appetite begins to fail, and a little irritation and swelling arises in the part operated on, which was healed, or all but healed. The parts are oedematous, and the lower limbs are also in the same condition. The urine is probably now examined, and on being tested is found highly albuminous, and the case soon terminates fatally. I have long made it a rule, when a patient of marked strumous diathesis comes under my care with joint- disease, or disease of bone, to test the urine, and to have it tested from time to time, at least every second or third day, both prior to the operation and during after-treatment; for often, where there is no trace of albumen or unhealthy condition of the urine at first, these conditions may afterwards develop themselves rather suddenly. There are, however, other symptoms in such cases, which, if attended to, indicate, I think, this tendency ; at least, from my own observation, I am always very suspicious when the skin is dry and harsh to the feel, the pulse quick or