484 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. thus mortified tliat allows the noose of the ligature to slip off on the third or fourth day." From what has been said, it will be seen that even so late as 1800 the effects of tlie application of the ligature on an artery were not very distinctly or fully known. A great deal was conjectured or reasoned on from analogy ; and even of those who had founded their reasoning on experiment and examination of vessels which had been tied, whilst each of their theories con- tained, as we shall find, a certain amount of truth, all the in- vestigators were led to conclusions more or less erroneous from over-estimating some one point of the process as the essential; and apparently considering it necessary to prove this, by showing that those parts of it which had been noticed by others were of little value. The beautiful plan of operation for aneurism, proposed by Hunter in 1785, which was now coming into general use, and the occasional occurrence of secondary hjemor- rhage which in some cases followed its performance, gave an impetus to the further investigation of the effects of the ligature. In 1805, Dr. Jones published the results of an extended and carefully conducted series of experiments; and his deductions, with very slight modification, constitute the opinions of the present day, except with those who advocate the use of the broad ligature. It had been shown by Desault and Bichat that an artery tied with a ligature always exhibited a division, or, as some termed it, a laceration, of its internal coats. This fact, pointed out to Dr. Jones by the late Professor John Thomson of Edinburgh, led him to investigate the subject by a series of experiments. The effects of the application of the ligature which he noticed, are given by him as follows :•—1st, "To cut through the middle and internal coats of the artery; and to bring the wounded surfaces in close apposition." 2d, " To occasion a determination of blood on the collateral branches." 3c?, "To allow of the formation of a coagulum of blood just within the artery, provided a collateral branch is not very near the ligature." 4ith, " To excite inflammation on the internal and middle coats of the artery by having cut them through, and consequently to