DISEASES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 452 must be accomplished to render the operation completely effectual. Various forms of apparatus are used for gradually bringing the foot into its proper position, and maintaining it there; but the most efficient of these is the one represented in Plate XX. Figs. 5 and 6. The mode of action is obvious. Talipes Calcaneus is an exceedingly rare deformity as a con- genital condition. I have seen several cases arising from con- traction after burns on the front of the leg and ankle, but I have never, in my own practice, met with it as a congenital deformity. This malformation consists in the foot being bent forwards at the ankle, and the heel pointed downwards and backwards with a slight inversion of the foot. The tendons which seem to be in fault are chiefly the extensor of the great toe and the tibiahs anticus, sometimes the common extensor of the toes. In many cases it will be found that there is either alteration in the gastrocnemius and soleus, or their common tendon, the tendo Achilles, which has permitted the extensors to give rise to the malposition of the foot. The treatment consists in subcutaneous section of the tibialis anticus, the extensor of the great toe, and if necessary some of the contracted tendons of the common extensor. Then the foot is drawn back and the heel raised by using at first the simple apparatus recommended for divided or ruptured tendo Achilles, and subsequently using a special apparatus to prevent the ten- dons from uniting too soon or by too short a medium. Talipes Varus is by far the most common form of club-foot. The foot is turned inwards, and the heel more or less elevated; the sole looking inwards and somewhat upwards, giving the whole foot a pecuHar twisted appearance. (See Figs. 7 and 8, Plate XX.) In general the foot is shortened or bent upon itself owing to contraction of the plantar fascia. In cases where the deformity has existed for some time, and where the patient has walked, there is generally a large adventitious bursal formation on the outside to obviate the bad effects of pressure on the pro- minent part which rests on the ground. "Wlien you look atten- tively at a foot affected with talipes varus, you will observe that