422 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. the foot so as to prevent the thigh from pressing downwards. We should not let the patient see how the angle of the splint is adjusted, for he is very apt to alter it himself, as every splint feels irksome at first. Another point is, that the foot-piece should be as nearly at a right-angle as possible. Liston's splint answers very well also for fractures about the malleoli; and if it be necessary to apply lateral splints, that can be done without any difficulty. There is another method of putting up simple fractures of the leg, which I often adopt, for it is one, the apparatus for which can always be got very readily, and it answers the purpose very welL It consists of two thin flat pieces of wood or lath, which should be of a sufficient length to reach from the bend of the knee to beyond the heel. These are rolled up in a sheet so as to form two lateral splints. A folded towel is placed as a pad in front of the limb, and the apparatus is then fastened with slip-knots and a figure-of-eight bandage round the ankle (Plate xvii. Figs. 3 and 4). The splints should reach well below the foot, so as to allow us to fix it properly; and the leg should be placed on a pillow, or slung with the knee considerably bent. The leg is not laid on its side, but lies on the posterior aspect. This apparatus answers in most cases where we would use the double-inclined plane, and is of great use in emergencies. In all cases of fracture of the leg, whether Liston's, or the lateral splints be used, the limb should be fastened to the bed, or slung so as to prevent the patient from moving it. In fractures low down a posterior splint is sometimes applied to prevent the heel from being drawn backwards. In other cases an anterior splint is necessary. This latter is called the "stirrup splintit is used in cases where the malleolar portions of the tibia and fibula are broken, the foot drawn backwards, and the upper fragment of the tibia pushed forwards. The stirrup splint is well padded, and applied on the front of the limb, fastened on with slip-knots and a bandage at the ankle, the bandage being broiight under the heel. This is most important. For if we apply it higher up, we are apt to cause greater displacement, as