CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. G07 liis removal, he left Edinburgh, with my consent, on the 17th of August. Since then I received the following accounts of his progress from his iisual medical attendant, Dr. Bower of Hatton Garden, and subsequently from Mr. Listen, to whom I had requested him to apply, but whom he had not consulted till 1st October. " As Mr. B has now been under my watching more than a month, I am able to give you an account of his progress more satisfactorily than if I had written sooner. The callus around the fracture is completed, and he begins to move his arm somewhat, and in time doubtless it will turn out all right. I cannot, however, say as much for the circulation through the forearm and hand. I can only distinguish a very faint pulsation in any artery beneath the fracture. At the wrist there is none either in the radial or ulnar, and therefore I suppose the circulation through the hand must be by means of the interosseous or carpal. As you may suppose, the hand is not properly supplied, and much colder and more useless than it otherwise would be. I have adopted gentle friction and warm clothing to remedy this, but I expect more benefit from time than from either. " From this statement I think you will agree with me that, considering the severe nature of the injury, he is doing well; and as I do not perceive any symptoms of disease or aneurism in the brachial artery, I trust he will go on uninterruptedly to recovery." October 1st, 1847.—Yours, dated 17th August, only came to hand this morning. " Mr. B 's case is a very interesting one, and one that must have required anxious and careful management. It is a capital cure ; there is pulsation in the brachial, and a certain thrill at the wrist ; there is a good deal of oedematous swelling on tlie inside of the arm, and in the sheath of the biceps, but I can detect nothing wrong in the axilla ; no tumour, no imusual beating ; so far so good. I should not apprehend any formation of aneurism now." Remarks.—The complication of fracture of the neck of the humerus, with the untoward injury detailed in the foregoing case, is fortunately of very rare occurrence, and I cannot help attributing it, in the present instance, more to the state of the vessels in this gentleman, than to the effects of direct injury of the artery by the broken end of the bone; in other words, I consider that the internal and middle coats of the vessel, softened and altered in structure by the previous rheumatic affection, had given way, at the time of the injury, from indirect violence, whilst the cellular coat had been stretched and twisted so as to obstruct the flow of blood through its canal. I am led