DISEASES OF BONES. 280 or perhaps worse than useless ; and hence amputation would be the proper practice. In the case of the humerus, however, the chances of repair are greater, the treatment is attended with less risk to the patient, and does not necessarily imply confinement to bed or in the house. The arm can be placed in appropriate splints and slung. And supposing—as may often happen,— thorough union of the humerus should not take place, the upper arm can be fixed by apparatus, and the use of the hand and forearm retained. Here, as in cases of injury, we should never resort to amputation whilst a chance remains ; and, I may add, our efforts are usually successful. I have never ampu- tated the arm, nor can I recollect ever having seen amputation performed, for such a cause. Where there are two bones, as in the leg and forearm, amputation for fracture of substitute bone can rarely be re- quisite. In the forearm it would seem to me to be quite un- warrantable. Even in the leg, though the fibula is of itself a very slight support, yet it suffices to maintain the position of the limb at first, and the ends of the broken substitute bone of the tibia, if they do not unite with each other, become connected with and strengthen the fibula. Lastly, in cases where, long after sequestra have been removed, the cavity continues to dis- charge unhealthy pus, notwithstanding that it has been laid open and treated with iodine or other stimulant applications, or in cases were fungoid growths spring from such cavities, and are exhausting the patient by discharge and loss of blood, ampu- tation becomes absolutely necessary to save life. One of the many forms in which the scrofulous diathesis seems to manifest itself, is the disorder which is known by the name of Eachitis or Eickets. This, together with the apparently allied diseases moUities ossium and fragilitas ossium, will form the conclusion of the present lecture. Eachitis and mollifies ossium have one common feature, inasmuch as they are both diseases characterised by a preter- natural softness of the osseous textures, due to a deficiency of