575 AXILLARY ANEURISM. patient complains of rheumatic pains in the hand and arm, and, without examination, rubbing and other remedies are recom- mended, but the pain becomes very severe, an examination is then made, the pulsating tumour in the axillary is at once felt, and the cause of the pain is recognised. The pulsation is very free and regular, and all the ordinary symptoms of aneurism are well marked. In cases of axillary aneurism we are told that one of the great difficulties in the operation depends on the size of the aneurism—the shoulder being elevated when it is very large, and the third part of the subclavian being consequently very deeply situated—and doubtless this is the case, but the real cause of the elevation of the shoulder is not necessarily the large size of the aneurism. Sometimes, when the tumour is very large, there is not much elevation of the shoulder ; and, again, the shoulder may be very much raised long before the aneurism has attained any great size. The real cause of the elevation of the shoulder is the pressure of the tumour on the axillary plexus of nerves. The patient in- stinctively raises his shoulder to try to remove this pressure as much as possible. In very large axillary aneurisms, the tumour presses forwards and inwards, away from the nerves, and the pectoral muscles yield before the tumour, so that the shoulder is not raised in proportion to the size of the aneurism. The cedema of the limb depends on the bulk or solidity of the tumour. When it gets very solid it presses on the veins, and always causes more or less oedema of the arm, often with a varicose state of the veins, and an increase of pain. In the fusiform axillary aneurism there is always great pain, owing to the equal dilatation of the affected portion of the vessel, causing it to press on all the nerves which closely surround it (Plate xxiv. Fig. 4). In some cases of axillary aneurism, we find the tumour suddenly enlarge, as if a partial effusion of its contents had taken place, and very likely in many cases, though not always, this is the cause of it. In popliteal aneurism, when there is rupture of part of the sac, with effusion of blood from it, we have the whole limb engorged ; but in the axillary aneurism it is not so, for there the fascial textures on all sides of the tumour form