594 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. Case of Ligature of the Axillary Artery for Hemorrhage RESULTING FROM A BuRN OF THE ArM. David Henderson, jet. nine years, met with a severe burn of his left arm, on the 20th December 1845, owing to his clothes taking fire. In the absence of Mr. Kerr, the usual medical attendant of the family, another medical gentleman dressed the wound with cotton wadding ; but owing to the offensive smell of the discharge, and in order to see the full extent of the injury, Mr. Kerr removed this after some days. He then found that the true skin was very severely injured, and that the burn ex- tended from the lower part of the axilla to near the hand, and in the upper arm that it was chiefly situated towards the inner side. Stimulating applications and poultices were then used, and in a short time sloughs separated from the injured surface above and below the bend of the arm, and the sore healed kindly enough at several points. At the bend of the arm, the sloughs were very deep and long in separating, and Mr. Kerr watched their separation with considerable anxiety for fear of hijemorrhage taking place. On the evening of the 6th of January 1846, a portion of sloiTgh came away, and was followed by considerable loss of blood. Mr. Kerr and Dr. Dvmcan saAV the boy shortly after this, and as the bleeding was then evidently venous, they arrested it by bandaging from the fingers upwards, and placing a graduated compress over the bleeding point. This com- pletely arrested it until the evening of the 8th January, when a deeper portion of slough separated, and sudden and profuse heemorrhage took place. Mr. Kerr attended almost immediately, and seeing that the bleeding was now arterial, arrested it by compressing the humeral till I arrived, but the child had already lost a very large quantity of blood. On examining the arm, the whole extent of the limb, from the lower margin of the axilla to the hand, exlaibited the effects of the burn, being raw and discharging freely. On removing a piece of lint from over the bend of the arm, a deep cavity was exposed, and at the bottom of it the brachial artery was seen, with a small oval opening in its anterior wall. When the pressure on the brachial was relaxed, a jet of blood came from this opening, so as to leave no doubt as to the source of the haemorrhage. From the appear- ance of the opened vessel, and the sloughing state of the surrounding parts, I considered it improper to trust to ligature immediately above and below the opening ; whilst the state of the arm, together with the impaired vitality of the skin and other tissues, rendered ligature of the brachial in the middle, or higher in the arm, equally unadvisable. I therefore determined to tie the axillary in the third portion of its course, where it lies on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and with this view the arm was separated from the side, and extended as far as could be done under the circimistances. I made an incision about 2|- inches long, commencing about an inch and a half within the anterior margin of the axilla, and carried down along the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis ; the fascia was divided to the same extent, and the plexus of nerves brought into view. I next separated the median and internal cutaneous nerves, and exposed