DISEASES OF JOINTS. 300 it would be difficult to carry out this plan ; but certainly the drilling operation, combined if necessary with the use of a fine saw, is in my opinion much preferable to forcible extension. Of course, in all cases of anchylosed knee-joint, neither forcible extension nor Dr. Gross's method is permissible or warrantable until all diseased action has ceased for some time. To interfere when there is pain in the joint, or shortly after active disease has been arrested, would be simply to re-excite it under very unfavourable conditions. Hydrops articuli, or dropsy of the joint, is another morbid condition which sometimes results from inflammation of the synovial membrane, although it is said occasionally to arise independently of such action. The effusion which is thrown out at first continues, the synovial fluid is more serous than natural, and the whole joint is distended. There is not much pain, however, because the ligamentous and other textures have yielded gradually, and are passively distended by the increasing quantity of the fluid. The amount of secretion varies ; at times undergoing absorption when the patient is quiet, and rapidly accumulating again under any irritation. This condition of the joint is very troublesome. Sometimes it is simply the part of the synovial sac under the aponeurosis of the quadriceps extensor which has become distended. The movements of the limb are not then so much interfered with. When, however, the disease has existed for any length of time, the whole articular cavity becomes distended, and disorganisation of a slow character takes place. The first thing to be aimed at in the treatment of this disease is to get rid of the chronic effusion. One cause of the dropsy probably is effusion from the congested vessels. This takes place very rapidly, and is prevented from being absorbed by the thickening and altered condition of the synovial membrane. To meet these conditions we apply blisters over the affected joint. We also give internal remedies, such as iodine or mercury. These serve to cause disintegration and absorption, and excite 1 more healthy action; or, according to the old notion, restore