3G3 REDUCTION. tion, as in the instance of luxation of the femur into the obturator foramen. The amount of force required will vary according to the nature of the dislocation and the length of time it has remained unreduced. Formerly preparatory treatment required to be used to over- come opposing muscular power. The warm bath, venesection, antimony, and tobacco enemata,, were used for this purpose. The nse of chloroform has now completely superseded these debilitat- ing preparations for reduction, as imder its effects all muscular resistance is got rid of, and hence reduction of dislocations, except in old unreduced luxations, is now a comparatively easy pro- cedure. Various mechanical contrivances have been used to afford increased power in reducing old dislocations. The simplest and most efficient of these are the pulleys, or block and tackle. A laque of worsted is fastened roiind the lower part of the dis- located limb in the form of the " clove-hitch," and the hook of the pulleys is fastened into the free ends of the laque. Before applying the worsted laque, a wetted bandage should be rolled round the limb at the part where it is to be applied, so as to pre- vent the traction causing excoriation of the skin, and after the laque is put on above this the remainder of the roller is used so as to fasten the laque, still further to prevent all chance of its slipping. Extension is then made by the pulleys very gradually, whilst counter-extension is kei)t up by means of a sheet or special apparatus fastened to a ring-bolt in the floor or wall, or to some fixed piece of furniture in the room. The methods of carrying out these general principles will, however, be better inculcated when treating of the special dislo- cations. Eecently a procedure termed reduction by manipulation has been recommended by Dr. Eeed of Eochester, U.S., and has proved successful in several cases. It consists in executing certain movements of the dislocated limb by the hand alone, and has been principally used in dislocations of the hip, and will be described when I speak of these, but it is also applicable to other joints.