FRACTURES OF FOREARM. 391 of the bones in that direction. The forearm should be placed between pronation and supination, and the elbow kept at a right angle. The posterior splint should reach from beyond the elbow to the point of the fingers, and another shorter splint is placed in front of the limb (Plate xvi. Fig. 13). The nearer the fracture is to the wrist-joint, the greater is the deformity which results. In fracture of both radius and ulna close to the wrist-joint, we have an injury resembling dis- location of the hand backwards. There is swelling both on the back and in front of the wrist. The forearm is shortened, and the hand, together with the lower fragments of the radius and vdna, lies on a plane very far behind the general line of the fore- arm. In this case there can be little difficulty in the diagnosis, because by slight extension and counter-extension we reduce it, and cause distinct crepitus. The treatment also is very sinjple. Well-padded splints are applied in front and behind. The forearm and the elbow are kept slung at a right angle. Fractures of the Ea.dius alone are much more common than those of the ulna. The highest fracture of the radius is that which occurs a little below the insertion of the biceps. In this position the small upper fragment becomes flexed upon the arm, and somewhat supinated by the action of the biceps, so that it projects, and can be sometimes readily felt. In most cases, however, there is very Kttle displacement, and the difficulty often is to make out the fracture. The patient complains of pain on attempting to flex or move the arm. When we put the ami straight, we can feel the line of the radius apparently entire. The best way of ascertaining the presence of such a fracture is by rotating the fore-arm, and at the same time making exami- nation with your hand placed on the back part of the elbow, where the head of the radius is very slightly covered. On the outside there are muscles covering it, but there are none posteriorly, and in that part we can feel the movements of the head of the bone in pronation and supination very readUy. If we find on rotating the radius that the head of the bone moves