FRACTURE. 349 look at the clangers of compound fracture in connection with the fact that the wound communicates directly with the bone, and the nature of the violence causing the injury. If the fracture be caused by direct violence, making a wound down to the bone, we cannot wonder at the danger, for here there is very great force, not only breaking the bone, but also destroying the soft parts covering it, giving the character of a contused wound, and sometimes of a lacerated wound. If the fracture be caused by a sharp instrument, then there is the least amount of danger to the patient, for here there is more the character of an incised wound. Even if a joint be implicated in such a case, the patient may do very well, notwithstanding the important parts injured ; but then, from the injury being inflicted by a sharp instrument, directed with great force, the soft parts and the bone are all cut through rather than broken. In cases of compound fracture from a cart-wheel or railway-truck passing over the limb, there is the greatest amount of force causing the injury. The parts are much bruised, and the bone broken up ; and even though the fracture be not very severe, the other con- ditions, the laceration of the nerves and vessels, and of the soft parts generally, will cause great danger. When the fracture is caused by a weight falling on the limb directly, and breaking or bursting through the soft parts, the effects are the same, though not so severe as in the preceding case. Where the fracture is caused by the patient falling or jumping from a height, the bone being projected through the soft parts, we have perhaps the minimum amount of danger. The soft parts are torn through when they are tense, by the sharp end of the bone, so that there is comparatively little bruising or laceration, and often the periosteum is not much torn. As a generaJ. rule, cases of this kind present less danger than other compound fractures. In all compound fractures, we must look to the force causing the injury in order to estimate properly the dangers of the case. In the compound comminuted fracture there is just another danger added from the comminution of the bone, and, generally,