CLINICAL CASES ILLUSTRATING THE TREATMENT OF INJURIES OF ARTERIES. Wounds of Artepjes.—From Clinical Report, 1865-6. 1. C. C, set. 5, adniitted 4tli December. Was kicked by a horse on the inner side of the left thigh in the lower third. Wound bled so pro- fusely that she fainted, after which the bleeding ceased. When conveyed to hospital, Mr. Spence, on examination, found the wound to be small and transverse in direction. On introducing his finger he discovered that the femoral artery had been completely torn across, and that its lower portion was retracted into the popliteal space, while at the same time the upper portion was felt beating in the upper part of the wound. The vein was also divided, the contiguous muscles were lacerated and bruised, and the bone laid bare. Leg cold ; no pulsation in tibials. Mr. Sj)ence immediately enlarged the wound, and, tracmg the course of the artery, tied botli ends, the one in the popliteal space, the other in Hunter's canah The lijnb was wrajjped in wadding, and laid on a soft pillow ; the wound dressed with tepid water, and afterwards with lotions. Ligature separated on tlie twelfth day. No hsemorrhage. Dismissed cured. 2. M. P., £et. 17, admitted 21st May. Two weeks previous to admis- sion this patient received a wound in front of the right elbow-joint, from a piece of broken glass. The bleeding, which was very profuse, was arrested by cold, and by direct pressure. It recurred, however, twice the same week, and also on the day of admission. When brought to the hospital she was very ansemic, and had a small feeble pulse. Mr. Spence, on en- hxrging the womid, perceived a small puncture in the bracliial artery, just above the point of bifurcation, from which blood issued when tlie tourni- quet was relaxed. The vessel was tied above and below the opening. The ligatures separated on the fourteenth day. The patient made an excellent recovery. 3. Mrs. F. was admitted 2 2d April, with an incised wound over tlie course of the right ulnar artery, a little above the wrist-joint. The haemorrhage, which was profuse at the time, had ceased. On separating the lips of the wound, however, and sponging it out thoroughly, the blood jetted through a small opening which had been made in the vessel. A double ligature was applied, and the limb laid on a Gooch's splint. Dis- missed cured. 4. D. S., while at work in a quarry, was struck by the sharp edge of a spade on the outer side of the left wrist. The radial artery was divided in the hollow between the phalangeal extensors of the thumb. Both ends were searched for and tied. Cured. 5. M. H., a nurse in the surgical wards, had the right radial artery divided in the lower third, by a piece of a soda-water bottle, which burst while she was drawing the cork. Mr. Spence, who was in the wards at the time, immediately secured the vessel above and below. Erysipelatous