METHODS OF DIAGNOSIS. 383 level of the internal condyle of the humerus. Now, by feeling along the back of the bone, and pressing inwards when there is- swelling, we discover the inner condyle projecting from the con- dyloid portion of the shaft. We then trace backwards to the olecranon, and if we find that the point of it is lying at a lower level than the internal condyle, we may conclude that the injury is not a dislocation of the ulna. Or we may examine to ascer- tain if the condyles and articular surface of the humerus be thrust in front of the bones of the forearm, as the hard rounded projection so caused is in general very perceptible. If we should find that there is so much swelling behind and in front that we cannot trace these relations, we next extend the arm, as in treating a dislocation, and try to reduce the parts. If the injury happens to be a diastasis of the articular ends of the bone, we shall be able in this way to bring the parts into their natural position. As soon, however, as we leave off the extension and counter-extension, the deformity will return, thus showing that the injury is a separation of the epiphyses from the condyloid portion of the shaft. This can be done even when there is much swelling present, if we put the patient under chloroform—as we ought always to do. In manipulating, we should first extend the limb fully, and then bend the forearm upon the upper arm. If this can be done to such an extent that the hand can be forced backwards so as to touch the point of the shoulder, and if we can again extend the forearm freely upon the upper arm without any shortening, then we may safely conclude that, if the injury was a dislocation, we have succeeded in reducing it; whereas, in the case of a fracture, we should, by the same means, elicit crepitus very distinctly. In cases of oblique fracture through the condyles, we sometimes cannot make out the crepitus readily if we lay hold of both condyles with one hand, for in that case we would be holding the broken parts together. We should therefore handle them separately. Fracture of the outer condyle, or lesser head of the humerus, resembles dislocation of the head of the radius backwards, that bone being carried back along with the