534 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. Such, for example, as those dependiug on the state of the patient's health, or that of the arterial texture; conditions which have a great tendency to produce secondary htemorrhage. In some cases, as after amputation—more especially after primary amputation — secondary hajmorrhage may take place from sloughing of the surrounding textures, leading to ulceration of the vessel even above the ligatured point. Again, in a very large number of cases, where secondary hasmorrhage does occur after amputation, it is associated with pytemia, or some blood- disease, as in cases of malignant growths, circumstances under which all the plastic changes are more or less interfered with; these unfavourable conditions can not be obviated by the surgeon. All that we can do here to prevent secondary ha?inorrhage is to use great care in the application of the ligature, and to attend afterwards to the nutrition of the patient, giving nourishing but not stimulating diet, and avoiding for some time after the operation anything likely to over-stimulate the circulation. Antimonials and low diet used to be prescribed to diminish the force of the circulation ; but, for reasons I have already adduced, I think this a bad plan, as it tends to prevent healthy plastic changes going on. The best treatment is to keep the patient perfectly quiet, give nourishing diet, and apply only very light or antiseptic dressings to the wound. The treatment of secondary htemorrhage will depend in some measure on the nature of the case in which it occurs, and the state of the vessel and surrounding parts. When it arises after wounds, or such operations as amputations, resections, or removal of tumours, if the bleeding be not very profuse, the clearing out of coagula and properly applied compression, or the application of cold, may prove sufficient to arrest it. But if the condition be urgent, either from the rapid loss of blood indicating that its source is some large vessel, or from the debilitated state of the patient rendering loss even of a small cpiantity of blood dangerous, then no time should be lost in taking decided measures. The stump or wound should be opened after the main vessel has been compressed higher up.