ABSCESS. 247 wards. Sometimes there is thinning of the bone, as in the cystic tumour, or spina ventosa ; but the true abscess of bone is gene- rally attended with great thickening, not thinning of the walls. It generally occurs in the cancellated texture, though it some- times forms in the shaft of the bone. In the latter it never pro- duces a very large abscess, because the whole bone becomes inflamed, thickened, and condensed. The patient feels the pain excessively severe and persistent, but localised to one point. There are rigors and other symptoms of suppuration, preceded by severe symptomatic fever, and intensified when the suppuration does occur. The symptoms are intensified here by the increased pressure produced by the pus developed in the dense unyielding tissue. When such an abscess forms, the medullary canal of the bone is not pervious throughout. There is a little bulging in front corresponding to what seems to be a node. The bone is much condensed in circumference, and the medullary canal is closed up by the exudation becoming ossified. There is thus a circumscribed abscess shut in on every side by unyielding tex- ture. The pain and other symptoms are therefore very severe, and the diagnosis is very difficult, for it is almost impossible to say whether matter has formed. The localised pain, the rigors, and slight bulging give us some indications of an abscess having formed ; but the absolute diagnosis by the feeling of fluctuation is out of the question, for it could not be felt through the dense structure of bone. Even in the lower jaw there is great diffi- culty in the diagnosis, and sometimes the jaw has been removed under the belief that the swelKng was due to a tumour, and not to an abscess. We should take the precaution of passing a trocar or a perforator through the alveolar process to see if there be any pus. We shall now proceed to consider the treatment of acute and chronic periostitis and ostitis, and suppuration of bone. In acute periostitis and ostitis a good deal depends on the conditions accompanying the inflammation — the state of the patient, and whether he be of a rheumatic or strumous diathesis. This form of the affection may supervene after debilitating dis-