608 INyURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. to this conclusion by the following circumstances in the case :— 1st, There was no unusual swelling or appearance of extravasa- tion in the axilla at the time of the accident, as would have occurred had a large vessel been torn through by the sharp fractured end of the bone. 2d, Though the displacement of the shaft was considerable, it was not greater than I have frequently seen in fracture of the neck of the humerus, and, owing to the faintness of the patient, there was little or no force required to extend it, and produce coaptation. 3d, No false aneurism has subsequently formed, which would also have probably been the case had all the coats of the artery been torn by the broken end of the bone. Mr. B lived for many years after the accident. He per- fectly regained the use of the arm, but the circulation in the brachial, radial, and ulnar arteries always continued very weak, the pulse being scarcely perceptible ; but the limb seemed well nourished and of fair temperature. Injury of the Brachial Artery in a Case of Simple Fracture—Amputation. David B., set. 6, was run over by a light van, and sustained a simple fracture of the humerus. The case was seen immediately on admission by Dr. Broster, now of Southampton, who was then (1860) my resident surgeon. The fracture was easily reduced, but the limb was noticed at the time to be very cold ; but as the temperature of the whole body was low from the effects of shock, Dr. Broster advised the friends to leave the child in the hospital to be watched. This the father refused to do, but promised to bring the child to the hospital next day. Dr. Broster, accord- ingly, after adjusting the fracture, enveloped the limb in wadding, and applied splints, but was careful to bandage very lightly. The father brought the boy to the Infirmary next day, when I found the injured arm quite cold, livid, and pulseless—whilst the general cir- culation was re-established of course by this time.—There was no fever present. The limb lay straight, and showed only a little swelling on the inner side. The father could not be convinced of the necessity for amputation, but consented to leave the boy in the hospital. The splints were removed, and the limb simply wrapjoed in cotton wadding. Next day the discoloration of the hand and commencing decomposition con- vinced the friends of the true state of matters, and I amputated the arm immediately below the tuberosities of the humerus. The little fellow re- covered without a single bad symptom.