RE-ESTABLTSHMENT OF THE CIRCULATION. 519 As I have already discussed the effect wliicli this increased vascularity produces in the effusion of plastic lymph around the deligated part of the vessel, I shall not recur to that further, but restrict myself to the consideration of three points under this head—1st, The process of the re-establishment of the circula- tion as deduced from examination of the anastomoses at different periods after the application of the ligature. 2d, Whether these anastomoses are sufficient in all cases to effect such re-establish- ment, or whetlier in some cases new vessels of direct communica- tion be not formed to supplement the existing anastomoses, as described by Dr. Parry and others. And Zd, The consideration of the effect of the distension of the collateral branches and their ramifications on the neighbouring structures, as explaining, in some cases, symptoms of diseased action occurring after ligature. As to the first of these questions, we find that the enlarge- ment of the collateral vessels and their anastomoses differs much, both as to degree and general diffusion, according to the period after the operation at which we examine the parts concerned. If, for example, we dissect a carefully-injected preparation, say at the distance of a j^ear or two after the arteries have been tied, we do not find any very unusual general vascu- larity. For the most part, we find only some of the greater and more direct inosculations considerably enlarged, and serving to keep up the circulation through the artery which had been tied, and in which it is now completely re-established. But such a dissection exhibits merely the result, not the phenomena of the gradual process by which that result has been accomplished ; and to understand the gradual changes, we must examine such preparations at different periods in the process. When we examine the parts in the neighbourhood of an artery which has been recently tied, that is, during the first eight or nine days after the operation, we find all the tissues highly injected and presenting the appearance of a network of turgid vessels. This vascularity is diffused over every part, and the more direct anastomoses, though distended in common with the rest, are by no means so much enlarged as we might be led to