570 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. cases that we can do so with prospect of success—namely, in those where the vessels are tolerably healthy. In carotid aneurism the arteries are generally very extensively diseased; the common carotid throughout its whole extent is sometimes atheromatous, with earthy deposits in its coats ; and such a case would not be well suited for the application of a ligature. There is no fear of interrupting the circulation in the brain after ligature of the carotid, though this was formerly considered to be a great danger. Both carotids may be tied, and yet the circulation will be carried on perfectly. The very opposite danger is in fact greater, for the retrograde circulation may be too free. When the common carotid is tied, the circulation is carried on almost immediately into the parts above. The branches of the thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries, form a series of anasto- moses with each other so free, that it is a wonder the circulation is not at once re-established. Besides these branches, there is also the internal carotid artery, which is filled almost immediately through the circle of Willis. The danger really arises in consequence of the blood from the collateral branches collecting on the distal side of the aneurism, acting as a disturbing cause, and prevent- ing the haemostatic changes taking place. The proximal side of the carotid artery is a long trunk, without any collateral branches coming off from it. The disturbing causes on the proximal side are great, on account of this part of the vessel being so near the heart, thus differing from the external iliac artery. There is then a very powerful retrograde distal force, as well as the great cardiac force, to prevent the haemostatic changes taking place; and, besides, the vessel is very often in an unhealthy condition, so that in carotid aneurism we require to be very careful in selecting proper cases on which to operate. Even in aneurism quite adjoining the innominate artery, the carotid has been tied, and with success, though it was a very unfavourable case for such a procedure. Ligature of the common carotid artery, though a comparatively easy operation, is sometimes not so very simple as you might expect, and, when the parts are much matted together, it may become very difficult.