265 NECROSIS. inflammation, the symptoms, though, often severe, are much less painful, and unattended with the peculiar irritative fever which accompanies the acute form. The pain is more of a rheumatic character; and it is only when some exacerbation leads to subacute inflammation and suppuration near the diseased bone that sympathetic febrile symptoms arise. In these chronic cases, the slower action permits of gradual changes taking place. The Haversian openings and canals gradually enlarge from the pressure of the distended vessels, and the whole aspect of the shaft of the bone at the affected part is altered. New bone is deposited in irregular masses near the diseased part, owing to the excited action determining more blood to that part, and so increasing the nutrition of the bone around the dying portion. Wherever we find a com- pletely smooth portion of dead bone, there the new or substitute bone is at first wanting; but the space may be gradually bridged over from the side of the neighbouring shelL This de- ficiency of substitute bone seems to arise partly from the want of any nuclear portion of bone, and on account of the diseased action having destroyed the germinal lining structure of the peri- osteum at the parts corresponding to the completely smooth dead surface. At these open spaces the purulent matter formed around the dead or dying bone escapes; and as the substitute shell closes in around, the pus keeps some points open, and thus the cloacse in the substitute bone are formed, and these again are continuous with the sinuses or cloacse in the soft parts. After a lapse of several weeks the dead portion becomes separated from the living bone, and is ready to be thrown off naturally or removed by the surgeon. The complete separation of the dead bone from the living is always a slow process, even in acute necrosis, seldom occurring until six or seven weeks from the commencement of the disease, often very much longer, and in some cases only gradually accomplished, one small portion separating after another. This is especially the case when the medullary Haversian structure is affected. The