554 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. collateral branches is diminished. There is at first, therefore, a risk of deficient circulation, and it is to be remembered that during this state any stimulation of the limb is liable to be followed by a subacute form of gangrene, to avoid which certain points in the after-treatment are to be attended to. After the ligature is applied, the limb should be very slightly bent, so as to relax the artery a little, and it should be wrapped in cotton wadding; but nothing must be applied which could possibly constrict the limb at any point. Lastly, the limb should be placed upon a water-pillow, so that there may be no undue pressure on any part of it, such as might prevent the free carrying on of the collateral circulation. At first the patient complains of coldness in the limb, and it feels colder to the touch than that of the oj)posite side. This often leads to great mischief, for the nurse may apply hot -bottles to increase its heat, and nothing is more likely to give rise to sloughing or gangrene through over-stimulating a part which is so weak. The limb should be wrapped in cotton wadding, but no artificial heat whatever ought to be applied to it, and it should be kept as quiet as possible. If the patient complain of great pain, an opiate may be given, and the diet in all cases should be mode- rate, but not stimulating. Where compression has been used to arrest the circulation, we find, if it be successful, that the enlargement of the collateral branches is principally confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the aneurism. When the superficial femoral has been liga- tured, the collateral branches, such as the gluteal, the ischiatic, the great internal and external circumflex arteries, and other branches above as well as below the ligature, become enlarged, and form a chain or network of anastomosing vessels, which carry on the circulation. When the vessel is compressed, its tube, a-s already said, is not occluded so as entirely to prevent the flow of blood, but only so as to slow its current; and hence the enlargement of the anastomosing branches may be more limited. We have now to consider certain cases, where neither the ligature, nor compression, nor flexion, is suitable. In some