291 TREATMENT OF SYNOVITIS. had recourse to. After blood has been removed in sufficient quantity to diminish the active congestion, the limb should be placed on a well-padded light wire or wooden splint, and slung so as to ensure absolute rest. Warm anodyne fomenta- tions should then be applied constantly for some time, or if these be intermitted, the part should be covered with sheet wadding to protect it from cold. Some gentle alterative laxative should be given, and this should be assisted by an enema, so as to prevent the patient straining when the bowels act. When the bowels have been well opened we should give an opiate ; either Dover's powder, or a dose of Battley's solution of opium with a few drops of ipecacuan wine, may be given to act both as an opiate and a diaphoretic. In some cases, when the pulse is very hard and quick, minute doses of tartar emetic with opium may be given, but in most cases I prefer the ipecacuanha. In cases where the rheumatic diathesis is very marked, colchicum wine or small doses of aconite are indicated as special remedies. Also the use of aerated potash-water with lemon-juice for a drink when the patient is thirsty and the urine scanty. In the after stages of the disease, when acute action has some- what diminished and the fever is passing off, guaiacum, or the tincture of Actea racemosa in from 16 to 20 or 30 minim doses, may often be given with advantage internally. The local appli- cation of blisters or other counter-irritants is of great use in helping to get rid of the chronic congestion and effusion. Some precautions are however required in applying blisters in joint- diseases, more particularly when the affected joint is super- ficial. In all such cases, before using counter-irritation, we should continue the fomentations or anodyne lotions until the temperature of the skin over the affected joint becomes the same as that of the general surface. If this precaution be not attended to, we are apt to re-excite action in the joint and do harm instead of good. In the after-treatment, when uneasiness and stiffness remain, we shoiiid use anodyne liniments either simple or combined with iodine, or paint the skin over the joint with iodine, and give support by bandaging, so as to main-