DISEASES OF JOINTS. 324 move a considerable part of it wlien diseased ; and therefore, in certain cases of morbus coxarius, I can see no harm in cutting down upon the joint, removing tlie head of the femur, and theri, if necessary, scooping out part of tlie acetabulum. But before attempting to excise the joint, we should first try a careful and prolonged treatment, as before described. Some surgeons advocate amputation at the hip in cases of morbus coxarius, but I do not think it is to be advised, although some successful cases are recorded by Mr. Holmes ; it is perhaps even less war- rantable, except under special circumstances, than excision of the head of the bone. In the shoulder-joint the operation of excision should be performed early, because then the muscles are little altered, and the whole of the diseased textures can be readily removed. Here it is principally the head of the humerus that is affected, and not so much the glenoid ca^dty. In fact, I have never had to remove the whole of the glenoid cavity for the disease, but only parts of it. A very useful limb is left after excision of the shoulder-joint. In the elbow-joint there can be no doubt as to the propriety of early interference, because we thus save the patient's strength and obtain a more useful limb than would result from anchylosis ; this applies also to the shoulder-joint. In the wrist the joint should also be excised early, and a very useful hand will generally be left. In the knee-joint the question arises, whether an anchylosed knee after long treatment is better than a knee alter excision of the joint. If the diseased action be pretty extensive over the surface of the joint, and if there be great local pain and irritation from that source, and the ends of the bones evidently much affected, then, if the patient's health has not suffered very much, and if the constitution be not very irritable, excision of the joint is the proper treatment. In other cases, where there is much suppuration round the joint, and where there is gelatinous de- generation present, excision of the joint is not so suitable. I think that those cases where the diseased action in the knee is