ACUTE OSTITIS. 241 amte, or chronic. The former runs its coiirse very rapidly, and from its usually destructive termination is sometimes spoken of as acute necrosis, or acute death of the bone. An attempt has been made to distinguish between inflam- mation of the periosteum and of the bone proper, but in truth we cannot have the one without the other, owing to the close vital connection between them. The causes of inflammation of bone must be taken into account. These are either predis- posing or exciting. The former are of two kinds principally— the strumous and the rheumatic diatheses—and superadded to these, accidental or adventitious predisposing causes, such as a syphilitic taint, or the long-continued use of mercury, or working among mercurials. The latter or exciting causes are exposure to cold or damp, or direct injury of the bone, leading to inflammation. The most ordinary exciting causes of idiopathic inflammation of bone and periosteum are exposure to cold and damp in persons of strumous or rheumatic diathesis. The acute form occurs more frequently in the strumous than in the rheumatic, and generally in the young. The symptoms of a typical case of acute ostitis are the following. The patient first feels pain in the bone of a very in- tense somewhat rheumatic character. This gradually increases. He becomes feverish, and has a slight rigor. The skin becomes hot, the pulse quick, and the intensity of the pain prevents the patient from getting any sleep at night. There may be no swelling of the limb noticeable, unless the bone be very super- ficial, nor is there much redness of the skin. The pain is felt along the course of the bone, and the disease, in this stage, is sometimes mistaken for neuralgia, and treated accordingly. The local symptoms and the symptomatic fever increase ; the pulse becomes very quick, hard, and wiry; the tongue foul and furred. The pain is exacerbated whenever the patient takes any warm food. Eedness and swelling now make their appear- ance over the bone, and the limb soon assumes the characters of erysipelas. The case may now be mistaken for one of acute