443 DEFORMITIES. subject. Leading to the invention of higlily ingenious but use- less machines for rectifying deformities, to the exclusion of simple and more efficacious apparatus, and to promising too much in cases where little good can be expected, and where the apparatus often does harm. I fear, also, that they often lead to the proposal of operations or the application of apparatus where no such measures are required. In this course of lectures I shall confine myself to the con- sideration of those deformities which most frequently present themselves to the surgeon for treatment. Before proceeding to sjoeak of these special deformities, I would caution you that, whilst in general terms we speak of them as being due to contraction of muscles, you must always recollect that changes in other textures—such as shortening and thickening of ligaments, alterations in the forms of bones, and of their articular facets, and contractions of fasciae and aponeuroses—are also very generally present, and require con- sideration in the operation and after-treatment of such cases. In some cases the cause of deformity is not so much morbid contraction or shortening of one set of muscles, as loss of power from paralysis in the opposing muscles. In other cases the muscular system may not be at fault at all. Thus, in some forms of wry-neck, the deformity results entirely from chronic disease of the ligamentous and osseous textures. And in many cases of strabismus the squint is not permanent, but evidently dependent on some nervous affection, or on some condition of the eye. Hence you will perceive the necessity of carefully ex- amining cases before proposing operations or other treatment for their relief. I shall now proceed to the subject of Special Deformities AND THEIR TREATMENT, commencing with strabismus or squint. There are two forms of Squint, the converging and diverg- ing. In the former the eye is directed or drawn in towards the inner canthus. In the latter the eye is turned outwards. In either case the squint may be modified by more or less obliquity, and this is specially noticeable in the converging