CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 593 and the already exhausted child have succumbed under the further loss of blood. In the second case, M. P., a wound of the brachial artery was treated in the country for two weeks with compresses and bandage ; but during that time there had been repeated attacks of haemorrhage which greatly exhausted the patient, and the wound had assumed such an unhealthy ap- pearance that it was impossible to continue the treatment. From the position of the wound over the bend of the arm, and from the occurrence of repeated bleedings per saltum, there could be little doubt that the brachial was opened into. In order to tie the bleeding vessel, the incision was extended, and the infiltrated textures separated by the finger. The round tendon of the biceps was then felt to be completely divided, and the semilunar fascia stretched and nearly entire. I divided the fascia over the artery, and broke down the recent lymph. After this, when the tourniquet was relaxed, blood was seen to issue from a puncture in the side of the brachial just above the bifurcation. A ligature was therefore applied above and below the opening. The arm was kept in a flexed position, in order to promote the union of the biceps. After this there was no recurrence of the htemor- rhage. In this patient the operation was much more difficult than in the former, on account of the infiltrated state of the tissues, and the great difficulty experienced both in separating them and in recognising the various textures. Two instances of suspected wound of the palmar arch (J. V. and W. B.) were admitted some days after receipt of the injuries. As the patients were strong men, and little affected by the haemorrhage, there was no great risk from bleeding, so long as they were under direct observation. Compresses were therefore placed directly over the wound and over the radial and ulnar arteries, and secured by a firmly-applied bandage. This, combined with flexion and elevation of the limb, proved sufficient to pre- vent further haemorrhage. If bleeding had supervened, it would probably have been impossible to apply a direct ligature to the wounded vessels, and failing this, it would have been necessary to cut down and tie the brachial. 2 Q