444 DISEASES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. scpiint, in which the eye is very generally directed upwards and inwards. The remote causes of strabismus are very various. The debility of vision, or of the muscles of the eyeball, resulting from infantile diseases, strumous inflammation, specks on the cornea, direct or indirect irritation of the brain and nervous system, may each and all give rise to squinting. In many cases we find that squint is not persistent, but is excited at times by mental emotions or disorders of the digestive organs. When we examine into the state of the eye and its muscles in cases of persistent strabismus, to ascertain the proximate cause with a view to treatment, we meet with some in which, owing either to morbid shortening of one muscle or paralysis of its opponent, the eye is immovably fixed in the abnormal posi- tion, but these cases are comparatively rare. Most generally we find that when the sound eye is closed and covered, the strabis- mus disappears, the affected eye becoming straight. If we suddenly open the eye, which is usually straight, we will notice that it has been squinting whilst the other was straight. In many cases we have alternating strabismus, the squint being sometimes in one eye, sometimes in the opposite, or we may have double converging strabismus. In regard to the treatment of squint, it is evident that must depend on the cause. In many cases operative measures are contra-indicated—as, for example, in those where we have a peculiar rolling, restless motion of the eyeballs, and other symptoms of nervous excitability, or in those where the squint is not persistent. In many cases also, by general treatment, and closing the sound eye, thus forcing the patient to use the affected one, the parallelism of the eyes is restored. But in other cases, if, after adopting this treatment, we find it in- effectual, and when we have reason to believe that the proximate cause is either morbid contraction of one muscle or paralysis of its opponent, then we may bring the parts into more natural condition by division of the faulty muscle. This constitutes what is termed the operation for strabismus. The muscles which require to be divided are, the internal rectus in