317 ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE. he feels little or no uneasiness during the greater part of the day, provided that the limb be kept at rest, but that un- easiness and pain are experienced at night after getting warm in bed, and sometimes during the day immediately after taking food. These pains, at first of a dull rheumatic kind, become by-and-by more persistent and acute, and the knee becomes gradually more and more bent, owing to the efforts on the part of the patient to avoid making any pressure on the articular surfaces of the bones. The pain is accompanied or followed by swelling of a subacute inflammatory form ; at first within, but ultimately around, the joint. By-and-by unhealthy strumous abscesses form in the neigh- bourhood, which may afterwards communicate with the articular cavity. In the secondary stage the pain is not only intense, but is more or less continuous, and is increased on moving the limb or applying the slightest degree of pressure, and then the symptoms come on which are peculiar to the disease. Whenever the patient goes to bed and begins to fall asleep, he is roused by a sudden and convulsive jerking of the limb. This destroys his rest for the greater part of the night; but towards morning he doses over into an apparently tranquil slumber, from which, when he awakes, instead of being refreshed he is much exhausted. Under this extended ordeal of suffering his general health rapidly gives way, and he is reduced to the extremity of weakness and emaciation. Sir Benjamin Brodie showed that these symptoms corre- sponded to those of the third stage of gelatinous degeneration, when absorption of the cartilages takes place. The jerkings of the limb arise in consequence of the contact between the ex- posed surfaces of the diseased bones. In ulceration of cartilage, as we have shown, these symptoms come on at a much earlier period than in gelatinous degeneration. The symptoms of ulcera- tion of cartilage are so severe, in contrast with those of the earlier stages of gelatinous degeneration, that we would conclude the extreme pain to be due to the affection of the cartilage itself. This idea, however, is opposed to what we know of the intimate structure of cartilage, which possesses no nerves or vessels in its texture.