410 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. the double-inclined plane, the angle of which should be made as acute as possible, and in this way the weight of the body lying flat in bed would act as a counter-extending power. I have never found this method answer very well in practice for keep- ing the parts in position. Whatever apparatus we apply we shall find great difficulty in this respect, but with the double- inclined plane the difficulty is greater than with the long splint. There are a variety of forms of displacement in fractures near the middle of the femur. The upper fragment may be the riding end of the bone, and the lower end may project upwards and inwards, or upwards and outwards. If the fracture be low down the inner condyle will be tilted inwards, while if it be a little higher up it will be tilted outwards. These variations, in form of displacement, depend on the rela- tions of the adductors to the point of fracture. In very oblique fractures the oblique planes of bone tend to glide upon each other, and we have the lower portion dragged upwards by the hamstring muscles, causing shortening of the broken bone, in- dependent of the lateral deformit}'-, and in such cases we require to be very accurate in the co-aptation of the fragments. In transverse fractures of the shaft of the femur we can bring the two portions into accurate contact, and they can easily be kept in position, the one portion acting as a check to the other ; but fractures are generally more or less oblique, and the slightest muscular power tends to move one fragment on the other. In all cases of fracture of the shaft of the femur I use the long splint for the purpose of keeping up the extension and counter-extension that we have already got, but we are not to use it as a sort of rack to extend the broken limb. "We may put on anterior and posterior or lateral Gooch's splints, as well as the long splint, so as to prevent any antero-posterior or lateral dis- placement. In transverse fractures of the shaft of the femur, where the one fragment checks the other, there would not be much likelihood of displacement after the fracture had been set. In oblique fractures the slightest force or movement tends to cause the bones to glide upon each other, and the use of