434 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. closely approacli to the condition of fracture than if fairly divided by the saw. The result fully answered my expectations, for there was scarcely a trace of constitutional irritation, whilst the incision healed by the first intention. At the same time, we must bear in mind that the patient seemed peculiarly unexcitable, as shown by the results of the former operation with the needle and seton. The osseous union was felt to be firm, but he had used the arm too soon and too freely, probably before complete ossification had taken place throughout its thickness, and so the bending had occurred. This, however, was scarcely to be re- gretted, for it led me to fracture it again to obviate deformity, after which the deposit of new bone was much greater than at first after the resection. Case of Fractuke of the ISTeck of Scapula. From Hospital Reports. E. M., a man atont forty years of age, applied for advice at tlie Koyal Infirmary on the 17th of January, on account of an injury of the shouhler caused by his falling when in a state of intoxication. On placing the hand vc^on the injured shoidder, hefore removal of his dress, there was no feeling of flattening, hut on raising the arm slightly to take off his shirt to examine him more fully, the limL fell towards the axilla, causing a great projection of the acromion and flattening of the deltoid, with all the syrajitoms of luxation of the humerus downwards in an extreme degree, l>ut attended with the distinct crepitus of fracture. By extending and drawing the arm out from the side and then raising the whole limb, the natural contour of the shoulder was restored, crepitus again being felt as the broken surfaces came into contact. When the sujiport was even slightly removed from the elbow, the limb had the tendency to fall and be again displaced. Under these circumstances, Mr. Spence stated to the students present that the case was undoubtedly an example of that rare form of injury, fracture through the neck of the scapula, the separated glenoid cavity and the humerus being displaced together into the axilla, partly by the weight of the arm, and partly by the great pectoral muscle, together with the latissimus dorsi, and teres major, drawing the arm towards the chest. A pad was placed in the axilla, and the arm, slung by the elbow, bandaged to the side ; and as the man had also received an injury over the orbit, laying bare the bone, he was strongly advised to remain in hospital. This, however, he refused to do, but promised to return next day. Nothing more was heard of him till the 20th of January, when he returned and