532 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. hopes of its success ; but there are dangers connected with it. It does not always prevent suppuration, even after the wire has been withdrawn, for abscesses sometimes form where the wire had been, and I have known secondary htemorrhage occur, and therefore I still think that the small round ligature is preferable to acupressure or the wire-compress in arresting the flow of blood, at all events through a continuous artery. Consecutive HJiiMOElinAGE arises in two forms, Reactionary and Secondary. The term Secondary Haemorrhage is used to denote the bleeding which sometimes suj^ei-venes from the failure of hfemostatic measures, as when it occurs from rapid ulceration of the artery after ligature, before the luemostatic process has been completed. It is also applied by some to the bleeding which occi;rs some hours after an operation, from vessels wliich had not been secured. I think it is better to distinguish the latter form, of bleeding by the term Eea€Tionary Hemorrhage as implying its cause, in contradistinction to the various con- ditions which lead to secondary ha?morrhage proper. Eeactionaey Haemorrhage arises from small vessels, which, owing to the depressed state of the circulation during and im- mediately after an operation, do not bleed at the time, and con- sequently are left unsecured because unperceived. So soon, how- ever, as reaction sets in, and the circulation becomes excited, bleeding from these branches begins. The wound becomes distended with coagula, which tend to keep up the bleeding, and this, unless interfered with, may lead to serious results. In this form of litemorrhage the knowledge of the cause indicates the proper treatment—namely, to open the wound, clear out coagula, and sponge the surface with warm water, so as to detect and secure the bleeding vessels. In many cases when tlie clots have been removed, and the cut surface exposed, no bleeding vessels can be seen, the oozing of blood gradually ceases, and nothing more requires to be done. It is not, how- ever, safe to trust altogether to this temporary cessation of the bleeding, for that may be the result of the depression induced by