351 FRACTURE. amount of irritative fever generally follows on the fracture, but this symptom usually passes off. In other cases suppura- tion and rigors come on ; the tongue, however, is not foul, but the rigors become more frequent and pyjemia sets in. This is a condition which is not sufficiently insisted on in surgical works. In deciding on amputation in compound fractures, we are told of gangrene, of necrosis, and of the long continued discharges ; but more important than these is the fact that pytemia may come on, even though the fracture may not seem a very serious one, and when pyaemia does set in we cannot interfere, for amputation then would simply hasten the death of the patient. In regard to general regimen, we must give non-stimulating diet at first, along with iron and other remedies of that kind, with a view to ward off bad results. In estimating the question of amputation in compound" fracture, we must first consider the possibility or the probability of saving a useful limb, and in this we must be guided by the ^ amoimt of the comminution of the bone and the injury to the surrounding soft parts. If we require to remove large portions of comminuted bone lying quite separate from the other textures, where there must therefore be much shortening of the limb, should the chief vein or artery be injured, in such a case, even if the limb were saved, its vitality will be much lessened ; and sometimes, from the amount of shortening, it will be worse than useless, while in most cases of this kind, the Hmb, such as it is, will only be saved at great risk to the patient's life. If we con- sider that the risk to life is greater than the probability of saving a useful limb, we are quite justified in performing amputation ; but the amount of force causing the injury must always be kept in mind, in deciding in each case. We should also remember that pyjEmia is very apt to supervene, and that the risk to life from this cause is very great, while the chance of saving the limb may be very small. In other instances, the patient may be determined to run considerable risk rather than submit to amputation. In all cases where the upper limb is con-