LECTURE LXVI. Results of a Second Series of Experiments on Deligation of Arteries—Organisation and Vascularisation of the External Plastic Effusion—Its Vital Connection with the Internal Plastic Effusion and Blood-clot after decidence of the'Liga- ture—Value of the External Plastic Lymph in the Process of Obliteration— Practical Deductions. The Blood-clot : its Proper Function ; its Value as an Adjuvant in the Process —Extent of Obliteration of a Vessel after Ligature—Practical Deductions. My second series of experiments on the effects of the ligature, whilst it confirmed the results of the first as to the constancy of the presence of plastic effusion, and the changes which that effusion undergoes at different periods after the application of the ligature ; shows further the mode of its development, and the manner in which it is fitted for the purposes which it is destined to fulfil. The results of these experiments proved that the plastic lymph effused around the artery tied, becomes very rapidly organised and vascularised. Even at the lapse of sixty hours we find it traversed in every direction by a complete network of minute vessels ramifying in its substance, and passing from it upon and into the proper coats of the artery. These in- osculate with the vasa vasorum on the arterial coats, assisting in their nutrition, increasing their vitality, and fitting them for tlie functions they are now called upon to perform. This great vascularity of the lymph evidently adapts it for the rapid development of new matter following in the track of the ligature, as the thread ulcerates through the cellular coat. When that has taken place, the newly-effused lymph serves as the medium through which vessels shoot into the internal plastic coagulum, and through it into the sanguineous clot, when it is present, —connecting these structures, and thus forming a firm union between the divided ends of the vessel (Plate xxii. Fig. 3). Later in the process, when the greater part of the lymph has been