294 DISEASES OF JOINTS. There is a period of debility which must succeed in consequence of the character of the inflammation, and the thought of this deters us from depleting, even though it might soothe the immediate pain. Another mode of treatment consists in trying to alleviate the inflammatory action by such local measures as making in- cisions to relieve tension and opening abscesses when matter has formed in the joint. These measures, however, are often unsuccessful; and when a cure does result, it is always by anchylosis, and that only after great risk to life. Tn treating a wounded joint, two objects are aimed at-—To obtain primary union, and to prevent inflammation. "With this view, local and general measures have been proposed, the former of which are the more important, and include rest, position, and the application of cold. The employment of ice as the cooling agent is not a novel practice, but it is not so generally adopted as its merits appear to warrant. It is much, to. be preferred to irrigation with cold water, both because a dry cold is obtained, and a lower tem- perature produced, and because it can be much more easily and efficiently applied. With irrigation, the wound and surrounding skin are constantly kept in a sodden condition, so that primary union is frequently prevented, and a painful state of the skin often produced. Moreover, the patient is liable to catch cold, from an accidental wetting; for, in the case of the knee and ankle at least, it is almost impossible to confine the water within the trough. With ice, everything can be kept perfectly dry, by enclosing the ice in gutta-percha bags, and by adopting the additional precaution of covering the wound with a large sheet of the same material, to prevent any accidental escape of water from reaching it. Were it even possible, however, to use irriga- tion without wetting the wound and surrounding skin, ice would nevertheless be preferable, on account of the lower temperature produced by it. When some of my cases were under treatment, the supply of ice several times became exhausted, and during these intervals the joints had to be kept cool by irrigation, which was never adequate to prevent a rise in temperature, and an