XX EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA PES. Fig. 5 were seen. On the proximal side of the ligatured part the internal adhesions had given way, and the blood-clot was partially extruded from the canal ; but the mass of consolidated lymph had prevented its further displacement, and so obviated secondary haemorrhage. (See page 511.) Fig. 6. Section of the femoral artery of a large dog, seventeen days after tlie ligature had been applied, showing the relation between the internal plastic coagulum and the blood-clot, as described at page 507. Platk XXIII.—Page 528. Fig. 1. Femoral artery, eight weeks after amputation. The stump had healed. There is no vestige of a clot. The artery is diminished in calibre at the point of ligature, and a mass of consolidated lymph is seen snrrounding and occluding its extremity. (From nature by John Wintour.) Fig. 2. Femoral artery, seven weeks after amputation. Its section shows a large blood-clot firmly adherent to the coats of the vessel. (From nature by John "Wintour.) Fig. 3. Carotid artery of a greyhound, injected minutely, dissected twelve weeks after ligature. Shows the vascularity of the fibrous cord uniting the divided ends of the vessel, and also the true relation and connections of what are sometimes supposed to be new vessels. (See page 522. From nature by John Wintour.) Figs. 4 and 5 exhibit the efi'ects produced by torsion by Amussat's method (from Manec). Fig. 6. The effects of accidental torsion on the brachial artery. The internal timics are seen retracted and puckered inwards. The external coat is torn and twisted, and infiltrated with blood ; whilst immediately below the retracted internal coats a large blood-clot has formed. (See page 478. From nature by Mr. Live say.) Fig. 7. Brachial artery from a stump, tliirty-six hours after the applica- tion of acupressure. The j)reparation is alluded to and described at page 530. The coats of the artery below the point where the needle had been applied are everted and thickened. Above, the interior exhibits a delicate and slightly adherent blood-clot. From the base of the blood-clot downwards the canal of the artery was plugged with firmly adherent lymph. The coats of the vessel have been opened and separated at one point to show the lymph filling up the vessel. The coats presented no appearance of injury by the needle. (From nature by Mr. Abercromby.) Plate XXIV.—Page 544. Fig. 1. Sacculated popliteal aneurism after ligature. The sac, which pro- jected forward towards the femur, is seen filled with strata of