TRA VERS'S TEMPORAR Y LIGA TURE. 493 and removing the ligature instantly, is a wound or fissixre of the middle and internal coats, which is soon occupied by lymph and gradually obliterated by cicatrisation, the vessel remaining pervious. But if three or four ligatures are applied contiguous to each other, forming as many distinct fissures, the lymph is effused in such abundance as to project into the cylinder, and obstruct the passage of the blood. . . . The obstruction of an artery may, I believe, be regarded as an invariable consequence of the application of a ligature for six hours, in the species of animals which were the subjects of these experiments. It is an indispensable condition, however, that the mode of applying the ligature be such as to ensure the division of the inner tunics, a condition wdiich it will be more difficult to prevent than to execute, if the ligature be of a proper form." He draws the following conclusions from his experiments :— \st, " No material obstruction is opposed to the passage of blood upon removing the ligatui'e at a period of six or even of nine hours from its application, and consequently its ultimate ob- struction under these circumstances must be referable to the gradual completion of the adhesive process. Id, The persistence of the ligature for a period of six hours affords direct evidence of an inflammatory action in the deposition of lymph between the divided tunics; which dep)osition is more abundant at nine hours, and sufficient for the obstruction of the vessel in twelve ; presenting the form of an interstitial cord between the lips of the fissure, and continuous with it, a niembranoi;s septum extending across the vessel. 3cZ, " The septum of lymph is formed prior to the coagulum of blood, and in all cases of ordinary circulation is of itself adequate to the prevention of haemorrhage; but under a sudden extraordinary impulse of circulation, or a violent concussion ah externo, is liable to be ruptured and give passage to the blood. If, hoM^ever, an interval of six hours be suffered to elapse after the removal of the ligature, the same violence is not followed by haemorrhage, although no coagulum of blood be formed. Ath, The cylindrical