576 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. a sort of limiting cyst or sac, preventing the effusion of blood amongst the muscles of the limb. The Treatment of axillary aneurism is to tie the vessel by the Hunterian method on the proximal side of the aneurism, and the third or outer portion of the subclavian is the point of elec- tion. There is no use in tying the first portion of the axillary artery, for we are then merely getting at the third part of the subclavian by a roundabout method, unless we tie it close to the origin of the acromial thoracic artery. By tying the sub- clavian artery in the subclavian space, we leave plenty of room for obliteration of the vessel taking place on both sides of the ligature, and there are no great branches so near as to form disturbing influences to the process of cure. Hence, although ligature of the third portion of the subclavian is a somewhat difficult operation, and though there is a risk of secondary hse- morrhage, still it is, as a general rule, the proper treatment to adopt in cases of true axillary aneurism. Where the aneurism has enlarged very rapidly, and we think it has become diffuse, and where the limiting sac to which we trusted in the former case has given way, we may adopt another method of treatment. The pressure of such bulky diffuse aneurisms, together with the effects of the ligature, might lead to gangrene of the arm (to say nothing of the risk of secondary haemorrhage), and, from partial rupture of the sac, consolidation is not so likely to be completed. Under such circumstances we may adopt the following plan :—Cut down on the third part of the subclavian, so as to admit of complete compression of it by an assistant, while the brachial artery below is also compressed. Then cut into the aneurism in the axilla, turn out the clot from its interior, and tie the vessel above and below the ruptured point. If the precautions of compressing the subclavian and brachial arteries be attended to and properly effected, no bleeding can take place. When the surgeon sees the opening from which the blood has escaped, the vessel is tied above and below that point. But the aperture cannot always be seen, and then the compression must be cautiously relaxed,