INJURIES OF BONE. 356 forcing this we apply retentive apparatus, which secures not merely the broken bone, but also fixes the neighbouring articula- tions, and in fracture of the arm the fingers must also be kept fixed, especially in restless patients, as in children. Independently of these movements, there are other causes which may induce non- union. Even in a simple fracture a portion of muscular texture may be nipped up between the broken ends of the bone—in oblique fractures this is not uncommon—and if this portion of muscular texture be not removed from between the ends of the bone, union is not likely to occur. According to those who believe in the blood-clot forming the provisional callus, this piece of torn muscle ought to be of great advantage in the con- solidation of the bone, but the fact is that it really prevents union. In comminuted fracture, where there is a large portion of bone removed from its periosteum, and where there is a defi- ciency of structure, we can easily understand how the ends of the bone, instead of approaching each other, may become rounded off, and then osseous union will not take place. Again, where suppuration and necrosis occur, the loss of substance and the exhaustion of the patient may lead to non-union ; but this is a very rare cause of it, for where the bone has necrosed new bone is thrown out to take the place of the por- tion which has been removed. There are also other local causes of non-union, such as the destruction of the vitality of the textures around, as when the fracture has been caused by very great force. Non-union may also occur from impaired vitality of the part, as where the bone is broken in two parts with a portion between them, thus forming a comminuted fracture. In such cases, it very frequently happens that the bone xxnites at one part, but not at the other; and if the foramen for the nutrient artery of the bone be implicated in the injury, there is less chance of union in the deep-seated part of the fracture. The general constitutional causes of non-union of fracture may be stated as being debilitating causes of any kind, such as long-continued discharges, where the health is exhausted,