FRACTURE OF RADIUS. 393 tilts up the lower fragment, and the long extensors of the thumb and index finger draw back the hand along with the lower frag- ment, and so drag it obliquely upwards behind the shaft of the bone. It cannot pass in front, because the shaft has been rotated in front by the pronator quadratus. The general shortening is caused, as before, by the action of both flexors and extensors. The displacement is very marked in this fracture. The styloid process of the ulna naturally lies on a line with the posterior aspect of the hand, but in this fracture it seems to project in front. The hand is drawn backwards and outwards, and from the lower fragment lying behind, we have the appearance of dislocation of the hand backwards and outwards. This displacement is caused by the hand, which is connected to the styloid process of the radius, being drawn back along with it. The ulna is really lying in its natural position; it is the hand that is drawn away from it. This fracture is very common, but it is one requiring a great deal of care and attention in the treatment. The injury to the muscles and tendons and their sheaths causes great stiffness afterwards, and it is sometimes weeks, or even months, before the patient gets the use of the hand again, from the effusion into the sheath of the tendons, and the consequent stiffness. The frac- ture is apt to be attended with great displacement, and the bones must therefore be placed and kept in accurate position, the tendency of the small styloid fragment being to be drawn back- wards. There are several different methods of treating this fracture. Sir Astley Cooper recommended placing the forearm and hand between two long, straight, and rather narrow splints, and then allowing the weight of the unsupported hand to counteract the tendency of the bone to be displaced upwards. The principle of this is good, but it is not a certain method of bringing about a cure. In some cases we can treat this fracture perfectly well by bandaging very carefully so as to keep the hand in this position. The patient instinctively supports the dependent hand, and so is sure to move it, and therefore I generally use slightly curved or angular splints to keep the hand in position—the slope beginning