550 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. constantly supplied to the sac in order to furnish it with the necessary fibrine, and in the subsequent absorptive processes there is the effusion of lymph or plastic material; but in Val- salva's plan the whole treatment consisted in the diminution of the mechanical force of the blood, and the chances of firm coagu- lation in the sac were diminished from the want of plastic and fibrinous material. The next plan of treatment was that of Hunter, who still further carried out the indications of the natural process of cure. He saw that what was wanted was the diminution of the force of the blood-current, not its complete arrestment; also that the blood might enter the aneurism by the collateral branches, and yet not interfere with the process of coagulation, rather, in fact, promote it by continually depositing fresh fibrine. Hunter saw also that he could best accomplish his object by tying the vessel at some little distance from the aneurism, as this would give him a better chance of finding the coats of the artery in a healthy condition. He accordingly tied the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism at the part of its course where it lies encased between the tendons of the thigh in a sort of tube, called afterwards, in honour of him. Hunter's canal—the ligature being placed upon the artery at a point above the origin of the anastomotica magna branch. The great success of this mode of treatment soon established the soundness of Hunter's principle, which continues to hold its ground in the present day, although in tlie case of popliteal aneurism another locality has been selected as the seat of the ligature—namely, the lower angle of Scarpa's triangle ; for the operation, while quite as effectual, is much more easily performed in this locality, and the ligature is applied further away from the disease, and from the large anastomosing branches given off lower down. The principle consists in tying the artery at some little distance from the aneurism, where we are likely to find the coats of the vessel in a healthy state. We thus prevent the direct influx of blood into the sac, and divert the current into the collateral branches, allowing coagulation to take place, layer after layer, until at last the tumour is converted into a perfectly solid mass.