282 DISEASES OF BONES. rickets, however, the soft, cartilaginous, or opened-out structure of the bones is only temporary, it being, as I have said, a disease of childhood and youth. After a tinie earthy matter is deposited in the bone, which then becomes firm, but porous and generally light in texture, often much bulkier than natural. In the shafts of the long bones the curvatures which had taken place during the soft stage remain, and so the bone becomes permanently deformed, unless means are used to obviate this. Ever}' museum possesses numerous illustrative specimens, and in examin- ing these you will observe that there is always a large de- posit of ossified matter in the concavity of the curve, similar to what occurs in badly-set fractures; thus the maximum of strength is obtained by the minimum of expenditure of material. All the other bones may be similarly affected, but more especially those of the cranium, which become greatly enlarged, as they do in chronic hydrocephalus, and indeed these two dis- eases are not unfrequently associated with each other. In females, it would seem as if rickets sometimes occurred at a later period of life in consequence of debility induced by leucorrhoea, menorrhagia, miscarriages, and floodings. When the bones of the female pelvis are so affected and distorted, and again become firm from earthy deposit, the deformity is rendered permanent, and constitutes an obstacle to delivery during sub- sequent labour. The Treatment must be chiefly directed to the constitution. Fresh air is of the greatest consequence. Passive exercise should be recommended, but only of a very gentle kind, and not carried so far as to produce fatigue. Tepid water, and even sea-bathing, is very beneficial where judiciously conducted, and accompanied or followed by gentle and somewhat prolonged use of the flesh- brush. The diet should be nutritious, and carefully regulated in ac- cordance with the digestive powers of the patient, and wine or other stimuli may be given if necessary. Formerly preparations of lime were freely administered, but that practice arose from misapprehension regarding the nature of the disease, and was