CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 505 the vessel, and, after carefully clearing it, passed a ligature roimd and tied it. There was a good deal of troublesome oozing of blood during the dissection, owing to the raw and vascular state of the skin at the lower part of the incision, and considerable delay and annoyance were caused by the unmanageable state of the patient (who, I should have mentioned, was deaf, dumb, idiotic, and epileptic). At the commencement of the operation, he thought proper to amuse himself by blowing out the candle, and when I was about to pass the ligature round the artery he took an epileptic fit. After the vessel was tied, the edges of the upper part of the wound were brought together by points of suture, and the ligature allowed to hang out at the lower part. After waiting a short time, slight bleeding was noticed to take place from the lower part of the opening in the brachial artery. I therefore placed ligatures above and below the opening, as compresses seemed to give rise to much irritation, and as I trusted there might be sufficient vitality of the coats of the vessel there to sustain the ligatures for a day or two till more permanent changes at the part, and in the collateral circulation, had taken place. The burned siirface was then dressed with a stimulating lotion. Next day I found that the patient had passed a very restless night, constantly moving the injured arm, but no further bleeding had taken place. On the evening of the 11th January, the ligatures above and below the opening in the brachial artery came away, but no more haemorrhage took plaae. The ulcerated siirface at the bend of the arm healed kindly. The edges of mj' incision at the lower part, where it had reached the injured skin, looked sloughy ; but the upper part of the incision, cor- responding to the point where the vessel was tied, had united, and I removed the stitches. As the patient still continued restless and unmanageable, constantly moving the arm and disturbing the dressings, it was found necessary to muffle the opposite hand and secure the injured arm towards the side. The sloughy appearance of the lower part of the incision increased for some days, and gave me some anxiety. Stimulating dressings were applied to it, and, on the ninth day after the operation, a slough separated which relieved our fears, as it was found not to extend deeper than the skin, and the parts beneath were healthy in appearance ; from this time everything went on well, in spite of the unfavourable nature of the case and the unmanageable state of the patient. The ligature from the axillary came away ou the sixteenth day after the operation, and the incision healed rapidly. After this I did not attend him, but Mr. Kerr informs me that cicatrisation of the whole surface was not effected until the end of February, and that now the contraction of the hand and forearm towards the shoulder is very great. He also mentions that, strangely enough, the first time the boy was left alone he ran to the fireplace (fortunately empty), and thrust liis injured arm between the bars of the grate. Remarlis.—In this case it will be observed that, whilst the injured vessel was situated, as regarded retrograde bleeding,