413 TREATMENT—THE LONG SPLINT. Its use is to prevent in. some degree the lower fragment from being drawn backwards again. The limb is then put straight, and the long splint applied. The fracture can be generally- very well treated in this way, though in some cases there may- be a difficulty, and therefore some prefer the double-inclined plane to the long splint. For my own pai-t I always use the latter, with a Gooch's splint behind the fracture. In fractures of the condy- loid portion of the femur, splitting or fissure into the knee-joint is not uncommon. It is a very unfavourable complication. I would now direct your attention to the use and mode of applying the long-splint and double inclined plane in cases of fracture of the thigh. The former is a long wooden splint, reaching from the axilla to about four inches beyond the heel, with holes bored in it at the top and bottom. This is rolled up in a sheet, which should be thick enough to form a pad as it is rolled round the splint, a part being left free to encircle the limb and splint. The limb is brought straight, and the splint is laid along the outer side of it in readiness to be fastened there by means of the sheet. The perineal band consists of a handkerchief passing under the perineum and tied through the holes in the upper end of the splint. The holes in the bottom of the splint are for fixing it to the foot by means of a handkerchief The sheet is then brought round and pinned, so as to fix the limb. A broad flannel bandage placed round the body so as to keep the splint perfectly fixed, completes the apparatus. In frac- ture of the neck of the femur, this is all that is required. In fractures of the shaft, two Gooch's splints are padded and placed laterally—one on the outside, the other on the inside of the thigh, and fastened there with slip-knots ; the knots being always tied over the inner splint. The perineal band is the most important part ^f the apparatus. It forms a counter- extending power as we draw it up, and it also forms an ex- tending power from its being fastened to the upper end of the long splint, and forcing it down when tightened. We must take care not to attempt to extend by tightening the handkerchief at