542 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. in some cases the force of the blood-current dissects the textures widely. The wound in the artery remains open, and enlarges by degrees, so that pulsation is in this case also a marked feature of the tumour. The coats of the vessel in this instance may be perfectly healthy, and accordingly we can treat it just as we would a wounded artery—namely, by laying open the sac, and tying the vessel above and below the wounded point. A diffuse aneurism resulting from rupture of a true aneurismal sac should be regarded as the last stage of a true, and not be classified as a false aneurism. There are several varieties of true aneurism. All, with one exception, tend to produce well-marked, rounded tumours, the exception being the form called " The Dissecting Aneurism" in which, though there is some amount of swelling in the course of the vessel at the point affected, we can scarcely say it is sufficient to constitute a tumour. From rupture of the circular muscular fibres of the arterial coat, or from the atheromatous and calcareous ulceration already alluded to, the blood in this variety escapes outwards, and burrows beneath the external coat, separating it from the middle, so as to form a cavity, which may extend for a considerable distance in the course of the vessel, and involve more or less of its circumference. This is, however, a form rarely met with except in the aorta. I have seen only one instance of it elsewhere—-namely, in the common iliac artery (Plate xxiv. Fig. 5). The direction of the burrowing action is generally from above downwards—that is, towards the extremi- ties—though it may occasionally proceed in an upward direction, or towards the heart, as in the case of the common iliac artery just alluded to, where its downward course was obstructed. The ordinary True Aneurisms may be divided into two classes— (a) The Fusiform (Scarpa's True Aneurism), in which we find dilatation of all the coats of the artery, arising from fatty disease of one or more of them—generally of them all. (b) The Lateral or Sacculated True Aneurism, where there is ulceration of the middle and internal coats of the vessel, and