521 FORMATION OF NEW VESSELS. The following appears to me to be the rationale of the facts I have just stated. By the sudden and complete obstruction of a large arterial trunk, the blood usually passing through it is forced upon the collateral vessels and their anastomoses. And as the more direct communications are not sufficient at first to carry the whole quantity back into its natural channel, the pressure of course forces it also into all the neighbouring vessels, and so gives rise to the general diffuse vascularity. Thus, not only is the circulation to the parts beyond the ligature provided for, but another purpose is fulfilled. The vitality of the arterial coats and of the tissues around the vessel is increased, and they are adapted both for resisting too rapid ulceration, and for furnishing new products necessary for the safe completion of the process of obliteration. When these first indications are fulfilled, and obliteration has taken place, diminished vascularity and absorption follow, and the office of carryiug on the circula- tion is then performed by the larger and mote direct anasto- moses, which have gradually become sufficiently dilated for that purpose by the more direct pressure of the blood upon them. Some investigators differ from these views, as regards the sufficiency of the existing collateral branches to re-establish the circulation in a large artery which has been tied. They consider that in such cases nature assists these existing vessels by the formation of new direct arterial communications between the cardiac and distal portions of the artery. This opinion is founded upon the appearance of short vessels passing directly from the point of the artery immediately below the obliteration, to the point immediately above it; and they reason, that new vessels would not be created if the existing channels were sufficient for the purpose. As it has been proved repeatedly in the dead body, that, even with coarse injections, the existing anastomoses will serve to fill the distal portion of an artery which has been tied, I think it needless to insist on a fact so well demonstrated further than to point out the source of the fallacy on which the opinion I have alluded to is founded. This I can do by showing that the supposed new vessels occasionally seen are in reality