406 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. risk to the general health, in keeping on the retentive apparatus. The eversion of the foot and leg, and the shortening of the limb, are generally explained thus :—The shaft of the bone, with the trochanters and neck, are drawn upwards and backwards towards the pelvis by the gluteus, medius, and minimus, whilst the digital fossa, into and near which the external rotator muscles are in- serted, being situated also in the trochanteric portion of the bone, the shaft of the femur is everted by these external rotators, which have no muscles to counteract them. It is perfectly true that the external rotators and glutei are the muscular causes of the shortening and eversion; but the weight of the limb causes eversion, as we see when there is no fracture, for when a person is lying on his back the limbs are naturally everted. The difficulty of feeling crepitus depends, as already stated, on effusion of blood and synovial fluid within the joint and between the ends of the bone; but more generally this difficulty arises after shortening has taken place, and where there is considerable swelling. In the extra-capsular fracture, where the trochanter is considerably drawn up, if we rotate upwards and inwards, we are not likely to cause crepitus, because then we do not make the broken surfaces of the bone meet, and it is only after extending the limb and then rotating that we can feel it. I have always found that the best method of eliciting crepitus is one which may be considered perhaps rather a rough plan. It is to bend up the limb forcibly, and then extend it suddenly downwards. We thus loosen the por- tions of bone from each other, and so produce crepitus very readdy; but sometimes we do not require to adopt this plan when there is not much shortening. As regards the results of intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur, it generally unites by fibrous texture. The uniting medium is a cartilaginous matrix with fibrous texture in it, and although thin, is pretty strong. Even after this fracture, there- fore, a tolerably useful limb may sometimes be left. In some few cases we find very unfavourable results. The head of the femur may become necrosed, and suppuration take place within