DR. JONES'S INVESTIGA TIONS. 485 give rise to an effusion of lymph, by which the wounded surfaces are united and the canal is rendered impervious ; to produce a simultaneous inflammation on the corresponding external surface of the artery, by which it becomes very much thickened with effused lymph ; and at the same time, from the exposure and inevitable wounding of the surrounding parts, to occasion in- flammation in them, and an effusion of lymph, Avhich covers the artery and forms the surface of the Avound." Wi, " To produce ulceration in the part of the artery around which the ligature is immediately applied—namely, its external coat." Wi, " To pro- duce indirectly a complete obliteration, not only of the canal of the artery, but of the artery itself to the collateral branches on both sides of the part which has been tied." ^th, " To give rise to an enlargement of the collateral branches." The parts of the process which Dr. Jones principally in- sisted on as essential to obliteration of an artery without secondary haemorrhage occurring, were—Isf, The effusion of lymph within the vessel, caused by the degree of inflammation consequent on division of its internal coats, and the subse- quent adhesion of their cut surfaces or cicatrisation of the cut made by the ligature. 2d, As subsidiary to and favouring this process, the least possible interference with the connections of the artery to its sheath, lest we injure its nutrient vessels, which pass from the sheath to the coats of the vessel. The effusion of lymph around the vessel, and the presence of a coagulum within it, he appears to consider as merely in- cidental circumstances. The former, he considers, may com- pensate in some measure in cases where the vessel has been tied with a single ligature, as for aneurism, for the advantage of retraction of the ends of a divided artery into the surrounding cellular tissue. But he does not seem to consider it as holding any very distinct place in the process of obliteration. He objects to broad ligatures, and foreign substances introduced between the ligature and the vessel, as not causing adhesion, but giving rise to slow ulceration, and thus to secondary hismor- rhage, as he considered the mere close apposition of the coats