398 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. the dislocation downwards into the obturator foramen, but it also occurs as a primary injury. The symptoms of dislocation into the ischiatic notch are somewhat similar to those attending dislocation on the dorsixm ilii. The head of the femur tends to fall into the ischiatic notch, but is prevented from entering by the muscles which fill it up. It catches upon the edge of the ischiatic ligament and other textures, and pushes the softer tissues before it. There is a projection posteriorly, though to a less extent than in the former injury, and lower down. The limb is slightly bent, and inverted towards the opposite one, but does not tend to cross over it, as it does in luxation on the dorsum ilii. It is shortened, but much less so than in the former case, and the foot rests on the metatarsal bone of the great toe of the opposite foot. The knee is inverted, and touches the inner side of the opposite knee. Thus, there is much less deformity, and the symptoms are less marked than in dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium, and more care is therefore required in the diagnosis. In all these dislocations we have one diagnostic mark—namely, the immobility of the limb as regards the natural movements. The limb is fixed at an angle, and we cannot move the femur from the os innominatum, unless we move both bones together. Hence, in these two dislocations, if we lay the patient flat in bed we find that when his back is perfectly straight, the limb is raised up and turned inwards. If we bring the limb down, as we can do with force, we make the back arch, and if we lay the back flat, the limb rises again. In the dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium this is one of the best diagnostics we can have. It is due to the angle at which the bone is fixed. Some speak as if this symptom were only referable to the dislocation into the ischiatic notch, but it is really less marked in that than in the other luxation. It is, however, more generally spoken of in reference to the dislocation into the ischiatic notch, for that injury is much more difiicult to diagnose than the other, and therefore this diagnostic symptom is of more value. In both these injuries, therefore, we have