614 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. ill some cases of axillary and inguinal aneurism. 3cl, The Distal or Brasdor's method. And lastly, the method I adopted. —In regard to the first of these alternatives, the ligature of the innominate, or first portion of the subclavian artery has proved so uniformly fatal, even in favourable circumstances, that I could not venture to entertain any hope of success in my case. Direct ligature by opening the sac, and tying the artery on each side of the aneurism, as has been done in some axillary and iliac aneurisms by Mr. Syme, was suggested. The circumstances in this case, hov^ever, v^ere very different. In the case of axil- lary aneurisms, the circulation can be effectually controlled during the operation; but here, laying bare the innominate so as to allow an assistant to compress it between his finger and thumb, would have only imperfectly effected the object, it would not have controlled the reflux vertebral circulation into the sac ; and even supposing the circulation controlled, the jDroximal ligature must have been placed on that portion of the subclavian where all its large branches arise, and consequently with almost a certainty of failure of the htemostatic process. Moreover, the fusiform character of the aneurism was unfavourable to the chance of a healthy portion of artery being found on either side of the dilatation. The direct method, therefore, seemed to me quite inapplicable to a subclavian aneurism, such as this. I was, therefore, almost shut up, either to try Brasdor's method of tying the artery on the distal side of the sac, or to combine that with removal of the stimulus to vascular supply, by performing amputation at the shoulder. In this case I felt less difficulty ill deciding on amputation, inasmuch as the state of the arm rendered gangrene imminent, both from interrupted cir- culation and venous engorgment ; it therefore seemed probable that further interruption by tying the innominate, or ligature of the axillary by Brasdor's method, would lead to complete gan- grene, and necessitate amputation. The plan proposed by Sir William Tergusson seemed to me to give the fairest chance of a cure, and although it involved mutilation, the case was one of life or death, and of immediate urgency, to say nothing of the