CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 619 superficial femoral rather lower down than usual, aud was well pleased to find its coats perfectly healthy at the part exposed. As regards the compression, and the other treatment adopted in the first instance, these were had recourse to for the purpose of affording time for a certain amount of coagulum to form in the sac, and not with any prospect of curing the disease, as the unhealthy state of the iliac and common femoral arteries contra- indicated even very moderate direct compression. The bent position employed must not be confounded with the plan adopted in H.'s case. In this case, merely slight flexion over a double- inclined plane of pillows was used, so as somewhat to diminish the direct force of the blood into the aneiirism. The secondary haemorrhage which occurred seems to me diffi- cult to explain. The ligature did not separate till the twenty- third day after the operation, when the incision had closed except where the thread projected, and there had never been the slightest indication of bleeding, either at the decidence of the ligature or previously. The haemorrhage, which did not occur till twenty- four hours after the ligature came away, seems to have resulted from incautious exertion of the patient; and when all com- presses and dressings were removed, no active bleeding re- curred. I have seen bleeding take place at earlier periods after ligature, and not recur; but I do not recollect any instance of the Ivind in which bleeding came on at so late a date as this, with- out any premonitory symptoms. Shortly after the bleeding, the parts around the wound looked turgid and brawny, but there was no apparent engorgement of the parts antecedent to or at the time of the hasmorrhage. It seems difficult to believe that it coiild have proceeded from the deligated point of the artery; for, though the thread had only come away the previous day, it must have separated, and the htemostatic process caused by it must have been completed, some days before ; and if from that source, the bleeding would hardly have been stayed so readily. In my experi- ments on the ligature of arteries, I have seen two instances in dogs, Avhere,from partial breaking up of the plastic effusion and displace- ment of tlie clot, hfemorrhage occurred, and stopped spontaneously;