RADICAL TREATMENT. 469 or twelve are inserted in the leg, so as to obliterate completely the canal of the vein. This plan answers very well on the whole, but I have not the same anticipations of a radical cure being obtained from it as I once had. It is a radical cure of the varix in the vein affected, but not of the varix of the limb. Should the needle be allowed to make its way out, or should it be removed after a few days ? Formerly it used to be withdrawn after about three days, when the vein was felt to be firm and consolidated, but it was often found that the portions of the vein between the needles were still pervious, and continued so after the removal of the "needles. I adopt, therefore, the plan of allowing the needle to ulcerate its way through, making sure that it is placed quite below the vein and not through it, so as to ensure that the circulation has been absolutely cut off, and the vein completely obliterated. Still I do not look upon this operation as really a radical cure for varix, because the venous circulation must be carried on, and the deep-seated veins alone cannot possibly accomplish this. Thus, when one superficial vein is obliterated, others become visible, and begin to enlarge, and then over-distension leads to valvular incom- petency and varix in them. Whilst, however, we cannot radically cure the disease, we can do a great deal in this way to bring about a cure. We can get rid of the veins principally affected, and then, by using palliative means to support the circulation, we can prevent the collateral branches becoming so distended as to give rise to much inconvenience. That is all I can say for the radical cure of the disease. It is not a true radical cure, except as regards the vein originally affected ; and varix is a disease which we cannot expect to cure radically, for we cannot obliterate all the veins of the limb. In cases of varicose ulcers, the first thing to do is to get rid of the varicose condition of the veins of the limb : without doing tliis we cannot expect to cure the ulcer; and in such cases the radical method of obliterating the veins principally affected is of great value. In some cases of varix we have to consider the question of