CONTENTS. V tion of Patellar Bursa>, and Oi)ei'ations for their removal—Thecal Bursites, acute and chronic—Bursal swelling at Wrist containing loose bodies—Special Treatment ... ... Pages 331-337 LECTURE XLVI. Injuries of Bones and Joints—Definitions of the terms Fracture, Dislocation, Dia- stasis—Diagnostics of Fracture and Dislocation in general—Classification of Fractures—Simple Fracture—Process of Union—Reduction and Coaptation— Various causes of Displacement—Pietentive Apparatus . 338-345 LECTUEE XLYII. Transverse and Oblique Fractures—Comminuted Fracture, Dangers, Treatment— Compound Fracture—Importance of considering the kind of Force causing the Injury—Question of Primary Amputation—Risks of Pyemia and Gan- grene—Question of Secondary Amputation—Complications in Fracture 346-353 LECTUEE XLVIIL Period at which a Fracture is consolidated—Dangers of using the Limb too soon— Bending of the Injured Bone—This Risk specially great in the Young— Necessity of permitting Passive Motion at an early period in certain Frac- tures—Failure of Union—Causes, Local and Constitutional—Condition of the Bone in such cases—False Joint, Methods of Treatment—Subcutaneous Sec- tion—Seton—Resection—Dieflfenbacli's Method—Injuries of Texture result- ing from Dislocation—Process of- Healing when Reduction is immediately accomplished—Alteration of Structure in cases of Old Unreduced Luxation— Importance of these Changes in regard to Practice—General Rule as to the Period and Conditions under which Reductions may be attempted in Old Luxations ....... 354-364 LECTURE XLIX. Fractures of the Clavicle—Symptoms and Causes of Displacement—Treatment— Dislocations of Clavicle—At Sternal Extremity—Secondary Dislocation from Disease of Spine, and Operative Measures required for its relief—At Acromial End—Appearances somewhat resembling Dislocation at Shoulder-joint—Pro- gnosis and Treatment—Fractures of Scapula—Fracture of Neck, simulating Dislocation into Axilla—Treatment .... 365-371 LECTURE L. Fracture of Neck of Humerus—Diastasis—Inter-articular Fracture in Adults—Dis- placing causes in Fracture of Surgical Neck—Diagnosis between these Injuries