602 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. came away, as Dr. Hislop of course was often engaged withi cases at a distance. At first the stump healed very rapidly, except where the ligatures hung out. The ligature of the superficial femoral separated on the fifteenth day from the time it was applied, or about eight days after the amputation. Subsequently the patient sufl'ered from irritation of the bowels, and one or two attacks of general erythema supervened, beginning on the face, and spreading over the trunk and stump, but gradually, under the use of the tincture of the muriate of iron, and attention to diet, his general health began to amend, and then the stump healed well. Last summer he was in perfect health, and able to walk considerable distances, and still continues, he says, in better health than for many years before his illness. Dissection of the Limb.—I carefully examined the amputated limb the morning after the operation. I found all the textui'es covered and matted together with firmly consolidated lymph, so that on removing the gastroc- nemius and soleus mirscles, no trace could be seen or felt of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, or of the fibular artery. To avoid all risk of accidental lesion of these vessels during dissection, I cleared the popliteal artery, and being unprovided with a syringe, I passed a long probe gently downwards, so as to guide me in the direction of the vessels. By very careful dissection I cleared the upper part of the posterior tibial artery, and in doing this I came ujjon a soft and sloughy portion of lym^jh, which readily broke down under the handle of the scalpel, and proved to be part of the cyst of a small abscess or cavity about the size of a large filbert, containing pus and grumous blood, in which a portion of the fibular artery lay insulated, and of a dirty green colour. I withdrew the probe from the posterior tibial artery, and passed it gently into the fibular. There was no opening on the posterior surface of the vessel, or that towards the wound. I therefore made an incision so as to remove a considerable portion of the vessels and surrounding soft parts, so as to be able to examine it more carefully afterwards. On doing so I found the vessel immediately above and below the small cyst or abscess encrusted (if I may use the term) with firmly adherent lymph. This lymph was continuous with that which formed the walls of the abscess, and opened anteriorly by an irregular ulcerated orifice. On enlarging this opening, so as to expose the anterior surface of the peroneal artery, and, on injecting water from the popliteal, a hair-like stream was seen to issue from the forepart of the fibular artery. I then removed the whole anterior portion of the cyst, and found the peroneal artery perforated by a minute ulcerated opening, large enough to admit a bristle. The coats of the vessel, however, were soft, thin, and of a greenish colour, and completely insulated for about an inch, whilst beyond the insulated part the tunics of the vessel were inseparably incorporated with the lymph, so as to defy all attempts to clear the vessel by dissection. Some small necrosed portions of the fibula still remained attached at its upper part. Bemarks.—The principal point of interest in this case is the complication caused by the occurrence of haemorrhage from the ulceration of the fibular artery, in consequence of its being