DISLOCATION. 361 consequent on dislocation as contrasted with those after fracture. When a bone is dislocated a considerable amount of injury is caused to the connecting ligamentous textures. In the case of the capsular joints, such as those of the shoulder and hip, we have the proper capsule of the articulation torn through at its weakest point, generally towards the lower or inner part of the capsule, and the muscular textures are also injured. At one time it was supposed that dislocation might take place without this occurring. It was thought that simply from the elongation of the elastic fibres the head of the bone might escape from its articulating surface without actual rupture of the ligamentous texture ; but no practical sur- geon, so far as I know, ever believed in it, it was merely a theory. We find that in aU cases the ligaments are ruptured, and sometimes even the capsular muscles torn from their insertion, by the degree of force causing the injury. If the head of the bone be reduced at once, the capsule and the other soft textures heal by the process of adhesion, though the cicatrix will not be so strong as the natural texture. In the hinge-like joints tlie lateral ligaments sometimes give way, but seldom so completely as the capsular ligaments. In the elbow-joint, for example, it is simply the anterior and posterior ligaments which give way and allow of the displacement. When the dislocation is reduced, as a general rule the cap- sule heals, and the use of the limb is perfectly restored. If, however, a dislocation has been left long unreduced, the joint remains stiff for some time, but afterwards the mobility in- creases. The movements, indeed, are not the natural movements of the joint, but they allow the patient to move the limb to a considerable extent, and it becomes tolerably useful. If such a patient be brought to a surgeon, reduction should hardly be attempted if the joint be very movable, for the chances are against reduction being accomplished. Tlie fact is, that a new articulation is being formed, and this accounts for the movements being so free. The surfaces of the bone always become more or less altered. The glenoid cavity, for example, becomes some-