276 DISEASES OF BONES. more cloacte leading to the sequestrum from different aspects of the limb, we will often find that whilst the probe cannot move the sequestrum when introduced by one opening, if we intro- duce it by the opening on the opposite side of the limb we at once displace and move it readily. I have also found it useful to examine with a steel probe terminating in three short thick points, which catch the smooth surface of the sequestrum and move it if it be loose, instead of moving on its surface. In super- ficial necrosis, as that of the. cranial bones or tibia, the exfoli- ation is frequently detached vitally, but remains attached by mechanical cohesion of the opposed surfaces and atmospheric pressure ; and whenever we raise the edge of the exfoliation and tilt it a little over, the whole comes away readily. In deep-seated necrosis, where the sequestrum is imprisoned in the medullary cavity of the bone, or in a case of new substitute bone, and where we feel it loose, or where we know that due time has elapsed to insure its having separated vitally, we must have recourse to operative interference for its removal, so as to prevent it from exciting mischief in neighbouring joints or other parts. Operations for necrosis are often tedious and laborious, especially in chronic cases, where the substitute bone is thick and almost of the density of ivory. There is no possibility of laying down positive rules for such irregular operations ; but there are certain points which should be specially attended to. First, as regards hemorrhage. Means must be taken to arrest bleeding during the operation, as the vascularity of the textures, and their almost cartilaginous tliickness by preventing the retraction of divided vessels, cause the hemorrhage to be always very smart and often profuse ; and as such operatic:^ are frequently pro- tracted, the loss of blood might be serious unless the precaution of using a tourniquet were adopted. Secondly, we must not only make our incisions in the soft parts free, but in order to reach the diseased bone, we must dissect them back on either side ; as they are altered and thickened, and do not retract as they would in the natural state of parts, we can gain no room but by dissecting.