580 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODJESSELS. aneurism should be used : the free inosculations through the palmar arches would otlierwise be likely to prevent coagulation and consolidation of the contents of the sac. In cases of false aneurism of the radial or ulnar following injuries, we require to be on our guard against a wrong diagnosis. During this last summer, a man was sent to my care by Dr. Cochrane of Auchterarder, with a false aneurism of the radial, which had followed upon a comminuted fracture of the radius. After the fracture united, the aneurism showed itself When admitted into hospital, the appearance was exceedingly like that of an abscess aboiit to burst. The skin over the swelling was red and tense, and very thin and pointing in the centre. A hurried look at the swelling might have easily led an incautious person to plunge a lancet into the aneurism. The skin was so thin and tense that I operated immediately on his ad- mission. The opening in the artery was very large and easily recognised, without relaxing the tourniquet. The case did well. I now proceed to speak of aneurisms occurring in the pelvis and lower extremity, commencing with Inguinal Aneurisms.—These are aneurisms affecting the external iliac artery. They are not very common. We must be careful to distinguish them from soft malignant tumours arising in the iliac fossa, and possessing a slightly pulsating feel- ing. In many cases these tumours are very vascular, with a large vessel breaking up in their interior and communicating to the tumour a feeling of pulsation very like that of an aneurism. Such tumours have been more than once mistaken for in- guinal aneurisms. Another form of disease situated in this region, though of very rare occurrence, is the disease of bone called osteo-aneurism. This consists in a peculiar arrangement of the vessels in the bones of the pelvis. It is, in fact, an erectile tumour of bone. It somewhat resembles an aneurism, but is never well circumscribed. It has an irregular form, and wants the sac which an aneurism possesses. If the disease has existed for some time, it may be rather difficult to distin-