359 RESECTION. moved. It ouglit to be left in only till excited action occurs, for otherwise there is danger of acute necrosis of the shaft coming on, and in some cases this simple operation has led to amputation. On the withdrawal of the seton, the retentive appara- tus should be again applied, and the parts kept perfectly fixed for some time. This simple-looking operation of passing a seton between the ends of the broken bone was often attended by vory serious consequences, such as necrosis of the bone, suppura- tion and irritative fever, and even the death of the patient, and very generally it was found that union had not taken place, and that the parts were still movable. The next plan is that of resection of the bone. It is generally found that in the worst cases of non-union the ends of the bone are atrophied, and only approach one another without having any tendency to unite. In the treatment by resection, an incision is made over the fracture, the ends of the bone laid bare, and an inch or so is sawn off each end. The ends of the bone are then replaced, and the limb put up again in the reten- tive apparatus. This is practically turning a simple fracture into a compound one ; and in many cases, necrosis, siippuration, irritative fever, and pyaemia come on, and often amputation of the limb has to be performed afterwards. A modification of this plan, however, is the one which I still have recourse to as a last resort. In 1854* I published a case in which I had carried out the treatment on a principle of my own. It was a case of non- union after fracture of the humerus in a youug man. In this case I removed the ends of the bone, which were atrophied and rounded off, but not with the saw. I merely snij)ped off the rounded ends of the bone with the bone-pliers, so as to remove only a very small portion of bone, and this was done without lifting out the bone from the soft textures. In this case the union of the fracture took place in about six weeks, and I have since employed this method successfully in several cases, though not in all iu which I have tried it. The principle is one in which I have great confidence. The less disturbance of the soft parts * See Clinical Cases at end of this section.