CAROTID ANEURISM. 569 instance and become harder afterwards. Moreover, the pulsa- tion will not be expansile, though it may be very distinct, and the fluid will not be repressible, for we cannot press the purulent matter back out of the swelling as we could if it were an aneurism, which can be compressed, and which, on removing the pressure, would fill again with a bound. Then, by pressing on the carotid artery lower down, an aneurism would become flaccid, while an enlarged gland would remain unaffected. We are often told that the best way of arriving at a correct diagnosis is to make the patient relax the head while we at the same time draw away the swelling from over the artery. If it be an enlarged gland, we do not then feel any pulsation in it. We cannot, however, always effect this, for the sheath of the artery and the gland may be connected together as the result of chronic inflammation. The three other symptoms before mentioned should, however, enable us to form a correct diagnosis in all cases. An aneurism may form on the carotid artery lower down than where it bifurcates, and then there may be greater difficulty in the diagnosis. I have seen a tumour with a very distinct pulsation situated there, which could be made to disappear by gradual compression. In that case the artery was tied, and the swelling seemed to disappear, but after the patient's death it was found that there had been no aneurism at all, that in fact the swelling was a chronic abscess amongst the deep-seated glands along the common carotid trunk, which had passed into the ante- rior mediastinum, so that the apparent repression of the fluid was caused by its passage into the mediastinum. With ordinary care and attention to the history of the case these mistakes will gene- rally be avoided. The really difficult cases to diagnose are those of vascular erectile tumours situated upon the course of the artery indirectly communicating with it or the jugular vein. In such cases the symptoms are almost identical with those of aneurism. As regards the Treatment of carotid aneurism, as in that of the Uiac arteries, compression is out of the question, and there- fore the only plan is to tie the artery. But it is only in certain