CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. G25 2 S the popliteal, and only 66 tlie femoral artery; and of these 66, only 21 were truly femoral or femoro-popliteal." This may be accounted for by the exposed position of the artery in Scarpa's triangle and in the popliteal space, allowing for expansion at these points ; while, in the intermediate part, the vessel is sur- rounded by muscles and aponeurosis. The most frequently employed modes of treating such cases are compression, or ligature of the superficial femoral or external iliac arteries. The former of these methods is uncertain and tedious, while the latter is attended with great success. In the case of W. W., not a single bad symptom followed the operation, and a very small amount of sup)puration served to cause separation of the ligature. On his being dismissed from hospital, the tumour was firm, painless, and less than half its original size. The patient walked about without experiencing any inconvenience ; and when heard of, about six months later, he was able to work as formerly, and the tumour continued to diminish. Traumatic Varicose Femoral Aneurism successfully TREATED BY DoUBLE LiGATURE. On Thursday, 26th March 1868, I was requested by Mr. Miller, surgeon, Rankeillor Street, to visit Kobert K , a youth who had received a wound in the thigh about three weeks previously. Accordingly I met Mr. Miller and Dr. Littlejohu in consultation. Miller, who had been called to the lad immediately after the injury, gave me the following accoimt :— " I was hastily called by the police to the shop of Mr. Prentice, druggist, 126 Nicolson Street, on the afternoon of Wednesday, 4th inst. (March 1868), to see Robert K , aged fifteen years, of Graham Street, who had been stabljed with a spear-pointed knife by a school-fellow. Supported by a man he had walked from Buccleuch Street, and had fainted by the way from loss of blood. I found him lying on two chairs, very pale and faint, in consec[uence of profuse liEemorrhage issuing from a woiand in the upper and anterior aspect of the right thigh. The wound, which extended obliquely upwards, was about three-quarters of an inch in length, and one inch and a half in depth. After stopping the hsemorrhage and dressing the wound, I had him conveyed home in a cab. He pro- gressed very favourably, and in ten days the wound had entirely healed, though the patient still continued A\'eak. Perfect rest was still enjoined, bvit after a few days he could not be restrained fi'om going out and walking about, though rendered lame by slight pain and stiffness of the