513 PRACTICAL DEDUCTIONS. will infallibly give rise to retrograde bleeding from the lower part of the vessel. But it is equally evident, I think, that the ligature above and below the opening, in such a case, could not be expected to hold above two or three days; as from the impaired vitality both of the vessel, internally and externally, and of surrounding parts, there is no tendency to effusion of plastic lymph necessary for the reparative process. Unless, therefore, something be done to prevent the direct impulse of the blood upon the weakened part, secondary ha3morrhage would almost certainly occur. I consider it the better plan to tie the artery where it is surrounded by healthy parts, whilst we also apply ligatures above and below the ulcerated opening in the artery, so as to prevent retrograde haemorrhage, and allow of proper dressing being applied to the parts. In this manner I treated a case of bleeding from the brachial at the bend of the arm, in consequence of severe burn, involving the limb up to the axilla. I placed ligatures above and below the opening in the brachial, and then tied the lowest third of the axillary artery. The lower ligatures separated on the third day, without htemor- rhage, that of the axillary on the thirteenth ; and the patient did quite well.""" Zd, As the plastic effusion must depend upon the quantity and healthy character of the circulating blood for its development, it is evident that any state of the general system which will give rise to want of healthy action in the neighbour- ing parts, from the low state of the circulation, or which will alter the healthy character of the blood, must necessarily inter- fere with the development of the new formation, and impair its fitness for the functions which it has to perform, either by not furnishing it in sufficient quantity, or else giving rise to an effusion possessed of less plasticity than is requisite for the reparative processes it has to effect. Hence, whilst in the after- treatment of patients in whom large arteries have been tied, we avoid the use of stimulants as a rule, we must, on the other hand, be careful to give nutritious non-stimulating diet, to support the strength and furnish the healthy plasma necessary to effect the haemostatic process. * See Clinical Cases. 2l