348 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. tendency to alteration, small splints are put on laterally, and the case must be watched carefully for some time. If the injury has been caused by great direct violence, there is a greater risk of the fracture becoming a compound comminuted one, by in- flammation and suppuration, or by sloughing. As regards the after-treatment of the case, if there be any inflammation, a cold or tepid water cloth is applied on the surface for a time. The splints must be kept carefully applied, and the part left open, so that it may be dressed easily, and in this way, if there be not much fever, comminuted fractures often do very well. In some cases we find that we cannot bring the parts into position so well as we could wish, small pieces of bone slipping out as soon as they are adjusted. When this happens, we should content ourselves with merely maintaining the general position and length of the limb, and not meddle with the parts too much at first, but rather wait for a week or ten days till a certain amount of plastic exudation has been thrown out, and then model the bone properly, for now the exudation will keep the small fragments of bone together. The general position of the limb should never be altered, the two great portions of the bone—the lower and the upper—should be adjusted at once, and always kept in a line with each other; but we should not meddle too much with the intermediate comminuted fragments, as that may cause too great irritation. Opiates should be given to allay the pain, and attention to diet, is essential. In comminuted fracture of the cancellated bones of the foot, the comminution is very great. Suppuration and necrosis of part of the bone very often take place, requiring amputation to be performed, though in some few cases this may not be required. In compound fracture there are peculiar dangers which must be specially attended to. It may seem strange that a simple wound communicating with the fractured bone shovdd make so much difference, and cause so much danger, but so it is, and even a comparatively slight fracture communicating with an external wound is always more dangerous than a simple fracture, or a simple comminuted fracture. We must