495 ABRIDGMENT OF THE LIGA TURE. been abandoned entirely in this country. But whilst the advocates of the round ligature in this country were giving up the use of the temporary ligature, Scarpa revived it on the Continent. From repeated experiments it was found that the broad flat ligature applied according to his plan, and withdrawn on the third, fourth, or fifth day, invariably effected complete obliteration of the artery. Paletta mentions two cases, one of ligature of the femoral, and the other of the humeral artery, in which the ligatures were removed on the fourth day. Both cases terminated favourably ; and Velpeau states that Scarpa, Biraghi, Molina, Fenini, Maunoir, Wattmau, Fitz, Medoro-Solera, Eoberts, and several other continental surgeons, had operated with success by this plan, in cases of aneurism of the carotid and femoral arteries. There can be Kttle doubt that the removal of the broad flat ligatures and linen cylinders of Scarpa and his followers, at a period before their presence gave rise to excessive suppuration and ulceration, was a thing very desirable, where this could be effected without great disturbance to the parts, and might have in some degree obviated the other evils consequent on the broad ligature. We do not therefore wonder at Scarpa attempting to lay it down as a principle of practice in every case, as he must have found the bad effects of the continued presence of a large foreign body around the artery, and its removal was perhaps the less of two evils. But in cases where the small round ligature is used, its presence is comparatively free from risk, whilst the removal of the ligature is not, and therefore the plan, as I have already said, has been abandoned in this country even by its originators. Next in the history of the ligature may be mentioned the attempt by Mr. Lawrence and others to diminish its size, and, by cutting off both ends close to the vessel, to allow the external wound to heal over it by the first intention. This was very readily eftected in many cases, but unfortunately it was found that the small knot would not remain quiescent, for, however fine the silk employed, and however well the wound healed in the first instance, small abscesses formed till the ligature was expelled.