EFFECTS ON NEIGHBOURING STRUCTURE. 523 presented the appearance of a direct communication between the two portions of the carotid, and its connection with the ascending collateral branch would have been lost. Any one who compares the two preparations I have alluded to, or looks at Fig. 3, Plate xxiii., will have little difficulty in determining the true nature of these supposed new vessels described by Dr, Parry and others, and in coming to the same conclusion as I have done—That they are not new vessels, but merely portions of the enlarged inosculations of previously existing vessels of the sheath. Lastly, we have to consider the effects which this alteration in the circulation produces upon organs in the vicinity of the obstructed artery, and the symptoms to which these effects may sometimes give rise. I have shov/n that, immediately after the application of the ligature, the blood which formerly passed through the obstructed vessel is thrown upon and distends all the vessels in the neighbourhood, th;is giving rise to a great increase of vascularity in the surrounding textures, and consequently more or less affecting their functions. But of all the tissues, we find the nerves to be most affected by this increased vascularity. The vessels of the neurilemma and their ramifications amongst the fibrillte of the nerves are generally very much distended from the first, and continue to be so for a very considerable period after obliteration has been accomplished and the general vas- cularity diminished. This is more especially the case with those nerves which are in immediate contact with and run parallel to an artery which has been tied. If we reflect for a moment, it must be evident that such distension of the neurilemmal vessels and increased vascularity of the nervous texture can scarcely fail to give rise to irritation and cor- responding symptoms in the organs to which such nerves are distributed. To this cause the neuralgic pains which occur after ligature of the arteries of the extremities have long been very generally referred. But it is not a little singular that the influence of the same cause has been so little attended to with reference to nerves of special functions. I here particularly