DISLOCA TION OF HIP-JO INT. 399 somewhat the same symptoms—obliquity and shortening of the limb, with inversion of the knee. In the dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium the deformity is greater and the swelling of the trochanter is much more visible. In dislocation into the ischiatic notch the symptoms are less marked, and the diagnosis, as weU as the treatment, is more difficult. In dislocation backwards the injury is caused by great force. No fall directly upon the trochanter would be likely to give rise to a dislocation. It occurs either by the patient coming to the ground with the knee bent while the body is still in motion, or more frequently from falls of earth, or the like, upon the patient whilst he is stooping. It always requires a very considerable amount of indirect violence, with a certain position of the body and limb at the time, to cause these dislocations, for it requires great force to rupture the strong ligaments of the hip-joint. They are not uncommon accidents, though by no means so common as fractures in this region, which may be caused by a much less degree of force. The dislocation may sometimes be accompanied by fracture of the pelvis, from the kind of force causing the injury, as, for example, in pit accidents, or by a person falling from a great height; and then the prognosis is very unfavourable from the injury to the pelvic viscera, which is almost always present. In the reduction of these dislocations the direction of the force should always be in the direction of the axis of the dislocated bone, the pelvis and trunk being fixed. As a general rule, the lacqiie should be fixed above the knee-joint, so as to act on the femur directly, though I have often succeeded in reducing a dislocation by fixing the laque above the ankle Avhen I have failed to do so with it placed above the knee. Still, as a general rule, we should begin with the laque fixed in that position. In reducing luxation on the dorsum ilii, the force should be directed in such a way as to carry the bone obliquely dow'n- wards and forwards. A sheet is placed round the limb, and an assistant draws laterally on the bone so as to tilt the head and neck from off the surface of the ilium, in order that the