456 DISEASES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. or three days after this I begin the use of the special apparatus, and that which I prefer is Stromeyer's, modified to suit particular cases. There is, however, one part of the apparatus which I consider of essential importance, and that is the formation of the sole of the foot-piece. This is very generally made of a single piece, so that whether we act on the foot by side-spring, screw- lever, or straps, the whole foot, including the heel, is acted on. Now, if we remember that the inversion is at the transverse arti- culation, between the os calcis and astragalus, with the cuboid and scaphoid bones, it is evident that we can correct the deformity most efficiently by keeping the heel fixed in a straight position, and then everting tlie anterior part of the foot. For this reason the sole of the boot, or apparatus, ought always to be composed of two separate portions, as represented in Figs. 11 to 14, Plate xx. so as to allow us to act directly on the deformity. In other respects we require to watch each case, and modify our apparatus according to circumstances. I have frequently tried straps of vulcanised india-rubber instead of leather, but I confess I begin to suspect there is a fallacy in trusting to such elastic material; we can scarcely regulate them so well as less yielding straps. Talipes Valgus is another form of club-foot. In it there is eversion of the foot. The foot is turned upwards and outwards, very much as it is in Pott's fracture ; owing to the contraction of the peronei muscles (Plate xx. Fig. 10). The talipes valgus is, however, not nearly so common as the talipes varus, nor is it met with so often as a persistent condition, though it is not un- frequently met with in young girls as a hysterical condition. In such cases, by general constitutional treatment, and by rubbing the limb for a time with the hand, and moving the foot in- wards, we find that the foot can gradually be replaced without any force. We rarely require to divide the tendons in talipes valgus unless it be a persistent condition, and then the peronei are the muscles in fault, and the section of their tendons is very readily effected where they pass behind the malleolus externus.