L UXA TION, WITH FRA CTURE. 379 Various other methods have been advocated, and are employed, with greater or less advantage, according to circum- stances ; but they are all founded on the same obvious principles, and, whichever you adopt, bear in mind that the extending force must be applied gradually, and the manipulations performed with care. "When the head of the bone has been restored to the glenoid cavity, we place a pad in the axilla, and the arm is kept fixed to the side by a sling. If the head of the bone happens to have escaped through a small opening in the ligaments, the reduction will be much more difficult than if the opening be large ; and if the ligamentous textures be tense, the difficulty will be still greater. When we once begin to attempt reduction in long- standing dislocations, we do not like to give up without effect- ing it, but we should remember that our efforts to do this may cause greater damage than the unreduced dislocation would. If we find, after a fair trial by pulleys and other means, that we cannot reduce the dislocation, then we should stop, especially in old people, whose arteries are liable to give way. Such an event as this would complicate the injury very much. Another condition must be remembered in these dislocations —namely, that we may have a fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus accompanying the dislocation, though at one time this was doubted. When this accident happens, the dislocation occurs first, and afterwards the dislocated shaft of the bone is broken. I do not believe that, if the fracture should take place first, any amount of force could dislocate the head of the bone. The dis- location always takes place first, and then the bone is easily enough fractured. This injury is easy to make out when present, but the reduction is exceedingly difficult, for we have no power to act on the head of the bone, and, in fact, we depend more upon chance than upon anything else. If the head of the bone have escaped through a small opening in the ligamentous textures, it is hopeless to try and efiect reduction.