£8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. hand on the tumour, we feel the expansile pulsation in it. In the early stage the blood in the sac is quite fluid, and then by com- pressing it Ave can repress the contents into the circulation, and so make the swelling disappear. On removing the pressure, it fills again with a bound, as is the case in all true aneurisms. The same thing also takes place when we compress the femoral artery, so long as the tumour is still fluid. The aneurism may begin in another way, if it be fusiform. This form, however, is very rare in the popliteal space. In my own prac- tice I have only met with one example of fusiform popliteal aneu- rism. In such cases the patient feels pain and uneasiness in the site of the aneurism, and some coldness of the limb, with numbness and a pricking sensation from the irregular circulation, but not from pressure on the nerves, for in the early stage this kind of aneu- rism is just like a dilated artery. We feel the artery pulsating more distinctly than we can do in the healthy limb. There is in fact simply a dilatation at one point of the vessel, which gradu- ally narrows on either side of the dilatation, giving the aneiirism a peculiar spindle-like shape. The ordinary true aneurism may attain a very large size. In it the internal and middle coats of the artery give way, and the external fibro-cellular coat forms the sac of the aneu- rism. The pain and tension increase as the tumour be- comes solid, while the pulsation diminishes. Some oedema of the limb also takes place, and there may be a difficulty in the diagnosis of the case. Sometimes the aneurism proceeds very rapidly; it may burst and become diffuse, and then there is a total alteration in the symptoms : the blood is effused into the limb, the collateral as well as the main circulation is impeded, and gangrene generally results in such cases. The early symptoms of popliteal aneurism are not unlike those of rheuma- tism, or the accidental rupture of the fibres of the gastrocnemius from unwonted exercise, where we find numbness, stiffness, and some of the other symptoms of popliteal aneurism. On the other hand it is quite possible that a small amount of exertion may rupture the coats of the artery and lead to the formation of an