501 REVIEW OF VARIOUS OPINIONS. conclusions. The external effusion and thickening around and upon the coats of the artery, and the occasional absence, and consequently the non-essentiality of the clot, had attracted the observation of Pouteau. But from his attributinf? this thickening to a wrong cause, and from not viewing it in connection with other parts of the process, he was led away from perceiving its true value and beauty in tlie operation (of which Dr. Jones also seems ignorant, and scarcely alludes to it except as incidental), and brought to advance a very dangerous practical doctrine. Obliteration of the canal of the artery in consequence of the adhesive inflammation excited by the ligature—the part of the process so much insisted on by Jones—together with the ulcerative process for separation of the ligature, had been very fully pointed out by John Bell. And indeed, if we make allowance for the plan of operation he describes and his peculiar style of description, he seems to have almost forestalled Dr. Jones in regard to these particulars. "Whilst, as regards the determination of the blood on the collateral branches, the ultimate enlargement of these, the manner in which the circula- tion is re-established above and below the deligated point, and all that regards the collateral circulation, Mr. Bell had left but little for any one to add. Nevertheless, it is to the investiga- tions of Dr. Jones, as we have already said, that the profession is indebted for consolidating our knowledge of all that was truly valuable in the vague notions entertained by those who had investigated the subject before him, by pointing out the different steps of the process from first to last by direct experiment. And though, in common with others, he may not have estimated each part of the process at its true value, still the general principles he deduced as to practice are so correct, that, as they gained ground rapidly at first, they have stood the test of the past with slight modification, and are still likely to continue in favour. The controversy caused by the publication of Dr. Jones's experiments, when the various statements of Scarpa and others are carefully examined, seems rather to involve the question as