INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 360 and of the broken ends of tlie bone the better, and the less bone removed the better. Besides, the resection with the bone-pliers resembles a fracture more closely than that made with the saw. All cases of fracture, however, are not suitable for resection, and then another method of treatment may be adopted, but the plan is only applicable to certain forms of fracture—namely, oblic[ue fractures. This plan consists of the introduction of pegs into the fracture so as to keep the ends and surfaces of the bone fixed together, and also to excite action in the bone. An incision is made over the fracture, and a hole is bored through the ends of the bone which are overlapping each other without being united ; a steel or an ivory peg is then introduced into the hole, and the ends of the bone are thus brought firmly into contact. This plan was first adopted by Dieffenbach, who, noticing that the presence of a piece of necrosed bone caused a great deal of action in the part, thought that by making the ivory peg represent the ne- crosed portion of bone, the same amount of action would be excited, and the peg could be removed afterwards like the necrosed bone. The principle and the reasoning are good, and in certain cases of oblique fracture this plan has met with success, but still it has not been so successful as might have been wished. The pegs sometimes give rise to irritation and acute necrosis of the bone without causing union, still it is a method which I would have recourse to after all other means had failed to cause union, especially in oblique fracture of the tibia, where the bone is so superficial. At first sight the plan looks absurdly mechanical, but the principle of it is good—namely,'to excite action in the bone, and not merely to keep the parts toge- ther mechanically. These are the principal methods of treating ununited frac- ture, but the slighter operations shoiild be tried first, especially the subcutaneous method of incision, and that failing, the removal of merely the ends of the bone with the bone-pliers. We must attend carefully to constitutional treatment, for without that all the other means will fail. I now proceed to notice briefly the changes which take place