394 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. just at the wrist-joint (Plate xvi. Fig. 14). The splints should reach to the tips of the fingers, and should be less padded in front of the radius than on its posterior aspect. The limb is then carefully bandaged and kept thus for about three weeks, when the splints should be taken off and shortened, and the passive move- ments of the finger-joints should be begun. These passive move- ments do not affect the fractured portions of bone. After about four or five weeks we may begin slight passive movements of the wrist-joint, taking care while doing so to hold the arm firmly at the fractured point. If we keep the arm up in splints for six weeks or more, till the bone is thoroughly united, the fingers and wrist become so stiff that the patient may not be able to use them for a long time. Dislocation of the Wrist.—I have seen but one disloca- tion at the wrist-joint, and that was one of old standing. I used to be very doubtful as to the existence of such a dislocation, for most of the cases reported as such I have found to be cases of fracture. The one alluded to was really one of dislocation. In our diagnosis between dislocation, and fracture immediately above the styloid process of the radius, if we take as our guide the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the styloid process of the radius, we find that in the fracture the distance between these two points does not vary—they remain in their natural relative positions. The hand and the lower fragment of the bone have been both drawn upwards and backwards, but there is no displacement of the carpus upon the radius. In the dislocation, however, this is very marked. The metacarpal bone is much higher up, and the styloid process is felt to approach the metacarpal bone in front, causing swelling in that position. There is also a swelling behind, from the rounded mass of the carpus projecting posteriorly. In the radial fracture we have no alteration in the relative position of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the styloid process of the radius, and we have not the swelling in front caused by the projection of the large articular end of the bone, so that we can scarcely mistake one injury for the other. Moreover, in the dislocation, once reduc.