PHLEBITIS. 4G1 from the application of a ligature to a vein, though my experience does not show that it is so likely to occur from this latter cause, especially if the vein has been cut across, as in amputation. There seems to be more chance of its occurring after ligature of a con- tinuous vein. The symptoms of phlebitis are, first, pain in the part, and tenderness along the course of the vein. Eed lines are seen stretching up the limb, from inflammation of the veins and lymphatics. Then acute oedema and tension supervene, with a sort of erysipelatous redness over the whole limb. In some forms of phlebitis, instead of redness, the limb is preternaturally white, swollen, and glistening. These phenomena are accompanied by constitutional symptoms, rigors, a peculiar faintness, a tendency to yawning, and a feeling of prsecordial weight and oppression. Occasionally there is also some nausea, but this is not constant. There is not much headache at first, though it comes on second- arily. If the phlebitis be less acute, the symptoms come on more slowly. If the vein be deep-seated, there may be no redness, but the pulse rises. In all cases it is very rapid and irritable. The tongue is brown in the centre, and red and glazed at the edges, from the irritative fever accompanying the disease. The patient complains of what he calls rheumatic pains in some joint. The shoulder-joint generally becomes first affected, next the elbow, and then the wrist. The rigors become more frequent, and there is an increase of all the irritative symptoms. In some cases, pre- ceding the affection of the joints, the patient complains of great pain towards the right side and back, and over the liver, while at other times there are in the early stage symptoms of pneu- monia and of abscess taking place in the lung. These conditions depend, in the first instance, on the direction of the circulation through the vein. The inflammation extends along the lining membrane, though this is denied by some, who hold that the lining membrane of veins is not liable to inflammation. I think we have evidence of that action in the diffuse redness of the lining membrane of the veins affected, thickening of their coats. We also find fibrinous deposits on the lining membrane of