535 SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. and till coagula cleared out, so that we may see what vessel is the source of ha3morrhage. This appears to me the only safe plan ; all temporising measures are dangerous. In cases of amputation it used to be advised to tie the main trunk higher in the limb without opening up the stump. In some few cases this may be necessary, owing to the state of the stump ; but direct ligature or acupressure of the affected vessel is generally the safest. Besides, we cannot be quite sure whether the main artery or arteries are the sources of the bleeding. I recollect, several years ago, being called to the hospital, in consequence of the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage from the stump of a thigh which was nearly healed, and from which the ligatures had separated some time previously without any bleed- ing. I was unwilling to open up the recently united parts; and, as the bleeding had been rapid, I concluded it must be from the fe- moral, and thought it would be better to tie the femoral in Scarpa's triangle. On second thougljts, however, I determined to open up the stump. There was no bleeding from the position of the femoral, but there was a very minute portion of the femur necrosed and separated. The surrounding periosteum was thick and vascular, and one large periosteal artery, opened by the ulcerative process, was seen pumping out blood freely, although the femoral was compressed in the thigh. ISTo other vessel required ligature ; the small scale of bone was removed, and the stump healed very rapidly. In this case, the proposed operation was not only unnecessary, but had I tied the femoral high up, I doubt if it would have effectually arrested the bleeding from the periosteal vessel. Eecently, in another private case, in which I had amputated the thigh high up, for a malignant vascular tumour of the condyle, secondary bleeding, to an alarming extent, took place about the tenth day. The bleed- ing was promptly arrested by the patient's medical attendant, who lived near him. On visiting him I found him blanched and faint, and the state of the bed-clothes showed that the loss of blood had been serious. A tourniquet was applied, the stump opened, the clots cleared out, and the surfaces sponged with