370 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. and a depression underneath. Looked at sideways, a marked difference will be observed, inasmuch as the end of the clavicle will in this injury alone be seen instead of the broad arch formed by the acromion and clavicle in dislocation of the shoulder, Moreover, the edge of the trapezius, tending to draw back the clavicle, is seen to stand out in bold relief Without these precautions you may make a mistaken diagnosis. All doubt will be dispelled when you begin to manipulate the parts. This dislocation requires great care in the treatment. Sir Astley Cooper affirmed that it never healed. He said that the articulating surfaces were so small, and the ligamentous textures united so imperfectly, that it was impossible to keep the parts in accurate contact. I have found in some cases that, though the dislocation was easily enougii reduced at first, it never healed com- pletely ; but in the majority of my cases the dislocation has done well enough. The parts become firmly united, and no deformity is left, the arm remaining as useful as before. The result depends a good deal on the care taken by the patient himself The Treat- ment of this dislocation is very much the same as that recom- mended in fracture of the clavicle, and almost the same apparatus is required. We must, however, not only brace back the shoulders, but we must have a pad pressing upon the acromial end of the clavicle, so as to keep it for at least six weeks in close apposition to the bone with which it is articulated, in order that the fibrous textures may unite thoroughly. Here is a cast taken from the shoulder of an old man, a patient of mine, who suffered from this injury, and who, from his age and habits (he was not an ab- stainer), gave little hope of recovery, yet with care and extra precautions he was entirely restored. The Scapula may be broken almost at any point. It is generally broken obliquely through its spine. The fractures of the body of the scapula are generally caused by great and direct violence, and are attended with much swelling and pain. Deep-seated crepitus may be discovered on moving the arm, or by grasping the coracoid process with one hand, and moving the body of the scapula with the other. The treatment consists