572 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. Neck much valuable information will be found on aneurisms in this region. He mentions a case of aneurism of the aorta closely resembling an aneurism of the subclavian. They may also simulate aneurisms in the third part of the subclavian, but this is not common. In aneurisms of the middle or third part of the subclavian artery, the question of treatment is very difficult. When the first part of the artery is tolerably healthy, there are three plans of treatment which may be adopted—namely, to tie the innominate artery, the first part of the subclavian, or the first part of the axillary—{i.e. on the distal side of the aneurism, according to Brasdoi''s operation). In all these operations there is a great deal of danger. In aneu- rism of the middle portion of the subclavian there is a great probability of the diseased condition extending beyond the tumour, and besides, the first part of the artery is not well suited for ligature, from its shortness, and from the important parts in the neighbourhood. In front of it is the vagus nerve with its recurrent branches ; behind and below it is the right pleura; external to it is the internal jugular vein; and close to it is the vertebral vein. All these important structures lying within a very small space. This makes the operation a difficult one ; but that of itself is not a sufficient reason for not performing it. Another and great objection to the operation is that there is a very short space of the vessel in which the hsemostatic process can take place. On the cardiac side of it are the innominate and right carotid arteries, while on the distal side are the vertebral and internal mammary arteries and the thyroid axis, all acting as disturbing causes to the natural hsemostatic changes. Another plan of treatment is ligature of the innominate artery; this is not a difficult operation. The artery, though deeply situated, can be readily enough exposed, and the operation was formerly preferred on this account. It was thought that the only difficulty wovdd be the sudden interference with the supply of blood to the right side of the head and neck; but in practice it was found that the very opposite result took place, and that the retrograde circulation on the distal side of the ligature formed the