2G0 DISEASES OF BONES. natural manner, gets down on its knees to pick up the object. The movement of stooping in this instance elicits the symptom of pain, and the child has instinctively learned to avoid that movement. In some cases, in very young children, twitchings and loss of povs^er in the lower limbs first attract attention—these symptoms in many cases depending not on any direct pressure on the spinal cord, but on indirect irritation from the contiguous disease. As the disease advances, the symptoms become unmis- takeable, the spinous processes gradually become more and more prominent. These changes are attended by deep-seated pain and muscular twitching, and followed by gradual loss of regulat- ing motor power. At length the curvature becomes very acute, and the stature of the patient is obviously diminished. After a time abscess forms, and the pus usually points outwards either in the lumbar or inguinal regions, constituting what is termed lumbar or psoas abscess. At this stage irritative or hectic symptoms supervene, and the patient may die from ex- haustion, or the irritation caused by the carious bone may lead to inflammation and softening of the spinal marrow, or the cord may suffer from pressure caused by the absorption of the diseased bodies of the vertebrse, and the falling in and approximation of those above and below the disease. Then we have paralysis of the organs below the site of the affection, retention of urine with chronic cystitis, and loss of power in the sphincter ani. In such cases the irritation, after a time, is generally propagated upwards, and leads to a fatal issue. The disease I have just described, arising from caries in the vicinity of an important vital organ, and so situated that the surgeon cannot reach it to remove the carious portion of bone by any operative procedure, is indeed an exceedingly dangerous disease, and would be utterly hopeless were the opinion correct that caries is only curable by excision of the diseased bone. In the latter or advanced stages, the disease is very hopeless ; but if properly and energetically treated at the earlier stages, we can do much to alleviate and often to cure the