TREATMENT OF MORBUS COX A RI US. 323 after about five or six weeks the patient may be taken out into the open air in a carriage, and thus allowed the benefit of pas- sive exercise v/hile the joint is still maintained at rest. In some cases, after five or six weeks, we use a starch bandage from the foot upwards round the pelvis and hip. This, from its rigidity, prevents to a great extent the movements of the hip; but in hospital practice, the long splint, in a modified form, is more simple. Amongst the poorer classes, the results of treat- ment are less favourable than those which are obtained amongst the middle and upper classes. A patient cannot be kept in hospital till the disease is thoroughly cured, for that woiild require about a year or eighteen months. Besides, the patients are seldom brought to the hospital in the earlier stage of the dis- ease, or indeed before deformity and shortening take place; and when the disease has been allowed to go on-so far as this, the splint alone is not likely to do much good. If the pain in the joint should increase, we must have recourse to still more active remedies, such as counter-irritation, and by far the best method of producing this, in connection with deeply- seated diseases of bone, is by the application of the actual cautery. If this be done behind the great trochanter, it will often be the means of arresting the disease even when it has passed beyond the first stage, and when ulceration of the cartilage has begun. If abscesses form, they must be opened; but the patient generally sinks when there is much suppuration, and if he recover, it is only with a greatly deformed limb. In other joints, before this stage is arrived at, amputation of the limb, or excision of the joint, should be performed ; but in the hip it is different. The question in all cases of excision is—Can we remove the whole of the disease ? In the shoulder- joint, the head of the humerus and the glenoid cavity can be completely removed, so that all the disease can be got rid of, and so also in the elbow and knee joints ; but in the hip-joint it is of no use to excise the head of the femur and leave the acetabulum which is also diseased. Then comes the question—Can we ex- cise the acetabulum ? In some cases with a gouge we may re-