326 DISEASES OF yOINTS. joint-diseases for operations requiring a long period of conva- lescence. In all cases of diseased joints, when the patient is very much exhausted, when hectic fever has come on, and when all means have been tried to save the limb, then amputation must be per- formed, and it is well not to let the patient's health sink too far before operating. In the knee the disease should not be allowed to go on till abscesses have formed all round it, as the operation will be much less likely to prove successful then than if done before, and the risk of pyaemia will be much greater. If we reqiiire to amputate where chronic abscesses are present, they should not be opened till the operation is performed, and then they should be freely opened, and painted afterwards with the tincture of iodine. If they are opened beforehand, irritative fever is often the result, and will, of course, tell very much against the operation afterwards. There is a disease of the hip resembling morbus coxarius in some of its characters, and which has been sometimes con- founded with it, but which seldom arises until the patient is con- siderably above forty years of age, while morbus coxarius generally occurs in childhood. The disease I refer to is Chronic Kheumatic Arthritis of the hip-joint. This has been described under a variety of names. If the patient has been seen early, and the fibrous and synovial structures chiefly examined, the disease is named after some change in them. If the osseous textures are ex- amined, it receives its name from changes in them. It has been termed " interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur," because the neck of that bone becomes so shortened as almost to lie below the level of the trochanter. And it has been called " porcellaneous disease " on account of the peculiar altera- tions which take place in the texture of the bone. The cancel- lated portion seems to be first opened out and then to become dense again, so that there are large foramina left on the surface. , Then, wherever the cartilage has been absorbed, the articular surface of the bone is noticed to be covered with a sort of china-