MORBUS COXARIUS. 321 the rectum, or in the female, into the vagina. The general health of the patient is, of course, much deranged from the irritative and hectic fever accompanying the disease. In the first stage there is simply the atrophy of the muscles, and a low form of inflammation in the acetabulum and head of the femur. The cartilages on both surfaces of bone are for a time iinaffected. They remain as a protection, to a certain extent, until the diseased action in the bone leads to their ulceration and exfoliation. Coincidently with that occurs suppuration within and around the joint. The changes which the bone undergoes lead to dislocation. We may have a positive dis- location of the head of the femur on the dorsum of the ilium as a consequence of disorganisation of the capsule of the joint. This is not common ; the fact is, that the appearances resembling dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium are most frequently caused by changes in the form of the head of the femur and of the acetabulum. The head of the femur may become ab- sorbed to a great extent, and the muscles, by acting on it, may give rise to the appearance of dislocation.* The acetabulum may suffer to a miich greater extent than the head of the bone, which then sinks deeper in, and in this case we often meet with abscesses opening into the anus or vagina. The pus formed in the acetabulum bursts through into the pelvis, making its way through the obturator internus and obturator fascia, and ap- pears by the side of the rectum. In other cases the head of the femur may be locked in the acetabulum from deposit of new bone round the margins of the cavity, and yet the appearances may be those of dislocation. There is no doubt that sometimes dislocation of the head of the femur really does take place, but generally the appearance of dislocation is caused by the head of the femur lying deeply in the acetabulum, or sometimes even in the pelvis, when it has broken through the acetabulum into that cavity. * Plate xiii. Fig. 3. Y