TREATMENT BY INCISION. 249 of blood. A boy of twelve had an attack of scarlet fever, and this was followed by typhoid fever. While recovering from the latter he was seized with sudden pain in the leg. Opiates- were given to procure rest; but the boy could take no food, and, when wine or other stimulants were given, the pain was increased. The case was supposed to be one of erythema; but on examining the patient I saw it was a case of acute inflamihation of bone— the boy being of a strumous diathesis. Notwithstanding his de- bilitated state, I made free incisions through the periosteum of the tibia, and thus relieved the symptoms greatly. After this the patient began to take proper nourishment, and got rest at night. He was not allowed to lose much blood, and recovered rapidly, without any exfoliation of bone or other bad symptom. This patient was very debilitated when the incisions were made, but had this not been done, he would have suffered much more, and would probably have died from the febrile excitement at- tending the disease. This is an example of the proper treatment, and is an encouragement to proceed to active measures even under what seems to be most unfavourable circumstances, for by so doing we are much more likely to prevent necrosis, and we certainly relieve the patient's sufferings. We do not require to adopt this treatment in all cases. When the tension is not so great, or when the bone is deeply seated, like the femur, it is not necessary at once to cut through all the muscular substance of the limb, for that would cause great risk of itself. In such cases warm fomentations may be applied, and depletion by leeches or cupping will be of service. When the patient is of the rheumatic diathesis, certain remedies are found to be very beneficial, such as ipecacuan with opium, or extract of colchicum, with a slight purgative, if necessary, especially in the chronic or sub-acute form of inflammation. In some cases the tincture of aconite, in small doses, will afford relief, but I have not the same faith in it as in colchicum. In chronic arthritic cases especially, the use of the bromide of potassium, in doses of 10 to 30 grains, or even more, will greatly allay the irritability of the constitution. The iodide of potassiimi is