334 DISEASES OF JOINTS. This must be treated as diffuse suppuration arising from any- other cause would be—namely, by being early and freely opened. When opening a suppurating bursa, it is sometimes as well to make a lateral incision, besides a free central one, so as to let the matter drain off more readily. The after-treatment is con- ducted in the same way as that of an ordinary abscess, by either poulticing or water-dressing, as occasion may require. Chronic Bursitis arises in general from continued pressure on, or movements of, the part. The so-called "housemaid's knee"* is an example of it, and arises from kneeling constantly. In chronic bursitis, the pain is not so great as in the acute form. There is stiffness in movement, and a gradually increasing swelling, which at last becomes very prominent, and prevents the patient from going about. The Treatment of chronic bursitis will depend very much on the condition of the bursa. If the disease be seen in the early stage, before much change has taken place, and when as yet there is only thickening of the external fibrous capsule, and a larger amount of fluid than usual has been secreted from its smooth internal surface, then the ordinary plan of treatment will suffice. This consists in keeping the limb at rest, and applying a blister, so as to excite action and cause absorption. These results are further favoured by painting over the surface with iodine, and bandaging. In a very large number of cases we will succeed in curing the disease by such means, more particularly if they are followed up, on the part of the patient, by the avoiding of pressure and any other of the originating causes. In other cases, however, we find that whilst the swelling is not very large, and can be got rid of at the time, yet it returns very rapidly so soon as the patient goes about again, and subsides when he remains at rest. These phenomena give indications of conditions very different from those described. They tell of more extensive organic changes. The interior lining membrane undergoes alteration in structure. It becomes fim- briated, and projecting across it at intervals are to be found fibrous bands. Not unfrequently it contains a quantity of * Plate xiii. Fig. 8.