515 ORGANISATION OF CLOT. to the progress of its vascularisation. The result was such as leads me to believe that vessels enter the clot from its base in the first instance, through the new and highly vascular lymph effused between the ends of the artery at the point from which the ligature was separated, and that the lateral adhesions to the inner surface of the vessel take place at a later period. Indeed, in my own experiments, I have never been able to trace any vascular connections between the sides of the clot and the arterial parietes. M. Manec admits that he has never been able to inject the connecting vessels, the injection having always become effused between the clot and sides of the vessel ; where- as, I have been able distinctly to see vessels entering the base of the clot. In one of my experiments of the second series, I traced them distinctly ramifying from the recent lymph into the coagulum (Plate xxii. Fig. 3). I believe, then, that the coagulum, when present, though not absolutely essential, is useful in assisting tlie j)rocess by acting as a plug and preventing the impulse of the blood upon the deligated point; that after- wards it gradually becomes organised, and is incorporated with the arterial coats, and like them is subjected to vital changes, and gradually altered in structure. As regards the Extent of Obliteration, Dr. Jones has stated, in his summary of the effects of tying an artery, that one is " to produce indirectly a complete obliteration, not only of the canal of the artery, but even of the artery itself, to the collateral branches on both sides of the part which has been tied." This statement has been repeated by almost every surgical writer since his time, as one of the constant effects of the operation. Now, I have no hesitation in saying that this statement is erroneous. It is not true (independently of peculiar circumstances) that an artery after ligature is con- stantly or even generally obliterated up to the nearest collateral branches on each side of the point tied, unless these branches arise at no great distance from that part of the vessel. In proof of this, I may refer to the preparations of the anastomosis after ligature of both vertebral and carotid arteries made by me, which are now in the University Museum; also to a similar preparation