DISEASES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 446 eyelid closed, and a pledget of lint dipped in cold water is applied over the eye for some hours. Little or no after- treatment is necessary, unless any unwonted symptoms super- vene. In divergent squint the muscle to be divided lies in close relation to the ocular insertion of the inferior oblique, in fact overlaps it, and also the long branch of the third pair of nerves supplying that muscle, so that more care is required in drawing forward the external rectus for division, to make sure of isolating it from the other structures. With the exception that the conjunctiva is divided between the corneal margin and outer angle of the eye, the steps of the operation are the same in both cases. When the operation for strabismus was first introduced here, I operated in a very large number of cases. Out of sixty cases on which I had operated from 1838 to 1843, I had only met with two cases of divergent strabismus, and in both of these the operation was perfectly successful. In some cases of convergent squint I have found it necessary to divide the internal recti of both eyes to secure a successful result. In the operation, as originally performed, the incision of the conjunctiva was made in a vertical direction ; but now I almost invariably use a horizontal incision, as the eye appears more natural afterwards, and the cicatrix is less. In divergent squint, however, I would still recommend the vertical incision, as giving more room, and enabling us to see the parts we are about to divide. The cases of Wry-Neck in which the surgeon can relieve the deformity by myotomy are not very numerous. In the great majority the distortion arises from gradual chronic changes in the ligamentous, deep-seated muscular, and sometimes in the osseous texture of the vertebrae. In these cases operations would be useless or hurtful. In some cases, however, the deformity evidently depends on shortening or contraction of the sterno- mastoid muscle ; and in them we can relieve the distortion by division of the muscle, or the part of it which is faulty. This condition is not always a congenital deformity, but may arise