528 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BIOODVESSELS. natural torsion of the brachial artery from a case of injury by machinery, in which I amputated at the shoulder-joint. Torsion has recently been revived, and attempted to be re- introduced, as a substitute for the ligature or acupressure. It answers well enough for small vessels, and I frequently use it. Past experience, however, has shown that we cannot safely trust to it in the larger arteries. In the present day the twisting is continued till the twisted portion comes off. This is done to avoid leaving that portion in tlie wound, as it is almost certain to die and act as a foreign body, or, what is worse, to serve as a centre of unhealthy action. But were this done in the larger vessels, the condition of the inner coats is too uncertain to trust to for arrestment of bleeding;. Torsion answers well enough in some cases, and may occasionally be used with advantage ; but, as a general plan, it is far inferior either to the ligature or acupressure. The most recent mode of effecting the occlusion of arteries and the arrestment of haemorrhage, is that devised by my esteemed colleague, Sir James Simpson, and followed out by him with his usual energy and ability. I allude to the method of acupressure. Acupressure aims at securing the mouths of the divided and bleeding artery by thrusting a needle through the tissues across the course of an artery, under or over it as the case may be, so that, whilst the needle presses on one side, the resisting tissu.es on the opposite side exercise counter-pressure. Or direct firm counter-pressure may be made by means of a looped wire passed over the point of the needle, across the course of the vessel, then bent round the needle, and twisted so as to lie parallel to it. The advantages claimed for it are numerous. It is elegant, expeditious, cleanly, and efficient. The needle can be easily introduced and readily withdrawn. It need not therefore lodge in the tissues so long as to produce irritation in them. A strong point in the case, and one of which Sir James has evidently taken advantage, is that the tissues have a far greater tolerance of metallic than of organic substances, however well the latter may be protected by antiseptic or other agencies. One thing is cer-