DISEASES OF JOINTS. 318 How, tlien, is the disease attended with such extreme pain ? It has been shown that cartilage suffers from inflammation indi- rectly. We find that, when cartilage undergoes alteration and ab- sorption, the process may occur in two ways. It may commence within the cartilage itself, and then it takes place more or less slowly. The cartilage breaks down and its place is taken by a soft fibrous texture which covers the ends of the bones, and this is effected without much pain—just what we might naturally expect from the nature of cartilage. Thus true ulceration of car- tilage is not necessarily connected with disease of bone, but the diseased condition generally spoken of as acute ulceration of cartilage I believe to belong to another texture altogether; it is, in fact, one of the symptoms of scrofulous inflammation of the articular ends of the bones, leading to articular caries. The ar- ticular ends of the bones are very vascular, and the cartilage is nourished from them ; hence, in the earlier stages of the disease, we have swelling of the ends of the bones. There is no pain pro- duced by making lateral j)ressure, but intense pain is experienced when we apply force directly upon the opposed surfaces of the bones, even though they are still covered by cartilage, because the bone underlying the cartilage is affected with a low subacute form of inflammation. The patient does not complain of much pain in the earlier stage of the disease, but then he keeps the joint bent, and the opposed surfaces of the affected bones as far away from each other as possible, so as to prevent their contact. As the disease goes on—as the ends of the bones inflame—the swelling of the joint becomes more marked, and the atrophy of the muscles becomes more evident. This corresponds to the period when the disease is at its worst. There is extreme ex- cited action, and pain, and suppuration within the joint, and then the startings of the limb are induced, because, in many of these cases, the cartilage is thrown off in large exfoliations. This I believe to be the true pathology of what is termed ulceration of cartilage; it is a disease not commencing in the cartilage itself, but that structure becomes affected from its con- nection with the bone. A low form of inflammation of the bone