376 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. always be felt on the inner side of the head of the humerus in the normal position of parts, and if we feel this we may be sure that the head of the bone is in its right place. Thus tlie position of the acromion and coracoid processes of the scapula, with re- ference to the head of the humerus, forms the best diagnostic guide in assuring us of the presence or absence of a dislocation. If the head of the bone be felt away from the coracoid and acromion processes, resting on the neck of the scapula, and the axis of the humerus be slightly altered, being more oblique than it naturally is ; and if the head of the bone can be made to move slightly, so that we can feel it in the axilla, though we cannot rotate it freely ; we may conclude that we have to do with such a dislocation as we have described. In dislocation of the head of the humerus forwards, the symptoms may vary somewhat, according to the degree of the injury and the nature of the force which caused it. Dislocations forwards are almost all caused by the patient falling with the hand outstretched. This dislocation is generally sub-coracoid—that is, the head of the bone lies under and to the inner side of the coracoid process. Sometimes it may lie much more upwards and forwards, nearer to the clavicle. This injury is marked by shortening of the arm and greater abduction of the elbow. The head of the bone can be traced to the inner side of the coracoid process, and quite away from the acromion process and the glenoid cavity. It is attended with the same squareness of the shoulder as are the other dislocations, and the same, or even a greater alteration, in the direction of the limb. The latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles draw the bone in towards the chest, and the deltoid and pectoralis major draw the head and tuberosities upwards towards the cavicle, thus producing a con- siderable degree of shortening of the limb. In some cases there is great pain in the axilla from the increased pressure on the axUlary nerves. This is not a constant symptom; the pain is often not so great as in the dislocation downwards, for the nerves sometimes seem to slip over the head of the bone and so