CURE BY ANCHYLOSIS. 297 these obstinate cases, we generally find that there is some degree of ulceration in the cartilages of the joint. When the suppuration is extensive, either in idiopathic or trau- matic inflammation of a joint, we must look for a cure by anchy- losis—that is, by a firm union, either osseous or fibrous, of the opposed surfaces of the bones. AVhen we look at a joint where suppuration has occurred, and where the cartilage gradually sloughs off, we find the surfaces of the inflamed bones exposed. If these be allowed to strike against each other they become sources of in- creased irritation, and, therefore, of increased irritative fever; but if they be kept in accurate position with each other and at perfect rest, then new bone is thrown out from their opposed surfaces, by means of which they gradually unite. The vessels pass from the Haversian structure of the one part to that of the other, and the two bones become anchylosed, or, as it were, welded together, so as to form one. This may occur in either chronic or acute dis- ease, and need not be despaired of even when the symptoms ap- pear to be at the worst, and when all the textures seem tc be disorganised from the amount of suppuration. Anchylosis, as a result of injury or disease of a joint, may be either fibrous or osseous. Partial or fibrous anchylosis is comparatively common, and is most usually met with in cases in which the cure has been accomplished in the earlier stages of joint-disease. In such cases the osseous surfaces are not united, except perhaps at one or two points — sometimes not at all. This anchylosis results from shortening and thickening of the ligamentous textures, and adhesions between the fibrous texture, which takes the place of the cartilages on the articular surfaces, whilst the synovial sac is obliterated and the synovial membrane altered in structure. True complete or osseous anchylosis, as already described, con- consists in osseous union of the articular ends of the bones forming the joint, which are then firmly welded together in a close unyielding mass as one bone. It occurs after injuries of joints, or in cases of disease, where the cartilages have been rapidly absorbed and the exposed articular surfaces kept in apposi-