688 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. upper part of the thigh or pelvis there is a band of cotton or a leather circle with another tape attached to it. The two pieces of tape are then brought together and tied, or the straps buckled, and in this way we can gradually flex the limb so as to bring the heel up towards the thigh (as in the treatment of ruptured tendo Achillis, Plate xx. Fig. 3). The patient should rest on the side, on a large water-pillow, and the thigh should be flexed upon the pelvis, as well as the leg upon the thigh, so as still further to obstruct the circulation. When the flexion is complete the cir- culation is thoroughly obstructed, but it is very seldom that the patient can bear complete flexion. Even when not complete, how- ever, the flexion impedes the force of the blood-current, and gives time for a certain amount of coagulum to form within the sac. This treatment alone may bring about a cure, and even if it does not, it brings the aneurism into a better state for the application of the ligature. In using flexion in the early or fluid stage of popliteal aneurism, prior and preparatory to ligature, compression should be employed at the same time to prevent any risk of rupture taking place, and to facilitate still further the natural cure. The compression should, I think, be applied on the vessel as it passes through Hunter's canal, though that is not the place generally recommended. If we apply compression alone, accord- ing to the method of cure by compression, we must have a special apparatus for the purpose. We are generally recommended to apply compression at various points, changing them from time to time so as to prevent any ulceration of the soft parts over the artery. All that is required, it is said, is to slow the current of blood through the artery,—not to stop it completely—and to direct the blood upon the collateral circulation, so as to favour the coagulation of the contents of the aueurismal sac. For my own part, I believe that our success will depend on how far we are able to arrest the circulation through the femoral completely. If we can effect complete arrestment by digital compression, or instruments so modified as to enable the patient to bear pressure sufficient for the purpose, the chances of cure will be much better. I must say, however, that from what I