592 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. guide, and which may be generally trusted to nature and com- presses. But where the artery is of such a size as the radial or larger, there is no security from hpemorrhage without ligature or acupressure of the vessel; and if from the position and direction of the wound it be suspected that the arterial trunk has been opened into, the incision should be enlarged in the di- rection of the course of the vessel, and a ligature applied, if necessary. Two of the above cases illustrate this modification of tlie rule,—the one shows the necessity of a careful examina- tion of the wound, and the early application of the ligature ; the other indicates the risks arising from delay. In C. C, the wound looked at first sight trifling. It was situated rather low down in the thigh to lead to the suspicion that the femoral was opened into, and, but for the blanched appearance of the child, and the mother's statement that there had been a great loss of blood, the real danger might have escaped observation. In order to examine the injury thoroughly, the patient was placed under chloroform. On inserting the finger into the wound, it was found to pass oh- liquely upwards, and on tracing the lacerated tendon of the ad- ductor, the sartorius was felt divided, and the end of the femoral artery pulsating in Hunter's canal. In addition to this, a large accompanying vein was torn across, and the shaft of the femur was laid bare at the seat of injury. Although under these circumstances there was great liability to gangrene of the limb, it was not deemed proper to adopt severe measures in the first instance, inasmuch as the patient was young, the bruising of textures limited, and there was no great effusion of blood to compress or prevent the collateral circulation. The wound was, therefore, extended in the direc- tion of the course of the main vessel, and one end secured in Hunter's canal ; the other, which had retracted into the popliteal space, was followed and tied. The recovery of the patient was uninterrupted and complete ; but if the rule stated above had been neglected, there is every probability that on the restoration of the natural force of the circulation, the clot would have been broken down, the haemorrhage been repeated.