DISEASES OF JOINTS. 306 but in that disease they occur at a much earlier stage of its progress. The pathological condition leading to these symptoms con- sists in a peculiar degeneration of the synovial membrane. This exists under two forms, and these have been described under two separate names—the gelatinous and pulpy degeneration—but they are truly identical in symptoms, and as regards the essential nature and course of the disease. In the gelatinous degeneration as first specially described by Sir B. Brodie, all the cartilages of incrustation become gradually covered over by masses of new deposition, which extend wherever there is synovial membrane. In the recent state this deposit has a gluey or jelly-like charac- ter, varying in colour from pale yellow to dark brown, and is generally intersected by lines of a vphite membranous structure. This is the more general character of gelatinous disease, but there is another condition, in which the membrane assumes a sort of granular or fungoid appearance on the surface ; this has been described as pulpy degeneration ; but all the phenomena are the same as in the former case, and there is no use in making a dis- tinction between the two conditions. The deposit fills up the •whole joint, and acts as a kind of soft cushion, protecting the ends of the bones, so that at first, when the swelling is most marked, there is comparatively little pain. As the disease goes on, however, it leads to a low form of suppuration in the sur- rounding textures, and induces irritative fever. While the sup- puration progresses, we find other changes taking place. The cartilage begins to undergo absorption, either from the pressure of the new deposit upon its surface, or from a peculiar action which the deposited substance exerts upon it. The absorption arises chiefly, I believe, from the pressure on the surface of the cartilage leading to its ulceration and exfoliation, and we can thus easily understand why it is that in the later stages of gelatinous degeneration we meet with symptoms exactly like those of acute ulceration of cartilage. In both cases, the cartilage of incrusta- tion is separated, and the opposite surfaces of the inflamed bones come into contact with each other, giving rise to pain and