COMPLICATIONS IN GELATINOUS DEGENERATION. 313 variable. Very specially when, during the treatment of such cases, we notice the tongue to be red and glazed, or worse, if it presents the appearance as if little patches of the epithelium had peeled off, ought we to dread the occurrence of renal dis- ease. I have so frequently seen cases in which the urine was healthy, so far as the evidence of tests was concerned, but in which, after a few days a form of subacute albuminuria occurred, with ultimately fatal results, that I cannot forbear dwelling, it may appear tediously, on this subject, because I believe careful treatment might at first obviate this condition, or prevent it from progressing if early looked for and detected. In such cases the diseased condition of the kidney is generally found to be either the amyloid degeneration or an acute con- gested state of the organ—the latter state probably supervening rapidly in an organ predisposed to disease. The state of the urine in the latter case is somewhat peculiar—its specific density often remaining normal 1020, whilst it is highly coagulable. From what I have seen of cases in which this complication has arisen, I believe if the condition be suspected and detected early, that, by the use of sinapisms, or cataplasms containing mustard, the exhibition of mild diluent diuretics, and the use of farinaceous instead of more stimulating diet for a short time, the acute or subacute congestion of the kidneys may be arrested. This will be shown by the subsidence of oedema, the diminution of albumen in the urine, and by the tongue resuming its normal appearance. In some cases, at the very commencement of this condition, I have occasionally found benefit from the use of small eliminative doses of colchicum wiue ; and in all cases the use of diaphoretics, to cause a moderate increase of the cutaneous transpiration, are of great use in relieving the irritation of the kidney. After a short time, if the cedema continues, the use of tlie muriated tincture of iron, combined with nitrous cether, will be found the most efficacious remedy. If, however, the diseased action has gained head before being noticed, the result is almost always fatal. Wliilst this tendency to renal disease is met with in cases after amputation, I think that it is stOl more