279 AMPUTATION IN NECROSIS. would strongly guard you against giving way to the temptation. These conditions which tempt you are no doubt most dangerous, and it is quite possible that your patient may sink under them ; but they are conditions most unfavourable for amputation, and after much experience in the treatment of such cases, I tell you that the patient has a much better chance without the operation. When the irritative fever ceases, and hectic fever with profuse discharge takes its place, when the tongue cleans, and the perspirations are profuse, if your patient's health is sinking, or if neighbouring joints become affected, then amputate. But even in hectic cases, where there is no joint implicated, it is wonderful what a youthful patient will get through. Therefore exercise patience, and don't be too ready with the knife. Per- haps one of the most difficult lessons we have to learn by experience is when to watch disease and do nothing. In cases either of acute or chronic necrosis, when neigh- bouring joints become diseased, and discharge and pain give rise to hectic wasting ; or when, as often happens, the necrosis is attended with altered position of the epiphyses rendering the limb irremediably deformed and useless, then amputation is evidently indicated as the best means of removing at once the cause of irritation which is exhausting the patient and a useless and deformed limb. Another condition generally requiring amputation is fracture of necrosed bone, as in patchy necrosis, where there is little or no tendency to substitute bone being formed ; or in cases where the substitute bone breaks after a sequestrum has been removed or thrown off. In the former of these cases, the peculiarly unhealthy state of the bone, and the absence of reparative action, leave little or no choice but to amputate. In the latter our decision will depend on circumstances. When such an accident occurs in the humerus or femur, where there is only a single bone, the chances of solid xmion are very small, especially if the pa- tient be debilitated by previous suffering. In the femur, under these circumstances, besides the risk to life from increased irritation and discharge, the limb saved would be very useless,