628 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. and enemata to act on the bowels—which were very constipated—so as to prevent straining at stool. No marked alteration in the temperature of the limb occurred after the first two days. On the twelfth day after the operation, the lower ligature came away when I was dressing the wound, and without any appearance of blood. Slightly stimulating lotions were used to wash the points of the wound which had not cicatrised, and sup- port was given by strips of adhesive plaster. On the 25tli of April I had to leave for London, and I visited him on that day (tlie eighteenth after the operation). He was looking well and cheerful ; pulse 86, and soft, and his tongue clean.. The wound looked well—in fact, except where the upper ligature hung out, and at one or two other points, it had uinted ; and I considered him almost, if not altogether, out of danger. I left Dr. Dimsmure, who took charge of my cases, to look after him as regarded the surgical treatment. From that gentleman I received a letter, mform- ing me of a somewhat imexpected and suddeu change in the progress of the case :— " You left on Satxu'day the 25th. On Sunday I got a note saying that after straining at stool, four drachms of blood had come from the incision. On visiting him I found no trace of haemorrhage at either of the ligatures, but the wound had opened over the sac, and a clot of blood was lying in it; his pulse was C|uick, 120, and his skin hot. Mr. Miller had ordered him aconite, which made him sick. All that I did was to enjoin quiet, and cold to the wound ; and, as his tongue was loaded, I ordered liiui a blue and compound rhubard j)ill. On Fridaj', when I saw him wth Mr. Miller, he looked more than usually pale, and his pulse was still quick, but the skin and tongue were better. He had had pain in the right side, and some cough, both of which were relieved by a poultice. I ordered him a better diet, wine (claret), and iron, and to-day his pulse is 96 ; the wound is almost healed, the part over the sac is healthy, and I have no fear of him. I took hold of the ligature, but it is not yet sufficiently loose to come away." After this the bad symptoms seem to have disappeared, and, on my return to Edinburgh on the 11 th May, I found him looking very well, the wound healed, except at the ligature, which I found was lying loose, and I therefore removed it. From this time nothing worthy of record occurred. He was allowed to walk at first with a cnxtch, and subsequently to use the limb. He was lame for some time owing to the stiffness of the knee, but this gradually disappeared, and he now uses the leg perfectly. For some time after the operation I directed him to use a flannel roller to sujjport the venous circidation in the limb. The cicatrix was narrow and firm ; not the slightest pulsation or hruit to be felt or heard, no appreci- able venous congestion, and liis general health excellent. To-day (10th June 1869) I examined Mr. K . As already stated, the aneurism is thoroughly cured ; not the slightest jiulsation or thrill can be felt; but the appearance of the limb indicates some obstruction or alteration in the venous circulation of the part. The right thigh is greater in circumference by one inch than the leit. The swelling is neither tense nor oedematous, but soft and elastic. The cicatrix is thinner and broader than' it was eight months ago ; whilst towards the groin niimerous small superficial veins are seen dilated and slightly tortuous ;