FRACTURE. 341 lowest degree of violence: if the fracture be caused by indirect vio- lence, as by jumping or falling, the injury is at its minimum. Here there is pain and distortion, with a certain amount of swelling if the limb be not speedily adjusted, and crepitus on moving the broken ends of the bone. If such a fracture be left alone, or if the fractured ends of the bone be left without any retentive ap- paratus, or without being reduced, as in experiments on the lower animals, we see what nature will do to cure the fracture. For a time the movement of the broken fragments gives rise to irritation and spasm, and leads to increased pain and suffering. More swelling takes place because the broken ends of the bone tear the bloodvessels, and blood is effused, and then serous exudation follows. The movements of the muscles become somewhat obstructed by this swelling, and thus a certain amount of rest is as it were enforced. The ends of the bone generally lie at some little distance from each other, with the periosteum torn, and the Haversian structure connecting the periosteum with the interior of the bone also partly torn, and we find a certain amount of bleeding taking place into it. The ends of the bone override or overlap each other, and a large mass of blood is formed round them. A considerable amount of effusion takes place, and plastic material is exuded from the vessels of the Haversian structure, so that after a time a hardened mass surrounds the fracture and keeps the parts somewhat together. This mass is called the " provisional callus," and some believe that it is present in all cases of fracture, and is absolutely necessary to union. They hold that this mass becomes con- verted into fibrin, which is afterwards ossified, and that so the effused blood-clot comes to be useful in forming bone. My answer to this is, that in a properly set fracture, and one which has been set at once, there is no such provisional callus, and therefore it cannot be essential to the healing of the fracture. The parts are simply brought together ; plastic material is thrown out from the Haversian structure, and from the periosteal vessels, and this becomes ossified ; but the simple fibrin of the blood-clot is never of any \ise, and is to be regarded merely as a foreign body.