612 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. From this date the amputation wound continued to go on favourably ; tlie ligature on the axillary artery separated on the 7th May, and the rest of the wound was nearly healed. The aneurism was very much decreased, it was indeed, scarcelj' perceptible to the eye, though on examination the sac could be felt flaccid, and having very little pulsation ; but it did not feel as if consolidation by coagulation was taking place. His recover}' was delayed by repeated attacks of bilious diarrhoea, which I at the time attributed to some hepatic affection contracted in warm climates, but which I afterwards learned arose from his own irregularities. He was allowed to get up on the 18th of June. On the 24th of Jime the report is—" Since he left his bed the aneivrism has percej)tibly in- creased in size. Compression of the aneurism was begun to-day by means of a pad of lint placed over it, and secured by three long straps of plaster. June 30.—The pressure has produced no inconvenience. The aneurism is considerably smaller. His health is good. The stump looks well ; only^ one sinus now remains to be healed. July 5.—Ordered 5 grs. of iodide of potassi^im thrice a-day, to be gradually increased to 20 grs. thrice daily. Compression still maintained. '■'■July 20.—He now takes 12 grs. of the iodide thrice a-day. Yes- terday he was troubled with coryza-headache and abdominal pain, in con- sequence of which the iodide has been stopped for a few days. The tumour is decidedly smaller and harder. " July 23.—Iodide resumed in 12-gr. doses, as the symptoms of iodism have disappeared. General health good. " Juhj 30.—He now sits up nearly the whole day. Compression has been steadily maintained without jjroducing the slightest inconvenience. The aneurism is very decidedly smaller and harder. He is taking 14 grs. of iodide thrice a-day without producing bad symptoms, and he is in ex- cellent healtli and spirits." Mr. T. left Edinburgh shortly after this—having received his discharge from the service—and went to reside in one of the midland towns in England. I heard from him occasionally, and for about two years the accounts were favourable as to the aneurism in the subclavian region, but it never alto- gether disappeared. Disease of the vessels nearer the heart seemed to have supervened, and he died in the course of last autumn (1868). I could learn no particulars of his death, and I suspect that it was not a little accelerated by his own irregularities. Remarks.—Tlie points to which I would first direct attention in this case are the cliaracters of the aneurism, and tlie general condition of the patient. The position and extent of the swelling have been already noted. It was clearly an aneurism involving the middle and external thirds of the subclavian, and somewhat also the ter- minal part of the first portion ; and, from the strong pulsation at the upper part of the axillary region, though covered by the thick and powerful pectoral, I suspected that the first part of