533 SECOND A R Y HyEMORRHA GE loss of blood, and the litemorrhage might recommence when re- action again took place. The proper plan under such circum- stances is to give the patient some slight stimulant to rouse the force of the circulation, apply a sponge wrung out of warm water to the bleeding surface, cover up the patient with the bed- clothes, and wait for a short time to see whether any further bleeding occurs. If it does, the vessel or vessels can then be seen and secured; if not, the wound is left open so as to pre- vent coacfula collectinsi;, and an assistant should be left for a few hours to watch until the cut surface becomes glazed and dry, then the wound may be finally closed without risk of further bleeding. The causes of true Secondary Haemorrhage have been already in a great measure discussed. They are of two kinds: First, those which to a certain extent are preventable by care on the part of the surgeon, and by proper treatment. Second, those which are unavoidable, when unfavourable local or constitutional conditions are present. In tying an artery I have shown you that certain points are to be attended to which are of great im- portance. It is not merely the cutting down upon the artery to expose it that is important; we should endeavour to disturb the connections of the vessel as little as possible. We have seen that the coats of the artery are nourished chiefly by the vasa vasorum, which connect the coats of the vessel to the cellular sheath surrounding it; and if we disturb these very much, either by traction on the vessel, or by too much force in introdi;cing the needle, or by dissecting and insulating the artery too much, we do harm. We should only separate the vessel from its sheath so far as to allow the aneurism-needle to be passed easily round it; but in doing this no force should be used, and the needle should be passed close to the coats of the artery. By paying attention to these details, the surgeon does all he can to prevent secondary haemorrhage, the great point being to disturb the vessel as little as possible. The second class of cases are those in which the prevention of secondary hsemorrhage is not so directly under our control.