375 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. surgical neck ; and tliis injury generally unites readily without deformity or loss of power in the arm. Dislocations of the Shoulder may, for all practical pur- poses, be described as three in number:— 1. Dislocation downwards into the axilla. 2. Dislocation forwards. 3. Dislocation backwards. The second of these is subdivided by many into two stages, but this subdivision is unnecessary. The third form is exceed- ingly rare ; I have never seen a case of it. Certain symptoms are common to them all. One of these is a peculiar well-marked flattening of the shoulder. In fracture of the neck of the scapula, and also in diastasis of the head of the humerus from the tuberosities and shaft, we meet with the same appearances, causing these injuries to resemble dislocation. In them the shoulder undergoes an equal alteration in its contour, and there is a similar cavity or depression formed under the acromion process. The squareness of the shoulder is caused by the head of the humerus being forced out of the glenoid cavity, and so leaving the arch of the acromion prominent. In dislocation of the head of the himierus downwards into the axilla, the arch formed by the acromion process and the clavicle is left projecting, and there is a large cavity correspond- ing to the normal position of the head and tuberosities of the bone. This produces the squareness of the shoulder, together with lengthening of the limb, a slight tilting-out of the arm, and con- siderable pain and swelling, owing to pressure by the head of the bone on the axillary plexus of nerves. In the natural position of parts, if we trace with the finger forwards and downwards from the acromion process, we come directly upon the tuberosities of the humerus; but, in the dislocation, we come at once upon a space from which the head of the bone has been removed. It may be observed here, however, that if we examine at the back of the arm, especially in a thin person, we can feel a depression even though there be no dislocation. In front the coracoid process can