253 ULCERATION AND CARIES. the definitions of the term would mislead us as to practice. Thvis, Professor Syme says, " When the ulcer of the bone re- sists all means of cure, it constitutes what is called ' caries.' The -distinguishing character of ' caries' is the same as that of cancerous ulcers—obstinacy of the disease." Now this is a very unfortunate definition, for the main character of cancer is wanting to complete the analogy. The great distinctive feature of cancer is not mere passive obstinacy of cure, but the aggres- sive destructive cbaracteristic of malignancy—the tendency to involve all the neighbouring parts in the same diseased action. Mr. Liston used to define ' caries ' as a low form of ulceration in bone; the part possessing an amount of vitality sufficient to prevent the affected surface being thrown off, but not having sufiicient vitality to promote healthy action. This definition is nearer the truth, and is absolutely true at certain stages of the disease; but I believe that the peculiar obstinacy of a truly carious surface arises from the fact that a large part of it is really dead, and consequently requires to be removed by artificial or natural processes ere a cure can be effected. The older sur- geons used to speak of moist and dry caries ; the latter term denoting the more evident death of bone in sequestra or ex- foliations—necrosis. For my own part, I would have little hesitation in defining the actually carious surface as molecular necrosis. You may remember that, when explaining the process of ulceration in the soft tissues, I stated that it was a form of chronic mortification of part of the affected tissue, that owing to the quantity, and also in many cases the quality, of the exudation thrown out, it interfered with nutrition, and prevented or delayed reparative action. Now, in a texture like bone, you will readily understand death of portions of the dense texture is still more likely to occur; and in the looser cancellated bones, the dead portions are generally granular instead of separating readily in masses ; in fact, that the form of death is determined or modified by the character of the texture in which this diseased action is .situated, and hence the condition termed caries is almost confined to the short or flat bones, or to the articular