DEDUCTIONS. 50!) of the external lymph situated between the ends of the artery- has come in contact with the plastic lymph effused within its canal. When examined after the ligature has been discharged and the wound healed, we find the effused lymph beginning to undergo absorption and alteration in structure. It then presents much less bulk, and is of a fibrous appearance, and this fibrous appearance is very distinctly visible on making a section of it. There is now no apparent distinction between the internal and external lymph, which seem blended to form the new fibrous structure. At a still later period, say twenty-eight or thirty days after tying the artery, even the small knot of lymph between the ends of the vessel at the deligated point is completely absorbed, and a dense fibrous tissue occupies its place, uniting the ends of the artery divided by the thread. (See Plate xxi.) From a consideration of these facts, I was convinced tliat the external effusion of lymph around the artery was of great importance in the process of obliteration by ligature, as assisting the internal changes. First, by pressing upon the vessel for some distance above and below the deligated point, it must necessarily diminish tlie calibre of its canal, and thereby lessen the impulse of the blood in the neighbourhood of the ligature; and this pressure and contraction will be gradually increasing as the lymph consolidates. Secondly, by becoming incorporated with the arterial parietes above and below the ligature, and projecting into the groove formed by it, it will serve in the first instance to support the internal plastic coagulum. Next, to commence the union of the ends of the vessel on either side of tlie ligature ; and lastly, this plastic matter passing into the groove formed by the thread, enclosing the knot, and following in its track, will serve as a support to the internal adhesions at the separation of the ligature. At that period a sort of double action seems to be going on—the ligature ulcerating its w^ay out, whilst the reparative process of effusion of plastic lymph, follow- ing in its track, keeps pace with its separations—a process in fact analogous to the old operation for fistula, with the gradually tightened wire. The reparative process literally following stop by step in the track of the ulceration.