487 SCARPA'S BROAD LIGATURE. upon the sides of the artery, which is flattened rather than constricted circularly ; and it is in this manner that the surgeon avoids the danger of the rupture of the artery, and of a secondary litemorrhage, aud that he is assured of obtaining the approxima- tion of the two compressed sides of the artery, as if they were two smooth planes placed one over the other, and that they contract an adhesion to each other." . . . . " Generally, on applying the ligature to any of the great arteries of the second order, besides the caution of compressing rather than constricting the artery circularly, the surgeon will recollect that he ties and constricts a living part, upon which the more he increases the degree of pressure, the more he accelerates the ulceration, and thereby the premature division of it. The degree of constriction ought to be such as to place the two opposite sides of the artery in firm contact, but still to preserve as much vitality as to resist the ulceration during all that time which is necessary for the adhesive inflammation producing the union of the sides of the artery, and at the same time the obliteration of its canal. After this time the ulcerative process detaches the ligature, togetherwith a portion of the tied artery, but not a drop of blood is discharged." The principle, then, which Scarpa inculcates as a preventive of secondary hosmorrhage, seems to be the necessity of pre- serving the integrity of all the arterial tunics, to prevent too speedy separation of the ligature, and merely to place the surfaces of the internal coat in sufficiently close apposition, that the degree of inflammation excited may cause adhesion between them. From other parts of his work, he seems to be fully alive to the value of preserving the vascular connections of the arterial tunics, and specially guards -against too great disturbance of the parts around the vessel. Let us now judge, from his own description of the operation for ligature of the femoral, how far his method is consistent with such views. After describing the method of making the preliminary incisions for laying bare the vessel where it is overlapped by the sartorius, he goes on to say that the operator should " divide with one firm stroke the skin aud cellular substance down to the thin aponeurotic expansion