466 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BLOODVESSELS. and their valves incompetent; and, indeed, tlie whole venous circulation of the limb is involved. The thickening of the coats of a varicose vein depends on chronic alteration taking place. When a vein is distended, it always relieves itself at first by watery, and afterwards by more plastic effusion. This exuda- tion through the coats of the vessel occasions a certain amount of irritation, whereby chronic inflammatory action is induced, and the coats become thickened in consequence. The interior of the vein is altered, inasmuch as the valves are rendered in- competent, and are in many cases almost effaced. The varicose condition of veins is a very serious affection, as it leads to effusion and chronic solid cedema of the affected limb, and to the formation of intractable ulcers. It thus interferes with the usefulness of the limb, besides involving the risk of phlebitis, and occasionally of dangerous haemorrhage from ulceration of the varicose vein. There are two methods of treatment adopted in varix ; one is Palliative, the other Badical. The former has for its object the removal, as far as possible, of all causes which may tend to keep up or aggravate the diseased condition. This indication is ful- filled by attention to the state of the bowels and liver, by re- lieving the affections of the chest which may be present, and by enjoining rest in the recumbent position, so as to favour the return of the blood towards the heart. Our local treatment consists in bandaging from the foot or hand upwards, so as to give support to the superficial veins, and prevent any further enlargement of them, thus causing their circulation to be carried on chiefly by the deeper veins, which are less likely to become varicose. Instead of bandaging the limb, we may use a thin silk or cotton stocking, with an elastic one over it. The latter must be well fitted from the ball of the toe to beyond the part where the diseased condition exists. The elastic stocking should be easy at the top, and rather tight below. By this means we give support to the veins, and enable the patient to move about without aggravating the disease. The elastic stocking, however, soon wears out, and a well-fitted laced