INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 384 broken fragment. But the crepitus and thg ease with which .the parts are brought into position show us what the injury really is. One mode of treatment is suitable to all these fractures about the condyles. This consists in placing a pad of wad- ding in the bend of the elbow, retained in position by a figure- of-eight bandage round the joint; and this is all that is required. The arm should be kept at a pretty acute angle, to prevent separation of the fragments, and to prevent the muscles which arise from the condyles of the humerus from drawing the broken condyle downwards. Dislocation of the Elbow may occur in different ways— generally from the patient falling with the hand extended or the arm semiflexed. The most common dislocation is that of both bones backwards. In this condition the arm is semiflexed, or rather less, there is a projection backwards and a swelling in front. The forearm is shortened and altered in form, becomiiig more rounded than usual. This dislocation is easily discovered on careful examina- tion, though it is not so obvious as might be supposed from seeing it merely on the skeleton. The best diagnostic is the projection of the condyles in front forming a swelling there, and the altered relation of the inner condyle to the olecranon, which now lies above instead of below it. We take the relations of the olecranon and inner condyle as our guide, and tracing down the shaft of the humerus in front, we suddenly come upon a swelling at the elbow, and then we flnd the radius and nlna situated much more deeply than their usual place. In position, the arm is nearly semiflexed; and, though we cannot fully flex it, we can often bring it to a right angle. Neither can we extend the arm fully. Having made out this dislocation, the mode of reduction is next to be attended to. We are told that the best method is to bend the bones of the forearm over our elbow or knee, placed in the bend of the patient's elbow. This will not always enable us to effect reduction. If, however, we first extend the hand and fore- arm backwards, we shall then have merely the point of the