CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 629 but the common femoral and great sapliena veins, which were distended and varicose before the operation, seem now of tlieir normal size. (Plate XXV. Fig. 3.) Bemarks.—Numerous observations have been recorded in reference to tlie pathology and treatment of varicose aneurisms, but, with few exceptions, these have been cases in which the disease was situated at the bend of the arm, and in most of them the operative procedure has been the same as that for ordinary false aneurism in the same position—namely, laying open the sac and tying the wounded artery above and below the opening; and in some of the cases ligature of the affected vein has also been practised. In one or two cases the brachial at the middle of the arm has been tied, but not with results that encourage repetition of the Hunterian method. Indeed, in the upper extremity the ligature of the wounded brachial artery above and below the opening, and gentle compression of the injured vein, answers sufficiently well, and the operation is not likely to be attended with bad results. It is, however, very different with regard to such aneurisms in the femoral region. All surgical autliorities are agreed as to the great danger which attends obstruction of the femoral artery when compli- cated with any lesion of the accompanying vein, gangrene being the almost invariable result. So much have the risks of such a complication influenced practice, that even in cases of ordinary traumatic false aneurism of the femoral, in the position of Hunter's canal, an exception has been made to the general rule of operating in false aneurism by direct incision into the sac. Thus, in cases where the traumatic aneurism is of some standing, and the parts condensed, it is considered better, in the case of the femoral artery, to tie the vessel by the Hunterian method in Scarpa's triangle, lest, from the close proximity of the vein and the condensation and matting of the wounded parts, the latter vessel might be injured in operating by the direct method ; and Professor Syme and others have recorded cases showing the success of such treatment.