238 DISEASES OF BONES. evidently intended for the nutrition of tlie dense portion of the bone, and the cell-textures tliere have the power of at- tracting and assimilating that part of the blood required for their nutrition. In the ossified texture this could not be effected without the agency of such canals, and the canaliculi are for the purpose of allov/ing the blood plasma to reach the cor- puscular portion of the bone. The medullary canal in the recent state is full of a sort of cancellated texture, with large vessels ramifying through it. This is the medullary Haversian structure; it contains arteries and large veins and the medulla or marrow; this is continuous above and below, with the finer cancellated tex- ture at the upper and lower extremities of the bone. The vas- cular supply of this central part of the bone is different from that of tlie hard portion, which latter is supplied by vessels from the periosteum which pass into the Haversian canals. The Haversian structure of the medullary canal is supplied by certain large nutrient arteries, as they are termed, which pass through special foramina in the bone directly into the medullary cavity. These nutrient arteries ramify in the medullary Haver- sian structure, and anastomose with the vessels supplying the dense part of the bone. The epiphyses of the bones are developed separately from the shaft, and are supplied by numerous vessels passing directly into them. Thus the shaft of the bone has two great sources of supply—one from the periosteum, the vessels of which ramify in the dense external structure, the other from the interior by the nutritious artery passing directly through the bone, and breaking up into branches in the interior of the medullary canal. The Haversian canals, though they are intended and serve to con- vey blood-vessels into the dense texture of the bone, have other uses. Each canal is lined with a thin delicate membrane, con- taining in it germinal cells. This, as pointed out by Goodsir, is in reality the formative portion of the bone. Its cells attract materials from the blood, and assimilate them for nutrition. The periosteum invests the whole shaft of the bone as a dis- tinct limiting vascular membrane, and allows the blood-vessels