454 DISEASES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. are hardly altered, except that it is shortened and more tense than usual. The tendon of the tibialis posticus, on the contrary, is exceedingly altered in course and relation, owing to the altered position of the tarsus. This tendon, in a "well-marked case of varus, passes almost straight, or with a very slight obliquity, down to its insertion at the internal cuneiform and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, instead of curving round below the internal malleolus, and then passing forwards as in the natural foot. A want of consideration of this altered state of parts has led to the proposal to divide the horizontal portion of the tendon in the foot as it passes forwards, so as to avoid risk to the tendon of the common flexor and the posterior tibial artery, instead of the usual plan of dividing it behind the lower part of the tibia. The tendon in varus, however, does not pass forwards, but almost directly downwards to reach its insertion, and hence the proposal is nugatory. The tendo Achilles, and the tendon of the plantaris gracilis, are shortened and distorted, so that they are not so well marked as usual, and the fascial textures around are thickened and often adherent to the tendon, so as to require division before the heel can be brought down. Keeping in view these alterations in position and structure, it will be obvious, that though the operation is in itself a simple one, it requires care and precision in its performance, so as to relieve the contracted parts, and care and observation in arrang- ing and managing the mechanical apparatus subsequently to complete the cure by proper after-treatment. As to the mode of performing the operation.—It is generally laid down as a rule, that the tendons of the tibialis anticus and posticus should be first divided before dividing the tendo Achilles. I can see no veiy good reason for this, because, when the tendo Achilles is divided, and the heel fairly brought down, we can, I think, judge better as to the division of the other tendons having been thoroughly effected, otherwise we may attribute any difficulty of everting the foot as partly due to the contracted tendo Achilles. In my own practice I have always divided the tendo Achilles as the first step of the operation, and I have never