408 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. explains tlie inversion of tlie knee. In this fractnre the appear- ances at first are very lil^e tliose of dislocation of the head of the femur into the ischiatic notch, but whenever we extend the limb it becomes everted, the toes turned out, all the signs of dislocation disappear, and then we see the true nature of the injury. In chronic rheumatic arthritis we may have all the symptoms of fracture of the neck of the femur, but the history of the case should guide us in our diagnoses. As fracture of the neck of the femur occurs chiefly in old people, the first question for the surgeon to consider, with reference to treatment, is : Can the patient bear the application of retentive apparatus without great constitutional irritation? I should say that if the long splint be carefully applied and well padded, it will give more rest to the patient than could be obtained by leaving the limb loose. Therefore the long splint should be applied for the iirst few days at least. If the patient complains very mucii of the restraint arising from it, then it must be taken off. If this be necessary, then the limbs should be brought together and fastened by a bandage, a pad being placed between the knees and ankles, and then a broad flannel spica-bandage round tlie hip. Tliis will not prevent some degree of shortening, but we must try and keep the limb as quiet as possible when the patient cannot bear the splint. In some cases we may put the limb on a double in- clined plane of pillows, and fix it so, the knee being bent at an angle. In this way the weight of the body is made to act as a counter-extending force. This method was recommended by Dupuytren, but I have not found it very efficient. The patient is restless, the pillows get displaced, and he often suffers much irritation from the movements of the fragments upon each other. Hence, when I can use the long splint I always do so, and if the patient cannot bear it, then I keep the two limbs fastened together as just described. In applying the long splint in such cases we do not use any force in extension and counter- extension. By padding the splint well, and placing the patient on a water-pillow, we find that, in a great many cases, the