INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 374 The treatment is very simple if we once recognise the lesion, and it ought to be easily recognised. The arm should be ex- tended, and the ends of the bone brought into contact, and kept in that position. The elbow should be brought to the side, and a pad of wadding placed in the axilla. This acts as a fulcrum, —the humerus being the lever—and effectually prevents the broken end of the bone from being drawn in again towards the chest. The essential parts of the retentive apparatus, therefore are, a pad in the axilla, a sling for the arm, and a roller to secure the elbow to the side. The position of the arm should be different from what it is when placed for the treatment of fracture of the clavicle, in which case the elbow is bent at an acute angle, and thrown across the chest obliquely, with the fingers resting on the opposite shoulder. In treating this fracture, the arm should be kept parallel to the side, with the elbow bent at a right angle and supported by a sling. In fractures of the shaft of the humerus the sling is so placed on the forearm, as to leave the elbow free. Thus the weight of the lower part of the limb is made to act as an extending power. Some surgeons hold that this should also be done in fracture of the surgical neck ; but I do not consider it good treat- ment, for the ends of the bone are not likely to be kept in con- tact unless the elbow is supported. If this be done with the pad in the axilla, there is no fear of the parts overlapping each other ; but if support be not given to the elbow, there is a very great risk of imperfect union. In some cases splints are applied ; now a splint is of no use as regards accuracy in the coaptation of the fracture, for the internal splint cannot be placed so higli as the point where the bone is broken. "We cannot get a splint so far up into the axilla, and the outer splint is of no use with- out the inner one. Sj^lints should only be put on in children or very restless patients, where we wish to prevent movement of the hand, wrist, and elbow, so as to obtain perfect rest for the broken bone. But for securing coaptation in this fracture splints are useless. The treatment of fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus is exactly the same as that of fracture of the