553 ANEURISM. applying a ligature on the distal side of the tumour, the blood ceases to flow through the sac, though its impidse is communi- cated to it. We therefore produce a certain amount of stagnation in the sac, and so favour the occurrence of coagulation. This was the method proposed by Brasdor, and revived and modified by the late Mr. Wardrop. Whatever plan of treatment we may adopt in a case of true aneurism, there are certain risks which must be kept in view. Tor example, the surgeon knows there is a risk of gangrene, arising from deficient vascular supply, and this condition he must be prepared to avert if possible. When an artery is tied, the blood is thrown upon the collateral branches, and in the case of a wounded artery the collateral cir- culation is generally sufficient for nutrition. In aneurisms, while there are certain conditions which are not so favourable, there are others which favour the collateral circulation. The gradually increasing obstruction to the current of blood passing through the aneurism tends, as was previously explained, to send the blood into the collateral branches, and so to prepare them for carrying on the circulation. In ordinary circumstances we have a very large series of such branches, so that we need seldom fear any want in the collateral circula- tion. In aneurisms in the head and neck, indeed, there is a risk of the collateral circulation becoming too free, and forming a disturbing influence on the distal side. The immediate effect of deligation of an arterial trunk, however, as a general rule, must always be to weaken the circulation of the parts supplied by it. After the superficial femoral has been tied, there is an enlargement of the descending branches of the perforating arteries, and other vessels from the profunda, together with the branches of the external circumflex artery, which anastomose with the articular branches of the popliteal artery, and with the anasto- motica magna ; so that there is a free inosculation in and beyond the popliteal portion of the vessel. But when an aneurism exists in the popliteal space, the coagulation generally blocks up some of the articiilar arteries, so that the number of available