475 NATURAL HEMOSTATICS. makes it difficult sometimes to find out where tlie wounded point is. On looking at a recent wound of this kind, when the limb is on the stretch, we cannot see any opening in the artery, but by relaxing the limb the bleeding takes place, and we can then discover the wounded point. If an artery has been wounded by a transverse incision, however small, the bleeding will be continuous and very profuse ; for in this case the circular fibres of the arterial tube separate from each other, and the opening gapes. In oblique wounds of arteries there is an intermediate condition between what occurs in the longi- tudinal and transverse wounds. In regard to Hemostatics, let us first observe the method by which nature arrests hfemorrhage from wounded arteries. When an artery is completely divided across, there is a ten- dency, from the elasticity of the coats of the vessel, for the artery to retract within the cellular tissue around it, and also for its circular fibres to contract concentrically, so that the vessel becomes diminished in calibre, whilst it also retracts within the cellular tissue. These are most important conditions in arterial haemorrhage ; for when a vessel is only partially divided, this process cannot take place, and hence the natural hremostatics are not so efficient in such a case as when the ar- tery is completely divided. In some few instances of punctured wounds of arteries, when the bleeding is comparatively slight, a clot forms in the vessel, and the hcemorrhage is arrested, but the chances are much against the natural htemostatic process proving efficient. When an artery is wounded, the blood flows very rapidly at first, and produces an effect upon the brain and on the centre of the circulation, because, from the equal way in which the blood is distributed throughout the body, the brain soon feels the loss of its blood, and therefore a feeling of nausea and prostration soon follows. The force of the heart's action is diminished, then the blood begins to flow more slowly, and the haemostatic process commences, so that the faintness may be considered as part of that process. In a completely divided