482 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BIOODVESSELS. the coagiilum within the artery acting as a firm plug, and that this was the case by whatever means tlie bleeding was staunched, whether by cauteries, styptics, compression, or ligature. That the greater security of the last-mentioned agent over cauteries and styptics consisted in the form of the clot and the greater certainty of its formation. He concluded that, properly applied, compression was preferable to all other means as giving the best form of coagulum, and so preventing secondary hajmorrhage. In support of his views, he brought forward portions of arteries after amputation exhibiting the clots formed in them ; and by other exjieriments regarding styptics, he tried to prove that they acted by absorbing the moist portions of the blood, and leaving a solid coagulum. Young, from expressions in his work on the virtues of turpentine as a styptic, seems to have held the same views regarding the coagulum being the essential cause of obliteration. A similar notion was entertained by Morand, who, however, thought the action was assisted by a peculiar contraction or corrugation of the vessel. M. Pouteau objected to Petit's views, and attributed the arrestment of haemorrhage entirely to the condensation of the parts around the end of the vessel at the point tied. He says, " I have dissected a femoral artery three weeks after it had been tied in amputation, but in it I found nothing of M. Petit's clot ; nothing to close or compress the artery, except merely the thickening of the sur- rounding cellular substance; for the ligature was loose about the artery, the canal was conical, for it grew narrow near the ligature." This fact, noticed by Pouteau, was of great importance, as we shall afterwards show, had he only more carefully examined the nature of the condensation round the vessel. But unfortunately he considered it as furnished by the surrounding parts included with the vessel in the ligature, and this led him to the very dangerous conclusion that the more of the soft parts included iu the ligature, the better chance would there be of safe oblitera- tion. White, Kirkland, and Aitken, at first inclined to believe in the doctrine advanced by Pouteau, ultimately ascribed the