328 DISEASES OF JOINTS. biilum. The limb becomes mucli altered, the foot and knee are everted, and the limb shortened. The appearance presented is very like what occurs in fracture of the neck of the femur, for which accident it may be mistaken ; but in this disease the symptoms result from alterations in the head of the femur. In .chronic rheumatic arthritis the general health of the patient is seldom or never affected. There is atrophy of the hip to a cer- tain extent, but not nearly so much as in morbus coxarius. The alteration which takes place is, in fact, not so much due to atrophy as to an altered line of the muscular fibre, which gives rise to an appearance of it. Instead of the limb being wasted below, as in morbus coxarius, we find that the calf of the leg is preternaturally developed. Treatment of clironic rheumatic arthritis.—In the earlier stages, depletion by cupping, keeping the patient quiet, and the use of colchicum, will do a great deal to prevent the disease from going further. If, however, it still goes on, the actual cau- tery and the long-continued use of the iodide of potassium are the best methods of preventing the structural changes from taking place; but as the pain only comes now and then, the patient is seldom treated persistently. The disease is met with in persons of rheumatic habit. The diseased action is, therefore, not to be classed with morbus coxarius; it is simply a rheumatic affection requiring persistent treatment. In many of these cases the use of the warm douche and salt-Avater bathing is beneficial— warm bathing being generally the best. Preparations of sulphur may also be given with advantage, but the iodide of potassium is a much more efficient remedy than any of the more popular ones. The disease attacks the knee, elbow, and shoulder-joints, as well as the hip. It is pretty frequent in the shoulder, and sometimes leads there to most serious consequences. A very acute form of disease of the hip, attended with local and general symptoms not unlike those of acute ostitis, is occa- sionally met with. It seems to be dependent upon acute inflam- mation of the bone and periosteum. In most cases which have come under my notice the pelvic bones seem to have been