ER'YTHEMA—HERPES. 175 solare, affecting the face and hands on exposure to the sun, in a woman rot. 38. During the seven years she noticed this symptom she found that her skin was remarkably free from sweat. Wilson thinks the case necessarily recalls pellagra. JECerpes.—"Wyss (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' xii, 261) reviews the literature of herpes zoster, and gives the case of a man, set. 68, who, previously well, was attacked with headache and symptoms of general febrile disturbance. Three days later vesicles of herpes labialis appeared. Next day redness showed itself about the right eye and forehead, the nose, the right ear and cheek, as far as the border of the lower jaw, and extended to the other side of the face. There was no pyrexia, nor was there increased heat of the affected parts. Two or three days later vesicles of herpes appeared on the right side of the face, the right cornea and conjunctiva. Eleven days after the first symptom the patient became unconscious and died. At the autopsy the vesicles and scabs of herpes were found to be entirely limited to the right side and to the parts supplied by the first branch of the fifth nerve. The latter was broader and thicker than the corresponding nerves on the left side, of a deep grey colour, soft, and with its fibres separated by a greyish-red soft tissue, abundantly sup- plied by vessels. This change was found throughout its course from its entrance into the orbit to its finest ramifications. Traced backwards as far as the Grasserian gangloin, it was found surrounded by extravasated blood, but on the other side of the ganglion it appeared to be normal. The ganglion itself was larger and softer than the left, and its substance was bright red, with a mass of ecchymosis on its inner side. Great increase of cell-growth was found in the cornea and in the layers of the skin. Wyss concludes that herpes zoster is a typical affection of the skin, set up by inflammation of the Gasserian or a spinal ganglion, and of the nerve passing through it. Both ganglion and nerve may be only partially effected; this would explain those cases in which only a branch, and not an entire nerve, is found to be the seat of herpes. Sichel ('L'Union Med.,' xii, 580) reviews the literature of herpes zoster frontalis, to which, according to him, but little attention baa been as yet paid among French writers. It has been confounded with erysipelas and certain syphilitic affections (corona veneris). It never passes the median line, and is always limited to one half of the fore- head or face, and always follows the distribution of certain nerves, curiously presenting the form of a fan when it appears over the branches of the infra-orbital nerve. In other particulars his descrip- tion does not differ from that of Hutchinson and other writers in England. The affection is characterised by symptoms of gastric dis- turbance and of hypersesthesia followed by ana)sthe8ia; it is generally accompanied by insomnia and loss of appetite, often by falling oft' of the hair; generally it attacks persons of a gouty or rheumatic tempera- ment, in whom constipation is the rule. The usual termination is favourable. He concludes his paper by giving the notes of three cases. Parrot (' Gaz. Hebd.,' viii, 374) attempts to prove that there is a morbid condition to which he gives the name " herpetic fever," under which should be included the majority of cases described as synochial, ephemeral, gastric and other fevers {ficvre ani/iotcni^ue and nnyine