50 IlEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, Hamburg and Altona, on the Elbe. These places were the most westward limit, as Frankfort, &c., were the most southern, of the cholera in 1871. At Koenigsberg 263 5 were attacked, and 1204 died. In spite of rigorous quarantine measures, the disease extended also in the south-east. In September, 1871, fatal cases occurred in a village on the Bosphorus, and at the end of the month in Constantinople, where 112 died in six days. It also appeared at Galatz. In a further communication (loc. cit., 1872, series 2, i, 574), Fauvel resumes his sketch, with especial refer- ence to the outbreak of cholera at Mecca and Medina (Feb., 1872). Barnier (' Arch, de Med. Navale,' xvi, 190) publishes a note on an epidemic in September and November, 1870, in the island of Nossi-Be, in lat. 15'5° south. It was brought by a negro from Madagascar, where cholera was present, on 15th September, to the village of Ambanourou. Next day four people who had been in contact with him, died ; and the aflfection spread rapidly. The village, the position of which made it easy, was isolated by land and sea; but the quarantine arrangements were broken, and the disease was propagated to Ankarankel and to Hellville, but owing to the strict arrangements did not become general. It was most fatal among the Caffirs, 168 dying out of 204 attacked. Among 200 Indians there were but three cases and one death. Barnier thinks that the idea that this poison is propagated by the air is radically false; and that, however saturated with contagion the air may be in a town where cholera is raging, it entirely loses its deleterious action in a distance of less than a kilometer from the place. Pellarin (' Gaz. Hebdom.,' 1871, ^.3.3) gives shortly his experience of an epidemic of cholera in Guadeloupe and other islands of the Antilles, far surpassing in violence any seen in Europe. Nothing was to be noticed as far as atmospheric or even the local hygienic conditions was observed. Nor was the epidemic preceded by any analogous or pre- monitory affections ; and he concludes that the history of insular epi- demics proves that they are directly and always preceded by the intro- duction into the island either of patients suffering from the disorder, or articles impregnated with the contagious principle. Mediate or mias- matic contagion is the only mode of propagation of cholera in islands. Eolleston ('Lancet,' 1871, ii, ,339) protests against the theory that water is the ordinary vehicle, and, so far, the sole cause of cholera.* On the other hand, Dr. Eenzy (" Water Theory of Cholera," ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, i, 411"; 'Lancet,' 1871, ii, 449, 623; 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 626) finds fault with EoUeston, Cunningham, and V. Pettenkofer, and attempts to uphold his favourite theory. Schlomanu (' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 431) found very great success in the cholera epidemic of 1866, in Texas, from the employment of quinine combined with opium. Eeichard (ib., 408), in the epidemic at Eiga in 1871, found chloral hydrate give good results. Eothe (ib., 348 from the employment of carbolic acid in the diarrhoea of infants and in sporadic cases of cholera, thinks it will be of great use in cases of the epidemic disease. Forster (ib. 446) advocates the * Tbe different abstracts given in this report suflScieutly confirm this protest, which it would be well for others beside the writer of a " leading London political paper " to Uiy to heart.—A. B. S.