479 CHOLEllA. by various soils, are also rendered prevalent by the dispersion of it into the atmosphere through evaporation. Soil and soil-water conditions may be regarded as causes of temporary or permanent immunity. (5) In addition to the cholera germ x which is diffused by intercourse, and the cholera substratum y which represents the local and periodical dispo- sition, the number of attacks is essentially dependent on the individual predisposition, which is very considerably less among the native Indians than among the Europeans. Among the natives, again, the inhabitants of hiU countries show a greater individual predisposition than the in- habitants of the plains. (6) Ships at sea never generate y, or, in other words, they are never in themselves possessed of the local or periodical disposition, and are, therefore, to be regarded as exempt localities. In so far as cholera occurs on board ships, it always originates on shore. In the greater majority of cases the persons who are attacked on board a ship were already infected when they came on board, and are unable to transfer the disease to others who were not on shore, or who, previous to embarcation, were in no infected place. Only in a very few cases do people sicken who have not been on shore, and these cases also take place invariably only subsequent to some communication of the ship with the infected land. In these cases, moreover, it must not be assumed that the infection occurred independent of the co-operation of the soil (j/), or that they prove it to be unnecessary, but that the communication with the land has procured a sufficient quantity of the infectious mate- rials, which was generated there in the ordinary manner (from a? and y), and which, probably under certain circumstances, must enter into some further alteration, or attain a certain ripeness on board the ship before the infection can make itself known. (7) The use of various drinking waters, possible contaminated with the excretion of cholera patients, can in nowise explain the local and periodical appearance of cholera in India. For the further details of this elaborate paper we would refer readers to the original itself, or to the admirable translation by Dr. Cunningham from which we have quoted. Dr. Cunningham* has himself written an excellent report on cholera. This observer states that in the town of Madras, and in its immediate neighbourhood, cholera is least prevalent during very dry and very wet seasons. Palaveran, a place nearly exempt from attacks of the disease, and St. Thomas's Mount, without any apparent differences in their soils, show a remarkable difference in their liabilities to be attacked by cholera. In the Neilgherries many facts seem to be in favour of the soundness of Pettenkofer's theory, and the general immunity of the Neilgherry plateau appears to be quite in accordance with the require- ments of the subsoil theory. The facts are nevertheless susceptible of explanation by several of the current hypotheses, though that of the pure contagionists entirely fails; and the immunity experienced must be ascribed to some of the physical conditions under which the inhabi- tants of the district live. At Salem, again, the facts are in accordance with Pettenkofer'a views, but are inexplicable on the diffusion-by-water hypothesis alone. He concludes thus : * 'Seventh Annual Report of the Snn. Com. of the Gov. of Indiu,' p. 139,