413 OBSTETRIC OPERATIONS. tumour obstructing delivery, with a successful result to the mother There was a "reat tendency after extracting the child to eversion of the inner surface of the uterus, but no uterine sutures were employed, ('Abeille Med.,' No. 4, 1871). See also a successful case for pelvic deformity, Foster, ('Lancet,' June, 1872). Dr. Yarrow reports ('Lancet,' Oct., 1872) a case of Csesarean section. The pelvis was of the rickety type, the antero-posterior dia- meter being one inch and a half. After extracting the child alive the edges of the external wound were brought together by interrupted sutures, but no sutures were inserted through the uterine walls. The patient lived six days. The uterine wound measured one inch and a half; it was open, and there was a small quantity of dark coloured blood in the pelvis. The intestines and their peritoneal covering were healthy, but the peritoneum investing the posterior part of the pelvis was inflamed. A successful case of Ceesareau section is recorded by Causse (' Lyon Med.,' July, 1872). The mother was thirty-two years old, rachitic, and the sacro-pubic diameter measured o'o6y millimetres. The child also was extracted alive and survived. Dr. Hoscheck performed the Csasarean section upon a patient who died from phthisis, near the full term of her pregnancy. The operation took place about ten minutes after death, and although the child was apparently dead when extracted, insufflation from mouth to mouth restored it. ('Archivf. Grynak.,' ii, i, 1871.) MoHnier also relates (' G-az. des Hop.,' Ixxxi, 1871) a case of post- mortem Csesarean section, in which the child was saved. On decapitation as a mode of delivery in cases of sJioulder presentation, in loTiich version cannot he safely effected.—Dr. Gr. H. Kidd (' Dublin Quart. Journ.,' May, 1871) writes on this subject. He describes three conditions in which version cannot be performed without exposing the mother to danger. These three conditions are respectively met with; I. In those cases where the shoulder is so far advanced into the pelvis, and the action of the uterus is, at the same time, so strong that it is impossible to raise or move the child. 2. In cases where the difficulty arises from the firm contraction of the uterus, the liquor amnii is evacuated before dilatation of the os uteri has taken place, and the uterus becomes moulded to the child's body. It is, in these cases, quite possible to introduce the hand, seize a foot and bring it down into the vagina; but the child does not turn, the head remains fixed in the iliac fossa, and the uterus may be torn in the efforts to complete the delivery. 3. In cases of transverse presentation with extreme narrowing of the pelvis. Dr. Kidd describes the various instruments which have been used for decapitation, and especially a plan adopted by Prof. Heyerdahl, and practised in a modified form by Pajot and Tarnier. The instrument consists of a handle and a hollow stem, with a strong wire in its centre; and after it has been passed round the neck the internal wire is pushed upwards, and a loop of string can now be passed round a knob i)laced at the end of the wire. A cord is thus left round the neck, by means of which a chain or wire rope is drawn round, and with this the neck is sawn through. Dr. Kidd suggests that the operation may bo much