llEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 48 similar infectious diseases, and loolcs upon it as a prophylactic as well. He holds that in the mode of its development and propagation, iu its clinical and anatomical aspects, cholera approaches, on the one side, the typhoid, and on the other the malarial affections ; that just as these two fevers show various modifications in different epidemics, so also types of cholera occur, which can by no means be summed up by the ordinary names of cholera, diarrhoja, and cholerine; that he and other physicians in St. Petersburg noticed, during the epidemic of the preceding winter, numerous cases of an affection which presented symptoms peculiar to the cholera process, such as diarrhoea, sickness, small pulse, sometimes profuse sweating, pain and enlargement of liver and spleen, scanty secretion of urine, which was sometimes albuminous, and during con- valescence herpes labial is, epistaxis, catarrh of the nose, throat, and bronchi, tendency to diarrhoea, &c. This type was observed in persons of all classes and ages, attacking in many families several individuals; it was at first sporadic, but was propagated in an epidemic form a short time before the outbreak of the cholera. He has never noticed that these cases became cases of cholera, but all cholera patients admitted into hospital had suffered for several days with prodromal symptoms, which more or less corresponded with the affection described. He believes he is jus- tified in concluding that this is an independent affection allied to the cholera process; that it is the result of the action of a cholera poison, probably modified by external influences ; that this modified poison bears somewhat the same relation to the true cholera virus as that of bilious typhoid does to that of recurrent fever, or that of abortive typhoid to the true typhoid fever ; and he inclines to the view that the cases noticed by previous writers of gastric and intermittent fevers prevailing duriug or after epidemics of cholera belong to this form of the affection, in which should be recognised a modification of the cholera infection, an abortive form of the disease. His treatment of these " abortive" cases consisted in the administration of pills containing carbolic acid and quinine. Paterson (' Med. Times and 6az.,' 1872,1,473) has made experiments on dogs, rabbits, and mice, with the rice-water stools of cholera patients, in the condition of deep collapse. Some of the experiments were made with the fresh matter, others with the cholera matter in a state of fermentation. No result was obtained in any case. Lawson (ib., 1871, ii, 15) gives some very interesting observations on outbreaks of cholera in ships at sea, which, as he has before laid down, have for their cause the " Pandemic waves" which " travel uni- formly from south to north according to definite law." Wittcke (' Zeitschr. f. Epidemiol.,' iii, 204) gives a sketch of the epidemic of cholera in 1866 at Erfurt, whither it was introduced from Berlin. It broke out on the 23rd July, and was extinguished by Nov. i 5. It was the most extensive epidemic that ever broke out in that district, and though it attacked a less number of persons than the epidemic of i8jo, the mortality was greater. In the latter year 3819 were at- tacked, of whom 1312 died; in 1866, 1539 died out of 2650 cases. Striking proofs were obtained of its contagion by individuals or in- fected objects. According to Wittcke, Pettenkoffer's views as to the