REPOEl? ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Lond., E.E.C.P., XECTT; EEE ON CHEHISTEY AT GUY'S HOSPITAL; MEDICAL OFFICER OP HEALTH FOB ST. PANCBAS, MIDDLESEX, AND OFFICIAL ANALYST ; LATE EXAMINEE IN FOEENSIC MEDICINE IN THE TTNITEESITY OF LONDON. POISOKS. Genei'ol.—Prof. Goltz,i of Halle, has experimented on the absorption and removal of poisons after suspension of the "circulation, and has arrived at the following results:—i. In frogs, the hearts of vsrhich had been previously ligatured, strychnine nitrate injected into the stomach induced tetanic spasms within fifteen minutes, and the same results ensued when the poison was injected beneath the skin. 2. The poison reaches the spinal cord spite of the ligature applied to the heart, for frogs were fed with the spinal cord of another frog which had been poisoned by the injection of the poison over the muscles of the calf subsequent to the ligature of the animal's heart, and yet tetanus super- vened after the lapse of eight hours. 3. The passage of the alkaloid from the region of the calf to the spinal cord is independent of the activity of the striped muscular fibres of the poisoned limb. When the heart was ligatured, the roots of the ischiadic nerve of one side divided in the pelvis, and then the stychnine salt injected into the calf on the same side, tetanus supervened. 4. The blood is the vehicle by which the toxic substance is disseminated, for when frogs were destroyed by strychnine subsequent to ligature of the heart the blood of these poisoned animals was capable of inducing tetanic spasms in other frogs. •5. If a frog's heart be ligatured, and the animal be now poisoned by the introduction of the strychnine salt into the leg, the poison passes into the opposite limb, for if another frog be fed with the muscles from the first poisoned frog the second frog experiences tetanic spasms. 6. The experiment last detailed fails if a dead frog be employed for the strychnine injection in the first instance.—The author is of opinion that the general principles enunciated above are applicable to poisons generally, and states that even ai'ter complete interruption of the cir- culation a poison may pass from one part to another of the living body by a proceBS different from the osmosis which takes place in the dead * 'Arch, f. Gesnm. Pliysiol.,' 1871, p. 147. 28