82i FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LAUYNX—TRACHEOTOMY. but tracheotomy was performed high up. Something was felt, and on cuttin<T through the cricoid cartilage a dress-hook was found attached to oue°of the vocal cords. After much trouble the hook was removed. The child died on the seventh day, probably owing to the damage neces- sarily caused by the removal of the awkwardly and firmly fixed hook. The patient was in the Ormond Street Hospital. (' Lancet,' Sept. 30, 1871,468.) A case in which a foreign body was removed from the larynx of a child eight years old is recorded by Dr. Bennett. The child had swal- lowed a plum-stone. Tracheotomy was performed, but the stone could not be found, notwithstanding careful search with probes by himself and Mr. Butcher. After some days it was clear it was impacted be- tween the cords. The thyroid cartilage was divided and the stone removed, about three weeks after the child first came under care. The child recovered voice, &c. (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Aug. 1871, 29.) Mr. Teake records the case of a man who, while drinking, sucked a iTiin plate of ho]ie into his larynx. Examined with the laryngoscope the bone was seen to be a long, thin piece, impacted between the thyroid cartilage in front and the arytenoid behind. It was seized with forceps by Mr. Teale, but it could not be removed. Tracheotomy was then performed. Eepresentations of the bone are given. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,'Jan. 7, 1871, 7.) ]Mr. Stokes says, " As I am not aware of any case in which the diflB.- eult and hazardous operation of tracheotomy, performed twice on the same suhject, has been recorded, the particulars of the following one must, doubtless, be considered of much surgical interest:" The patient was a woman, set. 30, who suffered from syphilitic dis- ease of the larynx. Fifteen months previously she had had tracheotomy performed. The tube was only worn a short time, the wound healed, and the patient became free from all laryngeal distress. Six weeks previously the difficulty of breathing had returned. A second operation was performed, but with great difficulty. Mr. Stokes found Langen- beck's double tracheotomy-hook of great service. She continued to wear a tube afterwards. ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Dec. 1872, 436.) Dr. Buchanan, in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 4 and 25, 1871, gives an abstract of results of thirty-nine cases in which he performed tracheotomy. Dr. Eben "Watson narrates two cases for chronic laryngeal disease. In one, the patient fainted during chloroform inhalation, and was brought round with difficulty; he fainted without chloroform, and finally was found dead in bed, probably having fainted when no assist- ance was at hand. Dr. Watson points out the bearing of such cases in the administration of chloroform. In the second case no special com- plication existed. Dr. Watson does not lay much stress on the part of, the trachea opened, but he recommends sparing use of the edge of the knife after the akin has been divided. lie remarks on the length of time the tube should be worn. ('Lancet,' Aug. 3, 1872, H,-;.) Tracheolomy-iuhe removed from the trachea.—A case, in which a tube slipped into the trachea, owing to the separation of the shield, is re- corded in the 'Lancet,' Jan. 27, 1872, 113. It was removed by Mr. 21