llEPORT ON SXJRGEHY. 260 of the atlas or the transverse ligament. 2, The odontoid ])rocos8 is leas liable to be fractured by external violence than the body of the axis at the insertion of the process. 3. The odontoid process is not fractured by being driven against the transverse ligament or anterior arch of the atlas. 4. The odontoid ligaments have a combined strength greater than the odontoid process. " I am satisfied, however, that the efficient agents in this fracture are the odontoid ligaments." He details various cases under the heads of spontaneous fracture ; fractures from direct violence ; from external violence applied to the forehead, tlie back part of the neck, side of the head ; fractures with slight symptoms at first; multiple fractures; fracture followed by exfoliation and recovery; fracture and recovery with the formation of a false joint. He dis- cusses the various modes of death and the symptoms ; the chief being, that the patient carries the head supported on his two hands.—(' Am. Journt. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1871, 338-58.) Unilateral dislocation of the fifth cervical vertebra.—Dr. Reyburn records the case of a man, aet. 24, who sustained a unilateral disloca- tion of the fifth cervical vertebra by a weight falling on his neck. Paralysis gradually came on. After nine weeks and two days reduc- tion was eflected with improvement in the symptoms. Death occurred a fortnight later. There was no fracture. An abscess was found in the cord. Kemarks on other cases recorded are made.—(' Am. Jouru. Med. Sciences,' July 1871, 110.) Fracture of the spine.—A case of fracture of the fifth cervical ver- tebra, with laceration of the spinal cord, and complete paralysis below the root of the neck, in which the patient lived for three months, is recorded in the ' Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' April, 1871, 590. The relative mortaliti/ of analogous injuries in civil and militari/ practice.—Dr. E>. Volkmann, of Halle, holds (* Archiv. fiir Klin. Chirurg.,' xv) that the mortality after injuries and operations is not greater in military than in civil practice; on the contrary, that it is even less. In 1699 gunshot fractures of the bones of the leg, occurring in the wars of the Jast ten years, and the statistics of which were collected by Billroth, there were 401 deaths, or 23-6 per cent.; and in 109 cases which came under Dr. Volkmann's notice, there were 25 deaths or 22 per cent. On the other hand, in 885 complicated frac- tures of the leg, occurring in various German and British hospitals, there were 339 deaths or 38^ per cent. In one hospital alone (St. Bartholomew's) the mortality was lower than in military practice, being 20 per cent. In most of the German hospitals the mortality was 40 per cent. With regard to the cases of gunshot fracture of the leg in which attempts were made to preserve the limbs, Volkmann finds that, in the Italian war, the mortality was 17 per cent. Among the 109 patients under his care at Trantenau, amputation of the thigh was performed in 18 cases, and 9 of the patients died; while, in 91 cases in which he employed conservative treatment, the mortality was 16, or 17'5 per cent. Billroth, at Weissenburg, and Socin, at Stettin, liad a mortality of about 14 per cent, among the cases treated conser- vatively ; and Stromeyer, in the Danish war, had a mortality of only 10 per cent. On the other hand, of 320 patients subjected to conscr-