UEPOllT ON SUnGEfa^. with other malformations of the genital organs. Those cases of ovarian hernia which come on at a later period of life must be accounted for by some such conditions as excessive length of the ovarian ligament, bend- ing forward of the uterus, too great an inclination forward of the pelvis, or the drawing down of the ovary with a hernial sac. In congenital hernisB, the ovary and Fallopian tubes are generally present, while acquired hernia usually contains the ovary alone. The uterine end of the Fallopian tube has been found obliterated inmost of the cases that have been examined. The displaced ovary was, in fifteen cases, normal; in seventeen, inflamed; in five, it had undergone cystic, and in one, can- cerous degeneration. In five cases the hernia also contained intestine. Ovarian hernite are generally pear-shaped, the neck of the protrusion being very narrow, especially where the organ has undergone degenera- tion. In the femoral form, the hernia is rounder. It is rarely that any information as to diagnosis can be obtained from the form or the consistence of the swelling. It has been alleged by some observers that the pain produced on pressure extended to the umbilicus, and in a number of cases included uterine colic and pain in the external genital organs. The healthy ovary is always tender. Of the fifteen con- genital hernias, thirteen were irreducible; while, of fifteen cases of acquired hernia, in three only could the ovary not be returned into the abdomen. In some cases pain is described as having been produced by dragging on the uterus, when the patients lay on the side opposite to that of the hernia. In single ovarian hernia, the uterus is generally inclined towards its affected side. The symptoms produced during menstruation are very striking, and aff"ord important aid in the dia- gnosis. In some cases, however, these have been Avanting, and here the uterus has been absent. Before the menstrual discharge commences, the patient feels pain in the hernia, which also increases in bulk. In many cases there have been also eructation and vomiting, nearly lead- ing even skilful surgeons into the error of supposing that they had to deal with strangulation. In one case, in which pregnancy occurred, the changes in the hernia at the menstrual periods were arrested during this condition. Infiammation of ovarian hernia may be traumatic, or may accompany menstruation. Englisch observes that even in omental and intestinal hernia the period of strangulation often coincides with that of menstruation ; and he believes that the congestion, which affects not only the ovary but the peritoneum, may in certain cases give rise to the phenomena of incarceration. When an ovary that has under- gone cystic degeneration becomes gangrenous, it may rgadily be con- founded with gangrenous intestine. The vomiting which often accom- panies inflammation of a displaced ovary, is ascribed by Englisch to a sympathetic affection of the intestine, and not, as has been supposed by Miilert, to compression of the intestine against the overstretched edge of the broad ligament. In inflammation of an ovarian hernia, the abdomen is usually less distended, and the countenance less anxious than in ordinary strangulated hernia. When an ovarian hernia suppu- rates, the abscess very rarely bursts into the abdomen. When there is strangulated intestine, at the same time with the ovary, in the hernia, the symptoms are increased in severity. The condition of the stools