167 AFFECTIOJJS OF THE PERITONEUM, KIDNEif, ETC. lumbar glands occupied almost the entire right half of the abdominal cavity. In the other, a girl, aged i years, the left half of that cavity was nearly filled by a mesenteric tumour. A full report of the microscopical appearance of both tumours is given. Vigla, "Peritonite granuleuse" (man, set. 21, autopsy), 'Gaz. des H6p.,' 1871, 253. Herard, " Peritonite chronique" (man, ait. 39), ib., 264. Lange, " Eigentbumlicher Verlauf einer Peritonitis," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 74. Id., "Peritonitis mit Periorchitis bei einem 3 Wocben alten Knaben," ib., ib. Egan, " Peritonitis Meretricium," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 475. Mm-cliison, "Multiple Hydatid Tumours of the Liver (?) and Peritoneum, in part successfully Removed by Opera- tion" (woman, a!t. 29), 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiii, 126. Id., "Multiple Hydatid Tumours of the Liver and Peritoneum" (man, set. 45), ib., 129. Greenliow, " Loose Tumours from the Peritoneal Cavity," ib., 241. Southey, " Old Peritoneal Adhesions interfering with the Rise of the Uterus into the Abdomen at the Fourth Mouth of Pregnancy; Cystitis; Retention of Urine; Distension of the Bladder; Death from General Peritonitis" (with autopsy), ' Lancet,' 1871, i, 610. Affections oftlie Kidney. (a) NepJiritis.—Wood, v?riting on acute dropsy, scarlatinal and idio- pathic ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,'Ixii, 75), attempts to show that a large proportion, if not all, cases of this kind, are due not to a mechanical im- pediment to the circulation, but to a peculiar condition of the cellular tissue, whereby its natural secretion or exhalation is enhanced, so that the water may be said to be actively thrown or drawn out from the vessels. From a review of different cases and writers he concludes—i. That in acute Bright'8 disease, whether originating from scarlet fever, arsenical poisoning, or cold, the dropsy is not a result of the kidney disease, but with the latter is dependent upon a common cause. 2. That an irritant poison, organic or otherwise, may give rise to dropsy without any appreciable organic disease. 3. That exposure to cold and wet may produce di'opsy, without other disease, and that there is, therefore, such an affection as idiopathic dropsy. 4. That acute dropsy is mostly, if not always, the result of irritation of the cellular tissue. G. Johnson ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' .1871, i, 3),in a "Lecture on the Diagnosis and Prognosis in cases of Bright's Disease," insists upon the necessity of a careful examination of the urine in all cases of deranged health. The urine in cases of the acute affection is usually scanty, of normal specific gravity, more or less blood-tinged, highly albuminous, and contains numerous epithelial and blood-casts, with scattered renal epithelium and blood-discs. The hsematuria of acute Bright's disease is distinguished from that of renal calculus by the presence of these casts. Small and large hyaline casts also occur, the latter moulded in tubes from which the gland-cells have been removed, the former from those whose walls were still covered by them. Another form of tube-cast ia that which contains small round cells with compound nuclei (exudation- cells). The appearance of these in great numbers is a less favourable sign than when epithelial casts alone are present. In some undoubted cases of acute Bright's di-sease the urine, though highly albuminous, contains no blood and retains its normal colour. When symptoms of the disease have continued beyond a month or six weeks, more or less