REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 356 but 2'' behind the lobe, at the margin of the hairy scalp, there was an in- conspicuous small opening, with surrounding tenderness, discharging a little yellow serum. The vision of the left eye had been imperfect from youth, and its lids were then spasmodically affected. Enucleation was advised, but was necessarily deferred in consequence of other calls upon the surgeons. It was performed on the 24th, by which time impending panophthalmitis had made further progress, the facial paralysis being unchanged. The edges of the lid wounds were at the same time pared, and brought together by sutures. Recovery took place favorably, and on Sept. 20th the left eye read Snellen fluently over a range of from 2" to 4". "Without a lens S = 3^, after neutralizing the myopia by — S = No distress of accommodation after prolonged reading. The eyeball was examined by Dr. Waldeyer, but it was so much destroyed by the injury that nothing beyond diffuse purulent infiltra- tion of the choroid was recognisable. 3, Legouey, set. 22, struck by splinters of shell before Metz, on Aug. I yth. After remaining seven hours on the field he obtained cold compresses from a French surgeon at the church of a neighbouring village, and after two days was sent he knew not where. On the 24th of August he came to Dr. Cohn, by whom, according to his own account, he was for the first time carefully examined. Immediately after the injury there was, he said, a considerable fluid discharge from the right ear, whether of blood he did not know. There were numerous burns and abrasions of the skin over the right eyebrow, cheek, and side of the nose. The brows were powder-blackened, and at the outer extremity of the right eyebrow there was a lacerated wound i" long, discharging a quantity of greenish pus. The right lids were closed, the upper lid was moderately swollen and somewhat hard. On raising it the con- junctiva was seen to be red and much swollen, and a scorched brownish mass occupied the place of the cornea. Loss of vision complete. There was purulent discharge from the right external auditory meatus, and a watch could not be heard with this ear. Enucleation was performed with some difiiculty, it being impossible to detach the muscles entirely from the torn sclerotic; and the eyeball was so completely disorganised that nothing but the sclerotic was distinguishable. A large number of small fragments of shell were removed from the forehead, eyelid, and cheek, and cold compresses were applied. Good recovery followed, and on Oct. 3rd the report was that the stump had good movement down- wards and outwards, but very little in other directions. Left eye normal, with no discomfort after continued use. 4. Sehn, H., set. 23, struck by a chassepot bullet at St. Privat, on Aug. 18th, and seen by Dr. Cohn on September 13th. The wound of entrance was in the right ala of the nose, and was brought together by sutures two hours after it was inflicted. The bullet passed through the nasal bone, the left superior maxilla, and the left eye, to the temple, shatter- ing the upper part of the outer margin of the orbit, and escaping 2" in front of the tragus of the left ear. Many splinters of bone had been removed from the nose and from the temporal region. The eyeball was reduced to a small stump, in which there was no trace of cornea, and which was sensitive to touch. Conjunctiva of the globe much in-