266 EEPORT ON SURGERY. aperture, the lid springing into place as soon as the ball passed. Why the ball should have entered the skull, at all, at a point beyond the greatest convexity of the forehead, is not to be accounted for; but the ultimate recovery of the patient is the most remarkable feature in the case. The narrator has failed to find another case on record in which a missile out of reach and out of sight has been discovered and removed from the brain by trephining—a permanent recovery afterwards resulting. A diagram of the fracture is given and of the ball. (Ibid., Oct. 1871,385.) Qunshot wounds of the lower extremity.—Mr. MacCormac writes a very interesting paper on his experience of the treatment of gunshot wounds of the lower extremity. He quotes statistics from English, French, German, and American authorities. In the Anglo-American ambulance, Mr. MacCormack and others treated in all, 47 cases of gun- shot fracture of the femur. In 21 of these, amputation was performed; 16 terminated fatally. Excluding disarticulation at the hip, the mortality was 72*22 per cent. 26 cases were treated without amputa- tion, many of them being in a hopeless condition. One half died. If an attempt is made to save the limb it is better to avoid any strenuous efforts to remove the deformity. If amputation is determined on, it should be done within the twenty-four hours. In the ambulance, 57 cases of gunshot fracture of the leg were treated, with 23 deaths. 25 were treated conservatively, with 8 deaths, or 32 per cent.; while 32 required amputation. Of these 13 died, or 40*6 per cent. Of the operation cases, 16 consisted of primary amputation, with 5 deaths, and 16 were secondary amputations, with 8 deaths. As regards injuries to the hip-joint, the American statistics given iu the Surgeon-General's Circular No. 21,869 referred to. (See last ' Eetrospect.') Injuries of the knee- and ankle-joints are discussed. Mr. MacCormack sums up—" The considerations detailed in this paper appear to me to aflbrd grounds for concluding against the universal application of amputation in regard of gunshot fractures of the shaft of the femur. Sound, though it may be delayed, union will often follow conservative treatment. I think, for general guidance, we may, for the present, declare that, in fractures of the lower half of the femur, the rule should be, when in doubt, to amputate, while, in those of the upper half of the bone, the converse should apply, namely, when in doubt to try to preserve the limb." Two plates of illustrations of injuries to the femur and to the tibia accompany the paper. (' St. Thomas's Hosp. Eep.,' ii, 43.) Depressed fractu/re of the skull in a child, with deep laceration of the brain; no symptoms for six days; death from convulsions on the eiglith day.—Mr. W. Adams ('Path. Trans.,' xxiii, 184). Compound, depressed fracture of the skull; operation.—Dr. Meldon records the case of a boy, set. 7, who was kicked on the head by a horse. Two compound, depressed fractures of the skull were found. On ad- mission, he was " semi-conscious; one pupil was contracted and the other dilated." The depression was " an inch in depth." The bone was elevated and pieces removed from each position. In one place the dura mater was found lacerated. Hernia cerebri resulted from this part, and was controlled by pressure. At the same time, however, there