TRBPIIINING FOR GUNSHOT. 265 ing 21^ grammes (more than 7^ ounces). (' Qaz. Med. de Paris,' 21 Oct. 1871.) Trephining for Gunshot.—A case is recorded in which a soldier was wounded in the forehead hy a bullet. After ten days "a spot was discovered, a little to the right of the occipital protuberance, that was paiuful when touched, and had the appearance of being a very slight portion of the occipital bone forced by some power from within out- ward." The wound in front was examined more carefully. The frontal bone had received a fracture of both tables, but in such a manner as to allow the piece or pieces to spring into place again. A probe was passed into this wound outwards to the " back part of the head in the im- mediate neighbourhood of the lesion of the occipital bone, where it met a hard, convex substance." The occipital bone was then trephined, and a bullet extracted. The man recovered. (' Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Jan. 1872, 120.) Dr. Halstead records ('St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journal,' March, 1870) the case of a man, set. 17, who was shot in the head by the breech-pin of his gun. The pin struck his forehead, smashed in the bone, and stuck into the brain. The man pulled it out himself and then rode on horseback for some distance. He afterwards became in- sensible. Pieces of bone were found driven for two inches into the brain. As many as thirty-eight pieces were removed, and also a three- fourth inch screio. It was supposed that the breech-pin passed nearly to the petrous bone, a distance of four and a half inches, it is said, from the forehead, tearing the falx cerebri and opening the superior, longi- tudinal sinus in its passage. The injuries, &c., are described in detail. The man wholly recovered. He was not in any respect aware of any difference, three months later, in his mental or physical condition, from that before the accident. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Jan. 1871, 2,01.) Dr. Howard narrates the following case in detail. On April 6, 1862, a soldier, set. 19, was shot in the head by a Minie ball. He staggered, fell back, and remained insensible till the next day. On April 9 he was found sitting up, leaning against a tree, and sensible. On April 15 he was carefully examined. There was a wound in the left temple, and a probe passed obliquely across the most prominent part of the forehead and emerged through a small incised wound, said to have been made by a surgeon who extracted a ball, which the patient saw. Just above this incision was a slight depression in the frontal bone. The left leg was numb. After a few days " symptoms of com- pression" came on. " Coma becoming almost complete," it was deter- mined to explore. On April 21, a triangular depression was found in the centre of the forehead, the apex of the depressed portion was chipped off, leaving a small opening not admitting a probe. In this wa3 entangled a single hair. This at once suggested the presence of a foreign body beyond. The trephine was applied. A Minie ball was removed from a depth of two inches. The patient recovered. From the appearance of the ball it seemed probable that a portion had chipped off, remained under the skiu, and had been removed by a Burgeon. The remainder entered the skuU and formed a trap-dooy