147 CARiDIAC NEljROSrS—MALFOUMATION, ETC. over-action and excitement. As regards treatment, rest is tlie first requisite; digitalis, aconite, veratrum viride, gelsemium, belladonna, are all used 'with success, the latter especially in irregular action of the heart. Generally the course of treatment requires a long time. Mazza (" Del Cardiopalmo Nervoso e del suo piii congruo tratta- mento," 'Ann. Univ. di Med.,' ccxv, 3) writes on nervous palpitation. He describes it as preceded by various nervous disorders—hemicrania, singing in the ears, and such like. Its chief symptom is the altered actfon of the heart. The access of palpitation is accompanied by pulsation in the carotid, swelling of the jugulars, &c. The length of the paroxysm varies greatly, sometimes extending over several days, generally occurring in the night. The differential diagnosis is based on the absence of any signs of organic disease in the heart and large vessels, the simultaneous presence of other symptoms of nervine dis- turbance, and the alternation of normal action of the heart with palpi- tation. The cause is to be found in anything that produces abnormal irritation of the organ; the misuse of stimulants; cachectic diseases, especially those of the uterus, &c. The prognosis is more or less favourable. The treatment is mainly hygienic and dietetic. The writer prefers the sulphate or citrate of quinine in combination with carbonate of iron and bismuth. Gi-reen (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 613) records a case of disturbed cardiac innervation in a man, eet. 47. Congenital Malformation of the Heart, ^c. Hertel ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 337) publishes a case, occurring in Traube's clinique, of congenital stenosis of the aorta, complicated with aortic insufficiency, and adds some remarks by the latter on sclerosis of the aorta. The patient was a man, set. 38, and the post- mortem examination gave the following results:—enormous enlargement of both sides of the heart; the valves, with the exception of the aortic, healthy. The latter were insufficient, two of them adherent, thickened on their free edge; the ascending aorta was dilated, but its walls were not thickened; the arch was of normal dimensions. At the point of entrance of the ductus Botalli, there was complete stricture of the aorta, with very great thickening and calcification of the walls, and an opening which admitted only a very fine probe. Above and below this narrowed portion there was well-marked sclerosis, especially at the points where the lai'ge vessels were given off. The corresponding collateral arteries (thoracic, mammary, epigastric, &c.) were enormously dilated; the thoracic aorta was about its normal size, the abdominal narrow in proportion. Traube offers a new theory as to the origin of arterial sclerosis ; he thinks it is not to be referred, as most writers do refer it, to endarteritis, but to a slow movement of the blood stream. He illustrates his theory from the condition of the pulmonary vessels, in which sclerosis occurs only when there is great obstruction to the passage of the blood from them; and from the cases of drinkers, in whom the increased tension of the aortic system is due to the con-