144 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. flabby muscular tissue; in most of the cases it was covered by an abnormal amount of fat, and the fibres of the muscle had themsidves undergone fatty change. The arteries, in the cases in which they were examined, were ossified, or contained calcareous plates in their walls. In one case the mitral was affected ; in a great number of cases the aorta was diseased. Barth looks upon the interstitial hiBinorrhages into the walls of the heart and the fatty change in its muscle as the two principal pathological facts of the affection. He iDcntioiis, as rare occurrences, ruptures of the heart from the presence of a coronary aneu- rism and of hydatids. He thinks it probable that the rupture occurs at the commencement of the systole, when the heart has to exert its greatest amount of energy. The most characteristic phenomena of its occurrence are syncope, a feeling of suffocation and anxiety, and of very violent pain at the lower left portion of the sternum and mammary region. Death occurs, not from the loss of blood, but from compression of the heart by the effused blood. Treatment of rupture of the heart is, of course, useless ; but, in the way of prevention, something may be done by carefully watching old people, in whom the hard radial artery suggests disease in the cardiac capillaries, by recommending moderation in the use of alcoholic drinks, regular diet, abstinence from fat-forming materials; moderate exercise, without muscular effort or fatigue. Should any symptoms arise which threaten partial rupture of the heart the patient must be kept in bed, and drugs administered which diminish the action and so favour the gradual cicatrization of the muscular tissue (! ? Rep.) Notes of the cases are contained in the body of the paper. Vedie ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1871, 145) gives a case of rupture of the heart in a woman affected with dementia, whose age is not given, pro- bably due to degeneration of the muscular fibres. Here there was a rent in the anterior wall of the right auricle. No murmur had been heard during life, though there were vegetations and insufficiency of the aortic valves. She died suddenly, after being in a prostrate condition for twenty-four hours. Thompson ('Lancet,' 1871, ii, 635) records the following:—A gentleman, set. 56, had been in good health and actively employed up to twenty-four hours before he complained of pain. He had retired to bed well, but towards morning he died. In this case there was a rupture an inch long in the anterior wall of the left ventricle, close to the apex. The muscle had undergone fatty change.* Beck (ib., 803) gives a case of rupture of the left ventricle in a man, set. 71, in whom the muscle was also fatty. He fell down speechless and apparently senseless, about twenty minutes before he died. Matthews (ib., ib.) pubhshes the case of a man whose age is not given, who had suffered for some time with symptoms of valvular disease. He died suddenly, and at the post-mortem examination a hole was found at the base of the left ventricle, about the size and shape * It would be well if others in the same position as this writer would place on record as he has done here " cases in general practice." In England, at least, the publication of cases, not always well and briefly reported, as these are, is too much confined to the consultants of large, especially metropolitan, hospitals.—A. B. S.