REMOVAL OF GROWTHS FROM THE LARYNX. 32S similar proceeding to that adopted in the last case was carried out. The fourth patient, under the care of Mr. Bryant, was a boy, aged three years. Tracheotomy was first performed and then, by means of a curved bistoury, an incision was made upwards from the opening in the trachea. Some haemorrhage, as in the other cases, then occurred, but was quickly stopped by exposure, torsion of vessels, &c. In the course of a fortnight the canula was removed, and. in three weeks the wound was entirely healed. More than a year later he was in excellent condition. The fifth patient, under the care of Mr. Davies-Colley, was a boy, four years of age. Tracheotomy was first performed and then, on a subse- quent occasion, an incision in the middle line was made through the cartilages and upper rings of trachea. The growths were most exuberant. A month later the tracheotomy tube was discontinued in the day time, but subsequently its use had to be resumed. A second operation was performed seven months later and has apparently been quite successful, lu the second, third, and fifth cases nitrate of silver was applied after the removal of the growths, in the fourth perchloride of iron was used. Appended to the paper are notes of all the cases in which similar operations have been performed of which the record is accessible. The cases are 32 in number; including his own, 37. In at least 19 of these the operation was completely successful, in 7 partially successful, and in 4 temporary benefit resulted. (In a note 1 other successful cases are mentioned.) In 3 cases the result was negative. Five cases were not completed but were progressing favourably. In 2 cases death appears to have resulted from the operation. Dr. Mackenzie, in his monograph on 'Growths in the Larynx,' gives 9 out of 28 as the proportion of deaths, but Mr. Durham considers that 7 of these deaths occurred from circumstances unconnected with the operation. He gives the facts of the cases. Mr. Durham remarks on the difiiculties attending the operation. First, with regard to hcemorrhage. If the incision be kept strictly to the median line it is impossible that any large vessel can be wounded. Any wounded vessel is fully exposed. The wound being kept well open, if blood pass down the trachea it is soon coughed up again. Bleeding from the interior of the larynx is easily controlled by pressure or styptics. The introduction of a canida, if not already in position, and the insertion of a small piece of sponge into the trachea above the canula may aflford material aid in securing free respiration and hinder- ing the flow of blood down the air-passages. The spasmodic move- ments of the larynx and the paroxysms of cough often cause delay, but these generally subside after a time. Division of cartilages.—If the opening is commenced below and a grooved director passed up between the vocal cords, their safety may be absolutely ensured, but such a proceeding seems to Mr. Durham unnecessary. He prefers dividing the cartilages by cutting through them from without inwards and from above downwards, and separating, slightly, the alro of the thyroid cartilage, before actually penetrating the mucous membrane. In the removal of the growth no great difficulty will be experienced unless some important part of the larynx is involved, then so much as is necessary must be removed with the growth. As a general rule it is probably best to begin by dividing the thyroid cartilage and crico-