REt'ORT ON MlDWlFERYj ETC. 416 the appliances used for mechanical dilatation of the cervix uteri. He compares the hougie, the tangle-tent, the sponge-tent, and the india- rubber bag, in reference to the amount of force exercised, the amount of expansion produced, and the amount of time required for producing the exj)ansion. In using great force to pass a common uterine probe the instrument is bent, and by experiment the force required to bend it is found to be about four pounds exerted at its point, the.handle being fixed. With the same force used the tension overcome will be the greater in proportion as the wedge is sharper or has a smaller angle. Assuming the surface pressed upon in the cervix to be one tenth of an inch in breadth, then the dilating force exerted will be about nine lbs., if the wedge have an angle of 90 degrees, or 90 lbs. on the square inch, and about eighteen lbs. if the wedge have an angle of 45 degrees, or 180 lbs. on the square inch. The tangle-tent was found experimentally to have an expanding force of 500 lbs. on the square inch, the sponge-tent a force of only from 20 to 30 lbs., and the india-rubber bag a force from 15 to 25 lbs. on the square inch. The amount of dilatation produced by the ordinary series of surgical bougies successfully used is about a quarter of an inch. A tangle-tent whose stem is about one fifth of an inch in diameter expands to one half an inch if not subjected to pressure, but in proportion as the resistance to be overcome increases so does the amount of actual expansion decrease. A small sponge-tent more than trebles its diameter when not under any constraint; its expansion, however, under slight compression is very small indeed. The expan- sion produced by the india-rubber bag is practically unlimited, because any bag can be easily withdrawn, and another of larger size immedi- ately substituted for it. No time is lost in bringing the full power of the bougie into action. The tangle-tent expands very slowly ; before its small dimensions have doubled twelve hours will have elapsed. The sponge-tent rapidly expands when unconstrained ; and no time is lost in bringing into action the full power of the india-rubber bag, and its power continues till its full expansion. Accidents during Labour. Rupture.—Fourrier records a case of rupture of the uterus with escape of the foetus and placenta into the abdominal cavity, in which he performed gastrotomy on the fifth day. The patient was 29 years of age, the mother of two children. Six weeks before her expected labour she fell in going down stairs; this, however, gave rise at the time and for a few days afterwards to only slight abdominal pains. Labour came on at term, and soon after the rupture of the membranes she felt sudden and severe pain, and there was cessation of labour- pains. On careful examination four days afterwards, the abdomen pre- sented two tumours; the one on the right was made up of the fcetus, while that on the left was about the size of the uterus soon after labour. An incision was made on the right, the foetus with its mem- branes and the placenta were extracted, and, although the patient after- wards presented some indications of purulent infection, she ultimately recovered. Fourrier calls attention to the absence of any severe ha:-