4.83 ENTEHIC FEVEtt. specting the epidemics of enteric fever which occurred in reserve and field lazarettes during the late Franco-Grerman war. Many of these discuss specially the etiology of the disease, and more than ordinary attention has been directed to the question of its diffusion by the agency of drinking water. Wohlrab * gives a very interesting account of a small epidemic which occurred in the spring of 1870 in the village of Oberwiesenthal, situated 2800 feet above the sea level. The water supply was conveyed through wooden pipes which were found to be in a very filthy state, and so laid that the oozings of open cesspools could easily gain access and become mixed with the water. The disease spread in such a way as to jireclude the possibility of dift'usion by communication from one person to another. The sudden occurrence of the malady in five houses simultaneously pointed to a common cause. This was traced to contamination of the water supplied to these five dwellings, by the dejecta of the first case which occurred, by oozings from the cesspool into which they were thrown. Subsequent cases occurred traceable to a similar cause. The water was found to contain a large proportion of chlorides. The large quantity of rain which fell during the season was considered to have been the means whereby the mixture of cesspool oozings and the water in the main cisterns was efiected. Eeichjt who investigated an epidemic of enteric fever which pi-e- vailed in Salzbach from June 1870 to January 1871, though unable to determine how the disease was imported into the town, traced the difi'usion of it to a running well which had become contaminated by the overflow of a cesspool situated near it. That this was the source of the spread of the disease appeared from the following facts:—(i) That the disease occurred only in those houses which were supplied from this well, while all the other houses immediately in the vicinity of the infected ones, but which got their water supply from pump wells, re- mained quite free from contagion. (2) The epidemic ceased and no new cases occurred after the cleansing of the cistern and stoppage of the flow from the well. (3) Analysis of the water proved that it con- tained a very large amount of organic matter, w^hich must have come from external sources, as the well itself was a granite spring. Raymond J attributes the difi'usion of typhoid in Brussels in the spring and summer of 1871, not so much to conveyance of the con- tagion by water, but rather to meteorological conditions and to the effluvia from sewers. Socin § has investigated the relation of typhoid in Basle to the state of the subsoil and the rainfall. His conclusions are:—(i) In all pro- babilitj unusual dryness favours the development of typhoid in Basle, while increasing moisture checks it. (2) The intensity of the epidemics cannot be explained by tlie degree or rapidity of the variations in humidity. (3) The epidemics occur usually in the second half of the * 'Arch. (1. Heilk.,' 1871, p. n4- t ' Aerztl. .Mittlifcil. aus. Jliidcn,' No. 15, 1871. X ' Arcliiv. Med. Bc-lges,' Juin, 1871, p. 385. § 'Typhus, Ilcgenmcnge und OrundwasBer in Basel, Innng. Diss.' Basel, 1871, pp. S9> 231. Virchow and Hirsch's ' Jahrsb,' 1871, ii, p. 231. '