310 REPORT ON SURGERY. There is also tlie difficulty, even wlien a patient is kept under observa- tion for a number of years, of Icnowing whether he confines himself to the prescriptions of his medical adviser, or uses sometimes those of other persons. The question as to the value of subcutaneous injection in syphilis is not yet ripe for decision; a prolonged series of clinical observations is required. One of the alleged advantages of subcutaneous injection in syphilis is the possibility of allowing the patient to move about and follow his ordinary occupation. This advantage, however, is limited; for the wound made in the operation demands rest and care for a time at least, and it is often necessary simultaneously to apply local treatment to the genital organs, mouth and throat. In the treatment of syphilis, Sig- mund insists most strongly on the importance of pure air and exercise; but when injection is used much care is required. An essential advantage of subcutaneous injection, and one which cannot be overrated, is its precision. The surgeon knows when, how much, and where he introduces the medicine into the system, and can determine with the greatest accuracy the place, the time, and the repetition of the dose. Again, there is no immediate disturbance of the digestive organs. Perfection in the details of the operation, and attention to the hygienic and dietetic conditions of the patient are the most important points to be observed in a long and varied inquiry made with the view of arriving at a conclusion as to the value of the process. In Dr. Sigmmad's opinion, no one as yet possesses the facts on which an absolute conclusion may be founded. Subcutaneous injection must be regarded as a valuable addition to our resources, inasmuch as—un- fortunately not rarely—cases are met with which resist all the ordiuaiy methods of treatment. As far as Dr. Sigmund has observed, its good effects are most readily obtained, and are apparently permanent in the simple papular, pustular, and squamous syphilides, in simple faucial and laryngeal catarrh, in diffuse inflammation of the muscles and tendons, of the periosteum and perichondrium and of the joints, and in neuralgic affections. It may also be used empirically where other methods have failed, or where, for special reasons, they cannot be carried out. To cases of the kind here referred to. Dr. Sigmund would limit the use of subcutaneous injection in private practice. Clinical observations, on the other hand, must embrace a wider range. As far as Dr. Sigmund has observed, he finds that he cannot support one of the assertions of the advocates of subcutaneous injection, viz. that it prevents secondary symptoms when employed in the initial stage, or that of induration. In all the cases which he has thus treated, tlie consecutive, cutaneous and mucous"syphilides have appeared, just as if the disease had been treated locally or not at all. Subcutaneous injection possesses an advantage in common with friction and fumigation, namely, that internal remedies, such as quinine, iron, preparations of iodine, cod-liver oil, &c,, can be given at the same time. Dr. Sigmund attaches much importance to this fact, since such combination of treatment is often of high value. In concluding, Dr. Sigmund insists on the necessity, in order to arrive at an estimate of the value of subcutaneous mercurial injection