REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, HTC. 418 the placenta before attempting to restore the uterus is the best practice. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' May, 1872). In some remarks on two chronic cases (ibid., Aug. 1872) Dr. Hicks recommends the introduction of air bags into the vagina, which should remain for two days. The first hag is a ring-shaped one, pressing on the upper vagina equally all round, and steadies the uterus under the pressure of the second bag, which is a globular one, pressing on the inverted fundus, as the fundus passes through the ring of the first bag. At the end of two days chloroform should be given and reduction effected with the hand; or pressure should be continued on the fundus by a vulcanite stethoscope, having a pear-shaped elastic bag drawn over the thoracic end and tied round the stem tightly. Into the opening at the aural end of the stethoscope a stopcock can be screwed, and attached to an india-rubber apparatus, by which means the bag at the other end can be distended. When re- storation is efiected the end of the stethoscope will have entered the cavity of the uterus. It is well to give a dose of opium every eight or twelve hours to lessen the irritability of the uterus. A case of inversion of the uterus with no perceptible shock and very little haemorrhage. Dr. Bell ('Lancet,' Sept. 1871). Dr. Woodward relates ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' 1871) a case of spontaneous inversion of the uterus in a primipara. The placenta was shed naturally, but severe post-partum haemorrhage supervened; the hand was introduced, and when the patient was left, the uterus was normal in position. Next morning, contrary to advice, she was allowed to get up and sit on the commode; severe haemorrhage came on, and the uterus was found inverted. This was restored, but the patient died with symptoms of thrombosis. Dr. iTaylor contributes an elaborate article on the mechanism of spontaneous active uterine inversion. (' New York Journ.,' May, 1872.) A case of inversion came under the care of Dr. Hall Davis ten months after labour. Ordinary efforts at reduction failed, and, the pa- tient being too weak for sustained pressure during consecutive days, the uterus was removed by the single wire ecraseur. Discharged on the thirty-third day. (' Obstet. Trans.,' 1872.) A case of emphysema during labour is related by Dr. Whitney (' Bos- ton Journ.,' Nov. 30, 1871). The patient was a robust young woman, in her first labour, which was very severe and protracted. The irrup- tion of air took place in the night, and was momentarily attended with some difiiculty of breathing; it was so extensive as to nearly or quite close the eyes, reaching to all parts above the waist, where it was arrested in its downward progress by the tightness of the clothes. The attendant assured his patient and her friends that it would sponta- neously disappear in a few days, and this prediction was fully verified. Whitney refers to Cazeaux's work, which contains a chapter on pul- monary and subcutaneous emphysema, and in which cases such as the above are stated to be more rare than those in which the air spreads to the face and neck only, and may occasion oppression and threaten suf- focation. A case proving fatal in forty-six hours after delivery has been recorded by Depaul, where the air diflused itself through the in-