REPORT ON SURGERY. 214 shoulder- and elbow-joints. For twelve days he did not receive any special attention. When Mr. MacCormac first saw the patient, he found a large, suppurating wound in the deltoid region, and another on the posterior aspect of the elbow-joint. The soft parts were extensively injured and the bones much comminuted. It almost seemed as if am- putation at the shoulder-joint were indispensable. It was, nevertheless, determined, if practicable, to save the limb. The man bore the first part of the operation without an anaesthetic, but he was induced to take chloroform for the second stage of it. The original wounds were en- larged. The shoulder-joint was first attacked. Four inches of the upper extremity of the humerus were removed, the bone being sawn through at the limit of the fractured portion. The elbow-joint was then examined. Only the external condyle of the humerus was implicated, and only the thinnest possible slice was removed by the saw. The ulna was extensively fractured, the olecranon process pulverised, and the shaft split throughout its upper third. The fragments were removed subperiosteally, and the irregular extremity of the shaft cut through at the junction of the middle and upper third. A further portion of the shaft, split off for an inch farther down the posterior surface, was also removed, so that the divided extremity of the ulna only presented about two thirds of the section of the bone. As the radius was not impli- cated beyond its articulating head, this, only, was removed. The bones of the forearm were, therefore, divided at very difi"erent levels; but the tubercle of the radius was preserved with the muscular attachments belonging to it, and the preserved periosteum was trusted to regenerate, in part, the portions of ulna removed. To have sawn ofi" both bones at the lower level would most certainly have precluded all hope of a useful result. The after treatment consisted in supporting the injured arm on pillows, and providing for the free outflow of matter, " Neither in this nor in any other case of resection of the elbow- or of the shoulder- joints did I employ splints, and from choice I always employed a single straight incision in the soft parts." The patient did well for a week, then symptoms threatening py£emia set in; an abscess, however, formed, and was opened, and he then steadily recovered. A photograph of his condition, eighteen months after the operation, is given:—" The elbow- joint is thoroughly healed, and the ulna so far reproduced that there is scarcely any appreciable deformity or loss of shape in the joint. He can flex and extend it, and also pronate and supinate the forearm. The power of the hand is being rapidly and completely regained. As the shoulder-joint is not yet healed, its condition is not so satisfactory ; bat by means of the pectoralis and latissimus dorsi muscles he moves the joint freely backward and forward. He cannot raise the arm very high from the side, but this is no uncommon result after excision of this articulation, and in this particular instance the greater portion of the deltoid muscle was destroyed by the shell fragment causing the original wound. I can entertain no doubt that, as soon as the necrosed piece of humerus is removed, the sinus in the region of the shoulder will close, and the usefulness and power of the limb become greatly increased. Meanwhile, I submit that the man's present condition is extremely satisfactory; and, while it afibrds an ample justification of the operation.