REPORT ON SURGERY. 210 for the pulsation again returned at the end of twenty-four hours, and they had to press for some time longer. In the second case simple flexion was tried. On the seventh day very little pulsation remained, and the pressure of a tourniquet was added over the femoral. At the end of another week the pressure was gradually removed. In six weeks from the beginning of the treatment the patient was allowed to walk about. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' viii, 139.) A case of aneurism of both popliteal arteries treated successfully by compression of the femorals is noted by Dr. Rendle. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' viii, 107.) Aneurism, false.—Mr. Spence narrates some interesting cases of false aneurism. A man came under his care for the results of a stab in the upper and inner part of the calf of the left leg, inflicted accidentally six weeks previously. Haemorrhage had occurred repeatedly. Pressure on the femoral did not check venous hajmorrhage. Mr. Spence felt convinced that the posterior tibial artery and vein were wounded. He made an incision, about eight inches long, along the inner aspect of the calf, dividing the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles and exposed the vessels. It was seen that the posterior tibial artery was injured close to the bifurcation of the popliteal, and also one of the venae comites. A ligature was applied above and below the wound in each vessel, and another was applied to the anterior tibial, just below the bifurcation of the popliteal. The ligatures were left hanging out, and wet Lint ap- plied to wound. The patient recovered, and resumed work as a post- man in a country district. Mr. Spence remarks on the points of interest in the case. The patient was in a very unfavorable condition, the limb greatly swollen. The operation practically amounted to liga- turing the lower part of the popliteal as well as a large vein, yet re- covery followed. He also details a case of false aneurism of the radial. The haemorrhage at the time of the wound was controlled by a pad, &c., and the wound healed; nevertheless an aneurism formed subsequently, which had every appearance of being an acute abscess. (' Med. Times and Graz.,' June 29, 1872.) Ligature of artery above elbow, for aneurism helow the hend of the elbow.—In this case there was a high division. The aneurism had re- sulted from a sprain, and involved only the radial, so this was tied by Mr. Hulke above the elbow. Compression and flexion had failed. ('Med. Times and Graz.,' April i, 1871, 363.) Tourniquet.—Mr. Bulley has devised a double tourniquet for com- pressing the femoral, alternately, in one of two positions, without shift- ing the instrument. Two pads with screws are fixed to a bar, connected by rings at each end to a long pad, which is placed behind the limb. The relative position of the screws in front can be altered. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 27, 1872, 95.) Congenital lymphatic varix (see previous ' Bien. Eet.')—Dr. Paterson describes a case. The child was a female. The whole right lower ex- tremity was much enlarged, and looked much like a leg severely afltected with varices in the adult. The child could move the limb. A quantity of fluid transuded through the skin continuously. About the fifth day large blebs appeared. Death took place on the ninth day after birth. The