REPOllT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 880 the uterus opposite to where it is attached. A steel wire is sometimes much more efficient for their removal than a soft iron wire. The steel wire can be compressed to get it through the os uteri, and it then expands by its own elasticity, and is easily slipped over the tumour. An excellent description of the various kinds of uterine polypi is given by Duncan ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' July, 1871). Gueniot, in a treatise on the absorption of fibroids of the uterus, states that the disappearance of such tumours by absorption, although still denied, ought now to be accepted as an ascertained truth. They sometimes disappear even rapidly, a few months sufficing for the dis- appearance of very large uterine myomas. According to the ascer- tained facts the absorption takes place during the period of sexual activity, but the puerperal state only exceptionally seems to exercise an evident influence over it. Uterine myomas may also disappear without operation by two other processes, viz. spontaneous expul- sion and gangrenous destruction or suppuration; but their dis- appearance by absorption is the only method exempt from danger and always followed by recovery. Fatty degeneration, judging from analogy, appears necessary as a preliminary to their absorption, and Gueniot thinks that such substances as favour this change should be employed, such as arsenic, phosphorus, and lead. (' Arch. Gdner. de Med.,' April, 1872.) A fibroid of the uterus, weighing nine ounces, is reported by Dr. Hardie, in the practice of Dr. Duncan, to have become spontaneously separated. It lay in the vagina in a putrified state, and set up chronic septica3mia, from which the patient quickly recovered after the removal of the tumour. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' July, 1872.) Dr. Brunton (' Obstet. Trans.,' xiii) believes that in a case of fibroid enlargement of the uterus ergot of rye promoted the disappearance of the growth by maintaining uterine contraction, promoting its absorption by mechanical pressure. Hildebrandt ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1872) expresses a similar opinion of the action of ergotin injected subcu- taneously, the nutrition of the fibroid being interfered with by the increased compression. The medical treatment of fibroid tumours of the uterus beyond surgical interference is the subject of remarks by various observers (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' April, 1871). Dr. McClintock described to the Dublin Obstetrical Society in February, 1872, a method of removing uterine polypi by means of a loop of twisted, silken, fishing line attached to a Gooch's double cannula. The ligature having been carefully adjusted, the instrument is slipped up the tumour and the ligature drawn tight. The cannula? being held in position, the ligature is drawn firmly to and fro, and the neck of the tumoiu* is soon cut through. He believes that hemp-saw is adequate to cut through the structure of any vaginal or uterine tumour requiring extirpation, and that it is more easily and with more certainty applied round the neck of such a tumour than a wire ligature is. Mr. Bryant details a case of complete extirpation of the uterus and ovaries for fibro-cystic disease. The broad ligaments were securely separated, and the uterus at its neck was ligatured in halves. A