GASTROTOMY FOE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 297 tity. . . . where the sinking and typhoid symptoms depend on the pre- sence of the oflcnsive fluid in the peritoneum." Dr. Buchanan, after the experience of his own case, was inclined to make the same sugges- tion before he became aware that such had already been done. (' Lancet,' June lo, iS/i, 777-) Mr. Hulke publishes a clinical lecture on the following case:—A man, set. 32, in good health, after a hearty meal of fish, was seized with pain in the belly—he thought it colic—shortly followed by vomiting. The pain left him, but the sickness continued. On the tenth day Mr. Hulke found his belly uniformly swollen and hard, so hard that no rea- sonable pressure dimpled it. He often vomited a pea-soup-like fluid having a fseeal smell, which gushed copiously from his mouth with but little heaving. The only pain and tenderness in the belly, and this was very slight, he referred to a spot rather above and to the right of the navel. His pulse was small, quick and weak. By a process of exclusion well described by Mr. Hulke, " it became likely that the obstacle was either a twist, or the entanglement of a piece of small intestine in a hole in the mesentery or omentum, or an adventitious, constricting band. A negative reply to repeated questions whether he had any previous abdominal ailment weighed rather against the suppo- sition of a band, and favoured volvulas or entanglement with strangu- lation, because an adventitious band necessitated a previous peritonitis, and of this there was no history; but then a very limited and sub-acute peritonitis might have passed unnoticed ; it might have been, so to say, latent, just as the post-mortem theatre teaches us daily with regard to pleurisy and periorchitis, revealing adhesions ot the costal and pulmo- nary pleurae, and of the testis and parietal tunica vaginalis in the bodies of persons in whom during life these maladies had not been suspected." The abdomen toas opened by a cut in the median line midway between the navel and pubes, through which the hand was passed and an empty piece of small intestine sought for, by tracing which Mr. Hulke hoped to be led to the obstruction. The distension of the small intestines caused great difficulty. Many feet of intestine had to be drawn out and returned again. The obstacle remained undiscovered. The lowel was tapped luith a very fine trocar. Much stinking gas hissed out, but only a few inches of bowel collapsed, and on pulling out the canula thin pea-soup-like faeces oozed through the prick. An attempt to tie up the opening resulted in its becoming larger. Th.e punctured gut was slit up and stitched securely to the skin: a large panful of fluid faeces immediately ran out. The relief was prompt and remarkable; the vomiting ceased and the belly became soft; he had no pain, and his temperature was not raised; this, however, was not conclusive as to the absence of peritonitis. Fifty-three hours after the operation the patient died exhausted. At the post-mortem the intestine and peri- toneum were found inflamed ; the sigmoid flexure of the colon had a very long and lax meso-colon, which allowed it to stretch in an angular loop across the pelvis from left to right. At the apex of the loop, a long epiplooic appendage, issuing from the free border of the gut, gave attachment to one end of a thin, glistening, tendinous band, the other end of which crossed and tightly tied down the ileum about three inches