44 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. and course of the disease. Whether it be possible to divide it into several forms, as lias been proposed (inflammatory, abortive, apoplectic and paralytic), remains undecided. The author thinks that the variations in the course of the disease should be referred partly to the influence of individual constitutions and tendencies, partly to pre- vailing affections (" constitutio anni" of Sydenham.—Rep.). He calls attention to the unmistakable presence, in all the cases observed, of a rheumatic cause and the coincidence of the epidemic with the com- paratively frequent occurrence of " rheumatic tetanus." The treat- ment consisted of attention to the individual case, local bleedings, cold applications to the head, and the employment of calomel or narcotics as the case demanded. Kotsonopulos (" Bericht iiber die in Nauplia im Anfange des Jahres 1869 aufgetretene Meningitis cerebro-spinalis epidemica ;" ' Virch. Arch.,' lii, 65) gives an account of an epidemic of this affection which broke out in Greece in the winter of 1868-69. Nauplia was attacked earliest and most violently. The first cases were diagnosed as those of pernicious malarial fever, or simple meningitis. After tracing the spread of the disease, the writer describes its symptoms and course ; the affections of the joints frequently preceding the meningeal symptoms ; the injection of the conjunctivae and eyelids at the commencement of the disease, noticed in almost all cases; the remittent or intermittent cha- racter of the disease; the furious delirium, which drove the patients not only from their beds but into the street. Generally speaking, the disease set in suddenly without any prodromal symptoms. The arti- cular pains were almost always present, generally attacking the wrist or knee-joint, or both at the same time. The pain was increased by pressure, the joint was swollen and sometimes red, and fluctuation could, be detected. The joint affection began sometimes before the meningeal symptoms, or on the second or third day, and continued throughout the attack. The tetanic cramp of the muscles of the neck and back was a characteristic and, so to speak, a pathognomonic Bymptoms. Clonic cramps and convulsions occurred in young children. Paralysis of any kind, with the exceptions of blepharoptosis and stra- bismus occurred rarely. Other symptoms on the part of the different organs are given in full. In almost all cases the affection was ushered in by a rigor of varying length and intensity, which often recurred in an intermittent form. But little light is thrown on the etiology of the disease or on its treatment. Of ninety-three persons attacked the greater number, twenty-six, were between the ages of ten and twenty years, and of these the largest number between ten and fifteen. The author concludes that it is a specific infectious disease, not allied, as some assert, to typhoid and malarial affections. Eussell refers (' New York Med. Journ.,' xv, 302) to the occurrence of seven cases of spinal meningitis, in New York, within three days; three proved fatal. Stadthagen, " Ueber Meningitis Cerebrospinalis, mit besonderer Berucksicbtigung dcr letzeu Berliner Epidemic des Winters, 1870-71," 'Diss, inaug. Berlin.' Maicr, " Eiu Selteuer Fall vou Meningitis Cerebrospinulis" (female child, ajt. 6 montlis), 'Jabrb. f. Kinderbeilk.,' v, 109. Mix, "Epidemie de Meuingite Cerebrospinale,"