r BISLOCATION OP THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. 249 movement in every direction, that a vacant cavity existed where, normally, the compact semilunar bone ia found. The constant pressure kept up by the luxated bone caused forced and painful flexion of the fingers and wrist. All attempts at reduction were useless. Three weeks after the injury Dr. Chisolm removed the bone through a single incision, two inches in length, in the median line. The operation was more tedious than was expected. The bone was rotated so that the concavity for the reception of the rounded head of the os magnum looked directly up the arm, whilst the convex surface belonging to the radio-carpal joint was facing the fingers. All the ligaments were not torn through, but the bone was forced amongst them, twisted and stretched over it so that it was tied down firmly in its new position. Its reduction would have been quite impossible, owing to the irregular surfaces of bone in contact. A small fragment of the scaphoid was found attached to the semilunar, torn ofi" at the time of the injury. (' Lancet,' Oct. 28, 1871, 605.) Dislocation of the bones of the pelvis.—Dr. Sallerou contributes an elaborate memoir on the subject to the ' Archives Generales de Mede- cine, for July and August, 1872. During a period of forty years, there have come under his notice, in the military hospitals, more than thirty cases of severe injury of the pelvis, most of them being instances of fracture with dislocation, often complicated with other severe injuries, and rapidly fatal. In three cases, there was simple dislocation without fracture. In one of these, a man, set. 26, fell from a height of twelve metres, and dislocated the left iliac bone, upwards and backwards; the second piece of the sternum was also dislocated upwards and forwards, on the first. Reduction was readily eff"ected by fixing the pelvis, applying steady extension, by a towel placed round the thigh, and push- ing the posterior, superior, iliac spine downwards and forwards. Attempts were made to reduce the dislocation of the sternum, but without eff"ect. The patient left the hospital, able to walk without crutches, about seven weeks after the receipt of the injury. In another case, a Zouave, aet. 36, dislocated the right iliac bone forwards and slightly upwards, by a fall from a height of five or six metres. On placing him on his back, the right antero-superior spine of the ilium was seen to be ten or twelve millimetres higher than the left, and the right pubic bone projected forward, beyond that of the other side. The crista ilii was nearer to the false ribs on the right side than on the left. There was no impairment of the movements of the hip-joint. On turning over the patient, in order to make a further examination, Dr. Salleron felt a sudden movement, accompanied by a sound which was heard by the bystanders. The patient at once felt relieved, and the manipulation of the pelvis became less painful than it had been. On again placing him on his back, the projection forwards of the right antero-superior iliac spine had nearly disappeared, and the right pubic prominence quite so. The patient was discharged, convalescent, nearly seven weeks after the accident. In a third case, a man, at. 28, was injured by a mass of lime-stones falling on him, from a height of four or five metres. The left iliac bone was dislocated forwards. The signs of the injury were distinct, although less marked than in the case just related, and the patient was unable to lie on his back without pain. As