EEPOET ON SURGEUY. 830 supply of blood is exhausted, and to avoid injecting air. If the funnel is held up, the blood will usually flow; if not, the hand-ball can be used. (Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, Jan. 1872, 105.) Dr. Winants records a case in which he employed transfusion. The carotid artery of a lamb was opened to supply the blood, which was not defibrinated. The patient decidedly raUied, and survived for a fort- night. At the time he appeared moribund. (Ibid, Jan. 1872, 108.) Dr. Aveling records a successful case of immediate transfusion in haemorrhage after parturition. A man employed as coachman furnished the blood. A tube was inserted into a vein in his arm, and the india- rubber portion of the apparatus filled with water affixed, another tube having been inserted into a vein in the patient's arm, as was thought. It proved to be only in the cellular tissue, and was then properly inserted. Sixty drachms of blood were injected. The patient recovered com- pletely. A diagram of the whole method of operating is given. A bevel-pointed, silver tube is inserted into a vein of the patient, and this tube is filled with water, and the thumb is kept on the open end. An assistant prepares the blood-donor's^arm, and inserts a round-pointed tube in a direction towards the fingers. An india-rubber tube with a ball in the middle and a tap at either end is filled with water and fitted to the two tubes. The taps are turned on, the india-rubber tube com- pressed on the donor's side of the ball, and the ball squeezed to send the water on into the patient's vein. Next the tube is compressed on the other side of the ball, and the latter filled. The process is repeated as at first. Defibrination is not necessary, (' Lancet,' Aug. 3, 1872,147.) Modification of Syme's rhinoplastio operation.—Mr. Stokes operated on a man, set. 39, a Scotchman, who was suffering from complete de- struction of the nasal bones as well as the nasal processes of the supe- rior maxillary bones, and the soft structures covering them. There was a large opening, through which three fingers could be easily intro- duced into the nasal cavity. Fortunately the soft parts constituting the tip of the nose remained intact, and the tissues around the opening appeared healthy. Mr. Stokes adopted a modification of several pro- cedures. He made two triangular flaps, with their apices above, at the nasal process of the os frontis and their bases below and having freely vivified the edge of the large, oval-shaped opening he transplanted the two triangular flaps towards the middle line so as completely to cover the opening and united them in that situation with fine entomologist pins and twisted, glass silk sutures. The bases of the triangular flaps were in like manner united to the upper margin of the lower portion of the nose. In order to fill up the defect at each side of the inner portion of the cheek, where, namely, the flaps had been taken, another plastic operation was performed. The flaps were made of a somewhat quadrilateral form and were taken from the soft parts covering the malar bone. The result was satisfactory. A woodcut of a photograph is given. ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Dec. 1872, 442.) Zeis' clieiloplastic operation.—Mr. Stokes records a case in which he performed this operation. He remarks that it is best adapted for cases where the disease extends across the whole or greater portion of the red border of the lip. Its advantages are simplicity and facility of