257 FEACTURE OF OLBCUANON—ATR.OPHY OF MUSCLE. afterwards, she had marked wrist-drop. The symptoms are given at length. There was a difference of temperature, on the two sides, of 5° or 6°. The thumb and index-finger were numb ; when the fingers were completely flexed, she could extend the joints between the first and second, and second and third phalanges. This was evidently accom- plished by means of the interossei and lumbricales (figures of the hand and fingers are given). "When the forearm was flexed, a slight, supine move- ment could be made by the patient, probably due to the action of the biceps. The second case was that of a woman, set. 30, who fell on her elbow, and was found to have sustained a compound fracture of the external condyle of the humerus. She could not raise the wrist or the fingers when the hand was pronated. There was some power of supi- nation and also of extension, probably due to the extensor carpi radialis longior and to the supinator longus. The muscles supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve were paralysed, the radial had escaped. She could feel in the fingers and there was no loss of temperature. The third case was one of fracture of the lower epiphysis of the humerus, wrist-drop from paralysis of the posterior interosseous nerve and tonic contraction of the fingers. The patient was a girl aet. 7. She had fallen over a croquet hoop and the lower part of the right humerus was fractured. She had very marked wrist-drop, but could easily extend her wrist, her hand was pronated and could be but imperfectly supi- nated. The fingers were flexed and drawn into the palm of the hand. She could use the interossei and lumbricales ; the flexor tendons were much contracted; the arm was smaller than the other. There was a difference in temperature, on the two sides, of 8° or 9°. (' Lancet,' July i, 1871, I.) Fracture of the olecranon in each arm; atrophy of muscle.—Mr. Hutchin- son notes the case of a man, set. 27, who was admitted into the London Hospital, who had fractured the olecranon process on each side, and (as he stated) ruptured the tendon of his calf. These accidents had all happened several years before. Two years before admission, he fractured the right olecranon, by falling on his elbow from the rigging of a ship, a height of about ten feet. He had the arm put in splints in a straight position for three weeks. Since that time he had had no power to lift the arm straight in the air above his head ; the forearm falls into extreme flexion as soon as its centre of gravity gets to the proximal side of the elbow. The triceps of the right arm was found to be wasted and quite flabby ; when he tried to straighten the arm, that muscle did not act in the least. The upper fragment of the olecranon was separated, by at least an inch, from the lower one. Five years later, he fractured the left olecranon by a somewhat similar accident, falling about four feet. The arm was kept straight in splints for six weeks, after which time he soon regained perfect use of the limb. The upper fragment was found to be movable on firm pressure, but he had perfect use of the triceps and his muscle was apparently quite strong. The fracture appeared to have been oblique and there was strong, fibrous union. He met with a third accident, about eighteen months before, in wliich ho probably ruptured the tendo Achillis on the right side. He jumped oil" a table, and on alighting felt as if something had struck his right calf. On examining 17