I SUHGBEY. arm aud lee were still completely paralysed, the patient using a crutch. The pupils" were of equal size, and acted equally and well to light. Before the removal of the portion of bullet from the brain he felt always a dull pressiu-e in the right eye, but this disappeared a few weeks after the removal. The vision was perfect. Dr. Hecke, the assistant-surgeon in charge, stated that the patient would often com- plain suddenly of feeling hot, and that his pupils would on these occa- sious become widely dilated, soon returning to their ordinary condition. In the right eye A = but only with great effort and after half a minute. No. 1^ Snellen was read fluently from 6" to 18". No. 3 from 6" to 30". "Left eye, No. 3 fluently from 3" to 40"; No. from 3|" to 18". In either eye S = i. No defect of field. Fundus quite normal ; pupils of equal diameter. The case presents, therefor.e, the very rare condition of a monocular paresis of accommodation from gunshot wound of the brain. Eight cases of rupture of the eyeball, Enucleation in three cases. Anato- mical conditions of the enucleated eyeballs. Sympathetic ophthalmia. Semarks on the indications for, and on the performance of enucleation.— I. C. Slurzos, set. 33, wounded on the tSth of August, before Metz. The ball entered i" in front of the tragus of the left ear, passed through the left zygoma, the outer margin of the orbit, the outer part of the sclerotic, the cornea, aud made its exit through the upper lid. Dr. Cohn first saw the case four days later at Forbach. The left upper lid was tense and hard, with a lacerated wound at the middle of its margin, and on its inner surface a ragged wound of conjunctiva and cartilage. The conjunctiva of the globe much swollen and chemosed. The cornea presented a ragged opening which occupied four fifths of its surface, and from which a fissure passed in an outward direction for 3"' into the sclerotic. The cavity was filled by a dark mass in which no trace of lens or iris could be seen, and vision was entirely lost. The wounded eye was acutely painful, and was at once removed, and placed in dUuted chromic acid for examination. The choroid was found detached from the sclerotic by a large clot that nearly filled the remains of the eyeball, and there was evidence of commencing suppuration. The lens, iris, vitreous body, and retina were wanting, probably carried away by the ball. On the 25th of Sept. Dr. Cohn saw the patient again and found him convalescent. The right eye read Snellen No. 2 from 2,V', and No. 3 fluently to 36". There was no pain on continued exercise'of accommodation. 2, Bomer, J., set. 21, struck on the i6th of August, by a shot that entered the right eye and passed out through the neck. Seen by Dr. Cohn on the 20th. There was a small loss of substance of the margin of the tarsal cartilages, with cilia of both upper and lower lids, and the upper and inner quadrant of the cornea was separated from the rest by a gaping wound, through which a blood-tinged, watery fluid escaped. The sclerotic at the inner corneal margin is ruptured and separated from the neighbouring lower and outer portion by a wound 2"' wide. The ocular conjunctiva chemosed, the eye very painful, the cornea turbid, vision totally lost. The whole left cheek was much swollen, hot, and painful, and there was marked facial paralysis. The ear was normal