Report on ophthalmic medicine and surgery. 368 of the vitreous body, will be found of great service. The fourth is the application to the forehead and temple, on one or both sides, accord- ingly as one or both eyes are affected, of a series of from three to live flying blisters, a resource that has scarcely ever failed to produce marked benefit. The paper terminates with a detailed recital of six cases, which support the statements and conclusions of the author. Researches on syphilitic amaurosis and amblyopia, by Dr. Galezowski.* The author arrives at the following conclusions: 1. Syphilitic retinitis and neuritis may exist without any change in the choroid, and most frequently under the form of an apoplectic and exudative retinitis. Such cases, however, are only exceptional. 2. Syphilitic retinitis presents no pathognomonic signs by which it may be distinguished from other forms of retinitis. 3. But if retinitis or optic neuritis be attended by iritis or choroiditis, with or without flocculi in the vitreous, it is then undoubtedly syphilitic. Experience shows that there is no other aftection except glaucoma that will give rise at once to retinal haemorrhage and to iritis or choroiditis. 4. Disturbances of colour vision are constant in these two forms of eye disease, and especially in optic neuritis. 5. The most efiectual treatment of these maladies is by iodide of potassium and perchloride of mercury in full doses. 6. Syphilitic choroiditis is the most frequent lesion in cases of syphilitic amaurosis or amblyopia. The signs of this form of choroiditis are very characteristic, or even pathognomonic of syphilis. They are: —I. Disturbance or loss of sight occurring by attacks or crises, often separated by long intervals. 2. A mist resembling cobweb floating con- stantly before the eye. 3. Frequent photopsia. 4. Photophobia. 5. Hemeralopia at an advanced stage of the disease. 6. Preservation of central vision for a long period, with peripheral contraction of the field. 7. Obscured outline of optic disc. 8. Pigmentary retinitis at a still more advanced stage of the disease. 9. Atrophy of the central vessels of the disc with preservation of the rosy tint due to the cerebral or nutritive vessels of the optic nerve. 7. Pigmentary retinitis is very often developed as a consequence of syphilitic choroiditis. 8. The pigmentary spots arrange themselves along the course of the retinal vessels, and also in a generally circular form, like the circles of herpes circinnatus. 9. The acquired pigmentary retinitis of syphilis does not differ from the congenital form, especially from that which has been attributed to the consanguinity of parents, except in the circular form of the pig- mentary spots. 10. Congenital pigmentary retinitis is an hereditary syphilitic affection. 11. Congenital pigmentary retinitis should be subjected during infancy to an iodine or mercurial treatment. After a certain age it is no longer possible to arrest the progress of the malady, which becomes progressive, and at length destroys the sight. 12. The children of syphilitic parents should be submitted to careful ophthalmoscopic examination from their birth; and, retinitis once recog- nised, it should be treated in the manner indicated above. * 'Arcb. Gen. de Med.,' Jan., Fev., Mars, 1871.