REPORT ON SURGERY BY WAEEN TAT, P.E.C.S., ASSISTANT-StrSGEON TO THE LONDON HOSPITAIi, ETC. AneEstlietics.—The number of deaths which have occurred, lately, from chloroform, the reported immunity of ether from such accidents, the visit of Dr. Joy Jeifries to the Ophthalmological Congress held iu London, and his practical demonstrations of the manner in which ether is given in America, have contributed to excite, anew, the discussion aa to the relative merits of the various anaesthetics, and to lead to a trial of ether on a large scale in this country. All the journals have con- tained articles on the subject, and papers have been contributed by many administrators. In the 'Lancet' for Nov. i6 and Dec. 7, 1872, is a report on anaes- thetics and anaesthesia. In the former number is an account of a case, published in the ' New York Medical liecord,' of a death from the ad- ministration of ether. This case is also noted in the other journals. Ether and chloroform.—Mr. W. Haward gives the following conclu- sions as to the efiects of chloroform in fatal cases:—(i) That in the majority of fatal cases the mode of deatb is by failure of the heart's action. (2) That this failure is generally sudden. The chief danger from chloroform is a sudden arrest of the heart's action, and this danger does not appertain to ether. It has been shown, by Dr. Snow, that it is impossible to paralyse the heart by ether inhalation. Ether, pro- bably, even stimulates the heart. It has the advantage of being antago- nistic to the effect of the shock of an operation. Mr. Haward thinks that there is less liability to sickness, after the administration of ether, than after chloroform. The chief objection to ether is tlie greater quantity that is required, but tliis, to some extent, may be overcome. The most convenient form of apparatus is a cone of felt, covered with oiled silk or macintosh, into the upper part of which is fitted a piece of sponge, which can be changed occasionally for a similar piece kept iu a basin of warm water. A shallow gutter running round tlie inside of the cone prevents the ether from reaching the patient's face. An aper- ture, the size of which can be regulated by the finger, admits more or less air aa may be required. The jjrinciples to be attended to, in the aflministration of ether, are—(i) To scatter tlie ether on to a surface which allows its evaporation without much absorption. (2) "VViieu the V6