REPOET ON SURGEUY. 800 at least an inch and an quarter in length. The pipe should also be pro- vided with an india-rubber flange to prevent its passing too far in. The pipe terminates inside the bag in a sort of rose which is surmounted by a delicate, flexible, hard-rubber probe four inches long, and to which the capote, or bag, is attached superiorly. The probe is screwed into the pipe at its bulbous end and may be replaced by others of different lengths and flexibility. He alludes to opinions of authors on the rectum in relation to syphilitic stricture and considers that suflScient attention has not been called to this form of stricture. The seat of the stricture is at the junction of the dilated part with the sphincter, about one inch and a half from the anus. The patients, with very rare exceptions, are women. Fissures and fistulae in ano and in perineo, or fistulous tracts opening into the labia, sometimes complicate stricture of the rectum, and condylomata about the anus are frequent. The stricture may be partly fibrous, tight and unyielding, the fibrous con- striction being from half an inch to two thirds of an inch in extent, or the stricture, while forming, may produce the sensation to the finger of irregular elevations or of crescentic folds which readily break down from pressure of the finger. The intestine sometimes four or five inches above the stricture is ulcerated and the extensively ulcerated surface is terminated superiorly by a festooned border. There is con- siderable purulent secretion and the contraction of the sjihincter favours its accumulation in the ampulla. It lasts for months or years, before the formation of a stricture. The mucous membrane may be so softened that a bougie easily penetrates it and may enter the peritoneal cavity. If the ulceration is low down pain on defseeation is complained of, if higher up there may be no pain. The patients are generally between 17 and 40 years of age. Owing to the anatomical relations of the ano-genital region of the female, the chancrous matter of the syphilitic sores, nearly always present on the vulva, infects this region, occasioning rhagadea or fissures of the anus. The ulceration extends to the ampulla of the rectum, where it remains long after the healing of the external sores and on cicatrising causes a tight, fibrous stricture. The stricture is lower down than in cancerous disease. An antisyphilitic treatment is worse than useless. It does harm hj de- bilitating. When the stricture is fibrous, it should be very freely divided with the knife or scissors and kept properly dilated. Chloride of zinc or carbolic acid sufficiently diluted should be applied to the ulcerated part above. ('Am. Journ. Med., Sciences,' Jan. 1871, 115-) Removal of a portion of lone from the rectal fossa. Dr. Thompson relates the case of a man, aged 70, w^ho, twenty years previously, had begun to suffer from pains in the back and peh'is. After five years he consulted a surgeon, who could not find anything the matter. "When he came under Dr. Thompson's care he complained of " piles." On examination an almost raw surface was found extending two inches round the anus and a zone of erysipelatous blush four inches in breadth. On the left side, about an inch from the anus, there was a small opening, through which appeared a small black point. This was seized and drawtt out by slightly enlarging the orifice and proved to