311 TRAUMATIC FEVER. in syphilis, of observations, continued for several years, as to the effect of the treatment on all the various forms in which syphilis manifests itself. Hitherto, he has found mercurial inunction to produce the most favorable results; but he could abandon it if a better remedy were found. Traumatic fever.—The thirteenth volume of the ' Archiv fiir Khn. Chirurg.,' contains an essay by Dr. Billroth on the pathology of trau- matic fever, supplementary to those which he has already published on this subject. On the present occasion he treats of—i. Fever following injury in man. 2. The temperature in man during the first hours after operation. 3. The temperature of the rectum in healthy dogs. 4. The influence of muscular motion on the temperature in man and dogs. 5, The direct influence of various injuries. 6. The continued mechanical and chemical irritation. 7. Of irritation of the vaso-motor nerves on the temperature of the rectum in dogs. 8. Septicsemic fever in dogs. 9. Pysemic fever in dogs. 10. The eff"ect of the injections of water, blood-serum, and the fluid of hydrocele, on the temperature of the rectum in dogs. 11. Critical remarks on the results of the esperimenta detailed in the foregoing chapters. 12. How does the inflammatory process give rise to fever ? I. In his first chapter, Billroth repeats the statement made by him in the second volume of the ' Archiv,' " that in a large number of cases, even of severe injury, there is no fever ; fever is, then, not a necessary result of injury, but rather an accident." Further, in the ninth volume, he remarked that it was not only in slight wounds that fever was absent, for he had met with cases of amputation of the limbs (including even the thigh), of excision of the breast and axillary glands, ovariotomy, extirpation of the upper jaw, &c., in which little or no fever followed. Changes connected with fever may occur in a wound at any time from its origin to its perfect healing. As a general rule, fever sets in within the first two days, mostly on the second, and then lasts till the seventh day. The duration of the fever is more variable than the period of its appearance. Of 45 cases of removal of the breast and ax- illary glands one was unattended with any fever; in 10 patients the fever commenced on the first day, in 28 on the second, in 4 on the third, and in 2 on the fourth day. In none of them did the fever com- mence after the fourth day. Analogous results were found in the observation of seventeen cases of removal of the breast alone, and nineteen cases of amputation of the arm and forearm. When he com- menced to investigate the subject of traumatic fever, Billroth accepted the doctrine of Schonlein, that the fever was the result of reflex irrita- tion of the nerves of the injured part. The absence, however, of any constant relation between the extent of injury and the severity of the fever rendered this idea very improbable, and his investigations led him to the conclusion that there was a relation between the amount of de- struction of the tissues and the amount of fever. Still, however, some points required explanation ; the course of the fever presented remark- able variations, especially with regard to temperature. By further ob- servation, Billroth has been enabled to eliminate certain elements which, complicated the question, and to arrive at a general theory of fever,