340 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. during the first years of life. The media and fundus showed nothing abnormal. The author related that, seven months before the birth of this child, his mother assisted at an iridectomy inwards and downwards on the left eye of a little girl. He thought it possible that the im- pression thus arising might have produced the coloboraa. He also cast doubt upon coloboma being occasioned by an arrest of develop- ment, and gave reasons for attributing it to a process of intra-uterine inflammation. The diagnosis of colour blindness.—M. "Woinow* brought before the Heidelberg Congress of 1871 a simple and easy method of dis- covering colour blindness. It rests on the fact that all the tones, including white, that are distinguishable by an eye which is blind for one of the three elementary colours, may be obtained from the other two. Thus, if the eye be affected with anerythropsia, all the colours it can distinguish, including white and grey, may be obtained from violet and green. If it be blind to green, all the colours it can dis- tinguish may be obtained from red and violet; or if to violet, from red and green. The author constructed a top, carrying four super- imposed concentric discs, each smaller than the one below it. The largest and lowest is coloured violet and green; the second, violet and red; the third, red and green; and the fourth, black and white, or grey. When the top is rapidly rotating the discs present a grey centre, surrounded by three variously coloured rings. The patient is asked whether any of the three rings seem to hiai to be grey, like the central disc. If one should present this appearance, the patient is blind as regards the colour absent from that disc. Retinal pulsation in aortic disease.—Dr. Beckerf read, before the Heidelberg Congress of 1871, an account of his investigations 011 arterial (retinal) pulse in cases of aortic insufficiency. He had observed, in concert with Dr. Sichting, that under such circumstances a spontaneous arterial pulse was visible with the ophthalmoscope in the direct image. At first he thought the observation new, but found afterwards that he had been anticipated by Quincke, who had pub- lished two articles upon the subject.J Further and careful examination showed that in every case of insufficiency of the aortic valves, not complicated with other valvular disease, the arterial pulse was plainly visible, and the more plainly the more considerable the consecutive hypertrophy of the left ventricle. It was absent when valvular insufficiency was combined with very pro- nounced anjemia or with fatty degeneration of the heart. The pulse was visible, not only upon the papilla, but over the retinal surface, wherever it was possible to follow the arteries with the ophthal- moscope. The phenomenon is wholly different in its character from the so-called arterial pulse of glaucoma, in which, on account of the resistance to be overcome, blood only enters the central artery of the retina at the acme of each successive pulse wave. The visible pulse of * 'Annales d'Oculistiquc/ 1872, i, 112; 'Arch. f. 0.,' xvii, 2. t 'Annales d'Oculistique,' 1872, i, 275. % 'Berl. Klin. Wocb.,' 1868, No. 34; 1S70, No. 21.