CHELOID—PAPILLOMA—ELEPHANTIASIS. 181 ance, and under the microscope the structure was that of condensed fibrous tissue. Papilloma.—Gerh&Tdt ('Jahrb. f. Kiuderheilk.,'iv,27o) gives two cases of papilloma of the skin, somewhat resembling the case of papilloma area-elevatum published by Beigel (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xx, 414). The eases were unmistakably connected with some central nervous disorder. The first ease is that of a girl, aged 6 years, in whom papillomata were present over the whole of the right side of the breast, and the whole right arm. The left half of the nose, the left upper lip, a portion of the left cheek, and the skin behind the left ear presented papillomatous swellings. From the age of 3 the child had had incomplete epileptic attacks, which became fully developed later. In the second case, a man of 61, the growths occupied almost wholly the right half of the body, especially the axilla. He gives a minute microscopical account of the tumoui's, which he refers to.increase in the papillse, accompanied by melanotic pigmentation of the skin. Both cases also must be ex- plained by the implication of certain nerves; the afi"ection in the second case foUovring the distribution of spinal nerves, while in the first it pointed to some such morbid condition as generally obtains in diseases of the base of the brain. Elephantiasis.—Yanlair ('Bull, de I'Acad. de Med. Beige,' v, 941; and 'Virch. Arch.,' lii, 292) has made researches into the histology of elephan- tiasis arabum. According to him the erysipelatous zone, which separates the healthy from the diseased portions, and is characteristic of the first stage of the malady, differs from ordinary erysipelas. It is limited to the papiUary zone of the derma ; the morbid change commences below, in the dermatic alveolar zone. There is progressive and proportionate hyper- plasia of the three layers (papillary, connective-tissue, and elastic) of normal derma, with progressive atrophy of the panniculus adiposus. The epidermic hypertrophy is consecutive to that of the subjacent vas- cular tissue. The sweat-glands remained, while the hair-follicles and sebaceous glands had disappeared ; there was interstitial hyperplasia of the nerve-fibres; in the superficial portions of the muscles the longi- tudinal striae were exaggerated, while the transverse were eSaced. The lymphatics and glands were unaltered. The subcutaneous veins (.-aphena, &c.) were varicose, with their vralls hypertrophied in places. He throws no further light on the cause of the hyperplasia. Gay (' Arch. f. Derm. u. Syph.,' iii, 489) has examined into the pathology of the sweat-glands in elephantiasis. He finds that the morbid change commences in swelling and proliferation of the epi- thelium, by which the openings of the ducts are obstructed and the sac swelled up. The cells which have undergone proliferation degenerate into an indistinct, homogeneous, glassy mass, in the middle of which homogeneous circular structures sometimes appear, the smallest re- sembling cells, the larger structureless. The glands themselves are next seen fiUed with the same material. The ducts are alfected earlier and more severely than the glands. He gives a plate in illustration of hi.^ paper. Hattute ('Eec. de Mdm, de Med. Milit.,' xxvi, 112) records the occurrence of elephantiasis in an Arab, tct. about 22, strong but of a