UEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 890 Dr. Atlee records seven cases of ovariotomy, and describes a new clamp for the operation. By means of this clamp the pedicle is com- pressed in the linear direction of the wound, and at the same time it limits within certain points the expansion or spreading of the pedicle when the blades are screwed together. (Ibid.) A new ovariotomy clamp is described by Dr. Dawson C Amer. Jour. Obst.,' 1871), and a pump for facilitating the operation by Dr. Lente. Dr. Tracy reports six cases of ovariotomy, five of which were suc- cessful ('Austral. Med. Journ.,'Aug. 1871); and a successful case performed during an attack of peritonitis. ('Med. Chir. Soe.,' 1872.) Dr. B. S. Schultze relates ('Arch, f, Gynak.,' ii, 3, 1871) four cases, two of which recovered. One of these patients had two children subsequently; the other menstruated through the abdominal wall, and the discharge from the site of the incision often lasted some hours longer than that from the vagina. Martin also contributes seven cases. ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' March, 1872.) Dr. G. H. B. Macleod writes ('Lancet,' Jan. 1871) on an improved method of dividing the pedicle in ovariotomy, and describes an instru- ment of his own construction which he employs to grasp the pedicle firmly near its uterine end. The cyst is then cut away by dividing with a knife the extreme distal end of the pedicle, and the stump is caught by special forceps at a short distance from the part grasped by the instrument above mentioned. By slowly turning the forceps while the first instrument is kept at rest, the stump is twisted off close to the edge of the instrument by which it is held, and may then be returned with safety into the abdominal cavity. Dr. Macleod relates a successful case in which this plan was adopted; the patient was quite recovered about the time the clamp is found to separate in most cases. He says that it is a question for further observation how far the simple grasp of the first instrument, if continued for a short time, might suffice to close the vessels of the pedicle without the torsion. Mr. Jessop relates ('Lancet,' Sept. 1871) two cases in which the pedicle was successfully twisted by the above method. Dr. Hayes recommends a method for securing the vessels of the pedicle, which he calls " the subperitoneal." The proceeding resembles the subcutaneous ligature of nsevus. The pedicle is first compressed by a clamp, and a needle armed with stout catgut ligature is passed beneath a good thickness of the serous surface of the pedicle, but superficial to the principal vessels. The needle being withdrawn at the side opposite the point of entrance is again passed into the aper- ture of exit, and pushed between the vessels and peritoneal covering on the side of the vessels opposite its first passage, until it can be with- drawn through the opening made by its first entrance. The ends of the ligature are to be strongly tied, and cut off short. ('Dublin Quart. Journ.,' Nov. 1871.) Panas relates a successful case of ovariotomy in which a subperito- neal fibroid of the uterus was removed at the same time. (' Gaz. des Hop.,'July 1871.) Mr. Lawson Tait has introduced a new form of trochar for use m