REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 870 pus from the vagina. She died in forty-eight days after the operation. JSTeugehauer refers to several published cases of the kind, in which the age ranged from fourteen to twenty-seven. The length of time between the onset of the pains from retention of the menstrual discharge and the commencement of the treatment on account of the hasmatometra varied from five weeks to fifteen years. Out of fifteen cases operated upon, eight recovered and seven died. Two cases of hfematometra in the closed canal of a bicomite uterus are also recorded by Preund and "Wheeler ('Boston Journal,' July, 1872). Steiner also writes ('Wien. Med. Woch.,' xxi, 29, 1871) on hsematometra. Breisky relates ('Archiv f. Gyniik.,' ii, 1, 1871) a case of pyometra and pyokolpos lateralis in a girl the subject of a double uterus. She had five brothers and two sisters, all well formed. Often, as a child, she had suftered from abdominal pains, supposed to be due to worms; at the age of sixteen she began to sufi"er regularly every month for three or four days from severe pelvic pains, but no menstrual discharge appeared. There was obstinate constipation, great anaemia, and difli- cult micturition. When on the point of seeking medical advice some- thing burst, to her great relief, and a quantity of pale red, thickish, foetid fluid escaped. The difiicult micturition returned; Breisky punc- tured a swelling in the vagina, and an abundant quantity of pus was discharged. The cavity of the abscess was carefully washed out. Subsequent dilatation enabled the condition of parts to be ascertained, and Breisky divided the vaginal septum and part of the uterine septum. The patient made a good recovery, and the right half of the uterus (the seat of the abscess) afterwards underwent such contraction that its cavity appeared shorter than that of the left. As ascertained by the sound the right measured 4 cm. and the left 6 cm. Two cases of absence of the vagina are recorded by Branco. In the first case, £et. 25, the vulva was normal; no trace of a vagina existed, but it was determined to attempt the formation of one. The tissue which had to be dissected was a little more resisting than ordinary cellular tissue. The uterus was reached and punctured on account of the menstrual retention. After a severe attack of peritonitis the patient recovered. A second puncture was necessary in fifteen months, and when the patient was last seen the vagina was much contracted. In the second case, set. 20, the treatment was more successful, the vagina being kept dilated. Branco controverts the opinion of Scanzoni that complete absence of the vagina is not met with except in conjunc- tion with absence or a rudimentary state of the uterus, and nearly always with deformity of the vulva. He shows that the develop- ment of the genital organs takes place in three zones, indepen- dent the one of the other; the external parts in the external layer of the blastoderm, the internal organs in the blastema interposed between the two layers of the blastoderm, but the vagina is formed in the fold of division which arises in the primitive cloaca. He disapproves of operative interference except for menstrual retention ; and the opera- tion should not be performed at a menstrual period. (' Jouru. de Bruxclles,' Nov. 1871.)