211 N^VUS VARIX—AMPUTATIONS. varicosities proved to be enlarged lymphatic vessels filled to distension with a milky serous fluid. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' May, 187:, 10x2.) Removalof iKBvoidgrowths loith the ecraseur.—Mr. J. F. West has re- peatedly employed tlie ecraseurfor the removal of naevoid growths, with great success. He narrates cases in the ' Lancet,' March 4,1871, 302. Treatment ofncevus hi/ subcutaneous rupture of vessels.—Dr. Mezger describes, in the ' Arch, fiir Klin. Chir.,' xiii, the case of a child, three months old, who had a large nsevus on the left ala nasi. On prolonged expiration the tumour increased in lividity and size. Dr. Mezger compressed, with his finger, the vessels proceeding from the tumour, so as to distend its capillaries with blood. He then rapidly squeezed the nsevus, thus rupturing the vessels in the interior. This operation was repeated several times, with the result of producing extravasation of blood and slight inflammation, followed, ultimately, by complete disap- pearance of the ntevus. Treatment of varix hy subcutaneous injection of ergotin.—Dr. Paul Vogt, in the ' Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,' March 4, 1872, speaks of subcutaneous injection of ergotin as an efiectual and safe remedy in varix. In a case which he described be used a solution of 2 grammes of aqueous extract of ergot in alcohol and glycerine (each 7^ grammes), injecting a syringeful ia the immediate neighbourhood of the varix. One of the enlargements disappeared after the first injection, and another a few days after a second, made two days subsequently to the first. At the points where the injections were made, there remained some hard, circumscribed infiltration, which was not attended with much pain, and disappeared gradually. In six weeks, during which the patient (an old man) went about as usual, no trace of enlargement of the veins could be detected. The treatment was afterwards adopted with excellent results in several patients in the surgical clinic at Grreifswald. Vogt has also used ergotin injection successfully in vari- cocele, hsemorrhoids, and certain forms of naevus. Death rate after amputation.—During the three years which have elapsed since Mr. Callender published his last note on this subject. Sir James Paget and he have performed amputations in twenty-five cases, consecutively, without] one fatal result. There was one primary amputation of the thigh and nine for disease; eleven of the leg for disease; two others (primary) upper extremity, and two for disease. " If amputation statistics are to be relied upon, no stronger evidence could be given of the healthy condition of the hospital wards during the three years to which the above figures relate." (' St. Earth. Hosp. Eep.,' viii, 179.) Recurrent haemorrhage after amputation.—A case of recurrent htemor- rhage after amputation of the leg, treated by ligature of the femoral with success, is narrated by Dr. McDougall. Ligature of the bleeding artery in the leg-stump had succeeded for a time only. The vessels were much diseased. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June, 1872, 1086.) Amputation at the hip-joint.—Mr. Lister records a case of successful, primary amputation at the hip-joint. Antiseptic treatment was adopted. The patient was a boy five years of age. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 1871, 149.)