178 llEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINfi. arru3 were aftected ia the same way. The naila were thin and tlieir roots red. The soles of the feet and the pahns of the hands were free from disease; the extensor surfaces of the fingers were red, indurated, scaly, and showed a disposition to crack. During her stay in hospital the patient improved greatly in every way, hut had a relapse in May, 1870, from which she again recovered. Fox considers the case to be one of weU-marked pityriasis rubra, due to " a general congestive con- dition, dej)eudent upon perversion of the regulative influence of the nervous system," There was " active dilatation of the minute blood- vessels, followed by effusion of plastic matter into and about the follicles, hypertrophic growth of the root-sheath, and in some cases of the papillary layer of the skin." The treatment consisted of alkaline and bran baths every night, with an oxide of zinc and chalk lotion applied many times a day. The internal treatment was directed to the procuring of sleep, and the regulation of the general functions. Prurigo.—Gay (' Archiv f. Derm. u. Syph.,' iii, i) gives with a plate the results of his microscopic researclies into the changes taking place in the skin in prurigo. He thinks that the different parts of the skin are more or less affected: the rete Malpighii, the hair-bulbs, sweat-gland;?, corium, and papillas. The changes in the rete consist of increase in the cells of the deep and some of the middle layers, due probably to proliferation. Their thickness extends also to the horny layer. The vessels of the hair-sac are found dilated and enlarged. The erector muscles, the outer sheath of the root, and the papilla), are greatly de- veloped. The sebaceous glands are generally diminished in size, and the cells of the openings horny in character. On the other hand, the sweat-glands are dilated, their cells loosened from the membrana pro- pria, and their blood-vessels also dilated. The same dilatation is found in the vessels of the papillao ; the cells of the corium are very marked, and are mixed with branched and wandering cells ; the papillas are en- larged. In conclusion, he agrees with Neumann, that the eruption of prurigo is due to increase in young cells and the presence of a fluid exudation in the tissue of the papillae. E. "Wilson (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 34) records the occuiTcnce of a pruriginous eruption in a man, set. 57. The papules were of a kind to be felt rather than seen, and apparently due to congestion and infil- tration of the vascular coat of the follicles. The number of spots never exceeded ten or twelve. On scratching them an angular or square-shaped excoriation remained, which di'ied uj* into a thin reddish scab. The patient had formerly suffered from gout. The same writer (ibid., i, 608) publishes a case of prurigo mitis " from simple debility," in a woman, set. 21. The papules were found chiefly in the face, a few on the fingers; the whole eruption did not exceed ten or twelve spots. Scleroderma.—Fagge (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 309) records the post- mortem appearances found in a woman, a)t. 64, the subject of " diffused scleriasis." She had become latterly incapable of taking nourishment, be- cause the skin of her face became so tight that she was scarcely able to move the mouth. The skin was of a yellowish colour, hard and tiglitly stretched over the tissues beneath. At those parts where the cuticle was