REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 2 Edwards's large work on ' Comparative Physiology,' which is occupied with the tegumentary appendages of animals, has appeared ; Claude Bernard has published a series of lectures on " Experimental Physio- logy," delivered at the College de Erance, aud an excellent course of forty lectures on " Animal Heat," by the same author, is contained in the ' Revue Scientifique.' Germany, as usual, has been very active, her activity exhibiting itself in the production of a multitude of papers rather than of complete works; some of these, however, attaining almost the size of a treatise (witness the essay of Schmidt on " Fibrin," in Pfliiger's ' Archiv'). These are published in innumerable journals, rendering it difficult to obtain some, still more difficult to find the time to run hastily through all, and almost impossible to analyse them in such a manner as to do justice to the valuable work and results they frequently contain. The mere record of them would occupy the entire space allowed for this notice of physiological progress. An interesting lecture on "Dust and Smoke" was delivered by Prof. Tyndall, at the E.oyal Institution, on June 9, 1871, containing statements and detailing experiments, which have since been frequently referred to, as showing the presence of much floating organic matter iu ordinary air, and as supporting the germ theory. Baatian* contributes a very important work on the mode of origin of the simplest forms of animal life, such as Bacteria, Torula), and Vibrios. These he believes he has demonstrated can develop without antecedent Bpores in organic infusions, and even in solutions of ammoniacal salts, which have been exposed to temperatures supposed to be sufficient to destroy all life. Such development he terms archebiosis. He also maintains that by a process of heterogenesis the higher forms of ciliated infusoria, and even a Rotifer, may develop from the proligerous pellicle of organic solutions. Dr. Sandersonf corroborates Dr. Bastian's statements in various particulars, and has satisfied himself that, following Dr. Bastian's directions, infusions can be prepared which are not deprived by an ebullition of from five to ten minutes of the faculty of undergoing those chemical changes which are characterised by the presence of swarms of Bacteria, aud that the development of these organisms can proceed with the greatest activity in hermetically sealed glass vessels, from which almost the whole of the air has been expelled by boiling. Grace CalvertJ contends, in opposition to Dr. Bastian, that when living bodies appear in any solution they proceed from the develop- ment of germs introduced from without or previously present and not killed by the temperature to which they have been exposed. He finds that life is retained by some of the lower forms of animal life even after exposure to a temperature of 300° F., but not of 400°. It may just be noticed that Dr. Blake§ has found certain diatoms growing iu abund- ance in water at a temperature of 163° Fahr. * ' Tlie Beginnings of Life,' London, Macmillan, 2 vols., pp. 475 and 640, 1872. t 'Nature,' Dec. 14, 20, 27, 1872. j ' Proceed. Key. See.,' xix, 409, 1871. § 'Month. Mic. Journ.,' 1873, 71.