ENCUONDUOMA OF THE KIBS. 241 made behind the growth, parallel to the veiu. As little use was made of the knife as possible when once the superficial incisions had laid bare the nervous cords. The carotid artery was found to lie in a groove on the anterior surface of the tumour, and had to be cautiously moved aside. The tumour could be felt to spring from the surface of the first rib, close to the margin of the scalenus. It was removed in two pieces. Mr. Birkett remarked that the rough surface would soon be smoothed down. He had never known a growth of this sort to recur. The growth itself seemed of ordinary, cancellous bone, with a thin layer of investing cartilage. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' May 27, 1871, 602.) Enchondroma of the ribs; operation; death.—Dr. Menzel relates (' Wien. Med. "Wochensch.,' No. 15, 1871) the case of a man, set. 36, who was admitted into the hospital in Vienna, under Dr. Billroth, in October, 1870, on account of a tumour under the right clavicle, which he had first noticed in the preceding January. It was five inches by four in diameter, and reached from the lower border of the clavicle to the third rib, and from the sternum beyond the line of the nipple. Its surface was smooth, and it was firm and hard. The skin was not afi'ected. The tumour was immovable on the ribs, and was covered by the pectoral muscle. It did not pulsate, nor could any bruit be heard in it. There was no displacement of the heart nor any sign of disorder of the circulatory or respiratory organs. With regard to the question of operation, it was considei'ed, on the one hand, that if the tumour were left it might endanger the patient's life by outward growth and consequent ulceration and sloughing, or even by inward growth and com- pression of the lungs and large vessels ; while, on the other hand, its removal might be attended with danger from opening the cavity of the pleura. It was accordingly determined to cut down the tumour to the level of the chest-wall, and this was accordingly done on October 27. The wound was dressed with carbolic acid. On the third day the patient became very feverish (temperature 104° Fahr.), and stated that on deep expiration fluid escaped from the wound. On examination it was found that the remaining portion of the enchondroma had sloughed away, leaving an opening through which an india-rubber catheter could be passed downwards as far as the lower part of the upper lobe of the lung. Adhesions had formed round part of the ^opening. The pleura was syringed every two hours, first with warm water, and then with solution of hypermanganate of potash (five grains to the pint). From Nov. 2 to 9 the patient went on well; but the perforation had been enlarged, partly spontaneously and partly by the removal of necrosed portions of the second and third ribs. On Nov. 9 dulness on percus- sion vraa noticed at the lower part of the right side of the chest, and rapidly increased upwards. On account of the increasing difficulty of breathing, paracentesis, by means of Dieulafoy's aspirator, was per- formed between the eighth and ninth ribs, and 1400 cubic centimetres of yellowish-green serum were removed. The patient was relieved for three days, but the eff^usion then recurred, and was again removed to the amount of 13-50 cubic centimetres; it was newfound to contain pu.s. After the second operation there was relief for a time, but the patient was attacked with bronchial catarrh and cough, during the 16