CHOLERA. 481 mode of life renders it impossible in them to avoid the infected spots. Erichsen* investigates Pettenkofer's subsoil water theory in re- ference to dift'usion of cholera in St. Petersbui-g, and comes to the conclusion that in reference to this town it is insufficient to account for the facts observed in regard to the outbreak and spread of the disease. Pfeiffer.t who is a firm believer in Pettenkofer's subsoil water theory, writes on the influence of temperature of the soil on the origin and spread of cholera. He believes that the temperature of the soil, in addition to the state of humidity and state as regards putrefactive changes, exercises a very important influence on the causation of cholera and its allies. As to arctic regions there are no data on which to build, and in the tropics the uniform temperature of the soil can have little influence. In reference to temperate climates, however, Pfeiffer finds that the acme of an epidemic of cholera coincides with the season of the greatest superficial temperature of the soil; that the cholera diminishes with the rapid decrease of the temperature, and that when the soil has a temperature under 41°—45° Fahr., the disease en- tirely disappears. The causes of the variation in soil-temperature are of course numerous, such as the temperature of the air, the conductivity of the soil, the humidity, &c. The value of each of these factors the author has studied in the epidemic at Weimar in 1870. The facts are as yet too few to allow of very general conclusions being drawn, biit he thinks that more attention should be paid to a subject which is likely to throw much light on the etiology of cholera and other diseases. Causes of cholera.—Honert J believes that cholera depends on poison- ing with ammonia which is set free along with so-called marsh gas during the decomposition of nitrogenous substances. Cholera and malarious fever have, therefore, a similar origin. Cholera germs are an absurdity, and the disease is truly autochthonous. Barth§ also supposes that cholera is due to the action of a specific poison generated in the earth, and that this poison paralyses the nervous system. Communication from one person to another is an un- warrantable supposition. The poison is evolved into the air or becomes dissolved in the water in the ground, and so gains access to the system. Cholera contagion.—Popofi"|| has made several experiments in regard to the infecting power of cholera excreta, and has compared the effects pro- duced by putrid infection. His experiments were made on dogs. As material for putrid infection he used infusions of jiutrid meat and rotten yeast, and for cholera he employed the vomited matters, fa3ccs, and urine, in a fresh condition. The materials were introduced partly into the cir- culation direct, partly into the alimentary canal. The difierences be- tween the symptoms and post-mortem appearances in the two casea * 'St. Petersburg Med. Zeitschr./ i, p. 325 ; ii, pp. 437, 537, t ' Zcitachr. f. Biologic,' vii, p. 263. I Virchow and Hirsch's ' Jahresb.,' 1871, ii, p. 222. § Ibid., p. 222. ' II 'Berlin Klin, Wchnschrft.,' 1872, p. 393. 31