DISLOCATIONS. 247 anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint were, of course, ruptured, as were, likewise, the inter-elavicular and rhomboid ligaments. The inter-artieular cartilage was torn from its attachment to the sternum aud cartilage of the first rib, and was carried upwards and inwards along with the clavicle. The only deviation from its normal state observable in the subclavius muscle was that it appeared relaxed and altered in direction. Dr. Stokes then gives an account of seven other cases already published, and remarks—" It will be seen from the precediug resume, tbat the archives of surgical science, previous to the publication of the present case, contained only seven examples of the injury under consideration. The case I have described constitutes the eighth, and is peculiarly valuable as being the first (as far as I am aware) in which the anatomical characters of the injury were accurately established by^os^- mortem examination, for the account given by Du Verney is totally des- titute of value as a dissection of the injury. It is a luxation of neces- sarily rare occurrence, for it not only requires for its production that the force applied should be very great, but that it should also act on the shoulder in an unusual direction, viz. downwards, inwards, and probably backwards. The result of this threefold impulsion is that the clavicle, converted into a lever of the first order (the fulcrum of which is con- stituted by the first rib) is forced, at its sternal extremity, upwards and inwards." ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Dec. 1872, 450.) Dislocation of both ends of the clavicle.—Dr. Stanley Haynes records the case of a girl, set. 13. Spontaneous dislocation forwards of the sternal end of the clavicle and partial luxation upwards of the acro- mion one occurred while she was washing the back of her neck one morning. The bone could easily be replaced, but it was difficult to retain it in place. In a note Mr. Erichsen states there are three cases on record, two recorded in his own work, and one by Mr. Hamilton. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 27, 1872.) Paralysis of the arm after dislocation of the shoulder-joint.—Dr. Bemhard relates in the ' Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,' No. 5, 1871, two cases in which dislocation of the head of the humerus was followed by paralysis. In one of the cases reduction was effected eight days after the injury, in the other the dislocation was reduced on the day of its occurrence. In the first case there was slight power of extension of the wrist, and the supinator longus became very distinct in the attempt to bend the arm; sensibility was increased in some parts, but was diminished somewhat in the forearm. In the second case the forearm could be bent on the arm and the head could be moved slightly, while voluntary power over the muscles of the shoulder was completely lost. Hensibility was impaired over the three outer, metacarpal bones and fingers. The electric irritability of the muscles had almost entirely dis- appeared and was repaired in but a very slight degree at the end of more than four weeks, although the voluntary power over the muscles Lad become increased. Reduction of an old dislocation at the shoulder.—Mv. Callender records a case in which he reduced a dislocation of the humerus, of one month's standing, under choloform. After rotating the head of the bone so as to break down adhesions, the arm (the right) was forcibly drawn