REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 486 for believing in tlie spontaneous generation of this disease, and that it can, as a rule, be traced to contagion. Pastau* describes an epidemic of typhus which prevailed in Breslau from 1868 to 1869. disease followed close on an epidemic of re- lapsing fever, and spread particularly in those districts in which relapsing fever had raged. In all, there occurred 738 cases, 419 of which were among men, and 319 in women; 78 persons survived both diseases. Nearly the half of the cases fell between the ages of sixteen to thirty- five years. The mortality, on the average, was i4'92 per cent., and in- creased with age. During the prevalence of the typhus epidemic, cases of enteric fever were less numerous. Etiologically, according to Pastau, typhus seems to have something in common with relapsing fever. Good results were obtained from the cold water treatment. With this treatment the mortality was 9"23 per cent, during the first week, and i4'66 per cent, in the second week, against a percentage of t6'47 when the expectant treatment was followed. jRelapsing fever.—Tennentf communicates a very interesting series of observations on the epidemic of relapsing fever in Glasgow in 1870. The origin of the epidemic was traced to infection from Edinburgh. !Prom this focus the contagion spread, and reached its height in the middle of December. About 1200 in all were affected, a very small number when compared with the epidemic of 1843, on which occasion as many as 32,000 cases occurred. The disease prevailed almost exclu- sively in the poorer districts of the town. The disease was very infec- tious, so that out of 352 cases, infection was clearly traced in 295. Nearly all the occupants of the same house were affected about the same time. This was evidently dependent on faulty hygienic condi- tions, since of 80 nurses and attendants in the hospital only 16 cases of the disease occurred. It was also observed that in proportion to the increase in the number of cases of relapsing fever those of typhus dimi- nished, a fact which was likewise observed in London and Edinburgh. The paper gives a full account of the symptoms and sequelaj of the disease. The mortality was small, only 6 fatal cases occurring out of a total of 352 cases. Tennent did not observe the ophthalmia described by Mackenzie among the sequelae. Charteris,^ however, had opportunity during this epidemic of study- ing this "post-febrile ophthalmia," of which he gives a detailed account. The reappearance of relapsing fever in tlie southern district of the metropolis at the close of 1872 was followed by its appearance in Man- chester in the Pottery District, and led to the issue, by the medical officer of the Local Government Board, of a memorandum on the chief practical points to be borne in view by the sanitary and other authorities responsible for taking precautions against the disease and its conse- quences. * ' Ccntralblatt f. die Med. Wissenscli.,' 1871, p. 362. t 'Glasgow Med. Journ.,' May, 187r, p. 354. X Ibid., p. 347.