299 OPENIXG THE STOJIAOU—COLOTOMY, ETC. was opened for disease are related by Mr. Smith and Mr. MacCormac. In the case under the care of Mr. Smith the patient lived seven days. In one of Mr. MacCormac's cases the patient lived six days. It seems doubtful whether in any case yet recorded the operation has prolonged life. It seems to relieve suffering. In tlie cases which have survived for three days, peritonitis has always been present. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' Yol. v., 236 and 242). Dr. Lowe relates the case of a woman suffer- ing from scirrhous cancer of the oesophagus, in which he opened the stomach. Considerable relief followed. She died on the third day rather suddenly (about sixty hours after the operation). ('Lancet,' July 23, 1871.) A case in which Dr. Troup opened the stomach of a man suffering from cancer is noted in ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' July 1872, 36. The patient lived for three days afterwards and was greatly relieved. Wound of aldomen with inju/ry of the intestine; recovery.—The wound of the abdomen was a lacerated one; omentum protruded and the peritoneal coat of the jejunum was damaged. Mr. Horton ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 28, 1872). Recto-vesical Ustula treated ly colotomy.—Mr. Bryant records two cases. In 1869 he recorded another case (see 'Retrospect'). His present cases were very successful. The ulcerated action which caused the fistula was in all probability of a simple nature, and commenced in the rectum. In both the relief afforded was complete. The ulcera- tive action ceased if it did not heal. The escape of urine into the rectum showed that the fistula remained open, but faeces did not escape into the bladder. The cases corroborate remarks made by Mr. Holmes in connection with a similar case and noted in a previous 'Eetrospect.' ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,' v. 131.) Colotomy.—Cases of colotomy for stricture of the rectum under the care of Mr. Hulke will be found noted in ' Lancet,' July 20 and fol- lowing nos., 1872. Imperforate Anus.—Dr. A. Stern relates in the '"Wiener Med, Wochenschr.,' No. 21, 1872, a case of successful operation for im- perforate anus in a newly born child. No bulging could be perceived in the perinseum when the infant cried. An incision was made, and the blind end of the rectum was reached at the depth of an inch and a half. It was laid open, giving exit to a quantity of meconium : and the edges were brought down and fastened by sutures to the external skin. The hiemorrhage was very slight. The wound was dressed with lead lotion and carbolic acid, and healed by granulation. The child was in good health six weeks after the operation. Stricture of the rectum.—Cases of stricture of the rectum treated in various ways, one of them by electrolysis, are narrated by Dr. White- head ('Am. .Tour, Med. Sci.,' July, 1872, 114). He also records a cnse of fibrous stricture of the rectum in a married woman, aged 38, which he treated with deep incisions and gradual dilatation afterwards. The dilatation was effected by means of an india,-rubber, conical bag into which water was injected through a pipe provided with a stop- cock. The water is used warm. To prevent the sphincter being too much pressed on, the pipe which is embraced by the sphincter should be