REPORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 426 On the other hand, the apoplectic form of asphyxia is when the medulla oblongata is not in a condition to respond to the normal excitors pre- sented to it. _ The following is the author's general statement of the four pathological conditions, into one or other of which stillborn chil- dren are distributable A so greatly diminished excitability of the medulla oblongata that, under the normal excitants, the proper nervous influence from it is no longer transmitted to the respiratory apparatus, hence there necessarily results a deficient supply of oxygen to the blood. (2) A deficient oxygenation of the blood, and its neces- sary concomitant, an abnormal accumulation of carbon in the blood. (.3) Constant lessening in the force of the circulation from the slowness of the heart's contractions, and the immediate and secondary conse- quences, causing what may, in some sense, be considered as a com- pensatory movement, besides overfilling the heart with blood, directing the flow of the latter towards the thorax. (4) The clogging up, to a greater or less extent, of the trachea with liquor amnii, meconium, slime, and blood. To arouse the suspended vitality of the stillborn who fall within the first proposition presents three indications :—To increase the excitation of the medulla, so that the respiratory nerves shall react; to endeavour, by acting upon the peripheral nerves, to excite the action of the respiratory muscles; or to endeavour to reinstate the normal ex- citability of the medulla. In the cases embraced in the second proposi- tion, there is a deficiency of oxygen. Now, after birth this deficiency can be supplied only through the lungs, and hence, in the absence of natural respiration, an attempt must be made to imitate it artificially. In reference to the cases of stillbirth embraced by the Mrd proposi- tion, it maybe understood that when the infant is born deeply asphyxi- ated, with very slight action of the heart, while the blood in the capil- laries of the lungs is almost stagnant, how little of the circulating mass can, by artificial inflation of the lungs, be brought into contact with oxygen. Hence the increased action of the heart caused by such means is only of temporary continuance. Artificial respiration can only be productive of permanent results when, at the same time, there occurs, as well through the vessels of the lungs as throughout the entire rami- fication of the aorta, a life-supporting circulation of blood. The artifi- cially excited action of the respiratory organs may, however, become ultimately the cause of the reinstatement of the excitability of the ner- vous centres, and thus be the means of recalling the normal activity of the respiratory muscles. Eesuscitation, in the cases embraced by the fourth proposition, is to be effected by the removal of the impediment, by a sucking effort of the operator's mouth applied directly to the mouth of the infant, or through an elastic catheter passed into the larynx, or by a syringe and elastic tube. (' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' 1871.) On the colour of the eyes of the netoly lorn.—Dr. Wiltshire ('Lancet,' Peb. II, 1871) believes that the eyes in newly born chilren are always of a blue colour. It is a slaty, mercurial ointment, or leaden- blue, generally different from the blue colour which obtains in after life. A change is usually observable in the second month. If the eyes are to become " dark," a brownish hue overspreads the leaden