341 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. aortic insufficiency presents all the characters that can be recognised at the wrist by touch. It allows the observer to count on the retina the beats of the heart, to see thei rhythmical distension and elongation of the artery, to recognise the distinction, during each pulsation, between the turgescence of the artery, its relaxation, and the pause ; in other words, it displays to view all the characters of the pulse, its frequency, its force or weakness, its sharpness or softness. By means of the ophthalmoscope the eye can follow on the retina, as on the table of a sphygmograph, aU the undulations of the curve described by the arterial wave. The observation of the phenomena is not equally easy in all cases, or in all parts of the same retina. The distension of the arteries is best seen at a bifurcation, their elongation in those which, present curves in the form of an S. During the arterial diastole the curves of the S in- crease, and return to their former position during the arterial systole. Sometimes the rhythmical and vermicular movements of the vessels communicate to the whole fundus of the eye a strangely animated appearance. It is well known that similar conditions may be observed in the mesentery of a frog. When a drop of water is suffered to fall on the exposed intestine, the muscular coat, by its contraction, in- creases the resistance offered to the arteries on their passage from the mesentery to the intestine, and their vermicular movements assume an almost spasmodic character. Dr. Becker has observed that, in a certain distribution of vessels on the papilla, spontaneous arterial pulsation may be found even in the normal eyes of healthy persons. He has also observed a case of detachment of the retina, in which the arteries, on their passage over the displaced portion, performed very manifest vermicular movements. But his most interesting observation was in a case of aneurism of the transverse aorta, in which the phenomena of visible pulsation were apparent in the left eye and entirely absent from the right. This condition could only be explained by reference to the seat of the aneurism, which must have been so situated as to involve the origins of the left carotid and subclavian, leaving the innominate free. The con- clusion to be drawn from this is that, in certain cases, the appearance of a retinal arterial pulse might assist in determining the precise seat of an aneurism of the transverse aorta. In the discussion which followed. Dr. "Weber, in reply to Dr. de Wecker, gave an account of the retinal circulation at and immediately after dissolution. Dr. Schmidt, who had taken part in Quincke's observations, confirmed the general accuracy of Dr. Becker's statements, adding, however, that the force of the pulsations varied from time to time with the degree of cardiac excitement. Dr. Becker rejoined that he was so well aware of this that he was in the habit of administering a .stimulant to render the pulse more visible. He was entirely in accord with Quincke except on two points. That observer said that the pulse might be manifest at certain moments and quite invisible at otliers. He also claimed to liave seen, besides the arterial pulse, a rhythmical coloration and pallor of the disc, which he attributed to a capillary pulse. In spite of the most careful and conscientious exami-