REPORT ON SURGEIIY. S98 distant from the cajcum, and lost itself on the peritoneal lining of the pelvis near the right sciatic notch. The band might have been easily reached and safely cut had its seat been discovered during the ex- ploration. The lessons drawn from the case are, that " notwith- standing its fatal issue, the ascertained practicability of cutting the con- stricting band is an encouragement to operate again under similar circumstances. Next, the acute and general enteritis and the ulceration at the constriction, already present when the operation was done, show how much danger grows with delay. Again, we learn that the plan of puncturing inflated intestines for the purpose of letting off gas is safe only when the gut does not also contain fluid faeces; and when, unspoiled by inflammation, its muscular coats can shrink and close the puncture, assisted by a slight sliding of the mucosa ; but where the gut is damaged by inflammation, and contains also fluid faeces as well as gas, the hindrance to the search caused by tight packing of the inflated intestine, will be more safely dealt with by a freer section of the walls than by puncture. We are taught, also, that fixed tenderness and pain are very uncertain guides to the seat of an obstruction, for here that situation pointed to the upper end of the small intestine, while the obstruction was close to the caecum. Lastly, in traumatic peritonitis we may expect a low temperature, and are not to be thrown off" our guard by the absence of a high one." Mr. Thomas Annandale narrates a case in which he performed gastrotomy on the fourth day of obstruction of the bowels, and divided a band of lymph. The patient died about eighteen hours after the operation. He was f, man aged 55, who was taken suddenly with severe pain in the abdomen. Ftecal vomiting rapidly set in, showing that the obstruction was complete. Mr. Annandale sums up (i) when the symptoms of sudden and complete intestinal obstruction are present, and the ordinary meaus of treatment have failed to give relief, the operation of gastrotomy is justifiable and advisable. (2) That the operation should not, if possible, be delayed beyond forty-eight or thirty-six hours after the first symptoms have appeared. (3) That the abdomen should be opened in the middle line; and, that during the operation and after it every precaution should be taken to lessen the risks of peritonitis. (4) That when the abdominal cavity is opened the best guide to the seat of obstruction is the contracted or dilated condition of a portion of the intestine. (5) That if the intestine be gangrenous, or the obstruction not removable, its canal should bo opened as near the obstruction as possible, and an artificial anus established. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 1871.) In the 'Brit. Med, Jour.,' March 23, 1872, is an abstract of a case recorded in ' Lo Sperimentale' for March, 1872. The patient was a man aged aj, who had double inguinal hernia. Symptoms of internal strangulation came on while both herniae were reducible. On examin- ing one, by operation, and passing the finger into the abdominal cavity a knuckle of intestine was found tightly strangulated by a hard fibrous band. This was divided. The patient left the hospital, cured, in a month. Opening the stomach for cancer.—Three cases in which the stomach