267 INJURIES TO THE HEAD. was a quantity of purulent discharge. At the end of three years " the brain can be seen pulsating under the scalp in both the places where the fractures existed." ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1872, 295.) Mr. Nicholson records the case of a child, jet. ^, who had fallen down stairs while playing with a marble. Haemorrhage occurred from a cir- cular wound in the temple. A hole could apparently be felt in the skull. At the end of a fortnight a large marble ivas removed from the temple. The child did well; but the hole in the skidl was not filled up at the end often years (' St. Earth. Hosp. Kep.,' viii, 91). Dr. E. jN". Downs records a case oi punctured fracture of the sJcull, in a boy, ast. 12, in which death resulted from the bursting of an abscess into the ven- tricles, four months after apparent recovery ('Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1871, 429). A case of compound fracture of the skull with protrusion and loss of Irain-substance, operated on by Mr. Wag- stalfe, and followed by recovery, is noted in ' Lancet,' Aug. 17, 1872. Mr. Annandale showed a patient to the Ed. Med.-Chir. Soc, who had recovered from a severe injury to the head. On admission he was found to have sustained a compound, comminuted fracture of the bones of the skull, and to have hemiplegia of the right side. The depressed portion of the skull was elevated and the fragments removed. One of the fragments had wounded the brain, so that a portion of brain came away. The patient had no other symptoms than those of hemiplegia ; he was perfectly sensible and took his food. About the third day a fungus of the brain made its appearance, and gradually increased till it reached the size of a pigeon's egg. During the whole time the anti- septic treatment, as recommended by Prof. Lister, was carried out with the antiseptic spray, and pressure was applied to the fungus. There was no suppuration from the deep part of the wound. The pressure was quite successful, and, gradually, the granulations arising from the fungus adhered to those of the scalp, so that by keeping up steady pressure it was gradually diminished, and the wound healed. An opening in the bone-walls of the skull was left. Mr. Annandale said—" Having watched many of these cases, where the antiseptic treatment was not adopted, I think the treatment employed had much to do with the sati.sfactory results. In many of these cases fatal results happen from suppuration of the brain itself, but I believe the treatment prevented that. The patient is recovering from the hemiplegia, and can now use his right arm and leg," ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 1872, 554.) ]VIr. Stokes records the following interesting case:—A lad, set. 18, was struck on the head and cut over the left temple five weeks before he came under care. This occurred in England during haymaking. He went on with his work. On the fourth day he suddenly lost all power of Hpeech. He was under the care of a practitioner for a fortnight. His father was then sent for from Ireland. When the latter arrived, the son could recognise him, and spoke to him in monosyllables. He could walk about, and was quite sensible. For a fortnight more he remained in the same state. At the end of four weeks and three days from the receipt of the injury he had a violent attack of vomiting. They then started lor Ireland." At Liverpool, the father left liis son for a while, and on his return found him in a profuse perspiration and quite