REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 46 ot a boy, asfc. 7, who, two weeks bofbre he was attacked, had been brouj^ht to the town of Basseterre from Grenada, at which phace, so far as the author could discover, there was no yellow fever at the time. Fresh cases occurred in the neighbourhood of the house in which this patient died. The disease spread gradually from house to house and from place to place round the whole island. One hundred and eight people in all were attacked, of whom forty-four, or 407 per cent., died. Europeans, and especially those just come out, seemed most susceptible; then the Portuguese, nearly all natives of Madeira. Munro thinks that a " faecal cause" for the disease may be found in the fact that the greater part of the town of Basseterre had been destroyed by fire in July, 1867, which, by burning down the privies, left their pits open, the necessary atmospheric conditions for the production of the fever not occurring till fifteen months later. He gives an account of a number of the cases and tables of the rainfall, barometric pressure, &c. Sullivan, in his " Notes on the Yellow Fever, as observed at Havana in 1870" ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, i, 304), gives a very full account of its different forms, its symptoms, and its treatment. He remarks that in fatal cases jaundice is as certain after death as albuminuria during life. He draws attention to the means of diagnosing between the true black vomit and deep-coloured bile; linen steeped in the former gives a histre tres trancMe; in bile, a green or deep yellow. As to the nature of yellow fever, he considers it a pestilential one, having two distinct phases—one of reaction against the infectious poison, con- stituting sometimes the entire malady, and very like an infectious fever ; the other, of depression or adynamic ataxia, counterfeiting nervous hsemorrhagic putrid fevers. Hiron (ib., 1871, ii, 124) gives a long and more or less confused account of the epidemic of yellow fever in the River Plate districts in 1870 and 1871. It had already shown itself at Ascension in the summer of 1869-70, and in April of the latter year had appeared at Buenos Ayres. As far as could be discovered it had been imported into both places from llio Janeiro, but did not spread far at the time. During the next summer it broke out in both places and at Corrientes. Buenos Ayres has a population of about 180,000. Of these, 100,000 fled at the beginning of the outbreak; of those that remained three fourths sickened and one fourth died. There seems no doubt that the disease was imported from Brazil, most probably aided by insufficient quarantine arrangements. Both Monte Video and Kosario, at which places quarantine was carefully observed, were free from the disease. The writer discusses the eifect of the atmospheric conditions. The Italian part of the population, who are the poorest, and inhabit the worst quarters of Buenos Ayres, suffered most, and the affection was especially fatal among children. The post-mortem appearances and the symp- toms are similar to those already recorded, and, as far as treatment is concerned, the writer agrees with Sullivan. Eulenberg ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 174) writes on the epidemic of yellow fever in Rio Janeiro during the years 1869 and 1870. The summers of these years and of 1868 had been marked by great dryness