36 IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEUTCINE. Lastly, there is a class, the suhject of his present paper, which com- prehends the poisonous affections, distinguished from the preceding by the fact that their intimate cause is to be found only in the granular protoplasm of the new formations. Sanderson ('Thirteenth Rep. Med. Off. Privy Coun.,' app. p. 48, and * Quart. Journ. of Micr. Science,' xi, 323), assisted by Ferrier, has further investigated the conditions under which microzymes (bacteria) are developed in various solutions, and in organic tissues and liquids. The experiments are given in full, and lead to the following conclusions: whereas fungi (torula, &c.) may be transmitted from one solution to another by means of the air, such is not the case with microzymes ; there is no developmental connection between the two, and their apparent association is one of mere juxtaposition. If proper precautions, boiling the solution, e.g. Pasteur's, and rinsing the vessel with boiling water, are taken, the solution may be exposed for a length of time in an o])eu vessel, without any development in it of bacteria, while there will occur a free growth of penicillium. If a drop of ordinary distilled water be added to the solution used, bacteria will be developed in abundance ; but such development will not follow if the distilled water be pre- viously boiled. The same writer ('Nature,' 1873, Jan. 9) relates minutely fifteen experiments made in his presence by Bastian with infusions of hay and turnip. He is content to have established, at all events, to his own satisfaction, " that by following Bastian's directions, infusions can be prepared which are not deprived by an ebullition of from five to ten minutes, of the faculty of undergoing those chemical changes which are characterised by the presence of swarms of bacteria, and that the development of these organisms can proceed with the greatest activity in hermetically sealed glass vessels, from which almost the whole of the air has been expelled by boiling." Lostorfer (' Wien.Med. Jahrb.,' 1871,4^1) has developed organisms resembling sarcina ventriculi from the blood of several healthy persons. He insists that they are not introduced from without, and tries to support his view by reference to cases recorded by Virchow, Zenker, and Cohnheim, as to the occurrence of sarcinae in the lungs. Ferrier ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, i, 98) has found sarcinae in the blood of man, rabbits, cats, dogs, and frogs, drawn from the carotid vessels, and placed under a temperature of 100° F. He agrees with Lostorfer as to the presence of numerous refractive granules, single or in pairs, from which sarcin£e are developed ; and he finds that the vaccine particles constantly seen in fresh lymph multiply under a cul- tivation, and assume the characters of sarcinaj, with which he holds them to be identical. Bastian (ib., 123) holds that the blood is not the only source of sarcinse, as Ferrier is disposed to think ; nor does he look upon sarcina as a living organism. One of the essential conditions for its occur- rence seems to be the presence of a phosphate in the fluid in which it is to form. Nepveu ('Gaz. Med.,' 1872, 32) has found bacteria {B. punctatum.