121 PNEUMONIA—IIYPEUTKOI'IIY, autiiuouy, and blisters, had a return of the affection on going back to work too' soon, and in whom a recurrence to tho same treatment was impossible. Eapid recovery followed the exhibition of the lead in doses .of five, increased to fifteen centigrammes, in tho day. He next applied it to cases of the disease in old and feeble people, in whom tho heroic treatment above mentioned had had no eftect or could not be resorted to; and lastly, he employed the drug in cases of pneumonia occurring in all ages. He publishes in full 14 out of .3,3 cases. The mortality was over 10 per cent. The average period of the pneumonia, dating from the commencement to the cessation of the physical signs, as revealed by the stethoscope, was io'23 days. PapiUaud, "Du TiiUtcmenb de la Pneumonie," 'Gaz. Med./ 1871, 312. Hosier, " Ueberbiliose Pneumonie und dadurcli conipliciiten Typhus recurrens " ' Deut. Arch.,' s, 266. Alt, "Ueber die Behandluug des crouposen Pneumonie mit Veratrin" (with curves of pulse and temperature of three cases, besides one in the text j twenty-one cases given altogether), ib., ix, 129. Weigand, " Zur Pneumoniefrage," 'Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1S72, 6. Liebig, " Behandlung der chronischen catarrhalischen Pneumonie mit erhohtem Luftdruck," ' Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1871, No. 20. Moxon, "Acute Interstitial Pneumonia," 'Lancet,' 1872, ii, 779. Williams, "Pneumonia," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1872, i, 121. Eead, " Oxygen in Diseases of the Lungs" (sixteen cases of phthisis, acute and chronic pneumonia, and chronic bronchitis, in which the gas was used regularly, and for a sufficient time to warrant the drawing of a conclusiou as to its efEects), ' New York Med. Journ.,' xiv, 382. Broion Induration and 'Kypertro^'hy. Delafield ('Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Ixi, 95) records his observations on " pigment induration" of the lungs, based on twenty autopsies, in which he found this change in connection with disease of the heart. The lungs are small, their lobes adherent to one another and in part to the costal wall; the pulmonary pleura thick and opaque. On section the lung-tissue is resistent, very dry, containing scarcely any air, blood, or serum. The microscope revealed (i) new pigment, (2) hypertrophy of the walls of the air-cells, (3) dilatation of the capil- laries, and (4) a marked increase of cellular elements within the alveoli. An analysis of the cases shows that mitral stenosis is almost always accompanied by pigment induration of the lungs; that simple mitral insufficiency causes it in nearly half the cases; and that aortic disease causes it in one fourth. A full analysis, with tables, is given of the post-mortem appearances in the other viscera, &c. Eindfleisch (' Centralblatt,' 1872, 65) writes on the muscular tissue of the smaller bronchi, which becomes much hypertrophied in the so- called brown induration of the lungs. He describes a peculiar and distinct layer of circular muscular fibres as surrounding the smallest bronchi, forming a kind of sphincter where they open out into the infundibula; these circular fibres send loops into the openings of the latter, which are also surrounded by smooth muscular fibres. These fibres may be ea.sily made out in the normal lung by those who have observed them in the hypertrophied condition. Tliierfelder, "Ein eigcntliumlicher Pall von Hypertrophic uud cpithelialer Hepatisa- tion der Lungen," ' Deut. Arch.,' x, 209.