REPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 120 of the legs, but after death varicose veins, which had been overlooked during litb, were discovered on them. In addition to the signs of the lobar pneumonia in course of resolution, and some signs of old lung- mischief, there were found seated upon and extending from the bifurca- tion of the pulmonary artery into its different branches a number of clots, non-adherent to the walls of the vessels, and showing impressions of venous valves. Clots of the same kind were found in the varicose veins, especially on the right side ; the walls of these vessels were per- fectly healthy, excepting the usual changes found in such veins. Except when they were entangled among the valves, &c., the clots lay quite free. The emboli in the pulmonary artery were evidently por- tions of these clots, formed without any phlebitis during the pneumonia, and detached by the muscular exertion when the patient got up from bed. Hayem refers to a case of the same kind which had occurred in the practice of Tardieu in 1868. But in the latter the varicose veins were inflamed, and were felt as hard cords, and easily explained the coagulation which led to the same fatal result. Moxon ('Path. See. Trans.,' xxii, 38) describes a peculiar form of pneumonia in a syphilitic subject who was killed by fracture of the cervical spine. The lower half of the left pleura was much thickened and coated with recent firm lymph; the lung corresponding to this portion showed a state of grey fibroid change, with diminution of bulk and hardening and darkening of the tissue. This state affected nearly all the lower lobe, and spread with an irregular border into the upper. The right lung showed large patches of thickening on its lower half. The vocal cords were thick. The liver was enlarged, lardaceous, and contained cicatricial patches like those on the lung. The spleen, kidneys, and supra-renal capsules were also lardaceous. No symptoms of chest disease seem to have occurred during life, nor is any micro- scopical examination of the new tissues mentioned as being made after death, but Moxon concludes, from the presence of marked general syphilis, that the pleurisy and pneumonia were syphilitic. G-reen (" Interstitial Pneumonia," ib., xxiii, 39) records the appear- ance found in the lungs of a man aet. 60, who suftered from chronic bronchitis and died of an acute attack of that affection. The right lung was adherent, its pleura thickened and soft. There was no consoHda- tion or caseation, but the lower lobe looked like a piece of sponge, and was made up almost entirely of dilated bronchi and fibrous tissue, per- fectly lax and soft. The left lung was, like the upper lobe of the right, pigmented and tougher than natural. The kidneys were slightly indurated. The microscope showed a growth of fibro-nucleated tissue round the bronchi and blood-vessels, affecting also the alveoli. Brouardel (see 'Lancet,' 1872, ii, 493) draws attention to the very rapid formation of interstitial pneumonia and of false membranes, which reduce the size of the lung and form an obstacle to its expansibility, and consequently the harmlessness of early, and the danger of late, paracentesis. Strohl ('Union Med.,' xi, 134) has been using for some years the neutral acetate of lead in cases of pneumonia. He was casually led to do so in 1841 in treating a woman who, in spite of bloodletting,