UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 104 The fungus was found on the surface of the membranes, but nowhere else, and inoculation with it gave negative results. 2. Inoculation in the trachea of twelve rabbits with diphtheritic membrane taken from men caused death in five by suifocation, in three by the constitutional infection. The post-mortem examination showed, not only diphtheritic inflammation in the larynx and trachea, but also numberles.s hajmor- rhages in the most various organs, especially hsEmorrhagic inflammation of the cervical and axillary glands, capillary ecchymosis, and dege- neration of the muscles. The kidneys were swollen and livid, both cortical and medullary substances exceedingly hypera^mic, with ecchymosis here and there. 3. Inoculation with diphtheritic membrane under the skin and in the muscles, lu five rabbits, gave the following results:—The wound was covered with grey slimy deposit, the muscles and connective tissue around and about it boggy and ecchyraosed. The kidneys were highly hypersemic and swollen, 4, Inoculations with decomposing animal substances gave altogether difi'erent results to those of diphtheritic membranes. 5. The diphtheritic poison introduced from men into animals, reproduced in them and increased, may be inoculated into other animals, even those of difi'erent zoological classes, and into difi'erent tissues and organs, with the same diphtheritis of the wound, and severe constitutional aflTection. Oertel concludes that the local disease begins in one spot of infection, and from it extends over the body. He insists upon a sharply marked separation between croup and diphtheria; the latter can provoke a croupous inflammation; the former never passes beyond the limits of a local inflammation. Hartmann (' Virch. Arch.,' lii, 240) refers briefly to three views—(i) that croup and diphtheria are identical; (2) that the latter is only an ad- vanced stage of the former; (3) that the two are distinct aff'ections, the diphtheria being a blood disease, exhibiting its local efi'ects in the fauces and larynx, just as the typhoid process is localised in the intestine. He holds that croup always precedes diphtheria (p. 246); that in the former the mucous membrane is intact, while in the latter it is destroyed. Classen ('Virch. Arch.,' lii, 260) gives an analysis of 155 cases of diphtheria treated by him at Eostock, from October, 1862, to the end of March, 1870. Thirty-seven w^ere fatal : 27 from suf- focation, from extension of the afi"ection to the respiratory organs, 2 from capillary bronchitis after tracheotomy (a third case of tra- cheotomy, in a child, recovered), and 8 from exhaustion or blood- poisoning. Thirty-eight were under the age of 10 years, 26 between 10 and 20, and 31 over 20 years. He considers the so-called false membranes to be only dead mucous tissue, and he has been unable to find any of Letzerich's spores, &c. He discusses at some length dif- ferent modes of treatment, and publishes what he thinks a unique case of aff'ected vision in a boy, aet. 15, after diphtheria, due probably to haemorrhage into the sheath of the optic nerve. Hutchinson (' Lancet,' 1871, i, 13) gives three cases of paralysis of the ciliary muscle from diphtheria. The cases are peculiar and easy of diagnosis, the patients generally children. The defect of sight, usually inability to read, comes on suddenly, always after convalescence has seemed to be established, and disappears in a month or six vreeks.