H/EMORRHAGB—TllANSFUSION. 4l9 terveslciilar, iuterlobular, and sub-pleural cellular tissue, invading both lungs without going beyond tbein. The autopsy revealed emphysema of the cellular tissue of both lungs. Dr. Mackenzie also reports ('Amer. Journ. of Obst.,' 1871) a case of emphysema occurring during labour. He considers that the emphy- sematous condition was caused by the rupture of one or more vesicles in the lungs from the spasmodic action of the diaphragm. The patient was well on the eighth day. Mr. Jalland relates a case of vaginal thrombus. It burst spontane- ously after the expulsion of the placenta. The patient became pulseless, but the hfemorrhage was controlled by pressure. (' Obst. Trans.,' 1872.) Fibrous tumour removed after labour.—Dr. Teld relates the case of a multipara, £et. 37, in which, when the hand was introduced to remove the placenta, a large mass was found firmly adherent to the walls of the uterus. This was believed at first to be the placenta, and was removed by traction and breaking down of surrounding adhesions. The mas3 weighed four pounds and a half, and measured nine inches in circum- ference. The patient died in two hours. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' June, 1871.) HcemorrTiage—Transfusion.—Dr. Braxton Hicks calls attention to a form of concealed haemorrhage before the expulsion of the placenta, not usually described. Owing to adhesion of the membranes to the lower part of the uterus, while they, together with a portion of the placenta, are detached above, blood collects and inverts the free portion into the vagina, forming a bag full of blood. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Peb. 1872.) Three severe cases of concealed accidental uterine htemorrhage are recorded by Mr. Parsons. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' June, 1872.) Dr. Goodell also writes on this subject. (' Amer. Journ. Obstet.,' 1871.) A successful case of transfusion, by M. De Belina. The patient, set. 26, had previously had many severe floodings after abortions. She was now four and a half months pregnant, and the haemorrhage was so pro- fuse that she was found in a state of profound syncope, and presented all the appearances of approaching death. The blood was obtained from her sister; it was defibrinated, filtered, and then injected. The improvement was sudden and well marked, and the patient soon ex- pressed herself relieved, and said she had felt an agreeable sensation of warmth extending from the arm to the chest. (' G-az. Med. de Paris,' Feb. 1871.) Dr. Aveling describes and figures ('Lancet,' Aug. 1872) his instru- ment for immediate transfusion, and relates a successful case in which it was used after post-partum hajmorrhage. ^ fold of skin over a vein at the bend of the elbow is raised, transfixed, and divided. The flat- tened vein should be seized with a forceps and raised, while an incision is made, and the bevel-pointed silver tube of the instrument inserted into it. The tube should be filled with water, and kept full by placing the thumb over its larger opening. The arm of the blood-donor should then be prepared, and the round-pointed tube inserted into it. The hand of an assistant holds the efferent tube and the lips of the small wound together, and another assistant holds the afteront tube secure. The india-rubber portion of the apparatus, which consists of a central bulb