377 UTEIUNE TUMOURSj ETC. charges may resemble those of carcinoma of the cervix, but the odour is generally less penetrating. At a later stage the discharges contain numerous small and larger shreds of the tumour. Sometimes a poly- poid projecting portion is cast off, or falls into purulent degeneration, giving rise to an intolerable stench. To these discharges are sometimes added as early symptoms a sensation of pressure, of bearing-down pain in the sacrum, in the pelvis, pressure on the rectum, dysuria. But Hegar does not agree with Grusserow in admitting that pain is constant and early. Mostly the pains possess a labour-like character and point to real contractions. Besides these principal symptoms there are numerous so-called consensual symptoms, such as attend the most different diseases of the sexual organs, especially disorders of digestion, cardialgia, &c., nervous symptoms, nutrition suffers; from dysuria hydronephrosis may follow. The constant issue is death, which either ensues from exhaustion through the protracted discharges, through pyfemia, or the consecutive diseases. Objective symptoms in the living vary according to the anatomical relations of the new growth. Through the abdominal walls we may feel tumours of varying size, knobby, over- lapping, or distinct, between which the body of the uterus may be made out or lost in the imbedded tumours. If, in the case of an intra- uterine tumour, rapid degeneration does not ensue, the cervix gradually dilates, its wall softens, its lips disappear, the os uteri opens, and the tumour is driven through, perhaps into the vagina, simulating a fibrous polypus, when it becomes gangrenous, suppurative, and is cast off in larger or smaller pieces. The sound generally indicates an enlarged cavity of the body of the uterus, and strikes upon rough, irregular places. The mobiUty of the uterus is often retained for a long time. At a late stage peritonitis, proceeding from the extension of the disease to the neighbouring organs, may fix the organ. The diagnosis is gene- rally clear, but the microscope alone makes it certain. It is easy to get small portions of the tumour. Simple hyperplastic growths are distinguished by their fi.brous connective tissue muscular substance, vessels, folhcles, glands. The duration of the disease is variable— from five months to six years. But it lasts longer than carciuoma of the cervix. The treatment is simple. If the cervix is not dilated, it must be dilated, so that the finger may reach the basis of the tumour and permit its removal by scissors or polypus forceps. Generally hooks tear out and will not hold. After the operation, Hegar has introduced potassa fusa; a copious discharge followed, bringing away shreds of the tumour. Hegar concludes by relating eight cases. [From * Brit, and Foreign Med.-Chir. Eeview,' July, 1871.] "Winckel also describes two cases of sarcoma of the uterus and the micro-scopical appearances of the growths (' Arch. f. Gyn.,' iii, 2, 1872). See also Babl-Ptuckhard (' Beit, zu Gyniik.,' Berlin, p. 76, 1872). Dr. Noeggerath removed from the posterior surface of the uterus by a curette a small growth the size of a pea, in which were felt hard points, sandy to the touch. The growth was an adenoid tumour, and an example of the growths called by Virchow psammomata. (' Amer Joum. of Obat.,' Feb. 1872. ) An inverted uterus witli an intramural fibroid was removed by ecrasc-