B.EPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. U6 aa follows—(a) cases occurring in persons free from structural disease of tlie heart, or of any organ having a nervous connection with it; whether (i) in the young, in whom degenerative changes have not com- menced, or (2) those in middle or advanced life in whom they made considerahle progress; (b) cases of distinctly reflex origin; (c) pal- pitation associated with structural disease; (d) due to mechanical dis- placements of the heart; (e) palpitation as a prominent symptom in certain conditions of blood—anaemia, gout, exophthalmic goitre, ex- cessive smoking or tea-drinking; (/) cases, of which he gives three examples, two with autopsies, characterised by the occurrence of pal- pitation in definite attacks of sudden access, and by the proportion which is observed between the perversion of the heart's action, and the patient's sensations, and by the evidence of disturbed innervation of organs connected with the heart. They form the transition, as it were, from palpitation to angina pectoris. He discusses (ib., 266) the treatment of palpitation, which consists in the removal of the imme- diate cause, regular hygiene and diet; tonics—iron, arsenic; diffusible stimulants and anodynes; local applications, such as belladonna, Althaus has advocated the application of the galvanic current to the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves in their course, and Waller their compression in the neck by the thumbs ; Nunneley thinks these two methods deserve study. Moinet ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' xvi, 608) discusses the pathology of angina pectoris, and concludes that it is a paralysis occurring in and depending upon a weakened heart, as no other theory can account for the symptoms and history of the disease. As to treatment he recom- mends, during the paroxysm, diffusible stimulants and opium, hot brandy and water, sinapisms to the feet, and placing the hands and feet in hot water; and generally tonips, galvanism and bleeding. Under the term of " irritable heart," Da Costa (' Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Ixi, 17) describes a form of functional disorder which he observed in upwards of three hundred soldiers during the American war. The men had been for a longer or shorter time in active service, and com- plained of inability to march, on account of dyspnoea, dizziness, palpi- tation, pain, and a feeling of oppression and tightness in the chest. In numerous cases there was a history of some disturbance of digestion. Though the men seemed to be in good condition, this derangement of the heart's action was very chronic, and the heart itself became in time hypertrophied. In addition to the palpitation, an almost constant symptom was the sharp paroxysmal pain at the heart; there was in- creased frequency of the pulse, much afl:ected by position, &c., a hard and jerky pulse, disturbance of the nervous and digestive functions. Both sounds of the heart were equal and short, sharp and metallic, but generally unaccompanied by a murmur; when the latter was present it was usually systolic. The causes of the affection are analysed, the writer enumerates certain preceding conditions of ill health, such as malarial fevers, diarrhoea, hard field service, long marches. The pre- disposing causes may be misuse of tobacco and spirits, venereal excesses, syphilis, exposure to sun, &c. Da Costa looks upon the affection as the result of a disordered innervation on a heart rendered irritable by