200 REPORT ON SURGERY. menta, in tLe ueighboui-hood, were oedematous, and the veins were in a varicose state. As ligature or compression appeared to be impossible, it was determined to try the plan of injecting ergotin subcutaneous!)', aa recommended by Langenbeck. The solution, used, consisted of a drachm of Bonjean's ergotin, and three drachms, each, of glycerine and alcohol. Of this, a portion, containing half a grain of ergotin gradu- ally increased to three grains, was injected in the neighbourhood of the swelling, at first every second day, afterwards every third day. Alto- gether fifteen injections were made between October 25th and December ist. A diminution of the tumour was first noticed after the fourth injection, and after this continued steadily. The injections pro- duced sharp pain, lasting for about two hours, but not followed by abscess. At the points of injection, however, there was left some in- duration of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which compressed the veins and, probably, had a similar effect on the aneurism. In the beginning of December, the supraclavicular fossa was free from the tumour; digital compression was now applied during three hours, in the morning and three, in the afternoon, for six days; under this treat- ment the tumour totally disappeared. As a precautionary measure, ten injections containing, each, three grains of ergotin were administered at long intervals, and compression, with a bandage and pad, was kept up for some time. The aneurism, when the patient was last seen (July, T870), was quite cured, forming a hardened mass attached to tlie sternum and clavicle. Muscular spasm relieved by compression of arteries.—M. Broca having found, in his own person, that compression of the femoral artery relieved cramp of the leg, conceived the idea of applying the same treatment to constant, violent, muscular contraction in a case of fractured leg which came under his care. The spasms were so violent and painful that the limb could not be put up in splints. On applying pressure to the femoral artery the contractions at once ceased ; and on their recurring, at a later time, when the dressings were being readjusted, compression was again applied successfully. ('Journal de Med. et Chir. Prat.,' March, 1871.) Aneurism of the common carotid artery; ligature.—A man, 8Bt. 39, came under the care of Mr. James Lane on account of a large, pul- sating tumour on the right side of the neck, of nine months' duration. The artery was ligatured about two inches above the sterno-clavicular joint with a silk ligature. Increase of temperature was noted, on the same side, for the first two days. The temperature then sank to the normal, and, finally, below that of the opposite side. The man pre- sented himself for examination eleven weeks after the operation, and scarcely any trace of the tumour could be discovered. (' Lancet,' Oct. 14, 1871, 541.) Mr. Gamgee narrates a case in which he ligatured the left common carotid artery, below the omo-hyoid, for aneurism. The patient died six days later. It was found that he had a cancer of the rectum which had ulcerated into the peritoneum and set up peritonitis. The condi- tion of the wound and of the aneurism had been very satisfactory. ('Lancet,' June 3, 1871, 741.)