IIEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 91. Hi H O H tq Piireiicliy- umtous. Of the grey sub- ^ ProL'ressive muscular atrophy. stancti. Infantile paralysis. Of the whitesub- stance. Posterior. ^ Anterior. Primitive (progressive locomotor ataxy). Secondary (ascending degenera- tion in cases of compression of the cord, partial myelitis, &c.). Primitive (Charcot's cases). Secondary (descending degenera- tion in cases in which the motor fibres are injured, either in their spinal or cei-ebral portions). Diffused, In disseminated patches. General. Peripheral (mye- lo-meningitis). Round the epen- dyma(central). _ These may involve the cord throughout its }■ length, or occupy a portion only more or less extensive. "With Vulpian he considers the first stage to be irritation and inflam- mation of the nerve-elements, e.ff. the nerve-tubes in tabes dorsalis, the spinal ganglion-cells in muscular atrophy. The greater number of patients afl'ected with diffuse myelitis are persons under the age of 40. Exposure to cold, and paralysis of muscles from over-use and over- fatigue, are frequent causes ; others are wounds, alcoholism, syphilis, tumours, severe fevers, the puerperal state, malaria, caries of the ver- tebrae, inflammation of the meninges, and parenchymatous scleroses. Difi'use myelitis is constantly found in paralysis of the insane, and it has been observed in chorea and in tetanus. It is almost always partial at its first commencement, and spreads gradually. The parts where the inflammation takes place are swollen, the meninges injected and thickened; the medullary tissue at first softened, then hard and shrivelled, containing abnormal spaces, generally filled with serous fluid. The interstitial myelitis is essentially characterised by the pro- liferation of the cells and nuclei of the neuroglia. The inflammation in central myelitis is accompanied by proliferation of the cellular ele- ments of the central canal. The roots of the nerves, especially the ante- rior ones, are often found atrophied; more rarely there has been observed a true sclerosis of the peripheral nerves (hyperplasia of the connective tissue with atrophy of the nerve-fibres). In cases where the grey substance is aflFected the muscles are atrophied. These changes in the latter in con- nection with difi'use myelitis have for twenty years been described by Duchenne as " general spinal ])araly8is." Generally the afi"ection begins suddenly with pains in the dorsal region, from which they extend to the limbs aud thoracic walls, presenting at times exacerbations, cramps, and peripheric contractions. Sometimes, however, these pains are absent. A remarkable irregularity is shown by the malady in its evolution, with alternations of amelioration and aggravation. Two forms, descending and ascending, may be distinguished according to whether the upper or lower extremities are first paralysed, though no law can be laid down