REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 176 Tierpetique) ; that this morbid condition is characterised by the presence o£ various herpetic eruptions and by an acute lobular pneumonia, to which the name herpetic pneumonia should be given; that the whole of the affections named have a common bond in the disturbance of the nervous system, and that in febrile affections the appearance of herpes is almost always a favourable prognostic sign. An account is given ('Lancet,' 1872, i, 399) of a case of herpes impetiginiformis under the care of Hebra. The patient was a woman aged 25, in the ninth month of her second pregnancy. This was only the fifth case Hebra had seen. They all occurred in women at full time, except one, which took place during the course of pregnancy ; the first four all terminated fatally. They all resembled one another in beginning in the region of the genitals, in the general diffusion over the body in a later stage, and in the herpetic character (groups of vesicles on the same inflamed base) which they presented. They were all accompanied by fever and rigors. There was no restriction to the course of certain nerves. Broadbent ('Brit. Med, Jour.,' 1871, i, 444) relates the case of a man, aged 39, who presented on the right side of the neck an eruption exactly resembling that of herpes zoster of the region of the cervical plexus, and was at the same time the subject of factitious urticaria. On drawing the back of the finger-nail sharply across the skin there was produced immediately a broad line of elevated hair-follicles ; this subsided, and in two minutes was succeeded by a similar line of elevated hair-roots, but this time of a bright red colour, which in four minutes and a half or five minutes had developed itself into a long, smooth, elevated wheal of urticaria, pale, with red margins. In ten or twelve minutes the mark had almost faded again. Pempliigus.—Bumstead ('Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Ixii, 99) records the following case of pemphigus produced by the administration of iodide of potassium. A man, aged 28, with an imperfect history of syphilis, and with ecthymatous ulcerations on his legs, complained, after taking three doses, each containing 20 grains of the drug, of heat and a burning sensation in his face and hands, which were observed to be reddened. Next day large bullae appeared on the exposed parts of his body, and the patient affirmed that on three previous occasions he had taken the iodide with the same result. Psoriasis.—B\ic\ ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1872, 161) treats psoriasis as follows. The patient is placed in warm soap-baths to soften and loosen the epidermis ; the scales are then removed with a soft brush, and the parts attacked by the eruption dabbed with acetic acid, at first once a day, and afterwards as often and as strenuously as the patient is willing and able to support the pain caused by the application. The dark colour of the skin caused at first soon disappears, and no scar remains. Pollock ('Lancet,' 1871, i, 683) records a case of psoriasis guttata in a woman, set. 43. The disease had existed, according to her own account, for the last twenty years. She strongly denied the possibility of any syphilitic taint. Ten grains of iodide of potassium were given her three times a day, and a lotion of equal parts of glycerine and water