166 feEPOUT ON PRACTiCAL MEDICINE. Moxon, " Case of Acute Splenitis (?) in a Sypliilitic," 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiJ, 274, Squire, "Specimen of Enlarged Spleen," ib., 276. Bisch-Hirschfeld, "Der Acute Milztumor," 'Arch. d. Heilk.,' xiii, 389. Hosier, " Ueber die Wirkung von Eucalyptus globulus auf die Milz," ' Deut. Arch.,' x, 159. Olga Stoff und Sophie Hasse, " Einige Notizen iiber die Circulations-Verhaltnisse der Milz.," ' Centralbl.,' 1872, 753. Affections of the Pancreas. Pepper ('Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Ixi, 159) gives the following case, A man, set. 45, of very intemperate habits, first noticed haemorrhage from the bowels in the early part of 1870. This recurred from time to time, the last time in August of that year, when there was such rapid haemor- rhage into the stomach and bowels as to prove fatal in one hour. There was no vomiting at any time. At the autopsy marked but not extreme cirrhosis of the liver was found; the stomach and intestines contained a large amount of blood, which had entered them through an opening in the ductus communis choledochus. A probe passed through this open- ing directly entered a cavity in the head of the pancreas, which was filled with fluid blood and clots. From a microscopical examination of the head of the gland, which was enlarged and hardened, it was con- cluded that the specimen was a well-marked case of cirrhosis of the pancreas. Affections of the Peritoneum. Habershon ('Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xvi, 418) gives two cases which show that abdominal pain may be due to old adhesions between the stomach and transverse colon. Both become limited in their movements, and whenever the one or the other becomes distended, pain is the result. In the first case, that of a man, aged nearly 60, there had been fixed pain in the region of the gall-bladder, without jaundice; death occurred from haemorrhage. Old and firm adhesions were found between the liver, stomach, colon, and duodenum. The gall-bladder contained five irregular small calculi. In the second case, also a man of 60, the same pain without jaundice was present; the patient passed a considerable number of biliary calculi, and digital examination gave the idea that the duodenum and colon were adherent to the transverse colon and to the stomach. The patient recovered. Giles ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 447) traces the connection between gonorrhoea and peritonitis in women. He thinks that the gouorrhoeal matter may readily come into direct contact with the peri- toneal membrane through the Pallopian tubes. After childbirth or mis- carriage this occurs with greater freedom, and in prostitutes neglected gonorrhoea, though with less facility, may in the same manner lead to peritonitis. The disease differs from puerperal peritonitis in its shorter duration and its usually successful termination. He gives a few cases in support of his views. Dobson (ib., 475) draws attention to the fact that West in 1858 had put forward a similar view in speaking of acute uterine inflammation. Dickinson (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xii, 287, 296) publishes two very interesting cases. In one, a boy 3^ years of age, a tumour of tlie