UEPORT ON SURGERY. The case of a girl, set, 6, whose knee was excised by Mr. Canton, is five cases. (3.) Very different death rates in the hands of individual surgeons, varying from one, in two or three, to one in twelve, and one in nineteen or even less. The average duration of the process of recovery is considerable. In forty-eight cases, where the patella was removed, the average was 225 days, and in thirty-eight, where the patella was supposed to be left, the period was 255 days. The average duration was about eight months, therefore. In eight successful cases, all of them children, at St. Thomas's Hospital, the average was 206 days, or about seven months. In Mr. Gant's first case, a man, aet. 33, the period of osseous union was 60 days, or two months, the knee then supporting the weight of the trunk. The union has stood the test of twelve years' free use of the limb. The average period in his own cases has been, for the production of firm, or perhaps osseous union, three months ; and, to regain a useful limb, three months more, in a starch bandage with gentle use of the limb, gradually, for support and progression. Results of twelve cases.—Osseous or firm union, and a straight limb in all the cases, except case 3, where it was incomplete, cases 4 and 5, which were subjected to amputation, and case 11, the onlg death, md from acute tetanus, in thirty-six hours, seventeen days after the operation. Period of union, average three months. Average period of removal of splints one month, when they were reapplied and removed at about the same interval till conclusion of treatment. Re-excision was performed in one case; secondary amputation in three cases. Permanent result.— Ultimate known period (i) eleven years; (2) one year and a half; (7) one year ; (8) one year and a quarter ; (9) one year and a quarter ; (10) six months; (la) five months. ('Lancet,' May 13, and June 3, 1871, 638, 736.) Mr. Treves passes in review, in considerable detail, the various sources of failure or of want of complete success which result from the neglect of certain precautions at the time of the operation or during the after-treatment. We must refer our readers to the paper itself. He describes a leather splint, which he has found useful, and in the per- fecting of which he was indebted to Mr. Clouting. It consists of leather, stengthened, at the back, by a piece of iron about two inches wide, which is riveted to the leather. The length of one piece reaches from the heel to within two inches of the fold of the knee-joint, wide enough to sur- round two thirds of the circumference of the leg. Another piece reaches from about two inches above the joint of the tuberosity of the ischium behind, and, on the outside and front, as high as the crest of the ilium. These two pieces are connected by the piece of metal, which passes the whole length of the splint, to within half an inch of either extremity, and is firmly riveted by two rows of rivets. The leather is softened by soaking in water, and chamois leather is pasted on its inner surface. When the splint is applied, it is fixed by gum bandages. The limb is laid in a Mclntyre for twenty-four hours, and then swung, when the gum and leather are firm. (' Lancet,' Sept. 30 and Oct. 7, 1871, 463 and 508.) A lecture, by Mr. Holmes, is published in 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 12, 1872.