220 RKPORT ON SURGERY. remaining to this result was not noted. Of the 42, 19 could walk with out support, 9 with the help of a stick, i two sticks, i a splint, i a crutch, 2 two crutches. In 9 the manner of walking is not specified. In 40, of the 52 recoveries, it was especially noted that the limb supported the ■weight of the body. The ultimate period at which the cases were seen, "varied from three months to five years. Tlieir cure was ascertained, in most cases, after two or three years. In Mr. Gant's own eight cases, the shortest period of known, permanent cure was two years and a half, and the longest period of known, permanent result five years. The ave- rage duration of the period of recovery has not generally been noted. In his own cases, the average period of union was three months. In extreme cases of hip-joint excision, extreme as to the amount of bone removed, the resulting state of the limb may still be successful. It was so, in two of the author's cases, after removal of four or four and a half inches of the femur with one inch more of cancellated bone scooped out. ('Lancet,' July 15, 1871, 77). The particulars of the author's own cases are given Aug. 5, 183. Lectures by Mr. Hancock, on this subject, are given in the * Med. Times and Gaz.' (February 24, March 16, April 13, 27, and June i, 1872). A review of the whole subject is given, and narratives of most of the cases published, as well as cases of his own. He urges the im- portance of not waiting too long; insists on the point that it is not necessary for dislocation to have occurred, and that the presence of acetabular disease, or perforation, does not contraindicate operative interference. He gives the number of cases recorded at various ages, and the relative proportion of success under different amounts of disease. Dr. Ashhurst, in remarking on a successful case, urges that the operation should be looked on as the last resource, not to be employed aa long as a reasonable prospect remains of saving life in any other way. The statistics of nearly 400 cases to which he has references, shows, he thinks, the operation to be one of such gravity that it ought not to be undertaken unless when its necessity is very evident. The mortality was about one half, and one in three at the most favorable age for operative interference. The removal of the diseased bone should be as complete as possible. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1871, 434.) Mr. Annandale showed a specimen, from a case in which he had operated, four months previously. For two months the patient did well, and then dropsy set in. After death, it was found that the cartilage of the acetabulum was destroyed, and that a kind of membrane had formed over the exposed bone. He believed that, if the patient had lived, this membrane would have become gradually converted into fibrous tissue, and the whole of the exposed bone healed. He thought the case was encouraging as regarded the performance of the operation, more espe- cially as all the diseased section seemed to have been removed, and a new joint was apparently being formed. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1872.) Notes of four cases under the care of Mr. Gay are given in the ' Lancet' (June 8, 15, and 22 1872). Two of the patients were 7