282 REPORT ON SURGERY. arguments adduced in favour of early operation are:—i. That the scrotum will not develope on the empty side, and that in the course of a few years it will become an impossibility to cover the organ with it. 2. That, as nearly all testicles found in abnormal situations are atro- phied, there is a chance of the gland itself becoming useless. .3. It has been asserted that its position is inconvenient and painful, and that it is liable to injury. The first of these propositions is undoubtedly true. The gland, however, does not invariably atrophy, as in Mr. Ledwich's case it was of normal size, and contained spermatozoa. The patient may attain adult life without experiencing any inconvenience. He is therefore of opinion that no operation should be undertaken during the earlier periods of life; first, because in very young children the wound must almost necessarily be frequently irritated by the urine, and because of the pi'obability of the potency of the serous membrane; and, secondly, because the malposition may not prove to be of any inconvenience, unless the patient is destined to become an equestrian. (' Lancet,' May 27, 1871, 710.) Ti'eatment of gonon'hoeal epididymitis hy ice.—Dr. Borgioni, in a paper published in ' L'Imparziale,' for May i and 16, 1872, relates four cases of gonorrhoeal epididymitis treated successfully by ice. He does not bring forward the remedy as new, nor does he consider the number of his cases sufficient to warrant his saying that it is always efficacious; but, as far as he can judge, he believes it simple of application, and capable of eflecting an early cure, Gonorrhoeal or urethral rheumatism.—Dr. Bond writes on this subject. He concludes with the following deductions, that urethral rheumatism is a slow form of pysemic poisoning, due, not to a sudden absorption, but to a gradual vitiation of the blood by progressive absorption of the urethral discharge; that the vitiated state is not maintained indepen- dently of the local disease; that when the discharge is thoroughly and permanently stopped, the rheumatism may soon be cured and has no tendency to return, except by the access of a fresh urethral discharge. ('Lancet,' March 23, 1872, 395.) Vesioo-vaginal fistula.—Dr. Joseph Bell records cases on which he has operated successfully. He uses a series of steel points, highly tempered and curved, in various sizes, some not larger tlian one third of the circumference of a sixpence, others bearing the same proportion to a shilling, but all welded to the silver wire in such a manner as to project no shoulder, and require no threading. These are easily managed either with a Sims' needle forceps, or by an ordinary pair of dressing- forceps, and setting the wire at a right angle to the needle and curving it round the hand and arm, it is readily managed with great ease. He also finds (Sims' ?) barbed hooks of great service. (' Edm. Med. Journ.' Jan. 1872, 591-) Imperforate hymen.—A case in which Dr. Barton operated success- fully for retained menses, owing to an imperforate hymen is recorded. ('Dub. Quart. Journ.' Feb. 1871, 62.) The patient was fifteen years of age. The septum across the vagina was divided carefullj^, and not very freely. It was of considerable thickness. Eeunion partially occurred, but was obviated by retention of a piece of oiled lint.