REPORT ON SURGERY. 308 appearances at the point of transition from the diaphysis to the epi- physial cartilage. There is first a layer of hyaline cartilage, then comes an indented layer of mortar-like substance about four centimetres in thickness, and, finally there is a soft, pus-coloured layer, sometimes irregular, defined at the upper part, which gradually passes into the diaphysis. These three stages may be observed in different bones of the same individual. Wegner regards the disease as an irritative osteochondritis arising from syphilitic condition of the blood. The long bones, and the epiphyses of those which contribute most to growth, were specially affected. Along with these changes in the bones, fatty degeneration of the cells and vessels of the medulla is often found in syphilitic children, the marrow assuming a reddish-yellow or light yellow instead of a red colour. (' Wiener Med. "Wocheuschr.,' No. 8, 1871.) Dr. Taylor's essay (reprinted from ' Am. Journ. Syph. and Derm.,' Jan. 1871) on dactylitis syphilitica, that is on late syphilitic affections of the fingers and toes, is a useful contribution to our knowledge of this rare form of disease, which has been generally overlooked by writers on syphilis. He has added to several published cases two that came under his own observation and has constructed a short, but valuable, essay. The disease consists of gummy infiltration of the subcutaneous connective tissue, the ligaments, periosteum, and bones of the pha- langes. By this morbid process, irregular enlargements are produced in both fingers and toes, sometimes forming rounded swellings of the bone and periosteum near the first phalangeal articulation, whicb strongly resemble enchondroraatous tumours. In other instances the enlargement spreads chiefly in the sheaths of the tendons and connec- tive tissue, forming a dull, red, brawny thickening of the whole digit. These affections yield readily to specific remedies. The essay contains all the cases hitherto recorded of this peculiar affection and forms an important contribution to syphilitic pathology. (' Med.-Chir. Eeview,' July, 1871, 129.) Subcutaneous injections of mercury in sypliilis. — Dr. Sigmund, of Vienna, writes on this subject in the (' Wien. Med. "Wochenschr.' for Sept. 9, 1871.) He first examines the disadvantages which, accord- ing to the opponents of the proceeding, attend it; viz. the formation of subcutaneous deposits; inflammation, abscess, and their results; the pain attending the process of injection; the difficulties of the pro- cess ; the disturbance which it produces in the circulatory and respi- ratory systems; stomatitis and salivation; and, finally, the small amount of success attending subcutaneous injections as compared with other plans of treatment. The formation of subcutaneous infiltration at the seat of injection no doubt occurs ; but, under rest and care of the affected parts, com- plete absorption of the deposited material gradually takes place. The occurrence of inflammation and abscess is, no doubt, very troublesome and interferes with the cure ; but it depends entirely on the manner in which the injection is made, on the strength of the solution used, and on the management of the patient after the operation. Sigmund has