264 HEPORT ON SURGERY. a clot extended for some way above the divided end of the vessel. In two of the cases, the posterior tibial and the popliteal were the injured arteries. (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' July 32, 1871.) Gunshot injuries of lone.—Specimens exhibited by Mr. Mac Cormac. ('Path. Trans.,' xxii, 199.) Fourfold, gunshot tvound of the chest; recovery.—Dr. Lorinser relates in the 'Wiener Med. Wochenschr.,' for March 25, 1871, the case of a man, jst. 40, who for the purpose of committing suicide, discharged a bullet from a four-barreUed revolver into the chest between the second and third left ribs, a second between the third and fourth, a third be- tween the fourth and fifth, and a fourth between the fifth and sixth ribs. He was soon afterwards seen by Dr. Lorinser, who found him lying dressed on a sofa, exhausted by haamorrhage, and pale. He ob- jected, at first, to examination and wished to be left to die in peace. There was moderate hsemorrhage from the wounds ; the movements of the chest on the left side could scarcely be perceived ; respiration was laboured and stertorous; and the heart's action was weak. On the third day, he had recovered sufficiently to be undressed and put to bed. A bullet was now felt lying under the skin below the angle of the left scapula; but as it caused no inconvenience, it was not i-emoved. The other balls could not be found. The patient went on well for about a week, when he was suddenly attacked with repeated paroxysms of dyspnoea, which were relieved by cherry laurel water and acetate of mor- phia. For a time, again, there was improvement; but, on his attempting to leave his bed, for a short time, in the third week, he was again seized with dyspnoea, to which were now added loss of appetite and sleepless- ness. This state continued tiU the eighth week, when he had recovered sufficiently to leave his bed and go into the open air. Three months after this injury, he went to the Tyrol where he spent the summer, and returned in better health than he was in before the injury. Ounshot wound of the necTc ; retention of the ball for eight months.— M. Baumes communicated the following case to the Surgical Society of Paris, in October, 1871. In the preceding January, an officer was shot in the right submaxillary region. Haemorrhage occurred several times, but was always arrested by plugging with charpie. For some days after he received the wound, he was treated in the hospital of La Pitie, under Mr. Trelat. It was found necessary to perform tracheotomy, which was attended with difficulty by reason of the general swelling of the neck. After its performance, the breathing became free, and the swelling diminished. The canula fell out easily; the wound soon closed, and the breathing remained normal. Still the part which had been wounded remained enlarged, and fistulous openings presented themselves in the neighbourhood. On introducing a probe, it struck against a foreign body, but of its nature or size no idea could be formed. The patient had an obscure notion that something was removed when he first came under treatment after being wounded. At the end of eight months, the parts remained indurated. An abscess now formed, and burst into the mouth, allowing an examination to be made with ease. A hard body was now felt lying deeply in the submaxillary region: it was removed tlirough an external incision, and was found to bo a musket-ball weigh-