255 APPLIANCES IN FRACTUllKS. Compound dislocation of the foot.—Mr. Spencer Smith gives a clinical lecture on two cases of compound dislocation of the foot, complicated, io one of them, with compound fracture and dislocation of the astra- galus. Eecovery in both instances, with useful limbs. One patient was a man, set. 37, the other a married woman, set .28. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 17, 1872.) Plastic apparatus in surgery, especially plaster of Paris.—Dr. St. John writes an elaborate paper on the employment of plaster of Paris splints in the treatment of fractures. He enters, at length, into the history of the employment of plastic apparatus, the advantages of such apparatus, the method of applying the splints, and the cases in which he has himself used this mode of treatment. He tabulates his results. A great deal depends on the manner in which the apparatus is put on. In fracture of the femur, ether is administered, and extension is kept up by a traction apparatus while the plaster is applied. The limb is padded with blankets. The plaster should be cut up the middle soon after its application; he generally makes two cuts, one on each side of the middle line, and thus removes a strip an inch wide. He prefers a sharp, shoemaker's knife as the most useful instrument for doing this. He sums up as follows. He has endeavoured (i) to show that the results are at least equal to those of any other instrument, and, in some fractiu-es, better. To support this ground he adduces 192 cases of simple fracture (50 being of the femur) and 26 cases of compound fracture. (2) That union is not delayed by this splint, as alleged by some. On this point he appeals to the records of 313 cases, 192 of the gypsum apparatus and 121 of the starch, felt, leather and pasteboard. (3) That the splint may, with safety, be applied, at once, in fractures of all bones. In support of this point there are 176 cases in which this splint was applied within forty-eight hours from the date of the accident, of which 69 are simple and 23 compound fractures (gypsum apparatus), 23 are simple fractures (felt splint), and 61 simple fractures treated with gyp- sum splints, of which he could not get complete details as to results, the patients having been discharged from the hospital wearing the splints, <fec., but whose records are given beyond the date, when we maybe sure that no untoward result could arise, dependent upon the early appli- cation. (4) To show that great contusion of soft parts, swelling or extravasation of blood, do not, of necessity, contra-indicate even its imme- diate application. Here belong 32 cases of simple fracture and 23 of compound fracture thus described. (' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' July, 1872 75—{J2) Spiral, sprint] extender.—"^v. Holthouse advocates the employment of a spiral spring in order to produce extension in diseased joints, frac- tures, &c. ('Lancet,' June 8, J872, 789.) Incomplete fractures.—lir. K. W. Smith describes and figures speci- mens of incomplete and green-stick fractures of the radius and ulna, taken from a young man (a!t. 18) who was whirled round and crushed by machinery. The fracture had occurred about two inches above the wnst-joint. There was also a complete fracture higher uj), which showed the mechanism of the "green-stick or sally fracture." He also describes and figures a apecimen of complete fracture of the fibula iu