108 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 30—45 seconds, and was succeeded by a complete pause of 20—30 seconds, during which the pupil was contracted and immovable, and again the same round of symptoms was repeated. He never lost con- sciousness. He was again seen in November, 1870; the peculiar respiration was still present, and a month later the patient died. The autopsy is given, but neither it nor the writer throw any further light on the cause of the phenomenon. The case is noticeable on account of the long period during which the peculiar form of respiration had lasted. Waldenburg (" Die Manometrie der Lungen, oder Pneumatometrie als diagnostiche Methode," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 541) describes a manometer to measure the pressure of inspiration and expiration in diseases of the lungs. The instrument proves what is already known, that in the normal state the pressure of expiration is stronger than that of inspiration, the former averaging between 70 and 180, or even 200 millimetres, the latter between 60 and 120. The average of the expira- tory pressure in men is 80—120, of the inspiratory 70—100 ; in women the expiratory is 30—80, the inspiratory 40—90. In emphysema the inspiratory pressure is normal, the expiratory greatly diminished, this insufficiency of expiration depending on the lessened elasticity of the air-vesicles. On the other hand, in the early stages of tuberculosis the pressure of expiration is normal, while that of inspiration is abnormally low; in the later stages, however, the expiratory pressure is also dimi- nished. These facts may be used in the differential diagnosis of disease. In cases of stricture of the trachea both pressures are diminished, Korner (" Beitrag zur Lehre von der Tuberculose," * Wien. Med. Ztung.,' 1871, 189) refers to the detrimental influence exerted by small development of the respiratory muscles of the neck upon the course of affections of the apices of the lungs. The defective inspira- tion leads to defective supply of arterial blood, and this, again, aids the cheesy degeneration of bronchitic or pneumonic products. He thinks that the fever w hich occurs during the process of cheesy change and softening is produced by the reabsorption of dead matter, and that it usually persists in proportion to the extent and density of the indura- tion which surrounds the cheesy deposits and the vomicae. Brown-Sequard ('Lancet,' 1871, i, 6) gives the following results of liis experiments on guinea-pigs, &c. Crushing or wound of tlie pons Variolii caused numerous ecchymoses, and even real apoplexy in the lungs, generally most marked on the side opposite to that of greatest lesion. The influence is exerted mainly through the spinal roots of the sympathetic nerve. Anaemia of the lungs, from spasm of the blood- vessels, also results from injury to the pons. Qidema of the lung appears principally after injury to the medulla oblongata. According to Eanvier, the parts of lung thus changed contain a good deal of serum, and the minute blood-vessels are filled with white, and free from red, corpuscles. He states as a new fact that emphysema of the lungs " can appear when not a single respiratory movement takes place, after an irritation of the base of the brain, either by crushing or cutting." He draws attention to the frequency of pulmonary changes dependent on brain-influence. Of 188 cases of organic disease of the brain, re- J