43.1 ME INFANT. lomata at the age of sis months. Four out of the five vesicles on the child's arm were used, and more than one, possibly all of them, bled somewhat. Mr. Hutchinson deduces the following conclusions from the cases. The blood of a child suflFering from inherited syphilis can, if inoculated, transmit the disease with great certainty. The resiilt of such inoculation of blood will be an indurated chancre. If multiple inoculations be practised, multiple chancres may be pro- duced. A period of incubation between the inoculation and the first occurrence of induration about the prick wiU occur, during which the part may appear perfectly healthy. The period of incubation prior to the first specific induration will usually be about five weeks. It is quite possible for vaccine lymph and blood to be transferred at the same time, and for each to produce its specific results, the eff'ects of the syphilitic inoculation occurring subsequently to those of vaccination. It is quite possible to vaccinate successfully from a syphilitic.infant in the stage of utmost potency as regards its blood, without communi- cating syphilis. In the second series of cases there were unquestionable symptoms of constitutional syphilis in nine children who had been vaccinated from the same child. There were suspicious symptoms in six others, but a certain number of those vaccinated entirely escaped. The vaccinifer was a fine healthy-looking child, but with slight local symptoms indicative of inherited syphilis. (' Medico.-Chir. Trans.,' liv.) For discussion on syphilitic inoculation by vaccination see proceed- ings of the Societe de Medecine de Lyon. (' Lyon Med.,' yii, 510—564.) Mr. Amos Beardesley writes on vaccination—the advantages of JBryce's test. There is no local appearance which can be relied upon as a guarantee of a constitutional security against smallpox; and in neglecting the con- stitutional test we are aggravating the distrust in vaccination, degrad- ing the productive power of vaccine lymph, and curtailing one of the greatest blessings ever given by man to man. (' Practitioner,' June, 1871.) Dr. Farquharson concludes from extensive experience in revaccina- tion, that while it is a perfectly safe operation under ordinary circum- stances, care should be taken in its performance on weakly subjects. In these the resulting constitutional disturbance may cause much dis- comfort, and some efibrts should first be made to improve the tone of the general health. ('Lancet,' July, 1871.) ilr. Stephen Mackenzie relates ('Lancet.' Feb. 1871) several cases vaccinated with lymph dilated with glycerine, in the proportion of forty drops of the latter to the contents of two capillary tubes of vaccine. He thinks that lymph diluted to this extent is as potent as undiluted lymph. A similar view is also expressed by Dr. E. Miiller, of Berlin ('Berlin Woch.,' April 17, 1871.), and by "Weiss ('Centr. f Med. Wiss.,' 48, 1871). GuUland quotes the following case:—A primipara, confined on the 18th of January, was attacked with the eruption of smallpox on the evening of the 20th, forty-eight hours after labour. She died on the fourth day of the ha;morrhagic form of the disease. The infant had been sent away to a nurse the day after it was born. On the 27th Guilland went to vaccinate the child, having been unable to procure