SMALLPOX. 489 upwards of 14,800 cases received into the hospitals, only four well- authenticated cases were treated in which re-vaccination had been pro- perly performed, and these were light attacks. Eurther conclusive evidence is afibrded by the facts, that all the nurses and servants of the hospitals, to the number at one time of upwards of 300, who were hourly brought into the most intimate contact with the disease, who constantly breathed its atmosphere, and than whom none can be more exposed to its contagion, have, with but few exceptions, enjoyed com- plete immunity from its attacks. These exceptions were cases of nurses or servants whose re-vaccination, in the pressure of the epi- demic, was overlooked, and who speedily took the disease; and one case was that of a nurse who, having had smallpox previously, was not re-vac- cinated, and took the disease a second time. The medical officer of the Homerton Fever Hospital* (used during the smallpox epidemic for smallpox patients) gives tables, embodying the experience of that institution, to disprove a very common error, viz. that more vaccinated than unvaccinated persons are attacked by small- pox, and states that the real truth is that vaccinated persons, and by vaccinated persons he means only properly vaccinated persons, form but a very small proportion of those attacked by smallpox. Looking at the cases, divided into those occurring before and after puberty, he finds the case stands thus with regard to patients treated in the above-men- tioned hospital. Of 411 of smallpox vaccinated and unvaccinated, only 17 had been vaccinated according to the standard of the vaccine insti- tution, and 4 according to Mr. Marson's standard, i. e. that of 411 smallpox patients, but 21 had been vaccinated properly. The pro- portion of well-vaccinated persons attacked by the disease after puberty was higher than imder that age, but it was still true that well-vacci- nated persons formed but a small proportion of the smallpox cases. Of 549 cases occurring after fifteen, 32 only had been vaccinated according to the directions of the vaccine institution, and but 13 according to Mr. Marson. Taking all the cases together, and assuming the two standards referred to as equally good, it was found that of 1000 cases of smallpox, 65 only had been efficiently vaccinated, the other 93^ had been inefficiently vaccinated. Another table is given showing the importance of quality in vacci- nation, and illustrating the influence of different kinds of vaccination in determining the severity short of death. Not a single severe case occurred in a vaccinated child, and only 7 well vaccinated children had the disease, and these in a very mild form. Of 152 cases of severe smallpox occurring after twelve years of age, 51 per cent, occurred amongst the unvaccinated, 23 per cent, amongst the badly vaccinated, 4 per cent, amongst the fairly well vaccinated, and amongst the well vaccinated there was but one case. A select committee of the House of Commons sat in the session of T870, and arrived at these among other conclusions :t—That the cow-pox affords, if not an absolute, yet a very great protection against an attack * 'Report of the Medical OfHcer of the Ilomcrton Fever Hospital for 1871-2.' Pamphlet. t IJcport. Vaccination Act (1867). Blue book.