DISPLACEMENTS OF TUE UTEllUS. 383 solution of the granular projections of the growths themselves, and absorption and disappearance of glandular enlargements beyond the seat of growth. Its action is rapid. Eouth refers to some successful cases by Lusana and Pagello in Italy. Professor Simpson writes in favour of the removal of portions of the diseased tissues in cases of cancer of the uterus. Even in cases in which the whole disease cannot be removed the ablation of only a portion of the diseased tissue diminishes the hasmorrhage aud the dis-' charge, relieves the pain, and thus prolongs life. Where the disease is sessile, and not capable of removal by the ecraseur, it must be dug or scraped out by means of the finger-nail, a Becamier's curette, or Simon's scoop. He thinks a saturated solution of the chlorate of potasb a good application to the remaining stump. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1S72.) Eemarks by various authors on the treatment of uterine cancer by scraping away the diseased tissue and by gastric juice are contained in the same journal for Aug. 24th, 187a. Dr. Barnes quotes ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' July, 1871) a case of cancer of the female genitalia in which sudden death occurred. Nothing like embolism or thrombosis was found after death. The glands and subperitoneal tissue in the lumbar region were involved in dense masses of cancerous tissue; the aorta and the vena cava ran like tunnels through the solid cancerous mass, which extended from the pelvis to the diaphragm, and the aorta had, in many places, its coats bent inwards, forming nodular projections into its cavity. The aorta was thus no longer an elastic tube expanding under the heart's systole and then contracting, but a rigid tunnel utterly wanting in resiliency. Such an aorta is mechanically unfitted to do its work, aud under moderately increased exertion or emotion, causing unusual action in the heart, this rigid tube would throw back upon the heart a portion of the column of blood which the aorta ought to receive and propel. This retrograde dynamic disturbance would overwhelm the feeble heart, and thus death would follow. Tuberculosis of the female genitalia is illustrated by a case reported by Lehnerdt, and another case by Wernick, thirty-three days after labour, in v/hich the disease was confined to the ITallopian tubes. ('Beitr. zur Geb. u. Grynak.,' Berlin, 1872.) Displacements of the Uterus. In a paper read before the Obstetrical Society, JSTov. 1871, Dr. Konrad discusses the etiology of prolapse of the female genitalia. He believes, with Spiegelberg, that prolapse of the vagina is the most im- portant feature in any prolapse of the female genitals. The anterior wall descends most commonly, and in the large majority of cases pro- lapse of the uterus is a sequel of this. He describes Spiegelberg's operation for the radical cure, which combines Diefl^nbach's meth'od with a modification of Simon's colpokleisis. The cervix uteri, if greatly hypertrophied, i.s first removed by the galvanic wire. Dr. Duncan ('Edin. Med. Jour.,' Jan. 1872) believes that the causes leading to procidentia are purely mechanical. In all chronic cases