REPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 20 pution or absolute arrest of the secretion when the system is fully under its toxic influence. Cyon and Aladoff* corroborate Eckhard's statement that diabetes occurs in dogs an hour after the section of the inferior cervical or upper dorsal ganglion. They consider it to be a phenomenon of paralysis of certain fibres passing from the spinal cord to the ganglia, and from thence to the ganglion stellatum through the annulus Vieussenii. They find vaso-motor nerves for the liver running in the annulus Vieussenii.f KupressowJ inserted a tube into the bladder of otherwise uninjured rabbits, and tried what height of a column of water was required to overcome the resistance of the sphincter muscle. It amounted to 40—60 centimeters. If, however, the spinal column were divided between the fifth and seventh lumbar vertebrae the pressure required for the same purpose immediately fell to 12—16 centimeters. M. Decaisne§ shows from observations made during the siege of Paris that the milk of woman has less butter, caseine, sugar, and salts, but more albumen, than natural, when the diet is insufficient. || Boll has given the histology of the lachrymal glands in ' Strieker's Manual,' Eollet^ that of the gastric glands, Schwalbe** that of the duodenal glands, and Boldyrewft that of the laryngeal and tracheal glands. G. LottJJ finds that the uterine glands of the pig, cow, sheep, rabbit, mouse, and bat, are lined with ciliated epithelium. NEEVES. The structure of the nerves has been specially investigated by lianvier§§ and Tamamschef.|||| M. Eanvier's researches were made upon nerves stained with picro- carminate of ammonia, with perosmic acid, and with nitrate of silver. He states that by means of these reagents he has been able to discover the presence of annular constrictions succeeding each other at the dis- tance of about a twenty-fifth of an inch in all nerve-fibres. The con- striction seems to be due to a thickening of the sheath of Schwann, and at this point the white substance or medullary sheath, but not the cylinder axis, is interrupted. About midway between every two constrictions is a nucleus the outer surface of which is in contact or is * ' Bull, de I'Acad. Imp. de St. Petersb.,' viii, 90. t See also Eckhard, " Untersuchungen iiber Hydi-urie,"'Beitrage zur Anatomic imd Physiologie,' vi, 53, and Maley, "Kunstliche Umwandluug vou Bilirubin in Harnfavbstoffe," 'Kolbe's Journ. f. Pract. Chem.,' v, 102. J ' Pfliiger's Arcbiv,' 1872, 291; and ' Centralblatt,' 1872,430. " Zur Physiologie des Blasenschliess-muskels." § 'Rev. Scicntif.,' 2e ser. i, 163. II See also a lecture by J. Emerson Eeynolds,' On the Clicmistry of Milk,' delivered before the Royal Dublin Society, May 13, 1871 j and BogomolofE " On the Composition of Milk," ' Centralblatt/ No. 40, 1871. ^ ' RoUett's Untersuch. aus dem Institute fiir Phys. u Histol. in Graz.,' ii, 143. ** 'Schultze's Arcbiv/ viii, i, 128. tt 'RoUett's Untersuch./ 1871, p. 237. Xt ' Untersuchungen aus dem Institute fiir Physiologie in Graz.,' 1871, 250. §§ Brown-Sequard's 'Archives de Physiologic,' 1872, 129. nil 'Centralblatt/ No. 38, 1872.