207 LIGATUKE OF THE COMMON ILIAC, &C. attention." " Up to the present time the distal treatment of aneurism has been, with rare exceptions, judged mainly upon the results of the application of the permanent ligature." " I have a strong feeling that the distal treatment of aneurism by means of pressure in one of its forms, is likely to be followed by as much success as has already attended the treatment by pressure when applied to the proximal side of an aneurismal tumour." ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' Iv, 225.) The case of rapid cure of aneurism hy pressure, under the care of Dr. "William Murray, is published by him in a small volume with an account of the post-mortem, and remarks on the mode of treatment generally. Ligature of the common iliac artery for hcBmorrliage from an abscess due to sacro-iliac disease.—Mr. Morrant Baker narrates a case of unusual character, in which he ligatured the common iliac artery. The patient, a vouth of 17, a gardener, a mouth previously, whilst digging, felt a pain in the right hip. On examination the whole of the right gluteal region was found occupied by a tense, elastic swelling, giving on pressure a distinct sense of fluctuation, acutely tender, and. at one point, near the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, apparently protruding, abscess- like. It was opened, and a small stream of apparently arterial blood escaped, but there were no jets. The swelling did not diminish. The lijemorrhage was easily stopped. The swelling was so like an abscess that a colleague, who was consulted, thought an artery had been wounded over it, and that a deeper incision had better be made. Chloroform was given, and an exploration made. The finger entered a large cavity between the iliac bone and the glutei muscles. The iliac and psoas regions were full and tense, and on examination through the rectum a swelling was found in the right ilio-rectal fossa. It seemed that blood had filled the gluteal, iliac and ischio-rectal regions. On enlarg- ing the gluteal wound a steady stream of arterial blood welled up through the great sciatic foramen. This was firmly plugged. It was decided to ligature the common iliac artery. This was done by a curved incision near the anterior spine of the ilium without much diffi- culty. On removing the plug from the sciatic foramen, some bleeding still occurred. This was easily stopped again. The gluteal wound became offensive, and the gluteal region and upper part of the thigh passed into a state of gangrene. The leg and foot, however, remained unaffected. The patient died forty hours after the operation. The sacrc-iliac joint was found open and gaped on pressure, and the neigh- bouring bone was diseased. The remains of a large abscess were found involving the branches of the "internal iliac artery. No trace of aneu- rism could be found. No affection of the peritoneum or of any ab- dominal or thoracic nscera was found to require notice. " It is, tliei'e- fore, to be presumed that disease of the sacro-iliac joint was the beginning of mischief, which, by extension in the pelvis, led ultimately to ulceration through the coats of one of the main branches of the internal ihac artery. ('St. Earth. Hosp. Kep.,' viii, 120.) Ligature of the external iliac artery; femoral aneurism.—Cases under the care of Mr. Lund, and of Dr. Lowe, are noted in the 'Lancet,' ^^r>- .5> '87' (^9'> 192) : the patients recovered. Mr. Terry records a successful case ('Lancet,' Feb. 3, 1872). Mr. H. Smith performed