89 NEURjVLGIA. MENINGITIS, ETC. " Coutributions to tlio Clinical History of IlypenDsfcliosia," ' Anier. .Tonrn. Med. Sci.,' ki, lOv Ck'borne, " Hfadui-lie," 'New York Meil. Uec.,' vi, .^09. Mi'ierc, "Truat.- meiit of Sciatica," ib., 175. Nottmaffel, " Sclmicrz ami cutane Sollsibilitiit^<-.Storung^'Il," ' V'irch. Arch.,' liv., 131. Peter, Nevralgio Diaiiliragniatiquo ot faits Moibides Cou- nexes " ' Arch. Geu. de Med., xvii, ^03. Sorbets, " Ueux cas do Nevralgie Cervico- braciiialo Nocturne, ' Gaz. des UopV 1871, 566. Senne, " De la Migraine," ' Union Med.,' xi, 423- Meningitis; lEydrocephalus; Hcemorrhage. A writer in the ' G-az. Med.' (1871, 412, &c.), on the treatment and prophylaxis of tubercular meningitis, says that in a practice of thirty- years he has seen between eighty and ninety cases, and in that time counts two as recovering from the confirmed disease. Fleming ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, 443) thinks he had to deal with a case of unequivocal tubercular meningitis in a girl set. 2^, recovery from which may have been due to the use of iodide of potassium. MacSwiney (ib., 1873, 539) exhibited a specimen showing tubercle over the projecting portions of the cerebral convolutions, taken from a boy, aet. 15, who five weeks before had become suddenly incoherent. An epileptiform convulsion followed in a few minutes, and occurred again ten days later. There was dull, persistent pain in the head, general anaesthesia, a quick pulse, and sluggish, dilated pupils. Sperling ('Centralb.,' 1871, 448) has made injections between the dura mater and the arachnoid over the convexity of the brain in rabbits with the following results:—Eight days after the injection of fresh blood it began to be organized into a connective-tissue membrane, which was complete after two to three weeks. After the latter period new blood-vessels were found in the new membrane, which agreed in all characters with the membrane of pachymeningitis. The organization of the blood occurred over the convexity of the brain, on the inner sur- face of the dura mater, without any adhesions to the arachnoid. The formation of the new membrane was due to the organization of the fibrin contained in the blood. That this was so was shown by the fact no new formation was found after the injection of defibrinated blood, which was completely reabsorbed. Injections of iodine and other irri- tating fluids was not followed by any new formation. In some cases the dura mater was found thickened, in others there was pus. Arndt ('Virch. Arch.,' Hi, 42) records two cases of so-called hydro- cephalus externus, due to the accumulation of serum between the dura mater and the arachnoid. This accumulation was the result of " chronic internal pachymeningitis," causing the formation of thick and tough false membranes, which bound down the dura mater. This affection is not to be confounded with Hygroma of the dura mater. Thompson (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 154) records the occurrence of intracranial osteophytes in a servant girl, set. 23, with dilatation of the ventricles and increased fluid, amounting to seven ounces, and soft- ening of the white substance. No tubercles were present anywhere. Bierbanm, " Pathologische Physiologie der Meningitis Tuberculosa," 'Dent. Klin.,' 1871, 261. Id., Scmiotisch-diagnostiscbe Analyse der Erscheinuugen bei der Menin- gitis tuberculosa," ' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' Ivi. 324. Neureutter, " Fractura Cranii Sanata, Pachymeningitis interna chronica, Hydrocephalus und Tuberculosis