GUNSHOT INJURIES. 263 Simon believed that necrosis was a much more common result of the splintering of bone than Dr. Volkmann supposed. He could not call to mind one instance of extensive splintering in which necrosis did not occur. Several other surgeons also took part in the debate. Gunshot icounds; experience in the late loar.—Mr. Sandford Moore, Assistant-Surgeon, 4th Dragoon Guards, gives his experience on certain questions connected with the treatment of gimshot wounds, in the ' Lancet'(April 8, 1871,476 and 502.) i. There are two operations which the whole experience of the war goes to show should be aban- doned, at any rate in field hospitals, or until aU further necessity for removing the patient is ended, viz.—(a) excision of the knee-joint; (5) amputation by the flap method in the upper or middle third of the leg. The first operation has been almost invariably followed by a fatal result. The latter operation has the disadvantage that the posterior flap becomes very heavy and separates from the anterior flap. If the flaps are made of skin only, they take longer to make dnd do not ofier so good a covering to the bone, as that produced by a circular amputa- tion. The German surgeons have advocated leaving amputation of limbs for gunshot wounds till the third day. Carbolic acid was used as a disinfectant simply. Marine lint was very useful. Various matters in connection with the surgery of the late war are noted by Dr. Murray in " Four Days in the Ambulances and Hospitals of Paris under the Commune." (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 20, &c., 1871.) Kemarks on the Prussian Siege of Paris, by C. A. Gordon, wUl be found in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 16, 1871. Eemarks on the instruments designed for exploring gunshot wounds to detect bullets or other foreign bodies, by Prof. Longmore, will be found in the ' Brit. Med. Joum.,' Dec. 23 and 30, 1871. Under the title of " Eecollections of "Work done in an Ambulance," Mr. MacGormac relates many interesting cases of gunshot wounds. His papers are illustrated. A statistical table showing the number of tlie various operations performed, and the results of the same is given in the last communication (March 11, 1871), ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870 and 1871.) See also a case of excision of the shoulder and elbow- joints antea. The Classification and Tabulation of injiu-ies and surgical operations is dealt with, at length, by Prof. Longmore (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. liv, p. 201-46). The War Department of the United States has issued a report on the surgical cases in the army from 1865 to 1871. (' Circular,' No. 3.) It contains an immense amount of valuable detail on all kinds of injuries and statistics of proportion of recoveries, &c. Three successful cases of amputation at the knee-joint were performed, the condyles being removed. Surgery of the arteries in gunshot wounds.—M. Verneuil communi- cated to the Surgical Society of Paris five cases of injuries of large arteries by balls and pieces of shell, in which haemorrhage was arrested spontaneously. The performance of primary amputation allowed the state of the vessels to be examined. The arterial coats were divided, throughout, at the same level, as if they had been cut by a knife • and