76 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ■with especial reference to the pause in the development of the teeth. On the average a month, to a month and a half, occurs between tlie appearance of the several incisors, and two, to two and a half months, between that of the several canine and back teeth ; so that the twenty- milk teeth are appearing up to the end of the second year. Generally after the eruption of the incisors, between them and the first back teeth, the first symptom of rickets is shown in the cessation of the tooth development. This is followed by the other symptoms, and the later teeth are cut before they are fully formed. Grunlmt and Jay, " Three Cases of Rachitis in Children," ' Amer. Journ. of Obstet., &c.,' 1871 (August), p. 317. Parry, " Rachitis" (case of coloured boy, a;t. 9 months, with autopsy), 'Amer. Jonrn. Med. Sci.,' Ixi, 427. Id., "Observations on the Frequency and Symptoms of Rachitis, with the Results of the Author's Clinical Experience," ib., Ixiii, 17, Addison's disease. Laschkewitsch publishes ('Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1871, 425) the follow- ing :—A strong and well-nourished man of 45 suffered from excessive weakness,palpitation, dyspnoea and headache. He was extremely anaemic, the mucous membrane of his lips, &c., livid, his hands and feet oedema- tous. His red blood-corpuscles were found to be paler and larger than normal, and underwent certain changes of form, becoming club or worm- shaped. Processes were protruded from them and again retracted. Lastly they broke up into fragments. The addition of weak acetic acid accelerated the phenomena. Heat and electricity made no difference. The patient's condition improved in the course of a month under tonics; the numerical proportion of the red cells increased; they became intensely coloured, but still retained the capability of undergoing change in form. Three months later the patient returned with bronze colour- ation of the face, neck, nipples, scrotum, &c. Tuckwell ('St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' 1871, 73) gives a case of Addison's disease in a woman set. 31, with a full account of tlie post- mortem examination and the microscopic appearances found in the capsules. The latter were enlarged, hard and nodulated, on section toughly fibrous, with a dull white surface studded with smallbright yellow spots. There was very great increase of connective tissue about the supra-renal plexus, the semi-lunar ganglion, and great splanchnic nerve. He opposes at length the views of Rossbach,* and in his con- clusion on the nature and pathology of this disease agrees with those of most English writers on the subject. Payne ('Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 281) records a case of Addison's disease in a man set. 32, in whom the softened and broken-dowii capsules were accompanied by a sooty colour of the genitals only, at any rate to any perceptible degree, and by a deposit of pigment in the connective-tissue cells of the pia mater covering the medulla oblongata and first two or three inches of the medulla spinalis. Gilliam, " Identity of Addison's Disease and Degeneration of the Gastric Tubules," 'Phil. Med. Surg. Rep.,' 1871, xxiv, 473. Churchill, "Effects of Ether Spray upon the Skin in Addison's Disease," 'Path. Soc. Trans.,'x.xii, 317. Quain and Silver, * Cf. last Biennial Report,' p. 87.