REPORT ON PIIA.CTICAL MEDICINE. 150 ■were atheromatous. The writer gives a table of 12 cases in which this description of aneurism was found; its most frequent termination is by rupture into the pericardium. Earth (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' xii, 253) gives a case of dissecting aneurism in a man, £et. 57. After a motion of his bowels he was suddenly seized with paralysis and loss of sensation in the right leg, accompanied by severe pain in the chest. During the succeeding days the pains appeared in the right leg, and also in the left. The right leg was cold. Pour days after another motion, death occurred somewhat suddenly. The autopsy showed about three pints of blood in the left pleura, into which projected a large tumour, the size of a child's head. The left ventricle was hypertrophied, but there was nothing else abnormal about the heart. The sheath of the aorta and pulmonary artery within the pericardium were infiltrated with blood. The commencement of the aorta was atheromatous. In the lower and middle part of the arch was a rent through the internal and muscular coats, about 4 cm. broad. Close by and for 10 cm. along the thoracic aorta, the sheath and mus- cular coats were hollowed out by a large effusion of blood. The latter communicated through a rent in the sheath in the highest part of the arch with a collection of coagulated blood under the pleura, bulging into the left pleural sac, and slightly into the posterior mediastinum. The writer explains the pain in the right leg by supposing that the dis- sected portion of the aortic wall was pressed against the opposite wall, somewhat in the fashion of an alternating valve, and so temporarily hin- dered the outflow of blood to the body. Other papers on aneurism and disease of the aorta are: Tirifahy, " Anevrysme de la Crosse de I'Aorta," ' Presse Med. Beige,' 1871, 109. Vallin, " Observation d'Anevrysme de I'Aorta, ouvert dans la bronebe gauche," 'Eee. de Mem. de Med. milit.,' xxvii, 310. Ducbamp, "Anevrysme de I'Aorta," ' Lyon Med.,'viii, 326. Heatb, "Sacculated Aneurism of the Arcb of the Aorta simulating Aneurism of the Innominate Artery," 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 95. Croft, "Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta; cured Popliteal Aneurism," ib., 100. Williams, "Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta bursting into the (Esophagus," ib., 102. Morris, ' Aneurism of Abdominal Aorta which bad burst behind the perito- neum, and subsequently into the peritoneal cavity," ib., 104. Wliipham, "Dissecting Aneurism of the first portion of the Arch of the Aorta," ib., 113. Hawkcs, "Rupture of Aorta; Tumour of Brain," ib., 115. Bauniler, " Case of Aneurysm of the In- nominate Artery, pressing on the right Pneumogastric and Recurrent Nerves," ib., xxiii, 66. King, " Aneurysm of the Aorta associated with Fracture of the first Rib, and Embolism of left middle Cerebral Artery," ib., 70. Ledliard, '■ Case of sudden death from au Aneurism of the Arch bursting into the Pericardium." ' Edin. Journ.,' xvii, 418. Chartres, " Case of Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta; death from Rupture of the Sac " (in soldier with history of syphilis), ' Dublin Journ.,' lii, 36. Foot, " Case of Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta in a Female," ib., li, 85. Russell, " Very large Intrathoracic false Aneurism closing the Superior Vena Cava by adhesion, and giving rise to a compensating Venous Anastomosis in the wall of the Chest and Abdomen," ' Med. Times and Gaz..' 1871, ii, 130. Moxon, "Sudden death from Sub- acute Inflammation of the Aorta," ib., 182. Bradbury, "Case of Aneurism of the Aorta; adhesions of the Heart and Pericardium ; temporary improvement under the use of Iodide of Potassium " (man, set. 58, death, autopsy), ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i 223 Stokes, "Case of Aneurism of the Aorta simulating permanent patency of the Aortic valves;" with autopsy (man, asi. 31), ib., 224. Ncal, "True and False Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta; rupture of the false aneurism and cfEusion into t;})e subperitoncfil space; death on the twelfth day" (man, ajt. ^6, autopsy), ib., 417.