DIABETES—RHEUMATISM. 73 the solar ganglion (Klebs), the same result occurs. In all there is paralysis of the contractile elements of the blood-vessels in the liver; and in all these he sees the same action of the water, the same fermen- tation of the glycogen, the same swelling of the liver cells, which he believes to be at the bottom of what may be distinguished as two forms of artificial diabetes, the one produced by paralysis of the vessels, the other by changes in the nutrition of the cells, of the liver. In the same way he explains the occurrence of diabetes in men. In autopsies of these cases the liver is frequently found filled with blood. Salinger (' Beitrag. zur Diagnose des Diabetes Mellitus,' ib., 306) holds that the nature of a disease is identical with its seat in any given organ to which it may be referred, and, therefore, the mucous mem- brane of the digestive organs is the original seat of diabetes. So long as arterial blood contains no sugar, none can be abstracted by any of the organs, nor, consequently, taken up by the veins or lymphatics. If, however, sugar be found in the vena cava and right ventricle, it must have entered by the thoracic duct and the capillaries of the small intestine; consequently the intestinal mucous membrane is the only seat of the formation of sugar (!). Kratschmer ('"Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1871, No. 8) concludes from his researches into the action of opium and morphia in diabetes, that patients afiected with this disease easily bear large doses of opium ; and that not only is the secretion of sugar considerably diminished by the drug, but even arrested for a shorter or longer period. The same result follows the use of morphia. Donkm, " The Skim-milk Treatment of Diabetes and Bright's Disease, with Clinica Observations on the Symptoms and Pathology of these Affections," London, 1871, pp.317. Boucbardat, " Eaux de Vals dans la Glycosurie," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1872, 421. Daboue, "De I'Odeur Acide de I'Haleiae comme signe Diagnostique du Dia- bete," ib., 802. Salomon, " Geschichte der Glycosurie von Hippokrates bis zum Anfange des 19 Jahrhunderts," 'Deut. Arch.,' viii, 489. Sedgwick, " On Temporary Glycosuria as a sequel of Cholera," 'Med.-Chir. Trans.,' liv, 63. Nicol, "Case of Diabetes Mellitus under Milk-treatment: death" (boy, set. 15, the autopsy showed slight atheroma of the aortic valves and aorta, fatty liver and (probably) kidneys, slight mUkiness of the arachnoid, other organs normal), 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 64. Smith, "Case of Acute Diabetes, with ClLaical Remarks" (boy, ast. 16, no autopsy), ib., ib., 728. Donkin, " Further Observations on the Skim-milk Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus," 'Lancet,' 1871, i, 603. Pyle, "Cases (two) of Diabetes," ib., 1872, i, 718. Balfour, "On the Treatment of Diabetes by Lactic Acid " (seven cases), ' Edin. Joum.,' xvii, 533. Gueneau de Mussy, " Etudes sur la Traitement de la Polyurie," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1871, 389. Rheumatism. Ferber (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' xii, So) gives the further history and autopsy of a boy whose case he had already recorded (see last ' Eeport,' p. 99). The patient suffered from joint-aftection, chorea and heart disease. The attacks of rheumatism were repeated frequently, accom- panied by a cluster of enlarged cervical glands, such as occurs in spinal meningiti.s. The brain and spinal cord were not examined ; the pericar- dium ; was completely adherent; the valves were deficient, and the muscle fatty. He gives a case of the same kind still under treatment. The patient was a boy of two years and eight months, whose father