heport on medical jurisprudence. * • Vrtljbrsscb, f. Gericht. Med.,' N.F., xvi, p. 263. 468 at least twenty grains. His method of arriving at this conclusion is curious and open to much objection; nevertheless, it lias great influ- ence in forming the probable ground of the opinion, expressed at the trial, of Dr. Williams and of Profs. Chew, Miles, Donaldson, Howard, Johnstone, and Smith, that the death was not due to natural causes. Dr. Aikin's analysis of the contents of the stomach was conducted thus. Inferring the possible existence of strychnine or of arsenic, he tested for the former of these by the process of Stas, which gave him, he says, negative results. He appears, however, to have omitted apply- ing the coloixr and physiological tests. He next proceeded to examine for arsenic and antimony, using the material already employed in the analysis for strychnine. A portion of this material was treated with hydrochloric acid and chlorate of potassium, then, without previous treatment with a sulphite, a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen was passed through the solution. A dark brownish precipitate was thus obtained. As this precipitate did not dissolve in ammonia, he was satisfied that it could not be arsenical. Another portion was now treated with tartaric acid and sulphuretted hydrogen, without preliminary destruction of organic matter, when a reddish-brown or brownish-red precipitate was obtained. When this was separated and dried it dissolved in hydro- chloric acid ; this solution, when dropped into the water, gave a white precipitate; that white pi'ecipitate became orange red when treated with sulphide of ammonium, and it was soluble in tartaric acid. This completed all that was necessary to satisfy Dr. Aikin of the jjresence of antimony, and he stated in evidence that he knew of nothing that would have produced these results except antimony. He admitted that Eeinsch's test had failed to give any result for antimony; and he en- tirely neglected to attempt to procure metallic antimony from the stomach. His method of determining the quantity of tartar emetic present was simply a piece of guesswork. The chemical testimony for the defence demonstrated that the colour test (the orange red precipitate) with all its subsequent reactions, save one, might be obtained when no antimony was present. Bloodstains. P. L. Sonnenschein * proposes a new reagent for the verification of these, viz. soluble tungstates, which give, with albuminates and gelatine, a precipitate insoluble in acids. Sodium tungstate, super- saturated with either acetic or normal phosphoric acid, is preferred, and forms even a more delicate reagent for the proteids than Millon's solu- tion. A dilute and filtered solution of blood gives, with the above- mentioned solution, a voluminous, reddish-brown, or chocolate-coloured precipitate, which shrinks much in volume on boiling,- and is then seen, under the microscope, to consist of small vesicles. The precipitate is soluble in ammonia and in alkaline solutions, forming a dichroic mix- ture having the same intensity of colour as the blood itself when treated with ammonia. On acidification the original precipitate re- appears. The precipitate contains all the elements of blood. On in- cineration and fusion of the ashes with a mixture of sodium carbonate