362 REPOET ON OPIITTIALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. their normal aspect, but tlie nature of a white appearance upon the fundus could not be clearly made out. After a time sympathetic dis- turbance of the other eye supervened, and enucleation was performed. The white appearance was then found to be due to great inflammatory effusion in and upon the retina and choroid. The sympathetic symptoms disappeared after the enucleation, and vision, which had fallen to f, re- turned to the normal standard. The range of accommodation also in- creased after the enucleation from to -i. The clinical interest of the case rests chiefly on the production of sympathetic troubles by an injury which implicated only the outer side of the sclerotic, and which neither directly, nor by the subsequent inflammation, affected the ciliary body. A Wound of the zygoma by a rifle-ball was said by the patient to have been followed by defective vision, and the conditions were very analogous to those sometimes presented in civil practice by " railway cases." The injury was inflicted on the i8th of Aug. 1870; and the patient (twenty-one years old) was first seen by Dr. Cohn on the 6th of the following January. He presented the scar of the wound of entrance in the body of the right malar bone, about half an inch below the external canthus, and that of the wound of exit an inch and a quarter further back, over the temporal process. The patient said that for the first three months he could scarcely see at all with the right eye. It had received no direct injury, either internal or external, but seemed to pro- trude a very little more than its fellow, and its tension seemed some- what higher. Field of vision normal. The optic nerve showed no exca- vation, and some slightly winding veins in the retina were found also in the other eye. There was no manifest difference in colour between the discs, but perhaps the right was a trace less red than the left. The pupils of equal size, the right somewhat more sluggish. The vision was very carefully tested on the the 6th of January by Dr. Cohn's assistant, and on the 8th by Dr. Cohn himself, with the following results: January 6. Bight eye.—Snellen 2^ at the smallest legihle. With + 10, li to 3f". Left eye.—Snellen from 5" to 9." With + 10, IJ to 4". M T,v. s n- January 8. Right eye.—Snellen 2\ at 3^", the smallest legible. „ 3^ from 2" to 4i". With + 10, li to 3f". M ^, S 4^. Left eye.—Snellen li from 5" to 10^". With + 10, I i to 4". M ^V. S ^. After atropinization of the right eye he read, on the i ith of January, with + 8, 2i Snellen from 3" to 7" ; and with + 4, 2 Snellen from i \" to 3". The test-types employed on the different occasions were not the samej and the suspicion of malingering was excited when it was found that the S of the uninjured left eye varied from |g to between the