173 ANALYSIS OP THE UEINE, ETC. from the kidneys or the ureters. In the former case (i) the microscope shows in the urine rings with colourless contents, and a double or single outline smaller than normal blood-cells. The altered blood- corpuscles do not occur in haemorrhages from the ureters. (2) The colouring matter of the blood-cells is soluble in urine, and the latter exhibits dichi-oismus, on account of the solution in it of haemoglobin free from oxygen. The first appearances are explained by the fact that the blood-cells have lingered some time in the so-called tubes of Bellini. Generally cylinders also occur, composed of blood-cells in rolls, the diameter of which proves them to be true casts of the same tubes. Laborde, " Augmeutatiou de I'Uree dans certaiues Maladies," 'Qaz. Med./ 1871, 522. Fowler, " Quantitative Analysis of Urea," 'New York. Med. Journ.,' xvi, 277. Maly, "Zur Bestimmung der Harusaure," ' Pfluger's Arch.,^ vi, 201. Salkowski, "Die Bestimmung der Harnsiiure," ib., v, 210. Gaethgens, " Zur Frage der Ausscbeidung freier Saurendurcb den Ham," 'Centralbl.,' 1872, 833. Seegen, "Ueber eine Metbode, mininiale Mengen Zucker in Harn mit grosseren Sicherbeit nacbzuweisen," ib., 68. Manassein, "Ueber Quantitative Bestimmung des Zuckers in diabefciscben Harne nacb dem Unterschiede im specifiscben Gewicbte des Harns vor und nacb der Gabrung," ' Dent. Arcb.,' x, 73. Liborius, " Beitrage zur Quantitativen Eiweissbestimmung," ib., 319. Treskin, "Die Veranderungen des Harnes bei langerem Verweilen in der Blase," ' Centralbl.,' 1872, 147. Jaife, "Ueber den Urspruug des Indicans in Harns," ib., 2. Soborow, " Ueber die Kalkausscbeidung im Harn," ib., 609. Mebu, "Etude sur une Urine a Sediment violet," ' BuU. Gen. de Tberap.,' Ixxxiii, 260. Lebon, " Sur la Xanthine et sa recberebe dans les Calcus vesicaux," ' Compt. Rend,,' Ixxiii, 47. Thompson, " Diagnosis by Examination of Urine in obscure forms of Urinary Disease," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 6. Tidy and Woodman, "On Ammonia in the Urine in Health and Disease," 'Lancet,' 1872, i, 809. Treskin, "Ueber die Anwend- barkeit der Metbode zur Hamstoffbestimmung von Bunsen fiir das Blut.," 'Virch. Arch.,' Iv, 488. Eosentein, " Das Koblensaure Ammoniak und die Uramie," ib., Ivi, 383. Leared, "Renal CalcuU of Cystic Oxide" (from woman, aet. 30), 'Path. See. Trans.,' xxiii, 165. G. ATEECTIOKS OP THE SKIN.* Oeneral.—jSTeumann ('"Wien. Med. Zeitg.,' 1871, 295) writes on the change.s found in the involuntary muscles of the skin in cutaneous afiec- tions. In variola he finds always great increase in size, perfectly distinct from the true hypertrophy of the muscles which Derby, Eossbach, Komer and others, have shown to be present in lichen ruber, icthyosis, elephantiasis arabum, prurigo, and sclerema adultorum. It is impossible to decide whether in these cases we have to deal with an hypertroj)hy or an hyperplasia; the individual fibres, as well as the rod-like nuclei, are very much enlarged, and with them the whole muscle. Derby refers this increase in size to increased muscular exertion in pressing out the secretion from follicles with narrowed openings. In addition to this hypertrophy there is atrophy of both muscle-cells and nuclei. Smith ('Dub. Journ.,' lii, ,353) gives an analysis of iioo cases of skin disease treated at the Adelaide Hospital, Dubhn, since September, * Simplicity is not to be laid to the charge of writers on diseases of the skin. No one hat the entomologist can rival them in the smallness of their di.stinctions: their varieties, like those of insects, are already distinguislied by the names of the authors who had the good (!) fortune to describe them first.—A. B. S.