886 llEPORT ON MIDWIFERY; ETC, between the vagina and the rectum. The chief causes of the follicular cysts are catarrh, inflainraation of the vagina, and the physiological hyperajmia which it undergoes during pregnancy; while the deeper cysts, both interstitial and subserous, generally result from compression and bruising of the vaginal wall, and the eflfusion of blood into its tissue, the result of a preceding labour. The cysts are generally slow in their growth ; in some recorded cases they attained to the size of a hen's egg in seven or eight years. The medium-sized and small ones generally cause but little inconvenience. "Winckel treated and cured his cases by simple incision. The other methods of treatment recom- mended are the excision of a portion of the cyst wall and the subse- quent application of caustic, puncture and injection of iodine, removal by the ecraseur, and the use of a seton. Vaginal stenosis is illustrated by Ebell, who relates a case of great contraction in the upper third after cholera, and by Martin, who records two cases. (' Beitr. zur Geb. u. Gynak.,' Berlin, 1872.) Gueneau de Mussy writes on hypersesthesia of the vulva and vagi- nismus. He disapproves entirely of Sims' method, and believes that medical means combined, if necessary, with dilatation render deep inci- sions altogether unnecessary. He has obtained good results from vaginal suppositories of bromide of potash and belladonna, and subcu- taneous injection of morphia and atropia. When the vaginismus is accompanied by itching he gives also some arseniate of soda. (' Lyon Medical,' 1871.) Stoltz writes ('Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg.,' 16, 1871) on hyperaes- thesia and spasmodic contraction of the vaginal sphincter, with or without fissure. Vaginismus is also treated of by Scharlau. (' Beitr. zu. Geb. und Gyniik.,' p. 64, 1872.) On vaginal neurosis. Ferber ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' viii, 15, 1871). Dr. Byrne related to the I)ublin Obstetrical Society a case of tumour of the vagina. The patient was thirty-six years of age, the mother of four children. The tumour was firm, about the size of a hen's egg, pale in colour, quite movable. It was attached to the posterior wall of the vagina, and appeared to be folded up in a large loose fold of the mucous membrane. A V-shaped incision through the mucous mem- brane having been made, the tumour was carefully dissected out of the cellular tissue in which it lay. The tumour was lost, and so its micro- scopical characters were not ascertained. ('Dublin Quart. Journ.,' May, 1871.) Dr. Barnes removed a fibroma, the size of a large orange, from the anterior wall of the vagina. Its attachment began just at the meatus urinarius, extending along the anterior vaginal wall, but leaving a space of an inch quite clear below the os uteri. (' Obst. Trans.,' 1872.) Mr. Lawson Tait figures ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' March, 1871) two needles, suitable for use in operations for vaginal fistulse. One needle is the ordinary tubular one of Simpson, which, in making a stitch, _Mr. Tait always introduces first by the left hand. He then makes slight traction on the wire so as to lift its loop up from the point of the needle, and introducing the other needle through the other flap opposite the first, the wire is easily caught in its notch and the stitch completed.