373 DECIDUA MENSTUUALIS. that the latter is merely a blood state, while the former is a disease of the nervous system, which may or may not produce the latter. Raci- borsky also regards chlorosis as due to disorder affecting the ganglionic nervous system. _ . Yirchow has lately written on the relation between chlorosis and vascular abnormalities (' Ueber die Chlorose,' &c., Berlin, 1872). A case of" supplementary" htemorrhage from the breasts in a girl who had not menstruated is recorded by Meynet. The patient was seventeen years of age on admission to Hotel Dieu, and stated that for eight months she had each month suffered from a rather free discharge of°blood, lasting two or three days, from a crack in the nipple, some- times on one side, sometimes on the other. The haemorrhage was preceded by pain and swelling of the breasts. Although she had never menstruated, she suffered, at the time of the monthly discharge from the breasts, from abdominal pain and a sensation of fulness. The patient was under observation for three months, and the above- mentioned facts were observed each month. In two months after she left the hospital, where she had been treated by tonics, menstruation appeared naturally, and nothing abnormal was subsequently noticed in the breasts ('Lyon Med.,' March, 1872). A case of so-called vicarious menstruation by htemorrhage from the nose is related by Obermeier. The epistaxis ceased during pregnancy ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1872). BysinenorrhcBa. Becidua Menstrualis.—A case of the inflammatory form of dys- menorrhcea. Dr. A. Solowieff, of Kasan, relates ('Archiv f. Gynak.,' ii, I, 1871) a case of the above. The patient was twenty-one years of age, and had been ill three years. Menstruation began at eleven, was always irregular, and accompanied with great pains. Married at sixteen and a half. Pregnant in four months. Labour at full time. Left off suckling at eight months. The first menstruation after wean- ing was painless, but the following period did not appear at the proper time, and the patient suffered from a sensation of weight in the lower part of the abdomen and especially in standing up and in walking. The menses appeared in a fortnight, attended with strong pains, and on the third day a mass, the exact shape of the uterine cavity, was passed. These pains did not disappear, but increased in severity at each menstrual period. The vagina was red and so sensitive that it could not even be touched. A similar mass appeared at each period. Menstruation was always delayed a week or two. Patient bedridden. Great irritability ; neuralgia in different parts of the body; hyper- ffisthesia of the skin, especially of the abdomen ; disorders of digestion ; intestinal pains. The sensitiveness of the vagina diminisiied, so that the introduction of a very small speculum was, with great trouble, possible. The uterus was more congested than natural, and somewhat enlarged; tlie most tender part was the vaginal roof, touching which called forth a succession of reflex hysterical symptoms. Various kinds of treatment were employed, but the most useful was tlio injection of