MERCURIAL INJECTIONS IN SYPHILIS. 809 used subcutaneous injections in more than 200 cases of sypliilis in hospital and in private practice, and has twice only met with abscess as a result. The patients were of both sexes, of various ages and con- stitutions, and affected with syphilis in very various stages. Some patients bad as many as thirty injections ; usually one daily, sometimes one every second or third day. The parts chosen for injection were generally the trunk, sometimes the arms, care being taken to avoid parts that were liable to be lain upon, or to be subjected to movement or pressure. The process of injection was performed with great care, and the patients were required to protect the parts well and keep them at rest. The solution used in almost all the cases was that re- commended by Lewin—four grains of bichloride of mercury in an ounce of distilled water. If patients are allowed to go heedlessly to their ordinary occupations immediately, or two or three hours after the injection, the occurrence of inflammation and abscess must be ascribed to this and not to the operation. The pain attending injection in Sigmund's cases varied much, but was usually very slight and of short duration j in most cases, it was at once allayed by cold applications. In a few cases, the pain was severe and lasted for some time, no matter at what part or with how much gentleness the injection was made. Patients in whom this occurs are not fit subjects for subcutaneous injection; in them even the addition of hydrochlorate of morphia to the solution does not prevent the occur- rence of the pain. The details and difficulties of the operation are scarcely worth con- sideration. Grood instruments are easily procured, and can be easily kept in good order. The operation is not a difficult one, and even if it occupy a good deal of the surgeon's time, that time is not lost if the result be successful. Stomatitis and ptyalism occur frequently if the patients do not cleanse their mouths carefully and often. Dr. Sigmund has very seldom met with even slight affections of the gums in his patients, but he uses prophy- lactic measures. He has never met with disturbance of the circulation and respiration, or any other general disorders of any importance attributable to the mercury. The methodically continued use of all mercurial preparations is attended with a moderate increase of the heart's action and of the temperature: gastric disturbances often occur, but are to be attributed generally rather to the dietetic condi- tion of the patient than to the treatment. The secretions of the skin and kidneys are but rarely disturbed in cases which must be regarded as exceptional. The cheraico-vital processes in the blood and secretions which lead to the improvement or cure of the various forms of syphilis, go on without any remarkable functional disturbance ; and if any such occur, it is probably due to other causes than the injection. There has been a great difference of opinion as to the absolute and relative value of the subcutaneous method in the treatment o£ syphilis. It would be impossible to arrive at a conclusion from the observations of a few patients during a limited time, for the disease recurs at inter- vals in a variety of forms, continues long even in favorable cases, and at intervals manifests itself so feebly that it appears to have disappeared.