AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY—NEPHRITIS. 169 revealed the presence of numerous epithelial and granular casts. All the symptoms disappeared under the employment of mercury. He looks upon the case as one of syphilitic renal dropsy. Johnson (ib., 1872, i, 256) publishes a clinical lecture on a case of chronic Bright's disease in an intemperate woman, set. 46, who died of rapidly fatal apoplexy. He gives some engravings of the thickened arteries from the kidney and the subcutaneous tissue. A large portion of the right hemisphere on a level with the lateral ventricle was exca- vated by effused blood; the outer margins of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus were partly broken down by the clot, and the blood had passed through the torn septum into the left ventricle. Broadbent ('Lancet,' 1872, i, 103) gives a clinical lecture on a case of renal disease ending in apoplexy in a woman who two years pre- viously had had a left-sided hemiplegia during pregnancy. She waa again pregnant at the time of her death. The autopsy showed con- tracted granular kidneys; an enormous heart, weighing 19 ounces with healthy valves, and muscular hypertrophy of the minute arterioles. A clot lay to the outer side of the right corpus striatum and thalamus, and had torn through the fibres passing from them into the hemisphere. It extended along nearly the whole length of the ganglia, but did not turn round the anterioi' end of the corpus striatum. Its upper part was on a level with the intra-ventricular surface of these bodies, Infe- riorly it was separated by a very thin stratum of nervous matter from the fissure of Sylvius, the source of the bleeding being probably the small branches of the middle cerebral artery here penetrating the brain substance. Moxon ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, i, 637) records a case of extreme granular degeneration of the kidneys, without hypertrophy of the heart. The subject of it was a man, set. 72, whose death was due to an accident. He thinks it very probable that some atrophic kidneys commence in a congenitally imperfect structure, and supports his view by an opinion of Virchow's (' Krankh. Geschw.,' Bd. i) as to the continuation into later life of & partial foetal degeneration. Murchison (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 177) records a remarkable case of fatal urffimia from atrophied kidney in a footman, set. 18, of temperate habits. Ten days before admission into hospital, having been previously healthy, with the exception of pain and swelling in the throat with dysphagia five years before, he was seized rather suddenly with pain at the pit of the stomach, palpitations and dyspnoea on exertion. Pivedays later he complained of shivering and pain in the loins, and after that became very drowsy. On admission he presented no sign of chronic disease, no notable anaemia, no oedema. There was nothing abnormal to be discovered in the lungs ; no eruption. His temperature was 95'4° The urine drawn ofi" by a catheter was colourless, limpid, sp. gr. 1007, and contained a small trace of albumen. The drowsiness and the amount of urine increased; the temperature remained below normal. On the fifth day of his stay in hospital he died comatose, after one or two fits of general convulsions. All the organs were found healthy except the kidneys, of which the right weighed 1,1 oz. and the left I oz. The capsules were adherent, and the microscope revealed the ordinary