ANTISEPTIC AND OTllEll DRESSINGS. 195 charge to pass through the whole of the gauze before it can reach the surface, some impermeable surface must be interposed between the gauze and the external air. A cheap and light form of macintosh, termed " hat-lining" by the india-rubber dealers, answers well. A piece of this is cut and placed beneath the layer that is intended to be out- ward. The discharge, then, cannot come straight through. The whole is retained by a bandage carefully applied. The dressings are changed according to the same principles as formerly noted. Carbolic sprmj.— This is applied by means of one (or more) of Eichardson's spray pro- ducers. The spray is kept playing over the part, operated on, or being dressed. The solution of carbolic acid need only be of the strength of one part in two hundred of water. Mr. Lister discusses the treatment of abscess; ligature of arteries ; application of catgut stitches to ten- dinous openings in umbilical hernia, &c.; ununited fracture of neck of thigh bone ; removal of loose cartilages from knee-joint; senile gan- grene ; ulcers, &c. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,'Aug. 26, 1871, and other journals). Some surgeons wash the wound out with a strong solution of chloride of zinc (Mr. De Morgan's plan, noticed in previous ' Bien. Eetrosp.'), and then dress antiseptically, instead of using the spray the whole time. The antiseptic catgut ligature is spoken of, favorably, in many quarters. The principles involved in its employment have been noticed in pre- vious ' Bien. E-etrosp." Cases in which secondary htemorrhage has oc- curred, in spite of it, are recorded, now and then; some are alluded to further on. Mr. Lister does not recommend the catgut ligature unless the surgeon can make sure-of antiseptic dressing afterwards. A case illustrating the present aspect of the antiseptic system of treat- ment in surgery is narrated at length by Mr. Lister. In the treatment of an old injury about the elboio he found it necessary to divide the ulna and snip off the head of the radius to allow of the reduction of a dis- location which existed. He did this, with confidence, under the influ- ence of the antiseptic dressing. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 14, 1871, 30.) Aniiteptic surgery, a graduation thesis, by Dr. James Cnmming, is given in the May number of the ' Ed. Med. Journ.,' 1872, 985. Statistical tables of cases treated by Mr. Lister are appended. Dressings of dry lint, Sfc.—In the ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' February, 1871, are narrated various cases of amputation of the thigh, excision of the knee, removal of the breast, &c., under the care of Dr. Gillespie, in which rapid recovery followed, the only dressing used being dry lint, at first, and then water dressing. For the removal of tumours, in five in- stances, the average length of incision was seven inches; the average time of complete recovery was ten days. See also Mr. Callender's cases further on. Treatment of wounds hy alkaline applications.—Mr. Mouson (' Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. s, 1872). The "open treatment" of operation tvounds.—Dr. Kronlein, in au caway on this subject, gives the results of observations made on 6000 cases in the surgical cliuic.at Zurich during the years 1860-1872. He