hkport on practical medicine. 56 Kemp. " Lntent Typhoiil Fever.Ulcemtion, Peritonitis, Death" (boy, spt.i6), ib , ii, 114. Hogg, " Enteric Fever" (Statistical), 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, ii, 752. OrLon, "Typhoid Fever" (history of outbreak atNewcastle-under-Lynie. in l)ece'iiibcr,i87i), ib., 1872, i, 459. Wuuderlich, " Ueber Darnibhitungen bei Typhus Alxlomiualis unter der Kaltwasserbehaudlung," ' Arch. d. Hcilk.,' xiii, 481. Typhus. Virchow (" Contagiosittit dis Fleckfiebers;" ' Virch. Arch.,' liii, 134), from observations of the cases of typhus occurring in Berlin in 1871, is more convinced that it is introduced and propagated by direct con- tagion, and does not arise spontaneously. Of the 15 cases observed the exanthem appeared on the third day in two, and on the second day in two also after the first rigor: in several cases the gastric disturbance was so great as to suggest cholerine, especially as mucous " cholera- fungi" were found in the evacuations (!). He comes to no definite conclusion as to the period of incubation. In one case the facts seem to point to the possibility of infection in the last stage. In another article (' Kriegstyphus und Ruhr.,' ib. lii, 1) the same author writes on the so-called " war typhus." He holds that it includes both typhus and typhoid. As diagnostic of typhus he calls attention to the early appearance of a roseolous or measly eruption, generally thickly and widely spread, especially over the face and flexor surfaces of the hands and feet. Petechiae were almost absent in the majority of cases of typhus, and frequent in those of typhoid. In the latter the eruption was scanty and limited to the upper part of the abdomen and the lower part of the thorax, and only exceptionally general. In relaps- ing fever Virchow has met sometimes with haemorrhagic petechig9, but never a true exanthem. He asserts that the diarrhoea of typhoid is not dependent upon follicular ulceration, but upon the concurrent catarrh of the intestine; that stress should be laid, not upon the ulcer but the so-called medullary infiltration of the follicle, inasmuch has no ulcera- tion need occur in some cases, and the so-called typhoid scab represents only a cheesy metamorphosis of the infiltrated elements, followed by thickening and loosening, and in this way a secondary ulcer of the mucous membrane. He draws attention to the fact that both in the American and the Franco-Germanic war true typhus was extremely rare, while typhoid showed itself in the later stages only of the miseries produced, and then gradually increased in extent and severity. Lyons ('Lancet,' 1871, i, 708, 743) opposes the view of Kolleston, stated in a paper on " Typhoid or Enteric Fever in Indian Gaols" (ib., i, 7), and holds that typhus does prevail in India, and the epidemic of fever in Eawul Pindee gaols in 1869 (as also that in 1867), was typhus and not enteric or remittent fever. Chuckerbutty (' Ind. Ann. of Med. Sci.,' 1867, No. 21, p. 107, and 1864, No. 18, p. 122), recorded 32 cases of the disease. Other medical officers have seen typhus in the villages and elsewhere on the north-west frontier. Between January and May of 1869, 563 cases of typhoid occurred at Eawul Pindee, of which 84 were fatal. He holds that there can be no doubt of its contagiousness, and that typhus does and must occur under the conditions that will generate it in Europe or other temperate regions. Campbell (ib., i, 408) gives a case, with autopsy, in a man £et. 30,