4.17 ACCIDENTS DURING LABOUR. morrtiage, only a slight sanguineous discharge appeared externally eight hours after the rupture. The presence of the foetus in the abdominal cavity did not give rise to general peritonitis. He believes that the fall was an important element in the production of the rupture; it pro- bably produced a contusion of the uterus which led to thinning of the uterine walls.' (' Bull, de Therap.,' Aug. 1872.) Prof. Dohrn writes (' Arch. f. Gynak.,' iii, i) on a case of ruptured uterus in the first stage of labour. Rickety pelvis, no degeneration of uterine tissue. Cessation of foetal heart sounds early in labour. Eupture of the uterus is also illustrated by Clements (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1871), Whinery ('Philad. Eep.,' March, 1873), and Mordhorst ('Deutsche Klin.,' Nos. 17, 18, 1872). Mr. Jamieson relates ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1872) a case of vaginal rupture, unattended at the time of its occurrence by any serious symptoms. The child was born by aid of the forceps, dead. At the post-mortem examination the pelvis was found to be in every respect normal, but there was an acute curvature of the spine in the lower dorsal region ; the spine was so shortened that the last ribs were on a lower level than the crest of the ilium. The anteversion of the uterus was very great, and it therefore acted at a great mechanical disadvantage, but, continuing to contract violently, tore itself from its vaguial attachments. Four cases of uretero-uterine fistula are recorded in the ' Boston Journal,' Jan. 1872. Each case succeeded to a difficult labour, and was characterised by an almost uninterrupted flow of urine from the OS uteri, with complete continence of urine in the bladder. Dr. Argles relates the case of a primipara, in which the foetal head passed through the posterior wall of the vagina, and the face presented through an artificial opening in the perina3um, just anterior to the anus, and without injuring the bowel. Dr. Argles passed a director down the natural passage, between it and the child's head, and slit it up for an inch and a half. The wound entirely healed, and the patient was able to walk down stairs in three weeks. (' Lancet,' April, 1871.) Inversion.—Dr. White contributes two additional cases of inversion of the uterus, completing a series of nine cases, all of which have been reduced by manipulation by a single effort. One case was of fifteen years duration. In recent cases the fundus can be pressed into the body and neck, or " dimpled " as it is termed, by pressure upon the most depending part. In chronic cases Dr. White uses the left hand over the pubes, the fingers pressing on the anterior wall of the uterus and assisting in puUing open the uterine cavity. The right hand encloses in the vagina the entire uterus, and pressure is made against the fundus by a wooden or hard-rubber enlarged extremity of the repositor, the distal extremity of the stem being made into a screw so as to fasten into a coil of steel spring wire, requiring eight or ten pounds pressure by the breast of the operator, against which it is placed, to bring it down. ('Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1872.) Four cases of inversion of the uterus are recorded by Dr. Braxton Hicks. Kestoration was effected in each case, in one case a week after labour. He wonders why any doubt has been expressed that removal of 27