MORTALITY OF INJURIES IN CIVIL AND MILITARY PRACTICE. 261 vative treatment iu civil hospitals, 120 died, or 32.5 per cent. With regard to complicated fractures of the femur, Volkmann has hitherto been able to collect only a limited amount of statistics from civil practice. Injuries of this kind generally occur in connection with railway acci- dents, accidents with machinery, blasting of rocks, &c., and demand primary amputation. Dr. Erankel has collected 140 cases in civil practice which were, at least at first, subjected to conservative treat- ment ; of these 85 died, or 60 per cent. This rate of mortality is about the same that has been observed in military practice after frac- ture of the shaft of the femur by gunshot. In the more recent cases, the rate of mortality has been even less. Volkmann himself had 44 deaths in 95 cases, or 46-3 per cent. Among the 885 cases of compli- cated fracture of the leg referred to as having occurred in civil practice, there were 177 amputations; the percentage mortality after the primary amputations was 60, and after the secondary, 77. On the other hand, among the 3813 cases in military practice collected by Billroth the death-rate was only 41.6 per cent. Having given these statistics, Volkmann goes on to say that, in com- plicated fractures in civil practice, the soft parts are most injured; while in military surgery the bones sulFer most, being often very ex- tensively fissured. The statistics, already referred to, show that the injury of the soft parts has a much greater influence on the mortality than that of the bones—an influence even greater than has generally been supposed. Again, the result in gunshot fractures depends much less on the extent of the injury of the bone than would be a priori ex- pected. Volkmann has several times had the opportunity of examining, after death, bones (including the femur) in which from twelve to twenty fragments of various sizes had become consolidated, and where no necrosis had occurred, no splinters had been removed, and the deformity of the limb was no greater than after an ordinary fracture. The mere extent of the fracture and the number of splinters, he, therefore, holds not to afford sufficient ground for primary amputation. Simple frac- tures are very rare after buUet wounds. He has met with only two or three instances among many hundred cases of such injuries. Gunshot wounds of the joints, also, may heal without suppuration or necrosis. Compound fractures of the leg occurring in civil life as the result of indirect violence, and presenting but slight injury to the soft parts— perhaps a clean cut-wound—appear (at least in the larger hospitals) to be attended with a higher mortaUtythan splintered fractures from gun- shot. In cases of death after fracture of the leg, in civil practice, the fatal event occurs, in 50 per cent., within the first fortnight. In gun- shot fractures of the same part, on the other hand, death does not occur (except in rare cases) until the third week. The cause of this marked difference is thus explained:—In civil practice those patients who die within the first fortnight are carried off by acute septic processes. After gunshot wounds, on the other hand, the most acute and rapidly de- structive, septic, phlegmonous processes are seldom or never met with. Of sloughing phagediena after a bullet wound, Volkmann met with no example.^*; in one case under his care, where gangrene occurred, he found injury of the large vessels, with mucli e.\travasation of blood.