273 ORCHITIS FROM PROSTATIC INFLAMMATION. simple and cheap construction. Cases treated arc narrated. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,'Sept. 33, 1871.) Incontinence as a symptom of retention of urine.—Mr. Hutchiusou writes on this point and mentions cases. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 31, 1871, 60.) Persistent priapism.—See cases ' Bien. Eet.,' 1867-8, 317. Dr. Mackie records the case of a gentleman, set. 70, After much treatment, without eflect, a free incision was made into the corpus cavernosum, com- mencing at the corona glandis. Clotted venous blood escaped and bleeding followed; the patient was relieved. The acute symptoms had lasted three weeks. Effusion of blood into the structure of the corpus cavernosum was finally suspected. The treatment was so successful that the author recommends its early adoption in like cases. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 1873.) Urinary fistula of the penis treated iy urethroplasty.—Mr. John "Wood publishes a clinical lecture on this subject. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 24, 1873.) See also Mr. Pemberton's address on surgery ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 10, 1872), and a note by Mr. J. E. Lane on ante- scrotal, urinary fistula. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 34, 1873.) Epithelioma simulating hiibo.—At a meeting of the K. K. Gressellschaft der Aerzte in Vienna in January, 18 71, Dr. Greber related the case of a man, aet. 28, who had an epithelioma in the right groin. The patient had excoriation after sexual connection, which was followed by enlarge- ment and induration of the inguinal glands. Antisyphilitic treatment was employed, and it was only when this failed and the disease con- tinued to spread, that it was suspected that the case might be one of epithelioma. Microscopic examination confirmed the latter opinion. Dr. Geber also related another, similar case, in which the differential diagnosis between syphilis and epithelioma was attended with difiiculty, and was only cleared up by microscopic examination. (' "Wiener Med. Wochenschr.,' No. 4, 1871.) Orchitis from irritation in the prostatic urethra.—In a clinical lecture on this subject, Mr. Hutchinson details various cases in which orchitis, terminating in suppuration and requiring incisions, occurred in con- nexion with the passage of prostatic catheters, lithotrity, lithotomy, &c. It is rare in connection with lithotomy, occurring once in about forty cases. He then remarks, " these instances of inflammation of the testis in association with some source of irritation existing in the urethra, are of great clinical interest." We may have (i) inflammation of the vas deferens only, as evidenced by deep-seated pain in the iliac fossa and swelling in the inguinal canal. This may subside and the patient may get well without any further symptoms. (2) In connexion with inflam- mation of the vas deferens an abscess may form over its course, and may require to be opened through the abdominal wall, or may present at the external ring. (3) The inflammation may involve the whole vas deferens and extend to that portion of the testis which is directly con- tinuous with it, viz. the epididymis, leaving the gland itself unaftected. In a fourth group of cases the epididymis, body of the testis itself, the tunica vaginalis, and the cellular tissue of the scrotum are all involved. In these cases the effusion is usually serum only and a speedy and com- 18