358 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. sympathetic ophthalmia, which might be excited if, as seemed possible, some portion of the spectacle were still imbedded in the orbit. He was supplied with an artificial eye, which was but little movable. 7. Steinmetz, F., sst. 26, struck on the right eye and cheek by shell splinters before Gravelotte, on the i8th of August. He was for some hours insensible, and on recovery found himself in a lazareth, where he discovered that he had lost the sight of his right eye, which gradually dwindled. During the first four weeks after.tbe injury his left eye was very sensitive to light, and he had sensations of dazzling when he at- tempted to read. Dr. Cohn saw him in the following April, and found some badly healed scars about the right eyelids, and the globe shrivelled up to a small knob, freely movable in all directions, very soft, and not sensitive on pressure. The left eye quite normal. 8. Eakel, A., set. 30, wounded by a chassepot bullet before Le Mans, on the loth of January. The ball pierced the root of the nose and the left eye, and passed out through the outer margin of the orbit. On the loth of April Dr. Cohn found the left upper lid greatly thick- ened, with discharge of pus from the orbital cavity. On lifting the lid with a retractor, some hard substance was felt, but it was impossible to say whether this was the stump of the eyeball or a fragment of bone, since the patient was excessively sensitive to pain, and refused to take chloroform. The right eye was of normal aspect, and the pupil acted naturally, but the patient complained of constant dazzling when he looked at any object. He could only read N'o. 14, and that imperfectly. No convex lens helped him, but only produced increased strain. The daz- zling had become much worse since he was wounded. An attempt to take the field of vision produced lacrymation and blepharospasm, and was therefore abandoned, but the field seemed to be totally defective on the inner side. The fundus was normal, except that the choroidal epithelium was almost wholly absent, and this atrophy seemed of old date, as it extended far forward. His vision with this eye was defective before the war. Dr. Cohn vainly urged him to submit to an explora- tion of the orbital cavity and to the removal of the stump or foreign body lodged there. lipou the basis of these eight cases Dr. Cohn discusses the question whether an eyeball lacerated by shot should generally be enucleated, and if so, when P Two grounds are to be urged in favour of the operation. First, the dread of suppurative choroiditis (panophthalmitis) ; secondly, the dread of sympathetic ophthalmia. "With regard to panophthalmitis we know, from the experience of the time when cataracts were removed by flap extraction, and when suppu- ration of the ej^eball occurred in a considerable percentage of the failures (although by the linear method it has been rendered excessively rare), with how great pain the distension of the eyeball by pus was attended. We know, also, that the panophthalmitis lasted three or four weeks, and in some cases the pain continued long after the evacu- ation of the pus, radiating over the whole head, destroying sleep, at- tended by fever, and materially reducing strength. Even in cases of rapid panophthalmitis, after wounds of the ciliary region, followed by shrinking of the eyeball, the cicatricial contraction has often produced