UEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 12 of rapidly supervening fatigue of the muscles, which ceased to respond to tlie most violent excitement of the respiratory centres produced by the cyanosed blood. In a strong rabbit similar dyspnoea occurred, but the number of respirations rose from ,32 to 48, and gradually to 77, in conse- quence of the greater vigour of the muscles. In both rabbits the amount of air breathed diminished to about one half, even the greater rapidity of the respiratory movements of the stronger rabbit not compensating for the absolutely smaller quantity inhaled. (3) In a third set of experiments the tracheal tube was narrowed so as to diminish the quantity of air admitted ; the number of the respirations was imme- diately diminished, their depth was increased, but a smaller volume of air was actually respired. (4) In another series of experiments the effect of the abstraction of blood was investigated. These showed that, as might have been expected, the diminution in the number of oxygen-conveying blood-corpuscles occasioned in the first instance dyspnoea, but the same absence of red corpuscles soon reduced the interstitial changes in the tissues, a less supply of oxygen was needed, and consequently the respi- ratory volume diminished. Ultimately the disintegration of the tissues and the absorption of oxygen was so far lowered that death took place. (5) In the fifth series Leichtenstern injected half a grain of morphia under the skin of the back. This diminished the number of the respi- rations as well as their depth, and, therefore, the volume of the respired air, for the first half hour. Then the number of respirations rose, and after a time and to a certain extent the volume inspired, though not to the normal amount. V. Bezold thinks these effects due to lowered ex- citability of the respiratory centre, but it may also be due to diminished tissue change, just as occurs during sleep. Leichtenstern thinks both causes operate. (6) The effects of section of the spinal cord between the third and fourth cervical vertebra were examined. Tlie number and depth of the respirations were found to be remarkably diminished ; this is owing to diminished metamorphosis of tissue, which, again, Leich- tenstern thinks is attributable to the paralysis of the blood-vessels and lowered blood pressure throughout the system. (7) The effects of cold were examined, and it was found that immediately after exposure, before the general temperature of the body could have undergone any change, the number and depth of the respirations underwent great increase, and this even when the animal was wrapped up in warm cloths, showing it was due to the excitation of the vagi in the lungs. When the cold acted for some time, so that the general temperature sank, the number of the respirations fell gradually below the normal amount, though their increased depth was maintained for some time. (8) Experiments were made on the action of heat on the volume of the respired air, and it was found that the exposure to heat caused quickly a slight increase in the number of the respirations, owing, probably, to excitation of the vagi in the lungs and the cutaneoijs nerves ; but further augmentation of the heat did not increase their number till it became very high, when both their number and depth increased, apparently because high temperatures augment tissue metamorphosis. (9) And lastly, a series of experiments were made on the volume of the respired air after the cutaneous respira- tion had been suppressed by coating the animal with linseed oil. Leich-