196 REPORT ON SURGERY. draws a comparison between the results observed from i860 to 1867, when, under Billrotli, the open treatment was but rarely followed, and those met with in 1868-1872, when, under Rose, this plan was followed almost without exception. There were no alterations of any importance in the building or other arrangements of the hospital during the time. Kronlein first gives a history of the subject. In 18 56, Vezin, of Osnaburgh, described, in the ' Deutsche Klinik,' the results of thirty amputations which he and Bartscher had performed in the course of twenty-one years, and of which only three had proved fatal. In 1859, Burow, of Konigsberg, stated that he had had only three deaths in 62 cases of amputation. Veziu and Bartscher applied no kind of means for uniting the wounds ; while Burow used sutures half an hour after the operation, tying them, however, in such a way that they could be readily loosened in case of distension. In all other respects the wounds were left without dressing. In 1866, Burow had increased the number of his cases to 94, still with only three deaths. In 1867, Passavant stated that he had followed the method in casQS of resection ; it was also adopted by Billroth and Esmarch, while Stromeyer, Pirogofl", and Liicke, spoke with more reserve of its value. Rose's plan agrees with that of Bartscher and Vezin ; he does not attempt to obtain healing by the first intention, but regards careful arrest of hsemorrhage, and as perfect rest as possible, as conditions necessary for success. In the statistical portion of his essay Kronlein gives the comparative results obtained in the larger amputations, extirpation of the breast, and the conservative treatment of complicated fractures. During the years i860—1867 there were 140 amputations, of which 7a, or 51*4 per cent., were fatal; from 1867—1871 there were 85, with a mortality of •17, or '20 per cent. Neither the place of the amputation nor its cause, the age or sex of the patient, or the mode of operating, produced any essential differences, and Kronlein thence concludes that the improved results can only be attributed to the after-treatment. In six cases healing took place without any fever. Of extirpation of the breast there were, in the first period, 34 cases, with a mortality of 32-2 per cent. ; and, in the second, 22 cases, with a mortality of i3"6 per cent. In the first period, 86 cases of complicated fracture were healed con- servatively, of which 25"5 per cent, died; in the second, 65 cases, with a mortality of 21*5 per cent. Hence Kronlein concludes that, in the Ziirich hospital at least, the open method of treatment has proved superior to all others. Some interesting statistics are given regarding the occurrence of accidental surgical disease. In the first period, the proportion of deaths, from pyjeraia and septicaemia, to the total number of deaths was as 22 6 to 40-3 ; in the second, it was as 6-9 to 197. On the other hand, the number of cases of erysipelas increased ; in the first period, there were 39 cases among 260 patients, or 11-5 per cent. ; while, in the second, there were 26 cases among 172 patients, or 15-1 per cent. This increase of erysipelas Kronlein attributes to the changes of temperature, whicli occur in a hospital freely ventilated by natural means, as is that at Zurich ; and he suggests that it might be obviated by well-regulated artificial ventilation.