335 SKIN GRAFTING, ETC. the operation the membrane retained its original appearance, and con- tinued to secrete mucus, though in diminished quantity. Removal of foreign hodiesfrom the external ear.—J. Gruber ('AUge- mein."Wiener Medizin. Zeitung,' Nos. 42 and 43, 1872) recalls attention to the old, but hitherto much neglected fact that foreign bodies are best removed from the external auditory meatus by syringing, and if they become impacted in consequence of swelling of the canal, they do less harm than the attempts made to remove them. He has lately made experiments for the purpose of ascertaining the effect of astringent solutions in reducing the size of peas, &c., which are often introduced into the ear by children, and he finds that the only agents which pro- duce this result are a solution of sulphate of zinc and diluted lime- water. He therefore advises that, in cases of the introduction of foreign bodies, these fluids should be dropped into the ear. He relates the following case :—A carob bean had been pushed by a schoolfellow into the ear of a boy eleven years old. Attempts were made to remove it, but without eflect. When Grruber saw the boy, five weeks aftewards, he had febrile symptoms, and was therefore placed under antiphlogistic treatment. The foreign body lay deep in the ear, and water, when in- jected, flowed out through the nose, showing that the tympanum was perforated. After the febrile symptoms had abated the meatus was dilated, and solution of zinc dropped in. At the end of about three minutes the bean was removed by injection. Previously to the intro- duction of the bean the boy had been sufiering from purulent discharge firom the ear; this, however, ceased some weeks before the foreign body was removed, and after the removal of the latter the membrana tym- pani was seen to present a cicatrix, but no perforation. STcin-grafting.—M. ^Oilier, of Lyons, in a communication to the Academie des Sciences, on March 18, 1872, states that the method which he employs to promote healing of ulcers consists in the transplantation, not of small portions of epidermis, but of pieces of skin 4, 6, or 8 square centimetres in size. These may be taken from the patient himself or from another person, the part having been first rendered insensible by a freezing mixture. In most cases M. Oilier has obtained these from amputated limbs. Any adipose tissue that may be present on the under surface of the flap must be removed before its application. By this process, M. Oilier says, a thick, stable layer of skin is formed, in place of thin, delicate, and unstable cicatrix which follows the operation of epidermic grafting. Mr. Anderson writes a paper on the theory and practice of epidermic m'aftinff. ('.St. Thomas's Hosp. Rep.,'ii, 165.) e 5 Dr. ilacleod writes on the .subject, and figures a pair of scissors and forceps com- bined, which he uses. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 1, 1871.) I»r. David Page makes further observations on the true nature of the so-called skin-grafting. ('lirit. Med. Joum.,' May 27, 1871.) Unilateral alrophj of the tongue.—Mv. Tairlie Clarke relates the case of a woman, at. 45, who had a tumour removed from her right breast February 16, 1870. On October 3rd the patient wna seized with a deep, seated pain on the right side of the head, of a periodic cliaracter, return- ing each night, between 1 and 2 a.m., and rendering her for some hours