REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 68 The treatment of the lighter cases consists in keeping the parts affected from the sun, and in the severer to apply, night and morning, an oint- ment composed of olive oil, laurel water, and acetate of lead. In the chronic forms of the eruption occur—(i) Branny desqua- mation or larger scaling of the epidermis, taking place not only as a consequence of an antecedent erythema on the exposed parts, but on the covered portions of the body also, sometimes extending over the whole of the latter, and consisting in an hypertrophy of the rete mucosum, in which the nails also take part. (2) Pigmentation of the skin (Lentigo or Chloasma), remaining for several years. (3) Cracks in it, extending to the rete mucosum. (4) An anaemic or sallow appearance. (5) Livid spots on the lower extremities, noticed only in women. (6) CEdema of the skin. (7) A livid colour of the lips, already noticed by Strambio in cases of pellagra. (8) A shagreen roughness, accompanied by atrophy of the skin. (9) Purpura hajmor- rhagica, with the symptoms, in some cases, of the haemorrhagic diathesis. (10) Lichen miliformis. (11) Separation of the epithelium of the mucous membrane of the tongue and mouth, in the worst and latest stages of the disease, generally accompanied by diarrhoea pellagrosa. (12) Onychogryphosis, partly spurious, from disappearance of the fat under the bed of the nail, and partly true, from hyperplasia of the latter. (13) Atrophy of the skin, accompanying general atrophy, in the last stages of the affection. Maas ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 363) gives two cases of so-called sporadic pellagra occurring in children, set. 13 and 15, whose parents presented the history of syphilis. Gremma (" La pellagra dei lattanti e dei bambini," ' Gaz. Med. Lomb.,' 1871, 349) describes this affection as it occurs in young chil- dren and in children at the breast. They present a roughness of the skin, especially on the forearms and cheeks, with a brownish colour, deepen- ing as they grow older, dry and generally livid lips, watery eyes, slight oedema of the lower eyelid, a red or pale tongue, with enlarged papillae. In addition to symptoms of general innutrition, catarrh of the bronchi, diarrhoea, &c., there is a peculiar form of dyspnoea, something like that of asthmatic patients, vulgarly called bellowing (mantesament) or wheezing (buffament) by the Lombard women. There may be sleep- lessness or a lethargy, out of which it is difficult to rouse them. In one case the author noticed symptoms resembling the delirium pella- grosum of adults. The general cause seems to be hereditariness, and, beyond doubt, feeding with maize. The treatment consists of half- gramme doses of chloride of iron in the course of the day, as long as diarrhoea continues, and afterwards arseniate of quinine, cod-liver oil, warm baths with chloride of sodium, animal food, with omission of the maize. Eighteen clinical cases are given in illustration. Other papers are— Billed, " Traite de la Pellagrc, d'apres des Observations recueillies en Italie et en France," Paris, 1870. Balardini, " Progressi della questione della Pellagrc dopo I'anno 18.SS Italia e in Francia, e conclusioni sulla etiologia, sulla profilassi et sulla ciira di tale malattia," 'Ann. Univ. di Med.,' ccxvii, 70. Gemma, " SuU' Arsenico nella Cura della Pellagra," ib., ccxv, 564. Strina, "Casi di Pellagra