874 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. perchloride of iron. Tliis was used at first every second day, and afterwards daily. It diminished the local paiu, but frequent injection caused sleeplessness and palpitation. For eight months the injections were continued, generally every fourth or fifth day. The membrane ceased to be expelled, and menstruation became regular. After de- scribing the naked-eye appearance of the membrane, Solowieff says that a transverse section under the microscope shows three layers, which, proceeding from without inwards, may be called the fibrinous, the glandular, and the granulation layers. The fibrinous layer consists of fibrin, among the fibres of which lie red, and occasionally white, blood- corpuscles. In the glandular layer the glands are of the usual size, and contain cylindrical epithelium with round ceUs, the cells being of various sizes, and the largest containing sometimes three nuclei. The granulation tissue consists of round and lengthy protoplasma-cells, with a. large nucleus. The cells lie in a delicate, somewhat fibrous, inter- mediate substance. The vessels form loops on the inner surface. The innermost surface is irregularly covered with mucus. No epithe- lium is to be seen. These three layers, however, pass so gradually the one into the other that a sharp Hue of demarcation cannot be drawn, and a division can only be made according to the predominance of one or other element. Membranous dysmenorrhcea is also elaborately described by Michaud and Lagrave ('Arch. Ge'ner. de M6d.,' i, 1872). Dr. Barnes writes on tlie essential cause of dysmenorrhcea, as illus- trated by cases of menstrual retention. He seeks, by comparison of different cases of dysmenorrhoja, to discover a common essential cause. Having adverted to the evidence accumulated in proof that cases of neuralgic and constitutional dysmenorrhcea are being gradually transposed under closer clinical analogies to the class of obstructive dysmenorrhcea, the author states the proposition that the essen- tial condition in a large proportion of cases is really retention of menstrual fluid. He illustrates this by several cases of congenital and acquired stenosis and atresia of the genital canal. Dysmenorrhcea is incomplete retention. ('Obstet. Trans.,' 1872.) Dr. Priestley read a paper before the Medical and Chirurgical Society (Nov. 1871) on intermenstrual dysmenorrhoea. In all the cases detailed severe pain was experienced by the patients midway in the menstrual interval. It generally came about fourteen days after a catamenial period, and after lasting a variable number of days ceased before the supervention of the next period, or occasionally ran into the following monthly period and was relieved by it. There could be little doubt that the pain was due to perturbations in the function of spontaneous ovulation habitually going on in the ovary. Probably preparation for an approaching period began in the ovary ten or four- teen days before the occurrence of the monthly uterine discharge, and if the initial steps in the process of ovulation were opposed by certain pathological conditions pain would ensue. De Cristoforis relates three cases of flexion with dysmenorrhooa and sterility, all of which were cured by mechanically redressing the uterus, pregnancy supervening in each case. He says that in such cases it