34. RKPORT ON PRACTICAL MEniClNE. the blood in ligatured portions of vein. He finds that the endothe- lium, the muscle-cells, and the connective-tissue corpuscles, all take part in the proliferation which occurs in inflammation of the wall of the vein; and in reference to the third point, the blood in the ligaturcil portion remained fluid as long aa no changes took place in the endotlie- lium, but coagulated immediately the latter became inflamed. Samuel has made numerous experiments into the results obtained by the injection of various secretions, &c. A reference to his papers will be found below. Giiterbock (' Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' xiii, 240) answers the remarks made by Gussenbauer (ib., xii, 811) on his former work regarding the more delicate processes which take place in the healing of wounds in the cornea by primary intention. Bizzozero (' Graz. Med. Ital. Lomb.,' 1871, 62) calls attention to the fact, already observed by Buhl, Reraak, Eberth, and others, that in pus, especially when it has been taken from an epithelial or epidermal sur- face, certain large bodies may be seen enclosing a nucleus, and some- times a very large number of cells, unlike the pus-cells, either in their appearance or chemical reaction. He opposes the endogenous develop- ment of these cells, as put forward by the above writers. In the puru- lent contents, mixed with blood, of the anterior chamber of the eye, he has found lai'ge cells containing red blood-cells. Duval (' Arch. d. Phys.,' 1872, iv, 168) strongly opposes Cohnheim's view^s as to the origin of pus. He holds that the " plasmatic cells" of the cornea do not remain fixed, but undergo hypertrophy and prolifera- tion, and that the appearances of cells having passed through the blood- vessels in the mesentery is due to the mechanical rupture of lym- phatic sacs in the operation of withdrawing the membrane from the abdomen. Norris ('Proc. Roy. Soc.,' xiv, 556) concludes—i. Both white and red corpuscles pass out of the vessels through apertures, whicii can neither be seen before their ingress into, or after their egress from, the vessel-wall, but only during the period of transit. 2. An essen- tially primary step in the process is that the corpuscles shall adhere, or, more properly, cohere, to the wall of the vessel. .3. These cohering corpuscles shall subsequently be subjected to pressure from within. V. Mosengeil, " Beobachtungeu iiber ortliche Warme-Entwickelung bei Entziin- dungen,"'Arch. f. Klin. Chir.' xiii, 70. Samuel, "Die Subcutane Wirkung der Secrete," 'CeBtralbl.,' 1871, 433. Id., "Die ortliche Wirkung des Eiters and der putriden Stoffe," ib., 305. Id., " Putrides Gift in den Sputis," ib. 435. Id., " Die Localisirung der Entziindungen," ib., 692. Giiterbock, " Uutersuehungen uber Sehnenentziindung," ' Wieu. Med. Jahrb., 1871, 22. Lang, " Untersuchnngcn iiber die erstcn Stadieu der Knochenentziindung," ib., 34. Hutob, " Untersucbungen iiber Knorpelentziiuduug," ib., 399. Yco, " Untersucbungen iiber die Structur entziiudeter Lyinphdriisen," ib., 30. Parsons, "Catarrhal Inflammiition," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 47^. Flemiuing, " Ueber Vcraiiderungcn der Fettzelle bei Atrophic und Entziin'dun<i," ' Virch. Arch.,' Hi, 568. Bizzozero, "Saggio di Studio suUa cosidetta endogencsi del Pus," 'Gaz. Med. Lomb.,' 1872, 33 j Mays, "The Pathology of Intlam- ination," 'New York Med. Jouru.,' xvi, 155.