REPOUT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 456 of ether. The residue is acidified and again shaken with ether, when the picrotoxin is dissolved out, and may be obtained by evaporating the ethereal liquid. The mass is dried and redissolved in alcohol faintly acidulated with acetic acid, and the filtered solution evaporated. If no distinct crystals are obtained the residue is to be recrystallised from alcohol. Picrotoxin as thus obtained is recognised by the fan-like or wheat- sheaf form in which it crystallises, its very sparing solubility in water and ether, its ready solubility in alcohol, its bitterness, and its action on fishes. A couple of fishes of about seven ounces weight are placed in rather less than two quarts of water. A solution of the crystals, obtained as above, is made by dissolving them in alcohol, adding water, and boiling off most of the alcohol. This solution is then added to the water containing the fishes. The fishes speedily die if the suspected substance be picrotoxin. Lupuline has not this poisonous action on fishes. Thirty grains of cocculus indicus, corresponding to one and a half grain picrotoxin, is sufficient to kill a fish of seven to eleven pounds' weight in ten hours. At least five quarts of beer should be operated on. Depaire,* in a notice on the above paper, gives another process for separating picrotoxin. The beer is shaken with common salt—400 grains per quart—and filtered. The filtrate is exhausted twice with ether ; the residue from the evaporation of the ethereal solution dissolved in alcohol, half an ounce of water, and one drop of sulphuric acid added to the solution, the liquid heated for a quarter of an hour on the water-bath, cooled, filtered, and shaken with ether, the ethereal solution is evaporated, the residue recrystallised from alcohol and examined. The WJiarion-KetcJitm Trial.-f This celebrated trial has excited so much interest throughout the United States, and the nature of the evidence offered is so remarkable, that we are induced to offer a summary of the scientific testimony along with a brief history of the case. The theory of the prosecution was that Mrs. Wharton was in debt to General Ketchum, and had invited him to her house for the purpose of poisoning him, and that she actually accomplished her design by means of tartar emetic. The trial lasted fifty-two days, and the jury were locked up for seven weeks. Collateral evidence was offered to show that she had also attempted to poison a Mr. Van Ness, connected with her firm of bankers, who was staying in her house at the same time as Gen. Ketchum. General Ketchum, the deceased, was an old army officer, an intimate friend of the accused. He was in apparently good health and of active habits. On June 24, 1871, a very hot, sultry day, he had undergone considerable bodily exercise by walking in Washington on business matters. He neglected eating his dinner, partook plentifully of iced water, took the train for Baltimore, and arrived at Mrs, Wharton's house'bet ween 6 and 7 p.m. He ate very heartily at supper about 9 p.m. He retired, apparently in good health, at 11 p.m., but had to go to the closet once or twice in the course of the night. Next morning he * Loc. cit. f ' Awer, Journ, of Med. Sc,' Ixiii, p, 329,