PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF THE OVUM. 393 cells with clear contents, and much remarkably distinct nuclear cylin- drical epithelium. This pointed to its ovarian character. Ovariotomy, incomplete on account of numerous adhesions. Death by decom- position of cyst. Spiegelberg concludes that although diagnostic pimcture does not always give positive information as to the origin oi the fluid, yet that when it does the result is conclusive as compared witli the doubtful physical examination, II, PEEGNANCT. FTiysiology and Fatliology of the Ovum. Dr. Livius Fiirst writes ('Arch. f. Gynak.,' ii, ,3) on the amnion in its relation to foetal malformations. "While he admits that compression by the umbilical cord may, in some cases, be the cause of arrest of development of certain portions of the foetus, he believes that amnial " filamentous adnexa "—imder which name he includes thready, stringy and membranous formations—are the most common causes of mechani- cal interruption to the development of the foetus. He then discusses the formation of these adnexa; by some" they are regarded as plastic adhesions, by others as the result of foetal inflammation with plastic exudation, but Fiirst agrees with the theory which considers them due to arrested formation of the amnion. The inner layer of the amnion, at first in close contact with the foetus, is gradually separated from it by the liquor amnii; but abnormal adhesion may take place between the epithelial layer of the amnion and the epidermis of the foetus, and this, by the expansion of the amnion, leads to thready and stringy formations, which may wholly or partly interrupt the development of the extremities. The most frequent cause of this adhesion is the small quantity of liquor amnii, or its late secretion. In the discussion on a specimen exhibited at the Obstetrical Society of a child whose forearm had undergone amputation in utero, Dr. Barnes said that it was not often strangulation by the umbilical cord that caused these amputations, but by a string of false membranes. He regarded the budding from the stump which is so often found, with the signs of a cicatrix, as proof of amputation in the early stage of develop- ment. ('Obst. Trans.,' 1871.) Dr. Braxton Hicks writes on the anatomy of the human placenta, and controverts the Hunterian doctrine. He shows how the injection which Hunter used would almost certainly produce an irruption of blood amongst the villi. The fact of blood being found among the villi after natural expulsion is no evidence in favour of or against a sinus system, becau.se there are then nearly always lacerations and denudations of the decidua, serotina. The author argues that if no blood be found among the ^-illi, the placenta being examined in sit4, this is conclusive evidence against the existence of the sinus system. Dissections proving the absence of blood under these circumstances are added. (' Obst. Trans.,' 1872,)