ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 339 absolute size of the eyeball, since a larger surface will yield more than a smaller one; (b) by an alteration in the shape of the eyeball, which from being spheroidal will become more nearly spherical; (c) by the exit of blood and lymph from the vessels of the eye. It is only after estimating the value of these several factors that a sound judgment upon the actual degree of tension can be arrived at. The new instru- ment of Monnik is so contrived as to measure the force that is re- quired in order to indent the coats of the eyeball to the depth either of one fourth or of one half of a millimetre, and the inventor states that this force is about two grammes greater near the corneal margin than at the equator. In his final observations the tonometer was applied at an intermediate part, 6 mm. from the cornea. The tension of normal eyes was found to diifer within rather wide limits, and Monnik defines normal tension as that in which a depression of ith of a millimetre was produced by a pressure ©f between lo and 15 grammes. He caUs the eyes soft that require less than 10 grammes, and those hard that require more than 15. From a small number of observations it would seem that tension naturally increases with advancing life; that there is frequently a small difierence between the two eyes of the same person; and that the same healthy eye, tested at difterent times, may exhibit a difierence as great as three grammes. In moderate degrees of myopia the tension was sUghtly below the normal, in high degrees slightly in excess, in hypermetropic eyes normal. Excess of tension was found in almost all cases of anterior synechia, esjDecially when complicating corneal ulcers or keratitis; in congestive amblyopia, in some cases of cataract, and in glaucoma. Diminished tension was found in all forms of iritis except the sympathetic, in some cases of cataract, and in detachment of the retina. In sympathetic iritis a reduction of tension followed the extirpation of the primarily injured eye. The effect of atropine upon tension was not satisfactorily determined. The instrument used in the researches was made by Yerlaan, of Utrecht. Coccius* practises palpation of the globe by placing the tips of the index fingers, first moistened with lukewarm water, directly upon the sclera, while the patient looks upwards. He believes that he can thus better estimate, not only the degree of tension, but also the thick- ness of the coats of the eyeball. Congenital eolohoma of the iris.—Dr. Pontif presented to the Medico-Chirurgical Conference of the University of Parma one of his own children, aged seven years, the subject of congenital fissure of the iris of the left eye, in a direction downwards and a little inwards, as far as the ciliary ligament, where the two margins of the fissure met by convergence. The ciliary processes appeared to be wanting in this region. The eyeball was a little flattened in the direction of the inferior rectus, and the cornea seemed less convex in the segment corresponding with the coloboma. Vision was perfect (S=—, No. i XX Sd, read at i'). There was no photophobia, although it had existed * ' Horieht fiber die HoiliinHtalfc far arme Augeukriinke.' t ' Aunales d'Oculistiquc,' 1872, ii, 19.