217 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. of the humerus, together with any new, osseous material likely to inter- fere with the future mobility of the joint, would lead to satisfactery results. In a case of the kind he adopted the following plan. He made two lateral incisions, one parallel and external to the ulnar nerve, the other internal to the projection of the external condyle. The ulnar nerve was drawn inwards and then the bones cleared, partly from the inner and partly from the outer incision. The attachments of the triceps and biceps were left untouched. The tip of the olecranon was tlien removed, the ligaments and the osseous union divided, and a copper spatula having been passed between the anterior aspect of the joint and the separated structures, the lower end of the humerus was sawn through. The head of the radius did not move freely on the ulna, so the krufe was carried round to divide adhesions, and a thin slice of the articular surface was sawn off. The removal of some small portions of new, osseous material completed the operation. Should the anchylosis be greater, after separating the soft structures, Mr, Annandale would introduce the narrow saw under the triceps muscle close to its insertion, saw completely through the anchylosed joint, and then remove as much of the lower end of the humerus as seemed necessary. ('Lancet,' December 21, 1872.) Besection of the elbow for anchylosis ; formation of a movable joint.— Dr. Czerny relates, in the ' Archiv fiir .Klin. Chirurg.' (xiii, 225), the case of a girl, set. 13, who, in September, 1868, came under Dr. Bill- roth's care. Three years previously, she had had inflammation of the elbow; the joint had become anchylosed at an angle of 145°; and, on admission, there were six fistulous openings discharging pus abun- dantly, and caries of the ulna was detected. In the following month the ends of the bones were excised ; the portion removed being three and a half centimetres long, in the aspect of flexion, and six and a half centimetres long, in that of extension. The patient recovered with a joint which she could bend and extend between the angles of 60° and 113°; rotation, however, was lost. Two and a half years after the operation she died of pneumonia following an attack of suppuration of the knee. On examination, there was found not much difi'erence, in length, between the two upper limbs ; and, when viewed externally, the joint, that had been operated on, had a normal appearance. The muscles near the joint had their normal attachments ; the triceps was much atrophied, and ended in a portion of bone eight inches long and three broad, which was united to the radius; this was evidently a ru- dimentary olecranon. There were two, distinct condyles at the end of the humerus, having between them a concave, articular surface corre- sponding with two facets on the upper end of the radius and ulna. The articulating surfaces were covered, though not entirely, by cartilage; and there was a distinct synovial membrane. A boy came under Dr. Watson's care with symptoms of dislocation of the radius backwards of some duration. There was some anchylosis (fibrous). Excision was performed. The dislocation was accompanied by partial separation of the trochlear epiphysis and laceration of the orbicular ligament. There was also partial absorption of the articular surface of the trochlea and new, osseous deposit upon the greater sig-