REPOUT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 0 02 and 2*5 grains of sulphate of atropine. 4^6 of the two substances successful antagonism occurs. The following are the results obtained : I. JExperiments with tlie minvtnum lethal dose of pliysostigmine.— "While o"oo5 grain of sulphate of atropine is a dose insufficient to prevent death, o'oop grain is one sufficiently large to do so; and any dose of sulphate of atropine ranging within the wide limits extending from O'oop grain to 5"5 grains is able to prevent the fatal effect of this dose of physostigmine ; but if the dose of sulphate of atropine amounts to 5'3 grains the region of successful antagonism is left and death occurs. jEx])eriments with one and a half times the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine.—In these it appears that while o'oi5 grain of sulphate of atropine is a dose too small to prevent the occurrence of death after a dose of physostigmine one and a half times as large as the minimum lethal, o"o2 grain is a dose sufficiently large to do so; that doses of sulphate of atropine ranging from 0*02 grain to 4"i grains are able successfully to counteract this dose of physostigmine, and tliat death occurs when the dose of sulphate of ati-opine is so large as 4*3 grains. Experiments loith tivice the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine.—The range is from o"o2 gr. up to 3"2 grains sulphate of atropine. Beyond and below this range death occurs. Experiments loith two and a half times the mininmi lethal dose of physostigmine.—The range here is from o'025 to 2*2 grains of sulphate of atropine. Beyond and below this death occurs. With three times the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine.—In this case the range of successful antagonism lies between o'o6 and vi grain of sulphate of atropine. Beyond and below these limits death occurs. With three and a half times the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine. —Here the range is a very limited one, extending from o'l to 0*2 grain of sulphate of atropine. With four times the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine.—In this case no successful antagonism can be exerted by atropine, as death invariably ensues. The results of tliese experiments are all represented diagramatically. In another series of experiments the interesting fact is brought out that death may be likewise produced by the combined non-lethal doses of the two substances. When sulphate of atropine is administered five minutes before half the minimum lethal dose of phyostigmine, death occurs if the dose of the former substance be 9-8 grains or more. This result is a very remarkable one when it is considered that a very decided counteraction is exerted by much smaller doses of atropine against the poisonous action of doses of physostigmine greatly in excess of the minimum lethal, and that the minimum lethal dose of sulphate of atropine is about 21 grains. II. Determination of the limits of antagonism when atropine is administered five minutes after physostigmine. Experiments with the minimum lethal dose of sulphate of physostig- mi7ie (o-i2 gr. per 3 lbs. iveight).—The range of antagonism lies between