LIVEE—ECHINOOOCCIj ETC. 168 (d) Carcinoma. Cases of cancer of the liver are recorded by the following writers :— Headland ('Lancet, 1871, i, 268) gives a case of primary medullary cancer existing only in the liver, and nowhere else, in a man aged 40 ; Smyth ('Brit. Med. Journal,' 1871,1, 421), scirrhous, in liver only, in a man aged 51 ; Simms, (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiii, 135), soft cancer, in liver only, in a man aged 64. Gowers (ib., 145) gives notes of the case of a woman, aged 30, in whom growths of medullary sarcoma were found in the liver, lungs, and mamma. Church, who made a micro- scopical examination of the new tissues, thinks it probable that the disease originally began in the lumbar glands. Whipham (ib., xxii, 164) publishes the case of a woman, aged 64, in whom the liver, weighing 77 ounces, contained numerous growths, on an average about the size of a common marble. The microscope revealed an ap- pearance as of gland-tubes lined in some portions, with columnar epithelium, and the writer refers the growth to the columnar-cell epithelioma described by Porster, Cornil and Eanvier, &c. Perls, "Zur Histologie des Lebercarcinoms," 'Virch. Arch.,' Ivi, 448. Geo, " Cancer of the Liver in an Infant," 'St. Earth. Hosp. Rep.,' vii, 143. (e) lEcMnococci. Murchison ('Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiii, 129) gives the case of a man aged 45, whose abdomen during life presented a distinctly nodulated or botryoidal appearance, from the presence of numerous tumours. These tumours continued to increase in size, though no signs of any booklet could be found in their contents on puncture. Ascites, en- largement of the abdominal veins and oedema of the feet, preceded death, which occurred rather suddenly. At the autopsy were found two enormous cysts in the liver, one in front, growing down from the under surface of the left lobe, and containing an enormous quantity of hydatid cysts, with a small quantity of thin pus, the entire contents measuring six pints. This cyst had been tapped during life. The other cyst was in the back part of the right lobe, and contained be- tween four and five pints of thin opaque fluid, in which there was bile- pigment and a few hydatid cysts. Numerous smaller cysts were found in the liver and growing from the omentum and other parts of the peritoneum. Altogether there must have been many hundreds of them. There was one as large as a man's fist in the spleen, and another still larger in the left iliac region ; another of the size of a large orange, and quite globular, was attached by a narrow pedicle below the umbilicus; and two as large as oranges, and with thick opaque white coats, lay quite loose in the peritoneal cavity in the right flank. Nothing was found to account for the patient's sudden death. The history of the case seems to leave little doubt that the disease commenced in the liver, and that it was not till after many vears that the peritoneum was secondarily invaded. Bouchut (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1872, 137) records the case of a girl aged II, in whom ho punctured a cyst in the liver with a capillary trocar,