319 HOSPITAL GANGRENE—TRACHEAL TAMPON. the hjemorrhage was treated successfully by cauterisation and plugging. The fever was always secondary, and presented the type of fever arising from absorption of morbid matter. It always occurred in cases where the gangrene spread irregularly into the deep parts; when the gan- grene was superficial, it was observed only in exceptional cases. The temperatiu*e presented no special type, the curves, Dr. Heiberg says, " were as irregular as the Alps." In the treatment, gastric disturbance was allayed by low diet and iced water; beyond these, no internal remedies were used. The treatment was throughout local, and con- sisted almost exclusively in cauterisation with chloride of zinc. Per- manganate of potash was found by Heiberg to be of no use. It is alleged by American surgeons that very mild cases heal readily under the use of water dressing and fresh air ; but Heiberg doubts whether such can be cases of true hospital gangrene, which spreads mercilessly under such treatment. The granulations in the neighbourhood of a necrosed piece of bone may undergo a process of destruction, bearing a close resemblance in appearance to incipient gangrene. The manner of extension of the disease is the only trustworthy ground of diagnosis ; and Heiberg daily marked, with coloured chalk, on an iron wire network the extent of the disease, so as to observe its progress accurately. When the diagnosis was clearly made out chloride of zinc was at once applied. It was dissolved in a small quantity of water, so as to form a mass of the consistence of oil, in which small pads of cotton-wool were dipped; these, having been gently pressed, were laid over the whole surface of the sore. If the gangrene had spread deeply, free incisions were made; the more extensive these were, and the more the sore was laid open, the sooner was the gangrene arrested. Chloride of zinc has the advantage over nitric acid of being less dangerous to clothes, hands, and instruments, After the cauterisation the sores were dressed with oil for twelve hours ; after this, lukewarm water dressing was applied four times daily. The scars often remained tiU the eleventh day, and it was found that attempts to remove them by mechanical means pro- duced bleeding and pain, without being successful. Paralysis and anesthesia were not met with, notwithstanding the depth at which the caustic was sometimes applied. Under this treatment one death only occurred, and in this instance the patient died under chloroform, when the caustic was about to be applied. There were six deaths from pyaemia in patients in whom the gangrene had been arrested. An elaborate paper on this subject by Dr. Jones will be found in tlie ' Surgical Memoirs of the War of the Ilebellion,' published for the U. S, Sanitary Commission, and a review of the same in the 'Am. Jouru. Med. Sciences,' Oct., 1871, 456. Use of the tracheal tampon.—Dr. Junker writes on the employment of the tracheal tampon, as advocated by Dr. Trendelenburg and prac- tised by^Langenbeck and others. The danger of suffocation from the passage of blood into the trachea in operations about the face, &c., while the patient is under the influence of chloroform, suggested to Dr. Trendelenburg the plan of administering chloroform through an opening in the trachea, the latter being at the same time plugged. After various trials the canula and tampon are now made in one. " Tiio tampon consists of a delicate, double-walled india-rubber tube, of about 3*4