EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE.* BY A. B. SHEPHERD, M.A., M.B., M.R.C.P., ASSISTANT-PHYSICIAN TO ST. MAEl'S HOSPITAL, ETC. A. Diseases of the Genekal System. Inflammation and Suppuration. Iif the course of the past two years the Vienna school seems almost to have monopolised the subject of inflammation. Heiberg ('Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1871, 7) has made numerous experiments on the process which takes place in the regeneration of the epithelium of the cornea in frogs, fowls, and white rats. He finds, after scraping off" the epithelium from the centre of the cornea with a knife, that the process of new growth is complete in three days, and sometimes, in birds and mammals, even earlier. From the observations of Strieker and Norris, those writers had already come to the conclusion that, in the inflamed cornea of the frog, the corpuscles might be transformed during the inflamma- tory process into amoeboid cells. Hansen (ib., 212) carried out the same experiments on the cornea of rabbits and cats, and finds that hand- in-hand with the appearance of young cells the corneal corpuscles change their form, and at last entirely disappear, while their nuclei undergo division. Carmalt and Strieker (ib., 428) set up inflammation in the cornea of frogs and rabbits by passing a string through the centre of the cornea and through the sclerotic, and give the results of their observations on the formation of the blood-vessels, which in the former animals took place in from thirteen to fifteen days, and in the latter from five to eight, after the string was introduced. Genersich (ib.. i) thinks, from his experiments, that the so-called fixed corneal cells correspond to true spaces, which communicate by branching canals, and in which the wandering cells can move. Durante's experiments (ib., 321) were made in reference to (i) the physiological nutrition of the walls of vessels, (2) the change taking place pathologically and anatomically during the process of acute in- flammation in them, and (3) the relation between the inner tunic and • In a large number of cases I have been compelled to omit abstracts of papers. As far as possible I have preserved those of foreign origin, and have included those English ones which may be most easily referred to in the bibliography at the end of each 8ubj(!Ct. Unless stated otherwise, the references are to volumes and pages. A table of the errata in the last report will be found at the end of this.—A. B. S. 3