REPORT ON SURGERY. 248 upwards, across the sternum, the elbow being raised almost to the level or the axilla. In this way the head of the bone was depressed, the trunk being fixed, the anu was then forced outwards by pushing against the elbow, the forearm being flexed and at the same time movements of rotation were made, the arm being occasionally lowered from the level of the axilla. Eeduction was soon effected. The manoeuvre consisted in raising the elbow across the chest, forcing the raised arm outwards, rotating the arm in so doing, and, lastly, whilst still rotating, somewhat depressing it. Practically this plan avoids all risks of injuring the great vessels. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 196. See also previous ' Bien. Betrospects.') JExtravasation of blood after the reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder.—Mr. C. De Morgan records the case of a man, ast. 54, who came under care a fortnight after the reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder under chloroform and with the heel in the axilla. Extravasa- tion of blood occurred and increased. The man's strength failed and he had rigors. Mr. De Morgan laid open the swelling and turned out clots, &c. The man gradually sank. At the post-mortem it was impos- sible to detect the source of the haemorrhage. (Clinical lecture, ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 6, 1872.) Mr. Eivington records the case of a man, set. 71, who died in consequence of haemorrhage from a traumatic, axillary aneurism, resulting from the reduction of a disloca- tion of the humerus. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 20, 1872.) In the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 18, 1872, is recorded the case of a man, set. 38, who dislocated his humerus and had it reduced. He was then admitted into the Northampton Infirmary. Gangrene of the arm ensued and the man died. Fracture of the coracoid j^rocess, chipping of the head of the humerus, and rupture of the axillary artery, were found. Dislocation of the wrist.—A case has been under the care of Mr. Erichsen. The accident had occurred long before. The carpus was displaced on to the palmar aspect of the bones of the forearm and to the ulnar side, and the trapezium could be distinctly felt in front of and to the ulnar side of the end of the radius. After manipulation the position of the parts was much improved. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Oct. 14, 1871, 470.) Congenital dislocation of the wrist.—Specimen from an old woman brought to the dissecting-room. (Mr. James Adams, ' Path. Trans.,' xxii, 197.) Complete, simple, anterior luxation of the semilunar bone.—Dr. Chisolm narrates the following case. A sailor, set. 25, fell from the yard-arm on to the deck, a distance of about twenty-five feet. He fell on the right side with his right hand doubled under him. Ten days later he came under Dr. Chisolm's care. There was comparatively little swelling. The axis of the hand was perfectly in a line vpith that of both radius and ulna. A large, hard, rounded, subcutaneous prominence existed on the front of the wrist, directly over the site of the semilunar bone. This was so firmly fixed as to exhibit not the slightest motion when manipulated with force. The point of a couching needle thrust, to the depth of an inch, into the back of the wrist showed, by the freedom of its