REPORT ON SURGERY. 208 this operation for femoral aneurism ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Feb. 25, 1871, 218). A successful case under the care of Mr. Jessop is noted in the ' Lancet,' Oct. 12, 1872. A successful case for inguinal aneurism is noted under the care of Dr. Bernard ('Lancet,' June 22, 1872, 853). Gangrene of the toes followed. A catgut ligature was used. Femoro-popUteal aneurism treated by temporary deligation of the femoral artery, Sfc. ; bullet in head of tibia.—Mr. Stokes records the case of a man, ajt. 36, admitted Aug. 17, 1870, into the Eichmond Hospital, Buflering from a large pulsating tumour, occupying the lower extremity of the thigh and popliteal space. He had been a soldier, and in i860 received a gunshot wound near the knee. The ball entered a little external to the tuberosity of the tibia, and was never extracted. Four years later he left the service, and up to the time of his admissiou was employed as an agricultural labourer. Three weeks previously, when going home after a day's work, he felt something " jump in his ham," and then he first observed the tumour. Pressure was applied to the femoral, but it could not be borne. On Sept. 3, Mr. Stokes exposed the femoral artery, placed a silver wire round the vessel, and passed Porter's clamp down on the two free ends of the wire. These were tightlyfixed to the ringof theclamp.—(Seepreceding 'Retrospect.') This effectually arrested all circulation through the aneurism. Fifty hours afterwards the ligature was removed, and to Mr. Stokes' disap- pointment there was a return of pulsation in the aneurism. The tumour then commenced to enlarge rapidly. Digital compression was carefully tried for twenty-four hours. The thigh was then amputated by the circular method. Pya3mia set in, and the patient gradually sank. On examining the tumour the aneurism was found to be a diffused one. The artery (popliteal) was ruptured on its anterior aspect. A large mass of coagulated blood was found in the aneurism. The knee-joint contained about an ounce of amber-coloured serum, otherwise the articulation was quite healthy. The posterior surface of the femiu- at its lower third was denuded of periosteum and slightly eroded. A section of the head of the tibia revealed a bullet which had been encysted for ten years. " An examination of the portion of the artery where the temporary ligature had been applied showed that no damage had been sustained by the artery. This is a matter of considerable importance, as it shows conclusively that the wire compressor can be applied to a large artery so as to completely occlude it for so long a period as fifty hours, without doing any injury to it whatever. Mr. Holmes, in his admirable lectures at f4ie College of Surgeons on the surgical treatment of aneurism, in speaking of the case where I applied the temporary ligature to the abdominal aorta, observes that the time (twelve hours) during which it was applied ' hardly allows a judgment as to the action of the compressor.' In the foregoing case, however, the instrument was applied for fifty hours without there being any damage whatever sustained by the vessel." (' Dubl. Jour'u. Med. Sci.,' Dec. 1872, 434.) Femoral aneurism; compression; cure.—Under the care of Mr. Jessop. ('Lancet,' Nov. 2, 1872.) Fusiform femoral aneurism cured by compression.—Mr. Spence nar-