230 EEPORT ON SURGERY. tumour of the antrum. The patient recovered. The growth proved to be fibrous, and vpas undergoing calcareous change. A complete account of the histology is given by Dr. Goodhart. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' May 215, 1872.) JExcision of the superior maxilla.—A case in which Dr. Gott excised, the superior maxilla for encephaloid disease is recorded in the ' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' July, 1871, 289. Removal of both superior maxillcB.—Mr. Cantoii removed the left superior maxilla from a woman, set. 35, in 1864, for myeloid tumour, and, in 1871, the other maxilla for fibrous tumour. The deformity was remarkably slight. (' Lancet,' Jan. 20, 1872, 79.) Anchylosis of the lower jaw ; formation of an artificial joint on each side.—Dr. Maas relates, in the ' Archiv fiir Klin. Cbirurg.,' xiii, 429, the case of a man, aet. 27, who was admitted into the hospital, at Breslau, on account of inability to open the jaw. At the age of 7 he had scarlet fever; during which, however, he was not confined to the house. About this time, in consequence of a cold, he was seized with severe pain in the articulation of the jaw, on both sides, so that he could not open his mouth. The pain ceased, but the inability to move the jaw increased, and became complete when he was 10 years old. His food consisted partly of fluids, partly of finely divided meat, which he managed to thrust into his mouth between the molar teeth, which were deficient. The shedding of the milk-teeth was attended with much difiiculty and pain ; the permanent teeth were arranged irregularly, and most of them were displaced laterally. On admission the patient had a pale, yellowish aspect, was in moderately good condition, and spoke dis- tinctly though with a somewhat muffled tone. The upper part of the face was well developed; but the lower jaw was retreating, and the alveolar edge was observed to be far behind the corresponding part of the upper jaw. Attempts to move the jaw produced pain in the articulation on the right side, but failed, utterly, in opening the mouth, even when the man was narcotised. Dr. Middeldorpf made an incision along the lower edge of the jaw on the right side, and, by means of the chain saw and Listen's forceps, removed a wedge-shaped piece of bone, having its base below. The result of this was that the mouth could be opened, pas- sively, to the extent of about an inch. The teeth were found to be mostly carious, or to be so abnormally placed as to be useless ; one molar on the left side, and two on the right, stood out horizontally from the alveolar border. The teeth were removed, and attempts were made for some time to produce separation of the jaws. These, however, had very little eflfect; and, between four and five months after the first operation, the left side of the jaw was operated on by Dr. Fischer in a similar manner. Four months after this the patient could voluntarily open his mouth, to the extent of 3 "2 centimetres ; and his general con- dition and appearance were much improved. Dr. Bottini, in 1872, communicated a somewhat similar case to the Eoyai Academy of Medicine at Turin. The patient was a lad s&t. 17, who had fallen on his chin when seven years old. Inability to open the mouth gradually set in, so that in a few months he was quite unahle to separate the jaws. Bottini opened the mouth forcibly during narcosis,