351 SURGERY. follows that scai'coly any single surgeon enjoyed opportunities of observing many cases of injury to tlie eye, and hence Dr. Cohn has felt himsell" bound to make public the histories and results of 31 such cases that came under his own treatment. While on duty at the railway station at Saarbrucken, where hundreds of wounded passed daUy, it was his custom to select the cases of injury to the eyes for treatment in his hospital at Heinitz ; and his colleagues, Drs. jFischer, "Waldeyer, Spiegelberg, Fmne, Eriinkel, and Busch, selected cases for him in the same manner at Forbach, ]S"eunkirchen, and Ottweiler, In this way 14 cases were obtained, and the remaining 17 were seen for the first time after the close of the war, some at his own eye hospital at Breslau, others at a barrack hospital in Berlin. He treated 8 cases at Heinitz, 4 at Forbach, i at Saarbrucken, i at Neunkirchen, 6 at Berlin, and 7 at Breslau. Among the 31 shot wounds there were 2 of the brain, 16 of the eye only, 9 of the face, and 4 of the cranium. Among the 16 wounds of the eye the eyeball was ruptured in 8 eases and grazed in 3. In 5 the lids were wounded by fragments of shell, and in I a fragment had penetrated the ciliary body. Of the 9 wounds of the face 5 implicated the superior maxiUa and 4 the zygoma, and of the 4 wounds of the cranium i was of the temporal and 3 were of the frontal bone. The right eye was wounded in 15 cases, the left in 14. In one case double blindness and in another double nystagmus were produced by injury to the brain. In the 31 cases the following 70 conditions were observed. Dr. Cohn has stated them, some in G-erman, some in Latin, and some in phraseology hybrid between the two languages, so that his original words are quoted when his meaning does not seem to be absolutely clear: Total loss of the eye {Totaler Defect des Auges) Wasting of the eyeball . . . . Extensive wound of the eyeball (Vulnusperfectum Foreign body in eyeball Opacity of cornea .... Hsemorrhage into anterior chamber Iritis ..... Partial loss of iris (Defectus iridis partialis) Iridodyalysis .... Traumatic mydriasis Opacity of anterior capsule Hajraorrhage or opacity in vitreous body . Rupture of choroid Hsemorrhage in choroid . . . . Contraction of field of vision without visible chang Cicatrix in retina .... Chorio-retinitis witli exudation Hffimorrhage at yellow spot Disease at yellow spot Detachment of retina Atrophy of optic nerve Complete amaurosis Inflammation of optic nerve Amblyopia without visible change Sympathetic affection without visible cliangc Weakness of internal recti biilhi) 2 3 4 I I 2 3 I 2 S 2 s 2 I 1 I I I I 4 2 2 I 4 3 1