EUPTURE OF HEART. Heart " (uiau, tet. 27, jirobable oougenital stenosis of pulmonary artory), ' Lancet,' 1871,11, IS- Truube, " Uober don Doppelton in der Cruralis bei insiiflicienz dec Aorteuk'lappoii," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1873, 573. Paul, " Rutrecissenient de I'Arlere puluioimiro " (man, mt. 3O, rheumatic lever ten years before), Gaz. Ilubd.,' viii, 431. Peacock, " Extensive Disease of Heart of long iluration, Obsiructive and Ilegurgitant Disease of the Mitral Valves, and Obstructive Disease of the Aortic Valves" (boy, a)t. 17), ' Trans. Path. Soc.,' xxiii, 59. Id., •' Obstructive and Regurgitant Disease of the Aortic Valves and Regurgitant Disease of tlie Mitral, Albuuiiiuiria, Bloody Tumour of Thigh " (man, ajt. 20), ib., 61. King, " A Case of Aortic and Mitral Valvular Disease, with extensive Infarction of the Spleen and Cerebral Softening " (mau, a3t. 32), ib., 63. Kelly, "Acute Chorea assoiiated with Valvular Disease of the Heart" (girl, vot. 9, vegetations on tricuspid and mitral), ib., 95. Black, "The Relative Frequency of Disease between the Higlit and Left Sides of the Heart," &c., 'Lancet,' 1872, ii, 253. Biipture of Heart. Quain, in his third Lumleian lecture ('Lancet,' [872, i, 459) discusses fatty degeneration of the heart and rupture. Out of 88 cases of the latter, 63 occurred in persons over 60 years of age, 33 bet^veen 60 and 70, and 24 between 70 and 80. The two sexes are afiected with equal frequency.* Out of 100 cases death was sudden— i.e. within one or two minutes—in 71. One patient, however, lived eight days, one six days, one three days, and five lived over 48 hours. The seat of rupture in 100 cases was 76 times in the left ventricle (45 in its anterior wall) ; 13 in the right ventricle (9 in its anterior wall); seven times in the right, and twice in the left auricle; four times in the septum. The heart had undergone fatty degeneration in 77 ; in 6 it was " softened ;" in one case the rupture was due to the bursting of an aneurism, in one to an abscess. In 12 the heart was said to be healthy or not examined, but m most mention is made of endocarditis or changes in the coronary artery. Earth (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' xvii, 5) bases a paper on " spontaneous rupture of the heart" upon 24 cases recorded in the ' Bulletins de la Societe Anatomique' during the forty years between 1826 and 1865. Of these 7 were men and 17 women. Only two were under 60 years of age, the rest were between the ages of 60 and 84. The following were some of the apparently determining causes of the rupture:— Vexation or anger, an over-large meal, brandy taken in the coffee, the effort of getting into bed, and in five cases the effort of defecation. In the majority of cases death was sudden. In all the cases, without exception, the rupture was in the left ventricle; in nine cases it was situated about the middle of the heart, in four near the base, and in eight near the apex; its average length was about 2 centimetres, with generally irregular ecchymosed borders. In one case only is the heart stated to have been healthy, but in this case the coronary arteries were ossified and diminished in calibre. In all the other cases the heart pre- sented circumscribed infiltrations of blood, ecchymoses, and soft and * This seems more like the truth than the statement made by some other writers, according to whom rupture of the heart is more common in males than females. The abstnicts in the text show twenty-one cases in the latter against twelve in the former.—A. B. S.