REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. ROBERT BRUDENELL CARTER, E.R.C.S., OPHTHAimC SUEGEON TO ST. GEOEaE'S HOSPITAL. The years 1871 and 1872 have been marked, like those immediately preceding them, rather by writings of a fugitive character, devoted to matters of detail, than by accounts of any researches or facts of striking novelty. The International Congress of Ophthalmology held its fourth quadrennial meeting in London, in the first week of August, 1872, but the report of the meeting has not been published at the time when this summary is passing through the press, and the papers read must be noticed on a subsequent occasion. In the course of the two years death has taken away five ophthal- mologists of eminence. Dr. Heymann, of Dresden, best known in this country by his ingenious aut-ophthalmoscope; Professor Gioppi, of Padua ; Professor Frederic Jaeger, of Vienna; Dr. Pamard, of Avignon; and Professor Stoeber, of Strasburg. Of these, the first two have died in the prime of life ; the last three were veterans, already resting from their labours. In England the literature of ophthalmology has been extremely scanty. Messrs. Churchill have published, in their manual series, a second edition of Macnamara's treatise.* Mr. Streatfeild has re- written the chapter on diseases of the eye for a new edition of Erich- sen's ' Science and Art of Surgery ;' the ' Ophthalmic Hospital Reports' have appeared irregularly ; and various papers have been published in the journals or read before the medical societies. In America the 'Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology' have been continued, and a second volume has been completed. The ' Trans- actions of the American Ophthalmological Society' have been issued irregularly. In Germany Dr. Hirschberg has commenced the publication of an annotated edition of von Graefe's ' Clinical Lectures ;t Dr. Schmid * ' A Manual of the DiseaBt-s of the Eye,' by C. Macnamara. t Prof. A. von Gratjfe's 'Klinlsche Vortriige iibcr Anp;cnheilkuncle. Ilcrausgegcben, erlautert und mit Zuaatzen versebcn von Dr. J. ilirschbcrg,' Berlin, A. Illrsuhwuld.