86 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. commissural connection between the superadded convolutions of the two hemispheres permits of the predominant, if not exclusive, educa- tion of the left hemisphere for the verbal expression of the product of intellectual action, as has been revealed by pathology. This is an efferent process, and does not imply the exclusive use of the hemisphere in thought. (5) The outlet for intellectual expression in spoken words, which are motor acts, is necessarily in some part of the marginal convolutions in relation by fibres with the corpus striatum, and pathology has shown the point to be the left third frontal gyrus. (6) The left third gyrus being the outlet for expression, the left corpus striatum necessarily takes the lead in the production of spoken v/ords, but a way round exists, probably, from the left to the right third frontal gyrus by the corpus callosum. Thus, speech, though tem- porarily embarrassed by damage to the left corpus striatum, is reco- vered ; whereas, if the cortex of the left third frontal convolution is damaged, or its fibres, both to corpus striatum and corpus callosum, cut through, speech, having no other outlet, is lost. Bristowe ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 122) read a paper on cases illustrative of the various forms of impairment or loss of the power of speech. Considering aphasia under three heads, he gave first four examples of that form which is due to a mental defect, independent of any affection of the organs of speech (amnesia, amnestic aphasia). All these four cases had hemiplegia of the right side. Though in these cases the lesion was on the left side of the cerebrum, he yet affirms, with Trousseau, that aphasia in some instances is obviously the result of disease of the right hemisphere, and holds that the dependence of aphasia on disease of a particular convolution, whether on the right or left side, is at present very far from certain. As an illustration of the second form of aphasia, in which the patient, without any mental defect, or paralysis of the organs of speech, loses the power of speech absolutely, he gave a case in which he had succeeded in teach- ing a person to speak (cf. ' Trans. Clin. Soc.,' iii, 92). He thinks that cases of this kind lead to the conclusion that speech, when once acquired, is a purely reflex phenomenon, similar to the acts of deglutition and respiration ; that there is some gauglionic centre intermediate between the cerebrum (which thinks and wills), and the nuclei of the motor nerve of the fifth, the portio dura, and the hypo- glossal nerves, and that aphasia is due in these cases to disease of this co-ordinating centre. The third form was illustrated by a case in which the nerves of speech were paralysed, either from disease affecting some of the trunks, or their nuclei of origin. Samt ("Zur Aphasiefrage;" 'Arch. f. Psych.,' iii, 751) gives the post-mortem appearances found in the brains of two aphasics. He con- cludes with the assertion that it is impossible at present to localise the centre of speech, and idle to discuss the possibility of its unilateral seat. Hammond ('New York Med. Rec.,' vi, 1) defines aphasia as "a condition produced by an affection of the brain by which the idea of language, or of its expression, is impaired." He then gives a brief summary of the literary history of the afiection, from 1798, when