llEPOilT ON SURGEEY* Holthouse, by enlarging the wound and placing the patient in a prone position. Dr. J. "W". Ogle and Mr. H. Lee record a case of tracheotomy in which the tube, having become detached from its shield, escaped into the trachea, and was removed by a second operation fourteen months afterwards. ('Med. Times and G-az.,' Sept. 21, 1872, 324.) barotitis ; tonsillitis; tracheotomy.—Dr. Packard records the case of a child, aged four years and nine months, on whom he performed laryngo-tracheotomy, on account of dyspnoea from tonsillitis, compli- cating mumps. Bleeding occurred just as he opened the trachea. The child survived eight hours. (' Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1872, 404.) Opening the larynx for the removal of morhid growths.—Mr. Durham read a paper on this subject before the Med.-Chir. Society. He details 5 cases which have come under his own care, or under that of his colleagues, in which section of the cartilages of the larynx has been performed for the removal of growths. The first case was that of a girl, nine years of age, who was admitted into Guy's Hospital with urgent dyspnoea. Tracheotomy was performed. In the course of the next four years she was repeatedly seen, but no laryngoseopic exami- nation could be satisfactorily carried out. But at the end of that time Mr. Durham succeeded in obtaining a view of the larynx and found it blocked up by warty growths. Shortly afterwards, chloroform having been administered through the tracheotomy canula, an incision was made, with a curved, sharp-pointed knife, straight through the super- ficial structures, the crico-thyroid membrane and the mucous mem- brane of the larynx, and then directly upwards in the middle line, through the thyroid cartilage, &c., thus dividing all the structures by one incision as high as the thyro-hyoid membrane, which was only slightly cut. The cricoid cartilage was subsequently divided in order to give more room. When the edges of the wound were drawn apart it was seen that the whole larynx was studded with growths. Only a few small ones were below the vocal cords. All were carefully re- moved ; some were cut ofi" with scissors, others were twisted ofi: with forceps. The wound was closed with sutures and strapping. The next day the patient could breath through the larynx and could produce audible sounds. On the seventh day the wound had healed. On the tenth the canula was removed after having been worn for four years. More than four years after the operation the patient was a fine, thoroughly healthy woman, breathing, speaking, and siugiug as though she had never had anything the matter with the larynx. The second patient was a lad, aged seven years. Tracheotomy had been performed nine years previously. An incision was made gradually from above downwards, through all the structures as low as the opening in the trachea. The whole larynx was full of growths, which extended above and below the vocal cords. All were removed. He recovered, and nine months afterwards was reported breathing well and the con- dition of the voice was satisfactory. Difficulty was experienced in closing the old tracheotomy wound in this case. It was finally accom- plished after paring the edges. The third patient was a girl, aged e]"ht years. Tour years before, tracheotomy had been performed. A