TUBEllCLli OP THE tUlNAliY TRACT. to the frequency with which convulsions or rigidity are associated with paralysis of the left side of the body as compared with that of the right; secondly, to the occurrence of these symptoms in cases of injury or dis- ease of those parts of the right cerebral hemisphere which lie above the corpus striatum. ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' liii, 129.) Afections of the lungs from injury to the base of the train.—Dr. Brown- Sequard, in the course of some experiments on guinea-pigs, was struck by the fi-equency with which the lungs are altered consecutively to a le'sion of the brain. One of the most frequent causes of death was pneumonia. He made special experiments to ascertain the immediate effects of an injury to the brain on the lungs. " The results obtained were startling. In almost all cases of injuries by crushing or section of the pons Varolii ecchymoses were found in the lungs." Injuries to other parts of the base were followed, sometimes, by the same effects, and it IS extremely probable that a slight pressure upon the pons by effused blood is sufficient to produce it. Injuries to the medulla and spinal cord rarely produced an effusion in the lungs. " Many experiments have shown that it is not through the par vagum, but through the sympa- thetic nerve, especially by its spinal roots, which throw themselves into the first thoracic ganglion, that the peculiar influence of the irritated pons Varolii exerts itself, producing a pulmonary haemorrhage." The condition of the lung, as regards distension or collapse of the air-cells, does not seem to influence the production of haemorrhage. It is not essential that there be a continuation of breathing. Haemorrhage is not the only result; an antemic condition, oedema, and emphysema can also be produced. The latter can occur when not a single respiratory movement takes place after an irritation of the base of the brain, either by crushing or cutting. (' Lancet,' Jan. 7, 1871, 6.) Tubercular disease of the urinary mucous membrane.—Mr. Thomas Smith writes on this subject, with special reference to the symptoms, &c., during life. He quotes various authorities to show what has been already written respecting the disease, and then explains that his paper refers to what is often called strumous or scrofulous disease of the urinary, mucous membrane, and which commences as a tuberculous in* filtration of the submucous tissue of some part of the genito-urinary, mucous membrane (probably most often first in the kidney). To the naked eye it first appears as a yellowish, cheesy deposit, though in its earliest stage it is stated to be a deposit of grey or miliary tubercle. Later on in the disease it is often associated with tubercle of the sub- stance of the testis, the body of the penis, or the prostate. It mostly affects those who are of a tubercular diathesis, and occurs before the middle period of life. He describes the condition, of the urethra, bladder, ureters, and kidneys in advanced stages ; but we pass on to the symptoms:—" Patients suffering with this malady are sure, some time in the course of the disease, to fall under the suspicion of being the subjects of stone ; indeed, it would be true of almost all to say that the early symptom.s much resemble those of renal calculus, the later, those of stone in the bladder. In the earliest stage of the disease the symp- toms may be such as to excite but little attention, and for which medical advice is not generally sought, being, perhaps, a slight aching in the