CONTAGION ANU INFECTION. Ehrenb.) in the blood of four patients affected with erysipelas, and remarks on the diffusion of tlie poison. Bennet (J. Henry) illustrates, from his own personal history ('Lancet,' 1871, ii, 537), the fact stated by Paget, that poisonous fluids can exert tlieir influence on the body by imbibition through the skin without any breach of continuity. On several occasions the poison, from post- mortem and uterine examinations, seemed to pass down a hair into a hair-bulb; at any rate, a hair was always in tlie centre of the painful spot. Erysipelas of the arm and cheat followed, with considerable con- stitutional disturbauce. In a lecture on "Dust and Disease" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 661), Tyndall, after some experiments and observations on the polari- sation of light by fine dust, by the sky and the coarser particles of smoke, referred to the theory as to the parasitic character of contagious disease. He believes strongly in the use of a respirator in infectious places. In one constructed for him the air enters the mouth through cotton wool, and by a light valve, which is lifted by respiration, the expired breath passing out by a second valve. Liveing ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 365) holds that the poison of contagious diseases is an organised poison, each organic particle of which must have a definite period of existence, and then die a natural death, only able to propagate its species during a comparatively short period of its existence. Allowing the difficulty of proving the same for the malarial poison, he yet thinks that its vegetable origin is shown by the facts of the localisation of this poison to certain districts, of the necessary condition of a certain elevation of tempei'ature for its de- velopment, and of the apparent incompatibility of its coexistence with the central part of well-populated towns. It seems as if the congre- gating together of inhabited houses effectually excludes the virus. He illustrates this statement from Home. Here the central part of the city is perfectly free, at all seasons of the year, from malarial poison, though it abounds in a concentrated form almost within a stone's throw of those spots which are perfectly healthy. Eimer, " [Jeber dieEi- odev Kiigelfortnigen sogennnnteri Psorospermien derWirbel- tbiere, Ein Beitrag zur Entwickelungs-gtscliicbte der Gregariuen und zur Kenntuiss dieser Parasiten alsKrankheitsursacbe," Wiirzburg. Bastian, " Epidemic and Specific Contagions Diseases," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii,400. Id., "TheModesof Oiiginof Lowest Organisms; including a Discussion of the Experiments of M. Pasteur, and a reply to some statements by Professors Huxley and Tyndall," London and New York, 1871. Condie, " Immunity from the Action of Morbific Agents " (effects of revac- cination), ' Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Ixi, 124. HaUier, " Die Parasiten der Infections- krankheiten," 'Zeitschr. f. Parasitenkunde," iii, 157. Weigert, " Ueber Bacterieu in der Pockenbaut," ' Centraibl.,' 1871, 609. Lex, "Ueber Fermentwirkung der Bacterien," ib., 1872, 291. Waldeyer and Cohn, " Uber Bacterien und Vibrionen," ' Herl. Klin. Woch,' 1871, 532. Manassein (M.), " Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Hofe und zur Lehre von der Alkoliolischen Gahrung," Stuttgart. Manassein (W.), " Ueber die Beziehungen der Bacterien zum Penicillium glancum und iiber den Einfluss einiger Stoffe auf die Entwickelung dieses letztereu," Stuttgart. Sanderson, " On Lencocytea," ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, i, i. Miircet, " An Experimental Enquiry into the Constitution of the Blood, and the Nutrition of Muscular Tissue," ' Proc. Boy. Soc.,' x'lr, 465. Jarisch, " Untersuchungcn iiber die anorganischen Bestand- theile des Blutc«," ' Wien. Med. Jabrb.,' 1871, 425. Kanse, " Dn role des Microzoain s, et des Microphytes dans !e Genese, I'fivolution, et la Propagation des Maladies," Paris, 1870, pp. 124.