LITHOTOMY. 277 lateral lithotomy. He could not extract the stoue. He then made a supra-pubic incision and removed tho stoue by that means. It weighed four and a half ounces. The patient recovered. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 1871, 557.) Lithotomij; li(Bmorrliage.—A case, in a lad, ait. 15, operated on by- lateral lithotomy, in which hfemorrhage occurred on the sixth day, and recurred till the eleventh is noted by Mr. Square. The bleeding camo on and ceased suddenly. (' Lancet,' May 11, 1872, 648.) In the case of a boy, S3t. 4-^, under the care of the present compiler, hfemorrhage occurred on the fifth day. There had been no previous complication ; the bleeding came on quite suddenly, after he had had a violent fit of passion and crying; it was so severe as to produce rather alarming faintness, ceased as suddenly as it came on, and did not appa- rently hinder the child's progress in any way. Lithotomy.—A paper on Lithotomy in India will be found in ' Dub. Quart. Journ.' (May, 1871, 311), by Dr. Curran. Four cases in which the stones were of unusually large size are narrated by Mr. Teevan (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 84). An analysis of statistics of lateral lithotomy by Dr. Keith is continued and completed by the account of the fattd cases in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 16 and 23, 1871. Seven cases arc recorded by Mr. Ensor, of South Africa. Notwithstanding the frequency of hfema- turia and of renal calculi, vesical calculus is rare ('Lancet,' Jan. 27, 1872, 112). Professor Erichsen gives an interesting clinical lecture on several cases on which ho operated for recurrent or multiple calculi ('Lancet,' March 18, 1871, 369). A clinical lecture on lithotomy, by Dr. Eben Watson, is given in the 'Lancet,' May 4, 1872; of 47 patients operated on by him two only died; he uses Buchanan's rectangular staff. A clinical lecture, by Professor Humphrey, is given in the 'Lancet,' June i, 1872, and one by Mr. Forster on lithotomy and lithotrity in the 'Lancet,' Oct. 26, 1872. Rupture of the female bladder.—W. Stokes, m a clinical lecture on rupture of the female bladder, says he could only find notes of five cases (in Mr. Hoiiel's memoir). Two others occurred under the care of colleagues of his own, and he adds one case. The patient survived six days and fifteen hours. The rupture was at the anterior part of the fundus. He discusses the diagnosis. He mentions two cases, recorded, of recovery after rupture of the male bladder. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 23, 1872.) Wound of the bladder in fracture of the pelvis ; recovery.—Dr. Bell showed a lad who had fractured his pelvis. When he came under care he could only pass water through a wound on the left side of the abdomen. A probe went straight into the bladder. No catheter could be passed. This was at last accomplished. No more urine came through the fistula and the latter healed. Another case was mentioned where the fistula was on the other side. (Edin. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1872.) Lithotomy; removal of apiece of bone from the bladder.—Sir Henry Thompson records the case of a patient on whom he operated for stone in the bladder, and removed a calculus which proved to be bone en- cru.sted with phosphates. The patient was a lad fifteen years of age. rour years previously he had been run over by a cart. On preliminary examination with a lithotrite a piece of bone was removed, and at tho operation a larger piece was found. A somewhat similar case, in a man, £et. 40, occurred seven years before. Sir Henry removed fragments of