UEPORT ON SURGERY. 202 Mr. Gray tied the rir/ht subclavian artery, in tlie second part of its course, for an aneurism involving the subclavian and axillary artericH. The patient died, on the nineteenth day, of bronchitis. The condition of the parts at the seat of the operation was quite satisfactory. (' Lancet,' May 6, 1871, 611 ; also 'Path. Trans.,' xxii, iii.) Ligature of the carotid and subclavian arteries.—In a case of aneurism at the root of the necJc, Mr. James Lane ligatured the carotid and sub- clavian arteries. The patient, a woman, a3t. 40, recovered. Some tem- porary improvement followed ; but ultimately the aneurism steadily increased in size, the sternuuci and clavicle becoming eroded. (' Lancet^' Jan. 13, 1782, 45.) Aneurism of the arch of the aorta simulating innominate aneurism; attempted distal operation.—Mr. Heath intended to ligature the sub- clavian and carotid arteries, but, in attempting the former, found the sac (of what proved to be an aortic aneurism) in the way and desisted, llemarks are made on the bearing of the case on distal ligature. The patient was in a dangerous state, and might have died from bursting of the sac at anytime. Probably the operation hastened his death. There would have been no diflBculty in ligaturing the common carotid artery, and it is an interesting speculation as to the influence this, alone, would have on the result. The left subclavian was obstructed. (' Path. Trans.,' xxii, 95.) Traumatic axillary aneurism; ligature of the subclavian; recovery.—Dr. C. C. F. Gay records the case of a man, set. 26, who had been wounded, six years previously, by a pistol-ball, in the front, of the left shoulder. Soon afterwards a tumour was noticed in the armpit. The ball was never removed. A tumour, as large as a child's head, projected in front of the axilla on the chest. It seemed like a large abscess about to burst. No bruit could be detected, nor any pulsation. The arm was l^aralysed, and there was no radial pulse. A needle, thrust in, gave exit to a few drops of blood. A trocar gave exit to a little blood. An in- cision was made down to a blue surface, and then pressure with the handle of the scalpel burst the sac, and blood spurted out profusely. A I'ree opening was then made into the sac and compression made with the finger of an assistant, while the third part of the subclavian was tied. On the seventh day there was secondary haemorrhage, which stopped with pressure. The paralysis of the arm was disappearing, but the radial pulse had not returned when last seen. ('Am. Jouru. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1871, 392.) Traumatic aneurism of the vertebral artery.—Dr. Kocher, of Bern, relates, in Langenbeck's ' Archiv fiir Klin. Chirurg.' (xii, 867), the case of a man named Abraham S—, aet. 48, who, three weeks before his admission into hospital, on October 27, 1868, had received three stabs in the nape of the neck and one over the scapula. The latter wound and two of the others soon healed; but the fourth had remained open, and from it there had been daily haemorrhage, often profuse. This was restrained by plugs soaked in styptic solutions, over which was laid a compress of cliarpie moistened with solution of perchloride of iron, the whole being covered by a bandage. On removing these dressings there was seen, about an inch to the left of the spine, at the level of