REPOUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 343 nations, he had not been able to verify either of these statements. Dr. Schmidt observed that he had witnessed both phenomena. Dr. Becker did not doubt him, but regretted that he could not himself say the same thing. Befraction.—Dr. F. Erismann, of St. Petersburgh, publishes* a very full and detailed account of his investigation of the state of refraction of the eyes of 4358 scholars or students of both sexes, and of ages ranging from 10 to 24 years. Cohnf brought before the Heidelberg Congress the results of his examination of the dioptric state of the eyes of 240 village school children, after the instillation of atropine. He commenced by some observations on the paper of M. Erismann mentioned above, and stated his intention of analysing this paper fully on a future occasion. At the time he would only refer to some expressions in it which he thought a little too bold, and especially to this, that the use of concave glasses was hurtful to the sight of young myopes. Nothing could be more difficult than to determine, a priori, whether, given a certain degTce of myopia, such or such a glass would be hurtful or not. In order to answer such a question it would be necessary to have a number of persons all with the same degree of myopia, all occupied in the same manner and during the same hours, and to give glasses to half of them and not to the others. Under such conditions, and after sevei'al months of observation, it would be possible to determine the influence of spec- tacles upon myopic vision. The chief interest that Dr. Cohn found in the paper of M. Erismann was the proof it aftbrded of the great frequency of facultative hyperme- tropia. Among the children attending school at St. Petersburgh 44 per cent, were manifestly hypermetropic, and it might have been found that many others were really so if atropine had been employed. The author wislied to fill this void in all previous researches; and he had been enabled, by favorable circumstances, to apply atropine to the eyes of 240 children at the school of SchreilDerhau. He selected 142 boys and 98 girls, all who were old enougli for his purpose, and first examined them for facultative hypermetropia without atropine, and found Hm. in 77 per cent. After atropinization he found H in 99 per cent., and in the following degrees: H = 7— in 26 Go — in 16 SO I — iu 12 40 so that the extremes were and -^V, and the most frequent grade * ' Arcliiv. f. Opbth.,' xvii, i, i—79- t ' Annales d'Ocalistique,' 1872, i, 89. per cent. H = — in 6 per cent. — m 4 24 ^ 20 in 2 — in 1 10