REPORT ON SURGERY. 234 in another, the interval was five months, and, in the last, the interval was tliree mouths. The disease had recurred in every one of the cases in which the axillary glands were involved at tiie time of the operation. Excision of the mamma.—Dr. Joseph Bell advocates the employment of three incisions instead of the two oval ones usually employed. They are either curved, the convexities towards each other and leaving a triangular space enclosing the nipple, or V-shaped with a cross piece at the top (base) including the nipple, or, instead of the two lateral parts of the V, the incisions may be curved, with their concavities towards each other and the apex below the nipple, or, if more room is required, they may be continued downwards after crossing, curving away from each other. Figures are given. He also lays stress on removing all the fat and glands from the axilla if the latter is affected, and, also, the whole mass of subcutaneous fat lying in the line between the breast and the axilla, and which contains the lymphatics extending from the breast to the axilla. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 1871, 687.) Cystic tumours of the breast.—Dr. James F. Goodbart has investigated the nature and development of cystic tumours of the breast, and bis results are published in the ' Ed. Med. Journ.,' May, 1872, p. 1015, with illustrations. Myxoma of the breast.—Specimens by Mr. Forster and Mr. Henry Morris, ' Path. Trans.,' vol. xxiii, pp. 261 and 274. Subcutaneous division of the neck of the thigh-bone.—Mr. W. Adams points out the cases which he thinks adapted for performing sub- cutaneous section of the neck of the thigh-bone. Six cases have now been recorded; five of them, for bony anchylosis, were successful; one, for fibrous anchylosis in a child, was unsuccessful. JNIr. Adams enume- rates the specimens of bony anchylosis which are preserved in the various museums. In anchylosis after rheumatism, pyaemia, traumatic inflammation, and strumous disease, arrested in an early stage, the operation answers well. It is only in cases of severe, strumous disease, with destruction of bone, that the operation is decidedly negatived. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 20, 1871.) Statistics of operations.—Mr. Stokes publishes the statistics of 137 surgical opera- tions performed by himself from Jan. 1870 to Dec. 1871. ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' 1872, 446.) Paracentesis thoracis.—Dr. Evans contributes a paper on thoracentesis, giving statistics and tables of results, &c. (' St. Thomas's Hosp. Eep.,' ii, 69.) Tumour caused hy the growth of a canine tooth within the antrum.—A negro, set. 14, came under the care of Mr. R. W. McCoy for a swelling of the left side of the face. As far as a history could be obtained it was probable that the tumour had been growing for about two and a half years. The tumour was punctured under the lip with a trocar and canula, and half a drachm of a thin, glairy fluid drawn off. The opening closed and the tumour continued to increase in size. The whole of the front wall of the tumour was then removed by operation. It was very thin and lined, on its concave surface, with a thick, gelatinous substance mucous membrane morbidly thickened and degenerated. The cavity of the antrum was found nearly filled with this substance. In the centre was a space about the size of an almond, containing a little viscid mucus, and projecting into it, from above, was a tooth. Tiie tooth was firmly imbedded in a socket, apparently growing from the nasal process