REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 130 aorta he introduced a tube ten feet long, with a stopcock. On opening the latter water poured into the ventricle and closed the mitral valves. The stopcock was so constructed (see the original paper) that after the valve had closed it opened again of itself. Auscultation was made with a stethoscope dipped in the water, but not resting immediately on the heart. In this way a weak and dull sound was heard on the closure of the valve, beginning, but not ending, sharply, and in no way whatever like the first sound heard in the living body. In insufficiency of the valve the sound was not heard. In another series of experiments on the semilunar valves a clear clapping sound was obtained, exactly like that of the second sound of the living heart. The conclusion he draws is, that the closure of the mitral valves (during life) does appear to produce a sound, but that this sound is not that of the full first sound of the heart, and that the coming together of the valve plays only a secondary part in the production of the real first sound. Poore ('Lancet,' 1872, ii, 118) intensifies the cardiac sounds by placing the patient on his back on a wooden bench, applying the end of a stick between the third costal cartilages, and balancing the sounding- box of a guitar, with its aperture towards the thorax of the patient on the other end of the stick. Hyde Salter ('Lancet,' 1871, ii, 151) calls attention to the existence of aui'icular pericardial friction, and gives four cases, in three of which, a man, a^t. 21, and two women of middle age, a friction-sound was audible at the inner extremity of the third right intercostal space ; in a fourth case, in a woman set. 29, the same murmur, resembling a pre- systolic one, was limited to a point on the third left rib, about an inch to the left of the margin of the sternum. The autopsies of two, whose death was due to ursDmic pericarditis, are given, in proof of the correct diagnosis. In one the left auricle was covered and roughened witli lymph, which was confined to the surface of the auricle; in the other, the sound extended down over the ventricles and became general, as did the pericarditis. Attention is strongly drawn to the presystolic cha- racter of the sound. In the first case (ib., 251) Salter noticed a curious phenomenon:—One morning the pulse beats and respirations were exactly equal, 58 ; next day there were two beats to one respira- tion, and the day following the pulse beats, without any connexion with the respiration, came regularly in " couples." The former pecu- liarity he had noticed in a few other cases, one of which he gives; and he thinks that the explanation of what he terms "sphygmo- pneumal synchronism" is to be found in an accommodation of the respiratory movements, perhaps without any consciousness on the part of the patient, to the movements of the heart. In both cases recorded there was probably adherent pericardium, or adherence between it and the lung. He gives two further cases, to illustrate the occurrence of "couple-rhythm." . i- • 1 Gueneau de Mussy ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1871, 133) gives a clmical lecture on a case of aortic insuificiency. Here the diastolic murmur became gradually feebler, while a loud systolic murmur was developed. He concluded that the abnormal aperture of the valve was gradually being lessened and closed by vegetations, and a gradual stenosis taking