REPORT ON SURGERY. S20 centimetres in length (I'^O"). The walls of tlie tube are united at their extremities, so as to form a cavity, which is inflated by means of a small tube opening into the external wall. The internal wall closely embraces the vertical portion of the tracheotomy-canula. This tampon when inflated within the trachea, thoroughly plugs the space between canula and and the windpipe." The air can be let out to withdraw the plug. " A small india-rubber balloon, with an ivory nozzle, fits into the inflating tube. After inflation the tube itself is closed by means of a small metal clamp. The point of the canula is furnished with a raised shoulder of about one millimetre ('04") in thickness. A similar shoulder exists above the plug, so that the latter is firmly re- tained between these two shoulders. By this arrangement the tampon is prevented from slipping when passing through the wound." The tracheotomy is performed, a sufiiciently large opening being made, the canula and tampon (collapsed) inserted, and then the latter is inflated. The anaesthetic is administered by a funnel-shaped instrument of japanned tin. Its outlet is furnished with an india-rubber tube, stifi"- ened by a spiral wire, which, by means of a cone-shaped nozzle, fits into the external aperture of the tracheotomy-canula. Over the inlet of the funnel a raised, wire frame covered with dimity is placed, and on this the anaesthetic is dropped. A circle of small holes drilled round the edge of the funnel assists the admission of fresh air. After the opera- tion, before the removal of the plug, the larynx should be washed out with warm water, and the clots removed through the upper angle of the incision by means of a syringe with a fine nozzle. A common tube is inserted till all danger of haemorrhage has passed way. (' Med. Times and Graz.,' May 4 and 25, 1872.) In the ' Berhner Klin. Wochenschr.,' for September 2, 1872, Dr. Heiberg, of Christiania, relates a case, in the practice of Dr. Schoenborn, in which this plan was followed with good results. The patient, a man, set. 36, had cylindroma of the upper jaw. By following Dr. Trende- lenburg's method, it was found possible to maintain complete anes- thesia throughout the operation. In this case, however, the india- rubber tampon was not sufficient to prevent the entrance of blood into the larynx, and it was necessary to introduce plugs of wadding from the mouth. The patient was discharged cured on the twentieth day from the operation. Broyichotomy.—Mr. Prescott Hewett gives a clinical lecture on the operations on tlie windpipe. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 27, 1872.) Laryngotomy for removal of a half sovereign impacted in the larynx.— Mr. H. Smith records the case of a tipsy shoemaker, who put a half sovereign in his mouth and it disappeared. Dr. Johnson saw it with the laryngoscope impacted between the vocal cords transversely, its reverse "looking upwards. It was found impossible from it^ position to grasp its edge. Mr. Smith performed laryngotomy, and, after a little trouble, extracted the foreign body. A view of it, in sitU, is given. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 7, 1871, 7.) Foreign body in the larynx; removal.—A female child, set. 18 months, had been suddenly seized with difficulty of breathing five days pre- viously. It was not known that a foreign body had entered the larynx,