496 REPOUT ON PUfiLIC HEALTH. The Infant Life Protection Act, 1872, contemplates the periodical examination and licensing of all houses where baby-farraing is carried on as a practice, and is intended to insure for infants sent out to nurse, proper food and attention; and, in the event of death an inquest is directed to be held. The Factories Steam Whistles Act requires the sanction of the local sanitary authority for the use of steam whistles and trumpets, in order to prevent annoyance in quiet neighbourhoods. The Act of 1872 to amend the law for the prevention of adul- teration of food and drink and of drugs is a most important one. By the old statute of 1860 it was made penal to adulterate articles of food and drink with substances injurious to health. By the Pharmacy Act of 1868, the provisions of the above statute were extended to drugs; but the adulteration of drugs was deemed of such importance to the community that all admixtures of drugs were declared to be adultera- tions. These Acts were entirely inoperative, and not being obligatory, were never put in force. The recent statute amends the definition of adulteration, and enacts a penalty for the mixer, and the person who orders admixture, as well as for the vendor of adulterated articles of food, drink and drugs. It is thought that the law now stands thus, I. All admixtures of drugs are adulterations injurious to health. 2. Pood and drinks are adulterated when they are mixed with substances injurious to health, and also when substances are added fraudulently to increase weight and bulk. 3. Local authorities are empowered to appoint analysts, who must have competent medical, chemical and microscopical knowledge, and it is supposed that the Local Grovernment Board can compel recalcitrant local authorities to apppoint analysts. The Public Health Act, 1872, is a most important measure, pro- viding for the constitution of urban and rural sanitary districts, authorities and officers; bringing the whole of England under sanitary regime, and giving the central Local Government Board a direct voice in, and control over, the proceedings of the local sanitary authorities. It is expected that this statute will speedily bo supplemented by a consolidation of sanitary law—a reform much needed.