HEPOUT ON MEDICAL JUIIISPRUDENCE. 440 quence of the action of the former, sometimes, however, of the latter agent. 6. Hence strychnine is not an antidote for chloral. JPhysostigmine and stryclinine.—Ashmead* describes a case of suc- cessful treatment of strychnine poisoning by means of extract of physostigmine. A drachm of the pharmacopoeial solution of strychnine had been swallowed. Recovery took place after the administration of a, little more than two grains of the extract of physostigmine. Dr. J. St. Clair Grayt proposes nitrite of amyl as an antidote for strychnine. Aconite and digitalis.—DobieJ reports a very interesting case in which recovery took place from a poisonous dose of tincture of aconite treated by the subcutaneous injection of tincture of digitalis. The patient, when seen, was pulseless and apparently at the point of death. Twenty minims of the tincture of digitalis were first injected subcutaneously. Galvanism was also applied to the cardiac region. At the end of twenty minutes the patient was able to swallow, when he received along with brandy and ammonia a teaspoonful of the tincture. Improvement followed, and the mixture was repeated twice within an hour. After this the patient was out of danger. He subsequently got quite well, and confessed he had swallowed an ounce of Fleming's tincture of aconite. The case is looked upon by the author as proving that digitalis is a cardiac stimulant, and not a cardiac depressant, as some suppose. PJiospliorus poisoning.—Dr. Lichtenstein§ reports a case in favour of the views of Personne, Andans, Kohler, and others, that oil of turpen- tine is an antidote for poisoning by phosphorus. Dr. Schultzen|| states, that in an experience of thirty or forty cases nearly one half termi- nated favorably, notwithstanding that no oil of turpentine was given. Dr. A. Welter'^ has an elaborate monograph on phosphorus poisoning generally, but the chief point in his paper is that of treatment. He approves of the treatment by oil of turpentine, but states that the rectified oil is unreliable. He recommends the French oil of turpen- tine. We may remark that five kinds of the oil are met with in com- merce—French, English, German, Venetian, and Templin oil, which diff'er considerably in composition and optical rotatory power. The following is Vetter's course of treatment. In acute cases he first gives sulphate of copper in emetic doses every ten or fifteen minutes till vomiting is produced. No harm is done, but rather the reverse, if several doses have to be given before emesis supervenes, for the copper neutralizes the phosphorus. After thorough vomiting the 01. Tereb. Gallicum is given in 40-minim doses every fifteen minutes, mucilage being the medium employed for the exhibition of the i*emedy. Next day magnesia is given. G. H. Eoessingh** makes some observations on the treatment of * • Edin. Med. .lourn.,' 1872, p. 235- t 'Glasgow Med. Journ./ Feb., 1871, p. 188. + 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec, 1872, p. 682. § ' Berl. Klin. Wchnscbr.,' 1870, No. 33. II 'Centralbl. f. d. Med. Wissenscli.,' Oct. 8, 1870. % ' Virchow's Arch.,' liii, p. 168, 1871. ** 'Schmidt's Jabrb,,' clvi, p. 19.