OVARIOTOMY. 889 25 cases both ovaries were removed at one operation, and there were four cases where ovariotomy was performed twice on the same patient. The subsequent history of patients who recovered after removal of one ovary proved that they might menstruate regularly, and might beat- children of both sexes, or twins ; and that after removal of both ovaries they did not become excessively fat, nor lose their feminine appear- ance or sexual instinct. Of 373 women who recovered, 36 who were unmarried at the time of the operation had married since; of these 15 had had one child, 6 two children, 3 three, 3 four children, and a had had twins. Of 259 who were married when the operation was per- formed, many being beyond the age of child-bearing, 23 had had one or more children since. Seventeen had died of causes more or less directly connected, and 19 of causes not at all connected, with ovarian disease or the operation, at various periods from a few weeks to eight years after ovariotomy. Mr. Wells stated that unilocular cysts often disappeared after a simple tapping. They were frequently not ovarian at all, but connected with the parovarium or the broad ligament. His views as to early operation had become modified from those which he at first held. He had found that the results of operations on small tumours in healthy women were not so favorable as in cases where the cysts were large, and the patients had become accustomed to disease. He did not think it right to remove small ovarian tumours, unless they caused great pain and inconvenience to the patient. ('. Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec, 1872.) Keith communicates ('Lancet,' Nov. 1872) a third series of fifty cases of ovariotomy. Of the last hundred cases operated on by Keith there have been eighty-four recoveries. There were only eight deaths in the fifty cases now recorded; two died from obstructed intestine, one from acute septicsemia, and five from peritonitis, Keith now takes perhaps more care than ever during the operation to tie every bleeding point, Lister's animal ligatures being used. Pure, dry, sulphuric ether is always used by him as an anaesthetic. A tabular statement has been published of the cases of ovariotomy performed by the late Dr. Skoldberg of Stockholm. Out of thirty com- pleted cases twenty-six recovered. An exploratory incision was made in four cases, and one of these died. An operation for the removal of a solid cancerous ovarian tumour was fatal. Mr. Christopher Heath related to the Clinical Society (Nov. 1871) a case of ovariotomy in which very extensive adhesions to the sur- rounding structures were found. On enlarging the abdominal incision with scissors in the ordinary way, an empty coil of small intestine, which was closely adherent to the wall, was divided in three quarters of its circumference. Mr, Heath attached the bowel to the skin with silk sutures, forming an artificial anus. The patient made a perfectly good recovery, the use of a belt and an air pad satisfactorily retained all fcecal matter, and she had regular stools. Dr. Beebe relates five cases of ovariotomy in which he treated the edicle by simple torsion of its vessels. There was no subsequent amorrhage, and each case recovered, (' Amer, Jour, of Med. Sci..' April, 1871). '