423 THE PUERPERAL STATE. pycemia is a complication of septicfomia, and is almost always accom- panied b}' the presence of pus in the veins of tlic uterus. It is a com- paratively rare occurrence, and probably depends on septic embola being impacted in the veins. Metastatic visceral abscesses are secondary to it, while almost all the inflammations of the cellular tissue and of the articulations-depend on lymphatic infection, and are not embolic in their origin. (' Medical Kecord,' No. I.) Depaul relates a case of puerperal peritonitis with great tympanites, in which he punctured the colon with great relief to the patient; and, although before the operation she appeared to be dying, she rallied afterwards and was getting well. (' Bull, de la Soc. de Chir.,' May, 1871.) In the ' G-az. Med. de Paris' (Oct. 1871) is contained the report of a case of haemorrhagic smallpox after labour, which terminated favorably. Dr. P. A. Kehrer ('Archiv fiir Gynak.,' ii, i, 1871) contributes an elaborate paper on the morpliology of tlie milk casein, the chief points of which appear to be contained in the following conclu- sions:—I. The gland-cells of the mammae are continually, during the milk preparation, in a state of active division, and break up on the other hand after a preliminary fatty metamorphosis into fat globules and protoplasma particles. 2. The fat globules of the milk are not enclosed in coverings of albumen or casein. 3. The cell-particles (inter- globular substance) spring up in the milk serum, and form with it a thin scum. 4. This scum is the emulsion of the fat globules. ^. In fresh milk the formed cell-particles are invisible, by coagulation they show themselves as granules, nuclei, and granule-nuclei-containing flakes. 6. They collect together out of a light basis-substance and granular coagulating casein. 7. The casein is neither soluble in water, nor in the salts of the milk, but is held in it as an ingredient of formed particles. M. Decaisne, in an important paper communicated to the Academy of Sciences on the influence of starvation on looman's onilJc, concludes that insufficient food always gives rise, within varying proportions, to a diminution in the amount of butter, casein, sugar, and salts, whilst it augments generally that of the albumen. In three fourths of the cases observed the proportion of the albumen was in an inverse ratio to that of the casein under an insufficient diet. The modifica- tions in the composition of the milk, due to a reparative diet, always manifest themselves in a striking manner by the end of four or five days. ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Nov. 1871.) Dr. J. G-. "Wilson records two cases in which the external application of belladonna to the breasts after labour gave rise in four days to a bright scarlet eruption, which appeared first on the face and chest, and then extended all over the body. Other symptoms were present indi- cating that the patients were under the influence of belladonna. The complete absence of desquamation of the skin, the persistent dilatation of the pupils for some days, and the rapid recovery of the patients show that these were not cases of puerperal scarlatina. (' Glasg. Med. Joum.,' 1872.)