OBTUIUVTOE, HEUNIA—HERNIA OP THE OVAHY. ^91 through the pectineus and dissecting off a layer of fascia derived from the muscular fascia of the obturator externus. It had passed through the obturator canal displacing, in its outward passage, the upper fibres of the obturator externus muscle. The artery lay between and was separated from the sac by a ligamentous band. The nerve lay in front. The sac contained the outer two thirds of the Pallopian tube and two inches of the ileum. The bowel was gangrenous and had given way. The round Ugament passed in front, above the opening. The ovary was compressed against the wall of the pelvis immediately below the open- ing. The sac was formed of the broad ligament. Dr. Chiene's expla- nation of the occurrence of this hernia is, " In the broad ligament of the uterus, in health, a slight cul de sac will be observed between the round hgament and the Pallopian tube; a knuckle of bowel pressing downwards in this position had caused a separation of the layers of the broad ligament; the pressure being continued, the bowel had passed through the obturator canal, necessarily pushing before it a sac formed of the peritoneum of the broad ligament, the Fallopian tube being carried into the sac along with the peritoneum. On the opposite side were two obturator hernise, an anterior sac formed of parietal perito- neum, the opening admitting the tip of the little finger and passing in front of the round ligament, and a posterior one, similar to that on the other side, containing the outer half of the Fallopian tube. A sketch of the parts is given. The points of interest are that it was a case of triple obturator hernia, and that in two of the heruiee the sacs were formed of the peritoneum of the broad ligament. Dr. Miller gives some particulars of the patient's clinical history. He had ope- rated on her, rather less than twelve months before, for strangulated femoral hernia, successfully. At the post-mortem examination, detailed above, very Little trace of this could be found. He was called to see her again shortly before her death. He could find no hernial tumour, but she had symptoms of abdominal obstruction and was very iD. She had delayed sending as she dreaded another operation. The idea of gastrotomy suggested itself, but was dismissed owing to the patient's great age and low condition. ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 1871, 601-3.) A case is noted ('Lancet,' June 22, 1872) under the care of Mr. Erichaen. There were no symptoms to lead to the diagnosis. After death, with symptoms of obstruction, a small hernia was found. De- tailed notes are given. Hernia of the ovary.—Dr. J. Englisch describes (' Jahrbiich. der K. K. Gesellsch.^der Acrzte in Wien,' 1871) three cases of ovarian hernia, and makes some remarks on the affection. Exclusive of the cases in which the uterus has been found displaced along with the ovary, there are on record thirty-eight cases of ovarian hernia, twenty-seven in- guinal, nine femoral, one sciatic, and one obturator. In one third of the cases of inguinal ovarian hernia, the displacement was on both sides. In seventeen cases, the hernia was congenital; in all these it was ingumal, and all the cases of double hernia were also inguinal. From these facta, Englisch concludes that congenital ovarian hernia arises from an abnormal descent of the ovary, analogous to the normal descent of the testis in the male. Ovarian iiernia is frequently combined