488 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. proportion to the cases, were nearly twice as many as the average ex- perience of the hospital for thirty-two years would have prognosti- cated. This great epidemic of smallpox was not confined to our own country, and though authentic information cannot be quoted as to all the diffu- sion of the disease in Continental Europe, facts enough are known to justify the belief that, at least in the north-western parts of the Con- tinent, the power of the epidemic was as great as here. The lessons of this epidemic, in reference to the value of vaccination, afford some very suggestive facts for comparison. In the chief towns of Holland, where vaccination is non-compulsory, and where, as a rule, the children are long left unvaccinated; in Hamburg, with non- compulsory vaccination; in Paris, where not only vaccination is non- compulsory, but where also, at least some years ago, there were strong grounds for suspecting the quality of much of the current vaccination; —in all these places the epidemic seems to have raged with very much more severity than even in London; and Hamburg, which, though having but a tenth part of our London population, suffered nearly two thirds as many deaths as London, has now, under influence of this terrible suffering, been led for the first time to pass a law of compulsory vaccination. The proceedings taken by the Local Government Board for Eng- land, with reference to the epidemic of smallpox, consisted in endea- vours to move local authorities to resist the disease in their respective districts by duly administering, first and above all, as specially appli- cable to the case, the provisions of the vaccination law, and secondly, those provisions of nuisance law which apply to all dangerous infectious disease, and are meant to secure the isolation of the sick and the dis- infection of infected houses and things. The extensive diffusion of the disease in England brought into prominence the evil results of the general want throughout the country of hospital accommodation for cases of dangerous infectious disease. The epidemic brought also into strong relief two popular errors with regard to re-vaccination. First, the error of not having it performed on each person (irrespectively of any immediate alarm of smallpox) on his attaining the age of puberty, and secondly, the error of seeking under panic to have it performed indiscriminately again and again. Under the influence of these two errors, Mr. Simon states,* the first allowing an indefinite accumulation of postponed cases, and the second giving swarms of needless, or relatively needless, re-applicants, the demand for re-vaccination, under alarm of this great epidemic, was such as medical practitioners could not by any possibility at once meet without sacri- ficing the cardinal conditions of safe vaccination. It is stated in a reportf that the necessity of re-vaccination when the protective power of the primary vaccination has to a great extent passed away, cannot be too strongly urged. No greater argument to prove the efficacy of this precaution can be adduced than the fact that, out of # IjOC. cit. t ' Report of a Committee of the Managers of the Metropolitan Asylum District, &c., 1872.' Pamphlet,