476 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. port of Souakin, by way of the Eed Sea. The Taka country is a dead flat converted in the rainy season into an impracticable slough, but at present under process of reclamation by the Khedive for the purposes of cotton cultivation. It was among the labourers engaged in these works that the outbreak of cholera occurred, and, according to reports, brought among them by camel drivers from Souakin. Cholera prevailed among the workers from the close of June to the close of August, when it seemingly ceased; but in October the disease reappeared, and spread among the native tribes of the Taka country, This second outbreak was of great severity, and it probably did not come to an end till the beginning of December. From the Taka country cholera, in August, extended to Berber. There it broke out with violence, and prevailed until the beginning of October, causing a great mortality. On the 3rd and 4th of September the deaths from cholera were reported to have been 200. In September the disease attacked the tribes occupying the country west of Berber, and it was carried by them southwards towards Kordofan, and northwards into Dongola. Up the Nile, cholera appears to have passed from Berber into the Halfaya district, where the disease was probably present in November, and down the Nile, scattered cases were reported as low as Korosko. The probable source of this outbreak forms one of the most interest- ing episodes in the history of the late westward diffusion of cholera. As already related in Mr. EadclifFe's report, cholera spreading from the head of the Persian Gulf was carried to Mecca and Gonfudah at the close of 1871. Erom Gonfudah the disease was carried by the troops to Hodeida in the following February. In Mecca the malady was sup- posed to have disappeared at the close of January, 1872. From the 19th to the 23rd of February a great religious festival was held in Mecca, at which upwards of 80,000 pilgrims were congregated in and around the city during those days. On the 27th of February cholera reappeared in Mecca, the earliest cases being observed among the Takruri pilgrims ; that is to say, negro pilgrims from Nubia and Central Africa. These were in a most destitute condition. The number of pUgrims from the west coast of the Eed Sea who attended the festival at Mecca in 1872 exceeded 2^500. Before the reappearance of cholera the greater number of the pilgrims had left Mecca. Two great caravans, the Damascus and the Egyptian had started about the 25th of February. Hardly had these caravans got clear of the city when cholera appeared among them, causing great mortality. Cholera was introduced by them into Medina. In the track of the returning pilgrims, who diverged from Medina to the sea coast, cholera reappeared at Gambo in March, and did not cease until April. Jedda, however, escaped. In April, also, cholera is re- ported to have ceased in Hodeida. The outbreak of cholera in the Taka country followed upon the series of events here related, and the disease is surmised to have been carried to Taka from Hodeida by way of Souakin. The particular steps of the transmission are not known. The time of the outbreak followed close upon the timeof the return and passage of Takruri pilgrims from Mecca by the Souakin route ; and it is known that cholera first shewed itself among these pilgrims when, at the close of February, it reappeared in