OF TARSO-J^IETATAESAL JOINTS. 227 EXCISION OF BOTH ASTRAGALI &c., being bent backward. In doing this a thin piece of the cup of the scaphoid was sliced off. A part of the external malleolus was also sliced off, owing to want of room. Mr. Lund then made use of a strong, blunt hook (figured), with a cutting concave edge. This hook was used, as a lever, to lift up the astragalus, and passing it round the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, by simple traction, the latter was severed. This proved to be the key of the operation. Seizing the bone with lion forceps, a few touches of the hook set the bone at liberty, and it was removed. In operating on the second foot, only the hook was used, and the astragalus was removed alone. Everything was done in accordance with Mr. Lister's directions for antiseptic treatment. The result of the operation was all that could be desired. On the sixty-first day elastic traction was employed. The boy then had shoes ordered, and at the end of a month he could walk well. Mr. Solly in one case removed the cuboid bone, but there does not appear to be a case of removal of the astragalus, for talipes, on record. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 19, 1872.) Excision oftheos calcis.—Mr. Gant prefers the horizontal, horseshoe incision over the heel, forming a sole-flap. A vertical incision forming a heel-flap, like a Syme, is useful in certain cases, as adapted for Syme's amputation, if necessary. Results of partial excision, in 43 cases, 38 were for disease—25 caries, 12 necrosis with sequestra, and i necrosis. Of the 25, i died, the day after the operation, of diar- rhcea, 14 recovered at periods varying from six weeks to six months, 2 required a second operation, but recovered, and i underwent secon- dary amputation; while, of the remaining 7, the result is not stated. Of the 12 cases, 3 recovered, i required a second, i secondary ampu- tation, and, of 7, the result is not stated. Complete excision.—Of iS cases (the particulars of which are authenticated), in 14 the disease was scrofulous ; and in 11, of these, this condition was entirely consti- tutional, in I it is said to have originated from a nail having been run into the heel, and, in 2, to have followed sprains. Of the 11 cases, i died of diphtheria, 7 recovered, and with perfect use of the limb, while 3 suffered secondary amputation, 2 from recurrence of the disease in the remaining tarsal bones and owing to erysipelas. Of the 3 cases induced by injury, 2 recovered completely; and the result of the third was doubtful. The general results of the complete excision of the os calcis in 34 authenticated cases—i died of diphtheria, 2^ recovered com- pletely, 4 underwent secondary amputation, and, of 4, the results are not given. In one case of caries of the os calcis, Mr. Gant also re- moved the cuboid bone and a small portion of the external cuneiform bone. The patient recovered, and with a thoroughly sound and perma- nently serviceable foot; this result being noted after two years. The ankle-joint had free motion. He walked witliout the aid of a crutch or stick. The case is reported in the 'Lancet' of July 23rd, 1864. ('Lancet,' Aug. 5, 1871, 185.) Mr. Terry narrates the case of a man, aBt. 19, whose os calsis he excised. The foot was thoroughly useful at the end of six years (' Lancet,' Jan, 13, 1872.) Removal of the second metatarsal hone and subsequent excision of all