203 TRAUMATIC ANEURISM OF THE VERTEBHAL AUTERY. the fifth and sixth cervical vertebra}, a roundish wound about two thirds of au inch iu diameter. There was also observed through the opening a swelling, which-was distinctly seen and felt to pulsate, though feebly. On removing the coagulum which lay in the wound, some dark blood escaped; and on the removal of the finger after its introduction into the wound, a rather violent haemorrhage of bright red blood followed. Digital pressure not arresting the bleeding, the wound was laid open to the extent of about three inches, and a large quantity of coagulum was removed by the finger. There was thus found to be a cavity of the size of a small apple, at the bottom of which were felt the posterior surface of the left articulating processes, and, more distinctly, the trans- verse processes of the vertebrEe. A transverse incision was now made, an inch and a half, in the anterior and half an inch, in the posterior, direction; and the blood was seen to come from a point between the transverse processes of two vertebrae, apparently the fifth and sixth. Arterial blood escaped from both tbe central and the peripheral portions of the artery ; and the bleeding was arrested by pressure against the transverse processes, either from above or from below. As a ligature could not be applied, a plug of charpie of the size of a pea, soaked in solution of perchloride of iron, was introduced between the transverse processes, and left there, as soon as it had been ascertained that the bleeding had ceased. The external wound, having been closed by sutures, was covered with fcharpie, dipped in carbolised glycerine. Lister's carbolic acid paste was applied, and the dressing was retained in place by a bandage. The head was kept fixed by a stiff" collar. The plug in the deep part of the wound was removed on the fom'th day after the operation, partly by means of a stream of water, partly by forceps; no bleeding followed. With the exception of a slight attack of erysi- pelas, which extended from the spine along the right side of the cbest and right arm, the patient made steady progress towards recovery, and was discharged, cured, a little more than five weeks after the operation. Kocher remarks that this is the twenty-first recorded case df traumatic aneurism of the vertebral artery, sixteen having been collected by Barbieri of Milan, and four having been referred to, by Pilz, in an essay on ligature of the carotid artery, published in the ninth volume of the * Archiv.' Of the twenty cases, eleven were the result of stabs. In ten cases the result was fatal, before any pulsating swelling appeared. When an aneurism was formed it was generally about three weeks after the injury, and fourteen days after the healing of the wound, in Kocher's case, however, and in one recorded by Mobus, violent bleeding occiured on the seventeenth day, and a pulsating tumour was noticed ou the removal of the bandages. The presence of a wound in the vertebral artery, or of a traumatic aneurism, has been ascertained by post-mortem examination in seven- teen cases. In a fatal case recorded by Fraeys, in which no necropsy was made, there was a pulsating tumour one inch below the mastoid process, tbe pulsation iu which was arrested by pressure, but not in the least degree by ligature of the carotid. Kocher says, that his and Mobus's cases, of traumatic, vertebral aneurism, are the only two that