LIATBR—ATROPHY—ClURIIOSIS. 161 of the liver in a woman aged*-22. The symptoms were icterus, black vomit, coma, suppression of urine; death occurred after six days. The liver weighed 2 lbs. 8 ounces. Porter (' Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Ixi, 409) gives notes of a case of the same kind in a merchant aged 23, with an account of the post- mortem appearances found. Clements (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 367) records the following:— A girl, aged 17, previously in good health, became jaundiced, and com- plained of drowsiness. She then had persistent vomiting and became delirious, and died comatose. The axitopsy showed all the organs healthy except the liver, which weighed only 13 ounces. Not a trace of hepatic cells could be found under the microscope. Goodridge (ib., 609) gives the case of a man, aged 20, in whom acute atrophy of the liver complicated early secondary syphilis. Here the liver weighed only 3oi ounces, and hardly a trace of hepatic cells could be found. Murchison, " Jaundice from Gall-stones, followed by Acute Atrophy of the Liver, with Puritbnn Deposits " (man, £et. 66), ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 159. Moxon, " Sub- acute Eed and Yellow Atrophy of the Liver" (woman, ajt. 34, with plate), ib., xxiii, 138. Wadham, "Case of Yellow Atrophy of the Liver" (man, set. 28, autopsy), 'Lancet,' 1872, i, 288. Sieveking, "Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver, Death" (man, set. 24, autopsy), ib., ii, 224. Jones, "A Case presenting the Symptoms of Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver, Eecovery " (woman, £Bt. 26), 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, i, 468. Zenker, "Zur Pathologischen Anatomic der acuten gelben Leber- atrophie" (with plate), ' Deut. Arch.,' x, 166. Steiner, "Ein Beitrag zur acuten Atrophic der Leber aus Pettdegeneration" (boy, set. 10), 'Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' iv, 428. (c) Interstitial Sepatitis—Oirrliosis. Olivier ("Memoire pour servir a I'histoire de la Cirrhose hyper- trophique," ' Union Med.,' xii, 361) gives a case of cirrhosis of the liver in a man, set. 22, a wine-seller. He had been a hard drinker since the age of 13 ; at the age of 18 he noticed that his belly was swollen; he had great digestive derangement, vomiting, epistaxis, and jaundice. His liver was enormously increased in size, extending to the umbilicus and to the spleen, which was also enlarged. After death the liver was found to weigh 2-850 grammes, and was markedly cirrhosed, the inter- lobular tissue having undergone considerable hypertrophy. The spleen and kidneys were also increased in size. The writer discusses the ques- tion of cirrhosis, collecting several cases of the aifection in which the liver was enlarged, from other authors. He concludes that hypertrophic cirrhosis is a definite affection, not the first stage of an incomplete cirrhosis. It is more rare than the form in which the liver is atrophied. Like it, it is characterised anatomically by chronic proliferation of the cellular tissue and atrophy of the glandular substance from com- pression; but while in the atrophic form this proliferation ceases, in the hypertrophic form it is continuous, and to this incessant growth the enlargement of the liver is due. In addition to the ordinary symptoms of cirrhosis, the hypertrophic form presents an enlargement of the organ, either general, or only partial. According to his li