SURGERY. 359 irritation of the ciliary nerves, attended by acute ciliary neuralgia, and by danger of sympathetic ophthalmia. If we may regard enucleation as a simpFe and liot difficult operation, followed by little or no pain, and absolutely excluding the risk of sympathetic ophthalmia, then the indi- cations for its performance become imperative in every case of perfo- rating shot wound attended by loss of sight, unless they are counter- acted by some danger connected with the proceeding. Dr. Cohn be- lieves that only four cases of death after enucleation have been recorded. At the Heidelberg Congress of 1863, in a discussion on mortaUty after cataract operations, v. Grafe observed that he had seen two cases of death after simple emicleation of the eyeball, performed during the acute stage of suppurative panophthalmitis with exophthalmia, and deprecated the performance of the operation at such a time, since he had never known it produce death under other circumstances. Upon this, Mannhardt cited a case of death from meningitis (no autopsy) after enucleation, and Horner another, in which the autopsy revealed a meniBgitis that was wholly unconnected with the parts within the orbit. Unfortunately, no full accounts of any of the cases were given, as they were only mentioned in course of the debate. Those of Mannhardt and Horner need hardly be here considered, but v. G-rafe's direct warning seems to be highly important. It is to be regretted that there is no clue to the histories of the cases, as v. Grafe has only published one instance of enucleation in panophthalmitis, performed three years before the time referred to, and in which there is no mention of a fatal issue. Mooren* relates an interesting case from the Austrian war in which a bullet struck near the union of the zygoma with the sphenoid bone, and made its exit behind the root of the nose on the inner margin of the opposite orbit. The patient was totally blind of both eyes immediately after the injury, and on the same evening the shattered eye was removed under chloroform in order to prevent sulfering. The splin- tering of the lacrymal and ethmoid bones produced great swelling of the soft parts ; and, as this subsided, the vision of the other eye slowly returned, until, after the disappearance of some serous infiltration of the retina, jNTo. i Jager could be read. Here, therefore, enucleation was performed prior to the commencement of panophthalmitis, and without danger to life. The same author has recorded 128 cases of enuclea- tion, observing that he had never once seen any serious symptoms; and the operation has now become so common, for eyes blinded by tumours, cyclitis, phthisis, irido-cyclitis, or irido-choroiditis, that fatal eases would certainly have been made known if they had occurred. In the three instances related by Dr. Cohn, in which early enucleation was per- formed, there was evidence of impending panophthalmitis, and in all of them,in.stead of danger following the operation, the previously existing pain was promptly relieved. As regards the risk of sympathetic ophthalmia, all ophthalmologists are now agreed that wounds of the eye, especially in the neighbourhood of the ciliary region, are attended by this danger. In fifty-two cases of sympathetic amaurosis, Mooren found twenty-four which had followed * ' Opbtbalmiatriaclie Beobiiclitungen.'