SCAPULO-HUMERAL PEUiARTHRITIS. 338 very frequently followed by inflammation of the tissues surrounding the scapulo-humeral articulation. This periarthritis is more especially localised in the subacromial synovial bursa and the subdeltoid areolar tissue, and gives rise to thickening and induration of the areolar tissue and of the walls of the subacromial bursa, and also to the formation of adhesions and fibrous bands, which impede or entirely prevent the head of the humerus from gliding on the concavity of the acromion and the inner surface of the deltoid. (2) Periarthritis is distinguished from disease of the interior of the shoulder-joint by the absence of deformity, and if there be any swelling, it is only in the acute stage, when it is limited to the summit of the shoulder. The characteristic symptoms of periarthritis are the following :—(a) The movements of the shoulder are impeded, sometimes to such an extent that the arm cannot be extended horizontally. In all the movements of the joint the relations of the humerus to the scapula remain unchanged, and the latter bone plays round its clavicular attachment. In some cases these movements are accompanied by crepitation, (b) There is pain on moving the arm, not at the level of the articulation, but beneath th,e acromion, at the attach- ment of the deltoid to the humerus. Pain is also caused by pressure below the acromion, at the level of the coracoid process. Sometimes, also, there is a sensation of tingling and of numbness along the limb as far as the hand, (c) The forearm is sometimes semiflexed, and at- tempts to extend it produce pain in the fold of the elbow and in the neighbourhood of the coracoid process. (3) Periarthritis of the shoulder must be carefully treated at its commencement, if we would avoid the rigidity to which it gives rise. G-ymnastic exercises of the limb, electricity, douches, aud shampooing, are the best methods. (4) In cases of chronic periarthritis the only means of procuring a rapid and complete cure is at once to break down the adhesions and the fibrous bands. The use of chloroform is indispensable for this opera- tion, which may require to be repeated if the result be not satisfactory. (5) After the adhesions have broken, the patient must be placed for some time under a course of gymnastic exercises, electricity, douches, &c., until the limb has regained its power of movement. Periostitis of tlie temporal hone.—In an interesting clinical lecture on this subject, in relation to a case in the London Hospital, Mr. Hutchinson calls attention to the fact that the bone is not covered on its opposite surfaces by the same periosteal membrane. Necrosis is very common in the long bones, but of the temporal bone it is compa- ratively rare. "We have periostitis of this bone accompanied by con- siderable suppuration, and yet followed by complete recovery without the death of any portion of bone. This may be due to the copious supply of blood which it obtains. The comparative immunity of the inner surface of the bone from inflammation may possibly be attributed to the absence of continuity between the dura mater aud the external periosteum. The treatment resolves itself, mainly, into the possibility or impossibility of opening the abscesses which form in connection with the inflamed periosteum. This can be accomplished over the mastoid process, but not if the abscess point in the meatus or in some part of the pharynx. ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Nov. 25, 1871, 641.)