POISONS. 447 steady and rapid diminution in frequency until respiration entirely ceases, or they undergo a temporary exaltation in frequency as com- pared with the previous stage, but then diminish, and ultimately cease. If during the stage of collapse the number of respirations exceeds the normal amount, this is an unfailing sign of speedy recovery. The convulsions of hydrocyanic acid intoxication are, as regards their cause and course, identical with those produced by strangulation, only they are more intense. Vomiting and the peculiar cry were found to be very inconstant symptoms of poisoning by hydrocyanic acid. If the poison be received into the blood in quantity considerably greater than that required to produce death, the animal dies either from direct paralysis of the heart or from that in conjunction with paralysis of the lungs. In warm-blooded animals the first stage of complete intoxica- tion lasts from one second to fifteen minutes, commonly half a minute ; the second stage from a few seconds to a few minutes, usually half to one minute; the third stage from a few seconds to several hours, commonly half to one minute. In cold-blooded mammalia the stages are much more prolonged. Preyer finds the solution of the phenomena of prussic acid intoxica- tion in the action of the poison on the vagus nerve, and his study of the action of the acid on that nerve has led him to the discovery of an antidote for the poison. In warm-blooded animals prussic acid induces inspiratory tetanus, with stoppage of the heart, and this through the vagus. It also, by its action on that nerve, diminishes the frequency of the cardiac pulsations. "When the vagus is divided before the poison is injected subcutaneously no changes in the heart's activity are observed ; and when rabbits had both vagi divided and ordinary lethal doses of the poison were subsequently injected, recovery took place. It appears that the rationale of hydrocyanic intoxication is as follows :— Irritation of the peripheral terminations of the vagus in the lungs; excitation of the origin of the vagus; then paralysis of that nerve; inspiratory tetanus; stoppage of the heart; then renewed cardiac pulsations after the stoppage of respiration; lastly, stoppage of the heart. Mammalia with divided vagi die after breathing the vapours of the acid, or its injection, from direct action of the poison upon the heart (cardiac paralysis). Seeing that hydrocyanic acid influences the activity of the brain (in men), and causes dizziness, headache, distur- bances of the co-ordinating faculty, &c., the therapeutical employment of the acid is to be deprecated. Preyer found that prussic acid intoxication is fatal from the super- vention of asphyxia, and that the blood cannot be distinguished from that in asphyxia from other causes, except that it contains the poison itself. Moreover, the thermal changes of the animal are identical in the two classes of cases. If, however, the dose of the poison be suffi- ciently great to kill by paralysis of the heart, the blood is bright red and contains oxygen. In confirmation of the author's views as to the physiological action of hydrocyanic acid, he finds that when the vagus is divided in rabbits, and the poison injected beneath the skin, the re- spirations are at fir.st quickened and afterwards retarded, whilst if the poison be breathed after division of the vagi the converse is obaerved,