&BP011T ON PUBLIC lIEALTti. t Vide Virchow and Hirsch's ' Jahresb.,' 1872, ii, p. 326. are accurately and minutely detailed. Of the latter the most charac- teristic differences are observable in the alimentary canal. In putrid infection the signs are those of simple gastro-euteritis ha;morrhagica (Bergmann) without special affection of the lymphatic glandular apparatus, while in cholera these are affected in a marked degree. He draws the following conclusions: (i) Cholera excreta are undoubtedly contagious, as well the vomited matters, as the dejecta and the urine. (2) Cholera excreta are specially contagious in the fresh condition. (3) Decomposed excreta cause a modification of the choleraic symptoms and induce a con- dition resembling putrid infection. (4) The infection can be caused by direct introduction of the poison into the blood, without having passed the alimentary canal. (5) The action of the cholera poison does not begin at once, but generally after one to three days or longer. Organisms in cholera.—In a paper on the micrography of cholera,* Nedsvetzki states that from his microscopical investigations of cholera blood and cholera excreta he has been able to confirm the statements of Klob, Thome, and others, and he likewise claims to have made some fresh discoveries. In the dejecta, vomit, and urine of cholera patients he finds in all, (i) an upper layer consisting of oil- globules of various sizes ; (2) a great number of epithelial cells more or less altered such as occur in diphtheritic products ; (3) the cells are all filled, as well as the fluid in which they occur, with myriads of actively moving organisms. These organisms are of various forms; granules single and united in a rosette form, rod-shaped organisms, a granular mass composed of minute cellules. These he calls cholera- bacteridia; (4) red and white blood-corpuscles filled with the same organisms; (5) mucus; (6) occasional spores resembling those of aspergillus and penicillium. In the blood from the skin, the'veins, and the heart, he found a greater or less number of fat-globules. In all cases he found the red blood- corpuscles more darkly coloured and less transparent than usual. The darkest blood M'as found in the parenchyma oi the lungs. The white blood-corpuscles were not increased in number. The chief difference appeared to be that in many cases they had passed into a granular mass and had lost their individual contours. The granules after a time began to move like the previously described organisms. The blood in the capillaries, as studied in fine sections of the skin hardened in chromic acid, exhibited between the corpuscles finely granular masses composed of organisms like the first of those described. He also states that the expired air of cholera patients contain bacte- ridia. These he regards as the carriers of cholera infection. In the paper (' Moscaner Med. Zeitung') in which his researches are pub- lished at length, the author enters into other investigations into the nature of cholera parasites, but which are not here detailed. Enteric Fever. Foreign journals t for the year 1871 are rich in contributions rc- * 'Centralblatt. f. d. Med. Wissencb.,' 1872, p. 232.