PEVER,AITER CATHETERISM. m expulsive contractions of the bladder. Particulars of a case, in a man £et. 39, and in a girl, £Bt. 2^, are also given. Treatment.—'' Prom_ the urgency and painful nature of the symptoms of this_ disease, it is obvious that these must be treated as they arise, though it is necessary and beneficial to use constitutional remedies. I believe opium or morphia to be most useful for the relief of pain, astringent preparations of iron and confection of black pepper to be most efficacious in control- ling the bleeding, and cod-liver oil and iron to be the best as constitu- tional remedies. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' viii, 95.) Fatal, urethral fever after catheterism.—Mr. W. M. Banks writes on this subject. The attacks may come on very quickly after slight inter- ference with the urethra, and may terminate fatally in a few hours, or may be deferred for a longer period, and death may not ensue for several days. The affection is essentially due to some shock to the nervous system, possibly the sympathetic, nervous system. An interesting feature is the non-secretion of urine in many cases. The patients retain consciousness. He mentions a case in which a man died in a few minutes after the passage of a catheter. He quotes the cases he has found recorded in the medical journals for the last twenty-five years, and details a typical case in which, after successive trials on different days with small bougies, at last a No. 4 metallic bougie was passed into the bladder. In half an hour the man vomited, then a rigor followed. He continued to vomit, complained of pain in the region of the bladder and loins; the pulse became quicker. In six hours and a half he had a sort of convulsive tremor, his appearance altered, he became uncon- scious, and died in a few minutes. The autopsy revealed no special lesions. ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' June, 1871, 1074.) Improved, flexible catheter for retention in the bladder.—Sir Henry Thompson employs the following modification. Into an ordinary, vul- canised, india-rubber catheter, say about the size of 8, 9 or 10, or more, according to the requirements of the case, a thin German silver tube about four or five inches long, is introduced by the maker, so that the last six inches of the catheter remain as flexible as ever, also about two inches of the anterior part to form a spout or conductor outwards for the urine, this being done, the calibre of the interior is still nearly uniform, the thinness of the metal tube and the elasticity of the india- rubber being so accommodated to each other as to accomplish this object. The instrument is furnished with a silk cord to fasten it, which owing to the metal tube cannot diminish the choke or diameter. The advantages of this catheter are several; (i) It is easier to pass as the metal tube affords a handle. (2) When the loop of silk is loosely tied behind the glans it is next to impossible for the instrument to escape, the want of flexibility in the silvered part securing this. (3) The flexi- bility and unirritability of the part remaining in the bladder is a great advantage. (' Lancet,' Feb. 11, 1872, 185.) A nevj, self-retaining catheter.—Mr. J. H. "Wright describes and figures a new catheter. It is made by Weiss. There are no wings, the open- ing ia in a convenient position for the escape of the urine, mucus, &c., from the bladder, and cannot bo closed by the bladder. The catheter 13 flexible, and ia introduced pulled tight on a stylet. When it is in