165 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER ANB SPLEEN. (y) Furious. Steffen (' Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' v, 47) gives several tables of the size of the liver and spleen in children, from birth up to 14 years of age. Eobin presented to the Paris Academy of Science, March 18, 1872, some observations by Eitter on colourless bile. The author states that in all cases in which colourless bile was found, the hepatic cells had under- gone more or less fatty degeneration. Eoy ('Lancet,' 1871, i, 10) gives a case of rupture of the liver and left kidney in a man, £et. 25, the effects of a fall. The liver had three or four rents, extending only a few lines into its substance, on its convex surface. Steiner (' Jahrb. f. Banderheilk.,' iv, 333) writes on the presence of blood in the peritoneal cavity of new-born children from superficial rupture of the liver and spleen. He remarks on the rarity of the affec- tion, giving a case of each, and considers that congestive hypersemia, and not disease of the liver, is the primary cause. Other papers referring to the liver are— Dalton, "Sugar Formation in the Liver," 'New York Med. Journ.,' xiv, 15. Bennett, " Report ou further Experiments demonstrating tliat Mercury has no special action on the Liver," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' J871, i, i. Habershon, "Lettsomian Lectures on the Pathology and Treatment of Diseases of the Liver," ib., 1872, ii, 31. Quincke, "Ein Fall von Anem-ism der Leberarterie," ' Berl. Kliu. Woch.,' 1871, 349. Ward, ' On some Affections of the Liver and Intestinal Canal, with Remarks on Ague and its Sequelse, Scurvy, Purpura, &c.,' London, 1872. Fox, "On some Abnormal Conditions of the Liver accompanied by Jaundice," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, ii, 8. Habershon, "Inflammation of Glisson's Caj)sule, Occlusion of Vena PortiE, Blood Cyst, Dropsy, Peritonitis" (woman, set. 34), ' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xvi, 405. SolowiefE, " Veranderungen in der Leber unter dem ELnflusse der kiinst- lichen Verstopf ung der Pfortader," ' Centralbl.,' 1872, 337. Gee, " Complete Oblitera- tion of the Mouths of the Hepatic Veins," ' St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' vii, 144. Bock and Hoffmann, "Ueber das mikrochemische Verhalten der LeberzeUen," ' Virch. Arch.,' Ivi, 201. Riegel, " Zur Casuistik der Missbildungen der Leber," ' Dent. Arch.,' xi, 113. JffecUons of the Spleen. Payne (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 278) gives the following case of Hodgkin's disease complicated with acute tuberculosis. A boy, set. 10, had presented during life great enlargement of the spleen, which reached from the seventh rib to the crest of the ilium vertically, behind into the lumbar region, and in front almost to the middle line. There was no increase in the number of the white blood-corpuscles. He became gradually weaker and died of exhaustion. The spleen was found to contain numerous tumours of the kind called lymphadenoma and infarctua. Small tumours of the same kind wore found in the liver and right kidney. The lymphatic glands throughout the body were affected in the same way, and some of them contained masses of a soft caseous consistency, which would, had they occupied the whole of the gland, have caused it to be called scrofulous. There was, in fact, a distinct transi- tion to the type of disease called by that name. In addition there were numerous miliary tubercles in the pia mater and lungs.