318 UEPORT ON SUUGERY. kidney was almost useless, and the right kidney was converted into a cyst holding twelve pints of fluid. " Why no symptoms showed them- selves before this cyst was emptied, why tliey came on almost imme- diately afterwards, and why they continued (although a free discharge of urinous fluid was kept up from the cyst) I cannot explain." " We are led to the suspicion that tlie opium which was given to relieve the pain, or possibly the chloro-methyl by which anaesthesia was kept up, may have been the cause of the first stoppage in the elimination of urea, or else that some injury to the nerves of the kidney may have been the first step in the fever process." The second question is answered by appealing to the consideration'of the influence of the nervous system upon the production and regulation of heat. Traumatic erysipelas.—Wilde states ('Deutsches Archiv fiir Klin. Med.,' x) that he was led, on the recommendation of Volkmann, to ex- amine the effect of subcutaneous antiseptic injections in the neigh- bourhood of the aff'ected part. He used for this purpose a solution of one part of sulphocarbolate of soda in twelve of water; from three to five injections (each 38 grains) of this solution were made, either at different points around the diseased part or even directly into it. In five cases, on the first day, the temperature did not rise much in the evening ; on the next day (two injections having been made) there was a fall, and the erysipelas had begun to disappear. On the third day, oedema alone remained. (' Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1872, No. 35.) Hospital gangrene.—During the Franco-German war, those among the wounded in the hospitals of Berlin who were attacked with hospital gangrene were transferred to special barracks, which were placed under the care of Dr. Jacob Heiberg, of Christiania. Dr. Heiberg has pub- lished in ' Virchow's Arch.,' liii, the result of the observations made by him from September i, 1879, March 15, 1871. In all the Berlin cases the gangrene was of the ulcerative form ; it was always of local origin, although there were cases where the aperture of entry was small, in which the disease commenced in the deep-seated parts, and produced constitutional disturbance before it was detected. In an open granulating wound the granulations would break up over round or angular patches, which gradually increased, and at last became con- fluent. The wound assumed a yellow grey colour; and here and there were spots of a clear red, or brownish-red colour, the result of eff'usion of blood into the granulations. The whole surface became ex- cavated; the destructive process then seized on the subcutaneous and intermuscular connective tissue, and the skin was often deeply undermined to a much greater extent than was visible externally. The skin swelled first at the margin, becoming tender and red. In a cica- trix the process of destruction went on in small segments. The muscles, nerves, bones, and arteries were at last laid bare, covered with a firm greasy mass, or with a yellow-green stinking pulp. The large cavities of the body were not found invaded in any case, and gangrene seldom appeared on the trunk. In eighty-nine cases under observa- tion, secondary haemorrhage occurred in seven. In six of these it took place from arteries, and in one it was capillary. In two cases repeated arterial ligatures were applied, but both died. In the remaining cases