866 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. * ' Annales d'Oculistique/ 1872, i, 129—156. positive, i. e. depending on a choroidal lesion implicating the perceptive layers of the retina; or negative, depending on lesion of the conducting tissues. The former was rendered more conspicuous by dim light, but not the latter. Dr. V. Hippel read a paper on a similar subject, in which he con- demned the instrument of Dr. Forster as being too small for the accu- rate determination of together with L, and described one of his own on a similar principle, but on a larger scale. His results, from the ex- amination of fifty cases, were confirmatory of those of Forster. In the subsequent discussion Dr. A, Weber said that he also had used a similar instrument with advantage. Circumscribed choroiditis.—Dr. A. Sichel* has written an important memoir on circumscribed choroiditis, a disorder first described by Jager under the name of " change in the region of the macula," and since then little noticed. The author has collected several cases of the aflfection, and has, so to speak, built up its clinical history. He describes it as being characterised by the presence, in a single defined part of the fundus of the eye, of changes analogous to those which occur in tlie disseminated or areolar forms of choroiditis. On examination with the ophthalmoscope there is seen sometimes a simple tumefaction or hy- persemia of a very limited portion of the fundus, situated excentrically on the side beyond the equator, or more centrally, or even over the region of the macula; and sometimes a single spot or several small spots of whitish or yellowish-white colour, in the latter case grouped so closely together as to form a little patch of agglomerated lesions on a single part of the field, while the most careful examination reveals no changes elsewhere. Instead of being whitish or yellowish-white, the spot or spots may be of reddish-black or bi'own with notched edges sur- rounded by a zone either paler or more dark ; or there may be a more or less white patch in the centre, surrounded by a border variously coloured. The disorder may be divided, in accordance with the symp- toms and the ophthalmoscopic appearances, into four stages or periods, namely:—i. The period of hypersDmia and local congestion. 2. The period of exudation and fatty proliferation. 3. The regressive or pig- mentary period. 4. The period of atrophy. These periods are im- portant, because during the two first the malady is within the reach of treatment, while during the two last its eff'ects are produced, and are practically irremediable. The first subjective symptom experienced by the patient is a very annoying myodopsia, the spot resting always in the same part of the field of vision, and becoming more marked after long use of the eye, or after exposure to strong illumination. Often, after having continued for a time, the myodopsia gives place to a more or less pronounced haze or mist, which may either occupy a single portion of the field, or may render all objects indistinct. Two other symptoms soon appear, and produce great annoyance. The first is a photophobia, occurring at every change from a less to a greater degree of illumination, and often accompanied by an appearance of rays, proceeding from any source of light, in the direction of the impaired part of the field. The second is