THE MECHANISM OF LABOUR. 405 incurred in completely closing the abdominal opening, as recommended by Dr. Meadows, and leaving the placenta behind without any chance of escape. Dr. Barnes and Dr. Hicks agreed that the placenta should not be removed, the former remarking that its non-removal was the established practice, and the latter that in three cases reported by him the fcetus alone had been removed. A case of double conception, bearing on the question of super-foeta- tion, occurred in the practice of Dr. Chenery. The patient vras forty years of age, and was found to have lost large quantities of blood, among which was a foetus with its transparent membranes entire, and alto- gether of about the size of a common open-faced watch. The os uteri was dilated and another and a much larger foetus was lying with its head pnshing its unbroken investments through the cervix; its birth was expected, but it remained in utero till the full term of gestation. The one ovum was expelled at the eighth week with all the appearances of life up to the time, while the other (from calculations at its birth) was at that period at about the twentieth week. (' Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,' April, 1871.) Two cases of jprecociotts pregnancy. The first case was that of a girl, thirteen and a half years old. She suffered from puerperal con- vulsions, but ultimately recovered. The child was living and weighed 6 lbs. 8 oz. ('Med. Eecord,' Jan. 1872.) The second was that of a girl who had never menstruated, and who was eleven years eight months and a half old at the time of conception. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1871). Dr. Young also records ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' July, 1871) a case of early pregnancy. The mother, at the time of labour, was fourteen years and ten months old. III. LABOTJE. TTie Mechmism of Labour. In some observations on the innervation of the uterus (' Archiv f. Gynak.,' ii, i, 1871), Dr. Eeimann, of Kiew, publishes the result of experiments performed for the purpose of determining whether uterine contractions are dependent on the central nervous system. He expe- rimented on bitches and cats, and subjected the uterus, partly or whoUy separated from the body, to various kinds of irritation. He found that the uterus, separated from the cerebro-spinal axis, and even removed from the body, responded to the irritation, by peristaltic and rhythmical movements of the whole ergan, even when only a portion of it had been subjected to the irritation. The kind of irritant—electricity, heat, cold, mechanical irritation—made no difference. He also found that the uterus separated from the body, but maintained at its normal tempe- rature spontaneously contracted and relaxed for about an hour after the death of the animal; mechanical irritation increased the movements observed, narcotics diminished them. Similar rhythmical movements were, under like circumstances, observed in the Tallopian tubes. Dr. Keimann concludes that the contractions of the uterus are under the nfl uence of certain organs (ganglionic), not yet anatomically demon-