80 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Jamieson ('Edin. Journ.,' xvii, 29) gives a case of "trance" in an hysterical girl, aged 16 years. In a clinical lecture on supposed cases of hysteria, Fuller ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 610) draws attention to the necessity of noting carefully all the symptoms, and mentions two cases of supposed hypochondriasis or hysteria, in which the symptoms during life, and the immediate cause of death, were due in one case to abscess of the brain, in the other to a small aneurism causing erosion of the spine. Tilt (ib., ib., 690) attacks the views with regard to hysteria held " by men who own they know nothing about diseases of women; " quotes the opinion of Chambers, Eussell Reynolds, and Handfield Jones, &c., and thinks that to understand rightly hysteria, catalepsy and epilepsy, "the diseases of the ganglionic nervous system" should be studied. Rosenthal (" TJeber vasomotorische Innervationsstorungen bei Hy- steric," 'Wien. Med. Zeitg.,' 1871, 182) records a fresh case of analgesia with no loss of the sense of touch, in an hysterical girl. He refers to the fact that in hysterical patients the anaesthesia and analgesia are regularly distributed according to the limits of cutaneous nerve-terri- tories established by Voigt, and gives an interesting case illustrating certain changes in the vasomotor system. A young woman, aged 23, had suffered from hysterical and cataleptic attacks which had ceased for two years, but returned again in consequence of a blow which set up inflammation in the left mamma. These attacks were accompanied by a fall in the temperature of the hands from 93'9° F. to 87°, and in the pulse from 72 to 65 ; by paleness and coldness of the fingers and nails; loss of consciousness and convulsions. The attack lasted from a quarter to half an hour. On the return of consciousness the pulse and temperature rose again; there was positive, as well as subjective, feeling of warmth, redness of the nails, and cutaneous perspiration. The time just before these attacks was marked by hypersesthesia, which was rarely noticed on days which were free from them; it was present in various parts of the trunk, more frequently on the left than the right side ; sometimes in the left upper and right lower extremity. At the onset and termination of the attack there was anaesthesia. Reflex movement could be excited in the hands and fingers, while the patient was still unconscious, and her pupils not acting, and were sure signs of her soon coming to herself. Morphia injections were employed, and recovery was complete on the return of the catamenia after their absence for several months. Ferguson (' Lancet,' 1872, ii, 78) records a case of hysteria in a young girl, from whom loi pins and needles were removed from the arms and legs. Hodges, "Hysterical Closure of Right Eyelids cured by Galvanism," 'Lancet,' 1871, i, .S78. Bazin, " Observation d'Apliasie Hysterique" (ia a pregnant woman!), ' Gaz. des Hop 1871, 446. Corlieu, " Anesthesie Musculaire et Cutanee Occasionnee par un Refroidissement, ou Nevrose Cataleptiforme Hemiplegique," 'L'Uniou Med.,' xii, ^76. Walcher, "Observation de Nevrose Cataleptiforme simulee," ib., ib., 436. Kraft-Ebing, " Ein Beitrag zur Erkennung uud Behandlung der Hysterischen Liili- mungen" (hysterical paraplegia cured by electricity), 'Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 529. Silver, " Hysterical Ptosis," 'Lancet,' 1872, ii, 117. Aitchison, "A Case of Feigned Disease," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, ii, 120. Foss, "Notes of a Fatal Case of Hysteria " (girl, aat. 19, autopsy), ib., ib., 9.