ORIGIN OF CABDIAC MURMUllS, KTC. 131 place. His diaguosia was confirmed by the post-mortotn appearances ibuud. Barclay, in some " Eemarka on Pre-systolic Cardiac Murmur " ('Lancet,' 1872, i, 283, &o.) inclines to the view that it is one of regurgi- tation, not of obstruction. He gives the case of a boy, set. 18, still alive, in whom, without any history of rheumatic, and only of scarlet, fever, a very distinct harsh grating murmur was heard at the apex of the heart, distinctly terminating in the first sound, while the interval between the second and first sounds was preternaturally long. Under the influence of digitalis, this interval became more striking, and it was found that a short soft murmur began almost immediately after the second sound, terminating immediately before the harsh murmur commenced. At the base only the harsher murmur could be heard. He reviews at some length the mode in which the sounds of the heart are produced, and the opinions of different writers on this particular murmur. His own explanation (p. 394) is as follows:—The mitral valve is transformed into a ring, prolonged into a fimnel-shape, with a thick inflexible margin, the two flaps being more or less adherent to each other. The thickened ring stands almost permanently open, and the first eff'ect of ventricular tension is to drive blood through the valve, not to close it. But as contraction goes ou, the blood presses on the sides of the funnel and impels them against each other, and thus the click of the valves is delayed, because not the edges but the sides have met, not the earlier tension but the later contraction of the ventricle has closed them. As soon as they meet they must more or less arrest the backward current, and we have thus the explanation of the circumstance that the murmur runs up to, and terminates in, the first sound. This, too, explains why the interval before the first sound is longer than usual, because the closure of the valve has been delayed, and the first sound has been thus far postponed. He holds (p. 354) that the thickening of the walls of the auricle, never reaching that of the walls of a thin ven- tricle, is rather due to a large quantity of blood being driven back into it than to any obstacle to its onward flow; that with no means of closing the entrance of the pulmonary veins, the auricle, in contracting, must empty itself backwards if any obstacle to its onward flow exist; and that (p. 395) the pulmonary congestion and haemoptysis, as constant with this as with the ordinary mitral systolic murmur, is due to this backward flow of blood upon the lungs. Balfour (ib., ib., 714) opposes at some length Barclay's views, uphold- ing the generally accepted rhythm of the presystolic murmur. Davies, in a former paper read before the Royal Society (see last 'Report,' p. 148), had assumed—(i) that the four openings of the heart during the time the blood traverses them are circular in form ; and (2) that the area of each orifice is unchanged—constant—during systole and diastole. In another paper ('Lancet,' 187a, ii, 109) he puts forward arguments in support of his assumptions, based on the dissections of Pettigrew, and others, and meets certain objections made to his theory. De Giovanni (" Nuovo metodo per limitare la regione cardiaca," ' Gaz. Med. Lomb,,' 1871, 261) has marked out with needles the posi-