401 DURATION OF PUEGNANCY. and subsequent local metritis, or an inflammatory condition producing softening of the tissue and subsequent rupture, with extravasation o£ blood into the muscular tissue. See also a case of ruptiire of the gravid uterus at the seventh month. ('Amer. Joiu-n. of Obstetrics,' Aug. 1871.) The Diagnosis of Pregnancy. Dr. Braxton Hicks points out that the pregnant uterus possesses the power and habit of spontaneously contracting and relaxing from the third month up to fall term. This contraction most commonly occurs every five or ten minutes, though it may not recur for half an hour. It is independent of reflex stimuli. It is useful in providing for the frequent movement of the blood in the uterine sinus and deci- dual processes, and facilitates the movement of the fluid in the inter- villal space, and it also adapts the position of the foetus to the form of the uterus. It is of great value in the diagnosis of pregnancy. ('Obstet. Trans.,' 1871.) Dr. "Wallace advocates ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 1872) the exact diagnosis of the placental position by vaginal stethoscopy. In three cases of flooding before delivery he has lately had the opportunity of testing the value of this diagnostic method; and in Case i he prognosti- cated marginal or partial placental presentation, in Case 2 centre for centre, and in Case 3 no placental presentation whatever. Each of these diagnoses were verified by the subsequent progress of the labours. He recommends a long and curved stethoscope. The patient is put iuto the usual obstetric position, the nates being well over the edge of the bed ; the stethoscope, well lubricated with oil, is passed into the vagina, and placed first against the oa uteri under the guidance of the finger. The ear can then be brought into contact with the stethoscope without any difiiculty, and by carefully moving it in all directions from the os uteri as a centre, the whole of the superior part of the excavation, corresponding to the lower zone of the uterus, is explored in succession. The bellows murmur, heard by vaginal stethoscopy in central implantation of the placenta over the os uteri, has a loudness and distinctness of character rather startling to the ear accustomed to abdominal auscultation. When the presentation is central the murmur is heard over every part of the pelvic strait. If partial or marginal, the indication of the site is equally well marked, and in such instances combined vaginal and abdo- minal stethoscopic examination will map out with clear precision the site of the placenta when it has an anterior or lateral position. The absence of the characteristic signs by the abdomen, and the posterior situation of the vaginal bruit, with its absence in the anterior and lateral directions in the superior part of the excavation, will determine its partial presentation inferiorly, and posterior situation superiorly. Duration of Pregnancy. Dr. Matthews Duncan ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' March, 1871) states that prediction of the day of lying-in is an important practical matter, from whose arrangement all theory should bo excluded. It is a valu- 26