226 REPORT ON SURGERY. covered. In 2 cases under the care of the author, both patients reco- vered with useful limbs. Dr. Watson showed a patient to the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, whose ankle-joint he had excised. The parts removed, consisting of the astragalus and the ends of the tibia and fibula, were also exhibited. The patient did well afterwards. At the end of ten months he could bear his whole weight on the affected limb, and walked smartly and readily. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 1871, 650.) A successful case is noted and figured in the ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' March 2, 1872, under the care of Mr. Maunder. A case, under the care of Mr. Canton, is noted in the ' Lancet,' Jan. 20, 1872, 80. Excision of the anhle-joint and removal of tarsal hones.—Mr. Swain has had a case under care—a boy aet. 14—in which, at different times, he excised the ankle-joint and the bones of the tarsus for caries. The re- sult was good. Illustrations of the state of the ankle are given. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 7, 1871, 10.) Excision of the astragalus, malleoli, Sfc.—Dr. Watson employs a single, external, J-shaped incision. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 1871, 560.) Excision of the astragalus.—Mr. Grant states that, of complete ex- cision, 4 cases, only, are recorded in England. Of partial excision, in 27 cases, recorded, 8 were for caries ; 5 terminated well, i ended in an- chylosis, and, in 2, the result is not stated. Of complete excision, 109 cases are recorded; 14 were for disease, 13 for caries, i for necrosis. Of the 13 cases, i died, 8 recovered with good and useful limbs, 2 un- derwent secondary amputation, two years after the excision, and both recovered; in 2, the results were doubtful. The case of excision for necrosis did well. (' Lancet,' Aug. 5, 1871, 185.) Mr. Hancock removed the astragalus, successfully, from the right foot of a man aet. 47. The bone was dislocated forwards and outwards and twisted. There was no wound. An incision was made directly over the bone. ('Lancet,' Jan. 20, 1872, 79.) A case in which the operation was done, for disease, and another, for dislocation, are given in the ' Path. Trans.,' xxiii, 192, by Mr. T. Carr Jackson. Excision of the astragalus and os calcis.—Dr. Morton removed the os calcis and the astragalus from a lad set. 13, on accouut of disease. "A very perfect recovery followed, both as regards motion in the new joint and' the usefulness of the foot, which was shortened about one inch." ('Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' April, 1871, 424.) Removal ofhoth astragali in a case of severe, double talipes.—In the case of a boy, set. 7, suffering from severe double talipes, for which much treatment had been employed without result, Mr. Lund deter- mined to remove both astragali. A longitudinal incision was made over the most projecting part of the head of the bone, parallel to the antero-posterior axis of the foot, between the line of the outermost tendon of the extensor longus and the tendon of the peroueus tertius. After some difficulty, owing to the thick ligaments, the head of the bone was exposed and a gouge was applied to raise the bone, the scaphoid.