UEPOUT ON MIDWIFEUY, ETC. 888 chronic. From a clinical point of view Ave cannot recognise division into follicular, parenchymatous, and peritoneal. Slavjansky contributes an article on the same subject. ('Arch.'f. Gyniik.,' iii, 2, 1872.) See also Matthews Duncan. ('Edin. Med. Joum.,'Sept. 1871.) Dr. Edis relates a case of abscess of the ovary in a girl a;t. 12. The right ovary was found to be distended to the size of an orange, its walls were much thickened and covered internally by flaky purulent lymph; the posterior surface had given way, allowing the matter to escape into the peritoneal cavity. There was also general chronic peritonitis. (' Obst. Trans.' 1871). Professor Graillard Thomas records (*Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics,' 1871) five cases of malignant disease of the ovaries. He concludes that the circumstances which most prominently point to the existence of the disease are:—(i) The rapid development of a solid tumour in an ovary, with marked depreciation of the strength, vital forces, spirits, and general condition of the patient. (2) The occurrence of oedema pedum and spansemia at an early period, and consequently dependent upon a general blood state, and not the consequence of pressure by the tumour. (3) Lancinating and burning pains through the tumour. (4) Cachectic appearance. (5) The occurrence of ascites without evidences of hepatic, renal, or cardiac disease, or of chronic peritonitis; the fluid accumulating in such large amounts as to force aside the supernatant intestines and produce dulness in place of resonance on percussion in dorsal decubitus. Dr. Brown records a case of solid cancer of the ovary. The tumour weighed nineteen pounds. On section it was found to be tough and fibrous in structure, and to have in its interior a few small cavities containing a purulent-looking fluid. The microscopical appearances closely resembled those found in many scirrhous cancers of the breast. ('Amer. Journ. of Obst.,' May, 1872.) Dr. Parry writes an interesting article on sudden enlargements of, and haemorrhage into, ovarian cysts. (* Amer. Journ. of Obst.,' Nov. 1871.) Palm relates twenty-five cases of ovarian cysts in which from ex- cessive distension of the cyst wall, or from some traumatic cause, rupture of the cyst occurred. Seven of the cases were cured, five after the first, two after repeated rupture. Eighteen died; three from collapse, six from acute peritonitis, three from chronic peritonitis, and six from dropsy and marasmus. (' Wiirtt. Medic. Corresp.,' 37, 1871.) Dr. J. J. Phillips points out ('Obst. Trans.,' 1872) one source of danger in treating suppurating ovarian cysts by drainage. The con- traction of the main cyst makes such traction upon any adhesions there may be around a secondary cyst that rupture of the latter may take place. A case is given in illustration, and as the contents of the ruptured cyst were purulent fatal peritonitis occurred. Ovariotomy. Mr. Spencer "Wells has lately ('Med.-Chir. Soc.,' Nov. 1872) com- pleted the analysis of 500 cases of ovariotomy performed by him. In