212 REPORT ON SURGERY. A Buccessful case, for cancerous disease, is recorded by Dr. Bramwell. The patient died, however, live months later. Eeferenco is made to other cases. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 1872.) A successful case, for osteo-sarcoma recurring in the femur is recorded by Mr. Croft. ('Path. Trans.,' xxiii, 20.3.) Reamputation at the hip.—George A. Otis records in detail a success- ful case (' Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Jan. 1871, 141). He alludes to the comparative safety of exarticulating the femur, for diseased condi- tions succeeding a previous amputation in the continuity of the thigh. He enumerates twenty-one cases, nine belonging to military and twelve to civil surgery. This distinction is valueless, as the causes for operation are strictly analogous. In twelve cases, the operation was done for " chronic osteo-myelitis," in six, for recurrence of tumours, &c., and, in three, it was compulsory on account of haemorrhage or gan- grene. Fourteen, of the twenty-one (66 per cent.), were successful. We may conclude, therefore, that in incurable disorders of thigh-stumps, resulting either from injury or disease, disarticulation at the hip is the proper remedy. By using a gutta-percha artificial stump, nine or ten inches in length, firmly strapped to the pelvis by a broad chamois-lined canvas band, an ordinary artificial limb for thigh-stumps can be used. Supra-condyloid amputation of the thigh.—Mr. Stokes writes further on this subject. He has found the operation a successful one, and quotes cases, noted by others, since his communication to the Med.-Chir. Soc. (see last ' Eetrospect.') ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Dec. 1872, 426.) Amputation through the femoral condyles.—Mr. Richardson gives two cases (successful). In one he removed the patella, in the other he left it, having removed the cartilage. He divides the rectus. In the latter case the patella united well. Two other cases are mentioned (success- ful), under the care of Mr. Morgan. ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' 1871,277.) Amputation at the hnee-joint.—In a clinical lecture on a case of fibrO'plastic tumour of the leg, in which he performed amputation at the knee-joint, Mr. Erichsen makes some remarks on this operation. He prefers a long anterior flap, slightly rounded at the edges, and leaves the patella. If the latter is removed the flap is liable to be too thin to live, and if it is left, there is a liability to suppuration in the large synovial pouch under the quadriceps extensor. He leaves the cartila- ginous surfaces of the femur and patella. ('Lancet,' Sept. 30,1871, 460.) Dr. Staples records two cases in which he performed amputation through the knee-joint. One patient was a man, aet. 41. The opera- tion was performed for inflammation of the leg. A semilunar incision was made in front, an inch or an inch and a half below the tubercle of the tibia. The flap was dissected up far enough to reach the joint, which was then cut through, the limb being flexed, and a short poste- rior flap made. The patella filled the space between the condyles well. The progress of the case was good. The inner condyle was exposed for a time, but soon became covered. In eight weeks he could bear his whole weight on the stump. In five months he went to work in a boot store, and had to stand " constantly upon his feet" all day. The other patient was a boy, twelve years old, sufl'eriug from necrosis of tibia, &c. A similar operation was performed, and a " button of cartilage was