RESECTION OP NERVES, ETC. 829 by Dr. Billroth in the manner proposed by Paravicini, of Milan, in 18 ^5 8. The corner of the mouth being held wide open, an incision three centimetres long, running obliquely from within outwards, is made along the anterior border of the ramus of the jaw through the skin and the anterior fibres of the internal pterygoid muscle. The connective tissue between the pterygoid and the periosteum is then torn through with the finger, the nerve is easily reached at its entrance into the dental canal, and a portion is removed. The lingual nerve is easily avoided by taking care to trace the nerve to its entrance into the bone. In Menzel's case the nerve was raised on a hook, and a piece four lines long was excised. The bleeding was very slight. Billroth raised the periosteum from the bone, and having surrounded the nerve with a thread, cut out a piece ten centimetres long. Menzel says that the intrabuccal method of excision of the lower dental nerve is attended with less extensive injury and is less dangerous than the other plans ; that it leaves no disagreeable results—such as scars, facial paralysis, or salivary fistula; that the nerve is readily rendered accessible, and may be excised even to the extent of ten centimetres ; that the haemorrhage is slight; and that the operation is not difficult of performance. Dr. Menzel refers to a case described by Dr. Meusel, of Grotha, in the 'Deutsche Klinik' for November, 1871, in which the intrabuccal operation was performed, but both the dental and the lingual nerves were divided. He believes that this is the first case in which the operation has been performed on the living subject. Paravicini operated only on the dead body, and up to a recent date his proposal had no supporters, but several opponents. Spasm, ^c, of the arm; operation; exposure and extension of the nerves of the brachial plexus; recovery.—In the 'Lancet,' Nov. 30, 1872, will be found a detailed analysis of an account of a bold opera- tion performed by Prof. Nussbaum, which resulted in a physiological triumph. The patient was a soldier who had been injured in the war. He suffered from spasm of the arm, from anaesthesia, and from pain. Having once given relief by stretching the ulnar nerve in a case of spasm of the inner fingers. Prof. Nussbaum determined to operate on the present case, having first of all received a report from Prof. Voit as to the probable seat of the mischief. He laid bare the ulnar nerve and stretched it, then the nerves around the axillary artery and stretched them, and lastly the cords of the brachial plexus. These were in- dividually and vigorously pulled. The man was cured by the operation. Dr. Gartner has operated on another patient. Transfusion of blood.—Dr. Hildreth writes on the kind of cases in which it is useful. Defibrinated blood should always be used, human, if possible; but successful cases have occurred with the blood of calves, lambs, sheep, &c. The instrument he uses consists of an india-rubber hand-ball in the centre of two feet of tubing. To one end is attached a funnel-shaped, metallic vessel, double cased, with a tube through which hot water ia to be poured between the cases, and also a con- venient handle. To the other end is attached a metal, capillary point to enter the vein. About five inches from tlie point is inserted a short segment of glass tubing, in order that it may be known when the