206 REPORT ON SURGERY. water bottles placed iu the bed. The i)res8ure was absolutely main- tained for ten hours and a half. It then seemed desirable to discon- tinue the treatment. The aneurism no longer pulsated. It was mani- festly smaller and harder than before the application of the pressure, In the course of a short time pulsation was again recognised ; it was very much feebler than before. A little nourishment and a full' dose of opium were given. After this, the patient slept. The next day the aneurism was smaller, much harder, and less compressible than it had been. It still pulsated in a marked degree. The general symptoms were remarkably slight considering the severity of the treatment. The right foot was colder tlian the other. Tincture of iron and of digitalis were given in ten minim doses. No bad symptom of any kind arose; but the pulsation of the femorals which had returned to some slight extent soon ceased altogether. The condition of the aneurism varied. At the end of a fortnight it was not only much smaller, harder and feebl er in pulsation, but such pulsation as remained could be arrested with great ease, by digital pressure on the aorta. After rather more than a month the pulsation ceased altogether to be perceptible. The ])aper concludes with remarks on such eases as the above. Sphygmo- graphic tracings of the pulse are given. ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' Iv, 213.) Distal compression of the aorta.—Mr. Bryant records a case in which he employed distal compression of the aorta for abdominal aneurism situated high up. The patient was a man set. 30. A tourniquet was applied for twelve hours under chloroform, the tumour pulsating all the time. Pressure was discontinued for twelve hours and was then applied for four hours. The man then became very ill and died eleven hours, later, thirty-nine hours after the first application. A.t i}iepost-mortem it was found that intestine had been damaged by pressure and had set up peritonitis, and that the aneurism was consolidated. A drawing of its condition is given. Mr. Bryant says, " The interest of this case is very great." " In a clinical yjoint of view, it illustrates the fact that peritonitis, as a consequence of contusion of the intestine or perito- neum, is a danger which must be taken into account in^the use of the abdominal tourniquet." " It demonstrates the pathological fact that pressure upon the efferent artery of an aneurism or distal pressure, for twelve or sixteen hours, is as capable of producing the formation of a solid coagulum in a sacculated aneurism, even in a large artery, as pres- sure upon the afferent vessel, or proximal pressure. The case suggests inquiry into the value of compression by other means than that of a tourniquet. I would also suggest that some instrumental means should be looked for by which the inner and middle coats of an artery may be divided and allowed to recurve, as in torsion, without destroying the ex- ternal coat, acting on the knowledge that an artery after a contusion may become occluded, and the fact Moore has given us that a blow upon the common iliac artery may so detach its inner coats as to allow them to recurve and thus close the vessel." Mr. Bryant speaks favorably of Dr. Spiers' artery constrictor so far as he has tried it on the dead subject. " The distal treatment of an aneurism is well worthy of renewed