AFFECTIONS OP THE (ESOPHAGUS, ETC. 153 continued along the posterior wall of the trachea to the bifurcation: here there was an opening between the lower portion of the oesophagus and the trachea. Some traces of milic were in the stomach, which must have found their way thither through tlio trachea and the open- ing. Tliere was but slight expansion of the right lung. Fagge, "A Cnso of Simple Stenosis of the Oisopliagus followed by Eijitlielioma" (male, a>t. 84, oesophagus in upper part rather less than an inch in diameter, dilated to li inch at a point 4.V inches from cardia, thence gradually narrowed till it admitted only an ordinary lead pencil, epithelioma of dilated portion), ' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xvii, 413. Clapton, " Cases of Stricture of the ^Esophagus" (two, one autopsy, both males, set. 51 and 55), 'St. Thomas's Hosp. llep.,' ii, 177, and see Bristowe's report of the first case, 'Trans. Path. Soc.,' xxii, 134. Demarquay, "Retrecissement de I'cesophage' (in a boy set. 15, who had drank a glass of potash-solution; the catheter by which ho was fed seems to have passed through the softened cesophagus, a coifi- munication being found post-mortem between the latter and a large empyema), 'Gaz. des H(3p.,' 1873, 36. Greenhow, " Cancer of the (Esophagus, with a Fistulous Opening into the Trachea" (man, ajt. 59, epithelioma), 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 129. Thorow- good, " Cancerous Stricture of the (Esophagus" (man, ait. 64, epithelioma), ib., xxiii, 115. ^Yest, "On Syphilitic Constriction of the (Esophagus and Pharynx," ' Lancet,' 1872, ii, 291. Lowe, "On Gastrotomy," with case (of a woman, ajt. 51, in whom the autopsy showed schirrhus of the oesophagus), ib., 1871, ii, 121. Aff'ections of the StomacTi. Flint ('New York Med.Eec.,' vi, 40) publishes a paper on the patholo- gical relations of the gastric and intestinal tubules, based mainly on the researches of Handfield Jones, Wilson Tox and Fenwick. Hilgendorf and Paulicki (' Virch. Arch.' lii. 153) found extensive ulceration of the mucous membrane of the stomach, with purulent embolic deposits in the liver, in an ape (' Cebua Apella ?'). The animal had had diarrhoea for some time. Ward ('Brit. Med. Journ.' 1872. i. 185) records the occurrence of medullary sarcoma of the stomach in a man, aged 53. He had no actual pain, but a little uneasiness after taking food, and vomited at intervals a small quantity of dark foetid, not fcecal, fluid. There was no pain anywhere on pressure, nor was any tumour perceptible. A large fungated growth was found in the interior and posterior wall, occupying part of the lesser curve of the stomach, as well as the pyloric half. The pyloric orifice and greater curve were free, so that food could readily pass. The cardiac section of the stomach was not dilated, and its walls were not perceptibly thickened. Microscopic examinations of the growth showed small round nucleated and granular cells imbedded in connective tissue. Affleck ('Edin. Journ.' xvii, 1104) gives two cases of dilatation of the stomach, in which the method of Kussmaul (see last Eeport, p. 168) was employed. In both cases there was evidence of stricture of the pylorus. Both patients were men, aged 36 and 42. The second case was less promising than the first, in that the disease had existed longer, the dilatation of the stomach was greater, and there was (doubtful ?j evidence of ulceration. Both cases, however, obtained great relief from the use of the stomach-pump. The author attaches great importance to the restoration of the urine to its normal quantity and character, as