UEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Menstruation, JEarly appearance of menstruation.—Mr. Asbton states (' Laucet,' March, 1871) that he has a patient, set. 7, who had a sHght red dis- charge from the vagina two weeks after birth. This recurred some- times once a month, at other times after an interval of two or three months, till the child was four years old. Since then the discharge has been "regular," and sufficient in quantity to soil one diaper. The child's mother first menstruated when nine years old, and the mother's aunt at the age of seven. Elugel records (' Centr. f. Med. Wiss.,' Feb. 1872) a case in which menstruation commenced at eighteen months, and continued with fair regularity until death at the age of five and a half years. The child was five feet high. Disorders of Menstruation. Dr. Eockwell reports ('Amer. Journal of Obstetrics,'May, 1872) eight cases of amenorrhcea—one of the cases was of four years' duration and another of two years and a half—in all of which menstruation reappeared after the use of faradization or galvanism. General faradization is indicated in those conditions of debility where a general and powerful tonic influence is called for. Faradization localised externally is but slightly efficacious. The electro-muscular contrac- tility of the abdominal muscles is so great that a current of but little tension can be used, and neither by reflex nor direct action can the great sympathetic in this way be decidedly influenced. Faradization localised internally, however, is a very efi'ective method of treatment, and by it the uterus can be more thoroughly and powerfully influenced than in any other way. Sometimes central galvanization or peripheral galvanization, either external or internal, is more effectual. Dr. Wade, in a clinical lecture ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' July, 1872), concludes that (i) chlorosis occurring in young women who have men- struated at all is commonly the result of theloss of blood by the menstrual discharge; (2) when amenorrhcea occurs in these cases it is a consequence, and not a cause, of the anfemia ; and (3) both primary and subsequent menstruations produce on the system the same effects that would be produced by any other haemorrhage of equal amount. Gaillard Thomas ('Diseases of Women,' 1872) believes that chlorosis is a neurosis of the ganglionic system of nerves. Disordering the control which this system exerts over the functions of organic life, it produces, as symp- toms of its existence, impoverishment of the blood, constipation, dyspepsia, palpitation, and menstrual derangements and irregularities. Many observers have thought, from its ordinary period of invasion being the time of puberty, when the dormant functions of the ovaries are aroused, that it is dependent on some derangement in ovulation and menstruation ; but it is more probable that torpidity of the uterus and ovaries is, like the peculiar blood state which is so characteristic of the disorder, merely a symptom of functional disease in the sympathetic system of nerves. Several French pathologists have of late years advanced the view that chlorosis differs from ana>mia mainly in this—