849 SURGERT. pupil afterwards, combine to render such union probable; and the anterior adhesions are as perilous to the eye, if not more so, as those which they supersede. Dr. de Wecker relates the case_ of _a gentleman who had a single, very fine band of anterior adhesion in his left eye, passing from the inner and lower portion of the pupillary mart^in to the small circumscribed scar of a nearly central corneal ulcer. Several ophthalmic surgeons attributed frequent attacks of peri-orbital pain to the presence of this adhesion. jN"othing seemed more easy than to detach it, and the attempt was made, without success, first by Prof. v. Hasner, then by Prof. Kiapp, and, lastly, by Dr. de Wecker himself. Dr. de "VVecker made a small incision at the margin of the cornea, allowed the aqueous to escape slowly, and seized the iris near the adhesion with forceps. He found, however, that he tore the tissue of the iris instead of breaking the adhesion, and desisted after three attempts. Every operation was followed by union of the iris to the corneal wound, so that the patient gained three fresh synechiaa without losing the old one, and without losing the pains for which he had sought advice. Dr. de Wecker recommends, in all such cases, the excision of the portion of iris that is adherent. Suture of the eyelids.—Verneuil* related to the Societe de Chirurgie de Paris some cases in which he had pared the edges of the eyelids and united them by suture, in order to prevent ectropion after the extirpa- tion of an epithelioma of the lower lid, and after other injuries likely to be followed by a contracted cicatrix, and also for the cure of ectropion actually established by such contraction. Iii one case he maintained the union of the margins of the lids for fourteen months. The results in aU his cases were very encouraging, and he advocates the employ- ment of his method in preference to plastic operations, which are usually only imperfectly successful.f Burow;!; confirms Passavant's account of the excellent qualities of the so-called marine grass (obtained in China from the spinning organ of the silkworm) for sutures. The threads produce no suppuration, even if they are suffered to remain for weeks, and are especially adapted for plastic operations about the eyelids. In the same paper he refers to his use of threads soaked in collodion for twisted sutures. As soon as the collodion is dry the pins may be removed. He uses English sewing needles with broad points (glovers' needles ?) and floss silk. AVarlomont§ mentions a method suggested to him by the elder Desmarres for removing suture pins without dragging upon the cicatrix. The operator casts a loop of thread over the head of the pin to be withdrawn, and steadies the soft parts by traction upon this loop with the left hand, while the pin is withdrawn by the forceps held in the right. Ounshot wounds.—A contribution to ophthalmic surgery of entirely • ' Gaz. Hebd./ 1871, 473. t Union of tlie lids has been employed in this country by Mr. Bowman, by the writer, and by others, and the power of liealing extensive wounds by skin grading now renders a long period of occlusion unnecessary.—K. B. C. t "Znr Lehrc von dcr Wunduaht," 'Berlin klin. Wochcusclu-.,' 1871, 155, § 'Ann. d'Oculistique,' 1871, i, 73.