26 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. of the longitudinal and Sylvian margins of the hemispheres, the inter- vening convolutions receiving no radiating or callosal fibres. In the former (or marginal convolutions) impressions are recognised as percep- tions, vfhilst the perceptions derived from different sources are asso- ciated together to form ideas and become the subjects of thought in the latter (or intervening convolutions). Now, when it is desired to express these trains of ideas in speech, impulses are transmitted along those medullary fibres of the brain that extend from the supreme centres to the third left frontal convolution. In this the ideas are formulated into words, which are intellectual symbols, the centre selecting, as it were, the sounds appropriate to the expression of the idea. To produce the audible expression of these sounds that centre again in its turn pro- pagates impulses to the corpus striatum, the great co-ordinating motor centre at the base of the brain. In order to speak, a great variety of muscular movements have to be co-ordinated, as those of the chest, larynx, tongue, and lips. The co-ordination is effected by the corpus striatum, which acts upon the requisite nerve-nuclei in the medulla oblongata. Lesions at diff'erent points of this chain of ganglia and fibres will, of course, be followed by difi'erent efi"ects. The sequence of events on Dr. Broadbent's theory is—the formation of perceptions in the marginal convolutions at the summit of the sensory tract; the combi- nation of these to form ideas and their employment in trains of thought in the convolutions withdrawn from immediate relation with the outer world; the propagation of excitations to the third left frontal convolu- tion, leading to the selection of certain sound groups ; the co-ordination in the corpus striatim of the muscular movements required to produce those sounds ; and finally, the transmission of impulses from the several nuclei of the medulla oblongata to each individual muscle required to be brought into play. Ploegel* describes the fibres of the muscles of Trombidium, a species of red spider, as composed of a number of compartments formed by the sarcolemma on the one hand and successive transverse septa on the other. Prom septum to septum the contents of each compartment are as follows:—(i) A singly and slightly refractile substance, which becomes slightly coloured with perosmic acid. (2) A granule which stains deeply with perosmic acid, and with its neighbours forms a transverse layer of granules. (3) The same as (i). (4) The doubly and strongly refracting substance, becoming deeply stained excepting sometimes near its centre. (5) As (3). (6) As (2). (7) As (1). To which may be added (8), the deeply tinted transverse septum itself. Merkel'sf views as regards the structure of muscle agree in many points with those of Floegel. He recommends for observation the thoracic muscles of the fly or bee, and states that the phenomena of their contraction may be distinctly seen when the fibres are immersed in albumen. The appearances presented are—first, the terminal disks approximate; the lateral expansion of the fibrils then occurs quite gradually, and is accompanied by a narrowing of the part occupied by the contractile substance. "When the contraction is completed the adjoining terminal disks are seen closely approximated ; the part occupied * 'Max Schultze's Arcbiv f. Mik. Anat.,' viii, 69. t Idem, 244.