179 PUUUIGO—SCLERODERMA. roughened and quasi-iclithyotic the epidermic scabs were found to be ar- ranged in the form of dense conical papillse, which retained their cha- racter in thin sections. In many regions, however, the epidermis was scarcely, if at all, thicker than natural. All the elements entering into the composition of the corium were increased in amount, and supplied by numerous perfectly constructed arterioles. This increased produc- tion of areolar tissue affected also the underlying superficial fascia in very unequal degrees; the fat-cells in it were more or less atrophied. The liver was congested, distinctly hardened and crisp, with a granular fracture. Curran ('Edin. Journ.,' xvii, iia) publishes notes of a case of scleriasis in a soldier, set. 29. "When first seen he was sufiering from a hardness and rigidity of the skin over the whole surface. The integu- ment of the face was tightened, brawny, and shining. The skin covering the neck, chest, shoulders, arms, and legs was similarly affected ; the only parts that escaped were the genitals, and, to a lesser extent, the upper eyelids. His face was utterly without expression. The disease appears to have commenced while he was in Cape Town in 1869, in a small patch on the back of his neck, and gradually extended over the arms, trunk, and abdomen. It produced throughout a feeling of tingling or numbness in the parts on which he lay in bed ; there was no evidence of diminished temperature ; friction and baths failed to pro- duce perspiration. All forms of treatment were adopted without success. Dufour (' Gaz. Med.,' 1871, 475) reports at length the occurrence of scleroderma, with atrophy of the hands, in a married woman of 39, which was said to have commenced after an attack of ague. In this again all remedies, whether internal or external, were all but useless, though the patient was reported to be slightly better. He quotes another case somewhat similar, and concludes that there must be cases of scleroderma which are tlie result of atrophy of the fingers. The two following papers are included here rather as curious records than as of practical importance: Ullersperger ("Ein Beitrag zur ethnischen Dermatologie," 'Deut. Klin.,' 1871, 188) writes on a case exhibited at Paris by Paul, and gives the opinions of various persons upon it. It was that of a boy of fifteen, who presented a symmetrical affection of the palms of his hands and the soles of his feet. In these places the epidermis was thickened, homy, and of a yellowish colour, and was broken by fissures with a whitish-red base. There was nothing in the patient's occupation to account for this affection. It first made its appearance when the boy was ten years old, and this duration of five years and its symmetrical distribution must depend upon some internal cause. Bazin referred it to simple induration. Hardy looked upon it as ichthyosis. Diego Parada, of Madrid, calls it hipertrodermosis palmo-plantaris, or paculosis epidermica of the hands and feet; he has observed it several times, and almost always simultaneously on both sets of members. Stulli de- scribes the affection as epidemic in Malta. Parada found it in Castile and Asturia. TJllersperger concludes that it occurs almost exclusively in the liomanic {i. e. French and Spanish) and Arabo-Romanic racea {i. e. in Malta).