REPORT ON SURGERY. 194 temperature of this surface is so much reduced that the ether is too slowly evaporated, to change it for a warm one. (3) To give the vapour freely, at first, so as to bring the patient under its influence as quickly as possible, by which the tendency to struggling is lessened. The two chief inconveniences, which Mr. Haward has found, are, the un- pleasantly noisy excitement sometimes manifested when the patient is recovering from its influence, and the rapid diffusion of the vapour about the room, which is to some disagreeable. The easy inflamma- bility of the vapour must also be borne in mind. A table of thirteen cases of deaths from chloroform is given, and also a table of cases iu which ether was administered, ninety-seven in number. In only one, was there after-sickness, and, in that case, the patient only vomited once, an hour after the operation. (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' Iv, 5.) Ancesthetics, by Dr. Jones (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 23 and 30, 1872). Chloroform and its administration. Dr. Viviau Poore (' Lancet,' Oct. 12, 26, Nov. 16, Dec. 14, 1872) contributes clinical remarks on chloroform and its adminis- tration. Chloroform accidents, by J. T. Clover (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' July 8, 1871). A clinical lecture on Death from chloroform, by Mr. Erichsen, is given in Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 8, 1872. The administration of ether, by John Couper (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 30, 1872). The adtninistration of ether, with a figure of an apparatus, by Dr. Morgan (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 23, 1872). Etlier as an ancesthetic, by Dr. Morgan (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 12, 1872). The administration of ether, by G. E. Norton (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 7, 1872). He figures an apparatus. Ether v. Chloroform, article in 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 2, &c., 1872. Nitrous oxide still holds its place as a safe anaesthetic, adapted, at any rate, for short operations ; chiefly the extraction of teeth. A case is just now reported from Exeter, iu which death followed the administra- tion of nitrous oxide, but the pulse and respiration were noticed for some minutes after serious alarm was excited. There was no post- mortem. The case will probably remain doubtful as to the exact way in which death occurred. (' Brit. Med. Journal,' &c., Feb. i, 1873.) Antiseptic surgery.—Mr. Lister's address, before the Brit. Med. Assoc., enters, fully, into the question of antiseptic surgery. It has been published in all the medical journals, and, therefore, must be accessible to most readers. l^'uU abstracts referring to previous papers are given in preceding ' Bien. Eetrosp.' We need, now, only refer to the carbolic spray and the gauze dressing; the chief novelties, we believe, which have been introduced and which have been adopted in many quarters. Numerous cases of successful antiseptic treatment have been noted in the various journals. Antiseptic gauze. — Mr. Lister de- scribes it as being a loose cotton fabric, the fibres of which are impreg- nated with carbolic acid, securely lodged in insoluble resin, which holds the carbolic acid with remarkable tenacity, while, at the same time, a little paratEn is added to prevent the adhesiveness, wiiich the mixture of carbolic acid and resin would otherwise possess. The fabric is porous. A piece of oiled silk protective is applied next the skin, then a con- siderable quantity of the gauze is taken and folded into about eight layers and placed over the protective. In order to compel the dis-