REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Weisbach, " BeHchraukte Cholera-Erkrankungen in der Ik'riincr Cliarite iin Jalire 1871," ' Vircli. Arch.,' Iv, 249. V. Kaczowski, " Hcricht iiber die Cholera-Kpidemie cles Jahres 1866, in Poseu," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1872, 15. Nedsvetski, " Zur Mikro- graphie der Cholera," ' Centralbl.,' 1872, 233. Enteric {Typhoid) Fever. Hesclil ('Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1871, No. 34) is convinced that the capillaries and muscles of the intestinal canal are infiltrated in the same way as the follicles and the sub-mucous tissue, and to this cause he refers the deeper degenerative changes which lead to perforation. He describes in full the microscopic changes found, both in the capil- laries and the longitudinal layer of the intestines: in both the nuclei are enlarged, and in different stages of proliferation. Murchison (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 144) describes the changes found in the intestine of a man, aet. 24, whose bowels had been consti- pated throughout, and who died of haemorrhage on the twenty-seventh day of the enteric fever. The haemorrhage did not seem to have pro- ceeded from one ulcer in particular, but to have been due to a fungating condition of the morbid material in many of Peyer's patches nearest to the caecum, corresponding to which were dark-red spongy excrescences firmly attached to the subjacent ulcerated surface. Maclagan (' Edin. Journ.,' xvi, 865) writes a long paper on the intestinal lesion of enteric fever, and in an appendix gives notes of thirteen cases. He briefly summarises his facts as follows. The in- testinal lesion of enteric fever is specific in character, and may termi- nate in resolution or ulceration. When it goes on to ulceration there are two sets of lesions, primary and secondary, the former an essential part of the disease, the latter accidental, and the result of the inocula- tion of healthy glands by discharges coming from the former. The relative frequency of these two lesions varies in different cases. The extent of the primary lesions bears a direct relation to the severity of the attack, while that of the secondary does not do so, as they are more likely to predominate in cases in which the general symptoms are mild and the primary lesions few. One primary lesion is sufiBcient to pro- duce, directly or indirectly, many secondary. The discharges do not necessarily inoculate every gland over which they pass ; the longer they remain in contact with a gland, the more likely is it to suffer. The higher up in the intestines the primary lesions are situated, the more numerous, cceferis paribus, will be the secondary. Fatal abdominal symptoms are more often the result of secondary than of primary lesions. Eelapses are caused by a reabsorption of the poison into the system, probably by one or more absorbent glands which escaped during the primary attack. Constipation is to be regarded as a source of ultimate danger. No one suffering from enteric fever should go more than two days without a stool. Allbutt ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 547) draws attention to cases occurring in practice, in which the patient, without the existence of any organic disease, loses flesh till he becomes a living skeleton. He thinks this marasmus may be often traced to a prior attack of enteric fever. He gives six cases which bear more or less upon this view; and