ABOUND OF ffiSOPHAGliS—TI^EJIOIlRliAtiE—OPERATION. 2S7 manubrium sterni. (Eaopliagotomy was performed, but the foreign body could not be reached. The connective tissue between the oeso- phagus and trachea was carefully torn by the finger to the extent of about 3 centimetres, till the mediastinum was reached. The sharp end of the peach-stone was now felt, and the foreign body, having been brought into a favorable position, was pushed into the oesophagus and removed. The wound in the cesophagus healed within a fortnight. Removal of an artificial plate with false teeth from the oesophagus.—A lady in an epileptic fit swallowed a tooth-plate. At first it could not be felt from the mouth, but after some time could just be detected. At the end of about twenty-four hours Dr. Matthews succeeded in tilting up one end as it lay across the oesophagus, and then extracting it. ('Lancet,' May 13, 1871, 643.) Passage of an artificial tooth-plate along the alimentary canal.—Mr. Henry Smith was called to see a corpulent butcher who had swallowed an artificial plate, with two teeth, and projecting hooks on each side. Mr. Smith tried to withdraw the foreign body which he could just feel, but failed in his attempts, and therefore decided to push it into the stomach. This he accomplished. Nine days later the plate passed per anum. ('Lancet,' April i, 1871, 440.) Hemorrhage from internal ivouncl of oesophagus—operation.—Mr. Ann- andale records the following case:—A lady, aged 53, while dining, swal- lowed a bit of bone which she felt lodged in her throat. A few streaks of blood were noticed to pass by the mouth. The day after a small swelling formed over the inner border of the left sterno-mastoid, about the middle of the neck. On the fourth day this was still evident, hard to the touch, and about the size of half a small walnut. An ivory- headed probang passed down the oesophagus struck against some hard substance on the left side, immediately opposite the swelling in the neck. This hard substance could not again be felt. The pain and difficulty in swallowing had vanished. The next day only a slight sore- ness was felt in swallowing. On the twelfth day ha3morrhage occurred suddenly from the mouth. The blood brought up was arterial and un- mixed, except with a little saliva and mucous. The haemorrhage re- curred after some hours and it was decided to cut into the neck, with the hope of discovering and removing the source of the haemorrhage, which appeared to be connected with the lodgment of the foreign body in the oesophagus. An incision was made on the left side of the neck, as if for tying the common carotid below the omo-hyoid, and the artery ha\'ing been exposed, a ligature of catgut was passed loosely round in order to be in reserve. A careful dissection was then made to the inner side of the artery, so as to lay bare the oesophagus, with the result of exposing a wound of this canal. The wound was a quarter of an inch in length, situated in the left side, and passed completely through the walls of the canal; its edges were somewhat ragged, and a continuous oozing of arterial blood occurred from them. A very foetid odour was noticed. No foreign body could be detected. A small artery was found entering the oesophagus close to the wound. This artery passed up- wards from underneath the carotid, and was, from its situation and direction, considered to be a branch of the inferior thyroid artery. A