llliPORT ON PRACTJCAL MEDICINE. 54 and auggests, (i) that every evacuation, as soon as passed, should be disinfected witli carbolic acid. (2) That no surface-well water or pump-water, whether boiled or not, should be used in a district where there are any cases of typhoid fever, but that all drinking water should be obtained from some spring not liable to contagion. He points out the importance of not giving solid food till the temperatuK of the patient at 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. has remained, for two days at least, about the normal point, when we may be sure the ulcers have healed. In a long " Inquiry into the causes of Typhoid Eever, as it occurs in Massachusetts" ('Second Annual lleport of State Board of Health of Massachusetts,' J 871, p. no), it is concluded that " it is exceedingly probable that a rich and fertile soil on which decompositionable sub- stances are retained near the surface by any cause, whether a clay subsoil, or a ledge of rock, or a protracted drought, is a soil favorable to the production of this special disease." N. EatclifFe (' Lancet,' 1871, i, 760), inquiring into the outbreak of fever at New Barnet, found the sewage arrangements of the road, in which individuals were attacked, two of them fatally, to consist of four large cesspools for thirty or forty houses, or more. Two of these cess- pools were open and two covered, the two open ones recei\'ing the overflow from the latter, the fetid sewage ultimately finding its way by open trenches into the river Lea. Mayo ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' i87i,ii, 492) describes an arrange- ment of the same kind in a village near Oxford, in which an epidemic of typhoid fever had broken out. The inhabitants seem to be most filthy in all their habits. At the back of a house where the worst cases occurred ran a ditch into which the people of the hamlet threw all their slops. The drinking water of this cottage was obtained from a pump opposite. A drain, made of rough stones, brought the slops from two other cottages, and passed close to this pump, the distance from the centre of the pump (which stood over its well) to the middle line of the drain being two feet six inches. Lissauer ('Virch. Arch.,' liii, 266) gives his experience of the anti- pyretic (cold water) and the expectant treatment of typhoid, during the late campaign, at Metz, Compiegne, and Kouen. Under the former he lost 6 out of 97 (i. e. 6'18 per cent.), and under the latter i r out of 46 (i.e. per cent). At Kouen, from the unhealthy position of the hospital, 5 out of 13, treated on the expectant plan, died. The cases treated with cold water were severe throughout; those treated on the other plan were in great quantity lighter cases, so that the averages of mortality under the two can scarcely be compared. The bath was employed three times a day in those cases only in which the tempera- ture rose above 41° C. (10 5-8° f.). In the majority of cases two baths in the day were sufficient, especially if combined with large doses of quinine. He gives the temperatures of six cases in full, together with a chart of each. The cold-water treatment is also supported by Bohm and Michel, and by Binz and others, reference to whose papers will be found below. Scholz ('Dent. Arch.,' ix, 176) gives the results of the cold-water treatment of typhoid in 125 cases (82 males and 43 women). Of these