844 UEPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. to Dr. Charles Delstanche,* enters at length into his method of cataract extraction, for which he claims a large proportion of success. He dis- penses with a blepharostat, and never administers an anaesthetic. He does not use the upper section except for prominent eyes, and prefers the lower wherever the orbital fat is absorbed, or the eye, from any cause, deeply seated. He entrusts the upper lid to the care of an assistant, who is told not to elevate it too much, and himself steadies the globe with two fingers of the right or left hand, according to the side operated upon. He then introduces a knife, of the general model of that of Grraefe, but twenty-four millimetres long instead of thirty, and three broad instead of two and a half, at the junction of the lower with the middle third of the outer corneal margin, and carries it into the anterior chamber directed towards the pupil, or at an angle of 40° with the lower horizontal tangent of the cornea. AVhen the widest part of the blade has fairly entered the chamber he changes the direction of the point in such a manner as to make a counter-puncture opposite the puncture, the cutting edge being turned directly downwards. The counter-puncture being fully made, the cutting edge is turned forward till the flat of the blade makes an angle of 45° or 50° with the iris, and then the corneal section is completed by a gentle sawing movement. The capsule is next lacerated, and an attempt made to extract the lens by simple pressure and counter-pressure. If this should not succeed, or if the iris should protrude before the advancing lens, an iridectomy is performed, and the necessary pressure again employed. The external incision may be enlarged if necessary. Six hours after the operation the vn?iter drops in solution of atropine, and repeats the application every twelve hours, the lightly compressive bandage being changed each time. After three days the bandage is laid aside, but the atropine is continued for twelve days longer. The writer claims for his method the great simplicity of the operation, the almost constant preservation of the integrity of the iris, and a smaller degree of pain and distress to the patients, on account of the non-employment of blepharostat or fixation forceps. No statistics of the method are given. Dr. Martin, chef de clinique to Dr. de Wecker, publishesf a statistical report of the operations performed at the clinique during the second half of 1871. Among these were ninety-five for cataract, of which eighty-six were for spontaneous, five for traumatic, and four for con- genital cases. The spontaneous and the traumatic cases were all ope- rated upon after the method of von Graefe, with modifications as regards the section of the sclerotic and as regards the manner of opening the capsule. The section is based upon the fol- lowing rule:—The puncture and counter-puncture are made in the sclerotic tissue, a millimetre heyond the corneal boundary, upon a hori- zontal line two millimetres below the tipper corneal margin. The hiife is made to cut its loay out at the level of the superior corneal margin. In this way a flap is obtained, the summit of which corresponds exactly to that of the cornea, while its base, situated two millimi'tres lower, measures the whole width of the cornea at that level, with the addition * • Annales d'Oculistique,' 1871, ii, 202, t Ibid., 1872, i, 157.