312 REPORT ON SURGERY. which maybe called "humoral," although in ifc the nervous system still has a place, especially in the explanation of disturbances of motility, such as rigors. 2. With regard to the temperature in man during the first] hours after operation, Billroth recalls the fact that, in his first essay on traumatic fever, he stated that the temperature at first falls and then soon commences to rise rapidly. His examinations at tliat time were made on each case for three or four hours only; subsequently, however, he has noted the temperature continuously for periods varying from eight to twelve hours. He finds that the cases (twenty-one in number) can be arranged in three principal classes, i. Those (ten) in which the temperature remained below the normal (100'^ Fahr.) ; 2, those (six) in which the temperature rose slowly above the normal; and, 3, those (five) in which it rose rapidly, sometimes reaching, in a few hours, even 104° Fahr. In most of the cases the rise commences from half an hour to two hours after the operation, being, in rare in- stances, preceded by a fall, which probably often occurs before the observation commences, and escapes notice; while in some instances the rise of temperature is attended by intercurrent falls. These diff'er- ences cannot be accounted for by the nature of the injury and its im- mediate effects on the tissues ; the state of the temperature depends on other circumstances, which may be called accidental. Grreat loss of blood lowers the temperature. This has been proved experimentally by Weber, Frese, Kettler, and Bergmann. Chloroform also has the same eff'ect, as was pointed out in 1848 by Dumeril and Demarquay ; and the observation has been confirmed by Scheinesson, of Dorpat, by experiments described in an unpublished thesis, which Billroth has had an opportunity of reading. Pain, perhaps, also lowers the temperature, but in some cases it was attended with a rise. Rapid section of the large nerves, and their more or less abrupt laceration, as in the removal of tumours, may produce a depressing influence on the temperature, as is observed in shock. The exposure of the patient unclothed to the air for too long a time, especially in winter, in the operating theatre, is liable to produce a fall of temperature. To this. Spencer Wells attaches much importance in ovariotomy; and Billroth remarks that, since his attention was directed by Mr. Wells to the necessity of not allowing the temperature of the operating room to fall below 77° Fahr., he has never seen such marked collapse during and after ovariotomy as he formerly met with. In two cases observed by Billroth a temporary fall in the temperature, which had been high or rising, was produced by hjemorrhage : and in another instance of fever, daily variations were ob- served, which corresponded with those normally occurring in the healthy subject, there being a fall between 5 and 7 p.m. 3. In the third chapter, Billroth describes a series of researches on the ordinary tem- perature of the rectum in dogs. He found it to manifest frequent oscil- lations, which were proved, by the use of specially protected thermo- meters, not to be dependent on muscular action. 4. The influence of muscular action on the temperature is discussed in the fourth chapter. Very slight changes, if any, are produced iu the temperature of healthy men by muscular exercise; in animals, however, the effect is greater. The artificial production of tetanus in a limb gives rise, as shown by