CUOREA. 81 Chorea. Handfield Jones ('Med. Press and Cii'c.,' 1872, i, 24) records five cases of chorea ; in one girl tet. 7 years, and two, jet. 13, in each of whom the affection lasted six weeks ; in a girl of 18, iu whom its dura- tion was doubtful, and in whom there was a curious mingling of motor and mental disorders ; and in one boy set. 10 years, in wliom its dura- tion was about eleven weeks. These cases illustrate the following points, (i) The tendency of chorea proper—motor centre disorder— to be attended with an analogous state of the emotional or of the intel- lectual centres ; (2) its liability to occur in a modified form, and to be complicated with quasi-epileptic attacks ; (3) the absence of rheumatism or definite endocarditis in all the cases; (4) the varying duration and causation of chorea; (5) the certainty that the same remedy is not suitable to all cases ; (6) the increased excretion of urinary solids which not unlrequently occurs in chorea. Butlin communicates to the 'Lancet' (1871, ii, 576, 606) twelve cases of chorea in children between the ages of 7 and 10 years, treated with sulphate of zinc. Gray and TuckweU (ib., ii, 778) give a series of eighteen cases, six under the observation of the former, and twelve imder that of the latter. In none of these was any special treatment adopted from the first onset to the complete disappearance of the symptoms, calculated to influence the nervous system. Good diet, the better hygienic conditions of the infirmary, and peppermint water were the only means employed. The cases show well how remarkably chorea is liable to vary in its duration. The most protracted case in Gray's list lasted twenty weeks, the shortest six weeks; the longest of Tuckwell's cases seventeen weeks, the shortest six weeks. The average duration of Gray's six cases is ten weeks and one day; of Tuckwell's twelve cases, ten weeks and three days. These averages have a remarkable identity with the results obtained by the use of various drugs. Gray finds the average of seven cases, taken at random, and treated with arsenic, steel, &c., to be ten weeks and two days. The mean duration of eight cases treated in succession by Tuckwell with arsenic in gradually increasing doses, after Begbie's plan, was ten weeks and six days; the longest case lasting sixteen, the shortest seven weeks. HiUier puts the mean duration of thirty cases at " about ten weeks." See gives sixty-nine days as the average dura- tion of 117 cases. Buzzard ('Brit. Med. Joum.,' 1872, i, 342) showed to the Clinical Society a female set. 25, with atrophy of the right side of her face, after chorea. Spender, "Two Cases of Severe Chorea rapidly Cured by Arsenic," 'Brit. Med. Jonm.,' 1871, ii, 429. Andrews, " Case of' Chorea with Mitral Regurgitation, treated byConinm" (boy, set. 12), ib., i, 612. Lane, "Chorea arising from a blow," ib., 1872, i, 525. Sawyer, "Chorea following Acute Rheumatism," ib., ib., 527. Ogle, " Three Cases of Chorea (two girls, ajt. 14 and ig, and a boy, set. 18), ' Lancet,' 1871, ii, 541. Dickinson, " On Chorea," ib., i, 504. Hughlings Jackson, " Remarks on a Case of Chorea in a Dog," ib., 1872, i, 148. Radcliffc, " Case of Clonic Spasms, occurring only when the patient (girl, aot. 21) attempts to stand," ib., ib. 6