FEVER AFTER SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Symptoms of articular rheumatism, without any injury of the tissues. Aeeorcliuo' to Hueter the most simple result of the decomposition of pus is ulcerative destruction of the granulations, which manifests itself as diphtheritis, and, in an extreme stage, as hospital gangrene. Diph- theritis in its mildest form may be successfully combated by the use of carbolic acid in the proportion of one part in] twenty, applied four times daily. Hueter prefers the watery to the oily solution. In diphtheritic inflammation attacking the areolar tissue, spreading rapidly with redness and swelling, and leading to the formation of foetid pus, incisions must be made and the tracks of the wound freely irrigated. In the pulpy and gangrenous form of traumatic diphtheria Hueter prefers the actual cautery to all other treatment. He believes that while the cautery destroys the monads, its action extends beyond the tissues that are burnt. Much may be done, in Hueter's opinion, • to prevent erysipelas by the use of disinfectant dressings. He praises tar as a means of arresting the extension of erysipelas ; it is applied in the form of an ointment consisting of two parts of tar and one of lard, which is energetically rubbed in with the hand for four hours, and repeated two or three times. Other observers, however, have failed to find this method efficacious even though the inunction has been repeated twenty times. Fever following surgical operations.—Mr. Spencer Wells has given some clinical lectures on this subject (' Med. Times and Gazette,' Jan. 27 and April 27, 1872). In the first lecture he mentions three cases in which high temperature and other signs of fever were clearly due to inflammation and suppuration of ovarian cysts, or to decomposition of the fluid contents of the cysts, where the fever subsided almost imme- diately after the removal of the cysts, and the patients completely re- covered. In all these cases the fever was of the type now commonly termed pycemic. He then mentions a case of what might be termed urcemic fever in a patient, set. 16, admitted with what appeared to be an ovarian tumour. An exploratory incision was made, and Mr. "Wells at once came upon the caecum, its appendix and the ascending colon which had been pushed forwards by the cyst behind. He then knew (what was suspected before) that it was a case of hydronephrosis. The cyst was tapped and twelve pints of fluid removed. The opening in the cyst was fastened to the abdominal wall. Before the operation the temperature was 97'4°; afterwards it rose to 100*2°, 101-3°, and I02-4''-' at the end of ten hours—a rise of 5° in ten hours. The morn- ing after the operation the temperature was lower and she seemed better, then it rose again, more fluid was let out and a glass tube was inserted. On the second day, the temperature rose to 104" 2° in the morning, and 105-4° in the night. The third day in the afternoon it rose to 108-4° and at night it was 110°. She lived till noon of the fourth day, her temperature for some hours having been upwards of nr. ^Ir. Wells says, "Two very puzzling questions follow—First, how did the operation check the elimination of urea in this girl and lead to its presence in excess in her blood, or to the ammonia resulting from the decomposition of urea ? and secondly, how does uremia lead to fever heat or hyperpyrexia ?" The post-mortem showed the left