TlTMOUlig. spriuging from the pleura covering the lung and the diaphragm. They were demented together by very vascular adhesions, and there were numerous large and small prominences. The upper lobe of the lung contained a tumour the size of a fist, a cavity in which, the size of a walnut, contained serous fluid of a yellowish-green colour. On section the tuiuoiu-s were greyisli-white, and exuded a watery juice. In the lower lobe of the left lung were immense tumours, one reaching the size of a child's head. Another, the size of a nut, existed in the wall of the right ventricle, and projected into its cavity. The mediastinal glands were large and dark. A half-degenerated tumour, the size of a walnut, was found in tlie tongue. The spleen was enlarged, and con- tained two tumours. The mediastinal glands and the other abdominal organs were healthy. The microscopical characteristics—those of lym- pho-sarcoma—are given in full. In the second case, a man of sixty- nine, there was simple hyperplastic lymphoma of the mesenteric glands, with two tumours in the pylorus. The entire freedom of the thoracic and abdominal glands in the first case is remarkable. The writer con- cludes with the diagnosis between the scrofulous, leuksemic, and these new growths. In the second case there was no increase in the white blood-cells. Eoth (ib., liv, 254) records the occurrence of multiple lymphomata in a woman of fifty-three, who six months before death had been attacked with diphtheria of the fauces. Three months later she had catarrh of the bladder and of the bronchi. The autopsy showed great enlarge- ment of all the glands in the neck, the axilla, mesentery, pelvis, groin, &c., with enlargement of the spleen. The glands were soft and mar- row-like, and were of different sizes, from that of a walnut to a pigeon's egg. The whole intestinal canal was studded with_ numerous miliary deposits, consisting of lymph-corpuscles, situated in the submucous tissue; deposits of the same kind were found in the mucous membrane of the larynx, the pelvis of the kidneys, and the neck of the bladder. The kidneys were greatly enlarged, and contained grey miliary and larger masses, which, under the microscope, appeared as round cells in a vascular stroma. In the brain were numerous microscopical deposits of round cells in the interlobular connective tissue. There was no in- crease in the number of the white blood-cells. Birch-Hirschfeld (" Zur Cylindromafrage," ' Arch. d. Heilk,,' xii, 167) describes a peculiar tumour removed from the abdominal cavity of a man, v&t. 59, who had died of phthisis. It was the size of a fist, and in coimection with the base of the vermiform appendix, and sent three cylindrical processes with knobbed terminations into the cavity of the pelvis. The tumour and its microscopical characters are described at length ; and from the whole he concludes that the anastomosing net- work of which it was composed was the relic of obliterated vessels, and all the other growths in it products of changes in their adven- titia ; and that the hyaline degeneration which the growth had under- gone was caused by the deposit of (probably emigrated) lymph-cor- puscles, which had partly been transformed into spindle cells. The starting-point of the tumour must have been the vessels of the serous coat of the vermiform appendix and neighbouring parts. He refers