REPORT ON SURGERY. 816 protected against putrefactive changes. As soon as the pus passes beyond the immediate limit of the wound, forming a phlegmonous abscess, this must be opened; and, on the escape of the pus, the local swelling and the fever diminish. Tiiis opening cannot be made too soon, as it is impossible to knovf whether the case is to be one of simple phlegmon or of rapidly spreading gangrene. No other compli- cation in the ordinary course of a gunshot wound points to an intense poisoning so strongly as the acute septic phlegmon. When the track of the wound is lined with granulations, these form a barrier against the absorption of putrid matters ; under such circumstances, however, it may be broken through, giving rise, in the course of the healing of the wound, to the complication described by Billroth as secondary fever. In nearest relation to the septicopyjemic fever stand the com- plications arising from putrescence of pus. Hueter believes that diphtheritic disease of the wound (including hospital gangrane) and erysipelas arise from this source. In the early stage of progress of a wound, vibriones are probably the cause of the putrefactive process. They cannot exist in fluids rich in oxygen (of which the action of per- manganate of potash gives proof). Their action on the living tissues is probably prevented by the oxygen contained in these. In pus containing oxygen there appear animal organisms belonging to the genus Monas crepioscuhmi; in a chemical sense, these are sources of putrescence, inasmuch as they cause the breaking up of the more com2)lex combinations. These monads produce irritation and inflammation of the living tissues. As they can live in oxygenated fluids they may penetrate in vast numbers through the finest lymphatic passages into the blood, and may even appear in the urine. Hueter believes that traumatic diphtheritis and erysipelas are produced by the wandering of these monads into the li\dng tissues. These speculations of Hueter derive increased importance from the researches of von Recklinghausen, who, at a meeting of the Physico-medical Society of Wiirzburg in June, 1871, ascribed to the development of parasitic organisms the presence of multiple small purulent deposits in the lungs, kidneys, spleen, liver, heart, brain, and eye, which correspond with what had been described by Virchow as capillary embola. The organisms were those described by botanists as schizomycetes, zoogloea, or micrococcus ; and are distinguished from the detritus of tissues by their unchange- ability in acetic acid, glycerine, and solution of soda. They seem in all essential characters identical with the organisms described by Buhl, Oertel, and Nassiloff as occurring in diphtheria, and by Klebs in pyelonephritis. They occur, not only in the blood-vessels, but also in the alveoK of the lungs and in the urinary tubules. They were much less abundant in the arteries than in the veins. The absence of changes in the endocardium contradicted the idea of an embolic origin. Recklinghausen showed these purulent deposits with micrococci in pyfemia, typhus, and phthisis, with hectic occurring four weeks after delivery, in cases, therefore, where previous lesion of tissues had aftorded an opportunity for the introduction of germs. Small myo- cardial and nephritic deposits with micrococci were found in the body pf a 'boj, eleven j^ears old, who died at the end of three days with