251 DISLOCATIOX OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. the sacrum, and becomes entangled on it. If the ilium be thrown a little higher up, this tuberosity lodges in the digital fossa of the sacrum, and the displacement may now be regarded as complete. In both dei^rees of this dislocation, the ilium is rotated from within outwards and from before backwards, to a degree proportionate to the amount of the laceration of the soft parts; its posterior border thus approaches the middle line, while the internal, iliac fossa is turned more or less directly forwards, and the external one backwards. The ischiatic spine, in the first degree of this dislocation, is carried backwards and inwards towards the edge of the sacrum, and the tuberosity of the ischium approaches the coccyx. When the dislocation is complete, which rarely occurs, the upper half of the ilium is carried backwards and the lower forwards; the ischiatic spine and the tuber ischii pass considerably in front of the edges of the sacrum and coccyx. M. Salleron believes that the condition described by Key, in which the finger could be intro- duced into the space between the sacrum and ilium, must be of extremely rare occurrence, and must, if it occur, be attended with very great dis- turbance. In most cases the bones remain in contact. In the forms of dislocation of the ilium here described, the pubic bone of the affected side is carried outwards and a little forwards, never inwards. When the ilium is dislocated directly forwards, the upper half is tilted forwards and the lower backwards. In the less complete degree of this disloca- tion, the iliac tuberosity lies on the articular surface of the sacrum, but, in the more complete form, it is thrown on the anterior edge of the articulating surface. In the more simple forms of dislocation ibrwards or backwards, the soft parts are more or less lacerated, giving rise to extravasation of blood along the courses of the large vessels and nerves. In the second degree the large vessels and nerves, though stretched, may remain entire, but if the displacement be great they may be lacerated. Causes and mechanism.—Considerable violence is necessary to pro- duce displacement of the pelvic bones, on account of the size and extent of the articulating surfaces, the strength and shortness of the ligaments, and the very limited amount of motion in the parts. To produce dis- location of the sacro-iliac joint upwards and backwards, the displacing force must act along an axis passing through the tuber ischii or the acetabulum, and ending in the centre of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. In luxation of the ilium forwards, the traumatic cause must act along an axis passing through the posterior, superior, iliac spine and the centre of the sacro-iliac articulation. To produce dislocation of both iliac bones backwards, the force must act on the spinous processes of the sacrum, at the apex of an angle of which the sides pass forwards and outwards through the centre of the sacro-iliac articulation. Dislocation of the pelvic symphysis is produced by force acting on the tuberosities of the ischium or on the acetabula, so as to increase the distance between them. Symptoms and diagnosis.—Dislocation of the pubic symphysis is, when the displacement is considerable, attended with much pain in con- sequence of the rupture of the ligaments. The existence of the displace- ment can generally be recognised by digital examination. In luxation superior spine of the ilium is placed relatively higher and situated of the sacro-iliac articulation backwards, the antero-