425 THE INFANT. existence of inflamuiation. This explains the frequent lisBinorrhages noticed in such cases. Any local aj)plication to be of value should be applied to the entire uterine cavity, as the chief seat of the abnor- mal state is the body of the uterus. "(' Obst. Trans.,' 1871.) V.—The Infant. Dr. J. Gregory ('Arch, fiir G-ynak.,' ii, i, 1871), after relating several observations on the loeiglit of infants, concludes that—(i) All children decrease in weight during the first few days after birth. (2) They begin to lose in weight during the first hours of extra-uterine life. (3) The duration of the decrease is generally two days in healthy, full-time children, brought up at the breast. (4) In children brought up by hand and in the premature the duration of the decrease is from half a day to a day, and from two to three days longer. (5) Full-time children brought up at the breast increase in weight after this directly and tolerably regularly, and generally attain at the end of the seventh day to their original weight. (6) Immature children nourished by the breast have a varying increase, and even on the eighth day usually only make up half their sustained loss. (7) There is gene- rally no actual increase in the first eight days in children brought up by hand. Since the loss is continually in greater proportion, they lose in weight, therefore, also after the beginning of the first increase. This applies to the premature children in this category in a greater degree than to the mature ones. (8) Nutrition is more active in boys than in girls, whence it follows that boys begin to increase comparatively earlier, and that more per cent, of boys than of girls in a similar period exceed their original weight. (9) There is no relation between the falling off of the navel string and the commencement of the increase in weight. (10) Nourishing support to the lying-in woman has a favor- able reaction on the child, shortening the period of loss of weight, and rendering the increase more regular and greater. "Wernich, from observations founded on 1889 births confirms the statements of Hecker and Duncan, and says—(i) That the weight of the foetus increases with the age of the mother till she has attained the age of thirty-three, and that the length of the foetus increases up to the forty-fourth year. (2) Each new infant outweighs and is larger than the preceding one. (3) Long intervals between the pregnancies are more favorable than short ones. (4) "Women who have menstru- ated early are confined for the first time of a more vigorous child than thoae in whom menstruation was late in appearing. (' Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg,' Oct. 1871.) Stillborn infants (an epistle directed to Dr. C. Ludwig, by Dr. Schultze, Jena, 1871).—The condition of a stillborn infant is, accord- ing to Dr. Schultze, in all cases one of asphyxia. The stillborn sometimes present an anasmic, and at others an apoplectic condition, but under both conditions the still birth is one of actual asphyxia. The mass of blood, in the one instance, is insuQicient to enable it to take up and convoy an adequate amount of oxygen to the medulla oblongata, the excita- bility of which is, in consequence, reduced, and finally extinguished.