MEBICINE AND THERAPEUTICS. 36t a sharp constrictive or penetrating pain in the eye, such as to render its movements very painful; and if the seat of mischief, as determined by the ophthalmoscope, be sufficiently near the equator to allovf the corresponding part of the ocular tunics to be reached from without when the eye is strongly turned in the opposite direction, it will be found that this part is acutely sensitive to the touch, like the ciliary region in cyclitis. Little by little the various symptoms diminish or increase, until they terminate in a fixed scrotoma, centric or excentric, according to the position of the lesion, and which, when centric, is often attended by the apparent distortion of objects in the portion of the field around the fault, in consequence of alterations in the plane of the retinal sur- face. The difterential diagnosis from disseminated choroiditis, of which the malady is, indeed, but a variety, rests on the absence of spots on other portions of the field. At one period, when the retina is elevated by hyperaemia or effusion, it might be possible to suspect the early stage of a choroidal tumour. But such growths are always attended by retinal detachment, the more extensive as they are more central, and this element in the case being wholly wanting, error would be impos- sible. The causes of circumscribed choroiditis are far from being as well defined as those of the disseminated variety. In the cases seen by the author he has never been able to discover indications of syphilis. Cer- tain conditions, however, seem to be always associated with the disease, namely, habitual constipation, suppression or irregularity of the menses in women, suppression of a hsemorrhoidal flux in men. Indications of a tendency to congestion about the head have been met with in the majority of cases, and in some of the women there has been chlorosis. Lastly, when the malady attacks the posterior pole, it has usually been associated with myopia. The course of the disease may be either rapid and, so to speak, acute, or it may be slow and chronic. In the former case it may pass through all its periods in the course of a few weeks, but its ordinary duration is three months, or even more. If left to itself it would always terminate in circumscribed atrophy of the choroid, which would injure vision by producing a permanent scotoma. Only when arrested by treatment does it terminate in a restoration to the healthy condition. In respect of treatment the author first advises that any general cause of the malady should be sought for, and should receive such atten- tion as it may require. Besides this, he mentions four remedies which he has been accustomed to employ with benefit. The first is depletion by Heiu'teloup's leech from the temple, in a quantity proportionate to the severity of the aff'ection and the state of the patient. This has proved most useful at the beginning of the disorder, and after the de- pletion the patient should always be kept for from twenty-four to thirty-six hours in absolute darkness, a precaution the neglect of which invalidates the benefit of the leeching. The second means is the use of Neapolitan ointment, by friction, to various parts of the body, the quantity used at once varying from 50 centigrammes to 2 grammes, and the application being made night and morning. The third is the admi- nistration of Sirop de Gibert, which in these cases, as in the disorders