219 EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. ditions as appropriate for excision :—(i). Destruction of the articular cartilages without the supervention of anchylosis, will always justify operative interference by excision. The state of the general health should primarily determine the necessity for excision, in all cases, and not any arbitrary consideration of the period of the disease and the condition of the joint. Whenever, therefore, the general health is manifestly failing, whatever may be the stage of the hip- joint disease, excision should be resorted to and without further delay. On the other hand, the most extreme state of constitutional exhaus- tion, previous to the operation of excision, may be followed by re- covery after removal of the diseased bone, (2). Osseous anchylosis with malposition will not justify the peril of attempted excision. Section of the neck of the femur is practicable. (3). In the femur, the diseased portion, removed, may include the head, neck, great tro- chanter and shaft, entering even into the medullary canal. In the acetabulum, the diseased portion piay include the whole floor of this cavity, and even extend to the adjoining portions of the ilium, pubes, and ischium. The acetabulum not unfrequently recovers itself, when the diseased head of the femur has been removed from further contact and attrition. (4). Dislocation is unfavorable for excision, as indicating an advanced stage of the disease constitutionally. The significance of this local condition, will, therefore, diminish in proportion to the absence of marked hectic and emaciation. Operation.—Mr. Gant prefers a T-shaped incision. Excision of the trochanter major may, occasionally, prove sufficient. The after-treatment is very simple. The limb may be laid straight in bed and retained in position, only, by a small side- pillow, or roller sand-bag, without absolutely fixing the thigh. The section-end of the femur is drawn up by muscular action and hitches just above the acetabulum, which, having been generally more or less superficially carious, is thus left to recover itself, undisturbed by any attrition of the femoral end of the bone, while a new and firmly fibrous, movable joint forms, where the end of the bone rests above the ace- tabulum. There is very little tendency to displacement. The slight extra shortening, which results from leaving the limb to itself, is unim- portant, compared with the advantages in regard to the acetabulum, and the formation of the best kind of new joint requisite for the func- tional use of the limb, in progression, as well as for support. Results.— Mr. Gant gives Dr. Hodges' and Mr. Hancock's statistics, tabulates those of Dr. Good of America (112 cases), and has collected recent ones from the various hospitals. He deduces the three following general conclusions respecting the rate of mortality, (i.) In diff'erent countries a very different mortality, being highest in Trance and lowest in England. (2.) An average death-rate of i in 4 or 5 (about the same as that of knee-joint excision for disease). (3.) Very different death- rates in the hands of individual surgeons ; no mortality; i in 2, 3, 5 ; 2 in 3 ; 4 in 5, or even total mortality, probably owing to the severity of the cases selected. The mortality is less than half that of hip-joint amputation. State of the limb.— Of Dr. Hodges' 111 cases, 56 re- covered, "with more or less useful limbs." Of Dr. Good's 112 cases, 52 recovered; 42 of these patients could use the limb, and in tho