DISEASES OF JOINTS, ETC. 335 inclined backwards. A portion of it was removed with good effect; the breathin<^, however, did not become quite free, as there was paresis of the vocal cords, which yielded, however, to the application of elec tricity continued for some time. The canula could not be removed, as this was in a few hours followed by renewed shortness of breath. The patient, however, gained the power of walking and ascending stairs with the canula closed; and in time she learned to introduce bougies herself through the glottis. Joint disease, necrosis.—Mr. Treves narrates some interesting cases of necrosis of the ends of bones leading to joint disease, and in which after the removal of the sequestra the latter subsided. A boy, set. ii, was admitted with disease of the left knee following necrosis of the end of the femur. He also suffered from necrosis of the lower end of the right tibia. The disease probably followed on an attack of rheumatic fever eleven months previously. The knee was much swollen, waa contracted, and there were sinuses. After five months'residence iiithe hospital at Margate, Mr. Treves made an incision below and on the inner side of the joint, and removed in three fragments a large seque- strum, which had become separated from the lower end of the femur. It was between two and three inches long, and about an inch in diameter, and corresponded to the lower third of the shaft of the femur; passing downwards it had been discharged through the con- dyles and the knee-joint. Becovery with useful limb followed. Sequestra had previously been removed from the tibia on the inner side. A boy, set. 7, had disease of the knee and a sinus in the popliteal space, probably of twelve months' duration. After about nine months' residence, Mr. Treves removed a sequestrum from the back of the outer condyle of the femur. The boy was discharged able to walk on the limb. A boy, set. 10, was admitted with disease of the hip. A sinus, on the front and outer side, led to bare bone. At the end of about nine months a sequestrum was removed from the inner side of the joint, the sinus having passed under the femoral vessels and opened on the inner side. The child did well. A boy, set. 7, had disease of the ankle. After seven months a sinus on the outer side was enlarged, and a small sequestrum, which had separated from the lower end of the tibia towards its fibular side, and lay in contact with the joint, waa removed through the joint. Four months later the child could walk with ease. The average time required for the separation of the sequestrum was about eighteen months. ('Lancet,' Nov. 18, 1871, 712,) JJisease of joints from continued rest. — Dr. Menzel writes on this subject in the 'Archiv fur Klin. Chirurgie,' 1871. He remarks that Cloquet and other authors observed some time ago that ankylosis was sometimes the result of prolonged disuse of joints. The earlier stages of the condition, of which ankylosis is the termination, were first observed by Teissier and Bonnet, in the examination of six individuals who had suffered from fractures of the lower limbs, and had thereby been prevented for long periods from using the joints. They found in the joints bloody synovia, swelling, serous infiltration of the synovial membrane, and ulceration of the cartilages. Menzel has tested tho