408 REPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. podalic version in preference to the use of the forceps, and he con- cludes that the operation of podalic version should always be regarded, not as one of choice, but as one of necessity. It is fraught with danger to the infant and to the mother in all complicated cases; it demands great skill and experience for its execution; numerous, and often unexpected, difficulties are apt to be interposed, and yet the time allotted is exceedingly short. The whole process of descent must be accomplished in a few minutes, or the child, for whose benefit these risks are incurred, will perish. Professor Hodge maintains that in head-last labours simple tractile force should not be the sole recourse of the practitioner, but that flexion of the head should be insured and maintained. ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' July, 1871.) Dr. Matthews Duncan contributes an elaborate paper on ihe curves of the developed genital passage. The first curve which be mentions is that said to be at the brim of the pelvis, with its convexity downwards and backwards. He discusses the views of Schatz and Schultze on this point, and concludes that this curve does not exist. If it does exist we must admit that the advance of the child's head is impeded, not only by friction and imperfect dilatation, but that a new difficulty is introduced to its transit, namely, the difierence between driving a body thi'ough a curved and a straight passage. If this curve be admitted, the axis of the genital passage, regarded in the antero-posterior vertical plane, has the shape of a Eoman S; but the author thinks that we are nearer the truth in adopting the view that in this plane the genital passage has only one curve, having the concavity of its axis looking forwards. The second curve is also at the brim, and is indicated by the deflection of the uterus from the mesial line to the right or to the left. The author gives the results of some experiments made to calculate the amount of deflection, and he states that the angle of deviation of the axis of the uterus from the axis of the brim has important physiolo- gical and practical bearings, though, as yet, but little worked out. The most interesting application of it is to assist in accounting for the pro- duction of face cases. The third curve is the most extensive and best known. It is the great curve in the antero-posterior vertical plane, which begins above the middle of the third bone of the sacrum and extends through the outlet of the ligamentous pelvis to the outlet from the soft parts. In connection with this curve the synclitic and allied movements of the foetal head during its progress are to be studied. The author shows that Schultze's recommendation to facilitate the advance of the foetal head after it has reached the floor of the pelvis by extension of the spine (this extension he believes increasing the poste- rior obliquity of the axis of the uterus, and therefore of the force of labour as exerted on this part) is founded upon what he (Dr. Duncan) rec^ards as a misapprehension of the conditions of this curvature. ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' March 2, 1872.) Prof. Trenholme writes on irregular contractions of the uterus, and states that in such cases he has found adhesions existing between the decidua and the uterine surface at term. He attributes the irregular contraction to laceration of the muscular fibres at the point of adhe- sion, the parts lacerated acting as direct excitants of the spasm of