304 cyst as far as possible out of the abdomen and apply a clamp to its neck; or to apply a clamp temporarily, cut away the cyst, sear the cut edges with the cautery and return the mass into the abdomen; or instead of the cautery to use ligatures for the purpose of restraining hsBmorrhage from the cut edges of the cyst; or, finally to stitch the edges of the cyst to the wound in the abdomen and leave the cavity of the cyst exposed. I have no doubt of the superiority of the first method when it is practicable, that is, when the neck of the cyst is thin enough to be embraced in the clamp. The internal surface of the cyst is thus brought into contact and may adhere and obliterate the cavity, as seems to have occurred in our patient. If this does not take place, at any rate the resulting inflammation during the healing of the wound will probably exclude the mass from the peritoneal cavity, just as effectually as if the edges were stitched to the wound ; whilst the plan is free from the dangers incurred by leaving the remains of a suppurating cyst free in the pelvis, and those resulting from the irritation of ligatures in the pelvic cavity." Mr. Wells relates a case in which the ligatures set up mischief. " The case before us was an example of complete, and, I must allow, unexpected success. I ex- pected that when the clamj) and pins had been removed a suppurating sinus would be left proceeding from the interior of the cyst, which would only gradually dry up, if at all. Such a result would not, how- ever, be inconsistent with good health and activity." At the end of a year the patient remained quite well. The cicatrix was quite sound and free from irritation, with no perceptible swelling beneath it. ('Med. Chir. Trans.,' Iv, 195.) Peritoneal inflammatory cyst resembling an ovarian tumour.—Dr. W. L. Atlee records the case of a married woman, who at her last con- finement, five months previously, had been discovered to suffer from a tumour on the right side of the uterus. Some days after childbirth she was seized with rigors followed by fever and supposed peritonitis, and a rapid development of the tumour, with great constitutional dis- turbance and emaciation. "When Dr. Atlee saw the patient she was larger than a woman at full term. Notwithstanding the case was very unfavorable for operation, in consequence of the acuteness of the original attack, the rapidity of the development, the pelvic complication, the dis- placement of the uterus, and the general condition of the patient, it was determined to make an exploratory operation, as it was believed at the time that the tumour was ovarian. An incision was made, and a cyst found, which was not ovarian, but came from the pelvis. The cyst was laid open, and fifteen pints of greenish pus and numerous large, stringy clots of fibrinous matter let out. The patient died on the third day. " After the operation T supposed that the original tumour was a pedun- culated, uterine fibroid tumour, that inflammation had supervened, and that an abscess had formed within it, which had caused it to partake of the characteristic signs of a unilocular ovarian cyst. Subsequent experience, however, satisfied me that this last opinion was erroneous, and that the tumour originated in the pelvis through inflammation localised in the peritoneum, agglutinating the serous surfaces, and forming pockets wherein to receive the resulting fluids of this inflamma-