ACUPRESSURE. ]97 Acupressure.—Prof. Pirrie writes on this subject in the ' Lancet,' ii, 1871. Having, since his former communication, nearly doubled his experience, and feeling fully convinced as to the efiBcacy of acupressure, he is anxious to see it more generally adopted. Three modes only are required ; they are now named Gircmnclusion, Torsoclusion, and Retro- elusion. In the first method, a pin and a loop of inelastic wire are required, in the other two, only a pin. Gircumclusion consists in enter- ing a pin in the tissues, a line or two to one side of the artery, pushing it behind and causing its point to emerge a little beyond the vessel; passing a loop of inelastic iron wire over the point of the pin, bringing the wire over the track of the artery and behind the stem of the pin, drawing it sufficiently tight to close the vessel, which is proved by the arrest of the haemorrhage, and fixing it by a single twist around the pin. The slight amount of direct aud continuous pressure required to produce perfect arrest of circulation through an artery is remarkable. Of all methods of acupressure this is the best; it is perfectly reliable, it is most generally applicable, it may be performed in an amazingly short time, and, like the other methods, in ordinary circumstances with- out the aid of an assistant. When the artery is to be relieved from pressure the head of the pin must be gently twirled, and having been thus loosened, may be pulled out with the greatest ease without caus- ing any pain; after which, the loops, being liberated, can be readily withdrawn. Toi-soclusion is the " Aberdeen" method, or the method by the twist. It consists of two stages. A pin is thrust into the tissues close to the mouth of a vessel, pushed along in its direction for a short distance; then, secondly, a quarter turn is given to the pin, so as to place its emerged extremity, above, and at right angles to the artery; it is pressed well down against the small portion of tissue between the instrument and the artery, and the point is sent, for some distance, into the tissues beyond the artery, for the purpose of securing the pin in position and. of maintaining the twist. This is the simplest, the easiest, and the quickest method, and is perfectly efficient. There can be but little molecular injury or straining of tissues, and by the gentlest twirl and traction the pin can be easily withdrawn, with extremely little, if any, discomfort to the patient. Reiroclusion, so named in consequence of the pin passing ultimately behind the artery, is a convenient mode of securing vessels of small, or very moderate size. In the first step, the pin is entered in the mus- cular tissue, a little to one side of the artery, held almost flat upon the wound, caused to emerge and passed in front, across, and a little beyond the track of the artery. Only a few muscular fibres are raised upon the pin, and it is caused to emerge before being sent across the track of the artery. In the second step, the head of the pin is made to describe the greater part of a semicircle, so as to be placed nearly flat on the opposite side of the wound; its point is then sent behind the artery, in the con- trary direction to that in which it passed in the first movement, and pressed on until it is fixed in the tissues beyond the vessel. Eigures are given. Experience has shown that in ordinary circumstances where acupres-