REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 474 Jedda. The disease appeared at Gonfudali among troops recently arrived from Constantinople, and it prevailed chiefly among the garri- son.' Cases subsequently occurred at Jedda and Yembo towards the close of the year. The source of the remarkable diffusion of cholera in Europe during 1869, 1870, and 1871, is a question of considerable interest, and of im- portant practical bearing. Dr. Pelikan, the Director of the Imperial Medical Department of Eussia, is of opinion that the diifusion was not a new epidemic, but that it was a recrudescence of the epidemic of 1865, an opinion which is shared by Dr. Fauvel.* Mr. Radcliffe is unable to accept this theory as sufficient to explain all the phenomena of the diffusion. He calls attention to the fact tbat this diffusion was pre- ceded by the most considerable development of cholera in North Persia, particularly in the Caspian provinces of the kingdom, that had occurred for several years. Previous outbreaks of cholera in North Persia of like extent had been invariably followed or accompanied by the appear- ance of the disease in Russia. The history of cholera in Persia since 1865 is of much interest in relation to the subject under consideration. The persistence and recurring activity of cholera in Persia from 1866 to 1871, although paralleled by previous periods of long-continued pre- valence of the disease—for example, from 1851 to 1861—have led some observers on the spot to question whether the malady is not becoming naturalised in Persia. Prom 186 j to 1868 the general movement of cholera in Persia had been from west to east. With the return of a band of pilgrims from Meshed in July, 1868, when cholera raged with great violence, a reverse movement began, and with it indications of greater diffusiveness of the malady. This diffusion, in the course of 1869, spread over the greater portion of Northern, "Western, and Central Persia, and throughout Irak-Arabi, in the pashalik of Bagdad. Mr. Eadcliffe is of opinion that the prevalence of cholera in Persia cannot be rightly studied without, at the same time, a study of the prevalence of the disease in India. Now, in 1867, cholera, which had broken out with much fierceness among the multitude of pilgrims assembled at Hurdwar for the great annual religious Hindu fair held there, followed in the track of the pilgrims returning northwards into Afghanistan, and towards the close of the year it was prevalent at Cabul. In 1869 it again became epidemic over the whole of the Bombay Presidency and Northern India, and spread anew into Af- ghanistan. The great trade route between Persia and India through Afghanistan, by way of Herat to Meshed, has been the track chiefly fol- lowed in previous invasions of Persia by cholera migrating from Northern India ; and Meshed, from its large commerce, as the principal centre of trade between the two countries and Afghanistan, and also from its being the focus of a great pilgrimage from all parts of Persia, has always played a very important part in the diffusion of cholera when the disease has been introduced there. Mr. Eadcliffe thinks that the outbreak of cholera at Meshed in 1868, and the subsequent diffusion of the disease from that city was more pro- * ' Bulletin de I'Academie de Medecine,' xxxvi, 694.