REPORT ON SURGERY. 262 Local reaction sets in later and more slowly after gunshot wounds, and has not the same tendency to advance as after other injuries. A num- ber of patients, indeed, die of septicajmia after gunshot wounds; but, in these cases, there are almost always found purulent deposits around the ends of the bones, presenting a much more limited character than the diffused deposits met with after compound fractures in civil practice. The comparatively small amount of injury of the soft parts, and the less extensive, local reaction, must have a favorable influence on primary amputation in the field. But, leaving this subject, the difference in the mortality after intermediate amputation in civil and in military practice is noteworthy, and has been noticed by Billroth as well as by Volkmann. Amputation performed as late as about the sixth day after the injury, for gunshot wound, is in many cases as successful as primary ampu- tation. .But after this comes a period extending to the eighth week, in which extensive inflammation prevails, and (at least as regards the thigh) a patient operated on in this stage very rarely survives. The discussion which followed the reading of Dr. Volkmann's paper before the Surgical Congress in Berlin is reported, at length, in the ' Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.'for May 6, 1872. Dr. von Langenbeck, the pre- sident, could not agree that infiltration of the wounded parts does not occur to the same degree in military, aa in civil practice. In extensive, gunshot fractures of the femur, at least, swelling and all the symptoms of sepsis often appear within twenty-four hours ; so rapidly, indeed, as scarcely to allow time for primary amputation pi'operly so-called. To this he was disposed to attribute the great mortality following the operation. He agreed with Dr. Yolkmann that the different amount of danger in civil and military practice was due to th^relative amount of injury of the bone and of the soft parts. Injuries from cannon balls or fragments of shells may very closely resemble certain injuries occurring from accidents in civil life. But there is a great diff'erence in the result between an entire separation or a mere crushing of the soft parts. Laceration of the soft parts by splinters of shells are attended with relatively small danger, even when the bones are not injured; and, when the bones are injured, death occurs at a later pei'iod than in civil practice. Cases where the soft parts were contused by cannon balls without a large open wound, were, in his opinion, much more liable to septic infiltration than those in which the soft parts were extensively laid open. Dr. Bardeleben thought that Dr. Volkmann attached too little importance to the injury of the bones. Dr. Busch had already- noticed the greater mortality after severe injuries of the leg in civil than in military practice. Eeferring to injuries of the knee, he remarked that severe wounds from axes, &c., often occurred in civil practice, and might be compared with gunshot wounds. As far as he knew, more than half the cases of knee-joint injury treated conserva- tively in military surgery were successful; but this fell far short of civil practice, where he could remember only two deaths in a number of injuries 'of the knee that had come under his notice. He agreed with Dr. Langenbeck as to the frequency of purulent oedema after gunshot wounds, and had been struck with the number of cases of this which he saw at Mctz, even after resection of the elbow and shoulder joints. Dr.