UBPORT ON SURGERY. 294 —" la this, as in so many other cases of intestinal obstruction, it was not possible to determine accurately the cause of the disease. The history of the attack pointed to a sudden closure of the calibre of the bowel, and probably to the small intestine as its seat; wliile the fact that mucus and blood were passed on the third day was in favour of the existence of an intussusception, and of its having become strangulated as soon as formed. The remarkable feature in the case, however, is the success of the energetic treatment which Mr. Brookhouse adopted. It can hardly be doubted that the life of the patient was saved by the kneading of the belly carried out by his medical attendant, and so satisfactory an issue in this case may well encourage other surgeons to adopt a similar procedure. Tet it cannot be denied that such forcible manipulation of the abdomen would, in many instances, involve great risks of tearing through parts softened by inflammation, or even sloughing, and might thus counteract the curative processes of nature. It can scarcely be said that there was anything in the symptoms in INIr. Bi'ookhouse's case that indicated the special applicability of kneading ; nor does the success of the treatment enable a more accurate diagnosis as to the nature of the intestinal lesion to be given than had been given before it was tried. The case still remains very obscure in this respect." (' Lancet,' July 27, 1872, in.) A case is recorded which came under the care of Mr. Waren Tay, at the London Hospital. A man, set. 49, who ■was apparently in good health, was seized while in the street, at five o'clock in the morning, with acute pain in the epigastrium. He soon vomited and continued to do so. Thirty-six hours later the vomiting became stercoraceous, and seven or eight hours later he was admitted. He continued to vomit stercoraceous matter repeatedly; he was in great pain (referred to the right side and above the umbilicus), and appa- rently in an urgent condition of collapse. No hernia could be ascer- tained. There was no local swelling or tenderness to aid in the formation of an accurate diagnosis. There was no history of any pre- vious attack of any sort. Some sudden displacement or knotting of intestine seemed indicated. The man's symptoms were so urgent that the question of gastrotomy had been entertained. It was not thought he would live through the night. Three washhand basinfuls of injection were thrown up, and then chloroform was given, the abdomen kneaded, and the man was also inverted and sliaken. When he recovered ft-om the chloroform he said he was relieved. Owing to the urgency of the previous symptoms, a consultation was held a couple of hours later; it was then manifest, however, that he was much better; no further vomiting occurred (save slightly once), and the man quickly and tho- roughly recovered. The nature of the case did not admit of any diagnosis being made ; ibut the case is important from the urgency of the°symptoms, which were so rapidly relieved. The enema visibly dis- tended the abdomen, and the obstruction could not have been in the large intestine. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Dec. 14, 1872.) Intestinal obstruction.—Mr. Bryant writes on this subject (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' March 16, 30, April 29). He details a number of very interesting cases. Mr. Bryant relates cases in which he has performed lumbar colotomy, and remarks on the kind of cases adapted