llEPORT ON SURGERY. 246 180 parts o£ water. The fluid was thrown in per rectvm by means of Pravaz's syringe. The first patient died a fortnight after the treat- ment was commenced, of old-standing cystitis and pericystitis, with pulmonary oedema. The injection did not appear to have had any effect on the prostate. In the second case the solution used for injec- tion consisted of 60 parts of iodine and 4 of iodide of potassium in 102 of water. It produced prostatic abscess, which spread into the rectum, and the patient had epididymitis for some days. The lobe of the prostate, which was enlarged to the size of a walnut, was entirely reduced in size. In the discussion which followed the reading of Dr. Heine's paper (see ' Berliner Med. Wochenschr.,' July 8, 1872) Dr. Billroth said that he had tried parenchymatous injections in the treat- ment of tumours, but the result had been negative, and he for some months desisted from their use. Having heard, however, of the injection of bronchocele and lymphoma with tincture of iodine by Liicke, of Bern, and of the observations made by R. Demene, of Bern, he determined to give the plan another trial. His late assistant, Dr. Czerny, made a number of experiments on the injection, in cases of strumous enlargements, tumours of the lymphatic glands, and caucer, of solutions of nitrate of silver, chloride of gold, perchloride of iron, carbolic acid, gastric juice, &c. The result, sometimes, was the forma- tion of a small abscess, which left a little scar, but had no influence on the growth of the tumours. In some instances, the result was a rapid increase of the tumour, and, in others, no result at aU was obtained. Billroth also related a case in which a single injection of alcohol in a case of strumous disease of the lymphatic glands was followed by sloughing and death. Supra-sternal luxation of the clavicle.—Prof R. W. Smith records the following case, accompanied by two illustrations. A man, set. 60, fell down from and was run over by a vehicle he was driving. He was found to have sustained a compound luxation of the astragalus of the right foot outwards. The bone was easily replaced. The sternal end of the left clavicle was dislocated. The shoulder had fallen in, towards the mesial line, so far that the end of the clavicle was pressing strongly on the trachea, causing a very great amount of dyspnea. It formed a very striking projection in front of the trachea, giving to the sternal portion of the mastoid muscle an arched line; it was a complete luxation. In a sitting position the dyspnoea and dysphagia were extreme. When the man was placed in a recumbent position the bone no longer pro- jected, but it still remained above its proper level. The man died on the eleventh day. When the integuments were removed from the sternal region, the end of the left clavicle was seen lying above the sternum, beyond the centre of which it had so far passed as to be in contact with the inner edge of the right sterno-mastoid muscle. The sternal portion of its own muscle crossed in front of it at some distance external to its articular surface, was arched forwards and in a state of tension, while the ckvicular portion was relaxed. Posteriorly, the bone rested on the sterno-hyoid muscles and the front of the trachea. The which, according to Squire, contains one part of iodine in seventeen of rectified spirit.