95 SPINAL Al''l'£CTIONS. as to the order of succession iu the attacked limbs. Eh^ctrical contrac- tility is diminished or abolished in the affected muscles, very soon after the ouset of the paralysis, and they are usually the seat of the same fibrillar contractions observed in progressive muscular atrophy. After the general sketch of the disease, he proceeds to discuss the different varieties of it, and its diagnosis, giving some cases in illustration. The article concludes at last (xix, 191) with its treatment. Charcot (" Des troubles trophiques musculaires consecutifs aux lesions de lamoelle epini^reet dubulbe rachidien," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1871, 458) divides irritative spinal lesions into two groups. In the first, the nu- trition of the muscles is not directly modified; and the pathological change is limited to the white substance, or, at most, to the region of the anterior horns, leaving the multipolar cells untouched. This is the case in a more or less degree in the different forms of sclerosis. The second group comprehends the affections of the spinal cord in ■which the nutrition of the muscles is aflected to a greater or less extent. This group is again subdivided. The first division contains those affections which occur as deposits, or diffused, acute or subacute, of both white and grey substance, but especially of the latter. They are usually followed by profound disturbance of the electrical contractility, and rapid muscular atrophy; as seen in acute myelitis, in spinal apo- plexy, and in certain cases of fracture and dislocation of the vertebral column, which produce irritation of the cord, partial at first, but having a tendency to become general. In the second subdivision the lesions are limited to the grey substance of the anterior horns, where they are very circumscribed to oval patches of motor cells. Here the neuroglia is more opaque and thickened (inflamed), and the nerve-cells are in different degrees of atrophy. The latter are the starting-point of the lesion. Infantile spinal paralysis (ib., 465) is the most perfect type of this subdivision ; and it is very probable that in this disease a subacute process of irritation attacks all at once a large number of nerve-cells, and deprives them suddenly of their motor functions. Pro- yressive muscular atrophy presents the chronic and gradual form of the same change. He recognises two forms of the affection; one, proto- pathic, in which the nerve-cell tissue is primary ; the other sympto- matic, in which it is secondary, the former causing a much more fatal prognosis. The spinal paralysis of adults and general spinal paralysis (Duchenne), the pathology of which is less known, are probably due to the same kind of change in the motor nerve-cells. As to muscular lesions resulting from affections of the medulla oblongata, but little work has been done. Still, judging from labio- laryngeal paralysis, &e., it is probable that the motor ganglia of the floor of the fourth ventricle are the seats of change. Boumeville, "Hemorrbagie de la Moelle fipiniere," 'Gaz. Med.,' 1871, No. 40. Peter, " Meningo-myelite," 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1871, 461. Clement, " Amyotropie .St-condaire" (case of a man, not dead, with symptoms of wbat .laccoud describes as " Pro;;reasive nervoas atrophy," but which the author refers to acute spinal menin- gitis), 'Lyon Med.,' viii, 504. Tibbits, "Case of Myelitis" (man, ajt. 22, autopsy), ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871,1,537. Frominann, " Ein Fall von Wirbelcaries und Degeneration des Kiickenmarks" (man, set. 58, with aut )psy and plate),' Virch. Arch.,'