71 MUSCULAR ATROPHY. by his own father (' Deut. Kliu.,' 1856), in two brothers. He believes that the pathological origin of the disease must be looked for in some congenitally defective formation of the central nervous system, probably in tbe cells of the grey substance of the spinal cord. Vogt (' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 265) contributes a case of progressive muscular atrophy. The patient, a man, had lived a hard life, and had suflered from ague and a severe attack of typhoid. The disease had not made any advance for the last year and a half. The treatment con- sisted of good nutrition. He gives a summary of seventeen cases occur- ring in the period 1863-71. Of these, thirteen were men, two women, and two children. He refers the origin of the afl'ection to severe labour in the majority of cases, to exposure to cold and wet, and in two cases to typhoid and ague. Generally speaking, the muscles of the ball of the thumb were first aflected, then the deltoid, biceps, triceps, &c. The same rule seems to hold for the frequency with which these muscles are attacked separately. The abdominal muscles and the diaphragm were not affected in any case. No case improved; one only was stationary. Gombault ('Arch, de Physiol.,' 1872, iv, ^09) publishes a case of pro- gressive muscular atrophy, accompanied by glosso-labio-laryngeal paralysis, in a woman, sdt. 58, under the care of Charcot. The autopsy showed pigmentary degeneration of the nerve-cells of the hypo-glossal nucleus in the medulla oblongata, &c., sclerosis of the anterior pyramids and antero-lateral columns; disorganisation of the anterior grey sub- stance in parts, yellowish colour of the muscles of the face aod upper extremities, many of the fibres having lost their transverse strite and undergone granular degeneration. The case confirmed the connection already pointed out by Charcot, between rigid contraction of the joints, which existed in this case, and sclerosis of the lateral columns of the cord (and see ' Gaz. Med.,' 1872, 641). Knoll (' Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1872, s. i) describes a case of paralysis pseudo-hypertrophica in a boy aged 13 years. He was the only child of healthy parents, and no history could be obtained of any former affection. The muscles of the lower extremities and the lower portion of the trunk as high up as the last rib, were much enlarged, while those of the upper part were of the normal size, and especially showed no signs of atrophy. The apparently hypertrophied muscles were not weak and flabby, as other observers have noticed, but tough and hard. This condition was explained by the microscopical examination of a portion of muscle excised from the left gastrocnemius. The muscle fibres were found to be separated by broad tracts of fibrous connective tissue, poor in cells, and interpersed with fine nuclei. This interstitial tissue contained no fat, either in the form of cells or drops. The fibres themselves showed marked differences in their diameter. The majority of them were of moderately normal calibre; some were less than the normal, others again exceeded it considerably. No relation could be made out between their size and that of the masses of interlying connective tissue. The transverse and longitudinal striation of the fibres was well preserved, but delicate, and the distance between the former unusually small. Separate fibres, especially the thicker ones, often split up into two equal