34)6 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. of the proceeding. On the other hand, it seems to be especially ad- vantageous when the resistance of the capsule is greater than that of the zonula. In the latter category may be placed nearly all senile cata- racts, whether they are regressive and hard, or soft, as well as those in which, after the slow development of opacity, certain portions of the cortex remain permanently transparent, and never attain maturity. Such are, in general, of small dimensions, and the attachment of the capsule to the zonula offers but little resistance. Most frequently the cortical layers are in a regressive condition, and the cataract is conse- quently somewhat flattened. A third group well suited for the pro- ceeding comprises the cataracts which supervene upon irido-cho- roiditis or iritis, and which coexist with circular posterior synechiae. In such it is, of course, necessary to detach the adhesions, and this may be done with a small blunt silver hook. The fourth group comprises the cataracts that accompany iridodonesis, a state which depends either upon regression of the lens or upon diminution in the bulk of the vitreous body. The method is especially to be recommended for the cases comprised in the last two classes, in which there is a tendency to inflammation, and in which it is very important to protect the iris from debris o£ cortex and of capsule. There is a last and rare indication in those cases in which, prior to laceration of the cap- sule, there is escape of vitreous humour. On account of these it is desirable, even when intending to open the capsule, to be always ready to employ the scoop. Besides arriving at these indications, MM. Pagenstecher have much modified their original method of operating. They now make a linear incision upwards, instead of a flap, and a large iridectomy. In a few cases, as soon as this is done, and the eyeball well fixed and turned downwards, a slight pressure on the lower border of the cornea will cause the lens, enclosed in its capsule, to present itself at the incision. Generally, however, it is necessary to employ a scoop, specially con- structed for the purpose by Messrs. Weiss and Sons. The scoop is carefully carried behind the equator of the lens, and made to glide over the posterior capsule until it reaches the equator on the opposite side. To facilitate this manoeuvre it is necessary to make slight pres- sure with the fixation forceps against the lower border of the lens, and thus to push the opposite margin upwards. After a slight rota- tion, produced by change in the direction of the scoop, such that its handle passes from the centre towards the inner angle of the wound, the lens is drawn upwards, the handle of the scoop being at the same time depressed towards the orbital margin. Thus there is produced a slight pressure of the lens against the cornea, which forbids the former to slip out of the concavity of the scoop. Its exit is at the same time promoted by a slight pressure on the lower part of the cornea by a caoutchouc curette, which is made to follow the advancing lens from below upwards. , i i .i Ansesthesia from chloroform, which was always employed when the flap section was made, is now only practised at the especial request of the patient. Experience has shown that extraction with the capsule may be performed as easily through the linear as through the flap in-