284 UEPOUT ON SURGERY. mode of incision recommended by Macleod, of Glasgow, combined with a novel mode of using tbe ecraseur. He made the incision by thrusting his knife through the cheek in front of the ramus of the jaw, and then cutting towards the angle of the mouth. The vessels were secured by torsion. He thus obtained free access to the root of the tongue. " The tongue was then seized close to its root between the finger and thumb of one hand, while the other carried under the tongue a strong curved needle, threaded with four pieces of ligature. These drew back through the channel made by the needle the chains of two ^craseurs, one after the other. One was fixed so as to divide the tongue near the larynx, the other was to separate it from the floor of the mouth. The instru- ments were worked simultaneously, and in about seventeen minutes clean removal was efiected, absolutely without hsemorrhage. (' Lancet,' April 20, 1872, 540.) Ml'. Annandale removed the rigJd half of a woman's tongue by Buchanan's modi- fication of Syme's operation. The patient was 71 years of age. At time of note she was 72, and there was no recurrence (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Aug., 1872, 678). A suc- cessful case in a woman, aged 62, under the care of Mr. Canton, is noted in the 'Lancet' (Jan. 20, 1872, 80). The tongue was drawn down below the maxilla, and divided by an ecraseur. Mr. Lcc records a case. He divided the jaw, and passed ligatures, in a special manner, through the base of the tongue before cutting it away. No haemorrhage occurred. The patient recovered. ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 114.) Abscess of the Tongue.—Dr. Pooley records a case of abscess of the tongue in a girl seven years old ('Am. Jouru. Med. Sci.,' April, 1872, 385). Congenital hypertropTiy of the tongue.—A case was shown to the Clinical Society by Mr. Lawson. ('Trans.,' v, 158.) In a case under the care of Mr. Simon removal of portions toith the ecraseur was practised and death followed. Eeport of the case by Mr. Arnott. ('Path. Trans.,' xxiii, T09.) In a case of congenital hypertrophy of the tongue which came under the care of Mr. Pairlie Clarke he used the ecraseur with success. The patient was four months old. The protruding portion only was re- moved. (' Lancet,' March 30, 1872, 433, and ' Path. Trans.,' xxiii, 111,) Fatty masses in a ranula—adipocere.—In a case of apparently ordinary ranula, Mr. "Waren Tay evacuated five masses, like lumps of firm butter, from a cyst under the tongue. Dr. Tidy pronounced them, from che- mical examination, probably in the condition of adipocere. They were not ordinary fat. (' Path. Trans.,' xxii, 2.58.) A fatty tumour under the tongue resembling ranula is recorded by Mr. Churchill who gives a restmS of other cases. (' Path. Trans.,' xx, iii, 234.) Fibrous tmiour of the tongue.—Dr. Pooley records the case of a young woman (set. 23), who came under his care for a tumour of the tongue of twelve months' duration. It was hard to the touch, and placed far back. It had a broad base. Bleeding occurred occasion- ally. It was removed with wire ecraseur with some difiiculty owing to its density. There was no bleeding. The patient soon recovered. After removal the tumour was as large as a bantam's egg perfectly spherical inform, with a pedicle an inch in diameter, had several stellate cracks or fissures extending through the mucous membrane with which it was covered, which were undoubtedly the source of the repeated hre-