LEUCHjEMIA. G9 curata col metotlo Lonibroso in Torniico," ib., ccxvi, 559. Strambio, "Intorno nlla cum della Pellagra," ib., 17. Cristiua, " Pollas;ra con Tuborculosi curata coll' Acido Arsenicoso," ib., 190. Manziui and Dotti, " Doll Arsouico uolla Cura della PollaRra o della PiUizia," ib. 69; and see a very long ])apor by Lussann (" Sulla Cause della Pellatrra), ib., 1873, 351, with discussions on the same by Balardini (ib., 189) and Lonibroso (ib., 321, 351). Lombroso, " Studi Cliuici ud Esperimeutale sulla Pellagra," Bologna, 1S71. Leuchcemia. Salkowski ('Virch. Arch.,' 1, 174, and lii, 58) has made some curious clinical researches into Neumann's case of uncomplicated leuchajmia lienalis (cf. Neumann, 'Arch. d. Heilk.,' xi, i). In his last communica- tion he gives the following analyses of the urine; its quantity varied, in the course of ten days, between 560 and 1440 cubic cm. The proportion of urea varied between 10-42 and 27'a grms., averaging 19-338 grms. The proportion of uric acid varied between '646 and 2'o85 ; its mean ii'ioS. Its proportion to the uric acid was i: 17*4, showing marked increase in the amount of the latter. A little albumen was always present. There was no lactic acid; slight traces of formic and other volatile acids. The author, in conclusion, draws atten- tion to the fact that Leyden has several times tried galvauo-punc- ture of the spleen, with the only result of causing its temporary enlargement. Eeincke (' Centralbl.,' 1871, 222) gives the appearances found post- mortem in a patient suffering from advanced leuchasmia lienalis. The retina was beset with numerous small haemorrhages, increasing in number towards the periphery. These were rounded and prominent, and present in all the layers of the retina. Eed globules occupied generally the outer portion, and white cells almost alone their centres. The optic nerve was normal. He considers that there is, in these cases, a simple extravasation of leuchsemic blood, and does not agree with Leber in looking upon them as lymphatic new growths. Wood ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Science,' Ixii, 373), in a paper on the "Eelations of Leucocythaemia and Pseudoleuksemia," desires to show that there is a " third form" of the latter disease, a splenic variety, which he thinks has been formerly described under the names of tumours of the spleen, splenic cachexia, &c., and he gives the following case, which he holds is sufficient to prove the point. A man, set. 30, serving in the army in Virginia during the rebellion, had suffered severely from camp-diarrhoea or dysentery. In 1870 he was taken with a dragging and heavy pain in the back and left side, believed for the next two months to be rheumatism. During the succeeding two months he rapidly lost flesh and strength, and in August came under observation. He was then very thin and weak, though able to walk ; the skin was pale, the abdomen enlarged, spleen and liver extremely so, with slight oedema of legs ; there was no increase in the white cells. In October he died. The spleen, at the autopsy, was eight inches long, five and three quarters broad, and nearly four thick ; the liver was also much enlarged; the lymphatics of the thorax, abdomen, and axilla were much increased in size. The writer proceeds to discuss the question whether there is any change in the marrow of the bones peculiar to leucocy-