ANOMALIES OP STKUCTURBi S71 A woman, £et. 26, who had miscarried four times, was found, after death, to have the ovary, Fallopian tube, and ligaments of the left side entirely absent. This side of the uterus was perfectly free, and the muscular structure was smoothly covered by peritoneum throughout. Ling ('Lancet,'Sep. 1872). A patient, S3t. 18, who had never men- struated, died in St. George's Hospital, and the uterus was found to be absent, though the ovaries were well developed. The only representa- tive of a uterus was a small nodule of fibrous tissue found in the folds of peritoneum between the rectum and the bladder (' Lancet,' Aug. 1872). Cases of absence of the uterus and the vagina form the subjects of interesting remarks on malformations of the female genitalia by Eichet and by GaUard (L'Union Med.,' 1872). Dr. Aikman describes a case of double uterus and vagina. A septum, rather thicker than the vaginal wall, extended from' about three quarters of an inch above the hymen to midway between the uterine orifices. The uterus, which had a tumour attached to its fundus, was four inches long. It was divided into two cavities. The left cavity was perfect as far as the internal os, it then tapered to end in the left Fallopian tube. The right cavity had the usual shape of the right half of the uterine cavity, and communicated fi-eely with the right Fallopian tube. (' Glasgow Journal,' May, 1872.) A case of congenital absence of the uterus and vagina is recorded by Dr. Smith ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 1872). The vulva was well formed, the mammfe were large and flabby. Absence of vagina and uterus. "Warner ('Boston Journal,' Jan. 1872). Double uterus and vagina in a young woman who died of epilepsy. There was only one kidney. Eoberts (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' June, 1872). Double uterus with concurrent pregnancy. Ross (' Lancet,' July, 1871). Schatz records seven cases of incomplete union of the female genital canal in adults ('Arch. f. Gynak.,' ii, 2, 1871). Schatz also relates a remarkable case of deformity of the urino- geuital system in an infant. There was a double uterus, a double vagina, a double bladder, and a double vesico-vaginal fistula. The mother of the child was a healthy woman, and had previously had one child, a boy, in every way well formed. In this, her second labour, there was only very little liquor amnii, and the cord contained only one artery. ('Arch. f. Gynak,,' iii, 2, 1872.) Dr. Squarey contributes ('Obst. Trans.,' 1872) three cases of absence of the uterus, the patients being sisters. M. Lorain mentions the case of a woman who, being examined after a premature confinement, presented four breasts. Two of these occu- pied the normal region ; the two others were situated near the axilla), and were the size of a small orange. There was milk in the four breasts. ('Lancet,'June, 1871.)