ABOETION AND PREMATURE LABOUR. 403 Dr. Carl Eokitansky writes in favour of the artificial induction of labour by rupturing the membranes. (' Wien. Med. Presse,' 1871.) Dr. "Wiltshire contributes ('Obst. Trans.,' 1871) two cases of fatal tetanus after abortion. In both cases there had been great mental de- pression, which he believes had some influence in producing the disease. The flrst case was that of a lady who, while her husband was abroad, became pregnant illegitimately. It was suspected that abortion had been criminally induced by instruments at an early period of gestation. Symptoms of tetanus supervened in a few days, and rapid death. The only post-mortem uterine lesion was a bruising and slight laceration of the cervix uteri. A portion of placenta was adherent to the fundus. The second case was deserted by her husband, and the efi'ect of this sudden mental distress was to induce abortion, which was followed by tetanus and death in a week. In a contribution to the study of fibrinous uterme polypi Dr. E. Prankel relates two cases. He quotes Kiwisch in favour of the view that such cases may be independent of a previous conception, and Scanzoni as believing that they follow only some antecedent dilatation of the uterine cavity, either from labour at the full time, or abortion, or from some change in the uterine walls. jFrankel's first case was that of a woman set. 31. She aborted in June. In December there was a severe flooding, and she was admitted in a collapsed state. The ques- tion of transfusion was discussed, but the operation was not performed, as the patient was sufl"ering, not simply from anaemia, but also from Bright's disease. The polyp was not removed in her then desperate condition. Notwithstanding various remedies, convulsions, coma, and death supervened. There were numerous capillary cerebral apoplexies, oedema of lungs, hypertrophy of heart, wasting of kidneys. The fibri- nous polyp was found on the posterior wall of the uterus. The whole had the appearance of a villous hsemorrhagic neoplasma. The mucous membrane was thickened around, and there was also a small mucous polypus. A perpendicular section through the fibrinous polyp and the adjacent wall showed in the latter normal, but rather large, smooth, muscular fibres. Among them lay numerous lymphatic cells, red blood- corpuscles, finely granular and fibrous masses. Nearer the surface the characters of a fibrinous coagulum became clearly marked with only scattered muscular fibres. The second case was that of a patient, also set. ,31, who had been confined three weeks previously at the full time. The placenta had been cast spontaneously. She kept her bed for nine days, and then followed her usual domestic work. Dragging pains in pelvis ; metrorrhagia; uterus slightly anteflected, its fundus extending above the pubes. A pear-shaped body, the size of a walnut, having a crumbled feel, with an uneven surface, presented at the os uteri. Its origin was from the hinder wall of the uterus. A cotyledon of the placenta had remained, which had served as the basis of the haematoma. After its removal and the injection of a solution of the sesquichloride of iron the bleeding ceased, and in a fortnight the uterus was of normal shape, size, and consistence. (' Archiv fiir Gynak.,' ii, i, 1871.) Extra-uterine prer/nuncy.—Perrond gives a case of extra-uteriuo