123 GANWKENE—CANCEU—PAEASITESj ETC. Browne ('Brit. Med. Jouru.,' 1871,!, 141) publishes a case of gangrene of the left lung in a religious and melancholic lunatic. The first symptom seems to have been haemoptysis after a severe attack of pleuro-pneumonia. The -writer has noticed this lesion in 3 out of about 600 lunatics whose bodies he examined post mortem. In all the previous mental derangement was melancholia. His experience does not agree with that of Cruveilhier, who directed attention to the frequency of gangrene in epileptic patients, nor with that of Trous- seau, who intimates that amongst the insane it is sometimes due to inanition. Burman (ib., 195) was moved by Browne's paper to examine the records of such cases in the Devon County Lunatic Asylum from 184^ to 1869. He finds that gangrene of the lung was the cause of death in 14 out of 1325 deaths during that period; 11 were males and 3 females; in 4 cases both lungs were affected. The form of mental disease was in 4 cases mania, in 3 dementia, in 3 imbecility, in 2 general paralysis, and in 2 melancholia. In 3 cases only is it recorded that there was refusal of food, and only i of the patients vras an epileptic. Anthracosis; Cancer; Parasites, Sfc. Mayet ('Rev. Med.,' 1872, i, 69) records the following:—A miner, set. 48, had had a morning cough for two years, and had been unable to work the last six months ; the signs on auscultation, Sec, revealed the presence of emphysema, chronic pneumonia, and probable coal-infiltra- tion. The autopsy showed the lungs immensely enlarged, the left having seven lobes and the right five. They were strongly adherent posteriorly, largely emphysematous, intensely black, and very hard and resisting. There were no cavities in them anywhere. On section the tissue was tough (sclerosed) and infiltrated with particles of coal. The bronchial glands were enlarged and in parts infiltrated with the same. Besides slight increase in the volume of the heart there was no abnormal signs in the other organs. In a discussion which followed the reading of his paper (see ' Lyon. Med.,' viii, 796) he promulgates the opinion that the coal-particles were introduced, not through the respiratory, but the digestive organs (!) Eoss (' "Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' li, 93) writes on the diseases of the lungs afiecting those who work in dusty atmospheres. He gives five cases, with four autopsies. Merkel (" Zur Casuistik des Staubinhalations-krankheiten," ' Deut. Arch.,' viii, 207, and ib., ix, 66) gives a series of observations of lung aflection caused by the inhalation of various kinds of dust. The first case is that of a man whose occupation consisted in rubbing pieces of iron with sandstone. His symptoms were those of phthisis. The autopsy showed a cavity in the anterior lower third of the right upper lobe, communicating with a bronchus ; the luug- tis.=!ue of a greyish-black colour, indurated and shrunken. The colour was due to the presence of pretty large particles of oxidized iron, especially round the bronchi. The diagnosis during life rested on the occurrence in the sputa of the same particles, sometimes