UEPORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 378 ment by Di*. T. Hay. Before the operation it was evident that an in- verted uterus existed, but its large size could not be accounted for. The stump of the inverted uterus occupied almost as high a position within the abdomen as the organ does in its natural position. The patient was thirty-two years old, the mother of one child, six years of age. The entire mass removed weighed one pound. The fibroid was found im- bedded in the parietes of the uterus, and from pressure and distension the tissues covering it were very much attenuated, and round the base so thin and firmly adherent as to be separable only with great difficulty. (' Amer. Eeporter,' Dec. 1871.) Dr. Valette relates ('Lyon Med.,' April, 1871) a case of inversion of the uterus, in which the uterus was extirpated by the caustic liga- ture. The patient was forty-two years of age, the mother of seven children, the youngest child being four years of age. Two years previously she began to suffer from severe metrorrhagia, and eight months before admission she was seized with severe pain like that of labour, which ceased immediately on the appearance of a firm tumour at the vulva. There was much anxiety of countenance, constant pain confining her to her bed for seven months, and allowing her no rest at night, great anaemia, and for two months incontinence of urine. The vaginal inlet was obstructed by a large tumour, composed of two parts. The lower portion was as large as a fist, firm, not tender, of a pale rose colour. The second portion, situated above the preceding, from which it was separated by a pedicle, three centimetres in diameter, was smooth, and redder than the lower portion. The first was a fibrous polyp, the second the inverted body of the uterus. Valette determined to extir- pate the whole of the tumour, which was done by the instrument he describes. There was no haemorrhage, and recovery was uninterrupted. The pulse after the operation never exceeded 88, nor the temperature 38-5° C. He points out the disadvantages of (i) simple excision with a cutting instrument, (2) ecrasement, and (3) ligature; and con- siders the caustic ligature, many years ago advocated by Coutaret, as by far the safest procedure. Graillard Thomas writes on the enucleation of sessile uterine Jlbroids, The methods of dealing with these growths he enumerates under three lieads—(i) the setting up within their tissue a process of sloughing; (a) the impairment of their nutrition by direct and deep incisions, and (3) their removal by enucleation. The first method presents great dangers from septicaemia; the second is attended with the danger of hfemorrhage, and is withal very uncertain as to results; so that the third, although by no means free from danger, presents itself as a valu- able 'resource in a most intractable affection, for the reason that it is the most effectual and least hazardous of the procedures now at our disposal. The day may come when electrolysis will take the place of enucleation. Enucleation should not be resorted to unless the state of the patient absolutely requires it on account of prolonged and dan- gerous hsemorrhages. Full and complete opening of the os internum should be effected by tents, and the attachments of the tumour should be ascertained as accurately as possible. Thomas finds a pliable whale- bone rod very useful for the latter purpose. The uterus must then be