462r REPORT ON MEDIOAL JURISPRUDENCE. citrate), (5) The physiological action of tobacco smoke is, to a great extent, due to the nicotine it contains. Opium.—Dr. Schaefer,* of Dusseldorf, publishes a case of opium poisoning of considerable interest,—that of a child^ which died after taking about three quarters of a grain of opium in two doses. The post-mortem appearances were unusually well marked. On sawing through the calvarium there was a flow of black, fluid blood ; the blood- vessels of the dura mater, but more especially those of the arachnoid, both on the cerebral convolutions, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata, were filled with blood ; and there was likewise found in both ventricles, not only a considerable quantity of efi"used serum, but also several drachms of a similar fluid were met with at the base of the brain. Death from apoplexy was most markedly indicated. Besides the more ordinary appearances met with on section after opium poisoning, Schaefer describes in this case a spongy condition of the lungs, which were gorged with black, fluid blood, blood in all the cavities of the heart; hypersemia of the liver and spleen, and a full urinary bladder. The appearances presented by the post-mortem ecchymoses were very striking ; instead of being purple they were rose- red and of great extent. The presence of opium was ascertained by analysis in the oesophagus, stomach, and its contents, and in a portion of the small intestine, although the whole quantity of morphia taken could not have exceeded one tenth of a grain. The opium was administered, one half five hours, and the remainder three hours, before death. JPicrotoxin.—Herr Povergof has investigated the action of picro- toxin on the reflex inhibitory centres of the brain of frogs, and arrived at the conclusion that picrotoxin and strychine act in a similar manner on these centres. Vanilla ice.—Maurer* gives an account of the symptoms of poison- ing in nine persons after partaking of vanilla ice. The chief symptoms were gastralgia, severe vomiting, entralgia, diarrhoea, and in some cases a greater or less degree of collapse and cold extremities. None of the cases proved fatal. Maurer attributes the symptoms to the vanilla, and not as has been suggested to any admixture of lactate of zinc which has been supposed to result from the action of the lactic acid of the cream on the zinc vessels in which the ice is generally manufactured. Mushrooms.—C. Kuckert§ has re-examined the Agaricus muscarius, extracting from the plant by a process first followed by Schmiedeberg an alkaloid—muscarine. Euckert obtained '07 to '08 per cent, of the sulphate from a thick extract of the fungus. Muscarine forms a colour- less, syrupy substance, tasteless, and odourless. It yields the usual reactions of an alkaloid, and is not coloured either by sulphuric acid alone, or by this in conjunction with oxidising agents. The physiological effects of muscarine are stated to be antagonistic to those of atropine. * 'Vrtljhrsschrft. f. Gcricbt. Med.,' N. F. xvi, p. 255 t 'Deut. Ztschr. f. d. Staatsarznyk,' xxix, p. i. i ' Dcutscli. Archiv £. Klin. Med.,' ix, p. 303. § 'New Rep. Plianu.,' xxi, p. 193.