113 i'LETjRtSY, tTti. after its exit, it may be pretty certainly assumed that the effusion will not reoccur, or if it does reoccur will do so in so small a quantity as to be soon reabsorbed. Bohier gives a lecture ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1871, 349) on a case of pleuritic effusion on the left side, in a man, ret. 26. His views are nearly tlio same as Paul's. The dangers caused by the effusion he considers to be displacement of the heart, and the hindrance thus placed in the way of its functions, the slow asphyxia resulting from com- pression of the lung, the long-continued fever and suppuration, with its tendency to tuberculosis, and the deformity caused in the thoracic walls. He also discusses the objections brought against the operation, and gives the following as indications for it. It is necessary in cases where the effusion does not yield to ordinary remedies, and wliere it increases; when the patient is too feeble to wait for any length of time the absorption of the fluid; when the opposite lung is attacked with bronchitis or any other affection preventing its full and normal working, and when there is any reason to suppose a tendency to tuber- culosis. As regards the period at which the operation should be per- formed, it is ordinarily the ninth or eleventh day of the affection; in general it may be delayed until symptoms of inflammation have sub- sided. An exception is to be made in cases of necessity, when it should be performed on the fourth day of the effusion. Bouchut (ib., 505) describes the different modes of operating in cases of pleuritic effusion, from the earliest times. He himself prefers Dieulafoy's aspirator. Evans (' St. Thom. Hosp. Eep.,' ii, 69) reviews the literature of paracentesis thoracis, and gives tables of cases observed by different authors and by himself. He insists upon an early evacuation of the effused fluid, and inclines to the view that the sudden death, by no means uncommon in cases of pleuritic effusion, is due to coagulation of blood in the pulmonary artery. Various papers discussing the propriety of tapping in pleurisy and empyema, by Fuller, Priestley, Douglas Powell, and others, may be found in the first volume of the'Brit. Med. Journ.' for 1872. The papers placed in the bibliography of this subject are sufficient proof of the interest taken by Trench writers in paracentesis. Carter ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, i, 583) records a case of pleuritic effusion on the left side, in a sailor, set. 24, on whom paracentesis was performed. The patient died rather suddenly the sixth day after the opera- tion, and the autopsy revealed a large " abscess" in the left lung, which had recently emptied itself by a rupture in its outer and upper surface. Tallin ("De 1'Apoplexie dans les Epanchements dela Plevre," 'Eec. de Mem. de Med. MiUt.,' xxvii, 388) gives, at length, the report of a case of pleuritic effusion on the left side in a man, 21. On the thirteenth day of his admission into hospital he became temporarily unconscious. This fit was followed by paralysis of the right side of the face and of the right extremities. Thoracentesis was performed the same day, and 1800 grammes of serous liquid removed. The heart, which had been slightly displaced, returned to its normal position; resonance and puerile breathing reappeared in the upper and front part of the thorax. 8