295 STRANGULATION OP INTESTINE WITHOUT VOMITING. for this procedure ('Med. Times and Graz.,' May i8 and June ij, 1872.) Mr. Steele records cases ('Brit, Mod. Journ.,' Sep. 7, 1872). Dr. Taylor narrates a case in which a portion of the ileum was found in a knot, at the post-mortem, which might have been unravelled had an operation been performed. A figure of the knot is given. (' Brit. Med. Joum.,' July 29, 1871; Edin. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 1871, 126.) Biliary concretion in the ileum causing intestinal obstruction.—Mr. Le Gros Clark i-ecords a case and figures the concretion ('Med.-Chir. Trans./ Iv, i). Cases of intestinal olstruction, at the seat of a congenital constriction of the gut, and at the point of departure of a diverticulum., probably the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric duct, are recorded by Dr. Southey. One patient was a lad, set. 16, the other was a girl, set. 13(' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' v, 159 and 162.) Mr. Bell and Dr. Croom narrate the case of a man, about ^50 years of age, who was under care for olstruction of the boiuels loith peculiar features. He was in good health and had never had any previous attack. He lived from Eeb. 4th till Eeb. lotb, suffering from obstinate obstruc- tion without any nausea or vomiting during the whole time. The ab- domen was swollen, on the whole, resonant on percussion. There was no marked tenderness anywhere, but the pain was localised, chiefly, in the right iliac fossa, rather above the position of the ileo- cecal valve, and, at this spot, careful, deep pressure gave the sensa- tion of several coils of intestine matted together and distended chiefly with air. A tumour, which could not be moved out of its place, but was as if moored to the back of the abdomen, could be felt. It was lobulated and resonant. The diagnosis of a twist of the small in- testine, probably quite close to the caecum, was made. An operation was proposed, but the suggestion was not agreed to. After death evidence of general peritonitis was found. In the right iliac fossa there were several coils of small intestine matted together. A portion of one coil had burst. For three inches from the iliac valve, the intestine was absolutely contracted and empty up to a distinct twist, rather more than half a turn, which evidently was the seat of the obstruction. The points of diagnosis were arrived at by exclusion. The pain was not sharp enough for gall-stone, nor in the right place. As the enemata had passed well into the colon the seat^of obstruction was probably on the right side; secondly, the absence of vomiting made the ileum more probable than the jejunum; and lastly, the tumour in the right iliac fossa seemed probably ileum low down. Had it been higher up it would have been more likely to have changed its position at times. There was also a peculiar coiling, lobular movement to be felt in the aftected portions of the intestine such as is described by Brinton. The ques- tion of the pathology of the affection is entered into, whether the peri- tonitis precedes the twist, or whether, more probably, the twist forming accidentally first, the peritonitis occurs as a secondary condition. The question of treatment is also discussed. After medical meaus have been fully tried gastrotomy affords the only chance. In this case, the coil could have been untwisted. Colotomy would not have been of any use. Great relief had been afforded to the patient by tapping the intestine and letting air out. (' Edin. Med. Joum.,' May, 1872, 971.)