MEDIASTINAL GEOWTHS. 109 corded bv Calmeil, there was a morbid condition of the lungs, especially mHiiimnation, in more than 60, /. e. in i out of 3. AVhitehead ('Trans. Path. Soc.,' xxii, 82) showed some peculiar sputa " hawked up" after eating by a woman, aet. 24. The sputum consisted of tenacious, gelatinous-looking masses, more or less elon- gated, of ragged outline, and non-tubular, and of delicate, transparent, membranous laminse, varying in size from that of a minute flake to a square inch, and streaked with irregular reticulations. The microscope showed that both were almost entirely made lip of stratified squamous epithelium, with a few mucous corpuscles. These characters favour the opinion that the specimen consisted of mucus yielded by a catarrhal condition of the pharynx or upper part of the oesophagus. Baas, " Experhnenteller Beitrag zu Aufklarung derFrage iiber den Entstehungsort uud die Entstehungsart des sog. Vesicular-Atbiuens und der Rasselgerausche," 'Deut. Arch.,' is, 316. Lippe, " Grenzen des normalen Brouchialathriiens," ib., 525. Rehn, " Zwei Beobachtimgen von Cheyne-Stokes'schen Respirations-phanomen bei Lungen- affectioneu im kindlichen Alter," 'Jabrb. f. Kinderlieilk.,' iv, 432. Leven, "Des diverses formes d'Asphyxie au point de vue physiologique et pathologique," ' Gaz. des Hdp.,' 1872, 68. Bourgeois, 'De la Congestion Pulmonaii-e siinple,' Paris. Eohden, " Der Zwecktnassigste Geradhalter," 'Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 236. Watts, 'Inha- lation for Diseases of the Lungs,' London. Mediastinal Growths'. Virchow ('Archiv,' liii, 444) describes a peculiar mediastinal tumour (Teratoma myomatodes). The patient, a man, set. 22, had been under observation for about two months. He had been indisposed for some weeks, and complained of shortness of breath and pain in the right thorax. On percussion there was dulness from the third right rib downwards, extending in an oblique line backwards to the angle of the scapula. No respiratory murmur was audible over this region of dul- ness. The general condition of the patient became gradually worse, with febrile symptoms from time to time. After four or five weeks a painful prominence began to be developed at the junction of the carti- lage and bone of the left rib. In about five weeks, when death occurred, this tumour had reached the size of a small fist. At the same time the dulness on the right side became greater in front as well as behind; the liver was pushed down. For some time there was oedema of the right side and part of the abdomen, which gradually disappeared. Death occurred from increasing difficulty of breathing. The diagnosis made was an encysted exudation in the anterior portion of the pleura. The tumour on the third rib was considered to be a " cold abscess" or an enchondroma. The autopsy showed an elastic tumour, which had de- stroyed the anterior part of the third rib. Instead of any pleuritic exudation was found an enormous tumour, which occupied the greater part of the right thorax, and extended some way over the middle line to the left. The right lung was pushed backwards and upwards, the heart to the left, and the liver downwards. The latter was greatly en- larged, and contained various hard nodes, some imbedded in its sub- stance, some prominent on its surface. The spleen was enlarged, and presented on its upper surface several vesicles, about the size of a wal-