118 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. paroxysm. • In 105 out of the iii it was situated in front of the frcenum; in four out of the other six its varying position was accom- panied by some abnormal disposition of certain teeth. He considers it to be due to the rubbing of the tongue against the latter in the act of coughing. He looks upon it as a valuable diagnostic sign in cases in which the cough is not heard at the time when the patient is seen. Prestwich, "Cod-liver Oil iu Whooping-cougli," 'Lancet,' 1871, ii, 812. Murniv, "Extract of Nettles in AVhooping-cougb," ib., 1872, i, 539. Grauthani, "Effects of the Vapour of Ammonia iu the Treatment of Wliooping-cougli," 'Brit, Med. Joum.,' 1871, ii, 323. Pneumonia. Eevillout (* Gaz. des Hop.,' 1871, 27.3) discusses the question whether pneumonia is a disease having a defined course and type, and whether it be true, as Jaccoud affirms (' Traite de Pathologic Interne,' Paris, 1871, ii) that it cannot be abridged a single hour. He looks at the affection from the point of view of other diseases, e. g. albu- minuria, syphilis, &c., and concludes that the holding of any such ^^ew transforms the physician into a fatalist (" transforms en un Musulman dans le sens Arabe et precis de cette expression "). Farquharson ('Edin. Journ.,' xvi, 988) brings forward ten cases in support of his view as opposed to those of Trousseau, Hughes Bennett, and Sturges, which convince him of a special lowering of vitality which almost invariably attends extension of inflammation to the apex of either lung. In some remarks on the treatment of pneumonia he gives a single case in which he thinks aconite cured an extremely doubtful (Eep.) case of the affection. Fitzmaurice ('Dublin Quart. Journ.,' lii, 386) concludes from his own observation that pneumonia in children and infants, and in some cases in which chest symptoms are absent, is often mistaken for other ailments, as dentition, worms, &c. He considers the law as laid down by West, that if the posterior part of the chest is free from a consider- able amount of crepitation the infant is not suftering from any serious lung disease, to be inaccurate. His own experience leads him to believe that simple hepatized lung is oftener found in other parts of the chest. " By keeping the ear perseveringly to the chest, when exhaustion takes place (after crying, &c.), the hurried breathing facilitates the discovery of tubular breathing, the first sign of pneumonia generally observed in the child." Blistering is, in his opinion, the sheet-anchor in this disease; and dressing with mercurial ointment, he finds, excludes the air more effectually than simple dressing. He gives four cases to illustrate his position. The fourth case, which he seems to have looked upon as croup, he "cured" by giving large doses of decoction of senega.* Sturges (" The Etiology of Pneumonia," ' St. George's Hosp. Eep., V, 135) writes on the general influence of the weather upon the so-called inflammatory diseases of the chest. Taking the average of ten years * Croupy cough and laryngeal stridor arc more frequently than is generally ad- mitted the forerunners of simple bronchitis in children.—A. B. S.