228 REPORT ON SURGERY. the tarso-metatarsal articulations.—The patient was a middle-aged man, who had had a plank fall on his foot four months before admission. There was a sinus leading down to the second metatarsal bone, which was carious in nearly its whole extent. On Nov. 24, 1871, Mr. Holmes dissected out the second metatarsal bone. Various abscesseB formed subsequently, and on Jan. 11, 1872, Mr. Holmes made a semilunar incision on the dorsum of the foot, and dissected the flap upwards. He then disarticulated at the tarso-metatarsal articu- lation, and sawed off the ends of the four tarsal and then of each of the four remaining metatarsal bones. The disease seemed to be con- fined to the portions of bone removed; on February 14th he was sent % to AVimbledon. On April 8th " the wound was entirely healed, except a small, superficial sore at the inner part. He could just put his foot to the ground. The toes were movable to a very slight degree, appa- rently from the traction of the extensor tendons being transmitted through the cicatrix. The second toe was out of the line of the others, riding upwards between the first and third toes, which touched each other. This, however, had been the case before the operation. The man was well satisfied with the condition of his foot." " Many still regard excision of the ankle with disfavour ; yet, as far as I can judge from a limited, personal experience, there can be no question that, in cases of traumatic origin, sound union may be confidently expected, and the patient in such cases recover rapidly, and with a foot little inferior to the healthy one. Three such cases have occurred to me and recovery has been very rapid in all of them. But excisions of the bones or joints of the foot itself are still less generally practised, although the ex- perience of many surgeons testifies to the great success which some- times ensues upon the complete removal of the os calcis, the astragalus, or other single bones of the tarsus, while, if I mistake not, common experience also testifies to the very frequent 'disappointment which follows upon gouging or other partial measures. " It is worth re- membering also that the prospects of a surgical operation are always much better in such cases as can be clearly traced to a traumatic cause." ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,' v, 207.) Mxcision of the lower jaw.—In narrating a case in which he removed part of the lower jaw in connection with epithelial cancer of the fauces, &c., Dr. "Watson especially lays stress on the advantages of the plan he adopted. He made an incision from the angle of the mouth obliquely downwards to the base of the jaw as far as the angle, and then upwards, along its ascending ramus, as far as the level of the lobe of the ear. The lower jaw was then divided in the bicuspid region, and the inser- tion of the internal pterygoid having been divided by a sweep of the knife along the inner side of the bone, the base and angle, upon the affected side, was turned outwards at right angles to the cheek. The coronoid process being affected it was necessary to disarticulate after dissecting the tissues away from the bone upon its outer or masseteric aspect; this was easily accompUshed by twisting the articular process out of its bed, dividing upon the bone the parts anterior and internal to the articulation, so as to avoid injuring the internal maxillary artery. In attacking growths at the posterior and lateral aspect of the buccal