UEPOET ON rUBLIC HEALTH. * 'Lancet,' 1872, i, pp. 787, 820. 4-84 year and follow increasing humidity ; whence it remains undetermined whether, in contradiction to the first proposition, humidity favours the development of typhoid, or whether it is a late effect of the previous dryness, or whether it is entirely due to temperature. (4) The movements of the disease are the same in all parts of the city, whether high or low, or near or at a distance from the Rhine. (5) The epidemic does not select one part of the city more than another. Mr. De Eeuzy* has given a remarkable instance of the extinction of enteric fever in a prison by the simple method of changing the supply of drinking water. For many years some of the ablest of our metropolitan physicians failed to detect the true cause of the un- healthiness of Millbank prison, and assigned various causes for it which later experience has proved to be unconnected with it. Enteric fever was rife from time to time in the gaol. In the year 1854, however, the water supply was changed with the best possible results. Pre- viously, the water used for drinking purposes in the prison was pumped direct from the Thames, but was of course filtered before use. The water used for domestic purj)osea is now supplied by the artesian well in Trafalgar Square. The change was carried into eft'ect in the midst of the cholera epidemic which was then so severely visiting London, and the prison was suffering from cholera at the time. Six days after the change the disease suddenly ceased, and a marked improvement took place in the health of the prisoners. From the date of the introduction of the new water supply up to April 1872, a period of nearly 19 years, there have been only three deaths from enteric fever, viz. one in 1855, i860, and one 1865. Mr. De Renzy thinks that the sanitary history of Millbank—which he gives in detail—appears to warrant the following conclusions : I. That the extinction of enteric fever, and other diseases of the same class, is quite within the range of practicability. 2. That the extinction of one class of zymotic diseases is not necessarily followed by zymotic diseases of a different class. For example :—It is supposed that the increased prevalence of scarlatina and measles of late years is due to the partial displacement of smallpox by vaccination. The case of Millbank shows that it is practicable to protect a community against every kind of zymotic disease. Ignorance of sanitary science is the great obstacle to the extension of this protection to the free population. .3. That since some of the ablest physicians in London failed for many years to detect the true cause of the imhealthiness of Millbank Prison, and assigned causes for it which later experience has found to be unconnected with it, the probability is that a similar error is frequently made elsewhere, and that the prevalence of some zymotic disease is ascribed to locality, malaria, heat, cold, variations of temperature, moral depression, and other intangible influences which would be entirely removed by the general disuse of impure water. 4. That as it required long years of observation to establish the noxious influence of Thames water in Millbank, even when well filtered, under conditions very favorable for detection, we should be