CHOLERA. 478 and the adjacent districts; scattered cases were also recorded in Berlin, and outbreaks of the disease occurred in Hamburg and Altona. On the 3rd of September it appeared at Hernosand in Sweden, and at the same date at Constantinople. In October, cholera was reported to be present on the Danube at Sulina and Gralatz, and in November at Tultcha. At the commencement of August an outbreak occurred iu Asia Minor at Brusa in Anatolia, a commercial town of considerable size, with a port at Mundania on the Sea of Marmora. _ At this time cholera was prevalent at the ports of Kherson, Nicolaiev, Taganrog, and Eostov on the Don to the north; and at Bagdad, and several points in Turkish Kurdistan, in the vicinity of the Persian frontier, and in the province of Azerbijan in Persia to the east and south-east. Previous to the outbreak, cholera had spread largely along the courses of the Euphrates and Tigris within the pashalik of Bagdad, and had extended into Eastern and Northern Arabia. Erom Brusa, cholera spread to the surrounding districts ; and, subsequently to the appear- ance of the disease at Constantinople, cases occurred in the lazaret at Salonica and in the vicinity of that town, and in the lazaret at Varna in European Turkey, in the island of Cerigo, at St. Jean d'Acre on the east coast of Asia Minor, and at Samsoun and Trebizonde on the north coast, and at Amasia in the interior of Anatolia. The cases at Salonica and Yama occurred among passengers who had recently arrived there by ordinary steam ti'ansit from Constantinople. The first case at St. Jean d'Acre was landed from a Russian steam-vessel coming also from Constantinople. On the loth of October an ill-furnished emigrant steamship sailed from Stettin for New Tork, touching at Copenhagen and Christiansund. About a week after this vessel had left Christian- sund cholera appeared among the passengers, 610 in number. She put into Halifax, Nova Scotia, on the 6th of November, and introduced cholera into that city and into the village of Chezetcook, twenty-five miles north of Halifax. In the course of September two cases of cholera were imported by steamships from Hamburg to England, both into the port of Hartlepool. One of these cases, which ended fatally, was imported on the 7th of the month; the other, which recovered, on the I8th. While these events were taking place in Europe, cholera was also spreading rapidly from the head of the Persian Grulf along the courses of the Shat-el-Arab, the Euphrates, and the Tigris, within the pashalik of Bagdad, in which province the disease had appeared at Meshed Ali, in December of the previous year (1870). Early in the summer of 1871 a Turkish expeditionary force became aff'ected with cholera at Bassora, as it was about to embark for Koweyt, and carried the disease into Eastern Arabia. About the middle of June cholera broke out at Hayel in the Djebel Shomar, Northern Arabia, introduced there, it is stated, by an infected caravan coming from Meshed Hussein. From Hayel the disease passed, two months later, to Khaiber, three days' journey from Medina, and in September it broke out in the latter town, at a time when numerous pilgrims were there. Iu November cases are stated to have occurred at Mecca, and in December a severe outbreak occurred on the east coast of the Eed Sea, at Gonfudah, south of