REPORT ON SUKOEliy. 242 paroxysms of which the lung became torn by the edges of the ribs, giving rise to slight haemorrhage into the thorax. Death took place on November 30. On post-mortem examination there were found to be extensive adhesions of the whole upper part of the right lung with puru- lent exudation below. The mediastinum contained some enchondroma- tous masses having a gelatinous appearance. Removal of tumours from bone.—Sir James Paget is convinced that the operation of simply removing a tumour from tiie place in which it lies ia as sufficient for the cure of one growing in a bone, as for that of cue growing in connective tissue, and that the instances are very few in which it is right to disturb the continuity of a bone in order to remove from it any innocent tumour. He selects the following cases:—i. He removed a cartilaginous tumour from the head of the tibia of a lad, aet. 16. He reflected a semilunar flap and gouged, a. He removed a similar tumour from the lower jaw of a lady, a^t. 45. 3. He removed a cartilaginous tumour from the radius of a woman, aet. 40. 4. He removed a fibrous tumour from the walls of the antrum. 5. Mr. Wrench removed a myeloid, pulsating tumour from the end of the radius of a woman, set. 43. 6. He enucleated a bony tumour from the angle of the lower jaw of a patient, jet. 15^. The tumour should be freely exposed, and then turned out with the finger or the gouge. For help to the diagnosis of fitting cases he suggests—i. The tumour is probably cancerous if its growth commenced before puberty or after middle age, unless it be a cartilaginous or bony tumour, on a finger or toe or near an articulation. 2. If a tumour has existed on or in a bone for two or more years, and is still of doubtful nature, it is probably not cancerous or recurrent, and this probability increases with the increasing duration of the tumour. 3. If the tumour on or in a bone has doubled or more than doubled its size in six months, and is not inflamed, it is probably cancerous or recurrent, and this probability is increased if, among the usual coincidences of rapid growth, the veins over the tumour have much enlarged, or the tumour have protruded far through ulcerated openings, and bleeds and profusely discharges ichor. 4. If with any Buch tumour, not being inflamed, the lymph-glands near it are enlarged, it is probably cancerous, and still more probably if the patient have lost weight and strength to amounts more than proportionate to the damage of health by pain or fever or other accident of the tumour. 5. A tumour on the shaft of any bone but a phalanx is rarely innocent, and so are any but cartilaginous outgrowths on the pelvis, or any but the hard bony tumours on the bones of the skuU. If on the concurrence of these characters or on other grounds it is in any case concluded thaJi, a tumour connected with a bone is not cancerous or recurrent, the question whether it is growing on or in the bone may be made probable by attending to the following points:—When the wall of the bone can be traced over the surface or any part of the surface of the tumour, its growth from within is nearly certain, and so it is when, on the surface of the tumour, portions of bone can be felt among portions of more yielding substance. General smoothness of surface is usually significant of a tumour growing within a bone and expanding it, unless in the case of cartilaginous tumours, which, after growing within bones, have pro-