BRONCHITIS—ASTHMA—AVHOOPING - COUG H. 117 ment of the Syrup of Peter Lamouroux), 'Gaz. iles Hop.,' 1871, 510. Lnffaii, " Local Bleedin" iu the Dilated Eight Ventricle of Chronic Bronchitis," ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 18-2, C12S. Grecnhow, "Lungs from a Cuso of Cured Phthisis, Death from Capillary Bronchitis, Cavities lined with False Momhrano iu both Lungs, Prolifera- tion of Interlobular Connective Tissue, and great thickening of the Pleura " (man, a;t. ^o), ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiii, 47. Wilks, " Bleeding in Emphysema and Bron- chitis " (woman, -xt. 60, relief), ' Lancet,' 1872, i, 88. Leyden, " Tyrosin in Sputum " (girl, with pntrid bronchitis), ' Virch. Arch.,' Iv, 239. Ncureutter, " Bronchiektasio nnd hochgnuliges Emphysem als Compensation bei eiuoiu sicbeu Jahraltcn Knabon," 'Oesterr. Jahr'b. f. Paediatrik,' 1872, 18. Bronchial Asthma. Leyden ('Zur Keuntniss des Asthma Bronebiale,' Eostock, 1871) describes a peculiar expectoration occurring in bronchial asthma. It is scanty, very tenacious, and transparent. It contains a mass of fila- ments and flakes, some very marked from their thickness and yellow colour. They are brought up from the finest bronchi, and contain in their meshes granular mucus-corpuscles, and generally a large quantity of very beautiful and peculiar crystals, of an elongated octahedral form. The largest are visible under a power of 300 diameters, the smallest under one of 600. Crystals of the same kind have been described by Friedreich in croupous bronchitis, and they are probably identical with those found by E. Neumann in the medulla of the bones. In the blood of leuchaemic patients Leyden thinks that these crystals may act as mechanical or chemical irritants on the peripheral ends of the pneumogastric in the mucous membrane, and provoke reflex contraction of the muscles of the small bronchi, "Weber, "Das Aubree'sche Geheimmittel gegen Asthma Nervosum," 'Deut. Ai-cb.,' viii, 217. Lessdorf, "Asthma Nocturnum Periodicum. Morpbium Injection Palli- ativmittel; Comprimirte Luft Eadicalmittel," 'Deut. Klin.,' 1871, 15. Anstie, " On the Pathological and Therapeutical Eelations of Asthma, Angina Pectoris, and Gastralgia," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 550. Gaskoin, "On the Treatment of Asthma," ib., 1872, i, 339. Thorowgood, "A few Eemarks on the Treatment of Asthma," 'Med. Press and Circ.,' 1873, i, 27. Whooping-cough. Stefi'en (' Jahrb. f. Kinderkr.,' iv, 427) confirms the good results obtained by the employment of quinine iu whooping-cough, as first pointed out by Binz, and verified by Breidenbach. In the majority of cases he found it work speedily and readily, failing only in a few. He employed pretty strong doses, half to one gramme in the twenty-four hours, in children from two to five years. He gives two cases in full. In a case of a child of three years, who could not be got to take the drug, he used injections for the purpose. In three days nine injections, containing altogether two grammes of quinine, were given, with allevia- tioD of the symptoms. MacCall (' Glasgow Med. Journ.,' 1871, iii, 162) during the winter of 1869-70 found ulceration of the frsenum linguae in an out of 253 children attacked with whooping-cough, or in about 44 per cent. The affection varied in degree from a mere abrasion to a deep fissure with a grey or yellowish surface, and often bleeding during or after g.