TREATMENT OF CICATRICES FROM BURN, ETC. 331 performance and slight cicatrices left afterwards. An illustration ia given. The disease is removed by a quadrilateral-shaped incision. From the outer (and inferior) angles of the defect, incisions should be made downwards and outwards to the lower border of the inferior maxilla, terminating at about one inch and a quarter from the sym- physis. From the apex of the chin two other incisions, united above, should be made, parallel to the first ones, but underneath the chin, and each of them from half to three quarters of an inch in length. The soft parts included within these four incisions should then be dissected off the inferior maxilla as far as the inferior extremities of the two lower incisions (those, namely, beneath the chin) and these latter then permit the soft tissues of the chin to be pushed upwards, so as completely to fill up the defect made by the removal of the morbid growth. (' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Dec. 187a, 444.) Treatment of cicatrices from burn.—Dr. Buck records the case of a child afiPected with extensive cicatrices of the front of the neck, &c., on whom he operated successfully. A broad band extended from the chin to the sternum, approximating them to within two inches of each other. At both lateral edges of the band, the adjacent, continuous, sound skin receded, and formed a deep pocket behind the band itself, so that the fingers pressing from opposite sides were easily made to meet, with the skin only intervening. A photograph is given showing the great width of the band well. The patient being under the influence of ether, the entire cicatricial band -was divided into three serrated, irregular flaps, interlocking each other. One of the three was central, with its apex upvrard at the symphysis menti; the other two were lateral, with their apices downward, and resting on the clavicles. They were formed by two diverging incisions carried from the symphisis downward and outward to either edge of the band at the clavicles. From these terminal points an incision was made along either margin of the band, iipward and outward, to the edge of the jaw. ■ The three flaps were then dissected up from the subjacent, loose, connective tissue, from their apices towards their bases. The dissec- tion was carried beyond the limits of the scar. The flaps were adjusted to the raw surfaces. A thick nodule of scar was removed. A long incision was made to remove tension. Strapping was used as well as sutures. The flaps sloughed. The granulations were treated thoroughly with nitrate of silver and caustic potash. As cicatrisation advanced lines of cicatrix formed and were notched. The chin was elevated by means of an apparatus which is described in detail and figured. Two parallel bars were fixed along the back from the pelvis to the top of the neck. A cross piece was fixed opposite the shoulders and bands passed from this under the armpits. A steel ring or collar was fixed to the highest part and passed under the chin. It had a joint at the side. When the child wanted to move the head he was obliged to lift the chin above the collar, thus further stretching the cicatrix. By means of a screw behind, the chin could be elevated or depressed. The patient recovered satisfactorily. A woodcut of his final appearance is given. In the course of some remarks Dr. Buck insists on the value of ^;he removal of the indurated cicatrised parts by sloughing, &c., and