199 TRKATMENT OP ANEURISM. definite, methodical treatment, internal or external. 2. That there is detinite proof, from pathological anatomy and' from surgical experience, of the curative influence of Brasdor's operation in innominate aneurism, and of its beneficial effects in some cases of aortic aneurism. 3. That arteries may be successfully tied and obliterated without their con- tinuity being interrupted ; and that this modification of the ligature, whilst aiibrding much security against secondary hsBtnorrhage, and thus much diminishing the danger of the operation in general, may very probably, in future, enable surgeons to deal successfully with cases in wliich it may be necessary to tie the first part of the subclavian (whether on the distal or proximal side of an aneurism) or the innominate artery. 4. That galvano-puncture may be used with, at any rate, temporary benefit in thoracic aneurism ; that its use is not so dangerous as to render further trials of it inexpedient; and that there is good hope that the method may be so far perfected, as to make it a safe and regular plan for the treatment of thoracic, subclavian, and other forms of aneurism. 5. That many cases, such as those in which ligature of the artery, near to the heart, has been resorted to, for the cure of subclavian and sub- clavio-axillary aneurism, may be made amenable to improved methods of pressure. 6. That aneurismal tumours situated even as high as the lower part of the abdominal aorta, those of the mesenteric and other branches of the aorta and of the iliac arteries, may be treated with suc- cess by rapid coagulation of blood underpressure ; but that this method is a dangerous one, and should not be used until internal treatment has failed. 7. That there are cases of abdominal aneurism in which Mr. Syme's suggestion of reviving the old operation is worthy of further trial. Mr. Bryant has published clinical lectures on the treatment of aneurism. He narrates a case of ligature of the femoral artery for femoro-popliteal aneurism, in which death from 'pytemia resulted; a case of aneurisrn in the calf of the leg cured by pressure and flexion ; a case of popliteal aneurism treated by digital pressure, in which a cure resulted in forty hours; a case of femoral aneurism treated by com- pression, followed by ligature and pyemia; a case of aneurism of left carotid, ligature, and death from sloughing of sac thirty-six days after operation; a case ofileo-femoral aneurism, ligature of external iliac, and recovery; a case of aneurism of the innominate, ligature of the subclavian, and recovery. He discusses the plans in use for flexion, compression, ligature, and the employment of Spier's artery con- strictor. ('Med. Times and Gazette,' June 29, July 13, and July 27, 1872.) Electrolysis and galvano-puncture.—(^ee further on.) Injection of errjotin in aneurism.—Dr. Dutoit, of Bern, describes in the ' Archiv fur Klin. Chir.,' xii, the case of a man, £et. 40, who fell with his arms stretched out. A swelling subsequently appeared in the left clavicular region ; it increased, and three years later was recognised to be a subclavian aneurism. When Dr. Dutoit saw him in October, 18^39, the aneurism was as large as an ostrich's egg ; it pulsated strongly, and filled the supraclavicular fossa; the clavicle was eroded and pushed outwards, and dislocated from its sternal attachment. The inte-^u-