EEPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4l4 simplified, as tlie cord miglit be very easily carried round the child's neck by means of an elastic catheter mounted on ""a firm stylet or on a uterine sound. The catheter should be a good deal curved, and after it has been passed round the neck the cord may be attached to it and drawn back with it. The ends of the cord are now drawn through a speculum, the catheter having been first removed, and the neck is divided. The operation might be further improved by using an ecraseur for dividing the neck, by which the accidental interruption of the opera- tion by breaking of the cord would be avoided, as well as the risk of injuring the soft parts of the mother by its friction. Dr. Kidd thinks that it would be best to stop as soon as the spinal column is divided, and to leave the head attached to the body by a portion of the soft tissues of the neck. It is obvious that the division of the spinal column would do away with the difficulty of turning, and the tissues attached to the head would facilitate extraction. Drs. Afileck and Macdouald relate (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' July, 1871) a case of shoulder presentation in which turning was impossible, and de- capitation was impracticable, owing to the position of the foetus with the head very high up and the narrowness of the inlet of the pekis; they, therefore, resorted to spondylotomy. The thorax having been opened by long vaginal scissors, two fingers were introduced, so as to push aside the contents of the chest and feel for the vertebral column. The sjnne was then clipped through without any great difficulty. Trac- tion was then resumed on the foot, which had originally been brouglit down, and this time with complete success. An old practitioner, in the same journal (Oct. 1872), prefers to spondylotomy or decapitation the removal of the presenting arm, and also of the other arm. He says that the increase of space afibrded by the removal of the two little fat arms is very great, and the shoulders being removed from the chest greatly increases the facility of turning. He has practised this method on several occasions. Mr. F. W. "Wright recommends ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1871) a method of bisecting the foetus in utero in arm presentation, in which version is impracticable. The presenting member is to be seized with the right hand, and, while considerable traction is employed,the left hand is to be introduced into the vagina and kept firmly upon the child's neck. A blunt hook with a curve sufficiently large to embrace the neck, and having a perforation at the extremity of the curve, is armed with a piece of tape and made to embrace the neck. A leash of about a dozen very thin wires, about a yard long, twisted together at the ends, should be tied to the end of the tape. By pulling at the tape the wires will be drawn over the child's neck, and with a saw-lilte motion of the wires the head may be cut ofi" in five seconds. Dr. Tucker, of Bermuda, describes a method of delivery in cases of arm presentation, after the usual mode of turning has failed. He places the patient as for lithotomy, perforates the body of the child, and empties the abdomen and thorax sufficiently to enable him to reach the bodies of the foetal spine. He then crushes these with a strong forceps. Bending of the child's body then takes place, and it descends sufficiently low to enable a handkerchief to be passed