124 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. free, soraetimee enclosed in cells. In the second case the patient M'aa working in an ultramarine manufactory, and had presented a few weeks before death the symptoms of typhoid. After death the lungs were fouud filled with foreign particles, but there were no signs of enteric fever. Tlie tliird case was one of siderosis. The patient, a man of 29, had worked for six years in a gold-leaf manufactory, and had inhaled the fine ])article8 of oxide of iron. Tor the last seven years he had ceased to work at his trade. The post-mortem examina- tion showed, in addition to a cavity about the size of a fist on the left side, shrinking, induration, and colouration of the lung-tissue by the particles of iron. The fourth case was one of anthracosis ; here were found, besides the pigmented condition of the lungs, clieesy pneumonia and general tuberculosis (lungs, kidneys, and intestines). The case comes under Traubc's phthisis melanotica. In the fifth case, in which no symptoms had been observed during life, the subject, a workman in an ultra- marine manufactory, presented cavities of various sizes, filled with a bluish-black fluid mass, made up of coal-particles, cholestearine, fat- crystals, &c. Eisdon Bennett (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 76) records the occurrence of secondary scirrhous or fibro-cancerous infiltration of the connec- tive tissue of the lung in a woman, a;t. 42, six months after the removal of the left mamma for the same affection. She suffered with symptoms of acute bronchitis. A microscopic examination of the sputa revealed nothing special; and she died as if from syncope. Arnott (ib., 231) gives a case of epithelioma of the heart and lungs in a woman, set. 50, secondary to epithelioma of the clitoris. Sparks ('Lancet,' 1871, ii, 13) publishes a short note of the post- mortem appearances found in a case of primary cancer of the lungs. The patient, a woman, a3t. 22, was supposed to have died of pleuro- pneumonia. There were nodules of encephaloid cancer in some false membrane on the right pleura and in the lower lobe of the right lung. The lower two thirds of the left lung consisted of a mass of ence- phaloid nodules, one of which was as large as a man's fist. The growth extended towards the middle of the body, pushing the heart far over to the right. It projected also into the left pleura, and had infiltrated the diaphragm, so that nodules projected on its under surface. No cancer was found elsewhere. Waters (ib., 26) found the right lung the seat of scirrhous cancer in a man. He was said to have been quite well up to about twelve weeks before death. He was then seized with pain in the right side of the chest and dyspnoea, attended with cough and expectoration of white frothy sputa. Two weeks later his head, neck, and upper extre- mities became oedematous. The mediastinal glands were greatly en- larged and scirrhous throughout. Lebert ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 25), gives three cases of hydatid cysts occurring in the lungs. The first case is that of a man, sst. 40, whose earliest symptoms, in the autumn of 1869, were those of tuber- culosis. Half a year later, during' an attack of varioloid, there was found some consolidation of the upper lobe of the left lung. In May, J 870, be spat up hydatid cysts, and again in October, since which time