EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 221 years of age, and the others were 37 and 11. Three of them recovered with useful limbs. The patient, set. 37, died. Also see cases by Mr. Gray,'Path. Trans., xxiii, 188. n • ^ . i, A case, in which the limb was subsequently amputated, is noted by T. Carr Jackson, ' Path. Trans.,' xxiii, 191. Excision of the knee-joint.—M.v. Gant's experience leads him always to remove the patella. After the section of the bones the limb is ex- tended, and the ends of the bones placed in even apposition—not absolute contact—and then a piece of sponge is held on the wound while the sphnts are applied. The extended limb is laid on a padded back-splint covered with oil-silk under the knee, this splint reaching from the folds of the nates to just above the heel. Mr. Gant now prefers to have the foot-piece part of the lateral splint, as thus the heel escapes pressure and a subsequent tendency to sloughing. Mclntyre's spUnt he has long disused; it not only causes some pressure on the heel, and precludes access to that part for dressing, if requisite, but the trough, in which the limb lies, induces more wasting of the muscles than would otherwise ensue, and thence, also, a loosening of the splint at an earlier period than when it may be safely removed for cleansing, and reapplied. Broad strips of adhesive plaster are drawn round the limb and splint, immediately above and below the knee, another broad strip higher up on the thigh, and narrow strips around the ankle and instep. A roller bandage is applied froui the foot upwards, and another, high up, from the thigh downwards, leaving the knee uncovered. An outside, interrupted splint, well padded, and covered with oil-silk above and below the interruption at the knee, and provided with a vertical foot- piece, is now applied; this splint, reaching from above the great trochanter downwards, and the end of the thigh-piece well supporting the very end of the femur externally, at the seat of excision, while the perpendicular foot-piece maintains the leg in position, and the upper end of the tibia in steady opposition with the femoral end of the bone. Elevation of the whole limb five or six inches will be found to further aid the latter purpose. A short, padded, femoral splint may, also, be placed in front of the thigh, terminating just above the femoral end of the bone; but if the external thigh-piece be not too wide, this anterior splint will scarcely be necessary, and he rarely uses it. The external splint is secured, by a roller bandage, from the foot to below the knee, and, by another bandage, from above the knee up the thigh, and over the end of the splint, with, perhaps, two or three turns around the pelvis. The use of the external splint is to counteract the tendency to displacement of the lower end of the femur, in three directions, after excision of the knee-joint—projection outwards, by abduction, rotation outwards, and projection forwards. Mr. Gant has had occasion to lengthen the outside splint to the axilla, so as to counteract a tendency to an irregular twist of the trunk, to the opposite side, in bed, whereby the lower end of the thigh is abducted or everted, with an angular pro- jection outwards at the knee. Rate of mortality.—Three general con- clusions may be established. (1.) A diminishing mortality as the operation ba.s continued to bo practised. (2.) Since the revival of the operation, and more recently, an average death rate of ono in four or