215 EXCISION OF THE SHOULDEll-JOINT. as performed, it, also, warrants me in placing this case upon record, as one of successful resection for gunshot injury of the elbow- and shoulder- joints of the same arm. (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' Iv, 207.) Hxcisivn of the shoulder-joi?it.—Two cases are recorded by Mr. Ewens. Both patients were females; one a3t. 18, the other 32. Both recovered well, though much out of health at the time of the operation. The disease had existed for long. In the first case, an oval tlap was made, in the second, a vertical incision at the posterior border of the deltoid with a superior transverse cut. ('Lancet,' Sept. 16, 1871, 390.) . _ . . n Mr. Gant, after alluding to the usual conditions requiring excision ot the shoulder-joint, notes that the amount of bone to be removed is rarely extensive, the disease being usually limited to the head of the humerus, while the glenoid cavity is comparatively seldom affected, and, even then, may usually be left untouched or only scraped. The resulting state of the joint would seem to be that the limb can never be elevated above the horizontal line; while in many cases it hangs down without any power whatever in the deltoid, at a greater or less distance from the scapula. The movements of flexion, extension, and adduction are usually free; abduction can often be efiected to the extent of raising the arm considerably from the side, and there is, generally, sufficient power in the forearm to carry heavy weights, and perform many of the ordinary domestic tasks. Mr. G-ant mentions a case, under his own care, in which excision was successfully performed, but the patient died subsequently of internal disease. He also narrates the case of a young lady, sst. 17, at the time the note was made, whose right shoulder- joint inflamed acutely after exposure to cold (?) six years before. Suppuration followed, and a copious discharge occurred from several sinuses for two months, when the joint was excised by Mr. Lane. A vertical incision, down the inner border of the deltoid, with a short transverse cut superiorly, was made. Two inches and a half of the humerus were removed, and the glenoid cavity, in a deeply carious state, was freely gouged. The patient made an uninterrupted recovery. The arm, at the end of the six years, was four inches shorter than its fellow, but she could move it freely backwards and forwards, without, however, the power to raise it horizontally unless aided by the left hand. The motions of the forearm were perfect, so that she could work readily, write, or play the piano. (Ibid., Sept. 2, 1871, 313.) Excision of the elbow-joint.—The conditions appropriate for excision of the elbow-joint are summed up by Mr. Gant as—(i) Functional in- utility of the limb, depending on disease of the joint, resulting in destruction of the articular cartilages, without the supervention of anchylosis, will always justify excision. (2) Osseous anchylosis, and especially in connection with a useless position of the limb, will also justify excision. (3) As regards the amount of bone removed there is not the same limitation as in the case of the knee-joint. It is not so important to keep within the limits of the epiphyses. The removal of only a thin, superficial section of the articular ends of the bones in the elbow-joint, leaving the section ends too nearly in contact, is apt to be followed by osseous union, and an unsuccessful result of the operation.