EEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 480 * Virchow and Hirsch's ' Jabresb.,' 1871, ii, p. 214. I St. That with the present extremely imperfect data it is quite pre- mature to decide exclusively in favour of any one theory regarding the localisation of cholera. and. That several of the existing theories may really involve partial truths, and that they only become incompatible with one another when insisted on as absolute and entire explanations. 3rd. That although in the report much stress has been laid on the soil theory it is not on account of any assumption of its essential superiority to the others, but because it appears to be little understood in this country (India), and to be regarded with a considerable amount of prejudice in consequence. It has seemed to Dr. Cunningham, there- fore, very desirable that the existence of any facts in its favour should be distinctly put forward, and the more so that there seems to be enough of these to forbid the wholesale rejection of the theory, and to warrant the continuance of careful observations which may teach in time the laws of the association of ground moisture with the propaga- tion of cholera. Dr. Zehnder's report on the cholera epidemic in Zurich in 1867* con- tains much valuable information on the origin and diffusion of this disease. He regards water-closets contaminated with cholera de- jections as the most common cause of contagion, from the germs getting into the air and thus gaining access to the alimentary canal. He did not observe that drinking water played any important -part in tlie diffusion of the disease. Meteorological conditions did not seem to exert any special influence on the spread of the epidemic. The year was very rainy. The nature of the soil, as well its configuration, its elevation, and geological formation, especially in reference to the sub- soil water, were likewise without apparent influence on the spread of the epidemic. A comparison of the levels of the ground water with the daily number of cases of cholera, showed that at the time of the out- break the surface was tolerably dry; at the end of August (the time when the disease was spreading) the rain had caused an increase in the moisture of the soil, while in September the moisture increased as the epidemic gained in strength. From the middle to the end of the month, at which time the epidemic ceased, the moisture gradually diminished till it reached tlie same condition of dryness as at the time when the outbreak occurred. Hence the disease began with a dry condition of the soil, gained energy as the moisture increased, and again became less active as the dryness returned. Accumulations of filth outside the houses exercised little or no influence on the diffusion of the disease, but the accumulation of moist sewer gases in the interior of houses exercised a most prejudicial effect and greatly contributed to the spread of the contagion, t^he paper concludes with a description of the methods taken and recommended for checking the difl'usion of the disease :—(i) Absolute prevention of access to water-closets in a house once infected after disinfection of the same, and the use of utensils which are to be carefully disinfected and emptied out of the liouse; (2) the formation of privies for the convenience of those in whose houses or neighbourhood cases of cholera have occurred, but whose