II 'Journ. de Pharm. et de Chem.,' 1872, p. 398. 4d8 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC!. aud ia neuralgias, crural and brachial, succeeds when other remedies have failed. He also recommends it in doses of 20—30 grains for frontal headache resulting from mental fatigue, and in cases of gan- grene of the lungs, pya3mia, and diphtheria. Aconitine.—H. Duquesnel * has recently obtained this alkaloid in a crystalline condition from Aconitum napellus, by a modification of Stas's method, and he states that hitherto the term aconitine has been applied to several substances diifering in therapeutical value with the source from which they are derived. He regards the alkaloid, to which he assigns the formula C27H4oNOin, as a glucoside, and considers that this view explains the spontaneous deterioration of various preparations of it on keeping. The chemical properties of aconitine are fully de- scribed, and phosphoric acid, tannin, potassio-mercuric iodide, and iodine in potassium iodide, are stated to be the most sensitive reagents for it. The same observer, in conjunction with M. Grrehant,t describes the physiological action of the crystallised aconitine prepared by him. !From experiments on frogs, they conclude that small doses of aconitine are analogous in physiological results to curarine, destroying the motor power of nerves, but with large doses the heart's action was arrested, and the nerves did not lose their motricity, because, through cessation of the circulation, the did not come in contact with the poison. In mammalia, the effects of the poison are more rapidly deve- loped, and are more difficult to analyse. » Opium.—0. Hesse % has described some new alkaloids from opium ■—laudanine, codamine, meconidine, and lanthopine. These collec- tively, when impure, form the porphyroxine described by Merck. The physiological and therapeutical properties of these new bases have not yet been ascertained. Rabuteau § has investigated the action of the alkaloids of opium, and classified them accordingly. The alkaloid having the most powerful action is placed first, and that having the weakest is placed fast. They stand in this order as soporifics—morphine, uarceine, and codeine. The other principles have no soporific action. As poisons— morphine, thebaine, codeine, papaverine, narceine, and narcotine. As analgesics (pain destroyers)—morphine, narceine, thebaine, papaverine, and codeine. Narcotine does not seem to diminish pain. The author has also examined their effects in preventing secretion from the intes- tine, as he supposes diarrhoea to depend on more fluid passing into it by osmosis from the vessels. Morphine is the most powerful anexos- motic, and next to it comes narceine. The other principles do not seem to arrest diarrhoea. Opianine is present in opium in very small quan- tity. Its action is like that of morphine. Meconin and meconic acid have no action whatever. Opium and chloroform.—Labbe and and Guyon || have confirmed the statement of Claude Bernard and Nussbaum, that when morphine is * ' Comp. Rend.,' Ixxiii, p. 207. t Ibid., p. 209. X 'Aim. Chem. Pliarm.,' Supp., Bd. viii, p. 261. § ' Journ. dc I'Anat. et de Physiol.,' 1872, p. 302.