149 MALFORMATION OP IIJSAUT ANEURISAr. ductus arteriosus, but that vessel replaced by two small branches connected with the aorta; cyanosis (boy, ret. 17, with plate), "IVans. Path. Soc.,' xxii, 85. Kelly, 'Mal- formed Heart, defective Septum Vcutriculorum " (girl, tet. 6), ib., 95. King, "Mal- formation of the Heart associated with Curies of the Right Mastoid Bone, and Abscess in the llight Cerebral Hemisphere" (boy, fot. 4, open septum, stenosis of aorta, dilatation of pulmonary artery, no ductus arteriosus), ib., xxiii, 83. Smart, " Stenosis of the Pulmonary Artery from Endocarditis in Foetal Stage, increased by Endocai-ditis after Puberty, death by Phthisis" (boy, a;t. 18, incomplete septum), 'Lancet,' 1871, ii, 288. Broadbent, "A Study of a Case of Heart Disease, probably Malformation" (woman, tot. 31), ib., 1872, ii, 850. Jullien. "Maladie Bleue,' ' Lyon Med.,' viii,39i. Sutherland, "Case of Morbus Craruleus" (girl, a3t. 13), 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, ii, 526. Mackey, "Cyanosis, Murmur with the First Souud of the Heart, Patent Foramen Ovale " (female child, £et. 5 months), 'Brit. Med. Jouru,' 1871, ii, 666. Aneurism, Sfc. Balfour (' Edin. Joum.,' xvi, 704) records four cases iu illustration of some difficulties in tlie diagnosis of aneurism close to the heart. In all the cases a pulsating tumour was present, with a systolic or double murmur at the base of the heart; but on post-mortem examination no aneurism was found, and only some slight valvular mischief in some cases, in others retraction of the lungs. He calls attention to the importance of these cases in relation to the diagnosis of aneurism in this situation, especially to the points in which they differed from aneurism, viz.:—(i) the entire absence of all the subsidiary phenomena dependent upon pressure on the neighbouring organs; and (2) the fact of the isochronous pulsations being less forcible than those of the heart. Gr. Johnson records the case of a man, set. 33, in whom aneurism of the aorta was diagnosed by the aid of the laryngoscope (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 720). The diagnosis was borne out by the appear- ances found post-mortem. At the back of the transverse aorta there was a shallow pouch an inch and a half in diameter, communicating with an aneurism about the size of a walnut, which pressed backwards on the trachea just above its bifurcation, and nearly filling its canal; the cartilages were eroded. The posterior wall of the aneurism was mainly composed of mucous membrane, in which was an ulcerated opening a quarter of an inch in diameter, and plugged only by a clot of fibrine. The symptoms during life were dyspnoea, dysphagia, and tracheal stridor; the latter was heard also over the upper dorsal spinous pro- cesses, when the voice had a loud bronchophonic character. Crisp (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 106) records a rare case of aneurism of the right coronary artery in a man, set. 63. He had been formerly a great drinker; twenty years before his death he had fallen into the Thames, and was with difficulty resuscitated. Since then he had had palpitation of the heart. In December, 1870, he had haemorrhage from the stomach; three months later he died suddenly. At the autopsy the pericardium was found distended with blood, which came from a small orifice opening into an aneurism on the commencement of the first branch of the right coronary artery. It was the size of a small walnut, and passed back between the root of the aorta and the auricular appendix; its walls were very thin. The coronary arteries