97 PARALYSIS AGITANS. Rinecker (' Berl. Klin. "Woeh.,' 1871, 627) gives the autopsies of two cases which difier but little from the preeediug. lu the second of the two the anterior and lateral columns, as well as the nerve fibres and ganglia, were atrophied, aud in both the peripheral nerves. Rosenthal ('Ceutralbl.,' 1872, 176, quoted from ' Oestr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilkunde,' 1871, No. 52) contributes a paper towards the clinical andanatomical knowledge of spinal infantile paralysis. French writers (cf. ' Centralbl.,' 1870, 540) had especially called attention to the atrophy and malformation of the anterior horns of the spinal cord in this affection. Rosenthal, instead of looking upon the atrophy of the nerve- cells as the primary cause, considers the dilatation and thickening of the vessels, which he has observed, and which are the signs of an active participation of the latter, as a pathological process which results further in secondary growths and destruction of the grey substance. In oppo- sition to Duchenne, Rosenthal finds that the motor power of paralysed muscles improves' without any return of excitability by faradisation or galvanism. If within the first six or nine months from the commence- ment of the affection the electrical excitability be completely lost, the prognosis is not Jbr that reason unfavourable.* Hitzig u. Jiirgensen, " Zur Therapie der Kinderlahmung," ' Deut. Arch.,' ix, 330. Earwell, "Infantile Paralysis and its resulting Deformities," 'Lancet/ 1872, i, 249, &c. Vulpian, " Anatomie Pathologique de la Paralysie Infantile," ' Gaz. Med.,' 1872, 9. Ball, "Dela Paralysie Infantile," 'Gaz, des Hop.,' 1872, 185. Simon, " Eine besondere Form der Kinderlahmung durch encephalo-malacisclie Heerde," ' Virch. Arch.,' hi, 103. Paralysis Agitans. Murchison and Cayley (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 24) give the details of a case of paralysis agitans, the spinal cord of which the latter examined, after hardening in chromic acid, and staining with carmine. I. The cortical or connective tissue layer of the cord appeared thick- ened, and presented an increased number of nuclei. 2. Irregular tracts and patches of connective tissue, thickly nucleated, passed from the cortical layer into the substance of the cord, the reticulum of which was much thickened. These patches were most frequently met with near the exit of the posterior roots of the nerves, which themselves did not appear altered. 3. The place of the central canal was an oval tract, crowded with cells of various shapes and sizes, the majority having the character of leucocytes, none presenting the character of the normal, epithelium of the canal. This oval tract occupied not only the site of the canal itself, but also that of the surrounding central substantia gelatinosa. 4. The capillaries of the grey matter, and to a less extent the white, were distended with blood ; and here and there were small points of extravasation. 5. Through the whole cord, chiefly in the grey matter, were small deposits composed of leucocytes or exudation cells. The first three changes were due to a chronic, the last two to an acute, process. Joffroy's account of the morbid changes in these cases ('Gaz. des * In abstracting this paper Bernhardt remarks, " Damaschino also observed in two casea of essential infantile paralysis marked changes in the vessels of the anterior horns, and both he and Duchenne seem inclined to look upon these changes as the original affection" (cf. Duchenne, ' Elect. Local,' 1872, p. 409). 7