REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 174 1869. The table includes examples of all the common, almost all the less common, and one or two of the rare diseases, such as "alopecia areata, ichthyosis, keloid, leucoderma, molluscum sebaceum, pemphigus, purpura, favus, urticaria, and one or two others." (Some of these may be uncommon in Ireland—Bep.) The writer touches upon what he considers to be points of special interest in some of the affections, and gives his treatment. Anderson ('Lancet,' 1871, ii, 672, &c.) gives an analysis of 11,000 consecutive cases of skin diseases. A few of the more interesting cases are abstracted in the text below. Eeference must be made to the paper itself for his classification of his cases, which are divided into functional and organic diseases, the latter again frequently sub- divided. The most frequent affection of the skin by far was eczema, of which their were 2875 cases ; erythema was met with in 569 ; ecthyma in 97 ; psoriasis in 831 ; acne in 342 ; pemphigus in 16. A few cases of somewhat rare occurrence are described. Grueneau de Mussy ('Graz. des Hop.,' 1871, 413) writes on the symmetrical distribution of affections of the skin, with special reference to a case of symmetrical erysipelas of the face occurring in a male patient. He thinks the case confirms the law laid down by Graves (' Clin. Lect.,' 2nd ed., ii, 327) that when this afi"ection commences in the median line it is developed symmetrically on each side of it. He commences his paper by assex'ting that this tendency to symmetry is a law of normal organic evolution which reveals itself often under patho- logical conditions. For instance, decay of a tooth on one side is often followed by decay of the corresponding tooth on the other side; the same result occurs in affections of the eye, in gout and rheumatism, in the eruptive fevers, and in several cutaneous diseases. In his case the erysij)elas commenced on the back of the nose, and spread to the two sides symmetrically. On the third day it extended over the forehead, leaving two triangular spaces perfectly free. On the left side the triangle corresponded with an old cicatrix, the remains of a wound which had divided the integuments down to the bone. No lesion was present on the opposite side, and yet the erysipelas affected the same portion and dimensions of skin, &c., in the same form as on that side. In seven days the erysipelas had disappeared, and the patient was well. JErythema.—Lipp ("Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Erythema exsudativum multiforme, Hebra," 'Arch. f. Derm, und Syph.,' iii, 221) treated this afiection in 17 women and 2 men. It was preceded by pyrexia, I'igors, malaise, and restlessness. It put on various appearances, small or large nodes, patches resembling erythema annulare and gyratum, or punc- tated spots arranged in circles or half circles. In two cases there were bull», and in one pustules. The affection attacked any part of the body, and several times the mucous membrane, proceeding to ulceration and loss of tissue. The feverish symptoms were present in almost all cases, lasting for 18 days, and sometimes recurring. In one case there was endocarditis and pleurisy, in nine rlieumatic symptoms, and in several cases constitutional syphilis. Wilson ('Brit. Med. Journ,,' 1871, ii, 34) gives a case of erythema