478 REPOUT OX PUBLIC HEiXTH. states his own couclusions in the following theses. (i) In India there are one or more regions in which cholera has had its endemic site since the most ancient times with a prevalence fluctuating according to the season of the year. The cause of the disease and its endemicity cannot be looked for in the people living there, but is to be looked for in a yet un- known relation between the specific disease-germ and the soil and climate. (2) Cholera in India has at all times periodically diffused itself in the form of epidemics from the endemic districts over other tracts of land. As the means of diffusion some people in India assume the currents of air, specially the monsoons (the miasmatista, Bryden), others human intercourse, specially through the excreta of cholera patients (contagionists, Macnamara), while others allow the diffusion in both these ways. The proposition goes on to state that neither of these views sufficiently explains the facts, but that along with human intercourse there must be certain local and periodical conditions, and that diffusion by currents of air alone is certainly not in harmony with what has been observed in India. (3) That which determines the local thriving of the cholera germ, which may be called x, does not proceed from the human organism, but from the localities due to yet unascertained processes in the soil. This principle applies not only to the endemic circle but to all places in which epidemics of cholera are developed. The substratum furnished by the locality or soil, on which the local and periodical disposition for cholera epidemics is depen- dent, may be called y. The cholera germ x is able to travel with human beings, the true substratum y is associated with the locality. (4) That part of the cholera process which goes on in the soil, and on which the periodic rhythma of cholera prevalence is essentially depen- dent, both in the endemic and epidemic regions, requires, in addition to other conditions, a certain medium amount of soil moisture. Both great persistent dryness (as in deserts) and excessive continued moisture (as in the Q-anges Delta towards the end of the rains) of the soil are alike unfavorable to cholera. On this account, it happens that in the dry and hot districts with scanty rain-fall, which abound in Upper India, cholera usually prevails in association with the rains (summer or monsoon cholera), whilst in the moist and hot regions with very abun- dant rain-fall prevailing in Lower Bengal, cholera abounds in the rainless spring (spring cholera of Calcutta) and is put to flight again by the monsoon rains. Places which, like Madras, under otherwise like conditions, stand as regards their rain-fall in the mean between Lahore and Calcutta, show also, with tolerable regularity, spring and summer cholera in one and the same year. Whenever, as the result of altered conditions of rain and temperature, the moisture or soil-water conditions in a place deviate from the formerly existing rule, the periodical rhythma and prevalence of cholera of that place are likewise altered, so that such a place, for example Bombay, instead of prevalent spring cholera, can also exceptionally have monsoon cholera and vice versa. One and the same amount of rain acts on difierently associated soils, and on soils which differ in their dryness or moisture in entirely different ways. Just such diversities aa are dependent on the reception of water