ItEPOllT ON MlDVriFERY, ETd. 384 they have been long acting, gradually elongating the attachments, and stretching and elongating the organs themselves, or parts of them. The pelvic viscera descend either from the retaining forces being diminished or the expelling forces being predominant. That which is most easily displaced vfill descend first, and the rest will follow in the exact order and in the exact duration of the facility with which they may be depressed. Dr. Duncan, in a paper on the functions of the perinteum in proci- dentia uteri ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 1871), believes that the peri- nteum has nothing to do with the maintainance of the uterus in its natural position, and that laceration of it has no causative influence in the pro- duction of procidentia. There can be no doubt, however, that lacera- tion of the perinaeum favours or accelerates the occurrence of proci- dentia. It abbreviates the latter part of the path which the uterus travels in its descent. It abets the causes which produce prolapsus by removing difficulties which otherwise would have to be overcome. These difficulties lie not only in the length and resistance of the perinaeum, but also in the smallness and tightness of the vaginal orifice. Restoration of the perinaeum does not remove any cause of prolapsus or procidentia. It is restored in order that it may resist the progress of the descending uterus. This opposing power of tlie perina3um may be increased by the pressure of the pad of a T bandage. Dr. Squarey writes ('Obst. Trans.,' 1872), on the causation of ac- quired flexions of the uterus. His object is to explain why in two cases, the same causes and conditions apparently existing, an anteflexion is found in the one case, a retroflexion in the other. He points out that in whatever plane of the pelvis the uterus is situated, its axis is invariably at right angles to that plane, and he believes that the direc- tion the fundus uteri takes in a flexion depends on the situation of the uterus in the pelvis at the time that the cause producing it comes into action. When an anteflexion is produced, the uterus is high up, the axis being forward, and any force striking it from above would impinge on the posterior and upper surface of the fundus, and so force it for- w'ard, producing anteflexion. When retroflexion is produced the uterus has from some cause sunk more or less deeply into the pelvis, and has its axis directed more or less backward, so that any force striking it from above would impinge on the anterior and upper surface of the fundus. Dr. Rasch vn-ites ('Obst. Trans.,' 1871) on a novel method of using the uterine sound for redressing a flexed uterus. The sound intro- duced into the retroflexed uterus should first be used as a lever to lift up the organ; then, instead of twisting the handle round, the part in the uterus and its ideal prolongation are made the centre of motion, round which the handle and stem sweep in a large circle. The move- ment is well illustrated by grasping the curved part of the sound in one's hand and swinging the handle round as it will go. By the above method the irritation which results from making a large semi- circle of motion in the uterine cavity is avoided. The mechanical treatment of displacements of the unimpregnated uterus is fullv described by Pepper (' Amer. Journ. of Obstet.,' 1S71)