ilEPORT ON MIDWIPERY, ETC. 404 gestation, of the abdominal form, in which the foetus died at the seventh month without rupture of the containing cyst. Chronic peritonitis supervened, puhnonary vomicae, colliquative diarrhosa, and hectic. Death resulted from exhaustion at the eighteenth month from the commencement of the pregnancy. (' Lyon Med.,' Jan. 1871.) A case of extra-uterine fcetation and superfajtation. (Argles, 'Lancet,' Sept. 1871.) An interesting case of extra-uterine foetation is reported by Mr. John- son. After an illness of twelve months the general health improved, and continued good for forty-four years. At the end of this time foetal bones were passed per rectum. (' Med. Times Gaz.,' June, 1872.) Peck reports a case of extra-uterine foetation in which the child, a foetus of four months, was delivered by the rectum. Soon after the mother's bowels were relieved a foetus passed per anum. The cord was found hanging from the bowel, and portions of the placenta subse- quently passed away. Peck considers the case to be one in which the placenta was attached to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, and the child during its growth by the side of the rectum gradu- ally led to thinning of the tissues, and these ultimately gave way after the effort of defascation. ('Journ. de Bruxelles,' Feb. 1871.) The post-mortem appearances in a case of extra-uterine pregnancy are described by Dr. M. Duncan. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' July, 1872.) Adams relates a case of extra-uterine foetation, in which gastrotomy was performed after the full terra of gestation. The pain from which tlie patient had previously suff'ered ceased at the end of the ninth month. There succeeded a profuse purulent discharge from the rectum, and portions of the foetal skeleton passed by the same channel. There was also a fistulous opening near the umbilicus, from which pus and ffeces escaped. After making an incision through the abdominal wall there was much difiiculty in liberating the child, which was surrounded by false membranes. There were three fistulous openings between the rectum and the cavity in which the foetus was contained. The patient recovered. (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' xxxii, 1871.) Edgar records ('St. Louis Journ.,' viii, 4, 1871) a case of interstitial pregnancy. Two interesting discussions have taken place at the Obstetrical Society on the treatment of extra-uterine foetation (' Obst. Trans.,' xiii, xiv). Dr. Meadows, in Nov. 1872, related a case in which a living child was removed by abdominal section, but an attempt was made to remove the placenta and the foetal cyst, and this was attended with such severe hfemorrhage that the mother died in a few hours. Dr. Meadows con- tended that in all cases where the diagnosis of a living and viable child could be made out gastrotomy ought to be performed, but that the pla- centa and the containing cyst should be left intact. The placenta should be left to undergo the slow but sure process of absorption, it being argued that, as by the removal of the foetus there is no longer any physiological necessity for the placenta, its removal by atrophy might fairly be reckoned upon. Dr. Murray thought there was too much risk