443 POISONS. the pale and striated muscular fibre is very unlikely, considering that it causes cramp in one set, aud paralysis of the other. He thinks the colicky pains cannot be due to pressure of the contracted muscular fibres on the ends of the sensory nerves. The obstinate constipation he attributes to abnormal irritation of the splanchnic nerve, which inhibits peristaltic action. If the peristalsis were really increased in coHc it ought to lead to diarrhoea rather than constipation. To the irritation of the splanchnic he likewise attributes by reflex action the slowing of the pulse and diminution of the urine observed during the attacks. The rapid atrophy of the muscles in lead poisoning he attri- butes to general interference with nutrition which lead causes in a marked degree, and partly to the paralysis itself, which he attributes to direct action of the poison on the intra-muscular ends of the nerves, and not on their central ends. The nerve tissues have a special afiiniCy for lead. To its action on these, both in their central and peripheral parts, he attributes the symptoms of chronic saturnine poisoning, and the repeated attacks he regards as caused by the occasional absorption of the lead into the blood from the organs in which the poison is de- posited. That lead does not exert a desiccating effect on the tissues, as supposed by Palk and Hitzig, he disproves by experimental analysis. The symptoms of encephalopathia saturnina, both acute and chronic, he attributes to direct deposition of lead on the brain. Eclampsia satur- nina he refers, with Traube and Eosenstein, to capillary anaemia of the brain. He does not think, however, with Eosenstein, that this anssmia is due to direct action on the vessels, but to oedema of the brain, which, is generally found, exerting compression on the vessels, and in cases where oedema is not marked to the diminished diuresis giving rise to a urEemic condition from accumulation of the urinary constituents in the blood. The diminished diuresis does not seem to act by causing an accumulation of lead in the system, as only traces of lead are excreted through the urine. Sulphate of copper.—Maschka* relates a case of suicidal poisoning with sulphate of copper. Death ensued in three days. Among other symptoms jaundice occurred, a symptom which has likewise been ob- served occasionally by others. Maschka attributes it to fatty degenera- tion of the liver, as in arsenic and phosphorus poisoning. Sulphate of zinc.—Well-recorded cases of poisoning by white vitriol are, perhaps, rare. Tardieu and Eoussin f record a very instructive case, which terminated fatally. The remarks which accompany the paper are well worthy of perusal, though they are too long for useful abstraction. Carbonic oxide.—ZuntzJ investigates the question whether the car- bonic oxide compound with hajmoglobin is a fixed compound or not. In opposition to commonly received opinions as to the toxic action of this gas, Donders has recently stated that carbonic oxide may be expelled from blood saturated with this gas by means of indifferent gases, such as oxygen, hydrogen, or carbonic acid. Naurocki and Pokrowsky deny * ' Wien. Med. Wochcnsch.,' 1871, No. 26. t 'Ann. d'llyg.,' xxxvii, p. 329. X ' Pfluger'B Archiv. f, Pbysiologie,' v, 584.