REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. springs instead of in the usual loops, and these springs are brought into tension by the closure of the blades, so as to open them again as soon as the hand of the operator is relaxed. Dr. Heymann* describes a pair of so-called needle-forceps for the removal of capsule. The in- strument is a small pair of forceps, with ordinary teeth, and one blade is prolonged beyond the teeth as a cutting point. It is figured both in natural and in double size in the paper. Dr. Warlomontf speaks favorably of a set of iridectomy knives, resembling those used by Weber, of Darmstadt, in his cataract operation. The blades are shaped like the heart on playing cards, and four are provided, respectively of the vridth of two, three, four, and five millimetres. By selecting a blade of the width of the desired incision, and by introducing it to the full extent, the size of the internal corresponds exactly to that of the external wound. Dr. F. Monoyer, of Strasbourg,^ has invented a pair of new double fixation forceps. They consist of ordinary forceps, car- rying a terminal arc, each end of which is fitted with teeth in the ordi- nary way, so that they seize the conjunctiva at two points at once on opposite sides of the cornea. The two grasping extremities are 1.3 millimetres apart, and the arc on which they are placed is of 13 milli- metres radius. The inventor states that they may be applied in any direction, and that they fix the eye more completely than any instru- ment that acts upon one point only. (c) Medicme and Therapeutics. On the visual sense in diseases of the choroid and retina.—Forster read a paper at the Heidelberg Congress on this subject,§ in which he started from the well-known fact of the want of correlation, in many diseases of the choroid and retina, between contraction of the field and impairment of the sense of vision. In certain affections, with a good light, the sense is not materially impaired, while if the light be lowered, it fails rapidly. In others, the reverse of this is the case. The author had made these well-known facts the basis of some researches, and believed that he had done something towards explaining them. He employed for this purpose a photometric apparatus, consisting of a rectangular box, twelve inches long by eight wide, and six high, having two holes, by which a patient could look into the interior, and another, two inches square and covered with white paper, for the admission of the light of a candle. This opening was fitted with two wings of blackened tin, which could be closed or opened at pleasure by means of a screw, and a scale and index served to show the size of the aperture, which could be varied from i to 1500 square millimetres. The objects of vision are black lines on a white gi'ound, from i to 2 centimetres wide by 5 high, and the test is to determine by how smaU a degree of light they can be seen. The retinal sensibility, which the author calls l, will bear an inverse proportion to the size of the aperture of iUumination. Thus, * ' Ai-cbiv f. Opbth.,' xvii, i. t ' Anuales d'Oculistique,' 1871, i, 97. X Ibid., 1872, i, 64. § Ibid., 1872, i, 97.