EXCISION OF A WEDGJi OP BONE AT THE KNEE. 223 recorded in the ' Lancet,' Jan. 20, 187a, 79. At the end of nine weeks the bones were found to be firmly anchylosed. In the ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 187 i, three cases are recorded from the practice of Dr. Gillespie. Two were in youag adults and one in a lad of fourteen. All were cases of chronic synovial disease. The first dressing was dry lint, afterwards weak, stimulating lotions. Tlie soft parts healed in sixty-five, fifty, and thirty-five days. The bone was firmly united in ninety-five, fifty, and forty days, and the patient could walk without assistance in 140, 100, and 160 days respectively. A splint was kept applied for six weeks without intermission. Mr. Sydney Jones narrates four cases. The patella was not removed. One patient died of pyaemia ; the others did well. The patient, who died, was a woman, set. 34. Those who recovered were two men, set. 21 and 30, and a lad, set. 13. Illustrations of the condition of the patients are given. ('St. Thomas's Hosp. Kep.,' ii, 283.) Mr. Terry narrates two cases of successful excision of the knee. One patient was a man, set. 26, the other a boy, set. 12. The first left the hospital in three months, and the limb was sound at the end of six years. The second left in fifteen weeks ; his limb was sound after two years. ('Lancet,' Jan. 13, 1872.) Mr. W. W. Moxhay narrates eight cases in which he performed ex- cision of the knee-joint. Seven of the patients did well, and when heard of, after the lapse of some time, had thoroughly useful limbs. In one case a patient, set. 40, amputation was necessary, and was followed by recovery. The other patients were males, set. 29, 11, 35, and 10, respectively, and females, set. 17, 8, and 20. The average stay in the hospital, after the operation, was about three months. (' Med.-Chir. Eev.,' April, 1871, 487.) Anchylosis of the hnee; excision of a wedge of lone.—Dr. Morton gi ves the details of a case of complete, osseous anchylosis of the knee with extreme flexion, in which he removed a wedge of bone with complete success. The patient was twenty-seven years of age. The flexion was at an acute angle, " the leg being flexed to the full extent upon the thigh." The union was so complete and so dense that drilling was out of the question. A horseshoe flap was dissected up, and then a wedge- shaped portion of bone, including the condyles of the femur, a portion* of the head of the tibia, and the patella, "four and a half inches across the base, and two and a half inches in depth," was removed with the saw. The bony tissue, cut through, was so very dense that even the portion covering the popliteal vessels could not be broken, as is usually done, and it was found necessary to use the saw until the section was completed. There was no necessity for dividing any of the hamstring tendons. Three months after the operation the patient could raise the limb, union having taken place to a considerable extent. Several fistulie existed, through which necrosed bone could be felt. Five, six, and seven months after the operation some large fragments of bone, corresponding to the sawn surfaces, were removed and the sinuses healed up. The patient left the city, for a distance, nine months after the operation, able to use the limb well. There was shortening to the extent of two inches. Fourteen months after the operation, the man