ilXTROVEiiSiON OP THE BLADDER. but if he overstayed the time he almost certainly had an attack of re- tention. He finally died of idiopathic erysipelas. The bladder was found to be in great part filled with a firm tumour which reached above the pubes. A section of the whole having been made the tumour was found to be the prostate gland enlarged in an unusual position, above the urethra instead of below it, as is common. The upper end was conical and inclined the urine towards the urethra. The bladder proper was almost wholly within the abdomen. "When he had attacks of re- tention, during many years, one passage of the catheter relieyed him till his next attack. No urine constantly remained behind in the bladder, nor did the kidneys become afiected. Engravings are given and notes of other cases. In one case, besides an enlargement of the prostate, a large sac bulged backwards from the bladder. In another case, general symptoms were occasioned by the accumulation of " resi- dual urine." ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' June, 1872.) Amputation of the penis for carcinoma.—Dr. Johnson narrates four cases. In one, he saw the patient eleven years afterwards, and in ano- ther three years afterwards, and no return had occurred in either case, though the glands were more or less involved at the time of the opera- tion. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1871, 242.) Melanosis of the Penis; Amputation. Mr. T. Holmes, 'Patli. Trans.,' sxiii, 175. Inversion of the bladder,—Mr. Croft records a case of inversion of the bladder. The patient was a female infant, ast. 14 months. The bladder was returned. The case did well. Three other cases recorded are quoted. Mr. Croft's case was, in his opinion, complicated with a slight rupture of the walls of the bladder, accompanied by the escape of serous, peritoneal fluid. lu the other cases no such accident occurred. (' St. Thorn. Hosp. Eep.,' ii, 19^.) Extroversion of the urinary bladder.—Dr. P. F. Maury has operated successfully on two cases. The patients were boys, set. 8 and 9 years. In each there was a double hernia. His operation consisted in making a curvilinear incision commencing on the outer third of Poupart's liga- ment, carried down below the hernise and scrotum to the middle of the perineum, and thence along the opposite side to a point corresponding to the commencement of the incision. This flap was carefully dis- sected up, completely denuding the hernias of their cutaneous covering. A valve like incision was made in one flap so as to allow the penis to shp through. In this way one flap was obtained sufiicient to cover in the bladder, then an incision was made transversely across the abdo- minal walls and a trap-door flap formed. The lower flap was then in- verted so as to bring its cutaneous surface in contact with the mucous wall of the bladder. The edges of the lower flap were bevelled, and it wa-i brought under the upper one and fastened by means of the tongue and groove suture of Prof. Pancoast. One boy required two further operations, the other only the first above described. The bladder ia now covered in, a small urinal can be used, some urine retained in the recumbent poaturc, and the cicatrisation has cured the hernia. The testicles are within the abdomen. (' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,* July, 1871, 154.)