URPORT ON SURGEHY. 198 sure has been skilfully performed, vessels of cnmparatively small size, such as tlie facial, temporal, radial, ulnar, mammary, aud spermatic, may be safely freed from pressure in eight Jiours; and larger arteries, ns the brachial, axillary and femoral, in twenty-four. In one case a boy whose thigh had been amputated removed the pin in four hours, from the femoral, without any hajmorrhage resulting. In another case the axillary was relieved in fifteen hours without ill result. Of two thousand arteries, acupressed, hajraorrhage only occurred twice on the removal of pins, and the vessels were immediately secured again. The result of acupressure is adhesion of the internal surfaces, with the formation of an internal coagulum more or less adherent to the artery. Since March, 1864, Dr. Pirrie has i)ractised acupressure in all kinds of opera- tions without failing to arrest haemorrhage. Cases are mentioned in which rapid union followed in large wounds. Dr. Pirrie hqjs not seen a case of septic poisoning since adopting acupressure. Mr. Clement Lucas describes a new plan. He uses an ordinary acupressure needle, with a ring at the end opposite the point, and a loop of wire. The needle, at about an inch from its point, is twisted round on itself, so as to form another ring. The loop of wire is first passed through the ring, at the end of the needle, and then through the second ring, so that the end of the loop will pass over the point of the needle. The loop is then bent up out of the way, and the needle and wire may be 80 kept ready for use. When employed, the pin is passed under the artery, as far as the second ring, the loop of wire is bent down, over the point and then withdrawn, along the needle, till the artery is com- pressed as tightly as desirable, when the distal ends of the wire are secured round the needle. To remove it the wire is untwisted and the pin pulled on. If bleeding occur, the wire is again tightened, if not, the needle is removed altogether. The plan is easy of adoption, aud safe, and is the only one which allows of being reapplied, if bleeding occurs, at once, without opening the stump. Figures are given. (' Lancet,' Sept. 2, 1871, 320.) Cases illustrating the process of occlusion in arteries after acupressnre, with its relation to the treatment of surgical hajmoiThage and as compared with ligature and torsion, are given, hy J. J. Gant (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iii, 95), with illustrations. Torsion of arteries and dressing of ivounds.—Mr. Calleuder's expe- rience has been in favour of torsion. His first dressing has been, first, the leaving the surfaces to nature, after carefully arresting bleeding, and after placing them in apposition; secondly, thorough covering up of the wound with lint or with cotton-wool. (Clin. Lecture,'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 20, 1872.) Surgical treatment of aneurism.—Mr. Holmes enters, in detail, into the surgical treatment of aneurism, in his lectures at the College of Surgeons, in June, 1872, published in full, in the ' Lancet' and iu the form of abstracts, in the other medical journals. Space will not allow of our following him in his critical examination of the cases published. The main propositions are stated succinctly by himself: i. That aneu- risms, of whatever form, and however near the heart they may be, ought not to be regarded as incurable, but should be made the objects of