ORIGIN OF CAUDIAC MURMUES, ETC. 133 are analysed, and concludes that in certain cases, " when the deposition of tubercle is too sliyht to give rise to physical signs the murmur, taken in conuectiou with emaciatiou and cough, may be looked upon almost as pathognomonic" of phthisis. Gray (' Brit. Med. Jouru.,' 1871, ii, 94) refers shortly to three cases occurring in his own practice, of phthisis, strumous diarrhoea, and bron- chitis after measles, iu which death froui coma was preceded by a fall in the frequency of the pulse. Brunton ('St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' vii, 216) has made several experi- ments on the effect of temperature on the rabbit's heart while it still remained in the body, sometimes leaving all its nervous connections untouched, and sometimes dividing the vagi. These experiments were made by narcotising the animal with opium or chloral, and laying it in a tin vessel well padded with cotton wool. The vessel was double, and by pouring hot water into it, the temperature of the rabbit was gradually raised. The belly of the animal was also covered with cotton wool, sometimes with an india-rubber bag containing hot water. To make respiration easier, a canuia was introduced into the trachea, and the inspired air passed over warm water. The pulsations of the heart were counted by pushing a fine needle through the thoracic walls into the heart, so that it vibrated with each pulsation, and connecting its outer end by means of a fine thread with the lever of one of Marey's cardio- graphs. By this means it is possible to count the pulsations, even when the heart is beating at the rate of 470 in a minute, as it did in one case. The temperature was taken with a thermometer in the rectum. He gives a table, from which it is seen that the heart beats more quickly as the temperature rises till it reaches its maximum, and then becomes slower, and finally stops. The increase in the number of beats is not the same for each degree of rise in the temperature, and the number of beats at the same temperature, and also the same amount of quick- ening for each degree of rise of temperature, difi'ers in different animals. The upper limit at which the heat stands still varies in different animals, but in the stronger ones it is between 113° and 114° F., or even above it. In some of the experiments the power of the vagus was tested from time to time by irritation with an induced cur- rent, and from its persistent power the writer concludes that iu the rabbit, and probably other mammals' hearts, a temperature suffi- ciently high to produce stoppage of the heart does not paralyse the vagus or the inhibitory apparatus through which it acts. He is inclined to reject Weikart's hypothesis, that death from heat is due to coagulation of blood in the vessels, and to agree with Bernard in finding its cause in impairment of the muscular power of the heart by the heat. Habershon ('Lancet,' 1871, i, 333) writes on the relief of nocturnal dyspncea arising from disease of the heart, and groups it into three classes. In the first class are cases of failing power of the heart's action from loss of blood and from sudden shocks to the nervous sys- tem. In these cases the action is feeble and often irregular, and the best treatment consists in the administration of nourishment, the proper use of stimulants, and afterwards the employment of steel, with nar-