TUMOURS. 243 truded through some of their expanded walls. Pulsation in a non-can- cerous tumour connected with bone is a nearly certain sign of growth within bone, except in the case of certain specimens of myeloid epulis, and when such pulsation is felt it is no indication that severe bleeding wiU ensue in the removal of the tumour, for it is only derived from the arteries in the walls of the bone-cavity lodging the tumour. When these means of diagnosis are insufficient an exploratory puncture or incision may be made; and generally in cases of doubt it may be well to attempt the simple removal of the tumour, and in case of failure to proceed at once to its excision, or to resection, or to amputation. (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' liv, 253.) On deeply seated atheromatous tumours of the nech.—Dr. Max Schede, in the ' Archiv fiir Klin. Chir.,' xv, relates three cases in which the tumour lay on the sheath of the large vessels ; in one it was attached to the styloid process. In two of the cases, the inner wall of the sac was formed of cells arranged in from six to ten layers, superficially, resembling large, flattened epithelium, and, in the more deeply seated parts, becoming gradually elongated into spindle-cells standing per- pendicularly on the cyst-wall. Outside the cellular layer was a sac of connective tissue, the inner part of which consisted of close, concentric layers of fine, fibrillar tissue, interspersed with a homogeneous, finely granular substance. T'urther outwards, loose connective tissue was met with. There were no traces' of glands or of hair-follicles. In a third case iodine had been injected before the removal of the cyst. The epithelial cells here showed pale nuclei, and the capsule of con- nective tissue presented signs of inflammatory infiltration, and con- tained a large amount of young tissue. On the outer part, the capsule presented the structure of a lymphatic gland; this apj)earance wa3 found, on close examination, to be due to the incorporation of lymphatic glands with the wall of the sac. Schede believes that these cysts have their origin in branchial fistulse. In one of the cases the patient's twin-sister had persistence of branchial clefts. The extirpa- tion of such cysts is attended with difficulty; puncture, followed by injection of iodine, is more likely to be useful. Congenital, Jihro-cellular twmour in the huttoch.—Mr. Bryant removed a tumour of this nature from the buttock of a man, set. 50. He had always had it, he said, but it had only caused inconvenience for two or three years, and been really troublesome for two months. (' Lancet,' Sept. 30, 1871, p. 468.) Congenital fibrous tumour.—Mr. Waren Tay removed a tumour (probably congenital) from a child's arm, close to the axilla. The growth seemed to be of the simplest character, hypertrophy of the connective-tissue elements of the subcutaneous fatty layers, and to be allied to the solid portions of the cystic tumours of the neck and other parts; of the nature of Mr. Holmes's " Congenital Innocent Tumour or Hypertrophy." (' Path. Trans.,' xxiii, 250.) Removal of a large, scrotal tumoiir.—Mr. Bickersteth narrates a very interesting case of a large, scrotal tumour which he removed, saving the testes. The mass was, chiefly, hypertropliied, scrotal skin and sub- cutaneoua tissue. Embedded in this was the original growth (which