BEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. ** ' Ludwig's Arbeiten,' 1870. 36 nerve exerts no reflex influence upon these movements; (h) that the fifth nerve animating the velum palati is the principal sensory nerve presiding over deglutition, since after section of one of the fifths deglu- tition could no longer be provoked by exciting the corresponding half of the velum palati; (c) that the superior laryngeal nerve contributes to the reflex actions of deglutition by its sensory branches distributed to the mucous membrane covering the glottis, the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, the superior borders of the laryngeal cavity, and chiefly by those distributed over the corniculated cartilages ; (d) the recurrent nerve aids in the reflex phenomena of deglutition by its sensory branches. (4) In the cat and dog cough is often observed on electrifying the trunk of the superior laryngeal nerve and that of the glosso-pharyngeal. In the rabbit cough is occasionally observed on irritation of the latter nerve. M. Ebstein * has arrived at the conclusion that the glands of the pyloric region of the stomach, formerly believed to secrete mucus, really produce gastric juice like the true peptic glands, and have an epithelial lining of the same nature. The mucus of the stomach he believes to be formed by the cells covering the general surface. Friedinger,t as the result of his researches on various classes of animals, arrives at the conviction that the older views were correct, and that, in opposition to the statements of Ebstein, the investing cells of Heidenhain, or delomorphous cells of RoUett, are those which really contain and form the pepsin. See also G. Schwalbe,! R. Wiedersheim.§ rick|| regards the peptones as compounds capable of easy disintegra- tion, and as supplying by their non-nitrogenous constituents the com- bustible materials for the muscles and other organs, their nitrogenous constituents being speedily eliminated from the body. Paschutin^ demonstrates that the presence of a large quantity of the products of the metamorphosis of starch, as, for instance, of dextrine and grape sugar, does not interfere with the action of ptyalin on starch. M. Lepine** finds that a ferment capable of converting starch into sugar is widely distributed throughout the body, the only organ in which it appears to be totally absent being the crystalline lens. It is most abundant in the blood, muscles, spleen, vitreous humour, testis, and brain. DIGESTION. The phenomena of peristalsis have been reinvestigated by G. v. » 'Centralblatt,' 1871, No. 6, and 'Pfliiger's Archiv,' iv, 1872, i. t 'Wiener Akail. Sitzber.,' Ixiv, 1871. X ' M. Sclmltze's Archiv,' viii, 92, " Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Driisen in den Darmwandungen, insbesondere der Brunnerschen Driisen." § 'Die feineren Strukturverhiiltnisse der Driisen in Muakelemagcn der Viigel,' Iiiaug. Dissert., abstract in 'Centralblatt,' 1872, 278. II ' Pfliiger's Arcbiv,'V, I. ^ 'Centralblatt,' 1871, 372-