141 ENDOCARDITIS. acooptiuj^ tlio main tacts, does not iif^ree with tliis view. luoculation e.\|)t'i-iiiieiits were made from botli cases, but without auy results. Miiller ('Dent. Arch.,' 1873, i) describes the case of a woman dyitii,' from mitral iusufficieucy, in whom after complete cessation even of the slightest respiratory movement the heart-sounds and the pulse in the carotids could be distinguished after the lapse of seven minutes. Pulsation was perceptible in the jugular veins fourteen minutes after the last sign of breathing. In addition to the mitral mischief, the autopsy revealed tubercular meningitis of the base of the brain. Simon ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 437) gives the case of a boy, set. 16, who sufiered five weeks before death with dyspnoea, palpitation, rigors, convulsions, and loss of consciousness. The area of heart's dul- ness was increased, the heart-sounds mufScd, but unaccompanied by a murmur. Shortly before death there was an eruption of petechiae. At the autopsy were found the following:—Numerous extravasations on the pia mater ; numerous points of red softening in the brain, most marked in the left temporal lobe ; several arteries corresponding to these places were found blocked with emboli. There was sero-fibrinous inflammation of the pericardium, which exhibited numerous ecchymoses and miliary tubercles. On opening the left ventricle was found an " aneurism of the mitral valve," which is described in full in the text. There were numerous ecchymoses on the pleura, and several embolic infareta in the myocardium, both kidneys, mesentery, &c. Whipham ('Trans. Path. Soc.,' xxii, 117) gives an interesting case of diseased tricuspid valve in a man, set. 55. Its free edge, as well as the chordae tendinese, were ragged and eroded from ulcerative processes. The valve was thick, opaque, of a dull red colour, contrasting strongly with the transparent and glistening appearance of the mitral. The other post-mortem appearances were pleurisy and hsemothorax ; disin- tegration of the right lung; cirrhosis of the liver; coarse and con- gested kidneys. In the absence of any origin for blood-poisoning, the writer thinks that pyaemia was the cause of ulceration of the valve and of the pneumonia. Peter ('L'Union Med.,' xii, 662) gives a very full lecture on aortic insufficiency. After giving the physical signs of the affection, he insists that it is generally a disease of the aorta, and not of the heart. The pain behind the sternum, the angina pectoris, and the sudden death, which often accompany it, point to the disease of the vessel, not to the incompetent valves. He divides cases of aortic insufficiency into two classes, those with and those without diseased aorta, the latter being by far the most common. The disease consists in the atheromatous degeneration and the inflammation of the coats of the vessel, with their consequences. Old age, abuse of drink, and gout, are the chief origi- nating causes. The other form of aortic insufficiency is caused by affections such as rheumatism, &c. The role which the aorta plays can be easily recognised by the pain and angina caused by the participation in the mischief of the cardiac plexus, by the hard radial pulse, and the arcus senilis, and especially if there have been antecedent gout or chronic alcoholism. After remarking on the sudden death which frequently occurs in the affection, and the shares taken in the mechanism of it by