136 REPORT ON PIIACTICAI, MKDICINE. evidence gained elsewliero, tlie autlior conciudcH that the original cause must have been embolism. The second case was that of a man, ast. 63, who had been much addicted to drink. Oa tlie evening before his admission into liospital lie was suddenly attacked with vomiting and inability to swallow. On his admission there was general muscular weakness, but complete intelligence and liveliness. There was complete loss of power to swallow, though the velum contracted well. There was tremor, but no paralysis of the upper extremities, slight hyperaesthesia of the lower; he tottered if he attempted to stand, and showed a tendency to fall towards the left side. Next day he died. The valves of the heart were found thickened and atheromatous, as also the arte- ries at the base of the brain. One centimetre from its opening into the basilar the left vertebral artery was completely obstructed by deco- lourised, yellowish clot. No traces of infarctus were found in any of the abdominal organs. Charcot remarks on the cases, that the symptoms observed were extremely similar to those seen in labio-glosso- pharyngeal paralysis. King, "A Case of Aortic and Mitral Valvular Disease, with Extensive Infarction of the Spleen and Cerebral Softening" (man,a3t.32), 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiii, 63. Id., " Aneurism of the Aorta associated with Fracture of the First Rib, and Embolism of Left Middle Cerebral Artery " (niau, see. 42), ib., 70. Molliere, "De l Embcie des Artferes Mesenteriques, etudes critiques et bibliographiques," ' Lyon. Med.,' viii, 691. Ramskill, "Thrombosis of Right Iliac Vein, Embolism of Pulmonary Artery, Sudden Death " (man, a)t. 35),' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, i, 660. Merkel, " Cheyne- Stokes'scben Respirationstypus mit Pendel-bewegungen der Augiipfel. Rheumatiscbe Endocarditis; Encephalitis in Folge von Embolic der Arteria fossas Sylvii dextra" (girl, £Et. 22), ' Deut. Arch.,' x, 201. Schmid, " Zur Differentialdiagiiose voii Apoplexie und Embolic des Gehirns," ib., 305. Cohnheim, " Untersuchungen iiber die Em- bolischen Processe," Berlin, 1872, pp. 112 (reviewed, ib., 316). Pericarditis. "Wilks (' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xvi, 196) writes on adherent peri- cardium as a cause of cardiac disease, and discusses the diiferent views held by Hope, Corvisart, Barlow, Chevers, &c. He holds it probable that loose cellular adhesions have no appreciable influence on the action of the heart, but that the thickened pericardium of a carti- laginous consistency, investing the heart closely, arising from an inflam- mation at an early period of childhood, does lead to obstruction of the circulation, and then to dropsy, after the manner of heart disease. The condition of adherent pericardium cannot be regarded as a rare one. He gives six cases in which death was apparently due to this affection, and is almost inclined to offer the proposition, that in a well-marked case of disease with cardiac symptoms in young persons without any valvular bruit pericardial adhesions may be fairly expected. In older persons, of course, we should look rather to degeneration of muscular tissue. Of the cases recorded in this paper, five were males, aged re- spectively 21,9,12, 26, and 24; the other is that of a girl, aged 16. The symptoms common to all were dyspnoea, cyanosis, dropsy; in none was any bruit heard; in all the pericardium was universally and closely adherent. (The first case has been recorded already by Barlow, 'Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' ser. 3, xi, 437.—Rep.)