UEPOET ON SURGERY. 216 On the other liand, any new bone which may, not unfrequently, have been produced, in the form of ,i spiculated enlargement of the articular ends above their diseased portions, and thereby h'miting the disease, should not be included in the excision. State of the limb.—Of 104 recoveries, out of 119 cases, the majority {minus 15 amputation cases) had useful limbs, as proved by the patient being able to resume his ordinary avocations. Injury of the ulnar nerve—an occasional accident during the operation—is followed by loss of sensation in the little finger and adjoining side of the ring finger, with, perhaps, loss of motion and wasting of the muscles; but the sense of touch will pro- bably return and the other ill consequences cease, apparently by re- union of the wounded nerve. This accident, judging from the digital paralysis, happened, apparently, in one of his own cases ; but the symp- toms passed ofi" entirely, as the functional use of the finger showed, for the patient was a seamstress. He-excision may be practised—as in the knee—when necessary, rather than amputation, and even a third attempt, it is said, has been followed by a good result. Of 197 cases of recovery, only in three, is it noted that re-excision was practised. Of five cases, under Mr. Gant's care, he had to re-excise in one, with a good result. Secondare/ amputation.—Of one collection of 104 cases of recovery, fifteen underwent amputation subsequently. Of another 197 recoveries, three, only, were subjected to amputation, with one fatal issue. (Ibid., August 26, 1871, 285.) Mr. Maunder, in the course of some remarks on primary excision of the elbow-joint (ibid., May 20, 1871, 679), proposes a modification in the plan of performing the operation. Hitherto, when the H or in- cision has been adopted, the transverse or the semi-transverse cut has severed those very structures—the tendinous prolongations of the triceps to the fascia of the forearm—by which, as Mr. Maunder has demonstrated both on the living and the dead subject, extension by the triceps muscle may be always secured. The integument having been divided, the triceps muscle just above the olecranon should be cut longitudinally. The inner portion is to be detached from the end of the olecranon, and it, with the ulnar nerve and soft parts along the inner side of the bone-ends, are to be separated from the bones. The outer half of the severed muscle is to be cut transversely, but is to be scrupulously preserved continuous with its tendinous fibres, which run forward between the point of the olecranon and the external condyle of the humerus. When this structure, together with muscular fibre, is detached from the subjacent bones, a broad and thick band of tissue will have been preserved, competent, hereafter, to extension of the fore- arm. The subsequent steps of the operation are performed as usual. Mr. Maunder describes his operation and gives a sketch of the import- ant part of it, in the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' July 29, 1871. A new method of excising the elbow-joint in cases of anchylosis.—Mr. Annandale having had satisfactory results in several cases of compound fracture or dislocation of the lower end of the humerus, by the "primary" removal of the injured bone and the tip of the olecranon, without inter- ference with the head of the radius or ulna, he was led to think that in cases of anchylosis, the removal of only a portion of the lower extremity