225 SUBCUTANEOUS OSTEOTOMY. literally tortured by pain in the back, which was attributed to his being obli"-ed to lie iu a "position which, for obvious reasons, he had not been in the habit of assuming. The limb, at the date of note, was firm and straight, with less than two inches shortening. A few sinuses remained open" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 26, 1872.) Dr. Watson showed to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edinburgh a wedge of bone, which he had removed, from the site of the knee-joint, in a case of old-standing, rectangular anchylosis. The patient was an adult male, and recovered well. He could walk without assistance. In straighten- ing the limb the hamstring tendons required division. (' Edin. Med. Journal,' Dec. 1871, 559.) Complete, lony anchylosis of tTie knee-joint; subcutaneous osteotomy.— Mr. Little records the case of a girl, set. 14. Both knees were con- tracted to a right angle. The left knee was straightened under chlo- roform, but the right knee was found to be firmly anchylosed. This had resulted from strumous disease, and the tibia was dislocated. " A serious operation, such as severing a wedge-shaped piece of bone, seemed out of the question, considering the feeble state of the girl's health, but as a subcutaneous operation, though possibly not successful, would probably be attended with little risk, I determined to attempt the division of the bone, somewhat after the method of Prof. Gross (see 'Bien. Eet.,' 1867-8, 2j6) of Philadelphia." "An incision, a third of an inch long, was made down to the bone, through the healthy skin on the outside of the knee, over the lower border of the outer condyle of the femur, about midway between the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb." Owing to the alterations in the positions of the bones it was impossible to ascertain the relations of parts accurately. A strong carpenter's chisel, rather less than a quarter of an inch wide, was in- serted into the wound, and driven with a mallet through the united bones towards the inner side of the knee, until its point was felt. The chisel was then nearly withdrawn, and then driven through again, so that its point emerged somewhat higher, i. e. nearer the anterior sur- face of the limb than before. This procedure was repeated in difi"erent directions. Finally, the limb became movable, but could not be straight- ened, owing to contraction of the hamstrings. These were divided, but it was considered better not to persevere in attempts at straightening. During the next few days the girl complained a good deal of pain. On the sixth day the limb was placed on an extension splint. In three weeks she could put her foot to the ground and walked with crutches. A fortnight later she walked quickly and painlessly, though with lame- ness, without her crutches. This case is the first instance of subcuta- neous osteotomy, for the relief of a completely anchylosed, large joint, performed in this country. (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' liv, 247.) Excision of the ankle-joint.—Mr. Gant treats of excision of the ankle joint (' Lancet,' Aug. 5, 1871, 183). Lateral incisions are sufficient. Mortality.—Of 32 cases, 7 died. Cif these, 4 died of consumption, and I of secondary syphilis. The average mortality, therefore, is i in 16. Syme'8 amputation shows a mortality of i in 28. State ofthcfoot.~Of the 32 cases, 21 recovered with good useful limbs. Secondary amputa- tion.—Oi the 32, only 2 underwent secondary amputation, and both re- 15