303 SUPPURATING OVARIAN OYSTS^ ETC. panied by external peritoneal inflammation. The first question we have to decide is whether it is possible to distinguish the symptoms of suppuration from those of peritonitis. AVhen occurring in the acute form after the operation of tapping, I believe the diagnosis may be made with moderate certainty, from the rapid refilling of the cyst, with rigors, sweats, high temperature and general fever. But few such cases would, I imagine, afi"ord any opportunity for surgical treat- ment. Mr. Spencer Wells has recorded one successful case of ovario- tomy during acute suppuration in a lecture in the ' Med. Times and Gazette.' It is more important in a surgical point of view to inquire into the symptoms and treatment of that chronic form of suppuration which is more common and more tractable that the former." Quota- tions from authors on this subject are given. Mr. Holmes says " I much resrret that the thermometer was not used in the case I have related, but the heat and dryness of the skm were certainly not present, nor was the tongue of the character described by Mr. Wells. In fact, the patient was so free from any indication of general fever that it never occurred to me to take thermometical observations, nor is it likely that a veiy elevated temperature could have coexisted with symptoms otherwise so ill-defined. The sickness which came on shortly after the abdominal pain and tenderness was of no value as a diagnostic sign, since equally troublesome sickness occurred before the tumour had been meddled with in any way, and when the fluid was certainly not purulent. No rigors were observed at the time, and on question- ing the patient afterwards she said she had never had any. There remains the rapid and extreme emaciation combined with a peculiarly feeble pidse. It is difficult to convey in words an idea of the strange oppressed pulse in this patient; it really seems to me that this ema- ciation and this peculiar pulse were the only general symptoms which ought to have attracted our observation, and on which a diagnosis could in future be founded. But I would also call attention to the fact of the patient having complained of acute tenderness when the cyst was pressed upon in various parts." " I think I might say that in another case in which this general tenderness to pressure coincided with symptoms of low peritonitis, with rapid emaciation otherwise unaccounted for, and with a very feeble and somewhat rapid pulse, I should be disposed to conjecture the occurrence of chronic suppuration within the cyst, and that this conjecture would be conflrmed if the rise of temperature, mentioned by Mr. Wells, were observed." What is the surgical in- dication? Mr. Bryant and Mr. Wells are quoted. Mr. Holmes thinks the best plan is at least to attempt the operation of removal of the suppurating cyst. The question of opening the cyst freely and attaching it to the abdominal wall in case the adhesions are found invincible, must be kept before the surgeon's mind. "Another in- teresting question in ovariotomy, illustrated by this case, is how to manage cysts which are so adherent in the pelvis that they cannot be pulled out without too much danger. In this instance any persistent attempt to have dissected or torn away the mass from the pelvic outlet would probably have ended in laceration of the ureters or great veins, and might, after all, have been futile. The alternatives are to pull the