REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 412 twin foetal heads in the pelvis. The patient was seized during labour with convulsions, and the attendant applied forceps to the presenting head and delivered it easily. The shoulders did not follow, and on examination a second head was found in the pelvis. When Dr. Reimann arrived he applied forceps to the second head, the body of the first child then followed, and afterwards that of the second. He thinks that the delivery by forceps did not cause the difficulty, as this is the only case of the kind he has found recorded in which the first head, was delivered artificially. Probably a capacious pelvis has some influence in the production of the accident. The delivery of a dicephalous monster is described by "Wettengel. ('Amer. Journ. Obst.,' Nov. 1871.) Dr. Porter relates a case of successful reduction of prolapsed funis by the postural method. The position he recommends is on the knees, with the cliest and face resting on the bed. (' Araer. Journ, of Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1871.) Cases of quadruplets are recorded by Leopold ('Arch. f. Gyniik.,' ii, 2, 1871), by Lowndes ('Brit. Med, Journ.,' Peb. 1872), and by Cuppa- ridge ('Dubl, Journ.,' March, 1872). Obstetric Operations. Cesarean section.—This operation was performed by Mr. Gibbons on a woman, set, 22, and who was three feet ten inches in height. Uterus contracted rapidly; no sutures were applied to the uterine wound. Uncontrollable vomiting commenced soon after, and continued tUl death, forty hours after the operation. No peritonitis, no extravasation. Antero-posterior diameter at brim an inch and three quarters. Trans- verse diameter 4"i inches. (' Obst. Trans.,' 1871.) In a case reported by Dr. Inglis ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' 1871) the abdominal incision was made on one side of the median line, so as to avoid incising the expanded central tendon between the recti, which is too mobile to be afterwards kept in apposition; and the uterine incision was commenced an inch and a half to the left of the mesial line, and was carried first downwards and then to the side, the curve of the incision corresponding with the direction of the outer circle of fibres surrounding the left cornu. The object of this was to avoid cutting across more muscular tissue than was necessary. He doubts the advisability of inserting sutures into the uterine wall. Dr. Harris records ('Amer. Journ. of Obst.,' 1871-2) sixty cases of the Csesarean section in America. Of these, thirty-two were successful as regards the mother, and twenty-seven of the children were saved. One hundred and six cases are quoted from Great Britain and Ireland, eighty-eight of which were fatal to the mother, while sixty of the children were saved. Dr. Andrei compares ('Western Lancet,' 1872) the result to mother and child in a large number of cases, the summary of which he has collected, of premature labour, symphyseotomy, and Cajsarean section. . M. D'Olier performed the Csesarean section on account of a sacral