HAIE. 459 and a trace of potassium nitrate, and subsequent lixiviation, an insolu- ble residue of ibrric oxide is left, free from tungsten. Molvbdic acid gives a similar precipitate to that produced by tungstic acid with albuminates and blood. The precipitate produced by tungstic acid in solutions of blood or of blood and veins may be treated with ammonia and examined by the spectroscope. J. V. Geuns and J, W. Gunning t find in zinc acetate an excellent pre- cipitant for the colouring matter of blood. The bulky, flocculent precipi- tate which forms in solutions containing blood, on the addition of the acetate, can be readily washed, placed on an object-glass whilst still in a pasty condition, treated with acetic acid, and hsemine crystals obtained. Zahnf applies the evolution of oxygen which follows on the addition of hydrogen peroxide as a means of detecting blood stains. He does not regard it as an absolutely certain test, but thinks that it may be applied directly without the necessity of dissolving ofi" the colouring matter from the articles stained. The non-evolution of oxygen is not a proof of a stain not being due to blood, as the corpus delicti may have been previously treated with boiling water. If the other tests for blood are successful and the hydrogen peroxide test fail, it is a proof that the stained articles have been subjected to the action of hot water on the influence of a high temperature. Sorby J contributes a valuable paper on the spectroscopy of blood, and Preyer§ has an excellent description of the modes of testing for blood. The Structtcre of Sair in its Medico-legal Aspects. Hoffmann|l has investigated the structure of hair in man and the lower animals for the pui'pose of diagnosis in medico-legal cases. He sets himself to answer the questions :—(i) Whether man's or brute's hair ? (2) From what part of the body ? In regard to the first ques- tion the difficulty, as a rule, is not great. The chief point to be attended to is the structure of the medulla. In human hair the medulla is very fine or altogether wanting, while in the hair of animals the medulla is very broad and the cortical substance greatly reduced. The medulla of human hair is granular, while that of animals is well-marked and cel- lular, and this gives it quite a different appearance. The second question as to what part of the body the hair is from is answered chiefly by ex- amination of the free end of the hair, which, when it has not been dis- turbed, forms a fine point, or, if cut, exhibits a square end, which, after some time, gradually becomes rounded or fibrillated. The free ends of the body-hairs undergo changes by friction and the action of the perspiration. The appearance of the free end of the hair, taken in con- junction with other circumstances, may enable us to determine, if not with perfect definiteness, yet with more or less certainty, from what part of the body the hair has come. * 'Chem. Centralb.,' 1871, p. 37. t ' Virchow nnd Hirscli's Jahresbcr.,* 1871, p. 416. X ' Monthly Micros. Jonrn.,' vi, p. 9. § Op. cit,, p. 208. II Prager,' Vierteljahrsc. f. Heilk.,' 1871, iv, p. 67,