BONE DISEASE IN CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. advice. The patient's wife was treated by Kobner, in tbe spring of 1867, for tubercular and ulcerative sypbilides of the limbs. In Octo- ber, 1871, the male patient had a very indurated shallow sore, with sharply defined edges, on the glans penis; the affection of the sternum also returned, and the right testis became enlarged, and in parts very much indurated. The induration on the penis disappeared in six weeks imder the use of calomel ointment and iodide of potassium, the other symptoms remaining unchanged. The patient remained under observa- tion eleven months, during which time he was treated for acute nephritis and symptoms of spinal irritation ; no further symptoms were observed and no change was noticed in the residual symptoms of the first attack of syphilis. Kobner repudiates the idea that the induration ob- served on the penis was the result of a gummatous deposit, and calls to mind a number of instances in which several infections have been alleged to have taken place after the complete removal of all the symptoms of the first attack of syphilis. In 45 cases of repeated infection the only symptom, in 22, was indurated chancre; in 23, constitutional symptoms followed; these were severe in one case only. The constitutional affection was removed in the coui'se of about eight weeks by appropriate treatment; and, except in one case, relapse did not occur. Kobner arrives at the following conclusions:—(i) Constitutional syphilis is perfectly curable, for it is only when the disease has been completely removed that the system becomes liable to infection, as in a healthy person. (2) Many inveterate, so-called tertiary affections, such as sar- cocele and exostosis, are only local products or remains of an attack of syphilis that has run its course, and are not to be regarded as signs that the whole system is still infected. Parents with tertiary products of this kind may beget healthy children. (3) In more than two thirds of all the cases observed, the cure of the first attack of syphilis was effected by mercury, used sometimes in the form of inunction, but in most instances given internally. Bone disease in hereditary sypliilis.—G-. "Wegner has published some interesting observations on this subject in ' Virchow's Archiv.' He has examined forty children affected with intra-uterine syphilis, which were either still-bom or died soon after birth. In almost all the cases egner found pathological changes in the bones in the forms of ossifying periostitis, and of a peculiar disease of the bone at the point of transition from the diaphysis to epiphysial cartilage. This last- named disease was found in three forms, which Wegner regards as three stages of the same affection. In the first, between the cartilage and the soft spongy bone is found a layer about two millimetres im thickness, shining, sometimes with a level surface, sometimes bulging. He believes it to be the result of iacreased proliferation of the cartilage- cella, with retardation or arrest of the conversion of cartilage into bone. In the second stage this layer has become doubled in thickness ; there 13 considerable proliferation of the epiphysial cartilage-cells ; together with progressive hardening and calcification of the intercellular sub- stance and cells near the upper surface of the joint, and some evident retardation in the neighbourhood of the spongy bone-substance of the ossitication of the cartilage. The third stage presents the following