llEPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUUGEUY. 338 has iBsued a treatise on the lymph-follicles of the conjunctiva ;* Dr. Salomon has written a tract on the diseases of the lenticular sy8tem,t founded on v. Graefe's teaching; Dr. Otto Becker has collected and edited Heinrich Miiller's writings on the anatomy and physiology of the eye ; J Woinow, of Moscow, has published at Vienna a treatise on ophthalmometry ;§ and various tracts and inaugural dissertations have appeared. Dr. Nagel has commenced a yearly record of ophthalmo- logy, || which is to embrace the scientific work of all countries. Prof Th. Leber has been added to the editorial stafi" of the ' Archiv fiir Ophthalmologie,' and the ' Klinische Monatsblatter' of Prof. Zehender have appeared as usual. In France Dr. de Wecker has issued a French edition of Jager's * Ophthalmoscopic Atlas,' with the original plates, and with a disserta- tion of his own upon the diseases of the deeper parts of the eye G-alezowski has completed his systematic treatise,** and has com- menced, in conjunction with Dr. Piechaud, the issue of a monthly oph- thalmic journal.ft In Holland the usual scientific papers have been added to the annual reports of the Netherlands Ophthalmic Hospital. In Belgium the ' Annales d'Oculistique,' and in Italy the ' Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano' have been continued with regularity. (a) Anatomy and Physiology. Ocular tension.—Monnik|J has published the opinions of Donders with regard to the principles of tonometry of the eyes, and the results of his own observations with an improved tonometer. Donders points out that when we determine the ocular tension, either by the finger or by a tonometer, we estimate the force required to make a certain impression upon the tunics of the eye. The tension of the eye de- pends upon several conditions, and we cannot estimate simply and directly the hydrostatic pressure of the contained fluids. The pressure that we exert upon the eyeball from without diminishes its internal space, and displaces a portion of its contents, for which, the con- tents being incompressible, room must be found elsewhere. This room is afibrded (a) by extension of the remaining parts of the ocular tunics, an effect that will vary with their elasticity and with the * ' Lymphfollikel der Bindehaut des Auges. Histologiscbe Studie, von Dr. Schmid,' Wieii, 1871, liraumiiller. t 'Die Krauklieiten des Liusensystems, von Dr. Max Salomon,' 1872, Brunswick, Vieweg. J Heinrich Miiller's ' Gesaminelte und liiaterlassene Scbriften zur Anatomic und Physiologic des Auges. Zusammcngestellt und herausgegeben von Otto Becker,' Band, i, 1872, Leii)sic, Engelmanu. § 'Ophtbalmometric, von Dr. M. Woinow,' 1872, Wicn, BraumuUer. II ' Jaliresbericbt iibcr die Leistungen und Fortscbritte im Gebiete der Ophthal- mologic,' Erster Jabrgang, 1872, Tubingen, Laup. ^ ' Traite des Maladies du Fond de \'(Ei\ et Atlas d'Ophtbalmoscopie,' par L. de Wecker et E. de Jaeger, Paris, Delabaye. ** ' Traite des Maladies des Yeux,' Paris. tt ' Journal d'Opbtbalmologie de Paris.' %% 'Tonometers en Tonometrie,' Dissert inaug., Utrecht, 1868; 'Bijbladen, lode Versing, Ncderl. Gastb.,' v. Ooglijdcrs, 1869; " Eiu neuer Tonometer und sein Gebraiicli," 'Arch. f. 0.,' xvi, i, 49.