313 TRAUMATIC PEVEU. Lcydeu, to an increase of temperature in the part. 5. In the fifth chapter, BiUroth examines the influence of various injuries on the tem- perature of the rectum in dogs. He finds that even severe lesions, such as the ligature of arteries, or long incisions through the skin, have no constant efiect on the temperature in the rectum vsrithin three hours, even when the experiments are performed on animals that have been sufleriug from illness. 6. The application to the extremities of the nerves of mechanical and chemical irritants, such as injection of air or water into the subcutaneous tissue, irritation with croton oil or with ammonia, &c., had no constant efi"ect in elevating the temperature in dogs, even when continued for two or three hours. 7. The influence of irritation of the vaso-motor nerves on the temperature has been studied by Billroth by means of (a) the introduction into the vessels of canul£e or pieces of tangle, which produced no result; (h) the introduction of purely mechanical embola, such as starch or powdered charcoal suspended in water. The injection of these into the systemic arteries was followed by a fall in temperature rather than a rise; when they were introduced into the jugular vein, and thus reached the pul- monic circulation, fever was not a constant result, but the temperature presented a remarkable series of tolerably regular falls and rises, such as had already been noticed by Albert and Strieker. 8. In the eighth chapter Billroth speaks of septicemic fever in a dog. A filtered in- fusion of putrid muscular tissue, swarming with vibriones, when injected in large quantities into the arteries, veins, or subcutaneous areolar tissue, rapidly produced death ; when injected in smaller quantities (five centigrammes or less) it produced fever of a remittent type, lasting several hours. 9. Regarding pysemic fever in dogs, experiments are described in the ninth chapter, the result of which was that the injec- tion of pure pus, or of pus diluted with water, was sometimes followed by fever, sometimes not. 10. A similar inconstancy of results attended the injection, in a similar manner, of water, of serum, and of the fluid of hydrocele. 11. In commencing, in the eleventh chapter, a critical examination of the results described in the preceding part of his essay, Billroth says that their great variety is one of the principal obstacles to their use in forming a theory of fever. Two phenomena only are constant—the rise of the temperature after muscular action, and after the injection of putrid matters. Eeferring to the efi'ect of muscular action, he says that the artificial tetanization of limbs and the efi'ect of voluntary muscular movements can be accepted as starting-points in the inquiry only so far as they show that an elevation of temperature is produced through irritation, direct or refiex, of the muscles. It is, however, not proved that a similar elevation of temperature can be exerted reflexly by the irritation of sensory and vaso-motor nerves. The curves presented by the temperature in the various experiments are next commented on. In some instances there was steady and tolerably regular rise ; after the injection of water there was a single marked rise; and in otlier instances, especially after the injection of putrid fluid, pus, and starch or charcoal, there were two marked elevations. It is probable that in all the experiments the same cause produced tlio rise, and that this waa in all cases called forth and regulated by the