REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 184 proportion of two to one ; in all cases the xanthelasmic patches appear in the eyelids first, extending in not more than 8 per cent, to other parts ; they invariably begin near the inner can thus, and almost invari- ably on the left side. It is probable that of the causes mentioned under which the pigmentation of the eyelids may be disturbed, disorder of the liver is the most povperful. Diseases of the Jiair.—Crisp (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, .305) pub- lishes a case of general alopecia in a healthy man. About the time at which he first noticed a small bare spot on his head, he had numbness of the skin of his left side from the armpit to the hip. Other bald patches appeared on the head, chin and cheeks, and other places, tiU the whole of the hair had fallen ofi" his body by about the end of a year. He had never had syphilis. His finger-nails split into layers, and were rough, with numerous indentations and furrows, and of a brownish colour. His toe-nails were normal. No trace of fungus could be found either about the hairs or nails, on careful microscopical examination. From his own statistics Crisp concludes that nearly all subjects of this complaint are strong, young, healthy men, whilst in forrigo decalvans the majority of the patients are females. Of the seven cases of total alopecia he has collected, all were males; of the eight examples of the disease, confined chiefly to the head and face, six were males, and two were females. Berger (' Virch. Arch.,' liii, 533) relates two cases of premature grey hair. The first patient had typhoid fever in 1866, followed six weeks later by paralysis of the right side of the body and of the right facial nerve, which disappeared in about ten weeks, when partial greyness of the right side of the head and face was noticed. The second patient, who had a number of white hairs under an abundance of blond hair, spoke of the white forelock as an heirloom of his family. Pincus ('Deut. Klin.,' 1871, 3) makes a sharp distinction between alopecia on one side, and baldness and premature grey hair on the other. The first is a true disease of the hair independent of any affection of the skin. Alopecia simplex attacks healthy persons between the ages of 18 and 35, and in the course of five to fifteen years results in more or less extensive baldness of the scalp. On the other hand pre- mature baldness affects only a portion of the latter. He holds that according to his investigations ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 333), the view that alopecia is the result, in middle and., advanced age, o£ atrophy of the skin, is erroneous. He shows instead, fi'om micro- scopical examination, there is really present an induration of the cellular tissue. Parasitic affections.—Tilbury Fox (' Lancet,' 1872, i, 5) has detected the tricophyton in the air of the wards of an institution in which an out- break of ringworm (300 cases, i ao at one time)occurred. As to treatment, besides cutting the hair, and blistering, he recommends isolation, good feeding, careful inspection, and, for the removal of the floating germs, disinfection of the wards by burning sulphur. The same writer (ib., 1871, i, 536) describes the presence of tricho- phyton in a patient whose a(l\)ction began as erytliema marginatum, and was complicated with urticaria and ecthyma.