TESTICLE IN THE PERINjUUM. 281 but, ou November 30th, febrile symptoms appeared; diarrhoea set in four days afterwards; and he died on December 12th. The cause of death, as far as the necropsy gave any indication, was general anajmia and hypostatic pneumonia. There was some disease of the parenchyma of the kidneys which had apparently come on subsequently to the ope- ration, and did not seem suiScient to account for death. The supra- renal capsules were healthy, so that the bronzed state of the patient's skin was not connected with disease of these structures. Treatment of iuhercidous testicle hy the actual cautery.—M. Verneuil, in a communication to the Surgical Society of Paris, expresses his pre- ference for the actual cautery over all other methods of treatment of tuberculous testis. He introduces conical, or olive-shaped cauteries into the fistulous openings, penetrating the indurated scrotal tissue, and destroying the diseased structure of the testicle. Under this treat- ment, he says, patients are enabled to leave the hospital in a few weeks. The constitutional disease, however, is not eradicated, and the disease is likely to return in the testis, and extend to the prostate. Cauteriza- tion, however, relieves the patient for a year or two, and appears , to delay the recurrence of the disease. In the discussion on M. Verneuil's communication, M. Legouest expressed an opinion in favour of castra- tion being performed much more frequently than it is in such cases, and at an early period of the disease. (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' Novem. ber 4, 1871.) Testicle removed, for neuralgia.—Mr. Annandale showed a specimen. The pain had existed for six or seven years. No disease was found except slight thickening of the epididymis ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Sept., 1872). Cancer of an imperfectly descended testis; difficulty of diagnosis.—Mr. Henry Amott, 'Path. Trans.,' xxii, 182. Transition of tJie testicle into the perincBum.—Mr. James Adams narrates the case of a male infant, aged eleven weeks, who came under his care for a misplaced testis. The right side of the scrotum was nor- mal. On the left side was a pouch, but no testis in it. The left testicle formed a smooth oval swelling intheperinjeum, to the left of the middle line, and half an inch in front of the anus. It was quite movable. The cord could not be felt owing to a considerable thickness of fat. Mr. Adams operated by making an incision about an inch and a half long, from the external abdominal ring over the empty scrotal pouch, which he carefully opened, thus preparing a bed for the testicle. He then felt for the cord, and having found it, followed it down to the testis, taking care not to injure the tunica vaginalis. On making traction on the cord, it became evident that there was some firm adhesion between the lower part of the testicle and the perineal pouch. This, Mr. Carling sug- gested, was the gubernaculum. Mr. Adams dissected down to its attachment, and divided it as far from tBe testis as possible. The testis wa.=) then raised, in its uninjured tunica vaginalis, and placed in the scrotal pouch. A catgut suture was passed through the gubernaculum and fixed to the bottom of the scrotum. On the third day the edges of the wound became sloughy, erysipelas followed, and the child died at the end of a fortnight, apparently of exhaustion. Eeference is made to the other two cases on record, and Mr. Adams remarks, the chief