TEMPERATURIi AND FEVEH. 39 The eleventh case, that of a man wlioae affection seems to have been probably phthisis ex hremoptysi, is imperfect. Yet the author relies upon this case as a typical example of a class " made up of all cases of acute tuberculosis, where no existing cause in the shape of pus can be discovered." He tliiuks that all chronic pneumonic changes consist in part of adenoid formation. Birch-Hirschfeld ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' xii, 501) records eight cases of miliary tuberculosis occurring after typhoid fever, with a full description of the microscopical appearances found ; and another case ot the same atfection (ib. 556) following epididymitis in a soldier aged 24. Mandl, " Du Tubercule compare a quelques autres Produits j[)atliologiques," ' Bull, de I'Acad. de Med.,' xxxv, S23. Fonssagrives, " Du role de I'Element iuflammatoire dans le Production des Tubercules puhuouaires," ib., 827. Klein, "Quelques Con- siderations sur la Tubevculose," ' These de Strasbourg,' 1870. Moxon, " lufiainmatiou and Tubercle," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, i, 64 aud 153. Temperature and Fever. Pilz ('Jahrb. f Kinderheilk.,' iv, 414) finds that the temperatures taken in the rectum of healthy children almost confirm the fact found also in adults: that the temperature rises from the first hours of the morning towards noon, reaches its highest in the first hours of the afternoon, aud then in the evening begins to sink again. As a rule the elevation is not continuous but interrupted. The greatest rise occurs in the hours from 7 to 8, or even up to 9 a.m. The fall of the temperature begins as Pinlayson had already shown (see last ' Bien. E-ep.') almost always at six, seldom at seven in the evening. This fall is generally more sudden than in adults; the difference in temperature amounts in the first hour sometimes to The night temperatures, which are incomplete, agree with those given by Einlayson. Manassein (' Pfliiger's Archiv,' iv, 283) subjected rabbits to swinging, the swing making from twenty-eight to thirty double vibrations in the minute. In all cases the temperature fell: its maximum fall being i"2° C, its minimum 0-3° C, and its mean o'66° C. The effect was distinct in fifteen minutes, and lasted from half an hour to two hours. The tendency to sleep was very marked. The animals were closely enveloped in wool before swinging, to prevent any fallacy in the experiment of mere depression of temperature from renewal of the air ; parallel expe- riments with and without wool are given. As a more practical experi- ment he injected decomposing matter into rabbits, thus causing pyrexia, and by swinging them afterwards, reduced their temperature even to the normal degree. From experiments made on 174 different animals the same writer (' Centralbl.,' 1871, 689) concludes that circumstances that increase the temperature of the body diminish the size of the red blood-cells, as for instance septicsemic poisoning, exposure to a high temperature, or inclosure in a space surcharged witli carbonic acid ; while on the other hand breathing oxygen, exposure of the whole body to cold, the administration of hydrochlorate of quinine, hydrocyanic acid, and alcohol, which lower the temperature, cause also an increase in the size