235 REMOVAL OF NASO-PHAHYNGEAL TUMOURS. or inner m^le of the orbital process of tlie superior maxilla, and it required soino force to extract it with the tooth forceps. It was a fully developed, souud, canine tooth. The gelatinous contents of the antrum were, in great part, cleared out. The boy recovered well and with no apparent deformity. The left, upper, canine tooth was wanting in its natui-al place. (' Lancet,' Aug. 19, 1871, 259.) Distension of the antrum of Hiffhmore.—Mr. Warringtoa Haward brought cases under the notice of the Clinical Society. (' Trans./ v, 131.) Myeloid tumour of the lower jaw; removal through the mouth without external wound. —Mr. Maunder records a case and gives a photograph. ('Brit. Med. Journ.' Jan.13,187 2.) Osteo-plastic resection for removal of naso-pTiaryngeal tumours.—It is now several years since Langenbeck devised " osteo-plastic resection of the upper jaw" for the removal of naso-pharyngeal tumours (see ' Tear Book^' 1862, &c.). In his operation the bone was raised directly upwards or upwards and inwards. Oilier, of Lyons, opened the naso- pharyngeal cavity by cutting through the nasal and superior maxillary bones above, and turning the flap downwards. Another modification of this operation, having the same object, has been devised by Dr. von Bruns of Tiibingen, and is described in the ' Berlin. Klin. Wochenschr.,' jS^os. 12 and 13, 1872. In cases where the external nose is thrust towards the right cheek, a horizontal incision is made, through the upper lip (avoiding the mucous membrane), from a few millimetres below the right alanasi to a point opposite the first, left, molar tooth. A second cut is made in the direction of the naso-frontal suture, its ends lying about a centimetre above and on the inner side of the angle of the eye ; and a third is carried from the left extremity of the upper incision obliquely downwards and outwards along the side of the nose to the leit end of the lower incision. The periosteum is divided in the incisions. The base of the anterior, nasal spine is now divided by a saw, and the septum is cut through, horizontally, by bone forceps. A saw is now inserted at the left, lower corner of the external nares, and the bone is divided, first outwards, then upwards, then to the right; the septum is then divided obliquely, downwards, and backwards. This being done, a chisel is inserted in the upper end of the lateral saw-cuts, so as to break through the connection between the right nasal and the upper maxillary bones, and the whole nose can be now turned over on the right cheek. "When only one half of the nose requires to be raised, the horizontal incisions are carried only a little beyond the middle line ; the anterior nasal spine, the septum, and the nasal bone, on the sound side, are left untouched, and the nasal bones are separated along their line of junction. If the tumour cannot be at once removed, a tampon may be introduced to prevent union, and the operation completed afterwards. Dr. von Bruns has performed the operation on three patients, all the cases being successful. In one instance it was necessary to keep the nose displaced for three weeks, but union readily took place at the end ot that time, after freshening of the edges. The advantages of this plan are said to be, that the removal of the tumour is facilitated, more direct and extensive access to its base being gained ; that the ha)morrhago is easily arrested; that the surgeon lias the opportunity of keeping the part accessible, so a.s to perform further operations if necessary ; and that healing takes place readily, without any disturbance of function.