19 GLANDS. GLANDS. Hosier* finds—(i) That the spleen is not essential to life. (2) That after its ablation other lymphatic organs discharge its functions, especially the medulla of the bones. (.3) That the spleen exerts a direct influence on the development of the corpuscular elements of the blood. (4) That it exerts no influence on gastric or pancreatic digestion. Wedl t finds from his dissections that the bloodpath of the spleen is continuous, the blood passing from the arteries into capillaries, and from these into veins. Stoff and Hasse J hold the opposite view, and maintain that the blood IS discharged from the arteries into lacunar spaces. Eosenstein§ suggests a new plan for determining whether urea is formed in and by the kidneys, namely, the extirpation of one kidney and analysis of the urine, the diet being the same. He finds that rather more urea than normal is at once excreted by the remaining kidney, showing that urea is not formed in and by the kidney, as it is incredible hypertrophy of the gland tissue could take place in the course of a few hours. (I Gscheidlen^ finds that urea is distributed through every tissue in the body except the muscular, in which it is never present. Dr. Salkowski**give3 the following as the results of his investigations on the elimination of alkaline salts from the body. In normal condi- tions the urine is the channel through which by far the greater part of the alkaline salts leave the body. The quantity of soda always exceeds that of potash. In febrile states, however, the opposite obtains, the quantity of potash increasing to three, four, or even seven times more than in health. The salts of soda appear to be retained in febrile states. In certain afiections (typhus), notwithstanding free diuresis, a large quantity of the alkaline salts are eliminated by the surface of the intestine. In fever there is an augmented disintegration of those tissues that contain a large excess of potash over soda. Ustimowitsch'sft researches were undertaken on dogs which had been kept fasting for eighteen hours. The urine was collected from the ureters, and he found that the lowest pressure of the blood in the blood- vessels under which urine continued to be secreted was about 50 mil- limeters of mercury. The relative quantity of the several constituents of the urine varies with difierences in the pressure of the blood in the vessels when it is excreted, with the section of the renal nerves, and with the resistance that the urine meets with in its discharge by the ureters. Moreover, probably by its action on the nerves, it causes a dimi- » ' Centralblatt,' 1871, 369. t ' Sitzungsber. der Wiener Akademie,' Ixiv, i. X ' Centralblatt,' 1872, 753. § Idem, 1871, 353. II For a good paper on the "Origin of Urea in the Animal Body," see 'Academy, Sept. I, 1872. ^ Pamphlet, Leipzig, 1871, Engelmann. »* ' C'entralblatt,' 1871, 289 and 774. tt ' Ludwig'8 Arbeiten,' 1870, 5 Jahrg,