REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. isu In reference to this paper Liicke (" Zur cthnischen Dermatologie," ib., 217) gives a case of the same kiud ("paculosis" of Gintrac) occur- ring iu the G-crmanic race. A boy of nineteen had for eiglit years had Byinmetrical thickening of the epidermis on the soles of his feet and the pahns of his hands. He looks upon the affection as a local one, and obtained temporary relief by removing the thickened epidermis, by ap- plications of liquor potasssB, by tincture of iodine, and by alkaline baths. Keloid.—Kohn ('Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1871, No. 24) writes on keloid. He shows that Alibert was the first to describe this cicatrix-like tumour of the skin ; and that the name cancroid, afterwards changed to cheloid, bore no reference whatever to any resemblance to cancer, but to the likeness which the peculiar processes in keloid present to the feet of a crab. Keloid may be described generally as a flat prominence, implanted in the skin, sharply defined, raised half a line to several lines above the surrounding level, tough and elastic, and in appearance very like an hypertrophied scar ; of a white glistening colour, in parts of a rosy red. It is generally painful on pressure; in many cases severe pain exists of a burning or stabbing character; and by means of this innate pain Alibert and other writers make a distinction between true and false keloid. Its most frequent seat is the skin of the upper part of the trunk, the sternum, the mamma, the lateral regions of the thorax, the back, and the neck. From his own and Hebra's cases Kohn finds that it occurs in the proportion of one to two thousand of the other diseases of the skin. The general health is not alfected by the disease. Little is known as to its development and course, as the opportunity seldom occurs of following it from its earliest to its latest stages. At first small brownish-red streaks are noticed in the skin, flat, or slightly raised, resistent on pressure, and sensitive. They may grow very slowly until they reach a certain extent, and then remain stationary. After a time the keloid may become superficially destroyed, or undergo the so-called retrograde metamorphosis. Alibert and Hebra have seen spontaneous disappearance in a very few cases. As to its etiology, very small local injuries or irritations have been traced as the cause—leech-bites, blistering-plasters, and, in negroes especially, lashing with a whip. Scars in some cases may also be the origin of keloid. It is not always possible to make a certain diagnosis between the keloid and hypertrophied scars. On making vertical sections of the affected skin, thick masses of fibrous tissue are seen running parallel with the surface in the corium, normal layers of which seem to enclose it above and below. Under the microscope are seen a few nuclei and nucleated spindle-shaped cells, the latter most numerous about the processes of the keloid, where the fibres appear to make more of an open network. No vessels or glands are found in the middle of the tumour. T. Yos. (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 31.3) showed four tumours ranging in size from a small fist to a walnut, which were removed from the ears of negroes in Jamaica. They are very common among them, and spring up in the site of the perforations made in the ears for earrings. On section they presented a dense, white, glistening, fibrous appear-