SUIATIO HERNIA—INTESTINAL OBSTRtJCTION. 298 will give the most certain aid in tlie diagnosis; which, howeyer, is often very^lifHcult. Of twenty cases in which syjnptoms of incarceration were present, a correct diagnosis was formed in seven only ; in the remainder, the nature of the hernial contents was not ascertained until the sac had been opened. The prognosis in ovarian hernia is favorable as re- gards life, but unfavorable as regards the function of the_ organ. Attempts should be made to reduce the displaced ovary, if possible, by the same proceedings as are followed in other hemise. If the hernia be irreducible, a concave truss should be worn. If the tumour be- come very painful, extirpation is indicated. When inflammation occurs, the patient must rest; cold applications are to be used in the trau- matic, and warm in the menstrual form. If abscess occur, it should be opened ; or it may be evacuated by means of an aspirator. The opening of the peritoneal sac for the purpose of replacing an irreducible healthy ovary is condemned by Englisch. Of the cases in which extirpation of a healthy irreducible ovary was performed, one half died of sub- peritoneal inflammation and its results. Sciatic hernia.—Dr. Marzolo of Padua has described the case of a female who was first seen by him in 1847. She was then thirty years old, and for ten years had noticed a small tumour in the right gluteal fold, which disappeared on lying down, and again protruded and gra- dually increased while she was erect. The patient had been pregnant five times ; on four occasions she miscarried, and once bore a healthy child at the full term. The hernia now formed a large swelling, the base of which covered part of the nates, and reached as far as the tro- chanter and the pubic arch. It was 60 centimetres in length, and 118 in its greatest and 80 in its smallest circumference. It apparently con- tained a large part of the intestines, as the belly was retracted, the abdominal wall lying in contact with the vertebral column. On lying down or sitting, most of the hernial contents returned into the abdo- men, the patient was accustomed to sit upon the hernia. Defecation and coitus were interfered with. The patient came under treatment again in 1871. There was no great change in her condition; but the hernia had now become quite irreducible, and at the lower part the per- cussion sound was dull and fluctuation was distinctly felt. Marzolo now made a puncture and drew off nine quarts of fluid; severe diar- rhoea soon set in, and the patient died. A. post-mortem examination could not be made. ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' July 6, 1871.) Intestinal obstruction ; injection; kneading; cure.—Dr. Hilton Fagge records the case of a man, set. 40, who was attacked with great pain in the abdomen quickly followed by severe vomiting. This was Oct. 22, 1871, in the evening. He came under the care of Mr. Brookhouse Oct. 23. His face had an anxious expression; he was crying out with pain, a little to the right of the median line of the epigastric region, increased by pressure. On the fourth day Dr. Tagge saw him. The vomited matters were not stercoraceous. On Oct. 28, the seventh day, in the evening (that is after six days' strangulation, according to the dates given, but five days according to tlie heading), a copious in- jection was given and the abdomen was kneaded. The injection was repeated next day. The man recovered. Dr. Hilton Taggo remarks ;