REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 28 Experiments undertalccu by Sczelkow, Al. Schmidt, W. Sadler, and Genersich, in Ludwig's laboratory, are opposed to the exclusive adoption of either of these views, and show that great variations may occur in the rapidity of the current of blood traversing the arteries of muscles, as well as in its pressure, quite independently of the condition of con- traction or relaxation of those muscles themselves. These experiments tend to show that great powers of contraction and dilatation must be attributed to the arteries distributed to muscles, and in accordance with this is the anatomical fact that the arteries of muscular tissue con- tain a very well-developed circular muscular layer. Mohammed Hafiz's researches were undertaken to ascertain the course and action of the motor nerves supplying the arteries. Dogs and rabbits were employed in the experiments, which were either in their natural state or poisoned with woorara, and the following results were obtained:—(i) During tetanic excitation of the spinal cord the circular muscular fibres of the arteries distributed to muscles contract slightly and transiently, and never to so great an extent as the circular fibres of the arteries dis- tributed to the skin and abdominal viscera. The contraction, if any, is very slight in curarized animals. (2) The nerves of the circular muscles are very easily exhausted. This is well shown by the fact that a wound of a muscle, provided no large artery is injured, as a rule bleeds but little; but severe haemorrhage occurs, under the same circum- stances, if the spinal cord be irritated, the amount depending on the increase of blood pressure caused by the stimulation of the cord. The more this augments the more the arteries of the skin and the abdo- minal viscera contract, whilst those of the muscles permit free bleeding to take place from them, the haemorrhage lasting as long as the blood pressure is above the normal. (3) Irritation of the spinal cord caused distinctly observable increase in the rapidity of the current of blood through the muscular arteries, as well as by augmented pressure, ces- sation of the irritation being followed by diminution of the rapidity of the current. (4) The circular muscular fibres of the arteries distributed to muscles expand and contract independently of the nerves supplied to them, and probably as a consequence of the direct excitability of their own proper muscular fibres. (5) The nerves of a muscle and the nerves of the artery supplying that muscle seem, in some instances at least, to have a different origin. (6) From a medium condition the muscles of the vessels may either contract or dilate; contraction often occurs if the vessel has been long in a state of dilatation, owing to aug- mented pressure. It was invariably observed after irritation applied to the spinal cord, this producing, first, temporary contraction, then dilatation, and finally very strongly marked and persistent contraction. The increase of pressure in the arteries distributed to muscles is, no doubt, in part due to the contraction that occurs in the cutaneous, abdominal, and other arteries, when the spinal cord is irritated. Dr. Marcet observes* that muscular tissue is formed of three diff'erent classes of substances ; the first includes those substances which constitute the tissue proper, or the portion of flesh insoluble in the preparation of the aqueous extract, and consisting of albumen and phosphoric anhy- * 'Nature,' May i8.