EMBOLISM, THROMBOSIS, ETC. clot. No embolisms of the minute vessels such as have been described after death from chorea were fouud. Bernhardt ('Yirch. Arch.,' 241) publishes the following very interestiu'^ case:—A boy, tet. 19, had suifered for some years with severe headache and vomiting, which occurred regularly every three or four weeks. Later he had rheumatic pains and palpitation. One morning, in spite of the headache, he went to work, but an hour later was compelled to take to his bed, and almost immediately afterwards became completely paralysed on the left side, without any loss of con- sciousness, pain, or other antecedent symptoms. Auscultation gave the signs of insufficiency of the aortic valves and stenosis of the mitral (absence of the aortic diastolic sound, and marked presystolic murmur). After deatb the right middle cerebral artery was found completely blocked by a firmly adherent body which extended into the artery of the corpus cailosum. The left middle cerebral artery was blocked, but not completely, in the same way. The whole of the brain substance was anasmic, the greater part of the lenticular nucleus and posterior half of the corpus striatum on the right side was in the condition of yellow softening. The mitral valve was slightly thickened, and had an open- ing of the size of a cherry-stone in its anterior curtain. The aoitic valves were adherent, atrophied, and dragged downwards, and on their surface corresponding to the defect in the mitral valve was a chalky, irregular, warty body, —3 cm. long, covered with fresh coagula, which almost blocked the opening from the aorta. (A plate is given.) Both kidnfys, especially the right, contained infarcta; the branches of the renal artery were completely obstructed by bodies similar to those in the vessels of the brain. Bernhardt remarks shortly on the case as it bears upon the diagnosis made, and refers to a case recorded by Moxon (see last 'Report,' p. 160). Luneau ('Gaz. Med.,' 1871,54) gives two cases in which the left vertebral artery was obliterated. Both cases occurred in the clinique of Proust, within a few days of each other. The first patient was a woman, set. 68, who five months before had had an apoplectiform attack, followed by hemiplegia, from which she completely recovered. On the day of her admission into hospital she suddenly felt a weakness of the left side, and lost all power of speech, though she preserved her con- sciousness. On admission there was incomplete paralysis of the left side of the face and body, with hypersesthesia of the arm and leg; com- plete aphonia and dysphagia ; the intellectual power was perfect; the tongue was pushed to the left side, and its movements embarrassed; the velum was completely insensible, and the muscles of the pharynx also paralysed. She passed her urine involuntarily; on the seventh day she died. At the post-mortem examination the basilar and right vertebral arteries were atheromatous, but their canals free. The upper end of the left vertebral was obstructed by a slightly decolourised clot, distant about half a cm. from the basilar. The posterior and inferior cerebral arteries were also obliterated. Charcot examined the portions of the medulla oblongata nourished by these arteries, and the left lobe of the cerebellum, and found them in a condition of ischsemic softening. The left kidney alone showed any trace of infarctus, and in spite of any