858 SURGERY. very red, with a greyish tone. Eetina healthy. In extreme abduction or adduction of the eye there were slight pulsatile movements of the globe. Tension seemingly normal. Left eye:—Pupil 3'" in diameter, con- tractiug very little at the close approach of a flame. No perception of lic^ht in any direction. Aspect of nerve the same as in the right eye. The patient slept and felt well, and answered intelligently all questions put to him. All functions were naturally discharged. Pulse full, 50. Dr. Cohn gave a doubtful prognosis, and advised two leeches to be ap- plied to the inner angle of each orbit. The local circumstances pre- cluded treatment in a dark room, and when Dr. Cohn next visited Porbach, on the 25th of September, the patient had been sent away. The notes in the journal were:—" August 26, abscess in the neighbourhood of wound and removal of splinters of bone after incision. Sept. 4, sudden acute headache and a rigor. Sept. 14, vision much improved, wound healing. Discharged." Dr. Cohn remarks that this case presents many features of great in- terest. It is another illustration of the well-established fact that large quantities of brain substance may be lost without disorder of the intel- ligence. Secondly, it shows that even total traumatic amaurosis may terminate in recovery. Thirdly, that sudden increase of pressure on the brain may produce double stauungspapilla, with sudden loss of sight. That the blindness was not the result of concussion of the retina seems to be proved by the ophthalmoscopic examination, since such concussion is never attended by visible changes. It must be admitted that in gunshot wounds of the brain we never have symptoms of pure compression, those of concussion and contusion being always added. But in this case everything shows the predominance of compression; the slow full pulse on the eighth day, and the circumstance that per- ception of light was restored to the right eye on the eighth day, imme- diately after the projectile was removed. It is well known that V. Grafe, in 1866, sought to explain the occurrence of stauungspapilla in intracranial tumours, by obstruction to the flow of blood through the cavernous sinus. He believed that the passive congestion of the retinal vein thus occasioned was multiplied by the constriction of the sclerotic foramen. Sesemann, however, in 1869, proved by careful injections that the retinal vein always communicates with both the superior and the inferior ophthalmic, and that by constant anastomoses at the inner angle of the orbit the blood from these veins can always find outlet by the facial; so that increased intracranial pressure cannot aff'ect the ocular circulation in the manner supposed. In the same year it was shown by Schwalbe that the space between the two sheaths of the optic nerve is continuous with the arachnoid space, and Schmidt, who re- peated Schwalbe's experiments, found that by injecting the arachnoid cavity he could distend the spa(»e between the nerve sheaths quite up to the lamina cribrosa. Hence, he correctly inferred that increased intra- cranial pressure would force the arachnoid fluid between the nerve- sheaths, and produce swelling and compression at the lamina cribrosa, 80 as to impede both the circulation of blood and the conduction of nervous impressions, and to produce the changes known as stauuuga- papilla. Leber took the next step, for, in the autopsy of a patient who 23