188 heport on practical medicine. transformation, rather, than with Langhans, as some result of change in the colouring matter of the blood. Seitz ('Virch. Arch.,' lii, 114) publishes the case of a man, a3t. 49, in whom were found multiple fibro-sarcomata of the nerves. Over various parts of his body were numerous large and small tumours, whicli after death were found to be neuromata. The largest was the size of a fist, and was situated on the left peroneal nerve; the next largest, the size of a walnut, was on the internal cutaneous nerve of the thigh. Alto- gether there were twepty-two. On microscopic examination the small ones were found to be made up of fibrillar connective tissue; in the larger there was a transition into round- and spindle-celled sarcoma. The nerve-fibres were not enlarged, though in some places they had un- dergone fatty change. The brain and its nerves, the spinal cord, the sympathetic, the cervico-brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses, were not aftected. The patient died suddenly after being admitted into hospital for strumous stenosis of the trachea. Arnold (" Ein Beitrag zu der Lehre von dem Bau und der Entwicke- lung der Psammome," 'Virch. Arch.,' ib., 449) describes three tumours of the meninges allied to fibroma, which showed extensive deposit of lime-salts in the ribbon-like fibres of the tissue, in the cell-groups lying between them, and in the thickened sheaths of the arteries and capil- laries. Several of the vessels contained thrombi. From his own ob- servations Arnold is opposed to the view of Cornil and Kanvier, accord- ing to whom this deposit of lime occurs in the psammoma and in the normally or pathologically dilated vessels. The first tumour was found on the dura mater, at the base of the brain, in a woman o£ sixty-five, who had died of cancer of the stomach and oesophagus. It was 6 by 3 "5 centimetres in size, and had caused no symptoms during life. In the second case, a woman of sixty-seven, there was, on the other hand, peculiar symptoms ; here the tumour was situated on the surface of the right cerebral hemisphere, close to the longitudinal fissure; its size was 4"5 by 3 centimetres. In the third case, a woman of seventy, who had died suddenly from the bursting of a dissecting aneurism of the aorta into the pericardium, the tumour was round, with a diameter of about 2 centimetres, and was situate on the right side of the falx. Zillner ('Virch. Arch.,' ib., liii, 140) records two cases of the occur- rence of colloid cysts, one in the under lip of a boy, set. 10, which dis- appeared after being punctured ; the other case is that of a woman, set. 36, who had died of typhoid, and in whom the thyroid gland and the connective tissue in its immediate neighbourhood were found to contain numerous colloid cysts. Luschka (ib., lii, 323) also gives, with a plate, two cases in which colloid cysts were found in the larynx. Wagner (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' xiii, i) concludes his long account of tuberculoid lymphadenoma of the various organs with a comparison of tubercle with lymphadenoma. Maier (" Zur Casuistik du Lymphoma," ib., 148) publishes two cases of lymphomatous tumours. In the first case, a mau of twenty-eight, the diagnosis during life had been cancerous pleurisy. The right pleural sac was found filled with tumours of the size of a fist, most of them