116 REPORT OKf PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Lnffan, " Observations illustrntive of the Use of Dieulafoy's Pneumatic Aspirator," ' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' liii, 202. Pitzmaurice, "Cases of Effusiou into the Chest," ib., lii, 388. BroncJdtis and Empliysema. Julian (' New York Med. Eec.,' vi, .357) thinks that the indication in suffocative capillary bronchitis is obviously to get rid of the mucous material as speedily as possible, and restrain the hypersecretion of the membrane. For this he has very successfully employed the sulphate of zinc and tincture of sanguinaria. Of the former, he gives to a child, ffit. 6 to 18 months, doses of one half to a grain, and from five to ten drops of the tincture every two or four hours; but when called at a later period and the malady threatens suffocation, he gives as much as from three to thirty drops of the latter, at intervals of one half to two hours, regardless of vomiting. He quotes the case of a man whom he found in a state of collapse, and to whom he applied his treatment with success. Isaakson ('Virch. Arch.,' lii, 466) has studied the changes in the vessels in emphysema. He finds them much smaller than normal, stretched instead of winding; several in places granular and cloudy, filled with thrombi and not allowing the coloured injection to pass. After the injection of silver solution, the normal appearance of endo- thelium was absent in the earliest stages; here tbe vessel-wall was finely granular, lined with white blood-corpuscles, which were the starting-points of coagulation and complete thrombosis of the canal. These portions underwent fatty changes and entirely disappeared. He considers this destruction of the vessels to be the primary stage of emphysema. Berkart ('Lancet,' 1871, ii, 745) describes an instrument which he has used with the best results in emphysema, and which, by the simple action of a pump, withdrawing air at the end of each expiration, increases the abnormally lessened expiratory power in this affection. Hertel (' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1871, 301) records a case occurring in the practice of Traube in which there was most extensive increase in the resonance of the lung, sonorous rales over nearly the entire thorax, nummular sputa, cyanosis of the face and body, contracted pupils, somnolence, and the phenomena of double diastolic sound. Traube'a diagnosis was as follows :—Diffuse catarrhal inflammation of the bronchi, probably with bronchiectasis ; increased volume of lung, probably with true vesicular emphysema; dilatation and hypertrophy of the right ventricle; fatty degeneration of the right ventricle, which, according to Traube's experience, is always present when a chronic inflamma- tion of the lungs is accompanied by persistent and increasing cyanosis. The diagnosis was completely confirmed by the autopsy. Traube dis- cusses questions as to the increase of secretion in the bronchi and the diat^nosis of catarrhal inflammation of the bronchi and bronchiectasis. The double diastolic sound he explains by the hypertrophy of the right auricle, and the conseqiient stretching of the tricuspid valve, which he considers to be far from uncommon. Dc Savignr.c, "Scries des Formules pour le Traitement de la Broncliitc," 'Bull. Gen, de Thcrap.,'xxxi, 252. Dccayoux, "Les Fievrcs Catarrbaks" (au advertise-