826 REPOIIT ON SURGERY. correctness of these observations by experiments on dogs and rabbits, the extremities of which were encased in plaster of Paris, and examined at periods varying from one to ten weeks. In most cases, at the end of ten weeks, the same appearances were found in young rabbits as had been described by Bonnet and Teissier. In one case there was crepi- tation in the joint. The synovia contained numerous red corpuscles and epithelial cells; and the cartilages were found to have undergone proliferation of the nuclei, with conversion into a fibrous tissue rich in spindle-shaped cells. Menzel concludes that the retention of the articular surfaces in contact by means of the surrounding elastic structures has a mischievous effect; and that the ulceration of the cartilages is analogous to bedsores, arising as it does from the constant pressure of the same points against each other. Hip-joint Disease.—A clinical lectuve by Dr. Sayre on tlie treatment of lup-joiiit disease with a descriijtion and figure of his own splint for keeping up extension will be found in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.' July 22, 1871, also 'Med. Times and Gazette,' July 29. Dr. Morton publishes a lecture on the subject of excision in disease of the hip ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 20, 1872)- Chronic Rheuniatie Arthritis.—Numerous specimens have been exhibited by Mr. Hutchinson ('Path. Trans.,' xxiii, 194). Loose Cartilages in the Jcnee-joint.—Mr. Square records twenty-four consecutive and unselectcd cases, cured, without anxiety or accident, by subcutaneous incision (' Brid. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 23, 1871). Mr. Lister speaks of the removal of loose cartilages under the .mtiseiitic dressing (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 26, 1871). Spina bifida treated hy tapping and pressure.—A child, set. 25 days, was brought into the San Jose Hospital, in Lisbon, under the care of Dr. Camara Cabral, on November 21,1871. It had spina bifida in the lumbo-sacral region ; the tumour was 40 centimetres in circumference, and measured 17 centimetres, longitudinally, and 10 transversely. It was transparent and fluctuated, but appeared to contain solid matter as well as fluid. Convulsions were not produced by manipulating the tumour, nor was there any paralysis or other sign of injury of the nervous system. On the 29tli it was tapped by means of Dieulafoy's aspirator, and 409 grammes of yellow, transparent fluid, containing much albumen, were removed. Compression by means of adhesive plaster was employed. Some vomiting and loss of appetite were the only symptoms that followed the operation. The tumour refilled in the course of a few days, it was therefore again tapped, 250 grammes of fluid being removed, and on December 14th, 425 grammes were drawn off. On two subsequent occasions 175 and 125 grammes were removed by the aspirator; the fluid had become more albuminous than it was at first. The last two operations were followed by meningitis, Avhich yielded to remedies. The child recovered, and was exhibited by Dr. Cabral at a meeting of the Lisbon Medical Society, on February 17. (' O Correio Medico de Lisboa,' March i, 1872.) Dr. Morton records a case cured by injections (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 6, 1872). Tflceration of the jugular veins.—Dr. Gross writes an elaborate paper on ulceration of the jugular veins, communicating with an abscess or an open sore. He also alludes to the cases which have been recorded, in which arteries have been opened by ulceration, &c., and to Mr. Bir-