361 SURGERY. muscle is first divided, or in what order of succession they are taken. He objects to the method of the Vienna school, in which the muscle on the left side is divided at some distance from its insertion into the globe, and the portion still attached is seized by forceps and used to move the globe in any desired direction. To do this diminishes the mobility of the resulting stump towards the left. He also condemns the use of Mazeux's hook forceps, which permits the escape of the contents of the eyeball, and injures the preparation; but rather prefers spoon-bladed forceps, which will hold the eye without injury. He advises section of the optic nerve close to the eyeball, having observed, when ifc has been divided far back in cases of intraocular tumour, that the conjunctiva has retracted in healing, and the application of a glass eye has been rendered difficult. Under the head of " Shell Splinter in the Oiliarg Body of the Bight Eye'' is related the case of a man, set. 26, who was wounded before Paris on the 20th of September, by a fragment of shell about a cubic line in diameter, which struck the right eye, and produced instanta- neous blindness, soon followed by swelling. The patient was treated by poultices and atropine instillation for three months, at the end of which time the left eye began to redden, and objects before it appeared to quiver. The right eye was then removed by Dr. Horing, and when Dr. Cohn saw the case, on the 27th of February, the sympathetic symptoms had wholly disappeared, although the patient believed that he could not see with his left eye quite as clearly as before the injury. The retina of the enucleated eye was wholly detached, the whole globe disorganised by inflammation, and the piece of shell was embedded in the ciliary body. T-wo cases of grazed wounds of the eyeball contain little worthy of note, except that in one of them the bullet performed an iridectomy with great neatness. In both the injury was followed by blindness, due to detachment of the retina and effusions into the vitreous. Four cases of wound of the upper eyelid are recorded, in one of which the shock seemed to have produced a rupture of the choroid near the equatorial region. In another the shock produced myopia = i, with S ^, in an eye supposed to be previously healthy and emmetropic. Five cases of wound of the upper jaw, in which the eyelids and eyes were implicated, give Dr. Cohn occasion to remark that he failed in ob- taining primary union of eyelid wounds by paring their edges and inserting sutures seven or eight days after the wounds were inflicted, and when suppuration was proceeding. He removed all the bruised parts, and obtained exact apposition by silk threads. He refers to the possibility that silver wire might have succeeded better, but counsels early operation in such cases, whenever it is necessary to preserve the outline and position of the lids. The same cases show that there is no occasion to puncture the anterior chamber in order to evacuate eff'used blood, which will always be readily absorbed under a compressive bandage. A case of Contusion of the eyeball is related at great length. A ball struck the outer margin of the left orbit, fracturing the bone and pro- ducing immediate total blindness. The cornea and iria retained