REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 92 between general and partial acute idiopathic cerebritis. .He considers tlie diagnoHis of the disease not diflicult. It differs from the apoplectic form of softening, in the absence of aphasia and paralysis, as well as other general features of progress ; from the convulsive form, in the absence of epileptiform attacks at the beginning, and the greater con- stancy and duration of the convulsions when they do occur; from the delirious form, by the mode of invasion which is never by delirium, and by the less mai-ked character of this symptom throughout. Fleischmann (' Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1871, No. 6, &c.) records a case of cerebral tubercle in a boy set. 3 years. The tubercle had commenced in the left thalamus, as a hard, rough, cheesy mass, which extended into the left cerebral crus ; here it had completely destroyed tlie fibres of the inner surface. The symptoms were exactly those described by AfanasiefF (ibid., 1870, No. 9) in section of one cerebral crus. They were partial paralysis of the left oculo-raotor nerve ; dilatation of the pupd, which was unaffected by light; paralysife of some of the facial muscles of the trunk and extremities of the right side; tremor of the right hand ; increased cutaneous sensibility of the right side, with the exception of the head ; ophthalmia ; hyperaemia of the retina, choroid, and optic disc of the left eye; incapacity of retaining stools or urine ; abnormal fluctuations in temperature. Cordier ('Lyon Med.,' viii, 583) records the case of a boy of 12, suff'ering from caries of the ribs and empyema, in whom three quarters of the left cerebellar lobe had been destroyed by a " tuberculous" (*. e. " scrofulous,"—Rep.) tumour, without giving rise to any symptoms. Hughlings Jackson (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 528) publishes a case of tumour of the middle lobe of the cerebellum iu a boy xt. 5. The tumour was a " tuberculous" one, of the size of a billiard ball. The diagnosis was grounded on (i) the enlargement of the head, with- out any evidence of rickets ; (2) blindness (double optic neuritis) ; and (3) a reeling gait. Perhaps of the three the last was of most value, though by itself it would only point to a tumour under the tentorium. From time to time the boy had convulsive seizures of a tonic character, during which he was conscious. Broadbent ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, i, 476, 622) related to the Clinical Society the history of two cases, iu one of which there were two tumours just beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the median line—one in the lower half of the pons, the other near the lower end of the ventricle. The patient was a man set. 46, whose symptoms during life were slight weakness of the right limbs, marked paralysis of the left side of the face, not involving the orbicularis oculi; lateral deviation of both eyes to the right, with double loss ef vision; loss of sensation over the area of the right trigeminus; difficulty of deglutition and indistinct articulation. In the second case, a man set. 65, gliomatous tumours were found in the occipital lobe, and iu the posterior ascending parietal convolution of the riglit hemisphere. He had convulsion and paralysis of the left half of the body. Hutchinson (ibid., 185) writes on a case of supposed cerebral tumour in a man set. 27, alive at the time of writing.