HEPORT ON MEDICAL JURlSPIlUDENCfE. 448 the respirations being at first retarded in frequency and then rendered more rapid. Preyer finds that when respiration has ceased the only available means of resuscitation is artificial respiration. It is, of course, presup- posed that the heart has not also ceased to beat. Atropine is the only real dynamic antidote to hydrocyanic acid, and it appears to be a per- fect one, its physiological actions being in direct opposition to those of the acid. It is necessary, to ensure success, that the alkaloid should be administered by subcutaneous injection very shortly after the inges- tion of the poison, on account of the rapidity with which this acts and the comparative slowness with which atropine is absorbed from the stomach. Rabbits to which atropine was administered before the use of prussic acid, exhibited a surprising immunity to the action of this most powerful toxic agent. Dr. Amory,* of Boston, Massachusetts, publishes experiments illus- trating some of the physiological and pathological actions of hydrocyanic acid. The following is a summary of his conclusions:—(i) Artificial respiration does not prevent the intoxication of prussic acid, nor does it materially assist in the elimination of the poison, consequently means directed to the institution of artificial respiration in cases of poi- soning by the acid are unnecessary for the protection of life. (2) Artificial respiration will prevent the occurrence of convulsions or of the muscular spasms which follow the absorption of the poison in a dose of sufiicient quantity to endanger life. (3) Muscular irritabiHty and nervous conductibility are not impaired by the intoxication caused by hydrocyanic acid in cases where artificial respiration has been main- tained until after the cessation of cardiac pulsations. (4) The static congestion of the pulmonary tissue is either a post-mortem symptom or is due to the asphyxia which has been considered by some experi- menters as one of the causes of death in cases of poisoning by prussic acid. (5) Death by this agent is due to some other cause besides asphyxia, and it may be suggested that the fundamental cause is a state of blood poisoning due to some alteration of either the physical or the chemical condition of the blood; which of the two it is not the purpose of the author to discuss. (6) The apoplexy in the ence- phalou and spinal cord, noticed by Tardieu as an anatomical lesion due to the intoxication produced by this agent, is probably referable to the asphyxia, secondarily induced, and not to the direct action of the poison. The same condition has been observed in animals dying from asphyxia produced by other causes, as, for instance, by nitrous oxide and by chloroform." When asphyxia is not present in a case of poisoning from prussic acid no very marked apoplexy or congestion is noticed post- mox'tem. Dr. Mialhe t endeavours to prove that prussic acid is unable to com- bine with the alkalies of the blood, and that the poison thus prevents the catalytic action of the corpuscles from being affected, an action which Schonbein has already demonstrated as taking place in normal red blood-corpuscles, and thus oxidation in the blood does not take place, * 'The Practitioner,' viii, p. 197. f 'L'Uuiou Mcdicale,' No. 65, 1872.