THE INFANT. 427 hue, and in time effaces it. Eyes that ultimately become brightly blue gradually clear up, as it were, like the sky after a thuuderstorm, and a clear-tinted blue iris is the result. Dr. Wiltshire is inclined to think that all newly born animals have blue eyes. It is stated that a similar observation was made by Eucte, in 1846 ('"Wagner's Handwbrterbuch der Physiologie,' iii, part 2, 325), and even by Aristotle ('De Gener.,' Gueniot writes on the treatment of fractures of the thigh in newly born infants. In the majority of cases the fracture is situated at the upper half of the bone, and nearly always occurs during an assisted labour, the fcetus presenting by the breech, the operator makes too forcible or ill-directed traction on the fold of the groin. In one case he saw it produced by the application of the forceps to the presenting breech. He describes a gutta-percha apparatus which he has found useful in the treatment. ('Bull. Gen. de Therap.,' i, 1872.) Gueniot writes on the treatment of urinary umbilical fistulse, due to the persistence of the urachus. (' Bull, de Therap.,' ii, 1872.) Dr. Littleton ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1872) quotes the statement that between three and four hundred children are annually suffocated by overlaying, and advocates the use of the arcuccio, universally used in Italy. The apparatus bears some resemblance to the cradle adopted to shelter an injured limb, and with it children can be safely laid entirely under the bed clothes in winter without danger of suffocation. On the etiology of foetal peritonitis.—Dr. E. Olshausen gives the dis- section of a foetus the subject of peritonitis. The vulva and the vagina were imperfect; the meatus urinarius was not to be detected. Absence of the anus and of the lower portion of the rectum. Moderate disten- sion of the bladder, more considerable of the uterus, and enormous of the lower part of the intestine, with urine. Considerable dilatation of the ureter on each side and hydronephrosis. Connection between the uterus and the bladder through a narrow short canal, and through another, stiU shorter, between it and the rectum. General peritonitis of old date. The greatest amount of exudation in the neighbourhood of the ovaries and the outer portions of the Fallopian tubes. As regards the malformations, the connection of the uterus with the colon and with the bladder may be considered the rarest, and, as regards the results in this case, the most important one. Not only did the urine collect in the ureters and the kidneys, but also the uterus was filled and distended into a thin bladder, and there was distension of the colon. But the most important point is that the urine passed into the Fallopian tubes, dilated their inner portion, and led to effusion in the pelvis and to general peritonitis, with gluing together of the intestines. (' Archiv f. Gynak.,' ii, 4, 1871.) Dr. .Tacobi ('Amer. Journ, Obstet.,' 1871) relates a case o^ foetal asymmetry. When shown to the Obstetrical Society of New York the child was three months old. The two halves of the tongue were not equal in size, the left being thinner than tlie right, and when the tongue was protruded it deviated to the left. The entire left side of the head, face, body, and extremities, were smaller than the right. Dr. Jacobi believed this condition to be of pre-placental origin. The cii'culation