466 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. this stage has been reached. It may sometimes be averted by artificial respiration or inhalation of oxygen. Bromal hydrate.—Berti and JSTamias* have investigated the thera- peutical properties of this proposed remedy, and arrive at the following conclusions, i. Even in small doses, and well diluted, bromal hydrate produces burning pain in the throat, pyrosis, vomiting, and diarrhoea. 2. In an emulsion (i to 300) its use is barely supportable. Even after long and cautious administration it produces vomiting and purgation. 3. In relatively large doses it does not induce sleep, or abate restless- ness. It is useless in epilepsy. 4. Subcutaneously injected it excites local inflammation, and exercises little action in the nervous system. 5. Rubbed up with an equal quantity of fatty matter, and applied locally, it produces erythema of the skin, but it is not so safe an appli- cation as a sinapism. 6. Bromal hydrate ofters no advantages as a therapeutic remedy over other safer and speedier remedies. 7. Toxic doses induce stupor, paralysis of motion and sensation, and rapid or sudden cessation of the respiratory movements, ending in death. Oroton chloral.—Liebreichf finds that croton chloral produces in ani- mals, first, anaesthesia of the head, then loss of reflex movements through- out the body, and, finally, death by paralysis of the medulla oblongata. In man it produces anaesthesia of the fifth nerve, while the sensibility of the body and the pulse and respiration remain unafi'ected. He con- siders that it is split up in the blood into formic ether. ByassonJ supposes that the action of chloral is partly due to the formic acid, which it yields along with chloroform when decomposed in the blood. This supposition he has confirmed by the administration of formic ether, which also yields formic acid in the blood. When given to animals, either by inhalation or subcutaneously, it produces symptoms of asphyxia, diminution of temperature, partial flaccidity of muscles, and lessens sensibility without completely destroying it. In man it caused a tendency to sleep, and formic acid appeared in the urine. Bichloride of methylene has been recommended as an anaesthetic by G-aine§ and Spencer Wells,!] but its administration is not mthout danger, death having occurred^ during anaesthesia produced by it. Methylamine.—Fargier-Lagrange** finds that trimethylamine, in doses of about 9 grains daily, lessens pain in rheumatism. It slows the respu'ation and pulse, and reduces the temperature. Nitrite of amyl.—R. C. Wood, jQn.,tt finds that nitrite of amyl greatly lessens, but does not destroy, the irritability of nerves and muscles. The power of the central motor ganglia is also much diminished, but sensibility is only slightly lessened. He thinks with Brunton that the diminution in the blood-pressure which nitrate of * < Journ. de BruxeU.,' Hi, p. 328; 'Schmidt's Jabrb.,' cliii, p. 141. t 'Comp. Reud.,' 1872, p. 1202. X Ibid., 1871, Ixxii, p. 742. § 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, p. 232. II 'Lancet/ 1871, i, p. 591- t 'Brit. Med. .lourn.,' 1871, p. 457- *« 'Virchow and Hirsch's Jahresber.,' 1871, p. 341. ft 'Amer. Journ. Med. Sc.,' July, 1871, p. 39. October, p. 359-