REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 162 observation it is accompanied by an early and profound change in the blood, under the influence of which occur various hajmorrhages, and jaundice more frequently than in the ordinary form. Its only cause is excessive alcoholic drink. Cheadle (' Brit. Med. .Tourn.,' 1871, ii, 54^) gives a clinical lecture on a case of extreme cirrhosis of the liver in a boy a;t. 18. He had com- plained five months before of debility and wasting, which gradually increased. There was slight enlargement of the liver and spleen ; ascites ; oedema of the legs; wild delirium; paralysis of the right with spas- modic jerking of the left arm and leg, and death by coma. The cirrhosis of the liver was most extreme, the spleen was enormously enlarged and hard, the kidneys were congested, and their capsules adherent. There was an unusual quantity of dark pigment over the surface of the parietal peritoneum about the pelvic region. The boy had been in the habit of taking a considerable quantity of drink, especially gin, when at work. There was complete absence of jaundice throughout. Nothing was found in the brain to account for the cerebral symptoms. Green also ('Trans. Path. Soc.,' xxiii, 133) records a case of in- terstitial hepatitis and obstruction of the common bile-duct in a boy, aged 10. Twelve days before death he vomited, became jaun- diced, drowsy, and screamed at intervals ; his pupils were dilated. He died comatose. The brain and thoracic organs were perfectly healthy. The stomach and small intestines contained a very large quantity of dark blood. Moxon (ib., 153) describes a case in which suppuration took place in syphilitic deposits in the liver of a man aged 29. One of these had opened a large bile-duct, so that its substance was deeply stained with bile-pigment. The liver was extensively diseased, having in its upper and middle regions many masses which at first sight had the appearance of sarcomatous tumours decaying in the centre. They were enclosed in what appeared to be a fibrous cyst. From these soft masses there were gummata in all gradations down to common depressed syphilitic scars with caseous centres. The microscopic character of the soft formations was not very definite—crowds of cells larger than pus-cells in a granular filamentous matrix. One testis showed very cha- racteristic gummatous syphylitic orchitis. Komnielaere, " Cirrbose efc Degenercscence amyloide du Foic" (woman, oet. 39, enlarged liver; lardaecous liver, spleen, and kidneys), 'Presse Med. Beige,' 1871, 133. Eames, " Cirrhosis of the Liver" (drunkard, age not given), ' Dubl. Journ.,' liii, 495. Id., "Carnified Liver" (man, intemperate, age not given; liver, hard and dense, weighed 45 ounces), ib., 496. Morgan, " Syphilitic Deposit in the Liver, Ulceration of the Larynx " (man, age not given, gummatous deposits in liver and glands), ib., 231. Handfield Jones, "Case of Cirrhosis of the Liver, Hiemorrhage and Ascites, Paracentesis Twice, temporary amendment from Digitalis, Clinical Remarks " (man, jct. S4, formerly gin-drinker), 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 219. Tliompson, "Cirrhosis of the Liver" (man, ast. 59), ib., 1872, i, 113. Black, "Cirrhosis of Liver, Ery- sipelas" (man, a;t. 26, autopsy), 'Lancet,' 1872, ii, 117. Crisp, "Incipient Cirrhosis of the Liver and Baggy Stomach" (woman, a;t. 60), 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' x.xiii, 137. Liveing, " Syphilitic Cirrhosis of the Liver and Caries of the Skull, associated with Amyloid Disease of tlio Abdominal Viscera, Chronic Phthisis, and Ulceration of the Colon" (man, a;t. 21). i^- i44.