PRACTUllE OP THE FBMURj ETC. 259 Vnunited, extra-capsular fracture of the neck of the thigh lone.—Mi\ Lister, in the case of a man, set, 45, who had fractured hia thigh eighteea months before without union having occurred, cut down at the seat of fracture, felt the ends of the bones gouged them, and then dressed tbe wound antiseptically, applying strong support. Bleeding occurred sub- sequently and the wound had to be stulFed with lint (antiseptically). Complete recovery resulted and the man walked well. (Address,' Brit. Med. Joum.,' Aug. 26, 1871.) Spontaneous fracture of the femur.—Mr. Durham records a case in a man, set. 44. Ee-union occurred and the patient remained well four years later. The pathology remained open to doubt. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 63.) Fracture of the femur.—Dr. Montgomery writes on the impractibility of restoring to its full length a thigh-bone shortened by fracture, as apparently demonstrated by experiment. In a case of fracture of the femur in a muscular man he tried reduction after death; the fracture was transverse with overlapping to the extent of one inch and a quarter. The force employed by four men reduced the overlapping half an inch. A weight of one hundred and twenty pounds was then applied over a pulley and left for seventeen hours. The overlapping was then only a quarter of an inch. "I venture the opinion that in most, and probably in all, cases of fracture of the femur whether transverse or oblique, tcifh shortening^ the fractured ends of the bone cannot be placed in exact opposition by any force which can be safely applied to living tissue. It is admitted by most writers on surgery that shortening of the limb in fracture of the thigh is to be expected and is generally found after proper treatment. "Would it not be more correct to say it is always found (when produced by a fracture), because a shortened thigh-bone cannot be fully extended to its normal length after the broken ends of bone have passed each^other?" ('Am. Journ. Med, Sci.,' July, 1872, 112.) Ununited fracture of tlie tibia and fihida; resection of the tibia.—Dr. Edward Bennett records a case of ununited fracture of the tibia and fibula in a strong man set. 34. The accident had occurred four months previously; the fracture was compound. On proceeding to operate, a mass of tissue was found between the ends of the bones. The over- lapping ends of the tibia were cut off and the union of the fibula severed. Iso pegs were inserted; the limb was put up straight and firm union resulted. The leg was two and a half inches shorter than the other (figures of the amount of the displacement are given). ('Dub. Joum. Med. Sci.,' April, 1872, 285.) Fractures of the tibia.—In oblique fractures of the tibia near the ankle Dr. Montgomery has successfully employed continuous extension by means of a weight. He adopts a slight modification of the usual plan of fixing the weight to the foot. (' Am. Joum. Med. Sciences,' Apnl, 1871, 357.) Fractures of the odontoid process.—Hv. Stephen Smith has mado numerous cxpcrimcmts' to show the mode of production of those fractures. His conclusions arc:—i. In a healthy condition of parts the odontoid process has greater strength than cither the anterior ring