66 RKPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. that of a man, set. 51, wlio about six months before death became greatly emaciated. He presented psoriasis pahnaris, plaques muqueuses, and glandular changes, but his digestion was pretty good. He died suddenly, and the autopsy showed a greyish-red infiltration of all the intestinal layers, extending from the lower part of the jejunum to the C8Bcal valve. In the middle of the infiltration was a polygonal ulcer, parallel with the length of the intestine, its base formed by the sub- mucous tissue, and with well-defined edges. The peritoneum covering it was injected and oedematous, aud contained dilated lymph-vessels. Under the microscope were found numerous round, partly fatty cells. The writer enters into the differentiation between this syphilitic aflec- tion, tuberculosis of the intestines, typhoid, and leuchajniia. The two other cases were those of newborn children, and gave the same micro- scopic appearances as the first. Simon (ib., iii, 537) quotes the views of several authors on the fol- lowing questions:—whether deposits in the liver (gumraata) are so fir characteristic of syphilis, that without any further history, or the presence of any constitutional affection, the disease may be recognised ; and whether there are cases in which hereditary syphilis may lie latent for years, even up to puberty, before it is developed. In opposition to Dittrich, who answers both questions in the aflirmative, the author con- siders them still unsettled. He gives two cases, from his own ex- perience, as matter for the discussion of these points. Bradley ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 116) gives the case of a child, four months old, in whom a syphilitic eruption was accompanied by the presence of albumen in the urine. There was no history of scarlet fever. The eruption and the albumen both yielded to mercurial treat- ment. He found, later, albumen present in two out of twenty cases of hereditary syphilis, and infers that syphilis may be a cause of granular or waxy kidney ; and that the chronic albuminuria resulting from these changes should be treated with small doses of mercury. Lane, " Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilis," 'Lancet,' 1871, i, 267. Berkeley Hill, "Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilis," ib., i, 305. Buzzard, " Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Trentment of Syphilitic Nen^ous Affections," ib., i, 339, Lee, "On Contagion (Syphilitic)," ib., i, 472. Berkeley Hill, "Early Syphilis," ib., ii, 599. Pox (Tilbury), "Primary Sore on the Lip of a Child," ib., i, S36. Hutchinson, "Report on Vacciuo-Syphi'lis," ib., ii, 143. Spencer Watson, " Ptosis, Mydriasis, and Hyperajmia, with Ana;sthesia of the left side of the Face, in a Syphilitic Patient" (female, mt. 22), ib., ib., ii, 676. JeafEreson, "Syphilitic Ptosis and Paraplegia," ib., 1872, i, 252. Pollock, " Case of Paralj;sis in a Syphilitic Sub- ject treated by large doses of Iodide of Potassium: cure," ib., ib., i, 255. Dowse, " Syphilitic Growth of right Cerebral Hemisphere " (woman, ffit. 33, autopsy), ib., ib., i, 539- Fairlie Clarke,' ' Case of Icthyosis Lingua)" (in a syphilitic subject, male, ast. ^8), ib., 1872, i, 648. Lockhart Clarke, " Case of Syphilitic Disease of the Brain, complete paralysis of right arm, partial paralysis of right leg, aphasia" (male, sxst. 47), ib., i, 677. Bristowe, " Softening of the Brain following Syphilis, death" (male, a;t. 23 : thickening of membranes and of right posterior cerebral artery, the latter occu- pied for an inch of its length by a cylinder of adherent ftbrine, softening of anterior part of left optic thalamus, loft crus' cerebri, and posterior part of outer wall of right ventricle), 'Lancet,' 1872, i. 826. Hulkc, "Syphilitic Stricture of R«ctum, &c." (woman, ast. 25, with autopsy), ib., ii, 79. Venning. "The Modern Treatment of Syphilis," based on the evidence adduced before the Committee appointed to inquire