IIEPOIIT ON StJROEJlY. the bladder the stylet is removed, and a bulbous portion projects in tlio bladder. (' Lancet,' Nov. 9, 1872.) Vertebrated, 2yr0st.af.ic catheter.—Dr. Squire advocates the use of a silver catheter, the distal part of which is formed of joints. It is quite flexible and is adapted for cases of enlarged prostate. A figure is given. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1871, ^go^.) Dr. Sayre figures and describes his vertebrated catheter and probe in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' July 22, 1871. It is composed of a number of segments, is introduced quite flexible and is then stiff"ened. Stricture of the urethra—Mr. W. Stokes records a hundred cases treated either by gradual dilatation, external urethrotomy, internal urethrotomy, or forced dilatation. He thinks the former the most satisfactory mode of treatment when possible. His mode of performing external urethrotomy was to pass a full-sized silver catheter down to the stricture, make a median incision in the perinjBum,'reach the end of the catheter, feel the stricture, divide it carefully, and then having reached the dilated part of the urethra pass a flexible catheter into the bladder. In order to bring the catheter through the anterior part of the urethra, Mr. Porter suggested the following plan. Take the" ivory head of the flexible catheter away, pass a bougie down the urethra, bring it out at the wound and fix it firmly into the catheter, and then withdraw the bougie pulling the catheter with it. He has fouud internal urethrotomy very successful. He uses Maisonneuve's instrument. A filiform flexible bougie is passed through the stricture, and pushed on into the bladder carrying after it a curved, grooved director on which is passed the cutting instrument, so fashioned that the healthy urethra cannot be cut, only the stricture. He thinks this plan far preferable to forcible rupture of the stricture. Cases are given and figures of the instruments employed. ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Feb. 1871, i.) Stricture of the urethra; orchitis; pycBinic symptoms; perineal sec- tion ; recovery.—A man was admitted under Mr. Hulke's care with orchitis. He had repeated rigors ; a stricture was detected and perineal section was performed. The man then did well. (' Lancet,' iS^ov. 9, 1872.) A case of complicated stricture of the urethra treated by Mr. Syme's operation for impermeable urethra, is recorded by Mr. Christopher Heath. (' CUn. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 121.) Ketention of urine from impassable stricture, treated hy filiform bougies. JJy W. V. Teevan. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, p. 124.) Sir Henry Thompson contributes a second lecture to the ' Lancet' (Dec. 7, 1872), on stricture of the urethra. He thinks Holt's operation generally involves but little risk; the benefit is not very enduring. He describes a plan introduced by Dr. Corradi and figures the instru- ment. Internal urethrotomy is said to give the best results of any plan. He prefers Civiale's instrument; the incision should be free. He has performed two hundred operations. A new stricture dilator.—Wv. Berkeley Hill describes a new stricture dilator. The two halves of a split sound, which in juxta-position equal the calibre of a No. 2 or ,3 catheter, can be separated by thrusting between them a segment of a cone fixed on a slender stem. It is of