REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 106 in children four years and over, eleven of which were successful; two thirds of the whole, therefore, were fatal. Cooper Forster (ib., ,309) records a case of successful tracheotomy in a child of eleven months for croup. [He adds a case in which he per- formed tracheotomy in a man, set. 80, with malignant growth in the larvnx.] Bell gives (ib., 369) a successful case of tracheotomy in a child of seven months for croiip. Oordier (' Lyon Med.,' ix, 9a; and see discussion on this paper, ib., 106) gives three cases of diphtheria, two fatal, in boys set. 7, and oneiu a girl, set. 5, on whom tracheotomy Was successfully performed, and the canula removed on the tenth day. Olivier ('Q-az. des Hop.,' 1871, 85) publishes two cases of croup; one was in a girl, set. 7, in whom tracheotomy was performed iii extremis, and the canula removed after seven days. The daily teni- peratures, &c., are given. The other was in a boy, 03t. 4, who also recovered after tracheotomy, the canula being removed on the thirteenth day. In this case there was laryngeal paralysis. As to other means of treatment in diphtheria, Schiitz (' Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1871, No. 31) uses a solution of bromide of potassium with bromine (gr. vj to '^iv) for pencilling the larynx and for inhalation. Brasch ('Ber. Klin. Woehr,' 1871, 551) gives glycerine of iron in- ternally and carbolic acid locally. Under this treatment the mortality- was 20 per cent., while under the employment of nitrate of silver and mercurials it was '57 per cent. Heifer ('Deut. Klin.,' 1871, 229) obtains good results from the use of carbolic acid. Bouchut (' G-az. des H6p.,' 1871, 326) uses injections of a mixture of coal tar and tincture of saponine (coaltar saponin^), and induces the children to allow it by giving sugar water in the same syringe. He gives a case (ib., 582) where an emetic had good effect, Laserre (' Bull, de I'Acad. de Med.,' xxxv) found, when he was called in early enough, that keeping the patient in a warm bed and in a heated chamber, and the administration of diaphoretics, brought about successful results. Bouchut ('Bull, de Therap.,'Ixxxiii, 373, and cf. Ixxxii) records notes of five more cases treated by emetics (tartar emetic). In three of the cases tracheotomy was proposed, but either rejected or deferred ; four cases recovered and one died from lobar pneumonia. The tartar emetic caused vomiting of the false membranes. The children were five years old or younger, and the medicine was given in doses of one to two grains, according to age, in two ounces of sugar-water. On days when it was not given as an emetic it was employed as a " counter- stimulant." A grain was dissolved in two ounces of water, and two teaspoonfuls given every two hours. Thick soup or bread soaked in water or sugared wine was the nourishment given, and but little drink, BO as to prevent the purging effects of the tartar emetic. Vaneschi, " Zur Prage iiber die Traclieotomie bei Laryngitis Diphtheritica," ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1872, 163. Miihsam, " Ueber Diphtheritische Liihmungen," ib., 21. Both, '■ Lymphatische Wuchcrungen nach Diphtheritis" (female, mt. S3, witii