91 ABSCESS OP THE BRAIN, ETC. colour, striated by vessels, aud had a white spot in the centre. Tho retinal veins were large, the arteries small. Slie died thirty-six hours after, her admission. The autopsy showed turbid tluid with translucent (Trauulations about the interpeduncular space; injection of the pia mater, optic conunissure and tracts. The nerves presented large super- ticial vessels along their entire length. Close to the eyeball they swelled out into a kind of bulb, due to distension of the outer sheath of the optic nerve by fluid. There were no tubercles iu any of the other organs. Friiiikel, "Weitere Beobachtung von Tuberkeln der Chorioidea" (girl, set. 6, general miliarj- tuberculosis, tubercle observed in the choroid five months or so before death), ' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1872,4. Manz, " Ueber Seh-nerven Erkrankung bei Gehirnleiden " (Hydrops vagina) n. optic.), 'Deut. Arch.,' ix, 338. Hughlings Jack- son, " Remarks on the Routine Use of the Ophthalmoscope in Brain Disease," ' Lancet,' 1872, ii, 52.;. Bouchut, "Du Diagnostic de I'Hydrocephalie par I'Ophthal- moscope," 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1872, 345. Abscess of the Brain; Softening; JEmholism ; Tumours. Taylor ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 527) found the left vertebral artery completely filled by an embolic clot, in a man set. 68, who two months before his death had fallen so as to injure bis chest. He com- plained of numbness of the right arm and leg, but had perfect motion. He had also paralysis of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Jastrowitz ('Arch. f. Psych.,' ii, 389, and iii, 162) has studied the hereditary character of nervous diseases, taking as his starting-point the occurrence, pointed out by Virchow, of a diffuse encephalitis in new- bom children. In the two years preceding his article he examined the brains of a large number of children who had died with head symptoms (tetanus, trismus, &c.). The result in all the cases showed an encepha- litis agreeing completely with Virchow's description ; hypersemia of the meninges and white substance, comparative paleness of the cortical substance, whitish-yellow spots in the white substance corresponding to places in which the fatty change was most advanced in the cells of the neuroglia. He gives a full account of the changes found; the spinal cord was scarcely, if at all, affected. To decide the question whether this so-called encephalitis was a pathological condition, he then ex- am.ined the brains of apparently healthy newborn children, who had died from other causes. Of 80 which he examined, 7 were foetuses of five to seven months, 37 children from that period to the age of one (extra-uterine) week ; 12 from one week to five months; 4 from five to nine months; 5 from nine months to three years. All the 37 children presented the changes described in .the brain. In foetuses the fatty degeneration of the cerebral substance was general; in children it was partial. The first child that presented no change in its brain was five months old. Yvoxa these and further premises, for the study of which the original article must be referred to, he concludes that this fatty metamorphosis in the brain is a normal process, consisting in changes in the young cells of the neuroglia. He discusses at some length the etiology of the affection. Elam ('Lancet,' 1871, i, 747) gives a table of the chief differences