EEPORT ON MIDWIFEUY, ETC. 393 aud three ounces of a clear limpid fluid escaped. The sac was then freely laid open, but no intestine or omentum was found. Two similar cases came under the notice of Dr. Nelson, and in these there existed the same translucency, slow growth, non-reducibility, and freedom from pain. In a paper on uterine inflammation after the change of life (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1872) Dr. Tilt states that the occasional recur- rence after the menopause of inflammation of the sexual mucous mem- brane may be safely predicted to those who have long suffered from inflammation of the entire womb, when they presume too much on their partly recovered strength. Also that we may safely predict inflammation of the sexual mucous membrane to those who overtax their strength after the menopause, whenever the uterine tissues are teased by the presence of a small interstitial fibroid or a polypus, when the cervix is hypertrophied, and also when the women are cachectic and have always one or more of their mucous membranes in a diseased condition. In a discussion on uterine injections for chronic metritis at the Societe de Medecine of Paris M. Charrier recommended iodine; the perchloride of iron, he said, gave rise to excessive pain. Gallard spoke highly of a weak solution of the perchloride. He first injects the uterus with water so as to ascertain its capacity, and afterwards injects a similar quantity of the solution of the perchloride. (' Graz. des Hop.,' Peb. 1871). Professor Spiegelberg contributes ('Arch. f. Gynak.,' iii, 2, 1872) three cases illustrating the value of puncture in the diagnosis of collec- tions of fluid in the abdominal cavity. Having referred to a previous case reported by him where the omission of tapping led to the error of mistaking a hydatid cyst of the kidney for an ovarian tumour, and to an operation and the death of the patient, he quotes:—Case i.—A woman, set. 30, two years previously, after so-called abdominal in- flammation, noticed a swelling in the left hypogastrium, which increased slowly and steadily, but which gave rise to little annoy- ance, except to fixed pain in the left side. On admission a cyst occupying the centre part of the lower and middle abdomen; doubtful origin ; puncture, evacuation of pus; attempted incision ; and rupture of cyst after detachment of neighbouring adhesions; escape of echinococcus membrane ; retroperitoneal left-sided hydatid cyst; partial excision, the rest attached to the abdominal wound; recovery by wasting of the sac after long continued suppuration. Case 2.—JEt. 40, sent in for ovariotomy. Puncture of one of the cystic spaces revealed it not to be an ovarian tumour, for the small quantity of dark fluid with- drawn, besides containing many red and white blood-cells, underwent spontaneous coagulation and showed no epithelial elements. The serous character was thus apparent. Death by marasmus and oedema of the lungs. Tumour found to be a large retroperitoneal and mesenteric sarcoma descending into the pelvis, and resembling an ovarian cyst on account of numerous sacculated ascitic spaces and secondary adhesions to the fundus uteri. Case 3.—JEt. 28, with an abdominal tumour, its character doubtful. By tapping a glutinous fluid was withdrawn, which contained besides crystals of cholesterin, numerous cells, a little debris,