REDUCTION OF OLD DISLOCATION OF THE FEMUR. 253 both iliac bones are dislocated backwards, and especially when there is also luxation of the pubic symphysis, the severity of the injury and of the symptoms, generally, renders the diagnosis easy. In cases where the local injury and the visceral lesions are not so severe or complicated as to involve immediate danger, the use of anaesthetics will probably enable the surgeon to make his diagnosis more accurate; when, however, the injuries are so severe as to be obviously fatal, at a more or less early date, Dr. SaUeron thinks that the surgeon should abstain from minute examination, and make, merely, a general diagnosis. Prognosis.—Even in the more simple cases the prognosis requires to be carefully made, and in the complicated cases it is very unfavorable—the bladder being often lacerated, the urethra ruptured, and large vessels being torn, giving rise to extravasation into the pelvis and sometimes into the peritoneum. Together with these lesions there are almost always injuries of the head, chest, and spine. Other complications, of which the observation of cases has shown the possibility, are contusion of the sciatic nerve, concussion of the spinal cord, intra-pelvic suppuration, &c. The prognosis is especially unfavorable in cases of dislocation of both iliac bones backwards, or of the sacrum forwards, on account of the great disturbance of the parts which this lesion produces. Treat- ment.—Dr. Salleron advises immediate attempts at reduction in all cases of dislocation of the pelvic bones, whether fracture be also present or not. The patient must be kept lying'on the back in a state of absolute rest, and any complications that arise must be treated according to their nature. Reduction of a dislocation of the femur after five and a half months.— Dr. M'Kee records a case. The patient was a woman who was thrown out of a trap on the left knee. She was at a distance from any advice. After five and a half months the dislocation was diagnosed and reduced by manipulation under chloroform. There seemed to be some tendency in the other hip to become dislocated during pregnancy. Great difficulty was experienced in keeping the femur in its place after reduction. It slipped out once, but returned with an audible snap. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Jan. 1871, 281.) Dr. James Norton notes a case of dislocation of the femur backwards and upwards, with fracture of the acetabulum, which was reduced after three months. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 27, 1871.) Unreduced dislocation of the femur.—Mr. MacCormac describes a specimen of unreduced dislocation of the femur. The patient was a man, jet. 70. A weight of metal casting fell on him ; his abdomen was injured extensively. The symptoms of the dislocation were inversion of the limb, the thigh was flexed and rigid, the amount of shortening was difficult to make out. As the patient lay in bed the knee rested above the patella of the sound thigh. The head of the bone could with difli. culty be discovered lying near the sciatic notch. The trochanter was in a plane somewhat posterior to the normal situation. The head of the femur waa found to have been displaced almost directly backwards ; it rested behind the acetabular ridge opposite the middle and upper part of the great sciatic foramen. The anterior part of the capsule remained intact. The tendon of the obturator internus was below the head. The specimen