99 LEAD POISONIXa. Stmlie, ' Arch. d. Heilk,' xii, 549- Maccall, " Totnuy," ' Olasg. Mod. Journ..' iii, 459. Black, " Notes of a Fatal Case of Tetanus Treated by the Calabar IJoan," ' Brit. Med. Joiirii'.,' 1871, i, 320. Ueardeu. "Notes of a Case of Idiopathic Tetanus, recovery" (man, tot. 25), 'Lancet,' 1872, i, 321. Lead Poisotiing. Kussmaul and Maier ('Deut. Arch.,' ix, 23,3) give the following case ;—A man, set. 35, a house painter, had suffered for several years from chronic lead poisoning, showing itself in an anaemic (bluish-yellow), colour, emaciation, dyspnoea, constipation, and abdominal pain, and towards the end of life in attacks of colic, with dyspnoea and slow pulse. During the second attack, which ended fatally, and was accom- panied by jaundice, he was constipated, and vomited matter richly tinged with bile; this was followed by profuse diarrhoea, and later by collapse. The temperature was only slightly above the normal at any time. He had no paralysis or brain-symptoms. The following is a summary of the appearances observed at the autopsy: general and great emaciation, marked rigor mortis of the muscles and heart nine- teen hours after death ; a certain amount of jaundice ; great distension of the stomach ; chronic catarrh of the mucous membrane of the stomach, intestines, and ductus choledochus ; fatty degeneration of the glands of the stomach; slight fatty change of the muscular walls of the stomach, especially at the pylorus ; atrophy of the mucous mem- brane of the jejunum, ileum, and upper part of the colon, in which both the stroma and glands shared ; atrophy of the intestinal villi, the glands of Lieberkiibn, the solitary glands, and Peyer's patches; marked development of the submucous tissue of the stomach, and even more so of that of the intestines, from proliferation of the areolar tissue, and thickening of the sheaths of the vessels ; this was shown especially in the smaller arteries in the narrowing of their calibre, caused by the large amount of fat-cells deposited in the distended net- work of this layer; fatty degeneration of the muscles of the intes- tines, especially in the small intestine; pigmental degeneration (pig- mental atrophy) of the muscular fibres of the heart. The brain, espe- cially its cortical substance, showed slight periarteritis; there was proliferation and sclerosis of the connective-tissue septa of the small ganglia of the sympathetic, especially the coeliac and cervical; these glands were hard, the circulation in them affected, and their nerve-cell elements diminished. The authors consider that the changes found in the absorbent apparatus account for the chronic dyspepsia, the anaemic colour, and the malnutrition of the patient, and contrast their case, in its different bearings, with those recorded by Tanquerel des Planches and others. Hollis ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 9) gives the case of a looking- glass silverer, set. 26, in whom mercurial and chronic lead poisoning appear to have existed side by side. The origin of the lead is fotmd in the tinfoil used in silvering. Garrod (' Lancet,' 1872, i, i), in a clinical lecture on lead poisoning, gives a remarkable case of the disease in a gentleman, the cause of which was traced to the presence in the snuff, which the patient took