276 llEPORT OlT SURGERY. Dr. Ashhurst records a case in which he operated hy Wood's method. The patient was a girl, tet. 6i years. The result was very satisfactory. When lying down she could hold her water for two hours, when erect she was obhged to wear some portable receptacle. The aperture which had existed at the lower part of the abdomen instead of showing a raw surface was now in a state of healed cicatrix. Figures are given. ('Am. Journ, Med. Sciences,' July, 1871, 70.) Successful litliotrity in a case of atony of the bladder.—Dr. Matie- jowsky of Prague, relates in the ' Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' Nos. 18 and 19, 1871, the case of a gentleman, one of his colleagues in the uni- versity, who came under his care in October, 1868, on account of stone in the bladder. The disease had been first detected in 1862, and the bladder had gradually fallen into a state of complete atony. The urine, which had to be drawn off entirely by the catheter, was bloody and contained a large quantity of mucus. Under these circumstances, it was considered that lithotomy was contra-indicated, and it was re- solved to practice lithotrity, notwithstanding that it is generally said to be attended with much danger when the bladder is in a state of atony. The first operation was performed in October, i868, andthe lithotrity was repeated at intervals on sixty-six subsequent occasions, the last being on January 5th, 1870. The bladder was each time washed out by injecting water into it. The result was that the bladder was freed from stone; the patient recovered from the vesical catarrh ; and the urine became healthy. The atony, however, remained, de- manding the habitual use of the catheter. Dr. Matiejowsky believes, from an examination of the fragments, that six calculi were broken up and removed. They contained a large quantity of carbonate of lime and phosphates of lime and magnesia, and some uric acid and mucus. Choice of operations for stone in the bladder.—Sir Henry Thompson has communicated a clinical lecture on this subject to the ' Lancet,' July 22, 1871. He had had twelve cases recently in the wards. In four he performed lithotomy, in eight lithotrity. All the patients re- covered. He thinks it most important to choose according to the cir- cumstances of each case. It is unwise to cut all your patients or to crush all the stones. In guiding your choice you must acqiiaint yourself with—ist, the size of the stone, or the amount of the calculous matter if multiple; 2nd, its composition : 3rd, the age and constitution of the patient; 4th, the conditions of the local organs. A stone which mea- sures i{- to 11 in. in its longest diameter is amenable to lithotrity. A stone of which any diameter is i| in. is mostly too large. For a small stone, at whatever the age, lithotrity is the operation. Enlarged pros- tate rarely opposes any obstacle. Stricture of the urethra should be treated first and then does not oppose any obstacle. If lithotomy be performed, the lateral is always preferable. There wxre two children amongst the twelve patients. One who had a large stone was cut. The otlier had a small stone and this was crushed. It was about the size of an orange pip. Sir Henry uses a tube if there be htemorrhage. The last case was that of a man, jet. 72, who was reheved of a con- siderable lithic acid mass in eighteen sittings. High operation,—Dr. P. H. Watson operated on an adult male by