REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Lond., F.E.C.P., lECTTTEEE ON CHEMI8TEY AT GTJT'S HOSPITAL; MEDICAL OFFIOEU OF HEALTH FOE 8T. PANGEAS. Cholera. Choleea is the disease which has attracted the largest amount of attention from sanitarians during the last two years, and the literature of tlie subject has been very abundant. The recent diffusion of cholera in Europe.—A report of remarkable interest on the recent dilFusion of cholera in Europe* has been sent by Mr. J. Netten Eadclilfe to Mr. Simon, who has forwarded the report to the president of the Local Grovernment Board, with a recom- mendation that it be brought under the official notice of foreign govern- ments. The report commences with an account of the first appearance and subsequent progress of the epidemic which, beginning in South Eussiaat Kiev, in the autumn of 1869, spread during the months of November and December into several of the districts in South, Central, and West Eussia. In January of the following year cholera appeared in Moscow, and in February cases were reported from Novgorod. During the summer and autumn the disease spread actively, so that in 1870 cholera prevailed with hardly a break—if indeed with any break— throughout the tract of country lying between Moscow and the north coasts of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. To the north and west of this tract it had appeared at St. Petersburg; and to the south and east it appeared along the north-east coast of the Black Sea, from the Straits of Kertch to Poti, through the valley of the Eion across Trans- caucasia to the Persian frontier of the empire. In 1871 cholera was generally diffused throughout Eussian Europe. It spread also into Siberia, appeared in the autumn at Astrachan, prevailed in Ciscaucasia along the course of the Kouban, and in Transcaucasia was present at Baku on the west coast of the Caspian, and at Erivan. During the whole progress of this remarkable difi'usion of cholera, the disease did not spread into Europe beyond the limits of the Eussian empire, except at four points. In July it passed the Polish frontier into East Prussia, and on the 24th of the month attacked Konigsberg. In August it extended to Mcmel, Dantzic, Elbing, Stettin, Swiucmiindc, * ' Parliamentary Paper.'