TREATMENT OK TUMOURS BY SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION. 245 cases, in which the treatment has been tried, have been those in which operation appeared unadvisable, and in which, therefore, no convincing result could be expected. In primary cancer, the treatment ought to be tried at the earliest stage of the disease. In his paper, Heine referred to cases in which, after the injection of a watery solution of carbolic acid, cancer of the parotid and indurated syphilitic ulcers and papulfe were said to have been reduced. In his experiments on cancer he modified the operation by injecting the fluid chiefly into the periphery, so as to act on the youngest proliferating cells, to bring their growth to a standstill, and to prevent the escape of the cancerous elements into the neighbouring lymphatic glands. A woman, aet. 48, the mother of three children, had had a tumour of the right breast for a year, and one of the left for six months. Their external appearance and an examination of excised portions showed them to be carcinoma- tous. Prom the left breast an indurated cord of lymphatics led to an eularged axillary gland of the size of a chestnut, and in the neigh- bourhood of the same breast several small, hard nodules were embedded in the skin. A solution of chloride of zinc (o"5 to i per cent.) was injected in the neighbourhood of the breast several times (the quantity used being from five to seven charges of Pravaz's syringe), but produced only severe pain, without any eff"ect on the size of the tumour. On October 31 Dr. Heine began to inject a solution of 1 per cent, of hydrochloric acid in quantities represented by from two to five charges of Pravaz's syringe, at intervals of twelve or fourteen days, the injections being made between the breast and the axilla. At the end of eight months a notable reduction in the size of the tumours was observed. The enlargement of the axiUary glands and the indurated, lymphatic cord disappeared in a month from the com- mencement of the injection. One gland, only, was removed for the purpose of microscopic examination, and showed that the cancer-cell masses were broken down into a homogeneous, finely granular material. The pain produced by the injection was slight. After the third injec- tion fever set in and lasted three months ; in Heine's opinion it could be only regarded as an absorption-fever. It was treated with quinine, and with carbolic acid in eight-grain doses in piUs, with the efi"ect, only, of temporarily reducing the temperature about 31° Pahr. The number of white corpuscles in the blood was increased. At the end of the treatment, the reduction had amounted to 4! centimetres, transversely, and 4^, vertically, in the left breast; in the right, to 5 centimetres transversely, and only i| vertically. On one occasion, when the injec- tion was omitted for a time, the right breast increased in size. At the end of the eighth month the woman was in good health, the fever having for some time left her. In two other cases, one of ulcerated mammary cancer in a woman and one of secondary ulcerated cancer of the inguinal region in a male, injection of hydrochloric acid produced febrile symptoms, molecular melting down of the tumour, and partial shrinking. In two instances. Dr. Heine endeavoured to reduce hyper- trophy of the prostate by injecting solution of iodine, made by mixing 60 parts of tincture of iodine* and 8 parts of iodido of potassium in * As Dr. Heine practises at Innspruck.ho probably refers to the Austrian tincture.