KESECTION OP SHOULDER AND ELBOW OF THE SAME ARM. 213 taken from the internal condyle." In three months he could bear his entire weight on the stump. He was a strumous lad. The patella kept in good position. ('Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Jan. 1872, 62.) Senile gangrene.—Mr. Liston recommends amputation under anti- septic dressings. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 26, 1871.) Gangrene rfthe leg; amputation; recovery.—Mr. Morgan records the case of an old man whose foot became gangrenous, and whose leg he amputated as high up as possible. The patient recovered. The bonea of the foot were found disorganized. A figure of the condition is given, ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Feb. 1871, 138.) Spontaneous gangrene of both feet, in a log, arising from disease of tlie heart ; double amputation ; recovery from operations ; death from cardiac and pulmonary conditions.—Mr. Gant. ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,' v, 176.) Amputations.—Favorable results, in country practice, are recorded by Dr. Benny. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 1872.) Amputation of the foot.—Mr. Stokes writes on Prof. Smith's modifica- tion of Hey's operation on the foot. The great advantage of it is that the ball of the great toe and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone are preserved. The operation is performed by making an oblique incision across the four lesser metatarsal bones, commencing about three quar- ters of an inch in front of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and in a direction towards the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe. The incision should be made down to the bones, and another in- cision should then be made at the centre of the first one, but at right angles to it, upwards and inwards, for about an inch or an inch and a quarter. The flaps at each side of this incision should then be dis- sected ofi" the bones, and these, thus freely exposed, should then be obliquely divided, close to their proximate articulations, with a small saw or fine forceps. The flap should he taken altogether from the sole of the foot. The operation appears to be best adapted for cases of caries of the phalanges and distal extremities of the metatarsal bones, for severe injuries of the phalanges with extensive laceration of the soft tissues, and epithelial ulcerations not unfrequently occurring in this situation. Mr. Stokes records the case of a woman, set. 58, sufi"ering from epithelioma of the three lesser toes of the right foot. A lithograph of the state of the stump after recovery, and a woodcut of the cast of the stump of the patient, on whom Prof. Smith first operated, are given ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci,' Dec. 1872, 428.)! Ankle-joint amputations.—Dv. Smith concludes that ankle-joint am- utations are only half as fatal as leg amputations, and the stumps are etter adapted both for unassisted locomotion and for the use of artifi- cial supports. In reference to PirogoiTs and Syme's amputations. Dr. Smith is of opinion that the former yields the better stump for unassisted progression, and the latter for the adaptation of mechanical aids. (" Sur- gical Memoirs of the War of the Eebellion," published for the U. S. Sani- tary Commi.ssion ; reviewed in 'Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Oct. 1871, 451.) Resection of the shoulder- and elbow-joints of the same arm.—Mr. MacCormac records the case- of a French soldier wlio was disabled at the battle of Sedan by a shell explosion. The fragments severely lace- rated the bones and soft parts of his right ftrm, in the region of the