REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 434 tissues, and he promises further experiments on the force which renders this translation possible. Elimination of poisons.—Dr. Anstie ^ combats vigorously the pre- valent views with respect to the supposed elimination of poisons, animal, vegetable, and mineral. He appears to be of opinion that there is no tendency in the unaided animal organism to get rid of poisons, and that remedies administered with the object of assisting elimination are, as a rule, powerless. Antagonism of Poisons. The literature of this topic is unusually interesting. Antagonism lettoeen physostigmine and atropine. A very elaborate research on this subject, full of valuable results, has been completed by Dr. Eraser.^ The author first reviews previous experiments on physio- logical antagonism, viz. between atropine and hydrocyanic acid (Preyer), between atropine and muscarine (Schmiedeberg and KoppeJ, between physostigmine and strychnine, and between physotigmine and chloral (Bennett), and comes to the conclusion that, although in many cases the « priori reasons in favour of the existence of a lethal or of a more or less general antagonism are extremely plausible, the experimental data by means of which it has been attempted to establish the reality of the antagonism are, probably without exception, imperfect, and therefore insufficient to do so. His own experiments were made with a view to determine the existence of a physiological antagonism between physostigmine and atropine, and the limits of the same. Physostigmine was administered either in the form of an alcoholic extract or of the sulphate of the active principle (curarine) ; preparations chiefly made by himself, but in some cases with those manufactured by Messrs. T. and H. Smith, of Edinburgh. The atropine was administered in the form of sulphate. The subjects of experiment were chiefly rabbits weighing about three pounds, in a state of perfect health, and during digestion. In some cases dogs were used. The plan of the experiments was as follows. In the first place the minimum fatal doses for rabbits of the extract of physostigmine and of the sulphate of physostigmine respectively were determined by a number of preliminary experi- ments, so that, on the weight of the animal being ascertained, it was an easy matter to be certain of the dose of the particular prepara- tion that could kill them. Then in those experiments in which recovery followed fhe administration of a dose of atropine given in combination with a dose of jAysostigmine equal to, or in excess of, the minimum fatal, the animal used was killed many days after- wards, and, when the eftect of the two substances had completely disappeared, by a dose of physostigmine Jess than or only equal to that from which it had previously recovered. Therefore, when the adminis- tration of atropine prevented an otherwise fatal dose of physostigmine from causing death, a perfect demonstration was obtained of the power of atropine to produce some physiological action or actions that coun- teracted some otherwise lethal action or actions of physostigmine. * 'The Practitioner,' viii, pp. i6i, 289, 356. t 'Trans. Eoy. Soc. Ediu.,' 1872, xxri, pp. 529—713.