REPOUT ON SURGERY. 232 was described by M. Dieulafoy, at a meeting of the Academy of Medicine in Paris, on April 19, 1870. ("De I'aspiration pneumatique sous- cutanee,methode de diagnostic et de traitement,par le Dr. Georges Dieu- lafoy.") Claims of priority were made by MM. Langier and Jules G-udrin, the latter stating that he had had an instrument made on the same principle thirty years ago. The aspirator may be described, shortly, as consisting of a syringe with an air-tight piston, capable of creating a vacuum, and a series of fine, hollow needles (or a trocar and canula) fitting on to the syringe. The latter is provided with an outlet as well as an inlet, each having a stop-cock. The syringe is exhausted by drawing up the piston while the taps are turned to prevent entrance of air. A needle is selected, or a trocar and canula, attached to the syringe, and thrust a short distance into the cavity to be emptied. The stop-cock is turned on, and the fluid rushes into the vacuum in the syringe, without the possibiHty of air entering the cavity tapped. If preferred, the syringe need not be ex- hausted till the needle is thrust in, and thus the traction force can be regulated. When the syringe is full the inlet tap is shut, the other opened, and the piston forced down. The fluid is conveyed by a tube into a con- venient receptacle. Messrs. Khrone and Sesemann supply a form of apparatus more convenient in some respects. It consists of a large, glass jar, in the top of which is inserted a syringe and a tube. The syringe is used to exhaust the glass jar. To the tube is attached a convenient length of india-rubber tubing, to the end of which the needle or trocar and canula can be attached. This apparatus is easier to work if there is a large quantity of fluid to be removed. Considerable force is required to draw up the piston of the ordinary syringe, and is tiring after a time. Dr. Anton Lohmayer, of Esseg, a former assistant of Billroth, gives, in the 'Wiener Med. Woch.,' August 5 and la, 1871, notes of 14 cases in which he used the aspirator; cold abscesses, hydrops genu., tumor albus genu., &c. This paper contains an interesting, historical summary of attempts made in the same direction as that of Dieulafoy. Mr. Jessop gives illustrations of the surgical uses of the pneumatic aspirator in abdominal tumours, a pelvic tumour, hernia, hydroce- phalus, abscesses, efi'usion into knee-joint, &c. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 7, 1872.) See, further, Aspiration of intestine. Cleft palate.—M.T. T. Smith narrates forty cases in which he has operated for clefts of the hard and soft palates under chloroform. In twenty-five cases, he closed the whole cleft at one operation. In nme of these, a complete cure was efltected; in eight, there was only a small central hole left; in two, failure resulted; in three, only the hard palate united; in one, the soft only, and, in two, a large hole remained in the palate. If it is considered inadvisable to attempt to unite the whole at once, Mr. Smith recommends that the part of the cleft should be brought together, first, which seems most easily approximated, whether it is the hard or soft palate. This proceeding, if successful, secures for the most difficult part of the palate a larger supply of blood m the subsequent operation. He figures a new form of gag, an improved needle for wire, needles for silk, and a " catcher " for puUing the silk