429 THE INFANT. well-known odour. The regular contractions of tlie digestive tube, and especially the glandular secretions, reappear, aud this double influence promotes the digestion of the solid parts of food, which had till then resisted. The same result is obtained by presenting directly to the absorption of the stomach phosphate of lime, on the condition that it be soluble and require no labour for its digestion. The phosphate taken into the weakened stomach of persons afflicted with rachitis will undergo no modification. He recommends Dusart's lactophosphate of lime, which is prepared by imitating the action of the gastric juice on phosphates, and which contains the salt completely digested, and con- sequently capable of being absorbed without requiring any previous labour of the stomach. Dr. "Widerhofer, in some remarks on the diflFerential diagnosis of slight cases of riclcets and of chronic hydrocephalus, says the points to be attended to are chiefly these. In rickets the form of the head is more or less angular, but there is no special disproportion between the head and the face. The anterior fontanelle may be large, but the sagittal suture is generally closed at eight or nine months. The orbits are normal and there is no prominence of the cornea, Further, some alterations in other parts of the sketeton, e.g. beading of the ribs, or some enlargement of the epiphyses of the radius and ulna, will probably be present. In chronic hydrocephalus the skull is inclined to a globular shape; the sagittal suture is open, as well as the fontanelle; the head is large, out of proportion to the face, and there is divergence outward of the temporal bones at their upper part, instead of their usual vertical position. From the pressure of the intra-cranial eflFusion the upper wall of the orbit tends to become more and more upright, so as to push forwards the eyes and expose the cornea. Further, in rickets, the tendency is to partial convulsions, especially spasm of the glottis ; in hydrocephalus to general convulsions. Lastly, the former is most frequently accompanied by diarrhoea; the latter by constipation. (•'Lancet,' March i8, 1871.) Dr. Eitchie writes on the diagnosis of rickets (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 1871), and points out, as the result of numerous observa- tions, that there is a varying fall in the evening temperature in rickets, whereas in tuberculosis there is not only no evening fall, but there is a positive evening rise. Dr. Sonsino, in a paper on the physiological dysjjepsia for starchy food in infancy, confirms the opinions of Bidder and Schmidt, Guillot, and Schiff; and concludes that in the generality of mammalia, saliva acquires its digestive power over starchy matter only at a degree of development which, in the larger number of the same animals, is not reached at the time of birth. He then details some experiments made with an infusion of the pancreas of young animals, and states that pancreatic juice in doga, cats, and rabbits in the first week of life is devoid of any digestive action on starch; and he infers that the same inability of the pancreas to digest starch exists in the early life of man. Exj^jcriments made with the enteric juice were not so conclusive. He thinks that an infusion of fresh pancreas might bo useful to aid the digestion of starch in infancy; but that good reasons exist for not feeding infants