AStUlATION OF STUANQULATEi) INTESTINE. 289 Catgut sutures to tlie tendinous openings in hernia.—Mr. Lister has successfully employed catgut sutures in stitching up _ the tendinous openings in operating on ventral and umbilical hernias. (Address, ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 26, 1871.) Strangulated Umbilical Hernia; operation ; sac opened; recovery.—Dr. Arnison mentious two cases. ('Lancet/ Nov. 2, 1872.) Incarcerated scrotal hernia; operation; artificial anus: recovery.— The case of a man, tet. 63, under Mr. Hutchinson's care for hernia presented features of interest. The hernia was incarcerated from im- paction of faeces ; there was an absence of strangulation, and yet the bowel was sloughing. There was no vomiting and no constipation, but the prostration was extreme. Great relief followed the operation. The right scrotum was enlarged, swollen, tender, and of dusky red hue. On incision, the hernial sac was found distended and fluid was let out. The neck was quite free. The intestine contained a large mass of faeces of almost stony hardness and was sloughing at one part. The mass was turned out and the margins of the bowel stitched to the edges of the wound. The artificial anus gradually closed. (* Lancet,' Aug. 24, 1872.) Treatment of strangulated hernia hy puncture of the intestine.—In the ' Med. Times and Gazette,' April 20, 1872, Mr. Bryant records the case of a man, ffit. 71, the subject of strangulated scrotal hernia and upon whom he perfoi-med herniotomy. It was necessary to expose the bowel in order to return it. Owing to the restlessness of the patient, however, the gut again descended in a few hours, and aR attempts to reduce it failed, until the large intestine was punctured in four or five places with a grooved needle and a quantity of flatus let out. The patient recovered without any bad symptom. Mr. Bryant advo- cates puncturing the intestine in certain cases of hernia. He thinks it possible that some hernise may be reduced without any cutting ope- ration at all. He intends trying puncture in large scrotal and umbi- lical herniae, and thinks the plan adapted for all cases of acute internal strangulation, due possibly to bands or twists. In the ' Med. Times and Gaz.' for Aug. 3, 1872, two cases of strangulated hernia treated success- fully by puncture are referred to. tfse of the aspirator for puncture of the intestine in hernia.—Dr. Leon Labbc records a case of strangulated inguinal hernia in a man, set. 70, in which aspirating puncture of the intestine was employed. Fluid and gas escaped, immediate reduction was effected, and the patient was cured. (' Lancet,' July 20, 1872, 78.) M. Demarquay related to the Academy of Medicine, in May, 1872, the case of a young man, to whom he was called, suffering from stran- gulated congenital hernia. M. Demarquay saw him on the second day after the symptoms of strangulation had set in, and attempted to reduce^ the hernia by the taxis, but without effect. He then applied Potain's aspirator, and withdrew from the intestine about 120 grammes of liquid. After waiting for a few minutes to see whether the swelling, which had gone down, would return, he easily replaced the intestine in the abdomen by pressing gently from below upwards. The patient was treated by rest, small doaea of opium, and low diet; and made a good