THE RESPIRATORY JIURMUR, ETC. 107 nutop^v), ' VIrch. Arch.,' liv, 254. Moos, " Ein Full von siilbstilndigcr Dijihtlioritis ties iinWeren Gt'horguiigs" (boy, n)t. 10), 'Aivh. f. Aug.-u.-OlireiihL'ilk.,' 1871, 86. Sehiiller, " Primarer Croup dor Nasenschleimlmut," ' Juhrh. f. ICinderheilk.,' iv, 331. Uouchut', "Traiteiiient du Croup par rfiiuotique," ' Gaz. des II6p.,' 1873, i. Cowan, " On the Medical Treatment of Diplitheria," ' Glasgow Med. JourTi.,' iii, 319. Balfour, "Chlorine-water in the Treatment of Diphtheria," ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' xvii, 513. Menzies, "On au Epidemic of Diphtheria observed at Naples in 1871, with an attempt to deterniiue the common origin of Cerebro-spinal Meningitis, Typhoid Fever, and Diphtheria," ib., xviii, 317. " Qniuia in Croup," ' Amer. Journ. Med. Sei.,' Ixi, 51)8. Murchison, " Case of Diphtheria, with extension of the Membrane to the Brouciiial Tubes" (man, n3t. 24), ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxii, 35. Savage, " Success- ful Ciise of Tracheotomy in Croup" (boy, 7, removal of the tul'e on eighth day), 'Brit. Med. Journ.,'1871, i, 531. Greenhow, " Paralysis after Diphtheria" (man, set. 32), ib., 1872, i, 538. Giacciii, Natura e Theraipia dell' Angina Difterica, Poppi, 1872; pp. 23. T/ie Respiratory Murmw, Sfc. Stone, in a valuable paper " On jEgophony" (' St. Thos. Hosp. Rep.,' 1S71, 187), observes "that a pure musical vibration within the limits of the ordinary speaking voice is not transmitted at all, either through consolidated lung or through a layer of pleuritic fiui^; but that the same note, when vocalised and modified by the addition of vowel sounds, immediately passes through the media at a changed pitch." He found that the E and i sounds, which Helmholtz obtained with great difficulty in his experiments, and only by reinforcing the extreme high harmonics at the expense of the fundamental notes, were exactly the sounds on which aegophony was most distinct, whether in a living lung or an india-rubber bag containing water. He concludes that segophony has for its cause the fact " that the layer of fluid, while it stops the larger and coarser vibrations of the ground-tone, lets pass the finer and closer undulations of the high harmonics." In reference to the peculiar mode of respiration first described by Cheyne, and later by Stokes, C. Briickner ('Virch. Arch.,' lii, 155) writes on what his father had taught twenty-two years ago as pendulum- like respiration. He notices it especially in children afi'ected with tuber- cular meningitis. After the pause the patient breathes at first almost inaudibly, but with gradually increasing force, till the highest point is reached, the respiration gradually falling till the pause again recurs. The latter generally lasts as long as the sum of all the respirations be- tween two pauses. The number of respirations varies in different patients, sometimes only 6—8, in others 20—30. According to the elder Briickner, the symptom is caused only by the presence of watery fluid within the skull, and the son has also noticed it in cases of the same kind only. Merkel (' Deut. Arch.,' viii, 424) records a case in which the same phenomenon was present. The patient, a man, set. 44, was first seen in the autumn of 1866, extremely anaemic, and sufi"ering from hsemor- rhoids. His arteries were rigid. At the end of 1869 he had an apo- plectic fit, followed by left-sided paralysis. His respiration at that time ■was at first superficial, and increased in depth, but not in frequency, till it developed into a well-marked dyspnoea. This condition lasted for