REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 490 of smallpox, and an almost absolute protection against death from that disease. That if the operation be performed with due regard to the health of the patient vaccinated, and with proper precaution in obtain- ing and using the vaccine lymph, there need be no apprehension that vaccination will injure health or communicate any disease. That smallpox unchecked by vaccination is one of the most terrible and destructive of diseases; as regards the danger of infection, the pro- portion of deaths among those attacked, and the permanent injury to the survivors, and therefore that it is the duty of the State to endea- vour to secure the careful vaccination of the whole population. As a consequence of the recommendations of the select committee, the Vaccination Act, 1871, was passed, the provisions of which must be Icnown to the readers of this ' Eetrospect.' The bulky report of the select committee contains a mass of extremely valuable matter re- lating to vaccination and re-vaccination, including all that can be said against the operation. Scurvy.—Much interesting matter has been published relative to a scorbutic epidemic which prevailed in Paris during the winter of the siege of 1870-71.* As regards the etiology of the disease. Dr. 0. Berger is of opinion that scurvy was brought about by the following causes:—Depressing mental influences ; undue bodily exertion, as well as want of exercise; overcrowding; cold; alteration in diet, more especially the want of freah vegetables; want of food, and this was the chief cause of the epidemic. An insufficient quantity of food acted, however, as a predisposing cause only, and was incompetent to induce the disease in the absence of special conditions, notably the withdrawal of fresh vegetables. Even with this in other respects best of diets, lack of fresh vegetables induced scurvy. As regards the quantity of food it is worthy of note that the theory which asserts that the use of salt meat produces scurvy, receives no support from the facts observed during the siege; a diet of fresh meat induced scurvy where fresh vegetables were withheld, even when every other hygienic condition was perfect. Acid fruits were found to replace fresh vegetables. Wounds received whilst fighting were not proved to predispose towards the disease. Chalvet found the cause of scurvy to be inanition, in conjunction with cold. It is also asserted that the great benefit de- rived from the use of green vegetables and fruits arises from this, that the potash salts contained in them readily split up in the organism into acid and base, whilst the phosphate, nitrate, and chloride, being much more stable, cannot replace the less stable potash salts. Delpechf found that an abundant diet of fresh meat did not ward oif the disease where fresh vegetables were withheld, and asserts that the deprivation of a vegetable diet is the sole determining cause of scurvy. Dwellers in marshes.—Prof. Prestel,J of Emden, secommends rain- water for use among tbe dwellers in marshes, where, as is well known, it is often next to impossible to procure good drinking-water from wells * 'Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxxv, p. 297, and xxxvi, p. 279. ' Gaz. Hebd.,' viii (xviii), 1871, 6, 9, 14, 16, 17, 18. ' Schmidt's Jahrb./ cliii, p. 82. t Loc. cit. X • VrUihrsschrft. f. Gcricht. Med.,' N.P., xvi, p. 336.