BLOOD. 5 iodide of potassium, &c., can be absorbed through tlie unbroken skin, especially it' applied under pressure. Other papers are by Eichorst (" Ueber die Eesorption der Albuminate im Dickdarm"), in ' Pfliiger's Archiv,' 1871, 570-662. Heiberg (" Safe canal system der Schleimhaiite"), in ' Nordiskt Med. Archiv,' iii, 4, and Laqueur ("TJeber die Durchgangigkeit der Hornhaut^ fiir Flussig- keiten"), in ' Ceutralblatt,' No. 37, 1872. BLOOD. The most important treatise that has appeared upon the blood is that of Preyer * on the crystals of the blood, of which the reader will find an analysis in 'Humphry and Turner's Journal of Anatomy,' by Dr. Eutherford, and another in the ' Medico-Chirurgical Review' for 1872. Preyer finds haemoglobin in all vertebrates, in one mollusc (Planorbis), two arthropods, and two worms. It is not present in echinoderma, ccelenterates, protozoa, or plants. It exists independently of the blood in muscle. The easiest, though not the best, mode of procuring hasmoglobin-crystals is to defibrinate dogs' blood and mix it with one and a half times its weight of cold water. After three hours add a quarter of its volume of rectified spirit. This fluid, if left for a night in a freezing mixture, will be found to contain crystals in the morning, which should be washed with a little pure water. Pure haemoglobin is very insoluble. All the forms of its crystals belong either to the rhombic (man, guinea-pig, and most mammals) or to the hexagonal (squirrel and some rodents) system. All doubly refract light. Haemoglobin gives one absorption band; when combined with oxygen it gives two. He gives its formula as CgooHggo^jj^Pej, S3, Ojyg. It can be broken up into albuminoid compounds, pigments, and acids. M. Brondgeest t found a variable number of colourless crystals in the blood of frogs kept for some time at low temperatures. Their form was, for the most part, prismatic, with very long lateral surfaces and pyramidal extremities, not, therefore, agreeing with any known form of blood-crystals. They are insoluble in water and in ether, soluble in dilute acids and alkalies, and in a 5 per cent, solution of common salt. They are very stable. When dried they may be kept for years un- changed in appearance. They do not form as the blood thaws, but may be seen in the frozen blood. They cannot be obtained from coagulated blood. They are most abundant and best seen in animals that have been frozen into a solid block at a temperature of 4° Cent., and then submitted to a considerably lower temperature. Brondgeest believes them to be derived from albumen. Struve, of Tiflis,J has demonstrated the presence of two colouring matters in blood. One of them is extremely soluble in water and alcohol, but with some difficulty in ether, and not in acids. The ashes contain silicic and phosphoric acids, oxide of iron, and a little alkali. It gives a blue colour with tincture of guaiacum and turpentine. It appears * ' Die Blut-crystalle,' Jena, 1871, 263. t 'Archiv f. Gunees-en-Natiirkuiide,' 1870, 378. J ' Virchow's Archiv,' Ivi, 1872, 423.