REPOET ON SURGERY. 278 bone and phospliatic matter by litbotrity. The bono had probably necrosed from the os innominatum as the man had had abscesses about the hip. Figures are given and allusion is made to the other cases recorded, ('Lancet,' June 22, 1872, 851.) Calculus vesica} in the female,—Dr. Watson removed a calculus weighing 1120 grains from the bladder of an elderly woman by rapid dilatation. She was able to retain her urine within twenty-four hours of the operation. (' Edin. Med. Journ., 1871, 653.) Dr. Atlee removed a stone weighing 220 grains, and measuring 3 Jj^th inches, in its greatest circumference, and 2^%ths, in its smallest, from the bladder of a female, ^t. 73, by rapid dilatation of the urethra. He used Holt's dilator and a pair of dressing forceps. The patient had no incontinence of urine. (' Am. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' April 1871, 424.) Dr. Long removed a large stone from the bladder of a female, set. 33, by rapid dilatation. Incontinence resulted for three days. The stone weighed 308 grains, was four and a half inches in its longest and three in its shortest cir- cumference. A translation of the reports of two cases recorded in the Hospitals- Tidendc in which vesico-vaginal lithotomy was performed, is given by Dr. Moore in the ' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April 1872, 353. The first patient was thirty-five years of age; symptoms had existed for five years. A " large" stone was detected. Lithotomy was first attempted, but owing to the hardness of the stone and the pain caused was unsuc- cessful. Guerin's old apparatus for lateral lithotomy was used (instead of a round or straight director, passed along the urethra) to guide the knife in incising the vaginal wall. The stone was easily removed. An hour later the wound was united with ten silver wire sutures, which were fixed with leaden plates. The urine was drawn oft" every second or third hour. On the seventh day, five of the sutures were removed. The wound was healed. On the twelfth day the wires were removed. No aperture whatever remained. The other patient was 32 years of age. The stone was of a " tolerably large size." It was found im- possible to crush it. The female blade of the lilhotrite was employed as a director. After three quarters of an hour had elapsed the wound was closed with eleven sutures (silver wire), which were twisted. A catheter was inserted. The vagina was washed out regularly On the third day catheterisation at regular intervals was adopted. On the ninth day three sutures, and on the eleventh one, and on the fourteenth day the other seven were removed. No gap remained. The nucleus of the stone could not be crushed with the lithotrite out of the body, only the outside crust. In the first case the stone had been crushed into two parts by the lithotrite. Together they weighed 648'i grains. The length was six centimetres (2*4 in.), the breadth five centimetres (2-0 in.), and'the thickness two centimetres ( '8 in.). The second calculus was one inch and a half in its longest diameter, and one and a third and one inch in others. Its weight was 254-63 grains. Rectal lithotomy.—In the ' Vierteljahrschrift fiir die prakt. Heil- kunde,' iii, 1872, Th. Schiiff"er describes two methods of performing lithotomy through the rectum. He uses for dilatation specula like Sims's, but adapted to the rectum. The operations which he describes