305 OVARIOTOMlf—CLAMPS, ETC. tion, forming what I denominate, in my book on the diagnosis of ovarian tumours, a peritoneal inflammatorij cystr (' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' July, 1872, 133.) Large ovarian cyst; tapping; inflammation; great prostration; ovariotomy; recovery.—Mr. John Clay records the case of a patient who was in extreme prostration resulting from inflammation of an ovarian cyst after tapping, when he performed ovariotomy with success. ('Lancet,'Sept. 7, 1872.) Cases of ovariotomy, under the care of Dr. "W. L. Atlee, are given. (' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1872, 113.) In one case the cyst was full of pus, and was everywhere adherent. Neither clamp nor ligature was used, the vessels of the pedicle having been destroyed by inflammation. A second case was one of cyst of the broad ligament. A third was mul- tilocular with extensive omental adhesions. All the patients recovered. A case is also recorded which was under the care of Dr. John L. Atlee. The cyst was multilocular, there were slight adhesions, and the patient recovered, (p. 118.) Wound of intestine during ovariotomy, tcith recovery.—Mr. C. Heath records a case in which he operated for ovarian disease, and, in enlarging the abdominal wound with scissors, cut a piece of intestine which became entangled between the blades. He stitched the intestine to the ab- dominal wound, and so formed an artificial anus. After some time he applied the actual cautery to induce the opening to contract. It never quite closed; but the patient became fat, and a pad and belt sufficed to prevent all extrusion of fsecal matter. Mr. Heath remarks that he believes no similar case is on record, and it will serve as a warning to surgeons to be on their guard against adherent intestine. If such an accident should occur he thinks the plan he adopted the best which could be carried out. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' v, 35.) JS'ew clamps, ^c.—Dr. "W. L. Atlee describes and figures a new clamp, constructed so as to ensure a parallel grip, and admitting adap- tation to a narrow or wide pedicle. (' Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,' April, 1871, 370.) At p. 398 of the same journal he narrates seven cases of ovariotomy. Two of the patients recovered, five died. Further cases are given July, 1871, 128. Thfey are three in number. The patients recovered, but in one, the tumour was not removed. Dr. Dawson has invented a new clamp. It is oval. One limb lifts away from the other, the pedicle is included, the limb fixed, and then an inner V-shaped piece is screwed down on the pedicle. This may be cut through with the clamp if desired. ('Am. Journ. of Obst.,' Aug. 1871, quoted 'Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,' Oct. 1871, 583.) pivigion of pedicle in ovariotomy.—Dr. Macleod, of Glasgow, suggests twisting off the pedicle in ovariotomy, and returning the stump wholly within the abdomen. He uses strong forceps with stirrup-shaped blades, the straight ends answering to the straight cross-bar of the stirrup fit into one another when closed. The pedicle is grasped with these, then the tumour is cut off at a like distance fi-om the forceps, and the cut extremity seized by another pair of forceps, and slowly tw].sted off". In one case in which he tried tliis plan it succeeded per- fectly. There was no hasmorrhage. He returned the stump within 20