BEPi)ttT ON SURGERY. 236 Removal of j)liaryngeal polypi hy the galvanic cautery.—MM. Corradi and Gozzini ('Lo Sperimentale,' 1871), describe a case of pharyngeal tumour which they removed by means of the galvanic cautery. The tumour was round, very hard, smooth, and was attached by a broad pedicle to the pharynx, the upper part of which it occupied. A Belloc's sound, introduced through the nostril, was passed between the tumour and the uvula; one end of a silk thread was, by means of the sound, carried into the nose, and the two ends of a platinum wire, about two feet long and one twentieth of an inch thick, were fastened to the other end. The silk thread was drawn through the nose, and, by manipulating the wire loop in the mouth, it was placed as high as possible on the pedicle of the tumour. The ends of the wire were then placed in connection with the battery (Grrenet's); the circuit was kept closed for twenty seconds, traction at the same time being made on the wipe. The current was now interrupted, and the loop, which had cut into the tumour, was placed more accurately on the pedicle. The circuit was again com- pleted, and the tumour was cut through at its base and removed through the mouth by means of the fingers. It measured nearly two inches longitudinally and an inch and a half transversely. The patient felt no sensation of heat during the operation; it was not followed by pain, haemorrhage, or any discharge. Nasal polypus.—Dr. Lichtenberg records a case of fibrous polypus, high up in the nose, which he removed, from the outside, by making a flap and sawing through the nasal process of the superior, maxillary bone, &c. A detailed description and a figure of the operation are given. ('Lancet,' Nov. 30, 1872.) Naso-pharyngeal polypus; extraction through the anterior nares; brain symptoms; death.—Mr. Forster, 'Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 159. Removal ofbronchocele.—Dr. Greene has removed large bronchoceles, successfully, in three instances. The first patient was a woman, set. 45. The bronchocele was very large (a sketch from a photograph is given). A fatal result was anticipated, quickly, if nothing were done, and the patient was anxious for an operation. A long incision was made through the skin, and the fascia divided on a director. Several veins were wounded in dividing the fascia immediately investing the tumour. Their walls were so thin no ligature would hold. He only used his fingers in cleaning the surface of the tumour and separating it from surrounding structures, but the haemorrhage was fearful. He soon reached the pedicle, which contained three, large arteries whose pulsa- tions were very distinct and which served as guides for dividing the pedicle into three parts, which was accomplished with the fingers. Each part was tied separately; adhesions to the sheath of the carotid vessels were found at one place, and their division was followed by copious, venous htemorrhage. This came from the internal jugular, which was tied The patient recovered well. The second patient was forty years of age The tumour was connected with the oesophagus. There was not so much hsemorrhage as in the former case. Two vessels were found at the base; a blunt needle was passed between these and the pedicle tied in two halves. She recovered well. The third patient was thirty- five years of age. The growth was very large, and the surface of it pulsated everywhere. The hajmorrhage was very alarming. The base