402 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. able calculation of a quite empirical kind. He refers to Ahlfeld's elaborate memoir ou the duration of pregnancy (' Monats. fur Geburt.,' 1869), in wliich tbe duration is estimated at 271 days. Duncan recommends tbe following method :—Find the day on which menstrua- tion ceased, take that day nine months forwards as 275 days, unless February is included, in which case it is taken as 27.3, to this add three days in the former case, or five if February is in the count, to make up the 278 days. Out of 153 cases the day of confinement was exactly predicted in ten cases in this manner. In eighty cases labour took place sooner, and in sixty-three cases later than was predicted. The average error was about seven and a half days, a circumstance which indicates that the prediction should not state the week, but the fortnight of delivery. Abortion and Premature Lalour. Dr. J. J. Phillips contributes a paper on retroflexion of the uterus as a frequent cause of abortion. He states as the result of his observa- tions that, after making due allowance for various constitutional causes, a most important factor in the production of abortion in many cases is a retroflected uterus. The increased susceptibility of the retroflected pregnant uterus to concussion from sudden movements, the mechanical irritation to which it is subjected, the straining in micturition and defjecation in such cases, and the irritation which the abnormal position sets up, appear to be very efficient exciters of uterine action, while the interference with the uterine circulation tends to the efi'usion of blood and death of the ovum. He relates cases where, after repeated abortions, the full term of pregnancy was reached by wearing a Hodge's pessary. ('Obst. Trans.,' 1872.) Dr. Donaldson relates (* Glasgow Journ.,' 1872) an interesting case in which by means of premature labour induced at the eighth month, the life of the child was saved, though three former pregnancies had ended in the birth of stillborn cliildren. The death of the children resulted, it was believed, from disease of the placenta, which contained throughout masses of cheese-like deposit. Martini recommends chloride of gold and of sodium in the treatment of nervous disorders dependent on uterine disease. He believes the chloride is also useful in preventing the tendency to abortion. (' Eev. Clin, de Boulogne,' Jan. 1871.) Mr. Bassett confirms the experience of Dr. Kennedy that in abor- tion the administration of ergot is generally inadvisable. Wlien the hajmorrhage is slight, and the case threatening only, ergot may do good, as also where the ovum is detached and merely wants expelling. But no more regularity of action can be secured for it in miscarriage than in labour. Owing to its uncertainty and irregularity, and its well- known power of producing contraction of the circular rather than the longitudinal fibres of the uterus, it is inadvisable to administer it in many cases of abortion. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1872.) Dr. Noeggerath relates a case of abortion in which the secundines were expelled without the foetus; the latter came away four weeks, at least, afterwards. ('Amer. Journ. of Obst.,' 1871, p. 551.)