238 UEPOllT ON SURGERY. attempts had been made to procure contraction of the cyst without avail. The patient recovered. " The chief interest, in this case, i« derived from the fact that it appears to show, that encysted tumours of the neck may have their origin in certain changes talting place in the lymphatic ganglia, as suggested by M. A. llichard (' Memoires de la Soc. de Chirurgie,' iii). Another reavson for calling attention to the case is the fact that English, surgical literature is most remarkably barren on the whole subject of tumours of the neck. In this respect Holmes's ' System of Surgery' is quite deficient.'' (' Am. Jour. Med. Sciences,' April, 1872, 411.) (The notice in Holmes's 'System' may not be in sufficiently large print or detail, but is hardly " quite deficient." See " Regional Surgery," v.) Sanguineous tumour of the necTc.—A case in which a sanguineous tumour of the side of the neck was tapped, then laid freely open and syringed out, daily, with Condy's fluid, is noted in the ' Lancet,' Sept. 30, 1871,467. The patient was under the care of Mr. Savory. On the ninth day a sudden gush of blood occurred. It was stopped imme- diately and the common carotid artery ligatured, but the patient died. The external carotid artery had given way. Removal of a tumour of the palate.—A young man, ast. 28, came under the care of Dr. King, of Hull, for a large tumour of the left side of the palate, which filled up nearly the whole of the arch of the fauces, the tonsil being tightly stretched over it. He had only been aware of it for three months, but when he discovered it, he said, it was of consi- derable size. The man's symptoms were urgent, and so he consented to the removal being attempted. A ligature was first of all passed round the left carotid so as to be ready for being tightened if necessary. An incision was then made from the angle of the mouth to the inferior maxilla, a little above the last molar tooth, and the ends of the facial artery tied. The last two molars of the upper jaw were extracted and the incision was carried back across the masseter to the posterior edge of the inferior maxilla. Some difficulty was then experienced owing to the tumour falling back on the glottis. It was held up, how- ever, and the ramus of the lower jaw divided about an inch above the angle and the lower portion forcibly drawn down. Eoom was thus ob- tained to deal with the tumour. An incision was made to the right of the uvula, and the soft palate detached from the hard palate : two in- cisions were made through the mucous membrane, one behind, the other in front, enclosing the tonsil between them, and the fingers thrust forcibly behind the tumour. The latter could now be drawn out be- tween the divided portions of the lower jaw. On making a final in- cision to remove the tumour a terrific gush of blood occurred. The ligature on the carotid was tied and the hajmorrhage ceased. An artery on the right side of the palate required a ligature. The tumour was found to be of a fibrous character. Dr. King thought that the hemorrhage proceeded, simply, from vessels supplying a rapidly growing tumour, and that no artery of any size had been divided. He con- sidered the preliminary ligature of the carotid unnecessary and should not again practise it. The chief danger was from sufi'ocation. The man did well after the operation, as far as its immediate dangers were