65Z REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Weakness of external recti Monocular weakness of accommodation Nystagmus Sympathetic blepharo-spasm Ptosis .... Laeroplitlialmus Cicatrix of lid . Foreign body in lid Pterygium .... In a case of wound inflicted by a waggon-wheel passing over the eye there was laceration of the upper lid, followed by defective union; and a case of bayonet wound of the orbit was followed by paralysis of the rectus internus, complete ptosis, and pterygium. The operations performed in the 31 cases were enucleation of the eyeball in 5, and in 3 the excision of splinters of shell that had pene- trated the lids. The following cases are among those given in detail: Two cases of injtiry to the hrain.' I.—Juschkat, set. 27, was injured in the brain by a chassepot ball before Metz, on the 14th August, 1870, and was struck down stone blind, but without loss of consciousness. The wound of entrance was situated an inch and a half above and behind the concha of the right ear, in a line with a prolongation of the palpebral fissure, and therefore in the lower and posterior portion of the right parietal bone. When the patient reached Eorbach, on the 17th of August, a portion of brain the size of a walnut had escaped from the wound, and was adhering to the shirt collar. There was no wound of exit, and the ball was found lying about 2" behind and below the wound of entrance, a little to the right of the occipital eminence, from which position it was immedi- ately removed by Prof. Fischer. Perception of light returned the same evening, and on the following day the patient could discern the (white ?) clothing of the nursing sister who had charge of him. A small quan- tity of brain tissue mixed with pus escaped daily from the wound, which was only gently syringed. The patient had perfect freedom of movement, and his taste, smell, and hearing were normal. There was no paralysis of either extremity. Dr. Colin saw the case for the first time on the 22nd of August, eight days after the injury. The eyes were then, as they had been from the beginning, quite normal in external appearance. In the right eye the pupil measured 2^", and promptly contracted to I y" under lateral illumination or direct lamplight. AVhen looking at the illuminated face of the observer it discerned movements of the hand outwards, upwards and outwards, and downwards and outwards, but in no other parts of the field. Colour perception was lost, but the power of distinguishing whether large objects were bright or dark re- mained, and, although movements of the hand were seen, the fingers could not be counted. The ophthalmoscope showed perfectly clear media, the retina nowhere detached. The optic nerve was much swollen, its margins obscured, its surface exhibiting a radiating stria- tion in the course of the fibres, the veins distended and winding, the arteries very small, and a number of fine vessels were visible, such as are never seen in the healthy state. The whole surface of the disc was I 1 I 4 I 2 2 I