137 PEllICAUDITIS—MYOCAllDITIS, ETC. Olovcr ('Liuioct,' i, 893) records the case of a girl, sot. 12, wlio liad complained of pain in hfr left side for two or three weeks. Her tem- perature seven days before death was 101°. No physical signs seem to have been made out. The autopsy showed the pericardium distended with pus, and purulent lymph adhering to its inner surface. Fremy, " Pericardite. fipanchement de Serosito purulente. Ponctlon nvec I'Apjiareil du Dr. DienUifoy, Guerison " (man, mt. 21), 'Bull. Gen. do Therap.,' t. 81, p. 125. Thiriar, " Perieurdite, avec Epancliement considerable et brides adhesives, suite d'Affections Rluiuuitismales" (boy. mt. 16, autopsy), ' Presse Med. Beige,' 1871, 32. Heaton, "Rheumatic Pericarditis with Effusion, Recovery" (man, ait. 21).'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii, 96. Tborowgood, "Pericarditis with Effusion, Death" (boy, tot. 10, autopsy), 'Lancet,' 1872, i, 682. Diseases of Myocardium ; Seart Aneurism, Sfc. Quain ('Lancet,' 1872, i, 391) thinks that affections of the walls of the heart have been somewhat neglected in the attention paid to valvular affections. He holds that clinical study of the former teaches that—(i) the really serious efiects of heart disease result from hyper- trophy, or from dilatation, or from a combination of the two; (2) valvular diseases may exist up to the close of a long life without ren- dering the subject of them conscious of their presence; (3) it is possible to refer to cases in which, valve disease having existed without causing any inconvenience, something occurs which damages the condition of the muscular walls, and serious disturbance is the result; (4) there are cases in which some additional mischief occurs to valve disease already existing, and this mischief is remedied by the supervention of further compensatory hypertrophy ; (5) the converse of the last class is seen in cases of valve disease in which the heart walls fail and the disease pro- gresses ; (6) cases occur in which valvular disease—i. e. incompetency— is caused by dilatation of the heart. Enlargement of this organ may depend—(a) on an increase in the muscular fibres, the exact change being still unknown ; (5) on an increase in the connective tissue, due to chronic interstitial inflammation or hyperplasia; (c) on an increase of fat, not to be confounded with fatty degeneration. The causes of enlargement of the heart may be classified as—agencies acting through the nervous system, as overstrained excitement; agencies acting mecha- nically, as severe and repeated muscular exertion, obstructed circu- lation, pregnancy; agencies originating in disordered conditions of the nutritive functions of the heart, as chlorosis, anscmia, good living with insufficient exercise, Bright's disease, adherent pericardium. The author proceeds to discuss (ib., 426) the systemic effects of enlarge- ment, and the relation of heart disease to phthisis and renal disease, and the second lecture concludes with the diagnosis and treatment of it. In simple muscular hypertrophy, repose, and the administration of aconite; in connective-tissue hypertrophy, if diagnosed in its early stage, remedies likely to subdue the inflammation in which it origi- nates ; and in fatty hypertrophy, treatment calculated to prevent the formation of fat, are recommended ; and to obtain compensatory hyper- trophy, iron and digitalis. In a third lecture (ib., 459) he enlarges on