350 REPOUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. unprecedented and most important character lias been made by Dr. Hermann Cohn, of Breslau, who has recorded* his experience of the cases of injury to the eyes treated at the Lazareths of Forbach, Heinitz, and Neunkirchen, during and after the Franco-German war, and his paper is so novel and so important that it deserves a full notice. He commences by stating that the literature of gunshot wounds of the eye is extremely scanty, probably on account of the attention of military surgeons having been directed almost exclusively to the wounds of vital parts ; that even the statistical records of injuries to the eye are very imperfect, and that military ophthalmic surgery can hardly be said to exist, although the value of the organs implicated renders this branch of the art worthy of all attention. Estimating the superficial surface of the body at 15 square feet, and that of the eyes at 4 square inches, we might expect one injury to an eye in every 500 wounds. Demme, in the Austro-Italian war of 1859, saw, in all, 55 cases of shot wound of the eyes, among which 19 produced blindness of both. Stromeyer, among 714 invalids from the Schleswig-Holstein campaign, found loss of eyes in 13 cases, but has not recorded in how many of these both were lost. Williamson states that among the wounded from the last Indian campaigns there were 11 cases of loss of one eye, and a single case of loss of both. From the Crimean war there were 42 cases of destruction of a single eye, and 2 cases of loss of both. In the Austrian war of 1866 Niemetschek saw 9 and Mooren 4 cases of shot wounds of the eyes, and beyond these there are, within Dr. Cohn's knowledge, no statistics upon the subject. No conclusion can be drawn from the number of soldiers invalided as blind, since the lists would exclude all the cases in which injury to the eye had been followed by partial or complete recovery. Even in the Franco-German war it was impossible to arrive at the facts with any certainty, since in a large number of lists of wounded the nature of the injury was not stated at all, and in others it is probable that eyes were involved in many cases entered as injury to the face, head, or brain. The only statistical guidance of any value is that furnished by Dr. Fischer,t who has based a comparative estimate of the relative frequency of wounds of different jjarts of the body upon 109,698 cases recorded from the annals of modern warfare. His table is entitled to weight on account of the large numbers on which it is based, and he gives 7*4 as the average percentage of wounds of the brain and head, and 3*3 as the average percentage of wounds of the face. There are, therefore, 107 per cent, of injuries in which one or both eyes are liable to be implicated. If we assume that they will be actually implicated in 10 per cent, of such injuries, an estimate that is probably not much short of the truth, then the 100,000 wounded of the Franco-German war would furnish 1000 cases of eye injury. The care of the wounded was divided among at least 400 German, French, and foreign surgeons, and, especially at the beginning of the war, the cases of injury to the eye were scattered among the several military hospitals, along with all other cases that would bear removal, instead of being sent to the numerous ophthalmic hospitals of Germany. It * Contribution to Fisclier's ' Kriegscbirurgische Erfahrungeu,' Erlaugen, 1872. t 'Ueber Kriegschirurgic/ Erliingcn, 1868.