70 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. MARC H 10. MENU EN MAIORE. Potage à la Monaco. Alose grillée à l’oseille. Salmis de pilets. Brochet farci et rôti. Œufs à la tripe. Gâteau de riz. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. White soup à la Monaco. Broiled shad and sorrel. Salmis of pintail. Stufled roast pike. Eggs à la tripe. Rice cake. White soup à la Monaco. Cut up sortie bread into slices, sprinkle with powdered sugar, toast and place them in a soup-tureen, sprinkle with sait ; pour some boiling cream or milk, thickened with yolks of egg, over the toast, and serve. Broiled shad with sorrel. Soak your shad for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with mixed herbs, sait, and pepper. Broil on the gridiron, moisten with the oil in which it was soaked, and serve on a pure'e of sorrel (see 23rd ofDecember). Stufled roast pike. Keep your pike for two days after catching ; scale, draw it, and lard with fillets of anchovies and gherkins, and stuff with egg stuffing (see iôth of December). Spread some branches of mixed herbs, sprinkled with mixed spice and sait, on a large sheet of buttered paper, in which wrap the pike, fasten it on with skewers and roast, baste with white wine and melted butter. Serve with thick piquante sauce (see 2Ôth of June). Nun’s sig-hs. Warm a lump of butter the size ofa walnut, a lumpof sugar, a little lemon-peel, and a pinch of sait in a tumblerful of water, let it boil over two or three times ; stir in some flour until it becomes a thick paste, and continue stirring until it is cooked, which you can tell, if the paste does not stick to yourfinger; leave in the saucepan until cold, then stir in one egg at a time until it is thin enough to drop out of a spoon. lake a dessert spoon and drop lumps of the paste about the size of a walnut into lard which is not quite boiling, take out when swollen to four times their original size and of a golden colour. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot ; they are also very nicecokl. The flavouring can be varied by omitting the lemon-peel and stirring in a little orange-flower water with the first egg.