58 Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Artericd System of Chamcdeon. end of the vessel two somewhat larger trunks pass towards the outer and inner borders of the anklejoinfc. The largest branch, however, is the posterior communicating, a trunk which is given off immediately above the square pronator muscle, Coursing from this position downwards and backwards, the communicating vessel reaches the posterior aspect of the leg close above the ankle joint, where it receives the termination of the posterior tibial artery. After the junction has been effected, the vessel divides into an outer and inner portion, the distribution of which will be followed under the description of the posterior tibial trunk. The terminal divisions of the anterior tibial artery upon the dorsal surface of the tarsus may be named the internal and external tarsal arteries. Each of these trunks furnishes two interosseous vessels, which pass onwards between the metatarsal bones to divide at the cleft of the toes into lateral digital arteries. Px'om each interosseous trunk two large perforating branches spring and pass downwards into the plantar aspect of the foot. The extremities of the external and internal tarsal vessels are turned back towards the leg as slender trunks, which pass upwards as if for anastomosis, but the fine branches of these and neighbouring arteries are so small that they cannot be traced into direct continuity. The posterior tibial artery, a long slender trunk, passes down the back of the leg between the superficial and deep muscles. Some muscular branches are given off after which the calibre of the trunk, now much reduced, is restored by the inosculation with the large posterior communicating branch of the anterior tibial artery. Above the ankle joint the vessel breaks up into two branches. The inner of the tAvo branches runs downwards towards the inner side of the joint and approaches closely to the terminations of the long tibial branch of the popliteal artery and the internal tarsal artery. The outer of the two trunks, into which the pos- terior tibial divides, is traced towards the outer side of the ankle in the direction of the termination of the external tax'sal artery; but direct communication was not successfully made out. In its course a minute t-wig is detached which appears to supply the articulation of the ankle. No vessels were found coursing along tlie outer and inner borders of the foot, nor were any seen to enter the plantar aspect from the leg. Here, as in the hand, the vessels of the extremity are placed upon the dorsal surface, the plantar being supplied by perforating branches which sink between the metatarsal bones.