Dr. J. Yule Mack ay on Genito-urinary Malformations. 39 and in the case of rupture the anterior vesical wall would naturally fill the gap, forming adhesions with the torn edges. In this way the incorporation of the wall of the bladder with the fibrous tissue which crosses the gap receives a simple explanation. It is possible to imagine that, after adhesion in this manner, the causes to which the original rupture was due might still operate with the efiect of destroying the anterior wall of the bladder also, and causing its posterior surface to appear upon the abdominal parieties. The intestines and genito-urinary organs bear traces rather of the arrest of the normal progress of development than of positive abnormal action, and this arrest is in all probability due to the in- terference with the growth of the containing cavity and to pressure The arrangement of the intestine, the bicornate uterus, the double vagiuEe, the small size of the kidneys, and the impervious ureters, are all examples of such a condition. The atresia of the anus is probably due to the pelvic deformity, and to the encroachment of the tumour of the spina bifida. The incorporation of the ureters with the uterine walls is interesting. It is possibly brought about here simply by pressure; but in another case of a foetus afi'ected with genito-urinary abnormality (in which, however, there was no suspicion of undue pressure) I noticed a connection somewhat similar in character, though of less extent, upon the right side. Boogaard* has described and figured a case in the male in which a persistent Muller's canal was in like manner connected with the coats of a ureter, although their respective cavities did not enter into communication. The absence of the trigone of the bladder and the posterior wall of the urethra, and the non-development downwards to the outlet of the anterior vaginal fibres, giving to the posterior true vesical wall an appearance of being bifid below, and setting the cavity into wide communication with the cloaca, are possibly also evi- dences of arrested development. But if this be the case, it is impossible to apply our present notions of the development of these parts to the details of its explanation. Nor, upon the other hand, is it likely that simple fistula could have produced such a complete fusion of the genital and urinary cavities in their lower parts as is here present. The difiiculty seems to me to arise from an erroneous conception of the mode of development of the lower part of the bladder—a subject which, however, I shall leave •Verslagen in niededeelingen der Kon. Akademic van Wetensch-Afdeel. Natuur Kunde, 2" reeks, 9<= decl. Also, Journal d' L'Anatomic 13.