10 Dii. (Jleland on Birds with Supernumerary Legs, (tc. ifc extends is precisely the same thing as the duplicity of the lower limbs of the Siamese twins or any twins born with one set of mem- branes; and that, therefore, although in such cases the permanent limbs are indeed developed from those free sides of the embryo which would have existed normally, had it not been subjected to fissiparous division, yet it is equally true that they are limbs of two different pelvises, and in that sense not a pair. The sacral tumour may be so small as to be easily amputated, and for all we know, cases may occur in which the supernumerary parts are arrested even before the development of a visible tumour; yet in all of them, the historical peculiarity is the same. The explanation may be sought in considering that the tendency to fission, possibly never wholly absent from an organism, is only made to show itself by an unusual irritation, and is resisted by all the normal tendencies; and that the influence, whatever it is, which governs the normal growth, may have a certain limited power of recovering the organism from its abnormal condition, by Avithholding its impulse from certain parts. But even if we suppose this to be the case, we must suppose a certain struggle for existence, in which one of the divisions of the vertebral column is crushed out of being altogether, while as regards the limbs, the advantacre remains with the two which have most room to expand. It may be further pointed out that the occasional more or less fission of the blastema normally destined for one embryo shows the existence of a capability of fission which must be present in every instance, although only in some instances making itself manifest; and each of the masses into which one embryonic mass is capable of dividing must, as it inherits every property, inlierit this latent capability also, and so on indefinitely. That this is the case appears to be indicated by the figure given by Ahlfeld* of the tricephalus which was born in Italy, in 1831. For in that draw- ing a second abcranial fission has taken place in one of the parts into which a first fission has previously divided the cephalic end of the embryo. Also in the remarkable case figured by Ahlfeld f from rieischmann, there is a parasitic sacral tumour which exhibits, in addition to a left arm and leg, and a finger adherent separately to the right of the tumour, a foot with nine toes evidently not to be accounted for by mtrltiplication of the toes of one foot, but obviously the termination of a composite limb. So that, in this instance, » Op. cit., Plate XIX. + Op. cit.. PlatcX, fig. 9.