•2 Dr. Cleland on Birds toith Supernumera/ry Legs, &c right developed pelvic bone. The upper half of the diamond con- sists, therefore, of two iliac elements, and the lower consists of two ischial. So much is plain; but the question whether the additional pelvic "elements are the right and left of one pelvis or the left of a right pelvis and the right of a left pelvis cannot be determined from this specimen alone. * From the middle of the diamond, under cover of the projecting line on its dorsal aspect, springs a single limb-bone of consider- able length, attached by fibrous tissue, and femoral in character in the greater part of its extent, but towards its lower end showing trace of what seems to represent a tibio-femoral articulation. It terminates below in a bent and anchylosed tarso-metatarsal joint, from which a tarsal bone projects forwards to'end in processes for three digits, which unfortunately have been lost. The second specimen (Fig. 1) is a skeleton of a goose, likewise added to the University coUection before my appointment. The additional pelvic elements are intruded on the right side of the sacrum, between it and the posterior part of the proper pelvic bone of the right side; but they are so thoroughly united with the proper pelvic bones that it is impossible to distinguish exactly their limits. However, there are two bars united in front and divergent toward the tail, and between these a smaller wedge-Uke element, pointed in front, and separated there by gaps from the bars between which it lies; and to the dorsum of this wedge at its point is attached a supernumerary limb. As in the previous specimen, the proximal part of the lunb is twisted, but obviously femoral; this is continued into a short and obscure tibial element, and beyond a more distinct anchylosed ioint there is a well-developed metatarsal. This metatarsal is continued iiito three digits. The two lateral digits have each five phalanges traceable, though united by bony union. ihe intermediate has imited to the extremity of its first phalanx two toes side by side, each with three other phalanges. Thus the lateral toes represent a right and left outer toe; and the bifurcated toe represents two thii-d or middle toes, with a first phalanx m common. The dorsum of this composite foot is turned backwards, so that the part corresponding in structure with a left foot is toward the right side of the animal, and vice-versa. The third specimen (Fig.. 3) before me is a chicken not many weeks old, which I owe to the kindness of Mr. John M. Campbel. It has a pair of sui^ernumerary legs, well developed, attached bv