Memoranda. 175 J. C. acute hearing" (Owen. Comp. Anat. and Phys. of Vertebrates, III., 158). I Lave no doubt that olfactory bulb, primary optic vesicle and flocculus are serially homologous structures. J. C. 15.—The Canal of Petit. I do not enter at present on the nature of the boundaries of this canal, nor on the question of tissue existing within it. It is sufficient for my purpose that there is an injectable space sur- rounding the edge of the capsule of the lens. The plications of the zonule of Zinn invade its anterior wall, the suspensory ligament of the lens. But these plications cease on. arriving at the edge of the capsule or a little away from it, and in specimens treated with bichromate of potash and very weak spirit, each ridge corresponding with the interval between two ciliary processes, and therefore distinguishable as an interciliary ridge, can be seen to terminate in a free elevation or process, so that there is a circle of such processes standing out round the lens visible in a good preparation. In the ox and goat each interciliary ridge is pinnate. The ridges and processes are easily injected with vermilion by sending the nozzle of the syringe into the canal of Petit. Within the circle formed by the roots of these processes the suspensory ligament extends smoothly on to the anterior wall of .the capsule; but in injected specimens the vermilion may be seen extending forwards on the anterior wall of the capsule in a series of short lines or projections underneath the suspensory ligament. Only once have I been able to see these linear projections carried forward in fine threads over a considerable part of the lens; and in that case the specimen was human, and the injection had passed in by extra- vasation from the ciliary processes. The injection had been made by my predecessor in Galway, the late Dr. Croker King, and the specimen which I removed from the original preparation when everting the choroid, and so brought into view, ought still to be found in the Anatomical Museum of the Queen's College there. The difficulty of applying sufficient pressure in injecting the canal of Petit directly, and the general presence of the short linear projections at the circumference, make it probable that the thread- like continuations forwards are constant structures. The canal of Petit may be described in two zones; the outer witli interciliary processes, and the inner with precapsular processes.