28 Dr. J, YuLii Mackay on Hermaphroditic Malformation. penis is marked by two slightly prominent margins, which on being traced forwards are seen to unite with one another and then to be contimied still further forwards, forming the under surface of the penis. The mesial depression which is contained between these margins possesses in its anterior part a depth of about one-eighth of an inch, and is apparently blind, but further back it shallows to the anus. The whole of the inner aspect of this cloacal depression is lined by mucous membrane, while the lips on their outer surface are covered with skin, continuous with that of the general integument. The external organs of generation, therefore, present appearances which make it extremely difficult to determine the sex. On the one hand, the presence of a penis of moderate size, furnished at its extremity with a vertical slit, apparently continuous with a canal behind, suggests the male. But, on the other hand, the absence of a scrotum, and the presence in its place of a mesial depression, the walls of which are lined with mucous membrane, throw considerable doubt upon the supposition. The internal organs are entirely female. The ovaries are small, but distinct, and are contained within the folds of the broad liga- ments. The Fallopian tubes are short. The uterus is large and triangular in shape, its walls thickest at the sides, where they are directly continuous with the Fallopian tubes. The ceiwix is very thick, and opens by a large aperture into the vagina. The vagina, in its upper part at least, forms a large canal, with com paratively strong walls. The whole of the inner surface of cervix and vagina is covered with a mucous membrane of an exceedingly rugose description, the transverse folds being specially marked in the cervix and anterior wall of the vagina. The bladder is a large thick-walled cavity reaching up the whole way to the umbilicus. Upon examination, the lower end of the vagina appears at first to end blindly, but, on closer inspection, it is found that it is continued downwards as an exceedingly fine canal for about one- eighth of an inch, and opens into the apex of the median dejiression before described, situated j ust behind the root of the penis. Thi-ough this small canal a fine bristle may easily be passed, so as to demon- strate the continuity of the vagina with the anterior part of the cloacal aperture. Tui'uing now to the urinary bladder, it is found that, shortly beneath the entrance of the ureters, a well-marked neck is formed