154 Mu. R. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. * L.c, p. 173. the line of movement on the femoral surface, and on them the femur comes to rest. The closure of the external groove on the semilunar cartilage and on the margin of the tibial condyle, of the internal groove on the semilunar cartilage, and the contact of the intercondylar notch of the femur with the anterior crucial ligament must be taken along with the tension of the ligaments (lateral, posterior, anterior crucial and part of posterior crucial), in estimating the checks which act in limiting the movement of extension and in securing the stability of the knee-joint in the erect posture. As I have mentioned before, Heiberg holds an opinion as to the origin of the grooves on the femur very different from that given above. In his paper on the subject he points out * that the outer of the two grooves very often has a curved course with the convexity of the curve facing backwards and outwards; and he argues that since the convexity of the curve of the anterior horn of the semilunar cartilage looks in the opposite direction, the groove on the femur cannot represent the impress of that cartilage. The margin of this part of the semilunar cartilage does indeed form a curve with the convexity facing forwards, and the external of groove on the femur, so far at least as the ridge running in front it and marking its anterior limit is concerned, has the convexity of its curve facing in an opposite direction (Fig. 1). At first sight, there- fore, his argument seems to hold good; but we have seen that the anterior horn of the semilunar cartilage does not simply rest on a flat surface so as to be pressed on in its whole extent by the femur at the close of extension. It is so disposed on the tibial surface that the external groove on the femur comes in contact only with a portion of it, the inner part of the groove pressing directly on the margin of the tibial condyle. It is therefore with curve of these structures and not with that of the anterior horn of the semilunar cartilage that we should expect the curve of the groove on the femur to correspond, and this is what we actually do find. Heiberg also states that the grooves on the femur, instead of showing an increase in depth, as age advances, are most distinct on those femurs which still have the epiphyses ununited, and that they tend to become obliterated on older specimens. My observations on this point, as I have noted above, agree with those of Hueter and Terrillon. In the Anatomical Museum,