138 Dr. Mack ay on Abnormal Arteries of Upper Limb. ulnar passed almost directly downwards, with a slight iiLclination inwards, lying in its course superficial to the muscles but under- neath the investing fascia, and did not gain its usual position until the lower fourth of the forearm had been reached. In the upper three-fourths of its course the only branches derived from the ulnar were slender twigs distributed to the muscles upon which the vessel lay. The radial artery was directed downwards and outwards upon the surface of the pronator radii teres muscle, and like the ulnar did not gain its usual position until the lower fourth of the forearm, distributing in the upper part of its course only slender muscular branches. In the lower fourth of the forearm and in the hand the radial and ulnar arteries occupied their normal positions and were distributed in the usual manner. The second and larger trunk arising from the axillary artery (the so-called high intei-osseous) was placed in the arm behind the first vessel and entered the hollow in front of the elbow in the position which the brachial artery occupies in normal circum- stances. The only deviation from the position of a normal brachial artery which this vessel presented was a slight convexity inwards as it lay upon the brachialis anticus muscle. It showed also the relations to the median nerve characteristic of the lower poi-tion of the axillary and of the normal brachial. The inner head of the nerve crossed it. In the upper portion of the arm the nerve lay along its outer side, and still further down crossed the vessel and passed into the forearm by its inner margin. The nerve was also bent slightly inwards in the lower part of the upper arm. The branches given oS were also significant. They were—the sub- scapular, posterior circumflex, superior profunda, inferior profunda, anastomotic, and muscular. In the forearm the ai'tery divided at the upper end of the interosseous membrane, but before so doing the radial recurrent and the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrents were detached. From the anterior interosseous artery there arose an enlarged median artery which entered the hand with the nerve and inosculated with the superficial palmar arch. From the foregoing details it is evident that the vessel last described, the so-called high interosseous artery, corresponds in position, relations, and distribution in the upper arm to the brachial artery of normal circumstances, and it is evidently the direct continuation of the axillary trunk. In the forearm also it represents a large number of the branches which normally spring