Memoranda. 162 But I think furtlier that those who read what is brought forward in this volume in the memoir on "Birds with Supernumerary- Legs" will scarcely find room to doubt that the bony projections in question owe their origin to partial fission of the early embryo. The precise nature of the fission may possibly vary in different instances. But as the anomaly in all the six cases recorded by Humphry has been in the lumbar region or lower end of the dorsal, the fission has most probably been abcaudal in them all. Prom what I have said in the memoir referred to, it will appear that the circumstance that the vestiges of duplicity are on the dorsum makes it probable that the duplicity has not taken the form of an appended twin, but has followed that other course there explained, in which the further limb of the suppressed division of the trunk is incorporated with the developed division, while the adjacent limbs of both divisions are dwindled. What I believe to have taken place in these cases of spina-bifida with • bony projections is that the adjacent limbs have disappeared completely, while vestiges of the duplicity of the vertebral column are left at the seat of bifurcation. An outlook may be kept in future for some small vestige of appended limbs in these cases. The posterior position of the supernumerary centres of ossification in these cases of spina-bifida is in harmony with the posterior position of origin of the supernumerary nerves in the case recorded by von Baer, referred to in the following memor- andum, and in another case, observation VII. of von Baer's TO memoir. 5.—Appended Fore-limbs. Von Baer in his Memoir " Ueber Doppelleibige Missgeburten," observation VII. {Trans. Imp. Acad. St. Petersburg, VI.), describes an anomaly, so far as I know unique, which I find is susceptible of an exceedingly interesting explanation. The specimen was a cow with two supernumerary fore-limbs arising from a composite scapula and hanging from the left side of the neck. Its true nature did not dawn on me till I was engaged in framing a classi- fication of anomalies. Then I perceived that, if in abcaudal fission it frequently occurs that one of the divisions of the trunk dis- appears, leaving its further limb to become approximated to the persistent division of the trunk, while the two adjacent limbs of the two divisions persist in a dwarfed and more or less composite condition, it is only reasonable to expect a similar phenomenon