Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arteries of the Porpoise. 69 gives off" a very large number of sucli vessels as it is passing through the pleXus, its own calibre is at first but little reduced. At the outer border of the rete, however, each intercostal artery sends off a large dorso-spinal branch which passes iipwards, accompanied by a deep off-set of the plexus, and after parting with this vessel the intercostal trunk becomes very materially lessened in diameter. Traced still farther outwards, it gives rise to two long slender vessels Avhich sweep round the wall of the thorax, between the intercostal muscles. The great diminution in size of the intercostal artery after it has passed through the plexus seems to me important in connection with the physiology of the rete. The constituent vessels of the plexus are also the subject of considerable difference of opinion. Owen remarks that each individual artery is coiled and may be unravelled for a long dis- tance without lateral branches being found. Wilson, on the other hand, finds a freely-branched network, and characterises it as anastomotic. He subdivides the constituent vessels, from their comparative size, into three sets which he names, vasa maxima, vasa media, and vasa minima. He also describes puckerings upon the walls of some of the vessels. In the porpoise the arteries which enter the rete are nearly all of similar calibre, and though they divide freely the resulting vessels retain very closely the diameter of the parent trunk. Followed from its origin from an aortic intercostal, one of these arteries may be seen to become tortuous as it enters the rete; shortly afterwards it divides, and the arteries which it gives rise to soon divide again. Every here and there i;pon the course of a tortuous vessel a complicated knot is formed. The knot usually lies in the fork of a division, and one or both of the arteries may take part in it, the vessels being apparently looped and twisted round one another. Any vessel may be traced from one intercostal artery through one or more of such knots to end finally in another intercostal trunk, the same size being maintained through the whole course, spite of repeated divisions. There is thus therefore a perfect inosculation of large numbers of vessels. So far, I have spoken as if the vessels were all of one calibre. Another set of vessels is to be found, how- ever, the arteries belonging to this class being much smaller in size than the others. They seem to be of a transverse or connect- ing nature, and pass from one to another of the larger vessels. They are usually short straight trunks, but they may run for a