Prop. Cleland on Teratology, Speculative and Causal. 131 sexual anomalies are the most remarkable. There may be failure of development of sexual organs without any apparent mechanical cause; unusual growth in male or female of organs properly pertaining in their full development to the opposite sex; or, more rarely, the essential organs may be partly male and partly female, as has been described as occurring in the herring. But in the absence of all definite information as to the causes which determine sex, there seems at present no likelihood of being able to trace how far such anomalies are dependent on external, how far on hereditary causes. There is therefore only the slightest allusion made to them in the following tabulation. Let it, however, be distinctly under- stood that true hermaphrodism, the formation of both ova and spermatozoa in one individual, is neither anomaly by defect nor by excess, but is altogether sui generis. Such a phenomenon might possibly occur in the human subject; but it has never been observed, so far as I know. TABULATION OF MONSTROUS AND ANOMALOUS FORMS. I. By T)-efect fexchosive of acephali and acormi.) A. Without distinct external cause. 1. Dwarfing, a, of the whole body; t>, of portions. 2. Failure of completion of form of parts. Among the most notable of these may be mentioned—harelip, single and double; cleft joalate; open lachrymal fissure; openings below the ears; cleft sternum; imperfect reproductive organs; certain cases of ectopia viscerum and ectopia vesicae (?); certain cases of imperforate anus; deficiency in number of digits. It may be remarked that it is perfectly possible that not one of those local defects is ever altogether dependent on mere want of hereditary impulse, but, on the other hand, it is most important to face the diflaculty of determining the exact causes of them, if we are to get information on the subject. In the case of ectopia viscerum, ectopia vesicBe, and imperforate anus, it would, no doubt, be practically inconvenient to break up each into widely separate groups, while the exact position of a number of varieties would be left undetermined; but it is nevertheless important to recognise that while it is certain that they all are most frequently the result of local irritations there are yet instances of which it is difficult to say how they have arisen.