Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Genito-imnm'y Malformations. 37 surrounded in front and on both sides by prominent folds of skin, which behind merge into the flat margins of a shallow groove, continued backwards between the thighs, to bn lost upon the swelling occasioned by the sacral spina bifida. The anterior wall of the bladder is firmly incorporated with the tissue which has been described as filling up the gap upon the anterior abdominal wall, between the divided portions of the linea alba. The upper portion of the posterior wall is free, but into the lower portion the two vaginiB, which now join with one another, seem to pass directly. To the back of the vaginae, the rectum is firmly fixed. When the bladder is laid open by the mesial division of its anterior wall, it is found to contain a cavity which opens widely below. This opening is the entire cloacal aperture before alluded to, which is therefore not subdivided into genital and urinary portions, but passes directly into the bladder. The anterior surface, the fundus, and the upper portion of the posterior surface of the cavity are lined with a whitish membrane, evidently the vesical mucous membrane. This membrane is deficient over the lower portion of the posterior wall, but in front and at the sides it sweeps down to the margin of the cloaca. There is thus left an area in the shape of a horse-shoe upon the base of the bladder, which is left uncovered by the membrane which lines the rest of the interior. Upon examining the ixncovered area, it is noticed that it is separated into two portions, an upper and a lower, by an aperture placed between (above and to the left of / iii the Plate). This aperture is a fistulous communication with the rectum. The portion above it is brownish in colour and soft, the portion below is of a whiter colour and of a firm membranous character, and forms the posterior Avail of the cloacal outlet. The impervious vaginae meet as they reach the back of the bladder. Their more anterior fibres end upon the brown surface above the rectal fistula, while the most posterior fibres descend by the margin of the opening, to form by their jiinction in the middle line below it the firm whitish area which completes the cloaca behind. The ureters may be traced down upon the anterior vaginal walls for some little distance, but cannot be followed quite to the bladder; their fibres, doubtless, reach the base along with the anterior vaginal fibres just described. The rectum passes down behind the vaginse where they unite with one another at their lower ends, forming a firm adhesion to their posterior surface, and by means of