48 Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Chavueleon. towards the neck, lying close to one another upon the ventral surface of the trachea. Without leaving the thorax, however, they bend upwards and backwards upon the sides of the windpipe, forming arches, the summits of which are placed on the lateral aspects of that organ. Immediately before the height of the arch is reached, each pxilmonary artery is connected with the aorta of its own side by a ductus arteriosus and from this point the vessels begin to separate. Accompanied by the pneumogastric nerves, the pulmonary arteries pass backwards along the sides of the bronchi to the lungs. The aortic arches cross the oesophagus, running obliquely upwards and backwards to reach the middle line and meet one another under the column between the fifth and sixth dorsal vertebrse. The left trunk, which is considerably the smaller, gives off no branches. The right arch gives in succession the left carotid, the right carotid, the right subclavian, the left subclavian, and the arteries of the second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces of both sides. The pneumogastric nerves cross the arches ventrally. Arteries op the Head and Neck. The carotids (Fig. 1) are given off very close to one another from the anterior border of the arch very slightly to the right side of the middle line, and, diverging as they proceed, they pass forwards and upwards upon the sides of the trachea for some distance. Leaving the windpipe, they come into contact with the pneumo- gastric nerve, and are then continued directly forwards in the neck. In this course they are deeply placed, lying dorsally to the muscles which sweep from the hyoid bone to the sternum, and also to the sterno-mastoids. About the middle of the neck a large branch is given off which supplies the tongue, the inferior and lateral parts of the neck, and the shoulder. After this branch is detached the artery is continued almost directly forwards, with a slight inclina- tion upwards, and passes deeply beneath the tympanic bone, and close to the base of the skull terminates by dividing into external and internal carotid trunks. The common carotid gives but one branch previous to its termina- tion, the cervico-lingual (superficial cervical) artery (Fig. 1, c, l), the origin of which has already been commented upon. The distribution of this vessel has been very carefully studied by Kathke, and my dissections agree very closely with his description. Immediately upon its origin it divides into two, one trunk passing for-