Mr. E. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. 155 here, I find the most distinctly marked grooves on the older specimens, and not on those which have the epiphyses still separate. There are, it is true, quite distinct grooves on several femurs with the lower epiphysis still separate, but these specimens have the epiphyses of the trochanters and of the head united to the shaft, and must therefore have belonged to subjects of about the ISth or 19th year,* so that they have had time enough to become well marked under pressure. In younger specimens, the gi'ooves are fainter. As dry bones, however, are not to be trusted as affording reliable evidence on a question concerning markings on an articular surface, I also examined specimens on which the articular cartilage had been preserved, and find that in foetuses, before and up to the time of birth, there are no grooves on the lower end of the femur.f In a child of about four years, the grooves are very faintly indicated. In a subject of 17 years, the grooves are well marked, while in several older specimens I find them most distinct, the outer always the better marked. Again, by tracing on the lower articular surface of a femur the outlines of the semilunar cartilages, Heibergf shows that in the position of full extension the anterior portion of each, instead of coinciding with the groove on the femur, crosses it, so that on each side there is a portion of the cartilage lying anterior to the groove. Therefore, he argues, the grooves on the femur cannot represent the impress of the semilunar cartilages. It is quite true that, owing to the disposition of the anterior horn, both of the external and of the internal semilunar cartilage, there is a part of each on which the femur does not press at the close of extension; but the fact that a tracing on the femoral surface shows that a part of the anterior end of each semilunar cartilage passes in front of the grooves, in no way invalidates the statement that the part of the semilunar cartilage on which the femur is pressed, at the close of extension, leaves its impress on that surface. He further says, that it is somewhat difl&cult to understand how the semilunar cartilages should by their pressure produce grooves on the femur at the precise points at which those grooves * Quain, 9th edition, vol. i., p. 124. t Cf. Hueter, I.e., p. 496, and Terrillon, I.e., pp. 38-9. tL.c, plate vi., fig, 2.