24 Dr. CleIjAND cm Form qf Human Skull. and the Malay, under the name of brachycephali angustiores, while the South Germans would be distinguished as dolicho- cephali latiores. The circumstance that certaiii skulls, such as Kafirs and Fijians, combine positive height with elongation, makes the division of skulls into hypselocephalic and tapeino- cephalic inadvisable, although, in an evil moment, I suggested the words, and the same or similar terms have occurred to other writers. That which ought ever to be considered the most remarkable feature of the brachycephalic order of skulls indicated by Retzius, next to this absolute shortness, is the peculiar curve of the occipital >bone behind the foramen magnum turning up rapidly to the probole. In connection with this, however, the circumstance must be taken into account that the occipital protuberance (inion) descends with age, and that most frequently in old age the skull is depressed in a backward and downward direction, the forehead becoming more sloping and lower, while the curve of the arch increases rapidly from before backwards. Thus the appearance in profile is rendered more dolichocephalic even though there may be increased width above the ears (Fig. 4, c and d.) This shows the importance of taking age into consideration more than it has been in the estimation of racial peculiarities.* Of the many peculiarities of conformation of the skull, there are some which are manifestly connected with the presence or absence of civilization, and some which are not. To the first of these cate- gories prognathous and orthognathous dentition belong, and also the position of greatest breadth. Malar breadth exceeding the greatest cranial breadth is a distinctly savage trait. Situation of the greatest cranial breadth high up on the parietal bone is like- wise peculiar to savages, while in cultivated nations it is placed * The greatest care ought to be taken in forming an opinion as to the exact age in the case of skulls which show signs of being beyond the young adult condition. Turner expresses some reliance on the condition of the sutures and the teeth. The uncertainty of the duration of the teeth requires no remark, but even the condition of the sutures is a very far from reliable evidence. Early synostosis is not rare, and I have in my possession the skull of an octogenarian male, whose appearance during life I happened to be familiar with, and it has all the sutures apparently open, with the exception of a sUght commencement of closure in the middle of the sagittal. The effects of age set in at a rate greatly varying in different persons. Gravitation changes, and the absorption of diploe in patches are probably signs of age as deserving of attention as any.