Du. Cr.ELAND on Birds vnth Supernumerary. Legs, tkc. 0 It is well known that, in cases of double-bodied monsters with one head, sometimes a pectoral limb of composite character is found instead of two limbs on the adjacent sides of the bodies; but the only case which I have met with of a composite pectoral limb added to a superficially single thorax, is that described and figured by Tulpius, in wliich there were two heads, and one trunk, having, in addition to symmetrical arms and legs, a posterior arm ending in two hands with the thumbs adjacent, and a posterior leg similarly ending in a ten-toed foot.* Bearings on Biological Questions. The more one looks into the laws of such anomalous formations as we have been considering, the more difficult does it seem to reconcile them -with our ordinary notions of individuality. There can be nothing more certain than that the mass of corpuscles destined normally to form a single embryo may, under some abnormal influence, break up into two, each of which inherits all the potentialities of the undivided mass, just as unicellular organisms produced by fission inherit the properties of the parent. The abnormal influence is possibly always external, and as Dareste has shown in the case of chicks, is often a change of temperature. Perhaps that may be the reason why the fission always proceeds from the surface to the deep parts. The fission may be complete, at least so far as the skeleton and parts more superficially developed are concerned, and yet the embryos afterwards become re-united by their adjacent sides joining to make one ventral middle line, and their more distant sides folding round and meeting in like man- ner to form another ventral middle line; and in this way, as is well known, a composite thorax is formed, or a composite head (janiceps) with two more or less complete faces looking different ways. But in the cases which we have been considering, the fission has never been complete, it has extended from the caudal end forward a greater or less way toward the head. What I feel disposed to attract special attention to is that in the birds described and in every instance in which a human being is bom with a sacral tumour containing vestiges of limbs however indistinct, as well as in a Dos Santos, or Blanche Dumas, tliere has been at an early date duplicity up as far as the base of the sacrum and including the lower limbs; that this duplicity so far as * "Nicolaus Tulpius, Observationcs Medicn?," Lib. iii, cap. 37. Copied also by Licetus iii his work " De Moiistris."