Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Chamcdeon. 53 continued on to the ventral aspect of the spinal cord, on which they principally ramify. Very small anastomosing offsets were with difficulty and imperfectly traced, stretching between those small vessels, forwards and backwards, by the sides of the vertebral bodies, after the manner of a vertebral artery. Another set of branches arise from the ascending cervical artery and pass inwards on the under surface of the column, chiefly to supply muscles. Finally, from the outer aspect of the vessel branches take their orisin, the distribution of Avhich is similar to that of the terminal twig already alluded to. They end among the dorsal muscles of the neck, in close proximity to branches of the occipital artery. The internal mammary and internal thoracic arteries are the next branches of the left subclavian. Both of those vessels take their origin close to the end of the subclavian artery immediately before it becomes axillary. The internal mammary passes backwards by the side of the sternum, and can be traced across four or five intercostal spaces. Very small lateral branches are derived from it and enter the spaces, but owing to the extremely minute size of the vessels the usual anastomoses with intercostals was not seen. The internal thoracic artery, a very slender trunk, coiild be traced backwards across two or thi'ee spaces about the line of junction of the ventral and middle thirds of the ribs. The- branches of - the right subclavian are similar to those of the left, which have just been described, with the exception that the branch of the ascending cervical which supplies the muscles underneath the vertebral bodies is derived from the vessel of the opposite side. The axillary artery furnishes two sets of branches ramifying respectively upon the anterior and posterior borders of the hollow. In connection with the anterior vessel some circumflex branches arise which course round the upper end of the humerus. The brachial artery passes down the limb running along, the inner side of the biceps muscle to reach the elbow. The branches which are derived from this vessel are very slender, they hold mostly a downward course among the muscles toward the joint. In the hollow of the elbow the artery, still continuing its straight course through the limb, sinks deeply between the bones of the forearm to reach the extensor aspect down which it passes. The mam trunk of the lower portion of the fore limb may therefore be termed -posterior interosseous. This artery is placed at its lower end very deeply, lying between muscles which coriuspond to the