Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Hermaphroditic Malformation. 31 a case described by Eschricht,* was that of a child. A well-formed male penis was present. The urethra terminated at its extremity and was of the normal male type. There was a scrotum, but it contained no testicle. The anus was imperforate and the rectum opened into the bladder. There was no vagina; but uterus, Fallo- pian tubes, and ovaries were present; the uterus being firmly bound to the back of the bladder above the spot at which the rectum entered. The other case of a similar abnormality is described by Bouillaud.f The subject, a person of the name of Valmont, who had been married as a male, presented a penis of medium size. The urethra opened on the under surface of the glans, but was otherwise normal, containing a verumontanum, and being sur- rounded by a prostate gland. There were, however, no openings of seminal canals. The scrotum was normal but empty. Internally, ovaries, Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina were found, the vagina being much constricted towards its lower end and terminating by a small opening in the membranous portion of the urethra. In both of these cases the abnormal development is of a similar natvire to that already described, but it has been cari-ied to a comparatively greater length. The two lateral portions of the corpus spongiosum have united completely, and have thus formed the under-surface of a penis and male urethra. The first case, that of Eschricht, is additionally complicated by an imper- forate anus and the disappearance of the vagina following upon the fistulous opening of the rectum into the urinary bladder. In the second case the union of the lateral masses representing the corpus spongiosum has not been quite complete in front, and the uretlira opens on the under-surface of the glans. On the other hand, Simpson (loc. cit.) describes, under the heading of " Spurious Hermaphroditism," cases which have evi- dently arisen from the same process of mal-development—carried, however, to a less extent. Two of these cases of spurious herma- phroditism are interesting in this connection. The first of these, described by Beclard,^ was that of a woman in whom the clitoris was enlarged to 10 J inches. The body of this organ was furnished with a canal, the imder surface of which was pierced by numerous small apertures. The labia were small, and the aperture between them was blocked by a dense membrane * Miiller's Archiv.f. Anat., die, 1SS6. + Journal Hehdom. dp Med. Vol. x. + Bxdktins de Factdt6, 1S15.