Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Genito-iirinary Malformations. 35 an inch nearer to the pylorus than the hepatic duct. The jejunum immediately enters the mesentery, the line of attachment of which is directed downwards to the left iliac fossa instead of to the right. There is no part corresponding to the ascending tranverse and descending colon, but the ileum expands suddenly into a wide and irregularly-sacculated tube which passes downwards on the left side into the pelvis, the mesentery merging into a loose meso- rectum. Examined closely, the tube into which the ileum passes presents four irregular pouches on its attached or mesenteric border. Beyond the last pouch the lumen of the tube becomes considerably reduced, and the intestine leaves the abdomen to enter the pelvis. The pouches possibly represent nothing more than an irregular dilatation of the least resistant part of the tube following upon the atresia of the anus, to be afterwards noticed. But possibly they may be due to the natural tendencies of growth of suppressed portions, the first representing the caput csecum, and the others portions of the colon. In relation to this question, it is interesting to note the disposition of the blood- vessels. The ileo-colic artery supplies the lower eiad of the small intestine and the first diverticulum or pouch. The right colic supplies the second and a portion of the third. The remaining portion of the third and a part of the fourth are supplied by the middle colic artery. The inferior mesenteric completes the supply and furnishes branches also to the first part of the rectum. (The letters 6 6 in the Plate represent the dilated portion of the intestine.) It is interestiiig to note that in spite of the absence of the transverse colon, the great omentum occupies its usual position. Its returning layers are fixed upon the left side to the abdominal wall along the usual line of the meso-colon, and in the middle line to the left surface of the mesenteiy. One among a number of otherwise trivial vascular anomalies may be mentioned here—the right hypogastric artery is absent. Genito-urinary Organs and Pelvic Viscera. The kidneys are smaller than usual, and their surfaces are smooth and show no lobulation. The right occupies its usual position, but the left is displaced downwards to such an extent that its upper end lies on a level with the lower extremity of its neighbour. The inferior portion of this kidney passes into the