Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Genito-urinary Malformat 'mis. 41 is present as the divided body, the urinary and generative open- ings being placed towards the upper extremity of each half. The Ulsters, when they are not impervious, usually open upon the extroverted surface, in the simpler cases towards the lower end. The vagina, which is very often double, frequently opens immedi- ately beneath it, or between the portions, and even in some very complicated cases upon the vesical surface. The vagina, however, is often quite normal in position. Champneys' case is very interesting in respect of these openings. The ureters opened separately towards the lower end of the mass, their openings being overhung by prominent wrinkles, suggesting the valvular folds of normal circumstances. Two vaginal openings were placed immediately beneath, overhung in their turn by the projecting lower border of that part of the mass upon which the m-eters opened. The pelvic and abdominal viscera are usually interfered with. The anus often terminates blindly, or there may be fistulous openings into the vagina or upon the anterior abdominal wall, between the lateral parts of the cleft tumour. The ureters are often dilated, sometimes impervious. The kidneys in like manner are frequently affected. The usual arrangement of the intestine is in most cases interfered with, and its peritoneal relations changed. One hypogastric artery is usually atrophied. The penis is frequently split. There are in almost every case evidences of defects in the bony and ligamentous tissues, particularly those of the pelvis. The symphysis pubis is usually cleft. At one time this was held to be invariable, but sufficient proof has been adduced to show that it is not absolutely constant. Dislocation backwards of the ilia is frequent. Spina bifida is very common; Champneys' and Doran's cases both show examples. It usually affects the sacral or lumbar vertebrae. Curvature of the spinal column is one of the most frequenc co-existing deformities. Evidences of similar defects in the bones and ligamentous tissues are usually present in other parts of the body also. Talipes is very frequent, and in connection with the bones of the skull hare-lip and non-closure of the vault have been described. The theories which have been applied to the explanation of this deformity are exceedingly numerous. Champneys, in his interest- ing paper, quotes 17 different views, and adds himself one more. Tt is needless to go into details respecting tlie many opinions of