70 Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arteries of the Por2:)oisc. considerable distance and in that case they ai'e often slightly tortuous and are branched. I have not been able to find the three kinds of vessels which Dr. Wilson has seen in the narwhal, nor have I noticed any of the puckerings in the walls which he .speaks of. The thoracic rete sends off, opposite each intervertebral foramen, a deep projection into the spinal canal, and a large rete is formed there between the dura mater and the bone. The spinal plexus is largest in the neck where it receives branches from the deep cervical artery. It ceases behind in the posterior dorsal region. Imbedded in the upper part are two vessels which have been described as connected with the posterior cerebral artery. The generally accepted explanation of the nse of these great retia is that they act as stores for oxygenated blood which is brought into use while the animal remains for a long time underneath the water. Pressure of the lungs due to engorgement with venous blood and inflation with air, would doubtless tend to drive the blood from the reservoirs into the circulation. The spinal cord supplied by a rete, in direct continuation with the thoracic plexus, would thus receive pure blood, while the brain, if little were coming to it in the usual way, would get its supply through the posterior cerebral artery from the spinal rete. The posterior thoracic arteries too would carry pure blood back towards the bases of the large trunks which supply the anterior extremity of the- body, by which vessels, mixed with what venous blood was coming to the left heart from the lungs, it might be distributed. The small size of the intercostals beyond the rete renders it very unlikely that through them the blood of the plexus reaches the circulation ; but on the other hand, the large diameter of the bases of these trunks makes it probable that blood will pass from the rete back into the aorta. If, as I have suggested, such be the case, the pure blood of the rete will reach the great muscles of the tail, mixed, however, with venous blood entering the descending aorta through the patent ductus arteriosus, and also, perhaps, by way of the pulmonary veins through the heart.