Memoranda. 170 iO. TuE Hairs ov Oenithorhynchus. Sir Everarcl Home (Phil. Trans., 1802, p. 89), speaking of the hair of Ornithoi'hynchus remarked—"the portion next the root has the common appearance of hair, but for quarter-of-an-inch towards tlie point it becomes flat, giving it some faint resemblance to very fine feathers." The phenomenon in question is much more interesting taken in connection with the spines of Echidna. The flatness is not the only peculiarity of the expanded part. The exceedingly slender stem, on the extremity of which the expansion is placed, is flat also. The expanded part is thickened as well as broadened, though not nearly to the same extent; and on the back of the animal it is scooped on one side like a lanceolate leaf, and the air-cells continued on from the slender portion in two or three rows are enlarged. But in the tail the expanded part stands straight out like a spine and is not so flattened ; moreover, it is supported on a much shorter slender portion, likewise rounded, just as a spme of Echidna has a slenderer part at its base. The hair of the tail might, with a show of probability, be looked on as the first stage of a development toward spines, but it seems impossible so to regard the hairs of the rest of the body, which, in the greater part of their extent, are particularly delicate. On the other hand, it is easy to account for all the appearances on the supposition that the spines are vestigeal. 11. Supplementary Observations on Mammalian and Piscine Stomachs. In writing on " The viscera of the Porpoise and White-nosed Dolphin" {Jour. Anat. and Phys., April, 1884), I made a number of remarks on the morphology of the stomach in difi"erent animals. I referred to the ruminant panch as being simply a cardiac fossa with a letter-S curvature. I may further add what may possibly have occurred to others, but has not, so far as I know, been made subject of comment, that the muscular fibres which lie in the edges of the constriction forming the valve which separates the panch and reticulum from the third stomach, are exactly homo- logous with the oblique fibres in the human subject, those described as''forming the " Gravate de suisse." (See Kuss, Manual of Phy- siology, translated by Amory, p. 235). This is the more interesting as the function of the fibres is somewhat similar, for according to Larger the cravate de Suisse shuts off the cardiac part of the stomach, whife it leaves a direct communication between the (Esophagus and