Prof. Cleland on Distinctions of Form in Hioman Pelvis. 101 found to approach most nearly to the pubic length were the only two females in which the conjugate diameter distinctly exceeded the transverse, and in both instances the iliac part of the brim was positively elongated, and the pubic part not shortened. The weight of the body appears to be an important element in producing the lateral expansion of the brim, and it would be interesting to knoAv if unbroadened brim results from long sickness and confine- ment to the reclining posture in adolescence. If that has been the cause of the greater conjugate than transverse diameter in the two pelvises referred to, then their increased. iliac length of brim is another instance of exaggerated growth resulting from absence of normal pressure, in the manner pointed out by Dr. Allen in congenital luxation of the radius. {Glasgow Medical Journal, July, 1880.) 4. Unbroadened Pelvis of the Bosjes and other Races.—I have before me a well-authenticated skeleton of a Bosjes female. The pelvis conforms exactly to the description and figure of a female pelvis of the same race given by Sir William Turner.* But I gather further from the figure that the Edinburgh specimen agrees with that in the Anatomical Museum of this University in a remarkable character which seems to have escaped attention. The back part of the crest of the ilium falls short of the level of the transverse processes of the fifth lumbar vertebra, a character correlated with feeble development of the iliac blades. The auricular surface is narrow, and the post-auricular part of the ilium curiously deficient in growth, the back part of the crest being nearly parallel with the ventral margin of the auricular surface. This parallelism of the back part of the iliac crest with the front of the auricular surface is dissimilar to the form of the European whether adult or in infancy, and seems to depend on feeble development of the whole iliac blade. But the remarkable want of projection behind the sacrum and shallowness of hollow for the origin of the multifidus spinas muscle, is a continuance in adult life of the condition to which I have called attention as existing before puberty in the European. It is further to be observed that not only has the Bosjes woman the unbroadened pelvic brim, resulting in long conjugate as well as narrow transverse diameter, but she has the pubic and iliac * Report of Voyage of H.M.S. Ghallaujn; Zoology, vol. xvi., p. 56. tins mexnou- reference may be na.de for a bibliography of the peh is To