179 Memoranda. humerus, the pressure between the bones is greatest at the outer side of the joint in extension, at the inner side in flexion. The surface on the olecranon and the notch on the coronoid are facets of rest only coming into play at the extremes of movement. The presence of such facets as a distinct element in the mechanism of joints was first distinctly recognised by Goodsir, who called them " terminal facets," and stated that they existed in all diarthrodial articular surfaces " situated at the opposite extremities of the lines of movement (Goodsir, Anatomical Memoirs, II., 236). R B. Y. 21.—The External Semilunar Cartilage as a Complete Disc. Three instances of this peculiar development of the external semilunar cartilage came under my notice in the dissecting-rooms here during the winter session, 1886-7. In each of these cases, while the internal semilunar cartilage was noi-mal, the external was not semilunar, but formed a complete disc interposed between the condyles of the femur and the tibia, so that their articular surfaces never came into contact in any position of the joint. Between the anterior and posterior attachments of the cartilage, and just over the top of the external tubercle of the tibial spine, there was a small gap about quarter of an inch square, but even here there was no contact of the articular surfaces. In two of the cases in which the markings on the femur were observed, the inner part of the outer groove separating the patellar from the menisco-tibial surface was not marked, though the outer part of that groove was distinct. The explanation of this is that, while the outer part of the groove was caused in the usual way,* the part of the anterior and inner border of the tibia, which in normal circumstances comes in contact with the femur at the close of extension, and so gives rise to the inner part of the outer groove, was prevented by the interposition of the complete inter-articular disc from doing so in these .cases. The occurrence in the human subject of a complete cartilaginous disc between the surfaces of the external condyles of the femur and the tibia, taken along with the fact tliat in the crocodile the inter-articular cartilages of the knee-joint form complete plates separating the articular surfaces of the bones, seems to me worthy * Sec p. 149 of this vol.