50 Dr. J. Yule IVIacicav on Arterial System of Ghaimdeon. Branches of the External Carotid.—(1.) The submental, a very slender branch, is directed towards the angle of the jaw, on the inner surface of which it ramifies, running forwards for a short distance, giving slender branches upon both sides. Some of these latter approach very closely the more anterior twigs of the cervico- lingual artery. (2.) The inferior maxillary, a large branch, after leaving the parent trunk, passes to the inner surface of the tympanic bone, along which it descends ; reaching, however, the inferior maxillary bone, it changes its direction, and courses along the inner surface of that bone towards the mouth, lying in this portion of its course in a deep groove upon the inner aspect of the bone. About half way forwards the groove conducts the vessel to the inferior margin of the bone, and the artery tui-ns round this to gain the outer aspect, upon which it is still continued forwards towards the middle line. Internal to the tympanic bone two muscular branches are given which are directed forwards. At the posterior extremity of the lower jaw an inferior dental branch is detached and enters the bone. The terminal twigs of the artery ramify upon the vnider lip, forming part of a circle of anastomosing vessels which sur- rounds the oral aperture. (3.) The transverse facial is a very slender trunk which runs forwards towards the angle of the mouth, and is soon lost in muscular twigs. (4.) While the artery is passing through its bony foramen a minute branch is detached, which enters the substance of the bone. (5.) The occijntal artery, one of the terminal divisions into which the parent trunk splits, takes its origin iipon the outer aspect of the skull, close to the foramen. It passes forwards on the under surface of the projecting portion of the skull to reach the occipital bone. Changing its direction it bends backwards among the dorsal muscles of the neck, and breaks up among them into a large number of branches, The twigs which this vessel gives origin to in its course are all of very minute size, and supply skin and muscles. (6.) The tempore facial, the largest of all the branches, passes forwards through the temporal muscle to the back of the orbit, there to terminate in two divisions, which enter the posterior portion of a large plexus of vessels surrounding the base of the eyeball. In the course forwards over the lateral part of the skull the branches are not numerous; they extend from both sides of