Mb. R. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. 157 surfaces are marked not by grooves but by ridges. I also examined the femoral surface on the dry bone in the orang, lion, bear, kangaroo, and hysena,* as well as in the gorilla, puma, cat, and coati-mondi. In all these animals, except the orang, gorilla, and bear, the lines of separation of the different parts of the femoral surface, in so far as they are marked at all, are marked by ridges and not by grooves. Traces of one or both grooves are to be found in the orang, gorilla, and bear, but the fact that these animals have greater freedom of extension at the knee-joint than other animals, and at times assume a semi-erect posture, seems sufficient to account for the development by pressure of indications at least of the grooves which are found in the human subject. So far, then, as my observations go, it seems that the lower end of the femur in those of the lower animals in which it is covered by a continuous sheet of cartilage generally presents two ridges marking off the different parts of the articular surface. In the human subject, however, in accordance with the need for greater stability in the fully extended knee-joint, and as a conseqtience of the great pressure which comes to bear on the joint, there are developed on the femoral articular surface two grooves which play an important part in checking the movement of extension, and in rendering the joint fixed in its extended position. These grooves only exist in their fully developed form in the human subject, but it is interesting, as bearing out the view that they are the result of pressure, to note the occurrence of indications of them in the orang, gorilla, and bear. The grooves on the femur in the human subject really belong to the menisco-tibial portion of the articular surface. The true lines of separation between the trochlear and the menisco-tibial surfaces in the human subject, and therefore the representatives of the ridges in some of the lower animals and of the non-articular gaps in others, marking ofi" the different parts of the femoral articular surface, are the ridge in front of the external groove and the ridge which, after running in front of the internal groove, turns backwards and divides the prolongation of the patellar surface of the femur from the anterior portion of the internal menisco-tibial surface. The grooves are not the representatives of the lines of separation of the joint-surface; and so far from being rudimentary organs, as Heiberg holds, they * Unfortunately, I have not had an opportunity of consulting the skeletons of the other animals mentioned by Heiberg.