8 Dr. Cleland on Birds with Supernumerary Lefjn, d:c. If anythiiig further requires to be urged against the Claudius theory, it is to be found in the circumstance that it iS quite inapplicable to acephalus included within the abdomen of its twin. One case of this sort is recorded and figured by Nathaniel Highmore—" Case of a foetus found in the abdomen of a young man, London, 1815"—and another is equally elaboi'ately described by G. W. Young, in the Catalogue of Monsters, in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, London, series 1, sub-series 2, specimen 8. In the latter case, found in a boy 10 years old, we are informed that the cyst containing the enclosed acephalus had the pancreas of the containing abdomen stretched over it, a pretty obvious indication that the omphalo-mesenteric vessels of the complete embryo had dragged toward their origin the umbilical vesicle with the other embryo along with it, thereby probably effecting the seoaration thereof from the common head. The story, then, of abcaudal fission in which one of the divisions or partially separated embryos outgrows the other seems to be this, that the connection of the parasite, or smaller division, with the vertebral column, is always destroyed by stretching; that the parts not enclosed by the visceral walls of the main embryo are left free to grow; that when the parasite forms external connections by means of an allantois of its own, its union with the main embryo becomes snapped across so as to give rise to a free acephalus, but that when this does not happen it remains appended. When remaining appended, the smaller division or so-called parasite may be attached at different levels mostly in the middle line in front in the sternal region. But I may add here, that to the same class belong those curious cases in which parts of a twin more or less complete escape apparently from the palate, but really from the base of the skull, the connection with the base being stretched by the development of the face. To all such cases those which have formed the subject of description in these pages stand in broad contrast, because, though they result from a partial duplication by abcaudal fission, the unequal development which has happened in them is not an arrest of the right or left division, but an arrest of the adjacent sides of both divisions so fiir as the limbs are concerned, combined with disappearance of the right or left series of duplicated vertebrae. Perhaps it may be well to note in connection with the subject of supernumerarv legs that the composite character which they sometimes exhibit is not unknown in the case of the pectoral limbs.