19 Dr. CjjELAND on Form of Human Skull. length, but also rather abruptly bent on itself in such a way as to present an anterior and a posterior part separated by an oblique ridge, just as in a dog's or sheep's skull there is a part of the condyle looking downwards, separated by a sharp ridge from the part which looks backwards. These parts corresjDond to facets on the atlas, and the action of the joint is of a complex descrip- tion, which need not concern us at present. Suffice it to say, that the flatter condyles of the infant seem less suited for extensive movement than the more curved condyles of the adult. Apparently the movements between the cervical vertebrae become less exten- sive and the movements between skull and atlas more extensive up tUl adult life. But in old age the condyles often flatten again, and allow little or no movement. The other and, I think, more important change in the condyles from infancy to adult life is the growth of a wedge of bone between the forepart of each and the level of the surrounding parts of the skull (Figs. 2 and 3.) This wedge is formed by projection down- wards of the lateral angles of the hinder margin of the basilar ossification of the occipital, and plays a most, important part in artistic anatomy, although artists, when they sketch without the model, show themselves as ignorant of it as their perfunctory anatomical teachers. It is by these wedges that the position of the head in the erect posture is altered so as to preserve the balance while the head changes its shape. For some time after birth the highest part of the head is placed well back in the pairietal region; but as the face and the forepart of the brain get heavier in proportion to the hinder part of the skull, the introduction of these wedges changes the position of the skull, just as in an old-fashioned gun- carriage the direction of the cannon was changed by the introduction of similar wedges. Thus, as adult age is approached, the frontal eminences which projected forwards in childhood are thrown upwards and backwards, and the face and lower part of the fore- head in the male owe their adult prominence as much to change of position as to increase in dimensions ; while the hinder part of the head, in like manner, is made to appear fuller, not only by real enlargement but by the occipital tuberosity being pulled down. Sex. The peculiarities of the female skull consist mostly in the circumstance that some of the later developments which take place