84: Mr. R. BiiuCE Young on Develojmient of the Intestine. prevent the normal passage of the ciecum to the right is borne out • by the existence of a membranous layer between the upper end of the ascending part of the colon and the succeeding portion of the bowel. That adhesion was limited in extent is rendered probable by the free growth of the bowel towards the csecal end of the colon, by the normal descending colon, and by the. de- velopment under peculiar conditions of a transverse colon, for as such the coils of intestine lying in the left lumbar region and passing up to the splenic flexure must be regarded. That a portion of the colon enters into the formation of the primary intestinal loop is universally admitted, but it seems to me that due weight has not been given to the influence of this on the manner in which the caecum passes to its adult position. Tracing the development of the bowel in a series of foetuses, this part of the colon is found in the younger specimens to be passuig in front of and over the small intestine, and is still free from the abdominal wall in the mesentery of the primary loop, while the caecum is at such a distance from the neck of the loop, that if twisted to the right side it reaches the lower part of the lumbar region just above, the iliac fossa. In a fcetus 5 inches in length, the part of the colon to the right of the middle line has, owing to the growth of the bowel itself, and of the surrounding parts, become attached to the posterior abdominal wall by peritoneum forming a meso-colon for this part of the intestine, while the caecum lies in the right lumbar region at the lower end of the kidney. In foetuses, up till the time of birth, the state of matters remains pretty much the same. The generally accepted notion of the progress of development of the large intestine is, that the caecum, after crossing over the small intestine, passes to the right hypochondrium and then pushes downwards towards its ultimate position, forming the right half of the transverse and the ascending colon. So far from this being the true state of matters, the portion of the colon, from which in normal circumstances the ascending and the right half of the transverse colon are developed, already exists as part of the primary loop, before the twist of the intestine to the right occurs; so that when the rotation does take place, it is the whole loop with its peritoneal surroundings which revolves round the superior mesenteric artery until the caecum lies in the lower part of the right lumbar region, separated, however, in the first place, from the abdominal wall by two opposed surfaces of peritoneum.