Mr. R. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. 153 internal tubercle of the tibial spine do come into contact with the femur, but it is with the anterior margin of the intercondylar notch, * and nob with the patellar facet on the anterior part of the inner condyle. The anterior margin of the intercondylar notch of the femur sometimes shows a distinct indentation at the part where it comes in contact with the anterior crucial ligament in full extension. The pressure of the femur on this ligament must therefore be considerable and must help to check the movement of extension. If in full extension the internal tubercle of the tibial spine does come into contact with the femur at all (which I doubt), the locking of bone against bone at this point must be slight. The movement of rotation at the close of extension of the knee- joint is also assisted by the somewhat conical form of the external articular surface of the tibia to which reference has already been made. During extension, when the movement on the transverse axis has reached its limit, the external femoral condyle presses on the anterior part of the semilunar cartilage which, resting on the conical slope of the tibia, slides forwards and inwards carrying the condyle of the femur with it. Summing up as to the grooves on the femur, while it is true that they are developed by pressure, we have seen that the usual view which regards them simply as impiints of the anterior parts of the semilunar cartilages requires modification in the case of the outer groove which comes into contact with the free margin of the tibial condyle as well as with the semilunar cartilage. These grooves act, more especially the outer one, in checking the powerful movement of extension and in maintaining the stability of the knee-joint in the erect posture. In fact, when the femur is screwed home it and the tibia are by means of the grooves locked Hke one bone + after the fashion in which Goodsir thon^i^ht that this was affected by the femur pressing against the inner tubercle of the tibial spine. The grooves are what Goodsir + called terminal facets, i.e., they are facets situated at the extremity of * Cf. Meyer, Ai-cli. fiir Anat., His u. Brauue, 1880, p. 2S6, %. 2. t Owing to the interposition of the semi-lunar cartilages the locking of bone against bone is for the most part indirect, actual contact of the bones only taking place at the inner part of the outer groove. t L.c, p. 236.