42 Dr. J. Yule MACKAy on Genito-urinary Malformations. the different writers upon the subject. The most interesting are those of Duncan, Velpeau, and Isidore G. St. Hillaire. Duncan regards the deformity as due, in the first place, to an imperforate condition of the urethra. Distention of the l>ladder follows on account of the accumulation of urine, divarication of the pubic bones and rupture of the abdominal and vesical walls follow in sequence, fand thus extroversion is produced. It - is hardly necessary to refute this theory. The urethra is not found im- pervious as a rule, nor does the foetus secrete sufficient urine to distend the bladder to such an extent; and if it did, distension of the"^bladder is not likely to cause rupture of the abdominal walls. Velpeau believes it to be due to a process of ulceration from disease, implicating the parieties of the abdomen and bladder. Such a theory does not account for the allied deformities which are so typical of the abnormality. He maintains that the pubic bones are not simply separated but destroyed; but this has not been found to be the case. Isidore St. Hillaire simply refers it to an arrest of development, and does not attempt to specify the exact manner in which the special anatomical peculiarities are produced. He bases his align- ments upon the unmistakable instances of arrested development which invariably accompany the malformation. There is doubt- less a general truth in St. Hillaire's theory, biit it lacks in detail. Champneys accepts in a general way a theoiy of arrested develop- ment, but seeks to work it out into details, more esiiecially to make it explain the bilateral fission of the extroverted mass which has been noticed as occurring in many cases. According to him the lower abdominal walls have failed to unite from arrest of development. The cleft bladder he explains by regarding the allantois as taking its origin from two lateral portions which sub- sequently unite to form one vesicle. In this view Champneys follows Bischoff,* who thus assigns a double origin to the urinary bladder. The explanations offered by Champneys cannot, however, be accepted as satisfactory. The arrest of development is assumed, and no theory of its causation is attempted, nor is anythuig sug- gested to explain the very special manner in which the lower abdominal and the vesical walls suffer. In addition, embryologists are now agreed in regarding the allantois as originally a single . — ■ ■ r ' * Entwickeluiigs-gesch. d. Saugethicre u. d. Menschen, Leipzig, 1S42.