167 Memoranda. ment as the uterus, during the latter months of fetal life, in the new born child, and the girl ujd to puberty." I have not seen Kcilliker's paper, but it does not appear from the account in the "Jahresberichte" that either Kolliker in his paper in the Verhand. Phys. Med. Gesellschaft zu Wurzburg, 1881, or Geigel in the same society in 1883, have noticed the remarkable rapidity of growth of the vagina and uterus at a period between the fifth and seventh months of foetal life, and this oversight may very easily have deceived KoUiker into making the statement alluded to, so far as foetal life is concerned. To show that there is more than can be accounted for by variation in different individuals, it will be sufficient to contrast two dissections, one of a foetus younger, and the other of a foetus older than that which furnished the Galway specimen. In a foetus which measured from vertex to coccyx 6 inches, and 9 inches with the legs stretched, the uterus and vagina together measured three-quarters of an inch in length, the uterus being quarter of an inch long. Both fundus and cervix uteri had the cavity exceedingly small and difficult to display, and the OS externum had not begun to project down into the vagina. The walls of the vagina consisted of an anterior and posterior, meeting at each side in a sharp fold, the greater part of the surface being nearly smooth, but the lower part of the anterior wall exhibiting when viewed with the lens ttick set papillosities. In another foetus, measuring nine inches from vertex to coccyx, and fourteen inches with the legs stretched out, the uterus and vagina measured two inches and a half in length, the uterus was seven-eighths of an inch long, and projected three-eighths of an inch into the vagina, the projecting part consisted of corrugated membrane, and the posterior lip was the longer. The vagina was a circular cylinder nearly half-an-inch in diameter, and was filled up by four great projecting ridges, one in front, one behind, and one at each side. These longitudinal ridges were composed of series of more projecting parts of transverse ridges, each carried round the vagina and having nodulated or papillose edges, and the transverse ridging was not only carried to the top of the vagina, but continued distinctly over the projecting part of the cervix uteri. This is the general arrangement m a foetus of seven months, and contrasts remarkably, not only with the earlier condition just described, but witli the appearance before puberty, when for a second time the walls are proportionally thin and smooth, the roughness confined to the