92 Professor Cleland on Viscera of Gyvmotus Electricus. swimming bLadder springs a fine canal which has the length of the bladder, and binds it to the fore end of the posterior bladder. From this canal, but quite near to where it opens into the posterior bladder, the fine ductus pneumaticus comes off, which opens on the dorsal wall of the oesophagus near its passage into the stomach. Reinhardc has examined the genera Carapus, Siernopygus, and Sternarchus." I liave not had the opportunity of examining any of tliese genera ; but, as seen in the specimen before me, the disposition of parts in Gymnotus electricus differs in certain not unimportant respects from this description. The duct of the anterior bladder does indeed come off from its hinder end, and the duct of the posterior bladder ft'om its fore end; but the bladders are far apart, and the duct of the hinder bladder runs a much longer course than that of the anterior bladder before the two join to form the pneumatic duct which opens into the oesophagus. The kidneys occupy nearly the whole length of the abdominal cavity, and are thoroughly conjoined, except at the fore part, where they embrace the anterior bladder, which is quite a small structure, not longer than broad. The fore end of the posterior bladder fits closely to the swollen hinder end of the conjoint kidney, and its duct passes forward on the left side of the single ureter, perfor- ating the swollen end of the kidney, as has been pointed out by Hyrtl {Denksch. d. Kais. Akad. Wien, 1850, "Das uropoetische System der Knockenjische, p. 86). The duct of the anterior bladder makes direct for the oesophagus, and after traversing two- thirds of the distance, is joined at an angle by that of the posterior bladder. The position of the posterior duct, on one side of the ureter, is easily understood, when it is remembered that swimming bladders are developed as outgrowths from the oesophagus, and that the disappearance of the communication in cases of ductless swimming bladders is a peculiarity of later development. The perforation of the kidney by the posterior duct is easily accounted for on the supposition that by redundant growth at its back part the kidney has surrounded the duct. The disposition in Gymnotus suggests bifurcation of the pneumatic duct in the process of elongation, and while the condition found by Reinhardt in other genera, were the condition in Gymnotus not taken into consideration, would suggest a primitive single swimming bladder, subsequently con- stricted so as to form two.