114 Philonophical Society of Glasgow. grounds, that the posterior auricular and occipital ai'teries represent incomplete arches stretcliing from the ventral to the dorsal longitudinal trunk. On the other hand, the subclavian artery is regarded, both by Hatlike and Macalister, as a branch of the dorsal longitudinal trunk. In the description of the branches of the primary vessels which follow it will be seen that there is a very marked correspondence between the branches of the sub- clavian artery and those of the external carotid, Further, branches of these two arteries are directly united to one another, as will be seen, by the anastomotic chains which pass between the branches of the dorsal longitudinal trunk so as to render it exceedingly probable that the branches of the external carotid are to be regarded, like those of the subclavian, as derived from the dorsal longitudinal trunk. The occipital and the superior thyroid arteries anastomose directly with the deep cervical and inferior thyroid arteries from the subclavian. Macalister looks upon the occipital as one of the primary arches, and if this be so, the superior thyroid ought also to be so i-eckoned. But Macalister also regards the posterior aiiricular artery as a primary arch, so that if his theories were true there would be representatives of six arches in the mammal, a larger number than has ever been observed in the embryo of any form higher than the amphibia. The facts of the comparative anatomy of the external carotid artery render it still more probable that.it is to be regarded as a branch of the dorsal and not of the ventral longitudinal trunJi. In no case except mammals are the branches of the external carotid artery gathered together into a single root. In all other forms they come off at intervals from a trunk common to them and the internal carotid, and which in many cases (birds and crocodiles) runs for a considerable distance along the dorsal aspect of the alimentary canal before giving off any branches to the head. In lacertilia, in some crocodiles, and occasionally in birds, the portions of the dorsal trunk between the third and fourth arches being present, either as patent vessels or solid cords; in all these foi-ms it is easily seen that the greater portion of the common carotid is dorsal in position, and, consequently, that the external carotid branches are derivatives of a dorsal vessel. While in nonmammalian vertebrates the external carotid branches, as well as the internal carotid artery, are to be re- garded as derivatives of the dorsal longitudinal vessel, it will be