Dr. J. YuLK Mackay on Arterial System of Ghamcdeon. 55 the last diminutive rib, and immediately in front of that which articulates with the ilia, it splits into three divisions. The central of these is the contixiuation of the aorta backwards underneath the sacral and caudal vertebraj. The two lateral may be named common iliac arteries. The branches Avhich the aorta furnishes during its com'se backwards are parietal and visceral. The jMrietal brafiches are intercostal and lumbar, and as these vessels, though numerous, are essentially alike in all the main features of their distribution one description will suffice for them all. The first intercostal of either side is derived from the ascending cervical branch of the subclavian artery; it is a very minute vessel. The second, third, and fourth spring separately from the sides of the right aortic root. The succeeding vessels arise in order from the right and left sides of the aorta. Immediately upon their origin the arteries sink between the bodies of the vertebrae and the long muscles which stretch backwards upon their lateral margins. Further outwards they lie in the substance of the intercostal muscles, and they may be traced for a considerable distance between the ribs. In the dorsal portion of each space they course obliquely forwards towards the joosterior border of the anterior rib. Their branches are of the usual description. A dorso-spinal passes upwards between the necks of the ribs, an anastomatic stretches forwards above the rib-neck, while collateral branches ramify in the intercostal space. Among the collateral series one is interesting in respect of its course; it passes forwards above the body of the anterior rib to be distributed in the space in front of that to which its parent trunk belongs. The viscercd arteries (Fig. 3) are of an exceedingly simple character. From the right root and from the aorta a number of slender straight vessels pass directly to the a3Sophagus, where they freely ramify, and send on branches, which, on reaching its ventral aspect, pass along the pleuro-peritoneal folds to the pericardium and lungs. Behind the oesophageal branches, three intestinal arteries arise in close proximity to one another. Their place of origin from the aortic stem is opposite the loAver end of the stomach, and so close are they to one another here that they are occasionally reduced in number by the confluence of their bases. The distribution of the three separate branches is very peculiar. The trunk intermediate afc its origin is, in its distribution, the most anterior of the three. This artery courses through the meso- gastrium downwards and forwards to the dorsal edge of the stomach,