Memoranda. 171 pyloric end, just as the first two stomachs are shut off in the ruminant when the food is swallowed a second time. In the same memoir above referred to, I have drawn attention to the correct appreciation by Stannius that the receptive bag of the abdominal alimentary tube in Chimsera receives the bile duct, and is therefore not properly to be called a stomach, a remark which holds good also of Orthragoriscus, bu.t it has since occurred to me as curious to note that no one has argued in the same way from the position of the pneumatic duct in certain osseous fishes. The swimming bladder is known to be an outgrowth from the alimentary canal, and its homology with the lungs is not doubted, even in the work of F. M. Balfour (Comparative Embryology, II., 630), although that writer admits the development to be imperfectly known. I quite agree that whatever difficulty there may be in accounting for certain details, it is in the last degree unlikely that lungs and swimming bladder do not corres- pond. But if that be so, the pneumatic duct which is the neck of the outgrowth from the alimentary canal must correspond with larynx and trachea, which are the neck of the hollow outgrowth developed into lungs. In that case, the pneumatic duct of the fish is always the same pneumatic duct, and the part into which it opens must be morphologically pharynx. But in the herring the pneu- matic duct is continued from the hindmost end of the pointed abdominal receptive pouch, habitually termed stomach. This pouch, therefore, although within the abdomen, is pharyngeal. Between it and the suprabiliary valve or true pylorus, which is situated above the pyloric appendages, is a pyloric compartment, which is the true stomach. The mackerel has no swimming bladder but its stomachic arrangements are similar to those of the herring, its pyloric compartment is well developed, and cut off by a distinct constriction from the receptive pouch which passes back to a conical point like that from which the pneumatic duct of the herring is continued. There can be no doubt that this cavity corresponds with that of the herring, and is therefore, strange to say, really pharyngeal. Yan der Hoeven mentions two "very similar species from the Mediterranean," Scomber coUas and Scomber 2meumato- phorus, in which the swimming bladder is present, but, as I have no opportunity of seeing them, I can say nothing as to the pneumatic duct in them. I should certainly, however, Hke to know if there is any development of swimming bladder in the embryonic 6ondition of Scomber scombrus.