140 Dr. Maokay on Abnormal Arteries of Upper Limb. The vessel which upon the left side was called " high interosseous " is on this side the "true brachial," while the so-called "true brachial" of the left is the "high ulnar" of the right. With regard to the tetiology of the abnormal conditions, it was noted upon the right side that the main vessel was, along with the median nerve, bound down by some fibres of the brachialis anticus muscle, and it is possible that this may also have been the case upon the left side. Euge* believes that in early fcetal life the artery of the limb occupies a position close to the inner border of the humerus, and that in the course of development its position is changed to the front. Any obstruction to this change, such as the presence of a supracondyloid process, he regards as preventing the artery from taking up its usual position, and probably also so retarding the circulation as to necessitate the development of collateral stems for the supply of the rapidly growing extremity- If this view be correct it is also possible that an obstruction might be caused by the presence of fibres of the brachialis anticus muscle in front of, and constricting, the artery. But it is obvious that, in addition to such a general theory, an explanation is required of the method in which, in difierent cases, certain channels below the seat of obstruction persist in connection with the main stem, while in others their place is taken by collateral branches. (II.) In the right arm of a male subject, dissected in the summer of 1887, the following interesting abnormal details wei'e noted:— From the superior profunda branch of the brachial a long slender trunk was prolonged down the arm to join the anterior ulnar reciirrent artery, by which it was continued to the ulnar. The anastomosis took place at the lower end of the humerus, and at this spot the calibre of the aberrant vessel was slightly reduced in size. The vas aberrans lay upon the anterior surface of the internal inter-muscular septum, and gave ofi" the inferior profunda in its downward course, while at the place of anastomosis branches were furnished corresponding in distribution to the anastomotic artery. With the exception of the absence of the anastomotic and inferior profunda branches, the distribution of the brachial artery was normal; it occupied its usual position, and was crossed from without, inwards, by the median nerve. There was no supra- condyloid process, nor did the origin of the pronator radix teres muscle extend higher up than usual. * G. Ruge, " Beitrage zur Gefiisslehre des Mensclien;" Morpliol. Jahrbuch; IX. (1884), pp. 327-388.