Memoranda. 161 3_ Spina-bifida and Anencephalus in an early stage. I owe to Dr. James A. Adams a specimen of anencephalus with spina-bifida extending the whole length of the column, in a human fcetus measuring two-thirds of an inch. I counted it exceedingly intei'esting because round about the open neural canal it exhibited ragged and torn walls separating the canal from the surrounding integument, and manifestly the burst superficial parietes of a dropsical sac which had extended through the canal in its whole length. It need scarcely be pointed out that a case of this sort at so early a date is a very important corroboration of the view of Lebedeff, to which I haA^e, elsewhere expressed adherence, that anencephalus and open spina-bifida are the result of an early dropsy which has burst, or, in other words, that rachischisis and cranioschisis are efiects of hydrorachis and hydrocephalus. I have prepared the skeleton of the head and column, and they show similar conditions to those found in cases frequently met with at a later period. The face, however, appears to have been also affected, the nose consisting of cartilages mesially united, but with the external and lower edges free, while the maxillary lobes have come together as in cyclopia, without the middle frontal process taking part in the formation of the iipper jaw. The arch of the lower jaw is short aijid thick, while the apertures of the ears have been approached one to the other inferiorly. The upper part of the vertebral column is split down the middle line of the bodies, all the way from the atlas to the sixth dorsal vertebra, in the same fashion as is known to occur sometimes in older specimens, the separated moieties of the divided bodies being considerably broader than they would have been had they been unseparated. J. C. 4.—Spina-bifida with Bony Projections into the Spinal Canal. Since the appearance of Professor Humphry's important memoir on this subject {Joitr. Anat. and Phys., July, 1886), I have, probably like others, sought for the explanation of these bony projections. I think that the work in which I have been enjrao'ed has enabled me to find it. Professor Humphry evidently suspects that they have a morphological significance, and in this he is undoubtedly correct. Their shapeliness and in some cases their sequence and separate centres of ossification indicate that mucii.