32 Dn. J. Yule Mackay on Hermaphroditic Malformation. which almost completely closed the cavity, leaving only a small opening. Through this small hole, however, the menstrual fluid and a portion of the urine passed. Urine also escaped by the cribriform apertures in the floor of the canal on the under surface of the clitoris. The other case, reported by Arnaiid,* presented a very similar abnormality, but, unfortunately, was not brought to dissection. The clitoris was almost 3 inches long, and showed on its under surface a depression which seemed to underlie the posi- tion of a collapsed urethral canal. Towards the posterior end of the organ, however, this canal seemed to be pervious, as it became distended largely during micturition. The orifice from which the urine flowed is said to have occupied its usual position, but the lower end of the vagina was imperforate, and menstruation took place per rectum. An opening into the vagina was, however, made by operation, and through this the menstrual fluid after- wards flowed. In these cases, as in those already described, there has evi- dently been a junction of the two vascular masses into an imperfect form of corpus spongiosum, so that the case which I have dissected forms a very natural link between them. They all represent merely variations in the extent of abnormal union between two large vascular plexuses. A question now arises as to whether they should be classified under the headings of true or of spurious hermaphroditism. Fortunately the nature of the process renders the answer simple. In true hermaphro- ditism the genital glands or ducts of opposite sexes are found coexisting in one individual; but in the class of cases under con- sideration, the malformation is due simply to the abnormal ad- hesion to one another of vascular masses which are present in both sexes, coupled with a certain amount of hypertrophy. The whole of that class of cases forming what has been called true hermaphroditism of the tranverse type, in which the external genital organs are present of the male formation, while the internal are female, should be relegated to the ranks of spurious hermaphroditism. * Dissertation sur les IlemapJirodites, p. 265.