Dk. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Vertebrates. 117 reference to humaii anatomy. Tlie arteries which pass to the alimentary canal have in most cases lost their segmental arrange- ment, and their distribution is only to be explained by reference to the exigencies of development. In some cases they will be found springing directly from the primary longitudinal trunk in the middle line, representing, probably in many instances, a fusion of the vessels of the right and left sides. In other cases their origin is literal and conjoined with that of the parietal circle, in which circumstances the vessels of the two sides are distinct. The interference with the segmental arrangement and the accommodation to developmental processes is well marked in the abdomen. The whole of this portion of the tube is supplied by a series of three arteries, the cceliac axis, and the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, each distributed, as has been pointed out by Professor Cleland,* to a primary loop of the intestine, and arising directly from the aorta in the middle line. (PI. VII., Fig. I.) The liver and spleen, organs developed in the mesogastrium, receive their blood supply from the coeliac axis. The pelvic portion of the alimentary canal receives the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels from the internal iliac and pudic arteries. In these instances the parietal and visceral circles are conjoined at their bases, and the vessels of the right and left sides are distinct. Vesical arteries also pass from the internal iliac to the urinary bladder, which is developed from a portion of the allantoic diverticulum from the intestine. To the portion of the alimentary canal Avhich is contained in the thorax arteries are supplied in a more regular manner. (Esophageal branches, reduced in number to four or five, and in most cases arising directly from the aorta, enter its coats. The lungs, which are developed as a diverticulum, comparable in many respects to the allantois, receive their blood by bronchial arteries, either directly from the aorta, as upon the left side, or from the parietal circle formed by an intercostal artery, as upon the right side. To the alimentary canal in the neck, the sources of the blood supply have been modified by the combined action of the two causes already noted ; the descent of the whole system of vessels into the thorax, obliterating the segmental branches which, in the embryonic stage, spring from the aorta in the neck, and the disappearance of the dorsal longitudinal vessel between the third * Cleland, Journal of A 7jatomy, iv., 1870.