CG Di{. J. Yule Mackay on Arteries of the Porpoise. tlie ventral aspect of the neck and thorax. Still further out, now very much reduced in size, the subclavian divides into brachial and external thoracic branches. The brachial divides into two, which, again dividing, form a number of long slender trunks which run down the fore-limb, supplying it completely. There is therefore to be met with in the limb, not one, but many arterial trunks having a downward course upon it. The external thoracic artery turns backwards upon the lateral wall of the thorax, and breaks up, giving rise to a number of branches. The small vessel which arises from the arch of the aorta, next in sequence to the left brachio-carotid stem, is represented upon the right side by a branch from the posterior thoracic artery. It may be named dee20 thyroid artery. The vessel runs forwards and inwards for a short distance, sinking dorsalwards as it goes, and breaks up into branches which pass in all different directions. Certain pass inwards, towards the esophagus upon which they bend backwards for some distance, running upon its outer coat; others pass directly backwards, along with the pneumogastric nerve, and seem to end by supplying the sheaths of vessels and nerves at the anterior outlet of the thorax. Pinally, lateral branches stretch outwards in the neck, after the manner of inter- costal trunks, giving twigs to the cervical portion of the rete, and piercing into the dorso-lateral muscles. Posterior Thoracic Arteries.—The difference in the mode of origin of these vessels has been already pointed out, and the presence of a branch from the right trunk, which upon the left side is represented by a vessel from the arch of the aorta, has been noticed. It remains to describe the points which are common to both. They arch forward upon the dorsal wall of the thorax, then crossing the rete they pass outwards, and finally they bend back- wards over four intercostal spaces which they supply. The line of their course is along the outer margin of the rete, at the junction of the ventral three-fourths with the dorsal fourth of the costal wall. The branches which they give are of three kinds. The inter- costal arteries of the first four spaces sweep round the wall of the thorax to anastomose with the internal mammary below. They are slender vessels. The dorso-cervical or deep cervical-trunk, a large branch, is similar in its distribution to the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery. It passes between the neck of the first rib and that of the second to reach the back, and is then con- tinued forwards among the dorsal muscles almost to the base of