PuoFESSOB Oleland ou Viscevco of Gymnoinn Eleclricus. facts which cannot witli impunity be overlooked in searching for that great desideratum—a correct doctrine of evolution, my object in the few remarks which follow is simply to point out in the visceral anatomy of Gymnotus electricus, some curious peculiarities which might perhaps have been better known had not the interest of its electric powers distracted attention from them. The remarkable spongy growths of the mucous membrane of the mouth and pharynx are known, and are alluded to by Giinther (Cat. Fishes of Brit. Mus., VIII., p. 10), in the perfunctory descrip- tion, " Mucous membrane of mouth, with numerous lobes." Bloch wrote about a century ago, " La langue est large fit pleine de verrues ainsi que le palais" [Ichthyologie, V. 39). Their anatomy, however, does not seem to have been minutely studied, and it is with surprise that I find them to be erectile and of very peculiar structure. They are folds of the mucous membrane, each side of each fold having its own branches of artery ramifying subjacent to a felted fibrous membrane which everywhere forms the cutis vera of the buccal cavity. The folds are in rows, two placed longitudinally, one on each side of the roof of the mouth, meeting its neighbour in front, and a pair extei-nal to these; while others clothe the inner edges of the branchial arches, and are continued transversely across the middle line in a series of papillated ridges similar to those on the roof. The arteries which I have mentioned come off in the roof of the mouth from two pairs of trunks, from the roots of the aorta, gorged with blood in the specimen from which I write, and giving off great numbers of branches, spreading transversely, and freely anastomosing. The veins are superficial to these, in an irregular network, which I found difficult to investigate on account of the thinness of their walls. The fibrous dermal membrane is pierced all over with apertures, through each of which an a,rteriole passes to divide up into about half a dozen close- set branches, Avhich seem to terminate abruptly on the surface, each in a dilated and depressed extremity. (Figs. 2 and 3.) A thin layer of horny epithelium covers them, presenting a shallow honeycomb depression for each of these. The mode of connection of this arrangement of tufts of simple-walled vessels with the veins was not made out. It is not easy to make sure what purpose these structures serve, but, on the whole, I incline to believe them to be sup- plemental organs of respiration, and this even on the supposi- tion, which I think probable, that they all receive their blood