100 Prof. Cleland on Distinctions of Form in lJuman Pelvis. vertebraj are broader in proportion to the whole width of the bone in the young sacrum than in the adult. This growtli outwards of the lateral masses or costal elements not only increases the distance of the anterior sacral foramina from the edge of the bone, but has the same eflFect on the position of the posterior sacral foramina. The strong posterior sacro-iliac ligaments are attached to the surface external to the posterior sacral foramina, the surface which is thus rapidly growing. The post-auricular part of the ilium also grows rapidly, and in the adult is divided into two parts, a posterior and upper part Avhich is rugged and rough, as places of attachment of strong ligaments are wont to be, and a depressed part intervening between this and the auricular surface. This depressed part is smooth and close-grained, with none of the appearance of giving attachment to strong ligaments, and in point of fact has areolar tissue loaded with adipose vesicles in contact with it. This depressed part forms an elongated groove dor.sal to the auricular surface, and opposite its hinder end, between the two posterior iliac spines, one can perceive a separation between the inferior fibres of the posterior sacro-iliac ligament and a strong bundle of fibres constituting an inferior sacro-iliac ligament continuous with the thinner anterior sacral, but extending between the posterior inferior iliac spine and the side of the thu-d sacral vertebra. It cannot be supposed that the close-grained surface, often figured, but little appreciated, to which I now draw attention, has resulted, contrary to the law of osseous growth, by interstitial expansion of the ilium at this part, and therefore we must conclude that the posterior sacro-iliac ligament has new fibres added to it superficially while the original fibres become Avasted. Tbe important points, as bearing on the shape of the brim, are that the widening sacrum throws the iliac bones outwards at the auricular surfaces; that the posterior ibac ligaments pull their hinder ends downwards, and that thus it is with increasing leverage that those ligaments push the acetabular ends of the iliac part of the brim outwards, as Dr. Matthews Duncan pointed out. The pubic parts of the brim, by pressure at the acetabula communicated by the iliac bones, lie at a larger angle one to the other, and, continuing to grow at the symphysis, may even aid in pushing the acetabula outwards. It is curious to note that in a series of twenty adult male and female British specimens, the two in which the iliac length was