38 Dii. J. Yule Mackay on Genito-urinary Malformations. a perforation extending through the vaginal tissue its cavity is put into communication with the bladder. Still further down the rectum forms an impervious cord which reaches the skin behind the cloaca. The cloacal outlet represents, therefore, a genito-urinary aper- ture only, the position of the impervious anus behind it being marked by the blind termination of the gut. Tlie anterior wall of the opening is urinary, being continuous with the anterior wall of the bladder; while the posterior wall is genital, continuous with the vaginal fibres. There is no subdivision into urinary and genital portions. At the same time, the base of the bladder and the posterior urethral wall are wanting, and the anterior vaginal fibres are not prolonged down to the margins of the outlet. Causation. Many of the abnormalities present, both in themselves and in their relations to one another, are easily explained. The talipes, intra-uterine fracture, spina bifida, lumbar curvature, looseness of the synchondrosis, with the consequent displacement backwards of the ilia, and separation of the component parts of the symphysis, are all evidences of an interference with the normal development of the bony and ligamentous tissues of the lower part of the body. Inflammations even of a localised and in- significant nature are known, when they occur in early em- bryonic life, to produce results by their interference with developing structures quite out of keeping with their apparent character. It is exceedingly possible that the same exalted or inflammatory action at a very early period of intra-uterhie life, which gave rise to the spina bifida, affecting the sub-cutaneous or sub-peritoneal tissues and setting up irritation, instituted changes in the lower portion of the body, with the effect of disturbing the relations of the bony and ligamentous parts.* The condition of the anterior abdominal wall—the linea alba being split into two, the gap bridged by fibrous tissues—seems to be referable to rupture, slowly produced, consequent on the separa- tion of the pubic bones. The position of the bladder as it reaches to the umbilicus is one of close apposition to the abdominal wall, * The manner in which very slight stimulations or u-ritations may affect the whole development of the body is dwelt on by Professor Cleland, "Contribution to the Study of Spina Bifida," &c. Journal of Anatomy, vol. xvii., p. 257.