Pkof. Cleiand on the Tail in Myxine and Petromyzon. 107 occupied by a finely gi-annlav mass, with a small nucleus. It is a variety of cartilage to which interest attaches on account of its near approach to the structure of notochord; and it strengthens the claim of the notochord to be considered as a modified form of cartilage. The perichondrium of the fin-rays is strong and fibrous, and exhibits frequent transverse markings, reminding one of the nodes of the rays of osseous fishes. Such nodose rays have an origin in subcutaneous fibrous tissue, not in cartilage. Homologous with them are the horny i-ays found in great abundance in a number of elasmobranchs, clothing both mesial and lateral fins. A good illustration of the superficial nature of the nodose rays seen in teleosteans may be found in the pectoral fin of a cod, in which the nerves do not run on the sxirface of the fin-rays, as they would if these rays were of a truly* phalangeal description; but they run across the fin, between the upper and lower range of the fin-rays. From the report of the proceedings of the meeting of the British Association at Aberdeen, it will be seen that I had not at that time discovered the cartilaginous character of the upper caudal rays of myxine, nor suspected the existence pf the dorsal plate. It was not till I had dissected the tail of Petromyzon marinus that I began to think it probable that in working with structures imbedded in tough fibrous tissue I had overlooked some which were more delicate than the sub-caudal plate. In Petromyzon marinus—the large lamprey—the fin-rays con- sist of opaque yellowish cartilage, which, under the microscope, exhibits rounded capsules, with a small amount of matrix between. They are found in both the dorsal fins as weU as in the tail. J. Miiller describes cartilaginous rays of the caudal fin " which have their inner cylindrical extremities hidden between the muscles, but not reaching in as far as the column, and with their superficial tapering part stretching out and forming the free fin, bound together by a membrane of connective tissue " (Vergl. Anat. d. Myxinoiden, p. 27). But this statement is not quite accurate for the caudal rays. It is true for the rays of the first dorsal fin, and for the second dorsal as far back as the notch wHch partially separates it from the caudal continuation, but it is not true for the hindermost inch and a half of Petromyzon marinus, the part behind the dorsal notch, and having about forty superior and as many inferior cartilaginous rays. For in that