Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Vertebrates. 121 in the lateral wall, when one root is very much reduced in size, some of its more external branches may be transferred to the other. The branches specially belonging to the ventral root are, com- pared with those of the dorsal root, unimportant. From its inner end an artery corresponding to the thyroidea ima of human anatomy is supplied to the trachea and oesophagus. In amphibians and lacertilian reptiles this artery is prolonged to the tongue, but, in the successively higher stages it is reduced in size, until finally, as in most mammals, it disappears altogether. Other branches from the ventral subclavian are (2) a connection with the internal mammary upon the ventral aspect of the body wall, and (3) a branch to the dorso-lateral aspect of the neck anastomosing with arteries from the dorsal root and from the carotid. From the dorsal root of the subclavian artery the three anastomotic chains already noticed are continued into the neck. In the difierent groups of vertebrates much variation is found in respect of the apparent origin and relative development of these three vessels, but in every case an explanation may be found by an application of the principles already laid down. In the amphibia, in which the subclavian ,takes origin by its dorsal root, after the manner of the mammalian artery, only one of the three anastomotic chains is enlarged and prolonged into the neck. A vessel corresponding to the deep cervical artery passes to the head among the dorsal muscles of the neck. This vessel should anastomose with an occipital artery from the carotid, but no such vessel being present, the deep servical of the subclavian is itself continued forwards to the back of the head as an occipital artery. The origin of an occipital artery from the subclavian is easily explained by reference to the anastomotic chain, but it is rare to find the root from the carotid absent altogether. A very similar state of parts, however, is found among mammals in the cetacean group.* In the cbamaeleonida; among the reptiles, while, as in the amphibia, only one of the three anastomotic chains is specially enlarged, the vessel which corresponds to the inferior thyroid artery of mammals plays the important part. The subclavian arises by its dorsal root and gives off", close to its origin, a vessel— * Arterial System of Porpoise. Proceedings of the Philosophical Soci of Glasgow, 1886.