166 Memoranda. notwithstanding that the flexor tendons are far stronger than the extensor tendons. The lateral ligaments, 'becoming contracted by inflammation, are tightened in the extended position in which they are usually slack, and thus flexion becomes impossible, and the heads of the metacarpals being in front of the ligaments drive them back by becoming swollen, so that the phalanges are thrown into an unnaturally over-extended position. The noise called cracking the fi.ngers is produced by the phalanx, momentarily pulled away from its contact with the metacarpal, springing back into contact therewith; and it is the looseness of the lateral ligaments which allows the separation, while probably the circumstance which pre- vents the cracking sound being immediately repeated is the dragging into the joint of a small amount of fluid. J. C. 8.—Later Fcetal Development op the Vagina and Uteeus IN THE Human Subject. Probably the usual impression is that those organs are exceptional which do not develop evenly, pari passu with the increasing size of the whole body. Perhaps it would be more correct to lay down the law that different organs and parts of organs grow at different rates at different times. This is notably the case with the kidneys, the liver, the ductless glands, and the different regions of the braia and skull. In the case of the uterus and vagina, the sudden increase of growth at puberty is matter of notoriety, but it does not appear that the unevenness of the rate of growth in fcetal life has sufficiently attracted attention. Many years ago I prepared and deposited in the Anatomical Museum of the Queen's College, Galway, where it ought still to be found, a specimen showing, among other things, the uterus and vagina of a foetus, probably in the early part of the sixth month, with the vagina filled up with large papillary ridges in its whole extent both of height and circumference, contrasting with the interior of the uterus, wliich was perfectly smooth in the fundus, and marked only by fine longi- tudinal and transverse lines on the cervix. The large proportion borne by the vaginal ridges to the size of the organ, rendering its appearance very different from a miniature of the adult condition, struck me at the time, as well as their distribution over the whole surface. Symington (Topographical Anatomy of the Child, p. 75), states that " KoUiker says that he knows no organ that varies, in different subjects of the same age, so much in its size and develop-