68 Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arteries of the Porpoise. rete, as found in the narwhal, has been furnished by Dr. Season Wilson,* and his detailed desci-iptions throw so much doubt upon the facts of previous observation that further examination is warranted. My dissections in the fcetal porpoise, while they show a state of parts difi'ering very materially from that described by Prof. Owen and earlier observers, yet do not entirely coincide with what has been seen by Dr. Wilson in the narwhal, and it is therefore probable that the anatomy of the rete is not quite the same in all classes of Cetaceans. Occupying a position on both sides of the vertebral column as above stated, the vascular mass extends forwards for a short distance into the neck. Its posterior limit is marked, upon the right side, by the eleventh dorsal vertebra, while upon the left the extent to which it passes backwards is less by about half an inter- costal space. Towards their posterior portions the plexuses of the riaht and left side are united across the middle line dorsal to the aorta, but in front they are widely separate. The arteries which supply the rete are chiefly the posterior thoracics and the first six aortic intercostals, but branches enter the anterior extremity of each plexus from the inferior thyroid trunk. Close to the roots of the intercostal arteries small vessels also spring directly from the aorta to enter the plexus. Observers differ as to the behaviour of the intercostal trunks. Hunter and Owen speak as if these vessels, upon entering the rete, became coiled up in a manner similar to that in which the spermatic artery is found in the bull; Breschet describes these vessels as if they broke up on entering the rete, and were reformed upon passing out into the intercostal spaces beyond; and Wilson finds in the narwhal that certain of the intercostals are lost entirely in the plexus, and that others, after giving off many branches to it, make their appearance at its outer border, though much reduced in size. In the fa3tal porpoise I found all the intercostal arteries passing through the substance of the rete into the spaces beyond, and traced their terminal ramifications to anastomosis with the internal mammary arteries. They are neither convoluted nor coiled, but hold a straight course outwards, surrounded on all sides in the first part of their way by the vessels of the plexus. The rete is formed by long slender vessels which arise from the intercostal trunks, or directly from the aorta; but, although each intercostal artery * Journal of Anatomy, 14. 1880.