Dk. J. Yule Mackay on Arteries of the Porpoise. 65 human anatomy. The posterior cerebral artery, however, is entirely derived from the internal carotid trunk. In addition, as this vessel sweeps backwards it detaches branches which supply the cerebellum and medulla, and it likewise furnishes an im- portant branch which, piercing the dura mater close to the foramen magnum, enters the canal of the spinal column between the mem- branes and the bone. Here this branch runs backwards as far as the anterior dorsal region where it is lost. In the course it is deeply placed in the substance of the spinal rete, with which it very freely communicates. By means of this trunk the vessels of the brain are placed in direct communication with the great arterial reservoir which occupies the thorax and extends into the spinal canal. The siLbclavian artery is at its origin nearly equal in diameter to the external carotid trunk, but rapidly diminishes owuag to the number and size of the vessels which it distributes. The artery of the left side gives off as its first brancli the superficial thyroid vessel which has already been described. The second branch upon the left and the first upon the right, is a large and important trunk and may be named cervico-occipital.' This trunk, arising from the anterior border of the subclavian, runs forwards and outwards for a short distance and then divides into two vessels. The posterior of these supplies the superficial parts of the lateral region of the neck in front of and above the fore limbs. The anterior branch, of much larger size, courses forwards and upwards until it approaches the back of the skull. Then it turns upwards and backwards and terminates among the dorsal muscles in anastomosis with a large dorsal branch derived from the posterior thoracic. As it is bending backwards behind the skull. It furnishes a large branch which passes directly forwards over ihe surface of the occipital bone and breaks up into many twigs which anastomose with the occipital and temporal of the external carotid. From the posterior border of the subclavian the phrenic artery springs. This is a large trunk which rapidly divides into two, an internal mammary portion running backwards upon the ventral wall of the thorax, and a larger phrenic division accompanying the nerve through the cavity. Further out the subclavian furnishes a number of very minute- branches, which pass from both sides of the vessel forwards and backwards for a short distance, and supply muscular and cutaneous structures upon