Mr. E. Bruce Young on Development of the Intestine. 83 ' except that the branches of the superior mesenteric to the small intestine ran towards the right, those to the great intestine towards the left, so that if the ascending colon had been twisted over to the right the branches would have had their normal course. Explanation. In the position, on the left side, of the whole of the large intestine, and in the arrangement of the branches of the superior mesenteric artery, this case presents resemblances to others that have been recorded, and like them, seems to point to non-completion of the twist in the developing intestine as the cause of the adult malposition. It differs, however, from the case which I previously described (Zoc. cit.), in that the length of the colon shows no such . arrested development as was there present. The great intestine has exa,ctly the measurement given by Mr. Treves {op. cit, p. 8) as the average in the male, so that, while the twist around the superior mesenteric artery as an axis has been, interfered with, the cause which led to this has not been sUch as to affect the growth of the bowel. The stage of development at which the departure from the normal took place being established by the relation of parts in the adult, we have still to discover a cause for that change, and in this instance the adhesion existing between the upper part of the ascending portion of the colon and the succeeding part of the bowel affords a sufficient explanation. In a human foetus, 1 inch long from vertex to coccyx, in Avhich the rotation of the bowel has not been completed, the cajcum projects from the primary loop of nitestme at some distance from its lower end, and the portion of colon between the cajcum and the neck of the loop lies free and movable, attached only by the mesentery of that loop (K- 2) From the neck of the primary loop, the colon passes in a curve to the straight tube leading to the anus. Now if, as the result of some mflammatory process, adhesions, were formed between the lower end of the primary loop and the descending portion of the colon, close to the point at which the one curves into the other then, as development proceeded, further rotation of the bowel would be prevented. Provided that the adhesion were imited, and not such as to prevent the possibility of after-growth, the bowel might go on developing with the surrounding parts, and ultimately the state of matters would be as in the present case. The supposition of such a cause having been in action to