130 Prof. Cleland on Teratology, Speculative and Causal. not have been left to me to explain tlie nature of subcaudal supernumerary legs in birds. Influenced by considerations such as the foregoing, I have attempted to frame a system of classification of anomalies which will introduce, to a greater extent than has been done heretofore, the element of causation; and although the result is admittedly imperfect, I bring it forward in outline, in hopes that it may be found useful. Such an attempt, imperfect though it must necessarily be, will have its use in laying out to observers the task of determining more explicitly than might otherwise occur to them, the nature of the early changes leading to any anomaly, and the antecedents which have led to those changes. I haA'e found it advisable to continue the practice of primarily dividing anomalies into those by defect and those by excess, notwith- standing that I have had occasion to point out the extraordinary fact that the same cause which at one date may lead to double monster may at a somewhat later period lead to varieties of anomaly by defect. For among the deformities resulting from external irritation, the differences determining whether the irritation shall excite the embryonic mass to division, or only its individual corpuscles to altered nutrition, are really of primary importance; while those anomalies which cannot be distinctly referred to external irritation, so far from constituting a homogeneous group, are rather a temporary accumulation bound together by the acci- dent that we cannot as yet determine their cause. Among such unexplained anomalies there stand out prominently those exhibiting excessive or defective size, imperfection of form, or sexual deviation. With regard to amount of growth, we have abundant example in the vegetable kingdom of how it may be fostered or retarded by surrounding circumstances, and yet is subject to the internal influence of heredity. Thus, a good stock in a bad soil will produce a better result than a bad stock in the same, while any given stock will produce more favourable results, the more favourable the soil. As for imperfection of form, it may indeed be conceived as resulting in some instances from defective transmission of the hereditary quality by which organisation is carried on, but certainly in some cases it is the eftect of the interference of adverse circumstances with the action of the hereditary quality, and it is not easy to say in how many it may be so. But of all anomalies not distinctly referable to external causes,