12 Dk. CiiELANi) 011 Birds with Supernumera/ry Leys, <tc. There is abundant other evidence of this, not so satisfactory perhaps to the mere experimentalist as I trust this argument will be, but I shall only refer to one which is specially pertinent to the subject of this paper. Two of the birds described illustrate the law that in fission the alimentary canal is slower to divide than the parts belonging to the somatopleure. But we have in one case a single intestine giving off two pairs of cJBca and in another case giving off three caeca. In both cases the intestine is part-property of each of the original divisions of the vertebral column; and in the second case one of the caeca is in the same position. This illustrates that processes ' coming off from the digestive tube may be multiplied when the tube itself remains single. Still it might be maintained that one half of the digestive tube belonged to each division of the embryo. Such an ex- planation, however, entirely fails in applicability to double-bodied monsters with one pharynx, two tracheae, and two pairs of lungs; for as I have elsewhere pointed out,* each trachea in those cases belongs to the vertebral column at the opposite side of the pharynx: therefore the moulding powers of two individualities are at woi'k in areae overlapping one another. EXPLAISTATION OF HLATES. Fig. 1.—Skeleton of goose with supernumerary composite limb attached to supernumerary pelvic elements on the right of the spinal column. Specimen 2nd. Fig. 2.—Pelvis of pheasant with supernumerary limb attached to pelvic elements on the left of the spinal column; ventral view. Speci- men 1st. Fig. 3.—Chick with two supernumerary limbs. Specimen 3rd. Fig. 4.—Supernumerary limb from a pheasant. This limb was unconnected with the rest of the skeleton, and belonged to specimen -ith. Fig. 5.—Hind part of intestine from specimen 4th, with thi-ee cseca and two cloacal openings. Bristles are represented in the orifices the two ureters. Fig. 6.—Hinder part of intestine of specunen 3rd, with four cajca. Fig. 7.—Abcaudal fission in a chick of about thirty-six hours' hatching. • The fission extends forwards to the back of the first cerebral vesicle. The heart is single. ♦ Jour. Anat. and Phys., May, 1874, p. 257.