178 Memoranda. 20.—The Vertebral Artery of the Common Seal (Phoca vitulina). In the paper on the "Arterial System of Vertebrates homo- logically considered " I have described and figured the arrangement of the vertebral artery of the Hooded Seal (Stenimatopus cristatus), and pointed out the similarity which it presents in some points of its distribution to the vertebral artery of the Crocodilini. In the Common Seal this peculiarity in the anatomy of the vessel is even more marked. The vertebral artery arises from the subclavian and divides, almost immediately, into two large vessels. One of these passes forwards through the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae in the usual manner. The other is directed backwards, and, entering between the neck of the first rib and the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra, continues its course above the rib necks and below the transverse processes and joins, in almost undiminished size, the trunk of the first aortic intercostal artery which passes along the sixth interspace. The supply of the five higher intercostal spaces is provided by the anastomotic trunk. J. Y. M. 21.—Facets of Rest in the Elbow-joint. In the case of the elbow-joint, not only is there a small surface on the olecranon which rests on a special spot at the outer side of the olecranon fossa of the humerus (as described above by Professor Cleland), but there is also on the inner edge of the coronoid process a small notch, generally covered by articular cartilage, which in full flexion is pressed against the inner pillar bounding the coronoid fossa. The exact part of the humerus with which this notch on the coronoid comes in contact is in a fresh specimen marked by the opaque whiteness of the fibrous tissue covering the bone, and in the dry bone by a slight depression. The outer edge of the coronoid process also rests on the corres- ponding pillar of the coronoid fossa in full flexion, but the pressure here is never so great as to produce a notching of the bone. In full flexion, as in full extension, the vilna and the humerus come into contact, but the pressure is borne by the sides of the projecting processes of the ulna and the pillars bounding the fossse of the humerus, and not by the beaks of those processes and the thin plate of bone separating the fossse. In accordance with the obliquity of the plane of movement relatively to the shaft of the