Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Ver-tebrates. 113 The dorsal longitudinal trunks, running the whole length of the body, fuse, in the region between the heart and the tail, into a median trunk, the aorta, the flow of blood through which is towards the tail. Between the heart and the head, on the other hand, they remain separate in most vertebrates, and form portions of the carotid system, carrying blood to the head. In the change from the embryonic to the adult stage tlie relations of these three sets of vessels are considerably modified. The arches vary in number in different forms. In the embryos of all vertebrates higher than the amphibia there are five. They are numbered in order from the head towards the heart. The fifth arches become upon one or both sides solid cords in the adult, stretching to the aorta from the pulmonary arteries, which are given ofi" from the ventral trunk at the commencement of the fifth arches. The fourth arches become upon one or on both sides aortic, according as the adult form has a right or left aortic arch or both. The third arches become portions of the carotid system upon both sides. The first and second disappear. The ventral longitudinal trunk is divided by an obliquely longi- tudinal septum into two compartments, one of them continuous with the fifth arches, the other with the rest. _ It forms the basal portions of the pulmonary, aortic, and carotid vessels. While the dorsal longitudinal trunks in their fused portion between the heart and the tail become the aorta, into which the fourth or aortic arches pass, carrying blood towards the tail, the third arches, carrying blood towards the head, enter them, where they remain separate. The portions upon each side between the entrance of the third and fourth arches, in which the direction of the circulation is indeterminate, become obliterated in many forms and disappear, but they remain open in the lacertilia and stretch between the common carotid and the aorta. The question now arises as to what portion of the carotid system is derived from the dorsal longitudinal trunk between the third arch and the head. Rathke* believed that it was only the internl carotid which was to be regarded as a portion of the dorsal longi- tudinal trunk, and looked on the external carotid as a portion of the ventral longitudinal trunk; and Macalister, building upon this, describes the branches of the external carotid artery as branches of the ventral longitudinal trunk, and believes, upon theoretical * Ratlike, Archiv. f. Anat. luid Physiol., 1843.