36 Dr. .1. Yule Mackay on Getvilo-ioritmrij Malformations. pelvis and is much disorganised evidently from the effects of pressure. The right ureter is, at its upper end, normal, arising from the hilus of the kidney and passing downwards on the inner side of the organ, but the left ureter springs from the dorsal surface of the left kidney and courses downwards upon its outer side. A portion of the left ureter also projects further up than the superior extremity of its kidney in the foi-m of a small rounded sac. Both ureters end in a peculiar manner. They pass down- wards underneath respectively the right and left horns of a bicornate uterus, and, turning round the outer margins of the horns, become incorporated with their walls on the anterior surface. In the course downwards from the kidney to the uterus the lumen of each is gradually lost so that the tubes are reduced to solid cords before they sink into the uterine substance. The cords may be traced downwards for some distance along the front of the uteri By dissection into the walls. They will be again alluded to in connection with the vagin?e. (The letter c in the Plate is placed upon the right kidney, and the ureter stretches between c and d to end upon the uterine horn.) Both ovaries are present. Each is about half-an-inch in length, and is rather narrow. It is attached by a fold of peritoneum to the Fallopian tube which lies immediately above it (e in the Plate). A firm round ligament connects the ovary with the uterine horn. Each uterine horn (cl d) is a tubular structure, containing a long narrow cavity. It is distinguished from the Eallopiau tube above, and the vagina below, by its greater thickness. The FaUopian tube, uterus, and vagina upon each side, thus form a continuous tube-like structure, the middle portion of which, the uterus, is thickest, and contains a ca\ity, the upper portion, or Fallopian tube, thinnest and impervious, while the vagina, in- termediate in thickness and somewhat flattened from side to side, is separated from the uterus by a marked construction, and is also impervious. A well-marked round ligament upon each side passes from the upper end of the uterine horn through the abdominal wall in the usual way. The bladder, the lower ends of the two vagin?e, and the lower end of the rectum, ai'e firmly bound together, and form a com- pact mass situated in the pelvic cavity. They apparently open externally by a single aperture, the position of which is rather further forwards than that which the vulva occupies in normal circumstances. The opening is less than \ inch in length, and is