Mr. Young on Moo-^^hologij of Cervical Articular Pillars. 77 fidus spinte, and these alone, spring from their posterior surface. Extending, as it does, along the whole length of the column, the multifidus spin£E affords a good guide in the determination of the serial homology of the bony points to which its various slips are attached. Its slips arise in the cervical region, from the backs of the articular pillars; in the lumbar region, from the mammillary processes; in the dorsal, from those points of the transverse pro- cesses which correspond with the lumbar mammillary processes. This seems to make it plain that the projections from the back of the articular processes in the cervical vertebrte must represent mammillary tubercles. The intimate relationship which exists between these projections and the multifidus spinas muscle is shown by their not occurring as a rule above the fourth cervical vertebra, above which the line of origins of the muscle does not extend. If any markings do appear on the articular processes of the third cervical they are very slight. Corresponding to the movement of the secondary processes from the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra towards the cervical articular pillars, there is a gradual change in the points of attachment of the trachelo-mastoid, complexus, and multifidus spina; muscles. The lowest cervical slips of these muscles are found to have passed out on to the transverse processes, so that at the seventh cervical vertebra these muscles, not being attached, as they are above, to the articular pillars, have begun that movement outwards by which they reach towards the tip of the transverse process in the dorsal region. The manner in which • the change in position of the origins of these muscular slips takes place seems, therefore, to complete the proof of the presence in the^ cervical articular pillars of projections which, in the dorsal region, are merged in the tips of the transverse processes. The not infrequent occuirence of a .slight rounded projection from the lower and outer part of the roughness at the back of the ai-ticular pillars, as on the left side of the fifth cervical (Plate VIII.), seems to indicate that the accessory processes are also represented in the cervical recion. The recognition of the presence in the vertebr.-e of the neck of parts in series with the lumbar mammillary and accessory pro- cesses, enables us to follow out the true relations of the posterior cervical mter-tvansverse muscles. When we consider the points of attachment of these muscles, and the position which we have seen the representatives of the secondarv processes to occupy in