4 Dr. CIjELAND on Birds with Supermimerary Lefjs, &c. division of the embryo, and the left limb of the left division; while the adjacent halves of the two pelvises, with their respective limbs, have been dwarfed, and in different instances one of them has been suppressed, or the two, unable to get separate, have remained connate in a unity compacted from the blastema of both. Abcaudal fission is known in the early condition of the chick; and I may illustrate by means of a specimen of a chick of thirty-six hours' hatching, in which two equally-developed vertebral columns diverge from one another behind a smgle heart (Fig. 7). Both divisions in such a case may continue to develop equally, producing an animal with one head and two bodies. But the peculiarity of all the abnormalities under consideration is that one of the divisions of the vertrebral column disappeared altogether, while the two limbs normally developed belong, one to the division which is preserved and the other to the division which has entirely dis- appeared. Instances are known of the development of a supernumerary composite limb in the human subject, on precisely similar prin- ciples to those on which such limbs are developed in birds. The best known is the case of Dos Santos, described in this country by Mr. Acton,* by Mr. Ernest Hart,t and by Dr. Handyside.j: In that case the supernumerary limb had the knee turned backwards, and ended in a composite foot, with the great toes joined and the fifth toes to the sides. It was therefore not the fusion of two limbs belonging to one pelvis, but the fusion of the left limb of a right pelvis Avith the right limb of a left pelvis. This duplicity, involving the whole lower part of the body, was testified by the presence of two penises lying side by side between the two developed limbs, one for the pubis of each of two separate pelvises. The presence of an osseous element descending in the middle, so as to separate the pubic arch into two was detected by Mr. Hart and Dr. Handyside, and its nature correctly appreciated by Dr. Handyside. Mr. Hart also detected what seemed to have been a second anus which had become obliterated. Both right and left pelvis must have had their right and left walls respectively completed in front; but the adjacent walls of the two pelvises being pressed together by the further development of the * London Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, xxix.. p. 103. ■I- Lancr.l, July 29, 1865. . X Edinburgh Medical Joimial, March, 1866. See also " Ahlfeld Missbil- dungen des Menschen." p. 98, and Plate XIX.