182 Memoranda. but is an evolution, and the forces, whatever they are, which bring it about may bo said to aim at its completion even in abnormal circumstances, and in those circumstances to evolve unusual methods. I suppose that it is to the tendency to the production of a complete normal bird that we must attribute the withdrawal of nutrition from one division of a vertebral column which, beyond all question, was at an early age bifurcated. No doubt, after the division of the growing point of the germinal mass into two columns, instead of its continuing a single column backwards, there is no tendency to the suppression of adjacent halves of the primordial columns so as to bring the outer halves together. The vitality of the adjacent sides shows itself, in those instances in which two equal bodies are formed, to be equal to that of the outer sides, and the hypothesis is that it is such an equal division which has originally taken place. But, plainly, the outer leg of the suppressed division of the body exchanges its dependence on the individuality of that division for dependence on the other division, taking to itself, in fact, the just office and relations of the corresponding supernumerary limb; and after this has taken place we have no longer to do with two similar divisions of the body, with similar potentialities. Probably the first thing to happen is that owing to the position of bifurcation the proper development of pelvic limbs in the bifur- cation is interfered ^vith. The next thing to happen is probably that the limb-blastema in the bifurcation, in its efibrts to grow, presses on the parts around, and that one division of the column succumbs, while the other is enabled by that circumstance not only completely to resist the pressure made on it by those limbs, but to draw the furthest-off limb toward itself, and thereby more or less completely extrude the intervening limbs in a backward direction. Difficulty there certainly is in trying to investigate such pro- cedures, but it is instructive to note how in such teratological problems there is no eluding the action of forces which are neither chemical nor mechanical, and are altogether unparalleled in the inorganic world. In proof of the tendency of abnormally-altered embryos to return to a normal state I may point to the comparative frequency of healthy twins in one set of membranes, and there- fore derived from one ovum, and the infrequency of incomplete separation, such as was exliibited by the Siamese twins; also to the presence of a healthy child along with an acephalus. J. C.