Dr, Cleland on Birds loith Supermimerary Legs, dx. 5 parts on each side which, on account of their connection with the column above, could not freely separate, obliteration had resulted, leaving a penis and imperfect pubic arch for each pelvis, while the lobes for the adjacent limbs had never been able to separate, but remaining conjoint at their superior or great-toe margins, formed the composite structure which hung from the perinseum. The case of Blanche Dumas as recited by Ahlfeld (page 89), is almost similar to that of Dos Santos, and seeing that its nature has been appreciated correctly, it is in the last degree surprising that the case of Dos Santos has been so thoroughly blundered. Once, however, the case of Dos Santos is understood in the light thrown on it by the birds with supernumerary limbs, it follows that on the same principles are to be explained all instances of tumours over the sacrum with bones in them; such as Dr. Richardson's well known case, published by Sir James Simpson,* in which there was what might be called a tibio- femoral bone, imbedded in a ball of adipose tissue, and a single digit overhanging the tumour so formed; the cases figured by Vrolik,t and the numerous cases collected from Authors by Ahlfeld (Plates VII. and XIX.). The difiiculties attending any other explanation are insuper- able. If in a partially divided embryo, one division grew more rapidly than the other so that the second, so far as surviving, became an ajjpendage to the first, the place of junction would not be over the sacrum, but either on the ventral surface or within the abdominal cavity. If we adopt the old theory and suppose that embryos on two ova accidentally adhered, a possibility of union of the products of different ova is taken for granted, which really has nothing to support it. But indeed that theory is thor- oughly disposed of by Von Baer, who alludes to it as the theory of Haller and Meckel, j; Thus, I lay down the law that in cases of supernumerary legs connected with the sacritm or perinceum, the legs developed as the proper legs of the animal belong originally to two difevent loelvises, being the right limb of a left pelvis and left limb of a right j^elvis, . * Medical Times and Oazeile, 2nd July, 1859. t Vi-olik, Die Fruclit van den Menscli en van Zoogdieren, Tab. C. t ^Vllile these pages are passing through the press, Professor Virchow, in his Archiv, vol. eiii., p. 420, expresses regret that the number of writers who explain double-monstrosity by secondary agglomeration is again on the increase, and makes valuable strictures on the subject.