23 Dr. Cleland on Form of Human Skull. A South German skull, however broad it may be, has no approach to the mesial characters of the brachycephali of Retzius, but it resembles the North German skulls in a great deal. If it be taken into consideration that the mesial base has its parts united by bone at a very much earlier period than that at which the skull ceases to increase in breadth, it will be seen that, according to that generally-accepted law which was referred to at the ovttset of this paper, the ancestors of the broad-headed races would have had the mesial basal characters of their descendants before they acquired the same breadth. The skulls also of African negroes seem to be worse filled and narrower than those of negroes from America. Altogether, it seems at least highly probable that breadth is a later-acquired character than length, and governed by different laws. I am the more induced to make this remark, when I recollect that in all three regions of the base, viz., foramen magnum, mid base, and frontal base, I found in savage races a greater elongation than in any civilized races. It would seem that civilization tends to arrest the growth longitudinally of the base, and to induce increase in breadth. At any rate, it were safer to trust to measurements of absolute length and breadth than to give importance to the proportion borne by one to the other. With regard to height, which is now recognised as a highly important character, it may be a question whether absolute height, or proportion of height to length is the more important to take into consideration. The disadvantage of the latter is that it is a pro- portion between two quite distinct things not necessarily connected, and varies according to the rise or fall of either. Still I own that I was induced in 1869 to calculate the proportion of height to_ length, although I had not the glory of inventing for it the name of "vertical index," "altitudinal index," or "index of height." My reason for making the calculation was that I thought I saw a tendency to height in brachycephalic skulls, and, believing that height was a character less dependent on indi- vidual peculiarity than breadth, thought that a means might thus be obtained of accentuating a natural order of brachycephali, such as Retzius aimed at, while, as I suggested, the consideration of breadth AvoiUd be better made use of for subdividing the brachy- cephali and dolichocephali, thus gathering the Hindoo, Sandwich Islander, and New Zealander, to which I may add the Burmese