Dr. J. Yule Mack ay on Arterial System of Vertebrates. 119 by anastomotic branches to the epigastric artery; in instances Avhere tlie root of the obturator artery fails, it arises from the epigastric by a further prolongation downwards of the ventral anastomotic chain. Lateral branches of the sciatic artery are prolonged for some distance with the nerves; and in birds and reptiles these form the main supply of the limb. At the upper end of the thorax, the subclavian artery re- presents a fusion, probably, of the visceral and parietal circles of the last cervical and first thoracic segments. The parietal branches sweeping round the body wall terminate iu the ventral anastomotic chain as the root of the internal mammary and the first intercostal artery. One lateral branch is prolonged as the axillary artery into the limb, and others are represented by the tranverse cervical and supra-scapular. In the neck, owing to the obliteration of the dorsal longitudinal vessel, the origin of the segmental circles is transferred to the longitudinal anastomotic chains. Three of these are present connected below with the subclavian and above with the carotid artery. They are the inferior thyroid joining the superior thyroid, the vertebral joining the internal carotid, and the deep cervical joining the occipital. (PI. VII., Fig. I.) The external carotid artery may probably be regarded as a stem of secondary formation, uniting the origins of visceral and parietal circles of several segments. This view is corroborated by the consideration that the external carotid trunk is peculiar to mammals. Among the parietal branches the occipital, continued into anastomosis with the chain which lies on the dorsal aspect of the transverse processes, is to be regarded as dorsal. The internal carotid, after leaving the neck, corresponds to an enlarged spinal branch. The Intermediate Arteries.—The vessels which, springing from the abdominal aorta, supply the Wolffian body and its derivative organs may be so termed. They are the supra-renal, the renal, and the spermatic or ovarian. Probably in the pelvis the uterine and vaginal have a similar origin. These vessels join in a sub- peritoneal anastomosis with the branches of the parietal circle. Branches of the Ventral Longitudinal Trunk.—If the branches of the external carotid artery be considered as belonging to the dorsal trunk, the branches of the ventral trunk are few in number. They are represented by the pulmonary arteries, the coronary arteries of the heart, and the occasional thyroidea ima. In