7G Mrt. Young on Morphology of Cervical Articiolar Pillars. transverse processes gradually become less, till, as in the seventh cervical in tlie adult, the superior articular surface lies on the root of the transverse process. Further, in the cervical vertebrae of a foetus, measuring about three inches from vertex to coccyx, the lateral ossification indicating the root of the transverse process passes into the projecting mass which bears the upper articular surface, and -which is intimately associated with the partly cartilaginous portion, afterwards to become the free transverse process in the adult. These facts of development, when taken along with the existence in the adult of the solid pillars, bearing the cervical articular surfaces, which, even in the adult, are only partially separated from the true transverse processes, and have much more the character of lateral projections from than of simple thickenings of portions of the vertebral arch, seem to indicate that these cervical articular pillars take origin in coimec- tion with the true transverse processefe, and that therefore the articular surfaces, at least the superior ones, rest on the roots of these processes. This view receives confirmation from the position in the adult, of the superior articular surface in the seventh cervical vertebra on the root of the transverse process, the continuity of the portion of bone bearing this articular surface with the transverse process not being here interrupted by any lateral notch such as exists in the higher cervical vertebrae. The extreme slenderness, too, of the true transverse processes in the upper cervicals when compared with the dorsal transverse processes bears out the notion that the cervical articular pillars really belong, in part at least, to the transverse processes. In this light, the difiiculty of accounting for the occurrence in connection with these articular pillars of secondary processes, which, in the dorsal region, are closely associated with the true transverse processes, disappears, and a fresh argument is supplied in proof of the homologj- of the projections on the cervical articular processes. As the markings on these articular processes are for the attach- ments of muscles, we naturally look for some evidence as to their true character from the series of the slips of the deep muscles of the back. Portions of three muscles, viz., the trachelo- mastoid, the complexus, and multifidus spinae, have attachments to articular processes in the cervical region. The exact point of attachment, however, differs in the difl-erent muscles. For while the complexus and the trachelo-mastoid sUps are attached to the lateral aspect of the articular pillars, the origins of tlio multi-