18 Dr. Cleland (m Form of Human Skull. more nearly approaching a spherical curve. Before birth it is seen very distinctly that the two frontals, the two parietals, and the supra-occipital each present a prominent eminence whence the bone radiates in nearly straight lines. After birth the five eminences become gradually rounder, while the rounding becomes diffused over a larger part of each bone. But in adolescence there still remains in the mesial plane a comparative prominence between the frontal eminences and another between the parietal eminences, while, below the frontal eminences, and before and behind the parietal eminences, are flat parts which in the male adult are more liable than in the female to be filled up by later development so as to make the aintero-posterior curve of the vault more uniform. The roof becomes more and more fiat for some yea/rs after birth, but in later adolescence is re-elevated in the mesial j^lane (Fig. 1). Already at birth the roof is flatter than at an earlier date, and in skulls a few years old the flatness is striking; while throughout adolescence it is greater than in the adult, especially the adult male. The settiag in of the flat condition is to be accounted for in part by increase in breadth of base, the operation of which on the parietals is that their lower margins are displaced outwards so as to rotate | the bones on their mesial edges. At a later period increase in breadth is, as we have seen, still going on; but it is to a different degree in different instances, and as I formerly pointed out (Op. cit., 148), the period of closure of the frontal suture affects the freedom of increasing breadth even in the parietal region. The consequence, in these circumstances, is that the continued growth at the sagittal suture produces mesial re-elevation, which in the case of the narrow-skulled races may attain to a ridge-like prominence. Lastly, the occipiital condyles, from infancy to adult life, change their form and alter the position of the shull relatively to the vertebral column. The changes in question are alike important and easy to understand, yet seem up to the present moment to have completely eluded either the observation or comprehension of anatomists, and this is the reason why I now describe them in more detail than I have already done (Op. cit, 160), At birth the condyles lie flat on the condylar aud basilar parts of the occipital and are nearly flat on the surface, but two sets of chancres set in with growth. In the first place the articular surface "becomes more prominent in the middle, so as to take the form of a ribbon, not only slightly everted m its wliole