74 Young Morpltology of Cervical Articula/)' Pillars. sides, in the fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae. In eight other sets one or more of such projections was present, the series being in these cases interrupted. In the remainmg instances the articular pillars, as a rule, presented only the usual more or less well-marked roughness, though indications of the processes in question were present in some. In all the specimens in which the processes were noted they were seen to be confined to the lower of the cervical vertebrte—none being found higher than the fourth. In some instances the change in position of the roughness towards the transverse process is not indicated, as it is in the case figured, in the seventh cervical, and the roughnesses are still altogether confined to the articular pillars of that vertebra. The occasional occurrence, then, on the cervical articular pillars, of distinct projections, developing in connection with the rough- nesses which usually exist there, gives a significance to those 'otherwise unimportant-looking markings, and seems to point to the presence of an element not generally recognised in the cervical vertebrae. In order to avoid ambiguity, it may be well at this point to indicate the exact meaning which is attached to certain terms used in the following pages. Retzius (Muller's Archiv, 184.9, p. 685) distinguished three elements—costal, mammillary, and accessory— in the°dorsal and lumbar transverse processes. The costal element is the rib-bearing part. The mammillary and accessory elements aflfording points for muscular attachment he called "muscle" pro- cesses. °Cleland {Fat. Hist. Review, 1868) has shown' that the costal element, forming part of the primary costal arch embracmg the visceral cavity, has a very different morphological value from that which can be attached to processes projecting out into the muscular mass. His view makes clear the distinction between costal and "muscle" processes, and constrains us to look on the dorsal transverse as a compound process in which vertebral pro- cesses of essentially different characters have been united. The costal process we may call the true or primary transverse process, the mammillary and accessory we may distinguish as secondary processes, and thus prevent misunderstanding. These roughnesses and occasional processes above described are, then the continuation in the cervical region of the series ot secondary processes which Retzius traced in the lumbar and dorsal vertebra In the thorax the secondary processes and the rib- bearing process are united in the transverse process; but here