Db. Cleland on Form of Human Skull. 15 interesting in relation to the changes of form undergone by the skull during growth; and it is in this connection that I now allude to it. It appears, so far as I can judge, to be completed Ij within a few years after birth; but at the date of birth is four or ■ five degrees short of completion, and in skulls, from the fifth to the eighth montli of foetal life, seems on an average to reach little more than 160°. When it is considered that 20° is one-sixth part of the average adult curvature of 180°, it will be understood what a considerable proportion of the length of the adult arch is con- nected with increase of curvature subsequent to the middle of foetal life.* It is to be observed, however, that the great proportional length of the arch, as compared with the base, does not depend solely on the curvature of the skull, but even more obviously on the widening of the cylinder so curved; and a remarkable series of difierent shapes is passed through in consequence of the different rates according to which arch and base elongate and increase in breadth relatively one to the other. The arch elongates more rapidly than the base in foetal life, until at birth or soon afterwards, the arch, as measured from the root of the nose round to the back of the foramen magnum, has reached its highest proportional length, as compared with a straight base- line unitmg the same points, namely, a proportion slightly ex- ceeding three to one (Fig. 4). This proportion appears to be retained till somewhere about ten years of age; while in the adult the 2)roportion is diminished to a degree vaiying according to the development of the face bones, and in old age is, I believe, again i J increased by actual shortening of the base, and sometimes by thickening of parts of the aich. So far as my measurements went, they showed in a set of Scotch skulls an average proportion of 2-72 to 1; in French, 2-67; in German, 2 80; and in Irish skulls, 2-89 to 1. Tlie breadth of the vault in early childhood also greatly exceeds thai of the base ; and this, like the comparative elongation of the base just alluded to, is correlated with the growth of the face. At birth the tympanic plate scarcely extends outwards beyond *My attention has been directed to a paper on the " Sagittale Krlininiiuig dc3 Schadels," by Dr. Lipauer, of Danzig, in the Arcldv fiir Anlhropologie, vol. XV. Supplement. The writer appear.s to believe that he is the first to have taken the subject in hand. It is an elaborate paper, full of elaborate Greek nomenclature.