54 Du. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Chcwiceleon. pronator quadratus and extensores breves pollicisi of human anatomy. The branches are numerous and important. Near the upper end a medio-ulnar artery is first given off. This arises from the posterior border of the parent vessel and bends ulnarwards and downwards through the flexor aspect of the limb. Close to its origin small recurrent branches are given ; these course backwards towards the joint. Further down the artery divides into two sets of branches. The first, median, running straight down the limb along with the flexor tendons towards the palm, passes underneath the ligament which bends the tendons down, but cannot be traced distinctly into the hand. The second, ulnar, runs along the ulnar border of the limb in the direction of the fifth digit, and lies between the anterior and posterior annular ligaments. It also is of very small size. The second branch which the posterior interosseous artery furnishes may be called radial. It springs from the anterior border of the main trunk and passes almost straight down the limb along the anterior margin of the radius. At its lower end it may be traced to the root of the radial digit in the space between the anterior and posterior annular ligaments. Some branches approach the vessels upon the dorsal siirface of the carpus, which are derived from the posterior interosseous, but they cannot be traced into actual anastomosis. Other branches are derived from the posterior interosseous upon the extensor aspect of the limb, but they are small and entirely muscular. Upon the back of the carpus opposite to the deep cleft which divides the three inner from the two outer digits, the main artery divides into two branches, from which are derived the vessels which supply the fore-foot. Each of the two branches subdivides into two interosseous vessels, and these are continued forwards between *the bones to divide again beyond the web into lateral digital trunks. From the interosseous vessels branches are given after the manner of perforating arteries, which sink down between the bones into the palmar aspect. The vessels of the manus are therefore entirely placed upon the dorsal aspect. Aorta. After the union of the right and left roots already described, the aorta is continued backwai-ds underneath the vertebral bodies. Opposite the body of the third vertebra beyond that which bears