Prof. Cleland on Teratology, SiJeciolative and Causal. 129 probably of later origin than anencephalus (" On Spina bifida, (fee," Jour. Anat. and Phys., XVII., 257). Now, after many years consideration of double monsters, I begin to see with some measure of clearness how the varieties and degrees of duplicity are attributable to such circumstances as the following:— 1. The period of application of the excitant to division. 2. The amount of excitation. 3. The interference of the adjacent parts of more or less com- pletely divided embryos, each with the growth of the other. 4. The equal or unequal development of the two embryos produced on one ovum, or of the doubled portions of a partially divided embryo. 5. The commencement of fission at the caudal or cranial end of the embryo, or at both ends. 6. The operation of the law by which symmeti-ical parts tend to adhere one to the other. Of this law of symmetrical adhesion it is to be remarked that, while advocates of the exploded theory of double monstrosity by adhesion of embryos from distinct ova were in error in imagining bifurcating of embryos to be instances of the operation of the tendency of corresponding parts to become united, the law nevertheless exists and shows itself in two ways— namely, the junction of corresponding right and left parts of one embryo, as in the normal closure of the body-cavity; secondly, the junction of the parts on the right side of a right embryo with the corresponding parts on the left side of a left embryo; while a third phenomenon is noticeable, which is liable to be confused with the law of symmetrical adhesion—^namely, the union of parts on the left side of a right embryo with corresponding parts on the right side of a left embryo. Phenomena of this last description I have largely referred to in speaking of supernumerary legs of birds; they are, however, not so much examples of adhesion of previously distinct parts, as rather examples of non-separation of parts; and this distinction shows itself in the circumstance that by symmetrical adhesion the parts abutting on the middle line are united but never suppressed, whereas extensive suppression often occurs in the line of contact of the adjacent sides of right and left embryos. Thus a composite limb is often formed between the adjacent sides of a right and left embryo, but never between the further sides which come round to meet one another in front • and, indeed, if this had been appreciated before now, it would