98 Prop. Cleland on JXstincHons of Forvi in Human Pelvis. durincr crowtli in the statement that " the transverse diameter of the brim is greatly increased at the expense of the antero-posterior or conjugate." "This transverse enlargement," he points out, "is powerfully resisted by the pressure upon the acetabula." And he further explains convincingly that "the weight on the upper end of the iliac beam tends to draw it inwards, the auricular portion of the sacrum being the fulcrum upsn which the beam rests. In proportion as the upper end of the beam is dragged inwards, will the lower end tend to be projected outwards, and the transverse diameter of the pelvis be increased The bone does slightly bend about midway between its auricular surface and its lower end. But although it bends under the influence of these forces, its lower half is, as a whole, to some extent projected outwards." But this, important as it is, is not all; there are other changes which take place with growth, and other mechanisms by which they are produced. So far as a limited, but, I think, sufficient number of specimens allows me to judge, the conjugate and transverse diameters are about equal in young children, while at a later period, extendiag probably from about six to thirteen years of age, the conjugate diameter grows more rapidly than the trans- verse, and after that age the adxilt form is approached. Comparing new-born children with the adult, Litzmann states (p. 25):—" At the sides of the upper pelvic arch, the hinder ends of the iliac bones, from the posterior superior spine to the anteiior superior angle of the auricular surface, are shorter in proportion to the foreparts, from the anterior superior angle of the auricular surface to the ilio-pectineal tubercle. Still shorter proportionately are the limbs of the inferior pelvic half-ring, from the ilio-pectineal tubercle to the middle of the upper edge of the symphysis pubis." The first of these statements may be supplemented by pointing out that the iliac bones project behind the base of the sacrum very little until after puberty. This seems to indicate an increased development of the muscles of the back at the same time that the pelvis assumes its adult form, and becomes the more constantly selected fulcrum for the movements of the trunk, while the muscles of the lower limbs also become more developed in harmony with the more extensive leverage and surfaces of attachment afforded by the pelvis. The scampering, scrambling, and lounging of boyhood and girlhood are exchanged for a more habitually upright attitude in walking, standing, and sitting. The mode of growth