Memoranda. 168 lower and anterior part, and the cervix uteri projecting into the vagina very slightly. In the latter half of fostal life, then, there is undoubtedly a period of exaggerated growth of the vagina and uterus, but especially of the vaginal ridges; and even when the character of the mucous membrane is kept out of view, it is a remarkable circumstance, in comparing two foetuses, that while the increase in the length of the whole body from vertex to coccyx was only one half, namely from six to nine inches, the increase in length of the utei-us and vagina was three times and a third, namely from three-fourths to two- and-a-half inches; that is to say, that on the supposition of growth having been similar in the two foetuses, the uterus and vagina grew in length between six and seven times as rapidly as the rest of the body. This seems to agree perfectly with the table of dimensions published by Tourneux & Legay (Jour de VAnat. et de la Phys., 1884-), but these authors seem to have failed to draw the right conclusion. J. C. 9.—The First Eib in the Human Subject. It is common enough to hear it said that the first rib lies flat on a table, a statement which is obviously incorrect; but even works on Descriptive Anatomy are too vague on the subject, and do not mention the real character of the curve. If the neck of the rib be held horizontally, and the rib allowed to slope a little downwards as it passes forwards, it will be seen that not only is the outer edge of the shaft a little lower than the inner edge, a circumstance usually adverted to, but there is a concavity of the upper surface of the shaft, extending over its whole length, I believe that character to be constant even in those instances in which, at first sight, it seems to be absent. Until quite recently, I had been in the habit of supposing that this was the efiect of muscular action; but it is not so, for the concavity is most marked in young subjects. At birth it is striking, and in a foetus of the fifth month still more strongly developed. In ordinary breathing, the first rib remains in the depressed position, the upper end of the sternum stationary, and it is subjected both in quiet and in full respiration to the accumulated drag of both external and internal intercostal muscles pulling its outer edge downwards, while on the other hand the opposed action of the scalenus medius and scalenus anticus is only occasional, but when brought into play