Dr. J. Yule Mackay 07i Arterial System of Vertebrates. 115 seen from the following description of the bi-anch system that whatever opinion may be held as to the dorsal or ventral position of the basal portion of the external carotid of mammals, the branches of the artery at least correspond to the branches of the dorsal longitudinal vessel. The Secondaey or Branch System. In studying the branches of the primary trunks it is to be noticed that their arrangement has been modified by the action of two causes. One of these is that in the early embryo the heart is placed close under the head, but in the adult it is removed backwards into the thorax, and the primary arches and portions of the longitudinal trunks to a certain extent participate in the change of position. The chick embryo affords an example. During the fourth day the hearc and a portion of the aorta are still in the neck, and the aorta is observed to give off lateral branches to the walls of the neck, but after development is completed and the heart and aorta are found in the thorax, no lateral branches from the aorta pass to the neck. In the descent of the heart and arches the lateral branches from the aorta to the neck have become obliterated. The second modifying cause is the obliteration of the portions of the dorsal longitudinal trunks between the third and fourth arches already alluded to. Most of the arteries of the body arise from the dorsal longitudinal trunk. A small number take origin from the ventral trunk. None arise from the j^rimary arches. In fishes, where nothing but venous blood passes through the heart, the systematic arteries do not take origin until the blood has become arteriaHsed; that is to say, they are found springing from the vessels beyond the gills, the dorsal longitudinal. In forms higher than fishes, however, where the heart propels both venous and arterial blood, branches are given off from the ventral vessel to a limited portion of the body. Brandies from the Dorsal Primary Trunks: Segmental Branches.—From the dorsal primary trunks branches are given off at intervals corresponding to the segments of the vertebrate body. As it courses through the segment each dorsal trunk may be regarded as giving off branches which pass round the splanchnic and somatic walls to meet in the middle line similar vessels from the other side. Two arterial circles are thus formed, a visceral upon the walls of the alimentary canal, and a parietal