30 Dr. J. Yule Mackay 071 Hermcqihroclitic Malformation. and backwards through the anterior wall of the vagina, which it finally pierces immediately above the narrow constricted portion which has been ah-eady described. The canal is more than ^th of an inch in length, and posseses strong membranous walls. Its diameter is sufficient ' to allow the passage of a very large bristle. The other organs are of the normal female type. Looked at from the developmental point of view, the abnor- mality admits of a simple explanation. The lateral halves of the corpus spongiosum in the male exist as the bulbi vestibuli and partes intermedife in the female. The corpora cavernosa remain similar in both sexes, except in respect of comparative size. The lower vascular portions differ, however, very markedly in their subsequent development. They are originally vascular plexuses, lying upon each side of the genito-urinary cloaca. In the male they unite with one another across the middle line forming the bulb, and they are also projected forwards on the under surface of the penis, forming by their median junction the corpus spongiosum and glans. In the female only the extreme anterior ends of these plexuses unite with one another as glans clitoridis, the succeeding portions atrophy, while the most posterior portions remain ununited on either side of the genito-iirinary aperture as the bulbi vestibuli and partes intermedise of Kobelt. The present case shows an intermediate stage of development, • the two vascular masses being partly joined and partly still separate. The anterior ends are united as glans penis, the middle portions, usually atrophied in the female, form here a corpus spongi- osum as in the male, while the posterior ends, although separate from one another as in the typical female, are yet brought into such close proximity by the persistence and the junction of the parts in front that they have almost completely shut off from the surface the vaginal portion of the genito-urinary sinus. The anterior portion of the sinus is surrounded and carried forwai-ds as the male urethra, while the posterior portion remains as the nearly obliterated vestibule. The cases which Simpson* has quoted of "transverse hermaphro- ditism with the external organs of the male type," and which he has included under the heading of " true hermaphroditism," are very readily explained by comparison with this case. The fii-st, * Todd's Encyclopoidia of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. ii., p. 684.