62 Dr. J. Yule Maokay on Arteries of the Porpoise. arising from the aortic arch is a comparatively slender trunk which distributes branches to the left side of the cesophagua and to the cervical portion of the left rete. This vessel is not mentioned by Owen in his general description. The last trunk which the aortic arch supplies springs from the descending portion at a considerable distance from any of the others. It is the left posterior thoracic. The brachio-carotid arteries, very short trunks, pass forwards and outwards, to terminate by dividing into subclavians which pass outwards, and common carotids which stretch forwards. It is of great importance to notice that the pneumogastric nerves, which in most mammals cross ventral to the subclavian arteries, are placed dorsal to these vessels in the porpoise. The nerve of the left side passes ventral to the arch of the aorta, and sends its recurrent branch forwards upon its dorsal surface, and upon the right side the posterior thoracic artery has relations to the nerve, similar to those of the aorta upon the left. The explanation of this seems to be that the posterior thoracic is the artery corres- ponding to the usual mammalian subclavian, while the subclavian Lrtery of the porpoise represents the subclavian found in birds, crocodiles, and chelonians, crossing ventral to the pneumogastric nerve, and considered by Sabatier* different from the ordinary subclavian of mammals. It is interesting under these circum- stances to note the branches which the two stems, subclavian and posterior thoracic, in the porpoise, give off, in as much as they are both the representatives of vessels which supply the anterior limbs. The distribution of the carotid arteries may, however, first be shortly described. The commo7i carotid, after an exceedingly short course, divides into the external and internal trunks. In the adult specimen the common carotid, though exceedingly short, is still appreciable, but in the foetus the vessel hai'dly.can be said to be present, and the brachio-cephalic trunk divides at its extremity into three arteries, the subclavian, the external carotid, and the internal carotid. No lateral branches arise from the common carotid stem. The external carotid artery holds a straight course forwards and urnvards through the neck from its origin to the posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw. Then bending directly forwards it passes internal to the ramus and is continued towards the * Observations sur le transformations du Systcnie Aortique dans la Sdrie de Vert^bres. Annal. d. Sc. Nat., 5 Sdr., Tom XIX.