86 Mr. R. Bruce Young on Development of the Intestine. notice when making examination of foetal conditions required in that connection. In the foetus referred to (Fig. 2) the duodenum curves under- neath the root of the superior mesenteric artery, carrying with it the upper end of the jejunum. Even at this early stage, before the part of the colon at the neck of the primary loop has readied farther than the left side of the superior mesenteric artery, the duodenal curve has been formed. Thus, while no doubt growth in opposite directions at the two ends of the primary loop causes rotation of the bowel, it is probable that the passage of the lower end of the duodenum with the upper end of the jejunum underneath the artery determines the direction of this rotation. As regards the distribution of the superior mesenteric artery, there is a point to which I wish to direct attention. This artery forms the axis round which rotation of the primary loop takes place, and from its opposite sides come off the vasa intestini tenuis and the colic branches. Thus the part of the ileum belonging to the inferior limb of the loop receives its blood-supply, not from the vasa intestini tenuis, but, as Tiedemann correctly represents, from the anastomosis between the ileo-colic branch and the termination of the main trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. The length of the part of the ileum so supplied (taking the ileo-colic junction and the prolongation of the line of the stem of the superior mesenteric as limits) varied in the cases which I examined, from 1 foot some inches to 3 feet. This represents in the adult the portion of the ileum, which was inferior to the apex of the primary loop—its upper limit marking the position of that apex. In connection with this it is interesting to note the position at which true diverticulum of the intestine occurs. In eight specimens obtained from the dissecting rooms and preserved in the Anatomical Museum of the University of Glasgow, the recorded measurements of the distance of this diverticulum from the ileo-ctecal junction range from 20 inches to 4 feet. The stages of development of the sigmoid flexure do not seem to have been up to the present described. In a fostus, 3 inches long, I find the colon descending in a comparatively straight course from the well-marked splenic flexure, until at its lower part it bends backwards towards the posterior abdominal wall, and, entering the pelvis, passes down to the anus. The free raeso-colon is still attached to the posterior abdominal wall, between the left kidney and the middle line; and there is no