Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arteries of the PoriMise. 63 under surface of the eyeball. It is better, however, to consider the continuation of the vessel which dips deeply internal to the ramus as a branch, under the name of internal maxillaiy artery, and to describe as external carotid only that portion of the trunk which intervenes between the origin and the posterior edge of the ramus. The branches of the vessel are numerous. The first to come off upon the right side takes upon the left side its origin, not from the external carotid but from the subclavian. It may be called superficial thyroid. This is a vessel which passes forwards and inwards upon the ventral aspect of the neck close to the skin to be distributed to the trachea and larynx, and to the cutaneous structures underneath. Its most anterior branches stretch forwards for a short distance in front of the hyoid bone. The superficial thyroid artery of the left side, although differing in origin from, is in its distribution quite similar to its neighbour of the right side. The other branches of the external carotid vessels are symmetrical. The next branch may be called superior thyroid, it passes inwards to the parts around the hyoid bone as a very slender trunk. The lingual artery follows. This vessel is of considerable size and courses forwards among the muscles of the tongue to reach the under surface of that organ. A large sub- maxillary branch runs inwards behind the lower jaw. The last branch which the artery gives before passing into the internal maxniary may be called occipital. This, a very slender vessel, is directed backwards upon the skull and breaks up there into a great number of very minute branches which anastomose with the branches of a much larger occipital trunk derived from the subclavian artery. The internal maxillary trunk, the continuation forwards of the external carotid, is at first deeply placed internal to the ramus of the lower jaw, and is directed thence almost straight forwards to the anterior and outer part of the floor of the orbit. The branches are important. The inferior dental artery leaves the parent trunk under the cover of the ramus, enters a dental canal, and, after coursing through the substance of the bone, escapes near the symphysis by a mental foramen. After the dental artery has been furni.shed, some muscular branches are given off; these are small and supply the muscles on the deep aspect of the ramus. At the posterior angle of the orbit a temporal artery arises. This rather a small branch, courses upwards upon the skull behind the the eye and divides into many straiglit branches which ramify