25 Dr. Cleland o)i Form of Human Skull. near the upper and back part of the squamous suture. Connected with these charactei's are the roof-shape of skull found in savage races, and the well-filled or rounded-out vertical transverse section found in civilized races. Prognathous dentition, excessive malar breadth, and both the roof-shaped and the well-filled outline are characters which are late in development; and that fact, as well as the circumstance that civilization actually alters the savage charac- ters mentioned, seems to show that all these distinctions must yield in classificatory importance to any which, while characteristic of whole races, are unaffected by civilization. Such a character is the brachycephalic occiput with absolute shortness of antero-posterior diameter; and with regard to height, it may be remarked that, given a required cranial capacity, the brachycephalic occiput is a cause of height. Thus the height-index, or height as well as length, has high classificatory importance, and it becomes clear that while Retzius was right in making the division into orthognathi and prognathi subordinate to that into dolichocephali and brachycejjhali, it was a pity that he took breadth into consideration at all as a character of the brachycephali, even although he did not fall into the mistake of those who afterwards, and without real appreciation of the sound basis of his classification, made the proportion of breadth a kind of cabalistic charm. The source of the difference between dolichocephali and brachy- cephali seems lost in antiquity, even though the tAvo forms mix and graduate one into the other. But one thing seems certain, that no amount of civilization and development of brain will convert a brachycephalic into a dolichocephalic race. On the other hand, if such a skull as that of the Kafir be subjected to the influences of civilization, it may be expected to lose its roof-shape and expand laterally, and as the brain becomes at the same time richer in convolutions, it may be difficult to estimate the future of such a race if it preserves a fine development of the whole body; EXPLANATION OF PLATE. L—Reduced one-half from tracings of transverse sections of three skulls. Each section has passed through the condyles, the forepart of the mastoid processes and the forepart of the parietal eminences :— «. From a foetus of the ninth month, preserved in weak sphit, with the brain and integuments nm-emoved. b. Skull of aljout twelve years of age. c. Elderly adult.