Memoranda. 163 occasionally in connection with abcranial fission. No sooner does this suggestion occur than it is seen to sviit exactly for explaining the case of the cow described by von Baer. It may be difficult to settle the question clearly; but von Baer's description is so explicit that, as a principle is involved, it may be better to consider what can be made of the evidence than to wait an uncertain and indefinitely long time for another anomaly of the same kind. The appended limbs were imperfect, supported by a common composite scapula, and the elongated bones presented such deviation from the normal as is common in supernumerary pelvic limbs. Each limb possessed only one principal and one supplementary toe. But the principal toe of one of the limbs presented a well formed pastern, coronet, and hoof-bone. The union of the united scapula is by the posterior borders, the dorsum looking outwards and the two spines backwards and forwards, so that the anterior part is a left scapula and the posterior a right scapula; and von Baer determines, evidently correctly, the anterior limb to be a left one and the posterior to be right. This is just what one would expect according to the new explanation. The double scapula and limbs were surrounded with fat, without muscles, and both limbs were supplied by a nerve which arising in a manner not altogether clearly made out, in connection with the roots of the regularly disposed fifth and sixth cervical nerves, escstped mesially from the dura mater to pass out between the ununited laminte of the fifth cervical vertebra, then pierced a foramen left between the united borders of the double scapula and supplied both super- numerary limbs. If a similar anomaly could be obtained, the structure of the spinal cord, where the supernumerary nerves are given oflF, would be specially worthy of study. Between the super- numerary limbs there hung a projection with a blind pouch toward its extremity. This, according to von Baer, might represent the back part of the body of an appended embryo, with indications of a vent. According to my view it is the cephalic end of an undeveloped product of abcranial fission, and the pouch is buccal. Its morphological position would be behind the posterior supernumerary limb, that is to say, between it and the left developed limb, these being the two limbs to which it originally belonged; but it is easy to conceive how the right appended limb (the posteriorly placed limb) growing more rapidly than the aborted body and becoming elongated, might overhang it and come to lie behind it. Plainly, the case is one not of abcaudal but abcranial