Memoranda. 181 with supernumerary limbs beneath the tail which he had himself collected, and in eleven of them he expressly notes more or less visceral duplicity. In one instance the duplicity of the alimentary canal was complete from the point of attachment of the vitelline duct back to two separate cloacte. In eight instances there were two cloacal orifices. In only one instance do I find that he notes the presence of three cajca, but it seems very possible that in other cases the cseca had not been examined. Four other instances of super- numerary limbs in bii'ds, in which the appended limbs hung from the chest, chest and abdomen, or the side, are described by Otto; but the different nature of the two kinds of duplicity did not come under his notice, for aU the twenty-nine cases are included in one group of monsters, " Monstra ex in£equalibus congenita." In accordance with the failure to discover the true nature of subcaudal limbs is the circumstance that, while he figures a beautiful example of a coot with two fully-formed additional feet projecting behind, he has not noted the sides to which the additional feet belong. Two additional examples have come under my own notice since I wrote my memoir. One was a drake with two cloacte, each surmounted by a penis, and the single intestine was furnished with three cseca. The additional limb in this instance had a sinsle stem and divided into two widely separate feet. It sprung from between two pelvic bones intruded on the left side of the tail, and so well developed that there was no difiiculty in distinguishing their parts and ascertaining that the right one was to the left side of the right one. The other specimen was a hen; the pelvic part of the additional limb was minute and free, and the limb ended in one toe; there were two cloacae and three c^ca. A comparison of different specimens shows that the degree of development of additional pelvic elements, and the closeness of their connection with the main skeleton, vary quite independently of the degree of development of the additional feet; also, that the degree of duplicity of the alimentary canal is not regulated by the degree of development of either pelvic or distal elements of the added limbs. I cannot leave this subject without making a suggestion as to the cause of the uniformity with which total disappearance is effected of one of the divisions of the vertebral column. The key to that is to be found in the circumstance that two limbs originally belonging to different divisions of the embryo adjust themselves to form a normal pair. Individuality is not indefinitely pre-existent,