106 Prop. Cleland on the Tail in Myxine and Fetromyzon. concave margin in front, and tapering to a point behind. (Fig. 1.). Its inferior border is slightly convex, and is produced into twenty-four processes or fin-rays. At the anterior inferior angle of the plate is a small bifurcated process expanding into a pair of flattened surfaces directed forwards so as to support or abut against the hindermost pair of mucous glands. I have not been able to trace the caudal artery beyond the margin of the plate; and the accompanying vein, which is greatly enlarged in the two last iiiches of its course, terminates abruptly, fitting into the concave anterior margin of the plate. The fin-rays are cartUa- ginous to their extremities, which are easily examined on peeling ofi" the skin, and it can in the same way be seen that there are similar rays in front of them, separate from one another and in size, as far forwards as the vent, which is situated about two inches from the extremity of the tail. These shorter anterior rays do not project so far as those behind them, and their deep extremities fall a good way short of the sheath enclosing the notochord, being hid between the two rows of close-set mucous glands. The middle of each one is united with those next it by a fibrous band running between the superficial margins of the muscles. Above the hinder end of the notochord upper caudal rays are placed more closely than the lower caudal, and continued about the same distance forwards. Opposite the sub-caudal plate the upper rays are united at their bases by a continuous strip of cartilage, which may be continued about the same distance for- wards as the sub-caudal plate, or not quite so far, but is ver^ narrow, and might well escape attention if not specially looked for. In front of this the upper rays are ununited by cartilage, and are thick and rounded at their bases, which do not approach quite so closely to the neural sheath as does the strip behind them. They are scattered more sparsely further forwards. All the fin-rays, as also the basal blocks, are composed of cellular cartilage, cartilage-cajDsules placed closely together without intervening matrix, not unlike the cellular cartilage of the ears of mice and other small mammals (Fig. 2). But it differs in presenting a tendency of the capsules to fall into groups, with the walls which are turned towards other groups a little thicker than those which separate one member of a group from another of the same; and it is difficult to make sure if all the partitions between members of the same group are complete; Each capsule is