Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Vertebrates. 123 course it gives off a number of intercostal or parietal arteries. In the neck these are still given off, although much reduced in size, and immediately behind the skull it ends in a double manner. Its larger portion, like the dorsal branch of a parietal artery, ter- minates in anastomosis with the occipital artery, resembling in this respect the human deep cervical, while by far the smaller portion, after the manner of the spinal branch of a parietal artery, passes on to the neural axis to anastomose with the interAal branch of the carotid artery like the human vertebral. In birds, as in all the other forms yet considered, only one of the tliree anastomotic chains is specially enlarged, and, as in crocodilian reptiles, it is the vertebral artery which is prolonged into the neck. The subclavian artery arises by its ventral root, and, as in the crocodile, the vertebral artery should take origin by roots from three distinct places, but of these two are so reduced in size as to appear absent. The main root is that from the carotid artery, or, in other words, from the carotid portion of the dorsal longitudinal vessel. Of the other roots, that from the first aortic intercostal artery is represented by a fine anastomotic thread between the two vessels, while that from the ventral subclavian continued round the body wall into the anastomotic chain is not to be found. In a number of dissections, made for the purpose of tracing the connection between the subclavian and vertebral arteries, while I was able to follow their branches into close proximity to one another, I could not demonstrate actual anastomosis. The vertebral artery of birds terminates, like that of the crocodile, in a double manner, the larger portion inosculating with the occipital, the smaller with the internal carotid artery. In mammals, in which the subclavian arises by its dorsal root, the type followed is that of the human subject, in which, as has already been explained, the three anastomotic chains are repre- sented. The cetacean class forms an exception. Here both ventral and dorsal roots are present, the branches to the limb passing from the ventral vessel. From the dorsal vessel, however, two anastomotic chains pass into the neck, corresponding respec- tively to the inferior thyroid and deep cervical of the human subject, the vertebral being unrepresented. There are many varieties in the different groups of mammals in the origin of the vertebral artery, but in most cases it arises either directly from the subclavian, or from the aorta in its immediate vicinity. In the human subject, too, while the vessel normally