Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Herma/phroditic Malformation. 29 by a dense band of muscular fibres. The aperture of the neck is comparatively a small one, but immediately beyond it the canal of the urethra presents a large dilatation, which extends forwards for nearly one-fourth of an inch. From the anterior extremity of the dilated portion, two distinct canals proceed. The two canals lie in one median vertical plane, the iipper one being a male urethra, while the lower opens into a female urinary meatus. They are nearly of similar size at their origin, but as they pass forwards the male passage becomes very much reduced, while the other maintains its size until its termination. Close to its end, howevei', in the substance of the glans penis, the male urethra again dilates into a very large cavity, similar to that occupying the same position in many monkeys. The corpora cavernosa are firmly bound to the i-ami of the pubes, and pass forwards closely iinited to one another upon the upper surface of a distinct corpus spongiosum. At its anterior extremity the corpus spongiosum forms the glans which, though apparently very large when viewed from the outside, is, upon dis- section, seen to consist only of the walls of a large cavity which occupies its substance opening by a vertical slit at the extremity, and receiving the slender urethi-al canal behind. There is no bulb, btit the corpus spongiosum splits behind into two large vascular masses which suiTound the lower end of the vagina, circumscribing it so closely as almost to occlude it altogether. Between the two lateral parts of the corpus spongiosum a small median portion passes back for some distance, lying between the male urethra and the passage beneath it already described. The male urethra, taking its origin, as has been already mentioned, from the dilated portion of the common canal, is at first of a size to admit easily a very large bristle. Passing forwards, however, in the substance of the corpus spongiosum, the canal becomes very much reduced, almost indeed to obliteration as a passage, but before it ends in the expanded portion occupying the glans, it is again considerably dilated. The wall of the urethra consist- ing externally of firm fibrous tissiie and internally of mucous membrane, is easily followed. It is so strong that it may be without difiiculty separated from the surrounding erectile tissue and entirely dissected out. The mucous membrane is thrown into several longitudinal ridges which ai-e continued forward throughout the whole length of the canal. The passage to the female meatus courses obliquely downwards V