178 Memoranda, J. C. in the one specimen, terminating in a point, and in the other being prolonged in a long and slender thread. Under the microscope it presents a reticulated appearance, as if divided into a number of large cells with slender walls, like the cells of the notochord of a sturgeon; and these are filled with structureless substance which resists the action of ether and chloroform, and is difficult to stain. It is difficult to imagine a function for this structure, and I can only conjecture that it has had its origin in common with the notochord. J. C. 13.—The Incus, Stapes, and Styloid. To Professor Fraser, of Dublin, belongs the credit (Phil. Trans., 1882,) of demonstrating that Reichert was mistaken in believing that the stapes and styloid process are originally connected by cartilage. Curiously enough, however, T find that the styloid process and the ossicles of the ear really are connected in another way. The styloid process is originally continuous with the posterior process of the incus. I have seen this in the human subject, in the pig, and in the sheep. I merely make a preliminary note of the fact at present, leaving to a future occasion the working out of the subject in detail. But I may mention that I was led to look for this connexion by having recognised that the stapes is the opercular of the fish, and that therefore tlie opercular process of the hyo-mandibular bone is the descending process of the incus, and it was probable that the portion of the hyo-mandilular connected with the hyoid arch was the posterior process of the mammalian incus. Forthwith I examined the sheep's skull and found that the styloid remains after birth as a separate element caught in a groove of the tympanic bone, and traceable up to the posterior and upper edge of the tympanic ring. Further examina- tion showed me that this was the spot to which the incus was attached, and I then proceeded to examine the young embryo. But if ray theoretical view be correct, the hyo-mandilular is common to two arches of different natures, the hyoid and the mandilular; and the descending process of the incus, or opercular process of the hyo-mandilular, supports a radiation. In that case the head of the stapes is the proximal end of that bone, and the impaction of its footplate in the fenestra ovalis must be secondary. So far as I have gone in my examination I am confirmed by observation in this belief.