Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Genito-icrinary Malformations. 43 structure, and Bischoff's views have not found confirmation in modern research. Reviewing the details of the undoubted cases of extroversion, and comparing them with those of the dissection which I have described, it will be noticed that the latter approach the former in many respects very closely. The accompanying malformations in my case are those which are found associated with the most exaggerated forms of extrophy. Further, although the abdominal and vesical walls are not ruptured, they yet present appearances from which it is reasonable to infer that the causes Avhich have operated in producing their abnormal condition would, if pro- longed or heightened in their action, have resulted in complete cleavage. Finally, had destruction of the anterior wall of the bladder taken place, the posterior wall would have shown, upon the front of the abdomen, a surface bifid below, the rectum opening by a. fistula through the vaginal fibres between the lateral portions. I am inclined, therefore, to assign to extroversion a causation similar to that already detailed—interference with the bony and ligamentous portions of the pelvic walls due possibly to early fojtal movements, following upon irritation or inflammatory action, and consequent alterations in the shape and dimensions of the cavity. The mode in which the rupture of the abdominal wall and the destruction of the anterior wall of the bladder take place, has already been sufiiciently indicated, and the effect of the interfer- ence with the growth of the pelvis in arresting the development of the organs contained in it has been pointed out. Cases are doubtless described in which extroversion was present unaccom- panied by cleavage of the symphysis, but it is possible to imagine causes which would produce great lateral stretching, even with intact articulation. There remains for consideration still, the method by which the apparent fission of the extroverted mass into two portions is produced. From my dissection it is evident that the bifid appearance of the posterior vesical wall is due to the absence of the trigone and the urethral floor, and in extroversion when fission is present the constant position of the genital or anal apertures between the portions, points to a similar condition. The accepted view,* which ascribes to the whole of the bladder and to the first portion of the urethra, an allantoic origin is * See Comparative Embryology. P. M. Balfour, London, 1881.