144 Dr. Mackay on Aponeioroais in Abdominal Wall. the transversalis muscle alone; but the fact that both muscles contribute to it is proved hy the occasional presence of muscular fibres belonging to the internal oblique in the wall of the sheath below the level of the semilunar fold. From the fold of Douglas to a level a little lower than the middle point between pubis and umbilicus the fibres are disposed in a uniform manner, but below this line they are divided into two distinct bands. One band passes downwards and inwards from the outer margin of the sheath towards the pubis to unite with the linea alba near the middle line. This band when specially strong gives the appearance, when the rectus muscle has been reflected, of a second semilunar fold considerably lower in position than the fold of Douglas. Between this band and the conjoined tendon, a very thin portion of the aponeurosis is stretched. The other band, beginning at the same spot, is directed downwards and outwards along the outer margin of the conjoined tendon, with which it is continuous, and, passing close to the inner and lower border of the deep abdominal ring, reaches the crural arch, into which it is inserted, extending outwards as far as the middle point of Poupart's ligament. Braune,* who mentions the presence of these bands, names them respectively Henle's band and Hessel- bach's band. The deej) epigastric artery, immediately upon its origin from the external iliac, pierces the fascia transversalis, and is continued upwards in the abdominal wall, lying behind the band of Hessel- bach, and in front of the fascia. The posterior sheath of the rectus is pierced by the artery in the angle between the two bands. Henlef believed the semilunar fold of Douglas to be an arrangement in special relation to the epigastric artery; but in the foetus of six months, in which the semilunar fold is situated at the level of the umbilicus, the artery pierces the sheath much lower down, in the angle between the two bands described above, which are already, at that date, perfectly distinct. Professor SolgerJ regards the thickening of the sheath above the level of the fold of Douglas as especially connected with the movements of respiration. The band of Hesselbach as it passes downwards touches the internal and lower margiii of the deep abdominal ring, and being * Loc. cit. tHenle; " Muskellehre," p. 68. t B. Solger : "Ueberdie Bedeiitiuig der Linea Semicirciilaris Douglasii, Morphol. Jahrbuch, 18S6; page 102.