Dr. J. Yule Mackay 07i Arterial System of Chamceleon. 57 obturator vessel in its intra-pelvic portion, and another corresponds to a lateral sacral trunk. The continuation of the internal iliac passes into the thigh in company with the large nerves, as a - sciatic trunk. Arteries of the Hind Limb. The sciatic artery in the thigh lies deeply between the back of the femur and the hamstring muscles, and is continued straight down into the popliteal space. Its branches are small and numerous, and pass in all directions among the muscles, the greater number of them having a direction forwards, inwards, and downwards. A special branch, larger than any of the others, and accompanied by a large branch of nerve, leaves the main arteiy close to its upper end and passes forwards and inwards across the posterior aspect of the bone. The x>opliteal trunk courses straight down through the space, to divide below into anterior and posterior tibial vessels. In its course two branches of some size are furnished. The first of these, muscular in its distribution, passes downwards, running along the margin of the tibia towards the inner side of the ankle, where it is lost among the muscles at the base of the innermost toe. Its termiual branches appear to communicate with the tibial extrem- ity of the dorsal arch. The second branch of the popliteal trunk is articular in its character. It arises as a single vessel which divides into two, the branches circling the bone above the joint and distributing twigs to the interior. Anterior Tibial Artery.—Of the terminal divisions of the popliteal artery, the anterior tibial is by far the larger. This vessel passes through between the tibia and peroneal bone, and occupies a position in the upper third of the leg close to the anterior surface. As it passes downwards, however, the artery smks more deeply, and in the lower third the vessel is found between the two bones, lying in front of a muscle corresponding to the pronator quadratus of the anterior limb, and behind a short extensor of the inner toe. Traced still further, the vessel , courses behind a strong interosseous ligament, which binds the lower extremities of the bones together in front, and finally it escapes from the cover of this to reach the dorsal surface of the tarsus, upon which it divides. Muscular branches are derived at intervals from the artery during its course. Near the lower