122 Philosophical Society of Glasgow. the ascending cervical—which passes forwards nearly to the base of the skull below the cervical transverse processes, and detaches twigs to the oesophagus, the subvertebral muscles, the spinal cord, and the dorsal muscles of the neck. Among the chelonian reptiles a complication Ls met with. The subclavian arises by its ventral root and passes round the body wall in a dorsal direction. The dorsal root and some of the intercostal arteries behind it have disappeared, but the circulation is maintained from the ventral vessel by the anastomosis in the lateral body wall. The ventral vessel is therefore continued right round the body wall and terminates in the longitudinal anastomotic chains which appear to be continued forwards to the head and backwards towards the tail from a ventral subclavian artery. Of the three anastomotic chains prolonged into the neck, only one is specially enlarged. This vessel corresponds to the deep cervical of human anatomy and runs forwards among the dorsal muscles of the neck to terminate in anastomosis with the occipital artery from the carotid. Among the crocodilian reptiles further complications are met with. The subclavian arises by its ventral root, the dorsal root being very much reduced in size. The ventral subclavian, as in the chelonian passes right round the body wall into the longi- tudinal anastomotic chains. Here, as in the other forms, only one of the three lines is specially enlarged, and in this case it is that between the rib necks and transverse processes, corresponding to the human vertebral artery. The first parietal circle which arises from the aorta is supplied to one of the lower intercostal spaces, but an anastomotic chain passes forwards from it, supplying the spaces in front. This is continued into the neck as the vertebral artery, but it is reinforced at the anterior end of the thorax by a branch from the subclavian, corresponding to the root of the deep cervical artery in the chelonian reptiles, while in the neck the vertebral artery receives a third root from the carotid portion of the dorsal longitudinal vessel, which in crocodiles and in birds runs forward for a considerable distance close to the middle line before dividing into its external and internal branches. In the crocodile the anastomotic chain which forms the vertebral artery is thus entered by three different roots. The manner in which the vertebral artery of the crocodile termi- nates is interesting. It is the only one of the three anastomotic chains, which is specially enlarged, and in the thoracic portion of its