Me. E. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. 149 Always most deeply marked towards its base, this triangular part of the groove becomes shallower ais it approaches its apex. The inner part of the groove, never so well marked as the outer, is most distinct towards the margin of the intercondylar notch.* There is generally a flattish shallow depression on the femoral surface extending some way back from the inner part of the external gi-oove. The ridge running across the femoral surface in front of this groove, and forming its anterior limit, has a curved course, the convexity of the curve facing backwards and outwards • (Fig. 1). What happens when the knee-joint is brought to the position of full extension is that the external groove, owing to the rotation inwards of the femur, moves towards the anterior and inner border of the tibial condyle.! Its outer portion closes on the semilunar cartilage, the relation of the anterior part of the cartilage to the tibial condyle being such that a triangular surface is here pressed on by the femur. The inner part of the external groove, on the other hand, is pressed directly against the part of the tibial articular border which is left uncovered by the anterior horn of the semilunar cartilage. Its most distinctly marked pare, i.e., the part nearest the margin of the intercondylar notch, comes in contact with the anterior border of the external tubercle of the tibial spine, while the fiat depression which extends back from the inner part of the groove rests on the sloping articular surface which runs up to the external tubercle.. This exact correspondence between the external groove on the femur, in its different parts, and the structures with which it comes in contact in full extension of the knee-joint, coupled with the fact that the grooves are not present on the femur at the time of birth but only develop as age advances,$ seems to leave little room for doubt that the groove is the result of pressure, partly on the semilunar cartilage, partly on the anterior and inner margin * Hueter [I.e., p. 497) describes the outer groove on the femur as consisting solely of what I have called its outer part. Though, however, the groove is less strongly marked in the inner part of its extent, I have as a rule found it, as described by most observers, extending to the margin of the intercondylar notch. Even where the groove is veiy faint in the middle of its course, the small inmost part of it is usually distinct. t Cf. Hueter, I.e., p. 490. t Hueter, I.e., p. 496, and Terrillon, ^.c, pp. 38-9.