169 Memoranda. is, no doubt, powerful, and that of the scalenus anticus has the advantage of good leverage. It may, therefore, be a question how fa.r the scalene muscles are effectual in preventing the intercostals from increasing the downward curve of the shaft. But it is more important to note, that the attachment of the scalenus anticus has a very different relation to the ossified rib at different ages. During the fifth month of fostal life, the part of the rib to which the scalenus anticus is attached undergoes ossification, and in the adult rib the projection marking the attachment of that muscle to the inner edge of the rib is about an inch-and-a-half away from the tubercle of the rib, and usually occupies the middle of a straight line between the tubercle and the outer edge of the extremity of the shaft. If then, the Hunterian law that bones do not grow by interstitial expansion holds good with regard to the first rib, we must suppose that the elongation behind the scalene projection, namely a growth of an inch or more, is effected in the same way as was demonstrated by Humphry's experiments in the case of the lower jaw, that is to say by absorption at one part and addition at another, the absorption taking place in this instance on the front of the neck of the rib, and the additional deposit on the back of that part. But in the majority of adults there is nearly as great a length of rib in ^ front of the scalene eminence as behind it, the growth taking place by ossification from cartilage at the extremity. Applying these considerations as to the growth of the first rib to the history of its curve, it will be seen that the part in front of the scalene eminence has nothing to do with the well developed concavity of the upper surface seen in the foetus, and that, further, this part while cartilaginous will rather tend to develop a downward concavity by being pulled upwards by the scalene muscles, and held down to the sternum in front. Indeed in the succeeding ribs this action seems to show itself by slightly increased downward slope of the extremity of the shaft which is the last part to be ossified. In young skeletons one sees that the scalene eminence has reached the permanent distance from the tubercle long before ossification at the extremity of the shaft has ceased. PrincipaUy, the nearer approach to flatness in the adult depends on the manner in which the added material is deposited on the part of the bone posterior to the scalene eminence; for it has already taken place by the time that the eminence has reached its permanent distance from the tubercle of the ribs. j q