160 Memoranda. and thickened; also a fold of loose integument lies like a hood behind the upper part of the body. There are no traces of upper limbs. Dorsal vertebrae and ribs are developed ; and above these a nodulated structure is seen, apparently an imperfectly developed cervical and cephalic skeleton, for above it there is a minute pouch surmounted by a projection of integument, and these Vjotli present a similarity to the indications of sense-organs found in perocephalous monsters. External to the ribs on each side is a •bursa. Within the grasp of the vihs, reaching to near the top of the thorax are the kidneys. The intestine ends superiorly close to the umbilicus, and thence may be traced downwards. It reaches the ciEcum after a course of an inch and a half. The gi'eat intestine is irregularly coiled, and ends below in a blind dilatation of the rectum in the upper part of the pelvis. The right testis is seen in the abdomen, while the left seems to have been absent. Of this specimen it may be remai'ked that, on the supposition that the small depression referred to is aural or stomato-aural, the specimen cannot have been united to another embryo by any part lower than the mouth. The idea also occurs that it may have been unassociated with any other embryo; but against that idea there is the important evidence that the specimen in its whole conformation belongs to the fifth type of acephalus recognised by W. Yrolik in the article " Teratology," in the Cydopoidia of Anat. and Phys., and that such acephali are always associated with another foetus; and although one might imagine that the absence of upper limbs and appearance of absence of the head were both due to such strangulating causes as had almost amputated the lower limbs, no such hypothesis will account for the acardiac condition, and absence of the upper half of the alimentary canal with its appendages. Altogether, therefore, I apprehend that the probability is that the specimen was separated at the head from another foetus to which it had been appended. It reminds me of the very rare cases in which equally developed foetuses have remained united by the forehead or vertex, and also of the remark- able skull, described by me {Joibr. Anat. and Phys., Jan., 1879), in which there was united with the proper skull of a full-grown foetus another skull facing it, whose proper body had entirely disappeared. Thus we seem to have a series of three results of union at the fore part of the head, viz., twins united at the fore- head, appendix growing from the front, and acephalus which has been broken off at that part. J. C.