21 Dk. Cleland on Form of Human Skull. which are still too little appreciated. I make no personal com- plaint. . I have to acknowledge, for example, that in Sir William Turner's memoir, in the "Challenger" Reports, every disposition is shown to do justice to anything that I may have done. But facts are stronger than fashions, and when craniologists ignore facts it is a pity for their work. In my memoir, already referred to, attention was explicitly dii-ected to the mixture of different characters which had long been jumbled together in estimating the prognathous or orthognathous character of a skull, and the considerations there mentioned would have made it plain, had observers taken fchem into account, that no addition of such words as " opisthognathous" or "meso- gnathous" could lessen the confusion. Since then, Professor Flower has introduced a new measurement, namely, a comparison of the distance of the basion from the mesial projection of the alveoli with the distance of nasion from basion, claiming for it that it " expresses the measure of gnathism of the skull quite as accuratety as any of the other methods of angles or indices." It is an improvement on methods prior to 1869 ; but is a measurement similarly influenced by dissimilar circumstances, and therefore untrustworthy. It is necessary to distinguish, as bearing 0}i gnathous appearances, several distinct matters:— 1. The conformation of the alveolar arch is to be attended to. This determines the prognatlious or orthognathous character of dentition, a point which can be most accurately recorded by noting the angle between the floor of the nose and a line drawn down the centre of a first incisor alveolus. Such a measurement would be strictly accurate, and might be accompanied with a record of the angle at which the first upper incisor alveolus lay to the corresponding alveolus of the lower jaw. 2. The relative position of the jaw to the part of the skull beneath which it lies should be noted. That can only be done by measuring the orhito-nasal angle. Large size of this angle has nothing whatever to do with prognathous dentition. Prog- nathous dentition, is a thoroughly savage character, and is the most important element in that apparent projection of jaw which Blumenbach and Retzius sought to give importance to. But a large orbito-nasal angle is not a character of savage or degraded sort. The French, and next after them the Scotch, have it lai'ge. In the English, I believe, it will be found to be smaller; and in the Irish and the Germans as small as in any nationalities whatever.