52 Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Chamceleon. required for the brain, the excess would more readily pass towards the plexus than through the narrow foramen leading into the cranium. On the other hand, if the supply from the internal carotid artery were deficient, blood from the plexus could easily find its way to the brain. In other words, the size of the foramen limits the supply of blood which can go to the brain, while the elasticity of the walls of the rete mirabile maintains the supply so long as the constituent vessels are at all distended. Arteries op the Fore Limbs. The subclavian arteries (Fig. 2), arise in close proximity to one another from the right aortic root. The vessel of the right side passes forwards at once into the space between the first and second ribs, but the other trunk crosses the vertebral column to gain a corresponding position upon the left side. Between the ribs both vessels continue outwards for a short distance, crossing the space obliquely forwards, and finally turn over the borders of the first ribs in company with the lower brachial nerves to become axillary. In this course the arteries are placed dorsal to the pneumogastric nerves, and in their first parts at least are to be compared to intercostal vessels. Branches of the Subclavian Artery.—The first branch of the left subclavian artery belongs to the right side of the body, and will be described after the others. The second branch of the left vessel may be called ascending cervical. It arises very close to the commencement of the parent trunk and passes forwards in the neck, running in the line between the muscles underneath the vertebral bodies and those below the transverse processes. Near the base of the skull it turns upwards and terminates by anastomosis with a branch of the cervico-lingual artery already described. Its branches are numerous. The first, a very slender trunk, passes outwards along the nerves of the brachial plexus, and partly supplies the first intercostal space, partly ends in anastomosis with the scapular branch of the cervico-lingual. A set of branches are next given off, the first of whicli arises in close proximity to the one just described. These vessels pass towards the spinal canal, which they enter between the transverse processes, the most posterior twig passing between the second and third dorsal vertebrae. Before entering they detach very slender branches outwards along tlie nerves, and afterwards they are