Dr. Cleland on Form of Human Skull. 16 , the tympanic membrane; tlie length of the external auditory I meatus is a subsequent growth in the first twelve years of life, while up till adult life there is an outward shifting of the lower edge of the ^;ars squamosa, connected with broadening of the brain in the region of the middle lobe, and also with continued separation of the condyles of the lower jaw. So also the separa- tion of the external angular processes of the frontal bone means a broadening of the basal part of the anterior lobes of the brain, and separation of the malars with strengthening of the superior maxillaries as well. But as in length, so in breadth, it is not till birth that the -maximum proportion of arch to base is reached. The increase in breadth of the posterior nares goes on rapidly immediately after birth, before the union of the great alas with the body of the sphenoid, while the distance between the inner edges of the foramina ovalia does not increase nearly so much. At birth the posterior nares may be about half-an-inch in width, while the foramina ovalia are nearly an inch and a quarter separate; but in the adult the width between the foramina ovalia bears a proportion always a little less than twice the width of the posterior nares, a proportion reached as early as in the second year. Again, both in length and breadth, different regions of the vault groio at different rates. Earlier than the time when the maximum proportion of arch to base is reached, probably about a month before birth, the parietal region has reached a maximum preponderance over the frontal and occipital; and the occipital , and frontal regions, but especially the frontal, henceforth grow more rapidly till the adult proportions are reached. In connection Avith this is the circumstance that about a month before birth the parietal region as seen in profile has the roof more bent on itself from before backwards than afterwards, while the forehead and occipital part of the vault are flatter. After birth, the forehead especially begins to round out at the level of the middle of its height; and the "apparent flattening which takes place later in adolescence is connected with the gro^vth forwards of the face and the frontal sinus. It is well known that the degree of separation of the frontal eminences one from the other in the adult is related to the length of time that the frontal suture remains open. Thus, premature closure of that suture is the cause of a triangular form of skull in which the middle of the forehead has been likened to the edge of an axe; while, on the other hand, open frontal suture in the adult,