56 Du. J. Yule Mackav on Arterial liystem of Chavmleon. along wliicli it is distributed, its tine branches reaching the ventral edge of the viscus and passing forwards towards the ojsophageal arteries, and backwards towards the pylorus to anastomose there with another vessel. The vessel the most posterior of the three at its origin, passes directly downwards through the mesentery to supply the median portion of the small intestine, its branches being intercalated upon the tube between the anterior and posterior divisions of tlie artery next to be described. The last vessel, most anterior at its origin from the aorta, is the largest. This trunk divides into two portions, the anterior of which supplies the pyloric end of the stomach and the duodenal portion of the small intestine, and gives branches which accompany the bile duct through the mesogastrium towards the liver. The posterior division reaches the tube in the neighboui'hood of the caecum, which it supplies with branches. Its terminal twigs reach backwards upon the large intestine nearly to the cloaca. No other intestinal branch arises from the aorta. One or two branches stretch out towards the reproductive glands, and still further back an artery passes on each side to the kidney. The caudal continuation of the aorta, though comparatively a slender trunk, maintains its size almost to the extremity of the tail. In its course under the caudal vertebrse, it occupies an imperfect canal formed by processes. Its branches are very slender and of the nature of intercostal or intervertebral trunks. The common iliac arteries are short trunks measuring each about one-fourth of an inch in length. They give oflf no branches, but divide at their terminations into external and internal iliac vessels. The external iliac, much the smaller of the two, passes inwards with an inclination backwards along the junction of the abdominal and pelvic walls, and divides into branches as it proceeds. The branches are very slender, and appear to ramify in the abdominal wall after the manner of epigastrics. Some minute twigs seem to be prolonged towards the thigh, but they could not be followed. The internal iliac trunk passes down into the pelvis, running along the lateral wall in company with the sacral and sciatic nerves ; and breaks up into a large number of branches. These are visceral and parietal. Two twigs ramify upon the upper portion of the cloaca, and a third sweeps backwards for some little distance to end upon the skin on the margin of the aperture. Of the parietal arteries one has a course similar to that of the human