186 Memoranda. cases are tlierefore simply instances of the pei'sistence of a stage in the development of the intestine, which is permanent in some of the lower animals. R. B. Y. 29.—Unusual Course of the Phrenic Nerve. The subject was an adult male. The phrenic nerve on the right side passed downwards in front of the great nerve-cords quite outside of the border of the scalenus anticus muscle till it reached the transverse cervical artery, which in this case was given of!" by a trunk springing from the third part of the subclavian, just beyond the border of the scalenus anticus. The phrenic then passed round behind the transverse cervical artery, bent abruptly inwards, and, crossing the scalenus anticus, entered the thorax. The phrenic thus looked exactly as if it had been hooked to the outside of the scalenus by the artery. Where it turned round the transverse cervical artery it lay quite close to the third part of the subclavian. The filament connecting the phrenic with the fifth cervical nerve was present, as well as the usual larger root of the nerve. The very short trunk coming off" from the third part of the subclavian, besides giving off the transverse cervical, also gave origin to the suprascapular and the ascending cervical arteries. The ascending cervical ran upwards outside the border of the scalenus anticus parallel and internal to the phrenic nerve. The internal mammary artery came off from the third part of the subclavian, and, turning inwards, descended to the thorax. The inferior thyroid arose from the first part of the subclavian. A similar case is recorded in Qivain's Anatomy of the Arteries (p. 140). The abnormalities in that case occurred on the left side, but otherwise are very like those described, the course of the phrenic nerve being the same as in the present case, and the trans- verse cervical, ascending cervical, suprascapular, and internal mammary arteries all arising from the third part of the subclavian. In another case, described by Koster (Analytical Notices by Moore in the Journal of Anatomtj and Plnjsiologrj, 1870, pp. 338-9), the phrenic nerve ran down outside of the scalenus anticus, curved behind the transverse cervical and the supra- scapular arteries, and then turning inwards and lying in front of the subclavian vein passed into the thorax. The explanation given of the abnormal position of the phrenic in that case is that the