96 PuoF. Cleland 071 Distinctions of Form in Human Pelvis. symphysis. Too much has been made of the occurrence of an epiphysis at the symphysis pubis. I have not seen a continuous thin plate of bone at that part, but only irregular nodules, and these may be found distinct after the bone is everywhere else complete. Probably ossification at this jiavt is completed earlier in the male than in the female. 2, Iliac Divarication.—With regard to the expansion of the iliac bones some curious statements have crept into Quain's Anatomy. In the seventh and eighth editions the questionable statement, not found in previous editions, was made, that in the female " the ilia are more expanded than in the male." In the ninth edition it is announced that "the ilia are more vertical, and thus the false pelvis is relatively narrower than in the male." The word " relatively" has probably reference to the greater breadth of the true pelvis in the female; but the first part of the statement is that which demands particular attention. I have examined the anterior edges of the ilia in 14 adult male and 1:6 adult female pel vises, and find that there is considerable variation in the angle at which the right and left lie to one another, but that the variation does not depend on sex. The average angle of divarication in the female was 50|-°, the average in the male was 53°. In three males the divarication reached to 73°, 80°, and 89^^, and all three specimens Avere evidently from muscular subjects of middle age or beyond it, and heavily made. In one male pelvis, a negro, in which the iliac and ischial epiphyses were just beginning to unite with the main bone, the angle was only 16°, and in another male in which the ischial epiphysis had begun to unite, and the iliac had not, the angle was 22°. Among the 16 female pelvises there Avas one with the epiphyses quite united, with an angle of divarication of the ilia measuring only 22°; while there were five others, aU of them with the epiphyses incompletely united, which had respectively angles of 31°, 33°, 34°, 35°, and 41°. Only one of the others had the epiphyses not quite completely united, and it had an angle of 65°. One ill-shaped pelvis, from an elderly and peculiarly-made subject, had an angle of 81°; another, heaAy and large, had an angle of 76; the I'emainder varied from 48° to 64°. I have examined, in addition, a few young skeletons. In four subjects with milk-teeth the angles of divarication are 86°, 85°, 85°, 82°; in two other subjects which have the permanent incisors the angles are 64° and 61°; in another, with only the two fii-st incisors