Philoso'phical Society of Glasgow. 120 some mammals, as the cetacean group, the thyroidea ima is con- stant. In forms lower than mammals the bi-anches from the ventral trunk are large and important. They are described along with the comparative anatomy of the subclavian artery in the next sectiou. Comparative Anatomy of the Anastomotic Chains between THE Subclavian and Carotid Arteries. The subclavian artery, although in mammals springing from the dorsal longitudinal vessel, is yet in some other forms a branch of the ventral longitudinal trunk. This second mode of origin is to be found in birds and in crocodilian and chelonian reptiles—in which groups subclavian is found to stretch outwards to the limbs, from the ventral margin of the base of the carotid stem, crossing in its course, superficial or ventral, to the pneumogastric nerve and jugular vein. There are thus two vessels wliich, in different circumstances, may be prolonged into the pectorial Limb— one from the dorsal trunk found in most mammals, in lacertilian reptiles, and in amphibians, the other from the ventral vessel in birds and crocodilian and chelonian reptiles. In most cases both, these arteries are to be found co-existing, although but one reaches the limb. Among mammals, in the porpoise and in other cetacean animals, it is the artery from the ventral trunk which supplies the limb, but the artery from the dorsal trunk is present as a very large vessel—the posterior thoracic—distributing its branches chiefly to the great thoracic arterial rete, but also giving off branches to the neck, which, correspond to the inferior thyroid and deep cervical of the human subclavian. In lizards both vessels are present, but, as in the human subject, it is the dorsal one which is prolonged into the limb, the ventral one losing itself in branches among the scapular muscles. It is important to notice that in all cases where the two arteries are to be found they anastomose freely with one another in the lateral body wall. The comparative anatomy of the subclavian artery may thus be briefly summarised :—There are two vessels, one arises from the ventral longitudinal trunk, and runs round the body wall in a dorsal direction, the other arises from the dorsal trunk and runs round the body wall in a ventral direction; they anastomose in the body wall, and at the place of anastomosis the branch to the limb arises, (PI. VII., Fig. III.) In most cases both roots are present, one or other being the larger. On account of the free anastomosis