Professor Cleland on Viscera of Gymnolus Electricus. 91 from vessels emerging from the gills. The pseuclobranchs found in many fishes were shown by MuUer in his memoir on the Myxinoid fishes, to get their blood from the branchial veins, much after the fashion in which, so far as I can see these fungoid structures receive theirs. Yet morphologically the pseudobranchs are in series with the true gills, and though the nature of their blood-supply has led to the allegation thtt they cannot be respii-atory, the assertion must not be too rashly made. It passed muster excellently well in the days in which it was supposed that want of oxygen to act on the impure blood going to a respiratory organ led to stasis of blood in the organ, by hindering its movement forward. But it has been shown from the experiments of Reid and others (Flint, Physiology of Man, I., 291), that the blood in asphyxia is not obstructed till it reaches the systemic capillaries. The blueness of the skin in asphyxia shows the presence of quantities of unoxidized blood there, and it IS matter of notoriety which any practitioner or sick nurse may observe, that the body of a person who has died from bronchitis, or any such affection as leads to stagnation of dark blood in the capillaries, may become red-lipped and rosy in colour on prolon-ed exposure to the air. There is nothing to hinder the possibility of pseudobranchs and this peculiar arrangement of the mucous membrane of Gymnotus exercising a function as supplemental respiratory organs when the blood has passed through the c^iUs without bemg properly oxidized. It suggests itself, therefore^ as possible that at times, as when the ponds in which it occurs are foul from heat and evaporation, the Gymnotus replenishes the deficient oxygen of its blood by approaching its mouth to the surface,_ so as to allow the air to act on the tufts of dilated capillaries^in its buccal membrane, just as in a number of other teleostei o different families, e.g. Saccobranchus, Glarias, Heterotis, Polyacanthus, and Osphromenus, there are supplemental respira! Tefidir^'™'' ^^eful when water is The next point to which I would call attention is the arrange- r! • f 'J'^^^^S bladders and their ducts. Stannius {Zo^onue der F^seke, 2nd edition, p. 225) refers to a memoir by J. Remhardt, from which he gives the following abstractAll &ym.o^^n^ possess, as Cuvior has already pointed out, two wnnming bladders, an anterior smaller, and a posterior /argli and often very long. From the hinder end of the anterio-