Dr. Cleland on Form of Human Skull. u vesicle, is of proportionally enormous size, before there is any discernable appearance of the lateral outgi'owth similarly related to the ear, namely, as I maintain, the flocculus; also, the mesence- phalon at one period gains a preponderance over the parts both in front and behind, which is afterwards altogether lost, and the cerebral hemispheres, appearing at first in front, expand backwards, so as to cover in man all the parts behind, and bear at birth a greatly larger proportion to the cerebellum than they do afterwards. Doubtless the irregularity of the rate of development of the different parts of the cranium depends to a considerable extent, though not perhaps altogether, on the peculiar mode of develop- ment of the brain. The curvatufe of the head in early embryonic life, known to occur in all the craniota, is obviously the result of the greater development of the brain on its dorsal than on its ventral aspect, while as yet it is a narrrow cylinder, not completely closed on the dorsum. But, notwithstanding that early curve, the base of the skull resumes in the lower vertebrates the original direction of growth, and extends, till arrival at the adult state, in a straight line forwards from the vertebral column. In mammals, however, an added law of growth becomes conspicuous. In them, and even / in birds, there is, in consequence of the greater gro^vth of the (^cerebral hemispheres, an elongation of the roof of the skull as compared with the base, and the cranium becomes thereby curved. This curvature in adult mammals is greater, the greater the enlargement of the hemispheres; until, in man, it completes a semicircle, that is to say—the floor of the forepart of the craiiial cavity is parallel, or nearly so, to the foramen magnum; sometimes falling a few degrees . short of parallelism, sometimes slightly exceeding it, as I pointed out in my " Inquiry into the Variations of the Human Skull," published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society in 1869. I trust that I now make it sufficiently distinct that this semicircular bend, which I then displayed in its growth and variations, and termed the cranial cu,rve, is totally distinct from the embryologists' curve of the brain and its sur- roundings. The latter, indeed, affects the capsule in which the cranium afterwards appears, but it does not throw into a curve any part of the cartilaginous base. Perhaps this very circumstance is correlated with the splitting up of the cartilaginous base mto the trabeculse. The extent of cranial curve is not only an element, as we shall see, of importance in estimating diflerences of race, but is