Db. Cleland 071 Birch toith Superniomerary Legs, (i;c. 11 there have entered into the parasite elements of five limbs. The conclusion appai-ently justified is a very remarkable one, viz., that every vertebrate animal has at an early period of its existence a latent capability of splitting up indefinitely. If comparison be made of the fissiparous division which takes place in double monstrosity with that which occurs in the nucleated corpuscle, other difierences will be found besides the circumstance that in the latter case it is one corpuscle which divides, while in the former it is a mass of corpuscles which does so. Attention has now been drawn for a good many years to the complex changes Avhich occur in nuclei before they divide, and those who cherish the chimerical hope that the phenomena of life will one day be reduced to an evolution founded wholly on the laws of inoi'ganic matter, have not been slow to see in those changes evidence of a total rearrangement of molecules, whereby every minute portion of the nucleus, as it was before the changes set in, is distributed equally to each of the two halves into which the whole divides, so as to secure hereditary transmission of similar pro- perties. It is noteworthy that in the fission which results in twins or double monstrosity, nothing analogous can take place. In this case it is a numerous host of corpuscles which divides, and it is quite impossible to imagine that the members of that host shift their places from one part of the mass to another. It follows that individual corpuscles or groups of corpuscles become, after fission of the mass, ancestors of the textural elements of totally difierent parts of the body from those which they would have had to do with had the stimulus to fission not been given. It clearly follows that the power by which the different parts and organs of the organism are determined is not resident in the individvial corpuscles. For, in that case, the corpuscles destined to give rise normally to mesial structures could not, by any stimulus, become the originators of lateral organs, nor could the laterally situated corpuscles, whose normal destination was to form the ground- work of lateral parts, leave that ofiice and become the sources of crania, vertebral columns, and cerebro-spinal axes. But this is exactly what does take place, when fission of the embryonic shield occurs. Therefore the factor which models one part into a vertebra, another into a rib, and another into a jJortion of the sternum is not locked up in the physical properties of the molecules of the sepa/rate corpuscles, and there is in an organism, a moulding power additional to the physical p)rop)erties of the molectdes.