Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Arterial System of Ch'ammleon. 49 wards and inwards on the neck, the other running outwards and backwards towards the shoulder. The anterior division, or lingual artery, passing forwards and inwards, escapes from the cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and reaching the upper surface of the group of muscles which stretch between the inferior maxUiary and hyoid bones, is continued forwards along the upper surface of the base of the tongue towards the extremity of that organ. During this course numerous branches are given off as follows :—(1) A set directed backwards and upwards in the neck, one of the branches sinking deeply, to terminate by inosculating with the ascending cervical branch of the subclavian; (2) branches directed inwards to the trachea and oesophagus, the most anterior of these reaching as far forwards as the back of the palate; (3) twigs ramifying among the muscles which pass between the hyoid bone and the lower jaw, approaching in this area a set of branches from the external carotid artery; (4) terminal divisions in the substance of the tongue. The other portion of the superficial cervical trunk may be named the sca/pular. This artery courses backwards, upwards, and outwards towards the shoulder, crossing underneath the pneumogastric nerve and the great vein of the neck. Close to the shoulder it gives off a branch which ramifies under- neath the deltoid muscle, and may be called suprascapular. The main trunk then reaches the inner surface of the shoulder girdle, and breaks up into a number of small twigs. A posterior scapular branch runs backwards above the shoulder blade; a sternal branch sweeps forwards along the inner surface of the coracoid bone, and a twig runs inwards along the brachial nerves to anastomose with a slender branch coming outwards from the ascending cervical of the subclavian. These divisions ai-e all very minute, and approach very closely the main tnink of the subclavian artery which here crosses over the first rib. External Carotid.—From the termination of the common carotid artery the external carotid courses upwards and backwards along the posterior margin of the skull, slightly overlapped by the projecting edge, the convexity of the curve thus made being directed forwards. Reaching the under surface of the temporal bone, the artery passes through a foramen and gains the side of the skull, where it divides into its terminal branches, the occipital and temporo-facial. By means of its branches this artery supplies almost the whole of the outer aspect of the head and also the dorsal muscles of the neck.