Dr. J. Yule Mackay 07i Arterial System of Chamcsleon. 51 the vessel into the muscle, and reach the skin. A few reach the outer extremity of the circumoi'al anastomosis. The orbital plexus will be described after the internal carotid artery. Internal Carotid.—The internal carotid trunk, very much smaller than the external, bends from its origin forwards and inwards to reach the base of the skull, where it enters a deep bony groove in which it continues its forward course for sonie distance. At the anterior end of the groove the vessel divides into two, one portion passing upwards through a foramen to reach the base of the brain, the other bending forwards and outwards to join a branch of some size which passes backwards towards it from the orbital plexus. During its course the internal carotid artery supplies upon both sides two or three minute branches, which ramify upon the base of tlie skull. Upoii the brain the artery distributes a large number of branches, some of which pass backAvards in the direction of the spinal cord. Orbital Plexus. The orbital plexus is a large collection of arterial vessels which completely surrounds the eyeball, the thickest 'portion being behind where the terminal divisions of the temporo-facial artery enter it. The plexus receives its blood from them alone, but distributes it to surrounding parts by a number of different channels. One set of efferent branc'hes is directed forwards, and the trunks comprehended in it may be named from their desti- nations superior labial, superior maxillary, external nasal, and supra-orbital. Branches pass backwards for a short distance on the optic nerve. The largest branch, derived from the orbital plexus, however, is the one which jiDins the internal carotid artery. This trunk courses downwards, iiiAvards,. and backwards, to form the inosculation, giving off secondary twigs from both sides, which are distributed upon the base of the skull. Those which run forward may be divided into anterior palatine and internal nasal trunks, while those which take a backward direction, of less importance, supply the lateral aspects of the cranial base. Tl:e junction with the internal carotid is formed after that vessel has given off its cerebral branch and is of a direct character. The connection of the internal carotid artery with the large reservoir of the plexus must have an important influence in maintaining the even constancy of the cerebral circulation. If more blood were being carried by the interna] carotid arteries tlian was