Philosophical Society of Glasgow. 118 and fourth primary arches. Under these circumstances, the blood supply to this portion of the intestine is maintained by the enlarge- ment of one of the anastomotic chains. The inferior thyroid artery represents the continuation upwards into the neck of the anas- tomotic chain between the segmental branches which lies upon the anterior surface of the rib necks. The artery from whicli it rises —the subclavian—is to be regarded, probably, as representing a fusion of the parietal and visceral circles of two or more segments. The other branches to the alimentary canal spring from the external carotid artery, when that trunk exists, namely, in mammals; they are the superior thyroid, lingual, ascending pharyngeal, and branches from the facial artery. The superior thyroid arteiy is the continuation downwards from the external carotid of the same anastomotic chain, which continued upwards from the subclavian formed the inferior thyroid artery. The lingual and the ascending pharyngeal represent the visceral circles of still higher segments, while the facial artery supplying visceral and parietal branches is probably to be regarded, like the pudic, and, like the external carotid itself, as representing a basal fusion of the visceral and parietal circles. The Parietal Circles.—The parietal circles have been least in- terfered with in the thoracic and lumbar regions, where they form the intercostal and lumbar arteries. These vessels course round the body wall and unite with the anastomotic chains formed by the internal mammary and epigastric arteries. The radiating branches are the dorsal, the lateral, and the anterior. The dorsal branches send twigs into the spinal canal to supply the neural axis, the lateral branches ramify in the body wall, and are in series Avith the arteries which in the pectoral and pelvic regions enter the limbs. At the lower end of the abdomen, while the dorsal longitudinal trunk is continued onwards as the middle sacral artery, the parietal and visceral circles, have become fused on each side into one stem—the common iliac artery. The viscei-al circles have been already noticed. There are five distinct parietal circles—the external iliac, the obturator, the gluteal, the sciatic, and the jnidic. The external iliac artery is continued round the body wall, its terminal branch joining the ventral anastomosis formed by the epigastric artery. The lateral branch of the external iliac forms in mammals the femoral artery, and supplies the pelvic limb. The obturator artery passess round the somatic wall, and is joined