17 Dr. Cleland on Form of Human Skull. tliongli sometimes found without any alteration of the usual form of the skull, is more frequently associated with abnormal frontal breadth; the continued widening of the frontal region by growth of the brain being in the latter case, as pointed out by Welcker, the cause of the suture remaining open. The occurrence of cases of open frontal suture without increase of frontal breadth does not interfere with the truth of Welcker's observations, but only illustrates that a suture may remain open after the bones have ceased to grow, which is indeed the ordinary rule in other sutures. It is easy, however, to note that the frontal bone widens more rapidly to its permanent width at the coronal suture than it does further forward, and that the most prominent part of the frontal eminences somehow continvies to be situated, from birth till adult life, directly above the external angular pro- cess, or a shade nearer the middle line; but the extremities of the external angular processes, which are intimately connected with the breadth of the face, contimie to retreat one from the other long after the usual period of disappearance of the frontal suture. Indeed, they go on widening the space between them up till puberty, in harmony with the widening of the' face. Up to the same or a later date, the frontal eminences cont^ue to rise further above the level of the orbits. At birth the orhito-nasal angle is greater than it is either before or afterwards. This is another curious instance of different parts growing at different rates in different periods of life. The orbito- nasal angle is an angle of which I first showed the importance in my memoir in 1869. It denotes the angle at which the front of the upper jaw lies to the floor of the anterior fossa basis cranii: and the mode in which I measured it was by taking the angle between a line extending forward from the optic foramen as far as the fronto-nasal suture, and another from that suture to the base of the nasal spine. It is small in early foetal life on account of the feeble development of the face, while its diminution after birth indicates that whereas the position and size of the alveolar arch at birth are determined by the position of the pterygoid processes and the space required for the young teeth, the enlargement forward required for the full development of the permanent teeth is less than the i forward growth of the forehead in connection with the anterior lobes of the brain and the enlargement of the frontal sinuses. A curious series of changes in the form of the growing skull depends on each roof bone being at first conical and afterioards