Me. Young on Morphology of Cervical Articular Pillars. 75 again, in the cervical region, as in the lumbar, they are to a certain extent separated from one another. The serial homology of these parts in the cervical vertebra3 in the human subject has, I find, been recognised by Aeby {Lehrhuch der Anat, p. 139) and by Henle {Anat. des Menschen, p. 30) among foreign anatomists, but neither of these writers goes into any detail on the subject. Retzius {op. cit., p. 653) points out the existence of mammillary processes in the cervical vertebrte of Myrmecophaga tamandua, but makes no mention of their occurrence in the human subject.. Among English writers, Owen {Camp. Anat. of Vertebrates, vol. ii., p. 397) describes the five posterior cervical vertebrte of Myrmecophaga jubata as possessing "a metapophysial tubercle on the outer side of the prozygapophysis;" while in Quain's Anatomy (7th edition, vol. i., p. 22) allusion is made to the continuation of the series of the mammillary processes in the prominences on the articular processes of the hedgehog and of the armadillo. The only other Englisli work consulted that refers to the existence of these processes in the cervical region is Humphry's Treatise on the Human Skeleton, in which, at p. 142, it is stated that "in the neck, faint indications of the upper and lower tubercles" (mammillary ' and accessory tubercles) " may be detected in the form of slight projections at the extremities of the posterior transverse processes." The probability of the existence of secondary processes in the cervical, homologous with those in the dorsal and lumbar regions, is strengthened by the occurrence of such processes in the cervical vertebrte in some of the lower animals. Mammillary processes are found {vide supra) in two of the ant-eaters, in the hedgehog, and in the armadillo. In the beaver and the tiger these processes are also present. In the tiger, where throughout the vertebral column the series of secondary processes is strongly developed, and can be easily traced as far forwards as the fifth cervical, the homology of the processes behind the articular pillars in the fifth, sixth''and seventh cervicals is all the more plainly indicated by the secondary process m the first dorsal lying, not on the transverse process, but P Cell in^ tliG articular surfaces. Observation of the form of the cervical vertebra in the human foetus reveals the existence of a stage in development in which the portion of the vertebra supporting the superior articular surface bears a much closer relation than it does in the adult to the true transverse process. For, as we pass from older to younger foetal specimens, the lateral notches between the articular pillars and the