Philosophical Society of Glasgow. IIG upon the body walls. Another set of branches distributed in the embryo to the Wolffian body, and in the adult to structures developed in connection with it, appears to occupy a position intermediate to the two circles; but it seems probable, from the manner in which the Wolffian body is developed, that these arteries are to be regarded as connected more especially with the parietal circle. (PI. VII., Fig. II.) I have used the word "circle" to denomi- nate the segmental branches of the dorsal longitudinal vessel, in order to avoid confusion between these vessels and the primary arches, which have a similar direction, but occupy a position between the two circles, and are distinct from either. (PI. VII., Fig. III.) The visceral circle supplies branches to the alimentary canal and to the organs developed in connection with it. The parietal circle gives branches which radiate from it to the body wall; the most important are (1) a dorsal, (2) a lateral, (3) a ventral. (Fig. II., PI. VII) Longitudinal anastomotic chains connect the circles of successive segments with one another. The most important of these are (1) upon the ventral border; and (2) upon the dorsal border of the alimentary canal; (PI. VII., Fig. II.); (3) along the ventral aspect of the body wall; (4 and 5) along the ventral and dorsal borders of the neural axis, spinal cord and brain; (6) close to the vertebral column upon the ventral surface of the rib necks ; (7) between the rib necks and transverse processes; (8) upon the dorsal aspect of the transverse processes. The last three chains lie in close prox- imity to one another. Portions of all the different chains are represented in the human subject. Upon the alimentary canal the two median chains form larse vessels on the greater and smaller curvatures of the stomach. Upon the ventral aspect of the body wall the internal mammaiy and deep epigastric arteries represent a free anastomosis. Upon the neural cylinder the anterior and posterior spinal arteries and the circle of Willis express the anastomotic lines. The three chains which lie close to the vertebrse are but feebly represented in the thoracic and lumbar regions by small vessels, but in the neck they form large arteries—the inferior thyroid, the vertebral, and the deep cervical. In some other forms, however, the last three chains are much more largely developed; in the cetacean class especially, the anastomotic vessels form large plexuses in the thoracic region. The Visceral Circle.—The following descriptions have special