108 PuoF. Cleland on the Tail in Myxine and Petromyzon. extent the inferior rays uro united at their bases by a continuous cartilaginous bar, nearly a tenth of an inch in breadth, and the superior rays are similarly united by a bar about half that breath. The last superior and inferior rays are parallel above and below the column, and the rays rapidly increase in length as we pass forwards. But in front of the place where the cartilaginous bar ceases, the inferior rays become again rapidly smaller, not being produced so far, nor penetrating by their deep ends so near to the vertebral column. It will be seen that the tails of Myxine and Petromyzon are really very similar, the main difference depending on the circum- stance that the double row of mucous glands, so important a character of the myxinoids, is not developed in Petromyzon, and that, therefore, the button-like supports of the hinder pair of glands, and the abrupt anterior edge of the sub-caudal plate are neither of them found in that genus. For the rest, the caudal arrangements in both Myxine and Petromyzon are very similar to those of the elasmobranchs. Thus, for example, in Acanthias, Lamna, and Squatina, the superior caudal rays are distinct from both the crural and intercrviral* cartilages of the neural canal, just as in Petromyzon they rest above a neural canal in the sides of which somewhat irregular cartilages are developed. In Acanthias and Squatina the inferior rays also resemble those of Petromyzon, being continuous with the haemal arches, just as in Petromyzon the inferior plate is tunnelled by the vessels. In Lamna, on the contrary, the inferior rays and the hajmal arches are distinct one from the other. The homological relations of cartilaginous caudal rays to structures further forwards are worthy of note. If we have regard to the laminse in which the more important skeletal elements are developed, it will be seen that while costal arches appear in the wall of the visceral cavity, and neural arches in the wall of the neural cavity, and both are capable of prolongation in the mesial septa passing downwards and upwards, there is a layer superficial to the muscular mass of the trunk {i.e., to the products * I use here the nomenclature of Stamiius. Possibly it might be better to speak of neural arches and iutercalar cartilages as some have doue. But Lamna, one of the forms alluded to, shows a defect common to both sets of names, for in it two orders of cartilages cannot bo well distinguished, and we must be content to recognize that the neural cartilages neither con-es pond with the vertebral centra nor are multiples of them.