148 Mr. R. B. YouN(i on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. A careful examination of the semilunar cartilages and of the surfaces of the femur and the tibia, while leading me to question Heiberg's conclusions, at the same time brings out certain details which seem to have escaped the notice of those who hold the other and ordinarily received view. The articular surface of the external tibial condyle, as Hueter points out,* instead of being, as usually described, concave, like that of the inner condyle, always retains in the adult somewhat of the foetal form of a half-cone, f with its apex at the extei-nal tubercle of the spine. In the adult the pressure of the semilunar cartilage (and I should think also of the femur directly) produces a slight hollowing of the side of the cone; but in a vertical antero-posterior section there is still a convexity contrasting markedly with the concavity of the internal condyle. The part of the anterior and inner border of the external tibial condyle, which runs up to the external tubercle of the spine, forms an elevated ridge slightly curved—the concavity of the curve facing forwards and inwards. As the external semilunar cartilage passes to its anterior attachment it bends over the anterior and inner border of the tibial condyle. In so doing it is gradually turned on itself until at its insertion in front of the external tubercle of the spine the two surfaces of the cartilage, which in the greater part of their extent were horizontal, are placed vertically, the thin central edge being turned upwards (Fig. 2). There is thus a part of the external semilunar cartilage which extends beyond the margin of the tibial articular surface. This part differs from the rest in having its fibres mostly parallel, and being consequently ligamentous in appearance. J Owing to this disposition of the anterior horn of the semilunar cartilage a small part of the anterior and inner border of the tibial articular surface towards the external tubercle of the spine is left uncovered, even when the knee-joint is in the flexed position (Fig. 2, a), while in extension of the joint, the an- terior part of the semilunar cartilage being pushed forwards by the femoral condyle, the concave part of that border is fully exposed. On the femur the groove which runs from the margin of the outer condyle to the intercondylar notch consists of two parts. Of these the outer, and by far the most distinct, is somewhat tri angular, § with its base at the outer margin of the condyle. * Virchow's Arcliiv, vol. 26, p. 491. + Virchow's Archiv, vol. 26, p. 486. X Humphry, Hum. Skel., p. 545. § Henle Anat. des Menscli., vol. I, pt. 2, p. 132.