Memoranda,. 164 fission, and this being granted, the question to settle is whether the supernumerary limbs both belong to an appended left division of the embryo (in which case the left developed fore-leg belongs, like the head and the other limb to the right division of the embryo), or whether, the left division of the trunk, together with the adjacent left and right legs of the right and left trunks respectively, have been crushed out of shape, while the right division of the embryonic trunk and the left limb of the left division have com- pleted a normal result between them. The arrangement of the double scapula and the analogy of what happens in the case of supernumerary pelvic limbs makes the latter explanation probable. J. C. 6. The Movements op the Metatarso-pha.langeal Joints. There are probably few subjects on which misconception is more prevalent among men who ought to know better than on the movements of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Everyone knows that when the two feet are laid together on the flat ground, their inner borders ought to be parallel in their whole length ; or, to put it more exactly, when they touch at the heels and the balls of the great toes, these toes ought to lie in contact in their whole length. In old statuary, one even sees the great toe inclined inwards, but that is apparently intended to denote the pressure at the base of the toe exercised by the strap of the sandal. Shoes are, however, made so that when placed side by side there is an angular interval between the great toes; and ever since the publication, many years ago, of Professor Meyer's pamphlet, '= Procrustes ante portas," there have been numbers of people who have thought this sufficient evidence that bootmakers distort the feet. Yet this is not really the case when the shoes are made to fit comfortably. A mocassin is made of such soft material as to adapt itself to the shape of the foot. Yet if worn for a while, it gets turned up at the toes, and the mark of the great toe shows an° outward inclination, such as would be given to it by a shoe- maker. The reason is not far to seek. If any one with the toes undistorted, so that the inner edges of the great toes continue forwards in a line with the inner edges of the feet, raises his toes from the ground by ovev-extension, his great toes will be seen separating and leaving an angular space between. The movement is a simple one, and can be appreciated at once by considering the extremities of the five metatarsal bones as one block. Then it