Me. R. Bruce Youkg on Develo2mient of the Intestine. 85 When the bowel becomes fixed to the abdominal wall, the c£ecum is already just above the right iliac fossa, and only a slight downward growth is needed to carry it to its adult position. In . this connection it is interesting to note that Mr. Treves (op. cit. pp. 39 and 40) has pointed out that there never is a meso- c£ecum in the human subject, and that the c£ecum is entirely covered behind by peritoneum which is, in the majority of cases, reflected from the posterior surface of the ascending colon—the commencement of the ascending colon, as well as the cEecum, being thus completely invested by the serous covering. This seems to confirm the idea that the attachment of the csecal end of the colon in the lower lumbar region is followed by a growth downwards of that portion of the bowel carrying with it a complete covering of peritoneum. The portion of the colon to the right of the middle line, when it becomes attached to the posterior abdominal wall, has, as Mr. Treves {op. cit., p. 52) recognises, an oblique course running from the right side below upwards towards the splenic flexure, and this disposition is " still marked in the foetus at full time, and even in some young subjects." The obliquity in position of this part of the colon Mr. Treves associates with the great size of the liver, and he further states " that it is not until the liver has regained its normal proportions with reference to the other viscera that the hepatic flexure becomes well marked, and the right seg- ment of the colon acquii-es the position that is familiar in the adult." Even in the adult the hepatic flexure is often ill-marked, and, compared with the splenic flexure, is always of less importance, both as regards distinctness and date of appearance. Those cases in which the ctecum in the adult occupies a situation on the right side higher than the lumbar region are, in the light of the present facts, probably to be accounted for by some inter- ference with the growth of the colon at a time when the primary loop still lay free in the abdominal cavity, the part of the colon to the right of the middle line not yet having been bound to the posterior abdominal wall. Additional Observations on Development or the Intestine. In the foregoing remarks the development of intestine has been alluded to only in so far as it concerned the instance of mal- position described, but the opportunity may be taken of directiuo- attention to a few other points which have come under the writer's