Prof. Cleland on the Tail in Myxine and Petromyzon. 109 of the embryonic muscular-plates), from which skeletal elements not truly dermal may take their rise. It is from this circle that the centripetal "interspinal" bones of the dorsal and anal fins of teleosteans dip in towards the neural and hsemal spines, and in it that the teleostean clavicle makes its first appearance; and, indeed, it is to the same circle thatthe whole shoulder-girdle of vertebrates generally belongs, as I have long ago pointed out (Report of British Association, 1869, Sect, proc, p. 120). If we look now at the dorsal fin of Lamna, we find that it has rays quite similar to the upper rays of the tail; but while these latter have their bases resting on the neural arches, and make their way right up between the muscles into the fin, the rays of the dorsal fin have their bases at the surface of the muscdar mass, and rest on centripetal cartilages pointing down towards the vertebral column, the first eight of them as simple rods, while the last fifteen exhibit division into a short basal part next the surface and a longer part dijDping deeply down, but all of them falling short of the neural canal by a considerable distance. Although, however, the upper caudal rays start from a deeper position than the dorsal fin-rays, they are obviously much more comparable with them than Avith the centri- petal supports of those rays, because both sets of rays pass uninterruptedly from their bases on into the fins. In the dorsal fins of Petromyzon the cartilaginous rays are disposed just as they are in the fore part of the tail, their thick bases placed deeply, and their shafts tapering right on into the fin without regard to the surface of the muscles. On the other hand, the inferior caudal rays of both Petromyzon and Myxine, although even more thoroughly vertebral in origin than the superior rays, are in series, as we have seen, with shorter rays in front of them, which doubtless have originated superficially, and dipped inwards'as well as grown out from their origin.. Prom these complicated relations we may gather distinctly that the same caudal structures may be in series with structures of deep origm and structures of peripheral origin as well. Nor does this arise from mere want of differentiation in caudal regions, for undoubtedly the continuous rays in the dorsal fin of Petromyzon, startmg towards the surface from a deep source, correspond with growths which in Lamna commence near the surface and spread both centrifugally and centripetally, namely, the dorsal rays and their supports. The application of these facts to a good deal which IS taught by some writers as to the meaning of osseous