De. J. Yule Mackay 07i Arteries of the Porpoise. G7 the skull, giving brandies freely upon its way. At its termination it forms a small rete at the back of the skull, into which enter branches from the subclavian and from the small vessel which springs from the aortic arch upon the left side, and from the first part of the posterior thoracic trunk upon the right. The last set of branches which the posterior thoracic supplies are exceedingly numerous and of small size. They enter the arterial rete. A comparison of the branches of the posterior thoracic and subclavian arteries with those of the human subclavian trunk is interesting. The vessel in the porpoise which courses dorsal to the pneumogastric nerve sujiplies branches which are quite similar to those of human anatomy. The higher intercostals and the deep cervicals are beyond doubt, while the trunk, which on the right side springs from this vessel and on the left from the aortic arch, evidently represents the inferior thyroid. From the other trunk the i^hrenic artery represents the internal mammary. The cervico- occipital artery of the porpoise simulates very closely the distribu- tion of the transverse cervical and supra-scapular arteries in man, with this exception that the most anterior branch is prolonged to the occiput, a peculiarity which may be connected with the extreme shortness of the neck. But the vessel which I have named superficial thyroid in the porpoise, arising indifferently from the subclavian or carotid stem, seems to find no representative in the human subject unless, indeed, the occasional thyroidea ima be held as corresponding. It is interesting, too, to note the very free anastomosis which is found in the dorso-lateral parts of the neck between the branches of the subclavian and posterior thoracic trunks. The Eete Mirabile. Upon the dorsal wall of the thorax, occupying its inner fourth, a large mass of convoluted arteries is to be found spread out as a continuous sheet beneath the pleura. This rete has received a detailed description from Breschet* and on account of its recognised importance has attracted much atten- tion. Huntert in 1787 briefly noticed it in the piked whale, and a description is given by Owent of its characters in the porpoise. Of late years, however, an exceedingly interesting account of this * Hisl. Anat. et Phys. d'tm organic de nal. Vasciilaire ddcouvert dans Cetaces. Breschet. Paris, 1836. t, Loc. cit. + Loc. cit.