6 Dr. Cleland on Birds with Sujjermmierary Legs, dx. and that, in these circumstances the appended limbs may he two, or one of the two may he siqjpressed, or there may be a composite limb formed by the undivided blastema for two adjacent limbs of two pelvises. Ill formulating this statement I am careful to limit it to supernumerary legs connected -with the sacrum or perinajum, on account of "Von Baer's interesting case of a girl in which two supernumerary legs forming a pair hung over the pubis. That case rather illustrates what I have said to the effect that in abcaudal fission, the result of one division growing more rapidly than the other would be to bring the place of junction of the blighted or appended parts round to the ventral aspect. In the cases which I have been explaining, the fission has not extended much beyond the site of origin of the pelvic limbs, and the rapid development of the externally situated limb of the aborted division of the embryo has no doubt been efiective to unite its pelvic part to the vertebral region above the bifurcation, at so early a date as to crush out of existence its own division of the vertebral column, as well as to dwarf to a greater or less extent the two limbs placed in the middle. But in this case described by Von Baer, the dissection seems to show that the fission extended further, and the explanation of the arrangement of parts is similar to that which I applied years ago to limbs appended to the chest: namely, that, while there was evidence of fission having extended forward as far as the head, one trunk grew more rapidly than the other, and maintained its continuity with the skull, while the less developed trunk became stretched by its connection with the other and so destroyed; its remains being detected in certain cases as a thread going up to the base of the skull, f I suppose that in the case described by Von Baer the fission had not extended so far, but that in similar fashion, the upper portion of the less grown division of the double part of the embryo had been enclosed by the visceral walls of the other, while its lower portion, re- maining outside Avas carried down by the visceral walls, at the expense of stretching and consequent destruction of the enclosed pai't. Another instance of unequal development of the two divisions * Von Baer, Doppelleibige Missgeburten. Trans. Imp. Acad., St. Peters- Inirgh, 1844, p. 79; "Beobachtung IX.," Plates IX. and X. fjour. A7iat. and Fhys. May, 1874: "Double Monsters and Development of Tongue."