Prof. Cleland on Teratology, S2}eculative and Causal. 133 b. Lateral orga,ns may be directly strangled. This seems to be the most likely explanation of some cases of shortening of the limbs, and of some intra-uterine amputations. 3. From external causes. a. Strangulation by umbilical cord. b. Strangulation by fibrin in the liquor amnii. It may be here remarked that deficiency of limbs certainly depends on at least three difierent causes. Montgomery figures from Zagorsky a minute foot hanging by a fibrinous thread which has also cut its way considerably into the other leg, and this seems to prove that amputation may be eff'ected by means of fibrinous threads. He further figures a foetus in which amputation of a thigh is threatened from constriction by the umbilical cord; and it is obvious that neither of these explanations will account for symmetrical absence of all the limbs. But cutaneous afiections in adults are often symmetrical, and it seems quite possible that superficial thickening might occur in all four limbs so as to involve the tissue from which their distal parts are developed. Further, it is obvious that the same process which in one instance involves the whole centre of growth for the distal parts of a limb may in another produce a mere annular constriction beyond which growth may proceed without interruption. I have a curious specimen of a leg taken from a foetus which had a number of constrictions and baggings of the integument. The tibia has been cut right through a little below the knee, and has a special pouch of integument, while the foot though turned inwards is otherwise normal, and the fibula is enlarged inferiorly, but there is no vestige of the lower part of the tibia. This looks as if the strangulation which cut free the upper part of the shaft had embraced the rest of the tibia in its whole length when it was still minute in size. II. By Excess. A. Hypertrophy. 1. Of the whole body—Giants. 2. Of parts, e.g., digits or epidermal appendages; also of sexual or other accessary reproductive organs. B. Multiplication of parts—Polydactylism.