Peop. Cleland on Distinctions of Form in Human Pelois. 99 of the great post-sacral muscular fossa will be better appreciated by noting that after puberty in European and other pelvises, not only does the base of the sacrum increase in breadth compared with the distance between the transverse processes of the last lumbar vertebra, but the crests of the ilia which had previously fallen short of the level of the under borders of these processes rise above the level of their*U2:)per borders. Thus, plainly there is a connection between the separability of the epiphysis of the iliac crest and the extent and depth of the post-sacral fossa, just as there is between the breadth of the fossa and the separability of the lateral sacral epiphyses. As regards the second statement in the passage just quoted from Litzmann, it also bears expansion. After examining a number of specimens, I have ai'rived at the conclusion that from infancy to puberty the length of the pubic bone from the symphysis to the acetabular extremity within the pelvic brim is equal to the distance from the latter point to the most projecting part of the articulation with the sacrum, while at birth the first of these distances is shorter than the second. I have measured the distances in a straight line, and may term them the lengths of the pubic and iliac parts of the brim. They are equal up to -puberty, but in the European adult the pubic exceeds the iliac length from a quarter to three quarters of an inch. This is to a certain extent to be accounted for by the consideration that the iliac part of the brim cannot be lengthened except by addition to its acetabular extremity, while the pubic part can be lengthened both at its acetabular end and at the symphysis ; that, further, the .sutures of the acetabulum become obliterated about puberty; and after that occurs the iliac pai-t of the brim is incapable of elongation, while growth at the symphysis continues, as I have mentioned, till adult life. It sometimes, however, happens in a pelvis not of the most capacious or regular shape that excess of the length of the pubic over the iliac part of the brim depends on the iliac part having yielded and become highly concave in the way alluded to by Dr. Matthews Dtmcan. In endeavouring to understand the mechanism of the changes in the pelvic brim during growth, it is necessary to study the mode of growth of the sacrum in width, and the details of the post-sacral part of the ilium. The width of the sacral canal does not increase in later adolescence as the width of the whole sacrum does. It is well known that the bodies of the upper sacral