Dr. Mackay on Abnormal Arteries of Upper Limb. from the derivatives of the main vessel On the other hand, the vessel first described, the so-called true brachial, shows in no part of its course in the axilla or upioer arm either the position or relations of the trunk which normally supplies the limbs, and in respect of branches distributes only a few, and these belonging entirely to the set which ramify in the biceps muscle. In the greater part of the forearm also the derivative trunks (radial and ulnar) are abnormal in position and relations, and distribute only muscular branches. Such a trunk as this would seem to be developed as a collateral stem (single above where it arises from the axillary, and double below where it joins the lower ends of the radial and ulnar), out of anastomotic branches distributed to the biceps and to the muscles of the forearm; and the system of nomen- clature which permits of its being denominated the true brachial artery is obviously an artificial one. The opinion above expressed is confirmed by an examination of the relations of the vessels in the right arm. In almost all particulars the abnormal details were the same upon both sides, and they were evidently due to a similar cause; but a trivial diflference in arrangement gives the abnormality upon the right side, according to the present system of nomenclature, a very dilferent designation. On the right side (Fig. 1, Plate XV.) the axillary artery divided into two trunks, which, in the axilla and in the upper arm, were precisely similar to those already described on the left. In the forearm also the relations were generally similar to those on the left, with this diflference, however, that the radial ai'tery was, in the hollow of the elbow and about an inch below its origin, united into one common stem of about ^th. of an inch in length with the vessel which upon the left side was designated " high interosseous." As a less important difference it was noted that the enlarged median of the left side was only represented on the right in its lower part, by a recurrent branch from the superficial palmar arch. By virtue of this complication on the right side of a short junction between the vessels which upon the left were designated "I'adial" and " high interosseous," the whole nomenclature of the abnormality is altered, though the vessels themselves are identical. In this arm the abnormality has to be described as a high ulnar artery, arising from the axillary and united by a trunk of about an inch in length (corresponding to the first portion of the radial of the other side) with the main vessel in the hollow of the elbow.