34 Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Gmito-imnary Malformations. howevei", no rupture of the skin. A broad tumour over the sacrum owes its presence to a spina bifida which implicates the sacral vertebra;. An abnormal looseness of the sacro-iliac syn- chondroses gives rise to a slight backward dislocation of the ilia. The anterior surface of the sacrum is slightly convex forwards. The lumbar part of the column presents a curvature towards the right side. The effect of these alterations in modifying the capacity of the pelvis is very considerable. In a normal foetus with a body length of 10|- inches, 1 inch more than the present specimen, the greatest transverse pelvic diameter at the bi-im was 1J inches, and the antero-posterior measurement from the promontory of the sacrum to the symphysis reached 1^ inches. In the present case, the mesial antero-posterior diameter is reduced to ^^-inch; while the transverse measurement, which is less interfered with, marks under 1 inch. Anterior Abdominal Wall. The recti muscles arise from the widely-separated pxibic bones, and are consequently very far apart from one another below. As they pass upwards, however, they also reach inwards, and after gaining the level of the umbilicus their internal margins are almost in contact. They are somewhat broader than usual. Strong bundles of fibres pass from each pubic spine to the umbUicus, forming two sides of a triangle, the base of which is represented by fibres of similar strength stretched between the portions of the cleft symphysis. The intervening space is filled up by fibres crossing between these bands, not so dense in character nor so regular in disposition. The middle portion of the anterior abdominal wall below the level of the umbilicus is thus closed in by fibres Avhich extend between the widely divergent portions of the linea alba, and which in the normal state are not I'epresented. Intestine. The duodenum takes an exceedingly sharp curve, the limbs of which lie in very close proximity. The upper descends from the pylorus and passes to the light side; the lower ascends towards the left to its termination, where, opposite the middle line, it is closely bound to the posterior abdominal wall. Owing to the sharpness of the curve, the pancreas is somewhat dislocated from its usual position, and shows as it crosses a marked convexity downwards. Its duct enters the duodenum separately almost half