Mk. Young on Morphology of Cervical Articular Fillars. 79 to be in series not with the himbar inter-transversales laterales, but with the internal inter-costal muscles. Lock Limiting Extension of the Neck. A point, Avhich, so far as I know, has not been previously noticed, is the presence, in the upper dorsal region, of an arrangement by means of which a locking of the vertebrje is produced, determining the limit of extension of the neck. Just below the inferior border of the upper articular surfaces in one or more of the upper dorsal vertebrte, therfe occurs on each side, in almost all the columns examined, a more or less well-marked transverse furrow, bounded inferiorly by a ridge which passes outwards and fades away on the transverse process (Plate VIII., c). Between this ridge and the articular surface the groove lies, which in extension of the neck receives the sharp lower edge of the inferior articular process of the vertebra above, and thus helps to check further movement in a backward direction. In six out of the thirty-two specimens examined, the grooves were not distinct; but in the other instances grooves were present in one or more of the upper dorsal vertebras, while in ten cases the first dorsal alone had such grooves. Amongst those last, by far the best examples of these grooves occur, having a well- defined lip bounding the furrows posteriorly, and seven out of these ten were specially well marked in this respect.' These locking grooves, then, occur in their most typical form in the first dorsal vertebra, and so are situated at a point just at the root of the freely movable column of the cervical vertebrae, where the upper dorsal vertebrae, both by their comparative fixture and mcHnation forwards, oppose over-extension of the neck. If we bear in mind the great mass of the extensor muscles in the neck and upper dorsal region, actmg in extension of the head and neck, and that the freest movement in the upper part of the column occurs between the lowest cervical vertebrae, while a very sudden restriction of mobUity takes place in passing from these to the upper dorsals, it is not difficult to account for the existence of these locks as aids to the limitation of extension, or to understand why they should present their strongest features in the first dorsal vertebra, and should not be found in the lower dorsals An mteresting proof of the normal function of these grooves is found m their excessive development under pathological conditions. In the skeleton of a hunchback, preserved in the Anatomical