M&morcmda. 185 coccyx. It led to a narrow blind pouch which admitted a probe for a short distance. The sacrum, which was afterwards examined, was straight, as in the adult case described by Cleland, (Jour. Anat. and Phys., xvii., p. 290, In the same place are described two cases of post-anal dimple in monstrous foetuses, and the view is put forward that it is due to arrest of growth in the notochord. K. B. Y. 28.—Additional Note on Abnormality of the Intestine. Through the kindness of Dr. Coats I have, since finishing the paper on "Development and Abnormality of the Intestine," published in this volume, had an opportunity of examining an interesting arrangement of the intestine in a female child three years of age. In this case the descending colon and left half of the transverse were attached to the abdominal wall by a free meso-colon. The portion of the great intestine representing the ascending colon and right half of the transverse lay on the right side of the abdomen, with the ctecum in the region of the right iliac fossa, and together with the whole of the small intestine as far as the upper end of the jejunum formed a loop hanging quite free in the abdominal cavity, save for the narrow peritoneal attachment between the transverse colon and the duodenum at that point where the neck of the primary loop was. Some time after seeing tHs case I noted in the dissecting-room an exactly similar state of matters in an adult female, and, on looking over Treves' memoir on the " Intestinal Canal and Peri- toneum," I find that at p. 54 he records the occurrence of such a free loop of intestine in two adult subjects. These facts show that this abnormaHty is not very uncommon. The resemblance of the difierent cases in their characteristic features is striking, the more so when it is borne in mind that exactly this arrangement of mtestme is normal in many of the lower animals.—(See Cleland's figure of the intestine in the wombat, Jowrnal of Anatomy and Physiology, 1870, pi. viii.) Further, as I have pointed out (p. 83 of this volume) the mtestme, at that stage of development when the twist to the right has just occurred, is disposed exactly as in those abnormal cases, while according to the view usually held as to the transit of the cfficum there is no stage which so corresponds. These