150 Mr. R. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. of the tibial articular surface,* and that the pressure is greatest where the groove is deepest, i.e., at its outer part. Hueterf points out that the inner portion of the anterior border of the external tibial articular surface is depressed to a level lower than that of any other part of this surface (Fig. 2, d), the corres- ponding part of the inner tibial condyle having a relatively elevated position. This depression marks that part of the tibial surface on which the semilunar cartilage rests when pressed on by the groove on the femur, and its being much more distinct in the adulc than in the newly-born infant is an additional proof of the action of pressure. The part of the anterior and inner border of the external tibial condyle which in the adult is left uncovered is in the foetus covered by the anterior horn of the semilunar cartilage. In the foetus, too, it is fuller and does not present the slight concavity which characterises it in the adult. The exposure of this part of the tibial border, and its alteration in form, are due to the pressure which comes into play during life. Just beyond the anterior and inner border of the external articular surface of the tibia, there is a groove on the non-articular portion (Fig. 2 c). More sharply defined in some cases than in others, it is always recognisable as at least a hollowing of the sur- face. Towards the close of extension of the knee-joint, the anterior part of the external semilunar cartilage slides over the convex anterior and inner part of the tibial condyle, till the groove on * At page 179 of this vohime several cases are mentioned in which the external interarticular cartilage formed a disc separating the articular surfaces of the external condyles of the femur and the tibia so completely that they never came directly in contact with one another in any position of the joint. In the two of those cases in which the markings on the surface of the femur were noted, confirmation was afiforded of the view here put forward as to the cause of the inner part of the external groove. In both, though the outer part of the groove was marked, its inner part and the depression usually existing on the part of the femoral surface which rests on the surface sloping up to the external tubercle of the tibial spine were absent, the complete interarticular cartilage having prevented the femur from coming in contact with the tibia at those points. The ridge which marked the anterior edge of the external part of the groove in both cases was continued as a linear marking to the edge of the intercondylar notch, but in passing towards that notch it ran much more obUquely backwards than usual, the patellar surface of the femur being here pro- longed backwards at the expense of the menisco-tibial. t Hueter, I.e., p. 490.