G4: Dr. J. Yule Mackay o?i Arteries of the Porpoise. ovev the vertex, anastomosing with the occipital of the sub- clavian behind and with the supra-orbital in front. Underneath the globe of the eye the internal maxillary artery supplies a number of branches which divide upon the orbital muscles and anastomose with twigs coming forwards from an ophthalmic vessel. These may be styled orbital branches. A supra-orbital artery is next given off. This vessel courses upwards along the inner wall of the orbit to a foramen upon the upper border, through which it passes to gain the roof of the skull, where it anastomoses with branches of the temporal behind and the infraorbital in front. From the lower edge of the internal maxillary vessel, while it is still beneath the eyeball, nasal and palatine liranches pass off. These vessels, of medium size, descend with an inclination forwards through bony foramina to supply the mucous membrane of the cavities of the nose and palate. A superior dental artery is also furnished to the upper jaw. After all these branches have been given off the internal maxillary artery is continued forwards as an infraorbital trunk. This vessel passes through a bony foramen on the anterior and under aspect of the orbit, and divides on the fore part of the face into a large number of branches which may be distinguished as labial, facial, and external nasal. The internal carotid artery, in its course through the neck and method of entry into the skull, is similar to the corres- ponding trunk in the mammalia generally. Its branches are distributed within the cerebro-spinal cavity, but, owing to the absence of the vertebral trunks, theii' arrangement differs from that which is typically met with. Immediately upon reaching the cranium meningeal branches are detached. These sweep^ in all directions over the dura mater and are distinguised as anterior, middle, and posterior groups. The posterior set anastomose with a large number of small branches which enter at the foramen magnum, and stretch forwards for some distance upon the basilar portion of the occipital bone. These vessels are derived from the spinal rete. After the meningeal vessels have been given off, a slender ophthalmic artery is continued forwards upon the optic nerve to anastomose in the orbit witli orbital branches of the internal maxillary artery. The arteries which supply the brain are anterior, middle, and posterior cerebrals, and in their distribution upon the surface of the brain thev are exactly similar to the corresponding vessels of