82 Mr. R, Bruce Young on Development of the Intestine. After turning to the left, the colon in the first 3^ inches of its descent was bound to the upper end of the ascending portion. The membrane by which these parts of the colon were bound together was ^-inch broad, and, posteriorly, the lowest inch of it was not adherent to the abdominal wall, so that inferiorly it terminated in a free margin (Fig. 1, g). The stomach lay entirely on the left side of the middle line, its pyloric end not having crossed to the right. The duodenum bound down throughout the whole of its course to the abdominal wall passed into the jejunum on the right of the aorta, consequently the ligament of Treitz was stretched obliquely across the aorta to reach it. The duodenum descended to about an inch above the origin of the right common iliac artery, and from its lower border a frEenum extended downwards. This probably corresponds with the similar fold which was found by Mr. Treves in the human foetus and in animals, and from which he holds that the plica duodeno-jejunalis is developed—its existence in the present case being a persistence in the adult of the fcetal condition.* The mass of the small intestine lay on the right side—the ileum at its lower end passing across to-the left to join the colon (Fig. 1, (i)—consequently the mesentery sprang from a line de- scending obliquely from the right towards the left side. From the ileo-ctecal valve to the anus, the great intestine measured 4 feet 8 inches, the smaU intestine 19 feet 1 inch from the same point to the duodenum. As regards their branches and the parts of the intestine suppHed by them°the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries were normal, * Treves' " Anat: of the Intestinal Canal/ind Peritoneum in Man," pp. 19 and 24 In this connection I should Uke to say that a renewed examination of the peculiar fold alluded to in my previous paper on "Abnormal Disposition of the Colon" (Jour, of Anat. and Phys.; October 1SS4), convinced me that, as suggested by Mr. Treves, it was peritoneal. The fold, however, did not spring from the lowest point of the duodenum, for the apex of the curve of the abnormally adherent duodenum round the tip of the gall-bladder must not be confused with the lowest point of its normal bend It was formed of peritoneum which belonged to the left layer of the meso-duodenum, and it passed down to the upper surface of the left layer of the mesentery. These facts, apart from the existence in the present case, in a very different position, of a fold like the one to which he refers, seem opposed to the conclusion that the fold referred to in my previous case is similar "to the vertical fold in animals." In that instance the fold had, I believe, been produced by the upper part of the duodenal ciirve having become adherent to the liver round the apex of the gaU-bladder, so as to • pull out a duplication of the serous membrane.