Memorcmda. 172 Taking into consideration that certain elasmobranchs, e.g., Lamna and Scyllium, have a pyloric compartment cut off by a constriction from the main stomach, and similar in appearance to the pyloric compartment in the herring and mackerel, one might easily be tempted into supposing that in elasmobrunchs, and an indefinite number of other fishes, the great receptive pouch was as much pharyngeal as in the herring and mackerel, but such a supposition is forbidden by the usual position of the orifice of the pneumatic duct in both ganoids and osseous fishes. The orifices of the pneumatic and bile ducts, the attachment of the umbilical vesicle, and the position of the caecum are points which may be taken as fixed, while in difierent animals there is a great difi'erence in the development of the five sections of the alimentai'y canal which these landmarks separate. J. C. 12.—Renal Cord of Lamna Cornubica. In two specimens of Lamna cornubica, I have noted and preserved a remarkable structure such as I have not met with in any other animal, and I am not aware tliat it has been described. The structure in question is an elongated mesial solid cylinder or cord between the kidneys in front, and imbedded in their conjoined substance further back. The specimens of Lamna were both between seven and eight feet long. The kidneys are about one- and-a-half feet long. They are united in the greater part of their extent, ending posteriorly in a thick blunt extremity a little behind the vent, while they are prolonged forwards in front in slender extremities distinct one from the othei-. In the extent in which they are united, they have a mass of erectile tissue between them ventrally, one of those vascular developments which are so remarkable in Lamna, there being a pair of them opposite the attached part of the liver, and a great rete mirabile in the muscular substance in each side of the body. Separated from the erectile tissue by renal substance, and lying in the dorsal edge of the fused kidneys, is the remarkable cord to which attention is called. This cord begins a little in front of the posterior extremity of the united kidneys, and acquires soon its greatest thickness, which is more than half-an-inch. It is of yellow colour, is surrounded by a thin sheath, and is of firm consistence, tough like leather under the knife, but friable when forcibly bent. It becomes thinner in front as the kidneys become slender, and between their separate extremities is somewhat flattened and bent from side to side before,