44- Dr. J. Yule Mackay on Genito-urina/ry Malformations. unsatisfactory, inasmuch as it does not explain the method by which the ureters are transferred from their orisinal termination on the cloacal end of the gut to the back of the bladder; whilf^ the manner in which the urinary and genital ducts are separated from one another at their lower ends is stUl regarded as an open question. T am inclined to suggest a hypothesis of the dcA'elopment of the lower end of the bladder somewhat different from the usual one. The cloacal end of the gut is, in a manner, not yet accurately known, subdivided into an anterior or genito-urinary portion, and a posterior or intestinal portion, which open separately upon the surface. Into the genito-urinary sinus the allantois ureters and genital ducts open in order from before backwards. Apparently what happens is, that the tissue between the ureters in front and the genital ducts behind is prolonged doion, so as to form a septum, the anterior surface of lohich persists as the trigone of the bladder and the floor of the first jJortion of the urethra, lohile its pfosterior surface is vaginal. Apart from embryological evidence, many things render this pro- bable. Among these are the constant position of the ureters at the upper end of the trigone, the absence of peritoneal cavity between the trigone and the vagina or rectum, and the exceedingly close anatomical connection which subsists between the walls of the lower parts of these organs. Many cases in abnormal anatomy are described, in which ureters or genital ducts opened into cavities other than the usual; and, while some of these are possibly to be explained by fistula, there are others to which that explanation cannot be applied. These can only be understood on the supposition that the septa have developed in an irregular manner. In my dissection, and in those cases of extroversion in which partial fission is found, the suppression of the septum between the genital and urinary portions, and the consequent absence of the base of the bladder and anterior vaginal Avail, explain the bifidity of the lower portion of the vesical wall, and refer it to arrest of development, other'instances of which are numerous. Complete fission of an extroverted tumour may be explained on the supposi- tion that the upper portion of the posterior wall of the bladder, as well as the anterior wall, has suffered destruction, the protruded mass representing the lower lateral portions, which, in normal circumstances, bound the sides of the trigone.