Mb. R. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joint. 151 X Cf. Hueter, I.e., p. 488. the femur, coming down on the cartilage from above, drives its peripheral margin into the groove on the tibia, and the running wedo-e is converted into a fixed one. Not existing in the child at birth, this groove on the tibia is developed as age advances, under the influence of that pressure which causes the grooves on the femur. The groove on the inner condyle of the femur differs considerably from that on the outer. It does not extend, as the usual descrip- tions* would lead one to believe, right across to the intercondylar notch, but only exists on the inner part of the condylar surface. It is generally much less deeply marked than the outer groove,t and not so definite in form (Fig. 1, c). When the internal semilunar cartilage reaches the anterior part of the articular surface of the tibia, it loses its wedge shape. Becoming ligamentous and flattened out, it passes outwards and slightly downwards to be attached beyond the articular surface on the front and inner part of the gap between the condyles. It is thus fixed at such a point as to be best able to resist the drag made on it by the internal condyle of the femur gliding backwards at the close of extension. At its anterior part the articular surface of the internal tibial condyle is bevelled off,| and on this small bevelled part the flattened ligamentous portion of the semilunar cartilage lies. Consequently at the close of extension the groove on the inner condyle of the femur rests, not on the whole anterior horn of the semilunar cartilage, but only on the part of it which is bending over the ridge, which separates the more horizontal from the bevelled anterior portion of the tibial surface. From the relation of the groove to the semilunar cartilage, and from the fact that, like the external, this groove does not exist in the child at birth, it seems plain that it is caused by pressure on the semilunar cartilage. This internal groove, as we have seen, does not extend to the margin of the intercondylar notch. The ridge which iims in front of it is at its outer end prolonged backwards for some distance as a faintly-marked line, cutting off a portion of the articular surface lying along the anterior part of the inner margin of the intercondylar notch. This portion of the articular surface is, *Luschka, Anat. des Mensch., vol. iii., p. 368. Langer, I.e., p. 6. Heiberg, I.e., p. 173. Terrillon, I.e., p. 37. Hueter, I.e., p. 497. + Of. Luschka, I.e., Beaunis et Bouchard, I.e. Hueter, I.e., p. 497.