Prop. Cleland on Distinctions of Form in Human Pelvis. 97 of the lower jaw replaced, the angle is 79°, and two older adolescents have angles of 58° and 50^, This makes it evident that the divarication diminishes from childhood to early adult life, while it is equally evident that-after adult life is reached the divarication tends again to increase. This increased divarication of the iliac blades, occurring, as it does, after ossification is completed, is doubtless the result of muscular traction, the gluteus medius and minimus muscles pulling upon the ilium in every step in walking, as well as in the stand-at-ease iDosifcion, But the diminution of divarication in adolescence, a circumstance to which attention seem^ to be now called for the first time, depends on a remarkable rotation of the pelvic bones during growth. If the sacrum of an adolescent be looked at from the front, its lateral margins will each be seen to present a marked concavity opposite the junction of its first and second vertebrae, while in the adult no such concavity exists. It has disappeared by the second vertebra becoming broader in proportion to the breadth of the first; and thereby the iWm'is rotated round a line extending from the basal or anterior end of its auricular surface forwards to the symphysis pubis. Thus, the iliac blades are made more vertical at the same time that the cavity of the pelvis below the brim is made more capacious. I am again indebted to Mr. Christie for pointing out to me a peculiarity in the ossification of the sacrum connected with this rotation, namely, that the lateral epiphysis supporting the auricular surface uniformly becomes united by osseous tissue to the main bone at its basal end before it is united in the rest of its extent. The breadth of the sacrum opposite its first vertebra is thus checked by the anchylosis of the epiphysis before the expansion of the second vertebra is interfered with. Doubtless, also, the body of the pubic bone continues to grow more rapidly towards the perinseal border of the symphysis than at the abdominal border, but it is difficult to obtain proof of this apart from the changes in the Hiac bones and sacrum. 3. Changes inform of Brim.—Litzmann* to whom reference is made by Mattliews Duncan in his valuable Researches, remai-ks that "up to the age of 13 the transverse diameter of the brim is sometimes less than the conjugate, but after that age it is constantly greater.' Matthews Duncant epitomizes the changes occur * Die Formeu des Beckens, Berlin, 1861, p. 32. t Researches in Obstetrics, pp. 110 and 111. ■nng