Mr. E. Bruce Young on Development of the Intestine. 87 sigmoid flexure. At a later stage, in a foetus about five inches in length, the colon is arranged round the outer border of the kidney, which is relatively very large (Fig. 3). The line of attachment of the descending colon to the posterior abdominal wall is now external to the left kidney, and its meso-colon has been obliterated. From the outside of the kidney the bowel curves inwards round its lower end, and then passes into the free loop of the sigmoid flexure. The appearances suggest that the kidney, in its rapid increase, has encroached on the left layer of the primitive meso- colon, while the growth of the abdominal wall has pulled that layer to the side, and thus the colon is laid along the outer and lower borders of the kidney, leaving the lower part of the bowel with its free peritoneal attachment. The part of the colon wliich curves round the lower end of the kidney forms, with the part above described as bending back to enter the pelvis, the neck of a loop, which, left with a free meso-colon, projects upwards and towards the right (Fig. 3, c). This Mr. Treves recognises {op. cit., p. 62) to be the condition of the sigmoid flexure in a fcetus of 5 inches. Thus the sigmoid flexure is formed with a meso-colon, representing the lower and somewhat displaced part of the primi- tive mesentery. The persistence of the free meso-colon of the sigmoid flexure is probably to be associated, not only with the existence of this loop of bowel, but also with the fact that the demands upon the peritoneum in this region are less than elsewhere in the abdomen. In the fcetus, whose intestines are represented in Fio- 2 a curious condition of the caecum is seen. Here, instead of a sin-le primitive caecum, there project from the great iiitestine, at Its junction with the Ueum, two small pouches, that on the left side bemg slightly the larger. Meckel (Tabulce Anafomico-patho- log^cae, Fasac. Ill, Tab. XXIII, Fig. 9) figures a case in which the c^cum was bifid and alludes (Fascic. III., p. U) to two other instances of a similar kind.* Unfortunately, owing to want of not? ;. r """K^^^ opportunity of examining, on this pomt, other human fc^tuses of a similar or an earlier date; bu toedTnt T' ^^^^ armadillo, two-