Pkofessor Cleland on Viscera of G'ymnotus Electrictcs. 93 Immediately behind the orifice of the pneumatic duct the oesophagus expands somewhat into a large and strong-walled stomach, which terminates in an exceedingly contracted pylorus, so contracted that, in the specimen before me, an ordinary silver probe could not be passed through it. Opening into a recess on the intestinal side of the pylorus is the gall bladder—a structure of very great proportional size--which, though prolonged into a fundus blind and free, is formed by dilatation of the bile duct, as ■it is in a number of other fishes, and receives about its middle separate ducts from the different hepatic lobes. Immediately beyond the opening of the gall bladder are about eight more depressions, opening mostly in pairs, on the anterior margin of the intestine, and into these open groups of short casca crowded together, the pyloric appendages. The intestine then passes back round the fundus of the stomach, is prolonged forward in a single loop nearly to the oesophagus, returns to the posterior extremity of the abdominal cavity, where it is bound down, and finally passes forward to the vent. The vent is placed unusually far forwards, being in fact opposite the bulbus arteriosus, and in front, therefore, of the liver and heart; and in connection with this there is 'a most striking and curious arrangement of parts along the ventral wall of the abdomen. As the intestine passes forward the whole lenHh of the abdommal cavity to the vent, there lies on its under lide a long unnary duct as wide as itself in its appearance when undis- turbed, and capable of considerable expansion, its walla beino- thrown into longitudinal folds. It arises by a short and narrow ureter from the hinder expansion of the kidney, and ends in a wide orifice immediately behind the vent. On the sides of this lie the ovaries, which in my specimen are small, the ova bein^ unripe and disposed in folds of the lining membrane. Each ovary has Its extremity directed backwards, and passes forward to be continuea into a duct about half as long as itself; and the two ovarian ducts open separately into the renal duct on its dorsal side,_immediately within its outlet. I have not met before with Zr ^°^Pl^*^^^ round to inserted in It . I ' ^^'"'"'^ ^^'^ ^"'"^^^7 bladder