Memoranda. 180 of note as pointing to their perhaps having some higher morpho- logical value as separate elements in the knee-joint than is attributed to them by Mr. Sutton in his very interesting papers on the ligaments.* K B. Y. 23.—Additional Note on Birds with Supernumeraey Legs. My memoir on this subject was read before the Philosophical Society of Glasgow on 3rd February, 1886, and published in the Proceedings of the society that summer. In April of the same year there appeared an account of a " Supernumerary Leg in a Male Frog," by Dr. Tuckerman, in the Journal of Anatomy amd Physiology, with an editorial note by Sir William Turner; and in January, 1887, in the same journal there was published a paper "On Some Monstrosities in a Dorking Fowl," by Dr. A. M. Paterson. It is true that none of these three writers have had the faintest notion of the true nature of the monstrosities of which they have written, and in that respect they are just in the same position as other authors. But Dr. Tuckerman's frog is interesting as an amphibian exhibiting precisely the same class of abnormality as that which I have explained in birds and in man. The added limb was clearly of composite nature, and arising to the left of the developed termination of the spinal column. Sir William Turner happened to be right in comparing it with the case of dos Santos, though evidently unacquainted with the rationale of either case, and with the common occurrence of similar phenomena in birds. Dr. Paterson also, while curiously enough referring to Dr. Tuckerman's paper and Sir William Turner's remarks as the only literature bearing on his specimen, and yet failing to see the relationship to it of the frog's additional limb or that of dos Santos, furnishes an interesting account of a partial development of a thii'd c£Bcal pouch. I have given examples of four cseca and of three c^ca, but Dr. Paterson's specimen had the peculiarity that, whUe one CEecum was normal, the other was double at its extremity, and also for some distance in the middle of its course. I regret that when I wrote my memoir I was unacquainted with the remarkable work of Otto, " Monstrorum Sexcentorum Descriptio Anatomica," Vratislavise, 1841. In that work (pp. 258- 264) Otto records no fewer than twenty-five instances of birds * Jour, of Anat. and Phys., April, 1885, p. 253; and "Ligaments, their Nature and Morphology."