152 Mu. II. B. Young on Grooves and Lock of Knee-joini. as Goodsir recognised,* a prolongation of the patellar surface, with the rest of which it is directly continuous (Fig. 1, d). The line of separation between this surface and the anterior part of the menisco-tibial surface of the internal condyle is generally faint, and is often to be distinguished rather by the change of transverse curvature of the articular surface than by a well- marked ridge. The existence of the patellar facet on the oblique part of the internal femoral condyle explains why the internal groove does not extend right across to the intercondylar notch. The femoral surface is so cut away to form the facet that at the close of extension the surface of the facet does not press on the anterior and outer margin of the tibial condyle, and so the internal groove is not continued beyond the part where the femur rests on the semilunar cartilage. During extension the greater part of the movement at the knee- joint may be looked upon as taking place around a transverse axis, passing through the lower end of the femur.t When this movement around the transverse axis has reached its limit the anterior crucial ligament is tightened, so that the external condyle of the femur is prevented from passing any farther backwards. Up to this point the movement of the internal condyle has been similar to that of the external, but now, as extension of the joint proceeds, the pull of the tightened anterior crucial ligament on the outer condyle forces the femur to rotate inwards on the oblique anterior part of the internal condyle, the movement, taking place around the oblique axis (Meyer) of the knee-joint. This movement of rotation is facilitated by the facet for the patella on the anterior part of the internal condyle being cut away to such an extent that this facet does not come into contact with the tibial articular surface, but sweeps freely round the internal tubercle of the tibial spine. Goodsir was wrong, I think, in holding that this facet at the close of extension " moves upon and is in contact with the internal anterior cartilaginous surface of the intercondyloid spine of the tibia ; and with the tibial attach- ment of the anterior crucial ligament.''^ When extension has reached its limit the anterior crucial ligament and, it may be, the * Anat. Memoirs, vol. II., p. 225. See also Meyer in Arch, fiir Anat. His u. Braune, ISSO, p. 286. t Meyer, Mech. des Knie-gelenks, pp. 501-2; and Goodsir, I.e., p. 221. XL.c, p. 235.