78 Mr. Young on Morphology of Cervical Articulm Pilla/rs. the cervical vertebras, it is difficult to see how they can be, as Joh. Miiller {Anat, der Myxinoiden, p. 245) considered them, similar to the inler-transversales mediales of the lumbar region, and to the muscles in series with those, viz., the dorsal inter-transverse muscles; but if we recognise the essential continuity of the trans- verse processes and the ribs in the primary costal circle, and the secondary importance of "the exact place and manner in which they are articulated or ossified to the vertebral column" (Cleland, lac cit., p, 125), then the serial homology of the posterior cervical inter-transverse muscles, Avith the levatores costarum, which are, as Mtlller has pointed out, the representatives in the thorax of the lumbar inter-transversales laterales, is rendered probable. No doubt, the outer part of the lumbar transverse process is considered as serially homologous with a rib {Quain's Anat., 9th edition, vol. 2, p. 24), and so the inter-transversales laterales connect succeeding rib-elements, while the levatores costarum have their upper ends fixed to the tips^ oE the transverse processes, and in the cervical region the posterior inter- transverse muscles pass from true transverse process to true transverse process. The apparent difficulty, however, of recognis- ino- a set of muscles, with different points of attachment in different regions, as forming one series, is got over by taking that comprehensive view of the nature- of parts forming the primary costal circle, to which we have alluded, and at the same time bearing in mind the various forms and degrees of development of the coital arch. It may here be noted that a change in the attachment of muscular slips in passing from the dorsal to the cervical regions, similar to that just mentioned, is undergone by the serratus magnus in ascending to the neck as levator anguh scapulce. The slips of the serratus magmis arise from the ribs, those of the levator anguli scapuU from the posterior tubercles of the cervical transverse- processes. So that it seems as if the shortening of the bony element, representing a rib, till it hes m front of the anterior divisions of the spinal nerves had, both iii the case of the posterior cervical inter-transverse and of the levator anguli scapnlc, muscles, left these muscles in the plane of the costal circle, though now attached to the tips of the true transverse processes, and not to the prolongations articulated with them. , ... The anterior inter-transverse muscles m .the cervical region, placed in front of the anterior divisions of the spinal nerves, seem