Philosophical Society of Glasgow. 112 longitudinal trunks running the whole length of the body upon the dorsal aspect of the alimentary canal j (2) a longitudinal trunk, single at its origin, but rapidly dividing into two upon the ventral aspect of the alimentary canal, passing from the heart towards the head and reaching as far as the mouth, thus occupying only a limited portion of the length of the body; (3) a system of arches upon the right and left sides of the alimentary canal, passing between the ventral trunks and the dorsal trunks. The ventral trunks, although single behind, are probably to be regarded as originally entirely double and belonging each to one lateral half of the body, the single portion being intimately connected in its development with the heart. In many instances the heart has begun to be formed before the splanchnic walls have met and closed, and it arises then as a double structure, fusion being subsequent. The arches passing from the ventral to the longitudinal trunks are to be found only in the region between the heart and the head. Prof. Macalister believes that in the region between the heart and the tail the arches are represented by a set of arteries passmg from the dorsal longitudinal trunks to the supply of the splanchnic wall, and which, breaking up into capillaries and becoming venous, end in the sub-intestinal vein. He regards the sub-intestinal vein as the thoracic and abdominal portions of the ventral longitudinal trunks. This theoretical conception is to be objected to on several grounds. In the neck where the arches are present the splanchnic wall or alimentary canal is supplied by arteries which, while they appear in all respects similar to the arteries which in the abdomen are distributed to the canal, are perfectly distinct from the primary arches. These branches to the alimentary canal in the neck, breaking up into capillaries, end in veins which have no connec- tion with the ventral longitudinal arterial trunks. In fishes and larval amphibians the arches enter the gills, but in all higher forms each, from the very first, consists of a single vessel, and if, as may be done in the chick, their development be watched, they are found to give oE no branches whatever to any part of the body. The a-rches are to be regarded as a system of vessels inter- mediate in position between those destined for the supply of the splanchnic and those of the somatic walls, possibly in invertebrata forms, represented by a more extended series, but in the vertebrate found' only in the region between the heart and the head. (PI. VII., Fig. III.)