Memoranda. 165 will be seen that a line passing through them from the first to the fifth will lie in the axis of a cone, and that it is on the surface of this cone that the series of first phalanges revolves in the move- ment of over-extension. The path of movement can be read easily enouc^h on the surfaces of the ends of the metatarsal bones, and it is the conical character of the movement which separates the toes of the two feet from one another. When the shoemaker turns upwards the point of the shoe he makes up for the outward inclination which he gives to the inner edge, and has merely followed the pattern made for him, not by mocassins only, but by the mould given to all thin flat slippers when they have been worn for a while. I own, therefore, that while I have often admired Professor Meyer's observations on joints, I have never been able to see the wisdom of his directions for reforming the shape of shoes. J. C. 7.—The Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulations. One of the most interesting results of the employment of helicoid curves in joints is to be found in the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. The lateral ligaments are attached far back on the metacarpal bones, so as to be much nearer to their inferior ends than to their palmar aspects. In consequence of this, as correctly stated by Luschka, but probably not generally as much appreciated as it should be, the ligaments " are the more strongly stretched the more that palmar flexion proceeds forwards, and a corresponding arrest of the lateral movements goes hand in hand with this." (Luschka, Anat. des Menschen III., 145.) In point of fact, when the metacarpal bone is allowed to hang from the phalanx by the dissected lateral ligaments, there is a gap of |-inch or more between the bones in the extended position, while they are pressed firmly together when the joint is flexed ; and if, when the hand is shut, a pencil be introduced between any two fingers, they immediately come together again when it is removed, becatise, as pointed out in the seventh and subsequent editions of Quain's "Anatomy," the first phalanges, as they become flexed, are confined each to one plane of movement, and their planes of movement converge the more rapidly the further that flexion is carried. I do not know if it has been noticed that it is in consequence of this form of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints that they undergo over-extension in deformity from rheumatism,