Memoranda. 184 The strong elastic ligament accommodated in this synovial canal can work freely in supporting the long cervical column without destroying its contour by raising a fold of skin, as it must have done had the fibres passed straight across the concavity of the curve in the lower part of the neck. R. B. Y. 26.—Absence op the Subclavius Muscle. Absence of this muscle seems to be rare. In Macalister's paper on "Muscular Anomalies" (Trans. Royal Irish Acad., vol. xxv., p. 51), the only instance referred to is that recorded by Gruber as having occurred on the left side in a monstrous foetus (Virch. Arch., vol. xL, p. 430). Last winter I came across a female subject in which the subclavius was absent on both sides. Its place was taken by fibrous tissue, continuous on the inner side with the costo-clavicular ligament, on the outer with the costo- coracoid membrane. Sutton (Ligaments, their Nat. and Morph., p. 68) holds that the costo-clavicular ligament " arises from regression of the sternal fibres of the subclavius," and Cleland points out how the position of the subclavius in relation to the costo-clavicular ligament and the costo-coracoid membrane " suggests an important ligamentous function of that muscle" (Lancet, 1881, vol. i., p. 283). The state of matters in the present case is therefore very interesting, as showing on the one hand complete "regression" of the fibres of the subclavius, while on the other, the replacement of that muscle by fibrous tissue continuous with the costo-clavicular ligament and the costo-coracoid membrane goes to prove the liga- mentous action of the muscle in restraining along with these bands the upward movement of the clavicle at its outer end. I have quite recently seen a case illustrating a transition stage in the disappearance of the subclavius. In this subject, an adult male, the muscle was on each side reduced to a very slender band, consisting only of a few fibres. KB. Y. 27.—Post-anal Dimple. The only instance of post-anal dimple that I have seen was in an adult female subject in the dissecting-rooms here. In this case there was a well-marked dimple just over the tip of the