183 Memoranda. 24.—Structure of Tendon. Having had occasion, at the recent meeting of the British Medical Association in Glasgow, to exhibit some specimens of tendon from the rat's tail and from various large tendons of the human limbs, I think it well shortly to note the results of my observations as far as I have yet gone. While Ranvier discovered the quadrate scales associated with his name. Boll described a longitudinal keel on the back of each scale, l^o such keel exists. What lies on the back of the scale is an elongated nucleus. The nucleus of the scale in the rat's tendon is circular and flat; but the nuclei of which I speak are cylindrical, each as long as the quadrate scale in front of it, and united by a thin thread to the nucleus in front and the nucleus behind, so that a chain is formed. These cylindrical nuclei in human tendons are large sausage-looking bodies deeply stainable with carmine. While within the grasp of the quadrate scales there is only the white substance which forms the main mass of the tendon, a variety of connective tissue elements may be found on the other side. J. C. 25.—The Ligamentum Nuchae in Rhea Americana. In the lowest five cervical vertebrae of this bird the spinous processes are bifid, and between the lips of those bifid spines there is a groove in which the ligamentum nuchae lies. In the case of the lowest cervical spine the groove is about three-eighths of an inch deep; above this it gradually diminishes in depth, ceasing to be marked above the fifth lowest cervical, though traces of it are to be found as high as the eighth. The ligament arises from the spine of the first dorsal as a strong rounded cord of elastic fibres. Passing upwards it is bound down into the furrow formed by the bifid spines by a fibrous sheath attached on each side to the lips of the groove. The canal thus formed for the ligament is lined by synovial membrane. When the fibrous covering closing in the groove is cut through, the ligament is set free and is found to consist of an undivided portion extending from its origin upwards for about an inch and a half. The ligament then divides into a series of slips running to be attached from the fourth as high up as the ninth lowest cendcal vertebra.