176 Memoranda. 16.—Aberrant Artery in the lower limb. On the left side of a male subject, dissected in the winter of 1886, a "vas aberrans" was found in the popliteal space, passing between the upper end of the popliteal artery and the upper end of the posterior tibial. The abnormal vessel was about three inches in length, and was almost a third of the thickness of the main vessel. It lay to the inside of the main artery, and at its middle was distant about half-an-inch from it. It gave off no branches. The other arteries of the lower limb were normal. J. Y. M. 17.—SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. In the right arm of a female subject, dissected in the winter of 1884, a small supra-condyloid process was found coupled with a high origin of the pronator radii teres muscle. The brachial artery passed behind the process, but was not, as is usually the case, accompanied by the median nerve, which lay in its normal position. In the left arm of the same subject a supra-condyloid process and a high origin of the pronator radii teres were dis- covered, but both artery and nerve lay in their usual position on the front of the humerus, and did not pass behind it. J. y. M. 18.—Extension op the Elbow Joint. In the seventh and eighth editions of Quain's "Anatomy" there is a sentence which directs attention to the relative positions of the radius and humerus in extension of the elbow joint. It might have been better expressed, and certainly contains a clerical error, which must have escaped the notice of the editors of both editions. But the proper cure was not that which has been applied by the editor of the ninth edition, namely, to delete the sentence altogether. The fact, the allusion to which is suppressed, is curious, and the knowledge of it ought to be as general as ignorance of it appears to be. The radial surface of the humerus is directed forwards, and is invisible from behind, because its inferior edge is not prolonged round the lower end of the bone. In extension of the elbow the anterior part of the articular head of the radius is in contact with the inferior edge of the humeral surface; and the main part of the concavity on the head of the radius is separated from the humerus by a large angular gap filled up with Haversian glands. The bearing of this on the production of dislocation backwards of the radius is