Dr. Glklanu on Birds toith Superiiumerary Legs, &c. 7 of an embryo -which has iindergoiie abcaudal fission is, to my mind, to be found in cases of completely separate acephalus. This I pointed out, in speaking of the destruction of structure by stretching in instances in which limbs are appended to the chest. I stated that " by far the most probable hypothesis to account for the production of completely separate acephali is that they have become, in process of early growth, detached by fissiparous division from the developed foetus which always accompanies such a monstrosity An early rupture of the connexion with the head, and with the body of the perfect foetus, in the case of a completely separate acephalus, would give freedom for growth of the part sepai-ated." That it is difficult, no doubt, to get full proof of this theory, may be frankly admitted. At the same time it may happen any day that an opportunity may occur of examining the body of a healthy twin, born along with an acephalus ; and it is possible that, in its internal structure, trace may be found of organs, e. g., lungs, originally belonging to the acephalus. It is easy to understand how, by a very slight change, including the development of an allantois and eai-ly rupture of the vitelline cluct, the appended limbs of the girl forming the subject of Von Baer's Observation VIII. might have become completely separated and furnished with an independent cord. As for the theory of Claudius—according to which acardiac foetuses result from the weaker of two originally distinct embryos becoming afterwards united to the other and stronger by anastomoses of allantoic arteries, and consequently having its heart overpowered, the blood stagnating in it, and coagulation and atrophy resulting—it is praised by Forster for its sharp-sightedness, and has been taken up by Ahlfeld,* and is certainly highly ingenious, but is nearly incredible, both in respect of the effect on the embryonic heart imputed to reversed circulation, and in supposing total suppression of large part of the body to result from cutting off of the main channels of vascular supply at an extremely early date, when the formative powers are at their highest. Claudius, it appears, accounts for acormi by the same means. To my thinking, acormi result from abcranial fission, in which one of the two heads so developed is toiii, in process of growth, separate from the undivided lower part of the vertebral column. * Ahlfeld, Missbilduugen des Meuschen, page 47.