Memoranda. 177 J. G. obvious. In fact, when a child is pulled by the hand in the manner alluded to by Chelius as frequently producing this dislocation, not even the anterior edge of the radius is in perfect contact with the humerus. As respects the position of the ulna in full extension, it is curious to note that the pressure of the olecranon is not, as might be supposed, against the deep part of the olecranon fossa. That is to say, it is not against the thin bone sometimes converted into a foramen, but against a spot on the inner side of the oiiter pillar of bone bounding the fossa. A distinct facet can sometimes be seen on the dry humerus at this spot, but it is not covered with cartilage in the recent state. The part of the olecranon brought into contact with it is the outer portion of the upper margin of the articular surface, and in part overhangs that elongated facet on the outside of the olecranal articular surface which gradually glides into complete contact with the humerus as the elbow is extended after being bent at a right angle. The same arrangement appears to be found in mammals generally, and is very distinct in the hare. J. C. 19.—Pronation and Supination. I may further point out that the head of the radius presents a semilunar convexity in front of its shallow concavity. In move- ments of pronation this convexity articulates with the groove on the humerus internal to the capitellum, and in complete pronation lies behind, away from the humerus altogether. The diameter of the head of the radius backwards from the middle of this convexity is distinctly greater than the diameter at right angles to the first, and as the orbicular ligament binds the radius closely, it can be seen to be displaced outwards and inwards at the outer part according as the long diameter of the head of the radius is lyino- transversely or antero-posteriorly. Thus, in pronation, when the styloid process of the radius moves circularly inwards, the concavity of the head of the radius is pushed outwards, and consequently the apex of the cone described in pronation and supination is not situated on the humeral surface of the radius, but a little lower down. Therefore no point of the radius remains in contact with any one point of the humerus in any movement of pronation or supination.