20 Du. Cleland 0)1 Form of Hummi Skull in the male do not occur to the same extent. Thus, it was first distinctly pointed out by Huschke that the frontal and occipital capacity are in the female smaller in comparison with the parietal than in the male. The frontal eminences are correctly represented by artists lower and nearer together than in the male, the fore- head below them less prominent, and the face bones lighter; while in harmony with these peculiarities the position of the skull on the vertebral column is more childlike, with the parietal region raised high above the forehead, by reason of wanToi development of the wMges~sirpporting"l}Ee' condyles. Further, there is a general tendency to feeble development of the base both in length and breadth; and in connection with this I would again call attention, as I have done before (Op. cit., p. 130) to the circumstance that the part of the floor of the cranial caWty between the foramen magnum and the anterior fossa basis cranii forms a larger angle with each of these parts than it does in the male, so that, as I express it, the female skull has a more level base and the male skull a stee2} base.' The difference between a level and a steep base is one which comes out very distinctly m mesial section, and affects the whole conformation of the skull. It is not a difference of importance as a race character, but it is owing to the tendency to level base that female skulls are often so deficient in vertical height. The circumstance that such differ- ences in steepness have no effect in deranging the approach to parallelism of the plane of the foramen magnum and the anterior fossa basis cranii, is surely reason sufficient for including the fora- men magnum in the measurement of the base, instead of omitting it, as is done by some measurers who seem unable to understand that a skull is a morphological structure, and not a packing-box. ■ Probably the difference of steepness of base in the two sexes is to be accounted for by a difference in the mode of completion of the cranial curve after birth, elongation of the arch taking place more by frontal growth depressing the base in front in the male, and I by growth at the lambdoidal suture opening up the foramino-basilar \ang1e in the female. The cranial curve in the female is probably oilman average slightly greater than in the male. Nationality. It is not my intention at the present time to enter into an investigation of the detailed peculiarities of the skulls of diflerent races but only to point attention once again to certain principles