Dk. Clkland 071 Form of Human Skull. 3. Nasal height, or distance from nasion to nasal spine, is a distinct element, affecting the prognathous appearance of a skull as viewed on a flat table, but neither connected with the dentition nor with the orbito-nasal angle. Compare the elongated face of the North American Indian with a short-faced Negro or Australian with prognathous dentition, and it will at once be seen how absurd it is to confuse two such different characters, because they are accidentally similar in their effects on the appearance as judged by the norma verticalis, or on the gnathic index of Flower. 4. Measurements of the base ought to be kept quite distinct from snathic measurements. But it is obvious that in a skull with a short and level base the gnathic index of Flower will be increased, and that the description of base which will most diminish that index is that which has a steep and elongated clivus, combined with shortness forwards from this to the nasion. The original mode of estimating projection of the jaws by the norma verticalis had the additional fault that it was affected by the amount of the cranial curvature, the increase of which is similar in its effect on the position of the skull when set on a table to what the introduction of a block below the occipital would be. Cranial curvature should be registered separately, and, so far as my inquiries went, no measurement promised better results. It seemed even to point to a distinction between aboriginal races arrested in development, whose cranial curve was not yet,com- pleted, and others, as the Australians, in which it had exceeded ' the amount found in civilized races. But only those who have access to very large collections can sufficiently investigate such a point. The use of numbers called indices for the estimation of differ- ences of form in the cranium I consider unfortunate. It always involves a comparison of two measurements which, for all that has been ascertained, stand in no natural relationship one to the other. In the ninth edition of " Quain's Anatomy," Retzius is alleged to have introduced the cephalic index, but that great anatomist knew better than to do any such thing, and this I have shown (Op. cit, p. 145). What he really did was to divide skulls into two great groups, which he termed dolichocephalic and brachycephalic on account of length being an important distinc- tion, but by no means, the only distinction to be noted between the two groups.