102 PuoF. CiiELAND Oil Distinctions of l^orm in Human Pelvin. parts of the brim equal in length, like the European pelvis at puberty. Yet the broad interfemoral surface at the side of the symphysis, the female peculiarity pointed out in this memoir, is well marked, showing that the relative shortness of the pubic part of the brim is not from mei-e premature ossification of the part latest to be completed, namely, the symphysial surface. The unbroadened brim may well be attributed partly to the lightness of the upper part of the trunk, but still more to the deficient post-auricular growth of the iliac bones furnishing but little leverage for effecting the expansion which occurs in the European pelvis after puberty. I prefer to speak of an tmbroadened pelvic brim rather than to use such a word as " dolichopellic," not only because the plain word is more grateful to the ear, but because it expresses the fact of the non-occurrence of that process of broadening after puberty, the mechanism of which was first explained by Matthews Duncan, and because I question the value of the numerical indices associated with the compounds beginning with dolicho, brachy, and mesati, even although they are fashionable. With regard to the relation of unbroadened brim to racial habits, it will be noted that the feeble development of the post- auricular iliac levers bears on this question, for it seems safe to suppose that a shallow post-sacral fossa can contain but a feebly- developed multifidus spinse muscle, and that this is likely to be associated with disinclination to prolonged use of the erect posture, while on the other hand, increased use of that posture is likely to increase muscular growth, and thereby foster post-auricular iliac growth, which, in turn, by lengthening the levers on which the posterior sacro iliac ligaments pull, will favour lateral expansion of the brim. I have no doubt whatever that in the Australian pelvis there will be foitnd deficiency of post-auricular iliac projection similar to that in the Bosjes. The angle of divarication of the anterior edges of the iliac blades in this Bosjes pelvis is 37°. The epiphyses are all thoroughly united. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XL I. Left pubic bone of a middle-aged female, showing in front of the symphysis, prolonged np from the inner surface of the descending ramus, the flat surface characteristic of the female sex.