Fig. 118. Anterior Thoracic Wall and Heart in the New-Born. From the fresh corpse of a normal Foetus the soft parts, of the Anterior Thoracic Wall over the Sternum and Costal Cartilages have been removed. The position of the heart and its important parts has been determined by Luschka1 s method, (by the introduction of 6 needles). The heart and the great vessels are fully shewn in the figure, the bones and muscles being imagined as transparent. The outline of the Pericardium and the area of Absolute Cardiac Dulness are yellow. The six points — indicated by Arabic figures — employed to determine the position of the heart are: 1. Internal angle of the first intercostal space on the right side close to the Sternum: Right Pleura, Right Phrenic Nerve, Reflection of Pericardium, Superior Vena Cava close to the right margin of the Arch of Aorta (this last- named structure may be pierced by inserting the needle obliquely): in the adult the Internal Mammary vessels would be injured, but not so in the child. Cf. Fig. 119. 2. Internal angle of the 2nd intercostal space on the right side close to the Sternum; Right Pleura, Superior Vena Cava, upper border of Right Auricle. Aperture of Pericardium. 3. Internal angle of 2nd intercostal space on the left side close to the Sternum; Region of Pulmonary and Aortic Valves (the pulmonary valves being anterior, above and to the left; the Aortic posterior, below and to the right) Cf. Fig. 120. The left pleura is opened by the needle. 4. Middle line of Sternum at the level of the 4th Chondro-sternal articu- lations or at a slightly higher level in the new-born: Border of Right Pleura, Boundar}^ between right auricle and right ventricle; Tricuspid Valve. 5. Middle line of Sternum at the junction of the Manubrium with the Xiphisternum: Lower border of right ventricle or of pericardium, and of the area of Absolute Cardiac Dulness. 6. Lower border of 5th rib on the left side at its costo-chondral junction about inch internal to the mammary line: Apex of Heart, or more accurately the limit between the left (red) and the right (blue) Ventricle. This needle passed exactly through the Interventricular Septum without entering either chamber of the Heart. The upper and lower parts of the Anterior Mediastinum are continuous in the child; the Thymus which lies in front of the Pericardium reaches down- wards between the Parietal pleurae as far as the area of Absolute Cardiac Dulness. The Anterior Mediastinum is filled up by Thymus, loose connective tissue, fat, lymphatics and small vessels.