Fig. 169. Inguinal Region, 4th Layer. Hernial Orifices, Iliac Bursa. Male aged 60. The Spermatic Cord has been drawn out of the Inguinal Canal and cut off. Vas Deferens (blue). Fascia of Penis is opened up and the Dorsal Vessels and Nerves are exposed. External part of Fascia Lata has been removed. Anterior Crural and External Cutaneous Nerves have been lopped off short. A piece has been cut out of the I/io-Psoas to expose the Iliac Bursa (pink). The Pelvis and Head of the Femur are indicated in dotted lines. The dotted ellipse over the Head of the Femur indicates the position and size of the com- munication between the Iliac Bursa and the Hip-Joint (in this case). Immediately external to the Common Femoral Artery, but on a slightly deeper plane, are the Ilio-Psoas Muscle and the Anterior Crural Nerve. A very large bursa (Iliac Bursa) separates the Ilio-Psoas Muscle from the Horizontal Ramus of the Pubis and the Capsule of the Hip-Joint whereby the Muscle plays over the edge of the bone without friction. The Capsule of the Hip-Joint is weak at its point of contact with the Iliac Bursa, and in some cases (1 in 10) there exists a communication between these 2 cavities. This Bursa may extend some distance into the Pelvis which occurrence is of practical importance in connection with primary disease of this Bursa. When swollen the difficulty of diagnosis arises between enlarged lymphatic glands, aneurysm of the Femoral Artery, or disease of the Hip. An accurate anatomical knowledge of this bursa is the only clue to a correct diagnosis. Again inflam- mation may spread from the Hip-Joint into the Bursa, via a direct communication, by piercing the thin septum, and further extend into the Pelvis. The figure also shews the important relations of the Hernial Orifices. The fibres of the External Abdominal Oblique Muscle diverge at an acute angle, and form the 2 pillars of the External Abdominal Ring. The Internal Pillar ends in the middle line (or reaches to the opposite side) at the Symphysis Pubis by sending fibres into the Suspensory Ligament of the Penis. The Outer Pillar is chiefly inserted into the Pubic Spine. The angle between the diverging fibres and the anterior aspect of the cord are covered by intercolumnar fibres which hold the two pillars together. Poupart's ligament is a thickened fibrous cord or rather a tendon or tendinous cord (the lower border of the External Abdominal Oblique Muscle). From the External Pillar and Poupart’s Ligament which are blended together, many fibres spread in various directions, and to some of these names have been applied. The fibrous mass which stretches across to the Fascia covering the Pectineus Muscle, near the Spine of the Pubis, and forming a triangular ligament with the base pointing outwards has been called GlMBERNAT’s Ligament (Fig. 170). The fibres directed upwards and backwards to reach the bone, have been called the Ilio-Pubic band. Both ligaments are usually blended together. These structures are not constant, and their descriptions are most variable.