Fig. 68. Outer Region of the Neck. Upper Cervical Ganglia of Sympathetic. The head of a male, aged jo, is turned to the right, and drawn backwards. A large window has been made in the skin, the Platysma and External Jugular Vein have been removed, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid Muscle and Internal Jugular Vein drawn forwards, and the Trapezius pulled backwards. 7he Thoracic Duct is white, the Sympathetic Chain and, its Ganglia are orange (by mistake, the Spinal Accessory Nerve has been drawn superficial to the Great Auricular Nerve: it should be the reverse). In Fig. 67, the parts are in their natural position; in this figure, the deeper structures have been exposed by drawing the superficial muscles apart; the In- ternal Jugular Vein, which really lies external to the Carotid Artery, has been pulled inwards, the Sympathetic Chain begins with the Upper Cervical Ganglion which is 4/5th inch, long, and 0.3 inch, broad; its upper end lies opposite the trans- verse process of the 2nd or 3rd Cervical Vertebra; its lower end, opposite the 4th, 5th or 6th Cervical Vertebra. At its lower end is seen the sympathetic chain which goes to the Inferior Cervical Ganglion (cf. Fig. 70). This Ganglion varies in size and may form one mass with the ist Dorsal Ganglion, it lies on the head of the ist rib at its point of articulation with the body of the ist Dorsal Vertebra. The sympathetic chain frequently forms a loop around the Subclavian Artery (Ansa of VlEUSSENS). Between the Upper and Lower Cervical Ganglia lies the middle Cervical Ganglion in front of the Inferior Thyreoid Artery, which may also be surrounded by a loop of sympathetic fibres. The Sympathetic Chain lies behind the Carotid Artery, and is fixed to the Vertebral Column and the Pre- vertebral Muscles. It therefore does not move with the Carotid Sheath, in the same way as the Vagus. When ligaturing the Carotid Artery, there is no need to trouble about the Sympathetic but one has to take care not to include the Vagus in the ligature with the Artery. The Sympathetic is, therefore, in a well protected position, and rarely damaged in accidents, or during operations (removal of tumours). In recent years, the Sympathetic has been divided and more or less removed (Superior Cervical Ganglion etc.) for Epilepsy, Glaucoma and Grave’s disease. The Sympathetic can be exposed by a longitudinal incision along the anterior border of the Sterno- Mastoid Muscle; the Carotid Artery, Internal Jugular Vein and Vagus are drawn aside. This proceeding is inconvenient, because the thin-walled much distended vein is held by the retractor. If one operated along the posterior border of the Sterno-Mastoid drawing the muscle with the vein inwards, more room is obtained; if the incision has been continued downwards on to the clavicle, the lower Cervi- cal Ganglion can also be removed, after having freed the clavicular head of the Sterno-Mastoid from its attachment. The latter operation, however, is difficult, because the Vertebral Vessels may lie up against the Ganglion near the Apex of the Pleura (cf. Fig. 70). This should on no account be injured. This incision is the best for ligaturing the Vertebral Artery before it enters the foramen in the transverse processes of the Cervical Vertebrae.