Fig. 31. Side View of Face, deep layer. The branches of the Facial Nerve have been exit of but its communications with the Auriculo-Temporal Nerve have been exposed to view: the Zygoma has been sawn through and removed together with the upper part of the Masseter Muscle, (in a similar manner, the Coronoid Process with the attached Temporal Muscle). All the chief branches of the 2nd and 3rd divisions of the Vth Cranial Nerve and the branches of the Internal Maxillary Artery are exhibited. Under cover of the Coronoid Process of the Lower Jaw and the Temporal Muscle attached to it, the structures of the Zygomatic Fossa are covered with fat. After the removal of this fat the External Pterygoid Muscle is seen extending from the Pterygoid Process to the Condyle of the Lower Jaw. The relation of the Internal Maxillary Artery (terminal branch of External Carotid Artery) to this muscle varies as it runs, either superficial or deep to the muscle, to gain the Spheno-Maxillary Fossa. This vessel gives off the Middle Meningeal Artery which runs upwards to the Foramen Spinosum and the Inferior Dental Artery which enters the Inferior Dental Foramen. After removal of the External Pterygoid Muscle the 3rd or Inferior Maxillary-Division of the Vth Nerve is visible. After passing through the Foramen Ovale this breaks up into numerous diverging branches. The Auriculo-Temporal Nerve passing backwards emerges behind the Temporo-Maxillary Articulation and supplies the skin of the temporal region with common sensibility, this nerve generally forms a loop through which the Middle Meningeal Artery passes. The other branches are partly motor and supply the Muscles of Mastication (Internal and External Pterygoids, Masseter and Temporal), and partly sensory, long Buccal to the skin and Mucous Membrane of the Cheek. The two largest branches, Inferior Dental and Lingual, pass down- wards on the Internal Pterygoid Muscle; the former, the larger nerve, is the more posterior. In the Spheno-Maxillary Fossa but situated anteriorly, is the posterior surface of the Superior Maxilla. The Infra-orbital Artery, a branch of the Internal Maxillary Artery, enters the Infra-orbital Canal, while close above this vessel lies the 2nd division of the Vth Nerve which in its course from the Foramen Rotundum to enter the Infra-orbital Canal inclines outward. In its short course it gives off the Spheno-Palatine Nerves to the Spheno-Palatine Ganglion (Meckel’s, cf. Fig. 44) and through the Pterygo-Maxillary Fossa the Zygomatic, Superior Dental and Sphenopalatine Nerves. Operations in this region — for removal of tumours, resection of the 2nd or 3rd divisions of the Vth Nerve for Acute Neuralgia — are rendered difficult by the diffuse Venous Plexus (Pterygoid Plexus) which replaces the Venae Comites of the Internal Maxillary Artery. This plexus which has been removed in the dissection, extends from the Infra-orbital Canal and Spheno-Maxillary Fissure between the Pterygoid Muscles as far as the Temporo-Mandibular Joint.