Fig. 178. Sagittal Section through the Left Knee-Joint during Flexion. This preparation was made from a man aged 82 years. Formol was injected into the limb, and the knee, forthwith, flexed to its utmost limit, was kept in that position. On the following day the section was made without freezing. In spite of advanced age and a high amputation through the right leg this joint was quite normal. In contrast with the extended position (Fig. 177) this figure indicates the relations during' extreme flexion. As the section has been carried almost through the middle of the joint, a larger part of the Intrinsic Ligaments is shewn than in Fig. 177. As the Patella is fixed by the Ligament of the Patella to the Tibia, the Patella leaves the Anterior Surface of the Femur during flexion, and comes to lie in front of the Joint-slit, which it does not cover during extension. The Capsule is folded backwards, and the Vessels and Nerves are extremely bent. To such frequent bendings of an imperfect elastic arterial tube, is attributed the main cause of the not-uncommon aneurysm of the Popliteal Artery. Of the 2 Crucial Ligaments, the figure exhibits the Anterior: this extends from the depression in front of the Spine of the Tibia (Anterior Intercondylar Fossa) upwards, outwards and back- wards to the inner side of the External Condyle; its function, like the Posterior Crucial Ligament, is to check excessive rotatory movements. The Plica Synovialis Patellaris fills up the space between the Patella, Articular Surface of the Tibia, and the Crucial Ligaments. One of the most striking changes which occurs in this joint during flexion, is relaxation of the External Lateral Ligament — this is not seen in the figure —. Attached to the Femur eccentric to the axis of flexion, this ligament becomes tense during extension and prevents rotation, but during flexion it is relaxed and allows inward rotation of the leg. These movements, however, are limited by the Crucial Ligaments. A glance at the figure shews its complexity. Contrary to the other large joints, which either have a free joint cavity or are at the outset traversed by one tendon (e. g. Shoulder, by tendon of biceps, Hip-joint by Ligamentum Teres), the interior of this joint contains a complicated arrangement of ligaments which lead to the formation of numerous pouches. In cases of suppuration in the Knee-joint, the purulent products, therefore, tend to remain in these recesses and clefts, and are only removed with difficulty.