Fig. 190. Region behind the Internal Malleolus. Right Leg of a girl aged 15 years. The region around the Internal Malleolus is exposed in layers. 3 windows have been made in the Deep Fascia and Internal Annular Ligament. The Long Saphenous Vein runs in the Superficial Fascia as far as the Internal Malleolus accompanied by the Long Saphenous Nerve. The Fascia of the Leg is strengthened behind the Internal Malleolus by thick bands of fibres which radiate from the Malleolus towards the inner surface of the Os Calcis and Plantar Fascia — the Internal Annular Ligament. This Ligament forms a bridge under which the Flexor Tendons, Nerves and Vessels pass to the sole of the foot. Nearest to the Internal Malleolus under this fascia and in a strong Apo- neurotic Canal the Tendon of the Posterior Tibial Muscle passes, next to this the Tendon of the Long Flexor of the Toes. The Tendon of this muscle crosses the Posterior Tibial Muscle in the Leg from within outwards. Nextly, the Posterior Tibial Vessels lie between the Long Flexor of the Toes and the Long Flexor of the Big Toe so that, for ligature of this vessel, the mid-point between Internal Malleolus and Tendo Achillis serves as the landmark. Directly posterior to the Artery is the Posterior Tibial Nerve or its ter- minal branches. — Internal and External Plantar Nerves. — The space posterior to this and extending as far back as the Tendo Achillis is occupied by fat; in this is found the Tendon of the Plantaris which is inserted into the posterior part of the Os Calcis, along side of the Tendo Acjiillis. By pushing the Vessels and Nerves forwards, the posterior segment of the Ankle-joint can be reached. The Long Flexor of the Big Toe passes over the middle of the joint. Between this and the other tendons, posterior to the Inner Malleolus on the one side and the Peroneal Tendons behind the outer Malleolus on the other side, the Capsule of the Joint may bulge in cases of effusion into the joint, because it is not strengthened at these points. For operations, such as Ex- tirpation of the Capsule in Tuberculosis, the joint is accessible from behind. The arrangement is analogous with that on the Anterior Aspect of the joint near the Extensor Tendons (cf. Fiy. 193), there is, however, the difference that, owing' to its deeper position, the swelling of the joint is only noticed posteriorly when extensive. It becomes visible when the hollow next to the Tendo Achillis is filled out.