Fig. ii. Convolutions of the Brain and Sutures of the Skull in the child. Fig. 12. Convolutions of the Brain and Sutures of the Skull in the Adult. Cunningham’s Method of removing the Skull Bones, except narrow bars at the sutures, affords an excellent method of shewing the relations of the Cerebral Convolutions to the Cranial Sutures. (Skeletotopy of the Brain, Waldeyer.) It is advantageous to consider the fissures and sulci rather than the convolutions. In the removal of the skull bones in the infant it should be remembered that they become attenuated at the regions farther away from their ossific centres; this diminution in the thickness of the Bone is replaced by a corresponding thickening of the Dura Mater and Pericranium. This close union of the fibrous skull-cap checks the spreading of subdural and subperiosteal Haematomata within the limiting area of any one bone. Moreover, it follows, that Bone and Dura Mater are removed in one piece during this dissection in the new-born. In later childhood and adult life the bones are, as a rule, easily separated from the dura mater, difficulties only occurring at the following points: near the Superior Longitudinal Sinus because Pacchionian bodies may be present, and at the Parietal Foramen (Santorini). The Mastoid Emissary Vein may be a point for dangerous haemorrhage because of the proximity of the Lateral Sinus. The Emissary Veins favour the spread of inflammation (cf. Erysipelas complicated by Meningitis). At the Sphenoparietal Sinus there is danger of Haemorrhage from laceration of the Anterior Branch of the Middle Meningeal Artery which may be embedded in a partial or complete canal near to it. (Cf. Fig. 32.) In connection with the position of the Sulci and Fissures it should be noted that in the new-born (Fig. 10) the Fissure of Sylvius lies at a higher level than the Squamosal Suture, and that the Central Fissure (Rolando) is placed more anteriorly than in the adult. In the child (Fig. 11) the squamous portion of the Temporal Bone grows upwards and the temporal ridges become more definite (blue in the figure in order to distinguish them from the sutures [r e d]). In the adult the Fossa of Sylvius corresponds closely to the Squamosal Suture. (Cf. Fig. 19.) Accordingly, with certain individiual variations, the relation of the Fossa of Sylvius to the skull bones gradually alters with the bony development. The most important central convolutions, however, lie at all ages in the middle third of the Parietal Bone, being slightly further forward in the new-born. To the surgeon interest is attached to the sutures, because certain anthropometric markings are employed (Fig. 18). Nasion, at base of nose, and Inion, at external occipital protuberance, both points are employed in connection with the determination of the upper extremity of the Central Fissure (Rolando). Lambda, in middle line, where the Sagittal and Lambdoid Sutures meet, is employed for the determination of the Parieto-occipital Fissure. Obelion, a point above the former, less irregular in shape, corresponds to the Parietal Foramen. Bregma, junction of Sagittal and Coronal Sutures, is at the anterior border of the Parietal Bones. On the lateral aspect of the Skull, the Asterion, is the postero-inferior angle of the Parietal Bone, where the lateral sinus turns downwards. Stephanion, the crossing of the coronal suture and the temporal ridges (near the Spheno-parietal Sinus). Pterion, the point of meeting of the Sphenoid, Parietal and Temporal Bones; this is the site for ligature of the Anterior Branch of the Middle Meningeal Artery: underneath lies the Fossa of Sylvius.