Fig. 62. Front View of the Neck, Deep Layer. Child. Child a few months old; head inclined backwards. On the left side, the super- ficial structures are displayed after removal of the Platysma; on the right side, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid has been cut off near its attachment. The Sternum has been removed between the middle of the Manubrium and the base of the Xiphoid, and ivith it the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, yth, 6th Costal Cartilages. The chief difference in this part between the adult and the child, is the Thymus which is large in the latter. This gland continues its development till the 2nd year, then degenerates or remains stationary till puberty. After puberty, it disappears rapidly; its lobes undergo fatty degeneration; there are, however, always masses of fat containing a few remains of this glandular tissue present even in the adult. The shape of the gland varies much. There are usually 2 longitudinally placed lobes which are pointed above. The limits of the gland are: the level of the 3rd rib, and the lower border of the Thyreoid Gland. Below the Thymus is in relation with the Pericardium, its middle portion is covered by the Sternum; between its outer portion and the thoracic wall, the pleural cavity and the lungs find their way. Above the pericardium, this gland is an anterior relation of the Arch of the Aorta, Superior Vena Cava and Innominate Veins. At a still higher level, it lies on the Trachea, being separated from the skin by Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Thyreoid Muscles; at this point it becomes an internal relation to the Innominate Artery, Carotid Artery and Internal Jugular Vein. This figure also shews some of the Lymphatic glands of the Neck and Thorax. The chief lymphatic channel, the Thoracic Duct, commences in the ab- domen, usually opposite the ist Lümbar Vertebra (Receptaculum Chyli, cf. Fig. 141). It runs vertically upwards on the right of the Aorta, passing through the Dia- phragm, and lying in the Thorax between the Aorta and Great Azygos Vein. Opposite the body of the 7th Cervical Vertebra it arches over the left Subclavian Artery and opens into the left Subclavian Vein (cf. Fig. 67). The corresponding structure on the right is the short right Lymphatic Duct which opens into the right Subclavian Vein. The great lymphatic channel on the right side is formed by the junction of the Bronchial, Mediastinal, Jugular and Subclavian Lymphatics; on the left, the Thoracic Duct receives the left Jugular and Subclavian Lymphatics which carry the lymph from the head and upper extremity. These last mentioned channels may open separately into the veins. Between the 2 bellies of the Digastric the Submental Glands are shewn; on the Submaxillary Gland, the Submaxillary Lymphatic Glands are visible; at a lower level on the Internal Jugular Vein the Superficial Cervical Glands are seen (more about this group in Fig. 63, text). On the left side, some of the Inferior Deep Cervical Glands (cf. Fig. 115, text), and finally the Sternal Glands are shewn. These lie near the Internal Mammary Artery and its Venae Comites but are not found in all the interspaces. Their efferent vessels go to the mediastinal glands, to the great lymphatic ducts and to the lymphatics of the neck (cf. Fig. 115).