Fig. 189. Synovial Sheaths of the Tendons behind the Internal Malleolus. The Tendo Achillis, Plantar Fascia, a large part of the Abductor Muscle of the Big Toe, the Short Flexor of the Toes and the Deep Fascia of the Leg have been removed. The Annular Ligament has been dissected out and the Tendon- sheaths distended with Gelatin. .Strong Septa extend from the Internal Annular Ligament to the posterior surface of the Tibia, so that the Tendons run in Osteo-aponeurotic Canals, enclosed by synovial sheaths. The Sheath of the Posterior Tibial Tendon commences two inches above the tip of the Internal Malleolus and reaches as far as the insertion of this Tendon into the Scaphoid Bone, so as to extend a little further downwards on the bony aspect of the tendon. Immediately behind this sheath and rarely communicating with its upper end lies the Sheath of the Long Flexor Muscle of the Foot. This sheath extends to a higher level up the leg than the former and is inserted obliquely on the tendon, leaving its posterior border free as long as muscle fibres are inserted into it. The sheath ends at the level of the Astragalo-Scaphoid Joint. Still nearer the Os Calcis is the Sheath of the Long Flexor of the Big-Toe separated from the Long Flexor of the Toes by a space occupied by the Posterior Tibial Nerve and Vessels on their way to the sole of the foot. This sheath commences one inch above the Tip of the Malleolus and may reach as far as the base of the First Metatarsal Bone. At the point where the Tendon of the Long Flexor of the Big-Toe crosses the Long Flexor of the Toes and has a band of communication with the latter, the Tendons still remain within their proper sheaths, but these sheaths communicate with each other; in many cases the Long Flexor of the Big- Toe is without synovial covering at the point of crossing. Like the tendon-sheaths in the hand, these sheaths are of importance in connection with the spreading of inflammatory processes from the foot to the leg and vice versa. Moreover, as they pass over the Capsule of the Ankle-joint disease may perforate these Sheaths and extend to the Ankle-joint or in the reverse direction. At the toes the Flexor Tendons, like those of the Hand, have sheaths with one important difference; at the toes they never communicate with the Central Synovial Sheaths.