Fig* 75* Anterior Relations of the Right Shoulder-Joint. Skin and Superficial Fascia over the anterior portion of the Deltoid and the outer portion of the Pectoralis Major have been removed; the Deltoid has been cut below the Shoulder-foint and thrown upwards and outwards. The Sub- deltoid Bursa (pink), the foint, and the Sheath of the Biceps (light blue) have been opened. The middle third of the Clavicle and Subclavius Muscle, the Coracoid Process with the insertion of Pectoralis Minor Muscle and the common origin of the Coraco-Brachialis and Short Head of the Biceps are shewn. The Long Head runs through the Shoulder-Joint over the Head of the Humerus into the Bicipital Groove. Its synovial sheath always communicates with the Joint. Effusion and # Pus in the Joint often extend into this sheath. Between the Capsule of the Shoulder-Joint and the Deltoid Muscle lies the Subdeltoid Bursa, which, as a rule, does not communicate with the Joint. Distension of this Bursa may easily stimulate fluid in the Shoulder-Joint. The fibrous strands running from the Coracoid Process to the Capsule and the wall of the Subdeltoid Bursa are called the Coraco-Humeral Ligament. They are covered in the figure by the much-distended Bursa. Between the Capsule and the Coraco-Acromial Ligament which forms a kind of protective roof for the Joint an important bursa, the Subacromial Bursa, is found. A third large bursa lies between the Scapula and the Subscapularis Muscle: the Bursa Subscapularis usually communicates with the Joint (cf. Fig. 121). The Capsule of the Shoulder-Joint is wide and loose; it allows the Head of the Humerus to leave the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula for a distance of as much as one inch. Above, this Capsule is attached to the neck of the Scapula; for the greater part, it is attached to the fibrous ring which deepens the Glenoid Cavity (Glenoid Ligament). The Long Head of the Biceps arises from the upper part of the Glenoid Ligament. The Glenoid Cavity is not directed exactly outward, but somewhat upwards and forwards. When the arm hangs vertically downwards, only the lower portion of the Head of the Humerus touches the Glenoid Cavity articular surface of the Scapula, at least in dead bodies. The highest point of the Head of the Humerus lies at a distance of 0.15—0.25 inch from the highest point of the Joint Cavity.