Fig. 127. Position of Viscera covered by Peritoneum — Child. Child under one year of age. Anterior abdominal wall, Stomach, Jejunum, Ileum, Left portion of Transverse Colon, Sigmoid Flexure, Mesenteries and wall of Omental Sac, Transverse Mesocolon have been removed. Peritoneum, blue. Inner layer of Omental Sac, yellow. This figure shews the Abdominal and part of the Pelvic Viscera in situ after removal of those mentioned above. The Liver is large, its anterior surface passing beyond the right costal arch throughout its whole extent (reminding one of the arrangement in the Foetus). Of the Viscera the following parts are shewn. Cardiac end of Stomach cut across transversely. Pylorus joining the Duodenum, of which, by removal of the Anterior layer of the lesser Omentum, the hori- zontal and commencement of the descending portion with the opening of the Common Bile Duct are shewn. The remaining part is covered by the Transverse Colon. The lumen of the intestine is visible at the Duodeno-jejunal Flexure, below and posterior to which is found the Duodeno-jejunal Fossa. The Ileo-caecal junction and the Vermiform Appendix are seen in their usual position at a higher level in the child than in the adult. The Ascending Colon which appears rather short in the figure, the right half of the Transverse Colon (lumen owing to line of section), on the left the Splenic Flexure, Descending Colon, and two opening's through which the upper and lower extremities of the Sigmoid Flexure are also visible. On the lower surface of the Liver we find the Gall Bladder and vessels entering the Hilum of the Liver, the Bile Ducts and further to the left the Spleen. Forming the left inferior boundary of the Fossa Duodeno-jejunalis is the Left Colic Artery. In this instance the Kidney is horseshoe-shaped, but the Ureters are normal and occupy normal positions, crossing the External Iliac vessels (cf. Figs. 131, 134, 136, 137, 14Q, 150) and disappearing behind the much distended Rectum. By the side of the left Ureter runs the Superior Haemorrhoidal Artery (a branch of the Inferior Mesenteric) to the Rectum. In front of the Rectum is the Uterus, of which the fundus is visible; from either side the round ligament passes to the Inguinal Canal crossing' in their course the Deep Epigastric Vessels. The Fallopian Tubes and Ovaries lie on the right side in the true pelvis, on the left side in the false pelvis, either because the}f have not completely descended, or, more probably, because the much distended Rectum had pushed them upwards. This latter view is supported by the fact that the Fundus Uteri is squeezed in between the Bladder and the left wall of the pelvis. In front of the Uterus lies the Bladder, bounded anteriorlv by the slightly opened Cave of RetziuS; in this region the Bladder is uncovered by Peritoneum. The Peritoneum which lines all these organs, and encloses them to a greater or lesser degree, has been cut off at the root of the mesentery. (Cf. Fig. 136.)