Fig. 151. Median Section through Male Pelvis. Frozen section through the body of a robust elderly man. The Rectum was much distended by faeces which were removed after the section had been har- dened ; the Bladder contained frozen urine which melted as the section thawed. The parietal layer of Peritoneum lining the Anterior Abdominal Wall can be traced over the summit and posterior aspect of the Bladder to be reflected on to the anterior surface of the Rectum at the level of the lower border of the 4th segment of the Sacrum. This point, of great surgical importance (for the removal of Tumours) is situated 3 inches above the Anus (length of Index Finger). The Peritoneum now continues upwards as far as the 2nd or ist segment of the Sacrum. Between the Anterior Abdominal Wall and the Peritoneum a space'is formed when the Bladder is distended (Space of Retzius) because the peritoneum being adherent to the Bladder is pushed upwards as this organ rises out of the Pelvis (Fig. 144). Between the Rectum and the Bladder, close to the middle line is situated the Ampulla of the Vas Deferens — this is partly shewn in the section. The Rectum when filled with faeces is chiefly distended above the 3rd or Anal portion (Ampulla Recti) so that the organs which lie in front of this part are pushed upwards. Below the Ampulla of the Vas Deferens lies the posterior portion of the Prostate; the remainder of this gland lies in front of the Urethra, and is sur- rounded by the Prostatic Venous Plexus. In this specimen the Bladder Wall is thickened and presents marked rugae on its inner surface. The Urethra on emerging from the Bladder passes through the Prostatic portion — Prostatic Sinus or Verumontanum — this portion is usually one inch or a little more in length, though in cases of Hypertrophy of the Prostate or a greatly distended Rectum this may be exceeded. The next segment of the Urethra is known as the Membranous portion — according to Waldeyer the upper and larger part of this should be called the Muscular portion because it is surrounded by muscles from which it derives both circular and longitudinal fibres. The length of this segment is almost one inch. The Urethra at this situation forms a curve at an angle of 90 degrees which often obstructs the passage of the point of a catheter. The distal segment is 6 to 8 inches long and extends from the Anterior layer of the triangular ligament to the end of the Penis, lying between the Corpora Cavernosa it is surrounded by a delicate erectile tissue (the Corpus Spongiosum) which is enlarged posteriorly to form the Bulb and anteriorly to form the Gians Penis. The Corpora Cavernosa arise on either side of the ascending Ramus of the Pubis and terminate as cones at the level of the Coronary Sulcus of the Gians Penis by which they are covered. Slightly posterior to the slit-like external urinary orifice the Urethra widens into the Fossa Navicularis. The Gians may or may not be covered by a Prepuce according to size, age, habits, etc. (Phimosis, Paraphimosis, Circumcision -— cf. Fig. 152 and Text). As the position of the testicles is not quite symmetrical, the Septum of the Scrotum has not been divided but the left testicle within its Tunica Vaginalis has been cut obliquely.