Fig. 20i. Tarsal and Metatarsal Articulations. Right Side. The preparation is of a frozen foot in extreme plantar flexion; the minimum of tissue necessary to thoroughly expose the joints has been removed with a chisel. The Tarsal Bones articulate with each other, with the Bones of the Leg and with the Metatarsal Bones, forming as a rule 8 separate joint-cavities of which some are very simple (where only two articular surfaces take part in the joint), others are very complicated (where several joint-spaces combine to form one joint- cavity by communication). In the latter case, disease spreads rapidly from one articulation into the communicating joints whereas disease of a simple cavity may remain localized. The separate joint-cavities are: 1. Ankle-joint, between the Astragalus, Tibia and Fibula with an upward recess between the Tibia and Fibula. 2. Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Joint (Fig. 199). 3. Articulation between the Astragalus on the one hand with the Scaphoid and Os Calcis on the other hand (Fig. 199). The Head of the Astragalus lies in a socket formed by the Scaphoid, Calcaneo-Scaphoid Ligament and the Anterior Part of the Os Calcis. 4. Joint between Os Calcis and Cuboid; the inner extremity of this joint lies exactly opposite the outer end of the former (3) separated only by the Calcaneo- Cuboid Ligament. The foot can be easily disarticulated at this S-shaped articulation the Astragalus and Os Calcis being left behind. (Disarticulation after Chopart.) It is to be noticed that this joint consists of 2 separate joint-cavities so that, in disease, one may be affected without the other. 5. Small Articulation between the Cuboid and External Cuneiform. 6. Very complex Joint-cavity between Scaphoid and the 3 Cuneiforms, between the contiguous Cuneiforms, between the Middle and External Cuneiforms and the bases of the 2nd and 3rd Metatarsals and between the bases of these Metatarsals. 7. Joint between ist Metatarsal and the Internal Cuneiform. 8. Joint between the Cuboid and the 4th and 5th Metatarsals. The joints between the 5 Metatarsals on the one hand and the 3 Cuneiforms and the Cuboid on the other form a curved line which is only interrupted by the proximal projection of the 2nd Metatarsal to the extent of 2/5ths inch. Disarticulation of the Metatarsals after LlSFRANC can be performed at this line.