Pig. 116. Boundaries of the Lungs and Pleurae as. seen from in front. Area of Absolute Cardiac Dulness. The Parietal Pleura consists of the Costal Pleura, the Diaphragmatic Pleura, the Mediastinal (including the Pericardial) Pleura and the Apical Pleura. The knowledge of the reflections of the Pleura, i. e. the lines upon the Anterior Thoracic Wall at which the Costal Pleura becomes the Diaphragmatic and the Mediastinal Pleura — cf. dotted lines in the figure — is important. The Anterior (Median) Boundary of the right costal pleura extends from the upper margin of the ist costal cartilage at an angle of 450 downwards and inwards to a point Vioth to 1 inch to the left of the middle line at the angle of the Sternum (Junction of Manubrium and Body of Sternum). From this point it continues downwards in a vertical direction, gradually approaching the middle line at the level of the 5th Costo-Sternal Articulation; from this point its course is slightly downwards along the lower border of the 6th costal cartilage in the 6th intercostal space |or along the upper border of the 7 th costal cartilage, the lower border of which it reaches about 3/5th of jan inch mesial to its costo- chondral junction. The costal cartilage of the 7th rib, like the lower costal cartilages, is almost entirely devoid of Pleura. This also applies to an increasing surface of the ribs themselves as we get lower in the series {21/i inches). The limit of the Pleura crosses the right nipple line (cf. Fig'. 111) at the lower margin of the 6th costal cartilage or slightly lower down, and the axillary line at the lower border of the gth Costal Cartilage. In the upper part, the left costal pleura takes a similar course; it crosses the Sternal Angle (Ludwig's Angle) a little further to the left; from this point it passes so as to often reach the middle line, becoming, to some degree, adherent to the pleura of the opposite side; for the distance of 2 inches it extends ver- tically downwards until it reaches the level of the 4th costal'cartilage; at this level the margin of the pleura extends obliquely downwards and outwards to the upper border of the 5th Costochondral Articulation whence it curves with its concavity inwards to the upper border of the 7th Costal Cartilage; from this point it again follows a similar course to the Right Pleura downwards and outwards; though mesially it does not reach the 7 th Costal Cartilage it may extend lower down externally. The left pleura crosses the axillary line at the 10th rib or in the 9th interspace (cf. Fig. 126). The pink area indicates Absolute Cardiac Dulness which under normal conditions is not encroached upon by lung tissue and which area serves for the exposure of the Pericardium in Pericardiotomy. Cf. Figs. 70 and 121 for a description of the Apical Pleurae. The boundaries between the different lobes are shewn in the figure. The Right Lung has three lobes — the superior and middle lobes are separated anteriorly by a fissure which extends to the level of the 4th rib or V2 inch lower. The boundary between the middle and inferior lobes lies opposite the 6th intercostal space and extends behind the anterior extremity of the 7 th rib obliquely downwards to the lower border of the lung. The Left Lung consists of 2 lobes and the fissure which separates them extends from the posterior end of the 4th interspace to the region behind the 7th costal cartilage.