Fig. 165. Frontal Section through the (Right) Hip-joint. This section is not quite vertical, but is directed obliquely from above and in front, downwards and backwards. The Hip-joint is the most deeply situated of all the large joints in the body, and is covered on all sides by thick muscles. Access is obtained more easily from the outer side over the Great Tro- chanter, because in this situation there are fewer Vessels and Nerves. The Socket of the joint is incompletely covered by cartilage at the Fossa Acetabuli which is filled with fat. At this point, the bony wall is very thin, and easily allows of perforation by disease, which may subsequently extend in the Pelvis. The Socket is deepened by a dense fibrous ring, the Glenoid Ligament. The Capsule of the joint extends on to the Femur, — to a varying extent at different parts —. In front it reaches the Intertrochanteric Line, behind it is inserted on to the Neck of the Femur, about 2/5th inch below the middle of the neck, so that a considerable part of the Neck lies within the Capsule and fractures of the Femur may consequently be completely Intra-Capsular. The Capsule is strongest in front, owing to the Ilio-Femoral Ligament (BERTINI, BlGELOW) which passes, from the Antero-Inferior Iliac Spine and the bone internal to this, over the Capsule with which it blends, to the Intertrochanteric Line. Superficial to Bigelow’s Ligament, lie the 2 Tendons of origin of the Rectus Femoris Muscle which arise from the Antero-inferior Spine and the brim of the Acetabulum. The angle between the axis of the shaft and the axis of the neck (Angle of inclination of the Neck) of the Femur varies from 116° to 138° (Mikulicz) but is usually about 1200 to 1330, the average being 1250. As a rule the longer the neck, the greater the angle. The architecture of the cancellous tissue is briefly as follows: A pressure system of Cancelli converges from the surface, commencing at right angles to the surface on the inner side; a traction system crosses the former at right angles, forming arches, which run from the outer compact tissue with their convexity directed upwards to the middle and lower parts of the head, and the adjacent portions of the neck. The third (muscular traction) system begins at the Great Trochanter at right angles with the insertion of muscles into it, and passes inwards forming arches with their convexity directed upwards: this system crosses the former at an angle of 450, together with the first set, this forms the strong vertical plane of compact bone which Merkel calls the Femoral Spur (Calcar Fern orale).