Fig. 67. Outer Region of the Neck. Subclavian Triangle. The head is rotated to the right. Platysma and a portion of the Supraclavi- cular Nerves have been removed, the lymphatic glands have been removed in order to simplify the figure; the course of the chief lymphatic tracts has been indicated. Under the skin we distinguish a Superficial and Deep Cervical Fascia, separated from each other by loose connective tissue, which stretches across the space between Sterno-Mastoid and Trapezius Muscles. The Supraclavicular Nerves become subcutaneous by piercing this fascia. For the removal of tumours and especially, for the removal of diseased lymphatic glands, a longitudinal incision is made along the posterior border of the Sterno-Mastoid Muscle, the External Jugular Vein is divided. This vein runs downwards from the lower end of the Parotid Gland across the Sterno-Mastoid and Omo-hyoid, to pierce the Omo-hyoid Fascia and open into the Subclavian Vein. Of more importance is the Spinal Accessory Nerve. Emerging at the posterior border of the Sterno-Mastoid, this nerve runs obliquely downwards to the Trapezius. As it crosses the area of operation, it cannot always be avoided: injury to it may cause paralysis of the Sterno-Mastoid and Trapezius Muscles; but not in every case as both muscles receive fibres from the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Cervical Nerves which may run separately to the muscles and independent of the Spinal Accessory. The Brachial Plexus emerges through the slit between the Scalenus Anticus and Scalenus Medius Muscles. Of particular importance is the position of the Phrenic Nerve. Deriving its fibres from the 4th Cervical Nerve, as well as from the 3rd and 5th, it runs obliquely inwards, superficial to the Scalenus Anticus Muscle. At this point, behind the posterior border of the Sterno-Mastoid Muscle, it can be best stimulated electrically. When the clavicular portion of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid does not extend far backwards (as in our figure) the Internal Jugular Vein is visible at its posterior border. The Suprascapular Artery which either comes from the first, or from the 3rd part of the Subclavian Artery, takes a rather high course in this specimen; as a rule, it lies behind the clavicle (cf. Fig. 68). On the other hand, the Transversalis Colli Artery runs usually at a higher level than in our figure. The most important point, just above the Clavicle, is where the Subclavian Artery and Vein leave the Thorax. Ascendin’g out of that cavity, they form an arch over the first rib on their way to the axilla. The Vein is in front of, the Artery behind the Scalenus Anticus Muscle. The Vein is fixed to the first rib and to the clavicle by tense connective tissue; it cannot, therefore, collapse, when punctured (danger of air embolism). Just above the clavicle, it receives the Supra- scapular Vein. The Clavicle and first Rib form the gate through which the Neuro- vascular Bundle passes into the arm, most external and posterior (highest-up) being the nerves; then comes the artery, and on the inner side and most anterior, the vein. The large Lymphatic Tracts are in black; the Thoracic Duct opens at the junction of the left Subclavian and Internal Jugular Veins. This Duct receives the Jugular and Subclavian Lymphatic Trunks. When removing the deep cervical glands, which are so very frequently diseased (cf. Fig. 115), there is always a danger of damage to this most important lymphatic tract of the body.