Fig. 167. Inguinal Region; 2nd Layer. Fossa Ovalis (Saphenous Opening). Specimen from a man aged yy. Skin, Subcutaneous Tissue and Lymphatic Glands have been removed. The Lymphatic Vessels which perforate the Deep Fascia in one region — the Cribriform Fascia — have also been removed. The Fossa ovalis (Saphenous Opening), and above the Femoral Vein, the“ Infundibuliform Process” ( Waldeyer) derived front the Transv er salts Fascia are shewn. Not only the Aponeurosis proper of the External Abdominal Oblique Muscle but also the Fascia Lata and the Fascia covering the Pectineus Muscle etc., may be looked upon as tendinous expansions of this Muscle. Not only in animals, but also in man, this muscle extends directly or indirectly on to the Thigh. The Fascia Lata can be made tense in all bodies by pulling on the External Oblique Muscle. Below PouPARTs Ligament, special arrangements occur which have been produced by the passage of the Vessels through the Fascia. The usual description given is: The Fascia Lata which envelopes the thigh, like a tense membrane, divides below the inner part of PouPARTs Liga- ment into 2 layers. The Deep Layer blends with the Ilio-Pectineal Fascia, and passes upwards behind the Vessels. The Superficial Layer is attached to Pou- PART’s Ligament; over the Femoral Vein and internal to it, this fascia is per- forated at many points, through which Superficial Vessels enter the deep layers (Cribriform Fascia). When this fascia is removed together with the subjacent fat, a groove is exposed; Fossa Ovalis or Saphenous Opening. The lower margin of this opening is always sharp (the Falciform Margin); over this the Long Saphenous Vein passes to open into the Femoral Vein. The upper and outer margin which can be dissected out is attached above to Poupart’s Ligament, and partly to GlMBERNAT’s Ligament. The Saphenous Opening is merely intended for the transmission of vessels comparable to many other openings in superficial fasciae, through which veins pass; with this difference that the opening is too large for the vein. The Superficial Vessels which pierce this Fascia are:— on the inner side. External Pudic Vessels; above, Superficial Epigastric Vessels; on the outer side, the Superficial Circumflex Iliac Vessels. Like all vessels situated close to their origin from a large artery or near their opening into a large vein, these small vessels bleed furiously when cut.