(Continuation of the text of Fig. 54.) in our figure, the nerves appear thicker outside than inside the dorsal sac. As the spinal cord ends at the ist or 2nd Lumbar Vertebra, the course of the spinal Nerves inside the canal becomes longer the lower their origin. Thus the first Cervical Nerve runs horizontally outwards, the course of the next nerve is more oblique etc; the lowest nerves run almost vertically downwards, parallel to the Filum Terminale. They form with this last mentioned structure and the Conus Terminalis, the so-called Cauda Equina. Injury below the second Lumbar Vertebra, therefore, only involves the Cauda Equina, not the spinal cord. The spinal nerves arise by 2 roots, anterior and posterior; these roots leave the cord as root-fibres. As a rule, the posterior roots are thicker than the anterior; an exception is, however, found in the ist Cervical Nerve — as shewn in our figure —. Its posterior root-fibres are very slender; they may even be absent. On every posterior root is a spinal ganglion, which lies in the interverte- bral foramen; the posterior and anterior roots join outside. Just above the ist Cervical Nerve our figure shews the Vertebral Artery leaving the foramen in the transverse process of the Atlas and running horizontally inwards. It then pierces the Dura Mater and enters the cranial cavity. The Dura Mater does not extend further down in the Spinal Canal than to the level of the 2nd Sacral Vertebra in the adult, and to the 3rd Sacral Vertebra in the child (cf. figure). It ends in a blind sac (cf. Fig. 55). These levels are of great importance, because injury or operation above will necessarily open the dural sac and may be followed by purulent Meningitis which in usually fatal. Below there is no danger of Meningitis. This fact is taken advantage of in operations (Kraske’s) in which portions of the Sacrum are removed, in order to expose pelvic organs. Of course, when removing portions of this bone, temporarily or permanently, one has to consider the important nerves which should not be damaged. The Coccygeal Nerve which emerges between the ist and 2nd piece of the Coccyx forms with a branch of the 5th Sacral Nerve the Coccygeal Plexus which innervates the Skin over the Coccyx. The 4th and 5th Sacral Nerves enter into the formation of the Sacral Plexus, the former supplying the Levator Ani and Coccygeus Muscles is more important than the latter. Damage to the Sacral Plexus means damage to the floor of the Pelvis. Twigs from it also go to the Bladder and Rectum. The higher up one goes, the more important are the nerves for the innervation of the pelvic muscles, pelvic organs, and lower limbs (Great Sciatic Nerve).