Fig. 197. Frontal Section through the (Right) Ankle-Joint. Frozen Section. As the section did not pass directly through the tip of the External Malleolus some tissue was removed in order to expose this prominence. The Tibia and Fibula by means of their Malleoli form a socket which grips the Astragalus. The External Malleolus extends to a lower level than the Internal; the joint cavity extends upwards between the lower ends of these bones forming a recess called the Inferior Tibio-Fibular Articulation. To the Tibia and Astragalus the Capsule is attached along the border of the articular cartilages (on the anterior surface only does the Capsule extend to the neck of the Astragalus). By this arrangement a considerable portion of the Neck of the Astragalus may enter the joint cavity in extreme dorsi-flexion of the foot. Cor- responding to the free movements in Dorsal and Plantar Flexion, the capsule is loose in front and behind, so as to form folds (vide Fig. 19g) but on either side strong tense ligaments attach the Malleoli to the Astragalus and Os Calcis: the Deltoid Ligament extending from the Internal Malleolus to the Astragalus and Sustentaculum Tali, the Anterior and Posterior Astragalo-Fibular Ligaments and the Calcaneo-Fibular Ligaments extending from the External Malleolus to the Astragalus and Os Calcis respectively. The ankle-joint is therefore not easily accessible from the side; behind, it lies at a considerable depth under the Tendo A chillis, but can be reached (cf. Fig. 190). Its anterior aspect, on either side of the Extensor Tendons, is the most accessible (cf. Fig. 193). This figure also shews the position of the Peroneal Muscles enveloped in their sheaths below the Outer Malleolus and the position of the Flexors on the inner side. The Posterior Tibial Artery and Nerve have already divided into Internal and External Plantar Branches which are now lying in a well-protected position between muscles. Between the Astragalus and the Os Calcis, the Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Articulation can be seen; this lies at a slightly higher level than the tip of the External Malleolus. The Anterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Joint which is separated from the Posterior by the Interosseus Ligament (v. Fig. 199) is not an independent joint but is a part of the Astragalo-Scaphoid Articulation, whereas the Posterior Calcaneo- Astragaloid Articulation is quite independent and liable to independent affections. If swollen it bulges forwards and outwards to point anteriorly at the Tip of the External Malleolus. The movements of Abduction and Adduction are limited at this joint. The inner border of the foot is arched and does not touch the ground.