Fig. 119. Anterior Thoracic Wall and Heart in the Adult. In addition to the soft parts covering the Thorax, the jrd, 4th, pth Costal Cartilages and the junction of the last named with the 6th Costal Cartilage together with the Intercostal muscles have been removed. Between the slips of the Triangularis Sterni Muscle the parietal pleura (blue) is visible; its lines of reflection behind the Sternum are also delineated in blue. Between the 3rd and 4th Costal Cartilages (cf. Fig. 116) the right and left pleurae are in contact with each other, as in the adult the Thymus has con- tracted upwards. The right pleura may extend considerably beyond the middle line, often as far as the left border of the Sternum. Parallel with the borders of the Sternum, at a distance which varies with the width of the bone, the Internal Mammary Artery, a branch of the Subclavian, takes its course accompanied by 2 Venae Comites except in the two upper inter- costal spaces where there is only one vein. Around the artery lie lymphatic glands, (Sternal and Anterior Mediastinal Glands) more numerous above than below. The Heart in the Adult is more deeply situated than in the Newborn and its apex is further to the left. The distance from the Apex (Left Ventricle) to the nipple is 22/5ths to 24/5ths inch in the vertical line, and 4/5ths to 1 V5th inch in the horizontal direction. (As the Figure is 3/5ths nat. size, actual measurements according to the Figure will require multiplication by five thirds.) An irregularity in the Costal Cartilage which may even involve the rib is shewn in the 4th Costal Cartilage on the right side. The following data connected with the bony Thorax and in particular the costal cartilages have been made out by Bardeleben. In about 10 % the 8th Costal Cartilage, on both sides, articulates with the Sternum. The 6th and 7th Costal Cartilages usual A articulate with each other; in 60 % on the left side and in 40 % on the right side, articulations exist between the 5th and 6th Costal Cartilages. The arrangement, together with the close apposition of the cartilages, convert the intercostal spaces in front of the pericardium into narrow slits. The position of the Apex of the Heart, the Pulmonary and Aortic Valves is not absolutely constant — quite apart from physiological variations in form and position of the Heart. The Pulmonary Valves usually lie ojoposite the 2nd left interspace or behind the 3rd left costal cartilage, rarely in the 3rd interspace. For operations upon the Pericardium the most suitable site is a small area where the pericardium is uncovered by pleura. The entrance may be made through the 4th or 5th intercostal space, close to the Sternum, without wounding the pleura; the Internal Mammary Artery must always be borne in mind. Removal of a part of the 4th and 5th Costal Cartilages with a small portion of the left Sternum, allows a fair extent of the pericardium to be exposed.