Fig. 45. Frontal Section through Posterior Part of Nasal Cavity. Fig. 46. Frontal Section through Sphenoidal Sinuses and Nasal Cavity. A section from a skull was hardened, together with its soft parts, in formalin, and decalcified before further division into frontal sections. The section shewn in Fig. 46 passed about 3/10th inch behind Fig. 45. In Fig. 45, the posterior part of the Antrum of HIGHMORE has been cut on both sides; the 3 turbinated bones are well shewn. The great variations met with in the sinuses accessory to the nasal cavity, are well shewn by the fact, that, on the left, the most Posterior Ethmoidal Cell has been cut by the section, whilst, on the right, the Ethmoidal Cells did not extend so far back. The posterior part of the orbit has also been divided by this section. The numerous Vessels and Nerves which lie close together in the Cavernous Sinus, diverge and divide into groups; the origin of the Ocular Muscles near them, are shewn in cross- section. The Optic Nerve which has left the skull-cavity, in company with the Ophthalmic Artery through the Optic Foramen, lies, enclosed by Dura Mater, to the inner side of these structures. In Fig. 46 the Sphenoidal Sinuses (their openings into the nose are shewn in Fig. 45) are laid open. They are separated from each other by a median septum and occupy the body of the Sphenoid Bone. They often extend as far (cf. Fig. 47) as the Sella in which lies the Pituitary Body; in fact, they may reach the Spheno-Occipital Synchondrosis. They form the most posterior part of the inner wall of the Orbit (cf. Fig. 42) and may in some cases extend into the Greater Wings of the Sphenoid Bone (cf. Fig. 16 Lateral Recess of the Sphenoidal Sinus). In chronic inflammation of the nose, these may become the seat of suppuration, and have to be opened, because their natural narrow opening into the nose affords insufficient drainage. In most cases, it will be possible to open them from the Nasal Cavity; they are also accessible from in front, after having well exposed the Ethmoidal Cells from the Orbit (cf. Fig. 42). The Optic Nerve is cut as it enters the Optic Foramen. The Nerves from the Cavernous Sinus lie close to each other in the Sphenoidal Fissure; below them at some distance, is the 2nd division of the Vth Cranial Nerve.