Fig. 188. Posterior Aspect of Leg. Deep Layer, Internal Popliteal Nerve. After removal of the Superficial Fascia, a large piece has been cut out of the Gastrocnemius and Soleus Muscles, the heads of origin of the Gastrocnemius have been thrown outwards. By further removal of the Deep Fascia, the large Vessels and Nerves have been exposed. An incision through the fascia covering the Popliteus Muscle has exposed the Bursa under the Semimembranosus Muscle. The arrangement of the muscles on the back of the leg is very simple: a Superficial Layer formed by the Gastrocnemius, Soleus and the slender Plantaris; a Deep Layer formed by the Posterior Tibial, Long Flexor of Toes and Long Flexor of Big-Toe. On this latter group lie the important Nerves and Arteries, which are quite separated from the Superficial Layer of muscles by the Deep Fascia of the Leg (v. Figs. 185, 186). Between the Deep P'ascia of^the leg and the Superficial Muscles, loose connective tissue, favourable to the spread of Cellulitis is found. In order to allow the vessels and nerves, leaving the Popliteal Space, to reach the deep aspect of the superficial muscles an aponeurotic opening is formed by the Soleus i. e. an arch is thrown across from its Tibial to its Fibular Origin under which the above mentioned structures pass. At the lower border of the Popliteus Muscle, the Popliteal Artery divides into Anterior and Posterior Tibial Arteries (occasionally this division takes place at a higher level). The Anterior Tibial Artery (the smaller branch), passes directly over the upper border of the Interosseous Membrane to the Anterior Aspect of the Leg; the Posterior Tibial Artery passes under the arch of the Soleus, approaches the inner side of the limb and lies in its outer third under the skin between the Tendons on the Long Flexor of the Big-Toe and the Long Flexor of the Toes; together with these tendons it passes behind the Internal Malleolus into the sole of the foot. The chief branch from this vessel is the Peroneal Artery which runs outwards through the arch of the Soleus, under cover of the Fibular origin and the muscular belly of the Long Flexor of the Big Toe, to near the ankle where it emerges and terminates by giving off a Perforating Branch to the Anterior Tibial Artery and a large Communicating Branch (sometimes double) to the Posterior Tibial Artery or the outer side of the heel. The Posterior Tibial Nerve runs along the outer side of the Artery, and after giving off numerous branches, passes with it under the Internal Annular Ligament to the sole of the foot. Deeply situated on the Interosseus Membrane lies the Posterior Tibial Muscle. As the Tibia is subcutaneous throughout its whole length, the structure of the leg is convenient for extensive operations. The Fibula is readily exposed after removal of the Soleus Muscle, but care must be taken in the neighbourhood of its head to avoid injury to the External Popliteal Nerve.