Figs. 98—101. Palm of Hand (Left); Tendon-sheaths. After Joessel and yon Rosthorn. (Cf. Fig. 97.) The tendon-sheaths of the Flexor Muscles (Flexor Sublim is Digitorum and Flexor Profundus Digitorum; Flexor Longus Pollicis) extend from a distance of a little less than an inch above the Annular ligament far into the palm of the hand. There are generally two tendon-sheaths — one for the Flexor Sublimis and Flexor Profundus Digitorum Muscles, another for the Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscle — which are frequently in communication. The sheath of the Flexor Carpi Radialis Muscle extending from the trapezium to the 2nd Metacarpal bone is of but little practical importance. The large flexor tendon-sheath shews after inflation a bulging above the constriction caused by the annular ligament. On the inner side of the hand the sheath extends lower down, and invariably communicates with the sheath for the tendons of the little finger. In a similar manner the Sheath of the Flexor Longus Pollicis extends as far as the Distal phalanx. This is a very important point of practical application because suppuration of the sheath of the thumb or of the little finger always extends into the main sheaths; this does not occur in the case of the 2nd, 3rd or 4th digits. Moreover, we have herein an explanation of the extension of Suppuration from the thumb to the little finger and vice versa — the inflammatory process passing from the thumb to the main flexor sheath and into the sheath of the little finger owing to the free communication. The Median Nerve is situated between the main Sheaths and the Annular Ligament whereas the Ulnar Nerve lies superficial to the ligament so that it only comes in close relation with the main sheaths above and below this structure. The Ulnar Artery, not shewn in the figure, lies nearer the Sheaths than the Ulnar Nerve. The Tendons of the Flexor Sublimis and Flexor Profundus muscles lie in common sheaths as they extend down upon the fingers from the metacarpo- phalangeal joints as far as the bases of the terminal phalanges, i. e. the insertion of the Profundus tendons. Injury, therefore, to the terminal phalanges distal to these points would not involve the sheaths. Figs. 99 and 100 depict variations which are described by some authors as normal — a third sheath being inserted as a wedge, between the two main sheaths at their proximal end —. When this third sheath becomes markedly developed (Fig. 100) the tendon of the Flexor Profundus passing to the Index finger is transmitted through it. The somewhat complicated arrangement of the tendons of the long flexor muscles is schematically represented in Fig. 101. The “Mesotendina” analogous to the Mesenteric folds, are shewn in the cross-section.