Fig. 145. Back shewing Nerves, Arteries and Lymphatic Glands. The Skin and Superficial Fascia have been removed from the whole dorsal aspect, extending from Occiput to Sacrum. On the right side the Trapezius, Latissimus Dor si, Superficial Layer of Lumbar Aponeurosis, Supra- and Infir a-Spinatus Fascia with the attachment of the Splenius Capitis Muscle have been cleared away. This figure is purposed to shew those lymphatic glands of the back which are little known and which receive but scant attention. 1. Muscles and Nerves. Trapezius Muscle with Spinal Accessory (Xlth Cranial) Nerve running almost vertically downwards, Latissimus Dorsi Muscle with its nerve running obliquely downwards and inwards, Levator Anguli Scapulae and Rhomboid Muscles with branches from the Posterior Thoracic Nerve, Supra- and Infra-spinatus Muscles with the Supra-scapular Nerve, Teres Minor and Deltoid Muscles with the Circumflex Nerve, Teres Major Muscle, Subscapular Nerve, Serratus Magnus Muscle, Long Thoracic Nerve (of Bell) (v. Figs. 109 and no). 2. Arteries. The Occipital Artery (a branch of the External Carotid) be- comes visible, at the attachment of the Sterno-Mastoid and Trapezius, and ramifies over the Occiput. The Posterior Auricular Artery (External Carotid) passes behind the pinna to anastomose with the former. The Transversalis Colli Artery from the Subclavian Artery appears in the space between the Levator Anguli Scapulae and Rhomboid Muscles. The Supra-scapular Artery either a direct branch of the Subclavian or a radicle of the Thyreoid Axis or Inferior Thyreoid Artery, accompanies the Supra-scapular Nerve to the Supra- and Infra-spinous Fossae where it anastomoses with the Subscapular Artery from the Axillary. More externally the Posterior Circumflex Artery accompanies the Circum- flex Nerve as it winds around the Surgical Neck of the Humerus. In close contiguity to Bell’s Nerve is found the Long Thoracic Artery (inconstant). Upon the Dorsum of the Trunk proper only small arteries are found because the Dorsum of the Trunk like the extensor aspects of the limbs receives its blood from the ventral or flexor aspect. 3. Lymphatic Glands. At the point of emergence of the Occipital Artery a few Occipital Glands are found. Behind the Pinna accompanying the Posterior Auricular Artery and lying over the tendinous attachment of the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid is a posterior Auricular Gland which should be called the Superior Posterior Auricular Gland so as to distinguish it from a deeper gland which lies in contact with the Muscle itself. Deeply situated behind the Mastoid Process, and under cover of the Splenius and close to the Occipital Artery lies a deep Mastoid Gland (cf. Fig.). The subcutaneous glands along the upper border of the Trapezius and near the Vertebral Column are not particularly marked in the figure. They may be called the Superior and Inferior Subcutaneous Nuchal Glands. At the level of the 7th Cervical Vertebra lies the Superior Superficial Dorsal Gland; the Inferior Super- ficial Dorsal Gland lies along the outer border of the Latissimus Dorsi at the level of the ist or 2nd Lumbar Vertebra. At the Clavicular Origin of the Deltoid is the Superficial Clavicular Gland, whereas more deeply situated near the Supra- scapular Artery and at the upper border of the Scapula is the Supra-scapular Gland. Deep Dorsal Glands are situated at the upper border of the Rhomboid Muscles; on the Teres Major Muscle is seen the posterior superficial Axillary Gland; a deep gland is situated between the Teres Major, Teres Minor and Tri- ceps Muscles. These glands are not all constant; they may only be found in pathological conditions; such occurrence does not exclude their normal presence as merely elementary.