Fig. 154. Male Perineum. I. Superficial Layer. The Superficial Fascia and Vessels of the Perineum with the Ischio-Rectal fat have been removed. The Superficial Fibres of the External Sphincter Ani have been cut away in order to shew more distinctly the Levator Ani Muscle. On the right side the nerves and vessels have been dissected out; on the left side a deeper dissection, with exposure of Cowper’s Gland, has been carried out after partial removal of Vessels and Nerves. The connection of the Sphincter Ani and Bulbo-Cavernosus Muscles shews the crossing over of the anterior fibres in the middle line. At the central point of the Perineum, where these muscles join, the Transverse Perineal Muscle is attached. The connection between the Sphincter and Levator Ani Muscles is merely indicated in this figure (cf. Fig. 153). The Ischio-Cavernosus Muscles arising from the descending rami of the Pubis envelop the Corpora Cavernosa; the Bulbo-Cavernosus Muscles, united by a median raphe, lie in contact with the Corpus Spongiosum. The Superficial Fascia of the Perineum (as far as it exists) and the Fascia covering the Levator Ani Muscles (Anal Fascia) have been removed. The Fascia covering the Obturator Internus Muscle is shewn in Sagittal Section (cf. Fig. 153). The Superficial Arteries of the Perineum arise from the Internal Pudic (the terminal Branch of the Internal Iliac Artery): 1. Inferior Haemorrhoidal 1—3 small branches to Anus. 2. Superficial Perineal, runs transversely across either superficial or deep to the Transversus Perinaei. Both these arteries are direct branches of the Internal Pudic Artery. 3. Terminal Branches of the Internal Pudic Artery: a) Artery to Bulb, giving off the Transverse Perineal Artery and the Artery to Cowper’s Gland. b) Dorsal Artery of the Penis (or Clitoris). The Nerves of the Perineum are branches of the Internal Pudic Nerve (Ilth, Illth, IVth Sacral) which divide into 2 main branches, the Superficial Perineal and a Deep Branch. Both nerves are mixed, the Deep Branch is continued as the Dorsal Nerve of the Penis.