Fig. 53. Horizontal Section through the Head at the level of the Axis. One of a series of frozen sections through the head. The Vestibule of the Mouth and the Buccal Cavity have only been cut at their lowest points, where the tongue is adherent to the floor of the mouth. Of the 3 salivary glands (Sublingual, Submaxillary and Parotid) the last is of interest because it extends far inwards, and, on the left side of the figure, even forwards under cover of the lower jaw. The tip of the Uvula was cut by this section. The Tonsil is divided below its middle; it lies in a capsule which is closely connected with the muscles of the Pharynx. Very important are the parts around the tonsil, in deciding the question of the source of furious haemorrhage in some cases of tonsillotomy? We mentioned that the Tonsillar Branch of the Ascending Palatine Artery is far too small to cause serious haemorrhage. Of the large vessels, the Internal Carotid which is said to have been wounded during the operation, lies 3/5 inch away from the tonsil. It could only be injured when a particularly clumsy surgeon cuts very deeply. This statement also holds good for the External Carotid. It is the Facial Artery which lies very near the tonsil and may be injured (Merkel). This vessel arises from the Ex- ternal Carotid at the level of the lower end of the tonsil, passes between the muscles coming from the Styloid Process, describes an S-shaped curve and runs along the circum- ference of the tonsil. Serious haemorrhage may also be due to injury of the Pharyngeal Venous Plexus. Externally and behind the Tonsil the following structures are in close relation: Internal Carotid Artery, Internal Jugular Vein, 9th, 10th, nth, Cranial Nerves and Hypo- glossal Nerve, all lying in one sheath which is attached above to the fibro-cartilage of the posterior lacerated foramen. The Vertebral Artery having arisen from theVSubciavian runs upwards, passing through the foramen in the transverse processes of the upper 6 Cervical Vertebrae. Then curving horizontally backwards — this part of its course is shewn on the left side of our figure — it comes to lie under the Dura Mater which it pierces. (Cf. Fig. 15.) It now lies in the cranial cavity on the side of the bulb, and after running inwards it joins with its fellow to form the Basilar Artery. General Remarks on the Jugular Veins. A large share of the venous blood is carried from the Head and the Neck to the Heart by Veins which have a separate course and do not correspond exactly to any artery. These veins are termed Jugular Veins. To the Internal Carotid corresponds more or less the Internal Jugular; to the External Carotid, the External Jugular, formed by the union of Temporal and Facial Veins. The Facial Vein may also be continued downwards as the Anterior Jugular Vein. There may further be a Posterior Jugular Vein (cf. Fig. 67) at the anterior border of the Trapezius Muscle. The relation of these veins to the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid is as follows: the Ex- ternal Jugular crosses the outer surface of the muscle which, with its inner surface, covers the Internal. Along the Anterior border runs the Anterior Jugulai'. The Posterior Jugular is the least constant of these vessels. All these veins end under cover of the Sternomastoid, where the large Lymphatic Channels open into the Venous System. The Anterior Jugular Veins communicate just above the clavicle by a transverse anastomotic branch.