Fig. 184. Popliteal Space. The immediate continuation of the Fascia Lata is known as the Popliteal Fascia which, after covering the Popliteal Space, becomes directly continuous with the Fascia of the leg. On this lies the Short Saphenous Vein which sinks into the Popliteal Space and opens into one of the Popliteal Veins. After removal of this fascia, the Popliteal Space is exposed. This space is formed by the diverging Flexors of the leg (Biceps on the outer side inserted into the Head of the Fibula, Semimembranosus and Semitendinosus on the inner side inserted into the Crest of the Tibia), while out of the depth of the space, emerge the two converging heads of the Gastrocnemius. In this way a lozenge-shaped space is formed (void of muscles), which contains, well surrounded by fat, the Large Vessels and Nerves. The most superficial structure is the Internal Popliteal Nerve which traverses the space almost vertically, to disappear, after giving off its Communicating Tibial Branch, under cover of the Gastrocnemius Muscle. The division of the Great Sciatic Nerve into Internal and External Popliteal Nerves, has occurred at about or above the middle of the thigh. While the Internal Popliteal Nerve passes almost vertically downwards in the middle line, the External runs downwards and outwards along the inner border of the Biceps Muscle. Somewhat internal and on a deeper plane is situated the Popliteal Vein, i. e. the largest of the 2 or 3 Veins which accompany the Artery; this vein is closely bound down to the Artery by connective-tissue. The Artery lies at a still deeper plane and more towards the middle of the space, it is here separated by a layer of fat, '/2 inch thick, from the Femur; near the articular surfaces of the Tibia it is closely applied to the capsule of the joint. Now the artery, having left the middle line, lies somewhat to the outer side (cf. Fig. 181). In cases of Excision of the Knee-joint, it could only be wounded at this spot. Its branches are the Superior and Inferior Internal and External Articular Arteries and the Azygos Articular Artery which pierces the posterior wall of the Capsule. Close to the Internal Popliteal Nerve, is a small Lymphatic Gland: another may lie subcutaneously on the fascia, but there are rarely ever more than 4 (cf. Figs. 182, 183). This figure also shews the Bursa under the Inner Head of the Gastro- cnemius Muscle, which may communicate with the Knee-joint (Fig. 179). (Cf. Figs. 182 and 183, Text.) This is of importance, because this Bursa may be the seat of a Hygroma which needs removal. It is, therefore, possible to infect the Knee-joint during an operation on this Bursa.