Fig. 198. Transverse (Frontal) Section through the Anterior Part of the Tarsus. Frozen Section. The Foot is arched both Antero-posteriorly and Transversely. The Trans- verse Arch, shewn in the figure, begins posteriorly where the Os Calcis with its Sustentaculum Tali forms a semicircle (v. Fig. 197). A little further forward the Scaphoid and Cuboid Bones form an arch, whereas in front of these the arch becomes more definite as the Cuneiform Bones with their broad Dorsal and narrow Plantar Surfaces closely resemble the stones of an arch. The Longitudinal Arch is still more pronounced in the Metacarpal Bones. The Plantar Vessels and Nerves run forward under cover of this arch which serves to protect them from pressure (due to the weight of the body). Fig. 199. Longitudinal (Sagittal) Section through the Foot. Frozen Section carried through the middle of the Tibia and the outer part of the 2nd Toe. This figure shows the Longitudinal Arch which is most marked on the inner side. The inner tubercle of the Os Calcis and the head of the ist Metatarsal Bone form the Pillars of this Arch. On the outer side of the Foot the arch is less curved; here its Anterior Pillar is formed by the base of the 5th Metatarsal Bone. The Astragalus forms the Keystone of this Arch. Strong ligaments bind together the bones on their Plantar Aspect and firmly brace up the arch; the Plantar Fascia stretched across from the Inner Tubercle of the Os Calcis to the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones acts like a bowstring. Mention must also be made of the assistance rendered by the Tendon of the Posterior Tibial and other Muscles in keeping up the Arch. This figure further shews: a Bursa (always present) between the Os Calcis and Tendo Achillis. (A Bursa between the Tendo Achillis and the Superficial Fascia is rarely met with.) The cavity of the ankle-joint extends backwards nearly as far as the Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Articulation. In front it is 3/5ths inch distant from the Astragalo-Scaphoid Joint. This explains why inexperienced persons, when per- forming Chopart’s disarticulation, easily open the ankle-joint instead of the Astragalo-Scaphoid Articulation. The figure shews also that the Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Articulation is a complete joint, whereas the anterior is merely a part of the Astragalo-Scaphoid Articulation.