Fig. 139. Transverse Section through the Trunk at the level of the nth Dorsal Vertebra, from below. Frozen section of the same body as in Figs. 121 and 122. In front the 6th Chondro-Sternal Articulation is cut through, also the yth, 6th, Jth, 8th, gth, 10th and nth ribs; the vertebral column is slightly deviated to the right. In this section the lowest portions of the Thoracic Viscera, Heart and Lungs (in the condition of inspiration as in Fig. 122) and the Abdominal Viscera, Liver, Stomach and Spleen are shewn in transverse section; between these two groups of viscera lies the diaphragm. The Liver occupies the greatest space, the remaining space is chiefly occupied by the Stomach, a small area is left by the Liver for the Apex of the Heart, and by the Stomach for the Spleen. The Lungs in their position during inspiration are seen at the periphery. The entrance of the Oesophagus into the Stomach and the numerous broad plications of the Gastric Mucous Membrane are well shewn. Behind the Oesophagus lies the Aorta; at a higher level the Oesophagus occupies the more posterior position while in close relation behind it and in con- tact with the Vertebral Column are found the large and small Azygos Veins, the Thoracic Duct and the Sympathetic System. Fig. 140. Transverse Section through the Trunk at the level of the ist Lumbar Vertebra. Seen from above. Frozen section as in Fig. iyg passing through the disc between the 12th Dorsal and ist Liimbar Vertebra. The Liver occupies almost as much space as in Fig. 139, now taking up the space previously occupied by the heart whereas, behind, room is made for the right kidney. To the left is the Stomach. Between this Viscus and the Spleen, the Splenic Flexure has introduced itself extending upwards beyond the plane of the section so that only sections of the Transverse and Descending Colon are seen. Between the Colon and Stomach a lumen of small intestine is visible and between the Colon and Abdominal Wall the Great Omentum. The Pancreas has been cut almost throughout its whole length as it extends horizontally across from Liver to Spleen. The Oblique position of the kidneys is also seen; on either side a “Pleural Space” is found between their upper half and the posterior abdominal wall. The space between the Pancreas and the posterior abdominal wall is occupied by the Left Kidney which has been cut through at its greatest diameter whereas the Right, situated at a lower level, was divided nearer its upper pole. The peculiar shape of the transverse section of the Aorta is due to the origin of the Superior Mesenteric Artery.