Fig. 149. Pelvic Organs of Female seen from above and in front. Ureter. Woman aged 50. Intestines removed as far as the Rectum, Uterus retroverted; Left Appendages of Uterus removed. The Right Fallopian Tube is drawn upwards and its fimbriated extremity thrown upwards over the brim of the true pelvis. The Abdominal Opening of the Fallopian Tube and the Ovarian Fossa are thus exposed; the ovary is somewhat drawn upwards by the tube. On the left side the peritoneum covering the important vessels and nerves has been removed, but the portion forming the posterior layer of the Broad Liga- ment has been preserved intact and the round ligament retained in situ. On the left side the Lymphatic Glands are exposed and their corresponding imaginary situations on the right side are depicted through the transparent peritoneum. By WALDEYER the lateral wall of the true pelvis has been divided into the following fossae: Paravesical, Obturator, Hypogastric (Para-Iliac) bounded by the Round Ligament (in the Male — Vas Deferens) and the Ureter. When the Bladder is empty the Paravesical Fossa is divided into an anterior and posterior part by the Transverse Vesical Fold; the anterior part belongs more to the Anterior Abdominal Wall, the posterior part can be fully seen when the Uterus is retroverted. The Obturator Fbssa in the depth of which the Obturator Vessels and Nerve run over the surface of the Obturator Internus Muscle contains the Ovarian Fossa which may be a simple groove or a deep alcove against which the lateral half of the Ovary lies while its posterior border remains free and rounded. The Ovary lies on the Uterine Artery touching the Ureter: according to the size of this organ and the position of the Internal Iliac Vessels it reaches or extends beyond the Internal Iliac Vessels, as far as the lower border of the External Iliac Vein. The most posterior fossa is the Hypogastric (Para-Iliac) Fossa in which the Pyriformis Muscle and on this muscle the Sacral Plexus are found. The Ureter generally enters the True Pelvis at the bifurcation of the Common Iliac Artery passing over the External Iliac Vessels and the Umbilico- Vesical Trunk to lie between the Internal Iliac Vessels and the Uterine Artery and covered for some distance by the broad ligament and the Vessels to the Append- ages. In this part of its course the Ureter lies directly under the Peritoneum. Further forwards, in front of the Broad Ligament, the Uterine Artery crosses over and in front of the Ureter as it leaves the pelvic wall and approaches the Vaginal Portion of the Uterus. It is at the level of the Internal Os (where the Uterine Artery bifurcates — Waldeyer) that the Uterine Artery crosses the Ureter. The Ureter comes very near the Vaginal Portion of the Uterus (cf. dotted line) as it curves round it laterally to open into the bladder. The Ureter is only separated from the Vaginal Portion of the Uterus by the vessels in the cellular tissue of the Parametrium (Branches of the Uterine Artery and Utero-Vaginal Venous Plexus). On its outer side lies the Vesico- Vaginal Venous Plexus. These Plexuses communicate freely so that the Ureter is embedded in a venous plexus.