Fig. 7. Arrangement of Fibres in the Internal Capsule. All the fibres from one hemisphere pass together through the Crus at the Base of the Brain. In their course from the Cortex to the Crus these fibres pass between the large Basal Ganglia (Thalamic, Caudate and Lenticular Nuclei), as shewn in the figure. Leaving the outermost and external capsules out of con- sideration these fibres have but one course open to them, viz: between the Caudate and Lenticular Nuclei and between the Thalamic and Lenticular Nuclei. This is the Internal Capsule with its Anterior and Posterior limbs and an intervening bend (genu). The arrangement of the fibres in the Internal Capsule is as follows: - The pyramidal tract, the path of voluntary movements, occupies the anterior 2/;)rds of the posterior limb in such a manner that the Facial and Hypoglossal Fibres lie in the genu, next in order come the fibres to the upper Limb and lastly those to the lower limb. In the posterior ^rd of the posterior limb of the internal capsule lies the great sensory path for “Common sensibility” and the occipito-temporal cortico-pontic tract which passes from the occipital and temporal lobes to the Pons. Furthermore, fibres pass to and from the Cortex and Thalamus. Close behind the posterior limb is the so-called “Carrefour sensitif” (Charcot’s Sensory Tract), through which the paths of the higher senses (Olfactory excepted) pass. In the figure, only the fibres connected with the Optic Nerve are depicted in their passage from this point to the Occipital Lobe. Disease of this “Carrefour” produces mixed Hemianaesthesia i. e. patients feel, taste and hear less definitely or not at all on the opposite side, and do not see with the Nasal half of the Eye on the same side and Temporal half of the opposite eye, whereas disease of the posterior part of the posterior limb of the Internal Capsule produces motor paralysis of the opposite side. The Anterior Limb contains chiefly fibres derived from the Frontal Lobe and Caudate Nucleus; their course and function is unknown. The Caudate Nucleus and its tail curl over the Internal Capsule to terminate by blending with the Hippocampal Convolution and the Amygdaloid Nucleus; so that in this section the Caudate Nucleus has twice been cut — at its body internal to the anterior horn of the lateral Ventricle and at its tail near the descending horn. The lateral and 3rd ventricles communicate through the Foramina of MONRO. The pillars of the fornix are cut near their point of junction. The posterior horn of the lateral ventricle is cut at the point where the inferior horn begins. The white fibres of the Corona Radiata between the Cortex and the Corpus Striatum is called the Centrum Semi-Ovale of ViCQ d’Azyr. Ziehen.