Fig. 163. Gluteal Region. A large window has been cut out of the Gluteus Maximus Muscle; from the Gluteus Medius and the Pyriformis Muscles, smaller pieces have been removed. Under an extremely thick layer of superficial fascia, lies the Gluteus Maximus Muscle, which covers nearly the whole of the Gluteal Region. The following bony prominences can be felt: the Crest of the Ilium, the Great Tro- chanter and with less ease, because covered by the Gluteus Maximus, the Tubero- sity of the Ischium. The upper and outer part of this muscle passes over the posterior and outer aspect of the Great Trochanter and is inserted into the Fascia Lata. A Superficial Trochanteric Bursa placed within the superficial fascia is rare. The Gluteus Maximus covers important vessels and nerves; at the upper border of the Pyriformis Muscle, emerging with it through the Great Sacro- Sciatic Foramen, is the Gluteal Artery, a branch of the Internal Iliac. Outside the Pelvis, the trunk of this vessel is short, and soon divides into 5 — 7 branches to the Glutei Muscles. A large branch (Superficial Branch) becomes more super- ficial by emerging between the Gluteus Medius and Pyriformis Muscle, to run under cover of the Gluteus Maximus. Another large branch (Deep Branch), runs between the Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus Minimus, this divides into a Superior and an Inferior Branch, the former of which follows the middle curved line. Deep to these vessels lies the Superior Gluteal Nerve. At this point a variety of Sciatic Hernia may occur. At the lower border of the Pyriformis Muscle, the Great Sciatic Nerve emerges at a point corresponding to the junction of the inner and middle thirds of a line drawn from the Great Trochanter of the Femur to the Tuberosity of the Ischium. At the lower border of the Gluteus Maximus Muscle, the Great Sciatic Nerve is easily exposed, because at this point, it is only covered by skin and superficial fascia; at a lower level it is covered by the long head of the Biceps Muscle. Internal to the Great Sciatic Nerve, lies the Sciatic Artery, a slightly smaller vessel than the Gluteal Artery. This vessel gives off the Companion Artery to the Sciatic Nerve. Between the Sciatic Artery and the Great Sciatic Nerve lies the Nerve to the Gluteus Maximus Muscle, — the Inferior Gluteal Nerve —. Most internally, the Internal Pubic Artery emerges at the lower border of the Pyriformis Muscle, and after crossing the Spine of the Ischium or the smaller Sacro-Sciatic Ligament re-enters the Pelvis through the Sacro-Sciatic Foramen, but does not enter the Pelvic Cavity (cf. Fig. 150). A second variety of Sciatic Hernia may protrude below the Pyriformis Muscle, where the structures mentioned leave the Pelvis; a third variety may occur at the Lesser Sacro-Sciatic Foramen. The Hip-Joint lies under cover of the Pyriformis Muscle in front of the Obturator Internus and Externus Muscles, and in consequence is scarcely acces- sible from behind. An important Bursa lies between the Tuberosity of the Ischium and the soft parts over it, e. g. the Sciatic Bursa.