Fig. 133. Sub-Phrenic Space: Pelvis of Ureter, Hilum of Liver; Bile Ducts. Sagittal Section passing i3/$th inches to the right of the middle line of a frozen female body. The Common Bile Duct was exposed in its course behind the Duodenum and Pancreas. The Peritoneum is in red. This figure shews with great accuracy the course of the Common Bile Duct which is usually 3 to 4 inches long. Its upper portion — Supra-Duodenal Portion — lies within the Peritoneum of the Hepato-Duodenal fold, and is C/sth inch long. The Duct next passes behind the upper part of the Duodenum and crosses it — Retro-Duodenal Portion 1 inch long. The last portion — Pancreatic Portion — iY5th inch in length, runs either through the substance of the Pancreas or in a groove on this gland to the left side of the descending portion of the Duodenum where it opens into the Ampulla of Vater close to the Pancreatic Duct, or together with it in some cases. The Retro-Duodenal and Pancreatic portions are both retro-peritoneal. (Cf. Fig. 136.) This is of importance in operations on the Bile Duct (gall-stones); the most easily accessible part is the Supra Duodenal portion. (Cf. Fig. 132, text.) To expose the Retro-Duodenal portion the Gastro-Hepatic Omentum must be divided at the upper portion of the Duodenum, and this structure drawn downwards. When the upper and descending parts of the Duodenum have been freed and drawn to the left, the Pancreatic portion of the Duct is accessible (Trans- duodenal Choledochotomy). Cf. Fig. 129. Exposure of the Retro-peritoneal portion of the Duct from the back, as practised by TuFFIER, is less commendable. Rupture of this portion of the Duct leads to extensive retro-peritoneal exudation of Bile. The organs below the Diaphragm, viz. Liver, Spleen, Stomach, are separ- ated by a narrow space from the Diaphragm, which is lined by Peritoneum, and communicates with the Abdominal Cavity: this does not apply to those parts of the Liver (cf. Fig. 131) which are not covered by Peritoneum but connected with the Diaphragm by loose connective tissue. When pus spreads into this space from neighbouring organs; Stomach, Gall-Bladder, Appendix, Kidney, or in general Peritonitis, a Subphrenic abscess is formed. Accordingly, a Subphrenic abscess may be either Intra- or Extra-peritoneal; the latter variety is very likely to occur if suppuration extends along the perinephric connective-tissue. (Cf. Figs. 133 and 136.)