Fig. 6o. Anterior Aspect of the Neck, Superficial Layer. Adult. The Head is strongly inclined backwards. Platysma and part of the super- ficial cervical fascia covering the right Sterno-Mastoid Muscle have been removed. The right Sterno-Mastoid Muscle has therefore dropped backwards. Under the skin lies the Platysma, which, converging from both sides, only reaches the middle line at the chin; it therefore does not cover the anterior cervical region. Deep to it is the superficial layer of the cervical fascia which is important because it pulls the Sterno-Mastoid Muscles towards the Middle line, When the fascia is divided, — as necessary for dissecting purposes — these muscles drop backwards and outwards. They cover, as is well seen, in Fig. 59. when in their natural position, the large vessels of the neck at a much higher level, than after division of the fascia. The Anterior Jugular Veins, anastomosing above with the Facial Vein, end below in the jugular venous arch which connects the 2 External Jugular Veins. This communication usually passes behind the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid Muscles. In some cases, the Anterior Jugular Veins terminate by joining one of the Jugular Veins. ’ The next layer comprises the Infrahyoid Muscles; the Sterno-Hyoid converging above, the Sterno-Thyreoid, converging below. Thus, in the middle line a space is formed which is broadest (3/5 inch) at the mid-point between the Hyoid Bone and Sternum. The deep cervical fascia envelopes these muscles and covers in this space. When this fascia is divided, the muscles mentioned sink downwards and outwards, thus exposing Larynx, Isthmus of Thyreoid Gland and Trachea. In the Submaxillary Region the anterior bellies of the Digastric Muscles converge towards the chin; between these the Mylo-Hyoid Muscles and their median raphe are visible; our figure shews a lymphatic gland in this region, which is not uncommon. The attachment of the intermediate Tendon of the Digastric to the Hyoid Bone varies; it is either bound down by an aponeurotic continuation of the Fascia of the muscle which is fixed to the hyoid bone, or the anterior belly arises partly from the hyoid bone, either in a tendinous or in a muscular origin. The distance between the intermediate tendon and the hyoid bone also varies; thus the distance is much greater in this figure than in Fig. 63. Bursae are met with occasionally over the Pomum Adami and the space between the Thyreoid Cartilage and the Hyoid Bone.