Fig. i. Median Section through the Head. Right half of a frozen-section through the Head and Neck of a girl aged 15. In front the plane of section is carried accurately through the middle line, but posteriorly it deviates about */5ths inch to the left. The bones arc left intact, as is shewn by the bisected Odontoid Process; the soft parts (particularly brain-substance) have been carefully cleared away as far as the middle line. A median section gives the best general idea of the relations and positions of the structures of the head, and in particular of the topograplucal relations of the brain to the face; it clearly shows how the brain extends further down posteriorly than in front That portion of the skull cap under which the Cerebrum lies is only covered by a thin layer of soft parts — skin and epicranial aponeurosis (the latter is blue in the figure). The Hemispheres, therefore, are easily injured in fracture of the vault of the skull. The Cerebellum is better protected. The thickness of the skull cap varies con- siderably at different points, and in different people — it is normally at the vertex */I0th inch. On either side of the middle line the bone may be very thin, because for a distance of 4/5ths inch from the middle line Pacchionian bodies may be present, and only covered bv a very thin lamina of bone. The Superior longitudinal Sinus is exhibited throughout its whole length (the other Venous Sinuses are shewn in Figs. 15 and 16), beginning at the Foramen Caecum and increasing in width as it extends backwards and receives more blood it finally forms by junction with the Straight Sinus the Torcular Herophyli at the level of the External Occipital Protuberance (or somewhat higher up) and unites with each lateral Sinus, especially with the right. Its position is very exposed; as it can be easily injured it demands consideration during trephining. The Nasal Septum is usually asymmetrical, being bent to one side (left in this case). Dense connective-tissue is found at the anterior surface of the base of die skull and is continued downwards as the Anterior Common Spinous Ligament which covers the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae. A thick mass of lymphoid tissue lies under the mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the pharynx (i. e. the Pharyngeal Tonsil); lower down between the Oesophagus and the Vertebral Column there is only a thin layer of connective tissue in which pus may easily spread downwards (Retropharyn- geal Abscess). When the mouth is closed, the Tongue lies against the Palate (in this figure, depending upon the form of death, suicide by drowning, the tongue is seen pushed be- tween the Canine teeth). On the posterior surface of the Hyoid Bone the Hvoid Bursa is seen lying be- tween the Hyoid Bone and the Thvreohyoid Membrane which is attached to the upper border of the bone. The Larynx is here seen at a higher level than usual: the Glottis, as a rule, is situated at the level of the 5th Cervical Vertebra or of the disc between the 5th and 6th Cervical Vertebrae. The Pyramidal Process of the Thyreoid Gland (Pyramid of Lalouctte), in this figure extends almost up to the Hyoid Bone whereas the usual height to which the Isthmus <>f the Gland reaches is the ist Tracheal ring.