Fig. 132. Gall-Bladder. Bile Ducts and Surrounding Structures Male. As in Fig. 131 a large window, 6 inches long and 3 inches wide, was cut out of the right Hypo-chondriac region of the corpse of a robust male. (Other details as in Fig. 131.) The Fundus of the Gall-Bladder lies more to the side than in Fig. 131. No difference dependent on sex could be made out in the position of the organ. All the structures are shewn of normal size, more distinctly, and somewhat differently arranged from Fig. 131 e. g. the position of the Gall-Bladder is more transverse, the Pylorus is at a higher level, the Hepato-duodenal fold extends further on to the Duodenum (cf. Fig. 131 where it does not go beyond the Cystic Duct), consequently the Foramen of WlNSLOW is in a somewhat different position. The two lymphatic glands seen, e. g. a smaller Cystic at the neck of the Gall- Bladder, and a larger Gland of the Portal Vein on the anterior aspect of the Portal Vein near the Hepatic Duct, are constant. Another gland may be found lower down near the Common Bile Duct at the upper border of the Duodenum. It is right to know of these glands, because they become enlarged in chronic inflam- mation of the Biliary passages and may become so hard as to be mistaken for gall-stones. The Gall-Bladder is supplied by the Cystic Artery (a branch of the Hepatic) which divides into two branches, one running along the free surface of, the other running between, the Gall-bladder and the Liver. (Both branches need a ligature in Cholecystectomy.) Considerable importance is attached to a small but constant artery (cf. Figs. 131 and 132) which, derived from the Hepatic or Gastro-duodenal, runs across the anterior aspect of the Common Bile-Duct and ramifies on it, on the Duodenum and on the Pancreas. It sends a branch upwards to the Gall-Bladder which we call the Accessory Cystic Artery. It reasonably follows that in per- forming Choledochotomy the operator should look out for this artery. Both figures shew that, when the Liver is pushed upwards, the Duodenum and Pylorus drawn downwards, the Bile passages are easily accessible; thus removal of the Gall-Bladder, opening of the Cystic Duct, and other operations are rendered possible. The Common Bile-Duct lies for a short part of its course in the Supra- duodenal portion and favourable for surgical measures. Its further course behind the Duodenum is covered by the Pancreas. (Cf. Fig. 133.)