Fig. 64. Situation for Ligature of the Lingual Artery. The Submaxillary Region and the surrounding parts are exposed by removal of Platysma, Lymphatic Glands, small Nerves and Fasciae. The Submaxillary Gland has been thrown upwards and appears to be composed of 2 portions, because the Facial Artery holds the deep portion in position. A piece has been taken out of the Facial Vein; this enables one to throw the gland upwards more easily, and gives a better view of the deep structures. Specimen from a man aged 40. The Lingual Artery soon disappears, after its origin from the External Carotid, under cover of the Hyoglossus Muscle and runs forwards parallel with the hyoid bone accompanied by two Venae Comites. The course of the Hypoglossal Nerve is similar; the nerve being, however, at a higher level and superficial to the Hyoglossus Muscle. The Sublingual Vein accompanies the nerve. This nerve forms a small A together with the border of the Mylo-Hyoid Muscle and the posterior belly of the Digastric. ' In this A, the Lingual Artery can be tied, after division or separation of the fibres of the Hyo- glossus Muscle, as shewn in our figure. Another point is suitable for ligaturing this artery, which is so frequently tied in operations for removal of the tongue. The vessel may be ligatured in its course between the External Carotid Artery and the border of the Hyoglossus Muscle below the posterior belly of the Digastric. The place first mentioned is more superficial and more accessible, and would be preferable, if the artery had not given off its main branches as is fre- quently the case. The Facial Artery runs — in a tortuous course —, behind the submaxillary gland, emerging between the gland and the border of the lower jaw (cf. Fig. 63) and extending on to the face along the anterior border of the Masseter. The artery is frequently embedded in the gland and ensheathed by the fascia of the gland. This accounts for the fact, that in removing the submaxillary gland, the Facial Artery is so often damaged. The Facial Vein passes in front of the gland. The Common Carotid Artery bifurcates into Internal and External at the level of the upper border of the Thyreoid Cartilage. On it rests the Descendens Hypoglossi Nerve. Behind the External Carotid, the Superior Laryngeal Nerve (from the Vagus) emerges; this nerve divides into an outer and an inner branch, the former to supply the Cricothvreoid Muscle, the latter sensation inside the larynx. Fig. 65. Larynx opened from in front. The Laryngeal Region in a man (aged 38) has been exposed, and the Larynx slit open in the middle line between the thyreohyoid ligament and the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, a wedge placed between the 2 halves of the thyreoid cartilage keeps the larynx open. (This has not been drawn in the figure.) This figure shews the aspect seen in Laryngo-fissure or Laryngotomy, an operation which is performed for the removal of Laryngeal Tumours, when the neoplasm cannot be extirpated by the transbuccal endolaryngeal method. The middle of the laryngeal region is not covered by muscles. Under the skin, is seen the cervical fascia in its intimate connection with the larynx. Immediately, under the fascia, is the Thyreoid Cartilage. In some cases, there may be a bursa over it. The Anterior Jugular Vein is sometimes very large. There are no other important structures within the area of operation. This figure also shews that High Tracheotomy is only possible, owing to the position of the thyreoid gland, after the Isthmus of the Thyreoid Gland has been divided or pushed downwards.