Fig. 196. Dorsum of (Left) Foot, with Tendon-sheaths. Arteries and Bones projected on to the Skin. This is a reconstructed figure: The outlines are taken from a young individual; the bones are of a corresponding size; moreover in comparison with several other specimens the position of the Arteries and Tendon-sheaths have been relatively determined. This figure (cf. Fig. 97) has been constructed to shew the relation of Arteries and Tendon-sheaths to Bones and Joints. In the Hand furrows and folds indicate the position of deeper structures, but in the Foot bony prominences are to be taken as the reliable points. Along the inner border, the Tubercle of the Scaphoid, on the outer side the Tuberosity of the 5th Metatarsal Bone are plainly evident. The Tarso-Metatarsal Articulation (Lisfranc’s Joint) is determined thus: Immediately proximal to the tuberosity of the 5th Metatarsal Bone is the one point, the other point lies F/2 inches distal to the tubercle of the Scaphoid. A curved line joining these 2 points indicates the line of the joint. (Cf. Fig. 20.) The Mid-Tarsal Joint is determined by connecting on the inner border a point 2/3rd inch proximal to the Tubercle of the Scaphoid, on the outer border Vs inch proximal to the Tuberosity of the 5th Metatarsal. The figure shews the relations which the extremities of the Tendon-sheaths bear to these lines. The joint space can be made out directly in most cases by feeling at 2/3rds to 3/5th jnch above the tip of the Inner Malleolus the Anterior Border of the Articular Surface of the Tibia where it is only covered by skin and tendons. (For certain Synovial Bursae see Fig. 197.) Frequently a Bursa is placed between a tendon and its insertion into the bone where it acts as a cushion when pressed against the bone by the opposing muscles. Consider, from this point of view, the bursa over the Internal Cuneiform Bone, which lies under the Anterior Tibial Muscle close to its point of insertion into the Internal Cuneiform and the ist Metatarsal Bones.