Fig. a. Frontal Section of the Head through the Orbits. Frozen section through the middle of the eye-balls. The slender nerves and vessels as well as the articulations of the bones have been determined by carefid dissection. The frontal bones are very thick owing to the obliquity of the section. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus bulges to the right, owing to one of the “Lacunae Laterales“—accessory dilatations of the Sinus which are of frequent occurrence at the Vertex, and may extend 4/5ths inch from the middle line. The Temporal Muscle is observed to be covered by the Temporal Fascia, which extends from the Superior Temporal Ridge to the Zygoma. At the upper border of the Zygoma it splits into 2 laminae (which may reunite), between which some fatty tissue becomes collected. The Cavity of the Orbit (into the inner and upper portion of its roof the posterior extremity of the Frontal Sinus protrudes) is only partially filled by the eye-ball; the greater space is taken up by fat in which the eye muscles run. Closely applied to the outer wall of the orbit is the Lacrimal Gland. The point at which the Optic Nerve enters the eye-ball is marked in yellow. The figure shews the very large space occupied by the Nasal Cavity and its Accessory Cavities. The Nasal Cavity which is only separated from the Cranial Cavity by the thin cribriform plate of the Ethmoid Bone, presents 3 turbinated bones. On the left side the Sphenoidal Turbinated Bone was so short as to nearly escape the section. Between the Middle and Inferior Turbinated Bones, the communication between the Nasal Cavity and the Frontal Sinus — the Infundibulum — is visible. Directly below this orifice lies the aperture of the Antrum of HIGHMORE. This aperture situated almost at the top of the Antrum, is necessarily7 most un- favourable to drainage. The Nasal Septum is deviated from the middle line (cf. Fig. 1). The Antrum is separated from the Orbit by the thin floor of the Orbit in which along the Infra-Orbital Canal the nerve and vessels of the same name pass. For the relations of the Alveoli of the Teeth to the Antrum vide Fig. 40. The wall between the Antrum and the Nasal Cavity is thin so that perforation can be easily carried out from the nasal cavity (if better drainage be sought by this route). The Buccal Cavity is closed below by the Mylohyoid Muscle, which ex- tends from the inner surface of the lower jaw downwards and inwards to meet its fellow in the middle line (Diaphragma Oris). At the junction of the mucous membrane of the Cheek and the Gums, groups of mucous glands are found — buccal glands.