Fig. 105 and 106. Areae of distribution of Cutaneous Nerves of Upper Extremity, (right). Outlines of Figs, after Fau's Atlas. Colours correspond to those employed for the spinal segments in the subsequent figures. Unfortunately the areae of distribution of the nerves of the limb and their variations have not been completely worked out, as in the case of the Head and the Trunk by Frohse and Zander. For practical purposes the diagrams will probably suffice. The upper part of the shoulder (green) is supplied from the Cervical Nerves. The front of the chest is supplied by the Anterior Branches of the Intercostal Nerves (yellow), the back by the Posterior Branches. The Lateral Branches supply the Axilla and even the upper part of the inner aspect of the arm. When the arm is supinated the anterior boundary between adjacent areae of distribution extends down the middle of the anterior aspect of the arm to the tip of the 4th finger. But the posterior boundary line runs down the middle of the arm to the 3rd finger. The following points should be observed: — The upper part of the shoulder is supplied by the Supra - Clavicular and Supra-Acromial Branches of the Cervical Plexus. The lower part of the shoulder by the Circumflex. Below this level the Musculo-Spiral supplies the skin on the outer aspect of the arm corresponding to the area supplied by the Internal Cutaneous (red) and Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerves on the inner aspect. (A further internal branch from the Musculo-Spiral Nerve — GEGENBAUR — may assist in com- pleting the supply of this region.) On the inner part of the anterior (flexor) surface of the forearm is to be found the Internal Cutaneous Nerve, the dorsal branch of which supplies the inner aspect of the posterior (extensor) surface; on the outer aspect of the back of the forearm the chief nerve is the Radial, only a very small area being supplied by the Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. In the palm of the hand the cutaneous distribution of the Median (violet) and Ulnar (brown) is divided by a line which runs along the axis of the 4th finger. Special branches from the Median and Ulnar Nerves supply small areae in the upper part of the Palm. On the outer side a small area of the Thenar eminence is supplied by the Radial Nerve. The Dorsum of the hand is supplied equally by Radial and LTlnar Nerves, but where these become wanting in the case of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th fingers, their deficiency is made up by the Median Nerve. (Cf. Fig. 106.)