Fig. 17. Projection of Lateral Ventricle, Middle Ear and Lateral Sinus on the outer surface of the Skull. To S/'/t/.Ka’s figure which shews the projection of the Lateral Ventricle on to the outer region of the Skull, we have added the projection of the Lateral Sinus (violet) and of the Middle Ear with its Accessory Cai'ities (red) while retaining our own Specimens and the indications by FRIEDRICH Miller. Puncture of the Lateral Ventricle is performed (a) to empty it of accumu- lated fluid (Hydrocephalus, Serous Meningitis etc.), or *b) to inject drugs into die Ventricle when not dilated (e. g. Tetanus). # vox Bergmann trephines the Skull in front, direcdy above and mesial to the Frontal Eminence and pushes a long hollow needle in a slightly downward and inward direction. Keen finds a point on the outer surface of die Skull 31 mm. above a line connecting die lower border of the Orbit with the External Occipital Protuberance and 32 mm. behind the External Auditory Meatus. The shape of the lateral Ventricle does not van- much except in the Posterior Horn. The “Trigone” i. e. w here the Body, the Posterior and Descending Horns meet, is the largest part and consequently the most suitable for die operation. Fig. 18. Projection of the Middle Meningeal Artery on the outer surface of the Skull. After KRÖNLEIN. The Middle Meningeal Artery is red. To determine certain important Cerebral points and lines, as well as the Middle Meningeal Arten', KröNLEIN’s landmarks are the most convenient 1) The "German Horizontal Line” runs through the Infra-Orbital margin, and the upper border of the External Auditory Meatus. 2) The “Upper Horizontal Line” runs through the Supra-Orbital margin, parallel with the former. 3) The “Anterior Vertical Line” passes upward from the middle of the Zygoma at right angles to 1). 4) The “Middle Vertical Line" passes from the Condyle of die Lower Jaw at right angles to 1). 5) The “Posterior Vertical Line" from the posterior margin of the Base of the Mastoid Process at right angles to 1). A line connecting (a) the point where die “Anterior Vertical Line" and the upper Horizontal Line cross each other with (b) the point where the “Posterior Vertical Line” cuts the Vertex, represents the Central Fissure (Rolando). When the angle formed by this line and the upper Horizontal line is bisected by a line drawn to meet the posterior vertical line, the oblique line represents the Fissure of Sylvius. .1 and II are the points for trephining to evacuate the blood extravasated from a ruptured Middle Meningeal Artery. The square marked in thick lines is the region in which VON BERGMANN resects the Skull cap for drainage of Otitic Abscess and Abscess of the Tem- poral Lobe. 'l he Black Circles indicate the following points which are often made use of (cf. Text Figs. 11 and 12): Nasion at root of Xose. Bregma at Vertex; further back, Obelion. Lambda; and Inion at the External Occipital Protuberance.