Fig. 131. Gall-Bladder, Bile Ducts, and Surrounding Structures Female. On the body of a woman, aged 55, a large window, ff2 inches long by 4 inches wide was made through the skin of the right hypochondriac region. The window aperture is diminished through the deeper layers. The Liver and Gall-Bladder have been drawn upwards and to the right while the Stomach and Duodenum have been drawn doivnwards. By removal of a part of the Anterior layer of the Hepato-duodenal fold the structures at the liilum of the Liver have been exposed. This figure shews the window with its inner boundary situated Y5th inch from the middle line. At the margin of the window, especially at the outer margin, the various layers of the abdominal wall are to be seen: External Oblique Muscle. Internal Oblique Muscle, Transversalis Muscle; at the upper and lower margins — the Rectus Muscle and its sheath together with the lumina of the severed vessels which run behind the muscles: Superior Epigastric Branch of the Internal Mammary Artery (cf. Fig. 119) and the Deep Epigastric from the External Iliac Artery. In this figure the Liver and Gall-bladder have been drawn upwards and to the right in order to shew the structures in the Hepato-Duodenal Fold, but the natural position of the Gall-bladder is shewn in Fig. 124. The fundus of this organ, which is normal, extends a little way beyond the lower border of the Liver at the point where this viscus leaves the Costal Arch (8th or 9th Costal cartilage) and runs obliquely upwards into the epigastric region. The fundus is 1 Y5th to 2 inches from the middle line so that access is gained to it by a longitudinal incision from the costal arch through or along the outer border of the Rectus Muscle. In pathological conditions, the gall-bladder may be so shrunken as to be hidden under cover of the liver, but when distended or the seat of a neoplasm, it may be easily palpated and even become of such a size as to be mistaken for an ovarian cyst. The size of the Gall-bladder varies greatly from i3/5th inches (as in this instance) to 5Y2 inches long. It is covered by peritoneum on its free surface only (cf. Fig. 133). The Gall-bladder is directed backwards and inwards. Its duct (1 Y5th to 13||ths inches long) has always an acute S curve and it joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle (the length of the hepatic duct is one inch). The Hepato-Duodenal Fold forms the Anterior boundary of the Foramen of Winslow: the arrangement of the structures in this fold are: — To the Right: Common Bile Duct. To the Left: Hepatic Artery. Behind: Portal Vein.