Fig. 136. Position of the Abdominal Viscera seen from behind: lines of Peritoneal Reflection. The plaster model by His which has been made from nature (cf. Archiv, f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abt, 1878) shews when taken to pieces and put together again the form and position of the Abdominal Org'ans in a beautiful manner; further this model shews the individual relations of the various organs, the lines of reflection of the Peritoneum, and the relations of intra- and extra-peritoneal areae. Our figure varies slightly from the model by His (cf. Fig. 130). Uncovered by Peritoneum: A considerable area of the posterior surface of the Liver, posterior surface of the Pancreas, of the Duodenum and of both kidneys, the anterior surface of the Kidneys in contact with the Pancreas (cf. Fig. 135 and 139). The large vessels are also extra-peritoneal: — Aorta and Inferior Vena Cava, the posterior wall of the greater part of the Ascending Colon and Descending Colon. The posterior aspect of the middle portion and the whole of the lower portion of the Rectum. The Caecum is also uncovered by the peri- toneum except where the Ileum opens into its posterior aspect as it becomes closely applied to the wall of the False Pelvis. On rare occasions only does the Caecum possess a Mesentery whereas the Vermiform Appendix is enveloped in Peritoneum and has its own Mesentery — Mesenteriolum —. The extra-peritoneal position of the Kidneys, Ascending and Descending Colon afford an important means of operating upon these Viscera without opening the peritoneal cavity (cf. Fig. 134). Moreover, as the peritoneum is only loosely attached to the anterior surface of the kidney, it can be easily detached, and thus the kidney removed without opening the peritoneal cavity. Formerly, Lumbar Colostomy was frequently performed for disease of the Sigmoid and Rectum. The absence of Peritoneum on the posterior surface of the Rectum bears an important^ relation to the spread of inflammation. This absence of peritoneum is unfavourable for circular enterorrhaphy after removal of Rectal Carcinoma because gut surrounded by Peritoneum heals more readily.