Pig. 113. Upper Aperture of Thorax. The upper part of the Sternum, the 1st and 2nd Costal Cartilages and the muscles attached to these have been removed. The Clavicles and Ribs have been pushed down to their full extent. The Pericardium is exposed. The Thymus and Thyreoid Glands have been cut away, together with the Bronchial Lymphatic' Glands. The Inferior Thyreoid Vessels are divided and the cervical fascia dissected away. The following structures pass upwards or downwards through the superior aperture of the Thorax. Vessels. The right Common Carotid Artery rising from the Innominate Artery. The Left Common Carotid a direct branch of the Arch of the Aorta. The Subclavian Arteries at first pass upwards into the neck and then to the Axilla. To the right of the Arch of the Aorta lies the Superior Vena Cava formed by the junction of the Right and Left Innominate Veins, which pass behind the Stern o-Clavicular Articulation and the Manubrium Sterni. The Innominate Veins are formed by the junction of the Internal Jugular and Subclavian Veins. The large veins are situated to the outer side and in front of the mam arteries. The Lymphatic Duct (the chief lymphatic channel) after passing upwards in the posterior mediastinum where it is situated between the Aorta, Large Azygos Vein and Oesophagus directs its course away from the Vertebral Column obliquely upwards and to the left side of the neck; here, under cover of the deep cervical fascia it forms an arch and finally opens into the Left Subclavian Vein (cf. Fig. 67). Nerves. The Phrenic Nerve derived from the 3rd, 4th and 5th Cervical Nerves (chiefly the 4th) runs obliquely across the Scalenus Anticus Muscle to the outer side of the Internal Jugular Vein, then behind this vessel between the Sub- clavian Vein and Artery (Figs. 67 and 70). The Right Phrenic Nerve runs to the outer and anterior aspect of the Vena Cava Superior, between the Pericardium and Mediastinal Pleura, along the right border of the Pericardium to the Diaphragm. (Coronary Ligament of Liver. Liver and Abdominal Wall.) The Left Phrenic Nerve takes a greater curve in its passage from the Neck into the Thorax owing to the asymmetry of the large vessels and is situated on a deeper plane than the right, owing to the rotation of the heart to the left, in its course between the Pericardium and Pleura to the Diaphragm (cf. course of Phrenics in Fig. 122). The Vagus or Tenth Cranial Nerve running between the Carotid Artery and Internal Jugular Vein at first passes downwards and slightly backwards but soon inclines forwards to the right and in front of the Right Subclavian Artery, on the left side in front of the Subclavian Artery and Aortic Arch. Both Vagi accompany the Oesophagus in its lower part and through the Oesophageal Opening into the Abdomen on to the walls of the Stomach. The left Vagus merges gradually to the Anterior Aspect whereas the right Vagus becomes directed to the Posterior Aspect of the Stomach; this results from the developmental rotation of the Viscus to the right. From each Vagus is given off a Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve (Motor Nerve to Muscles of the Larynx); the right recurrent nerve looping around the Sub- clavian Artery whereas the left recurrent nerve winds round the Ductus Arteriosus at its connection with the Arch of the Aorta; each nerve ascends upwards by the side of the Trachea (cf. Fig. 69). Viscera: The Trachea bifurcates opposite the 4th or 5th Dorsal Vertebra into Right and Left Bronchus under cover of the large vessels. The Oesophagus is shewn in the figure to the left of the Trachea.