Fig. 193. Region of the Ankle and Dorsum of Foot. Deft. Preparation from a girl aged 15 years. The Fascia of the Leg and Dorsum of the Foot has been removed, but the Superficial Veins and the Anterior An- nular Ligament have been preserved. The open network of superficial fascia which occurs in this situation, con- tains little fat, but is rich in a Venous Plexus which terminates on the inner side in the Long Saphenous Vein, and on the outer side in the Short Saphenous Vein. The Fascia extending from the leg to the foot is considerably strengthened above and over the ankle by the Superior and Anterior Annular Ligaments. The latter is formed by a series of fibres which run from the Internal Malleolus outwards and downwards to the outer border of the foot, these fibres are crossed by another series of fibres which run from the inner border of the External Malleolus. These fibres are no independent structures but thickenings of the Fascia; they can only be displayed artificially (cf. Fig. 193). The Extensor Muscles present the same relations as in the Leg. On the inner side, the Anterior Tibial Muscle is inserted into the Scaphoid and base of the first Metatarsal Bone, externally to this the Long Extensor of the Big Toe runs to the terminal phalanx of the Big Toe, next the Long Extensor of the Toes to the 4 outer Toes, and lastly the Peroneus Tertius (Third Peroneal) Muscle to the Tubercle of the 5th Metatarsal Bone. Arising from the first part of the upper and outer surface of the Os Calcis, deep to the Tendon of the Long Extensor of the Toes, lies the Short Extensor of the Toes, with its obliquely directed tendons which blend with the Long Extensor Tendons to form the dorsal aponeurosis of the toes. Between the Metatarsal Bones appear the Dorsal Interosseous Muscles. At the mid-point between the 2 Malleoli and between the tendons of the Long Extensors of the Toes and Big Toe is situated the Anterior Tibial Artery; in its continuation below the Anterior Annular Ligament it is called the Dorsal Artery of the Foot which runs over the middle Cuneiform Bone onwards into the 1st interosseous space, where it anastomoses with the External Plantar Artery. The Anterior Tibial Artery gives off to each Malleolus — a Malleolar Branch —, the Dorsal Artery of the Foot, to both inner and outer sides of the Foot a Tarsal Artery. The Anterior Tibial Nerve generally on the inner side of the Dorsal Artery of the Foot, supplies the Short Extensor Muscle of the Toes and gives a Cutaneous Nerve to the contiguous sides of the Big Toe and the 2nd Toe. On either side of the Extensor Tendons and between the tendinous bundle and each Malleolus is a space of considerable importance, because at these points the Capsule of the Joint is only covered by Skin and Superficial Fascia without any accessory strengthening fibres. At no other place is the joint so exposed or so readily accessible. Moreover by a bulging of these spaces an effusion into the joint will be first observed.