Fig. 69. Larynx from behind — Goitre. From the body of an old woman, the enlarged Thyreoid Gland (Goitre) was removed with the Larynx and the Trachea, and hardened in Formalin; only a small portion of the Oesophagus remains; the posterior wall of the Larynx is dissected. The Parathyreoids are or ange, the lymphatic glands, red. The larger left lobe of the Thyreoid Gland caused the Trachea to rotate around its axis. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve has been drawn aside, on both sides, in order to more clearly show its branches. The topographical position of the Thyreoid Gland is shewn in Fig. 6. Fig. 60 indicates those structures which must be divided in exposure of the gland. The topographical relations at the point where the Superior Thyreoid Artery enters the gland, are most important (cf. Fig. 66). The difficulty in removal of the Thyreoid Gland is to avoid the Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve, injury to which causes paralysis of the Vocal Cords. This nerve ascends in the groove between the Trachea and Oesophagus, supplies these structures and enters into the formation of the Oesophageal Plexus (Plexus Gulae). It then follows the Inferior Thyreoid Artery, in some cases running upwards in front of the Artery, or — more often —, it passes between its branches at the point of bifurcation; it only lies in a few cases behind this vessel, always closely applied to the Thyreoid Gland. For the removal of the gland, the nerve must be freed, and great care taken, to avoid inclusion with the ligature for the Artery. It then passes under the Inferior Constrictor Muscle and ends at the Crico-Thyreoid articulation by dividing into its terminal branches; one of these joins the descending branch of the Superior Laryngeal Nerve, thus forming the loop of Galen — Ansa Galeni —, the other supplies the muscles of the Larynx, except the Crico-Thyreoid. This muscle is supplied by the External branch of the Superior Laryngeal Nerve (cf. Fig. 66), whilst the bulk of that nerve pierces (internal branch) the Thyreo-hyoid Membrane together with the Superior Thyreoid Artery and supplies the laryngeal mucous membrane with sensation. Of great practical importance are the Parathyreoid Glands. When enlarged or the seat of a tumour, they may cause great diagnostic difficulties. Usually, their position is as shewn in the figure near the Thyreoid Gland; but there may be Parathyreoids anywhere between the frenum of the tongue and the hyoid bone, and between the lower border of the Mandible, the Clavicle and the Trapezius Muscle.