Fig. 134. Right Kidney, exposed from behind. On the right side of a male corpse a window-section has been made by removing skin, part of the Latissimus Dorsi, two digitations of the Serratus Posticus Inferior, the tendinous origin of the Transv er salts Muscle and the fatty tissue behind the Kidney. The Kidney is tilted forward to exhibit the hilum. The Left Kidney extends from the upper border of the 12th Dorsal Vertebra to the lower border of the 2nd or to the middle of the 3rd Lumbar Vertebra. The Right Kidney is usually about the space of i/2 a vertebra lower. The upper half of the Kidneys lie very near the pleural cavities from which they are only separated by the Diaphragm. The distance from the lower end of the Kidney to the crest of the Ilium varies considerably (D/^th inch in the male, 1 inch in the female, on the right side; L/sths inch in the male and D/sth inch in the female on the left side). Access to the kidney is obtained by two routes, either from in front (trans- peritoneall}' — cf. Fig. 135, text) or from behind (from the Lumbar region). By the latter route the surgeon has the advantage that in operations upon the kidnefl the peritoneum is not opened. The route followed is at the border of the Sacro- Spinalis Muscle after division of the lower border of the Latissimus Dorsi, the deep layer of the lumbar fascia is then divided. After division of the Fascia Transversalis and the Renal Fat the lower end of the Viscus is exposed. In extending the incision upwards as far as the 12th rib the Pleura may be slightly injured, as its line of reflection runs from the lower border of the 12th Dorsal Vertebra in a horizontal direction outwards across the 12th rib if this bone be of some length; in this case the anterior part of the rib lies below the pleura. If the bone is very short the nth rib may easily be mistaken and thus an incision carried forward may open into the pleura. For operations near the Pelvis of the Kidney the situation of the Artery and Vein anteriorly affords a great advantage in rendering the Pelvis easily accessible from behind; the same advantage applies to the upper part of the Ureter. The lower part of the Ureter is reached by “an Oblique lateral incision” as for ligature of the Common Iliac Artery. This incision is carried from the upper border of the 12th rib obliquely downwards and forwards to the junction of the outer and middle third of Poupart’s ligament. The peritoneum is pushed aside without opening. The lowest part of the Ureter below where it crosses the Common Iliac Artery can also be reached extra-peritoneally by an incision made parallel with and directly above Poupart’s ligament.