Fig. 205. Innervation of the Skin and Muscles of the Lower Limb according to their Segmental Origin from the Cord: Posterior Aspect. The preliminary remarks made in connection with Fig. 204 apply to this figure. The boundary line (difficult to define) between the Trunk and the Limb has 7iot bee7i especially indicated b7il the continuation of the Axial Line is shewn in this figm'e. This line runs upwards 071 the back of the thigh to the Crest of the Ilium and below, after encircling the Liner Malleolus, it rims on the posterior aspect of the leg to 7-each the inner side of the thigh. On the back of the limb the distribution is still moi'e complicated than on the anterior aspect, because the dorsal nerves of the Plexus enter in, and the nerves of the muscles of the Gluteal Region have to be divided into a Dorsal and a Ventral Group. Obturator Internus Muscle, Gemelli and Quadratus Femoris Muscles belong to the Flexor Group: to the Extensor Group belong, in front the Psoas Group, behind the Gluteal Muscles, Tensor of the Fascia of the Thigh and the Pyriformis. The following is the segmental relation : Obturator Internus 5. I. II. (Ill), Gemellus Superior 5. I. II. (Ill), Quadratus 4. 5. I. Gemellus Inferior 4. 5. I. (so that the first two and the last two go together). Psoas and Psoas Minor 1. 2. 3. (4), Iliacus 2. 3. 4. belong to the Extensor Group. Gluteus Maximus is supplied by 4. 5. I. II. Medius and Minimus by 4. 5. I- Tensor of the Fascia of the Thigh 4. 5. I. Iliac Portion of the Quadratus Lumborum 1. 2. 3. (4). The Motor part of the Internal Popliteal supplies the Muscles of the Thigh, Leg and Foot: Long Head of Biceps 4. 5. I (or according to Bölk I and II); Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus 4. 5. I; Adductor Magnus (hamstring portion) (3) 4. (and 5). To the Superficial Muscles of the Calf and the Popliteus 4. 5. I (II) are generally accepted: for the deep Flexors 5. I. (II). The terminal branches contain 5. I. II, the Internal Plantar chiefly 5. I, the External mostly I and II. The motor fibres of the Obturator Nerve (2. 3. 4.) are divided as follows: — Obturator Externus 3 and 4. Adductor Magnus (2) 3 and 4. Adductor Brevis 2. 3. 4. Adductor Longus 2 and 3. Pectineus (exceptionally) 2. 3. Gracilis 2. 3. (and 4). Sensory part:— the Small Sciatic Nerve is composed of I. II and III; Internal Popliteal Nerve I and II and its continuation also I and II, on the sole of the foot the Internal Plantar 5 and I, the External I and II. The Cutaneous Fibres of the Obturator Nerve are like the motor fibres derived from 2. 3 and 4. Over the Sacrum the Dorsal Branches of the Sacral Nerves and the Coccygeal Nerve must be mentioned. They are chiefly derived from II and III (yellow). As other nerves take part in the supply of this area, the other colours Green, Blue and Red for the Coccygeal Nerve should have been put in. The red colour (indicative of the ist segment of a new plexus) has been omitted to avoid complexity in the figure. On the outer side of the Hip it is necessary to remember the Ilio-hypogastric superficial to the Fascia covering the Gluteus Medius Muscle (Schwalbe).