Fig. 187. Outer Aspect of Leg. External Popliteal Nerve. On the outer side a larger window has been cut out of the fascia; portions have been removed from the following muscles: Anterior Tibial, Long Extensor of the Toes, Long Extensor of the Big Toe, Long and Short Peroneal Muscles, so that portions of the Tibia and Fibula have been exposed. The Anterior Aspect of the Leg is occupied by the Extensor Muscles of the Foot; the External Surface of the Tibia is covered by the Anterior Tibial Muscle and the Long Extensor of the Toes. About the middle of the leg, the Long Extensor of the Big Toe appears between these two muscles and in these relations the Tendons pass under the Annular Ligament, on to the Dorsum of the Foot. On the outer side, the 2 Peroneal Muscles which arise from the Fibula pass down, as tendons, behind the Outer Malleolus. The large Vessels and Nerves are on the Flexor Aspect (cf. all large joints). Their branches to supply the anterior aspect of the leg pass to the front from the Popliteal Space by various routes. The Anterior Tibial Artery passes directly forwards over the upper margin of the Interosseous Membrane, and runs downwards upon this Membrane lying at first between the Anterior Tibial Muscle and Long Extensor Muscle of the Toes, then between the former and the Long Extensor Muscle of the Big Toe. In the lower third this tendon crosses the Artery obliquely, so that finally the Artery reaches the Dorsum of the Foot by passing below the Anterior Annular Ligament between the Long Extensor Muscles of the Toes and Big Toe. The External Popliteal Nerve takes quite a different course, coming off the Great Sciatic Nerve at or above the middle of the thigh this nerve passes towards the outer boundary of the Popliteal Space and perforating the Long Peroneal Muscle winds around the head of the Fibula and appears on the anterior aspect of the Leg. In its course this nerve divides into a Superficial and a Deep branch; the former — Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve supplies the Peroneal Muscles and pierces the deep fascia at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the Leg, whence it runs down to the Dorsum of the Foot as a Cutaneous Nerve. The Anterior Tibial Nerve passes obliquely through the Origin of the Long Extensor Muscle of the Toes, and runs downwards on the outer side of the Artery; lower down the Nerve crosses in front of the Artery and lies antero- internal to it at the ankle-joint. In its course it supplies the three Extensors on the front of the Leg. The position of the External Popliteal Nerve passing round the head of the Fibula requires great care in operations on the upper end of the Fibula because a deep longitudinal incision would divide the nerve.