Fig. 23. Vertical Section through the Left Temporal Bone in the plane of the Axis of the Petrous Portion. Frozen Section. Mucous Membrane of Tympanic Cavity, Antrum and Mastoid Cells in red. The lower part of the Tympanic Cavity has been carried away in the section so that the External Auditory Canal is exposed. Fig. 24. Horizontal Section through the Left Temporal Bone. Section through a macerated bone. The axis of the Mucous Membrane lining the Eustachian Tube and the Mastoid Antrum is indicated by a red line. The axis through the External and Internal Auditory Meatus, “Sensory Axis”, is indicated by a yellow line. The Cartilage of the Temporo-Mandibular Articu- lation is coloured bTie. The middle ear is surrounded by numerous air-cells which are lined by a continuation of the same mucous membrane and communicate directly or indi- rectly with the Tympanic Cavity. Pus spreads readily from the Tympanic Cavity to these Accessory Cells. Fig. 23 shews how the cells lie below the plane of the opening- into the Tympanic Cavity and consequently drainage is very efficient. The size of these air-cells varies not only on the same side but on either side in the same individual. These cells may extend far into the Petrous Bone, even into the Occipital Condyle and the root of the Zygoma. The chief Accessory Cavity is the Mastoid Antrum (as large as a French Bean) with its long axis (2/5th inch) corresponding to the axis of the Eustachian Tube and opens into the Tympanic Cavity on the posterior wall, directly below the Tegmen Tympani which forms the roof of the Antrum. The Mastoid Cells, which vary considerably in number, either few or large, numerous or small open into the Antrum. The cells extending into the Squamous Portion are known as Squamosal Cells, but these never extend higher than the temporal ridge. The lamina of bone covering the Mastoid Process is so variable in thickness that, like the Tegmen it is deficient at some points on its outer wall as well as on its inner wall, which is in relation to the Lateral Sinus. These points of deficiency are merely covered by connec- tive tissue. Pus can spread easily through the thin Tegmen Tympani and cause Meningitis or a Temporal Abscess. Fig. 23 shews the Vth Cranial Nerve in Meckel’s Cavity, i. e. the depression on the superior surface of the Petrous Bone covered in by Dura Mater. In Fig. 24 the red line indicates the ‘'mucous membrane axis”, i. e. Eustachian Tube, Tympanic Cavity, Antrum and Mastoid Cells on a line which runs backwards and outwards. The yellow line is the “sensory axis” which passes through the External Auditory Meatus, Tympanic Membrane and Cavity, Vestibule and Internal Auditory Meatus. These axes cross in the Tympanic Cavity; the first passes through all organs of accessory importance for hearing; the second passes through the organs of hearing proper.