Figgs. 73 and 74. Relation of the Capsule of the Shoulder-Joint to the Upper Epiphyseal Line. After von Brunn. Fig. 73. Frontal Section through the right Shoulder-Joint of a boy aged 8 years. Arm abducted to a right angle. Arm placed horizontally. Seen from in front. Above, on the outer side, the Capsule of the Shoulder-Joint does not extend as far as the Epiphyseal Line, but on the lower aspect the Capsule passes beyond the Epiphyseal Line on to the inner side of the neck of the Humerus. At the point marked *, the thin dark line shews how the Capsule is reflected so that Separation of the Epiphysis does not necessarily open the Joint-Cavity. Fig. 74. Horizontal Section through the left Shoulder-Joint of a boy aged 8 years. Arm abducted to a right angle. Arm placed horizontally. Seen from above. The section passed directly below the Spine of the Scapula and touched the lower border of the Acromion Process. The relation of the Capsule to the Epiphyseal Line is the same on the anterior and posterior aspects, as it is below (cf. Fig. 13). It is true that the Joint-Cavity extends beyond this boundary (only because the Capsule, arising from the Articular Cartilage, is attached for some distance to the Cartilage or to the Bone). The Epiphyseal Lines, Epiphyseal Boundaries or Epiphyseal Cartilaginous Discs are of great importance for many reasons. The longitudinal growth of the long bones takes place chiefly, if not exclusively, at these lines, i. e. at the Residual Cartilage between the Diaphysis (shaft) and the Epiphysis. This growing process is especially marked at puberty, but on the other hand, it is especially liable to be interfered with during the same period, by inflammation, which may result in the Separation of Diaphysis and Epiphysis. Traumatic Separation of the Epiphysis is not so frequent as Inflammatory Separation. Fractures usually occur near, but not (in) along the Epiphyseal Lines. Excision of joints in children should only be performed with due consideration of the Epiphyseal Lines.