Figs. 185 and 186. Transverse Sections through the Leg at the begin- ning of the middle third and near the ankle. Frozen Sections. The Fasciae (blue) in Fig. 185, shew that on the Anterior aspect of the limb, the Extensor Group of Muscles arise from fascia; on the Posterior aspect from the Fascia enveloping the limb, and forming a special canal for the Short Saphenous Vein; the particular Fasciae of the Muscles are represented. At a higher level this Fascia is continuous on the flexor aspect with muscular attachments: on the outer side, with the expansion of the Biceps Tendon internally with the expansion of the Sartorius, Gracilis and Semitendinosus Tendons. The circumference of the leg diminishes below the middle as the muscles become tendinous, thus near the ankle there are practically only tendons and bones. In the subcutaneous tissue, the Long Saphenous Vein on the inner, and the Short Saphenous Vein on the posterior surface are observed. The Fascia, which is a continuation of the Fascia Lata, is only interrupted by the Anterior Surface of the Tibia as it becomes intimately blended with the Periosteum. On the Antero-external aspect the Fascia sends a septum to the Fibula, which sepa- rates the Peroneal Muscles from the Extensors. A deep layer passes transversely across from the Posterior Surface of the Tibia to the outer surface of the Fascia, this layer lies deep to the Soleus and Gastrocnemius Muscles, which it separates from the still more deeply situated Flexors. Above the ankle this layer is very strong and binds the Flexors down to the Bone; the Tendo A chillis becomes more prominent near the Os Calcis. The space formed in this way is filled by large pads of fat. The Internal Surface of the Tibia is palpable throughout its whole extent being only covered by skin and thin superficial fascia. The other surfaces of this triangular prism of bone are covered by muscles. The Fibula is completely surrounded by muscles except the Head and a triangular surface above the External Malleolus which are subcutaneous. The bond of union between the Tibia and Fibula is very firm. The upper Tibio-Fibular Articulation allows of scarcely any movement; this joint may com- municate with the Bursa under the Popliteus Muscle and indirectly with the Knee- joint. Lower down these two bones are held together by a very strong Interosseous Membrane, whereas in the lower third, the union is yet more firm. Near the ankle, so firmly are these bones held together, that they may be viewed as one while the Inferior Tibio-Fibular Articulation is rather to be con- sidered as an excavation of the Ankle-joint, than as an independent joint. In the upper third of the leg, of the 2 most important vessels w7hich require ligation, the Anterior Tibial Artery is easily found on the Posterior Surface of the Posterior Tibial Muscle in the Neuro-Vascular Bundle; external to this is the Peroneal Artery.