Fig. 79. Left Arm, Outer and Posterior Aspect. Skin and Fascia have been completely removed; a. large piece of the Outer Head of the Triceps, and the posterior portion of the Deltoid Muscle beloiv its origin have been cut away. The Long Head of the Triceps has been drawn down- wards and backwards. The Venae Comites have been removed. Below the Shoulder-Joint, from the anterior aspect backwards, around the Surgical Neck of the Humerus, between the Teres Minor and Teres Major, the Posterior Circumflex Vessels pass (the Artery being a branch of the Axillary and having 2 Venae Comites). The Circumflex Nerve accompanies them; it supplies the Deltoid and Teres Minor Muscles (cf. Fig. 77). Behind the outer border of the Humerus emerge the Musculo-Spiral Nerve and the Superior Profunda Artery, as they wind around the bone in the Musculo- Spiral Groove (cf. Fig. 80). The Nerve pierces the External Intermuscular Septum and runs downwards to the forearm, between the Brachialis Anticus and the Brachio-Radialis Muscles (cf. Fig. 81). This spiral course of the nerve is a serious obstacle in extensive operations on the arm (e. g. extensive scraping of the Humerus for Osteomyelitis). The Anterior and Internal surfaces are not favourable for operations, owing to the large vessels; on the Posterior surface the Musculo-Spiral Nerve is in the way, because its course is not a straight one, like that of the nerves in the thigh. Its close proximity to the bone explains why it is so often injured in fractures, and why it may be pressed upon by or be embedded in Callus-formation. The Ulnar Nerve runs for a short distance parallel to the Long Head of the Triceps. The Superior Profunda Artery anastomosing, by means of a Recurrent Branch, with the Posterior Circumflex Artery, supplies the Triceps and the Humerus (nutrient artery) and divides into an Anterior and a Posterior Division. The former accompanies the Musculo-Spiral Nerve and ends by anastomosing with the Radial Recurrent Artery. The latter runs in the substance of the Inner Head of the Triceps downwards to the Olecranon where it anastomoses with the Interosseous Recurrent Artery.