Fig. 32. Exposure of the Gasserian Ganglion. Natural Size. On the right side an incision, curvilinear with its base at the Zygoma, has been carried through the soft parts. The bone has been chiselled through and the osteoplastic flap, broken at its base, is turned downwards. The Dura Mater of the Middle Fossa and the Temporal Lobe are raised so that after division of the Middle Meningeal Artery, the Gasserian Ganglion and the 3rd division of the Vth Nerve are exposed outside the Dura Mater. (As the bone was removed the Anterior Division of the Middle Meningeal Artery was lacerated in its bony canal.) Persistent Facial Neuralgia which is unrelieved even by extensive resection of the peripheral branches of the Vth Nerve as they emerge from the skull and which is unrelieved by medicaments has recently been dealt with by removal of the GASSERIAN Ganglion. Two methods may be adopted either (Rose) the Zygoma may be temporarily resected, when after exposure of the Foramen Ovale from below the base of the skull is opened up; or the skull may be opened in the Temporal region (Hartley, Krause) and the Ganglion with its branches exposed. This latter method is perhaps the better one; moreover, it may be employed for removing tumours of the Middle Fossa or for ligature of the Middle Meningeal Artery. After turning down an osteoplastic flap as described above, the Dura Mater covering the Temporal Lobe is lifted away from the Skull. Con- siderable haemorrhage follows from the laceration of numerous small veins. At a depth of one inch from the Squamous portion of the Temporal Bone, just above the root of the Zygoma lies the Middle Meningeal Artery. This vessel is divided between two ligatures in order to expose the Foramen Ovale which lies Vioth inch internal and in front of the Foramen Spinosum; 2/5th inch forwards and nearer to the middle line than the Foramen Ovale is situated the Foramen Rotundum through which the 2nd division of the Vth Nerve passes; Y5th inch from the Foramen Ovale and 2/5th inch from the Foramen Rotundum is the Convex margin of the GASSERIAN Ganglion. It lies in an impression on the upper surface of the petrous bone and covered by Dura Mater in Meckel’s Cave (cf. Fig. 23). The trunk of the Vth Nerve enters its Dural Sac by passing through a slit in the Dura Mater at the attachment of the Tentorium Cerebelli to the superior border of the petrous bone. The Gasserian Ganglion and its three divisions are outside the Dura Mater and can be operated upon without opening the meninges or exposing the brain. Particular attention should be paid to the first division of the Vth Nerve, as it lies in the outer wall of the Cavernous Sinus; so that in freeing this division the Sinus is necessarily injured. (Cf. Fig. 17.) Another method, devised by LEXER, is still less liable to injure the brain whereas it gives a good exposure of the Ganglion. Lexer makes a smaller temporal flap but enlarges the area of operation downwards by temporarily resecting the Zygoma and removing the base of the skull as far as the Foramen Ovale.