Fig. 160. Female Perineum. Body of a Young Female. The skin and Superficial Fascia, except of the Mons Veneris, have been removed. On the right side the superficial, on the left side the deep layer of the Perineum is shewn: on both sides the Os Innominatum is exposed: on the right the Great Sacro-Sciatic Ligament is preserved. Vessels and Nerves are entirely preserved on the right side, but only partly on the left. The chief difference between the Male and Female Perineum consists in the following: — Instead of the small urethral aperture in the triangular ligament of the Male, there exists in the Female, a much wider opening' for the Vestible. Whereas the Corpora Spongiosa are joined in the Male to form the Corpus Spongiosum, the corresponding parts in the Female remain distinct, as the Bulb of the Vesti- bule. So that the Bulbo-cavernosus Muscles in the Female remain distinct on either side: whereas in the Male, they come together in a median raphe. A connection of the superficial fibres of the Bulbo-Cavernosus, with the Sphincter Ani (like a figure 8), is likewise present in the Female. The Bulbs lie on either side of the Vestibule at the base of the Labia Minora. These Bulbs of the Vesti- bule contain large quantities of Blood, so that injury to them (e. g. during labour), may produce serious haemorrhage. From these there extends forwards a Venous Plexus which, near the Frenum of the Clitoris, passes into the deeper tissues at the side of the Clitoris communicating at its mesial aspect with the Veins of the Clitoris (particularly those of the Gians of the Clitoris). The Corpora Caver- nosa of the Clitoris are much smaller than the Bulbs of the Vestibule or of the corresponding parts in the Male. They arise from the descending Ramus of the Pubis on either side, and unite under the Suspensory Ligament to form one shaft (divided by an imperfect septum); the Clitoris is curved with its concavity downwards and backwards, so that its extremity, the Gians, points towards the Vestibule. Many minute veins of the Gians unite to form the Dorsal Vein of the Clitoris, which opens under the Suspensory Ligament into the Pubic Plexus. (Cf. Male.) The Bulb of the Vestibule having a position different from the corre- sponding parts in the male, the glands, corresponding to Cowper’s Glands, i. e. Bartholini’s Glands lie internally and behind the Bulbus Vestibuli. The Pubic Arch being much wider, and the Ischio-Cavernosus Muscle less developed in the Female, the Urogenital Triangle is larger than in the Male. In Virgins, the muscles in the subpubic region are well developed. During labour, the Vestible and surrounding parts are stretched to a maximum and even fre- quently torn, so that a perfect restitution to the normal state never occurs. The Vestibule and neighbouring parts remain stretched after labour, so that the muscles become smaller and degenerated, or replaced by connective tissue and fat. The “True Perineum” which lies between the Vestibule and Vagina in front, the Anus and Rectum behind, is neither broad nor strong. “Rupture of the Perineum“ is therefore a frequent occurrence during labour. It falls to the duty of the Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, to prevent this' rupture by appropriate mechanical intervention, to detect injuries and to suture them, and to cure Recto- Vaginal Fistulae.