Fig. 33—38. Area of Distribution of the Sensory Nerves of the Head. These diagrams have been made in accordance with Frohse’s investigations and Zander’s data. In fig. 33 the foramina of exit of the chief branches of the Vth Nerve have been indicated by black Dots. A characteristic feature of the Cranial Nerves is that they are either pure Motor or pure Sensory nerves; when they contain fibres of the other variety they do not represent true mixed nerves like the Spinal Nerves. The anterior half of the head is supplied by the Vth Cranial Nerve, the posterior half by the Cervical Nerves, a very small portion only of the Pinna being supplied by the Auricular Branch of the Vagus (cf. the black area in Figs. 35—38, and in Fig. 34 the white nerve marked A). The ist division of the Vth Nerve (red) supplies the forehead and vertex of the skull as far back as a vertical line drawn upwards from the posterior border of the Pinna, the middle portion of the upper Eyelid and the Lateral aspect of the Dorsum of the Nose. A branch of the Nasal Nerve supplies the anterior part of the nasal mucous membrane whereas its outer branch only becomes superficia between the Nasal Bone and the Nasal Cartilage (cf. Fig. 50). The 2nd Division (yellow) covers the smallest cutaneous area supplying the teeth of the upper jaw (Superior Dental Nerves), the nasal mucous membrane (Nasopalatine Branches) and through the Infra-orbital Nerve the lower eyelid and the upper lip. The 3rd Division (blue) gives off Motor Branches to the muscles of mastication and to the Mylohyoid Muscle. Its Sensory Branches are the Auriculo- Temporal, Long Buccal and Mental Nerves. Cervical Nerves. The Great Auricular plays an important part in the Nerve supply of the Face by supplying the region over the Parotid and the Masseter. One of its branches ascends between the Helix and Antihelix. The outer side of the Pinna is accordingly supplied by 3 nerves: — Auriculo - Temporal, Auricular Branch of Vagus and Great Auricular. The foramina of the 3 branches of the Vth Nerve viz. the Supra-orbital Foramen (notch), Infra-orbital and Mental Foramina lie almost in a vertical line (K. v. Bardeleben). In Neuralgia these points are exceedingly tender. A glance at Figs. 35 to 38 indicates the enormous variations in the cutaneous supply. Thus (cf. Fig. 36) the Infra-orbital Nerve may supply the whole of the middle portion of the Dorsum of the Nose and eliminate the Outer Branch of the Nasal Nerve from the Tip of the Nose. Fig. 38 shews a very considerable extension of the Cervical Area. Variations not only occur in different individuals but even in the same individual, so that ihe cutaneous supply is different in each lateral half of the face. Frequent anastomoses occur so that one area may be supplied by several nerves. Stress should be laid on the fact that the nerves cross the middle line to the opposite side (cf. Fig. 33).