Fig. 16. Base of the Skull and Soft Parts after partial removal of the Bones. This complete fissure is constructed from eight dissections made after hardening in formol and removing various parts of the Brain in successive layers. After decalcifying the hones considerable portions were easily removed by the knife. On the left side the part of the Occiput forming the Posterior Fossa was removed, the Cavernous Sinus opened and the Gasserian Ganglion with its three divisions dissected out. The roof of the Orbit was removed and the structures occupying the upper part of this cavity exposed to view. By cutting away the Cribriform Plate of the Ethmoid, the Accessory Sinuses of the Nasal Cavity were opened up — Mucous Membrane is coloured pink. On the right side a more extensive area of the base of the Skidl has been removed, only a few thin bars beeing left (Tympanic Cavity pink, Membranous part of Meatus brown). In the lower part of the Orbital Cavity, — the eye-ball having been cut across horizontally and supposed to be transparent,— all the structures including the nerves and muscles are shewn. The Nerves of the Special Senses are green (Optic Nerve light green; Auditory Nerve and apparatus, dark green). Sensory Nerves, yellow. Motor, dark blue (Veins being light blue), so that the Motor Root of the Vth Nerve is definitely shewn. The Vagus Group IX, X, XI, being mixed nerves, are yellow, like the sensory. Gasserian, Ciliary and Geniculate Ganglia are orange; on the left, the air-cells of the Auditory apparatus, the Eustachian Tube and the unusually large Lateral Recess of the Sphenoidal Sinuses extending into the greater wings of the Bone are projected upwards (pink). This figure — probably the first of this kind — gives, by shewing the vessels and muscles under the base of the Skull in their natural position, an idea of the Topography of this region unattainable from below because in this manner their relations remain undisturbed by dissection. The figure shews the topographical relations of the 3 great organs of special sense: e. g. Eye, Ear and Nose, moreover, it gives a good view of the course of the Nerves which have a primary intra-, and a subsequent extra- cranial course. Lastly connections are exhibited which could scarcely be appreciated by other methods.