Fig. 162. Organs of Male Pelvis, seen from the left side. Nerves to the Seminal Vesicles. Modified after Max Frankel. A sagittal section has been made through the left half of a male pelvis. The section passes through Sacro-Iliac Articulation, Tuberosity of the Ischium and Horizontal Ramus of the Pubis; this gives a view from the left side of the Pelvis, — its Viscera and Nerves —. Most of the Blood Vessels have been removed. The Inferior Mesenteric Sympathetic Plexus runs from the Artery of this name to the Aorta around which it forms the Abdominal Aortic Plexus, this is continued into the Hypogastric Plexus lying in front of the upper part of the Rectum. A little lower down lies the large Recto-Vesical Ganglion of FräNKEL which is connected with the ist Sacral Ganglion by a large nerve. From this 2 or 3 branches pass to a yet larger Ganglion (Great Vesico-Seminal Ganglion). Some of the branches of the Recto-Vesical Ganglion go to the Plexus surrounding the Rectum. Several small branches pass from the Pudic Plexus to the Great Vesico-Seminal Ganglion and a delicate twig to the Seminal Vesicle directly. Several large and small branches pass from the Great Vesico Seminal Ganglion, one group runs in front of the Ureter, supplying it and terminating in the Posterior Wall of the Bladder, where they either run superficially for some distance, or penetrate at once into the Muscular Coats; another group runs directly downwards; it contains filaments to the Bladder and the Upper Border of the Seminal Vesicle, amongst these is a thicker branch which ramifies around the Vesical Orifice of the Ureter. The bulk of the fibres which leave the Gan- glion pass to the Upper pole of the Seminal Vesicle and form a large plexus around it. Below the Great Vesico-Seminal Ganglion lies the Small Vesico-Seminal Ganglion, directly behind and internal to the Vesical Orifice of the Ureter. The roots of this Ganglion are derived directly from the Recto-Vesical Ganglion but there also exists a connection with the Great Vesico-Seminal Ganglion. Fibres are distributed directly to the Ureter and Vas Deferens, a few run behind the Ureter to the Fundus of the Bladder, while 2 or 3 larger branches go to the upper pole of the Seminal Vesicle, here they anastomose with the fibres from the Great Vesico-Seminal Ganglion. A very careful dissection exposes two strata of nerves (not seen in the figure), an upper going directly to the Prostate, and a lower lying on the Seminal Vesicle. Both layers anastomose with each other. In this lower stratum, FräNKEL found 2 other small ganglia which he calls Seminal Ganglia. From the lower part of the Hypogastric Plexus fibres also run directly to the Seminal Vesicles. Johannes Müller called (in 1835) this part of the Plexus “the Inferior Hypogastric Plexus'’. Max FrAnkel proposes to divide this into a Superior, a Middle and an Inferior Haemorrhoidal Plexus. The latter would be applied to the Plexus on the Rectum below the Levator Ani.