Fig. 96. Palm of Hand (Left); Deep Layer. In addition to those structures removed in Fig. g$, the distal portions of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum and the Flexor Profundus Digitorum (except in connection with the little finger) muscles, the Palmaris Longus Muscle, the Superficial Palmar Arch and the deep fascia of the hand have been cut away. A piece of the Abductor Pollicis Muscle has been excised, and the Pronator Quadratus Muscle exposed. The Deep Palmar Arch formed by the junction of the deep branch of the Ulnar Artery, with the deep division of the Radial Artery lies at a deeper plane than the flexor tendons and the deep fascia, practically, in the middle between the superficial arch and the distal border of the carpal bones, on the bases of the metacarpal bones nearer the dorsal than the palmar aspect of the hand (cf. Figs. 97—104). The deep division of the Ulnar Nerve accompanies the deep arch as far as the Adductor Transversus Pollicis Muscle and the ist Dorsal Inter-osseous Muscle, passing on to supply all the Interosseous muscles, having given off, in its course, the fibres to the Hypothenar Group of Muscles and the two inner Lumbricalis muscles. The tendons and their sheaths run in an Osseo - Aponeurotic Canal (cf. Figs. 98—101). Most important is the relation which the flexor tendons bear to the phalanges. When these tendons are divided near the base of the terminal phalanx no suture is required, as it is quite sufficient to fix the finger in the position of flexion; but if the division should occur at the intermediate phalanx, suture of the cut ends of the tendon is necessary. The Flexor Profundus perforates the Flexor Sublimis tendon at the first interphalangeal articulation; accordingly at this point there are three tendinous strands. At the base of the first Phalanx (proximal phalanx) there are only two tendons to be sewn together. The flexor tendons are enclosed within a fascial canal and often retract considerably towards the muscular portion when divided. The distal end retracts to a marked extent when the injury occurs in extreme flexion (e. g. when a bottle breaks in the hand). Under such conditions it may be necessary to open up the tendon-sheath which is relatively thin at the joints (where it is reinforced by a few delicate transverse and oblique fibres) but dense opposite the shaft of the first and second phalanges. In addition to the sensory communication shown in Fig. 95 as a loop around the Ulnar Artery and the motor communication in the 3rd Lumbrical Muscle, others occur. One inconstant communication occurs between the dorsal branch of the Ulnar Nerve and the branch to the inner aspect of the little finger. Another of greater constancy passes through the Adductor Transversus Pollicis Muscle where becoming more superficial it winds round the Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscle and joins the Muscular branch of the Median Nerve.