Fig. 14. Base of Skull seen from above. Cochlea and Semicircular Canals, on the right side, exposed. The base of the Skull is more complicated and irregular than the Vertex. Three Fossae are recognised, the anterior bounded behind by the sharp border of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, in this lies the Frontal Lobe, in the middle line are found the Crista Galli and the Cribriform Plate of the Ethmoid through which the Olfactory Nerves pass. The Middle Fossa extends from the Sella Turcica on either side being limited by the upper border of the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone. This Fossa contains the Temporal Lobe and many Foramina through which the vessels and nerves pass. Optic Foramen for Optic Nerve and Ophthalmic Artery. Sphenoidal Fissure for Superior Ophthalmic Vein, VIth, IVth and Illrd and Ophthalmic Division of Vth Nerve. Foramen Rotundum for 2nd Division of Vth Nerve. Foramen Ovale for 3rd Division of the Vth Nerve. Foramen Spinosum for Middle Meningeal Artery. The Middle Lacerated Foramen is closed by fibro-cartilage, a remnant of the primary cartilaginous skull. The Posterior Fossa contains the Cerebellum and Bulb; its boundaries are the Petrous Bones and the Lateral Sinus. The Facial and Auditory Nerves leave the skull by passing through the Internal Auditory Meatus; the Internal Jugular Vein, Glossopharyngeal, Vagus and Spinal Accessory Nerves by passing through the Jugular Foramen and the Hypoglossal Nerve through the Anterior Cond)dar Foramen. When the base of the skull is held up to the light, the bones are seen to vary much in thickness. The stoutest portions are: great wing of Sphenoid, Basisphenoid, Basiocciput and Middle V3rd of Petrous Bone. The thinnest are: Cribriform Plate, Sella Turcica (because the Sphenoidal Sinuses are beneath), lateral parts of middle fossa, Tegmen Tympani, region over Temporo-maxillary articulation and floor of the Posterior Fossa. Violence, broadly speaking, can only affect the base indirectly in as much as it is everywhere protected by the parts covering it. At a few places only is it exposed to trauma: at the Cribriform plate if foreign bodies are pushed into the Nasal Cavities, at the roof of the orbit if foreign bodies are pushed upwards into the orbital cavity. The excavated right petrous bone shews the Internal Ear, Cochlea, Internal Auditory Meatus, and 2 Semicircular Canals (the Anterior, Vertical; and the Internal, Horizontal). The 3rd or Posterior Canal is not shewn.