Fig. 40. Antrum of HIGHMORE with Roots of Teeth. The Alveolar Process and Teeth were ground off until the Antrum of Highmore was well exposed; its Anterior wall was removed. The Incisor Teeth are in no relation with the Antrum. The Canine and first Bicuspid Teeth are closely related to this cavity, but separated from it by a thick layer of bone. The 2nd Bicuspid and the 3 Molar Teeth are in closer relation to it. The roots of the Molars frequently project upwards as conical processes, separated from it only by a thin layer of bone. Thus disease of the roots of the last four teeth may lead to suppuration in the Antrum. On the other hand, an empyaema of the Antrum of Highmore may be drained by extracting one of the teeth mentioned and perforating the thin layer of bone. Fig. 41. Frontal Sinuses. Nasal Ducts. Both Frontal Sinuses are chiselled open from the front. On the right, the bones and sutures at the root of the nose are laid bare; on the left, the outer wall of the Nose has been removed, as far as necessary to expose the duct which leads from the Frontal Sinus to the Nasal Cavity. Mucous membrane is coloured pink. The Frontal Sinuses lie directly above the root of the nose, they entend towards the forehead and over the orbital cavities from which they are separated by the thin roof of the Orbit. Their greatest depth is above the nose; externally they gradually become more flattened. Their size and shape vary enormously in different people. Their utmost limits are laterally the fronto-malar suture and superiorly half-way to the Summit of the vertical portion of the frontal bone. They are separated from each other by a thin lamina of bone, which practically always deviates from the middle line. They are to be considered as ethmoidal cells which have been pushed into the frontal bone, in this way, the external table and diploe He in front, and the internal table behind them. This explains the strength of the anterior wall and its resistance to external violence. Their inner surface is irregular and may present recesses resembling diverti- cula. They are, as their origin explains, lined by mucous membrane. They always communicate with the nasal cavity; the opening of this communication lies invariably in the middle nasal meatus (infundibulum), into which the Antrum of Highmore also opens (cf. Fig. 39). The Frontal Sinus may reach as far as the anterior end of the Ethmoidal turbinated bone and open by means of a simple sUt, or the anterior ethmoidal cell may be very large and thus cause constriction of the lower part of the Sinus; in this case a Canal is formed: — the naso-frontal duct —. These deviations explain why it is very easy in some cases, and difficult in others — or even impossible — to introduce a canula into the Frontal Sinus through the nose.