Fig. 194. Outer Side of (Left) Foot. Preparation from a girl aged 15 years. The Fascia over the Dorsum of the Foot has been removed with preservation of the Annular Ligament, Superficial Veins and Nerves. Fascial Bands which bind down the Peroneal Muscles are shewn (Retinacula Peroneorum). Synovial Sheaths of Peroneal Muscles pin k. The Superficial Fascia behind the External Malleolus contains the Short Saphenous Vein and Nerve. Over the External Malleolus, (in Y2 to V3 cases), there is a small Subcutaneous Bursa. The Peroneal Tendons are held within their grooves behind the External Malleolus by strong bands similar to those on the inner side which are derived from the Anterior Annular Ligament. Without these ligaments a displacement of these tendons over the Malleoli would be of frequent occurrence. These bands, the Superior and Inferior Peroneal Bands are thickenings of the fascia. The Superior Band runs from the outer side of the Malleolus to the lower part of the outer surface of the Os Calcis and has under it the tendon of the Long Peroneal and deep to this the tendon of the Short Peroneal Muscle. The Inferior Peroneal Band, more distally situated, runs from the Tip of the Malleolus to the outer surface of the Os Calcis: a Septum separates these two muscles, of which the Short Peroneal lies anteriorly. Both the Peroneal Tendons are enclosed in a common sheath while in the groove directly behind the External Malleolus, but above and below this point, the sheath is bifurcated: the upper bifurcation lies under cover of the Superior Peroneal Band and the lower bifurcation comes into relation with the posterior border of the Inferior Peroneal Band. The upper end of the sheath enclosing the Long Peroneal Muscle, extends i3/4 inches above the tip of the Malleolus; the sheath for the Short Peroneal to a less height. The lower end of the sheath of the Short Peroneal Muscle extends to Chop art’s Joint but the sheath of the Long Peroneal passes beyond as far as the groove on the Cuboid Bone, here it receives a new sheath which comes almost into contact with the first sheath; a communi- cation between them never occurs. Nevertheless, the intervening septum is so thin that it is easily perforated by pus. By this route an Abscess of the sole of the foot may easily spread up into the leg. Again; the relation of the Peroneal Sheaths to Chopart’s Joint allows, for example, tuberculosis of this joint to extend up the leg after perforating the tendon sheaths. At the Ankle such easy means for extension are not found, although the Tendons are closely applied to the joint behind the External Malleolus. The reason of this is explained by the definite separation which the strong Calcaneo- Scaphoid Ligament secures.