Fig. 27 and 28. Tympanic Cavity and Surrounding Parts opened from behind. In Fig. 27, the outer wall of the Mastoid Process, Antrum and Attic have been removed, the Mastoid Cells gouged out so that only the inner wall of the Mastoid Process remains; Facial Nerve, Posterior and External Semi- circular Canals and Lateral Sinus are still covered by bone. Facial Nerve and Semicircular Canals (yellow) are represented as shewing through the bone. In Fig. 28, the skin incision has been extended downwards, the tip of the Mastoid Process removed, the Digastric Muscle divided and the Attic more freely exposed, the Facial Canal opened, the bony wall of the Sinus removed and the Saccus Endolymphaticus exposed. The Posterior portion of the Tympanic Membrane, the Posterior and Superior wall of the Bony External Auditory Canal have been removed and the skin which lines this portion slit open. The bar of bone behind the Stylo- mastoid Foramen has been sawn through in order to expose the Jugular Bulb. These figures give the relations which are of importance in radical operations. In cases of chronic suppuration and Cholesteomata of the Middle Ear, it is important to expose all the cavities by removing their outer wall and bony septa so that the inner wall of the Tympanic Cavity, Antrum and Mastoid becomes continuous with the Inferior and Anterior Wall of the External Auditory Canal. The bony canal for the Facial Nerve, the External Semicircular Canal and the Stapes must be carefully avoided. The black area below the Incus represents the Fenestra Rotunda. Fig. 28 shews the whole of the oblique part of the Lateral Sinus to its termination in the Jugular Bulb. After reaching the Temporal Bone its direction changes vertically downwards, embedded to varying depths in the inner wall of the Mastoid Process, thence its course is at first horizontally inwards (occasionally with a sharp upward curve), then directly downwards to pass through the Jugular Foramen and form the Jugular Bulb. Suppurative Thrombo - phlebitis usually affects this last vertical portion, in many such cases the Sinus must be opened throughout its whole length. Many ways may be employed to expose the Jugular Bulb: GRUNERT removes the tip of the Mastoid Process and proceeds towards the Jugular Foramen at the base of the skull where he divides the bone encircling' it. As shewn in the figure the Facial Nerve is in the way. PANSE therefore recommends that the nerve be freed and drawn forward. If the Transverse Process of the Atlas is in the way it should be carefully removed, avoiding any injury to the Vertebral Artery. Owing to anatomical variations, this may be impossible so that Grunert’s method (as practiced by PlFFL), of removing the floor of the Auditory Meatus and Tympanic Ring, under which the Jugular Bulb lies, may be necessary. (Cf. Fig. 17.) By this method the Facial Nerve lies behind the field of operation; the structure to be avoided in front is the Internal Carotid Artery. Will ligature of the Internal Jugular Vein in Septic Thrombophlebitis prevent the spread of infection? This question demands a consideration of the many Venous Channels which open into the Lateral Sinus (Superior Petrosal Sinus, Figs. 15, 16, 20), Mastoid Emissary Vein (Figs. 20 and 28), Posterior Condylar Emissary Vein (Fig. 20), Marginal Sinus (Fig. 15), Inferior Petrosal Sinus (Fig. 15), Anterior Condylar Vein which accompanies the Hypoglossal Nerve and passes to the Jugular Bulb from the Vertebral Plexus. The figure shews the close proximity of Facial and Spinal Accessory Nerves so that in cases of Facial Paralysis the Surgeon may be tempted to suture the central portion of the Spinal Accessory to the Peripheral portion of the Facial Nerve.