Fig. 39. The Nasal Cavity with the Opening of its Accessory Sinuses. The Sagittal Section has been made a little to the right of the Nasal Septum, Sphenoidal and Frontal Septtim. Portions have been removed from the Turbinated Bones in order to exhibit the orifices of the accessory Cavities. Into some of these directors have been introduced. The Tongue has been almost completely removed to shew the Tonsil. The Accessory Cavities of the Nose may be considered Embryologically as Ethmoidal Cells which have grown beyond the area of the Labyrinth. They become formed by the resorption of the bony walls of the Nasal Cavity. The mucous membrane follows this process and grows into the accessory cavities. The Nasal Duct opens, covered by the inferior turbinated bone, into the inferior nasal meatus. This meatus readily allows the introduction of a canula into the opening of the EUSTACHIAN Tube which lies in the Outer Wall of the Pharynx. At this opening is the EUSTACHIAN Cushion, behind it the Fossa of ROSENMÜLLER. Under the Mucous Membrane covering the roof and back of the Pharynx is a mass of lymphoid tissue (Pharyngeal Tonsil) which in the middle line exhibits a recess of variable shape, grooved, saccular or double (Pharyngeal Bursa). Into the middle meatus, at the Anterior part of a ridge, is the opening of the Frontal Sinus (Infundibulum), at the posterior part the aperture of the Antrum of Highmore. The communication between the Antrum and the Nose is not always single, it may be double. We have already stated (in Fig. 2 Text) that the opening of the Antrum is in a most unfavourable position for drainage, because it is situated at the top of the cavity. The Anterior Ethmoidal Cells also open into the Middle Meatus (cf. Fig. 2) directly above the aperture of the Antrum. The Superior Meatus con- tains the opening for the Posterior Ethmoidal Cells. Above the Superior Turbinated Bone is the aperture for the Sphenoidal Sinus into which guided by a mirror one can introduce a canula through the Anterior nares. The aperture of the Sphenoidal Sinus is not situated at the lowest part of the cavity and is consequently not favourable for drainage. All the accessory nasal cavities are lined with mucous membrane. The figure shews the Tonsil situated between the two pillars of the Fauces. About one inch long and composed of Lymphoid Tissue it only becomes distinctly visible when the tongue is depressed. (Cf. Fig. 53.)