Fig. 25. Mastoid Process of Child, opened. Fig. 26. Mastoid Process in Adult, opened. Fig. 25. The various layers of the Mastoid region in a child, aged two years, have been exposed, and the Mastoid Process chiselled open. Air-cells, red.— In Fig. 26 the Mastoid region of an adidt has been more extensively dissected but only that portion of the Mastoid Process containing air-cells has been opened by chisel. The periphery of the Mastoid Process is indicated by a dotted line. By removal of a portion of the Parotid Gland the Facial Nerve has been exhibited as it emerges from the Stylomastoid Foramen. The Antrum is well marked in the New-Born though the Mastoid Process is scarcely discernible; its posterior and external portion becoming formed during" the first years of life; it grows downwards as the formation of air-cells slowly progresses. Even in the adult there are not necessarily any air-cells at the tip of the Mastoid Process. The Facial Nerve after emerging from the Stylomastoid Foramen runs forward at a right angle in the infant, at an obtuse angle in the adult. The groove of the Lateral Sinus is shallow in the child, deep in the adult. The Antrum and Mastoid Cells are easily accessible for operative purposes from the outer surface of the Mastoid Process. Subcutaneously in the angle between the Pinna and the Skull the Posterior Auricular Artery takes its course. The Periosteum is intimately connected with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Sternocleidomastoid Muscle which gradually become lost in the Temporal Fascia. About 2/5th inch behind the Suprameatal Spine is situated the Antrum at a depth of 2/5th of an inch from the surface. Below this are the Mastoid Cells. The structures in relation with the Antrum are of great importance. The thin Tegmen Tympani alone separates the Antrum from the Cranial Cavity, so that search for an Epidural or Temporal Abscess is easy after perfor- ation of the Tegmen Tympani. If projected on to the surface the floor of the middle Fossa of the Skull lies in the region of the attachment of the pinna either above or on the level of the Temporal line. Posteriorly and internally is the Lateral Sinus which should be avoided when the air-cells are opened. The position of the Lateral Sinus varies, it may lie in a shallow groove on the Mastoid Process, or in a deep furrow in both Mastoid and Petrous portions. According to Bezold the most marked outward curve of the Sinus is 3/5 inch behind the Suprameatal Spine. At this point the bone is usually 0.3 inch thick (0.1 to 0.7). The Facial Nerve may be injured as it lies below the Extermil Semicircular Canal on the inner wall of the Tympanic Cavity close to the opening" into the Antrum (Aditus ad Antrum). The wall of the Facial Canal is very thin so that by a careless use of the chisel this nerve may be divided. Lower down the Mastoid Cells are in relation with the Facial Canal: this portion has been laid free in both figures.