Figs. 174 and 175. Transverse Sections through the Thigh at the end of the upper and middle thirds. Frozen Section. Three powerful groups of muscles surround the thigh and enclose it so completely that the Great Trochanter and the Condyles alone remain subcutaneous. In front, the Quadriceps Extensor (Rectus arising from the Anterior Inferior Spine and brim of the Acetabulum, Vastus Internus, Vastus Externus and between these the Crureus arising from the Femur); internally, the Adductors (Adductor Brevis, Adductor Longus, Adductor Magnus, Pectineus and Gracilis) arising from the Pelvis; behind, the Flexors (Biceps, Semimembranosus, Semitendinosus) arising from the Tuberosity of the Ischium with the exception of the Short Head of the Biceps. The Extensors increase in mass as far as the lower third because they receive fibres from the Femur. The Adductors diminish regularly until they merely form a tendon at the Knee-joint. The Flexors are reinforced by the Short Head of the Biceps and diverge at the Popliteal Space to the outer and inner sides respectively. A very strong fascia surrounds the muscles of the thigh enclosing them so tightly that after division of the fascia the muscles protrude through the slit, like a hernia. The fascia is strongest on the outer side because it receives the tendinous expansion of the Tensor of the Fascia of the Thigh, and of the Gluteus Maximus. From the Fascia two membranous Septa stretch to the bone, thus dividing the muscles into 2 groups: the External Septum extending from the great Trochanter along the outer lip of the Linea Aspera down to the External Condyle; the Internal Septum from the Lesser Trochanter along the inner lip to the Tendon of the Adductor Magnus. The figures shew the different positions of the Femoral Artery. In Fig. 174 it lies just above the slit in the Adductor on the inner side, and slightly anterior to the Bone. In Fig. 175 it has already reached the posterior aspect of the Bone. The Deep Femoral Artery is still visible as a large vessel in Fig. 174 between the Adductor Longus and Adductor Magnus. It diminishes rapidly in size by giving off the Perforating Arteries. While the Anterior Crural Nerve divides rapidly into its branches so much so that the main trunk is no longer evident in our figures, the Sciatic Nerve remains distinct on the back of the thigh, being well surrounded by fat and lying in the triangular space between the Adductors and the already diverging Flexors. In Fig. 175 the nerve has already divided into External and Internal Popliteal Nerves, which, however, lie in close apposition. The Adductors and Flexors are less distinctly separated from each other than they are from the Extensors. The .Sartorius has throughout its course a special canal, formed by the splitting of the Superficial layer of the Fascia. This statement holds good also for the Gracilis and Rectus in the upper part of the thigh. The thin special fasciae of the Flexors and Adductors are easily perforated by pus. They are practically lymph spaces between the muscles and their neigh- bouring parts.