Fig. 15. Base of skull with Arteries, Emerging Nerves and Sinuses of Dura Mater. The lira in has been cut away layer by layer to preserve the Basal Arteries in position and as much as possible of the Nerves. The Spinal Cord, has not been cut at the level of the 2nd Cervical Nerve as usual, but the Bulb has l>eett divided through the Olivary Body. On the left side, the Tentorium has been removed from the Apex of the Petrous Bone to the Torcular HerophUi, the Superior Petrosal and Lateral Sinuses being opened (the right middle meningeal artery has been drawn double by mistake). The Venous Blood returning from the Brain runs into the Sinuses which are found in the Dura Mater. The Blood from all the Sinuses eventually passes into the Lateral Sinus and thence into the Internal Jugular Vein which commences below the Jugular Foramen. The most important Sinuses are those which lie against the Skull and are liable to be affected in injury or disease of the bone, especially the Superior Longitudinal Sinus and the lateral Sinus. Cf. Fig. 1. As the Superior Longi- tudinal Sinus usually opens into the right Lateral Sinus, this Sinus and the Internal Jugular Vein on the right side are usually larger than on the left. The Lateral Sinus extends from the Torcular Herophili, (or either side) horizontally outwards (cf. Fig. 17) and then descends behind the Mastoid Process, forming two curves towards the Jugular Foramen. In this last portion of its course it gradually leaves the outer surface of the skull and is hardly liable to injury from without. The course of the Cranial Nerves from the Brain to their foramina varies; in the Anterior and Middle Fossa the Nerves pass directly to their foramina; but in the Middle Fossa the Vth Nerve runs under the Dura Mater for some distance, when it forms the GASSERIAN Ganglion and divides into its 3 Divisions, which again run separately under the Dura Mater to leave the Skull by the Sphenoidal Fissure, Foramen Rotundum and Foramen < )vale respectively. 1'he Bird and I Vth Nerves run in the outer wall of the Cavernous Sinus to the Sphenoidal Fissure; the Internal Carotid Artery and the VIth Nerve run in the Cavernous Sinus.