Fig. 204. Innervation of the Skin and Muscles of the Lower Limb according to their Segmental Origin from the Cord: Anterior Aspect. Outlines modified after FAU’s Atlas; Nerve-supply after WlCHMANN with modifications suggestea by ZIEHEN. In the text Arabic figures indicate the Lumbar, Roman the Sacral Segments. As each plexus has only 5 segments the fundamental colours of the Spectrum Red, Orange, Yellow, Blue and Green are employed. Black lines represent the boundary between trunk and limb and the so-called Axial Line which, invisible in the thigh, appears at the outer side of the leg running obliquely downwards to the Internal Malleolus and encircling the latter. The Segmental Distribution of the Nerves in the Lower Extremity is more com- plicated than in the Upper Limb. In man the distribution of both Motor and Sensory Nerves has not been properly determined. This figure is intended to contrast the Cutaneous Supply with the Muscular. Naturally the Nerves are to be divided into Dorsal or Extensor Nerves, and Ventral or Flexor Nerves, the former being the Anterior Crural and External Popliteal, the latter the Obturator and Internal Popliteal. Apart from these, special branches for the Muscles of the Pelvic Girdle will (as well as the Flexor Nerves) be considered in the next figure. In this figure only the Extensor Nerves will be described. The Anterior Crural Nerve corresponds more to the Musculo-Cutaneous than to the Radial; this divides into a branch to the Iliacus (cf. Fig. 105), the Anterior Division (mixed) which supplies the Sartorius and Pectineus, and the Posterior Division (also mixed) which supplies the Quadriceps Extensor Group of Muscles. These muscles correspond to the following spinal segments, Pectineus 2 and 3; Sartorius 2 and 3; Rectus Femoris 2, 3 and 4; Vastus Internus 2 and 3 (and 4), Crureus (2) 3 and 4; Subcrureus 3 and 4; Vastus Externus 3 and 4. The Sensory Portion of the Nerve is formed by the Middle and Internal Cutaneous (Anterior Divisions) and its communication to the Obturator Nerve, by the Long Saphenous Nerve (Posterior Division). Of these, the former supply the thigh chiefly from 2 and 3, the latter supplies the Leg and is formed from 3 and particularly 4. The External Cutaneous Nerve (a modified lateral branch of the Lumbar Nerves) contains 1, 2 and 3; its Posterior Branch may be a trochanteric branch; occasionally its Anterior Branch contains the Crural Branch of the Genito-Crural (the internal twigs of which also contain ventral elements). This nerve is not constant, neither is there any constant relation between the fibres which it receives from 2, 3 and 4. The following remarks are made in connection with the incompletely studied External Popliteal Nerve:— Motor part: Short Head of Biceps 5. 1. (II). Long Peroneal Muscle (4) 5. I. Short Peroneal Muscle 5. I. Long Extensor of the Toes 4. 5. I. Long Extensor of the Big Toe (4) 5. I. Anterior Tibial 4. 5. (I) Short Extensor of the Toes 4. 5. I; The slip from the muscle to the Big Toe 4. 5. I. Sensory part: On the outer side of the leg from above and in front, downwards and backward, 5. I and II. At the foot (Musculo-Cutaneous and Anterior Tibial Nerve) 5. I and II. The whole of the Dorsum of the Foot contains: on the inner side, according to Paterson, 3 and 4; on the Dorsum proper 4. 5. I; on the outer side, I and II.