Fig. 90. Transverse Section through the Right Forearm at the junction of the Upper and Middle Thirds. Frozen section. View of a Right Arm from below, or a Left Arm from above. On the Flexor Aspect are to be noted: Position of the Palmar Branch of the Radial Nerve (too large in the figure) under cover of the Brachio-Radialis; position of the Radial Artery between this muscle and the Pronator Radii Teres, about s/5ths inch from the fascia. Median nerve in the middle between the Radial and Ulnar Nerves, both deeply embedded in the muscles. Between the Median and Ulnar Nerves is the Ulnar Artery; the Anterior Interosseous Artery runs very near the Radius. Intermuscular Septa are seen between the superficial and the deep flexors, and between the flexor and the extensor muscles. Dorsal aspect: Posterior Interosseous Nerve and Artery between the Supinator Brevis and the Extensors. Near the condyles of the Humerus the special Fasciae blend with the Deep Fascia of the forearm; at the middle 1/3rd they are separate, thus forming the “Lymph spaces” in which inflammation — simple and suppurative — rapidly spreads. Fig. 91. Transverse Section through the Right Forearm at the lower end. Frozen section. View of a Right Arm from below, or of a Left Arm from above. Note: Portion of the Radial Artery, where the pulse can be felt and where the artery is generally ligatured, between the skin and the bone, separated from the latter by fibres of the Pronator Quadratus. — Ulnar Artery usually covered by the Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris; at a deeper level, and more towards the inner (ulnar) side lies the Ulnar Nerve — Median Nerve, between the Flexor Carpi Radialis and Flexor Sublimis Digitorum, usually somewhat covered by the Palmaris Longus (cf. Fig. 95), if this muscle is present and normally developed. Fasciae and Septa are coloured blue in the figure which is a supplement to Figs. 94, 97 and 98 in which the tendon sheaths at the wrist are shown. The separation of the special fasciae and the fascia of the forearm (cf. Fig. 90) is also well carried out here, although there are no synovial sheaths. The fascia forms on the flexor aspect special compartments for the Flexor Carpi Radialis, Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and Palmaris Longus. This explains why there are 2 Fasciae in front of the Ulnar Artery, whilst the Radial Artery lies immediately under the fascia of the forearm. An incision for ligaturing the Ulnar Artery, carried along the border of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, divides not only the fascia of the forearm, but a second fascia which becomes thicker lower down. This fascia forms the posterior wall of the fascial canal, in which the muscle runs. The Pronator Quadratus is covered by a fascia of its own. It is true that the other Flexor Muscles and the Median Nerve also have their own fasciae, but they are of no practical importance, and one should regard these muscles as lying in a common “Lymph Space” which ends below at the upper limits of the Tendon Sheaths and is bounded on either side by the Septa forming the canals for the 3 muscles mentioned above. Above, this Lymph Space is continued into the arm, along the Vessels and Nerves. This explains the danger (and also the necessity of making, deep incisions) of deep suppuration in the forearm.