Fig. 121. Transverse Section through the Trunk, at the level of the ist and 2nd Dorsal Vertebra. Frozen Section. The section passes through the 2nd Dorsal Vertebra and the Disc between the ist and 2nd Dorsal Vertebrae, also through the ist and 2nd Ribs, through the lower part of the Trachea, Thyreoid Gland and Clavicle; the shoulder-joint on either side and Scapula with their muscles have been cut through. The shoulders were rather elevated. The important details are: — 1) Apices of Pleurae as seen from below are unequal because the section is not absolutely horizontal (Difference inch). The Apices of the Lungs separated by the section have been removed. The Subclavian Artery on the left side arching over the Apex of the Lung, and its intimate relation to the 1st rib and the Scalene Muscles is noticed. 2) Course of the Trachea and Oesophagus; the former deviates a little to the right probably owing to the asymmetry of the Thyreoid Gland whereas the Oesophagus normally deviates to the left. 3) When the Thyreoid Gland is much enlarged (as in the inhabitants of the Saxony Mountain Districts) it not only surrounds the Trachea, but also touches the Oeso- phagus and exerts pressure on the Carotid Artery and thin-walled Jugular Vein — both vessels being pushed backwards and outwards. 4) The Brachial Plexus, on either side, has been cut through. 5) The Vagus Nerve is situated between the Carotid and Jugular Vessels (cf. Figs. 59, 61, and 113). Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve between the Trachea and Oesophagus (cf. Figs. 69 and 113). The space between the Vertebral Column and the front of the neck is remarkably small for the passage of the important Cervical Structures. Finally, the Tendon of the Long Flead of the Biceps is seen in its groove and the subscapular bursa between the Subscapularis Muscle and the scapular or shoulder-joint is shewn. Fig. 122. Transverse Section through the Thorax, at the level of 9th Dorsal Vertebra. Frozen Section. The section is made through the gth Dorsal Vertebra, the 4th to gth ribs; in front the Sternum is divided jtist below the articulation of the gth rib. As the man had died from Pneumonia the lungs are fully expanded and not in the cadaveric expiratory position. This figure shews clearly how the Thorax is occupied by the 3 cavities (Pericardium con- taining the Heart, Pleurae containing the Lungs) and the spaces or Mediastina (cf. Fig. 112, Text). The Anterior Mediastinum presents a very small space occupied by loose connective- tissue, fat and lymphatic glands, and shews that the pericardium is not completely covered by Pleura. In the Posterior Mediastinum at some distance to the left of the Vertebral Column the descending Aorta is seen, on the right side the Oesophagus with both Vagus Nerves, whereas between the Great and Small Azygos Veins the Thoracic Duct is cut across, posteri- orly is the sympathetic cord, and behind the right Vagus nerve is a small lymphatic gland. This figure instinctively shews the position of the Phrenic Nerves between the Peri- cardium and Parietal Pleurae which is a point of considerable practical importance in Pleurisy. On either side at the 7th rib in the Axillary line the Interlobar Pulmonary tissure is seen.