Fig. 120. Heart of Adult, Ventricles Opened. Normal adult heart hardened in formol; the ventricle is opened so as to shew the Aortic and Pulmonary semilunar valves, the heart is rotated so that the Left Ventricle is more to the front. The figure is semi-diagrammatic in order to demonstrate more clearly all th valves of the heart and their relative positions. The figure shews the outer and anterior aspects of the Right Auricle, the Right Auricular appendage and the opening of the Superior Vena Cava. Right Ventricle: Papillary Muscles, Anterior, Posterior and Septal. Chordae Tendineae, 3 Cusps of the Tricuspid valve, one large Anterior, a large Posterior and a small Septal Cusp; between the two Ventricles the Inter-Ventricular Septum; on the Anterior aspect of the Heart the inter-ventricular groove, terminating in the Cardiac Notch, and the Descending Branch of the Left Coronary Arter)n As the continuation of the Right Ventricle upwards (the Conus Arteriosus) has been widely opened and its left wall removed, the pulmonary semilunar valves appear to be completely disconnected from the Right Ventricle, but their relative positions are well shewn, one anterior, one right and one left. Left Ventricle: Papillary Muscles, anterior or left and posterior or right with chordae tendineae attached to the two cusps of the mitral valve (right or aortic cusp and posterior or left cusp), the right one extending up into the Aorta and almost in continuity with the semilunar valve. The Aortic Valves are three in number, like the pulmonary, one is posterior, two are anterior or right and left, this is due to the common developmental origin of the Aorta and Pulmonary Artery. The Aortic Valves lie (cf. Fig. 119) more to the right, at a lower level and posterior to the Pulmonary Valves. Because the Aortic Valves are situated deeply and at a considerable distance from the Anterior Thoracic Wall, to obviate the obliterating effect of the Pulmonary Valves the Stethoscope is applied over the 2nd right Intercostal space close to the Sternum, i. e. the point where the Aorta lies close to the Anterior Thoracic Wall. The Mitral Valvular sound is listened for at the apex of the Heart.