Fig. ao. Exposure of the Cerebellum. On the left side an incision has been made from the External Occipital Protuberance horizontally outwards as far as the Ear. From either extremity vertical incisions have been made downwards and the muscle-skin flap thrown downwards. The muscles were subsequently dissected out. A large window was chiselled out of the Bone. The Lateral Sinus has been slit open, the Cerebellum is kept inwards by a broad spatula. The Cerebellum is much more protected than the Cerebrum. Only a very small surface area comes in contact with the Bone in a region well protected by thick muscles. Injury to the Cerebellum is accordingly very rare, but operations in this part are far more difficult owing to its position. A glance at the figure shews that suppuration of middle-ear origin may extend from the Lateral Sinus, Posterior Semicircular Canal or Saccus Endolymphaticus and so give rise to an abscess between the posterior surface of the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone and the Cerebellum or to a Cerebellar Abscess. These purulent collections may be evacuated by an enlargement of the opening made for the exposure of the Lateral Sinus, backwards. If a Temporal abscess has been looked for by opening the skull in VON BERGMANN’s Rectangular Area (cf. Fig. 18) then further procedure entails enlargement of the osseous opening and incision of the Tentorium Cerebelli in order to compare the superior aspect of the Cerebellum. A large opening is necessary for Cerebellar Tumours. When the Lateral Sinus gets in the operator’s way, he should push the Dura Mater away from the Bone ligature the Sinus with a double ligature and divide it. Upon the further removal of bone the Cerebellum can be well exposed. We desire to draw particular attention to a vein which runs from the lowest part of the Lateral Sinus or from the Jugular Bulb to the Vertebral Vein through the Posterior Condylar Foramen. Its further course is horizontal be- tween the Occipital Bone and the Atlas. The vein is of great importance in Ligature of the Internal Jugular in cases of Thrombophlebitis of the Lateral Sinus. Cf. Figs. 27 and 28.