Fig. 94. Tendon Sheaths on the Dorsal Aspect of the Right Hand. Skin, Superficial Fascia, Vessels, except the Radial Artery, and Nerves have been removed. The Posterior Annular Ligament is intact, but supposed to be transparent. The tendon or synovial sheaths of the Extensor Tendons lie in special compartments between the Periostium of the bones of the forearm and the wrists on one hand, and the Posterior Annular Ligament on the other hand; they extend upwards as far as this ligament, i. e. as far as transverse fibres are present; below, they extend 1 — j3|4 inch beyond the ligament. The synovial sheaths may, however, extend higher (2/5ths inch or more above the highest transverse fibres, vide infra). Starting at the outer (radial) side, and going inwards, we find 6 Com- partments and Sheaths for the Tendons of the following muscles: 1. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, and Extensor Primi Internodii; the sheath for the latter muscle is about inch longer than the sheath for the former. 2. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior, and Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. 3. Extensor Secundi Internodii. The latter crosses the Radial Extensors at an acute angle, lying on them, i. e. posterior to them. These three sheaths usually communicate, and are to be considered as forming practically one sheath. 4. Extensor Communis Digitorum and Extensor Indicis. The two tendons for the index finger lie in one sheath which communicates with the common sheath for the 3rd, 4th and 5th fingers. The index sheath is, however, shorter. 5. Extensor Minimi Digiti. The sheath of this muscle, which sometimes has two tendons (cf. figure) is usually longer than the others mentioned above. 6. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, this sheath is quite short, because the muscle ends at the base of the 5th Metacarpal Bone. The broad tendinous slips which connect the tendons to the 2nd, 3rd and 4th fingers are remarkable. Morphologically, they probably represent the form- ation of one broad aponeurosis, analogous to the one on the palmar aspect which is fully developed. Subcutaneous Bursae are shewn (cf. figure) on the 2nd and 3rd fingers. They are due to continuous pressure (professional bursae). The Tendon Sheaths accompany the movements of their tendons. The distal ends of those sheaths which belong to tendons inserted into the metacarpal bones, are easily determined. In order to find the distal ends of the others, the fingers should be completely flexed and hardened with injections of Formalin. The proximal ends were determined, from another specimen, in the dorsi- flexed position with extended fingers (cf. the black and red lines above the posterior annular ligament). The length of the Tendon Sheaths varies according to the size of the hand. Those of the Extensors of the Carpus are the shortest and of about equal length (V15 V15 inch). The sheath of the Extensor Communis Digitorum which often contains several compartments, varies most (y)1fi—32/5 inches). It is some- times longer in small hands than in large ones. The weakest tendons have the largest sheaths, Extensor Secundi Internodii, Extensor Primi Internodii, and Extensor Minimi Digiti; their respective lengths are: 2%—2%; 2%—24/5; 2%— inches.