Fig. 59. Transverse Section through the Neck at the level of the Fifth Cervical Vertebra. Frozen Section. This figure shews that all the important structures, Large Vessels, Nerves, Thyreoid Gland, Food and Respiratory passages are in close apposition in the anterior part of the neck whereas the largest spaces, external and posterior to the vertebral column, are almost completely occupied by powerful muscles. In front lies the Larynx with the Subcutaneous Pomum Adami. Its position can, therefore, easily be made out. This section passes exactly through the Vocal Cords; between these the Glottis is continued backwards to a certain extent between the vocal processes of the Arytenoid Cartilages. These cartilages are joined by the Aryteno-Arytenoideus Muscle; immediately behind and below this muscle lies the lowest portion of the Pharynx which presents here the Recessus Pyriformis on either side. These recesses extend forward for some distance under cover of the thyreoid cartilage. In a cross-section, the Pharynx, and its continuation, the Oesophagus, which is usually taken as commencing at the 5th Cervical Vertebra, appear as a transverse slit, when empty. In front of the Vertebral Column and the Longus Colli Muscle which lies upon it, is the strong Prevertebral Fascia. This fascia is separated from the muscles of the Pharynx and Oesophagus by loose connective tissue in the meshes of which Retropharyngeal Abscesses readily spread downwards. External to the larynx is shewn the apex of the lateral lobe of the Thyreoid Gland with the large Superior Thyreoid Artery which has just entered the substance of the gland. The Thyreoid Gland lies on the Common Carotid Artery, which at the point of section is covered completely by the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid Muscle (cf. Fig. 60, text). External to the Carotid Artery, and some- what posterior lies the Internal Jugular Vein (the right vein is usually larger than the left, cf. Fig. 15, text, Explanation of Lateral Sinus). Between the Artery and Vein and somewhat posterior runs the Vagus Nerve. The Cervical Sym- pathetic Trunk is in apposition with the posterior part of the inner wall of the Common Carotid Artery. The foramen in the transverse process has been cut in such a way that it does not appear as a closed ring. In it run the Vertebral Artery and its Venae Comites. The 3rd Cervical Nerve which has just left its intervertebral Foramen appears very thick, owing to the obliquity of its section. Between the posterior border of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid and the Anterior border of the Trapezius, lie the superficial cervical lymphatic glands.