Fig. 30. Side View of Face. Superficial Layer. The Parotid Region has been dissected on the Left Side and a window made in the Parotid Gland to shew the formation of Stenson's Duct, Branches of the Facial Nerve and the main vessels (all very carefidly dissected). Broadly speaking the Vessels and Nerves of the Face are subcutaneous with the exception of the area covered by the Parotid Gland. The Parotid Gland is covered by a thick fascia; its outer surface is tri- angular in shape with the base directed upwards and the Apex at the angle of the Lower Jaw. The base extends from the posterior extremity of the Zygoma to the Cartilaginous portion of the External Auditory Canal and to the Anterior border of the Sternomastoid Muscle. The posterior border runs parallel to the Sternomastoid Muscle; at the angle of the Jaw, this is met by the Anterior border which crosses the Masseter Muscle. The greater part of the Gland lies behind the Ramus of the Jaw and extends inwards to the Digastric (i. e. close to the Carotid and Jugular Vessels Fig. 53). Stenson’s Duct runs almost horizontally forwards 2tyth inch below the Zygoma and turns inwards at the Anterior border of the Masseter to perforate the Buccinator obliquely and terminate within the Buccal Cavity opposite the 2nd upper molar tooth (cf. Fig. 57). There is often present an Accessory Parotid (Socia Parotidis) attached to the Duct (cf. Fig. 30). The Facial Nerve bears a close relation to the Gland. After emerging out of the Stylomastoid Foramen this nerve enters the substance of the Gland at the level of the lobule of the Ear. Here it divides, and its branches run in the substance of the gland, to emerge at the Anterior border and be distributed to all the muscles of Facial Expression. Consequently it is impossible to remove the whole of the Parotid Gland without injury to the Facial Nerve, but removal of the lower part in no way leads to interference with the Nerve: in this case the Mandibular Branch, which supplies the muscles of the angle of the mouth, is chiefly damaged. The branches of the Facial Nerve form an anastomosis with each other (Pes Anserina) and with the Fifth. . The Auriculo-Temporal Nerve (from V, 3) runs through the Parotid Gland as well as the Superficial Temporal Artery (continuation of External Carotid Artery); this vessel in its course through the gland gives off the Transverse Facial Artery which takes a horizontal course. The Superficial Temporal Artery then passes upwards in front of the ear dividing into an Anterior (Frontal) and a Posterior (Parietal) branch to supply the Frontal and Parietal Regions of the Scalp as far as the Vertex. The Temporal Vein, accompanying the Artery, receives blood from the Temporal Region and the Ear. In the substance of the Parotid Gland are embedded a few lymphatic glands which are of practical importance; rarely, a cutaneous lymphatic gland, superficial to the Parotid, is found.