Fig. 82. Left Antecubital Space. Superficial Layer. The Skin over the lower part of the arm, and over the upper part of the forearm has been removed. The Superficial Fascia covering the Biceps and the Superficial Veins and Nerves have also been taken away, but the Bicipital Fascia and its expansions in the forearm are left intact. The superficial and broad Bicipital Fascia ends by an expansion into the Deep Fascia of the forearm and by blending with the Periosteum of the Ulna. The true Tendon of the Biceps is inserted into the Radius. The Superficial Muscles which arise from the Internal Condyle are intimately connected with the Deep Fascia and the Bicipital Fascia in the upper part of the forearm. Superficial Veins. At the upper end of the forearm 2 constant and one not-constant Veins are found: the Ulnar and Radial Veins, and the Median Vein. The latter vein divides into the Median Basilic, and the Median Cephalic Veins, the former joining the Ulnar forms the Basilic Vein, the latter joining the Radial forms the Cephalic Vein. These veins vary. As a rule, the Median Basilic Vein is the largest vein in the Antecubital Space, and the most suitable for Phlebotomy. The Cephalic Vein runs upwards in the arm and disappears between the Pectoralis Major and Deltoid Muscles, to join the Axillary Vein (cf. Fig. 75 and 76). It thus forms a collateral venous channel. The Basilic Vein joins the Venae Comites of the Brachial Artery and then forms the Axillary Vein, which, higher up, becomes the Subclavian (cf. Axilla). The Median Basilic Vein is separated from the Brachial Artery by the Bicipital Fascia. The Artery can therefore be injured in Phlebotomy, and this injury may be followed by an Arterio-venous Aneurysm. The 2 chief Cutaneous Nerves of the forearm, the Cutaneous Branch of the Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve and the Internal Cutaneous Nerve become super- ficial at the Antecubital Space. The latter nerve runs with the Basilic and Ulnar Veins. Its trunk and its branches lie in '1l8th of all cases at a slightly deeper level than the veins. The nerve may have divided into 2 large branches, where it pierces the fascia of the arm.