Figs. 107 and 108. Cutaneous Nerves, according to their Segmental (Spinal) Origin. The nerves distributed to the upper extremity are derived from the segments — 4th Cervical and 2nd Dorsal inclusive. The distribution is such that the upper segments pass to the outer side and the lower the origin of the nerves, the more internal is their distribution. The thick black lines situated on the Anterior and Posterior aspects of the arm indicate the boundary between the rostral and caudal parts of the limb, the correct continuation of this line on to the forearm and hand is not yet defined. WlCHMANN is of opinion that it should continue between the dark-blue and violet areae to the distal end of the ist Metacarpal bone on both the anterior and posterior aspects. The seg'mentary distribution over the attachment of the limb to the trunk differs in front and behind. The posterior divisions of the Cervical Nerves ramify over the posterior aspect: VIII. C and 1. D have, as a rule, no posterior division, so that 2. D follows VII. C; again, 1. D has not usually even an anterior division, so that the 2nd intercostal nerve follows directly upon the Supraclavicular branches distributed to the chest. The boundaries between the intercostal nerves are diagrammatic in the figure inasmuch as only the middle l/3 of a colour accurately represents the nerve indicated, the upper and lower thirds being the upper and lower association areae of the nerves. In the limb the limitations are much less definite than indicated; moreover there are many variations particularly on the inner side where the red area may be far more extensive and with the brown may pass even as far as the 4th finger. The following segments correspond to the different nerves. IV. C: — the supra-clavicular nerves. V. C (VI. C): —- the cutaneous branches of the circumflex. (V. C) VI. C, VII. C (VIII. C): the cutaneous branches of the Musculo-Spiral. VI. C: — the cutaneous branches of the Musculo-Cutaneous. On the inner aspect of the limb the Dorsal Nerves enter at the upper part, the Cervical Nerves at the lower. The Intercosto-humeral belongs to the Cervical Plexus if one takes the 2nd Dorsal segment as belonging to this Plexus. The Interna] cutaneous is chiefly derived from 1. D and VIII. C. The violet band (VII. C) gives the boundary between VI. C and VIII. C as these nerves ramify over this area. The area of the Median and Ulnar Nerves in the hand are not accurately defined. The dorsal branch of the Ulnar Nerve chiefly contains VII. C, the palmar branch VII. C (only represented in the figure) and 1. D. The Palmar branches of the Median Nerve correspond to VI. C and VII. C, the digital branches to VI. C, VII. C, VIII. C (the nearer to the inner side, the lower is the origin of the fibres in the cord). The outer side of the 4th finger may even be partially supplied by 1. D.