Fig. 130. Position of the Viscera which lie outside the Peritoneum. Woman aged 30. The Intestines have been removed from the Cardiac end of the Stomach down to the Rectum. Pancreas and Spleen in normal position. Parietal peritoneum has been removed in the Abdominal but left in the Pelvic Cavity. The Peritoneal Cavity has been opened in the following way. The median incision extends from the Xiphoid to the left side of the Umbilicus below which part the incisions diverge towards the right and left Anterior Superior Iliac Spines. The two large upper flaps are further divided into two smaller ones by incisions running towards the 10th ribs. The two Kidneys (practically at the same level, though the left is usually the higher, cf. Fig. 125) together with their large arteries from the Aorta are shewn with their veins which enter into the Inferior Vena Cava. At the hilum the Vein is situated in front of the Artery, which has divided into many branches, whereas the Ureter is situated behind. The left Renal Vein passes in front of the Aorta to join the Inferior Vena Cava; the termination of this left renal vein and the right vessels are covered by the head of the Pancreas. The Pancreas extends across at the level of the ist Lumbar Vertebra from the Right Kidney to the Left, terminating in relation with the Spleen and lying in front of the Aorta and Inferior Vena Cava. Above the Pancreas the Coeliac Axis with its three diverging branches is shewn; below the Superior Mesenteric Artery, (the origin of which lies under cover of the gland), at a lower level and to the right is the Middle Colic Artery. To the right of this Artery is the Superior Mesenteric Vein whereas further to the left is the Inferior Mesenteric Vein. Above the Pancreas the Portal Vein can be seen, cut off at the hilum of the Liver. This vein is formed by the union of the Splenic and the Superior Mesenteric Veins. The Ureters passing downwards on the Psoas Muscles cross the Iliac Vessels — on the left ]/2 inch above, on the right x/2 inch below the origin of the Internal Iliac Artery — and course along the outer wall of the true pelvis to the Trigone of the Bladder. In the Male the Ureter crosses the Vas Deferens, passing below this duct; in the Female the Ureter passes below the Uterine Artery. To the right of the Aorta lies the Inferior Vena Cava, between these large vessels and to the left of the Aorta are large lymphatic glands. The Aorta bifurcates into the Common Iliac Arteries at the lower border of the 4th Lumbar Vertebra. The inlet of the true pelvis is almost completely filled up by the much distended Rectum (ligatured) and the Uterus (in this instance enlarged) which overlies the Bladder. (Cf. Figs. 146 and 147.)