Fig. 148. External Female Genital Organs. (Vulva.) Vestibule. The Labia have been drawn apart in order to shew the Vestibule and, in par- ticular, the openings of the ducts of Bartholin/s Glands. The Labia Majora corresponding to the Scrotum of the male limit the Rima Pudendi which is closed in Virgins when the thighs are adducted; in front these Labia meet, but behind they are lost near the Anus. They are folds of skin usually well-covered with hair and large sebaceous glands, and contain large Veins. The Labia Minora are separated by a sulcus from the Labia Majora; their outer surfaces are covered with skin, their inner surfaces with mucous membrane continuous . with that of the Vestibule. In front the Labia Minora bifurcate, the outer portions of either side unite to form the Prepuce of the Clitoris, the inner join below the Clitoris and form the Frenum. The Clitoris which corresponds to the Penis of the Male is usually rudimentary, its extremity (Gians Clitoridis) alone being visible. The posterior ends of the Labia Minora vary much, they may merge into the Labia Majora, or may unite together and form an arch which limits the Vestibule posteriorly. At the posterior junction of the Labia Minora is situated the Fossa Navicularis. In the angle between the Labium Minus and the Hymen is situated the opening' of the duct of BARTHOLINl’s or Duverney's Gland. In front of the Hymen and about midway between the posterior limit of the Vaginal Orifice and the Clitoris is situated the Urethral Orifice which may be of different shapes: — a vertical slit, semilunar or [\ -shaped. The projection of mucous membrane behind this — Lingula Urethrae VON Bardeleben — is correspondingly pointed or rounded off. The Hymen a reduplication of the mucous membrane at the entrance of the Vagina varies much in shape though generally crescentic from side to side with the broad part of the crescent posterior in situation (prior to Defloration); it may be annular, or fimbriated, even double or fenestrated. During “Defloration” the hymen is usually torn and heals with cicatrices. Fresh lacerations occur during the first labour, these lead to the formation of Carunculae Myrtiformes.