Fig. 9. Frontal Section through the Crus Cerebri at the level of the Posterior Corpora Quadrigemina. The Mesencephalon (Crura) containing all the Projection Fibres from the Cerebral Hemispheres is divided into 2 layers, an upper the "tegmentum", a lower the “crusta”; these are separated by the "substantia nigra”. The Tegmentum chiefly contains: — 1. Fibres from Thalamus and Corpora Quadrigemina. To these belongs the so-called posterior commissure which represents the connection of the Tegmen with the Thalamus of the opposite side. 2. Fibres from Lenticular Nucleus. Cf. Explanation to Fig. 8. 3. Fibres from Cortex. To these belongs the path of “Muscle-Sense". Cf. Text to Fig. 7. It moreover contains 3 Nuclei. a) Nucleus of Descending Root of Yth Nerve on either side of the Aqueduct of Sylvius. b) Nucleus of the Illrd (Oculomotor) Nerve, on either side of the Aque- duct of Sylvius. c) Nucleus of the IVth Nerve which lies posterior to the Illrd Nucleus at the posterior end of the Aqueduct of Sylvius. The Internal Geniculate Body probably belongs to the auditor}- path. The posterior longitudinal bundle is derived partly from the anterior column of the spinal cord and possibly connects the nuclei of the motor nerves of the eye. A large number of the fibres in the tegmentum stop in the "Red Nucleus” where new fibres arise to cross the middle line and leave the tegmentum bv passing to the Cerebellum through the Superior Cerebellar Peduncle. (Cf. Fig. 6 Text.» The Crusta chiefly contains: — 1. Cortico-crustal Fibres — Geniculate Bundle (MEYNERT). 2. Frontal Cortico-pontic Tract which passes from the Frontal Lobe and Caudate Nucleus to the Pontine Nuclei, whence fibres cross the middle line and pass to the Cerebellum through the Middle Cerebellar Peduncle. 3. Pyramidal Tracts. Cf. Fig. 7 Text. 4. Occipito-temporal cortico-pontic Tract which passes from the Temporal and Occipital lobes to the Pontine Nuclei. Course of these fibres as in 2. The course and function of the fibres in close proximity to die Sub- stantia Nigra is unknown. Fig. 10. Convolutions of the Brain and Sutures of the Skull in the New-Born. The detailed description of die convolutions is given in die text accom- panying the following figures. We only desire to lay stress upon, the high position of the Fissure of Sylvius, and the Fontanelles. The smaller fontanelles (Sphenoidal and Mastoid) may be very small at birdi; whereas the largest, die Frontal, remains open till the end of the first year of life.