Fig. 125. Position of Abdominal Viscera from behind. Between the level of the 9th and nth ribs on the left side is situated the Spleen which lies in relation with the Diaphragm above, and the left kidney below (cf. Figs. 126 and 136). The Kidneys lie opposite the 12th Dorsal and the ist and 2nd Lumbar Vertebrae and in front of the 12th rib, on the left side also in front of the nth rib. The right kidney, due to the size of the Liver, is mostly found at a lower level. Sometimes both kidneys are at the same level, but rarely is the right higher. Both kidneys are occasionally situated at a considerably lower level without any evidence of undue mobility. A horseshoe-shaped kidney, i. e. when the lower ends of the two viscera are joined in front of the Vertebral Column, is no great rarity. (Cf. Fig. 127.) The descending colon lies to the outer side of the left Kidney whereas the ascending colon with its Mesocolon lies in front of the right kidney with the duodenum above (for further details, cf. Fig. 135). The Pancreas — in front of the ist Lumbar Vertebra — extends to the left as far as the Kidney and Spleen; its upper part may touch the Suprarenal Gland. In the figure it is visible on either side of the Vertebral Column (yellow) the intermediate part being indicated by dotted lines. Its head is almost completely encircled by the Duodenum; into the Vertical portion of the Duodenum which is closely applied to the posterior abdominal wall, the Duct of the Pancreas (Duct of WlRSUNG) which is usually joined by an accessory Duct (Duct of Santorini) (cf. Fig. 130, -text), and the Common Bile Duct open. These relations are shewn in the figure, which also depicts the left ureter coming from the left kidney (cf. Figs. 120, 129 and 133). The ascending Colon is seen on the right, the descending on the left (next in continuity the Sigmoid Flexure) between the Costal Arch and the Crest of the Ilium. The relations of the Peritoneum to the Viscera are described in Fig. 136. The last portion of the gut shews the Ampulla of the Rectum against which the Coccyx lies. Below the tip of that bone, the Rectum passes backward (Perineal Curve) and opens in the slit-like laterally compressed Anus.