Fig. 42. Orbit and surronding Structures — Horizontal Section. From a frozen section which passes horizontally through the middle of the eye of a male body, 45 years old, the brain is removed; middle Meningeal Artery and Gasserian Ganglion dissected. Mucous membrane of Nasal and Accessory Cavities, red. Tenon’s Capsule and Periosteum blue. Lachrymal apparatus orange. This section shews the conical shape of the orbital cavity which has also been compared with a pyramid. The inner wall is chiefly formed by the Os Planum of the Ethmoid; it is very thin, and separates the orbit from the accessory nasal cavities. Pus may thus easily spread from them into the orbit. The centre of the eyeball does not lie in the axis of the orbit, but slightly external to it. The orbit is filled with fat through which the muscles, vessels and nerves to the eyeball run. (The Ciliary Ganglion is shewn in Fig. 16.) The Optic Nerve, flattened in the skull, leaves its foramen as a round cord, runs forwards and out- wards — then inwards — and just before reaching the eyeball again slightly out- wards. It thus describes an S-shaped curve (cf. Fig. 44). The connective tissue of the orbital fat forms near the eyeball a strong membrane — Tenon’s Capsule —. The eyeball moves in this membrane, as if this were a ball- and socket-joint. There is, however, no free space between the eyeball and capsule, as the space is filled up by a delicate scaffold-like tissue. Tenon’s Capsule ends behind at the Optic Nerve, in front at the Fornix of the conjunctiva: the eye muscles pass through slits in the capsule, which sends at these points sheaths to surround the muscles; these sheaths blend witlt the aponeurosis of the muscles. Internal to the Inner Rectus, Tenon’s Capsule forms a triangular cushion and thus blends with the fascia of Horner’s Muscle, the lachrymal sac and the puncta lacrimalia At that point it is only indirectly — through the internal tarsal ligament — attached to the wall of the orbit. At the outer angle of the eye the Capsule is in relation with the walls of the recess which lodges the lower portion of the Lachrymal Gland and with the external tarsal ligament by which means it becomes attached to the bone.