Fig. 137. Vermiform Appendix and Caecum. In a robust male corpse, a lozenge-shaped window has been made 5 inches by 4 inches through the skin but of a smaller area through the deeper layers of the right Hypogastric and Iliac Regions; Omentum and Transverse Colon are thrown upwards. The Appendix is at a higher level, and more laterally situated than usual; its position varies with the degree of distension of the neighbouring intestines. As the Appendix is completely enveloped in Peritoneum, its mobility is very marked in contrast to the commencement of the Ascending Colon which is only covered anteriorly whereas posteriorly it remains fixed to the posterior abdominal wall (cf. Fig. 136). The Caecum, usually 24/sths inch long, is situated in the Right Iliac Fossa on the Fascia Iliaca above the outer 1/2 of Poupart’s Ligament; when moderately distended and the neighbouring coils of intestine empty or onfy slightly distended it lies against the Anterior Abdominal Wall, but if more movable it may lie bent upwards upon the Ascending Colon. Coming off the lower end of the Caecum near the lleo-Caecal Junction and in possession of its own mesentery the position of the Vermiform Appendix is very variable; in length it varies from 1 to 10 inches (usual length 3 to 4 inches); in shape it may be straight, serpiginous, spiral or bent upon itself; in position it may come in contact with the Bladder or Ovary in the true Pelvis, it may lie behind the Ileum or extend up behind the Caecum, Kidney or even the Liver, or Stomach, and extending beyond the middle line. Its base corresponds to Me Burney’s point — midway between the right Anterior Superior Iliac Spine and the Umbilicus. The Arteries to the Ileum, Caecum and Appendix produce folds of Peri- toneum in relation with which small recesses are formed, e. g. Superior and Inferior lleo-Caecal Fossae. As Appendicitis is of frequent occurrence, operations upon the Vermiform Appendix are often necessary. The usual incision is made directly above and parallel to the outer V2 °f Poupart’s Ligament; — though the viscus can be reached by an incision along the outer border of the Rectus Abdominis Muscle at the level of the Anterior Superior Iliac Spine.