Fig. 138. Sigmoid Flexure and Inguinal Canal. The Hypogastric and Iliac Regions are exposed on the left side of a normal male cadaver — (aet. 38). The upper portion of the Abdominal Wall in this region has been removed, and the Inguinal Canal dissected out, the Sigmoid thrown upwards and inwards, after accurately determining its position\ (dotted lines). The Sigmoid Flexure which, variable in length, extends between the Descending Colon — attached to the posterior Abdominal Wall — and the Rectum — attached to the posterior Pelvic Wall — is the most movable portion of the large intestine. The Sigmoid Flexure usually possesses a lower (left) curve with its con- vexity downwards, and an upper (right) curve with its convexity upwards. Such are indicated by the dotted lines. When the Sigmoid is turned upwards, as in the figure, a small peritoneal pouch over the left psoas becomes evident — the Fossa Sigmoidea. Lying internal to the Psoas Muscle are seen (cf. Fig. 137) the Iliac Vessels; above the divided Rectus Muscle is seen the Obliterated Flypogastric Artery passing upwards towards the Umbilicus as the lateral vesico-umbilical ligament in the Plica Umbilicalis. The fibres of the External Oblique Muscle of the Abdomen diverge in the Inguinal Region forming the two pillars of the External Inguinal Ring, so that the upper or inner pillar ends in the middle line at the Symphysis and the Sus- pensory Ligament of the Penis or even extends beyond the middle line to the opposite side, whereas the inferior or outer pillar terminates at the Spine of the Pubis. The upper sharj;» angle of the External Abdominal Ring, and the anterior surface of the cord are covered by the Intercolumnar Fibres (removed in the figure), the function of which is to prevent a wide divergence of the pillars. These intercolumnar fibres are derived from the External Oblique Muscle of the opposite side and terminate by blending with PouPART’s Ligament. Accordingly this ligament is formed by the External Oblique Muscles of both sides and represents a tendon which most authors view as a band of con- nection between two bony points or as the lower border of the External Oblique Muscle. This latter view is probably the more correct but it fails to take into consideration the connection of this ligament with the Fascia Lata of the Thigh. Several small ligaments, of which some have been named are connected with Poupart’s Ligament. There exists, occupying a horizontal position between the Pubis and Pou- PART’s Ligament, a triangular-shaped ligament, with its base directed outwards, which is named GlMBERNAT’s Ligament. When this structure is looked at from above and behind it receives the name of Colles’ Ligament. Its sharp outer edge is sometimes called the Falx Inguinalis (Ligament of Henle). Internal and external to the Deep Epigastric Vessels lie respectively the Internal and External Abdominal Rings; between these is HeSSELBACH’s Ligament.