Figs. 202 and 203. Areae of distribution of the Cutaneous Nerves of the Lower Extremity. Right Side. Outlines partly after Fau’s Atlas. Areae of Nerves are partly diagrammatic. Colours are chosen in the order of segmentation: those for the Lumbar Plexus are in accord with the colours used, in the two following figures, for the segments of the cord. The Cutaneous Nerves of the Lower Extremity require thorough re-investi- gation, far more than those of the Upper Limb. The upper quarter of the thigh is supplied by the following Cutaneo-sensory Nerves: — Outer third, Ilio-hypogastric (red); Middle, Crural Branch of Genito-Crural; Inner third, Genital Branch of Genito-Crural. These 2 areae, supplied by the same nerve, are yellow; only a small area near the Scrotum (visible on separation of the thighs) is supplied by the Perineal Branch of the Small Sciatic. The remainder of the Anterior Surface is supplied in its outer third, by the External Cutaneous, internal to this, by the Middle and Internal Cutaneous; at its innermost part, by the Obturator Nerve. The two Lateral Nerves extend on to the posterior aspect which is chiefly supplied by the Small Sciatic Nerve. The Gracilis is not often perforated by the Cutaneous Branch of the Obturator; this Nerve usually winds round the border of the Adductor Longus Muscle and thus comes to the surface at the Anterior Border of the Gracilis. It nearly alwaj^s anastomoses with the Internal Cutaneous Nerve and comes to lie near the Long Saphenous Nerve after piercing the fascia, so that this Nerve is composed of fibres from the Internal Cutaneous as well as from the Obturator Nerve. The inner surface of the Leg" is entirely supplied by the Terminal Sensory Branches of the Anterior Crural Nerve, namely, the Long Saphenous Nerve which reaches down as far as the inner border of the foot, and so becomes the longest nerve in the body. All other parts of the Foot and Leg are supplied by the Great Sciatic Nerve and its branches. In the Leg, the Internal and External Popliteal Nerves apportion the skin between each other, the former taking the middle of the calf, the latter the outer side. In the Foot, the Dorsum belongs to the External Popliteal, the Sole to the Internal Popliteal. At the Heel, the Internal and External Calcanean Branches should be mentioned. The area of the Internal Plantar corresponds to the distribution of the Median, that of the External Plantar to the Ulnar in the hand. The supply of the Dorsum of the Foot exhibits no similarity to that of the Hand. Besides the Superficial Nerves a Deep Branch from the Anterior Tibial Nerve has to be considered in its supply to the contiguous margins of the Big and 2nd Toes.