Fig. 61. Anterior Aspect of the Neck, Deep Layer. Adult. Position of the head as in last figure. The Superficial Veins are left as stumps, both Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid Muscles are cut off near their attachments; on the left side, St er no-Hyoid, Sterno-Thyreoid and tipper belly of Omo-Hyoid Muscles have been removed. Both Submaxillary Glands have been taken away: removal of the right Digastric Stylo-Hyoid and Mylo-Hyoid Muscles has given a good exposure of the floor of the mouth from below. The Common Carotid Artery enters the neck behind the Sterno-clavicular articulation, externally to Trachea and Oesophagus. Slightly inclined outwards at first, it soon runs vertically upwards, without giving off any branches. At the level of the upper border of the Thyreoid Cartilage, it divides into External and Internal Carotid (just below the bifurcation, is the most suitable spot for liga- turing the Common Carotid, because it lies superficially here being covered only by skin, Platysma and Superficial Cervical Fascia). When the fascia is incised, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid Muscle drops backwards. External to the Artery lies the Internal Jugular Vein, which, when filled, covers the outer aspect of the Artery. It receives the Superior Thyreoid Vein and, above the bifurcation of the Carotid, the Facial Vein ; the Carotid Artery and Jugular Vein are enclosed in a common fascial sheath (Carotid sheath); they are crossed by the Omo-Hyoid which runs downwards and outwards. In front of them lies the Descendens Hypoglossi. Between the Artery and Vein, somewhat posteriorly above, but more anteriorly below runs the Vagus Nerve. External to the Jugular Vein, the Phrenic Nerve descends on the Scalenus Anticus Muscle. The size of the Thyreoid Gland varies considerably according to the frequency of Goitre in certain districts. The isthmus connecting the 2 lobes lies on the trachea, covering the 2nd, 3rd and 4th rings. It may, however, extend higher up or lower down (cf. Fig. 62). It often gives off a process upwards, the Pyramidal Lobe (Pyramid of Lalouette) ; this lobe, as shewn in our figure, ma.y also arise from one of the lateral lobes; it often runs to the Hyoid bone. The isthmus, being fixed to the trachea by connective tissue, follows the movements of that organ. This is of importance in the diagnosis of tumours of the Neck. The lateral lobes are covered by the Sterno-Hyoid, Sterno-Thyreoid and Omo- Hyoid Muscles. Their size varies markedly. They receive blood from the Superior Thyreoid Artery a branch of the External Carotid and from the Inferior Thyreoid Artery, which arises from the Subclavian and runs upwards behind the Common Carotid. The Larynx is subcutaneous, the Trachea lies under the skin at its com- mencement but runs to a deeper level the nearer it approaches the Thorax. In front of its upper portion is the Thyreoid Gland; lower down, fatty tissue; at this point the Thymus is just visible above the sternum in children.