Fig. 124. Position of Abdominal Viscera, from in front. the interval between the 2 pubic spines (about i3/5th inch). Cf. Figs. 143, 144. Cf. Fig. hi for Topography. In the right hypochondrium lies the Liver which even extends further (however, the 12th rib, costal cartilages of gth, 10th, 11 th ribs should be excepted). The liver lies in contact with the diaphragm, and indirectly with the Thoracic wall, the lower border of the viscus varies with its size and shape — this depends upon the shape of the Thorax — and with respiration. In the nipple line it may correspond to the costal arch or extend below it 4/5ths to i3/5ths inch). In the Axillary line it reaches to the 10th intercostal space or extends 4/5ths to i3/5ths inch lower down. The lower concave surface of the Viscus is in relation with the right kidney, right supra-renal body (cf. Renal Impression Fig. 136) and hepatic flexure of Colon. In the left Hypochondrium lie the Kidney, Suprarenal body, Stomach, Spleen, Splenic Flexure of Colon, Tail of the Pancreas and usually a part of the left lobe of the Liver. This region is occupied by about ^rds of the Stomach i. e. Cardia and Fundus. The Cardia lies behind the outer end of the 7th Costal Cartilage, the inner concave surface of the Spleen is in relation with the upper part of the left kidney, its outer convex surface with the Diaphragm (Phrenico- Splenic ligament), cf. Figs. 125, 126, 136. As a rule the liver does not extend further to the left than the inner half of the 7th Costal Cartilage. The Splenic flexure is anchored by the Phrenico-colic fold to the 10th and 11 th ribs. This fold also forms a platform upon which the spleen reposes, but this fold becomes stretched when the spleen is enlarged and any alteration occurs in the position of the Colon. The form and size of the Epigastric regions vary with the individual and the sex; the subcostal angle varies widely between 300 and 70°. The shape of the Xiphoid Process offers man}^ variations, it may be directed forwards, backwards or laterally, presenting an opening, or be bifurcated, curved or crooked. In the Epigastric region are found a part of the Liver. Gall-Bladder, Stomach, Duodenum and Transverse Colon. The lower border of the Liver extends at the 8th costal cartilage beyond the right costal arch and often reaches to a point midwa}^ between the Umbilicus and the top of the Xiphoid Process. At the lower border of the Liver near the 9th and 10th costal cartilages is situated the gall-bladder (cf. Figs. 131 and 132). Behind the Liver are situated: Lesser Curvature of Stomach, Small Omentum, Omental Sac, Aorta, Coeliac Plexus of Sympathetic; a part of the Stomach, (Antrum Pylori) touches the Abdominal Wall. To the right of the Middle line, normally, Transverse Colon as well as Duodenum lie in this region. The former is often curved and extends downwards into the Umbilical region. In some cases it lies wholly outside the Epigastrium. The Umbilical Region contains a great portion of small intestine (mostly Ileum) which is usually covered by the Great Omentum. The Iliac Region contains the ascending (right) and descending (left) Colon with Small Intestine. The Hypogastric region lodges in its middle, small intestine, bladder (when distended) and uterus (when pregnant) — on the right the Appendix and on the left the Sigmoid Flexure. The greater part of the anterior wall of the Bladder is uncovered by Peritoneum (cf. Fig. B): when the bladder is much distended this region corresponds to a A Vsths to 2 ins. high with a base corresponding to