Fig. 43. Orbital and Nasal Cavities in a Child. Frontal Section. Portion of a frozen section through the head of a girl, i1f years old. A comparison with Fig. 1 shews, how different the accessory cavities of the Nose and Upper Jaw are in the child when compared with those in the adult. The Frontal Sinuses are formed at the end of the first year by ethmoidal cells growing into the diploe of the Frontal Bone. They attain the size of a pea at the 6th or 7th year; they are fully developed when the nose and frontal bone cease growing — about the 20th year —. The Antrum of FflGHMORE is virtually present before the middle of Intra-uterine life; in the newborn it appears as a bulging of the middle nasal meatus the upper jaw being almost completely filled with developing teeth. With the beginning of the 2nd dentition, it increases rapidly in size. The Infraorbital Nerve is still external to the Antrum in our figure. The Outer Rectus Muscles of the Eye were so contracted on both sides, in our body, that the posterior segment of the eyeball was markedly directed inwards: this ex- plains why the Optic Nerve has been divided by this section. Fig. 44. Orbital Cavity and surrounding Structures in the Child. Vertical Section through Axis of Optic Nerve. From a frozen section through the head of a child, i1j2 years old. Tenon’s Capside, Periosteum, and Orbital Septum, blue. This figure shews that the upper eyelid covers a greater portion of the cornea than the lower. The rima palpebrarum therefore lies, when the eyes are closed, below the middle of the cornea. The Orbital Septum (cf. figure) is a plate of connective-tissue which runs from the margin of the orbit, downwards; behind the Orbicularis Palpebrarum, in the upper eyelid, it blends with the anterior slip of the Levator Palpebrae Superioris Muscle and is separated from the tarsal plate by loose connective tissue. In the lower lid, it enters the subtarsal connective tissue. It is a structure of no parti- cular value; it is merely the Aponeurosis of the Orbicularis palpebrarum Muscle. This figure also shews the termination of Tenon’s Capsule at the Con- junctiva. It splits into 2 layers, and blends with the Tunica Propria of the Con- junctiva lining the eyeball and of the palpebral conjunctiva. Very complicated is the arrangement of Tenon’s Capsule, where it is crossed by the Inferior Oblique. From the under surface of the capsular portion of the fascia of the Inferior Rectus a lamina — “the Accessory Fascia” — runs forwards under the Inferior Oblique, blends with its sheath, and terminates in the subtarsal connective tissue of the lower eyelid, where the capsule proper also ends. Above the Pharyngeal Tonsil lies the basilar fibrocartilage, above this again lies the Spheno-Occipital Synchondrosis which may be injured in the too- energetic scraping of adenoids.