Fig. 93. Nerves and Veins on the Dorsum of the Right Hand. A fresh specimen, in which only the skin has been removed. (The Veins and Nerves on the 3rd finger have been drawn after Rüdinger’s Atlas of the Ner- vous System.) Nerves: The Dorsum of the hand is supplied by Sensory Branches of the Radial and of the Ulnar Nerve. Their areae of distribution are not constant; moreover, there'is, nearly always, at least one anastomosis, and thus an exchange of fibres occurs between these 2 nerves: this explains why in injury, paralysis etc., the loss of sensation may be very slight. In most cases they divide the Dorsum of the hand equally between them; the axis of the middle finger being the boun- dary between the 2 areae: The dorsal surfaces of the distal phalanges (2nd and 3rd) of the 4 inner fingers (2—5), and of the terminal phalanx of the thumb are innervated by nerves running on the palmar surface, thus the Median supplies the 2nd and 3rd phalanges of 3rd fingers completely, and the outer half of those of the 4th finger. The dorsal surface of the terminal phalanx of the thumb may, however, be innervated only by the Radial Nerve; there may also be PACCINIAN Corpuscles here, although these bodies (are usually found on the palmar surface along the branches of Median and Ulnar Nerve (cf. Fig. 95 middle finger). There are no Motor Nerves on the Dorsum of the hand, because the Dorsal Interossei are supplied, like the Palmar Interossei, by the Deep Ulnar Nerve. Veins: The blood flows from the fingers on the dorsum through several (as many as to 4) Superficial Veins which begin at the first phalanges into larger venous channels, the Radial and Posterior Ulnar Veins. The former crosses the Tendons of the Extensor Primi Internodii, Extensor Secundi Internodii, and Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis (cf. Fig. 92) and then runs upwards on the anterior surface of the limb. The Veins and Nerves are quite superficial, i. e. they lie between the skin and the Tendons of the Extensors. The Posterior Annular Ligament (cf. figure) is formed by transverse and oblique fibres which strengthen the fascia of the forearm. This fascia becomes very thin in the dorsum of the hand (cf. Fig. 92, text).