Fig. 57. Region of the Neck, from in front. Fig. 58. Region of the Neck, from the Side. The Neck, which extends from the lower border of the lower jaw to the clavicle, and from the external occipital protuberance to the 7th Cervical Vertebra, may be divided into 3 regions, 1 paired and 2 unpaired: Anterior, Posterior and 2 Lateral regions. The anterior region of the Neck lies between the 2 Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid Muscles; the lateral regions, between these muscles and the Trapezius; the posterior corresponds to the area covered by the Trapezius, as far down as the spinous process of the 7th Cervical Vertebra (Vertebra Prominens). The anterior cervical region extends from the lower jaw to the upper border of the Sternum. This region may be subdivided into Submaxillary, Hyoid, Sub-hyoid (between the hyoid bone and the upper border of the thyreoid carti- lage), Laryngeal, Tracheal (which the B. N. A. subdivided into Thyreoid and Suprasternal) regions and Suprasternal notch. The area between the lower jaw, Omohyoid and Sterno-mastoid Muscles forms a A which may be subdivided into a Digastric A and a Carotid A. (The small space between the ramus of the lower jaw and the origin of Sterno-Mastoid Muscle belongs to the head.) Anatomists’ opinions differ as to whether the broad Sterno-Mastoid should be regarded as a boundary line or as a special (Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid) region. In any case the parts described in the regions bounded by this muscle lie deep to it (vide infra). Between the Sternal and Clavicular heads of this muscle there may be a little fossa (Fossa supraclavicularis minor). From the lateral cervical region a A is cut off by the inferior belly of the Omohyoid (Inferior A of the neck). The boundaries of this A are formed by the Clavicle, Sterno-Mastoid and Omohyoid Muscles. When the Sterno-Mastoid is very broad, or present as Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid, if the Trapezius extends far forwards (in some cases touching the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid), then this A will be very small or even absent. This A is made larger — e. g. for ligaturing the Subclavian Artery —, by pressing the Clavicle (arm) downward and (if necessary), cutting the Omohyoid. A portion of the posterior Cervical Region may be termed, Regio-Nuchae.