Fig. 71. Course of the Main Vessels and Nerves to the Arm. The head is turned to the left, the arm drawn downwards, slightly abducted and rotated outwards. The Platysma and the clavicular portion of the Pecto- ralis Major have been removed. A piece has been excised from its sternal portion, its origin and insertion being throivn inwards and outwards respectively. Between the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis Major which usually arises from the inner half of the Clavicle, and the origin of the Deltoid from the outer third of that bone, a A space is left in which the Cephalic Vein disappears to join the Subclavian Vein (for further details cf. Fig. 76, text). The Subclavian Vein, Artery and Brachial Plexus pass under the Clavicle (as if it were a bridge!) from the neck into the Axilla. The Vein, sepa- rated from its Artery on the ist rib by the Scalenus Anticus Muscle, lies on its inner aspect, lower down. Externally, and partly behind the artery is the Brachial Plexus which soon surrounds this vessel. The Neuro-Vascular bundle is almost completely covered by muscles, even when the latter are ill-developed. Proceeding directly backwards, without interfering with the muscles, separation of the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis Major from its origin, is necessary. The following surface marking can be used for ligature of the Subclavian Artery in this region. Take the midpoint of the Clavicle; the artery lies at a finger’s breadth interval from this point. Above the upper border of the Pectoralis Minor, the Subclavian Artery gives off two branches which are not shewn in our figure: the Acromio-Thoracic and the minute Alar Thoracic (Thoracica Suprema). The anterior Thoracic Nerves which supply the 2 Pectoral Muscles run with the former vessel. They perforate the costo-coracoid membrane. Lastly, we mention that in our figure — and this is not uncommon — there is a gap between the sternal and the clavicular portions of the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid Muscle in which the Internal Jugular Vein is visible.