Fig. 168. Inguinal Region, 3rd Layer. Spermatic Cord. SCARPA’s Triangle. Male, aged 37. The Fascia Lata and the Lymphatics of the Groin have been removed. The Aponeurosis of the External Abdominal Oblique Muscle (and the External Abdominal Ring) has been slit up and the chief constituents of the Spermatic Cord dissected out. When the Fascia Lata which stretches across the Inguinal Region has been removed, a triangular space with its base directed upwards, and its apex downwards — Scarpa’s Triangle — is exposed. The upper boundary of this area is Poupart’s Ligament; the internal, Adductor Longus Muscle, which arising from the bone below the Pubic Spine, runs outwards and downwards, to be inserted into the middle third of the middle lip of the Linea Aspera; the external, Sartorius Muscle, which arising below the Antero-Superior Spine of the Ilium descends obliquely inwards and downwards, over the Internal Condyle of the Femur, to be inserted on the inner surface of the Tibia as far down as the Crest of the Tibia. In this Triangle, the Anterior Crural Nerve and the main vessels are exposed. The Femoral Artery lies directly under Poupart’s Ligament, at the mid-point between the Anterior Superior Iliac Spine, and the Symphysis Pubis, and passes almost vertically downwards. At the ligament, the Femoral Artery can be readily compressed by digital pressure against the horizontal ramus of the Pubis. In SCARPA’s Triangle, the Femoral Artery gives off posteriorly, the Deep Femoral Artery, apart from the smaller branches, Fig. 167 — Superficial Epigastric, Superficial External Pudic and Superficial Circumflex Iliac Arteries —. As the Deep Femoral Artery is a branch of large size, there occurs at its origin, 1V2 inch below Poupart’s Ligament, a sudden diminution in the calibre of the Superficial Femoral Artery. The Femoral Vein lies to the inner side of the Artery and is enclosed in its sheath, but soon passes behind the Artery. This Vein receives the Long Saphenous Vein, which passes over the margin of the Fascia (see Fig. 167). Internal to the Vein, is situated the Crural Ring (see Fig. 170). The space below the ring, — between the Adductor Longus, Femoral Vein, and Pectineus Muscle — is filled up with fat and deep lymphatic glands. The Anterior Crural Nerve appears in the Muscular Compartment under Poupart’s Ligament, and lies about 2/5ths inch external to the Artery in Scarpa’s Triangle. This nerve disappears under cover of the Sartorius Muscle and divides into branches which supply the skin on the Anterior Aspect of the thigh, the Sartorius and the Quadriceps Extensor. Deep to the Vessels and the Nerve lie the Ilio-Psoas and Pectineus Muscles. At the Apex of Scarpa’s Triangle, the Sartorius passes obliquely over the vessels. This muscle has, therefore, to be drawn -aside in order to expose the further course of both Artery and Vein. The figure also shews the constituents of the Spermatic Cord: Vas Deferens with the Vessels to the Vas, Spermatic Artery and the Pampiniform Plexus of Veins, Cremasteric Vessels to the coverings of the Cords. The Cremasteric Vein is of importance because it always communicates with the Pampiniform Plexus, though it opens into the Deep Epigastric Vein (Collateral Venous Channel).