Fig. 170. Inguinal Region, left side, 5th layer. Subperitoneal Hernial Orifices. Hip-Joint. Obturator Region. The Inguinal Region and neighbouring parts have been exposed layer by layer in an adidt male; above Poupart’s Ligament the Subperitoneal Hernial Ori- fices are exposed. At the level of Poupart’s Ligament Muscles and Vessels are cut across so that the Muscular Compartment and the Vascular Compartment (opening for Femoral Hernia) are seen. Below the Ligament on the inner side a piece of the Pectineus has been cut out so that the opening of the Obturator Canal (external opening of Obturator Hernia) is shewn; on the outer side the Hip-foint has been exposed and the joint cavity widely opened. The Hip-Joint lies immediately external to the Artery but on a much deeper plane. The Anterior Crural Nerve lies almost over the middle of the Head of the Femur. The Head of the Femur can only be felt from in-front, in very thin people. So that owing to its deep situation and its proximity to the large vessels, the Hip-Joint is not very easily accessible from in front. The Internal and External Circumflex Arteries, of considerable size, are given off from the Deep Femoral Artery, but one of them, occasionally both, may come off from the Common or Superficial Femoral Artery. Internal to the vessels is a landmark of some importance. If the Pectineus Muscle be removed the External Obturator Muscle is exposed as it arises from the outer surface of the Obturator Foramen and the Obturator Membrane, and runs outwards to the Digital Fossa. The Membrane closes the Obturator Foramen except at its anterior and external angle; here a small gap hardly Y5th inch in diameter allows the Obturator Vessels and Nerve to pass. A hernia may protrude through the orifice - Obturator Hernia — its position proves the difficulty of diagnosis, and its close proximity to the Obturator Nerve sometimes causes pain in the area of distribution of the nerve owing to pressure by the Hernia. The figure also shews structures passing under Poupart’s Ligament which together with the upper border of the Pelvis forms a large slit-like space divided into two compartments by the Ilio-Pectineal Fascia. This fascia, which is derived from the Fascia covering the Iliacus Muscle and accompanied the Ilio-Psoas down to the Lesser Trochanter of the Femur, is firmly attached to the Ilio-Pectineal Eminence. In the outer compartment is the Ilio-Psoas Muscle with the Anterior Crural Nerve embedded in its anterior surface. In the inner compartment are the Large Vessels and the Pectineus Muscle. Between the Femoral Vein and the outer margin of GlMBERNAT’s Ligament there remains a small space filled by loose connective-tissue; this is the Femoral Ring, the most important spot at which the Peritoneum can readily be pushed forward and give rise to a Femoral Hernia. Here we find situated the Deep Inguinal Lymphatic Glands, one of which goes by the name of Cloquet’s Gland. A Femoral Canal does not exist (as a preformed Canal) in normal sub- jects. It is the result of the descent of a Femoral Hernia.