Fig. 70. Apex of the Pleura. From the neck of a man, aged 40, both clavicles have been removed, Trachea and Oesophagus cut off, and the important vessels and nerves displayed in their relation to the apex of the pleura (which is coloured light blue). On the left side, special attention has been paid to the Veins and the Thoracic Duct; on the right side to the Arteries and the Nerves, in particular, to the Sympathetic. The apex of the Pleura ends exactly at the level of the ist rib. This rib which forms with the Sternum and ist Dorsal Vertebra the upper aperture of the Thorax, ascends behind, in an oblique direction. The slope of the apex of the pleura, and the lung within it, corresponds to that of the rib mentioned. An instrument, introduced immediately above the first rib, horizontally backwards, will therefore open the pleura. By percussion, one can also prove the presence of resonant lung about one inch above the clavicle. Despite all this, it is wrong to say that the pleural cavity extends everywhere beyond the upper aperture of the thorax. Normally, it passes above the level of that inclined plane only at one spot, at the middle of the ist rib, and only to the extent of V2 inch. Strands of connective tissue keep the apex of the pleura in position; this fascia runs from the Cervical Vertebrae and the neck of the first rib to the apical pleura. The large vessels and nerves which pass through the upper aperture of the Thorax to the head and the upper limb, and the Nerves which go from the neck to the arm are in close relation with the apex of the Pleura. Internal to the latter, on the right side, the Innominate Artery, on the left, the Subclavian Artery passes. The Innominate Artery bifurcates into Common Carotid and Sub- clavian either behind the Sterno-Clavicular articulation or at a higher level. The Subclavian Artery arches over the apex of the Pleura, leaving it at the Scalene Tubercle on the first rib. The Internal Mammary Artery which arises from the Subclavian, before it passes between the Scalenus Anticus and Medius Muscles, is also in relation to the Apex of the Pleura; external to it is the Phrenic Nerve. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion (cf. right side of the figure) lies on the apex, between the Longus Colli Muscle and the arch of the Subclavian Artery, in front of which the Vagus descends (also in relation with the apex of the Pleura). Both Innominate Veins, formed by the Internal Jugular and Subclavian Veins are also relations of the apical pleura, on which the Brachial Plexus, — external to the Subclavian Artery —, rests. Lastly, the Pleura lines the inner border of the Scalenus Anticus Muscle where it is attached to the first rib. Disease of the Pleura can, especially on the right side, affect the Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve. The fact that so many structures of vital importance are in close ap- position within a small space renders removal of tumours, growing in that region, and ligature of the vessels very difficult and even dangerous. Apart from the possibility of injury to the vessels and nerves in the neighbourhood, there is danger of opening the Pleura.