Fig. 13. Base of Brain with Arteries and Superficial Origin of Cranial Nerves. The Pin Muter lias been removed. Unimportant branches of the Arteries have been cut away; the Pituitary Body has been remoi'ed. (Names of Arteries cf Fig. 23.) The vertical and lateral surfaces of the Cerebrum are of importance in connection with Motor and Sensory Centres while the Base of the Cerebrum demands consideration in connection with the position of the Cranial Nerves and the Arteries. Functional disturbance of a single nerve or of a group of nerves will guide us to the seat of a tumour or any other pathological basal lesion which brings about the particular disturbances. It is a remarkable fact that, with the exception of the Olfactory and Optic Tracts which are really outgrowths from the Brain, all Cranial Nerves emerge from the Brain between the upper border of the Pons and the lower end of the Bulb. The Superficial (apparent) Origin of the YIth and XUth nerves are very close to each other at the posterior border of the Pons and side of the Bulb. The course of the nerves after leaving the Brain until they reach their foramina of exit varies in length. The IVth nerve has the longest intra-cranial course, arising on the dorsum of the Mid-Brain (Mesencephalon), near die valve of VlEUSSENS (cf. Fig. 6), it winds round the Crus to reach the Ventral aspect of the Brain. A portion of the roots of the Spinal Accessory also has a long course arising as it does low in the Cervical portion of the Spinal Cord. The brain is supplied with blood from its base through the Internal Carotid and Vertebral Arteries. The two Vertebral Arteries unite to form die Basilar which gives off the Postero-Inferior Cerebellar (this is more often a branch from the Vertebral), the Auditory, the Antero-Inferior Cerebellar, and the Superior Cerebellar Arteries. At the inferior border of the Pons the Basilar Artery divides into Right and Left Posterior Cerebral Arteries each of which communicates (posterior communicating) with the Internal Carotid. The Internal Carotid gives off the large Middle Cerebral (Sylvian) Artery, the smaller Choroidal Branches and the Anterior Cerebral Artery. As the two Anterior Cerebral Arteries are connected by the Anterior Communicating in front of the Optic Chiasma a large circular anastomosis is formed round die Sella Turcica (Circle of Willis). All the vessels pass to and ramify in the Pia Mater, and give off small branches, which enter the brain and supply it with blood.