Fig. 55. Lower End of Spinal Canal in the Adult. A Figure combined afler a specimen from a man of 18, and several skeletons. On the right, bones only, on the left, ligaments and nerves have been drawn diagrammatically. The anatomical relations make it possible to introduce a trocar or a hollow needle from behind, between 2 neural arches, into the dorsal sac, thus enabling one to increase the pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid in the sac, and to draw off some of the fluid for chemical and microscopical examination. This operation lumbar puncture — has become of vast importance for diagnostic purposes in recent years. Not only does it yTeld information as to the condition of the fluid around the spinal cord, but also as to the intra-ventricular pressure, the pathological changes and the presence of bacteria in the cerebral fluid, because these fluids communicate through the Foramen of MAGENDIE at the floor of the 4th Ventricle. The lowest portion of the dural sac is selected for lumbar puncture, because the needle cannot, at that point, injure the spinal cord; it meets the Cauda Equina which gets pushed out of the way. The needle should be intro- duced below the 3rd or 4th Lumbar Vertebra. The vertebra may be found by counting the spinous processes downwards from the 7th Cervical Vertebra, or by counting- downwards from the attachment of the 12th rib. A far more simple method — (cf. figure) — consists in drawing a line connecting the highest points of the Iliac Crests. This line crosses the middle of the 4th Lumbar Vertebra. Slightly above it, therefore, is the spinous process of the 3rd. In children, the needle may be introduced exactly in the middle line at the lower border of the spinous process; in adults, it should be introduced 2/5ths inch outside the middle line, because the strong median ligaments offer considerable resistance. If one follows the usual rule, introducing the needle at the level of the lower border of the spinous process and then pushing it forwards, upwards, and inwards, one may come on to bone, especially when the spinous process is short, (this was the case in our specimen). It is infinitely better to introduce the needle horizontally inwards. In the figure, “Point for Lumbar Puncture’’ indicates the spot on the skin, at which the needle should be introduced and then pushed inwards. In children the needle has to enter about one inch, in adults i4/5 to 2if inches. This figure also shews the Dural Cul-de-sac at the 2nd Sacral Vertebra. The importance of this level has been discussed in Fig. 54, Text.