Fig. 173. HUNTER’s Canal and Popliteal Space seen from the inner side. (JOBERT’s Fossa.) Left Leg of a girl aged if years. A piece has been cut out of the Sartorius Muscle. In the upper part of the thigh the Femoral Artery lies on the anterior aspect of the limb, lower down it is on the inner side and finally on its posterior aspect. In its course the Artery crosses the Femur at an acute angle. Above the Artery lies internal and superficial to the head of the bone but subsequently it approaches the inner side of the shaft, and gets on to its posterior surface. The course of the Artery is almost in a line drawn vertically downwards whereas the axis of the Femur is oblique, thus the crossing is brought about. Above the Artery is in front of the Adductors but as these muscles, e. g. Pectineus, Adductor Longus and Adductor Magnus, are inserted by a broad membranous tendon along the entire length of the Linea Aspera from the Lesser Trochanter as far down as the Inner Condyle, the Artery must pierce this tendon in order to reach the posterior surface. This occurs in the Adductor or Hunter’s Canal. Below the apex of Scarpa’s Triangle the Artery is covered by the Sar- torius Muscle and rests upon the Adductor Longus Muscle. About the middle of the thigh it reaches Hunter’s Canal which is formed by a strong Aponeurosis spreading from the Adductor Longus and Magnus Muscles over the Vastus Internus Muscle. At the end of this canal the arter}^ pierces the Adductor Tendon. This canal bounded in front by the Aponeurosis mentioned, behind by the Adductor I.ongus and Magnus is about 2 inches long and terminates at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh. The Long Saphenous Nerve enters the canal with the Artery but perforates, in conjunction with the Great Anastomotic Artery, the Anterior wall of this Canal about its middle. Two accompanying Veins pass through the Canal with the Artery: of these veins, one is usually very diminutive. The 3 Perforating Branches of the Deep Femoral Artery perforate the insertion of the Adductors in a similar way, to gain the posterior aspect of the Thigh. For operations — e. g. in cases of Acute Osteomyelitis — which require exposure of the Femur throughout its extent, the outer side is chosen because internally and anteriorly the large vessels are in the way; on the anterior aspect the upper cul-de-sac of the Knee-joint may be injured, posteriorly the Sciatic Nerve and lower down the vessels. On the outer side there are no important Vessels or Nerves.