Fig. 150. Male Pelvic Organs, exposed from behind. Male aged 33. The Gluteus Maximus is detached from the Posterior Inferior Iliac Spine downwards and the Erector Spinae divided transversely at this level. The Sacrum has been sawn through between the 2nd and 3rd Sacral Foramina, the Coccyx between the ist and 2nd Segments; the different layers have then been successively exposed: Rectum, Bladder, Peritoneum, Vas Deferens, Seminal Vesicle and Ureter. On the right side the Great Sacro-Sciatic Liga- ment has been cut short and the Ischiorectal Fossae cleared out on both sides. The figure particularly shews the different layers through which the Surgeon cuts in order to reach the Rectum or deeper parts. Removal of the lower part of the Sacrum can be carried out, as shewn in the figure, without any great damage. The nerve supply of the Rectum and Bladder is chiefly derived from the 3rd Sacral Nerve. There is no risk of opening the Dural Sac which usually terminates at the lower part of the 2nd segment of the Sacrum. Deep to the Sacrum lie the middle and lateral Sacral Vessels; next the Rectal Fascia (yellow) and before reaching the longitudinal muscles of the Rectum a thick layer of fat, in which lie the Superior Haemorrhoidal Vessels and the Lymphatic Glands of the Meso-Rectum, has to be divided. According to the degree of distension the Rectum may occupy the whole of the Recto-Vesical Pouch or leave on either side a peritoneal space (light-blue). The lower boundary at which the peritoneum is reflected on the Rectum is about 3 inches above the Anus. Below this level operations on the Rectum can be performed without opening the Peritoneum. In front of the Rectum merely separated by Recto-Vesical Fascia is the Bladder, the base of which is laterally and interiorly covered by the Ampulla of the Vas Deferens and the Seminal Vesicles. In the angle between these struc- tures lies the Ureter (green), this can be exposed by removing a layer of fatty tissue rich in the vascular anastomoses of the numerous branches of the Inferior Vesical Vessels (cf. Fig. 161). The arrangement of the muscles bounding the Ischio-Rectal Fossa is to be seen as well as their relation to the lesser Sacro-Sciatic Ligament and the Coccygeus Muscle; a small gap engages one’s attention (through which a Hernia of the Floor of the Pelvis may occur), next the Levator Ani Muscle and finally the External Anal Sphincter (cf. Fig. 153). The Internal Pudic Vessels and Nerve wind round the Spine of the Ischium and run under cover of the Obturator Fascia forwards and downwards. These structures therefore do not re-enter the pelvis through the Sciatic Foramen as usually stated but remain separated by the muscular floor of the pelvis. Neither do these structures pass into the Ischio-Rectal Fossa but remain in Alcock’s Canal which is a re-duplication of the Fascia covering the Obturator Internus Muscle on the outer wall of this fossa.