Fig. 177. Sagittal Section through the Knee-Joint during Extension. Frozen Section through the External Condyle of the Femur and the Tibia; the Patella is not cut along its greatest longitudinal axis. The Knee-Joint is easily accessible from in front or either side, only on its posterior surface, do we find large muscles and between them important Nerves , and Vessels. This Synovial Cavity is the largest in the body; moreover, it is the most complex joint on account of its various Intrinsic Ligaments. The insertion of the Capsule is different on all sides. The joint-cavity extends highest in front, as far as 13J to 21/i inch, above the margin of the Patella, if we take into account the Subcrureal Bursa, which nearly always com- municates with the Joint. On both sides (cf. Fig. 180), the insertion of the Capsule reaches close to the line of the joint, posteriorly, it extends upwards as far as the upper limit of the Condyles of the Femur, below it follows the Tibia to a lesser extent. Thus the anterior and posterior surfaces of the Femoral Condyles are within the Synovial Sac, but not so their lateral surfaces. The anterior wall of the Capsule is formed above by the Tendon of the Quadriceps; between this tendon and the anterior surface of the Femur there is always a Bursa which is of importance because it communicates, occasionally in children, but invariably in adults (98 %), by a more or less wide opening (cf. course of a director in the figure), with the Joint-Cavity. This Bursa may, therefore, be regarded as a part of the Joint-Cavity, and be called the upper cul-de-sac of the Knee-joint. Accumulations of fluid within the Knee-joint cause bulging at this spot. Below the point of insertion of the Quadriceps Extensor to the upper border of the Patella, the wall of the joint is formed by the cartilaginous covering of the posterior surface of this bone. The Ligamentum Patellae attaches the lower border of this bone to the Tubercle of the Tibia. Between it and the Tibia lies the deep Infra-patellar Bursa which does not communicate with the Joint on account of its being separated by a large Synovial-fold — Plica Synovialis Patellaris. This is attached to the Intercondylar Fossa (Crucial Ligaments) by sagittal fibres. Between the Tibia and the Femur, the External Semilunar Cartilage is seen in the figure, its inner concave margin is sharp, its external convex margin is firmly connected with the capsule of the joint.