Fig. 47. Frontal Section through Anterior Portion of Cavernous Sinus. Fig. 48. Frontal Section through Posterior Part of Cavernous Sinus. Sections of the same series as those shewn in Fig. 45 and 46. Section 47 pas- sed 04 inch behind section 46, and 48 passed 04 inch behind 47. On either side of the Sella Turcica is the Cavernous Sinus the most complicated of all the sinuses formed by the Dura Mater. It contains the Inter- nal Carotid Artery, the 3rd, 4th and 6th Cranial Nerves, and is in close relation with the ist division of the 5th Nerve. The Dura Mater is at some distance from the bone, and thus forms with it a space which contains the structures mentioned amid numerous veins. These veins are partly plexiform in character. This sinus is, therefore, unlike the others, not a large venous channel, but a mass of freely anostomosing veins. Both cavernous sinuses are joined to one another by two transverse veins which pass respectively in front of and behind the Pituitary Body. Thus a venous ring*, the Circular Sinus (or Sinus of Ridley) is formed. Primär}^ thrombosis of the Cavernous Sinus is rare; thrombosis usually occurs secondary to the Lateral Sinus with which it communicates through the Superior Petrosal Sinus, or by the spreading of a thrombus along the Ophthalmic Vein. Empyaema of the Sphenoidal Sinus may also give rise to this thrombosis, as the intervening bone is very thin; this process is absolutely ■analagous with the thrombosis of the Lateral Sinus due to pus in the Mastoid Process. The anatomical relations explain why thrombosis of the Cavernous Sinus may produce Neuralgia of the first division of 5th C. N., Paralysis of 3rd, 4th and 6th Nerves, and why congestion or thrombosis of the Ophthalmic Vein can be followed by Oedema of the Eyelids, Retro-bulbar Oedema and Ex- ophthalmos. Surgical treatment for thrombosis of the Cavernous Sinus has hitherto only once been attempted with success. The diseased sinus was reached by removing the petrous portion of the temporal bone, attacking* it from the ear. It can also be got at by the channel made for the removal of the Gasserian Ganglion. Should the Internal Carotid Artery be injured where it lies in the Caver- nous Sinus, with a sharp instrument entering the Orbit, or by a piece of bone (fracture), or through a shot, or should the vessel burst spontaneously (calcified arteries in old people), an abnormal communication may be formed between the artery and the sinus (Aneurysm by Anastomosis), the consequence is a pulsating Exophthalmos which is a rather curious condition. A glance at the figures shews that dangerous haemorrhage may follow the tearing of the ist division of the 5th C. N. in the removal of the GASSERIAN Ganglion. Externally to this nerve lies a venous space, which was unequally developed on the two sides in our specimen.