Fig. 63. Upper Triangle of Neck: Lymphatics. The Platysma is almost completely removed. The Cervico-Facial and Cervical Nerves are cut short. The lymphatic glands have been drawn accurately from the specimen (an old man), the lymphatic vessels with the aid of Starr’s investigations. Recent investigations have shewn that the number and the position of the lymphatic glands in the submaxillary region do not vary as much as in the other parts of the body (e. g. Axilla and Groin). There are usually only 3 glands, which we call anterior, middle and posterior. They all lie above the submaxillary gland. The anterior is usually the smallest and lies next to the Submental Vein on the Mylo-Hyoid Muscle; the middle is nearer the border of the jaw and usually touches the Facial Artery: the posterior lies near the Facial Vein, either immediately behind it, or nearer the angle of the jaw. A second group of glands lies between the anterior bellies of the Digastric Muscles. Their number is less constant; but one can make out a superior set (small glands, the upper submental glands) and an inferior set (the lower sub- mental glands) often consisting of only one large gland (cf. Fig. 62). The efferent vessels from the upper submental set go partly to the lower set, partly to the anterior submaxillary gland. From the lower set the lymph travels to the Anterior Submaxillary Gland and partly to the deep Cervical Glands. The typical arrangement for the submaxillar}^ lymphatics is as follows: lymph goes from the anterior gland to the middle, thence to the posterior. Only in a few cases, does it go directly to the deep cervical glands. Of the efferent vessels from the posterior submaxillary gland, our figure shews the superficial channels running to the cervical glands, but also one vessel going to an Inferior Parotid Gland. A portion of the superior deep cervical glands along the Internal Jugular Vein and the Carotid Artery is shewn in the figure. They receive lymph from the Submental, Submaxillary, Lingual and Parotidean Glands, i. e. indirectly from the whole Face, from the Skull Cavity, Larynx, Pharynx and Thyreoid Gland; this explains why they become enlarged so very frequently in disease. The lymphatics of the lips (cf. Fig. 115) are important, in consideration of the frequent occurrence of epithelioma. We need to distinguish between the lymphatics of the skin, and the lymphatics of the mucous membrane. The vessels from the mucous membrane of the lower lip (2—3 inches) usually go to the middle submaxillary gland, into which the vessels from the upper lip (1 to 2 inches) frequently open, the latter may also pass to the posterior sub- maxillary gland. The subcutaneous lymphatics vary more widely; these entered beyond the middle line to a greater extent than the submucous vessels (2—4 subcutaneous vessels go from the lower lip to the submental glands). The lymphatics of the upper lip usually go to the middle submaxillary gland; in a few cases to an inferior parotid gland or even to a superficial cervical gland on the Sterno-Mastoid. As epithelioma of the lip usually starts at the junction of the skin and mucous mem- brane, and as the lymphatic areae meet here, all glands and also those of the opposite side demand consideration.