Fig. 2i. Horizontal Section of the Head: Organ of Hearing and Surrounding Parts. Fig. 22. Tympanic Cavity and Surrounding Parts. X X/2. Part of a frozen section from a series of Horizontal sections through the Head. The two curves described by the External Auditory Canal in the Horizontal plane are well shewn: a 3rd curve is recognisable in the Vertical plane, so that it is not possible to distinctly see the Tympanic Membrane without traction upon the Cartilaginous portion of the Ear. From the practical point of view the relations which the Auditory Appa- ratus bears to neighbouring structures and especially to the Lateral Sinus and Dura Mater are most important. The Dura Mater which covers the posterior aspect of the Petrous Bone is only separated from the numerous air-cells by a thin lamina of bone, so that pus within these cells may easily give rise to a subdural abscess. The Tateral Sinus bears a similar relation to the Mastoid Process so that injury to it may result during operations upon the Mastoid; pus within the Mastoid Cells may extend to the Lateral Sinus and produce Thrombophlebitis. Around the Internal Carotid Artery which incompletely fills the Carotid Canal, are Venous Spaces, continuations of the Cavernous Sinus. The Facial Nerve is seen cut across in its vertical course to the Stylomastoid Foramen. In the Facial Canal accompanying the Facial Nerve (Fig. 22) are shewn the Stylomastoid Artery with its 2 Venae Comites. In Fig. 22 are further shewn the structures in the Tympanic Cavity: Ear-ossicles, Chorda Tympani and Tympanic Nerve. The EUSTACHIAN Tube, extending obliquely forwards, inwards and downwards from the Tympanic Cavity to open into the Pharynx has been divided obliquely so that it appears larger than if it had been cut transversely to its axis. Between the Condyle of the Lower Jaw and the External Auditory Meatus there is only a verv thin layer of bone. The Articular Fibrocartilage is seen almost completely surrounding the Condyle. Internal to the External Pterygoid Muscle is seen the 3rd Division of the Vth Nerve directly after its emergence through the Foramen Ovale; behind and to its outer side is the Middle Meningeal Artery. The Lymphoid Tissue beneath the Pharyngeal Mucous Membrane — the Pharyngeal Tonsil — which appears ver}' large in a horizontal section deserves notice. This has been cut obliquely because the upper wall of the Pharynx is not horizontal but directed obliquely backwards and downwards.