Fig. 54. Position of Spinal Cord and Spinal Nerves in the Spinal Canal. The Skull and the Spinal Canal of a female child, a few months old, have been opened from behind; the Dura Mater slit open; and the ribs ivith the transverse processes of the vertebrae dissected out. The spinal cord, is, as a whole, very well protected. Anteriorly, it lies at a great distance from the surface of the body; behind, a very thick mass of muscles fills the space between the vertebrae and the prominent spinous pro- cesses (cf. the transverse section through neck, thorax and abdomen). The spinal canal, in which the cord lies, is closed completely in front by the bodies of the Vertebrae and the Intervertebral Discs; behind there is a space between the neural arches through which a knife, dagger or other sharp instrument (e. g. for Lumbar Puncture) may enter. These interlaminar spaces are widest in the cervical region where the neural arches are furthest apart; this explains why the spinal cord is more frequently injured by sharp weapons in this region than in any other part. In the upper dorsal region, the neural arches overlap each other and thus almost close the spinal canal posteriori}". In the lumbar region the arches are very broad and thus afford protection to the cord. The close relation of the cord to the column accounts for the frequent injury to the Cord in fractures of the Spinal Column. These fractures are usually indirect, and occur chiefly where a comparatively movable portion joins a more fixed portion; i. e. at the 5th and 6th Cervical and at the 12th Dorsal and ist Lumbar Vertebrae. The Dura Mater does not lie on the wall of the Spinal canal; a cushion, formed by fat, and a large venous plexus lie between the bone and the meninges. Between the Dura Mater and the Cord lies the Arachnoid Sac filled with cerebro- spinal fluid: these arrangements allow the cord to follow the movements of the Column, without friction against the bone. As the upper limit of the spinal cord, the upper border of the posterior arch of the Atlas, is usually taken, i. e. the point where the first Cervical Nerve emerges. The cord shews two fusiform enlargements in the regions where the nerves to the extremities leave it. The direction of these enlargements is more in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. The upper or Cervical enlargement is most marked between the 5th and 6th Cervical Vertebrae, the lower or Lumbar is most marked at the 11th Dorsal Vertebra. The cord then becomes more slender, ending in the Conus Terminalis which lies at the level of the ist or 2nd Lumbar Vertebra. A filiform continuation of the Conus Terminalis, called the Filum Terminale, runs vertically downwards to the periosteum of the Coccyx. The 31 pairs of Spinal Nerves leave the Spinal Canal through the Sub- vertebral Foramina, ensheathed in processes of Dura Mater. This explains why