Fig-. 77- Posterior Relations of the Shoulder-Joint. Skin and Fascia have been removed over the posterior half of the Deltoid, of which a large portion has also been cut away. The Anterior and the Posterior Circumflex Arteries arise, opposite each other, from the last part of the Axillary Artery and wind round the Surgical Neck of the Humerus, the former from in front, the latter from behind. The Posterior Circumflex Artery passes through the Quadrilateral Space formed by the Teres Minor (above), the Teres Major (below), the Humerus (anteriorly) and the Long Head of the Triceps (posteriorly). It supplies the Teres Minor, Deltoid etc., and ends by anastomosing with the Anterior Circumflex. With it run its 2 Venae Comites of which only the larger is shewn in the figure. Taking a similar course, but somewhat posterior, the Circumflex Nerve passes to innervate the Deltoid and Teres Minor Muscles and the skin over this region. Its large cutaneous branch emerges at the posterior border of the Deltoid Muscle and divides into an as- cending and a descending branch. On the Teres Major, below the Deltoid is a lymphatic gland which is prob- ably constant, — the Posterior Axillary Gland (Frohse) —, it is usually subcutaneous; in pathological cases, we have also found deep glands which lie on the blood vessels. Their efferent vessels pass through the triangular space, between the Teres Major, Minor, and Long Head of the Triceps, forwards to the Axilla. On the dorsal aspect of the trunk there are other subcutaneous lymphatic glands which are neither constant in position nor in number (cf. Fig. 145 and text). The Superficial Glands of the Thorax and Abdomen may be divided into Anterior, Posterior and External, according to their position. Anterior Glands: Clavicular Glands lying on the Clavicle, above the Deltoideo-Pectoral Fossa, sometimes also on the origin of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid Muscle. (Cf. Fig. 115.) Internal Pectoral Glands, usually at the level of the 2nd rib, along the inner border of the Breast (the blue gland in Fig. 114). The Xiphoid Gland, at the base of the Xiphoid Process (cf. Fig. 114). External Glands (i. e. external to the nipple line): External Pectoral or Paramammary Glands, outside the Nipple, and along the outer border of the Breast. They are intermediate glands for the lymphatics of the nipple (cf. Figs. 114 and 115). Thoraco-epigastric Glands (1—4) along the External Mammary Vessels. One of these glands is nearly always palpable and sometimes visible through the skin. The most important of these glands are the Thoraco-epigastric, Para- mammary and Posterior Axillary. The subcutaneous position of the first mentioned is especially well noticeable when Langer’s Muscle (i. e. a muscular connection between Latissimus Dorsi and Pectoralis Major) is present. Their efferent vessels run in this case along the free border of the Axillary Fascia, where it is bounded by that muscle, before they open into the Axillary Glands. The Shoulder-Joint is accessible for (operations) surgical measures from in front, and from behind. The Circumflex Nerve has, however, to be avoided on the posterior aspect, because injury would produce paralysis and atrophy of the Deltoid Muscle.