iljDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21530968r VEGETARIAN COOKERY. BY A LADAK AVITH AN INTRODUCTION EXPLANATOKY OP THE PKINCIPLES OF VEGETAEIANISM. THE FIFTH EDITION. “ And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, wh'oh is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.”—Gen. i. 29. LONDON: FRED PITMAN, 20, PATERNOSTER ROW. MA.NCHESTEE: WILLIAM BREMNER, 16, PICCADILLY. JIDCCCLII.BATH: FEINTED BT ISAAC PITMAN. Lig-;-.{yCONTENTS Preface V Introduction ...... ix Vegetarian Practice ...... xlv Soups ........ . 1 Omelets and Fritters ..... 13 Savoury Pies and Puddings .... . 24 Eggs 30 Mushrooms . 35 Vegetables ....... 36 Sauces ....... . 52 Preparations of Cheese ..... 63 Sandwiches ...... . 66 Salads ........ 67 Puddings ....... . 69 Pancakes, Sweet Omelets and Fritters 94 Pies and Tarts ...... . 100 Prepared Fruit ...... 108 Cheesecakes and Custards .... . 113 Moulded Farinacea ...... 121 Creams, .Tellies, etc. . . ... . 125 Bread and Tea Cakes ..... . 142 Biscuits and Buns . 156 Cakes ........ . 163CONTENTS. IV Preserved Pruit, etc 178 Syrups .......... 194 Pickles .......... 203 Porridge, Gruel, etc . . . . . ... . 209 Preparations for Invalids . . . . . . .216 Ai)peudbi ......... 221 Index . . . . . . . . . . 223PRETACE. The increasing adoption of the Yegetarian system has led to a considerable demand for practical information. To meet this demand, the fifth edition of the present work is now issued. As in the wider appreciation of Yegetarian principles, a much greater diversity of taste wOl necessarily exist, it has been thought advisable, in addition to a general Intro- duction, explanatory of the theory, to present some sugges- tions adapting the work to the requirements of the varioiis classes now interested in the subject. To meet popular requirements, also, there has been a much greater variety of receipts introduced, than the usual habits of Yegetarians would render necessary, whilst there may be some preparations described which wUl not bear much physiological criticism, nor the examinations suggested by the strictest principles of domestic economy. There is a purpose, however, which may be regarded in the present instance, as more important than the mere approval of science : nature presents an almost boundless variety of rich and luxurious aliment, and by means of the art of cookery, still more extensive variations of the simple and combined elements of food may be produced ; and in this way is freedom of choice more efficiently secured. The object of tlie Vegetarian Cookery, therefore, is to enable persons to adopt that description of diet which bestPREFACE. T1 accords with their own tastes, judgment, or circumstances ; and as abstinence from the flesh of animals is commonly succeeded by a keener sense of taste, this work provides for that more extensive appreciation of the boimties of Providence and the inventions of art, which the Vegetarian practice is calculated to promote. Although, therefore, the Introduction recommends “ a fruit and farinaceous diet in all its purity and beauty,” as the one in which “ the intellect and moral feelings, combined with the instmcts of nature, can alone rejoice; ” yet, in order to secure the above object, ample provision is made for all the diversity of taste between merely abstaining from the flesh of animals, and ' the adoption of the principle, that fruits, farinacea, and vegetables, constitute the proper food of man. Those who require information as to the reasons for adopting Vegetarian diet, should peruse the Litroduction, and the works to which it refers ; and when a determina- tion has been andved at to make a practical experiment, (and it is by no means necessary that entire conviction should precede such determination,) the suggestions in relation to “Vegetarian Practice” will afford the requisite information for the further use of the present work. We would particularly advise a perusal of these suggestions, as calculated to facUitate the apphcation of Vegetarian Cookery to the various circumstances of domestic and social life. We beheve that all classes of society would be essen- tially benefitted by the adoption of the principles and practices here described; and for this reason we have paidVU PEEFACE. particular attention to adapting the system to their various requirements. We feel it especially due, however, to the promoters of the Temperance Reformation, to aclmowledge the good they have effected by the advocacy of a kindred principle, by which they have thus prepared the public mind for greater activity in relation to food; and whilst we heartily join them in opposing, in every form, the pernicious custom of drinking intoxicating liquors, we can as heartily commend to their serious consideration and experiment, a system of diet, which, when adopted, seems invariably to exterminate the appetite for those artificial stimulants against which they have directed their righteous warfare. The friends of Peace and Universal Brotherhood, like- wise claim our warmest sympathy; and in taking this opportunity of expressing it, we would earnestly point to the fact, that the direct tendency of the Vegetarian prac- tice is to enable man the more readily to subdue the passions for dominion and bloodshed which are the foundation of the war system, and, therefore, that the man who abstains from the slaughter of animals, from principle, is never likely to raise his hand against his fellow-man. For the same reasons, we commend this subject to the consideration of the promoters of freedom, humanity, and rehgion, believing that they will find in the "N^egetarian practice, an upwai’d and an onward tendency, preparing man for a more complete reception and realization of uni- versal justice, peace, mercy, and benevolence. Salfoed, July 1st., 1852.The compiler of the Vegetarian Cookery begs thankfully to acknowledge the valuable assistance rendered by a gentleman eminently connected with the Vegetarian move- ment in firrnishing the Introduction to the present edition.INTRODUCTION. I}f presenting a somewliat compreliensive work on cookery, for tke experience and practical carrying out of the Vegetarian system, a natural inquiry will necessarily arise in the minds of the great majority of our readers, as to what constitutes the principle and argu- ments of the practice of diet thus recommended to the attention of the public. It is our purpose to answer this inquiry in the following pages; preferring such an arrangement of matter, at the same time, as will be most likely to meet the popular objections to the system under notice. The opinions held by Vegetarians are various, and the arguments adduced as principally influencing their practice, will be found to differ, in accordance with the aspects of the question most esteemed by each. All these views, however, are comprised in the principle for which we would here contend, that the Vegetarian system is established in the natural constitution of man, and is essential to the harmonious relation intended to exist between him and the external world. It will readily he imderstood from the announcement of the above position, that the full treatment of the subject, involving, as it does, the natural history of man in various aspects, cannot be imdcrtaken nithin the limits of our present space. It nill be our duty, however, to present, as briefly as is consistent with perspicuity, some of the leading facts and arguments supporting the Vegetarian system of diet, as deduced from history, anatomy, physiology, and chemistry; reference being made, at the same time, to works in which an elaborate treat- ment of the system will be found. It is a popular impression, that the Vegetarian question is now first raised, and was almost unkn(5^vn till the origin of the VegetarianX INTRODUCTION. Society ivitliin the last five years, as well as that its adherents are limited to the eight hundred members which now constitute that organization. This impression, however, is most erroneous; since, ns remarked by a writer, in a lengthened notice of Vegetarianism in the Medico-Chirurgical Review, this fundamental question of diet “ is not now raised for the first time, but has been brought again and again under consideration during every period of the world’s history,” though, “ by the zeal and assiduity of its present advocates, it has been made to assume an importance, among certain sections of our community, which it never before presented.” * We take the oppor- tunity here to remark, that the practice of the system, as well, is not by any means limited to the members of the present Vegetarian organization, large numbers of adherents having arisen within the last few years, who have no immediate connection with the Vegetarian Society; and we shall have occasion subsequently to call attention to the fact, that large masses of the inhabitants of the earth, amounting from two-thirds to three-fourths of the people of the world, have, in all periods of time, carried out this practice of diet. The principle of the system, indeed, has ever been identified with the primeval institutions of creation, and is met with surprise only in coimtrics where the mixed diet practice is most prevalent; this being no doubt due to want of information, or to want of recollection of what con- stituted the principal features of diet in the earliest history of the world, in which sacred and profane authority concur in showing that man derived his food from the products of the vegetable kingdom, and that the consumption of the flesh of animals as food only obtained after he had fallen from the purity of his early history, and become identified with the violence that subsequently “filled the earth.” In the Greek and Latin authors, wo have frequent allusions to the period of history to which we refer, when man lived in a state of innocence and happiness. Thus, Ovid, after the cruelties inflicted upon animals in order to appropriate their flesh as food have been described, obseiwes:— “ Not so the golden age, who ted on fruit. Nor durst with bloody meals their mouths pollute.” t * No. xii. p. 100. t metamorphoses, book 16. 1.137.’ Dryden’s Translation.INTRODUCTIOX. XI And subsequently, one of our own poets, in reference to tbc same period, speaking of herbs, says:— “ But who their virtues can declare P who pierce. With vision pure, into their secret stores Of health, and life, and joy ? the food of man, WTiile yet he liv'd in innocence, and told A length of golden years; unflesh’d in blood, A stranger to the savage arts of life. Death, rapine, earnage, surfeit, and disease; The lord, and not the tyrant, of the world.” * We are not surprised, however, that the Vegetarian system, when first presented to the attention of a flesh-consuming community, should be considered imworthy of serious attention; though the disad- vantage of this oan but be momentary, with all who remember the his- tory of opinion in all time, and that the greatest and most important truths, whether in relation to mind or matter, have invariably had to pass through an ordeal, thus raised by the unreasoning adherents to the practices and habits of thought most prevalent at the time. Our views may well, thus, support a little sm-prise or merriment in the uninformed; and the more so, since there are few eases where atten- tion is brought to bear upon the system, in which impressions in its favour are not produced. It is singular, though fortunate for the treatment of this question, that some of the strongest arguments in relation to external evidence, are dedueed in support of our system from the impartial examination of facts supposed to constitute some of the strongest popular objections, and such as are in the fu-st instance commonly directed against it. We purposed that oim exposition of the system should, as much as possible, be shaped by the nature of the objeetions raised in the minds of individuals in their opposition to the practice of Vegetarianism; and thus we shall here address ourselves to several of the strong points which have hitherto upheld the practice of consuming the flesh of animals as food. The anatomical and physiological structure of the human frame, is usually considered to present a powerful argument in support of a mixed diet, in relation to the character of the teeth and intestinal canal. This supposed scientific reason for the consumption of flesh, is • Thomson’s Spring, 1. 233.XU INTRODUCTION, more generally presented than any other; and the statement that man has got an arrangement of teeth intermediate between those of the herbivora on the one hand, and the carnivora on the other, has led to the strange conclusion that man was destined to consume both flesh and vegetable products, the strength of the argument depending on a comparison of the teeth and the intestinal canal of man with those of the herbivora and carnivora, to the latter of which they have been said most to approximate. Men are prone, in then examination of this question, in which the appetite is concerned, to attempt to reason from their likings and practice, instead of taking nature alone as their standard, and being ready, in the impartial view of the facts she presents, to convict themselves, in case of need, of having departed from the natural and best food of man. It is quite true, that the internal structm-e, and the teeth of man, indicate that he is an animal different, and intermediate in his conformation in most respects to the classes of animals consuming herbage only on the one hand, and flesh solely on the other. But whilst the mistaken process of measuring man from the crown of the head to the feet has been resorted to, by way of com- parison as to the proportionate length of the intestinal canal with those of the two tribes of animals above mentioned, which are measm-ed from the head to the termination of the spine only (thus making approximate in his physiological structure to the condi- tion of the flesh-eating animals), the broad fact has been altogether overlooked, that, taking man as an intermediate animal, there is an intermediate character of food which precisely suits the vaidous organs of mastication and assimilation which have been considered as the standai-d of comparison, and that this diet consists of fruits, roots, grain, and vegetables. An impartial view of the question, therefore, presents man as an independent species of animal, with a specific character of food in relation to his physical constitution, altogether different from herbage on the one hand, or flesh on the other; and when the compai'isons instituted between him and other animals are fairly carried out, the intestinal canal is not merely six or seven times the length of his body, but twelve times, lending to the conclusion, in this as in other respects, that he is a fruit and gi-ain eating animal, closely approximating in his physical constitution to the Simiaj, a tribe of animals subsisting entirely on fruits, roots, and gram, and provided with teeth similar to those of man, the principal differ-INTRODUCTION. xin once being, that the canine or eye-teeth ai-e generally much more developed than in man. Indeed, the canine teeth argument is very unfortunate, in proving far too much for the mixed diet system; since, if accepted as ordinarily presented, as indicating that man is to con- sume flesh, the inference would be, that the monkey tribe, as well as the horse and the camel, which possess these teeth more developed than man, should necessarily be more carnivorous than he. We have probably bestowed somewhat more attention upon this opposing argument than it in itself merits, since the objection is but the result of false reasoning, and has never been entertained by the greatest naturalists and physiologists who have fully directed theii’ attention to this subject, a few brief extracts from the writings of whom, we here present, as confirmatory of our position, as well as for the redemption of those great authorities from the popular error attempted to be fixed upon them. LINN.SU8, one of the most celebrated naturalists, speaking of fruit, says:—“This species of food is that which is most suitable toman: which is evinced by the series of quadrupeds; analogy; wild men; apes; the structure of the mouth, of the stomach, and the hands.” * Baron Cuvier, whoso knowledge of comparative anatomy was in- disputably profound, and whose authority is therefore entitled to the greatest respect, writes thus :—“ Fruits, roots, and the succulent parts of vegetables, appear to bo the natural food of man: his hands afford him a facility in gathermg them; and his short and comparatively weak jaws, his short canine teeth not passing beyond the common line of the others, and the tuberculous teeth, would not permit him either to feed on herbage or devour flesh, imless those aliments were previously prepared by the culinary processes.” Gassendi, after a careful comparison of the teeth of man with those of other animals, declares:—“ Wherefore, I repeat, that from the primeval and spotless institution of our natm’e, the teeth w’ere destined to the mastication, not of flesh but of fruits.” “ As to what relates to flesh, it is indeed true that man may be sustained on meat; but how many tilings does man do which are contrary to his nature ! Such is the perversion of manners, now, by a general contagion, enamelled into him, that ho seems to have become a new creature. Linnjei Amesnitates Academicce, vol. x., p. 8.INTRODUCTION. t Gassendi’s Works, vol. i., p. 20. 31V Hence the doctrines of morality and phOosopliy are directed to no other object than to recal mankind to the paths of natm'e, which they have abandoned.” f Lord Monboddo says:—“Though I think that man has, from nature, the capacity of living either by prey or upon the fruits of the earth, it appears to me that, by nature, and in his original state, he is a frugivorous animal; and that he only becomes an animal of prey by acquired habit.” To the above might be added the evidence of M. Daubenton, with that of Sir Eveeaed Home, Eat, Belb, and others, all leading to the same conclusion. Notwithstanding the force of the above conclusions, showing that the natural food of man is derived from the vegetable kingdom, and not from the flesh of animals, it may be said, that by acquired habit man has become a consumer of flesh. We are at once free to admit, that there is great power in the principle of adaptability, en- abling man to subsist on various foods, and in varied circumstances, as an essential principle for the preservation of the race of man in his varied wanderings. But though this is fully acknowledged, we are here contending, not for what man has the power to do, but for what constitutes the natm^al food of man, between which and every law of his physical constitution (in his case as in that of all other animals), the benevolence of the Creator will have established complete adaptation. Man, unquestionably, as is commonly seen, can wander both in morals and physical habits from the high principles of his being; but what we here contend for, is, that all these departm’es are to his dis- advantage, and that the greatest happiness of existence can alone be secured in the most complete obedience to the natural laws of his being. We have next to address ourselves to an argument in connection with the Vegetarian system, in opposition to which much erroneous impression exists. It is generally taken for granted, that all vege- table products including both farinaceous food and the articles com- monly designated vegetables, are insufficient to supply the complete nutrition of the body. It is only within the last fifteen years, that correct impressions as to what constitutes the true nutritive qualities of food have been arrived at. In organic chemistry, however, as originating in theINTRODUCTION. -\V researches of Baron Liebio, many practical conclusions are now ascertained, in relation not merely to the actual composition of food as determined by a series of analyses, but also as to the actual appli- cation of the principles of food to the wants of the human body. It has been determined, that every thought of the mind, as well as every act of the body, produces changes in the human system, progressively converting the living and healthful matter of which the body is com- posed, to dead and waste particles, which have to be renewed and restored to the living fabrie, in the elements of the blood, the various parts of which must, in the fii’st instance, be derived from the food consumed. It thus becomes of very great interest to be fully aware of the composition of the various articles of food, and their respective value for forming blood in the body. Besides this leading requirement in the eomposition of food, however, another series of particles have to be provided, which, in combination with the oxygen of the atmo- sphere, produce the animal heat of the body; and lastly, certain mineral particles are required, which are said to produce most im- portant results in the eonversion of the elements of food into the living tissue of the body. The former of these principles of food may be popularly designated as the flesh-for>ning principle, whilst the latter is the heat-forming principle, the mineral elements being usually denominated the ashes of food. In the above conelusions, we have accepted the theory most gene- rally acknowledged as correct, in relation to the formation of the blood and the animal heat of the body, preferring this, for the sake of our argument, as the least favourable of two theories presented on the subject. We now call attention to the following statistics, presenting the composition of various articles of food, the results of the analyses made by distinguished chemists, principally of the Liebig school of chemistry, including those of Dr. Lton Plateaie, Boussingault, and others, in which the composition of food is presented under the three great heads of requirement already mentioned, premising, merely, that in addition to matter to form the animal heat and the blood of the body, as well as ashes, a certain amount of innutritious matter accompanies most articles of food, and that this has been declared by certain physiologists to be of considerable importance; bulk, as well as nutrition, being considered essential to the healthy action of food in the process of digestion.xvi INTHODUCTION. Contain: Supplying to the Body: * ^ ‘ Weight. Articles of Diet. 'solid matter. ■> Water. Flet-h-forming principle. Ileat'fonning principle. Ashes. lb. lb. lb. lb. lb. lb. 100 Turnips 110 .. 890 ... 10 ... 9’0 ... 10 Bed Beet Boot 110 .. 890 ... I'O ... 8-5 ... 10 Carrots 130 .. 870 .. 20 ... 10-0 ... 1-0 Potatoes 280 .. 72’0 ... 20 ... 25-0 ... 10 Butcher’s meat. 36-6 63-4 ... 21.0 ... 14-3 ... •8 Bread (stale) . 76-0 .. 2-40 ... 10-7 ... fr4-3 . . 10 Peas . 84-0 ... 16'0 .. 290 ... 61-6 ... 3-6 Lentils . 84'0 .. 160 ... 33-0 .. 48-0 ... 30 Barley-meal 8-1-5 ... 15-6 ... 14-0 ... 68-5 ... 20 Wheat-meal . 85-6 ... 14-5 .. 21-0 ... 620 ... 2-5 Beans 86-0 ... 14-0 ... 310 ... 61-6 ... 3-5 Sago 88-0 ... 120 .. 3-4 ... 84-0 ... •6 Maize-meal 90-0 ... 10-0 ... 11-0 ... 77-0 ... 2-0 Oat-meal 91-0 ... 9-0 .. 12-0 ... 77 0 ... 20 Bice . 92-4 ... 7-6 .. 8-4 ... 82-0 ... 20 The composition of ordinary butcher’s meat in the above table, is from Baron Liebig, and in the form in which we have presented it, is only erroneous as conveying too favourable an impression of the degi'ee of nutrition to be derived from it, the whole weight being here considered as devoid of bone, tendon, and cartilage, such as usually form a considerable portion of waste in the purchase of the flesh of animals. Wo see, however, notwithstanding this allowance, how erroneous is the impression which has been entertained as to the high nutritive value of the flesh of animals, and the little waste consequent upon its use. Bread has ever been, and will ever continue to be, the “ staff of life,” notwithstanding the popular estimation which would, if possible, in times past, at least, have adopted flesh as this standards and on a comparison of the composition of various articles of vege- table food with beef, it cannot but excite surprise to see that whilst the solid matter of peas, beans, lentils, and oat-meal, should range between 84 and 91 per cent of solid matter and from 16 to 9 only of water, the lean and fat together of flesh contain 36^ lb of solid matter, whilst all the rest, amounting to 63y+j lb, is merely water. In relation to tbe leading principles, however, already enunciated as the flesh-forming and heat-forming principles of food, we see on reference to the above table, that whilst 1001b of the flesh of animals can supply at most 21^1b of flesh principle, and 14^ lb of heat principle to the body, peas, beans, and lentils, respectively, supplyINTRODUCTION. XVll 291b., 311b., and 331b., of flesh principle, and 61^, 61J, and 481b, respectively, of the elements supplying animal heat. We would not advocate the general use of the most nutritive food as the best for the health of the system, knowing that the common error of diet with those in easy circumstances, is to take food too nutritive for the wants of the system; but we still regard the above chemical facts as highly important, in uprooting the popular impres- sion hitherto maintained in favour of the importance of “ butcher’s meat;” and especially so, when we see that in the most nutritive arti- cles of vegetable food an abundant supply of carbonaceous or heat- forming principle is combined with them, presenting an approxima- tion in most cases to the composition of milk, which has generally been accepted by chemists as the fittest type for the eomposition of food. The next argument we beg to adduce in support of the Vegetarian system, is one of great importance, and such as cannot fail to have its due weight with the candid inquirer. Wo rejoice that, here also, we are enabled to remove a prejudice, which, perhaps more than any other, tends to maintain the meat-eating praetice. The common supposition has hitherto been, that the nutritive particles in the vege- table kingdom, if sufficient at all for the maintenance of health and strength, were at least inferior, and of different composition to the nutritive particles of food derived from the flesh of animals. In our treatment of this question, we have little more to do .than to quote the undisputed conclusions of Baron Liebig upon this subject:— “ Grain and other nutritious vegetables yield us,” says Liebig, “not only in starch, sugar, and gum, the carbon which protects our organs from the action of oxygen, and produces in the organism the heat which is essential to life, but also in the form of vegetable fibrine, albumen, and casoine, our blood, from which the other parts of our body arc developed.” * “ These important products of vegetation are especially abundant in the seeds of the different kinds of grain, and of peas, beans, and lentils; in the roots and juices of what are commonly called vege- tables. They exist, however, in all plants, without exception, and in every part of plants in larger or smaller quantity.” f “ The chemical analysis of these three substances has led to the very * Animal Chemiatry, p. 77. t Ibid, p. 15.xvm INTRODUCTION. interesting result that they contain the same organic elements, united in the same proportion by weight; and, what is still more remarkable, that they ai*o identical in composition with the chief constituents of blood, animal fihrine, and albumen. They all three dissolve in con- centrated muriatic acid with the some deep purple colour, and even in then’ physical characters, animal fihrine and albumen, arc in no respect different from vegetable fibrine and albumen. “ Vegotable fibrine and animal fibrine, vegetable albumen and ani- mal albumen, hardly differ, even in form; if these principles be want- ing in the food, the nutrition of the animal is arrested; and when they are present, the graminivorous animal obtains in its food the very same principles on the presence of which the nutrition of the carnivora entirely depends.” Lastly, we quote :—“ Vegetables produce in their organism the blood of all animals, for the carnivora in consuming the blood and flesh of the graminivora, consume, strictly speaking, only the vege- table principles which have served for the nutrition of the latter.” * Nothing could be more conclusive on the question at issue, than the statements here presented as the imbiased decisions of chemical research; from which it is seen, that far from the nutriment found in the flesh of animals being pecuhar, and superior to that to be obtained from vegetable products, it is merely vegetable nutriment—the proxi- mate principles of vegetables, originating in the vegetable kingdom alone, whence they are transferred to the flesh of animals; and which, without the processes of feeding animals for their flesh, could bo derived simply and directly from the products of the soil. From a consideration of the above arguments, we arrive at some most important conclusions of a social and political nature. With the facts of the composition of food before us, and the knowledge that the nutriment to be derived from the flesh of animals is only vegetable nutriment taken in a secondary way, we can readily see that the ordinary impression of the necessity of mixing the flesh of animals with food to heighten its nutritive quahties, and, in popular phrase, “ make it go fm’ther,” is altogether fallacious. We find, for instance, in appealing to the facts of the composition of food, that the economic question of “ what does it cost to produce 100 lb weight of the blood of the body from the various articles of food in ordinary consump- Animal Chemistry, pp. 47 and 18.INTKODUCTION. XIS tion,” is answered in a way altogether condemnatory of flesh as food, when the cost of relying upon the nutriment of flesh is compared with that of the identical elements of nutriment derived from vege- table products, as may be readily observed on an inspection of the following calculations. ContainiDg: Supplying: f A r ~ ^ T3C1* Articles of Diet. Solid Wnter Flesh-forming inoib matter. principle. ‘u. per cent, per eent. per cent. £ ». i. Beans . . 86-0 ... 14'0 ... 31‘0 ... 0 6 Ilf Peas . . 840 ... 16'0 ... 29'0 ... 0 6 8 Lentils . . 84*0 ... 16*0 ... 33*0 ... 0 16 Of "V\Tieat-ineal . 85*5 ... 14*5 ... 31*0 ... 0 12 6 Barley-meal . 84*5 ... 15*5 ... 14*0 ... 0 8 6| Oat-meal . 91*0 ... 9*0 ... 12*0 ... 0 10 10 Butcher’s meat 36*6 ... 63*4 ... 21*5 ... 2 10 0 Cost of supply- ing 100 lb oiFlesli to the Body. £ s. d. ...126 ... 1 2 Hi ...288 ... 2 19 6i ... 3 1 If ... 4 10 3i ... 11 12 6i We see from these statements, that 1001b of the flesh of the body can be derived from beans, for £1 2s. 6d.; 100 lb from peas, for f 1 2s. lljd.; and 100 lb from lentils, for £2 8s. 8d.; while the same amount of flesh-forming principle {identical as we have shewn it to be, in all these various kinds of food, and originating in vegetable food), if taken from beef, or the average of butcher’s meat, at Qd. per lb wiU cost £11 12s. Q\d. It is needless to carry our remarks upon this most available argu- ment in support of the Vegetarian system, much further than the statistics already presented of themselves carry it. We look, however, upon this feature, in its political and economic aspects, as one of the most important that can possibly engage the attention, from the moment that the question of the resources of a country and the feed- ing of the masses of the people is taken into consideration. Sir Eichard Phillips, in his Million of Facts, shows that -without the cultivation of the thirty millions of acres of waste land in Great Britain, and with the resom’ces of agriculture as they then stood, that two hundred and fifty millions of inhabitants could be maintained on vegetable products, whilst, eighty millions, only, could be fed on flesh and vegetables. Other calculations more favourable to our argument could bo introduced j but aU consideration of the subject leads to the conclusion, that abundance is ever produced on the one system, while the other as naturally tends to scarcity and want, and even to the depopulation of certain districts, as seen in the “ sheep-walks ” of Scotland, where, from the demand for mutton, the inhabitantsXX INTROnUCTION. have been driven away, and the land once used to raise food for man, has been converted to grass lauds for the feeding of sheep and cattle. It is obvious also, that if these facts were generally known in our country, much of the dissatisfaction of the less favoured and poorer classes of the community (who look with murmuring, from their own means of subsistence to the resources of the higher classes, in their abundant provision of flesh as food) would at once be extinguished ; because it would be readily seen, that Providence has been much more benevolent in securing the true necessaries of life, than men, in their want of knowledge, have supposed. It is an interesting feature of the study of these facts, to observe, that as the great essentials of existence are placed within the reach of man,—air, water, light,—so also are all the primary and essential properties of food kept within the means of the different classes of mankind. The higher classes may revel in luxury, as the result of factitious tastes and vicious cus- toms ; but, after all, in reality they owe their existence to the simple proximate principles of vegetable food, alike within the reach of the honest labourer who “ earns his bread by the sweat of his brow.” We pass now to another important argument in connection with the system under notice, the truths of which have been opposed by a long line of practical teaching from the medical profession. It has been stated from time immemorial, that the flesh of animals is more digestible than food derived from the vegetable kingdom. We are happy in bringing to bear indisputable facts in our treatment of this question, and facts derived from the most emphatic source of truth- ful declaration upon the subject of the digestion of food, hitherto known to have occurred in the world. We allude to the case of Alexis St. Maetix, a healthful young man, who, about thirty years ago, received a gun-shot wound in his side, which perforated his stomach. Dr. Beaumont, of the United States, ministered carefully to the neces- sities of this case; and, aided by the originally strong and healthful constitution of his patient, he was enabled to restore him to complete health and vigour, but with one singular circumstance in connection with the case, that the perforation in the stomach never entirely healed up, but was merely closed by an extension of the coats or inner lining. Here then was precisely the case so interesting to the practical phy- siologist in his research as to the digestibility of food, and Dr. Beau- mont submitted this young man to numerous experiments, during a series of years, in testing the different degrees of digestibility of theXXI INTRODUCTION. various foods in ordinary consumption; the opening to the stomach being such as to enable him to inspect, at pleasure, the actual process of digestion in eaeh instance, by merely carefully pushing aside the protrusion of the inner membrane above alluded to. Dr. Beaumont, in his work on digestion, has published the results of these researches, in several very comprehensive tables, in which are included aU kinds of preparations from the flesh of animals, as well as all other articles of ordinary diet, including fruits, farinaceous, and vegetable food. Wo present the two following tables,* the facts of which have been abstracted from the above work, and which will be found to contain matter for conclusions of a deeply interesting nature. Table shewing the mean time of Digestion of the various kinds of the Flesh of Animals. H M Pig’s feet and Tripe, soused Boiled 1 0 Venison Steak Broiled 1 35 Turkey, domestic. Boasted (2h 30m) ... Boiled (2h 25m), average 2 27 Hash, Meat and Vegetables Warmed 2 30 Goose Boasted 2 30 Pig, sucking Boasted 2 30 Lamb, fresh Broiled 2 30 Fish, vai-ious kinds. Baw, Boiled, Fried and Boiled, average ... 2 44 Chicken, full grown Fricassee 2 45 Mutton, Boasted, (3h 15m), Broiled, (3h Om), and Boiled, (3h Om) average 3 5 Soups, Chicken, (3h Om), and Oyster, (3h 30ra), Boiled average ... 3 15 Sausage, fresh Broiled 3 20 Beef, Boasted, (3h Om), Broiled, (3h Om), Boiled, (2h 45m), and Fried (4h Om) ; average 3 25 Soup, Mutton Boiled 3 30 Pork, Boasted, (5h 16m), Broiled, (3h 15m), Boiled, &e., (4h 30m) average 3 4,7 Fowl, domestic. Boiled (4h Om), and Boasted, (4h Om), average ... 4 0 Soups, Beef, Vegetables, and Bread, (-4h Om). Marrow bones, (4h 15m), average 4 7 Veal, Broiled, (4h0m), and fried, (4h30m), average 415 Ducks, domestic, (4h Om), wild, (4h 30m), Boasted average 4 16 Suet, Beef, (6h3m), Mutton, (4h30m), fresh. Boiled average ... 4 46 [Average of 20 numbers—3h 6m 48s.] 62 16 * See Products of the Vegetable Kingdom versus the Flesh of Animals us Food. Part ii.INTRODUCTION. xxii Table shewing the mean time of Digestion of various articles of Vegetarian Diet. nice ... ... ... ... ... ... Boiled ... Sago Boiled ... Tapioca, Barley, Millc Boiled ... Apples, sweet and mellow (Ih 30m), hard and sour, (2h 60m), sour and mellow, (2h Om), average Milk Raw Soups, Beans, (3h Om), Barley, (Ih 30m), average ... Boiled ... Beans in the pod Boiled ... Parsnips Boiled ... Eggs, hard, (3h 30m), soft. Boiled, (3h Om), Fried &c., (3h 30m), av. Custard Baked ... Cake, Corn, (3h Om), Sponge, (2h 30m), average Baked ... Potatoes, Boiled, (3h 30), Roasted, (2h 30m), and Baked, (2h 30), av. Dumpling, Apple Boiled ... Cabbage, raw, (2h30m), with vinegar, (2h Om), Boiled, (4h 30m), av. Carrot, average Boiled ... Bread, fresh, Wheaten, (3h 30m), Corn, (3h lom) ... Baked, av. Turnips (flat) Boiled ... Butter Melted ... Beet Boiled ... Green Corn and Beans Boiled ... n M 1 0 1 45 2 0 « 16 16 30 30 37 45 45 60 0 0 16 22 30 30 45 45 54 25 [Average time for 20 numbers given 2h 43m 16s."l Difference in favour of Vegetarian Diet ... 23m 33s. J We thus see, from a careful inspection of statements presented by Dr. Beaumont, that the ordinary conclusions of the medical pro- fession have been most erroneous. We notice that fresh bread, for in- stance, with all the denunciations with which it has been accompanied, digested in 3h 16m, is still as digestible as the roast mutton recom- mended, in many cases, for the delicate stomach of the dyspeptic: that the soup of barley is digested in Ih 30m, whilst the chicken-broth given to the invalid requires 3 hours; that whilst the tender meat of the chicken, ventured upon in convalescence, is digested in 3h 16m., a preparation of soft-boiled rice would bc'digestible in 1 hour. Indeed, nothing can be more conclusive upon this subject, than an average of the ordinary articles of the mixed diet and Vegetarian systems, imdcr twenty heads in each table, as wo have above presented them ; when, on taking the average time of digestion for each, we find the differ- rcnce of 23m 33sec., not as might have been supposed from ordinarySXlll INTEODUCTION. impression and the prescriptions of the medical faculty, in favour of the flesh of animals as food, hut precisely in the other direction, and in favour of the Vegetarian articles of diet g^ven in the tables. We ■would not from the above facts as to the digestibility of food, bo understood to attribute the blame of the erroneous impressions which prevail, altogether to the medical faculty. The fact is, as above stated, that these views, both as to the composition and the digesti- bility of food, are only of recent date, and do not form part of the knowledge of the great mass of the medical profession, who prescribe under the combined influences of the old impressions and popular tastes upon the subject. It is also too much to expect that the medi- cal profession can be left in freedom to speak in accordance with their knowledge upon these subjects, or that of the consumption of alcoholic beverages, in opposition to the strong and popular prejudices to bo contended with, even in the few instances where the facts above pre- sented (which are rather the incidental acquirement, than the actual communication of present medical teaching) are known to members of the profession. It is quite true, that in times past as well as now, there have always been eminent men of the medical profession who have supported views in favour of abstinence from flesh as food; and some there now are, who, like Dr. IVIattson of Boston, and the physicians and surgeons who have joined the Vegetarian organization, “ having formerly in common with their medical brethren believed that the flesh of animals as food was essential to the fuU development of the physical constitution, have, since facts opposed to this belief have been presented to their attention, seen abundant reason for changing their opinions, and now follow out abstinence from the flesh of animals as food in their own cases, and prescribe this in all others where the prejudices of society will permit them.” We conceive, therefore, that society has more to blame its own strong appetites upon these subjects than the medical profession, which may have many things to say, which cannot now be borne, and we look to the progress of knowledge to reinstate this class of professional men in their true position of advisers to secure health, instead of being, as is now generally the case, called, in the perversions of society, only to minister to the results of error and disease. A difficulty is here presented, at this stage of our progress, in the conviction of the consumers of the flesh of animals, as to the very different results produced by food of a farinaceous and vegctabloXXIV INTRODUCTION. nature, and that derived from the flesh of animals. We at once admit that the sensations, the result of partaking of food com- posed wholly or in part of flesh, are very different: but this arises from the stimulating and febrile aetion of flesh upon the stomach, and may be due, and most probably is, to causes involved in the concen- trated charaeter of flesh as compared to its bulk, or to the absence of the alkaline characteristics of such food, and thus to its general abnormal effects upon the system. To whatever cause, however, the [stimu- lation and febrile effects of flesh are due, they certainly exist, and account for the difference in sensation produced by such food as compared with the bland and calm effects resulting from the diges- tion of farinaceous and vegetable products. Flesh may be popularly considered the brandy of diet, as communicating to the system a degree of that stimulation which answers, in kind, to the stimulus of alcohol, and actually produces on the coats of the stomach the height- tened febrile action which Dr. Beaumont observed, and which is alto- gether apart from its nutritive or normal heat-forming principles, whilst the meal of farinaceous food (nearly altogether heat-forming in its principles) was digested leaving the coats of the stomach cool and of their natural colour. It is to the above-mentioned febrile effects of flesh, that the heightened pulse, and degree of more restless habit consequent upon partaking of flesh as food is due. Unquestionably, the ehanges of the system occur in another way on the mixed than on the Vegetarian diet, and with less favourable and healthful action, as weU ns less of endurance, whether physical or mental, the body arriving sooner at matm’ity, and sooner at old age and decay, than would nccessaril3' bo the result in avoiding these soiu’ccs of stimulation to which we have called attention. We feel assured that our views upon this sub- jeet but require some opportunities of practical observation on the part of the medical profession, at once to be established for their guidance. Another argument, though less general and comprehensive in its character, seems natiually to belong to this portion of the treatment of our subject, arising as it does from the consumption of immense quantities of butcher’s meat procured from the bodies of animals in nearly all states of disease, including measles, dropsy, liver complaint, and the more fatal kinds of contagious disorders such as consumption, small pox, and diarrhoea. It is within the last few years only, that special attention has been called to this subject, and that the factsXXV INTUODi;CTION. from vhicli we speak, as the result of two Parliamentary inquiries, have been brought before the public. It is an established fact, that many tons weight of diseased flesh are seized year by year by the inspectors of the markets of our large cities; and it has invariably been found, that the greater the attention bestowed upon the subject, the greater has been the amount of diseased meat seized. In London there are certain markets which, to the inspectors, at least, are known to contain little else than meat in one state or other of disease; and such is the established trade in diseased carcasses, that one of the wit- nesses before a committee of the House of Lords in 1860 declared, that had he one hundred carcasses of cows to dispose of, he could readily find purchasers for them within twenty-four hours, whatever might have been the diseases of which they had died. It also transpires, that insurance offices have been established, since the naturalization of the small-pox and other diseases in this country, which guarantee the gi-azier against loss from the disease which may break out in his stock, one condition of these offices being, that the animals affected, for which compensation is claimed, shall be handed over, alive or dead, to the office. In connection with these establishments, are slaughter- houses at some distance from London, to wliich the animals handed over to the offices are sent, and after being slaughtered and their bodies dressed in peculiar ways, the meat is sent to London, and forms no inconsiderable portion of the “ dead meat supply” of the metropolis. The enormities carried out in this unprincipled course of business, as developed by the inquiries to which we allude, and several trials occurring in Liverpool, Glasgow, and elsewhere, have directed the public attention in some measure to this subject; but, hitherto, alto- gether insufficiently so, to remedy the evil results in relation to public health. The system in the metropolis is so far acknowledged in certain quarters, as to supply names to the animals in various states of disease (as cows and bullocks) ; considered almost all marketable, however, and, if we were to believe the evidence given, necessary for the business of certain establishments, which find a demand for inferior kinds of sausages, saveloys, and other “preserved meats.” It is found also, that large sums are spent weekly by certain soup and “ beef-a-la-mode” establishments, in the purchase of the bodies of animals such as these mentioned; and it was stated before BXXVI INTRODUCTION. the committee in 1850, that one establishment in London, spends as much as £600 per week in diseased meat. We call attention to a pamphlet published some time since, on the removal of the Smithfield market, * and the evidence given upon the subject before a committee of the House of Commons, as well as to that given before the Lords already referred to, in connection with the pre- vention of the spread of infectious disease amongst cattle, and to two articles in Household Words, f treating on this subject, in which much more than our space will here permit us to refer to, will be found. One graphic fact of these narrations is, that in Sharp’s Alley, long denoimced as of more than suspicious reputation for its trade in diseased meat, where we find the largest “knacker’s yard” in the metropolis, we find in close proximity,—next door to the domain of the licensed “horse slaughterer to her Majesty”—the largest sausage establish- ment in all London, and that the keepers of these two establishments are relatives—brothers, or brothers-in-law. The details of these practices affecting public health, are truly dis- gusting, and could not possibly be tolerated but for the belief that each consumer of the flesh of animals escapes the “tainted meat” thus shown to be passed off in such quantities. But here is the great groimd for doubt to which we would direct attention, and out of which arises an additional argiunent in support of the Vegetarian system: it is exceedingly difficult to detect much of the meat sdld in this con- dition, the price and the absence of the general amount of fat, say the best informed, being the only evidence, in most cases, by which it can be judged, even though supplied from the carcasses of animals extensively diseased. Independently of this, we may also call atten- tion to the inquiries of WniTLAW, and others long since placed before the public, in relation to affections of the liver and lungs, produced in animals by the modes of treatment adopted, and especially under the practice of stall-feeding, these declarations relating solely to the animals usually considered as the most healthful brought to market. • Inquiry into the present state of the Smithfield Cattle Market, and the Dead Meat Markets of the Metropolis. t “ Heart of Mid London,” No. 6, p. 121; and “ The Cattle Eoad to Euin,” No. 14, p. 325.INTRODUCTION. XXVll With the above remarks, we leave this subject to the consideration of our readers, as one of importance to every class of the consiuners of “butchers’ meat.” The pernicious consequences of inattention to this subject, are already identified with diseases, and tendencies to disease, and may, in many cases, account for the virulent effects of small-pox, fevers, and Asiatic cholera; whilst a fruit and farina- ceous diet, seems, from the experience collected upon the subject, to render the Vegetarian free from the danger and even the fear of an attack.* It may perhaps here be well, briefly to notice a few popular objec- tions, almost invariably presented on a first acquaintance with the Vegetarian system. It is supposed that a diet apart from the flesh and blood of animals is intended as an offensive interference with the prevailing customs of society, and by a few even that it is at- tempted to denounce the consumption of flesh as food as in some degree sinful. These objections are, however, altogether unfounded; inasmuch as the advocates of the Vegetarian system, though they base their arguments upon the principle, that man’s natural and best food must be derived, in its leading characteristics at least, from the Vegetable Xiugdom, and be altogether apai't from the flesh of ani- mals, leave untouched the freedom of individuals to accept or not the practice thus presented for the consideration of the reflective. The true spirit of Vegetarianism, is benevolence; and has its mission in informing the understanding and appealing to the moral feelings of the world, in relation to man’s external habits, but throws not one reproach at the conscientious followers of the mixed diet system, who sec no force in its reasoning, or prefer to maintain their ad- herence to the more general practice of society. In regard to the apparent opposition of the system to all engaged in supplying the flesh of animals for the table, we take leave to say that there is nothing more in this than there ever must be in the * As far as our information goes, which embraces communications upon the subject from great numbers of Vegetarians, as well as the results of inquiry both in this country and America, no case of Asiatic cholera has hitherto occurred amongst the members of the Vegetarian Society. It is true, that cholera has sometimes entered the families of Vegetarians, but its attacks have, in such cases, been confined to those members of the family who were not A'egetarians, but adherents of the mixed diet system.XXVlll INTRODUCTION. opposition of error to the progress of truth; and if there be truth in the Vegetarian system, it cannot be blamed for the temporary conflict between it and a few existing interests. The grazier and the butcher have their vocations called into existence in obedience to the demand produced by the flesh-eating tastes of society, and our commiseration is especially evoked for the latter of these callings, which compels many of our fellow creatures to pass their lives in an occupation more or less degrading, and in nearly every case offensive (where depravity has not completed its work) to the tastes and preferences of the indi- vidual. Far then from having hostility to any class of men thus condemned to an imfavourable occupation, we would merely no longer by our demands necessitate the existence of such a class, neither degrading any human beings, nor subsequently looking down upon them as inferiors, but giving to such, in the progress of our prin- ciples, an occupation more in accordance with the enlightenment of morals, as well as with their eai’ly preferences. To the almost invariably suggested difficulty of “ what shall be done with the animals ? ” in the practice of our system, we simply direct the attention to the fact, that as the disuse of the flesh of animals as food must necessarily be progressive, the difficulty here presented would be as progressively obviated,-—a less demand ever inducing a diminished supply—till the number of cattle would be reduced, as is already the case with certain classes of animals, which are not consumed as food, and which still do not exist in inconvenient numbers. On the objections raised from the wants of society as to various articles of commercial demand, produced as results of the slaughter of animals for food, such as leather, fur, and various other articles, we have simply to remark, that these are merely questions of demand and supply, which the necessities of the time ^vill of themselves com- pletely settle. Already have we, in the limited demand set up for various articles, felt, gutta percha, and india-rubber, tending to super- sede the use of the skins of animals; and as soon as the demand is more generally raised for other substitutes of this nature, will the sup- ply as certainly foUow, just as has been demonstrated by the interest- ing illustration of the sequence of supply to demand in connection with the Penny Postage system. The quills of the goose’s wing formerly supplied the letter-witing world in the heavy postage sys-XXll INTRODUCTION. tcm; but since the penny stamp was introduced, as a mighty lever to the progress of truth and civilization, producing its millions of letter-writers, the goose cjuill became insufficient, and the commercial demand for a more suitable instrument has resulted in the millions of metal pens. In reply to the agriculturist, as to whence the supply of manure for farming could be derived, wore the number of cattle essentially reduced, wo have simply to call attention to the fact, that the manure of the farm yard has no magical properties in it which are not con- tained in the food upon which the cattle have fed, and is only best for the production of food for cattle ; and if it be deshed to produce food for man, this can be abundantly secured by the ploughing in of gi’cen crops, and the abimdant supplies of the richest of all manure, to be obtained in tbo waste and sewerage of our cities. It is one of the most interesting aspects of the improvement of agriculture, to con- sider that these som’ces of manure now principally lost, will ultimately be brought into use; and Liebig, hi a recent work, points thus hope- fully to the immense mass of fossil phosphates, which may be dug in various parts of om' country, promising, when brought to bear, as cer- tainly to realize the success of agriculture in the future, as the im- mense beds of coal in certain parts of England have long been, and will continue to bo the source of the manufacturing wealth of such districts. Again, to the common inquiry, “ what are animals made for, if not to be eaten P” we quote a few remarks by the ialcnted author of Fruits and Farinacea the Proper Food of Man,* (a work most complete of its kind, and presenting abundance of argument and illustration upon nearly every feature of diet likely to engage the attention,) meeting also the popular inquiry upon this subject in the words of one of our most distinguished poets. “ ‘ Why were sheep, oxen, etc., created if not for the use of man ? ’ I might briefly reply, that they were brought into existence by the same power and for a similar purpose, as all other animals; many of which man never knew, and probably never will know; and many others of which are absolutely injurious and destructive to him. At no time, perhaps, are the pride and imbecUity of man more apparent, than when he imagines all things, animate and inanimate, to have been created solely for his pleasure. There exist millions of suns with Page 96. Published by Pitman, 20, Paternoster Eow.INTEODUCTION. sxx their revolving orbs, which the eye of man has never witnessed; and myriads of animals, on this glohe and others, enjoy their sports and pastimes, unheeded and unseen by him; how, then, could they have been created for his use ?” “ Ask for what end the heavenly bodies shine, Earth for whose use ? Pride answers—‘ ’Tis for mine! ‘ Eor me kind nature wakes her genial pow'r, ‘ Suckles each herb, and spreads out ev'ry flow’r; ‘ Annual for me, the grape, the rose renew ‘ The juice neetareous, and the balmy dew; ‘ For me the mine a thousand treasures brings ; ‘ For me health gushes from a thousand springs; ‘ Seas roll to waft me, suns to light me rise ; ‘ My footstool earth, my canopy the skies.’ Has God (thou fool!) work’d solely for thy good;— Thy joy, thy pastime, thy attire, thy food ? “Who for thy table feeds the wanton fawn. For him as kindly spreads the flow’ry lawn. Is it for thee the lark ascends and sings ? Joy tunes his voice, joy elevates his wings. Is it for thee the linnet pours his throat ? Loves of his own and raptures swell the note. Know, Nature’s children aU divide her care: The fur that warms a monarch, warm’d a bear. While man exclaims—* See aU things for my use !’ ‘ See man for mine I’—replies a pamper’d goose. And just as short of reason he must fall, AVho thinks all made for one, not one for all.” • We should much regret occupying the space required for even brief replies to these various objections, but for the fact of their arising so generally, and as it were standing as obstructions to argiunents of real consideration. We are compelled, therefore, to notice another of these, which assumes a disadvantageous aspect, and is met with greater difficulty, arising out of the more or less conflicting opinions of society as to what is to be the true standard of judgment upon the subject. It is stated, that “ the declarations of Scripture are opposed to the principles and practice of Vegetarianism.” On this subject we trust we cannot be misapprehended when we state, that our con- victions lead us not merely to acknowledge the importance of the revealed truths contained in the Scriptures, but the expressed facts Essay on Man. Epis, _i. 1. 131.XXXI INTKODUOTION. also of the laws mid institutions of the Creator, as day by day pro- mulgated in the history of the world. We have endeavom’ed to show that our system, so far, is in aecordance with these, and that thus, science, as the true interpreter of facts, must necessarily be the handmaid of higher and more important truths, there being ever, where the frailty and error of man are excluded, perfect accordance between the revealed truth of God and his spoken voice in the facts of creation. We would contend, therefore, for the harmony we believe there exists in both the word and the works of the Creator, and we see no reason whatever, but the contrai-y, for the objections brought against the system, that Scripture nullifies by its opposition the reasoning wliich is in general readily acknowledged in relation to our external arguments. In confirmation of the correctness of our views, we see that the appointed diet of man is that for which we contend, and that the flesh of animals was never partaken of till man fell from the beauty and order of his earliest state. Since then, we are free to admit (as the Scriptures show,) that the consumption of flesh has more or less prevailed in the various phases of the world’s history; but this, we would say, respectfully though firmly, has always been to the disadvantage of man and if sanction be sought from the practice of the Jews, we contend that this reasoning is most fallacious, as many things were obviously tolerated in their wander- ings and departures from the sound principles by which they refused to be ruled, which we learn in the subsequent history of Scripture, were by permission, and in relation to their fallen condition.* To receive, then, the authority and sanction of particular passages of Scripture history for the consumption of the flesh of animals as food, without regard to the general principles of Scripture, is, in our estimation, to betray Scripture, just as it has too commonly been betrayed, and made to sanction war, capital punishment, slavery, intemperance, and even the most degrading social anomalies, authority for all these being sought in the various passages of the fallen state of man. We hold, then, by the promulgation of the appointed food of man, as simply and beautifully presented in the words:— “ Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall bo for meat.” f And the more earnestly Matt. lir. 8. t Gou. i. 29.xxxii INTRODUCTION. do wo refer to this, because the scientific revelations of the greatest en- lightenment, have hitherto declared for precisely the same character of food ; manifesting that what was prescribed when all things wore declared to bo “ very good” is still the natm’al and best food of man. We submit, therefore, that the above objection originates merely in a misconception of Scripture. As a fit sequel to the various arguments already presented in the treatment of our subject, we now approach the experience of the sys- tem we would commend to the attention of the public, and regret that our space for this department is far too limitp.f1 to admit of more then a bare reference to the evidence that could be brought to bear upon it. The doubt so frequently expressed, as to the possibility of subsistence upon a diet apart from flesh, ought long since to have been exploded, by the mere notice of the animal creation, where we see the massive carcasses of the herbivorous animals, actually built up on the simplest products of natm’e, and to a degree of strength and endurance of fatigue altogether surpassing those of corresponding developments in the carnivorous classes of animals. We wiU not therefore, anticipate doubts at this stage of our reasoning, as to the practicability of the Vegetarian system of diet; since these must neces- sarily be removed by a very limited inquiry upon the subject. We present, however, the conclusion arrived at by the able writer in the Review from which we have already quoted: “ In concluding, then, that the Vegetable kingdom is perfectly capable of supplying the necessary wants of man under aU ordinary circumstances; and that, in particular, it is quite adequate to the production of an amount of physical force which can probably not be permanently surpassed on any other dietetic system, we consider that the advocates of Vege- tarianism have a wide and secure basis of experience, such as can scarcely be shaken by any negative testimony,—certainly not by the fullest proof of the unsuitablcness of a vegetable regimen to individuals." * In regard to the experience presented by history upon this subject, we have already alluded to the primeval condition of man, in the antediluvian period. We find, also, the history of the great nations of antiquity identified with the simple habits we seek to commend. The Greeks and the Eomans in the time of their early and most Medico-Chirurgical Review, No. xi, p. 96.xxxin INTRODUCTION. successful career, as well as tlie Persians under Cyrus, owed mueh of their physical strength and enduraneo of purpose, as well as their comparative freedom from the temptations in the path of conquer- ing armies, to their simple diet and abstemious habits. We find that the Spartans of Thermopyloi, and the Athleta; of ancient Greece were thus educated; and that the latter were never deterio- rated till they commenced the practice of consuming flesh as food, when they became slothful and stupid.* We find various nations wholly, or in a great measure, carrying out the practice of diet apart from the flesh of animals from generation to generation: as the higher castes of Hindoos, the Burmese, the Chinese, the Japanese, the inlia- bitants of the East Indian Archipelago, of the moimtains of Himalaya^ and of ancient and modern Egypt; in all of which the prevailing practice is Vegetarian in the great mass of the people, condiments of fish only being used in the last named country, associated with the vegetable products which form the basis of their diet. In modern times, we have the experience of the Irish, the Scotch, and the French, as abstainers in the great majority of their numbers from flesh as food, M. Dupin informing us that two-thirds of the population in France live without flesh-meat; whilst McCulloch, in his statistics, shows that even in the city of Glasgow, in 1763, with a population of more than thirty thousand, the slaughter of bullocks for the pubhc markets was a thing wholly unknown. Indeed, the peasantry, and hard workers of all the countries of Europe,—not excepting our own,—are, in the main characteristics of then’ diet, abstainers from the flesh of animals, as in Norway, Sweden, Eussia, Denmark, Poland, Germany, Turkey, Greece, Switzerland, Spain, and Portugal; the bone and muscle of all these countries being built up upon the vegetable products of the earth. As examples presented in the history of individuals, there are many that could be cited, both of ancient and modern times, as PxTH.LGOEAS, Plutarch, Zeno the stoic, Diogenes the cynic, Plato, Epicurus, Proclus, Empedocles, Socion, Quintus Sextus, Apollonius Tyanjsus, Porphtet, and recently, Eitson, Haller, Drs. Cheyne and Lambe, Newton, Shelley, Hupeland, the benevolent Howard, Swedenborg, Wesley, and others, as Rollin’s Ancient Sitlory, Vol. i.INTRODUCTION. XXXIV well as many of the present time, who are identified with the Vege- tarian movements in this country and America. Many instances to prove the health, longevity, and strength of classes of men carrying out this practice, can also be quoted from the experience of the world. The Pattamars of India, who travel such extraordinary distances on foot, as carriers of despatches, mentioned by Sir John Sinclair, subsist upon moderate portions of rice; the Poles and Hungarians of the Carpathian mountains were of the hardiest and most unth’ing soldiers in the army of Buonaparte, their great endurance being justly traceable to the simplicity of their dietetic practices; whilst the men who lift and carry the heaviest bm-dens, as the porters of Morocco, Smyrna, and Spain, with the Coolies of Canton, [are all adherents to the simplest habits of diet. The Greek boatmen again, are instances demonstrative of supe- riority as to strength and development of body, as well as hilarity which characterises them, and bestows a cheerfulness over all their occupations. We quote one or two instances, to add force to our remarks upon this subject, and made necessary, perhaps, by the erro- neous opinion prevalent, that the beef-fed and porter-drinking labour- ers of Great Britain are the strongest men in the world; while, in fact, their utmost lifting of weights and carrying of burdens does not in any degree approximate to the ordinary labours of the various classes of men of whom we are speaking, whose diet is, notwithstand- ing, black bread, figs, dates, raisins, and other such fruits, and whose choicest beverage is a glass of iced water. “The Greek boatmen,” says the venerable judge Woodruff, of Connecticut, who went out as the agent of the New York Committee for the relief of the Greeks, “ are seen in great numbers about the harbours; seeking employment with their boats. They are exceed- ingly abstemious. Their food always consists of a small quantity of black bread, made of unbolted rye or wheat-meal, generally rye; a bunch of grapes or raisins, and some figs. They are, nevertheless, astonishingly athletic and powerful, and the most nimble, active, graceful, cheerful, and even merry people in the world.” * * In Smyrna, where there are no carts or wheel-carriages, the carrying business falls upon the shoulders of the porters; who are seen in great numbers about the wharves and docks, and in the streets near the water-side; where they are employed in loading and unloadingXXXV INTRODUCTION. vessels. They are stout and robust men, of great muscular strength; and carry at one load, upon a pad fitted to their backs, from foim hundred to eight hundred pounds.” * Sir Francis Head informs us, that the South American miners that carry such immense loads, are fed on fruit, grain and pulse. “ It is usual” says he “ for the copper miners of central Chili to carry loads of ore of 200 lb weight up eighty perpendicular yards twelve times a day. Wlien they reach the mouth of the pit they are in a state of apparent fearful exhaustion, covered with perspiration, their chests heaving, yet after briefly resting they descend again. Their diet is entirely vegetable: breakfast consists of sixteen figs and two small loaves of bread; dinner, boiled beans; supper, roasted wheat grain. They scarcely ever taste meat; yet on this simple diet they perform a labour that would almost kill many men.” f To identify the advantage of simplicity of diet in relation to health and strength in our own coimtry, we find Smith, in his Wealth of Nations, says, that the men that did the hardest work in his time, as chairmen, porters, and coal-heavers, were most of them from the Irish peasantry; and that those who had continued their Vegetable diet, were the strongest men in the British dominions. Eeferring also to the statistics which have been brought to bear upon the rela- tive strength of the English, Irish, and Scotch, imder a class of ex- periments instituted and conducted by Dr. Forbes, of Edinburgh, within a few years, we find that numbers of students were submitted to experiments in relation to average height, weight, and strength, the latter test being that of lifting weights, which resulted in the following statistics; the ages of the individuals compai’ed being about twenty-five. J English Scotch Irish Height. Weight. 68 inches ... 116 lb 69 „ ... 152 „ 70 ,, ... 156 ,, Strength. 403 lb 423 „ 432 „ We thus see, that as far as these experiments are instructive, they present a reproof to the prevailing impression in our country, and show that in the instances under comparison, at least, in which we * Graham’s Lectures on the Science of Human Life, p. 182. t See Fruits and Farinacea the Proper Food of Man, p. 172. t Chambers’ Information for the People, pp. 68, 69, and 61.i INTRODUCTION. have not the least reason to doubt the fairness of the conclusions arrived at, we have the more carnivorous Englishman surpassed in height, weight, and strength, by the frugal and abstemious Scotchman ; he again being surpassed by the simply fed Irishman, whose frame has most probably, been mainly built up upon the simplest of all vegetable products. It might here be proper to introduce statistics in relation to the practical evidence of the members composing the present Tegetarian organization. Suffice it, however, to say, that these afford arguments for the adoption of the practice, notwithstanding the difficulties which have to be encountered in the transition from artificial and erroneous habits of life to those even which are healthful and most in accor- dance wdth nature. The general experience is, that to the man in health the system is productive of more health and endurance; whilst from the great niunber of individuals who seek refuge in the Vege- tarian practice from the various ills of long continued dyspepsia, the evidence is, for the most part, at least, that health is improved, and ultimately, completely regained in the carrying on of the system. The evidence which has been derived from the experience of the pre- sent limited number of the Society, is also of great value, in show- ing the comparative exemption from the attacks of illness, and the increased facilities in recovery with far less of the ordinary appliances of medical treatment; and this notwithstanding the difficulties necessarily besetting those who seek to depart from the prevailing practice of society, resulting, in many cases, in very defective arrange- ments in regard to the practical carrying out of the system, for want of the knowledge intended to be conveyed by the present work. Having endeavoured to show that fruits, roots, and grain, ore the natural food of man; what are the true nutritive qualities of food; that certain vegetables are more nutritive than the flesh of animals; that the origin of all nutriment is in the vegetable kingdom; that the cost of the principles of matter to form a given weight of the flesh, blood, and bone of the human system, if derived from the flesh of animals, is at least twenty-three times the expense of the same amount of flesh, blood, and bone formed from certain kinds of farina- ceous food; that on an average, the various articles comprised in a Vegetarian diet are more digestible than a corresponding average of the preparations from the flesh of animals; that the consumption of flesh induces a heightened pulse, tending to premature old age.I INTRODUCTION. XXXvii and death ; that flesh is tainted, in numerous instances, with various diseases; and lastly, having met several objections, and given a brief account of the experience of nations and individuals in all time, it will now bo our duty to endeavour to unite this body of fact and ex- perience with the principle that the Vegetarian system is established in the natural constitution of man, as comprised in the instincts of an animal nature, with the endowments of the intellectual and moral being. If any force be acknowledged in the arguments hitherto presented, it will be found to have relation to the intellectual aspects of the question; in which we trust that the facts adduced, and the reflection to which they necessarily lead, will tend to show that there is so far accordance between man’s faculties as a reasoning being and the Vegetarian system of diet. It further, however, belongs to this por- tion of our subject, to point out the relation that exists between the instinctive nature and the moral feelings, and thus to support and confirm the conclusions of the intellect, in favour of a diet altogether apai't from the flesh and blood of the animal creation. Although it is admitted that man originally subsisted on fruits and other products of the earth, it is sometimes argued that he has since become reconstituted, and is now adapted to the consumption of flesh, as well as vegetables. We have before called attention to the grave error of confounding the adaptability conferred upon man, with the principle of adaptation, which stamps upon man, as well as all other creations of the Deity, a precise relation to external circumstances. We at once acknowledge the force of habit as recognized in what is popularly designated “ second nature.” But this, as truly and gra- phically expressed, is “ second nature,” and presents nothing but the difficulty of change of habit, to prove that the adaptation of man to certain circumstances in himself and the external world, remains ever the same ; and since any habit may be a “ second nature,” a change of customs can again convert the system to that higher and natural state, which ever secures the greatest happiness, because in accordance ■with the great principles by which the world is governed, and which are as unchangeable as the Creator himself. In searching out the instincts of man in relation to food and drink, wo are beset with many difficulties which are never found in relation to the inferior animal creation; but here, even, notwithstanding many years departure from sound principles of moral and physiological/ SXXviii INTRODUCTION. training, nature, we contend, is ever peeping through tho perverse practices of society in relation to diet, and if attended to, will convict custom of her folly and violation of natural laws. It is thus that the senses of sight, touch, and hearing, less subject to be depraved than the sense of taste, almost invariably speak out, where carefully observed, upon tho subject of the consumption of flesh as food. There is nothing in the sight of the ox or sheep, which, apart from depraved practices, could possibly suggest the idea to man, that they contain within their external covering, food in relation to his stomach, and destined for his consumption. But there is a striking relation be- tween the fruits of the earth and the instincts of man’s nature. The very sight of flesh, even when procured for the table, is offensive both to the eye and the touch; and thus it is, that all undepraved by the practice, feel an instinctive dislike to handle it, unjustly condemning the butcher and the cook to do that which would be most repulsive to their own feelings. In our large cities, in many cases, we even inflict fines for the carrying of butchers’ meat through the streets uncovered ; and whilst our “ Smithfields,” “ Leadenhalls,” and “ Billingsgates” are notorious as public nuisances, our “ Covent Gardens,” and exhi- bitions of fruits and flowers are ever associated with grateful sensa- tions, presenting a contrast in favour of the latter, which all the instinctive feelings of our nature powerfully unite to confirm. The instincts of children, more than those of adults, speak clearly upon this subject; and it is obvious, notwithstanding the force of cus- tom from one generation to another, that tho preferences of children arc for the fruits and farinaceous substances of the table; and where, as in Scotland and some parts of the continent, they are trained to the ago of eight or ten years without any kind of flesh ns food, when first partaken of, it is with loathing; and when they learn to identify it with the living animals familar to them (with that instinct which adults even frequently demonstrate in not being able to consume the flesh of classes of animals with which they have had some peculiar friendly relationship,) it is with the greatest difficulty that this natural repugnance to flesh is overcome. We contend, then, that it is vain to say that the instinctive feelings of man are supplanted by the force of custom; and our faith in the humanities of existence loads us strenuously to contend for the posi- tion, that the slaughter of animals is opposed to the moral nature of man, and that the practice of consuming the bodies of animals, butXXXIX INTRODUCTION. obtains for want of reflection, and througli that pell-mell state of existence which keeps the true facts of the case from being reasoned upon. We consider it would bo a libel upon the tenderest portion of our nature, to suppose that the flesh and blood of animals could con- tinue to be the food of any but the degraded of society, were it not for the keeping out of sight of the true incidents and accompaniments of slaughter; and there is no resisting the force of the fact, that the benevolence of man’s nature is shocked by an examination of the de- formities of the system. A talented writer in a beautiful article on Human Progress, in the Westminster Review,* forcibly remarks :— “ The practice of feeding upon the flesh of animals, entombing their bodies within our own, has something in it repugnant to refinement.” * * * « get rid of the distasteful operation of killing, we em- ploy butchers—helots of the modern world, whose very name we employ as a term of vituperation. Tliis is not Christian, to say the least of it. We have no right to degrade any human beings, or regard as inferior those who prepare the materials that enter into the most intimate combination with our own persons. There is some- thing humiliating in the sight of a delicate person who faints at the sight of blood or a butchers’ shop, and then sits down to eat of the carcasses that have there been cut up.” * * All the animal food arti- ficially bred by farmers or others, is with little exception, unwhole- some. The poison we take in by the lungs in the gaseous form, is not the only poison we imbibe. We make an outcry about cleansing the sewers of our cities, and yet make sewers of our bodies. We cleanse our outer skin, and pollute om- inner skin.” * * “But we believe that the still obtaining consumption of animal food is simply a remnant of savage life, a custom doomed to vanish under the light of human reason.” It is quite opposed to reason, as well as to the instincts and moral feelings of man to contend, as some have done, that the tendency to destroy, in certain individuals,—leading them to rejoice in the pursuits of the sportsman, and in bloodshed in various forms,—is evidence of the natural character of man. These instances cannot properly be regarded as types of humanity, but as abnormal cases of the degi-ading effects of pernicious training; since all such can remember a time * ^io. cii. p. 10./ xl INTRODUCTION. ■when they had painful and compunctious feelings to contend ■with, ere they became hardened to the condition of ruthless destroyers of the animal creation. We are so deeply assured that the system for which we would raise our voice, is identified with the instincts and moral nature of man, that we would venture to rest the complete change of opinion on this subject in the well-ordered of society, on the full perception of the facts of the case, and especially in all who are most endowed with the high moral and intellectual nature of man. Come with us, we would say, and trace the treatment of the ox and the sheep through all their varied stages of cruelty, from the peaceful glade where we behold them in a comparative state of nature, through all tne horrors of railway transit and market cruelties, to the “ den of infamy,” where the acts of providing flesh for the table are perpetrated; and then witness the cutting up and exposiue of the various parts of these animals, subse- quently tracing them through the domestic operations brought to bear to convert them to the ordinarily approved dishes of the table; and we are con^vinced that the adult, as well as the child, would feel repugnance, and would ask the question—“ Is this necessary ? ”—if the understanding did not at once accord with the instincts, and declare for a fruit and farinaceous diet in all its purity and beauty, in which the intellect and moral feelings combined with the instincts of nature, can alone rejoice. Again, we would contend that it is because we do not reason upon our dietetic practices, that our habits are utterly at variance with the nature of man. The butcher even can acknowledge the offences of society in these things, in being compelled to minister to depraved ap- petites ; “ I would it were penal to kill lambs,” says one of this class; and another, in repugnance at the features of his vocation, in denoun- cing the slaughter of that beautiful animal, the type of innocence and meekness, exclaims,—“the lamb, sir, dies harder than any other animal; it sobs like a child when stuck with the knife, and continues so to do, ns long as the blood flows, or any sign of life remains.” It is thus that we contend for the principle with which wo started, that our system is established in the natural constitution of man, and is essential to the accordance of his animal, intellectual, and moral being. Our fui-thcr remarks have reference to the other position we hold, that the Vegetarian system of diet is essential to the harmonious relation intended to exist between man and the external world. AVeINTRODUCTION. xli have here little to say, sinee, if the preceding features of our argu- ment be established, this must almost follow as a necessary consequence. It seems to us that it is only because man, in his depravity, perverts the order and ends of Providence, that any doubt can be experienced as to the adaptation of the external world to the philosophical and merciful principles inherent in man’s nature. It is sometimes argued that Vegetarianism is impracticable, from the supposition that the Esquimaux, and some other inhabitants of the earth, cannot adopt it; but wo have no right to reason from savage or depraved courses of life, back to the relations of man’s in- tellectual and moral nature, to condemn the teaching these would of themselves prescribe j since these states of disadvantage and unhap- piness are but the results of wandering from the original condition of man’s being; and we have a right to say, that had man never fallen from the order of his nature, he would never have been found in the various phases of degraded humanity, but would have maintained and carried with him in all passages of his existence, the peaceful resources which would have enabled him to live in accordance with his true natural constitution. The virtue of this reform, however, like that of all others, is best arrived at, not by the force of reasoning, but by the practice of the System. It is thus that Vegetarianism, from whatever motive it may have been adopted, commimicates to the individual an intuitive per- ception in accordance and identity with the higher principles of nature. This perhaps accoimts for the fact, that those who have pursued the system but for a time, whether from accidental circumstances, or from conviction of its importance, commonly recur to their experience of that period with evident satisfaction. And this is natural, considering that the system is established in truth; and it is not suprising that to have carried it out only to a limited extent, should thus give that satisfaction which invariably attends adherence to the moral and up- ward-tending courses of life. In this light,—the result of experi- ence—one by one, do the difficulties to the prevalence of the practice in the world disappear; till, from adherence to the system from limited or inferior motives in the first instance, the full breadth and importance of the question come at length to be recognized and appreciated. We would not be imdcrstood to speak of the good of adherence to this system, otherwise than as the result of obedience to laws in inti- cxlii INTKOnUCTION. timate relation with the greatest happiness of the human consti- tution ; but claiming thus much for it, it will be seen that it inrolves important consequences to the physical and moral peace of the world. We fear it is vain to regard mankind as the sole object for the exer- cise of the principles of peace, and to say that when these prevail in relation to him, imity and harmony of purpose will characterise the conduct of men; whilst the fact is overlooked, that the conduct of mankind is powerfully influenced for evil, by the cruelties and mis- taken practices carried out towards the brute creation. We contend, then, for our system, as essential not only to the harmonious relations of man’s nature necessary to secure happiness, but also to his har- monious relation to the external world intended to surround him; and that the degree in which man practically acknowledges the impor- tance of these and other kindred principles, will be that in which the peace and harmony of the world can exist. It is therefore no objec- tion to this, that the world seems disorganized and contentious to the last degree, ever involving itself in acts the very opposite to those we would advocate as incident to the fairer and better history of man living in full accordance with the laws of his being. The dis- couragement of Imowing the world as it is, necessarily ever detracts much from the philanthrophic effort to make it what it ought to be ; but though our views have to be judged of in the disadvantage of erroneous practice, (requiring, if fully apprehended, to be examined with clearer perceptions than those influenced bj’ the system against which we arc contending,) our strongest hopes are built upon the con- victions which the practice of our principles will necessarily produce, and to this practice we believe facts such as we have stated, wiE day by day lead the enlightened and reflective of all classes. Our system, then, is the result of no new doctrine, but of princi- ples established in human natm'c, and of a practice as old as the history of man. Vegetarianism in its mission, thus emphatically protests against the slaughter of animals for the purpose of human subsistence, and in putting the prevailing practices of Society upon their trial, it invites the attention of the world to the principles of benevolence in which it is based. Our duty is thus performed; and admitting the defects of tins ex- position of the Vegetarian system, we would earnestly commend the system itself to the attention of our readers. We again call attention to the excellent work, already referred to, by Mr. Smith, as well nsxliii INTRODUCTION. to Lectures on the Science of Human Life, by Sylvester Graham of America; in which further and complete views will bo found, concluding our present notice in the mild but emphatic words of Howard, one of the greatest philanthropists the world has ever known; who, a few months before the termination of his arduous and benevolent life, left the following as the result of his long experience of the merits of the Vegetarian practice of diet:—“ I am firmly per- suaded, that as to the health of our bodies, herbs and fruits will maintain nature in every respect far beyond the best flesh meat. The Lord planted a garden for mankind in the beginning, and re- plenished it with all manner of fruits and herbs. This was the place appointed for man. If these still had been the food of man he would not have contracted so many diseases in his body, nor cruel vices in his soul. The taste of most sorts of flesh is disagreeable to those who for any time abstain from it, and none can be competent judges of what I say, but those who have made trial of it.”. ^.1 1% V ,/4\t'^i ''.?T^i '-»’w iij»% fc»F* ,—*j^ \>i. • Am tt^ti^0^r ~ .♦t< Mft’**w* (•* •* •,►• w'‘ > /.' *~A itit^*yjj|tr^ '*•- ' .1 .n'•■>■-«.''» mti‘ A ' - ■*•' *V * ■> «n^J<-“ ^ • • rt» ■*!»»«»•♦--TV-»•■-»V-»•■. «- -. ■ ‘iIm0O\ *■»->»>«■.»< 4.^ *11 ' .- ’-. ■-'n *■ .‘■I 4#iM' 4. ItitM ■ It 4 I {V.v* ■ '» ^ 4 - #♦>1 m% t ^ « myf •r ■- L»^la - -■.^, ■ • - ^form of Vegetarian diet, we refer to page Ivi. VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. In offering a few remarks in relation to the Vegetarian practice, it will be important to consider what are the present habits and circum- stances of our readers as to dietary an-angements, in order to enable them to adapt the practice as nearly as possible thereto. We wish our observations to be regarded as the suggestions of social friendship, rather than as formal and systematic instructions; but as we cannot in this instance enter into all the particular requirements of our friends, we will endeavour to describe the principal varieties of cir- cumstance and condition, and it will be for those who are desirous of adopting the practice to recognize in the descriptions given, that which most accords with their own particular case. Various as are the circumstances of domestic life, they may, as a general rule, be found described in the following classes :— I. Those who seek to adopt the most simple and natural food for the promotion of health and economy, and for their physical, intellectual and moral discipline, and who subsist on a diet entkely composed of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables. Suggestions adapted for persons of this class will be found on page xlvi. II. Vegetarians having similar objects in view to those above described, but who still prefer to partake of milk, eggs, etc. And also persons hitherto accustomed to a diet composed principally of farinaceous food, vegetables, and fruit, with some portion of flesh, but who desire to abandon the latter, and to supersede it with some- thing consistent with domestic economy, good taste, and humane feel- ing. Information adapted for this class will be found on page 1. III. Those who are accustomed to more elaborate preparations, and who require a greater variety of rich and savomy dishes will find remarks adapted to their requirements on page lii. IV. The working classes and others to whom economy is an im- portant consideration, but who do not wish to adopt the simplestxlvi VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. In order to meet tlie wants of these various classes, it will be con- veuieut to describe at least three styles of Cookery, and to make such remarks as to their modification as will secure an easy adaptation of Vcgetai’ian practice to those circumstances which these styles may not completely comprehend. The First Style is a system of diet composed entmely of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables, and will tend to illustrate the degree of simplicity and economy attainable in Vegetarian habits, without sac- rificing the proper enjoyment of food ; whilst it will show, to some extent, the resources which nature so abundantly provides for man in the direct productions of the soil. The Second Style is likewise a system of diet principally com- posed of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables, bnt with the addition of milk and eggs. The Third Style includes a greater variety of preparations than the preceding ones. TVith an explanation of each of these different styles, and the modifications of which they are susceptible, we hope to meet the varied tastes and circumstances of our readers, whilst this arrange- ment will prevent those unfavourable comparisons which are some- times made as to cost and preparation, between the plainest description of ordinary mixed diet, and Vegetarian Cookery. But if comparisons be made, we would suggest that the simplest form of Vegetarian diet be compared with the simplest form of mixed diet, and the corres- ponding styles of both systems being thus regarded, we doubt not that in every instance Vegetarian diet wiU be found to be the most economical as well as the most agreeable in preparation, and calculated to produce the ’most gratifying effect on all the senses concerned in the appreciation of food. THE FIRST STYLE. Although this is the most simple style, and excludes all the pro- ductions of the animal kingdom, it comprehends a great variety of food; and it having been shown by the facts of chemistry that the nutritive principle is identical in vegetable and animal substances (“ Introduction,” p. xviii), this style ^vill be found consistent with theVEGETARIAN PRACTICE. xlvii tcRchinGTS of cliemistry, ns it is also with those of the most eminent expounders of physiology. Tor scientific information on this subject we refer to Smith’s Fruits and Farinacea the proper Food of Man. Vie proceed to point out the particular receipts adapted for this style:— Soups.—Nos. 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 33 and 36. By omitting the cream and butter, the following soups may likewise be used:— Nos. 2, 3, 6. 12, 15, 23, 24, 31, 32 and 34. Omelets.—Nos. 44 and 45, using salad oil instead of butter for the latter. Savoury Pies and Puddings.—Nos. 71, 72, 74, 75, 76, 81, 82, 84, 85, 86, 88 and 89, using the receipt for paste. No. 363 ; omitting the butter and eggs from the ingredients, and substituting water for milk or cream. Vegetables.—Nos. 113, 114, 120, 122, 125, 177 and nearly all the other receipts for vegetables, omitting the butter, cream, and eggs. Sauces.—No. 179, omitting the butter, and No. 295, using water instead of milk. Sandwiches can be prepared from boiled or baked beet-root. Nos. 113 and 114, using slices of bread instead of bread and butter. Salads may be served simply with salt, or with salad oil, vinegar, and mustard. Puddings.—Nos. 245, 246, 253, 265, 308, 312, and 316. Many of the other receipts for puddings may be used by modifying them according to previous suggestions. Fruit Pies, Tarts, etc., may be prepared as directed in the receipts by using the receipt for paste. No. 363. Fruit.—We call the especial attention of Vegetarians adopting this style to the receipts for “ Prepared Fi'uit,” page 108, as descrip- tive of an important feature of their diet, and as well adapted to supersede butter, &c., at the morning or evening meals; to be served with farinaceous preparations, bread, cakes, etc. Preserved fruit may also be used in a similar way. Eipe fruit, according to the season, should be abundantly provided in this style. Moulded Farinacea.—Nos. 416, 417, 419, 421, 423, 425, 426 and 430.xlviii VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. Bread, Cakes, and Biscuits.—Nos. 492, 516, 537 and 568. Many of the other receipts may also be used by making the modifi- cations before described. Syrups will be useful either as beverages, or for flavouring simple farinaceous preparations. Porridge, Gruel, etc.—The receipts for these are adapted for breakfast and supper. BEEAKFAST. A selection from the receipts for Porridge, Moulded Farinacea, and Prepared Fruit, with the addition of ripe, dried, or preserved Fruit, and Bread, iviU provide an ample breakfast, which will admit of much variation if desired. DINNER. The foUoiving Bill of Fai'e, which is arranged in the order in which the dishes should be served, is given as a suggestion for providing for about ten or twelve persons. It will be easy from this bill to com- pile others on a similar principle, subject to those modifications which circumstances, taste, and experience wUl suggest. First Course. Green Peas Soup. 19* Second Course. 4 1 3 5 1 Macaroni Omelet. 44. 3 Baked Onions. 2 Baked Beet-root. 114. 4 New Potatoes. 5 Green Peas. • The figures succeeding the names of dishes in these Bills of Fare refer to the No. of the receipt in the work.VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. slix Third Course. 4 3 2 5 1 Bread Pudding. 265. 3 Stewed PiTiit. 2 Gooseberry Pie. 4 Sago. 425. Bice. 421. The succeeding Bill of Fare is adaped for two or three persons: — First Course. 3 4 1 Hotch Potch. 33. ~ 3 Potatoes. 2 Boiled Vegetable Marrow. 4 Parsnips. Second Course. 13 2 1 Apple and Bread Pudding. 245. 2 Ground Rice. 423. 3 Ripe Fruit. SUPPER. A selection from the “ Moulded Farinacea,” with Fruit, dried, pre- served or stewed, Bread, Cakes, Biscuits, etc.VEGETAHIAN PRACTICE. SECOND STYLE. The transition from mixed to Vegetarian diet is by no means diffieult. We believe that farinaeeous food, (of which bread, “the staff of life” is the principal,) together with vegetables and fruit, already constitutes by far the greater portion of the food of our population, flesh forming but a small addition, rather than any large proportion of the aliment consumed. Tn this style this small addi- tion to fruits, farinacea, and vegetables is superseded by dishes of a savoury character, and it will be seen, therefore, that the adoption of this style by persons accustomed to the moderate use of flesh, will involve only a change as to one or two dishes, whilst the other appliances of the table may remain the same. We proceed however to offer a few suggestions as to the provision adapted for each meal. BEEAKTAST. In addition to the articles mentioned for Breakfast, page xlviii. Fried Beet-root, No. 115, and Boiled Eggs, may be used. DINNEK. The foUowingr Bills of Fare are presented merely as suggestions ; by which it will be seen, from which divisions of the book, the prin- cipal dishes should be selected, and it will be only necessary to observe the same rule in producing a greater variety. First Course.—Eice Soup. 26. Second Course. 3 5 1 2 4 6 1 Bread Omelet. 38. [759- 4 Peas. 2 Eoasted Vegetable Marrow. 5 French Beans, or Greens. 3 Boiled Potatoes. 6 Eoasted Potatoes.VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. li Third Course. 4 3 1 Apple Pudding. 240. 3 Ground Kice. 422. 2 Fruit Tai't. 4 Stewed Gooseberries. 380. * Vase of Flowers. First Course.—Carrot Soup. 7 Second Course. 3 4 1 2 0 6 1 French Bean Omelet. 39. 4 Cauliflowers. 2 Vegetable Marrow and Celery 5 Asparagus. 3 Potatoes. [Pie. 760. 6 Cabbage. Third Course. 3 1 * 2 4 1 Cumberland Pudding. 274. 3 Farina. 418. 2 Apple Fritters. 333. 4 Stewed Rhubarb. 387. * Flowers.VEGETAEIAN PBACTICE. lii THIRD STYLE. BREAKFAST. Similar to that described, page 48. DINNER. Any of the soups may be selected. The principal savoury dishes, (Omelets and Fritters,) and the secondary dishes, (Savoury Pies and Puddings, Eggs,Mushrooms, and Fried or Stewed Vegetables,) should be served with plainly cooked vegetables. As suggestions for arranging the dinner table, the following plans and Bills of Fare are presented:— First Course.—Lentil and Peas Soup. 758. Second Course. 5 3 6 1 2 7 4 8 1 Forcemeat. 59. 2 Fried Cauliflower. 151. 3 Potato Pie. 76. 4 Minced Eggs. 104. 5 Potatoes. 6 Greens. 7 French Beans. [162. 8 Mashed Vegetable Marrow. Third Course. 3 1 5*6 2 4 1 Bread and Butter Pudding. 4 Raspberry Turnovers. 355. 2 Plum Tart. [266. 5 Arrowroot. 415. 3 Cheesecakes. 390. 6 Custards. 412. * Flowers.liii VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. First Course.—Green Peas Soup. 19. Second Course. 6 4 7 1 3 2 8 5 9 Asparagus Omelet. 37. 5 Eggs with White Sauce Rice Fritters. 68. Parsley. 99. Cucumber Pie. 72. 6 New Potatoes. Fried Mushrooms with Brown 7 Cabbage. Sauce poured over. 109. 8 Peas. 9 Carrots and Turnips. Third Course. 4 5 1 3 2 6 7 aiid 1 Baked Apple Pudding. 241. 4 Cheesecakes. 391. 2 French Pancakes. 326. 5 Custards. 409. 3 Gooseberry Tart. 6 Tapioca. 428. 7 Preserve Tarts. First Course. Brown Soup. 4. Palestine Soup. 17.■VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. liv Second Course. 8 C y 1 4 3 5 2 10 7 11 1 Macaroni Quenelle. 41. G Eggs with Forcemeat Balls. 97. 2 Onion and Sage Fritters. 65. 7 Buttered Eggs with Spinach. 3 Savoury Pie. 79. 8 Greens or Cabbage. [95. 4 Stewed Celery. 154. 9 Mashed Potatoes. 5 Fried Beet-root. 115. 10 Potatoes. 11 Carrots and Turnips. Third Course. 9 7 10 1 3 4 5 G 2 11 8 12 7 Stewed Apples. 371. 8 Stewed Oranges. 381. 9 Spanish Cream. 447. 10 Cheesecakes. 397. 11 Almond Puffs. 347. 12 Blanc-Mange. 453. * Flowers. Fourth Course. Cheese and Celery, or "Winter Salad. 1 Plum Pudding. 302. 2 Mince Tarts. 350. 3 Custai'ds. 402. 4 Preserve Tarts. 5 Macaroni Tart. 349. C Lemon Creams. 440.VEGETAEIAN PUACTICE. Iv K W Pi Pi P Vi o ri n S d CO C5> 10 s d tSj 464. CO 0 CO *3 CO d d b/j 0 CO <0 a o 0‘*l S3 ■4-> d 'i s s d d 2 d d Oi o c; V to d d 1 d d CJ .2 0 CJ d CO d d d CO d CO u d 1^ o t-H 'n r-^ o CO P C5 P O rH fl d d Sh d d 0 s 5 CO rH Oi oi 01 0 t(j a o 00 r-^ > CJ -p (/3 d is CO CO * o d d 1.0 CO CO CO c4 0 0 453 i'- •■C d CO CO • CJ CC * r=i O d > CO 1 P o CO d d d CO d 'i d d in d d d «i4 rt CJ d d £P 3 »e=i d CO CJ to s 0 do d plan 13 a CO d CO •w CO d d CO d d s t£; fl o_ d d r3 tC/ d d to t*- iO f5 H u p co' pq CO 0 .d 1-^ w* o *-H (M CO 10 0 C- rH rH rH rH rH rr c«-< o 0 E- 11 C5 <d CO r3 d CO CO lO CO OJ CO Ca 250. CM wS CO d jj 'O d d rt d .4.^ ‘d t/T d su d d •■a =3 a d d > 0 d lO CO 'J d d CO 5 CO p a CO o H CO d tn d o i- d d d d tij CO d d d d 6 > d d d d d P5 d pq •H •.4 O CO u 0 0 C5 Ol CO 0 COIvi VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. The First Style of Cookery which we have described, (page xlvi,) is the most economical, but as there are many persons who are not pre- pared to completely adopt that degree of simplicity in diet, a combi- nation of the First, with the Second Style, selecting those articles in each which local circumstances render the most abundant, wiU be commonly found suitable to domestic economists. The following plan, and Bill of Fare for a plain dinner or supper, wiU serve to illustrate this combination. It is adapted for about twelve persons. 1 6 4 3 7 5 2 00 9 1 Baked Bread Omelet. 38. 2 Potato Pie. 76. 3 Stewed Onions. 119. 4 Fried Beet-root. 115. 9 Ri 5 Baked Potatoes. . 122. 6 Apple and Bread Pudding. 245. 7 Celery. 8 Cheese. I. 420.VEGETARIAN COOKERY SOUPS. The precise time required for the preparation of soups, depends upon the quality of the water used; the limits given are generally appli- cable, soft water producing the earliest and most satisfactory results. The soups containing peas, beans, lentils, or barley, should be prepared the day previously, and heated when required. No. 1.—Almond Soup. Ingredients.—^Two ounces of almonds ;(^) one pint and a half of new milk; half a pint of cream; one table-spoonful of flour; one onion ; one root of celery, and one ounce of butter. Instructions.—Blanch and chop the almonds small; boil them gently one hour, in a pint of mUk, with the onion, and the white part of the celery; take out the onion and celery ; mix the flour and butter together; add half a pint of milk, a little Cayenne pepper, mace, and salt; stir the soup on the fire till it has boiled a few minutes; add the cream, and when it boUs, serve immediately. 1. For the oonyenience of those who have not an opportunity of weighing the ingredients, it may he stated, that one large table-spoonful of each, will be about equal to one ounce ; one tea-spoonful to a quarter of an ounce. But weighing should be resorted to wherever it is possible.2 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 2.—Barley Soup. Three ounces of barley; one ounce and a half of stale bread-crumbs; one ounce and a half of butter; a quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley, and a quarter of an ounce of salt. Wash, and steep the barley twelve hours, in half a pint of water, to which a piece of soda, the size of a pea, has been added; pour off the water that is not absorbed; add the bread-crumbs, three quarts of boiling water, and the salt; boil slowly in a well-tinned covered pan four or five hours, and add the parsley, butter, and white pepper, about half an hour before the soup is ready to be served. No. 3.—Barley and Peas Soup. Half a pound of peaid barley; one pint of dried green peas; one large onion, and one ounce of butter. Wash the barley and peas; steep them in fresh water twelve hours; put them in a pan with sLv quarts of boiling water; add the onion, pepper, and salt; boil the whole gently four or five hours, tiU the barley and peas are quite soft; pass the soup through a wire sieve, or fine colander; return it into the pan, and when it boUs, stir in the butter till well mixed. No. 4.—Brown Soup. One pound of turnips; one pound of carrots; half a pound of celery; six ounces of onions; one pint and a half of peas; four ounces of butter, and half a poimd of bread. Cut the vegetables into small pieces; put them in a pan with the butter; cover the pan, and let them stew over the fire, tiU brown, occasionally stirring them ; put in the peas with the water in which they were boUed; add sufficient boiling water to make three quarts altogether; next add the bread, which should be browned or toasted before the fire, but not burnt; season with black peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, and salt; let the soup boil gently three or four hours; rub it through a coarse sieve; return it into the pan; let it boil, and it wiU be ready to be served. If dried peas be used, they should be steeped twenty-four hours in soft water, and boiled two hours.SOUPS. 3 No. 5.—Brown Soup. Six turnips; six carrots; four potatoes; four onions, and three roots of celery. Slice and fry the vegetables in butter; put them in a pan with five quarts of boiling water; let them stew from four to five hours; pass the soup through a sieve; season with pepper and salt, and when boiled, it ndU be ready to be served. No. 6.—Green Bean Soup. Oue quai’t of full-grown gi-een beans; a large handful of spinach; one ounee of parsley, and two ounces of butter. Bod the beans; skin, and bruise them in a bowl till quite smooth; put them in a pan with two quarts of vegetable broth (No. 35); add the butter, with a little flour dredged in it, pepper and salt; stir it on the fire till it boils, and put in the spinach and parsley (previously boded and rubbed through a sieve), to make the soup a proper colour. Other vegetables may be added, if desired. No. 7.—Carrot Soup. Eight good sized caiTots; two roots of celery; one Im’ge turnip; one large onion ; six ounces of bread, without crust; two ounces of butter, and half a pint of eream. Set on the fire three quarts of water, with a piece of soda the size of a small nut; when it boils, put in the vegetables (previously sliced), the bread, salt, a little Cayenne pepper, and mace; boil the whole tdl the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub it through a sieve; rctmui it into the pan; and, whdst boiling, stir in the cream, not aUowdng it to boil afterwards. The soup should be of the consistency of good cream. The green part of the celery should not be used. No. 8.—Carrot Soup. The red part of two pounds of carrots; one ounce and a half of onion; half a pint of cream, and three quarts of water. Add the carrot and onion to the water, when boiling; boil them till thoroughly soft; rub the soup through a hair sieve; return it to the pan; add the cream and seasoning, and allow it to simmer (but not to bod) two minutes. Serve with toasted bread.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 4 No. 9.—Celery Soup. Six roots of celery; one large turnip; two ounces of onions; four ounces of bread-crumbs; one ounce of butter; one dessert-spoonful of flour, and half a pint of cream. Strip off all the green part of the celery, using only the white; cut it in shreds, reserving the inside of three of the roots to be added afterwards; slice the turnip and onion, and put them with the celery into a pan; add two quarts of water, the bread-crumbs, and a dessert- spoonful of salt; let aU boil tiU the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub through a sieve; return it to the pan; add the celery (pre- viously boiled till quite soft), the butter, and flour, well mixed; stir it, seasoning with white pepper, a little mace, and more salt, if required; and, after boiling a quarter of an hour, stir in the cream, but do not allow it to boil afterwards. No. 10.—Cucumber Soup. Five or six moderate sized cucumbers ; six cos-lettuces; six ounces of bread-crumbs ; four ounces of onions; one ounce of parsley, and four ounces of butter. Pare and slice the cucumbers and onions; cut the lettuces, takiug off the outside leaves; add the parsley, pepper, and salt, putting them into a pan with the butter; stew them over a gentle fire three quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally; pour in two quarts of bod- ing water ; add the bread-crumbs, and let them stew gently two hours. If too thin, mix a tea-spoonful of flom- with an ounce of butter, stir it well in; bod ten minutes longm’, and add a table-spoonful of vinegar. No. 11.—Herb Soup. Quarter of a peck of spinach; one ounce of parsley; half a pound of bread-crumbs; quarter of a pound of butter, and a few green onions or sweet leeks. About half boil the herbs ; drain and cut them into smaU pieces ; stew them in the butter half an horn', and di-edge in a little flour. Put tbe bread crumbs into a pan with two quarts of water ; bod till smooth; add the herbs; season vith pepper and salt, and bod ten minutes.5 SOUPS. No. 12.—Lentil Soup. One quart of lentils; two pounds and a half of parsnips; two pounds of celery; two ounces of eschalots, or leeks; one ounce of chopped parsley, and two ounces of butter. Wash and pick the lentils; steep them twenty-fom' hours in soft water; set them on the fire in four quarts of spring water; add the vegetables and some salt; boil till quite soft; rub through a fine col- ander or coarse sieve, adding boiling water as required; return it to the pan; season with pepper and salt; stir in the butter, and boil a few minutes. No. 13.—Macaroni Soup. Half a pound of Naples macaroni; one quart of mushrooms; two turnips ; one onion; three Jerusalem artichokes; one dessert-spoon- ful of potato-flour; a quarter of a pint of cream, and fom' ounces of bread crumbs. Boil the macaroni in two quai-ts of water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a small piece of butter; when tender, drain the water from it; wash it in fresh water; lay it in a clean cloth for a short time, and cut it in pieces about an inch in length. Wash the mush- rooms without paring them, or eutting off the stems; put them in a pan with three quarts of water, the turnips, onions, artichokes, bread crumbs, mace, pepper, and salt; boil them till the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub them through a sieve; return the soup into the pan ; put in the macaroni; set it on the fire again; stir in the potato flour, mixed with a little cold water till quite smooth; add a little Cayenne pepper, and salt, as required, and when it has boiled ten minutes, add the cream. No. 14.—Macaroni Soup. Four ounces of macaroni; one quart of new milk; one quart of water; one large onion, and one ounce of the crumb of stale bread. Soak the macaroni two hours; put it into the milk and water, when boiling; add the bread, onion, and salt, and boil all slowly till quite soft; rub it through a sieve twiee over; return it into the pan, adding more seasoning, and either a quarter of a pint of cream, or one ounce of butter; boil it a few minutes, and serve with toasted bread.VEGETAUIAN COOKEKY. 6 No. 15.—Vegetable Markow Soup. One pound of vegetable marrow; one quart of mushrooms, and a quarter of a pound of bread. Pai'e the marrows, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, taking out all the seeds and pulp; wipe dry, and dredge them with flour; fry them in butter tiU of a nice brown; stew the stems and parings of the mushrooms in a pint of water one hour, adding a little salt; drain the water from them and set it on the fire in a pan with two quarts of boiling water; put in the maiTows, the bread (without crust), and the mushroom.s (the latter chopped rather small); season with pepper and salt, and let the whole boil together an hour and a half. If the soup be too thin, mix a tea- spoonful of flom, with a little butter; stir it well in, and after it has boiled a few minutes, add a table-spoonful of vinegar. If not a good colour, add a little of the “ browning.” Onions (prepared as the marrows) may be sometimes used instead of mushrooms. ' No. 16.—Onion Soup. Ten large onions; half a pound of bread-crust; two large carrots; one root of celery; the yolks of two eggs, and two spoonfuls of vinegar. Pare and slice the onions; fry them in butter tiU of a nice brown; put them in a pan with five quarts of boiling water, the bread-crust, pepper, and salt; add the carrots and celery, cut in smaU pieces, and let the whole boil together two hours. Ten minutes before the soup is required, beat the yoUcs of the eggs, adding a little of the soup and the vinegar; pour this gradually into the soup; stir the whole constantly the same way, but do not aUow it to boU. Fried cucumber, or vegetable marrow, is an improvement to this soup. No. 17.—Palestine Soup. Two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes; two quarts of milk; one ounce of butter; the yolks of two eggs, and five table-spoonfuls of cream. Pare the artichokes and boU them in water tUl perfectly soft; rub7 SOUPS. them through a we sieve; put the pulp into a pan with the milk and fresh butter; season with white pepper, and salt; stir it on the fire till it bods ; and then let it stew gently till of the consisteney of common peas soup. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and with the cream put them into the tureen; pom’ in the hot soup, and stir it till well mixed. Serve immediately. No. 18.—Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint and a half of dried green peas; half a pint of boiled spinaeh; one lettuce; four ounces of butter, and one tea-spoonful of flour. After steeping the peas in soft water twelve hours, set them on the fire in a quart of boiling soft water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a large pea, and two ounces of butter; simmer gently till the peas are perfectly soft, and rub them through a fine colander, or wire sieve; add the lettuce and boiled spinach; put aU together into the pan, with two quarts of boiling water; simmer till nearly ready; take out the lettuce, and add some heads of aspai’a- gus, or a few leaves and young stalks of spinach, cut in very small pieces; stir in a tea-spoonful of flour, mixed with two ounces of butter; season with pepper and salt; add a piece of sugar, the size of a walnut, and boil the soup twenty minutes. No. 19.—Green Peas Soup. One quart of green peas; two lettuces; tliree onions; half a pound of bread ; two quarts of peas-shells, with the stalks cut off; three tur- nips ; one table-spoonful of salt, and a handful of spinach, or a small bunch of parsley. To five quarts of boiling water, add the salt, a piece of soda the size of a small nut, the bread, the vegetables (sliced), and the pcas- sheUs; boil the whole together quickly, fifteen or twenty minutes; take off the scum; cover the pan, and continue boiliug it moderately till the vegetables are quite soft; rub the soup through a wire sieve, or colander; return it into the pan; add a quart of boiling water; season with pepper and salt, and boil it about ten minutes.VEGETARIAN COOKERY, s No. 20.—Green Peas Soup. Three pints of peas; four onions; three turnips; four ounces of cueumbers; one large lettuce; a small bunch of parsley; two sprigs of mint, and two quarts of peas-shells. Boil a quart of the largest peas in two quarts of water, with the mint, parsley, peas-shells, a large table-spoonful of salt, and a piece of soda the size of a small nut; when the peas are quite soft, rub through a fine colander; return the pulp into the pan with the other vegetables (sliced), and a quart of boiling water; season with pepper and salt; and when the vegetables are perfectly soft, add the young peas, previously boiled. No. 21.—Peas and Haricot Bean Soup. One pint of dried green peas; one pint of haricot beans; half a pound of bread; two pounds of turnips; two pounds of carrots; two good sized onions; two lettuces or brocoli, and two roots of celery. When the peas and beans have been well washed, steep them in fresh water from twelve to fourteen hours; set them on the fire with the other vegetables, six quarts of water, the bread, a table- spoonful of salt, and a small piece of soda; boil aU together till perfectly tender; rub them through a colander, and during that process, add gradually about three pints of boiling water; return the soup into the pan, and season with pepper, or curry powder> and salt. hlushrooms, vegetable man’ow, or cucumber, may be added. No. 22.—Split Peas and Barley Soup. One pint and a half of peas ; half a pint of pearl barley; two large carrots; one large onion; two turnips; one root of celery; and half a pound of bread. After washing the peas and barley, steep them in fresh water twelve or fourteen horn’s; set them on the fire with four quarts of water, some salt, and a small piece of soda; add the vegetables and bread; when all are quite soft, rub them through a fine colander, adding, gradually, a quart of boiling water; return the soup into the pan; season with pepper and salt, and boil ten minutes.SOUPS. -^9 No. 23.—Peas and Kick Soup. Four ounces of peas; four ounees of rice; one ounce and a half of butter; and a quarter of an ounce of salt. See receipt No. 22. No. 24.—Peas and Sago Soup. Four ounces of peas; four ounces of sago; one ounce and a half of butter; and a quarter of an ounce of salt. See receipt No. 22. No. 25.—Rice Soup. Half a pound of rice ; two ounces of butter; quarter of an ounce of parsley, and the yolks of two eggs. After washing the rice, boil it in two quarts of vegetable broth (No. 35); stir it frequently, tiU the rice is quite tender, and add more of the broth as required. Melt the butter in a saucepan, adding a little flour and a few spoonfuls of the broth ; when boiled, take it off the fire; add the parsley, boiled and chopped fine, and the yolks of the eggs, well beaten; stir all together in the soup, and serve imme- diately. Soups should not be boiled after the yolks of eggs are added. No. 26.—Rice Soup. Six ounces of rice; one quart of miUc, and two ounces of butter. \Va h and pick the rice ; put it in an earthen vessel with a quart of water, and set it in an oven; when the water is absorbed, put the rice in a pan with the milk; set it over the fire, and stir in the butter; season with salt and w'hite pepper, and boil it ten minutes. A little cream may be used instead of butter. No. 27.—Vegetable and Rice Soup. Half a pound of turnips; half a pound of carrots ; half a pound of parsnips; half a pound of onions; half a pound of potatoes, and two table-spoonfuls of rice. Slice the vegetables; put them into a pan with a quart of boiling water; add the rice (previously washed), a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a small piece of soda. After boiling an hour, add the potatoes,10 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. sliced, and two quarts of boiling water; continue boiling till all arc weU done. If tbe soup be too tbin, mix a table-spooutul of rice-flour witb a little milk; stir it well in; adding white pc2)per and more salt, if requii’cd; boil it fifteen minutes, and add a quarter of a pint of cream. No. 28.—Spinach Soup. Quarter of a peck of spinach; two ounces of parsley; two carrots; two onions; one good-sized turnip; one root of celery; one ounce of butter, and a sprig or two of thyme. Put the vegetables and herbs into a stew pan, with the butter, a little salt, aud a pint of water in which mushrooms, or the stalks and parings of muslirooms have been weU boiled; stew tiU the vege- tables are quite soft; rub through a coarse sieve; add a quart of boiling water, pepper, and salt, and boil all together a quarter of an hour. No. 29.—Turnip Soup. Prepare in the same way as Turnip Hash (No. 34), rub through a sieve, and make hot again previous to serving. No. 30.—Vermicelli Soup. Six ounces of vermicelli; two quarts of new milk; the yolks of four eggs; one pint of cream, and one table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. Blanch the vermicelli by setting it on the fire in cold water; when it boHs, drain off the water, and jmt it into cold water; let it remain a few minutes, and then drain the water entirely from it; put it into a pan with the milk, and boO it; beat up the yolks of the eggs, and after gradually adding a pint of boiled cream, strain through a sieve, and add the catsup. Take off the pan; add the eggs, cream, a small lump of white sugar, and a tea-spoonful of salt, aud stir the soup on the fire tiU near boiling. No. 31.—Barley Broth. Pour ounces of Scotch barley; four ounces of onions; four ounces of oatmeal, or Indian meal, aud two ounces of butter. After washing the barley wcU, steep it in fresh water twelve hours; set it on the fire in five quarts of water, adding the onionsSOUPS. 11 and a little salt, and boil gently an hour and a quarter. Melt the butter iu a saueepan; stir in the meal till it becomes a paste; then add a little of the broth gi-adually, tiU it is a proper thickness to mix with the whole quantity; stir well together till it boils, and mix with a little of the broth a drachm of celery or cress seed, or half a drachm of each, and a quarter of a di’achm of Cayenne pepper, all finely pounded; stii’ well in the broth ; simmer it gently a quarter of an hour longer, and add a little more salt if required. No. 32.—ScoTcu Bkoth. Four ounces of Scotch or pearl barley; two ounces of groats; two turnips; two carrots; two ounces of butter, and half a pound of bread-crust. Steep the barley and groats as for soup; put them into a pan with four quai'ts of boiling water; boil them two hours; put in the tur- nips and carrots (cut small), and when the vegetables are tender, add pot-herbs and seasoning as usual. No. 33.—Hotch Potch. Four large turnips; one pound of carrots; one onion; one lettuce, and parsley. Put four quarts of water into a pan; set it on the fire, and put in the carrots and turnips, (part of which must be grated, and the re- remainder cut in small square pieces,) with the other vegetables, (all cut small); season with pepper and salt, adding a small piece of soda, and let all boil well together slowly. Young green peas may be added, part of them to be put in with the other vegetables, and the remainder about an hour before the soup is ready. Other vegetables may be added. No. 34.—Turnip Hash. Three quai’ters of a pound of tonips; three quarters of a pound of potatoes; two table-spoonfuls of flour; two ounces of butter; one large onion, and a table-spoonful of salt. Put three quarts of water in a well-tinned pan; set it over the fire; put in the turnips (cut iu small square pieces), and the onion (cut small); add the salt, and let it boil for an hour; then put in the12 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. potatoes (also cut in pieces), and after boiling three quarters of au hour longer, add the butter; rub the flour in a quarter of a pint of cold water, till perfectly smooth; pour it into the pan, and let it boil slowly a quarter of an hour longer, when the liquid part of the hash will be of the consistency of thin butter sauce; boil it two hours, and keep it covered the whole time. No. 35.—Vegetable Broth. Half fin a pan, which will contain about four quarts, with turnips, carrots, onions, and other vegetables (cut in pieces); add seasoning herbs, mushrooms, and salt; nearly fill the pan with water, and boil all together till the vegetables are tender; then strain it, and use as required. No. 36.—Winter Hotch Potch. Pour carrots; four turnips; four onions; one pound of dried green peas ; one Savoy cabbage, and one root of celery. When the peas have been picked and washed, steep them twelve hours in fresh soft water, or with a small piece of soda put in the water in which they are to be steeped; put half the carrots and tur- nips (sliced), and a whole one of each, the peas, cabbage, and onions, into a pan with four quarts of water; let the whole boil two hours, then take out the whole carrot and turnip; bruise them well, and return them with the remainder of the sliced vegetables into the pan ; boil the whole gently for an hour, and when nearly ready, add the white part of a root of celery cut in very small shreds.OMELETS AND PRITTERS, In frying Omelets, a little butter should be melted in an omelet pan, or small frying pan, till quite hot, the mixture then put in and fried over a moderate fire, for if too hot, the omelet may be burnt before being sufficiently set to be turned over. Fritters should be fried in the same way, allowing a sufficient quantity of the mixture for each fritter to be about four inches broad, and half an inch thick; when properly set, they should be turned over, and when nicely browned, turned again, laid neatly on a flat dish, and garnished with curled pai’sley. No. 37.—Asparagus Omelet. Fifty heads of asparagus, and six eggs. Boil the asparagus in the usual way; cut the green ends in small pieces, as far as they are tender; mix them with the eggs, well beaten make some clarified butter hot in a small frying pan, and put in the omelet; sprinkle it over with a little pepper and salt, and fry it a nice brown. It should be rather thick, and should be served im- mediately, with butter, sauce, and vinegar. No. 38.—Baked Bread Omelet. Six ounces of stale bread, without crust; five eggs; half an ounce of parsley, and a quarter of an ounce of lemon-thyme. Soften the bread thoroughly, in a dish, with a little boiling water, covering it over, and letting it soak for an hour; mash it with a fork, picking out the hard pieces, and adding the parsley and lemon- thyme, chopped fine, with salt and pepper; beat the eggs well, mix- ing them intimately with the other ingredients, and baking the whole in a well-buttered dish (buttered cold), for about fifty minutes; turn it out of the dish ; garnish with parsley, and serve mth brown sauce poured over it, and currant jelly.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 14 No. 39.—Peencii Bean Omelet. Pour eggs; two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; two table-spoonfuls of Pi-ench beans; two ounces of butter; two salt- spoonfuls of salt; and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Beat the eggs well; add the cheese, pepper, and salt; mix all toge- ther, and put in the beans, cut small and well boiled. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and fry the omelet in the usual way. Any kind of mild good cheese may be used. No. 40.—Macaroni Omelet. Two ounces of macaroni; two ounces of bread crumbs; two table- spoonfuls of flour; four eggs; half a pint of new milk; three table- spoonfuls of cream, and half an ounce of parsley. Boil the macaroni till tender; drain the water from it; rub the flour smooth with two spoonfuls of cold water; pour the boiling milk upon it, stirring it till it becomes thickened; add the macaroni cut in small pieces, the parsley, chopped small, and the eggs, well beaten ; season with pepper and salt; bake it in a hot, buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven, till nicely browned; let it stand a few minutes after it is taken out of the oven; turn it over on a hot, flat dish, and serve with brown sauce and onion sauce. No. 41.—Macaroni Quenelle. One ounce of macaroni; four ounces of bread-crumbs; three eggs; two ounces of butter; a quarter of a pint of cream, or new milk; a quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley; one tea-spoonful of sweet leeks, and one tea-spoonful of lemon-thyme, marjoram, winter savoury, and sweet basil, mixed. BoU. the macaroni in water till tender, and cut it in small pieces ; boil the cream; pour it upon the bread crumbs, and cover with a plate; when cold, add the herbs, the butter, melted, the eggs well beaten, and the macaroni; mix all together; season with mace, Cayenne and white pepper, salt, and spice powder; pour it into a buttered mould, and steam it, with a piece of paper over the top, about three quarters of an hour, and serve with wliite or mushroom sauce. Macaroni Quenelle is equally good when lightly baked, and served with brown sauce and currant jelly.15 OMELETS AND FUITTERS. No. 42.—Onion and Macaroni Omelet. Half a pound of small onions; two ounces of macaroni; three ounces of bread-crumbs; five eggs; half a pint of milk, and two ounces of butter. Stew the onions in the oven, with the butter, tiU tender. Boil the macaroni in water about half an hour; drain the water from it; spread it on a cloth, and' when cool, cut it in pieces. Mix the bread-crumbs with the milk; add the eggs, well beaten; season with pepper and salt. Put the onions into a well-buttered dish, dredged with flour; lay the macaroni over them, and pour in the eggs, etc. Bake in a moderately hot oven ; turn it out on a hot, flat dish, and serve with brown sauce. No. 43.—Onion Omelet. Six onions; four eggs; two ounces of bread-crumbs, and five table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Peel and slice the onions; bake them in a dish, with butter, pepper and salt, till tender; beat the eggs well; add the milk, a little salt, the bread crumbs and onions; put the mixture into a buttered pie- dish ; bake in a moderately hot oven, and serve with brown sauee. No. 44.—Omelet without Eggs or Butter. One pound of bread-crumbs; half a pound of onions; quarter of a pound of macaroni; three ounces of chopped parsley; one table- spoonful of tapioca; two table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and one tea- siioonful of baking powder. Boil the macaroni in water, adding a little salt; or cook it in the oven with plenty of water, covered with a plate, till tender, but not soft; drain the water from it, and when cool, cut it in small pieces; boil the tapioca in quarter of a pint of water five or six minutes; mix it ivith the onions, boiled a little and chopped, the bread crumbs, parsley, and baking powder; season with pepper and salt. Put the oil in a dish, then a layer of the mixture and the macaroni alternately, having three layers of the mixture and two of macaroni; bake in a moderately hot oven, and turn it over on a hot, flat dish.16 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 45.—Omelet. Pour eggs; quarter of a pint of milk; one table-spoonful of flour; and one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley and sweet leeks. Mis the flour with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, tOl smooth; pour upon it the remainder of the mUk, quite hot; stir it till it becomes a little thickened; put in the herbs; season with pepper and salt, and add the eggs, well beaten. Melt some butter in a flat dish; pour in the omelet, and bake in a hot oven. No. 46.—Omelet. One dessert-spoonful of chopped pai’sley; a dessert-spoonful of beets or spinach, chopped small; a small tea-spoonful of sweet leeks; half a tea-spoonful of lemon-thyme; one table-spoonful of flour; four table spoonfuls of milk; four eggs, and two ounces of butter. Mix the flour with the milk or cream; add the herbs, a very little mace or nutmeg, pepper, and salt; add the eggs, well beaten, and two ounces of butter melted; stir all together; pour it into a flat, buttered dish, and hake it in a hot oven about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. No. 47.—Omelet. Six eggs; two ounces of butter; two table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, and a dessert-spoonful of parsley. To the bread crumbs add two table-spoonfuls of water; season with pepper and salt; add the eggs, well beaten ; pour the mixture into a flat dish in which the butter is melted; sprinkle the chopped parsley over it; bake it a quarter of an hour in a hot oven; serve with brown sauce, to which has been added the green ends of aspara- gus, boiled, and cut in small pieces. The water in which the asparagus was boiled to be used for making the brown sauce. No. 48.—Omelet. Five eggs; two ounces of onion; two ounces of bread-crumbs, and half a tea-spoonful of sage. Beat the eggs well; add the onion cut small, the bread-crumbs.17 OMELETS AND FRITTEES. and tUe sage; mis all together, and season with pepper and salt; fry it in butter, on both sides, of a lightish brown colour, about the size of a plate, and one inch thick. Slice three or four onions; fiy and lay them round the omelet, and serve with brown sauce. No. 49.—Omelet. Six eggs; one tea-spoonful of flour ; one tea-spoonful of chopped parsley; one tea-spoonful of sweet leeks, or eschalots; three tablc- spoonfiJs of cream, and two ounces of butter. Mix the flom’ with the herbs and cream, adding salt, white pepper, and the eggs, well beaten; pour it into a small frying pan, in which the butter has been melted; when quite hot, stir it quickly round with a spoon, and when it begins to set, move it lightly to that part of the pan opposite to the handle, cai’efuUy turning up the edges with a spoon or knife, and shaking the pan a little till the omelet is nicely browned; turn it over on a hot dish, and serve im- mediately. No. 50.—Parmesan Cheese Omelet. Four ounces of Parmesan cheese; six eggs, and half a pint of cream. Beat the eggs; add the cheese, grated, and the cream; season with Cayenne pepper and salt; fry in butter, and serve immediately. It may be baked in a flat dish in a moderately hot oven. No. 51.—Potato Omelet. Six eggs; two ounces of potato; one ounce of bread-crumbs, and half an ounce of butter. Boil the potatoes, which should be very mealy, and when well dried, mash them with the butter, adding the bread, finely grated, and the eggs, well beaten, leaving out two whites ; season with salt and Cayenne pepper. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan; pom- in the omelet, and fry it a nice brown, or bake it on a flat dish in a quick oven, and serve with mint sauce and brown sauce. No. 52.—Baked Bice Omelet. Six ounces of rice; six eggs, and half an ounce of parsley. 2VEGKTAKIAN COOKERY. 18 Boil the rice in one pint of water, till the water is quite absorbed; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, the parsley and season- ng ; pour it into a hot buttered dish j bake it; garnish with curled parsley, and serve with brown sauec. No. .'53.—Savoury Omelet. One pound of bread-crumbs; one ounce and a half of parsley; half an ounce of lemon-thyme, sage, and sweet marjoram, together, but least of the marjoram; four ounces of onion; three ounces of tapi- oca ; two ounces of butter, and seven eggs. Hub the butter into the bread-crumbs; add the herbs, chopped small, and a salt-spoonful of dry mustard; steep the tapioca ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of cold w'ater; put it with the onions, chopped very small, to the bread-crumbs, seasoning with pepper and salt; mix the whole with the yolks of the eggs, and one white, well beaten. Melt some butter in a dish ; put in the omelet, and set it in a brisk oven, from ten to fifteen minutes, just suffi- cient for it to set a little at the bottom and sides; scoop out the middle of the omelet with a spoon, leaving about au inch round the sides and at the bottom of the dish; put in the whites of the eggs, beaten a little, wuth a small table-spoonful of fiue bread-crumbs, and a little salt; return the part of the omelet scooped out, to the sides of the dish, but not over the white of the eggs; bake it tU] of a nice brown; take it out of the oven; let it stand a few minutes, turn it out on a hot dish, and serve with mint sauce and brown sauce. No. 54.—Spinach Omelet. Quarter of a pound of spinach ; quai'ter of a pound of beets ; halt an ounce of parsley; half an ounce of leeks and lemon-thyme, mixed; one large table-spoonful of floui-; four spoonfuls of milk; foin eggs, and two ounces of butter. Chop the herbs all together; season with pepper, salt, and nut- meg or mace; add the flour, mOk, the eggs, well beaten, and the butter melted ; mix the whole well together, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven.19 OMELETS AND FRITTERS. No. 55.—Swiss Omelet. Six eggs; two ounces of butter; two ounces of grated clieese; quarter of au ounce of parsley ; and quai’ter of an ounce of sweet leeks. Melt the butter and put it to the cheese, with the herbs ; season with pepper and salt; add the eggs, well beaten ; fry it very lightly in a little butter, and serve immediately. No. 56.—Tapioca Omelet. One pound of bread-crumbs ; two table-spoonfuls of tapioca; one table-spoonful of dried sage; and two ounces of boiled onions, chopped fine. Boil the tapioca in three quarters of a pint of water till dissolved ; stir in the other ingredients; season with pepper and salt, and bake one hom in a well buttered dish. No. 57.—White Omelet. Prepare in the same way as macaroni omelet (No. 40); but boil for two hours instead of baking, and serve with onion sauce. No. 58.—Haricot Bean Ojielet. Half a pint of haricot beans ; two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs; foiu‘ eggs; half an ounce of parsley; half a teacupful of milk, and one table-spoonful of olive oil. Steep the beans several hours. in cold water; boil them in fresh water till quite soft; mash with the milk, and rub them through a fine colander; add the bread-crumbs, the parsley, chopped fine, the eggs, well beaten, the olive oil, salt, and pepper; pour the omelet into a buttered dish; bake it about au hour in a moderately hot oven, and serve with brown sauce. No. 59.—PORCEMEAT. Six eggs; two ounces of butter; half a pound of bread-crumbs; lialf an ounce of parsley; half an ounce of beets; quarter of an ounce of sweet leeks; quarter of an ounce of sweet marjoram, winter20 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. savoiy, and lemon-tliyme (mixed), and three table-spoonfuls of cream. Boil four eggs hard; take out the yolks, and mash them with the butter, adding the herbs and bread-crumbs; season with pepper, salt, and a little mace or nutmeg ; then add the cream, and two eggs well beaten; melt some butter in a tin; put in the force-meat and roast it before the fire in a Dutch oven, occasionally adding a little butter; when brown on one side, turn it over, and when sufficiently done, serve with browm sauce, part of which should he poured on the dish, and garnish with the whites of the eggs chopped small. The forcemeat may be baked in a pie dish, in a moderately hot oven. No. 60.—Bread and Parsley Fritters. Six ounces of bread, without crust; four eggs, and half an ounce of parsley. Pour as much boiling w'ater on the bread as will just soften it; cover with a plate, and let it remain an horn’; mash it well with a fork, taking out any hard pieces; add the parsley, chopped fine, and the eggs well beaten; season with pepper and salt; fi-y it in fritters, and serve with brown sauce. No. 61.—Carrot Fritters. Quarter of a pound of carrot; two ounces of bread-crumbs; two table-spoonfuls of cream, and two eggs. BoU, and mash the carrot till perfectly smooth; add the bread- crumbs and cream; season with pepper and salt; add the eggs well beaten, immediately before frying; fry in fritters, and serve with brown sauce. No. 62.—Egg Frittebs. Six eggs, and a quarter of an ounce of eschalot, or sweet leeks. Beat the eggs well, adding one table-spoonful of spring water, the eschalot, chopped fine, and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a frying-pan; pour in the eggs; fry them on both sides of a light brown colom-; cut them into squares, and serve with mint sauce.OMELETS AND FRITTEHS. 21 No. 63.—Forcemeat Fritters. Eight ounces of bread-crumbs; tlu-ee ounces of butter; four eggs; quarter of a pint of cream; one ounce of parsley; half an ounce of leeks, and quarter of an ounce of sweet maijoram, winter savoiy, and lemon-thyme, mixed. Rub the butter into the bread-crumbs; add the parsley, leeks, and herbs; season with pepper and salt; mix the whole together with the eggs, well beaten, and the cream; fry in fritters, along with two eggs, previously boiled hard, and sliced; place the eggs round the fritters, and serve with brown sauce poured over the whole, and currant jelly. No. 64.—Hominy Fritters. Half a pound of cooked hominy, and one table-spoonful of flour. 3Iix the flour with the hominy; season with pepper and salt; fry it with butter in fritters, and serve with brown or mustard sauce. Hominy, when cold, may be cut in slices, seasoned and fried as above, served in the same way, and garnished with crisped parsley. To prepare the hominy, first wash it thoroughly, and let it remain in water ten or twelve hours; pour the water away, and boil it quickly about three hours in fresh water, allowing about five pints to one pound of hominy; stir occasionally, and remove any light particles that may rise to the sm-face. If put into tlie oven in a covered earthen stew-pot, it may be cooked equally wcU, and when cold, can be used in various ways as required. No. 65.—Onion and Sage Fritters. Twelve ounces of onions; twelve ounces of bread-crumbs; two tea-spoonfuls of chopped sage (previously boiled a little); one tea- spoonful of chopped parsley; three eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Chop the onions; fry them with the sage till nicely brown; mix eight ounces of them with the bread-crumbs; add the parsley; season with pepper and salt; beat the eggs, adding the cream; mix allVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 22 together, and fry in fritters over a clear fire. Place the remainins four onnces of fried onion on the dish round the fritters, and serve with brown sauce and apple sauce. No. 06.—Onion and Sage Pritters. Five ounces of onions; one tea-spoonful of powdered sage; four eggs, and four ounces of bread-crumbs. Boil the onion in two waters, till soft; chop it small; add the powdered sage, a little pepper, salt, and the eggs well beaten; add the bread-crumbs; fry the whole in fritters, and serve with brown sauce and apple sauce. No. 67.—Potato Fritters. One pound of mashed potatoes; one ounce and a half of bread- crumbs, and five eggs. Boil the potatoes, dry them well, and mash them very fine; add the bread-crumbs; season with pepper and salt; put in the eggs well beaten; fry the fritters in butter, and serve with brown or mustard sauce. This quantity will make a large dish. No. 68.—Bice Fritters. Six ounces of rice, and five eggs. Boil the riee, tiU quite soft, in as much water as it wall absorb; put it in a basin, and ivhen nearly cold, add the eggs well beaten; season with pepper and salt; fry it in fritters of a light-brown colour, and serve with brown sauce. No. 69.—Ground Rice Fritters. Quarter of a pound of coarsely gi-ound rice; four eggs; a tea-spoon- ful of parsley, and a tea-spoonful of onions, both finely chopped. Boil the rice in about half a pint of water; let it cool about ten minutes; add the eggs and herbs; season with pepper and salt; fry the fritters in butter, and serve with brown sauce.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 23 No. 70.—Minced Fritters. Cut plain or herb fritters, when cold, in small square pieces; put them in a saucepan with some thin hrowTi sauce, and rather hard boiled eggs, cut small, allowing two to half a pint of fritters when cut; set the pan on the fire and stir it occasionally tiU it boils, and serve with toasted sippets. Cold omelet may he prepared in the same way.SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. No. 71.—Cakrot Pie. Carrots, and three ounees of butter. Fill a dish with earrots, half boiled, and eut in slices; season with pepper and salt; put in the butter, aud a little water; cover with paste, and bake it. No. 72.—Cucumber Pie. One Cucumber; two ounces of onion and butter. Pare and cut a large cucumber in pieces; take out the seeds, salt it well, aud drain it in a coarse sieve two hours; season with pepper and a little more salt, if required; add the onion, cut small, and a little butter; cover with paste, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven. No. 73.—Forcemeat Pie. One ounce of beets; one ounce of parsley; half an ounce of leeks; half a pound of bread-crumbs; two ounees of butter; five eggs, aud one ounce of tapioca. Rub the butter, and a dessert spoonful of flour, into the bread- crumbs ; add the herbs (chopped); season with pepper, salt aud a little mace; mix all together with two eggs well beaten; roll it into rather small balls, and lay them in a pie dish; steep the tapioca ten minutes in half a pint of water; poim it over the balls; add three eggs, boiled, and cut in small pieces; cover with paste, and bake it. It may be used either hot or cold. No. 74.—Mushroom Pie. Mushrooms; potatoes, and two ounces of butter. Peel the mushrooms, and if rather large, cut them in pieces; add about the same quantity of potatoes, pared aud' sliced; put them25 PIES AND PUDDINGS. in a pie Jisli with the hatter and a little water; season with pepper and salt; cover with paste, and bake it. Stew the parings and stalks of the mushrooms half an hour in water; then strain and pour it into the pie, when baked. No. 75.—Onion Pie. Onions; apples; quarter of an ounce of dried sage, and two ounces of butter. Cut the onions in two, boil five minutes, and chop them small, adding the sage; season with pepper and salt, and put them in a pie dish, with the butter and a little water. Prepare the apples as for sauce, with a little sugar; lay them over the onions, cover with paste, and bake it. No. 70-—Potato Pie. Two pounds of potatoes; two ounces of onions (cut small); one ounce of butter, and half an ounce of tapioca. Pare and cut the potatoes; season with pepper and salt; put them in a pie dish, adding the onion, tapioca, a few pieces of butter on the top, and half a pint of water; cover with paste, and bake it in a moderatly hot oven. A little celery or powdered sage may be added. No. 77.—Potato Pie. One pound and a half of potatoes; six ounces of turnips; two ounces of onion; one ounce of celery; one ounce of tapioca; oue ounce of butter, and three eggs. Parc and cut the potatoes and turnips; chop the white part of the celery and the onion; season with pepper and salt, adding the ta- pioca (previously steeped ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of cold water); mix all well together, adding a quarter of a pint more water, and the butter, cut in small pieces; cover it with a moderately thick paste, and bake in a rather quick oven. This may be served with thin hrown sauce, poured upon two or three boiled eggs, cut small, in a sauce tureen; or the eggs may be cut in small pieces and put in the pic.■STiGETAEIAN COOKERY. 2C No. 78.—Savoury Pie. SLv ounces of bread-criunbs; half an ounce of chopped onions, and four eggs. Moisten the bread witli four table-spoonfuls of cold water; add the eggs, well beaten; season with pepper and salt; mis all together; tie in a cloth, and boil it three-quarters of an hour; when cold, cut it in small square pieces; also two or three boiled eggs; add one ounce of tapioca (previously steeped in a tea-cupful of cold water ten minutes), a little more seasoning, and two ounces of butter, cut in small pieces; cover Avith paste, and bake it. A few small mushrooms may be added. No. 79.—Savoury Pie. Onion and sage fritters; mushrooms; three hai’d boiled eggs; two ounces of tapioca, and one ounce of butter. Melt a little butter in a pie dish; put in a few' mushi-ooms, cut in pieces; lay over them part of the tapioca (previously steeped ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of water); put in the fritters and eggs, cut in small pieces; add a little seasoning, and the butter; cover with paste, and balie it. No. 80.—Kaised Savoury Pies. The same ingredients as in either of the preceding receipts, and paste made as follows :— One pound of flom', and half a pound of butter. Melt the butter in a tinned pan with tlirec quarters of a pint of w'ater; add a little salt to the flour and the butter, skimmed from the top of the water, mixing it with the flour, adding as much of the water only as will make it into a stiff paste; keep the paste covered and warm near the fire, till required for use; roll it, and give it the required form with a wooden mould, or the lower part of a small jai'; fill in the ingredients; cover with paste; and bind the pic round with paper before baking. The pies may be brushed over with a little yolk of egg, just before they are set in the oven.PIES AND PUDDINGS. 27 No. 81.—Turnip Pie. One pound and a half of turnips; foiu' ounces of onions, and one ounce of butter. Piire and cut the turnips; season with pepper and salt, and put them in a pic dish, with the onions, about half boiled, and chopped, adding the butter and a little water; cover with paste, and bake it. IVhen baked, more butter and hot water may be added. No. 82.—Vegetable Pie. Carrots; turnips; onions; celery, and two ounces of butter. Cut the vegetables in pieces, put them in a pan with the butter, and very little water; season with pepper and salt; stew them over the fire, and when nearly tender, pour them into a pie dish; when cool, cover with paste and bake it. Mushrooms, peas, or lettuces may be substituted for any of the vegetables. No. 83.—Egg Patties. Boil some eggs five minutes; put them in water to cool; cut them as for egg sauce; seasou with salt, white pepper, and a little powdered mace; add a little white sauce, and bake in patties with puff paste. No. 84.—Bread Pudding with Onion. Half a pound of bread-crumbs; two ounces of onion; a tea-spoon- ful of sage; three quarters of a pint of milk, and two eggs. Mix the bread, sage, onion, pepper and salt, with the milli; add the eggs well beaten, and bake in a rather quick oven. No. 83.—Green Bean Pudding. One quart of full-grown mealy green beans; two table-spoonfuls of cream, and two yolks of eggs. Boil the beans tUl quite tender; peel and mash them fine with a little pepper and salt tUl quite smooth; add the cream and the yolks of eggs, weU beaten; boil it an hour in a basin that wiU just hold it, and serve with parsley sauce poured over it.28 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Two table-spoonfuls of spinach, boiled, and cut small; or, a little spinach juice added to the ingredients before boiling, will im- prove the colour. No. 86.—Groat Pudding. One pint of groats; four ounces of onion, one tea-spoonful of pow- dered sage; half a tea-spoonfid of marjoram, and two ounces of butter. Pick and well wash the groats; steep them twelve hours in cold water; pour off the water not absorbed, replacing it with fresh water; add the onion, chopped small, sage, marjoram, butter, pepper and salt, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 87.—Mushroom Pudding. One pint of mushrooms; half a pound of bread-crumbs; and two ounces of butter. Rub the butter in the bread-crumbs, adding pepper and salt, and as much water as will just moisten the bread; add the mushi-ooms, cut in pieces; line a basin with paste; put in the mixture; cover with paste; tie a cloth over, and boil an hour and a half. It is equally good when baked. • No. 88.—Onion Pudding. Half a pound of onions; half a pound of bread-crumbs; a tea- spoonful of dried sage; half a tea-spoonful of thyme, and two ounces of butter. Peel and cut the onions in two; boil them about ten minutes; drain away the water and chop them, but not very small; put them to the bread, with the herbs, and the butter, melted; season with pepper and salt, and boH it an hour and a quarter in a buttered basin. No. 89.—Onion and Sage Pasty. Three quarters of a pound of onions; two ounces of fresh sage; half an ounce of parsley, and one ounce of butter. Peel and cut the onions in two; boil them ten minutes; drain away the water, and chop them, adding the parsley, previously chopped small; season with pepper and salt; stii- in the butter; roll29 PIES AND PUDDINGS. out some pie paste; lay the herbs on one half, and turn the other over it; close it by pinching the edges together, and bake it in a rather quick oven. AVhcn baked, pour in two table-spoonfuls of boiling water through a funnel, making a small hole in the centre, and serve with brown sauce and apple sauce. No. 90.—Onions and Sage on Toast. Prepare the onions and sage as in receipt. No. 89, except boiling them only five minutes; cut them in small pieces; season with pepper and salt, and fry them in butter till tender, but not brown; lay them on buttered toast; pom’ a little brown sauce over, and serve with apple sauce.EGGS. No. 91.—Boiled Eggs. When put in cold water boil from two to three minutes; when in boiling water, from three to four minutes. No. 92.—Baked Eggs. Six eggs; one ounce of butter; and one table-spoouful of fine bread-crumbs. Melt the butter in a dish, browning it a little in the oven; break the eggs into a cup separately, and pour them earefuUy to the butter; bake them in the oven about five minutes, till the w'hite is set; sift the bread-crumbs, (previously browned) over the eggs, tlirough a tin drainer, and garnish with a wreath parsley. No. 93.—Baked Eggs. Eggs, milk, pai'sley, and butter. Beat the eggs well; to each egg allow two table-spoonfids of new milk; add a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; melt some butter in a dish; poim in the eggs, and bake immediately in a quick oven. If baked on a flat dish, they will be ready in a few minutes; if in rather a deep dish, they will require a bttle more time. No. 94.—Buttered Eggs. Six eggs; one ounce of butter; two table-spoonfuls of milk, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Melt the butter in a basin, placed in a pan of boiling water; addEGGS. 31 the milk, cream, white peiiper and salt, with the eggs w'ell beaten ; stir all well together till properly tliickened, but do not allow them to boil; place some slices of buttered toast, cut into two-inch squares, on the bottom of the dish, and pom’ on the eggs. No. 95.—Butteked Eggs with Spinach. Half a pint of milk and cream mixed; two ounces of butter; six eggs; half a peck of spinach, and four ounces of parsley. Set the milk, cream, and butter on tbe fii’c, adding white pepper and salt; when neai’ly boiling, pour gradually to the eggs, well l)caten and strained, stirring it wcU; return it into the pan, and stir constantly over a slow fire, till it becomes tliick, but do not allow it to boil; pour it on toast, and cut in squares. Drain the spinach and parsley, previously boiled, and squeeze between two large plates; press it into six or eight hot coffee cups; turn it out immediately on a separate disli, or round the eggs. The spinach should be kept quite hot till requu’cd. No. 96.—Eggs with Asparagus. Six eggs; two ounces of butter; half a hundred of aspai’agus, and four table-spoonfuls of cream. Beat the eggs well; put them in a stew-pan, with the cream, butter, salt, pepper, and the asparagus, previously boiled till tender, but not too soft, and cut in small pieces about the size of fine peas; stir all together on a slow fire, till it becomes thick, and serve imme- diately on toast, cut in small square pieces. No. 97.—Eggs, with Eorcemeat Balls. Half a pound of bread-crumbs; two eggs; two table-spoonfuls of cream; two ounces of butter; one ounce of parsley and leeks, mixed, and a quarter of an ounce of lemon-thyme, and winter savory, mixed. Rub the butter in the bread-crumbs, adding the herbs; season with Cayenne pepper, salt, and mace; add the eggs well beaten, and the cream ; roll it into balls; fry them in butter; lay them on a flat dish with four or five eggs, boiled and cut in two, and serve with brown sauce, part of which shoidd be poured on the dish, and ciu’rant jelly.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 32 No. 98.—Eggs vtth Sorrel. Boil Ihe sorrel till tender; strain and press out the water; set it on the fire in a saucepan with some butter, stirring it a few minutes, and lay it on buttered toast with poached eggs. Beets, or spinach, boiled with a little parsley, and chopped, may be used in the same way. Sorrel prepared in the same way, may he mixed with buttered eggs, and poured on toasted sippets. No. 99.—Eggs, with White Sauce and Parsley. Six boiled eggs; half a pint of new milk; two ounces of butter; a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, aud three table-spoonfuls of good cream. Set the milk on the fire; add a large tea-spoonful of flour, mixed with the butter, salt, white pepper, and a little pounded mace, stir- ring tiU it boils; simmer gently fifteen minutes; put in the parsley, cream, aud the eggs previously peeled and cut in two; set them on the fire, but do not let them boil; place the eggs on a dish with the ends upwards; pour on the sauce, and garnish with sippets. No. 100.—Eggs Fried in Forcemeat. Boil the eggs five minutes; put them in cold water and take off the shells; then cover with forcemeat, and fry them a nice brown; cut them in two, and serve with brown sauce and currant jelly. No. 101.—Eggs Fried in Paste. Six eggs; bread-crumbs, and butter. Boil the eggs four minutes; put them into water till cold; take off the shells carcfidly so as not to break the wliites; fold them uj) in slips of puff paste; brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle a few very fine bread-crumbs over them; put some butter in a pan, when quite hot; put in the eggs, fry them a nice light brown, and serve with brown sauce. No. 102.—Fried Eggs. Six eggs; and two ounces of butter.EGGS. 33 Melt the butter in the frying-pan; put in three of the eggs at once, breaking each separately into a cup; fry them till of a light brown eolour, pouring the butter occasionally over the yolks with the egg slice, and serve with brown sauce. No. 103.—Fried Eggs with Parsley. Seven eggs; half an ounce of dried parsley; half an ounce of flour. Boil the eggs si.v minutes; put them in cold water, and take off the shells; cut a part of the white off both ends of the eggs; slice each egg in three, and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a frying-pan and fry them a light brown; sprinkle the parsley and flour over them; turn them to brown lightly on the other side; place the eggs on a flat dish; add a little hot water to the butter; stir it over the fire, and pour it over the eggs. , No. 104.—Minced Eggs. Five eggs; three quarters of an ounce of flour; half a pint of new milk; one ounce of butter, and half an ounce of parsley. Boil the eggs hard, cool them in water, taking off the shells, and mince them; boil the milk; add the flour and butter, previously mixed togciher, and the parsley, chopped; season with pepper and salt, and boil it four or five minutes; then add the eggs and shake the whole frequently till thoroughly heated, but without stirring, and garnish with toasted sippets and lemon. No. 105.—Poached Eggs. Pour some boiling water from a tea-kettle (after standing a mi- nute or two to settle) into a broad stew-pan; put in a dessert-spoon- ful of salt, and a table-spoonful of vinegar; when the water boils, if any scum arise, skim it; take the pan off the fire; break the eggs separately into a cup, and slip them carefully into the water; cover the pan and place it over a very moderate fire, and when the water boils and the whites are properly set, take them up carefully with a slice; trim off the ragged part of the whites, and lay the eggs on squares of buttered toast. 3YEGETAUIAN COOKEKY. 31 No. lOG.—To Preserve Eggs for Boiling in the Shell. Take any quantity of frcsli laid eggs; boU them one minute and a half, and when wanted for use, boil them the usual time. No. 107.—To Preserve Eggs for 'Winter use. Put the eggs in a deep earthen jar or stew-pot in lime-water, with half a pound of salt in it. To prepare the lime-water, put four gallons of water to three pounds of slaked quick-lime in a covered vessel, and when clear it is ready for use. If covered with salt only, they keep very well. In preserving eggs, great care should be taken that the shells be perfectly free from cracks.MUSHROOMS. No. 108.—Uroiled Mushrooms. Peel some good sized mushrooms, and eut off the stalks; put them iu a tin with a small ])ieee of butter on eaeh ; season with pepper and salt, and let them remain in the oven till rather brown ou both sides; take out the mushi-ooms, pour a little water (in which the stalks and parings have been boiled) into the tin, and when boiling, pour it on the dish. No. 109.—Fried Mushrooms. Pare the mushrooms, which should be large ones, and put them in water, the brown side downwards; drain them carefully on a sieve or colander; lay them between two cloths till nearly dry; sprinkle them over wth salt and pepper, and fry them a light brown. No. 110.—Stewed Mushrooms. Wipe some large button mushrooms; boil them quickly in a little water; then let them stew gently twenty minutes, adding a piece of butter, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour, a little pounded mace, Cayenne pepper and salt; boil them, frequently shaking the pan round dmdng the time, and when done, add a little good cream. No. 111.—Mushrooms Baked in Cups. One pint of mushrooms; si.x eggs, and a quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley. Boil the stalks and parings of the mushrooms; strain the water from them, and put half a pint of it into a pau with the mush- rooms, well cleaned and chopped; add the parsley; season with pepper and salt, and let them boil gently over a slow fire or stove about half an hour; add the eggs well beaten, and mix all to- gether ; butter some smsdl cups; put in the mixture, and bake quickly ; tmrn them out on a dish, and serve with mushrooms, stewed white, or white sauce.VEGETABLES. All green vegetables should be as fresh as possible. Put them inlo cold water with some salt in it, for about ten minutes, to clear from soil or insects. If not quite fresh, let them remain in the water some time longer; drain in a colander, and put them into a pan with plenty of boiling water, adding salt, and a small piece of soda; cover the pan till boiling, but not aftenvards; then boil quickly, and cai'efuUy remove any scum which may rise. Do not allow them to j’emain in the water after they are done, hut immediately drain them in a colander, and finish each kind as directed in the receipts. Peas and spinach do not require so much water as most other green vegetables, hut only just sufficient to cover them. Cauliflowers and hrocoli require especial care in boiling, as the flow'cr is easily broken and their appearance spoiled; boil them quickly for a few minutes, and then moderately till tender, which may be easily ascertained by trying the stem with a fork. All vessels used iu cooking vegetables should be particularly clean. Soft, is preferable to hard water in cooking all kinds of vegetables. No. 112.—Jerusalem Artichokes. Wash and brush the artichokes, but do not peel them; boil them as potatoes; drain and peel them, and serve hot in a vegetable dish, with butter sauce poured over them. They may also be boiled and mashed as turnips, with a little cream, adding pepper and salt. No. 113.—Boiled Beet-root. Wash and brush the roots, being careful to avoid breaking off the fibres, to prevent the juice escaping, and spoiling the appear- ance and flavour; put them into a pan of boiling water, adding salt, and a small piece of soda; let them boil from one to two hours, according*to size; put them into cold water and rub off the skinVKGETABLES. 37 with the hand; cut them in slices; lay them neatly on a dish, and serve either with vinegar or mustai-d sauce. No. 114.—B.u\ed Beet-root. Wash the roots perfectly clean; hake them whole till tender; put them in cold water; rub off the skin with the hand; if large, cut into thin round slices, but if small, slice them lengthwise; place them on a flat dish; garnish with parsley, and serve with mustard sauce. No. 115.—Fried Beet-root. Prepare as in receipt No. 114; season with pepper and salt; fry the slices in butter; place on a flat dish, and garnish with parsley. No. 116.—Boiled Carrots. Wash and brush the carrots; boil them in plenty of water till quite tender, adding a little salt; rub off the slrin with a clean cloth; cut them in slices, and serve with butter sauce. No. 117.—Stewed Carrots. One pound and a half of carrots; one ounce of butter; quarter of an ounce of parsley; one tca-spoouful of flour, and four table-spooii- fuls of cream. About half boil the carrots; then scrape and slice them; put them into a pan with half a tea-cupful of vegetable broth, or water; add pepper and salt; let them simmer till quite tender, but not broken ; add the chopped parsley, and stir in the flour and butter, previously mixed; simmer them ten minutes longer; add the cream, and serve immediately. No. 118.—Fried Onions. Peel some large onions; cut them in slices; season with pepper and salt, aud fry them in butter, till nicely browned. No. 119.—Stewed Onions. Peel and slice the onions; put them into a dish with some butter, previously browned; set them in a moderately hot oven, and when38 VEGETAKIAN COOKEUY. they iU'c nicely browned, pour over them some rather thin butter sauce; season with pepper and salt, and let them stew a quarter of an hour longer. If the onions are strong, they should he boiled about five or sis minutes before they are stewed. No. 120.—Baked Parsnips. Scrape or pare the parsnips, and if large, eut them into quarters ; lay them on a flat baking dish; add a little water; dredge with flour and salt, and hake till soft, and slightly browned. A little butter may he put on the top just before sen'ing. No. 121.—Mashed Parsnips. Boil the parsnips in plenty of water, adding a little salt; when soft, take them out, scrape and mash them; put them into a sauce- ])an with a little milk or cream; stir them over the fire till thick- ened ; add one ounce of butter and a little salt; when the butter is melted, put them into a hot basin, and turn them out in a vegetable dish. No. 122.—Boiled Potatoes. Pare and wash the potatoes; put them into a pan with sufficient cold water just to cover them; add a little salt; let them hoU vciy gently, and when enough, or before they break, drain the water from them; sprinkle in a little salt, and hold them over the fii-e to dry, shaking the pan carefully, till the potatoes look dry and mealy- If not required immediately, lay a clean cloth closely over them, and put the cover on the pan. When potatoes have been affected by frost, let them remain in cold water twelve hours, and dissolve a small piece of saltpetre in the water in which they are to he boded. No. 123.—New Potatoes. When the potatoes are fresh gathered, the skin is best rubbed off with salt in a coarse cloth; wash very clean, and let them remain for about half an hour in salt and water; put them into a pan withVEGETABLES. 39 a.s much cold water as will just cover them; add a little salt; boil slowly till done; pour the water entirely away, and put a elean cloth closely over them, and also the eover on the pan; set them where they will keep hot, but be careful they do not burn, and serve with some small pieces of butter laid on the top. No. 124.—Mashed Potatoes. Parc and wash the potatoes; put them in a pan with cold water; boil slowly and carefully; dry and mash them with a potato-masher, till quite smooth, adding a little salt and hot new milk, with a little butter melted in it; beat them well with a fork; put them into a hot basin, and tiu-n them out on a vegetable dish. No. 125.—Baked Potatoes. AVash the potatoes, which should be good-sized ones; put them in the oven, and turn them occasionally till sufficcntly done. No. 12G.—Baked Potatoes. Pare the potatoes and put them in a pan with cold water; let them boil slowly till about half done; drain and dry them; brown some butter in a tin; put in the potatoes; sprinlde over a little salt, and bake them, tm'ning occasionally, till sufficiently done. No. 127.—Fried Potatoes. Parc and slice the potatoes; sprinkle with salt; dredge a little flour over them, and fi-y in butter, turning them several times. Cold boiled potatoes may be sliced and fried in the same way. No. 128.—Fried Potatoes with Onions. One pound and a haK of cold boiled potatoes ; three onions ; one ounce of chopped parsley, and three ounces of butter. Melt the butter in a frying-pan; put in the onions, sliced; fry them a light brown; add the potatoes, cut in thin slices; fry them till of a nice yellow colour, turning them occasionally, and then add the parsley, salt, and pepper. Cold boiled potatoes may also be prepared in the following way :—40 ■VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Slice them into a frying-pan ; and over a quart of potatoes, pour half a tea-cnpful of good cream ; sprinkle over a little salt; cover closely, and after they begin to boil, stir them occasionally till the pan is nearly di-y, but do not allow them to bium. No. 129.—Hashed Potatoes. Pour pounds of potatoes ; one table-spoonful of fine oatmeal; two ounces of butter; one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a quarter of an ounce of chopped leeks. Set a pint and a half of water on the fire, with the oatmeal, pepper, and salt; stir till it boils; then put in the potatoes, parsley, and leeks, and when nearly done, stir in the butter. A good sized onion chopped, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sage, may occasionally be used, instead of the seasoning herbs. No. 130.—Roasted Potatoes. Pare the potatoes, melt a little butter in a dish in the oven ; put in the potatoes; sprinkle them with a little salt; dredge a little flour over them; put them in 'a quick oven, and turn them frequently till they are enough. No. 131.—Stewed Potatoes. Cut the potatoes as for a pie; put them in a pan in layers, with a little chopped onion, pepper and salt, between each layer; put butter on the top, allowing about half an ounce to each pound of potatoes, and a quarter of a pint of water; cover the pan, and let them stew moderately about thirty or thirty-five minutes. No. 132.—Potatoes in Balls. Boil, and dry the potatoes in the usual way, and mash them quite fine, adding a little cream, pepper and salt, and a small piece of butter; roll them in balls with a little flour, and brown them with a little butter, in a Dutch oven, or fry them. Potatoes, when prepared as above, may be pressed into a basin, turned out, and browned before the fire.VEGETABLES. 41 No. 133.—SCORZONERA. Wash and scrape tlie scorzoncra, taking off the tops, ns with carrots; put it in cold water; tie in small bundles and boil in the same way as asparagus, and serve on toast with butter sauce. Salsify is prepared in the same way. No. 134.—Fried Scorzonera. Wash and scrape the scorzonera, taking off the tops as with car- rots ; boil it till tender; then dip it in batter (No. 206), and fry it; lay two or three of the roots together, and serve with brown sauce. No. 133.—Turnips. Pare and wash the turnips; cut them in slices and put them into a pan with as much cold water as will cover them; boil them, and when enough, pour them into a sieve and press the water well from them; mash them with some butter or good cream and a little salt, put them into a saucepan and stir over the fire two or three minutes; pour into a hot basin, and turn them out on a vegetable dish. No. 136.—Fried Turnips. Parc and wash some good firm turnips; wipe dry and cut them in rather thin slices ; season with pepper and salt; dredge with flour ; fry them till brown and tender, and serve with fried onions and brown sauce. No. 137.—Artichokes. Strip off a few of the outer leaves and twist off the stalks; lay them, with the leaves downwards, in cold water, with salt in it, for half an hour; wash and drain them well; put them into a pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small piece of soda; keep them covered with the water by placing a plate over that will fit inside the pan, or partly cover with the pan-lid, adding boiling water as re- quired ; boil about two hours; to try them, draw out a leaf, aud if it comes out easily, they are sufficiently done ; drain, place them in a vegetable dish, aud serve with butter-sauce in a boat.42 VKGETABIAN COOKEEY. No. 138.—Aspahagus. Cut o£f as mucli of the stalk as will leave the asparagus five or six inches long, scrape the remaining white part very clean, and as they are done, put them into fresh water; tie them in small even bundles; put them into boiling water and let them hoil till tender, but not soft; take them out with a slice into a sieve to drain, and place the aspar- gus neatly upon a thin toast previously dipped in the water and then laid on a dish, and serve immediately with butter sauce. No. 139.—Beans. In shelling the beans, take off the green ends, and when washed, drain them in a colander; put them into a pan with plenty of boiling water, adding salt; boil them till tender; drain in a colander, and serve with parsley sauce. No. 140.—French Beans. Cut off the ends and strip the strings from the sides; then, if small, cut the beans down the middle and across, but if large, cut in thin slices in a slanting direction, putting them in cold water; then put them into a pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small piece of soda; boil them till tender; drain in a colander, and serve with butter sauce. No. 141.—French Be.ans. String and cut them in slips; boil in plenty of water with salt in it, and when tender, drain them. Put two ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan, add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and half a pint of cream; set it over a slow fire; when hot, add a table-spoonful of vinegar and the beans, stirring with a wooden spoon; simmer five minutes, and serve quite hot. No. 142.—Stewed French Beans. Boil and drain the beans as in Keceipt No. 140; then put them in a saucepan with a little cream, flour, and butter, mixed together; season with pepper and salt, and stew them gently about ten minutes.43 VEGETABLES. No. 143.—Boiled Haricot Beans. IVash the beans; put them in fresh water, and let them steep for an hour or more; drain and put them into a pan of boiling water with an ounce of butter and some salt; let them boil till tender; serve with butter, pepper, and salt, or with butter sauce in a boat. No. 144.—Stewed Haricot Beans. One pint of beans; three ounces of butter; the juice of one lemon, and one ounce of parsley. Steep the beans two hours in cold soft water ; drain, and set them on the fire in two quarts of cold soft water, adding a salt-spoonful of salt, and one ounce of butter; when they boil, simmer them slowly two hours or more; put them into a stcwpau with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, and the lemon juice; set them on the fire a few minutes, and stir them well. No. 145.—Cabbage. Cut the cabbages in two, or if large, in four, and well wash and boil them quickly in plenty of water, adding salt and a small piece of soda; when about half done, drain them in a colander, and put them into fresh boiling water; when enough, drain and press the water away; chop them, adding a little butter, pepper and salt; put them into a hot basin, and turn them out on a vegetable dish. Savoys are boiled in the same way. No. 146.—Cabbage or Greens. Boil the cabbage as in Receipt No. 145 ; press out the water as dry as possible; aud when cold, chop it, but not too small; put one or two table-spoonfuls of cream in a sauciepan with a small piece of butter; add pepper aud salt, and when the butter is melted, stir in the cabbage or greens till perfectly hot. It would do quite as well to boil the cabbage the day before it is wanted. No. 147.—Greens, Sprouts, etc. Pick and wash the greens; drain in a colander; put them into aTEGETARIAN COOKERY. 41 pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small piece of soda; let them boil very quickly; when tender put them in a colander and press the water well from them; put them in a hot basin, turu them out on a vegetable dish, and serve with butter sauce. No. 148.—Stewed Red Cabbage. One red cabbage; one onion; one ounee of butter, and three table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Take off the outside leaves ; wash the cabbage well; cut it in thin slices, and pnt it in a pan of boiling water; add a little salt; when abont half boiled, drain the water entirely away, leaving the cabbage as dry as possible; then put it into a pan with a quarter of a pint of boiling water, the onion, ent in thin slices, and the butter; season with pepper and salt; let it stew gently tiU the cabbage is perfectly soft, and add the vinegar. No. 149.—Calecannon. BoU potatoes and greens, separately ; mash the potatoes; squeeze the greens dry, and then chop them quite fine and mix them with the potatoes, adding a little butter, pepper, and salt; pnt them into a well buttered mould, and let it stand in a hot oven five or six minutes ; turn it out, and serve in a vegetable dish. Cabbage or spinach may be used instead of greens. No. 150.—Cauliflowers. Cut off the stalks and lay the cauliflowers in salt and water for an hour ; put them into a pan of boiling water with salt, and bod them till the stalks are tender; take them out instantly; drain in a col- ander, and serve with butter sauce in a boat. Cauliflowers should be boiled quickly for five minutes, and then moderately, in order to prevent the flower being done before the stalk. Brocoli is boiled in the same way. No. 151.—Rried Cauliflower. Boil the cauliflower quickly for a few minutes; boil it gently till45 VEGETABLES. ncai-ly tender; drain it well; cut it in slices; dip them in batter (No. 206) ; fry them a light brown colour, and serve with brown sauce. Ko. 152.—Cauliflower with 'White Sauce. Boil the Cauliflower in milk and water till nearly tender ; separate it in small pieces and put it into a saucepan with white sauce, and cither a few small mushrooms or very small onions, previously boiled, aud serve with toasted sippets put round the dish. N'o. 153.—Fiiied Celery. Boil the celery till nearly tender; then divide the roots; dip them in batter (No. 206), and fry them in the same w'ay as the cauliflower. No. 154.—Stewed Celery. Si.v ounces of celery ; half a pint of new milk ; four table-spoonfuls of cream; half an ounce of flour, and one ounce of butter. Put the celery into cold water, with some salt; let it remain ten or fifteen minutes; wash and brush it clean, and boil it in milk aud water till tender, but not soft; drain it; divide the roots lengthwise, and cut them in pieces about one inch long. Set the milk on the fire ; add the flour and butter, mixed well together, and season with salt, white pepper and a very little powdered mace; stir it constantly till it boils ; then put in the celery; simmer it ten minutes; stir in the cream, and serve immediately. No. 155.—Stewed Cucumbers. One pound of cucumbers ; half a pound of onions; one ounce of butter, and one tea-spoonful of flour. After pceliug the cucumbers and onions, cut them in slices about the eighth of an inch thick, and fry them in butter till well browned ; then put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a jiiiit of hot water or Vegetable Broth (No. 35); season with pepper and salt; let them stew till quite soft; add the flour and butter, mixed well together, and boil gently five minutes.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 46 No. 156.—Hop Tops. Boil the young shoots of the hop in water, adding a little salt; when well done, drain and serve them on toast in the same way as asparagus. No. 157.—Sea Kale. The short thiek kale is the best. Trim it nicely and tie it in bundles; boil it in plenty of water with two ounces of salt; when tender drain it on a clean cloth; lay it neatly in a dish upon toasted bread, which should be previously dipped in the water, and serve with butter sauce. No. 158.—Stewed Lentils. One quart of lentils; three ounces of butter; one onion ; one table- spoonful of chopped eschalots, and a small bunch of parsley. Wash and steep the lentOs an horn" or two in cold soft water; set them on the fire in two quarts of cold soft water, with one ounce of butter, eschalots, the onion sliced, the parsley chopped, and a little salt; simmer on the fire about two hours ; drain in a sieve; put the lentils in a stewpau with two ounces of butter, mixed with a little flour; stir it well on the fii’e ; boil gently ten minutes, and serve on a flat dish with a border of mashed potatoes, or in a deep dish. No. 159.—Stewed Lentils. Two table-spoonfuls of split lentils; one carrot; one turnip ; three onions ; a root of celery, and some herbs. Boil the vegetables and herbs in three pints of water, three quarters of an hour; add the split lentils (previously soaked in half a pint of water); stew the whole a quarter of an hoiu, and serve with toasted bread. Either lentil flour, or split lentils, will do for the above receipts. No. 160.—Stewed Lettuce. Wash the lettuces; boil them in salt and water till tender; drain, and put them in cold water for half an hour; chop them fine and47 VEGETABLES. put them in a saucepan with a little fresh butter, adding pepper, salt, and a little cream, and stir till it boils. A little chopped onion may be added. No. 161.—Boiled Vegetable Markow. The marrows used for boiling should be rather small. Put them in a pan of boiling water; add some salt and a small piece of soda; boil till tender; cut them in slices, and serve with butter sauce. No. 162.—Mashed Vegetable Marrow. Peel, and cut the marrows in halves, sci’aping out the seeds ; then boil about twenty minutes, with salt in the water, and when soft, ilrain them well in a sieve ; wash them, and add a little butter or cream, pepper and salt; stir them in a saucepan on the fire tiU quite hot; put them in a basin, and turn them out on a vegetable dish. No. 163.—Baked Vegetable Marrow. One middle-sized maiTow; three eggs; one table-spoonful of bread-crumbs, and quarter of an ounce of parsley and leeks, mi.\cd. Half boU the marrow; peel and cut it in small pieces, taking out the seeds and pulp ; put it into a flat dish with some butter, melted; season with pepper and salt, and bake it about twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Beat the eggs well, adding the bread-crumbs, and the parsley, and leeks ; pour them over the marrow ; let it re- main in the oven tiU nicely browned, and serve with brown sauce. No. 164.—Baked Vegetable Marrow with Onions AND Sage, Pare and cut in two a good-sized marrow; scrape out the seeds and fibres; rub the marrow over inside and out with a little salt; let it drain an hour; fill up the halves with onions, previously boiled a little, and chopped with some sage ; add a little butter, pepper, and salt; close them, and tie together with a little tw'inc; butter a dish and bake in a moderately hot oven ; if not nicely browned, dredge it with a little flour, brown it in a Dutch or iVmeriean oven before the fire, and serve with brown sauce.48 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. The marrows may be prepared in the same way, using forcemeat instead of onions and sage. No. 165.—Fried Vegetable Marrow. One marrow ; one egg, and two ounces of bread-crumbs. Peel and cut the marrow in slices three-quarters of an inch thick ; let it drain fifteen minutes, and season it on both sides with pepper aud salt; then brush each slice with egg; sift the bread-crumbs over, and fry it in butter of a light brown on both sides; cook it in a tin in the oven till done, and serve on a drainer with crisped parsley and brown sauce. No. 166.—Boiled Green Peas. Put the peas into a pan of boiling water, adding a little salt, and let them boil quickly ; wheu they are done sufficiently, drain them in a colander, but not veiy dry; put them into a basin; stir in a piece of butter aud a dredge of flour, and keep them over hot water till they are required. If the peas are rather old, put a lump of sugar or a small piece of soda into the water in which they are boiled. No. 167.—Stewed Green Peas. \ One pint of peas ; two lettuces ; the yolks of two eggs; four spoon- fuls of cream, and one lump of sugar. Put the peas into a pan with a small tea-cupful of water; the let- tuces (which should be young), cut small, and a little salt; let them stew' gently till the peas are quite soft; then add the sugar; the beaten yolks of two eggs and the cream, and stir the whole wcU together a short time, but do not allow it to boil. No. 168.—Stewed Green Peas. One quart of peas; one lettuce; one onion, and one ounce of butter. Wash the vegetables; slice the onion and a good sized lettuce, and put them with the peas into a pan; add the butter, pepper, and49 VEGETABLES. salt; let them stew gently two hours, and add a little flour and butter mixed together. A little mint may he added. No. 109.—Green Peas with Cheese. One pint and a half of peas; quarter of a pint of new milk ; two table-spoonfuls of cream; one ounce of butter, and one ounce and a half of cheese. Put the milk, cream, and butter, with the cheese, grated, iu a saucepan on the fire; add a little Cayenne pepper; stir the whole till the butter and cheese arc dissolved; put in the peas; when well boiled and drained, stir it on the fii’e two minutes, and serve quite hot. French beans or cauliflower may be prepared in the same way. No. 170.—Stewed Dried Peas. One pint of peas, and one ounce of butter. Pick and wash the peas; steep them iu water twelve hours put them into a pan with just sufficient water to cover them ; add the butter and a tea-spoonful of salt; let them boil; afterwards stew gently till the peas are quite soft, and season with pepper, and more salt, if required. No. 171.—Spinach. Spinach requires more care iu picking and washing than most other vegetables; wash it several times; drain the water well away; put it into a pan of boiling water; add salt, and a very small piece of soda ; boil quickly and skim it; when quite tender, spread a clean cloth over a colander; pour in the spinach, and squeeze the water well from it; chop, and put it into a saucepan with a little butter and salt; stir it on the fire one or two minutes; put it on a hot flat dish; put another hot dish over it to smooth the siu’facc; cut or mark it in squares, and serve immediately. Poached or fried eggs may be served with the spinach, placing one on each square. Beets (the green tops of white beet-root,) boiled with some pars- ley, may be cooked in the same way as the spinach. 450 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 172.—Stewed Spinach. Half a peck of spinach; one ounce of butter, and four table- spoonfuls of cream. Pick and wash the spinach well; put it into a pan with a small tea-cupful of boiling water, and a table-spoonful of salt; boil it gently till tender; pour it into a sieve to drain, pressing out the water; then beat it in a bowl with a wooden spoon, or potato- masher ; return it into the pan; add the butter and cream; season with pepper and salt, and serve with sippets of toasted bread, and a few poached eggs. No. 173.—Stewed Spinach and Sorrel. Prepai’e the spinach as in receipt No. 171, with one fourth part of sorrel; cut them a little and let them boil gently till they become soft and almost liquid; then let them stew at a moderate distance over the fire one hour, stirring occasionally; add flour and butter, mixed together; season with pepper and salt, and serve with sippets of toast, and fried eggs. No. 174.—Stexved Watercress. Put the cress in strong salt and water to clear it from insects; pick and wash it well; stew in water about ten minutes; drain and chop it; season with pepper and salt; add a little butter; return it to the stew-pan and let it remain on the fire till well heated; add a little vinegar just before serving, and garnish with sippets. No. 175.—Hominy. Boil one pound of hominy in five pints of water till soft; when drained as dry as possible, put it into a vegetable dish; add a httle butter, pepper, and salt, and serve immediately. No. 17c.—Macaroni. Five ounces of macaroni; half a pint of new milk; half an ounce of flour, and half an ounce of butter. Break the macaroni in pieces about two inches long; wash, and steep it half an hour; boil it till tender in salt and water, adding the51 VEGETABLES. butter; boil the milk and thieken it with flour; pour it over the boiled macaroni; season with white pepper and salt, and garnish with toast sippets, and lemon. The Naples macaroni, which is the thickest kind, does not require to be steeped. No. 177.—Rice with Onions. Pick, and wash the rice in warm water; (brain, and put it in a quart pan with a pint and a half of boiling water, two onions chopped fine, and a little salt; place it on the fire with the lid on, and in about fifteen minutes the rice will have absorbed all the w'ater; take it off the fire (as it is liable to burn if left on after the water is absorbed), and place near the fire ten minutes longer. No. 178.—Rice. Pick, and wash in warm water a pound of the best rice ; set it on the fire with two quarts of boibng water and a small tea-spoonful of salt; boil it till about three parts done (fifteen minutes), and drain it in a sieve immediately. Butter a pan; put in the rice; place the lid on tightly; set it on a trevet in a moderate oven till the rice is perfectly tender, and serve in a vegetable dish. Prepared in this way every grain will be separate and quite white.SAUCES. No. 170.—Api’le Sauce. Six apples; butter, and sugar. Prepare the apples as for a pie; put them in a saucepan with a table-spoonful of water; cover the pan and set it over a moderate fire till the apples are soft; drain the water from them and stir in a little butter and moist sugar. They will do equally well if put into a basin, covered with a plate, and set in the oven. No. 180.—Bread Sauce. Four ounces of fine bread-crumbs; half an ounce of onion; a blade of mace; one dozen of white pepper-coras; half a pint of water; one ounce of butter, aud three or four table-spoonfuls of good cream. Cut the onion in thin slices; set it on the fire with the water, mace, and pepper; boil till the onion is quite soft; strain the water on the bread-crumbs; cover with a plate, and when quite cool, mash it and put it in a saucepan with the butter, cream, and a small salt- spoonful of salt; mix the whole weU together, and simmer till quite hot. No. 181.—Brown Sauce. Two ounces of butter, and one ounce of flour. Melt the butter in a frying pan, or saucepan; add the flour, stir- ring tiU it is of a brown colour; add as much boiling water as will make it the thickness of cream, and season with pepper aud salt. No. 182.—Butter Sauce (melted butter). Two ounces of butter; one large tea-spoonful of flom’, and two table-spoonfuls of milk. Cut the butter in small pieces that it may melt more readily; put it in a clean block-tin saucepan (kept for the purpose); add theSAUCES. 53 flour and milk, well mixed, and about a quarter of a pint of water; shake it round the same way over the fire till at the point of boiling; let it stand one or two minutes off the fire; boil it up, and it will then be ready. It should be about the thickness of good eream. Milk mixes with the butter much better than water alone. If the butter sauce should be oiled, which it is desirable to avoid, put in a spoonful of cold water, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; if very much oUed, pour it from one vessel to another, till it becomes right. No. 183.—Butter Sauce. Three ounces of butter; one table-spoonful of flour; three quar- ters of a pint of water; a dessert-spoonful of vinegar; a salt-spoonful of salt, and one-eighth as much fine white pepper. IMix the flour and two oxmees of butter together; set it on the fire in the saucepan with the water, constantly stirring it the same way till at the point of boiling; add the vinegar, salt, and pepper; stir it well, and pass it through a tin strainer; return it into the pan; add an ounce of butter, and stir it till melted over a moderate fire, but do not allow it to boil. No. 184.—Celery Sauce. Two roots of celery; one small onion; one ounce of flour; one ounce of butter, and quarter of a pint of cream. Clean and cut the celery and onion rather small; stew them in a pint of water, till quite tender; stir in the flour and butter, previ- ously mixed together till the butter is quite melted, adding pepper and salt; simmer gently a quarter of an hour; tlien rub it through a tin strainer with a wooden spoon; return it into the pan ; add the cream, and stir it on the fire till it boils. It should be about the same consistency as onion sauce (No. 196). No. 185.—Cream Sauce. Half a pint of cream; one tea-spoonful of arrow-root, and one table-spoonful of milk.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 54 lo a small tea-spoonful of arrow-root, or potato-flour, add a tabic- spoonful of cold milk; rub it smooth with a wooden spoon; add gradually the boiling cream; when well mixed, season ivith pepper and salt; stir it over the fhe till it just boils, and serve immediately. 'I’his sauce may be used with asparagus, or any other boiled vege- tables, as a substitute for butter sauce. No. 186.—Cream Sauce tor Puddings. Half a pint of cream; one tea-spoonful of arrow-root or potato- floiu’, and one table-spoonful of miUi. To the arrow-root add the milk, cold; rub smooth, and add gra- dually the cream, previously boiled; when well mixed, stir it on the fire tin it boils, adding sugar and almond flavour, or lemon peel, and serve immediately. No. 187.—Cucumber Sauce. Two ounces of butter; one dessert-spoonful of flour; two ounces of pickled cucumbers, and tw'o table-spoonfuls of cream. Put the flour and butter in a saucepan, with two table-spoonfuls of water; add pepper and salt, when it boUs, put in the cucumber, cut very small; let it stew gently about five minutes, and then stir in the cream, or two table-spoonfuls of brown sauce. No. 188.—Curry Sauce. Stu’ a little curry powder into either brown or butter sauce. No. 189.—Egg Sauce. Six eggs; one-third of a pint of butter sauce; three table-spoon- fuls of cream, and one ounce of bntter. Boil the eggs quickly, five minutes; then put them in cold water, and when cool, peel and cut them in small pieces. Boil the butter sauce with the cream, gently five minutes, adding a little white pepper and salt; then add the eggs; shako the pan round over the fire till the eggs arc quite hot; stir in the butter carefully, till it is melted, and serve in a sauce tureen.SAUCES. 55 No. 190.—Fennel Sauce. Boil an equal quantity of parsley and fennel till tender; drain the water well away, and chop it very fine, and put it into butter sauce just when it is wanted. No. 191.—GoosEBERRy Sauce. Pick and wash some gooseberries; set them on the fire in cold water; let them simmer very carefully till tender ; drain the water well away; put them into some butter sauce, sweetened with moist sugar; add either a little juice of sorrel, or boiled parsley, very finely chopped, or use the sweetened butter sauce alone. No. 192.—Horse-radish Sauce. Four table-spoonfuls of grated horse-radish; two tea-spoonfuls of mi.ved mustard ; one tea-spoonful of sugar, and one small salt-spoon- ful of salt. Mix all together, and add as much vinegar as will just cover the ingredients. No. 193.—Mint Sauce. Wash and chop small, some young mint; put it in a sauce-boat with as much vinegar, well sweetened, as will cover it. The leaves of mint, when nicely dried, and the colour well pre- served, may be substituted, where fresh mint cannot be obtained. They should be rubbed small, but not powdered; then, moistened with a little boiling water, and closely covered ten minutes before adding the sweetened vinegar. No. 194,—Mushroom Sauce. Half a pint of small mushrooms; half a pint of new mUk ; one ounce of butter, and a small table-spoonful of flour. Pick and wash the mushrooms; put them on the fire with the milk ; let them stew gently half an hour; mix the butter and flour together; stir it well in, adding a little pepper and salt; simmer them ten minutes; then add a table-spoonful of cream, and strain it into a sauce tureen.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 5G No. 195.—Mustard Sauce. Rut) a tea-.spoonful of mustard quite smooth with a table-spoonful of vinegar; add a little pepper and salt, and stir it in some butter sauce. No. 196.—Onion Sauce. One pound of Spanish onions; one ounce of butter; half an ounce of flour, and quarter of a pint of cream. Peel and cut the onions, if large, in quarters; lay them in spring water a quai’ter of an hour; boil them in fresh water a quarter of an hour; pour off the water and cover them with fresh boiling water; boil tiU tender; drain the water from them through a sieve; chop them quite fine, and rub them through a coarse hair sieve, or a fine tin colander. Mix the flour and butter together ; set it on the fire in a clean saucepan; when the butter is melted, put in the onions and cream with salt, and a little white pepper; stir it on the fire tiU quite hot, and add a little more cream or milk, if required. No. 197.—Onion Sauce. Pour middle sized onions; one small tabic-spoonful of flour; quar- ter of an ounce of butter, and half a pint of new milk. Boil the onions tiU quite soft; chop them ; add the other ingre- dients, and stir the whole over the fhe tiU it boils. No. 198.—Parsley Sauce. 'Wash and pick some parsley ; put it into a saucepan with half a pint of boiling water, and a tea-spoonful of salt; let it boil seven mi- nutes ; drain and press the water from it; chop it fine ; put it into a sauce-boat, and add, by degrees, about half a pint of butter sauce. No. 199.—A Prench Sauce. One ounce and a half of butter; two ounces of carrot, turnip, oniou, and eschalots, together; one tea-spoonful of flour; one table- spoonful of vinegar, and half a salt-spoonful of white pepper. Put the butter and vQgetablcs, cut small, into a saucepan, with a sprig of thyme, stirring them on the fire till a little browned; mix57 SAUCES. the flour quite smooth with half a pint of water ; stir it in the vege- tables till it boils; then add the vinegar, pepper, aud salt; simmer slowly half an hour; skim, and strain it. A few mushrooms may be added to the vegetables. No. 200.—Salad Sauce. Two eggs; one table-spoonful of eream; two table-spoonfuls of fine oil; one tea-spoonful of powdered sugar; one tea-spoonful of mixed mustard; one tea-spoonful of salt, and tlmee table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Boil the eggs ten minutes; put them in cold water three minutes; take out the yolks and rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, adding the oil, or butter melted, and the eream; mix well to- gether with the sugar, salt, and mustard ; then add the vinegar, very gradually, aud stir the whole till completely ineorporated. No. 201.—Sauce for Cold Omelets. Half an ounce each of eschalots, parsley, and onions; the yoUcs of two eggs; two table-spoonfids of olive oil; two table-spoonfuls of vinegar; one small tca-spoouful of mustard, and one tea-spoonful of salt. Cut small and pound in a mortar the parsley, onions, eschalots, and the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard; rub all together through a small tin strainer; then stir in the vinegar, oil, salt, and mustard, with a wooden spoon, and serve in a sauce-boat. No. 202.—Sauce for Puddings. To half a pint of butter sauce, add two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, with sugar and grated nutmeg, or four table-spoonfuls of raspberry vinegar. No. 203.—Tom.vto Sauce. Take off the stalks, and cut in two, ten or twelve tomatoes; squeeze them a little to get out the w'ater and seeds ; then put them in a jar with a capsicum and three talile-spoonfuls of water; cover, and set58 VEGETAUIAN COOKERY. them in a moderately hot oven till quite soft; rub them through a sieve into a saucepan, adding a little salt and white pepper; simmer over the fire a few minutes, and serve in a sauce-tureen. Another way is to add to the pulp a dessert-spoouful of flour, or a table-spoonful of fine bread-crumbs, and three table-spoonfuls of hot water; stew gently ten minutes; take it off the fire, and stir in two ounces of butter, till quite melted, and serve as above. No. 204.—White Sauce. Half a pint of mushroom broth ; quarter of a pint of new milk; half an ounce of onion; a blade of mace; one ounce of flour; one ounce and a half of butter; juice of a lemon; two yolks of eggs, and four table-spoonfuls of good cream. Set the milk and mushroom broth on the fire with the onion, cut in pieces, and the mace, and boil ten minutes; stir the flour and butter, previously mixed, well in till it boils; let it stand near the fire or stove, stirring it occasionally, till it becomes quite smooth; then pass it through a fine tin strainer; return it into the pan, with a little salt, and the juice of a small lemon; beat the yolks of the eggs, and add the cream; strain it into the sauce, and stir it over a moderate fire, but do not let it boil, or it will cm'dle. A very good white sauce may be made by putting a few mush- rooms, previously rubbed through a sieve, into some butter sauce, adding a little cream and seasoning powder (No. 214). When sauces are finished with eggs, use only the yolks, and mix them first with a spoonful or two of the sauce; then with the whole, off the fire; when well mixed, set the pan on the fire, stirring it constantly till near boiling, but on no account allow it to boil after the eggs are put in. No. 205.—White Sauce por Vegetables. One dessert-spoonful of arrow-root or potato-flour, and half a pint of milk. Moisten the arrow-root with a little cold water; pour on the milk, boiling; stir quickly, and season with pepper and salt.SAUCES. 59 No. 20G.—Batter used ix Frying Vegetables. Two eggs; quarter of a pound of floiu', and one tea-cupful of water. Beat the eggs with the flour till quite smooth, adding the water, and season with pepper and salt. It should be rather thick, or it will not adlicrc to the vegetables. No. 207.—Browning. Put two ounces of powdered white sugar into a saucepan, over a slow fire ; when beginning to melt, stir it with a wooden spoon till getting black; set it in a rather cool oven, upon a trevet, for about twenty minutes; pour a pint of cold water upon it, and let it dissolve. Keep it in small bottles in a cool, but dry place, to use as required. It will not keep more than a few weeks. No. 208.—Oiled or Clarified Butter. Put any quantity of butter in a clean saucepan over a clear slow fire; watch it carefully, and when melted, take off the scum from the top, let it stand two or three minutes to settle; then poui’ the cleai' butter through a fine sieve into a basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the pan. Butter, thus purified, will supply the place of olive oil, and is fre- quently preferred, either for salads or frying. No. 209.—Brown Thickening. Put the butter, which should be either fresh or clarified, into a saucepan, over a slow, clear fire; when melted, stir in with a wooden spoon two ounces of browned flour, constantly stirring it till quite smooth, and of a yellowish light brown. This must be done very carefully and patiently; if it be put on too hot a fire, and done too quickly, it will become bitter, or if it should have any bmmt smell or taste, it wiU spoil every thing it is put into; a large table-spoon- ful will generally be sufficient to thicken a quart of sauce. Keep it covered in an earthem jar for use; it will keep well a fortnight in summer, and longer in winter.60 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Tlie BROWNED FLOUR is easily prepared, by spreading some flour on a tin or flat dish, and plaeing it in a Dutch oven before a mode- rate fire, turning it frequently till equally browned. The WHITE THICKENING for white soups and sauces is prepared as above, using fine flour without being browned, stirring it over a cleai" slow fire a quarter of an hour, but not allowing it to brown. Keep it covered in a jar. No. 210.—Spinach for Colouring. Take any quantity of spinach; pound it in a mortar to extract the juice ; squeeze it through a thin cloth ; put it iu a saucepan over a slow fire, and when just ready to boil, talie it off and strain it. By stirring iu a small quantity of this juice, it will give any sauce or soup a green colom’. No. 211.—Curry Powder. Three ounces of coriander seed; three ounces of turmeric; one ounce each of black peppei’, mustard, aud ginger; half an ounce each of mace, cloves, and lesser cardamoms, and quarter of an ounce each of cummin seed and Cayenne pepper. Put the ingredients in a cool oven aU night; pound them in a marble mortar; rub them through a hafr sieve, and keep in a bottle well corked. No. 212.—Mushroom Powder. Wipe the mushrooms quite clean ; diy them iu a Dutch oven be- fore the fire, but not too near, till perfectly crisp aud dry; then pound them in a mortar, and sift the powder through a fine sieve. Keep it in a dry place in glass bottles, well corked. No. 213.—To dry Mushrooms. Take off the ends of the stalks; wash the mushrooms and boil them for a moment in Water; well drain, and lay them between two cloths till the water is absorbed, and put them on sheets of paper in a cool oven to dry. Keep them in paper bags in a di-y place.61 SAUCES. No. 214.—Seasoning Powdek. Lemon thyme, sweet basil, marjoram, winter savoury, and si.v bay leaves; half an ounce of cloves; half an ounce of all-spice ; half an oimcc of mace ; quai'ter of an ounce of Cayenne, and one ounce of whole black pepper. Dry the ingredients on paper before the fire; pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve. Keep the powder closely corked iu a bottle. No. 215.—IIeuh Powder for Soups, etc. Two ounces each of parsley, winter savoury, sweet marjoram, and lemon thyme; one ounce each of lemon-peel and sweet basil; six bay leaves, and half an ounce of eelery seed. Pick the leaves of the herbs from the stalks; diy them on white paper in a Dutch oven before a moderate fire. Pare the lemon-peel very thin; well dry it and pound in a mortar; pound the celery seed ; rub .all the herbs well, and pass the whole through a hair sieve. Keep it in a bottle closely corked. No. 216.—To Mix Mustard. Rub out the lumps of the mustard with the back of a spoon ; add boiling water very gradually; also a little salt, and beat it till per- fectly smooth. If cream or new milk be used instead of water, it is much milder; a salt-spoouful of sugar may then be added. No. 217.—Crisped Parsley. Pick and wash young curled parsley; dry it in a cloth ; spread it on a sheet of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the fire, and turn it frequently till it is quite crisp. It may also be nicely crisped by spreading it on a dish before the fire, putting small pieces of butter upon it, and turning it frequently with a fork. No. 218.—To Dry Herbs. All herbs are in the highest state of perfection just before they02 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. begin to flower; take care to gather them on a dry day, as they will then be a better colour when dried; cut off the roots and cleanse them well fi’om dirt and dust; separate the branches into smaller ones, and dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a Dutch oven be- fore the fire (the flavour and colour will thus be better preserved than by drying them in the sun,) and take care, at the same time, not to broivn them. To preserve .all aromatic herbs, pick off the leaves as soon as they arc dried; rub or pound them, and put them through a hair sieve, or a fine tin striiiner, and keep them in bottles closely corked. This is preferable to the common practice of keeping them in paper bags. Basil is in the best state for drying from the middle of August, and three weeks after. Sweet Marjoram : the whole of July. Winter and Summer Savoury : the latter part of July and August. Lemon and Orange Thyme : June and July. Parsley, Fennel, and Chervil : May, June, and July. Sage ; August and September. Tarragon and Burnet : June, July, and August. No. 219.—To Keep Green Peas. Gather the peas on a fine day, and after shelling, put them into clean dry bottles ; cork and cement them, and keep in a cool Ary place.PREPARATIONS OP CHEESE. No. 220.—Cheese and Macaroni. Quarter of a pound of cheese ; two ounces of macaroni, and half a tea-cupful of cream. Wash the macaroni and let it steep half an hour in cold spring water; cover with a plate and set it in a moderate oven, or on a stove till the macaroni is tender, hut not soft; drain it in a colander, and put it in a disli with a little butter, salt, aud white pepper, add- ing the cream; cover it with good toasting cheese, cut in thin slices, without crust; set it in the oven, and if not lightly browned in ten minutes, set it in a Dutch oven before the fire for one or two minutes. No. 221.—Macaroni and Parmesan Cheese. Quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni; three ounces of Parmesan cheese; two ounces of butter, and one table-spoonful of good cream. Boil the macaroni in a quart of water, adding a small piece of butter, a little salt aud white or Cayenne pepper; wlien tender, drain it in a colander and cut it in pieces about two inches long; then put it into a saucepan with the Parmesan, or any mild good cheese, grated, the butter, the cream, and a little pepper; stir, or rather shake it over a brisk fire, and when the whole is well incorporated, serve immediately. No. 222.—Fondue. Half a pound of good toasting cheese; three eggs; half an ounce of butter; quarter of a pint of new milk, and three ounces of bread- crumbs. Boil the milk and pour it upon the bread-crumbs; cover it with a plate for a quarter of an hour; stir in the butter ; the cheese, grated, and the yolks of three eggs, well beaten ; mix all well together, and just before it is put in the oven, add the whites of the eggs, wellVEGETARIAN COOKERY. C4 beaten ; bake in a mould in rather a hot oven ; when done, turn it out on a dish, and serve immediatelj\ No. 223.—Cheese and Onions. Haifa pound of good cheese; four ounces of onions, and half an ounce of butter. Peel and chop some Portugal onions; melt the butter in a dish; put in the onions with a little pepper and salt; cover, and set them in the oven to stew ; w'hen tender, but not soft, spread on a flat dish and cover them with good toasting cheese, cut in thin slices, without crust; toast it quickly, and serve immediately. If the common onions be used, they should be cut in two, and boiled a few minutes. No. 224.— Cheese and Onions. Half a pound of cheese, and four ounces of onions. Slice the onions very thin; put them on a dish with a little water, adding pepper and salt; cover, and set them in the oteu till tender; lay the cheese in thin slices over them, and toast aU together in the oven tiU the cheese is melted, and serve immediately. No. 225.—Potted Cheese. One pound of cheese; three ounces of butter, and one tea-spoonful of mixed mustard. Grate the cheese and mix it with the other ingredients; add a little mace and Cayenne pepper; beat all together with a potato-masher; put it into small jars, and pour clarified butter over it. Keep it in a dry place. No. 220.—Potted Cheese. One pound of good cheese; half a pound of Parmesan ; two table- spoonfuls of salad oil; two table-spoonfuls of vinegar; three of ‘Wor- cestershire sauce, and one tea-spoonful of mixed mustard. Pound the cheese, adding the Parmesan, grated ; moisten with oil, vinegar, and Worcestershire sauce; season with mustard, Cayenne, and white pepper; mix all well together; put it into small broad jars, and pour clarified butter over it.PREPARATIONS OF CHEESE. 5 C5 No. 227.—Roasted Cheese. Three ounces of rich cheese; the yolks of two eggs ; four ounces of bread-crumbs; three ounces of butter, and one dessert-spoonful of mustard. ■When the yolks of the eggs have been well beaten, put in the cheese, grated, and the other ingredients, adding a little pepper and salt, and beat aU well together; toast a slice of bread, cut it in square pieces, and lay them on a flat dish ; spread the mixture thickly over; cover it with a tin cover, and set it in a Dutch oven before the fire till hot through ; then remove the cover that the cheese may browu a little, and serve immediately. No. 228.—Cheese on Toast. Toast a slice of bread (about half .an inch thick) on both sides; cut off the crust; put it on a flat dish, and .butter it; bay a rather thin slice of good toasting cheese upon it, and toast it before the fii’c in a Dutch oven. No. 229.—Cheese Turnovers. RoU some puff paste about one eighth of an inch in thiclcness; cut it in pieces two or three inches broad, and four or five long; lay some small pieces of good toasting cheese on each; turn the paste over, and close it, and bake in a quick oven. They may be served either hot or cold.SANDWICHES. No. 230.—Beet-koot Sand-\vicues. Prepare the beet-root as in No. 113, and lay it between slices of bread and butter, adding a little mustard. Vegetable marrow prepared as in No. 1G5, may be used in the same way. No. 231.—Cheese Sandwiches. Take two thirds of good eheese, grated, and one third of butter; add a little ereani and a small portion of mixed mustard; pound all together in a mortar; then spread it on sUces of bread; lay another slice over each; press them gently together, and cut in small square pieces. No. 232.—Egg Sandwiches. Boil fresh eggs six minutes; put them in cold water, and when quite cold, peel them, and after taking a little of the white off each end of the eggs, cut the remainder in four slices; lay them between bread and butter, and add salt and a little white pepper or mustard. No. 233.—Fried Egg Sandwiches. Beat some eggs well; season with pepper and salt; fry them in butter as a pancake; when cold, cut in small square pieces, and lay them between bread and butter. No. 234.—Omelet Sandaviciies. Four eggs; two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, and half an ounce of chopped parsley. After heating the eggs well, add the bread-crumbs, parsley, and two table-spoonfuls of water ; season with pepper and salt, and fry it in small fritters, and when cold, put them between bread and butter, adding a little mustard.SALADS. No. 235.—Mixed Salads. Salads are cliicfly composed of lettuce, mustard, eress of vaidous kinds, sorrel, parsley, green onions, the tops of young spinaeh, corn salad, mint, endive, celery, radislies, young beets, hoiled beet-root, water-cresses, etc. All, or any of tbem sliould be fresh gathered, and when nicely trimmed, repeatedly washed in salt and water, and well drained. The smaller salads shoidd be put in a clean cloth and lightly shaken, but not pressed. Tliey should then be an-auged in a salad bowl; the lettuces are generally eut lengthwise, and placed round the bowl; the celery, also divuded, put in the centre, and the smaller salads, such as radishes, mustard and cress, placed between. 'When salad sauce or dressing is used, it should not be mixed with the salad, but put in the bowl first, the salad cut in small pieces and laid lightly over it, and the top ornamented with the boiled whites of eggs cut in rings, and slices of boiled beet-root; or the sauce may be served separately. No. 230.—Potato Salad. Cut cold boiled potatoes in rather thin slices; put them into a salad bowl with a tea-spoouful of chopped parsley, half a tea- spoonful of eschalots cut very fine, two table-spoonfids of oil, two of cream, and two of vinegar-; season with a little pepper and salt, and toss all carefully together without breaking the potatoes. Cold haricot beans, French beans, and lentils, may be used in the same way. No. 237.—Winter S.alad. Cut some cold boiled or baked beet-root and a boiled onion in thin slices ; add the inside part of two roots of celery cut in small jrieces, and some scraped horse radish. To two table-spoonfuls of cream, add one of fine oil, one tea-spoouful of brown sugar, one of salt, one ofVEGETARIAN COOKERT. 08 mixed mustard, one table-spoonful of Worcesfersliire sauee, two of vinegar, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and a very little Cayenne, and when well incorporated, mix with the salad. No. 238.—Cucumber. Parc the cucumber and cut it in thin slices into a basin of spring water; when taken out of the water, sprinkle it with salt, and drain it between two plates ; lay it on a dish, adding pepper and vinegar, or serve ivith salad sauce. No. 200.rUDDINGS. In the preparation of puddings it is essential to have all the ingre- dients perfeetly good of their kind. If there be any doubt of the freshness of eggs, they should always be broken separately in a eup, to prevent any being needlessly wasted, as one bad egg would render all the rest with which it was mixed, useless. Batter puddings, when mixed, should be j’iissed through a tin strainer, or coarse sieve. Eggs, when used for other puddings, should be strained after they are beaten. The basins, or moulds in which puddings are to be boiled, should be buttered; the pudding then poured in, and after having a cloth tied tightly over it, be put into the pan immediately. When a cloth only is used, it should be dipped in hot water, and when squeezed dry, be spread over a basin and dredged with flour; the pudding should then be poured in, and if batter, be tied closely, but if bread, it is requisite to allow a little more room. The water should boU quickly, when the pudding is put in, and be kept con- stantly boiling the whole time. \Mien the pudding is taken out of the pan, it should immediately be dipped in cold water; this will chill the outside, and allow the cloth to be removed without injuring the surface. The most convenient way to dish a pudding is to place it with the cloth in a basin ; then open the cloth, and lay the face of the dish upon the pudding; turn the whole over, take off the basin, and re- move the cloth. All puddings should be boiled in plenty of water, so as to allow them sufficient room to move freely, and prevent the ingredients separating. When a pudding is boiled in a cloth, a plate should be placed at the bottom of the pan, but when a basin or mould is used, this precau- tion is not requisite.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 70 The cloths used for puddings should be of tolerably fine linen; they should always be carefully washed after being used, and be perfectly dry when put away. No. 239.—Almond Pudding. Six ounces of sweet almonds; quarter of a pound of butter; quarter of a pound of sugar; one pint of cream ; quarter of a pound of Savoy biscuits; six yolks and four wliites of eggs; the rind and juice of one lemon, and ten di-ops of almond-flavour. Blanch, and beat the almonds in a marble mortar, with two table- spoonfuls of rose, or orange-flower water; add the sugar, the lemon- peel, grated, and the juice, strained, the biscuits, softened with a little of the cream, and the butter, melted; then add the remainder of tbe cream with the eggs, well beaten, and the almond-flavour, and bake in puff paste in a shallow dish (not deeper than a common soup plate), or a scoUoped tart tin. No. 240.—Apple Pudding. Pare and cut some good baking apples as for a pie; put them into a saucepan with very little water; cover the pan, and set it on a moderate fire, turning it occasionally that the apples may soften regu- larly ; when about half done, drain the water from them, put them in a basin to cool, and stir in a little sugar; line a quart basin with paste; put in the apples; cover with paste; tie a cloth closely over, and let it boil an horn' and a half. Any other fruit pudding may be made in the same way. No. 241.—Baked Apple Pudding. Oue pound and a half of apples, when pared and cored; quarter of a pound of butter; five eggs; six ounces of sugar; one lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of grated bread, or biscuit. Boil the apples with two table-spoonfuls of water in the pan, on a slow fire, tm’ning it occasionally, till the apples are soft; stir in the butter, sugar, juice and grated rind of the lemon ; when ncaiiy cold, add the bread, or biscuit, and the eggs, well beaten; bake it in puff paste, aud serve with sifted sugar over it.PUDDINGS. 71- No. 242.—Boiled Apple Pudding. Half a pound of apples; half a pound of bread-crumbs; half a pound of cm-rants; sis ounces of sugar; five eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Chop the apples small; add the bread-crumbs, currants, sugar, and lemon-peel; then the eggs, well beaten ; boil it tlu’ce hom’s in a buttered mould or basin, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 243.—Nottingham Apple Pudding. Pare sis good baking apples; take out the cores with a small knife or apple-corer, so as to leave the fruit whole; fiU the centre with sugar; place the apples in a buttered pie dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, prepared as for a pudding, and bake it in a modci'ate oven. No. 244.—Apple Dumplings. Pare some large good baking apples; enclose them in paste ; tic each dumpling in a cloth, and boil three quarters of au hour. They are equally good when baked. No. 245.—Apple and Bread Pudding. One pound and a quarter of apples ; three quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, and three ounces of sugar. Butter a pudding dish; put in half the apples, pared and cut as for a pic; add half the sugar, two table-spoonfuls of water, half the crumbs, and then the remainder of the apples and sugar, and cover smoothly with the rest of the crumbs, and bake in a moderately hot oven, laying a plate or dish over till about half done, to prevent the top becoming hard and dry. Cooked rice may be used instead of bread-crumbs, and rhubarb or green gooseberries may be used instead of apples. 'When apples begin to lose their flavour, a little lemon-juice may be added. No. 24C.—Boiled Apple and Bread Pudding. Two large apples; quarter of a pound of bread aud butter; quar- ter of a pint of water, and sugar.VEGJiTARIAN COOKERY. 72 Liue a pint basin with bread and butter; put on a layer of apples, pared as for a pie; sugar, and then follow with bread and butter and apples again, till tlie basin is full; pour the water over the whole; cover with a cloth, and boil one hour. No. 247.—Apricot Pudding. One dozen apricots; one pint of cream; four yolks of eggs; three ounces of bread-crumbs, and four ounces of good sugar. Scald the apricots till soft; take out the stones and remove the skins; pour the cream, boiling, upon the bread; wheu nearly cold, add the fruit, well mashed, the kernels, bruised fine, the sugar, and the eggs, well beaten. Line a dish with puff paste; put a layer round the edge; pour in the mixture, and bake it half an hour. No. 248.—Arrow-root Pudding. Two ounces of arrow-root; one pint of milk; three eggs; three ounces of sugar, and the grated rind of a small lemon, or a few drops of almond-flavom’. Set three quarters of a pint of the milk on the fire; mix the quarter of a pint of cold milk with the arrow-root till quite smooth; then pour in the hot milk, stirring it quickly, adding the sugar, and lemon-peel, or almond-flavour; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten; butter a dish, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 249.—Boiled Arrow-root Pudding. Two ounces of arrow-root; one pint of milk, and three eggs. Set tbe milk on the fire; take out a few spoonfuls, and mix with the arrow-root; when the milk is nearly boiling, pour it gently upon the arrow-root, stirring it all the time; return it into the pan and set it on a moderate fire, stirring it it well a few minntes till it thick- ens ; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, and a little salt; boil it an hour in a buttered basin, and serve with butler sauce and currant jelly. No. 250.—Bakewell Pudding. Quai-ter of a pound of clarified butter; quarter of a pound of pow-PUDDINGS. 73 dered loaf sugar; five yolks, and one white of eggs; preserved fruit, and candied lemon. Mix the butter and sugar together; add the eggs, well beaten, and mix all well together. Line a dish with puff paste; lay over it seve- ral kinds of preserves, with some candied lemon, cut in thin slices; then three parts fill the dish with the mi.xturc; bake in a mode- rate oven, and when cold, strew over it powdered sugar, and sweet almonds, cut in slices. To be served cold. No. 251.—Bakeweli, Pudding. Two ounces of sweet almonds; four yolks and two whites of eggs; quarter of a pound of butter; two good sized mealy potatoes, aud three ouuces of white sugar. Blanch the almonds, and bruise them well in a mortar with a table-spoonful of water, to prevent them being oiled; add the sugar, the butler, melted, the potatoes, boiled, well dried, and mashed very fine, the eggs, well beaten, and mix aU together; cover a shallow dish with puff paste; spread over it a layer of marmalade, or fruit jam; then pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderately hot oven. No. 252.—Pearl Barley Pudding. Half a pound of pearl barley; one quart of new milk, and six ounces of sugar. Pick and wash the barley; put it iu fresh water, and let it steep twelve hours; pour the water from it; add the milk, sugar, and a small salt-spoonful of salt, and bake it in a slow oven. If a richer pudding be required, take it out of the oven when nearly done, stir in two ounces of butter, four well beaten eggs, a little almond flavour, or any other seasoning; return it to the oven in a buttered dish, and bake it one hour. No. 253.—Pearl Barley Pudding, without Milk or Eggs. Quarter of a pound of pearl barley ; half a pound of apples; two ounces of sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of salt.74 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Pick and wash the barley, and let it remain in water twelve hours; put it into a pan with three pints of water, adding the salt; let it boil two hours; pour it into a buttered pie dish; put in the apples, cut as for a pie; add tlic sugar, and bake it in a moderately hot oven one houi', and serve with sugar and cream. No. 2.54.—Batter Pudding. Half a pound of flour; one pint of milk; two eggs; one tea-spoon- ful of salt, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Eub the baking powder quite smooth; mix it well with the flour; then stir in ncoi'ly half of the milk with the salt; beat it tUl per- fectly smooth; add the remainder of the milk, and the eggs, well beaten; boil the pudding an hour and a half, in a buttered basin, and serve with sweet sauce. Or melt some butter in a dish, and bake it in a quick oven. No. 255.—Yorkshire Batter Pudding. Six ounces of flour; one pint of mBk; three eggs; half a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and one tea-spoonful of salt. Rub the powder quite smooth; mix it well in the flour; add the salt, and as much of the milk as will make it a stiff batter; beat it till smooth; then add the remainder of the mUk, and the eggs, well beaten. Melt some butter in a large flat dish, or tin; pour in the batter; bake in a quick oven, and when baked, cut it in squai-es. No. 256.—Batter Pudding without Eggs. One pound of flour; one pint of milli; one large tea-spoonful of balling powder; one tea-spoonful of salt, and one small tea-spoonful of prepared ginger. Rub the baking powder quite smooth ; then mix it well with the flom', ginger, and salt; stir in nearly half the milk; beat it till quite smooth, and free from lumps; then add the remainder of the milk ; butter a basin that it will very nearly fill; pour in the batter, and tie a cloth tightly over it; boil an horn- and forty minutes, and serve with sweet sauce. It may be boiled in a cloth an hour and a half.PUDDINGS. ro No. 257.—Baked B.atter Pudding ivitii Fruit. Half a pound of flour; one pint of milk; the yolks of four and whites of two eggs ; half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and one tea-spooiiful of salt. Bub the powder till smooth; mix it well with the flour, adding the salt, and as mueh milk as will make it a stiff batter; beat it till quite smooth; then add the remainder of the milk, and the eggs, well beaten. Put some apples, cut as for a pie, into a buttered dish; pour the batter over, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Damsons, currants, gooseberries, or rhubarb, may be used in the same way. No. 258.—Biscuit Pudding. Three quarters of a pound of Savoy biscuits; one pint of cream ; si.x yolks, and two whites of eggs; four ounces of white sugar; thd rind of one lemon, grated, and oue salt-spoonful of salt. Crumble the biscuit, and pour the cream, when nearly boiling, upon it; cover with a plate, and let it remain half an hour; add the sugar, salt, lemon-peel, and the eggs, well beaten and strained; mix tlie whole lightly together, and pour it into a mould, well buttered ; cover, and steam it an hour and a quarter; or boil it in a basin or mould one hour, and serve with custard, or cream sauce over it. No. 259.—Soda Biscuit Pudding. Six biscuits; one pint of milk; one ounce of currants, and one ounce of sugar. Soak the biscuits fifteen minutes in cold water; pour off the water, keeping the biscuits whole; add tlie currants; pour in the milk, sweetened with the sugar, and bake in a moderately quick oven. No. 260.—Boiled Biscuit Pudding. Quarter of a pound of soda biscuits ; one pint of milk, and two eggs. Break the biscuits in small pieces; pour on the milk, boiling; cover with a plate; when nearly cold, mash well w’lth a wooden spoon ; add the eggs, well beaten ; boil one hour in a buttered basin, and serve with sweet sauce.VEGKTAUIA.N COOKEllY. 76 jNo. 261.—Black-Cap Pudding. Six ounces of flour; one pint of milk; three eggs; one small tea- spoonfnl of baking powder; one tea-spoonful of salt, and six ounces of currants. Rub the baking powder w’ith a spoon, till quite smooth; mix it well with the flour, adding the salt; stir in the milk gradually, and when perfectly smooth, add the eggs, well beaten, and the currants; boil it in a buttered basin one hour and a quarter, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 262.—Bread Pudding. Three ouuces of fine bread-crumbs; two ounces of butter; two ounces of w'hite sugar; tbi’ee eggs; the rind of a lemon, and one pint of cream or new milk. Put the butter into a basin vvitb the sugar (pounded), and the grated rind of a lemon; pour in the boiling milk, or cream, stirring till properly mixed; when neai’ly cold, add the bread-crumbs, the eggs, well beaten, and a few drops of almond flavour; mix the whole together, and bake it in a buttered dish, in a moderate oven. No. 263.—Boiled Bread Pudding. Pour ounces of fine bread-crumbs; one pint of milk; two ounces of butter; two ounces of sugar; three eggs; the rind of half a lemon, and a little mace. Boil the milk with the butter; pour it on the bread-crumbs, and cover it; when nearly cold, add the sugar, grated lemon-peel, a salt- spoonful of salt, the eggs, well beaten, a little mace, and a few drops of almond flavour; steam or boil it an hour; turn it out eare- fully, and serve with sweet, or butter sauce. No. 264.—Common Bread Pudding. One quart of milk; three eggs, and bread. Pour a quart of boiling milk on as much bread (with the crust) cut in small pieces, as will absorb it; cover with a plate, and let it remain tiU cool. Mash the bread, and add the eggs, well beaten; when well mixed, put it in a wet cloth, floured; boU it an hour and a half, and serve with sweet sauce.PUDDINGS. 77 No. 265.—Bkead Pudding, without milk or Eggs. One pound of stale bread ; half a pound of currants; quarter of a pound of sugar, and one tea-spoonful of ginger. Pour boiling water on the bread, and when cool and properly soaked, press out the water, and mash the bread, adding the sugar, currants, ginger, a little salt and grated nutmeg; mis the whole well together; put it in a buttered dish, laying a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven; when balicd, let it remain a few minutes; then turn it out on a flat dish, and serve either hot or cold. No. 266.—Bread and Butter Pudding. Butter a dish, and put in a layer of bread and butter, cut in thin slices; strew over it some currants, a little grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; then a layer of bread and butter; then currants, etc., al- ternately, till the dish is nearly full; beat three eggs or more, accord- ing to the size of the pudding, adding to them as much milk as the bread will absorb; sweeten it, and pour it into the dish; strew cur- rants on the top ; lay a dish over it, or some thin crusts of bread, before it is put in the oven, to prevent the fimit on the top being scorched; bake in a moderate oven, and when the pudding is a little more than half done, take off the crusts or dish. Serve with butter sauce. No. 267.—Bread and Fruit Pudding. Line a basin with slices of bread (without crust) about an inch thick, and moisten it with milk. Stew the fruit with sugar, and when boiling, fill the basin with it; lay a large slice of bread on the top ; cover the basin with a plate; put a weight upon it, and let it remain all night in a cold place; turn it out of the basin, and serve w'ith cream or custard. No. 268.—Cabinet Pudding. One pint of cream; three ounces of white sugar; five eggs; the grated rind of a lemon ; raisins; macaroons ratafias, or sponge bis- cuits, and candied orange or citron.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 78 Butter well a plain mould; line it with raisins, stoned, and candied orange or citron, cut in thin slices, dried cherries. Sultana raisins, or any other dried fruit; put in a layer of macaroons, ratafias, or small sponge biscuits, or some of each soaked in half a pint of cream; then a layer of the fruit and cakes, alternately, tUl the mould is full. Beat the eggs, adding three ounces of white sugar, half a pint of cream, a little powdered mace, and the grated rind of a lemon; mix well together, and pour it into the mould over the cakes and fruit; put a piece of writing paper, well buttered, on the top; steam one hour; or flour a cloth and tie it tightly over, and boU it gently one hour. AVhen taken out of the pan, take off the cloth and paper, and let it remain five minutes; then turn it out on the dish very carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 269.—Carrot Pudding. Half a pound of grated carrot; one pint of new milk; quarter of a pound of soda biscuits ; tlirec ounces of sugar, and half a small tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Wash and scrape the carrots very clean; grate them into half of the milk, cold; boil the other half pint of milk, and pour it upon the biscuits, broken in small pieces; cover it with a plate, and when cool, mix well with the carrot and milk, adding the sugar and cinnamon, and bake in a buttered dish in a moderate oven. No. 270.—Carrot Pudding. Half a pound of grated carrot; half a pound of bread-crumbs; one pint of new milk; half a pint of cream; six eggs; fom: ounces of sugar, and two ounces of butter. Wash and scrape the carrots very clean; grate them quite fine; mix the pulp with the bread-crumbs, sugar, nutmeg or mace, and a little salt; add the eggs, well beaten, and bake it in puff paste, in a moderate oven. No. 271.—Castle Puddings. Quarter of a pound of flour; quarter of a pound of butter; quar- ter of a pound of sugar; the grated rind of one lemon, and three eggs.79 PUDDINGS. Beat the butter to eream, adding the sugar, lemon peel, and the eggs, well beaten; mix all well together, and stir in the flour, gra- dually. Butter some eups; put in the mixture tiU they are a little more than half full; bake in a moderately hot oven; turu them out ou a dish, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 272.—Citron Puddings. Two ounces of citron; half a pint of cream; two ounces of sugar; three eggs, and one table-spoonful of floim. ^lix the cream, with the floiu- and sugar; add a little mace, and the eggs, well beaten ; put the mixture into well-buttered tea-cups, and add the citron, cut in thin slices; bake in a rather quiek oven; turn them out ou a dish, and sift sugar over. No. 273.—Cold Pudding. One pint of new milk; half a pint of cream; two ounces of sweet almonds; six eggs; quarter of a pound of white sugar; one ounce of candied orange, or citron; two spoonfuls of rose-water, and a few drops of almond-flavour. BoU the milk and cream, with the almonds, blanched and beaten fine, adding a spoonful of rose-water to prevent them being oiled; beat well the yolks of the eggs, and two whites, adding the boiling milk, the sugai’, and rose-water; boil all together on a slow fire, two minutes; then put it iu a cloth and tic it tightly; hang it up, and let it drain an hour; then turn it out and beat it iu a bowl with a potato-masher; add the candied orange or citron, cut in thin slices; return it into the cloth; tic it tightly, and hang it up another hour; then turn it out on a glass dish; cover with frothed cream; sift fine sugar on it, and place small pink ratafias over the top. No. 274.—Cumberland Pudding. Two ounces of flour; two ounces of sugar; one ounce of butter; two eggs; the rind of a lemon, and one pint of new milk. Put the flour, sugar, butter, the lemon peel, grated, and a pinch of Sidt, into a basin before the fire, till the butter is nearly melted ;80 ■VEGETAIUAN COOKERY. mix well with a wooden spoon; pour in a little of the boiling milk; stir it well till quite smooth ; then add gradually, the remainder of the milk; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake it in a buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven. No. 275.—Curd Pudding. Three quarts of new milk; one quart of sour butter-milk; half a pound of white sugar; one ounce of sweet almonds; two ounces of grated bread; quarter of a pound of butter; two lemons; the yolks of five and whites of three eggs; a tea-eupful of cream, and a wine glassful of rose-water. Put the milk, when just warm, to the butter-milk; stir together; cover it; let it remain on the hearth, but not too near the fire, till the ciu'd is formed; then stir it a little with a wooden spoon, and when the cnrd wUl separate from the wheys, put it in a hair sieve; when perfectly well drained, mash the eurd in a wooden bowl, add- ing a lemon, previously boiled till tender, and the pulp taken out; when beaten quite smooth, add the bread-crumbs, a salt-spoonful of salt, the sugar, cream, rose-water, the juice of a lemon, the almonds, chopped fine, the butter, melted, and the eggs, well beaten; mix the whole well; bake in a buttered dish, or in cups, in a moderately hot oven; turn it out carefully, and sift fine sugar over it. No. 276.—Custard Puddings. One pint of new mUk; two ounces of flour; two ounces of white sugar; fom- eggs; the grated rind of a lemon, and half a small tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Mix the cinnamon, lemon peel, and sngar, with the flour, adding a little cold milk, and the eggs, well beaten; pour on the boiling milk, stin'ing it all the time; strain it through a coarse sieve, or a small tin strainer, and bake in a buttered dish, or boU in a basin. No. 277.—Custard Pudding. Half a pint of cream; half a pint of new milk; five yolks and three81 PUDDINGS. Tvliitos of eggs; two ounces of flour j two ounces of w'hite sugor; three ounces of butter, and a little cinnamon. Set the milk and cream on the fire with a piece of cinnamon; when it boils, pour it into a basin, stirring in the sugar; when nearly cold, mix a little of the milk with the flour, stirring it till quite smooth; then add the remainder of the milk, and tilt eggs, well beaten; just before the puddings are set iu the oven, stir in the butter, melted; butter the cups ; fill them not more than three parts full, and bake half an hour in a slow oven. No. 278.—l?AiiiN.\ Pudding. Three ounees of farina ; one pint of milk; two ounces of sugar; one ounce of butter, and three eggs. Mix the farina with a little cold milk; set the remainder of the milk on the fire, and when boiling, put in the farina, stirring con- stantly till it thickens; pour it into a basin, adding the butter and sugar; when rather cool, add the eggs, well beaten, and a few drops of almond-flavonr; put it in a buttered dish, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 279.—Boiled Fakina Pudding. Eight ounces of farina, and one quart of milk. Set the milk on the fire, leaving out a little to mix with the farina ; when boiling, put in the farina, stirring constantly till it thickens; then let it simmer a quarter of an hour; pour it into a hot pudding basin, or mould, about ten minutes before it is wanted; turn it out, and servo with butter sauce and cmi’ant jelly, or sweet sauce. No. 280.—German Puddings. One pint of cream; two ounces of butter; two ounces of flour; two ounces of sugar, and the yolks of four, and whites of two eggs. Melt the butter in the cream, and when nearly cold, mix gradually with the flour and sugar, adding the eggs, well beaten, a little mace, and a few drops of almond-flavour; bake in buttered cups, or small tin moulds (about half full), in a rather quick oven; turn them out on a dish, and serve immediately, with pounded sugar strewed over them. G■VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 82 No. 281.—Ginger Pudbing. Eight ounces of preserved ginger; six ounces of flour ; six ounces of sugar; six eggs; one pint of cream; six ounees of butter, and one salt-spoouful of salt. Put the cream in a saucepan; add the butter, sugar, and salt; set it on the fire, and when heginning to simmer, take off the pan, and stir in the flour, quickly; replace it on the fire, stirring constantly five minutes; then take it from the fire and gradually add the eggs, well beaten, and the ginger, cut iu small pieces; pour the mix- ture into a buttered mould; steam it an hour and a half, and serve with custard, flavoured with ginger syrup. No. 282.—Gooseberry Pudbing. One quart of green gooseberries ; two ounces of butter; two ounces of fine bread-crumbs, and four eggs. Set the gooseberries over a slow fire in cold water, and cover the pan ; when the gooseberries are soft, drain the water from them; rub them throng a coarse hair sieve, and add the butter, some fine bread-crumbs, or sponge biscuits, the eggs, well beaten, and sugar, as required; line the edges of a dish with puff paste; put in the gooseberries, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 283.—Hasty Pudding. Set some milk on the fire, and when boiling, add a little salt; gradually stir in as much flour as will make it a proper thickness; let it boil quickly a few minutes, beating it constantly while on the fire; pour it into a dish, and serve with cold butter and sugar, or treacle. No. 284.—Hominy Pudding. Quarter of a pound of hominy; one quart of milk; three eggs, and three ounces of sugar. Pick and wash the hominy ; steep it in cold water for several hours ; then boil it in the milk till quite soft; mash it fine, adding the sugar, the eggs, well beaten, and a few droj)s of almond-flavour, and bake it iu a buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven. Or, when well boiled.PUDDINGS. 83 put the hominy in a basin or mould, turn it out on a dish, and serve as a boiled pudding, with sweet sauce or preserves. No. 285.—Hornsea Pudding. Three ounces of flour; four eggs, and one pint of milk. Pour the milk, when boiling, upon tlie flour, gradually stirring it a little; when cold, add the eggs, well beaten, and a little salt; mix well, and boil it au hour and ten minutes in a buttered basin, and serve with butter sauce and currant jelly. No. 286.—Lemon Pudding. One large lemon ; six ounces of sugar; four ounces of butter; two ounces of sponge biscuits ; quarter of a pint of cream, and six yolks, and two whites of eggs. Set over a slow fire the butter, and sugar, bruised, stirring it well, but do not allow it to boil; pour it into a basin ; grate the rind of the lemon into it, and leave it to cool; have ready the biscuits, snaked in quarter of a pint of cream ; rub them smooth with a wooden spoon, and mix with the butter, sugar, and lemon-juice; then add the eggs, well beaten ; line a dish with puff jiaste; pour in the mixture ; bake three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven, and sift fine sugar over it. No. 287.—Lemon Pudding. Two lemons; six ounces of white sugar; four ounces of butter; the white of one, and yolks of five eggs, and one large tea-spoonful of flour. Melt the butter; pour it hot upon the grated rind and juice of the lemons; add the flour, and pounded sugar, and the eggs, well beaten. Line a dish with puff paste; pour in the mixture, and bake twenty minutes. No. 288.—Lemon Pudding. Half a pint of new milk ; two ounces of bread-crumbs ; one lemon the yolks of four eggs; three ounces of butter, and five ounces of white sugar. Set the milk on the fire, and when it begins to boil, put in theVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 84. bread-crumbs; after boiling gently for two or three minutes, add the butter and sugar, the juice and grated rind of a len)on, and the eggs, well beaten. Line a dish with puff paste; put in a layer of preserve; pOur the mixture over it, and bake half an hour in a moderately hot oven. No. 289.—Le.ntie Flour Pudding. Three ounees of lentil flour; one pint of new milk; three ounces of sugar; one ounce of butter, and four eggs. Set the milk on the fire; mix the flour with a little cold milk ; then pour the boiling milk gradually upon it, stirring it till well mixed, adding the sugar, butter, a pinch of salt, a little powdered cinna- mon and grated nutmeg; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten; bake in a buttered dish, in a moderate oven, and serve vrith sugar sifted over it. No. 290.—Macaroni Pudding. Three ouuces of macaroni; one pint of new milk; quarter of a pint of cream ; four ounces of powdered white sugai’; two ounces of butter, and four eggs. Simmer the macaroni in the milk; beat the eggs well, adding the cream, sugar, and the butter, melted; when well mixed, pour in the macaroni and boiling milk, gradually, and bake immediately in a buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven, till lightly browned. No. 291.—Macaroni Pudding with preserved Fruit. Three ounces of macaroni; one pint and a half of new milk; three eggs; lemon-peel and cinnamon, and two ounces of sugar. Wash the macaroni, and set it on the fire with a pint of milk, a piece of lemon-peel, pared very thin, and a small piece of cinnamon ; stew it gently tiU tender, but not soft; beat the eggs well, adding half a pint of cold milk, the sugar, aud a little salt; butter a dish and put a border of puff paste round the edge; spread a layer of macaroni, then a layer of preserved fruit, (gooseberry, currant, or raspberry jam, orange or apple marmalade,) and the remainder of the macaroni over; pour the milk and eggs upon it; lay small pieces of buttci’ on the top ;85 PUDDINGS. balie about one hour in a moderate oven, and serve with fine sugar sifted over it. No. 292.—Maize Pudding. Three ounces of maize floiu'; one pint and a half of milk; three ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Set one pint of milk on the fire ; when boiling, stir in the maize flour, previously mixed with half a pint of cold milk; boil gently twenty minutes; pour it into a basin; add the sugar, a few drops of almond-flavour, and the eggs, well beaten; put it in a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate ovcii. No. 293.—Indian Meal Pudding. Eight ounces of Indian meal; one quart of milk; four ounces of sugar, or treacle ; one ounce of butter, and four eggs. Mix a quart of boiling water, or milk, with the Indian meal, add- ing the sugar, or treacle, and the butter; when nearly cold, put in the eggs, well beaten, making a thin batter; put it in a buttered basin, and boil three hours. No. 294.—Norpolk Dumplings. One pound of flour; quarter of an ounce of baking poivder; one ounce of butter; a small tea-spoonful of salt, and two ounces of currants. Rub the powder quite smooth; mix it well in the flour, adding the salt; rub in the butter ; add the currants, and mix with cold water to about the consistency of rather stiff dough ; divide it into six dump- lings ; boil quickly a quarter of an hour, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 295.—Oatxieal Pudding. Twelve ounces of oatmeal; one quart of milk, and two eggs. Pour the boiling milk to the oatmeal; cover it, and let it remain twelve hours; then add the eggs, well beaten, and a little salt; put it in a buttered basin that will just hold it; tie a floured cloth tightly over, and boil it an hour and a half, and serve with co\d butter, and salt.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 8G "When cold, it may be cut in slices, toasted, and buttered as oat- cake. No. 29G.—Orange Pudding. Two ounces of candied or preserved orange; quarter of a pound of butter; half a pouud of sugar; the yolks of eight eggs, and two ounces of sponge biseuits. Mix the sugar and candied orange with the butter, melted; add the biscuits, and the yolks of the eggs, and bake half an hour in a dish, lined with puff paste. No. 297.—Boiled Orange Pudding. The grated rind of two Seville oranges; quarter of a pound of sponge biscuits; one pint of cream; five eggs, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Beat the grated rind of the oranges to a paste, and mix with it the biscuits and cream, adding the sugar, eggs, and a pinch of salt; put it in a buttered mould, or pudding basin; boil one hour, aud serve with sw'eet sauce. No. 298.—Plum Pudding. Half a pound of flour; half a pound of currants, or raisins; half a pound of grated carrots; half a pound of grated potatoes; quarter of a pound of butter, and four ounces of sugar. Mix all together, adding a little salt and any other approved sea- soning ; boil in a buttered basin one hour aud a half, and serve ivith sw'eet sauce. A large spoonful of treacle is an agreeable addition. No. 299.—Plum Pudding. One pound of flour ; half a pound of bread-crumbs; one pound of raisins ; one pound of currants ; six eggs; twelve ounces of sugar; four ounces of butter; two ounces of candied orange or lemon, and the grated rind of a lemon. Rub the butter in the flour; add the bread-crumbs, sugar, cur- rants, and raisins stoned and cut a little, the grated rind of a lemon, a little mace, or nutmeg, the candied orange or lemon, cut87 PUDDINGS. in small slices, a small tea-spoonful of salt, the eggs, well beaten, and a little milk, if required; boil it iu a buttered basin or mould five hours, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 300.—Plum Pudding. One pint basin of bread-crumbs ; half a pound of currants ; half a pound of raisins; twelve ounces of moist sugar; three ounces of butter; two ounces of candied lemon ; eight eggs ; and one tea-cupful of apple sauce, or half a tea-cupful of milk. Rub the butter into the bi-cad-crumbs; add the fruit, sugar, candied lemon, and spice; then the eggs, well beaten, and ml.t the whole to- gether. After standing twelve hours, add the apple sauce, or milk, and boil it in a buttered mould three hours; let it stand for some time in the water, and serve with cream, or butter sauce. No. 301.—Plum Pudding. One pound of flour; eight ounces of cuiTants; eight ounces of Sultana raisins ; four ounces of butter ; three eggs; the grated rind of a lemon, and one small tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder well with the flour; rub in the butter, and add the currants and raisins, the lemon-peel, finely grated, a little nutmeg, and the eggs, well beaten ; put it in a buttered basin; boil or steam it four hours, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 302.—Bread Plum Pudding. One pound of bread-crumbs; one pound of raisins ; one pound of currants; one pint of milk; six eggs; four ounces of butter, and one pound of sugar. Pour the boiling milk on the bread-crumbs; cover with a plate, and let it remain for an hour; then add the butter, sugar, currants, and raisins, stoned and cut a little; mix all well together, adding a little lemon-peel, mace, or nutmeg, and the eggs, well beaten ; boil it three hours iu a buttered basin, or mould, and serve with sweet sauce. If it be requisite to add a little flour, boil one hour longer.88 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 303.—Potato Pudding. Half a ponnci of potatoes; si.Y ounces of sugar; six ounces of butter; six eggs, and one lemon. Boil, and well dry (he potatoes; rub them through a sieve, and mix well with the sugar, butter, and the yolks of the eggs; then beat the whites to a froth, adding the juice and grated rind of the lemon; bent all well together, and bake in a well buttered mould half an hour, in a moderately hot oven. No. 304.—Potato Pudding. Half a pound of potatoes; four ounces of clarified butter; six ounces of white sugar; four eggs, and one lemon. Boil the potatoes, w'hich should be very good and mealy; and when well dried, mash them; add the butter melted, the sugar, eggs, and the rind and juice of a lemon, and bake with puff paste round the edges of the dish. No. 305.—Boiled Potato Pudding. Two pounds of potatoes; one pound of Horn-; two ounces of butter, and half an ounce of salt. "With the potatoes, boiled and mashed, mix the flour, butter, and salt into a stiff paste; tie in a wet cloth, dredged with flour; boil two hours, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 306.—POTATO-ELOUR PUDDING. One ounce and a half of potato-flour; quarter of a pint of new milk; quarter of a pint of cream; six eggs; four ounces of butter; six ounces of white sugar; the grated rind of a lemon, and a little salt. Mix the potato-flour till perfectly smooth wuth a little of the cold milk, and set the remainder, with the cream, on the fire, and when boiling, pour it on the flour, stirring constantly tiU well mixed; w'hilst warm, add the butter, sugar, a little salt, the grated rind of a lemon, and then the yolks of the eggs, well beaten; wdiisk or beat the whites to a high froth; mix with the above just before putting it into the mould (which should be well buttered), and bake in a moderate oven.PUDDINGS. 89 No. 307.—PllESEKVED FkUIT PuDDING. Roll the paste rather thin, to the length required; spread over it raspberry jam, or any other kind of preserved fruit, and roll it up j fold it in a cloth; tie it tightly at each end, and boil it according to the size; cut it in thick slices; lay them ou a flat dish, and serve with butter sauce. No. 308. Riiubard Pudding. Sixteen ounces of rhubarb ; twelve ounces of bread, without crust, and sugar. Lay the rhubarb in water ten minutes; cut the bread into slices a quarter of an inch thick; toast the slices, and soak them a few minutes iu boiling water poured on to a plate, and mixed with two table-spoonfuls of sugar; place some of the slices at the bottom of the dish; cut the rhubarb into pieces an inch long; fill the dish, mixing the sugar with it; place the other slices of toast over the top; bake the whole in a moderate oven; tium it out, and serve, either hot or cold. No. 309.—Rice Pudding. Six ounces of rice; three pints of milk, and three ounces of sugar. Pick and wash the rice; put it in a dish; add the milk, sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, and bake it iu a slow oven. No. 310.—Rice PuutiNo. Six ounces of rice ; one quart of milk; one ounce of butter; three ounces of sugar; four eggs; a little powdered cinnamon, and grated lemon-peel, or a few drops of almond-flavour. Pick and wash the rice, set it on the fire in cold water, and let it boil about five minutes; then di-ain off the water, and put the rice in a deep dish, with the milk, and a salt-spoouful of salt; cover it with a plate, and set it in a moderate oven; when the rice is sufficiently done, put it in a basin, and stir in the butter, sugar, and seasoning; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten; boil in a buttered basin, or bake iu a pudding dish. Sultana raisins or currants may be added.90 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 311.—Boiled Rice Pudding. Six ounces of rice; one quart of milk, and one small salt spoonful of salt. Pick and wash the rice, and put it in a deep dish, adding the milk cTiid salt; set in a moderate oven, and cover it with a plate till nearly boiling; then remove the plate, and w'hen the rice is sufficiently done, rinse a basin with cold water; put in the rice; press it gently with a spoon, and let it remain one or two minutes; then turn it out on a flat dish, and serve with cold butter and sugar, preserves, or sweet sauce. No. 312.—Boiled Rice Pudding, avithout Milk or Eggs. Six ounces of rice, and two ounces of currants. "Wash and pick the rice; put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water, adding a little salt; let it boU gently, till all the w'ater is absorbed; then add the currants, or Sultana raisins, carefully washed and picked. Butter a pint basin, put in the rice, cover with a cloth, aud let it boil one hour. No. 313.—Ground Rice Pudding. Pour ounces of ground rice; one quart of milk; two ounces of butter; quarter of a pound of sugar; five eggs, aud a little almond- flavour. Mix the rice with a little cold milk till smooth; set the remainder of the milk with a little cinnamon in it, over the fire, and ivhen boil- ing, add the rice gradually, and continue stirring till it has boiled a few minutes; then poim it into a basin, and stir in the butter and sugar; when nearly cold, take out the cinnamon; add the eggs, well beaten, and the almond-flavour; bake it either with paste round the dish or without; sift white sugar on the top, and serve with currant jelly. No. 314.—Boiled Ground Rice Pudding. Six ounces of ground rice; one quart of milk; five eggs; quarter of a pound of sugar, and one tea-spoonfid of salt. Set a pint and a half of new milk on the fire, aud when nearlyPUDDINGS. 91 boiliug, aild the rice, mi.\cd till quite smooth with quarter of a pint of cold milk; stir it constantly till it thickens; pour it into a basin, and stir in the sugar and salt; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten; boil it an hour aud a half iu a buttered basin, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 315.—S.A.GO Pudding. Five ounces of sago; one quart of milk; quarter of a pound of sugar; one ounce of huttcr; three eggs, aud a little ciuuamon, or almond-flavour. Wash and pick the sago ; set it on the fire with the milk, stirring constantly till it boils; add the sugar, and let it simmer ten minutes; then pour it iuto a basin; stir in the hutter, and a little cinnamon, or almond-flavour; add the eggs, well beaten, aud bake in a buttered dish, or, after adding another egg, boil it in a buttered basin, or mould, an hour aud a half. No. 316.—Sago and Apple Pudding. Four large apples; five ounces of sago; sugar, and lemon-flavour. Prepare the apples as for apple sauce; boil the sago iu a small quantity of water; add the apples, sugar, and flavour, and balte iu a pic dish. No. 317-—Scalded Puddings. One pint and a half of new milk; three ounces of flour; three ounces of white sugar, and six yolks and three whites of eggs. Boil the milk with a little cinnamon; mi.x the flour with a little cold milk; pour the milk, boiliug, gradually upon the mixed flour, stirring it well, and adding the sugar; when cool, mix iu the eggs, well beaten ; bake in cups, with a little clarified butter in each, in a moderate oven; turn them out on a dish, aud sift fine sugar over. No. 318.—Semolina Pudding. Three ounces of semolina; one pint of new milk; three ounces of sugar; two eggs, and one ounce of butter. Wash aud pick the semolina; set it over the fire in the milk, stir- ring it till it boils aud becomes thickened; then let it hoil gently92 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. twenty minutes, turning the pan, and stirring it oeeasionally; pour it into a bowl, adding the sugar, butter, a pinch of salt, and a little mace or nutmeg; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in a but- tered dish in a moderate oven. ]\'o. 319.—Tapioca Pudding. Quarter of a pound of tapioca; one quart of milk; quarter of a pound of sugar; three eggs, and a little almond-flavour. Pick and wash the tapioca; put it in a pau with the milk and a little salt; set it on the fire, and when boiling, add the sugar; let it simmer a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly; then pour it into a basin; when cool, add the eggs, well beaten, and a little almond-flavour, and bake it in a buttered pudding dish for about an hour, or, after adding another egg, boil it in a buttered basin, or mould, for an hour aud a half. No. 320.—Tapioca Pudding. Eight ounces of tapioca; one quart of new milk; six ounces of sugai-; six yolks aud two whites of eggs; the grated rind of a lemon ; two ounces of butter, aud one tea-spoonful of salt. Pick and wash the tapioca; set it on the fire with the milk, a picre of cinuamon, and the salt; stir it with a slice, or wooden spoon, till it boils; then cover the pan, and simmer gently a quarter of an hour; stir in the butter, sugar, and lemon-peel; pour it into a bowl, and add the eggs, the yolks aud whites beaten separately; mix well, and pour it into a buttered mould or pudding basin ; steam it an houi' and a quarter, and serve with cream sauce over it. No. 321.—Treacle Pudding. Roll the paste rather thin as for preserved fruit pudding; spread over it some very stiff treacle, and roll it up; fold it in a cloth; tie it tightly at each end; boQ it, according to the size, in plenty of water, aud serve with butter sauce. The pudding sboidd not be cut in slices till required. Currants with a little sugar, or brown sugar alone, may be substi- tuted for treacle.93 PUDDINGS. No. 322.—Vermicelli Pudding. Four ounces of vermicelli; one pint of new milk; half a pint of cream; the yolks of four eggs; one ounce of butter, and three ounces of sugar. Boil the vermicelli iu the milk, adding a piece of cinnamon; when rather thick, pour it into a basin, and stir in the butter, sugar, and cream; when cool, add the yollis of the eggs, well beaten; hake it iu a buttered dish, or put it into a buttered basin or mould, and steam it an hour. No. 323.—WiNwiCK Pudding. Four large apples; three eggs; three ounces of butter; two table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, and one lemon. Grate the apples; add the rind and juice of the lemon, the bread- cnimbs, the butter, melted, and sugar to the taste; immediately before putting it in the oven, add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in pnff paste.PANCAKES. SWEET OMELETS AND ERITTERS. No. 324.—Pancakes. Ten ounces of flonr; one quart of milk ; three eggs, and a small tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder, rubbed very fine, and a little salt with the flour, stin’ing in as much milk as will make it a stiff batter ; when beaten smooth, add the remainder of the milk, and lastly, the eggs, well beaten; melt a little butter in a frying-pan ; pour in as much batter as wiU cover the bottom of the pan, to make the pancakes about the thickness of a penny piece, not thicker; when nearly set, shake the pan round a little, and if the pancake will move freely, turn it over, adding a little more butter; when lightly browned, turn it again, and almost immediately slip it out of the pan on a hot dish, set over a pan or deep dish of boiling water, rolling up each pancake as they are fried, and serve immediately with sugar and lemon-juice. No. 325.—Apple and Custard Pancake. Apples ; four eggs, and quarter of a pint of cream. Beat the eggs well, adding the ci’eam and a little cinnamon, or a little almond-flavour. Cut the apples in thin slices, and fry them in butter; when browned a little, turn them over; pom- iu the cusfard; fry it a light brown; turn it carefully, and serve with sugar sifted over. No. 326.—Prencii Pancakes. Two ounces of flour ; four eggs ; three quarters of a pint of milk; the grated rind of a lemon, and one ounce of white sugar. Mix the flour, sugar, lemon-peel and a pinch of salt, with a little of the milk; stir till quite smooth; add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, the remainder of the milk, and then the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; put a little clarified butter into six saucers.PANCAKES, SWEET OMEI.ETS AND FETTTERS. 93 and bake ia a moderately quick oven; when done, lay two together with preserved fruit between; sift sugar over, and serve immediately. No. 327.—Ground Rice Pancakes. Three ounees of rice-flour; two ounces of flour; one pint aud a quarter of milk ; three ounces of sugar, aud five eggs. Set a pint of the milk on the fire, and when nearly boiling, put in the rice-flour, mixed with the quarter of a pint of cold milk, stirring constantly till it thickens ; then pour it into a basin, and add the sugar, a little salt, and powdered cinnamon; when cool, stir in the flour, and the eggs, well beaten ; fry the batter in pancakes, lightly browned on both sides, and sift sugar over them. No. 328.—Friar’s Omelet. Six good sized apples; three ounces of butter; three ounces of sugar; two eggs, aud six ounees of bread-crumbs. Boil the apples as for sauce; stir in the butter and sugar, and when cold, add the eggs, well beaten. Butter a pudding dish, cold; strew a layer of bread-crumbs, about an iuch thick, at the bottom of the dish, aud as many as will adhere to the sides; pour in the apples ; strew crumbs over, aud bake iii a moderately hot oven. When baked, turn it out on a dish, aud sift sugar over. No. 329.—Omelet Souffle. Six eggs; six ounces of powdered sugar; two ounces of butter; one dessert spooufid of potato-flour, aud one dessert spoonful of rose, or orange-flower water. Put the yolks of the eggs, sugar, potato-flour, rose, or orange- flower water, and a very little salt, into a large basin; stir well toge- ther with a wooden spoon, ten minutes; then add the whites of the eggs, beaten, or whisked to a froth, and mix lightly into the batter; put the butter into the omelet pan; set it over a stove fire, aud when the butter begins to boil, pour the batter into it; set the pan over a moderate fire, and as the omelet becomes partially set round the sides aud bottom of the pau, toss it over and over very gently ; turn96 YEGETAUIAN COOKEKY. llie omelet out ueatly on a dish, previously buttered; set it in the oven about twelve minutes, and serve immediately with a little sugar sifted over it. No. 330.—Sweet Omelet. Half a pint of eream ; four eggs; two oimces of sugar, and one tea-spoonful of flour. Beat the eggs well, and add the flour, sugar, a little powdered cinnamon, the cream, or new milk, and very Utile salt; fry over a slow fire till lightly browned, and serve immediately with fine sugar sifted over. No. 331.—Sweet Omelet. Three eggs; two ounces of butter; three ounces of sugar; one lemon, and half a tea-cupful of good cream. Beat the yolks of three eggs, well, adding the grated rind of a lemon, the butter, melted, the cream, and sugar; immediately before frying, add the lemon-juice, and the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth ; fry in an oval form, the size of the dish, and sift sugar over. No. 332.—Sweet Omelet wtth Presekves. Half an ounce of flour; half an ounce of powdered loaf sugar; two eggs; three table-spoonfuls of cream, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix the flour, sugar, and lemon-peel together, add to them the cream, and the yolks of the eggs, beaten a little; then beat the whites to a strong froth, and stir them in gently, so as to break the froth as little as possible. Set the omelet pan over a gentle fire with a little fresh butter; when melted, pour in the omelet, and, when set, brown the top lightly with a salamander; shake it gently romtd, and turn it out on a hot dish ; lay preserves upon it, and serve immediately. No. 333.—Apple Peitters. Twelve ounces of chopped apples; four ounces of flour; three eggs, and half a pint of milk. Mix the batter in the usual way, adding a little salt; put in the apples, chopped small; fry in fritters, allowing a spoonful for each;PANCAKES, SWEET OMELETS, AND PEirrEUS. 97 brovm them lightly on both sides, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over them. The apples may be cut in thin slices and dipped in batter. No. 334.—Apple rniTTEiis. One pound of apples (when pared and cored); four eggs; sii ounces of flour; half a pint of milk, and two ounces of sugar. Prepare the apples as for sauce, adding a little grated lemon-peel. Beat the eggs; add the flour, milk, a small tca-spoonfnl of salt, a little grated nutmeg, and powdered mace, and mix all well together. Melt some butter iu a frying-pan, and when quite hot, put in the batter in separate quantities, allowing about two spoonfuls for each ; spread a spoonful of apple on one portion, and with an egg-slice, turn the other carefully over it, and fry till nicely browned on both sides. No. 335.—Bread Fritters. Half a pound of bread-crumbs; one pint of milk; the yolks of five eggs, and two ounces of sugar. Pour the boiling milk on the bread-crumbs; cover it with a plate, and when cold, beat it smooth, adding the yolks of eggs, the sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; fry it in fritters, nicely brown ou both sides, and serve with sifted sugar over. No. 330.—Carrot Fritters. Quarter of a pound of carrot; two ounces of flour; two ounces of sugar; two eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Boil, and then mash the carrots till smooth, adding the flour, sugar, a little nutmeg and salt, the cream, or milk, and the eggs, well beaten; beat all well together; fry in fritters, lightly brown on both sides, and sift sugar over them. No. 337.—Curd Fritters. One pint of curd; the yolks of four, and whites of two eggs; two ounces of white sugar, and one dessert-spoonful of flour. When the curd has been well drained, rub it tUl smooth in a mor- 798 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. tar, or bowl; add the eggs, well beaten, tlie sugar, flour, and a little mace; fry in fritters, and serve with white sugar sifted over them. No. 338.—Currant Fritters. Six ounces of currants; three ounces of bread-crumbs; four yolks, and two whites of eggs; one pint of milk; two ounces of sugar, and two ounces of butter. Put the milk to the bread-crumbs, adding the currants, sugar, a little salt, and nutmeg, the butter, melted, the eggs, well beatcu, and sufficient flour to make it of a proper consistency; fry iu fritters, aud serve with sugar sifted over them. No. 339.—Orange Fritters. Peel the oranges, and cut them in rather thin slices, taking out the seeds ; then dip them in batter, and fry them tiU nicely browned on both sides; sift sugar over, and serve immediately. No. 340.—Potato Fritters. Bight ounces of boiled potatoes ; four eggs; one dessert-spoonfid of lemon-juice; one dessert-spoonful of flour; two ounces of sugar, aud oue table-spoonful of cream. When the potatoes have been boiled and dried, mash them fine, adding the cream, sugar, flour, lemon-juice, a little salt, nutmeg, and the eggs, well beaten ; beat all to a light batter; fry in fritters, aud serve with sugar sifted over. No. 341.—Rice Fritters. Four ounces of rice; one pint of milk ; half a pint of cream; six ounces of currants; two ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Boil the rice, adding a little salt, in a pint of milk till rather thick, and pour it into a basin ; when cool, add the cream, sugar, currants, the eggs, well beaten, a little cinnamon, a few drops of almond-flavour, and as much flour as will make it a thick batter; fry in fritters, which should be lightly browmed on both sides, and serve with sugar sifted over them.PANCAKES, SWEET OMELETS, AND FRITTERS. 99 No. 342.—Spanish Fritters. Cut some small slices of nice light bread, without crust, in square pieces; lay them separately on a dish; mix a little powdered cinna- mon, sugar, and a table-spoonful of thick cream, with an egg, well beaten ; pour it on the slices of bread; let them remain a few minutes, and fiy them in butter till nicely brown. No. 343.—Cream Toast. Toast a slice of either brown or white bread; cut it in square pieces, and lay them in a dish; add a little sugai’, and a few drops of almond-Qavour to half a pint of cream, and when boiling, poim it over the toast, and serve immediately. No. 344.—Sweet Toasts. Cut some slices of nice light bread, without the crusts, and about half an inch thick; toast them a little, and dip them in cream or new milk; lay them separately on a flat dish; to three well beaten eggs, add a little mace, grated lemon-peel, sugar, and quarter of a ])int of cream; pour a little of it upon each toast with a tea-spoon. Melt some butter in a frying-pan; put in the toasts, the wet side downwards ; pour on the-remainder of the egg and cream, and fry till a light brown, over a moderate fire; sift sugar over them, and serve with sweet sauce.PIES AND TARTS. No. 345.—Apple Pie. Pare and core some good baldiig apples; cut each into four or eight pieces, according to size; put them in a howl of water as they are cut; then take them out, without draining, and lay them in a deep pie dish, as closely as possible, with moist sugar; a little grated lemon-peel or any other seasoning may be added, according to taste, but good apples do not require any; cover with puff paste No. 365 ; make a hole iu the centre (which is required only for apple pics), and bake in a moderately hot oven. Gooseberry, rhubarb, emrant, or any other fruit pies may be made in the same way. No. 346.—Dutch Apple Pie. Pare some good baking apples; cut them in thin slices, taking out the cores; plaoe a part of them at the bottom of a pie dish; strew sugar over, then currants, well cleaned and dried, and the grated rind of a large lemon; then pare off all the white part of the lemon, and cut the pulp in thin slices, taldng out the seeds; spread it over the cur- rants, then some more sugar, candied lemon or orange, and citron, cut in thin slices; then add a layer of apples, as before, and sugar on the top, with grated nutmeg; cover with paste, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven. No. 347.—-4lmond Puffs. Six ounces of sweet almonds; five ounces of powdered sugar; the grated rind of one lemon, and the white of one egg. Chop the almonds as fine as possible; mix them with the sugar, lemon-peel, and the white of egg, well beaten. Make a paste with five ounces of butter, seven ounces of flour, and a very little water; roll it seven or eight times; then roll it out to the thickness of thePIES AND TAIITS. 101 eighth of an inch; cut with a round or oval tin cutter, as many of the pieces as can he cut out of the paste; lay on each of half the number of pieces, some of the almond mixtiu'e, heaping it up in the centre, cover with lids of the same, and crimp the edges very neatly; bake in a moderately hot oven, and sift sugar over them. No. 348.—Fig Tart. Six ounces of figs; one ounce and a half of butter; two ounces of sugar; millc, and cinnamon. Cut the figs into small slices with a pair of scissors; add as much milk as will cover them, the sugar and the cinnamon, and stew them in an earthenware jar, covered, in the oven. M'hen they boil, the milk will break, and the figs are sufficiently stewed. Take them out of the oven, and stir in the butter. When cool, line a flat dish with paste, and spread a thick layer of the figs upon it, heaping them up in the centre of the dish, and pouring in as much of the syrup as the figs will absorb; then cover with a thin paste, and bake it. This tart is better cold than hot. No. 349.—Macaroni Tart. One ounce of macaroni; one ounce and a half of butter; half a a pint of cream, and two ounces of sugar. Boil the macaroni in salt and water till tender; drain the water from it, and put it in a saucepan with the butter; when stewed a little, add the cream, sugar, and a little powdered cinnamon; stew gently till moderately thick; pour it into a bowi, and when cool, cover the bottom of a tart tin with puff paste; put in the macai'oni with cus- tard over it; bake it a nice light brown, and slip it carefully on a dish. No. 350.—Mince Tarts. Six good sized lemons; half a pound of apples; one pound of raisins, when picked and stoned; one pound of currants; one pound of sugar; half a pound of fresh butter; two ounces of candied lemon, and two ounces of candied orange. Grate off the yellow rind, cut the lemons in two, and squeeze out the juice; boil the rinds in spring water till tender, but not soft, changingVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 102 the water four or five times to take outthebittemess, and putting a large table-spoonful of salt in the water in which they are boiled; when done, drain the water from them, and take out the seeds and skins; then choi) them, with the raisins, in a wooden bowl; when finely chopped, add the currants, sugar, the apples (previously prepared as for apple sauce), the grated rind of the lemons, the juice, half a salt- spootiful of Cayenne pepper, a small tea-spoonful of mace, a small tea-spoonful of cinnamon, twelve or fifteen drops of almond-flavour, the candied orange and lemon, cut in thin slices, and lastly, the butter, melted, and stirred well in. Make the tarts in the usual way. Put the mince-meat in a jar; tie a paper over, and keep it in a dry cool place. No. 351.—Orange Tartlet. One ounce of fresh butter; the yolk of one egg, boiled hard, and a quarter of a pound of orange marmalade. Mash the yolk of egg with the buUer, and mix with the mar- malade. A small quantity of Savoy biscuit may also be added. Cover a plate or a large scolloped tartlet-tin with puff paste; ])our in the mixture, aud bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 352.—Prune Tart. Scald the prunes, and after taking out the stones, put them into a saucepan with a little water and sugar; simmer over a slow fire about ten minutes; then pour them into a basin, and when rather cool, add a little raspbciTy vinegar, or lemon-juice. Line a flat dish with paste; put in the prunes; cover with paste, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven. No. 353.—Tarts. Roll out some puff paste (No. 364) about quarter of an inch thick; cut it in round cakes with a tin cutter about three inches across; then cut a piece out of half the cakes with a tin cutter about two inches across, leaving a rim or border about half an inch broad; wet the edges of the cakes with as little water as possible, and lay the rims of paste on each cake; bake in a moderately hot oven; lay them on a dish, and when quite cold, put preserved fruit in each tart.103 PIES AND TARTS. No. 354.—Tartlets. These are tarts without covers, made in flat dishes. Cover the dish with puff paste; tlicn put a thin strip of paste round the edge of the dish, and fill the centre with rasphcri7 jam, or any other preserved fruit. Decorate the top of the jam with narrow bars of paste, crossed all over, or stamped leaves. No. 355.—Turnovers. Roll out some short paste (No. 366), about one eighth of an inch thick ; cut it in pieces about four inches in length, and between two and tliree inches in breadth; lay on each a little raspben-y jam, or ■any other preserved fruit, without syrup; turn the edges over, wet- ting them, as little as possible, with water; press them lightly together, and also the ends; lay them on tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Ice them, (as in No. 369), and return them to the oven for a few minutes, or, set them in a Dutch or American oven before the fire. No. 356.—French Turnover of Apples. Eight large apples; eight ounces of sugar; t'vo ounces of butter, and the rind of a lemon. Prepare the apples as for a pie; put them into a saucepan with the sugar, butter, the rind of a lemon, rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water; cover the pan, and set it over a slow fire, turning it occasionally till the apples are about half done, and pour them into a basin to cool. Roll out a piece of paste (No. 366) in a circular form, the eighth of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner plate; wet it round, and fasten a rolled cord of paste withiu an inch of the edge; put in the prepared apples, raising them in the centre in the form of a dome; spread some apricot or orange marma- lade over the surface, and cover the whole with another circular piece of paste, and press the edges together, or fold them over in the form of a cord. Spread some beaten white of egg all over the top with a soft paste brush; then strew coarsely pounded, or rough granite sugar over the entire snrfacc, and bake lightly in a moderately hot oven.104 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 357.—Paste for Pies and Puddings. One pound of flour, or wheat-meal, one ounce and a half of butter; one tea-spoonful of baking powder, and one small tea spoonful of salt. Mix the baking powder and salt well ivith the flour; rub in the butter; then add half a pint of water, taking out about two table- spoonfuls ; mix it with a wooden spoon, but do not knead it; then take it out of the bowl and roll it; fold it in three, and roll it again, and if not sufficiently smooth, roll it a third time. If required, add a little more butter in small bits, on the paste, when rolled out; dredge a little floiu’ over it, fold, and roll it tivice or t hree times. No. 358.—Plain Crust for Pies or Puddings. Put some light white bread into a basin, adding a pint of boiling milk, and let it remain closely covered till quite cold; then rub a little butter in as much flom’ as will make it of a proper consistency, adding a little salt; mix the whole well together, and roll it out as required. White bread or tea-cake dough, with a little butter rolled into it, makes a wholesome and good crust for common fruit pies. No. 359.—Paste for Raised Pies. Two pounds of flour, and half a pound of butter. Put the flour into a basin, adding a little salt, and make a hole in the middle; boil the butter in a pint of ivater, and pour it gradually into the flour, stirring with a wooden spoon, or slice, till iveU mixed; cover it closely; let it remain tiU nearly cold, and use it as required. No. 360.—Paste for Raised Pies. One pound of flour, and halt a pound of butter. Melt the butter in a tinned pan with three quarters of a pint of water. Add a little salt to the flour, and the butter, skimmed from the top of the water, mixing it with the floui', adding as much of the water only, as will make it into a stiff paste. Keep the paste covered and warm near the fire, till required for use. Roll it, and give it the required form with a wooden mould, or the lower part of a small jar.105 PIES AND TARTS. Fill in the ingredients, add the lid, and bind the pie round with paper before baking. The beaten yolk of an egg, brushed over the tops of the pies, before they are set in the oven, improves their appearauce. No. 361.—Paste for Tarts. One pound of flour; two drachms of bi-carbonate of soda, and six ounces of butter. Mix tlie soda well with the flour; then rub in two ounces of butter, adding as much butter-milk as will bring it to the consistency required, and roll the remainder of the butter in at twice, in the usual way. No. 362.—Paste for Custards. Half a pound of flour ; quarter of a pound of butter; the yolks of two eggs, and three spoonfuls of cream. Mix all well together, and let it remain a quarter of an hour; then work it till smooth, and roll it very thiu. No. 363.—Paste 'without Butter. One pound of dry flour; one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and two table-spoonfuls of fine salad oil. Mix the baking-powder well with the flour, adding the salad oil, and a sufficient quantity of cold water to form a paste. Roll it out, and spread a little oil over ; dredge with flour, and fold it in three ; then roll it, adding oil aud flour as before, and when rolled again, it will be ready for use. No. 364.—Puff Paste. Three quarters of a pound of flour; half a pound of butter; the yolk of an egg, and one tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put part of the flour into the dredging box, in order that only the quantity named be used ; mix the remainder with the lemon-juice, the yolk of an egg, and a little water, aud roll in the butter at three different times.106 VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. No. 365.—Puff Paste. One pound of flour; half a pound of butter, and three quarters of a tea-spoonful of baking powder. Rub the baking-powder quite smooth; stir it into the flour, add- ing a salt-spoonful of salt; mix with as much water as will make it a proper eonsistency; work it smooth ; then cover it, and set it in a cool place for two hours. Break the butter in pieces; put it in a thin cloth, and squeeze out the milk ; roll out the paste a little; then put t he butter in the middle; turn the paste over it, and roll it out five or six times, folding it each time in three, keeping the oj)en ends top and bottom ; (it will then be ready for any purpose required), and bake in a quick oven. In order to ascertain the proper heat of the oven, bake a small piece of the paste. No. 366.—Short Paste. Half a pound of flour ; quarter of a pound of butter, and one ounce of finely powdered loaf sugar. Mix all well together with very little water, into a stiff paste, and roll it very thin. No. 367.—Short Paste. One pound of flour ; three ounces of butter; two ounces of wdiite sugar; the yolks of two eggs, and quarter of a pint of cream. Mix the sugar with the flour, both of which should be very dry, and the sugar finely pounded ; then rub in the butter quite fine, adding a pinch of salt; mix with the yolks of eggs, well beaten, and the cream, to make it rather a stiff paste, adding a little more cream if required, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 368.—Short Paste. One pound of flour; six ounces of butter, and one ounce of sugar. Rub the butter till extremely fine, into the flour, which should be well dried, adding the sifted loaf sugar, and as little hot water as can be used to work the whole into a stiff paste.107 PIES AND TARTS. No. 369.—Icing for Tarts. After tai-ts are baked, they are sometimes iced on the top, to im- prove their appearance; this may be done in the following manner :— Beat the white of an egg to a froth, and with a soft brush or feather, spread it over the cover of the tart; then sift white sugar upon it, and return the tai-t to the oven for about five minutes.PREPARED FRUIT. No. 370.—Baked Apples. Put about twelve apples, previously well wiped, and about half a a pint of water into a common dish; set them in a hot oven for half an hour or ratlier more; should the apples be lai'gc, when well done, take them out of the oven, and when cold, serve with moist, or powdered loaf sugar. Peai's may be baked in the same way. No. 371.—Stewed Apples. Parc six nice ripe apples, but not too large; cut them in halves; take out the cores and put them into a basin of spring water as they are done; put half a poimd of sugar, broken in small pieces, into a pan, with half a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and the rind cut into thin strips; put the apples into the boiling syrup, and let them stew till tender, but not broken; then drain them upon a sieve; reduce the syrup; when both are cold, arrange the aj)ples neatly on a dish, and pour the syrup over. No. 372.—Stewed Apples. Pare and core the apples ; put them into a pan with a little water; let them simmer over a slow fire, and when reduced to a pulp, add powdered loaf sugar, as required, and the grated rind of a lemon; put the whole into a basin, and when cold, turn it out on a glass dish. No. 373.—STEV^’ED Eibstone Pippins. Peel four apples ; cut them in quarters, and take out the cores; put them into a pan with four ounces of sugar, the juice of a lemon, the thin rind, cut into strips, and very little water; set them on a slow fire, and stew till tender; put them into a basin, and serve when cold.PREPAHED FRUIT. 109 No. 374..—Stewed Apricots. Cut eight unripe apricots into quarters; put them into a pan with four ounces of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a little water ; set them over the fire, shaking the pan round occasionally, till the apricots arc tender, but not broken ; stew them a very few minutes, and serve when cold. No. 375.—Stewed Cherries. Take the stalks off a pound of Kentish cherries, and put the fruit into a pan, with quarter of a pound of sugar, and the juiee of a lemon ; plaee them over the fire, occasionally shaking the pau round ; simmer about two minutes; then take them out with a colander .spoon, and ])ut them into a basin till cold; reduce the syrup to a proper con- sistency, and pour it over the cherries. No. 370.—Cocoa Nut. ■WTicn required for dessert, grate some of the cocoa nut into a dessert dish ; sift fine sugar over it, and then add another layer of cocoa nut and sugar alternately, till the dish is full. No. 377.—Stewed Currants and Easpberries. Pick the stalks from a pint of currants; put the fruit into a pan with half a pint of raspberries, and quarter of a poimd of powdered sugar; set them over the fire, occasionally shaking the pan round till boiling, and then pour them into a basin to cool. Should the syrup be too thin, which will be the case if the fruit be too ripe, drain the fruit from it; reduce it by boiling, and when cold, pom' it again over the fruit. Strawberries may be used instead of raspberries. No. 378.—Stewed Trench Plums. Put half a pound of French plums into a pan with half a pint of water, the rind of half a lemon, cut thin, two cloves, and an ounce of sugar; simmer about twenty minutes, and when cold, take out the lemon and cloves.no VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 379.—Stewed Green Gages. Cut twelve green gages in halves, and take out the stones; then put them into a pan with quarter of a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a little water; set them over a slow fire, shaking the pan round occasionally, till the fruit is tender, hut not mashed; when cold, arrange them in a dish, and pour the syru]) over. Other plums may be done in the same way. No. 380.—Stewed Green Gooseberries. Put a pint of green gooseberries into a pan, with two ounces of sugar, and a little water; place them over the fire, and when tender, but not broken, pour them into a basin, and serve cold. No. 381.—Stewed Oranges. Peel four oranges, carefully scraping off as much of the pith as possible; divide each orange into eight entire pieces, without breaking the skin with which they are divided; put them into a pan with quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and the juice of another orange; set them over a slow fme, and when the syrup becomes sufficiently thick to adhere to the pieces of orange, put them into a dish or basin, and when cold, arrange them in a circle on a glass dish. No. 382.—Stewed Peaches. Put half a pound of loaf sugar, broken in small pieces, into a pan, with quarter of a pint of water ; then set it over the fire and boU l,o a thickish syrup ; cut four ripe peaches in halves; lay them carefully in the boiling syrup, and simmer two minutes; then carefully re- move them with a colander-spoon on to a hair sieve to drain ; take off the skins, and arrange the peaches neatly on a dessert dish; reduce the syrup to a proper consistency, and when cold, pour it over them. Unripe Peaches should be done in the same manner as Apricots (No. 374). No. 383.—Stewed Pears. Peel six middling sized pears; cut them in two and take out the cores; put them into a pan with quarter of a pound of powderedIll PEE PARED EEUIT. sugar, the juice of a lemon, the thin rind, cut into strips, and very little water; set them ou a slow fire, and stew till tender; put them into a basin, and serve when cold. No. 384.—Stewed Pears. Pare the fruit and cut out the blossom end with a sharp knife. To two pounds of fruit allow half a pound of sugar, and a pint of water. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup; then put in the fruit, with some leraoii-peel and cloves; cover, and let them stew gently till the pears look red and are tender. The large baking peai’s arc the sort usually used for this purpose. Any of the common baking pears are very good, when pared and stewed in a cool oven, with as much water (in which the peels of the pears, some apple parings and cores have been boded), as wiU just cover them, allowing two pounds and a half of sugar to a peck of fruit; cover with a plate that wiU fit inside the stewpot, and tie a paper over. No. 385.—Dried Pears. Peel half a peck of any kind of large baking pears; put them in a large jai- with two pounds of sugar, and three pints of water; stew them in a moderate oven till tender, but not soft; then take them out, and let them remain a few days; boil the syrup again and pour it upon them; let them remain a day or two longer; then drain away the syrup, and lay them on dishes or tins, to dry in a cool oven. No. 386.—Stewed Pine Avples. Peel the pine apple rather thickly, leaving no black spots upon it; make a syrup with half a pound of loaf sugar, broken in pieces and put into a pan with half a pint of water; cut the pine-apple into round slices, quarter of an inch in thickness; put them into the syrup, and let them boil ten minutes; take them out with a colander-spoon; reduce the syrup tdl rather thick, and pour it over the pine-apple, and serve cold.112 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 387.—Stewed Rhubarb. Cut about half a pound of the small forced rhubarb into pieees half an inch in length ; put it into a pan Buth quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and a wine-glassful of water; set it over the fire, shaking the pan round occasionally; when quite tender, pour it into a basin, and serve cold.CHEESECAKES AND CUSTARDS. 8 No. 388,—Almond Cueesecakes. Six ounces of almonds; four ounces of butter; half a pound of sugar, aud six eggs. Beat the almonds with a little rose water in a marble mortar; then mix them with the butter, beaten to a cream, the sugar, finely pounded, and the eggs, well beaten, adding a little powdered mace, and a few drops of almond-flavoim. Bake in cheesecake tins, lined with puff paste. They should only be about half filled. No. 389.—Almond Cheesecakes. Two ounces and a half of sweet, and half an ounce of hitter al- monds ; six ounces of white sugar, and the yoUc of an egg. Pound the almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, adding the sugar, pounded, and the yolk of an egg, well beaten. Bake in cheesecake tins, lined with puff paste. No. 390.—Apple Cheesecakes. Six ounces of apples; six ounces of white sugar; three ounces of butter; five eggs, and one lemon. Grate the apples; then add the sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon; the butter, melted, and the eggs, well beaten, leaving out two whites ; mix all together, aud bake in cheesecake tins, liued with puff paste. No. 391.—Cheesecakes. One pint of new milk; four eggs; quarter of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of butter. Boil the milk with a piece of cinnamon a few minutes; then pour it upon the eggs, stirring till well mixed; return it into the pan, and stir it over the fire till about the consistency of buttered eggs, butVEGETAKIAN COOKERY. 114 do not allow it to Loil; then pour it into a basin, adding the batter, sugar, and a few drops of almond-flavour. Bake in cheesecake tins, lined with puff paste. Currants may he added to the ingredients. No. 392.—Cocoa-nut Cheesecakes. Six ounces of cocoa-nut; four ounces of butter; six ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Grate the nut; add the butter, melted, the eggs, well beaten, the sugar^ powdered, a little mace, aud grated lemon-peel. Bake in cheesecake tins, lined with puff paste. No. 393.—Cream Cheesecakes. One pint of cream; six eggs; six ounces of sugar; the grated rind of a lemon, and quarter of a pound of currants. Set the cream, with the eggs, weU beaten, and the loaf sugar, powdered, over a slow fire, in a pan, lined with earthenware, stirring constantly tiU very nearly boiling; then pour it into a basin, and when cold, add the cureants, lemon-peel, and a little cinnamon, or almond-flavour. Bake in puff paste. No. 394.—Curd Cheesecakes. One pint of cream; the yolks of six, and whites of three eggs; half a pound of white sugar; two ounces of sweet almonds; four ounces of currants, and four ounces of butter. Set the cream on the fire, and when nearly boiling, add the eggs, well beaten, and when it becomes a fine curd, strain it through a lawn sieve, put it into a basin, and stir in the butter. When cool, add the almonds, blanched, and beaten with a little orange-flower water, the sugar, finely pounded, a little powdered mace, a few drops of almond- flavour, and the eurrants. Bake in puff paste. No. 395.—Curd Cheesecakes. Half a pound of cheese-curd; quar-ter of a pound of butter; two ounces of biscuit; six ounces of currants; three eggs; six ounces of sugar, and a little candied orange.115 CHEESECAKES AND CUSTABDS. Beat the curd and butter together in a mortar; then add some light bread, or biscuit, soaked in cream, the sugar, pounded, the eggs, well beaten, the currants, candied orange, a little mace, and a few drops of almond-flavour. Bake in small tins, lined with puff paste. No. 396.—Lemon Cheesecakes. Two lemons ; six eggs ; one pound of loaf sugar, and two ounces of butter. To the butter put the sugar, broken in pieces, the juice, the grated rind of the lemons, and the eggs, well beateu, leaving out two vvliites; put the whole in a brass pau over the fire, stirring constantly till the sugar is dissolved, and the whole has become thick like honey. Bake in small tins, lined with puff paste. If put into a jar, closely covered, with paper tied over, it will keep many weeks. A little sponge biscuit, soaked in one or two table-spoonfuls of cream, may be added to the quantity required for immediate use. No. 397.—Lemon Cheesecakes. One lemon; quarter of a pound of butter; four eggs, and six ounces of sugar. Put the butter into a pan with the sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and the eggs, well beaten, and stir the whole constantly over the fire till it is about the consistency of honey. Keep it in a jar, closely covered. A few Naples or sponge biscuits may be added to the quantity re- quired for immediate use. No. 398.—Lemon Cheesecakes. Quarter of a pound of butter; half a pint of cream; the yolks of five eggs; six ounces of white sugar, and one large lemon. Slice the butter iuto the cream; when melted, pour it carefully on the yolks of eggs, well beaten, and the grated rind and juice of a lemon; return it into the pan, and stir on a slow fire tiU thick; pour it into a jar, and use when cold.116 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 399.—Orange Cheesecakes. Two Seville oranges; the yoUts of six eggs; six ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter. Cut the oranges in two, and after taking out the pulp, boil the rinds, changing the water three or four times, to take out the bitter- ness ; drain, and then pound them in a mortar, adding the sugar, pounded, the eggs, well beaten, and the butter, melted, and mix all well together. Bake iu small tins, lined with puff paste. No. 400.—Potato Cheesecakes. Six ounces of potatoes; two lemons; six ounces of sugar, aud four ounces of butter. After taking out the inside of two good sized lemons, boil the rinds till tender; heat them, with the sugar in a marble mortar, and add the potatoes, boiled, wcU dried, and mashed till quite fine and smooth, the butter, melted in a little cream, and the juice of the lemons; mix all well together, and let it remain tiU cold. Bake iu cheesecake tins, lined with puff paste, in a moderately hot oven, and serve with sugar gifted over. No. 401.—Eice Cheesecakes. Quarter of a pound of ground rice; one pint of new milk; five ounces of white sugar; quarter of a pound of butter, and four eggs. Boil the rice in the milk, adding a piece of cinnamon; pour it into a basin, and when nearly cold, add the butter, melted, the eggs, well beaten, the sugar, powdered, and a few drops of almond-flavour. Bake in small tins, lined with puff paste. No. 402.—Almond Custards. One pint of new milk; half a pint of cream; one ounce and.a half of sweet almonds; five yolks and two whites of eggs, and four ounces of white sugar. Boil the milk and cream with a small stick of cinnamon; pour into a basin, and when cool, take out the cinnamon ; set the milk on a slow fire, adding the sugar, the eggs, well beaten, and the almonds, blanched and chopped fine; stir it on the fire till thick, but do not117 CHEESECAKES AND CUSTARDS. allow it to boil; pour it into a jug or bowl, adding a few drops of almond-flavour, and stirring it frequently till cold, and serve in custard glasses. No. 403.—Arrow-root Custards. One ounce of arrow-root; three quarters of a pint of milk; three ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Mix the arrow-root with quarter of a pint of cold milk, adding the eggs, well beaten, the sugar, and a little almond-flavour; add half a pint of boiling milk, stming constantly, and when cold, serve in cus- tard glasses. No. 404.—Biestinss Custard. One pint of biestiugs; one table-spoonful of flour; one table-spoon- ful of thick creamj cinnamon; almond-flavour, and sugar. Set the biestiugs over the fire with a little cinnamon, stirring it tiU quite hot, but not allowing it to boil. Mix the cream and flour together; pour on the hot bicstings; stir well, adding the almond- flavoiu:, and sugar. Bake lightly, without crust, in a moderate oven. No. 405.—Biestings Custard. One pint of biestings; one pint of new milk; sugar, and one stick of cinnamon. Boil the cinnamon in a pan with the new milk; take the pan off the fire, and stir in the bicstings and sugar. As biestings vary so much in quality, it is best to try a little of the mixture in the oven before it is baked in the crusts, adding more milk if required. Bake in pie or pudding dishes, lined with custard paste, (No. 362). The paste should be pricked with a fork, but not through to the dish, and partly baked before the custard is put in. Egg custard may be made in the same way, allowing five or six eggs, according to size, to a quart of new milk. No. 406.—Baked Custards. One pint of cream; four eggs; cinnamon; almond-flavour, and three ounces of sugar.118 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Boil the cream with a piece of cinnamon; pour it into a basin, and when cold, add the eggs, well beaten and strained, the sugar, powdered, and a few drops of almond-flavom’. Bake in small cups in a cool oven. No. 407.—Custards. One quart of new milk; the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs; five ounces of sugar; quarter of a pint of cream; the rind of a lemon, and a small stick of cinnamon. Boil the milk with the cinnamon, sugar, and the rind of the lemon, pared very tliin; when the milk has boiled a few minutes, pour it into a bowl; beat the eggs, adding the cream, and mix well in the milk, then strain the whole into the pan, and set it on a slow fire, stirring constantly till near boiling; pour it into a jug, stirring it tdl nearly cold, and serve in custard glasses. No. 408.—Gooseberry Custards. Three pints of green gooseberries; quarter of a pound of sugar; four eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Set the gooseberries in cold water over a slow fire, and simmer till soft; then di'ain the water away, and rub them through a sieve; to a pint of pulp add the eggs, the sugar, and orange-flower water; set it over the fire, stirring constantly till it becomes thick, aud when cold, serve in custard glasses. No. 409.—Lemon Custards. Eight eggs; six ounces of sugar; two lemons; a tea-cupful of cream; one pint of boiling water, and two table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water. Beat the yolks of the eggs till quite frothy; pour on them the boiling water, stirring quickly all the time; add the sugar, and the rind of the lemons, grated; stir it over a slow fire, till thick, adding the cream, and orange-flower water; when hot, stir in the lemon-juice; l)our it into a basin; stir till nearly cold, and serve in custard glasses.119 CHEESECAKES AND CUSTARDS. No. 410.—Lemon Custards. One large lemon; one quart of new milk; quarter of a pound of white sugar, and seven eggs. Grate off the rind of the lemon; put it with the sugar in the mUk, and hoil quarter of an hour; straiu, and let it remain till cool; then stir in the eggs, weU beaten and strained, leaving out three whites; pour it into cups with half a tea-spoonful of fresh butter, melted, in each cup; set them in water, and bake in a moderate oven; colour them when done, by holding a hot salamander over, and serve cold, with sugar sifted on the top. No. 411.—Easpberry Custards. One pint of cream; three quarters of a pint of raspberry juice, and half a pound of white sugar. Boil the cream; dissolve the sugar in the raspberry juice; mi.v it with the boiling cream, stirring it till quite thick, and serve in cus- tard glasses. No. 412.—Rice Custards. One ounce and a half of ground rice; three ounces of loaf sugar, and one pint of new milk. Boil the rice in the mUk, adding the sugar, and a piece of cinna- mon ; pour it into custard cups, in which a little fresh butter has been melted, and bake in a slow oven. No. 413.—Vanilla Custards. One stick of vanilla; one pint and a half of new mUk; half a pint of cream; quarter of a pound of white sugar, and seven yolks and four whites of eggs. Cut the vanUla into slips; hoU in the milk and cream, quarter of an hour, adding the sugar; strain, and let it remain till cool; then stir in the eggs, well beaten ; pour it into cups with half a tca-spoon- ful of fresh butter, melted, in each cup; set them in water; hake in a moderate oven; colour them when done by holding a hot sala- mander over, and serve cold, with sugar sifted on the top.VE6KTAEIAN COOKERY. 120 No. 414.—White Custards. One pint of cream; three ounces of sugar; the whites of four eggs, and one table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Boil the cream with a blade of mace; let it simmer for about five minutes; then take it off the fire, and add the sugar; heat the whites of the eggs to a complete froth ; put them into the cream; set it on the fire again, and let it hoil gently, stirring constantly till it be- comes thick; take it off the fire; add the orange-flower water, or a few drops of almon-dflavour, and serve in custard-glasses.MOULDED EARINACEA. No. 415.—Arkow-eoot. Four ounces of aiTow-root; one quart of new milk; one small salt- spoonful of salt, and four ounces of white sugar. Set a pint and a half of milk on the fire, adding the sugar, and salt; when boiling, put in the arrow-root, previously mixed till perfectly smooth, with half a pint of cold milk, and stir constantly till it has boiled three minutes; then add ten drops of almond-flavour, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in eold water. No. 416.—Akrow-root. Six ounces of arrow-root; six ounces of sugar; the rind of a lemon; ten drops of almond-flavour, and one quart of water. Mix the arrow-root till quite smooth, with a little of the cold water; set the remainder on the fire with the rind of a lemon, pared thin; when boiling, add the sugar, and let it simmer about five minutes; then take out the lemon-peel and put in the arrow-root, stirring constantly till it has boiled three minutes; add the almond- flavour, aud pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 417.—Bahlev. Six ounces of pearl barley; tliree pints and a half of water, and six ounces of sugar. Steep the barley twelve hours; drain it, and pour the water, boiling, upon it; stew quickly in the oven in an earthenware jar, covered, till perfectly soft, and all the water absorbed; when about half enough, add the sugar, and six drops of essence of lemon; pour it into a mould, and let it stand to set. When boiled quickly, the above quantity requires two hours and a half, and is a much better eolour than when it is longer in prepa- ration.122 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 418.—Parina. Three ounces of farina; four ounces of white sugar; one pint and a half of milk, and half a pint of cream. Prepare the same as ground rice (No. 422), and flavour with ten drops of almond-flavour. No. 419.—Lentils. Three ounces of lentil-flour; four ounces of sugar ; six drops of almond-flavour, and one pint of water. Mix the flour with a little of the cold water; set the remainder on the fire, and when boiling, pour a little to the flour, and mix well; put it into the pan with the sugar, and stir the whole quickly over the fire fifteen minutes, adding the almond-flavour; pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water, and when cold, serve with preserved or stewed fruit. No. 420.— Rice. Eight ounces of rice; one salt-spoonful of salt, and three pints and a quarter of milk. Wash the rice ; pour the milk upon it, and boil slowly, in a brown basin, covered, in the oven, till it becomes tender, and the miUc ab- sorbed ; pour into a mould, and cover with a plate; turn it out, either warm or cold, and serve it with preserves and cream. No. 421.—Rice. Eight ounces of rice; one salt-spoonfulof salt, and three pints and quarter of water. Wash the rice ; pour the water upou it, and boil it slowly in a browm basin, covered, in the oven, till it becomes tender, and the water absorbed; dip a mould in cold water; pour in the rice, and cover with a plate; turn it out, either ivarm or cold, and serve with preserved or stewed fruit. No. 422.—Ground Rice. Five ounces of ground rice; one quart of new milk; four ounces of loaf sugar; half a salt-spoonful of salt, and six di-ops of almond-flavour.123 MOULDED FAEINACEA. Steep the rice in a little cold milk wliile tbe rest of tlie millc is boiling; then add it to the boiling milk, with the sugar; boil it twenty minutes, stirring it all the time; add the flavour; pour into a mould, previously dipped in cold water; let it stand till cold, and serve with preserves and cream. No. 423.—Ground Rice. Six ounces of ground rice; two ounces of loaf sugar; six drops of lemon-flavour, or three drops of aknoud-flavour, and one quart of water. Steep the rice in a little of the water, wliile the rest of the water is boiliug; then add it to the boiling water with the sugar; boU twenty minutes, stirring it all the time; add the flavour; dip the mould into cold water; pour in the rice, and let it stand till cold, serving with stewed or preserved fruit. No. 424.—Sago. Four ounces of sago, and one quart of milk. Wash the sago, and boil it thoroughly in the milk ; pour it into a mould; let it stand for twelve hours, and serve with preserves and cream. No. 425.—Sago. Five table-spoonfuls of sago; quarter of a pound of sugar, and eight drops of the essence of lemon. Steep the sago a quarter of an hour in half a pint of cold water; pom on it one pint and a half of boiling water, and boil the whole in an earthen vessel in the oven about one hour, occasionally stirring it; pour into moulds and let it remain tiU cold; then turn it out, and serve with stewed or preserved fruit. No. 426.—Sago with Feuit. Four ounces of sago; half a pint of raspberry and red currant juice (strained), and six ounces of loaf sugar. Wash the sago and steep it one hour in cold water; strain off the water; add the juice-and boil gently a short time, stirring it occa-VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 124 sionally, and adding the sugar; when elear, pour it into a mould; let it stand twelve hours, and turn it on a flat dish. No. 427.—Semolina. Five ounces of semolina, and one quart of milk. Pick and wash the semolina; mi.x it with a little of the cold milk ; set the remainder of the milk on the fire, and when boiling, put in the semolina; let it hoil about twenty minutes ; then pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water; let it remain twelve hours; turn it out of the mould, and serve with preserves. No. 428.—Tapioca. Three ounces of tapioca; two ounces of ground rice; one pint and a half of milk, and eight drops of almond-flavour. Wash the tapioca in water two or three times; mix ivith the ground rice ; add haK a pint of cold milk, and let it remain thirty minutes; then add the remainder of the milk, and simmer it half an hour, stirring well the whole time ; add the almond-flavour, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 429.—Tous-les-Mois. Two ounces of tous-lcs-mois; one pint of new milk; two ounces of white sugar, and six drops of almond-flavour. Mix the tous-les-mois with a little of the cold milk; set the re- mainder of the milk on the fire; when it boils, add the tous-les- mois, and the sugar; boil a few minutes, stirring constantly; take it off the fire ; stir in the almond-flavour, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in eold water. No. 430.—Tous-les-Mois. Pour ounces of tous-lcs-mois ; half a pint of enrrant and raspberry juice ; six ounces of white sugar, and one pint and a half of water. Set the water and juice on the fire with the sugar; when it boUs, stir in the tous-les-mois, moistened with a little cold water; boil five minutes on a moderate fire, and pour it into a mould, jireviously dipped in cold water.CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC- No. 431.—Almond Ckeam. Four ounces of sweet almonds; one quart of cream; five ounces of sugar; four whites of eggs, and almond-flavour. Blanch, and beat the almonds with a dessert-spoonful of water; set the cream on the fire, and when it boils, take it off and let it remain a few minutes; heat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth; mix with the almonds, and stir them weU in the eream, adding the sugar and a few drops of almond-flavour; set it on a slow fire or stove to simmer, stirring it constantly the same way till it thickens ; then pour it into a glass or china dish, and when quite cold, ornament the top with almonds blanched, and cut lengthwise. No. 432.—Almond Ckeam. Two ounces of sweet almonds; one pint of eream; three ounces of white sugar ; juice of two lemons, and almond-flavour. Blanch, and beat the almonds to a paste, adding a tea-spoonful of water to prevent them oiling; mix with the cream, adding a few drops of almond-flavour, and the lemon juice, mixed well with the sugar; heat all together to a froth with a whisk ; turn a hair sieve upside down, and lay on the froth as it rises ; when a sufficient quan- tity of froth is obtained, pour the cream into glasses, and lay the froth on the top. No. 433.—Apple Cream. Pare, and boU some good baking apples as for sauce ; rub the pulp through a hair sieve, adding sugar while warm; when cold stk in some good cream, and serve quite cold in a glass dish. No. 434.—Blanched Cream. One pint of cream ; six whites of eggs; the rind of a lemon ; two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and five ounces of white sugar.VEGETAUIAN COOKEKY. *126 Set the cream on the fire, with a small piece of cinnamon, the orange-flower water, sugar, and the yellow rind of the lemon, pared very thin; beat the whites of eggs well, adding three table-spoonfuls of cold cream; boil the cream gently ten minutes, and then take off the fire and strain into it the whites of the eggs, stirring constantly; whisk it over the fire till it thickens; pour into a thin cloth laid in a small colander or sieve; when quite eold, turn it out carefully on a glass or china dish, and garnish with small pink ratafias. No. 435.—Dutch Ckeam. One pint of new milk; one pint of cream ; three yolks of eggs; two drachms of vanilla, and five ounces of loaf sugar. Beat well, the yolks of eggs; add gradually, the milk; then the cream, sugar, and vanilla, cut small; mis aU together, and set it on a slow fire, stirring it with a wooden slice; when the cream adheres to it, it is ready; strain thi’ough a colander into a dish for the table, and serve cold. It may be ornamented with small pink ratafias. No. 436.—Fkench Ciieam. One quart of cream ; two lemons ; one dessert-spoonful of flour; sis ounces of sugar, and quarter of a pound of macaroons. Grate off the rind of the lemons; put it, with the sugar, into the cream, reserving two or three spoonfuls of cream to mis, cold, with the flour; set the cream on the fire, and when it boils, pour it gradually on the mised flour and cream, stinliig it constantly a few minutes, and then occasionally, till cold; then add the lemon-juice, stirring it till well mixed ; lay the macaroons, steeped in lemonade, in the dish intended for the table, and pour the cream upon them. No. 437-—Gooseberby Cream. One quart of green gooseberries, and the yolks of four eggs, or quarter of a pint of cream. Set the gooseberries on a moderate fire, in just as much water as will cover them; when soft, rub them through a hair sieve; sweetenCREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 127 while warm; when nearly cold, add the yolks of eggs, well beaten, or the cream, and serve in a glass or china dish. No. 438.—Irish Cream. One pint and a half of cream; the whites of three eggs; one ounce and a half of isinglass;(■) six ounces of white sugar; a very little saffron, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Dissolve tbe isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water, adding the saffron, steeped in orange-flower water; when strained, put it into a pan, with the cream, sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten; let the whole boU together quarter of an hour, and then strain it through a lawn sieve into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 439.—Lemon Cream. One pint of cream ; two eggs; four ounces of wliito sugar, and one lemon. Beat well the yolks of the eggs ; put them to the cream and sugar, adding the rind of the lemon, pared very thin; set it on a moderate fire, stirring constantly till it boils ; pour it into a basin, and stir till nearly cold ; put the juice of the lemon in a bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring till quite cold, and serve in a glass dish. No. 440.—Lemon Cream. Four lemons; one pint of water; five eggs, and six ounces of white sugar. Put the whites of the eggs, well beaten, to a pint of water; strain it, and add the juice of four, and the grated rind of two lemons, and the sugar; mix all well together; set it on a moderate fire, but do not allow it to boU.; pour it into a bowl, and when cool, add the yolks 2. It haa been reasonably objected that isinglass is not a proper element of Vegetarian cookery, but it does not appear that it has yet been entirely su- perseded by any extract from the vegetable kingdom. Irish moss and Ice- land moss arc found to answer very well in some instances, as in receipt No. 457 ; and it is probable that when chemical science shall be more completely applied to the art of preparing food, a substance, superior in all respects to the isinglass commonly used, will be obtained from vegetable productions.128 VEGETARIAN COOICERY. of tlie eggs, well beaten; set it on the fire again, stirring it till of a proper thickness; return it into the bowl, stirring it frequently till eold, and serve in custard glasses. No. 441.—Orange Cream. Four oranges (one Seville); the yolks of four eggs; one pint of eream; five ounces of sugar, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Pare the oranges very thin, and hoil the peel till tender; then pound it in a mortar to a fine paste, adding the sugar, orange-flower water, the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the juice of the oranges; beat aU well together, and put in gradually the boiling cream; beat it tiU cold, and serve in a glass dish. No. 442.—Pine Apple Ice Cream. Three quarters of a pint of pine apple syrup; the juice of a large lemon, and one pint of cream. Mix the syrup and lemon-juice with the cream, and add sugar as re- quired ; pour it into a mould; cover it with white paper; lay a piece of hrown paper over to prevent any water getting iu, and set it in the ice. When required for use, dip a towel iu hot water; fold it round the moidd, and turn out the cream. The bucket used for freezing should be sufficiently large to allow about four or five inches of ice, broken in small pieces and mixed with salt, to be placed below and round the sides of the mould. No. 443.—Kaspberry Cream. Mash the fruit gently; set it to drain through a sieve, strewing a little sugar on it; when well drained, without being pressed, add sugar and cream to the juice, and a little milk, if required. Whisk it iu a bowl, and as the froth rises, lay it on a sieve, and when no more will rise, put the cream iu a dish, and lay the froth upon it. Strawberry cream may be made in the same way. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained, jam or jelly may be used, allowing six ounces to a pint of cream, and adding the juice of a lemon.129 CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. No. 444.—Raspberrv Ice Cream. One pound of raspberries, and one pint of cream. Mash the fruit; strain off the juice, and mix it witli the cream, adding sugar as required; whisk it; then pour into glasses, and freeze as directed (No. 442). Strawberry Ice Cream is prepared in the same way. No. 445.—Rhubarb Cream. One quart of rhubarb, peeled and cut in pieces; one pint of cream ; four ounces of sugar; the thin rind of half a lemon, and a piece of cinnamon. Set the rhubarb on the fire ivith very little water, the sugar, lemon- peel and a small stick of cinnamon ; when quite soft, rub it through a sieve, and when cold add the cream, or two well beaten eggs, mixed with a pint of new milk. No. 446.—Snow Cream. One pint of cream ; the whites of two eggs; fom' ounces of sugar, and quarter of a pint of lemonade. To the cream, add the sugar, lemonade, and the whites of eggs, well beaten; whisk the whole to a froth, and serve it in a dish, or lay it on custard, trifle, or preserved fruit. No. 447.—Spanish Cream. One pint of new milk; half a pint of cream; three eggs; four ounces of flour, and two ounces of white sugar. Beat the eggs, leaving out two of the whites; mix them gradually with the cream, and half of the milk; mix the remainder of the milk carefully with the flour and the sugar; set all together over a slow fire with a piece of cinnamon, stirring constantly till the flour is per- fectly dissolved, but do not allow it to boU more than a few minutes ; lay some macaroons or ratafias in a glass or china dish; when the mixture is a little cooled, pour it upon them with a spoon, and serve when quite cold. It may be ornamented with small pink ratafias. 9130 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 448.—Spanish Rice Cream. One pint ot cream; three ounces of fine rice-flour; three ounces of sugar, and the whites of three eggs. Boil the cream with a piece of cinnamon, and pour it into a basin ; when cool, strain, and put it into a pan with the riceflonr, sugar, and the whites of eggs, well beaten ; boil llie whole together till it becomes quite thick, adding a few drops of almond-flavour; wet six cups with a little rose-water; pour in the cream, and when cold, turn it out on a dish. No. 449.—Stone Cream. One pint of good cream; two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice; quarter of an ounce of isinglass; three ounces of white sugar, and apricot jam, or orange marmalade. Dissolve the isinglass in a few table-spoonfuls of hot milk; strain it to the cream, adding the sugar, rubbed on the rind of a lemon; lay the apricot jam, marmalade, or any other preserved fruit nuth the lemon-juice in the dish intended for the table; whisk the cream till thick, and pour it over the fruit. No. 450.—Swiss Cream. One pint of cream ; six ounces of sugar; two lemons; one table- spoonful of flour; a small piece of cinuamon, and quarter of a pound of macaroons. Rub the sugar on the rinds of the lemons ; set the cream on the fire, leaving out as much as will mix the flour to a paste, adding a spoonfid or two of the hot cream before stirring it into the pan, and being careful to prevent lumps ; boil it four or five minutes; pour it into a basin; stir it till nearly eold, and then .add the lemon-juice; cover the bottom of a glass dish with macaroons; pour cream over; then add another layer of cakes, and the remainder of the cream, and garnish with sliced citron. It should be made the day before it is wanted. No. 451.—Vanilla Cream. Half a stick of vanilla; quarter of a pint of new milk; quarter of131 CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. a pound of white sugar; one ounce of isinglass; one pint of cream, and one pint of water. Put half a pint of water to the isinglass and let it remain twenty minutes; then set the other half pint on the fire, and when it boils, put in the isinglass, stirring it till dissolved; boil the vanilla in the milk till well flavoured; then mix it with the isinglass, and strain it through a muslin or a gauze sieve; set it again on the fire with the cream, and sugar till quite hot; pour it into a basin; stir it till nearly cold, and pour it into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 452.—Velvet Cream. One pint of cream ; three ounces of loaf sugar; one ounce of isin- glass, and one large lemon. Dissolve the isinglass in nearly half a pint of lemon or orange syrup, mixed with water, adding the lemon juice, and the sugar, previously rubbed on the lemon to take off the rind; boil these together; strain, and when cold, add the cream ; stir the whole well together, and pour it into a mould. No. 453.—Blanc-mange. One ounce and three qnarters of isinglass; one quart of new milk ; one pint of cream; a piece of cinnamon, and two or three laurel leaves. Steep the isinglass in half a pint of cold milk twenty minutes; set the remainder of the milk on the fire with the cinnamon, and laurel leaves, and whilst boiling, put in the isinglass and stir it till the isin- glass is quite dissolved, adding the cream and sugar; strain it through a fine sieve or a piece of muslin; stir till ncaily cold; leave it to settle, and then clear it off into two moulds. No. 454.—Blanc-mange. One quart of milk; quarter of a pound of sugar; quarter of an ounce of cinnamon; one ounce of isinglass, and six drops of almond- flavour. Put the milk, isinglass, and sugar into a pan, adding the cinnamon, and almond-flavour ; simmer over a slow fire, stirring constantly till the isinglass is dissolved; strain through a cloth into a basin, and then pour it into a mould.132 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 455.—Blanc-mange. One ounce of isinglass ; one pint and a half of new milk ; half a pint of cream, and six drops of almond-flavour. Boil the milk and cream, and put in the isinglass, sweetening with sugar; boil two minutes; strain, whilst hot, through book muslin, adding the almond-flavour when the milk is nearly cold, and pour the whole, into a mould, in which it should stand from twelve to twenty-four hours. No. 456.—Egg Blanc-mange. The yolks of seven eggs; one ounce of isinglass; five ounces of sugar, and one lemon. Pour a pint of boiling water upon the isinglass, and the rind of a lemon, pai-ed very thin, and let it remain till cold; then put it into a pan with the sugar, lemon-juice, and the yolks of eggs, well beaten; let it boil five minutes; then strain it through a piece of muslin, and put it into a mould. No. 457.—Iceland Moss Blanc-mange. \ One ounce of Iceland moss; one pint and three quarters of new milk; quarter of a pint of cream; six ounces of white sugar; cinna- mon, and almond-flavour. Put the moss in cold water; let it remain till the following day; wash it well, and drain it; set it on the fire with the milk, cream, sugar, and a little cinnamon, stirring it well; boil gently fifteen or twenty minutes; add a little almond-flavour; rub it quickly through a fine tin strainer, and put it immediately into moulds, previously dipped in cold water. No. 458.—Apple Jelly. Pare and core large juicy applesset them on the fire with as much water as will cover them; boU quickly till the fruit is quite soft; add a quart more water, and boil half an hour longer; then run it through a jeUy-bag; set it again on the fire, with half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of a lemon, and the rind, pared very thin, to each pint of pulp ; boil all together; strain, and pour it into a mould.133 CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. No. 469.—French Jelly. Put a little clear jelly into a mould, and when set, add any kind of fresh fruit; then more jelly, and fruit as before, till the mould is full; when required, dip the mould in hot water, and turn out the jelly can-fully on a dish. In the winter, preserved fruits may be used in the same way. No. 400.—Fruit Jelly. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water; then add a half pint jar of any kind of fruit jelly; when quite melted, strain through a jelly-bag ; then stir till nearly eold, and put it into a mould. No. 461.—Green Jelly. Two ounces of isinglass ; two ounces of sweet almonds; half a pint of spinach-juice; ten dro])s of almond-flavour; five ounces of white sugar, and one quart of water. Steep the isinglass twenty minutes in half a pint of cold water; dis- solve it in a pint and a half of boiling water; strain it, and add the almonds, blanched, and chopped fine, the sugar, and the juice of spinach; set it over a slow fire till nearly boiliug; then strain through a gauze sieve; when it becomes thick, pour it into a mould, and it will be ready the following day. The spinach-juice should be strained till perfectly clear before it is used for the jelly. No. 462.—Jelly. One ounce and a half of isinglass; half a pint of orange syrup (No. 664); two lemons; one egg, and sugar. Soak the isinglass in half a pint of cold water twenty minutes; add the same quantity of boiling water; stir it over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved; then add the juice of two lemons, and the rind of one, pared thin, and as much orange syrup and water as will make a quart altogether, adding sugar as required. Beat together the white and shell of the egg; stir quickly into the jelly, and boil the whole five minutes, without stirring ; remove it from the fire; let it remain, covered, five minutes; then strain it through a flannel jelly- bag, previously dijiped in hot water, and wrung quite dry.134 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 463.—Lemon Jei.ly. Four fine lemons; half a pound of white sugar; two ounces of isinglass, and the whites of five eggs. Grate the yellow rinds of the lemons into a pint and a half of water, stirring in the sugar till quite dissolved; then add the juice of the lemons; let it remain an hour, and then strain it; soak the isinglass in half a pint of cold water twenty minutes; then put it in a pint of boiling water, stirring it till perfectly dissolved ; strain, and put it in a pan with the water into which the lemons were grated, adding the whites of eggs, well beaten; tie a small piece of turmeric in muslin, and lay it in a spoonful of water till wet; then squeeze a very little into the jelly to give it the colour of lemon, but not too yellow; boil it five minutes, without stirring; when taken off the fire, skim it, and run it through a jelly-bag. No. 464.—Orange Jelly. Four Seville oranges; two sweet oranges; three lemons; two ounces of isinglass, and three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Kub some of the sugar on the rinds of the oranges and lemons; then squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemons upon the sugar; dis- solve it in a pint of water, and boil it to a clear syrup. Boil the is- inglass in a pint of water till dissolved; strain through a fine strainer, and stir tUl cool; put it to the syrup ; pass it tlu-ough a jelly-bag, and put it into a mould. No. 465.—Orange Jelly. One ounce and a half of isinglass; the juice of three Seville oranges; three sweet oranges; one lemon; the grated rinds of one Seville orange, and of one lemon; half a pound of sugar, and half a pint of lemonade. Put half a pint of cold water to the isinglass; let it remain twenty minutes; put it in a pan with another half pint of boiling water, stir- ring it till dissolved; then strain it, and add the sugar, the grated riuds of the lemon and the Seville orange, the lemonade, and juice of the oranges and lemon; boil aU together five minutes, and then strain it through muslin.135 CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. This jelly will not be very clear, but the colour may be improved by adding a little saffruu. No. 400.—Cke.vm Sponge. One quart of cream; one ounce and a half of isinglass; six ounces of loaf sugar, aud one lemon. Boil the isinglass in the cream ; strain it into a basin, and let it remain till cool, but not set. Take off the rind of a lemon with the sugar; then grate the sugar into a bowl; squeeze and strain the leuiou- jnice upon it; add the cream, and whisk all together till it begins to stiffen i put it into moulds, and let it rcuiaiu till the following day. No. 4C7.—Lemo.n Sponge. Three lemons; half a pound of loaf sugar; one ounce of isinglass, and the white of one egg. Put the rinds of the lemons, pared thin, into n pan with the isin- glass and a pint of water; set it on the fire, stirring constantly till the isinglass is dissolved; strain, and let it remain till nearly cold ; then add the sugar, powdered, the juice of three lemons, strained, and the white of an egg, beaten to a froth; whisk the whole together three quarters of an hour, and pour it into a mould. No. 408 —Orange Sponge. One pint of orange-juice ; nine ounces of sugar, and one ounce and a quarter of isinglass. Pour half a pint of boiling water upon the isinglass, and when dis- solved, strain it to the sugar; add the orange-juice, also strained, and whisk all well together till cold and like a sponge, aud put it into n mould. No. 409.—Raspbehuy Sponge. Half a pint of raspberry-juice; one quart of cream ; one ounce aud a half of isingla-ss, and six ounces of sugar. The same as for Cream Sponge (No. 400). No. 470.—Vanilla Charlotte. Butter a plain mould; split some sponge biscuits, and line the136 VEGETARIAN COOKERT. mould with them; place them closely, leaving the brown outside; pour vanilla cream into the centre; set it in a cool place, and when required, turn it out on a dish. No. 471.—Solid Custard. One quart of new milk; six ounces of sugar; the yolks of five eggs, and half an ounce of Iceland moss, or one ounce of isinglass. Boil the moss or isinglass in the milk till dissolved, adding the sugar and a piece of cinnamon. Beat the yolks of the eggs well; strain, and mix them with the milk ; set it on the fire, .stirring con- stantly till it becomes about the consistency of a boiled custard; add a few drops of almond-flavour, and when cool, pour it into a mould. No. 472.—Lemon Solid. One large lemon; three ounces of loaf sugar, and one pint of cream. Rub off the rind of the lemon with some lumps of sugar, and put them, with the lemon-juice, strained, into a china dish. Boil the cream, which should be thick, adding the remainder of the sugar, and pour it, hot, upon the lemon-juice, but do not stir it, and when cold, ornament with candied, or preserved citron, cut in thin slices. No. 473.—Christmas Posset. Three quarts of new milk ; one pound of white bread ; one quart of lemonade, and three table-spoonfuls of ginger syrup.,. Cut the bread in small pieces; boil it in the milk, and when it has boiled about two minutes, take it off the fire. Put the lemonade, syrup, and sugar, in a large bowl, or tureen; then put in carefully with a tea-cup, the bread and milk; let it remain undistmLed two or three minutes ; then put down the bread, very gently, with a spoon, and sift powdered cinnamon on the top. No. 474.—Christmas Posset. Three quarts of new milk; twelve ounces of currant bread; three lemons, and six ounces of sugar. Boil the milk, with the bread, cut into small pieces. Slice, andCREAMS, JEIXIES, ETC. 137 place the lemon in the bottom of a large bowl, or tnrcen, with the sugar; add the milk and bread, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. No. 475.—Coi,D Posset. Mil a pint of cream with a pint of new milk, adding the rinds of two lemons, pared very thin ; let it remain several hours ; then mix with it a quart or rather more of lemonade, with sugar, as required; whisk it well, taking off the froth as it rises; turn a sieve upside down, and lay the froth upon it; pour the remainder into a large china bowl; let it remain in a cool place, covered with a plate, eight or ten hours; then cover the top with currants; lay on the froth, and strew a few currauts or caraway comfits over it. No. 470.—Apple Trifle. Scald, and rub through a sieve sufficient apples to make a thick layer at the bottom of a dish, adding sugar, as required, and the grated rind of half a lemon, ^lix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg ; scald over the fire, but do not let it boil; add a little sugar ; pour it into a basin, and let it remain till cold; lay it over the apples with a spoon, and put Snow Cream on the top. No. 477.—Apple Snow. Six apples; the whites of six eggs, and quarter of a pound of white sugar. Parc the apples, and set them over the fire in cold water; when soft, rub them through a sieve; beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, adding the sugar, and after beating the apples also to a froth, whisk the whole together till it becomes like stiff snow, and heap it high on a china dish, or lay it over stewed apples, or trifle. No. 478.—Lemon Syllabubs. One pint of cream; four ounces of white sugar; two thirds of a pint of lemonade, and the rind and juice of one fine lemon. Rub off the yellow rind of the lemon with a piece of the sugar ;138 VEOETAniAN COOKERY. put the sugar to the cream ; let it remain two hours ; then add the lemonade and the lemon-juice; whisk it and take off the froth as it rises ; turn a hair sieve upside down on a plate, and lay the froth upon it; when no more froth will rise, pour the remainder into syllabub glasses till about three parts full; then lay on the froth, and let them remain till the next day. No. 479.—rATRV Butter. Quarter of a pound of butter; the yolks of six eggs; three ounces of white sugar, and one table-spoonful of lemon-juice. BoU the eggs ten minutes; take out the yolks, and add to them the butter, sugar, and lemon-juice; beat all toRCther to a fine paste; let it remain in a cool place three hours, and then rub it through a wii’e sieve on the plate intended for the table. No. 480.—Egg Cheese. Eight eggs; three quarts of new milk; one pint of cream; one pound of loaf sugar; three lemons, and one orange. Set the milk and cream on the fire, adding the sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and the rind of a lemon, pared thin ; after boiling, let it simmer ten minutes; then strain through a sieve, and return it into the pan; beat the eggs, and after straining them, add the orange and lemon-juice ; beat all well together; pour them into the hot milk, and stir the whole over the fire till it becomes curd ; remove it from the fire, and let it remain from five to ten minutes ; then pour it into a thin cloth, laid in the sieve; when drained, press the curd into a mould with holes in it; let it drain two hours; turn it out on a dish, and'serve with cream poured over it. No. 481.—Italian Cheese. One pint of cream ; six ounces of sugar, and three lemons. Scald the cream; whisk it till quite smooth, and add the sugar, the juice of three, and the grated rind of two lemons ; let it remain half an hour; then whisk it till very thick, and put it into a moidd with holes in it, or a thin cloth laid in a small colander.CHEAMS, JELLIES, ETC. 139 No. 482.—Lemo.\ Cheese. One quart of cream ; half a pint of lemonade; three lemons, and six ounces of sugar. To the cream, add the lemonade, sugar, the grated rind of two, aud the juice of three lemons; whisk the whole together twenty minutes; lay a thin cloth in a sieve; pour it in, and the following day, turn it carcfidly out of the cloth, aud garnish with candied, or preserved orange, cut in thin slices, or small pink ratafias. No. 483.—Snow Cheese. One pint of cream; three lemons; six ounces of loaf sugar, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water. To the cream add the grated rinds of two, and juice of three lemons, the sugar, and orange-flower water; whisk all together about quarter of an hour till it thickens ; then put it into muslin, laid in a small sieve; let it remain till the next day, aud then turn it out on a glass or china dish. ' No. 484.—Cream Curds. One quart of cream ; six eggs, and one table-spoonful of vinegar, or one pint of sour butter-milk. 4Vhen the eggs have been well beaten and strained, mix them well with the cream; set three quarts of water on the fire, adding a large tea-spoonful of salt, and when it boils, put in a pint of thick sour butter-milk, or a table-spoonful of vinegar; stir in the cream and eggs, and as the curds rise, keep sprinkling in a little cold water; when sufficiently risen, take the pan off the fire, and let it stand five minutes ; lay a thin cloth in a sieve, or colander, aud skim the curds into it; turn them out carefully the following day, and serve with white sugar, or raspberry vinegar. No. 485.—Cream Cheese. To a quart of thick cream put two quarts of new milk; set it in a morleratcly warm place to thicken, stirring it occasionally; when thick, pour it into a clean wet cloth, laid in a sieve ; leave it to drain till the following day; then turn it into a wet cloth, and afterwards140 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. into a dry one; on the third day turn it on a hoard with a clean cloth under and over, and continue turning the cheese and changing the cloth twice a day till dry, which will he in about eight days. No. 480.—Clouted Cream. Half a pint of new milk ; one pint of good cream ; the yolks of two eggs, and six table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Set the milk on the fire, adding the rose-water and a little mace ; when it boUs, strain, and mix with the yolks of eggs, wcU beaten; add the cream, and stir aU together over the fire, but do not allow it to boil; pour it into a bowl, and let it remain till the next day ; then take off the top, and serve it in a glass dish. No. 487.—Clouted Cream. Strain three quarts of new milk into a wide earthen pan, and let it remain twenty-four hours; then carefully place the pan upon a hot iron plate or slow fire, that the milk may be heated very gradually, tin quite hot, but it must not be allowed to boU; remove it from the hot plate, and let it remain in a cool place twenty-four hours; then take off the cream ; put it into a glass dish, and sift sugar over. It may be used with preserved fruit. No. 488.—Devonshire Cream. Have ready a pan made of block-tin with a handle on each side, similar in form to the earthenware vessels generally used for milk in dairies; strain six or eight quarts of new milk immediately, whilst warm into the pan; let it remain undistm-bed twenty-four hours; then set it on a slow fire or hot hearth tiU scalded, but do not allow it to boil so as to break the top; then take it cai’efuUy off the fire, and set it in the dairy or some cool place till quite cold; take off the cream, and put it in a sieve to di’ain. No. 489.—Devonshire Cream. Scald a gallon of new miUc, or two quarts of cream, in a clean pan over a gentle fire, till it begins to froth round the sides; take it off im- mediately, and set it in two broad earthen paus as the milk is set forCRKAMS, JELLIES, ETC. 141 cream ; tlie following day take off the cream carefully with a skimmer; place it on dishes in layers, and if for immediate use, sprinkle fine sugar between the layers. No. 490.—Ti:rkisii Yourt. To a quart of new milk, add as much sour milk as will turn it to a soft curd, and serve with sugar, or preserved fruit.BREAD AND TEA CAKES. No. 491.—Bkead. Twelve pounds of flour; one ounee and a half of salt; three ounces of German yeast, and one tahle-spoonful of sugar. Mix the salt with the flour. Rub the sugar and yeast with a very little cold water till quite smooth ; stir into it one quart of lukewarm water; take out the spoon, and let it remain a few miuutes to settle. Make a hole in the middle of the flour ; clear off the yeast, carefully, through a tin strainer (leaving the sediment at the bottom), and stir it into the flour till like hatter; set it in a rather warm place, covered with a cloth, tiU well risen; then add nearly two quarts more water, and knead it well; set it again to rise, and when well risen, make it up in loaves, and bake in the usual way. A stale loaf may he renewed by being dipped in water, and then set in a moderate oven till thoroughly heated. Tea-cakes and muffins may he renewed in the same way, laying them on warm tins. No. 492.—Bread with Miller’s Baking Powder. Two pounds of wheat-meal; tw'o tea-spoonfuls, or half an ounce of hakiug powder, and one pint of cold w'ater. Rub the powder very fine, and mix with the meal and salt; pour the water on gradually, stirring it quickly with a w'ooden spoon into a light dough, which will not require kneading; put it in a tin, pre- pared in the usual way, and either hake immediately in a quick oven, or let it remain fifteen or twenty miuutes. That all may he well mixed, it is best only to make up one or two loaves at once, which requires only a few miuutes, and then another portion in the same way. No. 493.—Bread with Soda and Butter-milk. Brovm Bread.—Six pounds of flour; one ounce of carbonate of soda, and four pints of butter-milk.BKEAD AND TEA CAKES. H3 Il'Aife Bread.—Four pounds of flour; half an ounce of cai-bonate of soda; aud two pints of butter-iniUc. Mis the soda well into the flour, either by rubbing it in with the bands, or sifting it through a fine sieve, adding a little salt; then mix in the butter-milk, quite cold; put the dough into tins or earthen- ware baking ])aus, warmed and rubbed over with a little butter, and bake immediately in a quick oven. No. 494.—Breakfast Bread. Four pounds of flour; one ounce of German yeast, and one pint of warm milk. Put the flour into an earthen bowl, adding a little salt. Dissolve the yeast in three quarters of a pint of warm water; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and clear off the yeast through a fine sieve into the flour, stinnng it to set the sponge; cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise; when risen, stir in the warm milk, and when well mixed, return it to a warm place for about three quarters of an hour; mould it into rolls, twists, or small loaves; place on warm tins, and bake in a quick oven. No. 495.—Breakfast Bread. Three pounds of flour; three quarters of an ounce of German yeast; two mealy potatoes; one ounce of huttei’, and one pint and a quarter of new milk. Boil and dry the potatoes; mash them with the butter, and a des- sert-spoonful of salt, aud mix well with the flour. Prepare the yeast with half of the milk, a little warm; strain it off into the middle of the flour, stirring it a little; cover it, and let it remain all night; warm the remainder of the milk, and mix in the dough ; set it before the fire to rise for half an hour; then make it up in rolls; lay them on the warm tins; cover with a thin cloth, and when risen a little, bake them in a quick oven. No. 490.—Bread for Buttered Toast. Two pounds of flotu"; half a pound of boiled potatoes; one ounce of German yeast; half a pint of milk, and a tea-spoonful of salt.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 144 Mix the salt with the flour, previously dried; then put in the warm milk, and half a pint of warm water ivitli the yeast; cover with a eloth, and set it before the fire; ivhen risen, add the potatoes, well dried and mashed, and when well mixed, set it in a warm place to rise, and hake it in a tin, in a moderately hot oven. No. 497.—Scalded Bread. To about one third of the quantity of coarse brown flour intended to be used, stir in as much boiling water as will make it a rather stiff paste. Prepare the German yeast as before, allowing one ounce to four pounds of flour; set it to rise in sponge with a little lukewarm water; when well risen, and the scalded flour is become cold, mix, aud knead well together, adding the usual quantity of salt, aud water, as required; let it rise well; put it in a tin; bake in a quick oven till half done; then carefully remove it to the upper part of the oven; let it remain several hours, having the oven moderately cool the latter part of the time; when well baked, fold it in a clean wet cloth, and put it in the cellar a day or two, before it is cut. No. 498.—Bread with Potatoes. Twelve pounds of coarse or fine flour; four pounds of boiled potatoes; one ounce and a hiilf of salt, and tliree ounces of German yeast. When the potatoes have been boiled aud mashed, rub them through a wire sieve into the flour, adding the salt; when well mixed, put in the yeast, with warm water as required; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire to rise in sponge; then knead it well; let it remain till it has risen again, and bake in the usual way. No. 499.—Bread with a mixture of Rice. Six pounds of flour; one pound of rice; one ounce and a half of German yeast, and one ounce of salt. Boil the rice in two quai-ts of water till soft; drain the water from it; mash, and mix the rice with the flour, adding the salt, and the yeast prepared as usual; mix with the water in which the rice was boiled, adding as much luke-warm water as required, aud when risen, bake the bread in the usual way.145 BREAD AND TEA CAKES. No. 500.—Apple Bread. Set the flour to rise with German yeast and a little salt in the usual way, but with less water; allow one part of apples to two of flour; pare, core, and bake, or stew them with a spoonful or two of water, till quite soft; mash and beat the apples till perfectly smooth; when the hatter is risen, add the apple, and mix well; let it rise, and bake iu long rolls, in a rather quick oven. Very little water is required to make it of a proper consistency. No. 501.—Indian Corn Bread. To a quart of butter-milk, mi.K as much meal as will make it a thick batter, adding a little salt, a spoonful of sugar, and a large tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a little water; mix well, but do not beat it much; make into cakes about an inch thick; lay them on warm tins, rubbed over with a little butter, and bake in a hot oven. The cakes may either be buttered and served hot, or when cold, with treacle. The Indian meal may also be used with the baking powder, allow- ing half an ounce to two pounds of meal, and using milk instead of butter-milk; mixing, and baking it iu the same way. No. 502.—Currant Bread. Three pounds of flour; one pound of butter; turn pounds of raisins; two pounds of currants ; three quarters of a pound of sugar; one ounce of German yeast, and one pint and a quarter of new milk. Mix half a pint of warm milk with the yeast, and when it has settled, strain it into the middle of the flour; pour in the butter, melted in the remainder of the milk ; cover with a cloth, and set it to rise before the fire ; when risen, add the raisins, currants, sugar, a little mace, and nutmeg; when well mixed, put it into a buttered baking tin, or a deep dish; let it rise about half an hour, aud bake iu a moderately hot oven, 10VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 140 No. 503.—Currant Bread yvithout Sugar. One pound and a half of flour; si.x ounces of butter; one pint of new milk ; half an ounce of German yeast; four eggs; one pound of currants; one ounce of candied lemon, and half a nutmeg. Mi.\ the yeast with half a pint of warm milk, and when it has settled, strain it into the flour, adding the butter, melted in the remainder of the milk, and set it to rise; when sufficiently risen, add the currants, candied lemon, the nutmeg, grated, and the eggs, well beaten; mi.x all well together; put it in a buttered tin, or deep dish; let it rise twenty minutes, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 504.—Christmas Currant Loaf. Pour pounds of flour ; half a pound of butter; one pound of sugar; one pound of Sultana raisins ; one ponnd of enrrants; half an ounce of baking-powder; one pint and a half of new milk; four eggs; the grated rind of two lemons ; two ounces of candied lemon or orange ; half an ounce of German yeast; mace, and cinnamon. Rub the baking-powder into the flour with half an ounce of salt; then rub in the butter ; prepare the German yeast, adding to it the milk, just warm; strain it into the middle of the flour, stirring it a little; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; when well risen, mbi up all the ingredients together, beating well the eggs, and rolling the sugar; cut the candied orange in thin slices, and add the rind of the lemons, the mace, and cinnamon, powdered; set it again to rise for an hour, and bake in tins or earthenware baking pans, warmed and buttered, in a moderately hot oven. No. 505.—Brentford Roles. Two pounds of flour; two eggs ; two ounces of butter; two ounces of sugar; one pint of new milk, and half an ounce of German yeast. Rub the butter in the floiu’, adding a little salt, and the sugar, finely powdered; put in the warm milk with the yeast, then the eggs, well beaten, and mix the whole into a light dough; cover with a cloth, aud set it before the fire ; when sufficiently risen, make it into twelve rolls; set them to rise, and bake in a quick oven.BREAD AND TEA CAKES. U7 No. 506.—French Roi.ls. Two pounds of flour; two ounces of butter; half an ounce of Ger- man yeast; two eggs; quarter of an ounee of salt, and one pint of milk. Rub the butter in the flour, adding the salt; then add the yeast, mixed with nearly a pint of warm milk, and the eggs, well beaten, when made into a light paste, let it rise about half an hour ; make it into rolls, and after they have risen before the fire, bake them in a quick oven. No. 507.—Rolls with a mixture of Potatoes. One pound and a half of flour ; one pound of potatoes ; one ounce of butter; three quarters of a pint of milk; quarter of an ounee of German yeast, and quarter of an ounee of salt. Dry the flour and mix in the salt. When the potatoes have been boiled and dried, mash them with the butter, and half a pint of milk, and rub them through a wire sieve into the flour. Mix the remainder of the warm milk with the yeast, and when settled, pour it to the flour, and mix all together ; let it rise before the fire; then make it into common sized rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. No. 508.—Luncheon Cake. One pound of flour; two drachms of bi-carbonate of soda; three ounces of sugar; three ounces of butter, and half a pint of sour butter-milk. Mix the soda well with the flour; rub in the butter; add the sugar, and butter-milk ; mix all together; put it into a buttered tin, and bake immediately in a quick oven. No. 509.—Soda Cake. One pound of flour; quarter of a pound of butter; quarter of a pound of sugar; half a pound of currants ; three eggs; a large tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a tea-cupful of milk. The flour and currants should be well dried before the fire; then the butter, rubbed well in the flour, adding the sugar, currants, andVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 148 the eggs, well beaten. Dissolve the soda in the milk; pour it upon the other ingredients; mi.x well, and heat it with a wooden spoon twenty minutes, and bake in a buttered tin, or earthenware baking pan, in a moderately hot oven. If caraway seeds be used instead of currants, quarter of an ounce would be the proper quantity, adding a little more sugar. The baking- powder answers very well for this cake. No. 510.—Common Tea Cakes. Two pounds of flour ; half an ounce of German yeast; half a pint of new milk, and one ounce of butter. Mix about half a pint of warm water with the milk, and add it to the yeast, previously rubbed till smooth with a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a very little cold water, and let it settle for a few minutes. Rub the butter in the flom-, adding a little salt; then pour the milk and yeast through a fine strainer into the middle of the flour, being careful to avoid putting in any sediment; stir it with a wooden slice; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire ; when sufficiently risen, mix, and set it to rise again; when risen, roil out the cakes ; lay them on warm flat baking tins ; let them rise quarter of an hour, and then bake them in a hot oven. Currants may be added. No. 511.—Tea Cakes. Two pounds of flour; nearly a pint of milk; two ounces of butter; one egg; one tea-spoonful of salt, and half an ounce of German yeast. Rub the yeast quite smooth, with a tea-spoonful of sugar and a dessert spoonful of cold water; stir the milk just warm to the yeast; take out the spoon, and let it remain two or three minutes undisturbed. Rub the butter in the flour, adding the salt; make a hole in the middle, and clear off the milk into it through a fine strainer, stirring it with a wooden slice till it forms a thick batter, and leaving the sedi- ment at the bottom in the basin; set the bowl, covered, before the fire, but not too near ; when the sponge has risen, add the egg, well beaten, and mix the dough with the slice till smooth, beating it as149 BREAD AND TEA CAKES. little as possible; scrape the batter quite clean from the sides of the bowl with a knife, and take out the slice ; cover with a cloth, and set it to rise again for half an hour, or a little more; rub the baking tins, when rather warm, with a little butter, rubbing it lightly off again with clean j)aper; roll out the cakes in the usual way with as little Dour as possible; lay them on the tins; cover with a thin cloth, for quarter of an hour, and bake in a quick oven. They will bake in about ten or twelve minutes. Currants may he added to the whole, or only n port of the cakes. No. 512.—Tea Cakes. Two pounds of flour; one pint of new milk ; quarter of an ounce of Miller’s baking-powder; one egg, and one large tea-spoonful of salt. Rub the baking-powder very fine and smooth; mix it, and the salt well in the flour; heat well the egg, and mix it, with the milk, into the flour; roll out the cakes in the usual way; let them remain quarter of an hour; and bake immediately in a quick oven. Currants may be added. No. 513.—Tea Cakes. Two pounds of flour ; quarter of an ounce of hi-carhonate of soda; two ounces of sugar; two ounces of butter, and one pint of sour butter-milk. Rub the soda, butter, sugar, and a little salt, well into the flour; mix with the butter-milk; roll out the cakes, and hake them imme- diately in a moderately hot oven. No. 514.—Scotch Tea Cakes. Three pounds of flour; three quarters of an ounce of German yeast; one pint and a quarter of new milk; quarter of a pound of butter; three eggs; four tahlc-spoonfids of cream ; half a jiound of currants; half a pound of sugar, and quarter of an ounce of salt. Mix the salt with the flour; put half the warm milk to the yeast, and when settled, pour it into the middle of the flour; then add the butter, melted in the remainder of the milk ; cover, and let it remain for three quarters of an hour; then add the eggs, well beaten, theVEGETAEIAN COOKERY. 150 cream, warm, the currants, and the sugar; mix all well together, and ■when risen, make it into cakes; lay them on warm tins, rubbed over with a little butter; cover with a cloth; set them on the hearth to rise for fifteen or twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. No. 515.—Oat Cake. Mix good oat-meal with a little salt and warm water; prepare the Gennan yeast as before directed, allowing half an ounce of yeast to two pounds of meal; beat the batter (which should be about the same consistency as for crumpets) till smooth, and bake on a hot bake-stone or iron plate in the same way as crumpets, but not quite so quickly. No. 516.—Westmoreland Oat Cake. Mix fine oat-meal with milk-warm water into a stiff dough; roll it to the thickness of a wafer; bake it on a girdle, or iron plate, placed over a slow fire, about three or four minutes, and then place it on edge before the fire to harden. It win keep, in a dry place, three or four months. No. 517.—Potato Cakes. Boil some good mealy potatoes, and when well dried, mash them with a little butter and salt, adding German yeast, milk, and as much flour as win make it the consistency of dough; roll it into cakes, and when sufficiently risen, bake in a moderate oven. No. 518.—Crumpets. One pound and a half of flour; half an ounce of German yeast; one quart of new milk, and two eggs. Prepare the yeast by rubbing it quite smooth with a tea-spoonful of sugar, and two tea-spoonfuls of cold water; add a pint of the milk, lukewarm, leaving it a few minutes to settle; clear it off through a fine strainer into the flour, stirring it till like batter; set it to rise, and when ready to mix, add the eggs, well beaten, a little salt, and the other pint of milk, or as much as will make the whole a thick batter, beating it as little as possible, just to beat out the lumps; cover it, and set it to rise. Prepare the girdle (an iron plate)151 BREAD AND TEA CAKES. bv rubbing it well when just warm, with a little butter in a cloth ; w'hen the batter is sufficieutly risen, place the girdle over a clear, moderate fire; nearly fill a common-sized tea-cup with the batter, taken from the top (for it must not be stirred up), and pour it on the plate, and as soon as it appears to set, turn it over immediately with a tin slice, the size of a large crumpet; when lightly browned, tiu-n it again on the coolest part of the baking plate; let it remain a short time; when turned the first time, pour another on, and continue till the batter is finished. As the crumpets are baked, lay tliem on a clean cloth, covering them lightly with another cloth, but do not lay one upon another till nearly cold. Either toast them lightly, or lay them on a cake tin, and cover them with a clean wet cloth; set them in the oven, and when hot through, butter them in the usual way. No. 519.—Crumpets. Two pounds of flour ; half a pint of new milk; one pint of water; one egg, and half an ounce of baking-powder. Rub the powder very fine, and mix it well with the flour and a little salt; add the egg, well beaten, the milk, and the water; beat the batter a very little, and bake immediately, as in receipt No. 518. No. 520.—Muffins. Three pounds of the finest flour; one pint and a half of wann milk and water, and one ounce of German yeast. Dissolve the yeast in the usual way, and mix it with part of the milk and water. Make a hole in the flour, and strain into it the yeast, adding the remainder of the milk and water; mix well, and beat it quarter of an hour; cover, and set it in a rather warm place to rise; when well risen, cut it into pieces a little larger than an egg; roll them on the board with the hand, like balls; spread a cloth on a tray, dredgmg it well with flour; set it before the fire, and lay the balls on the tray as they arc rolled, keeping them, and also the dough, closely covered with clean flannel. When all the dough is made into balls, the first which was laid on the tray will be ready for baking, and will spread out into the form of a muffin; lay each oneVEGKTARIAN COOKERY. 162 on the hot plate or bake-stone, and as the bottom begins to change colour, turn it on the other side, being very careful to avoid burning. Half an ounce of the baking-powder, rubbed smoothly into the flour, when dry, would lighten the dough very much. No. 521.—Yorkshire Muffins. Two pounds of flour; one pint of new milk; two ounces of butter; two eggs, and half an ounce of German yeast. Set the sponge with part of the milk and the yeast, prepared as before, and stirred into the middle of the flour; set it in a rather warm place, covered with a cloth; when well risen, melt the butter in the re- mainder of the milk; mix it into the flour, adding a little salt and the eggs, well beaten; beat the dough twenty minutes; then make it up into balls, on a board well dredged with flour; lay a cloth in a tray before the fire, but not too near; dredge it well with flour, and as the balls are made, place them a proper distance from each other, in order that they may not run together in rising on the tray; cover them with a cloth, and in about twenty minutes, lay them quickly on hot tins; shape them a little wdth a knife, and bake in a quick oven. They are very soon balced. No. 522.—Scones. Two pounds of flom’; quarter of an ounce of bi-carbonate of soda; quarter of an ounce of salt, and one pint of sour butter-milk. Mix to the consistency of light dough, and roll it about half an inch thick; cut out the scones in any form, and bake on a girdle over a clear fire, turning them to brown on both sides. The scones should be cut in tw’o and buttered, and may be used either cold or hot. No. 523.—Potato Scones. Mash some boiled potatoes till quite smooth, adding a little salt, and knead with flour to the consistency required; roU, and form the scones, and after pricking them with a fork, bake on a girdle. No. 624.—Toast. Procm-e a nice square loaf that has been baked one or two daysBRKAD AND TEA CAKES. J53 previously, and mth a sharp knife, cut the requisite number of slices, about quarter of an inch in thickness; place a slice of the bread on a toastiiift-fork, about an inch from one of the sides; hold it a minute before the fire; then turn it, hold it before the fire another minute; by which time the bread will be thoroughly hot; then begin to move it gradually till the whole surface has assumed a yellowish brown colour; turn it again, toasting the other side in the same mamier; then lay it upon a hot plate, spread rather less then an onnce of butter over, and cut it into four or si.v pieces; if three or four slices are required, cut each slice into pieces as soon as buttered, and pQe them lightly upon the hot plate on which they are to be served, as often in cutting through several slices with a bad knife, all tbe butter is squeezed out of the upper slice, and the lower one is found swimming in butter. AVarming the bread gradually on both sides, greatly improves the quality of the toast, and makes it much lighter. The butter used should not be too hard, as pressing it npon the toast would make it heavy. Dry stale bread may be dipped in warm water, and toasted gra- dually before being buttered. No. 525.—Dry Toast. Toast the bread as for buttered toast, and place it in a toast-rack, or raised on a plate, one piece resting against another, and serve im- mediately, or it will become tough. Any kind of toast should not be made till just before it is wanted. No. 526.—To Toast Crumpets. Warm them on both sides first; then toast them a nice light brown colour on each side; lay them on a plate; spread some rather soft butter over; cut them in quarters with a sharp knife, and serve immediately. If several crumpets arc required, serve each separately on a plate; for if laid one upon another, the under one will become tough. No. 527.—To Toast Muffins. Just open, half an inch deep, the sides of the muffins exactly inVEGETAKUN COOKERY. 154 the centre, with a knife; then put the toasting fork in the middle of tlic bottom; liold it a little distance from the fire, till partly warmed through; then turn it and put it again to the fire till it becomes lightly toasted; then again turn it to toast the other side; when done, pull it open ; spread a thin layer of butter on each side; close them together; then with a sharp knife eut it in quarters, and serve very hot. If more than one muffin be required, eut each separately, and place them lightly one upon another, on the plate. No. 528.—Ferment for Bread. Half an ounce of hops; a few slices of apples; four spoonfuls of treaele; one quart of water, and three quarters of a pound of flour. Boil the hops and apples in the water twenty minutes; strain off the liquor; add to it the treacle, and stir in the flour, or as much as will make it the consistency of thin batter; cover lightly, and set it in a moderately warm place, till fermentation takes place, which will be in a few hours, and then mix it with the Dour. Make the bread in the usual way, except using about double the quantity of the ferment that would be required of eommon yeast. No. 529.—Flour Yeast. One pound of flour, and quarter of a pound of brown sugar. BoO the ingredients with a little salt in two gallons of water one hour; when milk-warm, put it in stone bottles and eork it close. It wiU be ready to use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this, will make eighteen pounds of bread, and one ounce of baking-powder, mixed dry in the flour, will improve it. No. 530.—Temperance Y^east. First Morning.—Boil two ounces of the best hops in four quarts of clear soft water half an hour; strain through a hair sieve, and when it becomes about milk-warm, put in two table-spoonfuls of salt, and half a pound of brown sugar; beat one pound of the best floiu- with some of the liquid till smooth, then mix all well together, and let it remain two days.BKKAD AND TEA CAKES. 155 Second Morning.—Boil and dry three pounds of good mealy potatoes; mash them well, and mix with the above. While the yeast is in process, it should be kept in a rather warm place, but not too warm, and stirred frequently. Third Morning.—Strain the mixtnre through a sieve, carefully; then pour it into a large stone bottle, with a wide top; cork it tightly, and keep it in a cool place. Directions for Use.—If there be any water on the top, pour it off; then stir it well with a cane or small peeled stick; mix the yeast the night before it is to be used with a quart of water and a little flour, and cover it; the following morning, mix with the flour and knead the dough in the usual way, allomng it to rise several hours after. Quarter of a pint of this yeast will raise a dozen of flour. It will keep two or three months, in a cool place, according to the weather. No. 531.—Potato Floue. Peel the potatoes and wash them very clean; then grate them into a large earthen pan of cold water; let it remain till the pulp falls to the bottom, and the water begins to clear; pour off the water, and add plenty more of fresh spring water, stirring the pulp well with the hand, and then rub through a hair sieve, pouring water upon it. In passing through the sieve, let it remain tiU the farina subsides, and the water clears; then pour off the water, carefully, adding fresh water and stirring it well several times tiU the farina is perfectly white, and the water clear; lay the farina on flat dishes before the fire, covering them with paper to keep out the dust; when perfectly dry, pound it to powder; sift it through a sieve, and keep it m bottles or cannisters.BISCUITS AND BUNS. No. 532.—Biscuits. Two pounds of flour; half an ounce of haking-powder; four ounces of white sugar; one ounce of arrow-root; four ounces of butter, and one egg. Mix the baking-powder well with the flour; then add the other in- gredients, and as much new milk as will form a stiff paste; heat it well with a paste roller for half an hour; roU it thin; cut out the biscuits, and when well pricked, hake them in a rather quick oven. No. 533.—Abernethy Biscuits. Three pounds and a halt of flour; one pint of new milk; quarter of a pound of butter; quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and one ounce of caraway seeds. hlix and knead all well together; roll the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness; cut out the biscuits, and when pricked, hake them in a quick oven. No. 534.—American Biscuits. One pound of flour; quarter of a pound of butter; halt a pound of sugar; half a pint of new milk, and half a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar, or baking-powder. Kuh the butter in the flour; dissolve the sugar in the milk, warm; make a solution of the salt of tartar in a table-spoonful of cold water; mix all well together, kneading the paste from ten to fifteen minutes; then roU the paste, and cut out the biseuits with a round tin paste- cutter, or the top of a dredging-box, and hake on tins immediately, in a quick oven. If the baking-powder he used instead of salt of tartar, nearly a tea- spoonful wiU be required. It should he rubbed perfectly smooth, and mixed wcU in the flour when quite dry.BISCUITS AND BUNS. 157 No. 535.—Arhow-root Biscuits. Quarter of a pound of arrow-root; half a pound of flour; quarter of a pound of sugar; one ounce of butter; one egg; a small tea- spoonful of baking-powder, and quarter of a pint of new milk. Boll the arrow-root, and rub the baking-powder quite smooth; mix well with the flour, adding the sugar, previously rolled, to take out the lumps; rub in the butter well, mixing all together with the egg, well beaten, and the milk ; knead it into a stiff smooth paste, beating it with the paste roller, or rolling it quarter of an hour; then roll very thin as much as is convenient, and stamp it all over with a block set with brass wires or pins; cut the cakes with a tin paste-cutter, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 536.—Butter Biscuits. One pound of flour; one egg; quarter of a pound of butter, and a small tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Mix the baking-powder with the flour, adding a little salt; rub in the butter (having previously squeezed out the milk); add the egg, well beaten, and as much water as required to form a stiff paste ; mix till quite smooth ; roll the paste three times; then roll it again very thin; stamp or prick it; cut out the biscuits in any form, and bake them in a rather quick oven. No. 537.—Digestive Biscuits. Mix the forthright flour or wheat-meal in as small a portion of water as will cause it, after much kneading or rolling, to adhere; then roll, and cut it into biscuits, about half aii inch thick and three inches s<iuare, and bake them well in a quick oven. The unfermented “ forthright bread” is made in a similar way, except being formed into rolls about an inch thick, cut deeply across, and baked in a moderately hot oven. No. 538.—Endcliffe Biscuits. Two pounds of flour; quarter of a pound of butter ; one pound of crushed lump sugar ; one tea-spoonful of volatile salts; three quarters of a pint of new milk, and half an ounce of caraway seeds.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 158 Bub the butter very well in the flour; dissolve the salts in a tea- cupful of the mUk, made hot, and the sugar in the remainder of the milli in a saucepan; mix all together, adding the seeds; roll it rather thin; cut out the biscuits with a tin cutter, and bake in a moderately hot oven. The biscuits should be stamped with a block set with brass wires, or well pricked with a fork. No. 539.—Hard Biscuits. One pound of flour, and two ounces of butter. Melt the butter in as much milk as will make the flour into a stiff paste ; beat it with a paste roller till quite smooth; roll it thin; cut out the biscuits; prick them with a fork, and bake them about six minutes. No. 540.—Scotch Biscuits. One pound and a half of flour ; quarter of a pound of sugar; half a pouRd of butter; half an ounce of caraway seeds, and quarter of an ounce of baking-powder. Pour rather more than half a pint of boiling water to the butter, and let it remain till nearly cold ; mix the baking-powder well with the flour, then put in the butter, and water, adding the sugar, and caraway seeds ; roll the paste, but not very thin ; cut out the biscuits with a tin cutter; brush them over with a little rose-water, and sift sugar on them. No. 541.—Stamped Biscuits. One pound of flom’; quarter of a pound of butter, and one tea- spoonful of baldng-powder. Mix the baking-powder well with the flour; rub iu the butter, and add as much cold water as required to form it into a stiff paste; knead it till quite smooth ; make it into balls, and put each into the mould of a small butter print, or roll the paste about a third of an inch in thickness, and stamp it with the print. No. 542.—Victoria Biscuits. One pound of flour; two ounces of butter, and two ounces of loaf sugar.BISCUITS AND BUNS. 159 Rub the butter in the flour, adding the sugar, and as much milk as will make it into a very stiff paste; knead it from fifteen to twenty minutes ; then roll it about the thickness of a half erown; cut out the biscuits in any form, and when pricked, bake them in a quick oven. No. 543.—Yorkshirk Biscuits. One pound of flour; four ounces of butter ; one egg, and half a small tea-spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. lilis the soda and a very little salt, with the flour; rub in the butter; add the egg, well beaten, and as much butter-milk as required to make it a stiff paste; knead till quite smooth; then roll it; out out the biscuits; prick them, and bake immediately in a moderately hot oven. No. 544.—Rusks. Three pounds of flour; six ounces of sifted sugar; six ounces of butter; one ounce of German yeast, and one pint and a half of new milk. Rub the butter well in the flour, adding the sugar, and a tea- spoonful of salt; put the milk and a little warm water to the yeast in the usual way; mix it into the middle of the flour so as to form a light batter; cover and set it to rise; when risen, mix, and let it rise half an hour longer ; then roll it into cakes about five or six inches in length and two inches broad, and bake in a moderately hot oven. When baked, and quite cold, cut them in thin slices, and dry them on tins in a moderate oven, turning them over occasionally. No. 545.—Cheese Snaps. Divide a new loaf, when quite hot, by pulling it in halves; take out pieces about the size of a walnut, with a fork; put them on a dish, and set them in a rather quick oven to brown lightly. Stale bread may be used, but does not answer the purpose so well. No. 546.— Buns. Twelve ounces of flour; four ounces of butter; four ounces of white sugar; four ounces of currants; four eggs; quarter of an ounce of baking-powder, and a small tea-cupful of new mUk.160 VEGKTAKIAN COOKERY. Rub the baking-powder quite smooth, and mix well with the flour; rub in the butter; then add the sugar, currants, the milk, and the well beaten, and bake iu small tins in a quick oven. No. 547.—Bath Buns. One pound and a half of flom'; six ounces of butter; four ounces of sugar; four eggs; half an ounce of caraway seeds; one ounce and a half of candied citron ; half an ounce of German yeast, aud half a pint of milk. Rub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt; mix the milk, w’arm, with the yeast; strain, and pour it into the middle of the flour; cover, and set it before the fire to rise; when sufficiently risen, add the sugar, the caraway seeds, picked and washed, the eggs, well beaten, and the citron, cut in thin slices; make up the buns; lay them on baking tins; let them rise about quarter of an hour; bake in a quick oven; when done, brash them over with beaten egg, and sift sugar on them. No. 548.—Cheltenham Buns. Three pounds of floui’; half a pound of butter; one pint and a half of new milk ; three quarters of a pound of sugar; one pound of currants; one ounce of German yeast, and two eggs. Rub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt; mix the warn milk with the yeast; strain it into the middle of the flour, and set it to rise; w'hen risen w ell in the sponge, add the sug.ar, currants, a little mace, and the eggs, well beaten ; set it to rise again, and when ready, bake the buns in small tins, in a quick oven. Sultana raisins may be used instead of currants. No. 549.—Common Buns. Three pounds of flom'; half a pound of sugar; quarter of a pound of butter; three quarters of an ounce of German yeast; one pint and a half of new milk; three quarters of a pound of currants; half an ounce of caraway seeds, aud quarter of an ounce of prepai'cd ginger. Rub the butter in the flour, adding a little salt; mix the warm milk with the yeast, and when settled, pom- it through a fine strainerBISCUITS AND BUNS. IGl iuto the middle of the flour, stirring till it forms a thin batter; cover with a cloth, and let it rise well before the fire ; then add the cur- rants, well cleaned, the ginger, and caraway seeds. Make up the buns; let them rise about twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. No. 550.—Endcliffe Buns. Eighteen ounces of flour; si.x ounces of sugar; four ounces of butter; half an ounce of baking-powder; one egg; six ounces of currants, or Sultana raisins, and half a pint of new milk. Rub the powder into the flour ; then rub in the butter, adding the sugar, currants, or raisins, the egg, well beaten, and the milk ; mix all together, and bake in tins in a rather hot oven, sifting a little powdered sugar over, before setting them in the oven. No. 551.—Lemon Buns. Two pounds of flour; six drachms of bi-carbonate of soda ; half a pound of sugar; quarter of a pound of butter; two eggs; three quarters of a pint of butter-milk, and twelve drops of essence of lemon. Mix the soda with the flour; rub iu the butter; add the sugar, the butter-milk, the eggs, well beaten, and the essence of lemon ; mix all together, and bake immediately. No. 552.—Longfoud Buns. One pound of flour ; quarter of a pound of butter; two ounces of sugar; quarter of a pound of caraway comfits; quarter of a pint of cream; four eggs; quarter of an ounce of German yeast, and the grated rind of a lemon. Rub the butter in the flour; mix the cream, warm, with the yeast, and strain into the middle of the flour; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire; when risen, add the eggs, well beaten (leaving out two whites), the sugar, rolled, the caraway comfits, aud lemon-peel; mix aU well together ; make it in round balls ; lay them on buttered tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven. 11YKGETAUIAN COOKEBY. 102 No. 653.—Soda Buns. One pound and a half of flour ; three eggs; half a pound of sugar; one large tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda ; four ounces of butter; six ounces of currants, or Sultana raisins; the grated rind of a lemon, and half a pint of butter-milk. Kub the soda very fine, and mix it well in the flour, adding a pinch of salt, then the sugar, grated lemon-peel, and currants, or raisins, the butter, melted, and the eggs, well beaten; mix all well togethci- with the butter-milk, and bake immediately in buttered tins, in a rather quick oven.CAKES. No. 554.—Ai.monu Cakk. Six ounces of sweet almonds; lialf a pound of powdered sugar; seven eggs; six ounces of flour; the grated rinds of two lemons, and one spoonful of orange-flower water. Pound the almouds with the orange-flower water, till quite fine ; then add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the lemon-peel; gra- dually stir in the flour as lightly as possible; add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a strong froth, and bake in a buttered mould, in a moderately hot oven. When set in the oven, the mould should be placed in a pie dish, to prevent the cake being burnt. No. 555.—Almond Cakes. One ounce of almouds; five ounces of flom'; two ounces of butter; five ounces of sugar, and one egg. Rub the butter in the flour; add the sugar, finely powdered, the egg, well beaten, the almonds, blanehed and pounded, and a little almond-flavour; mix all together; roll it in balls about the size of a nutmeg; sift fine sugar over, and bake them lightly on a buttered tin. No. 556.—Almond Biscuits. Half a pound of almonds; three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar; quarter of a pound of flour; six eggs; the grated rinds of two lemons; one ounce of candied citron, and one table-spoonful of rose-water or orange-flower water. Blanch, and pound the almonds with the rose-water, or orange- flower water; add the sugar, finely powdered, the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, the flour, dried, and the lemon-peel; then add the whitesVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 1C4 of tlie eggs, beaten to a froth, and the citron, cut in thin shreds; ruh cheesecake tins over with a little fresh butter; about half fill them; sift sugar over, and hake in a moderately hot oven. No. 557.—Basi.e Cakes. One pound of flour; quarter of a pound of butter; four eggs; six ounces of white sugar; the grated rind of a lemon ; half a tea-cup- ful of cream, and one small tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Beat the butter to cream; mix the baking-powder, lemon-peel, and powdered sugar, with the flour, and add them to the butler; then add the eggs, well beaten, and the cream; mix all well together; roll it in halls on a hoard; flatten them a little, and hake on tins, in a moderately hot oven. No. 558.—Bell’s Biscuits. Three ounces of flour; three ounces of ground rice; six ounces of loaf sugar; quarter of a pound of butter; oue egg, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the butter to cream; then add the sugar, lemon-peel, and the egg, well beaten; mix all well together with the floiu', and ground rice; put it in small portions on a tin, allowing them room to spread, and hake in a moderately hot oven. No. 559.—Bristol Cakes. Half a pound of flour; quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; quarter of a pound of butter; half a pound of currants, and four eggs. Kuh the butter iu the flour, adding the currants, and powdered sugar; heat the yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, and mix the whole together with a wooden spoon; butter a flat tin, and put on the mixture ivith a spoon, allowing a small portion for each cake, and hake iu a moderately hot oven. No. 5G0.—Cinnamon Cakes. One pound of flour; half a pound of butter; six ounces of sugar; one ounce of cinnamon, and two eggs. Ruh the butter in the flour, adding the sugar, powdered cinnamon.CAKES. 165 the eggs, well bcnten, mid ns inucli crcnni as required to mix the whole into a stiff paste; roll, and cut out the cakes with a tin cutter, and hake them in a moderately hot oven. No. 561.—CiTuoN Cake. One pound of butter; one pound of powdered loaf sugar; one pound of flour, well dried ; quarter of a pound of sweet almonds; a little mace; three ounces of citron, and eight eggs. After pressing the water out of the butter, work it to cream; add the sugar, finely powdered, then the flour, put lightly in, the almonds, blanched and chopped as fine as possible, the citron, cut iu thin slices, then the eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; stir all to- gether, adding a few drops of almond-flavour, and bake in a buttered mould, in a moderately hot oven. A small tea-spoonful of baking-powder may be rubbed smooth and mixed well in the dry flour. No. 562.—Derby Cakes. One pound of flour; quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; quarter of a pound of butter; one egg; six ounces of currants, and two table- spoonfuls of cream. Mix the flour, well dried, with the pow'dered sugar, and the cur- rants ; add the butter, melted, the egg, well beaten, and the cream; when mixed, roll the paste; cut out the cakes, and bake them on flat tins. No. 563.—Eccles Cakes. To one pound of flour, allow three quarters of a pound of butter with the salt squeezed out of it; mix the flour to a paste with water with a small portion of German yeast in it; roll it thin; lay the butter on in small pieces as for puff paste; dredge it with flour, and fold it in three; roll it out three or four times ; then fold it up, and cover it with a cloth or bowl for two or three hours in a cool place; then cut it in pieces about the size of an egg; make them round; make a hole in the middle of each, working it round till it will admit of a dessert-spoonful of currants, some sugar, moistened with ns little water as possible, and a few drops of lemon-flavour, or a little fresh-VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 1G6 grated lemon-peel; elose the paste well, and lay the eakes on a hoard, the elosed side downward; roll them out, and bake them on tins in a rather quiek oven. 'I'he sugar may be boiled to a syrup, with as little water as possible, and then mixed with the eurrants, and lemon-peel or flavour. A small tea-spoonful of baking-powder, rubbed in the flour when dry, may bo substituted for the yeast. No. 5G4.—Frost Cakes. Half a pound of potato-flour; quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; six ounees of butter; two eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Beat the butter to eream ; then add the potato-flour, the sugar, finely powdered, the eggs, well beaten, and the lemon-peel; whisk all together twenty minutes, and bake in cheeseeake tins, in a moderate oven. No. 565.—Gingerbread. One pound of flom’; four ounees of butter; half a pound of treaele; half a pound of sugar ; one ounee of prepared ginger; one egg; half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and the rind of a lemon, grated, or a little powdered einnamon. Put the butter in a jar or basin with the treaele, and set it in the oven till the butter is melted; rub the baking powder quite smooth, and mix well in the flour; then add the ginger and lemon-peel, or einnamon, and sugar, previously rolled to take out the lumps; mix all well with the butter and treaele, adding the egg, well beaten ; roll it with the hand on a board, in balls, about the size of a walnut; lay them on tins, warmed and rubbed over with a little butter, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 566.—Gingerbread. Two pounds of flour; half a pound of treaele; half a pound of butter; half a pound of sugar; one ounce and a half of prepared ginger; one large tea-spoonful of baking-powder; the grated rind of a lemon, and one egg. Rub the baking powder into the flour; then add the ginger, lemon-peel, and the sugar, rolled; mix well with the butter, melted inCAKES. 107 the treacle; set it in a cool place for two hours; then roll it rather thin ; cut it in cakes, or slips about an inch broad, and bake on but- tered tins, in a moderate oven. No. 507.—Plain Ginoerbuead. Three pounds of flour; six ounces of butter; half a j)ound of brown sugar; two ounces of prepared ginger; one pound and a half of treacle, and one large tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Rub the baking powder, and stir it into the flour with the ginger, and the sugar, rolled; mix it into a ])astc with the treacle and butter, warmed and strained; form it in balls, about the size of a walnut, and bake on w:u'm tins, buttered, in a moderate oven. No. 508.—Gingerbread without But-ter. One pound and a half of treacle; half a pound of sugar; quarter of a pound of candied orange or lemon; half an ounce of cai’away seeds; three quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger; the grated rind of a lemon; one pound of flour, and one small tea-spoonful of baking-powder. 'Warm the treacle ; add the sugar, candied orange, and lemon-peel; mb the baking powder quite smooth, mixing it well with the dry flour; then add the ginger and caraway seeds; mix all well together, adding a little more flour if required to make it up iu cakes or balls, and bake on buttered tins, in a moderately hot oven. No. 569.—Thick Gingerbread. Three quarters of a pound of flour; half a pound of butter; six ounces of sugar; one pound of treacle; two eggs; two ounces of candied lemon, or orange; the grated rind of a lemon; three quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger, and one tea-spoonful of baking- powder. Put the baking-powder, rubbed smooth, into the flour, adding the ginger and lemon-peel; heat the butter to cream; add the sugar, well rolled, and then the flour, with the ginger aud powder; mix all together with the treacle, warmed, and the eggs, well beaten, adding the candied fruit, cut in thin slices; spread the mixture about half1G8 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. an inch thick, in a warm tin, well buttered with fresh butter, and bake in a moderately hot oven. When baked, let it stand a few mi- nutes ; then cut it in square pieces; lay it on a board till quite cold, and keep it in a tin bo.x, with thin writing or tissue paper between each layer. No. 570.—Thick Gingerbreah. One pound of either white or brown flour; three quarters of an ounce of prepared ginger; one pound of brown sugar; three quarters of a pound of treacle ; quarter of a pound of butter; one egg; quar- ter of an ounce of baking-powder, and one ounce of candied lemon or orange. Mix the baking-powder, ginger, and sugar, well with the flour; then add the treacle, warmed, a tea- cupful of water, the egg, well beaten, the candied fruit, and the butter, melted; mix the whole well together; put it in a baking tin, spreading it about an inch thick all over, and bake immediately. When taken out of the oven, let it remain a few minutes, and then cut it in squares. No. 671.—Transparent or Snap Gingerbread. Three quarters of a pound of flour; one pound of sugar; quarter of a pound of butter; half a pound of treacle; a little grated lemon- peel ; half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder; half an ounce of pre- pared ginger; one egg, and a little mace. Warm the butter and treacle together till the butter is melted; add the sugar, and stir it till dissolved in the butter and treacle; rub the baking-powder into the flour, adding the ginger, lemon-peel, and the egg, well beaten; mix all the ingredients together; set it in a cool place for several hours; then drop it in small pieces on tins, warmed and well buttered, and bake in a moderately quick oven. When baked, and after standing a short time, and whilst warm, roll up the snaps lightly, the upper side outwards. As this gingerbread is best when crisp, only a small quantity should be baked at once. The paste keeps well in a covered jar.CAKES. 16'J No. 572.—Tuavelleus’ Gingerbread. One pound and a half of flour; half a pound of butter; one pound of sugar; one ounee and a quarter of prepared ginger; two eggs ; the grated rind of one lemon, and one large tea-spoonfiil of baking-powder. Hub verj- smoothly, the baking-powder; stir it into the flour, add- ing the ginger, and lemon-peel; then rub in the butter, anu the sugar, previously rolled; mi.x all together with the eggs, w'cU beaten, and a spoonful or two of good cream, if required; roll the paste in balls, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 573.—White Gingerbread. One pound of flour; one pound of sugar; half a pound of butter; one ounce and a half of ginger; the yolks of two eggs, and one ounce of candied lemon. Beat the butter to a cream; add the flour, sugar, and prepared ginger, the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the candied lemon, cut in small thin shreds; mi.\ all together; lay it in small rough pieces on a buttered baking tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 574.—White Gingerbread. One pound of flour; three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar; half a pound of butter, and one ounce of ginger. 3Iix the sugar and ginger with the flour; add the butter, melted, and as much cream as required to form a stiff paste; roll it thin; cut out the cakes in any form, and bake them in a moderately hot oven. No. 575.—JUMBALES. One pound of flour; half a pound of butter; three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and two eggs. Rub the butter into the flour, adding the sugar and the eggs, well beaten ; make it into a stiff paste ; roll it rather thin; cut it in shreds, and twist them into knots, rings, or any other form; lay them on baking tins; sift fine sugar over them, and bake in a moderately hot oven.VEGETARIAN COOKERY. ]70 No. 576.—King Cakes. One pound of flour; half a pound of butter; half a pound of white sugar; half a pound of currants; four eggs; a little mace, and a few drops of almond-flavour. Rub the butter in the flour ; then add the sugar, finely pounded, the currants, mace, and eggs, well beaten; hake them on buttered paper, laid on tins, or bake in small tins, in a moderately hot oven. No. 577.—Lemon Cake. Eight ounces of floim, well dried; one pound of sugar, powdered and sifted ; one large lemon, and ten eggs. Whisk well the yolks of the eggs ; then add, gradually, the sugar, the juice and grated rind of the lemon, the flour, then the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth; whisk it an hour, and bake an horn’ in a tin mould, wmrmed and buttered, in a moderately hot oven. No. 578.—Lemon Cakes. One pound of flour ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of loaf sugar; three eggs, and the gi’ated rind of two lemons. Beat the butter to cream; add the sugar, pow'dercd, the flour, the white of one and the yoUcs of three eggs, well beaten, and the lemon- peel ; mix well together, and bake in portions about the size of a large walnut, in a moderately hot oven. No. 579.—Macaroons. Half a pound of sweet almonds ; half a pound of loaf sugar, and the whites of eight eggs. Blanch, and beat the almonds in a mortar till quite fine, with a spoonful of water, gradually adding the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth, and mix in the sugar, finely powdered ; lay sheets of white paper on tins, and wafer-paper over; lay the paste upon it in pieces about the size of walnuts; sift fine sugar over; bake them carefully in a moderately hot oven, and when cold, cut the wafer-paper round. No. 580.—Parkin. Pour pounds of oatmeal; oue pound of butter; two pounds ofCAKES. 171 sii'jar ; two poumls of treacle ; two ounces of prepared ginger ; half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, and half an ounce of baking-powder. Warm the butter and treacle together, till the butter is melted ; rub the baking-powder very smooth, and stir it into the oat-meal till well mixed; roll the sugar, and stir into the oatmeal, with the ginger- and pepper, and mix all well together with the treacle and butter, add- ing a little new milk or cream if required. No. 581.—Plum Cake. Half a pound of flour; ten ounces of butter; half a pound of sugar; five eggs; two pounds of currants; quarter of a pound of almonds ; three quarters of a pound of citron ; half a pound of can- died lemon; a little rose-water, or elder-flower water, and one tea- spoonful of baking-powder. ilix the baking-powder well with the flour, and rub in the butter; then add the currants, powdered sugar, the almonds, chopped fine, the citron and candied lemon, cut in small thin slices, the eggs, well beaten, and the rose-water; mix the whole together, and bake in one, or two tin moulds, well buttered. A few drops of almond-flavour may be added. No. 582.—Plum Cake. Two pounds of flour; one pound of butter; one pound of sugar ; one pound of currants ; one pound of raisins ; tw'o ounces of almonds; quarter of a pound of candied orange, or lemon ; six eggs ; quarter of a pint of new milk; quarter of a pint of cream; quarter of an ounce of powdered mace and cinnamon together, and half an ounce of German yeast. Rub the butter in the flour; mix the yeast with a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a table-spoonful of cold water; put to it the milk, just warm, stirring it well; take out the spoon, and leave it to settle two or three minutes; strain it through a fine sieve, into the middle of the flour, stirring in a little of the flour till like batter ; cover, and set it to rise; when risen, mix with it the eggs, well beaten; the mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel; the almonds, blanched and chopped veryVEGETAIUA.N COOKEnY. 172 fine, the sugar, and the cream ; stir all well togethei'; tlien add the currants, the raisins stoned and shred small, and the candied fruit; let it remain half an hour on a warm hearth, and then put it in an earthen baking-pan, wanned and well buttered, o)’ in a baking tin with several folds of paper on the bottom and sides, the inner fold well buttered. The oven should be of a good heat the first hour, and then mode- rate. It will require nearly two hours to bake it. No. 583.—Plum Cake. One pound of flour ; quarter of a pound of Sultana raisins ; quarter of a pound of currants ; three ounces of sugar ; three ounces of but- ter ; one small tea-spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda, and half a pint of sour butter-milk. Mix the soda well with the flour ; rub in the butter; add the sugar, raisins, and currants, and the eggs, well beaten; mix all well together with the butter-milk, and bake in a buttered tin mould, about an hour and a quarter. No. 584.—Pound Cake. One pound and a half of flour; one pound of powdered sugar; one pound of butter; one small tea-spoonful of powdered mace; a few drops of almond-flavour, and eight eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, adding the sugar and mace; when sufficiently beaten to form a smooth light cream, add, by degrees, the eggs and the flour ; beat it a quarter of an hour, and put it in hoops to bake, or in two earthenware baking-pans, lined with buttered paper, and bake in a rather quick oven. No. 585.—O.UEEN Cakes. Six ounces of butter; six ounces of sugar; six ounces of flom'; four yolks and two whites of eggs; half a tea-spoonful of volatile salts, and three ounces of currants. Beat the butter to cream; add the sugar, finely powdered, then the eggs, well beaten, the volatile salts, dissolved in a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the cui'rants; beat all together a quarter ofCAKKS. 173 an hour; butter small tins; only half till them, and bake in a rather quiek oven. No. 580.—Kick Cake. Quarter of a pound of riee; half a pint of new milk ; half a pound of butter; half a pound of sugar; one pound and a quarter of flour ; quarter of an ounce of baking-powder; four eggs, and ten droj)s of almond-flavour. Wash the rice, and steep it in fresh water an hour or more; drain, and set it on the fire in half a pint of water; when the riee begins to swell, add the milk; let it remain on a slow fire till the rice is become quite tender, and well mixed with the milk and water; then take it off the fire, and stir in the butter and the sugar ; when nearly cold, stir in the eggs, well beaten, a little salt, and the flour, having previously rubbed the baking-powder into it; mix the whole well to- gether ; mould it into a loaf, and bake immediately in a tin, well buttered. The oven should be tolerably hot the first half hour, then the heat moderated till well baked. No. 587.—Rice Cake. Half a pound of ground rice (not rice flour); half a pound of white sugar ; four eggs, and a few drops of almond-flavour. Beat the eggs a little, and mix them with the floim and sugar; beat with a woodeq spoon half an hour, adding the almond-flavour ; pour it into a tin mould, warmed and well rubbed over with fresh butter, only half filling it, and bake in a moderately hot oven. If baked in one, it will require about an hour; if in two, about three quarters of an hour. No. 588.—Rice Cake. Half a pound of fine rice-flour; quarter of a pound of the best moist sugar; one tea-spoonful of baking-powder ; two eggs; half a pint of milk; three ouuces^of butter, and one ounce of candied citron, or lemon. ilii the baking-powder well with the flour; add the citron, cut in small pieces, and the sugar; when mixed, add the eggs, well beaten.174 VEGETARIAN COOKER^. nearly half a pint of milk, and the butter, melted; mix all together; pour it into two tin moulds, warmed and buttered, which should only be about half filled, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 580.—llicE Biscuits. One pound of rice-flour; one pound of loaf sugar ; eight eggs, aud a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon. jNIix the riee-flour with the sugar, powdered; add the eggs, well beaten, and the essenee of lemon, or a few drops of almoud-flavour, and bake in cheesecake tins, made hot, and a little clarified butter put in each, in a moderately hot oven. No. 590.—Rock Cakes. One pound of flour; si.x ounces of white sugar, pounded; tw'o eggs; the grated rind of a lemon, and one ounce of caraway seeds, bruised. Mix the sugar, and a pinch of salt with the flour ; wash and pick the caraway seeds, aud when quite dry, bruise them, and mix with the other ingredients, adding the lemon-peel, and the eggs, well beaten ; lay them in rough pieces about the size of a walnut, on a baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 591.—Rotherham Biscuits. One poimd of flour; three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar; quarter of a pound of butter, and four eggs. Beat the butter to cream ; add the flour, the sugar, powdered, and the eggs, well beaten; mix all well together; lay it in small pieces, on tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 592.—Scotch Short Bread. Three quarters of a pound of flour; quarter of a pound of ground rice; half a pound of good moist sugar, aud half a pound of fresh butter. Mix the ground rice, and sugar with the flour, add the butter, melted, mix, and roll it into three or fom- cakes, and bake iu a moderately hot oven.CAKKS. 175 No. 593.—Scotch Short Hrkad. Three quarters of a pouud of flour; half a pound of butter; quai-tcr of a pouud of sugar, and one ounce of aliuoiuls. Rub part of the butter into the flour, adding the sugar, and al- uiouds, finely eho])ped ; mix into a jjaste with the remainder of the butter, melted ; roll it about half an inch thick, aud mark it iu squares ; sprinkle caraway comfits, or powdered loaf sugar over, and bake iu a moderately hot oveu. No. 591. —SlMNEL. One pound of flour; quarter of a pouud of butter; quarter of a pouud of white sugar; one pouud of currants; two ounces of candied lemou ; quarter of a pint of milk ; one egg, and quarter of au ouuce of baking-powder. .Mix the baking-powder with the floiu'; rub in the butter; add the sugar, the currants, the candied lemon, and the milk, mixed with the egg, well beaten; mix all together, and bake it iu a tin mould, iu a moderately hot oveu. No. 595.—PiTCAiTHLY Bannock. One pound of flour; half a pound of butter; two ounces of al- mond-s; two ounces of candied orange; two ounces of caraway com- fits, and two ounces of powdered sugar. Dry the flour before the fire; then mix with it the almonds, blanched, and thinly sliced, the candied orange, cut iu small shreds, and the caraway comfits; mix all well together with the butter, melted ; form the bannock ; lay it ou a flat baking tin, aud bake it in a rather slow oveu. No. 59G.—.Seed Cake. One pouud and a quarter of flour ; one pound of butter; one pouud and a half of loaf sugar; ten eggs ; one ounce of caraway seeds, aud a few dro])s of essence of lemon. Beat the butter to cream, and mix the sugar, powdered, with it. Mhisk the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, aud add to them the yolks, stirred a little with a spoon, but not beaten ; mix them with176 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. tlie butter and sugar; then put in the flour, lightly by degrees, stir- ring it till well incorporated; add the caraway seeds, well washed, picked, and dried, and a little essence of lemon ; put it immediately into a buttered tin mould, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 597.—Seed Cake. Six ounces of flour ; six ounces of ground rice; eight eggs ; half a pound of sugar, aud half an ounce of caraway seeds. Mix the flour, ground rice, and sugar together; add the eggs, well beaten, and the caraway seeds, washed, picked, and dried; when well mixed, put it in a buttered tin mould, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 598.—Shrewsbury Cakes. Half a pound of flour; six ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and five ounces of fresh butter. Soften the butter a little, pressing out the water; mix the flour and sugar together ; work in the butter with a wooden spoon tiU well incorporated; then add not quite two table-spoonfuls of water; mix wvU with the spoon till it becomes a smooth stiff paste; roU it very thin, and cut the calies round, or in any other form. If the paste does not roll smoothly, cover it, and set in a cool place till the follow- ing day ; then roll it thin; lay the cakes on baking tins, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 599.—Shrewsbury Cakes. Three quarters of a pouud of flour; six ounces of butter; eight ounces of powdered sugar, aud one egg. Beat the butter to cream ; add the sugar, then the egg, well beaten, and then the flour well dried ; mix all together; roU the paste quite thin; cut out the cakes, aud bake on tins in a moderate oven. No. 600.—Sponge Cake. One pound of loaf sugar; three quarters of a pound of floim; seven eggs, and the rind of one large lemon. Grate the rind of the lemon to the eggs ; boil the sugar in a quar- ter of a pint of water; pour it, boiling hot, upon the eggs and lemon-CA KES. 177 l>ccl j whisk it immediately for twenty minutes; then stir in the flour, well dried and sifted ; put it in two tin moulds, wanned, aud buttered with fresh butter; hake in a moderately hot oven, and let it remain in the moulds a short time, but turn the cakes out whilst wann. No. 601.—Sponok Cake. Half a pound of pounded sugar; half a pound of sifted flour; the grated rind of a lemon, and sis eggs. Put the eggs and sugar, with the rind of a lemon, either rubbed off with the sugar, or grated, into an earthen pan, or bowl; set it in very hot water, mixing the contents well till wann ; then take it from the water, and eontinne to whisk it till quite eold, and rather thick, and then stir in gradually the floim. Butter a tin mould, sift sugar over; pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 602.—Arhow-root Sponge Cake. Half a pound of arrow-root; six ounces of loaf sugar, and seven yolks, and four whites of eggs. Beat the eggs well; add the sugar, and beat well together half an hour; then mis in gradually the arrow-root, previously rolled, or rubbed perfeetly smooth, and in which a small tea-spoonful of baking- powder has been smootlJy mixed; warm aud butter a tin mould, aud bake in a moderately hot oven. A few drops of almond-flavour may be added. 12PRESERVED FRUIT, ETC. No. 603.—Apricots. Gather the apricots quite dry, before they are too ripe; pare as thin as possible; divide them in halves; weigh, and lay them on dishes, the hollow part uppermost; strew over them their weight of loaf sugar, finely powdered; cover, and let them remain twelve hours; put them in a preserving pan, and simmer gently tiU the fruit looks cleai-, taking off the scum; take out the fruit carefully w'ith a colander-spoon; put it into small jars, boiling the syrup till quite clear, aud pour it upon the fruit. Cut a piece of paper a little larger than the top of each jar; cut the edge in several places about half an inch deep; brush the paper over vvith the beaten white of egg; place it over the j.ar; press the edge tightly under the rim, and when dry, write the name on the top. No. 604.—Carrots. Boil one pound of carrots in strong ginger-water, till tender, and then cut them in slices. Put one pound aud a quarter of loaf sugar into a pan, with the juice of three lemons, the rind of one, pared thin, and half a pint of the water in which the carrots were boiled; when the syrup has been sufficiently boiled,'put in the caiTots, aud boil ten minutes longer. No. 605.—Cucumbers. Take large cucumbers, the greenest possible, and most free from seeds; put them into a broad jar, in strong salt aud water, with a cabbage-leiif over them ; cover, and set them in a warm place till they turn yellow ; then boil the salt and water, and pour it over them, re- peating it daily till they are green; then wash them in clean water, and set them over a slow fire in fresh water, with a small piece of' 179 PRESERVED FRUIT, ETC. alum pounded flue, a large cabbage-leaf under, and another over them, till they just boil; take them off the fire, and let them remain till cold; then cut them in two, and take out the seeds and soft pulp carefully; put them in cold spring water, and let them remain two days, changing the water each day, to take out the salt; then wipe them with a clean cloth till quite dry, and put them into syrup made in the following manner:— To three pounds of sugar, allow three pints of water, and one ounce of the best white ginger, scraped and sliced, and to each pound of cucumber, one lemon, the rind pared very thin, and cut in shreds like straws, the juice squeezed out and strained into the syrup, when boiling. The syrup must be boiled two or three times a week for a month, and must be cold before it is poured on the cucumbers, adding more sugar if required. Melons, before they are too ripe, arc preserved in the same way, allowing half an ounce of roche-alum, finely powdered, to six melons. Vine-leaves are preferable to cabbage-leaves, when they can be obtained. No. 606.—Red Currants. To one pound of ripe currants, cut from the stalks, allow eight ounces of pounded loaf sugar, and sprinkle it amongst them; then put them in bottles; cork them lightly, and set them in a pan of cold water on a slow fire, till the water is scalding; keep them at that point twenty minutes; then take them off the fire, and let them re- main in the water till cold; cork them tightly, and cement, or tie down the corks. They should be kept in a dry cool place. No. 607.—Damsons. M ipc the damsons, and put them into a deep stewpot, adding one pound of sugar to three pounds of fruit; set them in a cool oven till they are thoroughly warm, but not broken ; when taken out of the oven, drain the syrnp carefully from them, and set it on the fire, add-VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 180 ing another pound of sugar; let it boil ten or fifteen minutes, and then poui- it hot upon the damsous. llepeat the boiling of the syrup twice. No. G08.—Gooseberries. The gooseberries should be gathered just before they turn red, and be perfectly dry. Allow one pound of sugar to one pound and a quarter of fruit; put the gooseberries into a pan, with part of the sugar, and after boiling half an hour, add the remainder of the sugar, and let the whole boil together about twenty minutes longer; pour info jars, and when eold, eover them in the usual way. No. 609.—Green Gooseberries. When gooseberries are ready for bottling, selcet the largest for pre- serving ; to every two pounds of gooseberries, allow one pound and a half of loaf sugar, bruised; put the fruit and sugar in an earthen vessel; eover it elosely, and set it in a pan of water on the fire till the sjTup wiU separate from the fruit; when eold, pour off the syrup; boil, and pour it hot upon the fruit; the next day, boil all together, gently, about twenty minutes; then talce out the gooseberries, and put them in small jars; boil the syrup a quarter of an hour longer, and then pour it upon the fruit. No. 610.—Green Gages. The plums should be quite sound, and not quite ripe ; priek them with a fork six or seven times about the stalks, and when pricked, put them immediately into cold water, or they will turn black ; scald the plums; drain the water from them, and place them carefully in an earthen pan; pour the boiling syrup over them, and let them remain till the next day ; then drain all the syrup from them; boil, skim it, and pour it over them; repeat this for five or six days; then drain the syrup from them; add to it the remainder of the sugar; boil it half an hour, and when skimmed, pour it over the fruit. The syrup in which the plums are to be scalded, should have half a pint of water to one pound of sugar. Orleans plums may be done in the same way.181 PRESKRVEl) FRUIT, ETC. No. 611.—Jaroonf.i, Pears. Pare them very thiu, before they arc quite ripe, and simmer in a thin syrup; let them remain two days; then make the syrup riclicr, and simmer again, repeating this till the syrup is clear; then drain, and dry the pears in the sun, or a cool oven, for a short time. Or they may be kept in the syrup and dried ns wanted. No. 012.—Pine Apples. Pare off all the outside; cut the piue-npplcs in very thin slices; weigh the fruit, and to each pound, put one pound of sugar; boil it a short time, and let it remain till the following day, and then boil it till tender and clear. Great care should be taken not to allow it to burn. No. 613.—Magnum Bonum Plums. Pour boiling water upon the plums, and let them remain till the skins will peel off; then weigh the fruit, allowing an equal weight of sugar; put about a tea-cupful of water to each, four pounds of sugar; stir it till dissolved; then boil till clear; put in the fruit, and boil gently half an hour, taking out the stones, and when boiling, pour it into sweetmeat pots. No. 614.—Rhubarb. Peel two pounds of the finest rhubarb, and cut it in pieces two inches in length. Make a syrup of one pound of sugar, and one pint of water; put the rhubarb to the syrup, and let it simmer five mi- nutes ; take out the rhubarb, carefully, with a silver spoon ; boil the syrup ten minutes; pour it on the rhubarb, and let it remain till the next day. Pour the syrup from the rhubarb, and boil it ten minutes, adding another pound of sugar; then pour it on the rhubarb again ; boil the syrup every day for a fortnight; the last time it is boiled, put in the rhubarb, and let it simmer five minutes; then put it into jars; boil the syrup a quarter of an hour longer, and pour it over the rhubarb. No. 616.—Rhubarb. Peel two pounds of the finest rhubarb, and cut it in pieces about182 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. two inches in length; add one pound and a half of white sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the rinds, grated; put aU into a preserving pan, and simmer gently tiU the rhubai’b is quite soft; take it out carefully with a silver spoon, and put it into jars; then boil the syrup about half an hour, and pour it over the rhubarb. No. 616.—Siberian Crabs. "When the crabs are quite ripe, take off the stalks; then prick and put them into a jar; pour boiling water over them, and cover closely till the next day; piek out any that may be shrivelled, and to a pint of the water in which they were scalded, put half a pound of loaf sugar; boil and skim it; then pour it upon the crabs, and let them remain three days; take them from the syrup; add more sugar; boil it, and when cold, put in the crabs; set them on a moderate fire, and boil them two or three times tUl they look clear, and the syrup becomes thick. No. 617.—Strawberries. To each pound of fruit, allow an equal w’eight of loaf sugar; dis- solve it in red currant-juice while cold; set it on the fire, and when it boUs, put in the fruit; let it scald, but not boil, six or eight mi- nutes ; then take out the fruit earefully into a bowl with a sliee or colander-spoon; boU the syrup a few minutes; skim and pour it hot on the fruit; cover, and let it remain, till quite cold; boil the syrup several times, allowing it to boil five or six minntes each time, skim- ming, and pouring it hot upon the fruit; when boiling the syrup the last time, just seald the fruit in it; then put the fruit carefully into jars, pouring the syrup upon it, and paper as before directed. It may easily be aseertained when the syrup is sufficiently boiled, by dropping a little on a plate, and when it becomes thick, like jelly, it wUl be ready. The small scarlet strawberries ai-e the best for pre- serving. No. 618.—Strawberries. Put three pounds of fine scarlet strawberries, before they are very ripe, into a pint and a half of syrup; just scald them; then take them183 PRESERVED PRUIT, ETC. out; cover them, and let them remain till the next day; then boil the syrup, and scald them again, and repeat this twice, leaving a day be- tween each. Keep them closely covered till red currants are ripe. Boil a pint and a quarter of currant-juice with one pound of sugar; put in the strawberries, and when scalded, take them out, and put them into glasses or jars; boil the currant-juice, and the syrup in which the strawberries were boiled, together, till quite clear, and when cool, pour it upon the strawberries. The entire quantity of sugar used, should be the weight of the fruit. No. 019.—IVlNE-SOURS. 'Wipe the plums with a cloth; prick them well with a needle, and run the needle down the scam; allow to each pound of fruit three quarters of a pound of sugar, powdered; put a layer of plums and a layer of sugar alternately, till the jar is full; tie white paper over, and set the jar in a pan of cold water on the fire; scald the fruit half an hour, and let it remain in the pan till cold; then take out the plums singly; boil the syrup; skim it, and pour it hot upon the fruit, repeating this three or four times, and then put them in small jars, and cover in the usual way. Any of the plums that appear hard and shrivelled should be taken out. No. 620.—Apricot Jam. To each pound of fruit allow three quarters of a pound of sugar, pounded; set the sugar on the fire with very little water; when the sugar is dissolved, put in the fruit, which has been previously scalded, and the skins and stones removed; boil till quite clear; drop a little on a plate, and if it set, it is sufficiently done. Pour it into moulds to turn out. The bruised fruit, or that which is too ripe for preserving whole, may be used for this purpose. No. 621.—Blackberry Jam. To each pound of bramble-berries, allow three quarters of a pound of good moist sugar; put half of it to the fruit, and let it boil about184 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. twenty minutes; then add the remainder of the sugar, and to every two pounds of fruit, the juice of one lemon; boil it half an hour longer, and pour it into sweetmeat pots. No. 622.—Black Currant Jam. The cm-rants should he perfectly dry when gathered; pick the finest (leaving out the very small or unripe), and bruise them in a bowl; then put them into a pan, with a tea-cupful of water, and let them boil a quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes; add good moist sugar, allowing a pound and a half to two pounds of currants; boil them half an hour longer, and pour them into jars. No. 623.—Red Currant Jam. Put half a pint of raspberry-juice, to every three pounds of currants, gathered when quite ripe and dry; set them over a moderate fire, and boil a quarter of an hour; then add sugar, the weight of the fruit, and boil till quite clear, which will be in about half an hour. No. 624.—Cherry Jam. To four pounds of Kentish cherries, allow one pound of fine sugar and half a pint of red currant-juice; stone the fruit, and boil the whole together rather quicldy till it becomes stiff, and then put it in sweetmeat pots. No. 625.—Plum Jam. After taking out the stones and cutting out any bruised spots, set them over a slow fire with half a pint of water; when scalded, rub them through a hair sieve; to each pound of pulp put one pound of powdered loaf sugar; set it over a brisk, clear fire, stirring it weU to prevent brnming; when it boils, skim it well, and boil quickly a quarter of an hour, stii-ring it aU the time, and then pour it into small pots. Plums of any kind, more especially the larger kinds, as green gages, magnum bouums, apricots, or large red plums, may be used. No. 626.—Raspberry Jam. Gather the raspberries when quite ripe and dry. To every threePRESEKVED FRUIT, ETC. 185 pounds of fruit, allow half a pint of red, or red and white cnrrant- juice; set the fniit on the fire, with the currant-juice, and boil twenty minutes; then add sugar of etjual weight with the fruit, and boil on a slow fire nearly half an hour, taking off any scum tliat may arise; when the jam looks clear, try a tea-spoouful on a plate, and if it will set it is sufficiently done. No. 627.—Strawberry Jam. ^Veigh some ripe scarlet strawberries; bruise them, and add a little juice of red currants; allow twelve ounces of sugar to each pound of fruit; set it over a clear fire; boil forty minutes, and pour into sweetmeat pots. No. 628.—Apple Jelly. Pare, and ent a peck of apples; put them with the rinds of two lemons, pared thin, into a pan, with sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil till reduced to a pulp; then strain through a flannel jeUy-bag, and when the juice is quite clear, boil it half an hour, add- ing the juice of four lemons, and the sugar, allowing one pound to each pint of juice, carefully skimming it the whole time. Pour it into small jars, and when cold, cover them in the usual w'ay. The colour of the jelly may be greatly improved by adding a few drops of burnt sugar, which may be done by holding a hot Italian heater over the jelly; applying the sugar to it (so that as it dis- solves it may drop into the jelly), and stirring it well. No. 629.—Apple Jelly. Take out the stalks and cut out the blossom end of seven pounds of good ripe baking apples, without paring or taking out the cores; cut them in pieces, and boil or bake in two quarts of water till reduced to a pulp; pour it into a jelly bag, placed near the fire; when clear, allow eight ounces of loaf sugar to each pound of fruit, the strained juice of a lemon, and the rind finely grated; then boil the whole till it becomes a tolerably stiff jelly; strain it again through a bag or a piece of coarse thin muslin, and pour it into moulds or jai’s.186 YEGETAUUN COOKERY. No. 630.—Blackberry Jelly. Pick the blackberries, which should be quite ripe, and put them in a jar with the rind of a lemon, pared thin; cover closely, and set them in a pan of W'ater over the fire, till reduced to a pulp; then strain, and to one pint of juice, allow one pound of loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon, strained; boil to a jelly, and pour it into small pots, or shallow jars. No. 631.—Black Currant Jelly. To every two pounds of black currants, when picked, allow' one pound of white currants, and half a pint of water; set them over the fire to scald, but not to boil; then bruise them well with a wooden masher; take them off the fire, and immediately press them through a hair sieve; to each pint of juice, allow a pound of bruised or powdered loaf sugar, and boil it ten minutes, taking off the scum. The currants should be gathered dry, and quite ripe. No. 632.—Ked Currant Jelly. To two-thirds of red currants, add one of white, gathered when quite ripe and dry ; squeeze them, without picking; strain, and press the juice through a hair sieve, and immediately make it qidle hot, but do not let it boil; to each pint of juice, allow one pound of sugar, finely powdered, and also made quite hot in a moderate oven; spread on a large flat dish; have it ready to put to the hot juice; add it by degrees, stirring it till the sugar is perfectly dissolved, and pour it into jelly pots or glasses immediately. No. 633.—Damson Jelly. Put fine ripe damsons in a stew-pot w'ith very little water; set it in a moderate oven till the fruit is sufficiently done, for the juice to be strained from it through a hair sieve; allow a pound of sugar to a pint of juice; boil tw'enty minutes; try a few drops on a plate, and if it will set it is sufficiently done. As the clear juice only is required for the jelly, the fruit may be used for damson cheese, or for puddings.rUESEUYED FRUIT, ETC. 187 No. 63 i.—Raspberry Jeely. Put the fruit into a preserving pan, or into a jar, set in a pan of water on the fire; when near boiling, strain earefully through a hair sieve; to each pint of clear juice, allow fourteen ounces of sugar, stirring it off the fire till the sugar is dissolved; then boil twenty minutes, aud pour it into jelly pots, or glasses. Gooseberry Jelly may be made in precisely the same way, al- lowing one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. As only the clear juice is required for jelly, the fruit may be used for puddings, adding sugar, aud boiling a little. No. 633.—Apple Cheese. To two pounds of apples, pared, and eut as for a pie, add one pound of sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and a little water; put all together into a pan; cover, and set it over the fire till the apples are reduced to a pulp, turning the pan occasionally; let it boU twenty minutes, stirring constantly, and pour it into small moulds. No. 636.—Damson Cheese. Pick some ripe damsons, and put them into a pan, with suffieient water to cover them; when soft, drain, aud rub them through a sieve whilst hot; put the juice and pulp into a pan, with fine powdered sugar, allowing one pound of sugar to two pounds of fruit, aud let it boil over a moderate fire till quite stiff; it will require boiling three hours, and should be constantly stirred, to prevent it burning; pour it into moulds, or cups, aud in one or two days, cover them in the usual way. No. 637.—Green Gooseberry Cheese. Take six pounds of green goosebemes, before they begin to ripen, and after cutting off the ends quite clean, put the gooseberries in cold water for two hours; then take them out, and bruise them in a wooden bowl; put them in a brass pan, and stir them over a clear fire till tender; when reduced to a pulp, add four pounds aud a half of loaf sugar, powdered, and let it hoil till very thick, and of a good green colour, stirring it frequently, and pour it into moulds.188 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 038.—rRuiT Cheese. Take gooseberries, eurrants, raspberries, strawberries, cherries, or any otlier kind of fruit, of each an equal quantity; boil them till re- duced to a pulp; then rub through a coarse sieve ; add two pounds of sugar to three pounds of fruit; boil it till quite thick, and then pour it into small moulds, or sweetmeat j)ots. No. 639.—Fruit Cheese. Take apples, pears, and plums, in equal quantities ; peel, and core the apples, and pears, and stone the plums; put them into a jar, and when covered, set the jar in a pan of water over the fire; when the fruit is reduced to a pulp, rub it through a hair sieve, and put it into a pan with white sugar, allowing one pound and a half to three pounds of fruit; let it boU till stiff, and then pour it into small moulds. It may be poured on flat dishes, and in three or four days be cut in pieces, and dried. No. 640.—Apple Marmalade. Pare and scald some good baking apples till they will pulp from the core; talie an equal weight of sugar in rather large lumps; just dip them in cold w'ater; put them into a pan and boU to a thick syrup ; skim it; put in the pulp; boil very gently over a clear fire fifteen or twenty minutes, and pour it into small moulds, or sweetmeat pots. A little gi’ated lemon-peel may be added before boUing. No. 641.—Apricot Marmalade. After taking out all the bruised apricots, and those too ripe for pre- serving, boil the remainder in syrup tUl they are quite soft; beat them in a marble mortar or wooden bowl to a paste; take half their weight in loaf sugar, with just as much water as wiU dissolve it; boU, and skim it well; then boil the fi-uit in it tiU clear, and the syrup thick like jelly, and put it in cups, or small jars. No. 643.—Carrot Marmalade. Scrape or pare the carrots; then weigh them; allowing an equalPRESERVED FRUIT, ETC. 18‘J weight of bruised loaf sugar; boil the carrots till perfectly tender; mash them quite fine, and rub through a hair sieve; boil the pulp half an hour, adding the sugar, and the juice of two fiue lemons, aud when taken from the fire, stir in half an ounce of tartaric acid. No. 643.—Gooseberry Marmalade. Put green gooseberries in cold water; set them on a slow fire with a small bit of alum till they arc scalded aud become just soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve; allow half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; boU till it becomes stiff, aud then pour it into sweetmeat pots, or small moulds. No. 644.—Orange Marsialade. To twelve oranges, allow three lemons; boil them whole two hours in soft water with a large table-spoonful of salt in it; then boil them two hours in spring water, boiling quickly in each water half an hour, or more at the first, then moderately, to prevent the rinds from breaking; when sufficiently tender that the head of a pin will easily penetrate the rinds, drain, and let them remain till cold, reserving the water they were last boiled in for the syrup; cut the fruit in two; take out all the pulp and skins, and rub with a wooden spoon through a hair sieve; then weigh it, also the rinds, which must be pounded in a marble mortar, or a wooden bowl; to each pound of fruit, allow two pounds of sugar, bruised, and a pint of the water in which the fruit was boiled, stirring it over the fire till the sugar is dissolved; cover the pan till the syrup is nearly boiling, watching it carefully; draw it to the side of the fire to boil gently till the scum can be cleared off; then stir in the fruit till well mixed, aud boil it half an hour, or till quite clear. No. 645.—Orange Chip Marmalade. To twelve Seville oranges, allow three lemons; weigh them, and boil two hours, in soft water, adding a large spoonful of salt, and then boil them two hours in spring water. They should boil quickly the first hour in each water, then moderately, to prevent the rinds break- ing, reserving the water in which they were last boiled for the syruji,190 TEGETARIAN COOKERY. and when the oranges are tender, so tliat the head of a pin will easily penetrate them, they will he sufficiently done. Put them in a sieve to drain, and let them remain till cold; then cut them iu quarters, and after taking out the pulp and skins, cut the rinds in very thin slices. Allow half a pint of the water in which the fruit was last hoiled, and two pounds of sugar, to each pound of fruit; boil till the syrup is clear; then put in the chips, and the pulp, from which the seeds and skins have been removed; let it boil half an liour, and pour it into sweetmeat pots. No. 646.—Grated Orange Marmalade. To twelve oranges, allow three lemons, and to each pound of fruit, allow a pound and a half of sugar, and a tea-cupful of water; wash and brush the fruit, and when wiped quite dry, grate off all the yellow rinds, and tie them in muslin, boiling them for two hours; during the boiling, slice the fruit, and squeeze out all the pulp and juice; put the remainder into the water intended for the syrup, stirring it frequently; then strain the water through a hair sieve; put it in a preserving pan with the sugar, bruised, stirring it till the sugar is dissolved; set it on the fire, till it has boiled a short time, to clear it of the scum; drain the water well from the gratings, and scrape them out of the muslin, stirring them with the pulp and juice into the sjTup; boil till quite cleai’, aud the fruit well done, and then pour it into small jars. No. 647.—Peach Marmalade. Pare ripe peaches, aud cut them iu halves, taking out the stones. To each pound of fruit, allow half a pound of loaf sugar. !Mash the peaches with the pounded sugar; put them into a preserving pan, and let them boil slowly about three quarters of an hour, stirring fre- quently ; when sufficiently boiled, add a few drops of almond-flavour, and pour the marmalade into small moulds. No. 648.—Pine-Apple Marmalade. Pare, and cut into small pieces, several small pine-apples, aud to a quart thus cut, add one pound of powdered sugar; boil half an hour, and pour into sweetmeat pots.PRESERVED PRUIT, ETC. 191 No. 649.—PuMELLo Marmalade. Boil the fruit ns the oranges in No. 644, allowing three quarters of an hour longer boiling in the second water; when quite tender, drain the water from them through a hair sieve; when cold, cut them in quarters, and take out the inside; chop the rinds in a w'ooden how'l till quite fine, or pound them, till they bceome smooth as paste; rub the pulp through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, for the syrup; allow one pound of fruit, and one pint of water, in which the fruit was first boiled, to two pounds of sugar; dissolve the sugar in the water; set it on the fire, and boil till clear, taking off the scum; then add the fruit, stirring it tiU well mixed; let it boil three quarters of an hour; try a few drops on a plate, and if it wiU set, it is sufficiently done. No. 650.—Quince Marmalade. Pare, core, and quarter the quinces; boil them gently, uncovered, in water till they begin to soften; strain through a hair sieve, and beat them in a mortar, or wooden bowl to a pulp; allow to each pound of fruit, three quarters of a pound of fine sugar; boil tiU the mai'malade is stiff, and then put it in pots. No. 651.—Raspberry Marmalade. Bruise the raspberries, which should be fresh gathered and quite ripe, and strain the pulp through a sieve; weigh it, and boil quickly till reduced nearly one half; then add half a pound of sugai’, powdered, to each pound of fruit; boil tiU it becomes stiff, and pour it into sweetmeat pots, or small moulds. No. 652.—Rhubarb Marmalade. Grate the rind off six good oranges; pare off all the wliite rind; cut them in two; take out all the seeds, and slice the ]mlp ; put them into a preserving pan with the grated rind, a quai't of rhubarb, peeled and cut very small, and about a pound and a half of bruised loaf sugar, and boU in the usual way. No. 653.—Fruit for Tarts, &c. Lay chemes, apricots, or plums of any kind, when nearly ripe, into■\rEGETARIAN COOKERY. 192 jars that will hold a pound each; strew over them six ounces of pounded loaf sugar ; cover with two papers, separately tied down; then set the jars in a large pan of cold water nearly up to the rim; simmer gently three quarters of an hour; when taken off the fire, let them remain in the water till cold; cover the jars in the same way as directed in No. 603, and keep them in a dry cool place. No. 654.—To Bottle Cranberries. Pick the cranberries quite clean, and put them in clean bottles; fill the bottles with cold water that has previously been boiled; cement the corks, or cover them with thin paper, rubbed over with white of egg, (‘‘) and keep them in a cool, dry place. American cranberries are kept in the same way, also cluster-bemcs. When to be used for tarts, stew them a little with a few spoonfuls of the water they were kept in, and sugar. No. 655.—To Bottle Damsons. The damsons should be gathered dry before they are too ripe; take off the stalks, and pick out any that are unsound ; put them in bottles with wide necks that will hold about a quart; cork them loosely ; put them in a pan that will admit of the bottles being up to the necks in the water ; put a little hay at the bottom and sides of the pan, and between the bottles; nearly fill the pan with water, and set it on a moderate fire; when the plums begin to shrink in the bottles, take the pan from the fire, and let them remain till quite cold; take the bottles out very carefully; press down the corks, and cover with paper, rubbed over with white of egg. Keep in a cool, dry place. Damsons may be preserved in this way with half a pound of sugar to each quart of fruit, allowing them to remain on the fire twenty minutes after they begin to shrink in the bottles. No. 656.—To Bottle Gooseberries. Pick gooseberries of the small round kind; put them in clean, diy 4. Betts’s capsules are best adapted lor covering the corks of bottles con- taining either fruit or pickles.193 PRESERVED FRUIT, ETC. bottles, and cork them loosely; put them in a pan of cold water, awl set them on a moderate fire; when the gooseberries change coloui', and begin to shrink a little in the bottles, take them off the fire, and let them remain in the water till cold; then cork them tightly, and cement the corks. They should be done very gently, and a little hay be put at the bottom of the pan, and between the bottles. Green Currants may be done in the same way. No. 657.—To Bottle Gooseberries. Pick the gooseberries, of the same kind as before, and put them in clean, drj' bottles ; then fill them up with spring water, previously boiled with a small bit of alum in it, and allowed to remain till cold; set them on the fire in a pan of cold water; when the gooseberries begin to look white in the bottles, take the pan off the fire, and let them remain till cold; then take them carefully out of the pan, cork, and put papers on, brushed over with white of egg, a little beaten, pressing the edges down just below the rim of the bottle. 13SYRUPS, ETC. No. 658.—Clakipied Syrup. Put four pounds of broken loaf sugar into a clean bloek-tin pan, or pan lined with earthenware, with a quart of spring water; stir till the sugar is dissolved ; set it over a moderate fire, adding the beaten white of an egg, before the sugar and water are become w'arm; when boiling, take off the scum, and keep it boiling till perfectly clear; then strain it through muslin, and when cold, put it in bottles. If well corked, it will keep several months. Fruit syrups are better when prepared with this clarified syrup, than when made with sugar only. It is also convenient to be used for sweetening at the table. No. 659.—Cheery Syrup. Stone, and strip from the stalks any quantity of very ripe cherries; put them in a jar with very little water; set the jar in a pan of water on the fire; when sufficiently done, so that the juice will easily sepa- rate from the fruit, strain through a fine hair sieve; to each quart of clear juice, allow one pint and a half of clarified syrup. No. 658 ; boil over a slow fire till perfectly clear, and bottle when cold. Syrup from any kind of juicy fruit may be prepared in the same way, adding more or less sugar, according to the sweetness or acidity of the fruit used. No. 660.—Elder Syrup. Pick the berries, when quite ripe, from the stalks ; put them into a broad deep eai’then jar ; adding half a pint of water to each quart of berries; cover, and set them in the oven till they are sufficiently stewed to extract the juice from them ; then strain through a coai-se liair sieve ; to each pint of juice allow one pound of bromi sugar, and to every two quarts, one ounce of the best ginger, bruised ; boil it half an hour; strain through a fine sieve, and when cold, fill the bottles to the neck; cork closely, and keep them in a cool place.svnups, ETC. l'J5 When required for use, boil a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel in water a few minutes, and then add one third part of syrup to two of water; lemon-juice or vinegar syrup and a little prepared ginger may be added. No. 661.—Ginger Syrup. To four ounces of the best ginger, bruised, add three pints of boil- ing distilled water; cover it, and let it remain four hours; then strain it through muslin, or a lawm sieve; to one quart, add three pounds of loaf sugar, and let it boil tiU it becomes a clear, thick syrup. No. 662.—Grape Syrup. To twelve pounds of grapes, when picked, add three pints of water; set them on a moderately hot fire till the grapes are well boiled, keeping the pan covered; then strain through- a hair sieve, gently pressing the grapes; when cool, cover with a plate, and let the juice remain tiU the next day ; then carefully clear it off, and to each pint, aUow a pound of loaf sugar, broken; put the sugar into a pan, adding a pint of water to each four pounds; stir it, whilst cold, till the sugar is partly dissolved; then put it on a rather brisk fire with the pau covered, stirring occasionally tiU nearly boiling; then watch it carefully, and if it rise very mucli, draw the pan a little forward ; let it boil up quickly several times, then moderately, tiU there is a thick scum formed at the side of the pan; take it off quite clean; then pour in the juice; and cover the pan till nearly boiling; remove the cover, and let the syrup boil quarter of an hour, carefully taking off any scum that may rise. Put half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pieces, into a large stone jar; pour on the syrup; let it remain tilt the following day; then strain it into bottles; cork, and set them in a cool place. A block-tin, or brass pan should be used. No. 663.—Mui.berry Syrup. Pick the mulberries and put them in a jar with very little water; set the jar in a pan of water on the fire; when sufficiently done, that the juice will easily separate from the fruit, strain through a fine hairVEGKTAH1A.N COOKERY. 196 sieve; to each quail; of clear juice, allow one pint and a half of clari- fied syrup; boil over a slow fire till perfectly clear, and bottle it when cold. No. 664.—Orange Syrup. Squeeze the juice when the fruit is in its best state, and strain through fine muslin or flannel; take equal quantities of juice and clarified syrup; boil it with a little of the rind, pared very thin; when quite clear, pour it into a jug, and when cold, bottle it in small bottles. Lemon Syrup may be prepared in the same way, allowing half a pint more of the clarified syrup to a pint of lemon-juice. No. 665.—Raspberry and Currant Syrup. To four quarts of water, put eight pounds of broken sugar and two beaten whites of eggs, stin-ing it whilst cold till the sugar is nearly dissolved; set it on the fire and proceed as directed with Clarified Syrup, No. 658; when clear, add one quart of currant, and one of raspberry juice which has been pressed from ripe fruit and strained; boil it briskly half an hour, taking off the scum quite clean; when cold, put it in a stone jar, adding a very small bit of isinglass, about one eighth of an ounce, dissolved in a little of the syrup; close it well and let it remain undistm'bed for three months, and then, if per- fectly clear, bottle it. No. 666.—Vinegar Syrup. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar, well bruised, in two pints and a half of good vinegar; boU it gently to form a syrup, skimming it tiU clear from any scum. A table-spoonful of this, or ginger syrup, is an agreeable addition to any of the milder syrups, when mixed with water. No. 667.—Lemonade. Pom' a quart of boiling water on the rind of a lemon, pared very thin; cover it, and when cold, add the juice of three lemons, and white sugar as required, and strain through muslin. A little cinnamon or ginger, boiled in the water, is an agreeable addition.197 SYRUPS, ETC. No. 668.—Orange and Lemonade. Three China oranges ; one large lemon, and three ounces of sugar. Rub off the rind of the lemon, and some of the orange, with the lumps of sugar; put it in a jug with the juice of the fruit, stiained; pour on a quart of boiling water, and when cold, strain through muslin. No. 669.—Portable Lemonade. One lemon, and quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Rub off the rind of the lemon with the sugar, broken in pieces; bruise the sugar; add the juice, strained; put it into a jar; and when wanted for use, dissolve a table-spoonful of it in a glass of water. If too sweet, a very small portion of citric acid may be added. It wiU keep a considerable time. A large table-spoonful of lemon syrup in a small tumbler of water, answers very well for lemonade. No. 670.—Apple Beverage. Boil five or six ripe juicy apples, each cut into several pieces, in two quarts of water, till quite soft; strain through a sieve, and add sugar as required. No. 671.—Apple Beverage. Set two quarts of water on the fire, and when boiling, put in four quite ripe pippin apples, each cut in eight slices, without paring; boil till the apples are quite soft; pass the water through a sieve, pressing the apples gently against the sides of the sieve, but not rubbing them through; add sufficient honey to make it a little sweet, and serve luke-warm. No. 672.—Baked Apple Beverage. Bake five or six good sized sharp juicy apples; put them into a jug, and whilst hot, pour two quarts of boiling water over them, adding sugar, and gently stirring them ; cover till cold, and then strain it. No. 673.—Fig and Apple Beverage. Pour two quarts of boiling water on six fresh dry figs, cut open.198 VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. and two apples, each cut into six or eight pieces; hoil the whole twenty minutes; then, pour them into a basin to cool, and strain through a sieve. No. 674.—Orange Beverage. Slice two oranges and one lemon; put them in a jug with two ounces of brown sugar-candy; pour on a quart of boiling water; stir it occasionally till cold, and then strain it through muslin, or a lawn sieve. No. 675.—Rhubarb Beverage. Peel six or eight fine sticks of rhubarb, and hoil them ten minutes in a quart of water; strain the liquor through a sieve ; add the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and three ounces of powdered sugar ; stir it well till the sugar is dissolved; let it remain six hours, and then strain it through muslin. No. 676.—Cowslip Sherbet. To fom- gallons of water, put twelve pounds of loaf sugar, broken, and the whites of two eggs, beaten ; hoU it half an hour, taking off the scum till quite clear; pour it on a peck of cowsh’p-flowers, and the rinds of eight lemons, and six Seville or sweet oranges. Strain, and boil the juice of the lemons and oranges, adding half a pound of loaf sugar; mix all together; cover it, and set it in a cool place for two days; then squeeze out the cowslips, and strain it into a small cask with a tap in it; dissolve quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a small quantity of the sherbet; put it in the cask, and ‘close it up. Let it remain three weeks, and then bottle it.^ Primrose sherbet may be made in the same way. No. 677.—Ginger Sherbet. Bruise two ounces of the best white ginger; put it in an earthen 3. The celebrated Eastern beverage, called sherbet, is a species of negus, without the wine; it consists of water, lemon or orange-juice, and sugar, in which are dissolved perfumed cakes, made of the very best Damascus fruit, adding a few drops of rose-water. Another kind is made from violets, honey, fresh juice of grapes, &c.199 SYRUPS, ETC. vessel with half a pound of raisins, cut in pieces, and the rind of a lemon, pared very thin ; pour upon it four quarts of boiling water ; cover it, and let it remain till the following day; then pour off the clear liquor, very carefully, and strain it through a lawn sieve. Put one pound and a half of broken loaf sugar into a pan with the juice of two lemons and two oranges, strained through muslin, and half a pint of the ginger liquor; stir till the sugar is dissolved; then set it on the fire; when it has boiled up a few times, allow it to boil slowly till clear, skimming it well; then add the remainder of the ginger- liquor, and boil it ten minutes; strain through muslin, and when cold, bottle it. No.—678.—Lemon Sherbet. Grate the rind of sis large lemons; boil it in six quarts of water with a little bruised ginger, and three pounds of white sugar, quarter of an hour; when cold, add the lemon-juice; strain it through muslin, and bottle it. It will then be ready for use. No. 679.—Orange and Lemon Sherbet. To nine Seville oranges, take three lemons; grate off the yellow rinds into a gallon of water; boil three pounds of broken loaf sugar with three pints of water, and a very little white of egg to clear it; then add to it the juice of the fruit, strained; when clear, pour it into a bowl, stirring it frequently till cold; then mix it with the water; strain through muslin, and bottle it. No. 680.—Raspberry and Currant Sherbet. To two quarts of currant and raspberry juice, when strained, add seven pounds of broken loaf sugar, and six quarts of cold water; when the sugar is dissolved, cover, and let it remain till the following day ; then clear it off into a large stone jar with quarter of an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in half a pint of water; close the jar, so as to exclude the air, and keep it in a cool place. In three weeks, clear it off into bottles, and it wlU then be ready for use. No. 681.—Raspberry Acid. Dissolve two ounces of tartaric acid in a quart of water ; pour it200 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. upon six pounds of raspberries in abroad jar; cover, and let it remain twenty four hours; then strain it through a sieve, taking care to bruise the fruit as little as possible; to each pint of juice add one pound and a half of pounded sugar, stirring it frequently till the sugar is perfectly dissolved; then bottle the acid in half-pint bottles; cork well, and keep it in a cool place. No. 682.—Black Currant Vinegar. Pick, and bruise well, eight pounds of ripe black currants; put to them two quarts of good gooseberry or sugar vinegar; let it remain in a cool place thirty six hours, stirring it frequently with a w'ooden spoon; put eight pounds of sugar, broken, into a deep earthen vessel with a wide top; tie over it a piece of clean flannel, wi'ung out of water as dry as possible, pressing down the flannel in the centre, so as to hold the fruit and vinegar; let the juice drop upon the sugar till all is drained out, pressing the fruit gently; occasionally stir the juice and sugar till the sugar is perfectly dissolved; put it into a preserving pan, and boil it a little tiU free from scum, on a moderate fire, and cold, bottle it in pint bottles. A stone jar is the best to boil it in, or a pan lined with earthen- ware. Red currant vinegar, and elder-berry vinegar, are prepared in the same way, using a rather less quantity of sugar for the latter. No. 683.—Raspberry Vinegar. Bruise eight pounds of raspberries; pour on them three pints of good goosebeny or sugar vinegar; let it remain twenty four hours, frequently stimng with a wooden spoon ; put six pounds of broken loaf sugar into an earthen vessel, and the fruit and vinegar into a jcUy-bag; let it drop upon the sugar till all the juice is strained out, presssing it, occasionally, very gently; pour the syrup into a pre- serving pan, boiling it a little, just to clear it, taking off the scum; then take it from the fire; pour it into an earthen vessel, and when cold, bottle it in pint bottles. When wanted for use, put two table- spoonfuls in a small tumbler of water.SYRUPS, ETC. 201 No. 684.—Imperial. To half an ounce of cream of tartar, add the rind of a lemon, pared very thin; pour on two quarts of boiling water; stir, and closely cover it; when cold, add the juice of the lemon, and sugar; strain, and bottle it, and it will then be ready. No. 685.—Fresu Fruit-water. Mash the fruit well, adding a little water; rub it through a sieve into a basin, adding half a pint of elarified syrup to caeh quart of fruit, the juice of a lemon, and a quart of spring water; pass it through a fine hair sieve, and set it aside for use, keeping it covered. Water, or syrup may be added. Currants, cherries, strawberries, or raspberries arc suitable for the above purpose, used either separately or mixed. No. 686.—Toast and Water. Toast a piece of the upper crust of a stale loaf, till very brown, but not burnt; put it in a jug of either hot or cold water; cover the jug, and it made with hot water, set it on the cellai' floor to cool. No. 687.—Lemon Essence. Rasp or grate the lemons very thin; to quarter of a pound of raspings, allow a pound of white sugar, powdered or rolled; mix till well incoiqiorated ; press it down in small jars; cover with white paper, brushed over with white of egg, a little beaten, and in one month it will be ready. No. 688.—Quintessence op Lemon-peel. To one drachm of the best oil of lemon, take two ounces of the best rectified spirits of wine, introduced by degrees till the spirit com- pletely mixes with the oil. This useful preparation possesses all the fragrance and flavour of the freshest lemon-peel; a few drops on sugar will be sufficient to flavour anything in which it may be used.VKGETAKIAN COOKERY. 202 No. 689.—To KEEP Lemon-juice. Keep the lemons in a cool place several days; then cut them, and squeeze the juice into a basin; strain it through thin, and afterwards through thick muslin, and pour it into small phials, perfectly clean and dry; fill them so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoon- ful of olive oil into each ; cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. When wanted for use, open only such a sized bottle as win be used in a day or two; wind a bit of clean cotton round a skewer and dip it in so as to remove the oU. The juice will then be as fme as when first bottled. No. 690.—Everton Toepy. Two pounds of brown sugar ; three quarters of a pound of butter, and twenty drops of essence of lemon. Warm, and rub a pan with butter; put in the sugar with five table- spoonfuls of water, and boil it over a slow fire till it becomes a smooth, thick syrup ; then stir in the butter, and when it has boiled about three quarters of an hour, drop a little into a cup of cold water, and if it become hard, it is enough; stir in the essence of lemon, and pour it about half or three quarters of an inch thick, on dishes wanned and buttered. Essence of ginger may be used instead of essence of lemon. No. 691.—Treacle Toffy. Rub a pan with butter; pour into it tw'o pounds of treacle, and boil it gently, about an hour; add a few drops of essence of pepper- mint, and pour it on dishes, warmed and buttered. Before the toffy is poured out, try a little on a plate, and when cool, if it will easily come off, it is sufficiently done.nCKLES. No. 692.—Bket-koots. Wash the roots well, hut be careful not to break off the shoots ; boil till quite tender, with a small piece of soda in the water; then peel, and cut them in very thin slices, and add cold vinegar, Cayenne and white pepper. No. 693.—Beet-roots and Onions. Prepare the heet-roots as in No. 692 ; when cold, slice them with about a third part of onions, sliced in the same way, and sprinkle with salt. To a quart jar, nearly full, allow one pint and a half of vinegar; boil the vinegar with quarter of an ounce of whole black pepper, quarter of an ounce of sliced ginger, and quarter of an ounce of mace and Cayenne-pods, together ; pour it over the heet-roots and onions; cover it immediately, and when cold, tie it up ivith two folds of paper. It will be ready for use in about a week. No. 694.—French Beans. Pour boiling brine over the beans; cover them closely, and let them remain till the following day; then drain, and dry them; boil the vinegar, adding Jamaica pepper, and black pepper-corns, a little mace, and ginger, and pour it over the beans. Repeat boiling the vinegar every day till the beans look green. Radish pods may be done in the same way. No. 695.—Red Cabbage. Slice the cabbage very thin ; salt it well; put it into an earthen dish, and let it remaiu closely covered for tw'o days; then drain it in a sieve, and put it into a jar; set some good vinegar on the fire, add- ing ginger, black peppcr-coms, and a piece of saltpetre about the size204 TEGETARIAN COOKERY. of a nut; when boiling, pour it on the cabbage, and cover it closely, and when cold, tie two folds of paper over the jar. It will be ready for use in a few days. No. 696.—Cauliflowers. Cut the cauliflowers in small sprigs; put them into a jar, and sprinkle them well with salt; pour suffieient boiling water over to cover them ; tie paper over and let them remain till the next day ; then drain them carefully, and spread them on a clean cloth; cover them with another, and let them remain till the following day, when they will be quite dry; boil some good white vinegar, adding white pepper-corns, a little bruised ginger, scraped horse-radish, and a little mace; put the cauliflowers into a stone jar, and pour the vinegar, boiling hot, upon them. No. 697.—Cucumbers. The encumbers should be fresh gathered, and of the small long sort. Pour over them a strong brine of salt and water; cover them closely, and let them remain twenty four hours; then stir them gently; drain, and dry them in a cloth ; boil some good vinegar ivith sliced ginger. Cayenne-pods, and black pepper-corns ; when boiling, put in the cucumbers, cover, and let them boil, quiekly, three minutes; put them with the vinegar into the jar, and cover them elosely. The eucumbers should be very crisp and green, when done in this way, but if not suffieiently green with once boiling, the vinegar should be boiled again the next day, and poured on them immediately. No. 698.—Cucumber Mangoes. Lay the cueumbers in strong brine, and let them remain two days; then wipe them dry; cut open one side and take out the seeds with a scoop; in each cucumber put a clove of garlic, three eschalots, a smal^ onion, a clove, a little sliced ginger. Cayenne-pods, and black pepper- corns, and fill them up with mustard-seed, and scraped horse-radish; stitch up the opening, and put the mangoes close together in a broad jar, and pour over sufficient boiling vinegar to cover them.205 PICKLES. The vinegar should be boiled every day till the mangoes are green The large green cucumbers are the best. No. 699.—Indian Pickle. Divide some cauliflowers into pieces, adding some slices of the stalks, also carrots, onions, turnips, cucumbers, and two white cabbages, all cut in slices. Boil a strong brine; simmer the vegetables in it for two minutes; drain, and let them dry over a stove, or before the fire, till they are shrivelled, and then put them into a jar. Set four quarts of vinegar on the fire, adding two ounces of flour of mustard, two ounces of ginger, four ounces of black pepper-corns, half an ounce of cloves, some scraped horse-radish, a few eschalots, and a few Cayenne pepper pods; boil the whole, and pour it immediately on the pickle; when quite cold, cover, and tie it closely, and if requisite, add more vinegar. It will be ready for use in about a month. No. 700.—Lemons. Grate off the yellow rind of small lemons; put them iu a broad earthen jar, covering them entirely with salt; let them remain a fort- night ; then scald them three times with salt and water, letting them remain till cold each time ; then put them in a jar, and boil as much vinegar as Will cover them, adding white pepper-corns, sliced ginger, and mace, and cover them in the usual way. Cai'e should be taken to keep them well covered with vinegar. No. 701.—Mushrooms. Use only the buttons; rub them with a bit of flannel and salt; put them into a pan, and sprinkle them with salt, adding white pepper, and a little mace ; as the liquor comes out, shake them over a gentle fire till nearly dried up, keeping the pan uncovered ; then add suffi- cient vinegar to cover the mushrooms, and when thoroughly hot, but not boiling, put them into small jars or bottles. No. 702.—Mushrooms. Take any quantity of button mushrooms; wipe them with flannelVEGETARIAN COOKERY. 206 and salt, putting them into water as they are done; then wash them, and put them into a clean brass or block-tin pan, adding salt; set them over a slow fire for ten or fifteen minutes; drain them in a sieve, and spread them on a cloth till cold ; then put them in bottles, with the cold liquid previously drained from them; cork the bottles, and either cement them, or use Betts’s capsules. No. 703.—Onion.s. Peel some small onions, and put them as they are done, into a jar of strong salt and water; cover them, and change the brine once each day for three successive days; then set them over the fire in milk and water, tLU near boiling; drain, and lay them between two clean cloths; when dry, put them in jars or bottles; boil some dis- tilled vinegar, adding salt, white pepper, mace, and one or two bay leaves, and when cold, pour it on the onions. They will not look white with any other vinegar. No. 704.—Walnuts. Boil some strong salt and water; skim it well; pour it over the walnuts, and let them remain six days; make a strong brine; drain, and put them into it, and let them remain a week; then drain, and dry them with a cloth ; pour over them, when quite hot, as much good vinegar, boded with mace, all-spice, bruised ginger, scraped horse-radish, and black pepper-corns, as will cover them; a little garlic, and mustard seed may be added, and when cold, cover, and tie them closely. They will be ready in six months. Walnuts are more liable to become black and soft when they have been steeped in brine, but ai'e sooner ready for use. They should be gathered before the shells become hard. No. 705.—Mushroom Catchup. Take care to have the mushrooms fresh gathered and full grown; put a layer at the bottom of a rather deep earthen pan; sprinkle them with salt; then add another layer of mushrooms and salt alternately;PICKLES. 207 let them remain four or five hours; then mash them well; let them remain eovered, in a eool plaee, two days, stirring them well each day; then put them into a stone jar, with one ounce of black pepper-corns, half an ounce of aU-spice, half an ounce of bruised ginger, a little Cayenne, eschalots, and mane; cover the jar closely, and set it in a pan of boiling water; keep it boiling two hours ; take out the jar ; pour the liquor through a hair sieve, and boil it gently half an hour; skim it well, and pour it into a clean dry jug; closely cover it, and let it remain in a cool place tiU the following day ; then clear it off carefully through a flannel bag tiU clear; let it remain covered two days more ; then pour it off, leaving the sedi- ment, and bottle it in small bottles; cork them closely, and seal, or dip them in bottle cement. If kept in a cool dry place it may be preserved a long time. If from damp, or any other cause, any scum appears, boU it again with a few pepper-corns. The sediment of the muslu'ooms may be put into a bottle, and when settled a few days, a portion of it may be pom'ed off and used for sauces, etc. No. 706.—Essence of Mushrooms. Sprinkle some salt over any quantity of fresh gathered, sound mush- rooms ; in three hours after, mash them well; the following day, strain off the liquor, and boil it, till reduced to neaidy half, adding a few white pepper-coms, and a little mace. It will not keep Iqng, but is preferable to catchup, having more of the flavour of mushroom and less of the seasoning. No. 707.—Verjuice. Gather the crabs when quite ripe ; lay them together for about a week; then wipe them dry, and take off the stalks; when well mashcil, strain, and press them through a hair or canvas bag. Put the ver- juice into a large jar; closely cover it, and in a few weeks clear it off iuto bottles. No. 708.—Crab Vinegar. To one peck of crabs, bruised, put four gallons of cold spring water;208 TEGETAHIA.N COOKERY. cover, aud let them remain about nine days, stirring them tmce each day ; then strain the liquor through a hair cloth, aud put it into an iron-hooped cask. To each gallon of liquor, put one pound and a half of sugar, and stir it in the cask several times, to dissolve the sugar; cover the cask with a piece of slate, or an earthenware cover, and set it in the sun till ready for use. This makes good strong vinegar suitable for pickles. No. 709.—Gooseberry Vinegar. The gooseberries should he quite ripe, and bruised till all are broken ; to each quart of pulp, put five pints of cold water, aud let it remain two days, stirring it thi'ee times a day; then strain it through a sieve, and afterwards through a flannel hag; to each gallon, put a pound and a half of good moist sugar ; when the sugar is dissolved, put the vinegar into a cask, or deep stone jar, and cover it closely. No. 710.—To KEEP Vinegar. Put the vinegar into a pan, hued with earthenware; let it boil a minute, and when cold, put it into bottles. Or it may be put into bottles, and set on the fire in a pan of water, till the water boils ; when cold, the bottles should be well corked, and the vinegar wiD keep several years.PORKIDGE, GRUEL, ETC. No. 711.—Oat-meal Porridge. Twelve ounces of meal; half an ounce of salt, and three pints of water. Dissolve the salt in the boiling water; add the meal, previously rubbed smooth in a little cold water, and allow the whole to boil gently, all over the surface, about twenty minutes; pour it into saucers, and serve with treacle and milk. No. 712.—Wheat-meal Porridge. To one quart of boiling water, add a tea-spoonful of salt; stir in gradually, half a pound of wheat-meal; boil ten minutes, iind serve with milk or treacle. No. 713.—Milk Porridge. To a pint and a half of new milk, put half a pint of water; set it on the fire, and when just ready to boil, stir in about a dessert spoon- ful of oat-nieal, and a little salt, mixed with water; cut some bread in small pieces; put it into basins, and pour the boiling milk upon it. No. 714.—Flour Porridge. Boil one pint of milk, reserving two table-spoonfuls to mix with one ounce of flour; stir it into the boiling milk, adding half a salt- spoonful of salt; boil gently ten minutes, and serve with sugar or treacle. No. 715.—Hominy Porridge. One pound of hominy prepared as in No. 175 ; three pints of milk, and quarter of an ounce of salt. Steep the hominy in water twelve hours; then pour off the water not absorbed; add the milk and salt, and set the whole in a slow oven two hours, till all the milk is absorbed; pour it into saucers, and serve with treacle and milk. 14VEGETAMAN COOKERY. 210 No. 716.—Lentil Porridge. Three table-spoonfuls of lentil-flour; one salt-spoonful of salt, and one pint of water. Mi.x the flour with the water and salt, and boil ten minutes, stir- ring it all the time. No. 717-—Sago Porridge. Four table-spoonfuls of sago; one salt-spoonful of salt, and one quart of water. Soak tbe sago in eold water a few minutes, and boil it gently about an hour, adding the salt; pour it into soup plates, and serve with molasses or sugar. No. 718.—Sago and Rice Porridge. Equal quantities of sago and ground rice. Proceed as with sago porridge. No. 719.—Bread Porridge eor Infants. Pour boiling water on some thin slices of good light white bread; when cool, drain off the water, and mash the bread till quite fine, adding sufficient new milk to make it a proper thickness. It may be warmed as required, but should not be boiled; sugar may be added. When made with water only, it should be boiled a little. No. 720.—Brew’is. Cut some bread in thin slices (toasted if preferred) into a basin; pour boiling water upon it, and cover with a plate; let it remain a few minutes, and then stir in a piece of butter, and a little salt. Oat-cake toasted and cut in pieces is frequently used. No. 721.—French Panada. Break a stale penny roll in pieces; put it in a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover the bread; stir it well over the fire, allow- ing it to boil five minutes; then add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and one ounce of fresh butter; mi.v, and take it from the fire; beat theGRUEL, PORRIDGE, ETC. 211 yolk of an egg with two table-spoonfuls of milk or water, and pour it into the panada, stirring very quickly half a minute. Any other nice light bread would answer the pui’pose as weU as the roll. Panada should be rather thicker than gruel, and may he made of milk, but water is preferable, being lighter and more digestible. No. 722.—SowiNS. One pound and a half of fine oat-meal; one table-spoonful of white sugar, and a little salt. Steep the oat-meal in cold water twenty-four hours; then pour off the water; add the same quantity of fresh water, and let it remain the same length of time; strain through a fine hair sieve; put the meal into a saucepan, adding the sugar, and let it boil till it be- comes about the consistency of hasty pudding, stirring constantly. Pour it on a dish, and serve with new milk or cream, aud sugar, or treacle. No. 723.—Scotch Sowins. Mix two pounds and a half of coarse oat-meal with a pint of butter- milk, and five pints of luke-wann water; cover it, and place it a little distance from the fire; let it remain thirty-six hours; then pour off the liquid, and add more water, changing the water two succeeding days; then put some of the meal into a hair sieve, adding plenty of ■water, and knocking the sieve with the hand, to make the finer par- ticles of the oat-meal pass through, leaving the coarser part. Again let it remain eight or ten hours; then pour off the water, and put the remainder into a pan, lined with earthenware, adding salt, and water sufficient to make it about the thickness of oat-meal porridge; stir it constantly while on the fire, aud let it boil till it becomes smooth. No. 724.—Frumenty. Take some good white wheat; just wet it a little; put it into a coarse bag, and beat it with a stick till the external husk is suffi- ciently loose to be rubbed off; then wash it well, changing the water five or six times, till perfectly free from loose bran ; then putVEGETAHIAN COOKEEY. 212 it into a stew-pot, with plenty of water; cover, and set it in the oven tiU the wheat is quite soft, and when cold, it will he quite a jelly. When required for use, put as much of the wheat with milk into a pan, as will make it about the consistency of rice milk, stirring it constantly with a wooden slice or spoon, and mashing the wheat, it being liable to burn; when near boiling, stir in a small portion of flour, mixed tiU smooth with a little milk, adding sugar, grated nut- meg, and a little salt, and when it boils, it will he ready. Frumenty may be thickened with the yolks of eggs, beaten with a little mUlc, instead of flour; currants, or Sultana raisins, picked and washed, may also he added. No. 725.—Areow-uoot Milk. Three quarters of au ounce of arrow-root, and one pint of milk. Set the milk on the fire, and when near boiling, pour it upon the arrow-root, previously mixed with a little sugar, and cold water tUl quite smooth; pour the milk gradually upon it, stirring constantly; return it into the pan, and stir it on the fire two or three minutes. No. 726.—Mulled Milk. One quart of new mUk; two ounces of sugar, and the yolks of five eggs. BoU. the milk five minutes, adding the sugar, and a piece of cin- namon ; theu pour it into a basin, and let it remain tUl cool; beat the yolks of the eggs well, adding a little cream; pour the milk gradually upon the eggs, stirring constantly; return the milk into the pan, and stir it over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; strain it through a fine strainer into a jug; pour it several times from one jug to another, and it will then he ready. No. 727.—Rice Milk. Quarter of a pound of rice, and three pints of milk. Wash and pick the rice, and soalc it one hour in cold water; then pour off the water, and set the rice on the fire with the mUk, and a little cinnamon, stirring it frequently; when sufficiently boiled, mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a little water, and stir it well in, adding sugar and salt.GUUEL, POUKIDGE, ETC. 213 No. 728.—Ground Uice Mii.k. One ounce of ground rice, mid one pint of milk. Set the milk on the fire, adding a little einnamon, and when near boiling, stir in the rice, jn-evionsly mixed with a little cold milk ; stir it constantly, boiling a few minutes, and add sugar, and a very little salt. No. 729.—Sago Mii,k. One ounce of sago, and one pint and a half of milk. After Washing the sago well, let it soak in cold water an hoim; pour off the water, and set the sago on the fire with the milk, and simmer till reduced to a pint, adding either sugar or salt. No. 730.—Tapioca Miek. One ounce of tapioca, and one pint and a half of milk. Soak the tapioca in a pint of water half an hoiu'; pour off the water, and add a pint and a half of milk; boil slowly till the tapioca is dissolved, adding sugar and nutmeg. No. 731.—Arrow-root Gruel. Pour a pint of boiling water on three quarters of an ounce of ar- row-root, previously mixed till smooth with a little cold water, stirring it constantly; retimn it into the pan, and let it boil a few minutes, adding sugar and lemon-juice, or raspberry vinegar. No. 732.—Arrow-root Gruel. One ounce of aiTow-root, and two large table-spoonfuls of pre- served black cun-ants. Put the currants into a pan with a (piai't of water; cover the jian, and let them stew gently about half an hour; then strain the liquid, and set it on the fire ; when boiling, pour it gradually upon the arrow-root, previously mixed with a little cold water, stirring it well; return it into the pan, and let it boil gently a few minutes, adding sugar if required.VEGETAHIAN COOKEllY. 214 No. 733.—CuiiRANT Gruel. To a quart of oat-meal gruel, strained, add two table-spoonfuls of cm’rants, and after boiling a few minutes, add sugar and nutmeg. No. 734.—Farina Gruel. Set on the fii’e a pint of water; moisten a table-spoonfid of farina witb two table-spoonfuls of water; pom' on the water, gradually, when boiling, stirring it well; return it into the pan, and boil eight or ten minutes, and add sugar and nutmeg, or raspberry vinegar. No. 735.—Groat Gruel. Pick the groats very clean, and steep them in water several hours; then boil them iu spring water tiU quite tender and thick, and add boiling water sufficient to reduce the whole to the consistency of gruel, also cm'rants, sugar, and grated nutmeg. No. 736.—Oat-jieal Gruel. Set a quart of water on the fire, and when quite hot, but not boiling, pom' it on a table-spooufid of oat-meal, previously mixed with cold water, stimng it well; take out the spoon, and leave it to settle about two minutes; then pour it cai'efuUy into the pan, leaving the coarse part of the meal at the bottom of the basin; set it on the fire, stirring it till it boils; when boiled five or six minutes, skim it, and add either salt, pepper and butter, or sugar and nutmeg. No. 737.—Onion Gruel. Slice an onion, and boil it in the quantity of water required for the gruel, tUl quite tender; then add oatmeal, mixed with cold water, a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt; let it boil a few minutes, and then strain it. No. 738.—Sago Gruel. Two t'dble-spooufuls of sago, and one quart of water. Wash, and soak the sago a few minutes in cold water; stir it into the rest of the water, when boiling; boil slowly till the sago is well done, and add sugar and nutmeg as required.GRUEL, PORRIDGE, ETC. 215 No. 739.—T.A.PIOCA Gruel. Wash a large table-spoonful of tapioca; soak it twenty minutes in a pint and a half of water; then boil gently till the tapioca is done, stirring it well, and add sugar, lemon-juice, nutmeg, or ginger, as may be required. No. 740.—Wheat-meal Gruel. To a pint of boiling water, add a table-spoonful of wheat-meal, previously mixed with three table-spoonfuls of cold water till quite smooth, adding a pinch of salt; boil from ten to fifteen minutes, taking off the scum, and add salt and white pepper, or sugar and nutmeg.PEEPAEATIONS POE INVALIDS. No. 741.—Bread Soup. Set a pint of water on the fire in a clean saucepan, adding a dry crust of bread, cut in small pieces, a little fi'esh butter, about the size of a walnut, and a bttle salt; let it boil, beating it with a spoon till well mixed, and boil it gently quarter of an bom'. No. 742.—Sago Soup. Three ounces of sago, and two turnips. Soak the sago a few minntes in cold water; then boil it gently abont two hours, with the turnips, cut in small pieces; season with pepper and salt, and serve with toasted bread. No. 743.—B.arley Broth. After being well washed in wmrm water, steep a small table- spoonful of pearl barley in fi-esb water three or four hom-s, adding a little salt; then pour off the water, and set the barley on the fire in a pint of water; put in a table-spoonful of bread-cnmibs, one or tw'o sprigs of parsley, and a bttle mace; simmer tiU sufficiently done, and then strain it through a fine tin strainer. No. 744.—Kidney Bean Broth. Half a pint of di'y kidney beans; parsley; one onion, and one quart of water. Stew the beans about six hours ; strain the broth without mashing the beaus ; return it into the pan ; add.the parsley and onion, finely chopped; season-with pepper and salt; boil ten or fifteen minutes, and serve with toasted bread. No. 745.—Baked Milk. Put two quarts of new milk into a jar; tie white paper over it, and set it in a moderately cool oven, to remain all night.PREPARATIONS FOR INVALIDS. 217 If properly done, it will be the eonsistency of thin gruel. A wine-glassful may be taken twice or tlu-iec a day. No. 746.—Bread Jelly. Toast a sliee of bread till very dry and brown; Ihen add as niueh water as will cover it, and let it simmer gently for four hours, adding more water as required. It will then be a complete jelly. Strain, and add a little new milk, sugar, and grated lemon-peel. No. 747.—Treacle Posset. Set a pint of milk on the fire; when near boiling, add two table- spoonfids of treacle, and stir it quickly tiU it curdles. Then take it off the fire; let it remain a few minutes, and strain it. No. 748.—Linseed Tea. Pour a quart of boiling water upon two ounces of linseed; cover, and set it near the fire for two or three hours; strain, and sweeten with honey, or brown sugar. It should be used warm. No. 749.—Mushroom Tea. Wash any quantity of mushrooms, according to the strength required ; put them in a jar with a blade of mace; pour boiling water upon them; cover the jar, and set it near the fii’e for two or three hours. No. 750.—Barley Water. Wash two ounces and a half of pearl barley; steep it in cold water several hours; put it into a pan with a little boiling water, and after boiling a few minutes, pour off the water; then add two quarts of boiling water; let it boil till reduced one half; then add sugar, and flavour with lemon-peel or raspbeny vinegar. No. 751.—Oat-cake Toast-water. Toast oat-cake till perfectly dry and brown, but not the least burnt; break it in rather large pieces; put it in a jug, and imme-218 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. diately pour boiling water upon it; closely cover it, and let it remain till cold, or nearly so. This beverage is invaluable in cases of fever or inflammation. No. 752.—Rice Water. Wash and pick two ounces of rice; set it on the fire in a quart of water; boil gently till the rice is quite soft and pidpy ; rub it through a hair sieve, and sweeten with honey or sugar. Lemon-juice may be added. Two apples sliced and boiled with the rice water, makes a pleasant summer drink. No. 753.—Butter-milk Whey. Pour boiling milk or water on some rather sour buttermilk; allow it to settle a few minutes, and then strain through a gauze sieve. Sugar may be added. No. 754.—Lemon Whey. Pour into boiling millc as much lemon-juice, or vinegar, as wiU make a small quantity quite clear, and dilute with hot water to an agreeably sharp acid, adding a little loaf sugar. No. 755.—Slippery Elm Gruel. Wet with cold water one tea-spoonful of pulverised elm, then add about half a pint of boiling water, stirring it well; sweeten with loaf sugar, and add a little lemon-juice, if approved. No. 756.—Linseed Cough Syrup. Three ounces of linseed ; one ounce of liquorice-root; one ounce of Italian-juice; one large lemon, and two ounces of sugar-candy, honey, or brown sugar. Wash the linseed, and set it on the fire, with the liquorice-root, and Italian-juice, in three pints of water; after boUing a little, set it where it will just simmer, closely covered, for three or fom’ hom's, occasionally stirring it; strain it through a sieve, and put it into a clean pan with the juice of the lemon, sugar-candy, or honey, and simmer quarter of an hour.PKEPAUATIONS FOR INVALIDS. 219 This syrup does quite ns well stewed iu a covered jar in a mo- derate oven, stin-ing it occasionally. Half a tea-cupful to be taken, warm, three or four times a day. No. 737.—Orange and Lemon Syrup. To twelve oranges, allow three lemons; squeeze out the juice, and strain it, adding as much loaf sugar as will make it a nice thick syrup. A small wine-glassful to be taken three times a day.f - - ^ < T • ■" J .,'j. - ".» » , t * -^ ^< 1.1 , >Jj:' Vi A r '*^'s: »?i 4 T*ft > ’ *i.'i fti|* » i* • JfjlpH S'"»''*^'2 • # •' ■ //: • •‘^ !*.•>»■ 4 -i-' 's'*. --., . > r- ' ^' at^, *K »m [ fAPPENDIX. No. 758.—Lentil and Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint of lentils; one pint of peas; two ounces of onion; quarter of a pound of celery, and half a pound each of carrots and turnips, or a pound of parsnips. Pick and wash the peas and lentils; steep them twelve hours in fresh water; put them into four quarts of water with a large spoon- ful of salt in it; when boiled about two hours, add the other vege- tables ; boil two hours more; then rub the soup through a coarse sieve or fine colander, adding a little boding water if required; return it into the pan, and season with pepper and salt. Two ounces of butter may be added if approved, and if the soup be not the desired consistency, mix a table-spoonful of potato-flour or wheat-flour with the butter, stirring it till well mixed, and boiling it a few njinutes. No. 759.—Roasted Vegetable Marrow. Boil a good-sized marrow half an hour; cut it in two; take out the seeds; season with pepper and salt, and fill it with force-meat; dredge it with flour; put two ounces of butter on the top; roast it in a quick oven, and serve with brown sauce. No. 760.—Vegetable Marrow and Celery Pie. Cut three roots of celery in smaU pieces, \rtth a proportionate quantity of vegetable marrow, and one rather large onion; season with pepper and salt; add a dessert-spoonful of tapioca, steeped in quarter of a pint of cold water, and one ounce of butter; put all together into a pie-dish; cover with paste, and bake it iu a moderately hot oven. A turnip may be added if approved.APPENDIX. No. 76 i.—Peeserved Vegetable Marrow. Peel the marrows, and after scraping out the seeds and fibres, cut them in pieees. To each pound of fruit allow one pound of loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Set it on the fire, and after it begins to boil, let it continue boiling half an hour, and then pour it into small sweet-meat pots. No. 762.—Vegetable Marrow Marmalade. Peel the marrows, and grate them. To six pounds of fruit put six pounds of broken loaf sugar, and the juice and grated rinds of two lemons; boil it half an hour over a moderate fire, stirring it fre- quently, and pour it into small moulds. No. 763.—Victoria Cakes. Half a pound of flom'; quarter of a pound of butter; quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; two eggs, and quarter of an ounce of Miller’s baking-powder. Beat the butter to cream; add the sugar, and then the eggs weU beaten; mix well the baking-powder with the flour; add it gradually to the butter and sugar, and when properly mixed, dredge* a little flour on the paste-board; lay on a piece of the paste about the size of an egg; roU it round very lightly with the hand, and lay it on an iron baking plate, pressing it gently till about four inches in diameter. Each cake to be prepared in the same way, leaving a good space between the cakes, as they spread in the baking. Bake them in a moderately hot oven about ten or twelve minutes. When quite cold, spread a thin layer of fruit jam, jelly, or marmalade on one cake, lay over it another cake, then another layer of jam, and another cake, and sift finely powdered sugar over it.INDEX. No. Aberncthy Biscuits . . 533 Acid, Raspberry . . 681 Almond Bi.scuits . . 556 . . Cake . . 554 . . Cakes . . . 555 . . Cheesecakes . 388 389 . . Cream . . 431 432 . . Custards . . 402 . . Pudding . .239 . . Puffs . . 347 .. Soup ... 1 American Biscuits 534 Apple and Bread Pudding . 245 Boiled 246 . . Custard Pancake . 325 . . Beverage . . 670 671 . . Bread . . . 500 . . Cheese . . 635 . . Cheesecakes . . 390 . . Cream . . 433 . . Dumplings . . 244 . . Fritters . . 333 .334 . . Jelly . . . 458 628 629 . . Marmalade . . 640 . . Pie . . . 345 . . Pudding . . . 240 Boiled . 242 . . Sauce . . . 179 . . Snow . . . 477 . . Trifle . .476 Apples, Baked . . 370 Apples, Pine . No. 612 . . Stewed 371 372 Apricot Jam 620 . . Marmalade 641 . . Pudding 247 Apricots .... 603 . . Stewed 374 Arrow-root 415 416 . . Biscuits 535 . . Custards 403 . . Gruel 731 732 ! ! Milk . ' . ' . 725 . . Pudding 248 Boiled 249 . . Sponge Cake 602 Asparagus 138 . . Eggs with . 96 . . Omelet . 37 Artichokes . 137 . . Jerusalem 112 Baked Apple Beverage . 672 . . Pudding 241 . . Apples 370 . . Batter Pudding with Fruit 257 . . Beet-root 114 . . Bread Omelet 38 . . Custards. 406 . . Eggs . 92 . . 93 . . in Cups, Muslirooms 114 . . Milk . 745 . . Parsnips 120INBKX. No. Baked Potatoes . . 125 .126 . . Eice Omelet . 52 . . Vegetable Marrow . 163 . . . . . . with Onions and Sage . 164 Bakewcll Pudding . . 250 .251 Baking Powder, Bread with 492 Balls, Potatoes in . .132 Bannock, Pitcaithly . 595 Barley . . . .417 . . and Peas Soup . 3 . . Broth . . .31 .743 . . Pearl, Pudding . 252 . . without Milk or Eggs 253 . . Soup ... 2 . . Water . . 750 Basle Cakes . .557 Bath Buns . . . 547 Batter Pudding . . 254 withoutEggs 256 . . used in frying Veget- ables . . 206 Beans .... 139 . . French . . 140 141 .694 Beet-root . . • 692 . . Baked . . 114 . . Boiled . . . 113 . . Fried . . . 115 . . Sandwiches . . 230 Beet-roots and Onions . 693 Bell’s Biscuits . . .558 Beverage, Apple . . 670 . . ^ 671 . . Baked Apple . 672 . . Fig aud Apple . . 073 . . Orange . . 674 . . llhubarb . .675 Biestings Custard . 404 No. Biestings Custard . . 405 Biscuit Pudding . . 258 . . . . Boiled . 260 Soda . 259 Biscuits . . . 532 . . Abernethy . . 533 .. Almond . . . 556 . . American . . 534 . . An’ow-root . . 535 . . Bell’s . . .558 . . Butter . . . 536 . . Digestive . . 537 . . Endcliffe . .538 . . Hard . . . 539 . . Eice . . . 589 . . Eotherham . . 591 . . Scotch . . . 540 . . Stamped . . 541 . . Victoria . . . 542 . . Yorkshire . . 543 BlackbciTy Jam . .621 . . Jelly . . . 030 Black Cap Pudding . . 261 . . CiuTaut Jam . 622 . . Jelly . . 631 Vinegar . 682 Blanched Cream . . 434 Blanc-mange . . 453 464 455 . . . . Egg . . 456 . . Iceland Moss 457 Boiled Beet-root . . 113 . . Carrots . . .116 . . Eggs . . . 91 . . Green Peas . .100 . . Haricot Beans . 143 . . Potatoes . .122 . . Vegetable Mai'row 161 Bread . . . .491 . 492 . 493 and Butter Pudding 200 . . Fruit Pudding . .207INDEX. No. Bread and Parsley Fritters 60 . . Breakfast . . 494 . . Currant . . . 502 . . . without Sugar 503 . . Indian Corn . 501 '. . Ferment for . . 528 >. for Toast . . 496 ... Fritters . . . 335 .Telly . . . 746 . .' Plum Pudding . 302 ... V Porridge for Infants 719 : Pudding . . 262 Boiled . 263 Common. 264 with Onion . 84 without Milk ’’ or Eggs . . 265 . . Sauee . . . 180 . . Scalded . . 491 . . Scotch Short . .592 593 . . Soup . 741 . . with Potatoes . 498 . . Jlice . . 499 Brentford Rolls . 505 Brewis . . . .720 Bristol Cakes . . 559 Broiled Mushrooms . . 108 Broth, Bariev . . 31 . . 743 Kidney Bean . 744 . . Scotch . . .32 . . Vegetable . . 35 Browning . . . 207 Brown Sauce . . 181 . . Soup ... 4 5 . . Thickening . . 209 Buns .... 546 . . Bath . . ,547 . . Cheltenham. . 548 . . Common . . 549 ■. . Endcliffe . . 550 . . Lemon . . . 551 Buns, Longford . No. 552 . . Soda 553 Butter Biscuits 536 . . Fairy 479 . . Gingerbread without 568 . . Oiled or Clarified . 208 . . Paste without . 363 . . Sauce . 182 * • • • • . • 183 Buttered Eggs 94 with Spinach 95 . . Toast, Bread for 496 Butter-milk Whey 753 Cabbage . . . . 145 . . or Greens . 146 . . Red 695 Cabinet Pudding . 268 Cake, Almond . 554 . . Arrow-root Sponge 602 . . Citron 561 . . Lemon . 577 . . Luncheon . 508 . . Oat 515 . . Plum . 581 582 583 .. Pound 584 . . Rice . 586 587 • • ... . , 588 . . Seed 596 • • ... . . 597 . . Soda 509 . . Sponge 600 • . . . 601 . . Westmoreland Oat 516 Cakes, Almond 555 . . Basle 557 . . Bristol 559 . . Cinnamon 560 . . Derby 562 . . Ecclcs 563 . . Frost . 564INDEX. No. Cakes, King . 676 Cheese, Italian . . Lemon 578 . . Lemon . . . Potato . . 517 . . on Toast . . Queen 585 . . Potted . . . Rock . 690 . . Shrewsbury 598 . . Roasted . • • * . • . 599 . . Sandwiches . . . Tea 511 . . Snaps . 512 . . Snow . 613 . . Turnovers Calecannon . 149 Cheesecakes . Carrot Fritters 61 . . Almond . » . . • • • . 336 . . Marmalade . 642 . . Apple . . Pie . 71 . . Cocoa Nut . . . Pudding 269 . . Cream . . . • . . 270 . . Curd . . . Soup 7 . . . . . 8 . . Lemon Carrots 604 . . Boiled . 116 • • • • • . . Stewed , . 117 . . Orange . Castle Puddings . 271 . . Potato Catchup, Muslu'oom 705 . . Rice Cauliflower, Fried . 161 Cheltenham Buns . . . with "Wbite Sauce 152 Cherries, Stewed Cauliflowers 150 Cherry Jam . . 696 .. Syrup Celery, Fried li)3 Christmas Currant Loaf. . . Sauce . 184 . . Posset . . . Soup . 9 . . Stewed . . 134 Cinnamon Cakes Charlotte, V'auilla . 470 Citron Cake . Cheese and Macaroni . 220 . . Puddings . . Onions 223 Clarified Syrup . 224 Clouted Cream . . . Apple 633 . . Cream . . 485 Cocoa Nut . . Damson 636 . . Cheese Cakes - ■ Egg . 480 Cold Posset . . . Fruit . 638 . . Pudding 639 Colouring, Spinaeii for . . . Green Gooseberry. 637 Common Bread Pudding . . Peas with 169 . . Tea Cakes No. 481 . 482 228 . 225 226 . 227 231 . 545 483 . 229 391 . 388 389 . 390 392 . 393 394 . 395 396 . 397 398 . 399 400 . 401 548 . 373 624 . 659 504 . 473 474 . 560 561 . 272 658 . 486 487 . 376 392 475 . 273 210 264 510INDEX. Common 13uns No. 549 Cowslip Sherbet 676 Crab Vinegar 608 Crabs, Siberian 616 Cranberries, to Bottle . 654 Cream, Almond 431 432 . . Apple 433 . . Blanched 434 . . Cheese . 485 . . Cheesecakes 393 . . Clouted 486 487 . . Curds 484 . . Devonshire 488 489 . . Dutch 435 . . French . 436 . . Gooseben\v . 437 . . Irish 438 . . Lemon 439 440 . . Orange 441 . . Pine Apple Ice 442 . . Ilaspberry . 443 444 . . Rhubarb 445 . . Sauce 185 . . for Puddings 186 . . Snow 446 . . Spanish . 447 Rice 448 . . Sponge . 466 . . Stone . 449 . . Swiss 450 . . Toast . 343 . . Vanilla . 451 . . Velvet 452 Crisped Parsley 217 Crumpets 518 . . 519 . . to Toast 526 Cucumber 238 . . Mangoes 698 15 Cucumber Pie . No. 72 . . Sauce . 187 . . Soup 10 Cucumbers . 605 697 . . Stewed 155 Cumberland Pudding 274 Cm'd Cheesecakes . 394 • • • • • 395 . . IVitters 337 . . Pudding . 275 Curds, Cream 484 Currant Bread . 502 . . . . without Sugar 503 . . Fritters 338 . . Gruel 733 . . Loaf, Christmas . 504 Currants and Raspberries, Stew'ed 377 . . Red 606 Cun'y Powder 211 . . Sauce 188 Custard, Biestiugs 404 405 . . Pudding 276 . . Puddings 277 . . Solid . 471 Custards . . . . 407 . . Almond 402 . . Arrow-root 403 . . Baked 406 . . Gooseberry 408 . . Lemon 409 • • • » • • • 410 . . Paste for 362 . . Raspberry 411 . . Rice . 412 . . Vanilla . 413 . . White 414 Damson Cheese 636 .. Jelly . 633 Damsons . . . . 607 . . to Bottle 605INDEX. Derby Cakes . No. 562 Devonshire Cream 488 • » • • • « • 489 Digestive Biscuits 537 Dried Green Peas Soup 18 . . Pears . 385 . . Peas, Stewed . 170 Dry Toast . 525 Dumplings, Apple 244 . . Norfolk 294 Dutch Apple Pie 346 . . Cream 435 Eccles Cakes . 663 Egg Blanc Mange . 556 . . Cheese . 480 . . Fritters 62 . . Patties . 83 . . Sandwiches . 232 . . Sauce 189 Eggs, Baked 92 . . Boiled 91 93 . . Buttered. 94 with Spinach 96 . . Fried . 102 . . in Forcemeat. 100 . . in Paste . 101 . . Minced . 104 . . Poached 105 . . to Preserve 106 . . for Winter use 107 . . with Asparagus . 96 . . . . Forcemeat Balls 97 . . Sorrel 98 . . White Sauce and Parsley 99 Elder Syrup 660 Endcliffe Biscuits . 638 . . Buns 550 Essence, Lemon . 687 Everton 3'offy . 690 Fairy Butter 479 Farina . . . .418 . . Gruel . . . 734 . . Pudding . . . 278 .279 Fennel Sauce . . .190 Ferment for Bread . 528 Fig and Apple Beverage . 673 . . Tart . . .348 Flour Porridge . . 714 . . Potato . . 531 . . Yeast . . .529 Fondue . . . 222 Forcemeat . . .59 . . Balls, Eggs with . 97 . . Eggs Filed in . .100 . . Fritters . . 63 . . Pie . . . .7 French Bean Omelet . 39 . . Beans . . . 140 . . 141 694 Stewed . 142 . . Cream . . . 436 . . Jelly . . . 459 . . Pancakes . . 326 . . Plums, Stewed . 378 . . Panada . . . 721 . . RoUs . . . 506 . . Sauce . . .199 . . Turnover of Ajiples 356 Fresh Fruit Water . . 685 Friar’s Omelet . . 328 Fried Beet-root . .115 . . Cauliflower . 151 . . Celery . . .153 . . Egg Sandwiches . 233 . . Eggs . . . 102 . . with Parsley 103 . . Mushrooms . .109 . . Onions . . 118 . . Potatoes. . .127 . . with Onions 128 . . Scorzonera . . 134 . . Turnips . . . 136INDEX. Fried Vegetable Marrow No. 165 Fritters, Apple 333 334 . . Bread . 335 . . Bread and Parsley . 60 . . Carrot 61 . 336 . . Curd . 337 . . Currant . 338 . . Egg . 62 . . Foreemeat . 63 . . Ground Bice 69 . . Hominy . 64 . . Minced 70 . . Onion and Sage 65 . 66 . . Orange 339 . . Potato 67 • • • • • • 340 . . Rice 68 . • ... , 341 . . Spanish. 342 Frost Cakes . 564 Fruit Cheese . 638 • • • • • • 639 . . for Tarts 653 . . Jelly . 460 . . Sago with 426 . . Water, Fresh 685 Frumenty 724 Gages, Green 610 German Puddings 280 Gingerbread 565 • • • • . 566 . . Plain . 567 . . Thick . 569 ... . 670 . . Transparent . . . Travellers’ 571 672 . . White . 573 . . • . . . 574 . . without Butter 568 Ginger Pudding . 281 Ginger Sherbet No. 677 . . Syrup 661 Gooseberry Cream 437 . . Custards. 408 . . Marmalade . 643 . . Pudding . 282 ' . . Sauce . 191 . . Vinegar . 709 Gooseberries 608 . . Green 609 ., . . Stewed 380 . . to Bottle 656 . . • . . . . 667 Grape Syrup 662 Grated Orange Marmalade 646 Green Beau Pudding 85 .. . . Soup 6 . . Gages 610 . . . . Stewed 379 . . Gooseberiy Cheese 637 . . Gooseberries 609 ... Stewed 380 . . Jelly . 461 . . Peas, Boiled . 166 . . Soup 19 . . .... . . 20 . . . . Stewed 167 168 . . to keep 219 . . with Cheese 169 Greens or Cabbage 146 . . Sprouts, &c. . 147 Groat Gruel . 735 . . Pudding. 86 Ground Rice 422 . . • . . . . 423 . . . . Fritters 69 . . Milk . 728 . . . . Pancakes . 327 . . Pudding 313 . . Boiled 314 Gruel, Arrow-root 731 . . . . 732 . . Currant 733INDEX. No. Gruel, Farina . . .734 . . Groat . . . 735 . . Oat-meal . .736 . . Onion . . . 737 . . Saa;o . . . 73s . . Slippeiy Elm . 755 . . Tapioca . .739 . . Wheat-meal . 740 Hard Biscuits . . . 539 Haricot Bean Omelet . 58 Haricot Beans, Boiled . 143 . . Stewed . 144 Hash, Turnip . . .34 Hashed Potatoes . . 129 Hasty Pudding . . 283 Herb Powder . . 215 .. Soup . . .11 Herbs, to Dry . . 218 Hominy .... 175 . . Fritters . . 64 . . Porridge. . . 715 . . Pudding . . 284 Hop Tops . . . 156 Horse Radish Sauce . 192 Hotch Potch . . .33 . . Winter . 36 Iceland Moss Blanc-Mange 457 Icing for Tarts . . . 369 Imperial . . . 684 Indian Corn Bread . . 601 . . Meal Pudding . 293 . . Pickle . . .699 Infants, Bread Porridge for 719 Irish Cream . . . 438 Italian Cheese . . .481 Jam, Apricot . . 620 . . Blackberry . .621 . . Black Currant . 622 . . Cherry . . . 624 . . Plum . . .625 . . Raspberry . . 626 Jam, Red Currant No. 623 . . Strawberry . 627 Jargonel Pears 611 Jelly . 462 . . Apple. 458 • . . . . . 628 . . . . * 629 . . Blaekberry . 630 . . Black Currant 631 . . Bread . 746 . . Damson 633 . . French . . 459 . . Fruit . 460 . . Green . 461 . . Lemon 463 . . Orange . . 464 . . . . 4 . 465 . . Raspbcriy . 634 . . Red Currant . . 632 Jerusalem Artichokes 112 Jumballs . . 575 Kidney Bean Broth 744 King Cakes . 576 Lemonade 667 . . Orange and . 668 . . Portable 669 Lemon Buns . . 551 . . Cake . 577 . . Cakes . 578 . . Cheese 482 . . Cheesecakes . 396 .4 ... 4 4 397 4 4 4 4 4 4 . 398 . . Cream 439 . 440 . . Custards 409 4 4 4 4 4 4 . 410 . . Essenee 687 . . Jelly . 463 . . Juice to keep 689 . . Peel, Quintessence of 688 . . Pudding ' . . 286INDEX. No. Lemon Pudding . . 287 288 . . Sherbet . . 678 . . Solid . . . 472 .. Sponge . . 467 . . Sj’llabubs . .478 . . Whey . . .754 I,emons .... 700 Lentil Porridge . . 716 . . Pudding . . . 289 . . Soup . . . 12 I^KMitils .... 419 . . Stewed . . 158 159 Lettuce Stewed . . 160 Linseed Cough Syrup . 756 . . Tea . . . 748 Longford Buns . ,552 Luncheon Cake . . 508 Macaroni . . .176 . . and Parmesan Cheese 221 . . Cheese and . . 220 . . Omelet . . .40 . . Pudding . . 290 291 . . Quenelle . . 41 . . Soup . . .13 14 . . Tart . . . 349 Macaroons . . . 579 Magnum Bonum Plums . 613 Maize Pudding . . 292 Mangoes, Cucumber . . 698 Marmalade, Apple . *640 . . Apricot . . . 641 . . Carrot . . 642 . . Gooseberry . . 643 . . Grated Orange . 646 . . Orange . . . 644 . . Orange Chip . 645 . . Peach . . . 647 . . Pine .4pple . . 648 . . Pumcllo . . . 649 No. Marmalade Quince . 650 . . Raspberry . . 651 . . Rhubarb . . 652 Mashed Parsnips . .121 . . Potatoes . . 124 . . Vegetable Marrow . 162 Milk, Arrow-root . . 725 . . Baked . . .745 . . Ground Rice . 728 . . Mulled . . .726 . . Porridge . . 713 . . Rice . . .727 . . Sago . . .729 . . Tapioca . . .730 Mince Tarts . . . 350 Minced Eggs . . .104 . . Fritters . . 70 Mint Sauce . . .193 Mixed Salads . . 235 Muffins .... 520 . . to Toast . . 527 . . Yorkshire . . 521 Mulberry Svrup . . 663 Mulled Milk . . .726 Mushroom Catchup . 705 . . Pie . . .74 .. Powder . . 212 . . Pudding . . .87 . . Sauce . . . 194 . . Tea . . . 749 Mushrooms . . . 701 702 . . Baked in Cups . Ill . . Broiled . . 108 . . Essence of . . 706 . . Fried . . .109 . . Stewed . . 110 . . To D17 . . . 213 Mustard Sauce . . 195 . . To Mix . . . 216 Now Potatoes . . .123 Norfolk Dumplings . 294 Nottingham Apple Pudding 243INDEX. No. No. Oat-cake 515 Onion Sauce 196 Oat-cake Toast-water’ 751 197 , . Westmoreland 516 . . Soup 16 Oat-meal Gruel 736 Onions 703 Porridge 711 . . and Sage on Toast . 90 • • Pudding. 295 . . Beet-root and 693 Oiled or Clarified Butter 208 . . Cheese and 223 Omelet 45 224 , , • • • • 46 . . Fried 118 • • • . 47 . . Rice with . 177 • . . « 48 . . Stewed . 119 . . . • 49 Orange and Lemonade . 668 . , Asparagus 37 . . and Lemon Sherbet . 679 Baked Bread 38 . . and Lemon Syrup 757 , , Baked Rice 62 . . Beverage 674 French Bean 39 . . Cream 441 Friai’’s . 328 . . Cheesecakes 399 Haricot Bean 58 . . Chip Marmalade . 645 Macaroni 40 . . Fritters . 339 , , Onion 43 . . Jelly . 464 Onion and Macaroni 42 465 Parmesan Cheese 50 . . Marmalade . 644 Potato 51 . . . . grated . 646 Sandwiches 234 . . Pudding 296 . , Savoury 53 . . boiled . 297 Souffle . 329 . . Sponge 468 Spinach 54 . . Syrup 664 Sweet 330 . . Tartlet 351 Sweet. 331 Oranges Stewed 381 Sweet with Preserves 332 Swiss . 55 Palestine Soup 17 Tapioca . 56 Pancake, Apple and Custard 325 White. 57 Pancakes 324 . . without Eggs or But- . . French . 326 ter . 44 . .• Ground rice. 327 Omelets, Sauce for cold 201 Panada, French 721 Onioa and Macaroni Omelet 42 Parkin.... 680 and Sage Fritters . 65 Parmesan Cheese, Macaroni 66 and . . . . 221 and Sage Pasty . 89 . . Omelet 50 Gruel 737 Parsley, Crisped 217 Omelet 43 . . Ikied Eggs with . 103 Pie 75 . . Sauce 198 Pudding 88 Parsnips, Baked . 120INDEX. No. Parsnips ^fashed . .121 Paste, Eggs Fried in . 101 . . for Custards . . 362 . . for Pies and Puddings 357 . . plain . 358 . . for liaised Pies . 359 360 . . for Tarts . 361 . . Puff . . .364 365 . . Short . . . 366 367 368 . . without Butter . 363 Pasty, Onion and Sage . 89 Patties, Egg . . .83 Peach Marmalade . . 647 Peaches Stewed . . 382 Pearl Barley Pudding . 252 253 Pears,’Dried. . . 385 . . Jargonel. . . 611 . . Stewed . . 383 384 Peas and Haricot Bean Soup 21 . . and Rice Soup . 23 . . and Sago Soup . 24 Pickle, Indian . . . 699 Pic, Apple . . .345 . . Carrot . . .71 . . Cucumber . . 72 . . Dutch Apple . 346 . . Forcemeat . . 73 . . Mushroom . . 74 . . Ouion ... 75 . . Potato . .76 77 . . Savoury . . .78 79 . . Raised . . 80 . . Turnip . . 81 . . Vegetable . .82 Pies and Puddings, paste for 357 . . plain crust for 358 Pine Apple Iced Cream No. 442 . . Marmalade 648 Pine Apples 612 . . Stewed 386 Pitcaithly Bannock . 595 Plain Gingerbread. 567 Plum Cake . 581 582 583 . . Jam 625 . . Pudding . . 298 299 . 300 . • . > . • • 301 Plums, Magnum Bouum . 613 . . Stewed French 378 Poached Eggs . . 105 Porridge, Flour 714 . . Hominy . . 715 . . Lentil. 716 . . Milk . 713 . . Oat-meal 711 . . Sago . 717 . . . . and Rice . 718 . . “Wheat-meal . 712 Portable Lemonade 669 Posset, Christmas . 473 . . ... . . 474 . . Cold . 475 . . Treacle 747 Potato Cakes . . 517 . . Cheese Cakes 400 . . Flour . 531 . . Pudding . 306 . . Flutters . . 67 340 . . Omelet . . 51 . . Pie . 76 . . . . • . 77 . . Pudding 303 • . . . » • . 304 . . Boiled 305 Salad . 236 . . Scones 523INDEX Potatoes, Baked No. 125 Pudding Bread, with Onion No. 84 . . ... . , 126 . . without Milk . . Boiled 122 or Eggs . 265 . . Bread with . 498 Cabinet . 268 . . Fried 127 Carrot 269 . . with Onions 128 . . • . . 270 . . Hashed . 129 Citron. 272 . . in Balls 132 Cold 273 . . Mashed . 124 Common Bread . 264 . . New . 123 Cumberland 274 . . Roasted . 130 Curd . 275 . . Rolls with a IMixture Custard . 276 of . . . 507 Farina 278 . . Stewed 131 . . Boiled . 279 Potted Cheese . 225 Ginger 281 6 . ... . . 226 Gooseberry 282 Pound Cake 584 Gi'een Beau . 85 Powder, Curry 211 Groat 86 . . Mushroom 212 Ground Rice 313 . . Seasoning . 214 . . Boiled . 314 Preserved Fruit Pudding . 307 Hasty. 283 Prune Tart . 352 Hominy . 284 Pudding, Almond 239 Hornsea 285 . . Apple . 240 ludian-meal 293 241 Lemon 286 . . Boiled 242 . » . . . 287 . . and Bread 245 ... . . 288 . . . • . . . 246 Lentil 289 . . Apricot . 247 Macaroni 290 . . Arrow-root . 248 . . with preserved . . Boiled . 249 Fruit. 291 . . Bakewell 250 Maize . 292 251 Mushroom 87 . . Batter 254 Nottingham Apple 243 . . with Fruit . 257 Oat-meal 295 . . \rithout Eggs 256 Onion. 88 . . Biseuit . 258 Orange . 296 . . Boiled 260 . . Boiled 297 . . Black Cap 261 Peai'l Barley . 252 . . Bread. 262 . . without MiUi . . Boiled . 263 or Eggs . 253 . . Bread and Butter . 266 Plum 298 . . and I'Vuit 267 299 . . Plum 302 300INDKX. No. Pudding, Plum . . 301 .. Potato . . . 303 304 , .. .. Boiled . . 305 Potato Flour . 306 Preserved Fruit . 307 Rhubarb . . 308 Rice . . . 309 310 .. Boiled . . 311 without Jlilk or Eggs . 312 Sago . . . 315 and Apple . 316 Semolina . . 318 Soda Biscuit . . 259 Taj)ioca . . 319 320 321 Vermicelli . . 322 'Winwick . . 323 Yorkshire Batter . 255 Puddings, Castle . . 271 .. Custard . . .277 German . . 280 Sauce for . . 202 Scalded . . 317 Puff paste . . . 364 365 Puffs, Almond . . . 347 PiimeUo, Marmalade . 649 Queen Cakes . . . 585 Quenelle, Macaroni . 41 Quince Marmalade . . 650 Quintessence of Leraou-peel 688 Raised Pies, Paste for . 359 360 Savoury Pies . . 80 Raspberry Acid . . 681 and Curraut^Sherbet 680 .. .. .. Syrup 665 Cream . . 443 16 Raspberry Custards . No. 411 .. Ice Cream . 444 Jam 626 Jelly . 634 Alarnialade 651 Sponge 469 Vinegar . 683 Red Cabbage. 695 Stewed 148 Red Currant Jam . 623 .. Jelly . 632 Currants 606 Rhubarb . . . . 614 • . • . • 615 Beverage 675 Cream 445 Alarmaladc 652 Pudding 308 Stewed . 387 Ribstone Pippins, stewed 373 Rice .... 178 • • • • • • 420 • . • . « . 421 Biscuits . 589 Bread with a Ali.xture of . . . 499 Cake . 586 587 588 Cheesecakes 401 Custards 412 Fritters . 68 341 !! Miik 727 Pudding 309 310 !! !! Boiled ’ . 311 without Milk or Eggs . 312 Soup . 25 • • . . » • • 26 Water 752 with Onions . 177 Roasted Cheese 227INDEX. No. Koasted Potatoes . .130 Vegetable Marrow 761 Rock Cakes . . . 690 Rolls, Brentford . . 605 French . . 606 with Potatoes . . 607 Rotherham Biscuits . 691 Rusks .... 644 Sago and Apple Pudding 316 and Rice Porridge . 718 .. Gruel ... 738 .. Milk . . .729 Porridge . . 717 Pudding . . . 316 424 426 Soup . . . 742 with Fruit . . 426 Salad, Potato . . 236 Sauce . . . 200 Winter . . 237 Salads, Mixed . . . 236 Sandwiches, Beet-root . 230 .. Cheese . . . 231 Egg . . . 232 Omelet . . . 234 Sauce, Apple . . . 179 Bread . . . 180 Brown . . 181 Butter . . .182 183 Celeiy . . . 184 Cream . . 185 for Puddings 186 Cucumber . . 187 Curry . . . 188 .. Egg . . . 189 Fennel . . . 190 for Cold Omelets . 201 for Puddings . . 202 French . . 199 Gooseberry . .191 Horse-radish . 192 Sauce Mint No. . 193 Mushroom . 194 Mustard . . 195 Onion . 19Q . 197 Parsley . 198 .. Salad . . 200 Tomata . 230 White . 204 Savoury Omelet 53 .. Pie . 78 79 Scalded Bread . . 497 Puddings 317 Scones . 522 Potato 523 Scorzonera . 133 • .. Fried . 134 Scotch Biscuits . . 540 .. Broth 32 Short Bread . . 592 693 Sowins . . 723 Tea Cakes . . 614 Sea Kale . . 157 Seasoning Powder . 214 Seed Cake. . 596 . . . * . . 597 Semolina . . 427 Pudding 318 Sherbet, Cowslip . 676 Ginger . 677 Lemon . . 678 Orange and Lem on 679 Raspberry and Cur- rant . . 680 Short Paste . 366 .. . 367 . . . • * ♦ . 368 Shrewsbuiy Cakes . 598 699 Siberian Crabs . . 616 Siinnel . 594 Slippery Elm Gruel . . 755INDEX. Snaps, Cheese No. 545 Soup, Vegetable and Rice No. 27 Snow, Apple 477 Marrow 15 .. Cheese 483 . . VermiccUi 30 .. Cream 44G Soups, Herb Powder for . 215 Soda and Buttermilk, Bread Sowins 722 with . . . . 493 .. Scotch 723 .. Biscuit Pudding . 259 Spanish Cream . 447 .. Buns 553 . . Fritters 342 .. Cake . 509 .. Rice Cream 448 Solid Custard 471 Spinach 171 Lemon 472 .. for colouring . 210 Sorrel, Eggs with 98 . . Omelet 54 Souffle, Omelet 329 .. Soup 28 Soup, Almond . 1 .. Stewed 172 .. Barley 2 .. and Sorrel, slewed 173 .. Barley and Peas 3 Split Peas and Barley Soup 22 . . Bread. 741 Sponge Cake 600 . . Brown 4 601 . • » • . • 5 .. Arrow-root 602 .. Carrot 7 .. Cream 466 8 .. Lemon 467 .. Celery 9 .. Orange 468 .. Cucumber . 10 . . Ras])berry 469 .. Dried Green Peas 18 Sprouts, Greens, &c. 147 .. Green Bean . 6 Stamped Biscuits 541 . . Green Peas 19 Stewed Apples 371 . . ... . . 20 372 .. Herb . 11 .. Apricots 374 .. Lentil. 12 .. Carrots . 117 .. Lentil and Dried Green .. Celery 154 Peas . 758 .. Cherries . 375 .. Macaroni 13 .. Cucumbers . 155 14 .. Currants and Rasp- .. Onion 16 berries 377 .. Palestine 17 .. Dried Peas . 170 .. Peas and Haricot Bean 21 .. French Beans . 142 .. .. Rice . 23 .. Plums 378 . . Sago 24 .. Green Gages . 379 .. Rice . 25 .. Gooseberries 380 • • . . . • 26 .. Green Peas 167 .. Sago . 742 • • ... 1 • 168 .. Spinach . 28 .. Haricot Beans . 144 .. Split Peas and Barley .. Turnip 22 .. Lentils 158 29 ■ ■ 159INUKX. Stewed Lettuce No. 160 Tapioca Pudding . Tart, Fig . No. 320 . . Mushrooms 110 348 . . Onions 119 .. Macaroni 349 . . Oranges ... 181 . . Prune 352 . . Peaches 382 Tartlet, Orange 351 . . Pears 383 Tartlets 354 . . 384 Tarts . 353 . . Pine Apples 386 . . Ei-uit for 653 . . Potatoes 131 . . Icing for 369 . . lied Cabbage . 148 . . Mince 350 . . Khubarb 387 . . Paste for 361 . . llibstone Pippins 373 Tea Cakes 511 . . Spinach 172 512 .. .. and Sorrel 173 .. 513 .. Water Cress 174 .. .. Common 510 Stone Cream 449 Scotch . 514 Strawberry Jam 627 . . Linseed 748 Strawberries 617 .. Mushroom 749 . . ... . . 618 Temperance Yeast . Thickening, Brown 530 Sweet Omelet . 330 209 . . ... 331 Thick Gingerbread 569 . . .. with Preserves 332 . • . . • . 570 . . Toasts 344 Toast . 524 Swiss Omelet 55 .. and water 686 Cream 450 . . Cheese on . 228 Syllabubs, Lemon 478 .. Cream 343 Syrup, Cherry 659 .. Dry 625 . . Clarified 658 . . with Onion and Sage 90 . . Elder . 660 Toasts, Sweet 344 . . Ginger . 661 To bottle Cranberries 654 . . Grape 662 .. Damsons 655 .. Linseed Cough 756 .. Gooseberries 656 .. Mulberry 663 . . . . • . 657 .. Orange . 664 To dry Herbs 218 .. .. and Lemon 757 . . Mushrooms , 213 .. Raspberry and Cur- Toffy, Everton 690 rant . 665 Treacle . 691 Vinegar 666 To keep Green Peas 219 Tapioca . . . . 428 Lemon-juice Vinegar • 689 710 . . Gruel. 739 Tomato Sauce . , 203 . . Milk 730 To mix Mustard 216 . . Omelet 56 To preserve Eggs . 106 . . Pudding . 319 .. .. for Winter use 107INDEX. No. No. To toast Crumpets 526 Vermicelli Pudding . 322 .. Muffins 527 .. Soup . 30 Tous-les-mois 429 Victoria Biscuits 542 430 .. Cakes. 763 'IVansparent Gingerbread 571 Vinegar, Black Currant 682 Travellers’ 572 .. Crab . 708 Treacle Posset . 747 .. Gooseberry 709 .. Pudding 321 .. Raspberry . 683 .. 'I'offy . 691 .. Syrup 666 Trifle Apple . 476 . . to keep 710 Turkish Yoiu't . 490 Turnip Hash 34 Walnuts . . . . 704 Pic 81 Water, Barley 750 Soup . 29 .. Cress, Stewed . 174 Turnips . . . . 135 .. Oat-cake Toast 751 Fried . 136 .. Rice 752 Turnover of Apples 356 .. Toast and . 686 Turnovers 355 Westmoreland 0<at-cake 516 Cheese . . . 229 Wheat-meal Gruel 740 . . Porridge . 712 Vanilla, Charlotte . 470 Whey, Buttermilk . 753 Cream 451 .. Lemon 754 Custards 413 White Custards 414 Vegetable and Rice Soup 27 .. Gingerbread 573 .. Broth . 35 574 Vegetable Marrow and Cel- . . Omelet . 57 ery Pie 760 .. Sauce . 204 .. Baked . 163 .. and Parsley, ., .; with Onions & Eggs with 99 and Sage . 164 .. Cauliflower .. Boiled 161 with . 152 .. Fried 165 .. for Vegetables 205 .. Marmalade 762 Winc-sours 619 . . Mashed 162 Winter Hotch Potch 36 .. . . Preserved 761 .. Salad 237 . . Roasted 759 Winwick Pudding . 323 .. . . Soup 15 .. Pie . 82 Yeast, Flour 529 Vegetables, Butter used in .. Temperance 530 Frying . . . . 206 Yorkshire Batter Pudding 255 . . white Sauce for . 205 .. Biscuits 543 Velvet Cream 452 .. Muffins . 521 Verjuice 707 Yourt, Turkish 490BATH : PRINTED BY ISAAC PITMAN, 1, ALBION PLACE.« '1 % i1 1' t i t 'it I \ f y f Ki i I I Ic r- {- « I •< 1 -r, ^ ♦