313 VEAL. fleshy part of tho nock end. Out also some slices from c to n ; they are very gelatinous and delicate; a small portion should be served to each person. Tho tongue and brains are, as a rule, put upon a separate dish; thin slices of the tongue should be given to each, together with a spoonful of tho brains. The flesh round the eye is considered the tit-bit by some people, and deep in the sockets are other choice bits. To remove these, make a circular cut in the part marked e. First put the knife in slanting at r, insert- ing the point at tho dotted line, and driving it into the centre under the eye: then turn the hand round, keep- ing the circle of the dotted line with the blade of the knife, the point still in the centre. The eye will come out entire, cone-shaped at the under part, when the circle is completed by the knife. The lower jaw must next be removed, beginning at o; and to do this properly the dish must be turned. The palate is also considered a dainty, and a little of it should always be offered to each guest. Some people find it easier to carve a calf's head if divided, and each half laid flat on a dish. Calf's Head Brawn. —Make this as directed for Brawn under Pork. One or two calf’s feet will he an improvement. In preparing the head for pickle, remove the brains and the soft bones from the nose. A brawn composed of equal parts of calfs head and pig’s head, with a tongue of each sort, is a pleasant dish, and less rich than pork brawn. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. per pound. Calf’s Head, Hashed.-Kc- qaired : Calfs head, beef, ham, &e., as below. Cost, variable. This is very economical. If half, or nearly, of a cold calf’s head be handy, put all the bones, broken up, into the liquor, and add a fried onion, a couple of ounces of lean ham, and a scrap of fresh beef, or milt, a clove or two, and some peppercorns. Boil down to a quart, then strain, and thicken the gravy with browned flour ; flavour with lemon juice, salt, and pepper, then put in tho meat in nice pieces, and lot it heat through. Pour on a hot dish, and put cooked vegetables round. This will be more savoury if the ham and beef be fried with the onion. Borne cooked carrots, if at hand, can be cut in dico, and heated in the gravy, and served with the meal. Stuffed tomatoes may bo served with this, and little sausages or forcemeat balls are equally suitable. A brown caper sauce is also an ex- cellent medium for the re-heating of calfs head or feet. Calf's Heart.—Prepare and cook by any of the recipes given for sheep’s or lamb’s hearts, allowing longer time; about an hour and a half will be re- quired. Cost, from lOd. upwards. Or follow tho directions for ox heart, reducing the time in proportion to the size. If slowly cooked they are tender. Calf’s Heart with Tongue. —Required: Heart, tongue, vege- tables, &c., as below. This is a very savoury dish. Have the heart nicely baked or roasted, and boil a tongue which has heen pickled for three or four days, in the pickle given for tongues, beef, &c. The tongue should be skinned and dredged with browned crumbs, then cut through the centre lengthwise, and put on a dish with the heart between the halves. At each end of the heart put little heaps of cooked celery, or small, stowed onions, and serve a piquant sauce or gravy separately. A few croutons improve the dish. Cost of heart, about lOd. Calf’s Heart with Veal.—Pre- pare a nice veal hash or mince (see Index), and pour it overathick slice of toasted or fried broad. Stuff and roast the heart; cut it in slices; lay theso over the mince, and coat them with more minco. Sprinklo chopped parsley on tlie top, and put fried tomatoes or mushrooms about tho dish. .Serve