ENTREES, MADE DISnES, aNd HelEV^S. 221 round tho larks, with a few Braised Olives, if obtainable. Pheasant Cutlets a la Ross- vear.—Required : the breasts from two pheasants, farce as below, foie gras, stock, wine, &c. Cost, variable. Take the breasts neatly from the birds, cut them in thin slices, then remove the meat from any other part of one of the birds, and pound it witli half an ounce of butter; half a pound of meat will be required; add to it some foie gras, three or four ounces, and pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with the yolk of one raw egg. Blend the mixture, and put a small quantity over a slice of pheasant, then lay on another slice; proceed thus, alternately, until all are used up. AY rap this up in a sheet of buttered paper, and braise in stock No. 5, until nearly done. Then remove the paper, and glaze the meat; finish the cooking in the oven, then cut into slices. Have some croutons ready, the shape of the slices, but a little larger; put a cutlet on each, and place a little square of foie gras heated in the bain-marie in the centre. Dish en couronne on a border of game farce, and garnish with button mushrooms, cooked and glazed. Fill up the centre of the border with braised celery or any vegetable pre- ferred. Pour a thin brown sauce, flavoured with sherry, round the border. For the border, see Gau- lishes. Pheasant Cutlets with Po- tato Puree.—Butter somo small cutlet moulds, and garnish with small fancy shapes of truffle, and the whites of hard-boiled eggs : these may be in rings, stars, little diamonds, &c. Put half a pound of minced raw pheasant in a mortar, with an ounce of butter, anl ponnd it; rub through a sieve, and pound again with two ounces of panada, a couple of chopped button mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of mushroom powder. Then add the yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, and half an ounce of glaze, dissolved in a tablespoonful of Madeira. Fill the moulds with this mixture; it must be pressed in firmly, and smoothed on the top. Poach them like quenelles, for half an hour, or until firm; then turn them out on a cloth. Dish them upright round a high croustade, and pour gravy or brown sauce round the base. Cover the croustade with a pureo of potatoes. Fur this, birds which are too old for roasting will do; in such a case, use the breast and best of the meat; tho rest will do for soup. Game of any sort can be similarly used. Quails & la Rossvear.—Re- quired : four birds, forcemeat as below, gravy, &c. Cost, about 53., or more. The quails must bo boned, then laid flat on a board, and sprinkled with chopped truffle; a small piece of Liver Forcemeat eor Game should then be laid on each, and the birds rolled up evenly, and tied each in a thin cloth. Make a stock of the bones, with herbs to flavour, and strain off; this should bo done early, then put tho birds side by side in a stewpan, with tho stock to half cover them, and simmer gently until nearly done, then take them up and leave until cool. Cut them through lengthwise, then smooth the flat side, and sprinkle with browned crumbs, first egging the entire surface; finish the cooking in a buttered tin in tho oven, basting with a little of the stock they were cooked in. Prepare a sauce by thickening the stock with brown roux, and adding a glass of Madeira, and some truffle essence; it should be as thick as good cream. When tho birds are done, dish them on a border of potato or rice, with a high croustade in the middle for them to rest against, and on the top put a pureo of vege- tables ; green haricots uro suitable; then pour tho sauce round the base. In using tho vegetable pureo tho crouslado must be quito hidden : this is best done by moans of a bag and pipo a leaf pipe has a good effect. Quails in Cases. —Bono and divide some quails; lay each half in an oval china caso, with a little Browl