155 FISH, very good way of cooking them, as they are but little trouble, and tho most is made of the flavour. By rubbing with salt "the flesh is made firmer, and by soaking, as recommended for other kinds of river fish, the muddy taste is removed. Flounders are very suitable, and often used for a Souchet. (See Fish Souchet.) Garfish.—This has a strong oily taste, but as the oil lies in the skin, if that is removed the flesh is not to bo despised. The cost is uncertain, this fish being seldom offered for sale ; it is improved by a marinade of oil, vinegar, and seasoning; after an hour or two it may be taken out, and cooked in the same way as eels. Grayling is a pretty silvery fish, very palatable. It usuallv wcio’hs from Fm. 31—Graym.vo. two to three pounds, but is sometimes found larger. It abounds in our northern rivers, and may be baked, broiled, or fried. The cost is uncertain, being seldom offered for sale. Gudgeon.—This is a small, fresh- water fish, of good flavour, and diges- tible. In preparing them for cooking, wash and dry carefully, scrape the fish lightly, but do not remove the scales; dip in flour, or batter, or egg and bread crumbs, and fry crisply. Serve plain, or with a sharp sauce. Cost uncertain ; seldom sold. Gudgeon are used as garnish for large fish; the largest only being reserved for serving separately, as a rule. Gurnet.—This fish is of good flavour, and has. firm, white flesh; it has a very large head when compared with its body. It may be boiled, but Fig. 32.—Gurnet. is better when cooked by the following recipe. Cost uncertain. Gurnet, Baked.—Wash the fish, take off fins and gills, fill it with Veal Forcemeat (see also Herr and other forcemeats), sew it up, and skewer the tail in tho mouth. Cover with slices of fat bacon, und bako in a well buttered dish, the depth of the fish, in a moderate oven. Pour sauce over before serving : anchovy or parsley if stuffed as above; but sometimes sin-imp forcemeat is used, then shrimp sauco is best with it. Or, it may be baked without stuffing; it should be well scasonod inside, and brushed with liquid bacon fat, then cooked just as abovo. When gurnet is boiled, any nice