551 CEREALS. I chopped shalot, a teaspoonful of as used by vegetarians, use whole- meal for the sauce. We havo also tasted it made with barley-flour and tine oatmeal; such deviations from the ordinary method are entirely a matter of taste. Macaroni and Cheese, Richer.—Required : cheese, stock, milk, flour, butter, macaroni, garnish “SEMOFOOD” s reg’d L n I MACARONI Manufactured and Packed by Semolina Food Products Ltd Empire Way, Wembley Park Middlesex. Telephone - - WEMbley 1961 Should there be any cause for complaint please write to us quoting the number as below—postage will be refunded. If you are satisfied with the Macaroni, kindly tell your friends. Thank you ! Jy.42 Anoenrr way.— 1111s is less tronDle. Just put the pieces of toast on a large flat dish ; then pour the macaroni preparation over it and dredge with raspings. Cost varies with the adj imets. Macaroni a la Cliylesdeane. —Required: six ounces of the best macaroni, some garnish as below, a pint of rich Cheese Sauce, a gill of good Bechamel, and some stock. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of prawns. Boil the macaroni in white stock until almost done, tlion put it in the cheese sauce to finish tho cooking; turn it on a hot dish ready for serving. Add a little lobster coral or coralline to the bechamel to give a pink spread this over the macaroni ly, then garnish round it with i, heated in stock, and some dar croutons, placing them tely. Have some small fancy of Italian paste ready; they ■e carefully cooked to retain shape; dot these over the of the pink sauce, forming any . according to fancy. The dish a kept over boiling water while ling. This is a very good m dish. caroni a la Dncie.—Re- ; six ounces of macaroni, three ! American Cream Sauce (page e gill of lobster sauce (page 97), fried parsley, and ring-shaped is, the size of a florin. Cost, Is. 6d. the macaroni as above, put a pyramid on the dish, after ; a little of the cream sauce in st it; pour the rest over it; .he sprigs of parsley round the iltemately with the croutons, i the centre of the latter put of the lobster sauce ; reserve a i for tho top, and put tiny sprigs ;ley round it. This is a' pretty and any other pink fish sauce •s as well as lobster. caroni, Indian.—Required: ices of pipe macaroni, a pint of alf a pint of white stock, plain, I one ounce of butler, a bit of mace, a