MUTTON'. 337 vegetables and rico, and skin the tongue; then lay the head on the dish, with the sauce over, the vegetables round, and the tongue cut in four lengthwise, and laid, a quarter at each end and side of the dish. Another way.—The vegetables may be cut up small; the carrots should be grated, and put in an hour and a half before serving, then they need no mashing. Or, cut them in quarters, and serve them round the dish. Pearl barley instead of rice is excellent. Time, two hours or more. Sheep’s Head, Curried.— Required: a pint of Curry Sauce, a sheep’s head, and some boiled rice. Cost, about Is. 4d. Boil the head, tongue, and brains. Cut the head up neatly, skin the tongue, cut it in large dice, and beat up the brains with a tablespoonful or two of milk. Use some of the liquor from the head in making the sauce, and when it is ready, put in the head and tongue. After twenty minutes, just under boiling point, add the brains, and leave for a few minutes more; then put in salt, with more seasoning if wanted, and serve. The spare liquor from the head will make good soup or broth next day, and the bones should receive further stewing in it. Any rice left over from the curry can be added to it. Sheep’s Head with Oatmeal. —Required : a sheep's head, a half- pint of sliced vegetables, as usually added to stews, three pints of cold water, seasoning, and three ounces of medium oatmeal. Cost, about Is. After preparing the head in the usual way, put it in a stewpan with the tongue, and cover with the water; bring to the boil, and skim well; add the vegetables and oatmeal, and cook until the meat falls from the bones : then cut :t up and season to taste, and serve altogether on a hot dish. The bones will make soup or stock if put on again with the skin of the tongue. The latter, with the brains, will make another dish. The foregoing is an excellent dish for children, being nutritious and digestible as well as palatable. Oatmeal may often be served in this, or a similar way, when it is disliked as porridge. By way of variety, pearl barley may be used in- stead of oatmeal. Wheatmeal is also good. Time, about three hours. Lambs’ heads are equally good, and take less time to stew. Sheep’s Head with Trotters. Required: a sheep’s head, a gang of trotters, a carrot, an onion, half a gill of vinegar, water and seasoning, flour and dripping. Cost, about Is. 4d. The trotters should be washed and put in a stewpan with a quart of cold water, the vinegar, sliced vegetables, and a sprig of parsley; let them boil fpr two hours, then put in the pre- pared head, in halves (keep the brains and tongue for another dish) with another quart of hot water : cook for two hours more. Then put a pint and a half of the liquor in another sauce- pan, in which two ounces of flour and an ounce of dripping have been blended; boil up, add salt and pepper, some herbs in powder, and a spoonful of ketchup or store sauce. Dish the head, with the trotters round it, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. Sheep’s Heart, Baked.—Pre- pare as for roasting, and bake, broad end down, in a dripping tin; or pour some stock round, and use it for the basting. This latter method more resembles stewing in its results, but it is called baking, because the heart is cooked in the oven. Another way, which can be recommended, suppos- ing three or four hearts are being cooked at once, is to put them in a baking-dish—one of the oval kind with a lid is nice for the purpose— with plenty of sliced onions and other vegetables, and some stock to three- fourths their depth. A few bits of bacon should bo laid on the top, and after a couplo of hours in a slow oven they will be found very tender. Put them on a hot dish, freeing them first from moisture', and sprinkle with