GAME AND POULTRY. 427 crumbs, and made hot. Instead of crumbs, brown macaroni can be used; it is a very agreeable change ; or nicely mashed potatoes may be utilised for plain dishes of the sort—then it is not important that the meat be in round slices; just an ordinary mince can be used, the meat being cut into dice, or passed through a mincer. For these, cooked hare can be used, the bones being stewed for the gravy, which should be rather thick. In preparing escalopes for an entree from raw hare, the bones will make excellent soup, if cooked with the inferior portions ; the shoulders and legs will make a civet, or other dish, unless plenty of soup be required, in which case add them to the rest. (See Hare Soup.) Hare, Gateau of.—Required : a hare, veal, pork, bacon, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. 6d., exclusive of the hare. Prepare a hare as if for roasting. Cut it into joints. The best parts—the back, thighs, and shoulders—may bo used for the gateau, and the remainder for soup, &c. Take the meat from the skin and sinews, cut it up, and pound it in a mortar, with one pound of the neck or loin of veal, half a pound of fresh, lean pork, and a quarter of a pound of unsmoked fat bacon. A gill of good brown stock may be added while pounding, so as to make the meat into a smooth paste. Add pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, together with two or three small onions, finely minced, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Beat half a dozen raw eggs, and add them one at a time. Line the bottom and sides of an oval jar with slices of fat bacon, cut very thinly. Spread the chopped meat over it, about an inch and a half in thickness, and place two or three more slices upon it. Repeat until all the meat is used, letting bacon be uppermost. Place a coarse crust of Hour and water on the top to keep in the juices, and bake in a moderate oven. If the oven were hot, the meat would be hard and dry. When cool, dip the dish into hot water, turn out the cake, place on a napkin, and garnish according to taste. This dish is good for breakfast or luncheon, and will keep for some days. It should be eaten cold. Time, about four hours to bake. By stewing down the bones and other portions of the hare, as directed for fumet of game, and adding the liquid to the gateau, a very superior dish may be had, but naturally the cost is considerably increased. But when hares are plentiful, or expense not an object, the luxury may be in- dulged in. Hare, Gftteau of (made with cold dressed hare).—Required: cold hare, bread, bacon, eggs, &c., as be- low. Cost, Is. or Is. 2d., exclusive of the hare. Take the fleshfrom the bones of a cold roast hare, remove the skin and sinews, cut it small, and pound it in a mortar with the liver of the hare. Take half the -weight of the meat in finely-grated bread-crumbs, soak them in as much good broth as they will absorb, and mix them with the pounded meat. Season with salt, pepper, and spices according to taste, together with a finely-minced shalot and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Add two well- beaten eggs, supposing about half a hare to be used. Cover the inside of a mould with slices of bacon. Put in the pounded meat, lay some more slices on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, or put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Take away the bacon that suiTounds it, and strew finely- grated bread-crumbs over it. This dish may be eaten either hot or cold. If eaten hot, a sauce should be sent to table with it, mado of the bones and trimmings of the hare. (See Stock No. 5.) Hare, Jugged. — Required: a hare, a pound of beefsteak, half a pound of bacon, from half to a pound of plnin herb stuffing,gravy.seasoning,tomatoes, and a glass of claret. Cost, from 6s. to 7s. This is a very plnin way, but