UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOR. 98 Another way.—If a green sauce is desired, use white sauce instead of brown; put in some chopped parsley and a morsel of tarragon, and flavour with herbal vinegar, then add colour- ing sufficient to give a pale green tinge. This sauce, in either form, has the merit of novelty, and may he served with vegetables, meat, or fish. Those to whom the peculiar flavour of okra is agreeable will enjoy it with almost any dish. The okra itself may be used for soup or salad (see Index). Olive Sauce.—First turn the olives (see Vegetables) , blanch them by putting them in boiling water for five minutes, then in cold water for five to ten minutes; add from four to six ounces thus prepared to a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 2), with a teaspoon- ful of lemon-juice, and simmer for about twenty minutes. Add a gill of brown gravy or stock, and serve. Onion Sauce.— Required: one pound of onions, half a pint of milk, half a pint of the liquor from boiled meat or rabbit, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, salt and pepper. Cost, about 5d. Peel the onions, boil them until tender, changing the water if they are old ; then chop them until very small. Make a sauce of the other ingredients (see White Sauce, Plain) ; add the onions, with seasoning, boil up, and servo very hot. Another way.—Instead of the sauce as above, use a pint of Melted Butter, plain or medium. Onion Sauce, Richer.—Blanch the onions by putting them in cold water with a pinch of salt, and bring- ing them just to the boil; then rinse them in clean cold water and slice them thinly ; put half a pound into a saucepan, with half a pint of milk and an ounce of butter; boil until soft, then pass all through a sieve, and return to the pan, with a tublcspoonful cr two of cream and an ounce or so of white roux; or, instead of cream and roux, add a gill of thick beehameL (See also, Onion Puree and Sauce Soubise.) If a very mild sauce is required, par-boil the onions, in addition to blanching them. Orange Sauce.—Add half a pint of Orange Gravy to a gill of Brown Sauce; boil up, and serve with game. Oyster and Shrimp Sauce. -—Required: half a pint of Brown Sauce, a gill of oyster liquor, six oysters, half a gill of freshly-shelled shrimps, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and seasoning as below. Cost of oysters and shrimps, about 8d. Put the sauce in a pan, with the strained oyster liquor and the beards, first pounded with a strip of lemon- rind ; add the anchovy, a few drops of lcmon-juice, salt and cayenne to taste, a sprig of parsley, and a morsel of mace; boil for twenty minutes, then strain the sauce. Put it back in the pan with a tablespoonful of fish stock or good white stock, and the shrimps; cover for a few minutes, then add the oysters, cut in dice; cover again until heated through, but if it boils for a second only the oysters will become leathery. Serve hot with fish (see recipes), or with beef steaks. Oyster Sauce, Plain.—Re- quired ; twelve oysters, some White Sauce, and seasoning as below. Beard the oysters, and put tho beards in the strained oyster liquor, with a grate or two of nutmeg, a strip of lemon-rind, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce; add a table-spoonful of fish stock if for fish, or white stock or milk if for meat; boil for twenty minutes, then strain off tho liquor, and add to it twice its measure of thick white sauce; put in more seasoning, if required, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Then hold the oysters (after cutting them in two or threo pieces) in a strainer over boiling water for a few seconds, and add them to the sauce. Do not boil again. (See Oys- ters, Tinned.) r