GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 109 roux in the usual way, must be used. Then the weather must be taken into consideration, and the nature of the dish. If for masking cutlets or other dishes, the chaudfroid need not be so thick as when used for lining a mould for dishes which have to be turned out. Chaudfroid Sauce, White.— Required: half a pint of Thick BEchamel, half a pint of strong aspic. This must be very pale (see Gaulishes), and half a gill of cream. Put altogether in a saucepan, boil and skim until reduced nearly a third, tammy, and put aside until cool. Another uay. — If wanted very white, use a gill of thick cream and a gill of sauce supreme, in place of the bechamel above. If not thick enough for any particular purpose, reduce it by further boiling; or add a little iiinglass or gelatine dissolved in enough milk to cover it, but take care to boil up and tammy after such an addition; if simply stirred in, the mixing would be incomplete. {See remarks on B nowx Chacdfhoid, above.) For green or pink chandfroul, it is only necessary to add a little of the usual colourings; for yellow, some paste or liquid colouring can be used; or for some dishes the yolk of an egg or two, beaten in off the fire after the sauce has boiled, will give the required tinge. These sauces are suitable for masking purposes generally, i.e., for soles and other white fish, salmon, lobster, and chicken, turkeys, and white meats of all sorts. Cream, Anchovy. — Required : three anchovies, an egg, a gill each of cream and aspic jelly, two tablespoon- fuls of salad oil, cayenne, nutmeg, colouring, and lemon-juice. Boil the egg hard, put the yolk in a basin; wash, bone, and pound the anchovies with the egg, seasoning as above, and the oil; stir in the aspic, cool but liquid, and the colouring ; rub all throngh a sieve, and mix with the cream, first stiffly whipped; then set by to cool. Add the lemon-juice just before serving. Cream, Aspic. — Required : a gill of whipped cream, a gill of aspic, a little cayenne, flavoured vinegar, and chopped fresh herbs to taste. Mix the cool aspic, just liquid, with the seasoning, &c., and add carefully to the cream. This is used chiefly for garnishing cold dishes. If for fish, use fish aspic, for poultry, pale aspic; and for dark meats, brown aspic. {See Garnishes). Cream, Chervil. — Required : equal parts of cream, aspic, and Be- chamel or Sauce Supreme ; add lo a gill of each a good pinch of salt, a table- spoonful of chopped chervil, and a few drops of white vinegar and lemon- juice, with a suspicion of fresh thy me, finely chopped, if obtainable. Blend the ingredients thoroughly, and serve with chicken or veal. Cut lemon should be handed with it. Cream, Crayfish. — Required : a third of a pint of cream, the same measure of rich Melted Butter made from fish stock, a few drops of car- mine, and a large tablespoonful of Cray-Fish Butter ; or use “ Krebs butter,” sold in tins: a very good preparation. Whip the cream stiffly, stir the cray-fish butter into the melted butter, add a little colouring, and mix alto- gether. Serve with cold fish of the white class. Cream, Lobster. — Substitute Loiister Butter for that of the preced- ing recipe ; or, if that is not at hand, use the essence of lobster, sold in bottles, to which a few drops of anchovy essence is a great improvement; add a little lobster coral or coralline pepper, with a few drops of carmine. A sauce similar to the foregoing can be made from shrimps, using the essenco to flavour, and putting some of the shrimps in the sauce; or it may bo made from prawns. The foundation saueo should be white, and the prawns