UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 462 sliced vegetables, with a few strips of fat ham, and the giblets, cleaned, and cut up; add a few cloves and pepper- corns, and a good bunch of herbs. Put in a glass of sherry, and lay a sheet of buttered paper over. Cover, and leave for nearly half an hour ; the pan must be often shaken. Then put in stock to half cover the turkey. This can be No. 3, or for abetter dish No. 9. Cook for two or three, to four or five hours ; the size and age of the bird will serve as a guide. When done, glaze the breast, after taking the bacon off, and finish off in the usual way. If cinders have been used (or if an ordinary stew- pan has been substituted, and the bird cooked in a moderate oven), it ought to be brown enough; if not, use a sala- mander before glazing. Skim and re- duce the gravy and thicken it with roux. It can be poured off before taking up the bird, if the pan be drawn back from the fire, as it takes some little time to finish off. Pour a little on the dish, unless some garnish is prepared separately, then serve all in a tureen. The giblets may be added to the stock-pot, if not wanted for another dish. Turkey, Braised, Plain.— Omit the wine, and add to the bird any plain stock, as No. 1 or 2, or No. 10 will do, if coloured and enriched with a morsel of beef extract. Proceed as directed until the turkey is done, then dish it—no glazing is required—and pass all the gravy and vegetables through a sieve; boil up, and season, and put in a little brown thickening ; pour some over the turkey, and serve the rest separately. Prepare some carrots and onions, with celery if obtainable, by stewing or braising ; place these about the dish, with the giblets cut up small, in little heaps between ; or the latter will make another dish ; then little piles of cooked ham, or tiny sausages, may be substituted. Turkey, Braised, Served Cold. —If possible, let the turkey get cool in the liquor ; it will then be of much better flavour, and retain more moisture. It should he wiped and put on a clean dish for serving, and left until cold before the finishing touches are given. It may he coated with white sauce, and treated like a boiled turkey ; or may be glazed and nicely garnished or masked in any of the wavs usual for roasted turkey. Turkey Giblets, Fricasseed. —Requireil: giblets, butter, seasoning, stock, &c., as below. Cost, exclusive of giblets, about 8d. or 9d. Take one set of turkey giblets ; these consist of the wings, the feet, the gizzard, tlie liver, the head, and the neck. Clean them all carefully, skin and trim the feet, skin the gizzard and divide it into quarters, cut the neck into four pieces, and the wings and legs each into two pieces ; skin, split, and clean the head, and slice the liver. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan and put in the giblets, together with a small hunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, another of basil, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Fry these ingredients gently till they are lightly browned. Pour over them a pint of stock, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Lift them out, skim, and strain tho gravy, and thicken it with a small quantity of brown roux. Put back the giblets for a few minutes’ further simmering; arrange them neatly in the centre of a dish, and pour the gravy over. Any sort of Vegetables may be served with this dish. Time, about two hours. Ordinary stock, as No. 1 or 2, does for a plain dish, but No. 4 will make it very superior. Turkey Giblets with Tur- nips and Onions. — Required : giblets, bacon, gravy, turnips, onions, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is., exclusive of giblets. Prepare the giblets as above. Take half a pound of streaky bacon, and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Fry these until they are lightly browned. Lift them out, then put in the giblets, and fry them lightly. Pour gravy over them, and simmer gently as in the last recipe.