14 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and these vary in size according to the nature of the meat to he larded. The needles must therefore be sized to suit the moat; two or three are required in every kitchen where good cooking is done. The illustration above shows the shape; one end is split, and the other pointed. For white meats, bacon cured without saltpetre is required. At most high-class provision shops special “ larding bacon ” is stocked, or got to order. In using the needle, the lardoon is inserted into the split end, and the point put into the meat, j ust like taking a stitch when sewing. The needle must be held firmly at first, then, after the bacon has been drawn through the meat, a portion sticking out at each end (see illustration above) it must be very gently withdrawn. Supposing, that is, that the lardoon was two inches long to start with, an inch will be left in the meat, and half an inch will project at each end. Nearly a quarter of an inch thick, and rather wider, is the average for lardoons of two inches or rather less in length ; but they vary. For small birds, cut- lets, etc., they are smaller all ways. To prepare them evenly, the bacon should be cut into slices, and these, laid one on another, are cut with a sharp knife. After larding, the bacon, if at all uneven, must be trimmed nicely with a pair of sharp scissors. In larding poultry it is very neces- sary to remember that the bacon must be so used that when the bird is carved there shall only be little spots of fat here and there, instead of long strips. That is, the larding needle must he used in just the opposite direction that will be taken later on by the carving knife, in order that each slice may contain a good number of these morsels of fat, as in the case of the breast of a turkey. On the other hand, if larded in the contrary direc- tion, in cutting the bird there would be just here and there long strips of fat—very unsightly and disagreeable. Such errors ns this are easily pre- vented, and arise usually from want of thought. Another hint is necessary with respect to the appearance of larded meats. When cooked, it happens sometimes that the lardoons are too conspicuous, either from being too long at first, or from the cooking not having been sharp enough. These pieces of bacon, then, which have a partially melted appearance, must be crisped up, either at a good fire or by the aid of a salamander or hot shovel. Either of these latter methods is the safer for the novice, as there is less fear of the meat getting too dry or burning. After this drying a little glaze should be brushed over the meat to brighten it up. All sorts of game and many small birds are improved by larding (or barding, see later on), but we may especially instance the back and thighs of a hare, the breast of a turkey, a fricandeau of veal, and sweetbreads; in the case of hare, some cooks go so far as to say that if not larded it is not worth the trouble of cooking. So far we have referred to what we may call surface larding. There is another way, that is to cut strips of bacon of good length, and thick in proportion, which will go right through the meat; if a steak of two inches thick the strips must be three inches long. For very thick meats, one side may be larded in this way, and the needle passed through, leaving most of the lardoons inside the meat. The other side is then treated in the same way. By this means any dry meat is greatly improved, and when the ordinary larding pins are not large enough, one called a dobing (or daub- ing) pin is substituted. These are very strong, and cost from two to four shillings each; larding pins may he got, in assorted sizes, at three to four shillings per dozen. In addition to bacon, other materials are sometimes used for the purpose of addingflavour to meat; amongst others, truffles, anchovies, tongue, and gher- kins ; their insertion into the meat must be carefully performed to avoid breaking them, and a needle large