IfNlVEhSAL COoKERV BOOK. m Breast, Boiled. (See Keck, Boiled. )—Boil in the same way, giving shorter time in proportion to thickness. If very thin, from small mutton, three pounds will be done in an hour—that is, about fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen over. By the same rule, five pounds would he done in an hour and a half. Breast, Stuffed and Boiled. —Required: a breast of mutton (small, lean meat), some plain veal stuffing, and a Buown Sauce Piquant. (See recipes.) Vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, from 6d. or 7d. to 8d. per pound; sometimes less. Skin, bone, and trim the meat; unless it is lean, some fat must be removed; spread it with the forcemeat half an inch thick, roll up, and bind, then boil according to the directions already given. An hour before serving put some young carrots in the pot, and if liked, some turnips, adding them later. When done, dish the meat with the vegetables round, and pour the sauce over, about a pint of the latter being required. Breast, Stuffed and Boiled (No. 2) .—Use mushroom stuffing in place of the one given above (the plainest recipe to be followed); boil the meat as in the foregoing recipe, with a few vegetables to flavour, but do not put them on the dish. Make a Mushroom Puree, and add a gill of it to three gills of the pot liquor; boil it up with seasoning and browned flour to make it as thick as good cream. Grill or fry some small mushrooms, about a dozen, and put them round the meat; pour the sauce over it, and serve hot. Cost, as above, exclusive of the garnish. This and the preceding are very nice cold dishes, particularly if served with a salad. Breast, with Sage and Onions. — Required : a breast of mutton, some sage and onion stuffing, brown gravy, and apple sauce. Cost, as above. This is a very savoury dish, called Mock Duck by some; it also goes by the name of Irish Goose. Skin the breast, take away the bones, and some of the fat, then flatten it on a board, and spread with the forcemeat, made by mixing sage and onion stuffing with half its bulk of bread-crumbs. Roll up the meat, tie it with tape, and put it in a good oven, with hot dripping in the tin ; baste it well, and bake in the usual way, but allow longer—twice the ordinary time. In spreading it, do not put the stuffing near the edge; and should it ooze out in the cooking, tie a greased paper over. When done, put it on a hot dish, add half a pint of plain stock (No. 1 or 2), thickened with a spoonful of browned flour, boil it up in the tin, after pouring off the fat, put in a little salt and browning, and pour a little round the meat; send the rest to table in a tureen, with another of plain Apple Sauce. Another way.—Prepare the meat as above, and after browning it in fat, stew it in stock, about a pint and a quarter, very slowly, basting and turn- ing often. For this method, most of the fat must be removed, or the gravy will be very greasy. Cool it, and skim well, then boil it up and serve as above directed. If loft to get cold, the fat can be taken off in a cake; the dish is then very superior, and just requires to be re-heated. Chops, Grilled, Savoury.— There are various ways of rendering savoury a dish of chops, without adding much to the cost; forethought is the article most in demand. An onion or shalot or two may be shredded, and put in a stewpan with a couple of ounces of butter, some pepper, and any herbs at hand (a morsel of bay leaf and thyme, with parsley, will give general satisfaction); when dissolved, dip each chop into it, then roll it in bread- crumbs, and cook as usual. For those breaded chops, a well-greased gridiron, with bars close together, is wanted. Another way.—Chop a few mush- rooms, stir them with the butter, and