MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. 263 preferred. Brown Sauce, with lemon juice to sharpen it, and a little sherry is an excellent one. Veal gravy, about as thick as good cream, and flavoured with sherry and lemon, or with herbal vinegar, is also very good; it should be pale brown only ; a little glaze and extract of meat improve it, but it should not be too strong of either. About a saltspoonful of tho extract, and a bit of glaze the size of a cherry, will suffice for two to three gills of gravy. Cost, variable. Sweetbreads, Mock. — Re- quired : a pound and a quarter of lean, raw veal, half a pound of veal kidney suet, grated lemon peel, salt and pepper, stock, sauce, bread, and eggs. Cost, about Is. 10d., exclusive of vegetables. Mince the meat and suet; soak a slice of white bread in hot white stock ; drain and beat it up finely, about a tea- cupful will be wanted ; add the meat and suet, and the seasoning; blend thoroughly, mixing in the yolk of an egg, gradually. Then use a small quantity of dry crumbs, just to shape the_ mixture, to imitate sweetbreads; coat them with beaten egg and seasoned crumbs, and fry them in hot fat to a delicate brown. Then pour round them the stock from the bread, with a little more; cook them, with frequent turning, for an hour, and add white sauce of any kind, such as could be served with veal or sweetbreads, to make up a pint and a half altogether. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with fancy shaped vegetables, or peas, or macaroni. Tripe and Eggs, Fricasseed. —Required : a pint of sauce, Parsley, or Plain White, twelve ounces of tripe, four eggs, seasoning, croutons, and vegetables. Cost, about Is. Cd. to 2s., according to the sauce. The tripe should be boiled, and left until cold, then put in milk just to cover it, with a bay leaf and a slice or two of onion, celery, and carrot; when it boils put the tripe on a dish, cover, and keep it warm over boiling water. Now strain the milk, and use it for making tho sauce. Boil tho eggs hard, quarter them lengthwise, dish them with the tripe, and pour the sauce over. Prepare some oblong croutons; spread them with a Puree oe Onions or Celery', sprinkle a little parsley over, and use them for gar- nishing. This is a Y'ery good dish; the bay leaf and vegetables improve the flavour of the tripe. Any white meat may bo served thus. For a richer dish, use a better sauce, and ■garnish the dish with any good puree of vegetables. Tripe and Liver, Fricasseed. —ITse tripe and liver, equal in weight; fry the liver in strips; cut some boiled tripe in the same way, flour it, when cold, and fry it also. Then cover with any good sauce of the brown class, or a thick brown gravy ; serve hot, and garnish with fried parsley, and little heaps of fried onions. This is a palatable combination. The tripe renders the liver more digestible, while the liver gives piquancy to the tripe. Green Gooseberry Satjce may be served with this; Cccumrer Sauce or puree is also suitable. Cost, vari- able. Veal, Blanqnette of. — Re- quired : one pound of fillet of veal, half a pint of sauce, veloute or supreme, an egg, a lemon, a truffle, some parsley, lobster coral, and potato puree, stock and seasoning. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. 6d. Skin a piece of meat three-quarters of an inch thick ; cut it into rounds or orals, then weigh the pieces; there should be a pound after trimming. Cover them with white stock No. 9, just warm ; add a strip of lemon peel, a sprig of parsley, and some white peppercorns, and stew until tender. Drain, and reduce tho stock until there is very little loft; add it to tho sauco, and season with salt and pepper, essence of nutmeg, and lemon juice. But in the veal, cover, and lcavo for half-an-hour, but it must not simmer. The potatoes should bo buked in their