391 GAME AND POULTRY. parsley, a large onion, minced and scalded, and some white pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Go on cooking until tender, an hour is the average, then stir in half a cup of cream, a good tablespoonful and a half of flour mixed with milk to a paste, and more season- ing if needed. Boil up for ten minutes, stir in an ounce of butter, and two raw eggs, and serve in a minute or two on a very hot dish. Fowls, if quite old, may be made tender this way. They should be covered with cold stock, and the pork should be put in when they are half done; they may take from two to four hours, but with care will yield a savoury and excellent dish. The success of the dish will be more certain if the joints be laid in lemon juice for an hour before cooking: in this case, the cream, flour, and eggs, should be separately heated (the cream and flour first boiled together), and the contents of the two pans well amalga- mated just before sending to table. This is simply to prevent the curdling of the sauce, owing to the presence of lemon juice. Chicken, Fried.—Required : a chicken,egg,crumbs, seasoning, and gar- nish. Co3t, from 3s. upwards on average. Steam a chicken, whole, until three parts done ; let it get cold, then joint it. Melt some oil, butter, or clarified fat in a frying-pan ; let it heat in the usual way, then put in the chicken, which should be coated with egg and fine cracker crumbs, mixed with seasoning. Turn the pieces over until brown and crisp ; pile them on a hot napkin laid on a dish ; fry a few sprig3 of parsley, and garnish the chicken with it. A still better way is to use a pan of fat, in which immersion for a few seconds only is required. The chicken should then be steamed until nearly done. For a very superior dish remove the skin. Chicken, Fried ^American). —Required : a chicken, some pork, a gill each of cream and milk, and seasoning. Cost, about 3s. For this the bird must be very young ; much younger than those that are usually sold in poulterers’ shops ; so tender, in fact, that the bones could almost be eaten as readily as the chicken. After washing and drying, joint it, and flour well. Fry some strips of fat, salt pork, until plenty of fat to fry the chicken has run out. Put in the chicken, and turn it about until both sides are well browned. Make gravy in the pan by boiling up cream and milk, with flour and chop- ped parsley ; pour this over, and serve hot. .The sauce can be omitted if preferred. Chicken and Macaroni, Moulded.—Required: six ounces of cooked chicken, three ounces of boiled ham or bacon, three ounces of boiled tongue, calf’s or sheep’s, three ounces and a half of pipe macaroni, eggs, cream, stock, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. lOd. • Mince all the meat together; boil down the chicken bones, and cook the macaroni in the liquor thus obtained until half done; then cut it up, and add it to the meat. Season nicely according to taste. Add two beaten'eggs, and half a gill of cream, with a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs soaked-in stock. Put the mixture in aplain mould, well buttered; cover with paper, and cook in half its depth of boiling water until firm, about fifty minutes. Turn out, and pour round it any sauce such as would be served with boiled fowls: oyster, celery, or mushroom will be found excellent; so is liver and lemon sauce, or a plain white sauce, made from the bonos and skin, will better suit some tastes. The chicken liquor will come in for soup; it will gain rather than lose by the boilingof themnearoni. Vermicelli can be used; it wants but a few minutes’ preliminary boiling. Chicken, Marinaded and Fried.— Cut a cold roasted chicken into neat joints, season thorn woll with salt and cayenne, strow ovor thorn chopped onion and parsley, and soak (h ni for an hour in equal parts of