114 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. juice and tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoonful of thick cream. Mix the conserve with the liquid aspic . and chicken stock, add the seasoning, and whip all up thoroughly; then stir in the cream and mayon- naise, colour a pale pink, mould and freeze as before. If liked, colour part green, and mould in alternate layers. Serve as above directed. Sauce au Diable.—Required : four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a teaspoonful of mustard, the same of sugar, half as much salt and mig- nonette pepper, a small onion chopped, the j uice of two limes, and six table- spoonfuls of claret. Cost, about Is. 2d. Boil the eggs hard, put the yolks through a sieve with the dry mustard, mix them in a bowl with the oil, little by little, the onion, and dry condi- ments, then stir in the claret and lime-juice by degrees; sot aside in a cool place for an hour or two, and serve with any cold meat or fish. If liked hotter, put in cayenne or cayenne vinegar, pepper water, or chilli essence; the latter is made by steeping chillies in wino until it becomes sufficiently flavoured. Another way.—Mix cold gravy or brown stock with half its measure of vinegar, or half claret; add salt to taste, a little mustard, cayenne, and hot chutney. Sauce Verte.—Blanch and pound (after squeezing them well from the water) a bunch of parsley, a few sprigs of chervil, and a little tan-agon, enough to fill a tablespoon after pounding and sieving. Mix with the puree a gill of rich melted butter, add an equal measure of thick whipped cream or mayonnaise, with a little salt, mignonette pepper, a teaspoonful each of lemon-juice and cucumber vinegar, and green colouring to give the re- quired tinge. Another way.—Boil some cucumber in water, press it through a sieve, and to two tablespoonfuls of the pulp add an equal measure of mayonnaise and whipped cream; season as above, colour, and put in cither of the above- named herbs; if only parsley is used, add some tarragon vinegar or a little herbal vinegar. Serve as soon as mixed. Another way.—Peel and slice some raw cucumber, and pound it in a mortar; to each tablespoonful add a teaspoonful of onion, scalded and chopped, and a few capors, with their vinegar; rub all through a sieve, add salt and mignonette pepper, and a little colouring as above, with cream and mayonnaise. Another way.-—If for fish, add some anchovy or shi-imp essence, and tho yolk of a hard-boiled egg to the in- gredients given in the foregoing recipe. These sauces can be served with grilled fish, poultry, &c., as well as with many cold dishes. Sauce Rafraichissante. — Required : the juice of two fresh limes, a glass of claret, a tablespoonful each of French vinegar, horse-radish vine- gar, and onion vinegar, two shalots, chopped until almost reduced to powder, a tablespoonful or two of small, quickly grown mustard and cress, a little sugar, salt, and enough mignonette pepper to season plea- santly. Put the chopped shalots in a bowl, with the mustard and cress; mix the liquid ingredients, add them, and season to taste ; then put in a drop of garlic vinegar, or first rub the bowl with a morsel of garlic, to give a twang without imparting a pronounced flavour. This should he mixed some hours before using, and kept as cool as possible. The sugar used may be as much as a teaspoonful, if a very sharp sauce is not liked; but it should he piquant, and only a small quantity is required to give zest to a dish of meat or fish. It is a good sauce for hot meats, grilled or broiled, or for kidneys or grilled fish. Tartare Sauce.—Required: a