42 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. grated Parmesan cheese, and hake them until a bright yellow and crisp. They take hut a very short time. Cock-a-I«eekie. — True cock-a- leekie is fowl soup, served with the fowl in it, hut for economy’s sake it is very often served without the fowl, when it becomes mock cock-a-leekio. Required : a young fowl, two quarts of plain white stock from meat or hones, two largo bundles of leeks, salt and pepper, and four ounces of rice. Cost, about 3s. Boil the fowl in the stock until it is tender, then put it aside. Wash the lpeks, about a dozen, take off the root end and the green ends, cut them up, after trimming, and put them, with the rice and seasoning, into the soup; cook gently for an hour, add more stock or water, but it should be quite thick, and then the fowl, cut into joints and again divided (the liver, gizzai'd, neck, and back may be left out) should he put in. Serve very hot. Cock-a-Iieekie,Mock.—Usothe liquor from a boiled fowl, adding any bones or odds and ends to give increased flavour, or mix some plain stock with the fowl liquor; boil in it leeks and rice as above directed, but the quantity may be increased to make up for the lack of the fowl joints. Barley can bo used instead of. rice, or half of each. Cocoa-nut Soup.—Required: a quart of medium white stock (No. 9), one ounce of fresh cocoa-nut, salt, a drop or two of essence of mace, and some cereal for thickening, a gill each of milk and cream, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Cost, about Gd. Heat the stock, put in the cocoa-nut, having grated it on a clean grater, and boil gently until it is tender; strain, and return the soup to the pan, with more stock to make up the quantity; put in some cereal, as florador, rizine, or coralline, or sago or tapioca, about three ounces. When the grain is tender, season and serve. Add the boiling cream and milk last thing. For a plain soup use all milk. Cocoa-nut Soup, Brown.— Use stock, &c., as above, but thicken with brown roux, and instead of the milk, add a glass of sherry and a gill of brown stock. Or brown stock may bo used for the foundation; then a larger quantity of cocoa-nut will be needed, as it should bo more strongly flavoured than the white soup. Consonant a l’ltalienne.— Required: two quarts of stock (No. G or 7), two ounces of grated cheese, four ounces of Italian paste, and a glass of sherry. Cost, about 8d. Make the stock hot, parboil the paste in plain water, slightly salted, for five minutes, then drain it, and rinse in clean hot water, and finish the cooking in the soup. It is then ready for the sherry. Hand tho grated cheese with it. Tho pasto called cagliari, in fancy shapes, may bo used, or the letter paste, or some freshly-made Nomites paste can bo used. It may bo cut into strips or any fancy shapes. Another variety of Italian paste (sold in half- inch lengths, and called celery cut macaroni) is also suitablo. Tho con- somme should take its name from the kind of pasto used : thus, Consomme 11 la Cagliari, Consomme aux Nouilles, See. Ordinary pipe macaroni, boiled until nearly done, and cut into half- inch pieces, is suitablo. Tho paste referred to as “ celery cut ” is pipe- shaped, rather thicker than tho other kinds, and ridged ; hence its name, as it resembles celery. It is only to bo bought at shops kept by Italians, as a rule. , Consomme & la Jardiniere.— (See Brunoise Suer, Brown, for tho method of making this, but the vege- tables are differently cut). Carrots and turnips may bo in strips; some green peas are needed, and some French beans ; the latter are cut into diamonds usually. Lettuce finely shredded is also used, and cauliflower broken into small sprigs. This is a nice-looking soup, but some trouble to prepare, as the vegetables need separate boiling.