117 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Apricot Sauce.—Required : half a pint of tinned apricots and their juice, measured together, the rind of half a lemon, a few drops of essence of ratafia, a gill of water, a little colour- ing, a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and sugar if required. Put the fruit in a saucepan with the water, the lemon-rind in strips, and the juice; simmer until it can be passed through a hair sieve, add the sugar, and re-heat, then put in the colouring and essence. If the apricots are in heavy syrup, very little sugar, if any, will be wanted. If in juice, one or two ounces will bo needed. Serve with Apkicot Pudding, or any similar kind ; or when cold the sauce is delicious with cereal creams of any sort. Apricot Sauce (Rich).—Put as many apricots as may he required in a saucepan, first taking out the stones and dividing them into quarters. Just cover them with cold water, and add loaf sugar, in the proportion of a pound toa pound of fruit; simmer gently until they can be rubbed through a hair sieve, then put them back, with the kernels, blanched and shredded, and a tablespoonful of sherry or brandy to half a pound of apricots. Add a drop or two of noyeau essence, or a tea- spoonful or more of liqueur, or a table- spoonful of noyeau syrup; re-heat, and serve hot or cold. Arrowroot Sauce.—Required : one ounce of arrowroot, a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, sugar, and flavour- ing to taste. Mix the arrowroot with some of the milk to a paste; boil the rest of the milk, add it, and boil the sauce for a few minutes, then stir in the butter and sugar, and add almond essence or other flavouring, off the fire. Arrowroot Sauce (Clear).— 1 sc one ounce of arrowroot to half u pint each of home-made wine and water, with a little sugar. Boil the water and arrowroot, then put in the wine, and re-heat the sauce. For other methods, see Corn-flour Sauce. Banana Cream Sauce.—Re- quired : four bananas, ono ounce of corn-flour, half a pint of water, a quarter of a pint of cream, sugar, rose- water, and a grate of orange-peel. Cost of bananas, variable, from Id. to 2d. each. The fruit must be ripe, but sound ; peel it, and rub through a sieve, or heat it to a pulp in a basin. Mix thc.com- flour smoothly with cold water, add the half pint of water, boiling, stir over the fire until it boils, and cook for five minutes; then add it gradually to the banana pulp, off the fire, beating well. Put in sugar to sweeten, from one to two ounces, with a tablespoonful of rose-water. Heat the cream, and add it to the sauce; serve at once, without re-heating. Two ounces of butter can be used in place of cream. This is a good cold sauce ; when to be thus served, set it aside to cool, on ice if handy, and stir in the cream, whipped stiffly, just before serving. Banana Sauce (from dried bananas).—Put the dried fruit in a potato steamer, and steam it until soft, then cook it in a little butter, pulp it, and finish off as above directed. Cost of fruit, variable. Bavarian Sauce.—Required .- half a pint of double cream, half a gill of maraschino, half a glass of brandy, two to three ounces of loaf sugar, and a teaspoonful of strained lemon-juice. This is one of the best of the cold sauces, but care is needed, and it must be made as described, each ingredient being added in the order named. Set a large basin on ice, put in the cream, and whip it to a stiff mass, taking (arc it does not turn to butter; then stir in the sugar lightly, next the brandy and maraschino very gradually, then the lemon-juice drop by drop. Keep on ice, or in a refrigerator, until the moment of serving. When making any rich cold sauce, of which cream forms the foundation,