UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 1G8 times sold at Gd., or loss. Mullet is willed tho “ woodcock of the sea ” as it is served without gutting. The best arc rod, and short, with clear eyes, and Fra. 39.— Red Mullet. firm flesh. In cleaning them they •should ho very lightly scraped, and by pulling out tho gills, as much as ought to be romovod will come away with them. They are seldom boiled ; tho undermentioned methods aro prefer- able. Mullet la Francaise.—Clean the fish through the gills; pound the liver with an equal bulk of finely chopped parsloy, a morsel of butter, and salt and popper; roplaco it, close tho fish, and lay them in a shallow dish, close together, heads and tails alternately. The bottom of the dish should be well buttered. Then brush the fish with oil, sprinkle with parsley, finely chopped, powdered mixed herbs, and bread crumbs; sprinkle with lemon juice, and cook gently in tho oven, brushing over with oil a time or two. Serve in the dish, and add lemon juice and white wino (a glass of each to four fish) hoated togethor, last momont; pour round, not over, the mullet. This is one of the best dishes of mullet, assuming fresh fish, and atten- tion during the cooking. Mullet, Baked.—Wipe the fish (do not wash them) using a clean, soft cloth ; take off the fins and remove the eyes, pull out tho gills, then season lightly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Make a couple of cuts on each side the fish, and lay them on a buttered tin, or in a Dutch oven. Cook for twenty minutes, or more, if large. While cooking, brush over with oil now and then, and turn every two or three minutes. Servo on a very hot dish; brush lightly with a little hot, thin glaze, and put a pat of Maitue dTIotkl Butter on each. Another way.—Prepare as above, but put a glass of wino (to three fish) in tho tin. When done, finish off as abovo directed, and add the liquor in the tin to some good melted butter, about a gill, and put in a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Dutch Sauce is also good with mullet cooked in any way. Mullet, Broiled.—Prepare the mullets according to the first method above, and leave them in a mixture of oil and seasoning—to half a gill of oil, put a good pinch each of salt, cayenne, and white pepper—on a flat dish, turn- ing them often. The fish should bo cut rather deeply, in two or three places on each side. In an hour, drain the fish, and put in the incisions a little chopped parsley and thyme, well mixed. Then broil carefully; the skin should bo brown and crisp; care is needed to prevent cracking, and tho fire must bo clear, and tho utensil well oiled. Mullet can be grilled in tho same way. Tho seasoning given is for three or four fish. A pat of Ma'itue d’Hotel Butter on each fish will be one of the best sauces, or Tartars Sauce is good. Of tho hot sauces, Bordelaise is excellent. Mullet, Broiled, en Fapil- lotes.—Required : six circular sheets of white paper, six mullets, twelve ounces of butter, two tablcspoonfuls of capers, a saltspoonful each of white pepper and soluble cayenne, twice as much salt, and a small onion, scalded and dried. Chop the capers, first drying them in a cloth, and tho onion very small; mix with tho seasoning. Butter the papers, excepting round the edges; distribute the seasoning equally over the fish, lay one OR each paper, and foldpvcr, making