CEKEALS. 559 manner. We need scarcely point out that this takes away some of the nutri- ment, but it ensures that desideratum —whiteness—for delicate dishes. Rice, Boiled Plainly.-This can go to table with meat, bacon, or fish. Wash and soak the rice in tho water or stock in which it is to be cooked, allowing about a pint cf liquid to a quarter of a pint of rice. Bring to the boil, and let it boil rather quickly for a few minutes, then let it swell and simmer only until done. It will take an hour or longer, and all moisture should be absorbed. More stock may be required, but should be put in little by little. Greasy stock is best for this; or a bit of any fat can be put in with ordinary stock or water; it is a wise precaution to grease tho bottom of the saucepan. Season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. It will be seen that this mode of boiling rice is economical, as nothing is strained off. When to serve with fish, a fish stock is best for the boiling, and various additions in the way of seasoning may be put in, according to the dish it is to accompany. Just as it is it makes a tasty meal for children, if some fried onions or any- thing of a similar nature be added; a little cheese is also a good addition. Cold vegetables of all sorts can be chopped and stirred in for economy’s sake in a very plain dish. Note.—By using milk, the rice can be served as a sweet—a little sugar and spice being added towards the end; a bit of butter improves it. Rice, Boiled, Savoury.—By cooking tho rice in the above way it may be readily converted into tasty savouries at little cost. A stock well flavoured with onions or celery can be used, and a tablespoonful or so of chutney be added to a pound of rice ; any remnants of bacon also go well with this. A sprinkling of saffron shreds gives colour to a dish of rice,and some mixed hot pickles may be put in to flavour. A grated carrot and an ounce or two of sultana raisins will improve the dish for those who like mild com- pounds. They are to bo put in at first, and tho whole seasoned with salt and pepper. A dash of lemon juico or vinegar and a littlo browning gives another simplo dish. A tin of mush- rooms and their liquor to a pound of rice result in a nice dish ; or a few fried fresh mushrooms arc better. Cost, variable; from 3d. to 6d. for a good-sized dish, exclusive of mush- rooms. (See Bice Bokdehs, page 560.) Rice Boiled for Cold Savoury Dishes.—This is intended solely for use as an adj unct to ornamental dishes; tongues, pressed beef, and similar savouries may be sent to table on blocks of it, and it also answers well for borders and fancy shapes for the dishing of cold entrees. In any case it is not intended to he oaten. First wash and hlancli the rice; if these are neglected, instead of looking white when done, it will ho a dirty putty colour. Put it in a delicately clean stewpan of copper or steel, cover it with'cold water, bring to the boil very gently, then let it cook until dry ; care must be taken that it does not bum. If more convenient, it can bo cooked in a slow oven, the pan being set in a tin of water. About two and a half hours will be -wanted for a pound of rice, and now and again a very littlo water is to be put in, but not at the end of tho cooking. While hot, pound it. in a mortar to a smooth paste, and then work it a little with the hands ; they will need moistening with cold water, and a marble slab or flat dish is bettor than a board for the operation. Next lay the rice on a clean soft napkin, fold it over, and press out any moisture; then press it into any plain moulds, or stewpans answer equally well; either will need a rub over with oil or butter first. Then leave under pressure to cool, and use as required. (See the chapter on Gaunisues. ) In hot weather, or if the rice is wanted to set quickly, add a small quantity of dissolved gelatine to it before mould- ing. To save trouble and time in pounding, the rice is sometimes passed