522 universal cookery book. it to a point, having potato at the top. Now take a large fork, and mark all over, drawing the fork from base to point to give a ridged appearance ; dredge with crumbs, and bake in a uiek oven until golden brown. The ish is much lighter if the whites of the eggs are beaten to a froth, and stirred into the potatoes last thing, but if wanted for any other purpose they can be omitted. Meat Rissoles, German.— Required: four ounces of bacon in squares, an egg, six ounces of minced meat, any sort, the same weight of stale bread, a tablespoonful of chopped chives (or shalots), nearly as much parsley, salt and pepper, and a pinch of spice. Cost, about Is. First fry the bacon a nice brown; stir in the chives and seasoning. Then add the meat, take from the fire and add the bread, which has been soaked in broth and squeezed dry, then sieved, or beaten with a fork. Leave this to cool, then mould it into the size and shape of eggs; drop them into boiling- stock or broth, and cook for ten minutes or so, then serve with a nice gravy. Underdono meat is suitable for these. Thyme and marjoram are used as seasoning sometimes, in addition to the other ingredients. Another way. — Use fully-dressed moat, and soak the bread in brown gravy, just enough to moisten. Beat it up well, and proceed as above directed; then, after moulding the i issoles, instead of boiling them, fry them a good brown, and serve with a piquant gravy and some sweet pickles, with Tomato Puree. Meat Rolls.—Required : meat and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. per pound inclusive. This is a useful and tasty method of re-heating any meat which is underdone; it will be found tender; the cooking process not having the hardening effect so often produced when care is not taken. Supposing some meat at hand, from which a dozen slices, about two inches by three can be cut; or for convenience the size may be greater or less. Cut anv gristle from them, and spread them with a little seasoning of bread-crumbs, soaked in stock and squeezed, pepper and herbs, salt in moderation. Roll them up, and tie or skewer them; brown them in a little hot fat, turning them quickly, then drain. Lay them in a clean, cold stewpan; sprinkle them with a spoonful of flavoured vinegar of any sort preferred; pour over them enough tomato puree, diluted with weak stock, just to cover; add a little vinegar, a bit of sugar, pepper to taste, a chopped onion, some herbs if the meat be veal or mutton (for beef, some brown sauce may be used, or ketchup if liked), and any bits of cooked vegetables, finely chopped. Bring very gently just to simmering point, at which leave it for half an hour. Take the meat up on a dish, thicken the sauce a little, and boil it up, then pour it over, or round the meat. Mince, with Oyster Sauce. — Required: half a pound of cold mutton or veal, an ounce of bacon, bread-crumbs, cayenne and nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, a gill of Oyster Sauce, a fow ounces of boiled rice, some butter, and anchovy essence. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. Prepare a flat dish by buttering and crumbing; sprinkle with the seasoning; mix the minced meat and bacon with the sauce; spread this over the rice, which should be put in a thin lnyer on the crumbs. Add more rice, then crumbs, with a few bits of butter. Brown in the oven. It takes but a short time, the mince being added hot, and is a tasty dish for any meal. Any' sort of poultry may be used, or white fish. A few sprigs of fried parsley or some little croutons improve the appearance of the dish. Another way.—This is brown. Use- beef, with nice brown sauce, to which a few oysters and their liquor, with the usual seasonings, should be added. Should tinned oysters be used, reduce