605 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. as peas iu buttor, celery or ouious stewed in stock, spinach with oggs, or a curry of mixed vegetables are nevor served. In some houses they would be voted very extravagant. As to the dainty fritter, not of necessity costly, how many—or, rather, how few—of those who eat them abroad ever venture on their concoction in their own kitchens ? These remarks are not made to urge vegetarianism, or to bring the arguments of vegetarians prominently forward; but it is certain that a number of vegetable dishes would furnish a welcome change iu many homes where the butcher’s bill is a weekly bugbear. A meal minus animal food will, if properly planned, meet the full requirements of the human frame. But here judgment is required, and attention to the class of vegetables known as pulse, for the preparation of which see the preceding chapter. Now a few words on preserved vegetables. The term “preserved” includes dried or desiccated, and bottled and tinned vegetables. The dried ones are dealt with under their respective headings; and very useful they are, as substitutes for the fresh article; but they can only be looked upon as substitutes, and we fully agree that their use as a regular thing is the result of ignorance or indolence. In the drying process much of the flavour and juices are lost; though, in the latter respect, some sorts suffer more than others. To campers-out they are a boon ; and of course, under any circumstances, it is better to use dried vegetables than to go without entirely. The remembrance of two points in connection with all goods of the desiccated class may save loss and disappointment. One is exclusion of the air; this is of the first importance ; therefore, it is plain that such as are sold in paper packets must soon become almost worthless. They absorb damp, lose flavour, and may turn mouldy. Tho next thing is the advantage of using a scrap of fresh vegetable or herb to revive the flavour; it is surprising what an improvement may thus be effected. The best French brands are so blended as to need no such addition; we are referring more especially to the ordinary cheap varieties. As to the canned vegetables, we have given under their separate headings particulars of the chief kinds that may be bought in this form ; also a few recipes for the home preservation of some of them ; and it is with the latter that we are now dealing. We do not think that it will pay anybody to buy vegetables for the purpose of canning them, and we use the word “ canning ” iu its broad sense, as iu America, and apply it both to bottled and tinned goods. Neither do we think that, on the whole, the vegetables will be found as good, or give as much satisfaction, as the bought ones. We do not wish to discourage anyone from making a trial; but the art of canning is less understood here than abroad, and other climates are more favourable to the ripening of tho vegetables. The very greatest care will (in England) not always result in success. It is of the first importance that the weather be fine at the time of gathering, and that the vegetables be uniformly ripe. It is sheer waste of time and material to take 6ome old or over-ripe and bruised, and the rest not fully grown. It is also absolutely necessary that the air bo excluded and that the place for storing be neither hot nor damp. Many declare that light is bad ; but we cannot think that it has any serious offect on properly canned goods : for if it had, ninety-nine per cent, of the articles