5 KITCHEN PROCESSES. Braising.—This is literally stew- ing in a covered pan in a small quantity of liquor, heat being applied from above as well as below by means of hot tinders, which are placed in the lid (hollowed for the purpose); and in the meat, or whatever may bo braised, there is therefore the succulence of the best stews, with the appetising brown- Fic. 5.—Braising-Pax. ness and crispness of a roast. Fig. 5 shows the kind of pan required ; they are usually of copper, with a tin drainer inside, and oval in form, from fourteen to twenty inches in length. The chief art consists in amalgamating the various ingredients—viz., vege- tables, herbs, spices, stock, and some- times wine, in suitable proportions; and with ordinary' care a savoury dish, exquisitely tender, and not necessarily costly, may be made, while no method imparts to dry meats such sapidity' and flavour. Braising requires but little attention, and all that has been siid in favour of stewing applies with still greater force to this process. Braised meats are often larded, and ham or bacon is also added to the foundation. For meat, poultry, &c., various recipes will be found in sub- sequent chapters. But as the braising- pan is rarely met with in private houses of average dimensions, we think it well to add that a stew- pan or saute-pan may be substituted for the proper article, and if care be taken to give a moderate and uniform degree of heat, the result will be but little inferior. To attain the requisite colour, one of two courses must be adopted. Either the meat must be lightly browned in hot fat before braising, or it can be finished off in a sharp oven after it is drained from the gravy. This is the better plan when it has been larded, as the object of larding is to improve dry meats, though the lardoons themselves, i.e., the bacon used, need a final crisping. The dish is further improved both in flavour and appearance by brushing it over, last thing, with a little liquid glaze or good gravy' in which a morsel of meat extract has been dissolved. The vege- tables themselves are not served with the braise, but used to impart flavour ; and when not at their best will answer the purpose, that is, w'hen out of condition for the table. Trim- mings of vegetables can also be used up, and odds and ends of many kinds, which might otherwise be wasted, can be relegated to the brai6- ing-pan when the principles are grasped, care being taken that the flavourings are harmonious. A veal bone or veal trimmings would furnish gelatinous material and improve the gravy' while imparting no pronounced flavour to the most delicate dish; but to add game bones or scraps to any braise of white meat or poultry' would spoil the whole. Broiling is quite distinct from grilling, though the two terms are frequently' regarded as sy'nony'mous. The result is also totally' different, for a grill has a peculiar sweetness which no broil possesses (due mainly to tho contact with the fire, and the conse- quent retention of the gravy), although it may be very' good. Broiling is also convenient, and needs comparatively little attention : it is economical too, as it answers for small joints, birds, &c., less fire being needed than would suffice to heat a side oven for baking them. There are many varieties of hanging-broilers, or toasters; the best, for good-si zod pieces of meat, are tho