348 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. bone. Fill the cavity from which the hone has been removed with a delicate voal forcemeat. Sprinkle the inner surface with a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and draw together the edges of the shoulder with some strong thread. That is, it is not to be rolled, but retain its original shape : only an export in the boning art should attempt this. Stew in stock, and garnish the dish with fried cucumber, little toma- toes, or mushrooms; or with a puree. The gravy should be well reduced, and thickened with brown roux. Quite a plain stock will suffice. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Target.—The rib or target of lamb consists of the neck and breast- joints left undivided. Saw off tho chine-bone, and remove the flat bones which adhere to the meaty part of the neck. Partially divide the ribs, and cover the joint with buttered paper. Lay it down before a clear fire, and let it remain until done enough. A few minutes before it is ready, removo the paper, and brown the meat nicely. Place it on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and mint sauce to table with it. Time to bake or roast, an hour or more. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. per VENISON. Venison, like mutton, is better when of mature age. It must be kept until in the right state for table, and much care is needed to cook it properly; but when properly dressed, and served very hot, with plenty of good gravy, it is in every respect worthy of the high estimation in which i , is held by epicures. There are three kinds of venison known in Great. Britain; the stag or red deer, peculiar to Ireland; the roebuck, known only in the North of Scotland; and the fallow deer, common in Englaud. Of these the fallow deer is much the best. Buck venison, which is in season from June to the end of September, is finer than doe venison, which is in season from October to December. Neither should be dressed at any other time of tho year. The haunch is the prime joint, though the neck and shoulder are much approved, and may be dressed in various ways. As soon as it is cut up it should be taken into a cool dry larder, dried with a cloth, and hung in an airy place. Dry ginger and pepper should be dusted over it to keep off the flies. It should be examined and carefully wiped every day, or twice a day in unfavourable weather, and it should be kept as long as it is possiblo to preserve it untainted. Excepting in very mild weather, it will keep a fortnight with care. In order to ascertain its condition, run a skewer close to the bone, and from this judge of the sweetness of the venison. If it should inadvertently become musty, first wash it with lukewarm water, and afterwards with tepid milk and water, then dry it very thoroughly. The lean of venison should be dark and fine in the grain; the fat, of which there should be a good supply, ought to be firm, white and clear. To ascertain the age, the cleft of the hoof, which is always left on, must be examined. If very smooth and small, tho animal is young. If rough and large, it proves age.