318 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. will take nearly half an horn' per pound. For superior dishes, good brown sauce should be served with this. It can be flavoured with lemon juice, mushroom liquor, or ketchup, or some store sauce. The addition of a little chutney is by many considered an improvement. (Sec also Gravy for Veal.) A greased paper or piece of muslin may replace the skin, and strips of calico can be used instead of tape. Fillet, Steamed.—Remove the bone from a fillet of veal, and with- out stuffing it, bind it well with tape, that there may be no hollow in the centre. Put it in a shallow tin, and cook it in a potato steamer, or other steaming apparatus, until done. A gill of veal stock, mixed with the juice of a lemon, should bo poured round it, and a sheet of buttered paper be laid over it. Cook for at least twenty-five minutes per pound ; if thick allow longer. Dish it, and pour over a quart or so of sauce; egg, pars- ley, tomato, mushroom, oyster, lemon, bechamel, veloute, supreme, and many others given under Hot Sauces, are suitable. This is excellent and digestible, but unless the sauce is good, it will be rather tasteless. A nice vegetable puree, or some braised carrots and turnips should accom- pany it. Another way.—Aftor steaming the meat until nearly done, finish it by glazing all over, and browning before the fire; then serve a brown piquant, or brown mushroom or caper sauce with it. Other joints of veal can be cooked in the same way, and various forms of garnish can be employed. Cost, according to sauce and garnish. Goose, Veal.—This is a savoury dish, and a favourite with many. It may be made from a breast of veal, or a portion of it, the bones and tendons being first removed; or from the neck, hy taking thehest end, and cutting off the skin with an inch and a half of flesh adhering to it. Lay the meat on a table, and flatten it, then spread it with sage and onion stuffing ; roll and bind with hroad tape, then hake or roast the meat. Send apple sauce to table, also brown gravy. (See Gravy for Veal, and Gravy for Goose.) Another way.—Stuff the meat with a mixture of sage and onion stuffing and chopped apples; or with apples only. (See Goose Stuffed with Apples.) Cost, about 9d. per pound. Hot Pot.—Required: meat, vege- tables, seasoning, &c. Cost, about Is. fid. This is plain, but very wholesome and tasty. First grease a strong hairing dish, then boil, until half done, two pounds of potatoes, and slice them thickly; parboil also one pound of onions, and slice them thinly. Wash a pound and a half of the scrag end of a neck of veal ; dry it, and cut it in pieces; and cut four ounces of fat bacon into dice. Mix a teaspoonful of salt, the same of chopped parsley, half as much pepper, and a good pinch of pow- dered thyme on a plate, and sprinkle the meat well with the mixture. Line the dish with the potatoes, then fill up with the meat and onions; put the remainder of the potatoes on the top, and pour in half a pint of stock, No. 1 or 2, or meat liquor. Cover with an old plate, and bake gently for an hour and a half; then take the plate off, and add a few bits of dripping; return it to the oven to brown, and serve hot. Mutton can be used in the same way, and liver or kidney put in with the meat. Various herbs and vegetables can be used in place of onions and parsley, and boiled rice or macaroni may be put in alter- nately with the meat; then inoro stock must bo added, or it will be dry. Pickled pork ctm take the place of bacon; whichever is used should be distributed amongst the meat. Kernels.—These are found in the legs and shoulders; the latter are esteemed more highly, and considered very delicate eating. French cooks dross them in various ways ; they may be cooked in the same way as veal tendons, and should be served in a