GRAVIES AND SAUCES. (For Salad Dressings, see Salads.) GENERAL REMARKS. The difference between good and bad cookery is very strikingly shown in the, preparation of gravies and sauces; the latter, especially “the one sauce”—viz., melted butter—have always excited the raillery of the foreigner; and although, thanks to the spread of culinary tuition, there is less cause for sarcasm at 1 lie present time, yet many people are much in the dark as to the initial methods of procedure. Hence, a short sketch of the requirements seems a fitting prelude to the detailed recipes them- selves ; and taking them in order, first a few words on GRAVY. The main points here should be an appetising appearance, harmony of flavours in the making, and suitability of kind to the dish of which it is an adjunct; and perhaps these details involve greater care on the part of the cook than is at first apparent. Both the eye and the palate must be studied—the one is appealed to through the other; and cleanliness must hold supremo sway in the kitchen, or every attempt at gravies will end in failure—a sweeping assertion, some may say, but it is literally true. The saucepan, particularly the lid and the rim, should be as free from dirt as a teacup. But for the present we leave this subject, and return to our gravies, which comprise the various kinds kuown as “ made gravies”—the pure gravies of a joint are referred to in their order; and we will ask the reader to turn to Stocks. Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5 will serve every-day purposes; No. 3 has many uses, and Nos. 6, 7, and 8 are admirably adapted for good gravies; while, needless to say, many gravies can be made from the vegetable and fish stocks therein given. But for rich gravies a special stock is required such as is given in Nos. 16 and 17. With regard to harmony of flavours, it would be impossible to describe all the various methods of flavouring, or all the possible combinations; but we may point out that certain flavours, as anchovy, develop others; while other flavours, as tarragon, have an overpowering tendency. The indiscriminate use of high seasonings must bo guarded against. What is the use of making a decoction of herbs and vegetables and meat, if it is to be killed with ketchup or Worcester* sauce? Again, a twang may be imparted to gravies by rubbing a bead of garlic over the bottom of the saucepan, while to boil the garlic in the gravy would render it uneat- able. There are few things better adapted, perhaps, for adding to the flavour of gravy than a bit of ham of good quality and a morsel of * No particular make is intended. It is referred to solelv as a type;