STOCKS AND SOUPS. 79 into the soup when it is just warm, let it boil, and gently lift oft' the scum as it rises. Draw the saucepan to the side, and let the soup simmer gently for half an hour. Let it stand a quarter of an hour to settle, and strain through a jelly-bag. If the soup has been gently simmered and carefully skimmed, it will most likely need only to be passed two or three times through a jelly-bag without further trouble. If thick soup is preferred to clear soup, moisten a tablespoonful of brown roux with a small portion of the soup. When it is quite smooth, pour it into the saucepan, and stir till it boils. When this thickening is used, it will be necessary to let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire with the lid on for a short time, that the fat may rise to the surface and be removed. It is custom- ary to hand cut lemon and cayenne pepper with the soup. Forcemeat- balls or quenelles were at one time universally added, but are now more seldom used. For the first named, »ee Forcemeat Balls, Rich, in the chapter on Forcemeats. For quenelles, see Veal Quenelles, under Hot Entrees. They may be made small, or moulded, just as preferred. Some authorities are of opinion that the pre- liminary soaking of the turtle flesh is a mistake, as it robs the soup of its flavour, and they advise instead that it be at once boiled in a small quantity of stock until nearly tender, after which, stock made as above described is to be added to the flesh for the final cooking. And with reference to the eels : it is almost generally accepted that they are an improvement, though some cooks object to them. The manufac- ture of turtle soup may be considerably simplified by buying, instead of the dried flesh, some “ tinned turtle ” ; this only requires cutting up and cook- ing in the stock. The “green fat” may also be bought in tins. A very small tin serves for a good measure of soup; it is, however, frequently' dis- pensed with. The proper turtle herbs and spices may also be obtained in packets and tins, with full directions for use. Then, by the use of stock No. 6 and the tinned turtle above referred to, a good deal of trouble may be saved. Probable cost of dried turtle, 8s. to 10s. per pound; green fat, from 4s. to 6s. per tin or bottle, according to size. We would add a reminder that the eels used in the soup will make a separate dish. Wines for Soups.—See Wines for Gravies and Sauces, p. 84.