PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G29 St lie for a time in cold water, then scrape very finely with a knife; or, by some, a piece of glass is preferred. When served with hot meat, pile it lightly in a glass dish. [See Sauces, Seasonings, Salads, &c.) Horse-radish Powder.—This is made by slicing and drying the cleansed root very gradually; if ex- posed to a fierce heat the flavour will he lost; when quite dry, reduce it to powder; it should be pounded in a mortar and sieved; the coarse parts can be kept hack and used separately. Keep the fine part in well-corked bottles. Hot Slaw (American).—Required: half a cabbage, butter, seasoning, and vinegar, as below. Cost, about 3d. to 4d. Cut up half the heart of a good- sized, firm, white cabbage; it cannot be shaved too finely. Put it in a saucepan with a lump of butter the size of an egg, a good teaspoonful of salt, and half as much pepper (more if a good seasoning is liked); add vinegar and water j ust to cover ; two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter. Cover, and cook until tender, stirring often, and serve as hot as possible. A dish made with lettuce instead of cabbage is known as “mock slaw,” and will be found more delicate in flavour than the above. Laver.—Laver is a plant which grows upon rocks near the sea-shore, and is valued on account of its anti- scorbutic qualities. It is generally boiled down to a jelly as soon as it is found, then potted, and sent to distant places for use. To dress it, put a pound into a bright stewpan with three ounces of fresh butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon or a Seville orange, and stir it with a silver fork until quite hot. Serve it as hot as possible, either over a lamp or a hot- water dish. Instead of the butter a little gravy may be put into the pan, but lemon juice should never be omitted. To prepare fresh laver, which is in season from October to March, soak it in two or three lots of fresh water, an hour in each, to free it from the salt; then boil it in hot water until soft and mucilaginous ; it may then be finished off in any of the ways directed for spinach; lemon juico always improves it. Serve very hot. It is especially good with roast mutton. The taste for laver is an acquired one; generally speaking, it is liked or disliked ex- tremely. Cost, very uncertain. The purple is considered superior to the green laver. Leek.—This is highly valued for culinary purposes. Its flavour is mild and delicate. In Wales the leek is a great favourite. The chief use of leeks is in broth or soup, but they are excellent as a vegetable. Cost, about 2d. to 4d. per bunch. Leeks, Boiled. — When very young trim off the root, the outer leaves, and the green ends, and cut the stalks into six-inch lengths. Tie them in bundles, after washing them, put them into boiling water, with a dessertspoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar, and let them boil until quite tender. Drain them, and serve like asparagus, on hot toast, pouring white sauce or melted butter over them. Time, from half an hour to three-quarters. Other sauces may be used with them. Older leeks wiil take nearly or quite an hour and a half. They should be carefully trimmed down to where the green part meets the white, unless, as some- times happens, the green is liked, then more may be left on. The root must always be cut off. Drain them always upside down; the tube-like green parts will hold the water unless this is done. The water from leeks is rank, not suitable for soups. Leeks, Stewed. — After par- boiling, the looks can bo stowed in stock, and made into a brown or white dish as preferred. Recipes given under Onions may bo followed. A very nice