444 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. thyme and bay leaf in the finest pow- der, and a morsel of freshly-chopped parsley. Put this inside tho birds, then truss and brown them in a stew- pnn with a slice of minced bacon. Drain off the fat, coyer the birds with light wine and stock, No. 6 or 7, stew for a few minutes, then thicken to tho consistency of good cream. Put in a dozen button mushrooms (if tinned, add some of the liquor), and continue the cooking. Have ready some button onions, braised. (&« Dressed Vege- taiiles.) Have also in readiness a large oval crouton, cut with a crimped cutter, such as is used for vol-au- vents. Put it on a dish, put two pigeons on, and the other on the top, with the vegetables piled up round it. Reduce the gravy, season, and pour it over tho birds. Round the dish put some more of the same vegetables used at the top, together with little heaps of fried potatoes—chips or rib- bons. Time to stew, about forty minutes. The livers of the birds may be cooked in the gravy, and sieved or minced, and added with the butter. The latter will be more generally liked. Pigeons, Stuffed and Stewed. —Required : pigeons, stuffing, stock, seasoning, &e., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. Pluck and draw two plump, freshly- killed young pigeons, and bone tho bodies and thighs; leave tho legs. Fill them with a liver, or other good stuffing. Lay them breast down- wards in a small stowpan, and barely covor them with veal stock. Let them stew gently until they are done enough, then take them up, strain the gravy, thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with two table- spoonfuls of cream, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Stir tho sauce over the fire until it boils, then thicken with two raw eggs, yolks only. Put the birds in to heat again. Time, nearly fifty minutes. Serve with the sauce over them. In order that the birds may look nice, they must bo firmly trussed. If more convenient, tho thighs can be left, and only the bodies boned. Pigeons en Surprise. — Re- quired : a couple of pigeons, two fine large lettuces, a forcemeat as under, stock, seasoning, and thickening. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Pick, draw, and truss the birds as for boiling. Put them in boiling water for five minutes, then take them out, and put in their place tho lettuces; let them boil for five to eight minutes. While they are cooking make a forcemeat with tho livers of the birds, a slice of bacon, two or three leaves of tarragon, two shalots, a tea- spoonful of parsley, salt and pepper, and the yolk of an egg. Take up the lettuces, drain, and press them, open them without taking off the leaves, and line them with the forcemeat, then put a pigeon in each so as to be hidden. Tie with thread, and stew in enough stock to cover. Herbs, a little carrot and onion, and a morsel of mace, as well as salt and peppercorns, should be used to flavour the gravy. When done, drain, and remove the thread. Keep hot, while tho sauco is strained and thickened with brown roux, then serve with the sauco round. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. A mushroom forcemeat may be used, and the gravy flavoured with mush- rooms. Pigeons with Watercress. —Lard tho breasts, and roast tho birds. Make a little good brown gravy. Put some watercress on a dish, and lay the pigeons on it, then pour a little of the gravy over. Or put the cress round, after dishing tho pigeons on separate croutons. Whenever the breasts of pigeons are neither larded nor bound with bacon, the insides should bo moistenod with a lump of butter, or they will eat dry; this is applicable to un- stuffed birds. When forcemeat is used into which ham and bacon enters, the fat takes tho place of the butter. Cost, about Is, 3d, each, inclusive.