G85 DRESSED VEGETABLES Saucb on page 97 for further dotuils). To these purees, some finely minced thicken or veal is often added if the puree is to bo used for the garnish- ing of other vegetables of an insipid kind. A pound of mushrooms, a couple of ounces of chicken, the same of butter, an ounce of fine bread-crumbs, a tablespoonful of cream, the same of bechamel, and a little seasoning mako a very delicious puree ; the addition of a suspicion of scalded onion or shalot is a matter of taste, and the same may be said of parsley and nutmeg. This, by reducing or increasing the crumbs, is suited to a number of purposes, and is referred to in many of our recipes as Kick 'White SIushboom Puree. Cost, as in the preceding recipe. Mushrooms, Baked, & la Mascotte.—Required: mushroom puree as below, flap mushrooms, eggs, crumbs, seasoning, oil, sauce, and crou- tons. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. Gd., according to season. First make a puree of chopped mush- rooms, half their measure of chopped ham, thyme, and parsley to season, with a little black pepper and salt and a dash of grated lemon rind; this is to be stirred in a stewpan over the fire, with enough melted ham or bacon fat to keep it from burning; when cool, two raw eggs are to be beaten in the mixture. About half a pint of the puree will make a nice-sized dish. Then take some flap mushrooms, about the size of the top of a tumbler, and prepare them in the usual way; the stems can be used up in the foregoing puree. Put in them a few fried crumbs, then some of the puree, making it high but smooth; add crumbs to cover, and bake in a flat fire-proof ch;na dish, basting with a little oil now and then, for about twenty minutes. At the moment of serving, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the mushrooms, and garnish with fancy croutons that are glazed and covered with chopped ham, mixed to paste with thick brown sauce. This is a very tasty dish. Mushrooms, Braised and Glazed.—This is a good way to cook mushrooms for garnishing purposes. Tako them even in size, selecting large or small as best suited to the dish. Seo that they are very carefully dried, then fry them in a little oil or butter to a nice brown until partly cooked; then drain and put them in a stewpan, with a little good, strong brown stock or gravy, just to keep them from burn- ing ; finish tho cooking, basting a few times, then dish and keep the mush- rooms hot while the stock is reduced by quick boiling; dissolve a morsel of glaze in it and pour it over the mush- rooms. If not convenient to braise tho mushrooms separately, they can be so cooked with any meat with which they are to be served ; then taken up in time and brushed over with glaze and put in the oven or before the fire for a minute; if wanted very brown, give a second coating. Baked or fried mush- rooms can be glazed in the latter way. Cost, about Is. inclusive, for a pound of mushrooms when plentiful. Mushrooms with Fine Herbs. — Required : mushrooms, herbs, seasoning, oil, garlic, onions, and bread-crumbs. Cost, if made from half a pound of mushrooms, about Gd. to 8d. Take some large fresh mushrooms, peel and wipe them, break them up into pieces, lay them on a dish, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, olive oil and chopped garlic; leave them for an hour or two. Chop some onions and parsley, fry them a little, then fry the mushrooms in tho same pan, first skimming out tho onions and parsley ; take a fire proof dish, press in the mushrooms, &c., smooth them, then pour over the oil in which they first s >akcd ; cover with bread-crumbs, and heat tho dish through. When very hot, send to table, with some lemon juice sprinkled over last thing. This is an Italian dish, and very savoury. Good oil is needed, or it will he a complete failure. Instead of using garlic, it will bo enough to rub tho dish with a morsel, or add a drop of