MADE DISHES AMD RELEVlilS. 245 cheese to a gill of brown sauce, -which should ho poured round tho cutlets after they arc dished. After dredging the cutlets with the cheese hold a salamander over, or put them before a sharp fire. Cutlets,Indian.—Required: two pounds of lean meat, any kind, or half poultry, a tablespoonful of tam- arind chutney, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much black pepper, and a dessertspoonful of curry paste; the yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful each of boiled rice and chopped bacon, and some gravy. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. (id. Pass the meat through a mincer, add the other ingredients, mix well, and shape the mass into cutlets, using a palette knife. Fry them in hot fat for a minute, then put them by to get cold. Lay them flat in a frying-pan, and pour some gravy round to half their depth. Cook for an hour, turning a time or two, then serve with clear pickles as garnish, and a Rice Pilau (see Rice). A good gravy such as would be used for hashes answers for the above, but it should be more highly seasoned. Only just enough to moisten the meat is needed. Cutlets, Mutton Loin.—Some of the fat should be taken away, as loin of mutton usually contains more than will be eaten at table. The spectacle of pieces of fat on each plate, together with half-picked bones, is only too familiar. A far nicer dish, and ono which is also much more economical, may be made by proceeding as follows: Remove the flap and some fat, then take out the fillet, i.e. the under-cut of the meat: divide the meat into slices of half an inch or a trifle more in thickness. The flap will make an Irish stew, or any simi- lar dish; the fat can be used for frying purposes, or will make a pud- ding, while the bones will make good stock. Contrast this with a dish of loin cutlets prepared in the more general manner; in such cases fifty per cent, of the nutriment finds its way into the dust-bin or some other equally unsuitable place. Boning is certainly some little trouble, hut it is an art which every house- keeper should acquire, though, if re- quested, the butcher will perform the operation. Cutlets as abovo may bo grilled or broiled. The fillets may bo kept for a separate dish of little cutlets for an entree; or cut and cooked with the rest. Or it may be braised. A boned cutlet braised is also a typical invalid’s dish, as it is certain to be tender and easy of diges- tion. In preparing any dish of loin cutlets, it may bo taken for granted that, whether boned ones are specified or not, nothing will be lost, while much may be gained, by carrying out the above directions. Cutlets, Mutton Loin, Fried. —After taking the meat from the bones, and removing most of the fat, also the gristle, cut the meat in slices, barely half an inch thick; put on each a morsel of salt, pepper, and mushroom powder, or a pinch of herbs; then dip in beaten eggs, and coat them with fine, stale crumbs ; lay them on a plate, sprinkled -with crumbs, and leave for an hour; this is to make the casing dry, so that it will brown quickly. Havo the fat in readiness, test it as directed (sec Frying) ; then put the cutlets in a frying basket; plunge them in (mind that the fat covers them), and in a minute they will be done, or rather they will be by the time they are served, because the cooking goes on after they are taken from the fat. Tho outer covering being firm, tho heat is kept in. They may now bo served simply with mashed potatoes, or a pureo of vegetables in the centre, as celery, white haricots, spinncli, sorrel, onions, &c., &e. Or they may be converted into dishes suitnhlo for entrees by means of various rich sanccs and garnishes. Another way.—Make somo clarified dripping hot in a frying-pan ; lay in the cutlets, peppered a little; turn in a few seconds, then cook them, turning