UNIVERSAL COOKERY' BOOK. 540 hatelet skewer through, and. surround it with small forcemeat halls. This is a very good dish. Veal, Minced, in Potato Cases.—Required : twelve ounces of cold veal, roasted or braised, with some of the stuffing, two ounces of minced ham, the same of grated cheese, potatoes, seasoning, butter, crumbs, and stock as below. Cost, about Is. 9d. Line some little china cases with potatoes as directed in the recipe for Kidney in Potato Cases. Then sprinkle the insides with a pinch of the cheese : it may be good dry English, but Parmesan is best. Make a mince in the usual way with the veal, ham, and stock; about a gill of No. 9 should be used, together with a gill of sauce ; this may be mushroom, parsley, or plain white. Fill the cases just level; cover with more potato—a thin layer only ; dredge with bread-crumbs, and a pinch each of grated lemon peel, nutmeg, and cayenne. Put a few bits of butter on, and bake in a sharp oven, care being taken not to burn the bottoms of the cases, or the meat will harden. If the oven is fierce, set them in a tin in a little hot -water until hot through, then brown the tops, and serve hot. This is a good method generally. Gar- nish with fried parsley. Another way.—Omit the cheese, and use some herbs and grated lemon peel to season the potato cases. The sauce used should be flavoured with the same sort of herbs if possible. Veal and Rice Cakes.— Required : veal, bacon, rice, seasoning, stock, crumbs, and gravy. Cost, about Is. per dozen. Take some rice, such as is prepared for rice borders (any left over from a border, for instance), or boil some in stock {see recipes for the various ways of preparing rice as a savoury); add to it half its weight of cold veal, and the same of cold bacon, first finely minced, then pounded. Pound altogether with a little seasoning, salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg; thyme and parsley will im- prove it—a (easpoonful of the former and half us much of the latter for a pound of the mixture. Add the yolk of an egg, and form into cakes or little balls. Coat with white of egg and crushed vermicelli, or crumbs, and fry brown. Send a sauce or gravy to table; if the former, a piquant brown is as good as any, or a gravy from veal bones, thickened and flavoured with mushroom ketchup, is very good; capers and their vinegar may be used instead. (SecMade Dishes and Gravy for Roast Veal.) Venison Boulettes a la Calypso.—Required : twelve ounces of cooked venison, fat and lean together, salt and cayenne to taste, a pinch of ginger and nutmeg, a tablespoonful each of brown sauce and bread-crumbs, an egg, half a glass of claret, and an ounce of grated ham, some cooked beans, and Sauce a la Calypso. Cost, about Is. 8d. without sauce. Mince the meat and ham. Heat the sauce, wine, and crumbs; mix in the mcatand seasoning; add the egg,beat it well, and when cold form into bulls the size of a Tangerine orange. Dip them into the white of an egg beaten up, then drop them into boiling stock, or the liquor from boiled meat; in five minutes remove them. Have in a stewpan some sauce as above, put the boulettes in in a single layer (the sauce should cover them); in ten minutes take them up, dish in a pile with the sauce over, put French beans round, and garnish with cherries as used in the sauce. The beans should be plainly boiled, and well drained. Mutton may be used in the same way. Venison Croquettes. — (&* Mutton Croquettes.) Venison, Curried. (See recipes under Mutton and Game.)—Venison can be used similarly. For other I dishes of venison, see Index.