UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 158 coarser. The tit-bits are the pickings over the fins, the flackers, and about the head. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. per lb. Boiling is perhaps the least satis- factory way of cooking halibut, and the time must be carefully reckoned in the case of thick fish. Court Bouil- lon au Blanc may he used with advantage. If plain water be used, salt it well, and add lemon juice or vinegar. After dishing, brush the fish over with butter, and send the usual sauces to table. Halibut, Baked.—Proceed as for cod, taking any desired weight; it may be a cut from the middle, or near the tail; it should be cooked slowly. A brown gravy or sauce, or Shrimp, Tomato, or White Sauce, may be served with it. The tail end may he boned and stuffed ; see recipes for Con and Fresh Haddock. Halibut, Baked (American). —Wash and dry throe or three and a half pounds of fish; rub it well with pepper, pouf milk over it in tho baking tin until it reaches half way up tho fish. Bake moderately, basting with the milk; when done, dish and keep hot; strain the milk, and make a sauce by boiling it up with flour and butter, or roux, and flavouring' to taste; sen Sauces. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, cut lomon, and parsley. The milk may ho mixed with a little white fish stock, and used for egg sauce if preferred. Any white fish may be thus cooked; it is of delicate flavour, and somewhat resembles steamed fish when cut, though it is more savoury, and is easier of digostion than fish crisply baked by the usual methods ; as it will be noticed that in the foregoing, no crumbs (or anything to crisp the sur- face) are added. Halibut Cutlets,—Theso are very good, and should he cut from half to an inch thick; it is not desir- able to use tho very thickest fish for them. After washing the fish, lay it for a short time in water, with salt and lemon juice, then divide it, and wipe dry. Flour, and egg and crumb as usual, then fry them; or coat with batter and fry; or brush over with oil, and sprinkle with cracker, i.e. biscuit crumbs, and grill them. They may be dished with a sauce in the middle; and a cold sauce, as Tartars, can be served if preferred. Thick fish should be filleted. Herring,—This is a well-known favourite. Herrings are found in shoals, and are usually cheap; they are one of those dishes which are often enjoyed as much by the well-to-do as tho poor, though doubtless they would bo still more valued if sold at a higher figure: they are not easily digested, being rich, but whore they do agree, they are very nutritious. We will first detail a few methods of preparing fresh, or uncured herrings, which should be plump, bright in appearance, and with scales uninj ured : when many of the scales are off, it indicates that tho fish have been crushed in heaps, either in boats or baskets. The cost is variable; herrings may bo had some- times at a few ponce per dozen. Herrings, Fresh, Boiled.— Fow fish are more delicious than fresh herrings boiled. Wash, scale, and gut them, sprinkle a little salt over thorn, and dip them once quickly in vinegar; skower them securely with their tails in their mouths, put them into nearly boil- ing water, and simmer very gently until done enough, when they must be taken out immediately. Drain the water from them, and arrange them neatly on a dish; garnish with parsley or scraped horseradish, and send Shrimp, Anchovy, or Parsley Sauce to table in a tureen. Time, about ten minutes. Hei'rings, Fresh, Broiled.— Fresh herrings are better for broiling when they have been salted for a night, as this renders them firmer and improves their flavour. Scale and gut the fish, opening them veiy .little; score them in two or threo places, draw them through oil on a dish, and broil them