FORCEMEATS. 485 above, and about an ounce of grated cheese. This should be nicely sea- soned and can be used for stuffing such vegetables as marrows, which need some piquant addition. A little brown colouring should be added to both these. Calf’s Udder Forcemeat, French.—Required: calf’s udder, veal, panada, herbs, seasoning, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. to Is. per pound. Prepare the udder by the directions given on page 495 ; after it is cooled and cut up, add to it an equal bulk, not weight, of raw, scraped veal, and Panada, Bread, French. Blend these ingredients well, pound and sieve them, and season nicely, just according to the dish the forcemeat is wanted for ; herbs, and the other adjuncts to good veal forcemeat of the ordinary kind are generally employed; eggs to make a somewhat moist paste are also wanted, and sometimes cream is added. It will be seen that the udder here takes the place of butter or suet; and to save the trouble entailed by the use of udder, many cooks substitute butter, which they contend is as good; others hold the contrary opinion, and assert that no forcemeat equals that for which udder is used. Be that as it may, the use of udder is very limited, comparatively speaking, in this country. This may be used for stuf- fing veal and poultry, and for other purposes. Chestnut Forcemeat, for Goose.—Required : chestnuts, stock, onion, butter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. This is plain and cheap. To half a pint of the pulp of boiled chestnuts, add two ounces of butter, a small onion, par- boiled and chopped, a good seasoning of salt and pepper, and some parsley, or this can be left out; many prefer just the plain chestnut flavour. 'Stuff the goose with the mixture in the usual way. A very superior stuffing is made from Chestnut PcRfiE, Brown ; after preparing it as directed, mix in whilo it is hot about a fourth its bulk of sausago meat, without herbs; blend well and uso when cool. Bread- crumbs may be added if wanted plainer. Chestnut Forcemeat, for Roast Fowl (or Turkey). —Re- quired : chestnuts, stock, ham, liver, butter, bread, sausage meat, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. Take about thirty chestnuts that have been peeled, and boiled in a little white stock, and drained ; pound them with the liver of the fowl, par- boiled, a tablespoonful of chopped ham, the same of sausage meat (beef or pork), a small onion, chopped, salt, pepper, and grated lemon peel to taste, two ounces of butter, the same of bread-crumbs, and the yolks of two eggs. The eggs should be put in after the other materials have been worked to a paste. More must be made if for a turkey. Chestnut Forcemeat, Rich. —Required; chestnuts, stock, cream, butter, white or brown sauce, season- ing, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about Id. Roast some chestnuts, then skin them, and put them in a stewpan with just enough veal or chicken stock to cover ; put a buttered paper over, and cook until the stock is absorbed, and the chestnuts are dry-looking. Rub them through a sieve, and add a couple of ounces of butter to half a pint; season to tu ste, and mix in a little cream or white sauce if required light in colour; or brown sauce, if dark forcemeat is intended. Then stir in a couple of raw yolks of eggs, and beat well. Sometimes herbs are added, or a little ground spice of any sort may bo substituted. This is nice for balls or cakes, which can be fried after egging and crumbing (or they can be coated with crushed vermicelli), and used for garnishing fillets of beef, and many other dishes. Another kind of forcemeat is made by mixing some sausage meat with chestnuts cooked ns nbovo. This is more in accordance with modem dishes, ns chestnut forcemeat has the