314 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. hot, and as quickly as possible, as heart soon cools. II convenient, a kidney can bo minced and added to the veal. Cost, from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 9d. Calf’s Liver a l’Ameri- caine.—Required: liver, pork, sauce, and seasoning. After washing and drying a pound of liver, cut slits in it half an inch apart, and put in each a strip of fat pork, which may he fresh or salted; it should he laid in lengthwise, and if first seasoned with swoot herbs and grated lemon peel is much nicer. Thou flour the surface, pepper it well, and bako until tender; a little stock should be put in tho pan, and used for basting. The surface should also bo brushed a timo or two with oil or butter. When done, add some piquant sauce to that in the pan, boil up, and season, and pour round the liver. Carve across tho slices of pork. A pig’s liver may be cooked similarly, and if preferred, apple sauce may be served with it instead of piquant sauce. A curry sauce is also suitable, in which case boiled rice should be sent to table. Cost of liver, about 9d. per pound. Calf’s Liver, Baked.—Wash and dry the liver, flour and pepper it slightly, then lay on a few slices of fat bacon ; cook it in a moderate oven, basting sometimes with the bacon fat. When nearly done, take the bacon off, and sprinkle raspings or fresh bread- crumbs over; brown tho surface nicely, and servo with plain gravy made in the tin, or a sauce as given in above recipe. Time, about an hour and a half, for a whole liver. A piece of paper, coated with bacon fat, or dripping, may be used in place of bacon. Calf's Liver and Bacon with French Beans.—Required: half a pound of calf’s liver, four ouncos of bacon, a largo onion, season- ing, vegetables, eggs, and sauco as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. Gd., exclusive of sauce. Cut the liver in dice; fry tho bacon; then take it up, cut it in dice, and set aside. Fry the onions, sliced or minced, in the bacon fat to a good brown ; put them to tho bacon, then fry the fiver for seven or eight minutes ; it should bo sprinkled with pepper and powdered herbs. Put tho onions in a saucepan with half a pint of piquant sauce (*fe Hot Sauces) cook them until soft; add the bacon and liver to heat, but do not boil again. Turn the whole into the centre of a dish, and put little heaps of French beans with poached eggs between, all round it. Sprinkle tho yolks of tho eggs with coralline pepper or chopped chillies. Another way.—Boil the eggs hard, slice thorn, and coat them with fried bread-crumbs ; dish them in a ring outside the beans, which should then form a wall ; pour a little of the sauco round them, and servo very hot. Calf's Liver and Bacon with Okra. — No eggs are needed for this. Prepare the liver as above ; put it in tho centre of tho dish, and place round it tho okra, which should be heated, and freed from some of its liquor. This can be used up in soups, &c., see recipes. Or instead of using piquant sauco for the liver, make okra saucefrom the liquor. (See Hot Sauces.) Cost of liver, about 9d. per pound. Veal, Baked in a Caul.— Required: a caul, bacon, veal, force- meat, and seasoning. Cost, variable, about 2s. Gd. for a moderate-sized dish. Lino a dish with a veal caul, leaving as much hanging over the sides as will cover the meat entirely. Fill up with small pieces of lean veal, slices of bacon, and forcemeat balls; tho meat should be seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and ground mace or nutmeg, lemon rind and parsley, chopped, and a suspicion of ginger. Let bacon form the top and bottom layers. Minced mush- rooms can be put in if liked. Fasten the caul over tho top, and tie a few folds of greased paper over, then bake in a moderate oven. 1 ime, according to quantity of meat, and depth of dish ;