UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 502 is for present use, chopped parsley is sometimes thought to be an improve- ment. Essence of shrimps, instead of anchovies, gives another variation. Anyone in possession of a pestle and mortar will lind it well worth while to prepare potted salmon at home ; for a shilling or fourteenpence, a good- sized pot (equal to a couple of shillings- worth if bought in little tins) may be obtained. Sardines, Potted.—Required : sardines, butter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Gd. for a small jar. Boneless sardines should be used; smoked sardines may also be potted, if a highly-flavoured paste is liked. For the first-named, after freeing them from skin, pound them with about half their weight of fresh butter; add cayenne and a grate of nutmeg, and a drop or two only of essence of an- chovies, but do not destroy the sardine flavour. Finish off as directed for other fish pastes. Sardines and White Pish, Potted. —In this, the idea is to give a flavour of sardines to the other fish used; therefore plaice, fresh haddock, or any that is cheap should be chosen. The remains of any boiled for a pre- vious meal, by the addition of two or three ounces of sardines to half a pound, will make a nice little relish, with an ounce or two of butter and the requisite seasoning. Chopped capers are thought by some to improve sar- dines. Cost varies with the fish used. Shrimps, Potted. —Required : shrimps, butter, and seasoning. Cost, about 8d. on an average. These are delicious, and very little trouble. Visitors to the seaside know that a sixpenny jar of potted shrimps cannot be called an economical purchase, but when shrimps aro plentiful they can be “ home potted ” at little cost. Shell the shrimps, taking care to use freshly- boiled ones ; chop them a little, even if small, as the flavour will be better. But some butter in a lined saucepan, and let it just dissolve; then put in the shrimps, and shake them about to coat them with the butter; add a slight flavouring of cayenne, mace, and salt, and turn out into pots. Press them firmly in, and put moi-e butter on the top. About two ounces of butter will coat half a pint of shrimps in the saucepan, measured after shelling them. The top layer of butter should be a quarter of an inch thick. (See also Prawns Potted Whole.) Shrimps, Potted, or Shrimp Paste.—Chop the shrimps, and al- low about a fourth or more of their weight in butter; season as above, and add a few drops of anchovy essence and a little colouring. Pound the whole to a smooth paste, and proceed as for potted moats. Some cooks rub this through a sieve after pounding, then pound a second time, and it quite repays for the extra trouble. Both this and the foregoing should be tied down, asdirected for Pkawns Potted Whole. Veal, Potted.—Required: veal, ham or bacon, butter, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal in itself is rather insipid, and a couple of ounces of ham or bacon to ten or twelve ounces of veal will be liked by most people. But supposing none of either to be at hand, or all veal to bo preferred, proceed as follows : mince half a pound of veal, braised or roasted; pound it with about two ounces of butter, season with salt, cayenne, nutmeg, and white pepper, and about three drops of essence of anchovies ; this soupfon improves it; much more would spoil it. When very smooth and flavoured to taste, pot it in the usual way. When bacon is used, decrease the salt. A few drops of essence of herbs of any sort (see Season- ings) may be added at discretion. (See also note under Chicken, Potted.) Tongue may be added to potted veal; it makes a nice change from veal and ham.