UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 544 Infants.) In the preparation of whole barley, both pot and pearl, more than ordinary care in washing is necessary. It is very dirty, and the water may be changed many times and yet como away dirty. The best plan is to scald it, after repeated washings; or to blanch it, by putting it on in cold water and bringing it to the boil; after another rinse it is ready for use. Barley wants long, slow cooking, and care must ho taken to avoid burning. Many of the rough grains—hominy, for instance—are much improved by mixing with barley. It also blends well with all sorts of pulse. Cost, 2d, to ,3d. per pound. Barley Porridge.—Barley that has, been cooked for the purpose of making barley-water answers very well for this. Put as much of the barley as may bo required in a saucepan, and just cover it with cold milk. Stir to the boil, and cook for a few minutes ; then serve with any of the usual adjuncts (see page 556). Made thus, and seasoned with salt and pepper, and thickened with a toaspoonful or so of lentil or pea flour to each half pint, a- very good savoury porridge is obtained. Another way.—This is more nutri- tious. The above is given for the benefit of those who have to study strict economy. Cook the barley in water as below, using a quart to four ounces, and serve with hot new milk and sugar. By the addition of a little cream, a very nourishing and delicious dish is obtained. Another way is to use a pint, or rather more, of water, and add milk to make up the quantity when the barley is three parts cooked. If a jar is not at hand, a double pan may be used with advantage. By sotting the jar in a vessel containing water, less frequent stirring is needed, and it will cook as well on the top of a range as in the oven. For Barley Flour Porridge, see Lentil Flour Porridge ; see also Rice and Barley Porridge. Barley, Savoury Stew of. (See Barley.)—Prepare the grain as directed, and put it in a stone jar, with any weak stock, vegetarian or meat, according to requirements, in the pro- portion of a quart to a quarter of a pound of barley. Add an ounce of dripping or other fat, a little salt and pepper, and a bunch of herbs; stir and cover, set the jar in a Blow oven, and cook for about three hours. Any of the vegetables generally added to Roups may be put in, either separately or mixed, and in any*desired proportion ; but as the whole should bo thick when done, supposing the vegetables are of a very watery kind, allowance must be made by reducing the liquid at starting. A dish that can be especially recommended is made by adding "a grated carrot, a medium-sized onion, fried, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tablespoonful of chopped celery to each quarter pound of barley, an hour after it has begun to simmer. At the end of the time any other flavouring to develop the savour of tho dish may he added at discretion—as flavoured vinegar, a hint of garlic, or a morsel of curry. Any scraps of meat may be put in, and the dish will be found a good substitute for meat for children’s dinner. Buckwheat.—This is extensively grown in temperate countries, and is easy of cultivation. In England it appears to bo best known in connection with the feeding of game and poultry; but it is a favourite food in America in the form of bread and cakes (for which see recipes in that chapter). In the husk of buckwheat there is much indigestible matter in the form of fibrous material; but in the seed which is mado into flour there is a considorablo amount of nutriment. The cost of this flour is about the same as the fino kinds of wheaten flour. It is to ho had of dealers in American produce and at most vegetarian stores. Cassava.—Native cassava is pre- pared from the plant from which wo get tapioca. Those who like novelties in food will be interested in hearing that cassava cakes, which are pronounced