FISH. 161 too fresh. It is an inhabitant of the sea, but spends some of its time in fresh water, returning again to the ocean. It is regarded as unwholesome, Fic. 36.—Lahpkev. but a great delicacy. Cost from 8d. to Is. or more per pound. The recipes given for eels will serve for this, care being taken to cook it well, and when fried, it must he previously cooked by stewing or boiling. Lemon Soles.—See Soles. Limpet.—The limpet is abundant on rocky coasts, and may be procured by the aid of a good knife. It is con- sidered nutritious, though tough. Lim- pets uncooked are poisonous; they should be boiled in water well salted for a few minutes. Ling.—Ling is of the same species as hake, and, like that fish, is both cheap and nourishing. It is a native of the northern seas. In form it is not Fio. 37.—Lino. unliko the cod, but it is more slender, and grows to the length of six or seven feet. Its colour is grey, inclin- ing to olive; the belly silvery; the fins edged with white. The tail-fin is rounded. The ling is a very vora- cious fish, feeding principally on smaller fishes. It is captured in vast i quantities off the Orkney, Shetland, and Western Islands, and is also found near the Scilly Islands, and off Flam- borough Head. When ling are less than twenty-six inches long they are called drizzles on the Yorkshire coast, and are consumed by the natives, being thought an excellent fish. Ling is somewhat insipid when boiled, hut stewed or baked it is both palatable and wholesome; frying is also a favourite method of serving it. Follow the recipes given for Hake or Cod-fish, in cooking ling. Lobster.—This is a general favour- ite, though it is not a fish that all can enjoy without after-suffering, for it is not easily digested, and should he shunned by dyspeptics. The flesh of the male is considered more delicate than the hen; the latter is valued on account of the spawn and coral. Lobsters, when stale, or showing signs of putridity, are unwholesome fo a dangerous degree. The cost is variable; from Is. to 3s. may he given as tho average, though they may he had sometimes for 8d., or they may cost 4s. The size and the season both affect the price. In addition to the following, recipes for lobster dishes will he found under Salads, Pastry, Scrap Cookery, Savouries, and Souffles. (See Index. ) Lobster au Gratin.—Required : half a pint of Bechamel MAiORE,asmall lobster, the yolk of an egg, two small shalots, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a fourth as much essenco of anchovies ; salt and pepper to taste —mignonette pepper is nicer for this. Melt a little butter in a stewpan; put in tho shalots, minced, and cook for a few minutes ; add tho seasoning and sauce, stir to tho boil, and for a few minutes ; then put in the flesh of tho lobster in slices: that from tho claws may ho in small dice. Beat in tho yolk of tho ogg, and see that it is well seasoned. Wipo out tho lobslor shell, rub it with salad oil inside and put in tho mixture ; it will he higher than the shell, and should bo made smooth.