Universal cookery boor. 244 additional zest to a curry by means of chutney and hot sauces; hot pickles arc also used for the same purpose. A good deal has been -written of late as to the necessity of buying every ingredient separately, and blending them in varying proportions, instead of keeping some prepared powder or paste at hand ; but we agree with a very high authority that this is out of the question in most houses; besides, nothing less than a course of training could teach cooks to choose, grind, and compound curry stuffs satisfactorily. Further hints, together with recipes, will be found under Game and Poultuy, Rice, Vegetables, Fish, and Cold Meat Cookeky. Curry, Anglo-Indian, Kich. —Required : a pound and a half of raw or semi-roasted mutton, half a pint of stock from mutton bones, a gill of cocoanut infusion, a largo onion, a pinch of chopped garlic, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, a tablespoonful of pungent curry powder, the same measure of lemon juice, and a little salt and butter. Cost, about Is. 8d. Melt the butter, about two ounces ; when it smokes, put in the sliced onion, brown well, then stir in the powder, mixed with stock to a paste : add the meat, cook until it is coated with the curry, pour in the stock and cocoanut infusion, and cook until the meat is tender ; put in the salt and lemon juice a short time before serving. While the meat is cooking, before the stock is added, it must be stirred to prevent burning. To make the cocoa- nut infusion, grate the nut finely, sufficient to fill a quarter pint measure, cover with boiling water, put a ^plate over, and in twenty minutes strain for use. Or the nut may be put in cold water or stock, and gently simmered for ten minutes. Venison may be curried in the same way ; a clove or two will improve it. it will be noted that no acid is given in the above. Tomato conserve or chut- ney, apple chutney, or Oriental pickles should bo handed round with the dish. Cutlets a la Maintencn.-— Cutlets were, it is said, first served in this way under the direction of Madame de Maintenon, to tempt the failing appetite of Louis XIV. According to the original recipe they should bo dressed en papillotc. Required : meat and seasoning as below. Cut up and trim the cutlets, removing as much as possible of the fat. Next chop up linedy a little raw ham, some button mushrooms, a small piece of shalot, parsley, and a pinch of thyme; add pepper and salt. Take the cutlets and brown them quickly each side in a very hot frying-pan slightly greased, and wrap them up two or three at a time in some well-oiled paper with a dessert- spoonful of this chopped mixture and about the same quantity of butter. Cook them in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, and serve them, of course, in the paper, which is to keep in and impregnate the cutlets with the flavour. These cutlets are supposed, properly speaking, to be cooked on a grill over a charcoal fire. French cooks mark the paper with a hot iron to resemble the marking of the gridiron. Cost, about Is. per pound. Cutlets a la Parmesan.—Re- quired : meat, cheese, egg, and season- ing as below. The best end of the neck should bo used, either of mutton or lamb; after trimming nicely, the cutlets should first be floured, then dipped in the yolk of an egg, beaten up with a pinch of migno- nette pepper, then into grated Parmesan cheese, and next into plain biscuit crumbs. After an hour a second coating should be given of cheese and crumbs only. They are then ready to fry by im- mersion in boiling fat; or they may bo cooked in a saute pan, with a little hot butter; or they can be grilled or broiled. In c ither way they are excel- lent. Cost, about Is. per pound. Another way.—Prepare the cutlets by peppering and brushing them over with oil or butter. Then grill them, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan over, and add a tablespoonful of the same