MUTTON’. 333 joint should be bought whole, whether nil be required at once or not. If the best end, or the middle, be sent for separately, more per pound must be paid. It is quite as easy, if cutlets are needed, to cut them from a neck hang- ing in one’s own larder, and have the benefit of the bones and fat, as to buy them as cutlets of the butcher. In the latter case, they will cost from two- pence to threepence per pound more, and the trimmings will be left behind on the butcher’s block. Cost of neck, if bought whole, about 8d. per pound. Neck, Stewed.—Required: three pounds of meat, half a pound each of turnips, onions, and carrots, a few stalks of celery, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 2d. The scrag end does for this: it must be rubbed with salt, and rinsed well in warm water with a little vinegar in, to free it from blood; then cut in neat pieces. The vegetables must be cleansed and sliced. Put all in a stewpan in layers, vegetables top and bottom, with stock No. 1 or 2 to cover; add a dozen peppercorns, a clove or two, and some parsley, then cover, and cook for two hours or more. When tender, add a tablespoonful of browned flour, salt to taste, and a little browning; boil up, remove the parsley, and serve on a hot dish. Another tcay.—This is very nourish- ing. Add a couple of ounces of pearl- barley (after soaking it for several hours) as soon as the gravy boils, and cook for three hours at least. Rice can be used in the same way, and takes rather less time. Other cereals can be substituted : coralline, rizine, and similar varieties are useful when full time cannot be given, as they take a comparatively short time. B.agout ( American ). — Re- quired : two pounds of lean meat, free from bone, a large cup (half-a-pint) of green peas, the same of gravy from the bones of the mutton, a fried onion, half a pound of salt pork, a slico of lean ham, seasoning as under. Cost, about 3s. Cut the pork in thin slices, and the mutton and ham in long strips. Put pork at the bottom of a saucepan, then chopped parsley and thyme; next add ham and mutton; put the peas in the middle; then the rest of the ham and mutton, and more pork over that. Put the fried onion on the top. Pour the gravy over, and let it boil steadily for an hour and a half or more. Pepper should be put on each layer. Add a little stock now and again. When done, put in salt to taste, and thicken with a tablespoonful of browned flour, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Put a large piece of toasted bread on a hot dish ; pour the ragout over, and serve with a border of potato-rice (potatoes passed through a colander) and some pickled melon in another dish. Any sweet pickle may be used. This is a very good dish. Anyone tired of ordinary mutton stews would do well to try it. A sheep's kidney or two is a good addition, and it is excellent with a small proportion of sheep’s liver. Saddle.—This is a very popular roast. A saddle of mutton, if hung in a cool airy place, will improve with keeping from one to three weeks, according to the weather ; but as this part of the sheep is the most tender and delicate, it may, if liked, be roasted in from four to five days. If not for a large family, get the joint well trimmed; the flaps, tail, and chump end may be cut away, which will con- siderably lessen the weight, and be found more advantageous to the pur- chaser, even at a higher price per pound, or the flap will make a plain stew. In its entire state it is con- sidered an expensive joint,consequently people of moderate means and family, unless so accommodated by the butcher, can seldom order it. All superfluous fnt must, in any case, be removed, and the joint covered with a greased paper. Roast as directed for a loin of mutton. It should be a nico brown when done, but not too dark. About twenty minutes por pound will bo required.