SALTED MEATS. 373 Grease a pie-dish, put in a layer of the potatoes sliced, then a sprinkling of salt and pepper, chopped onion, and powdered sage or other herbs; then a few thin slices of bacon, and so on until used up, the top layer being potatoes. Put some bread-crumbs and more of the seasoning over all, -with a little bacon fat or dripping, and bake for twenty minutes or rather more; then turn out, or servo in the dish, with or without gravy. Gravy for Hashes or Stews is suitable, or a sauce of onions or celery is an excellent accompaniment. Bacon and Potatoes with Cheese. (See recipe for Potatoes with Cheese.)—Prepare a pie-dish as for that, and line with the mashed potatoes, then fill up with sliced bacon, very thinly cut, and potatoes; the latter forming the top layer. Dredge with crumbs, and put a few bits of butter over. Bake until brown ; then turn out, and serve as hot as possible. This is cheap and nourishing, and very tasty when served plainly; but much better with half a pint of cheese sauce poured over it [see recipe in Hot Sauces). Bacon, previously boiled, answers for this dish. Bacon, to Toast.—An ordinary broiler can be used, or a good-sized toasting-fork does very well. In the latter case, something should be put under to catch the fat; a slice of bread is relished by many after it has be- come scaked with the fat. The bacon should be treated as described above; the slices being even in thickness. It must be remembered that the leaner the bacon the slower must be the cook- ing, and only bacon of good quality is nice when cooked by any of these quick methods. If it is dry and hard, it is far wiser to reserve it for boiling and steaming, that it may be improvod and softened by the preliminary soaking. [See Ham, to Steam ) Beef, Collared.—A very cheap dish may be had from the neck, usually called clod, or sticking. It should be cut into shape before salting, so that it may be compactly rolled. The pickle No. 1 is one of the best. For six pounds of meat, rub and turn it daily for a fortnight or so; wash and prepare it by tying as usual; then boil about three and a half tofour hours. If no collaring-tin is handy, leave the meat, tied up, with a plate and weights on the top of it, until quite cold and firm. This part is not very highly flavoured, and is rather coarse and stringy, but it has the advantage of extreme tenderness if slowly cooked; and, by pickling as above, flavour is given to it. The part next the head should be cut off; it will make a nice stew while fresh. Cost, about 5d. or Gd. per pound. Use a third the quantity of pickling ingredients given in the recipe. Beef, Collared, Superior.— Choose flank or brisket, from prime meat. Remove bones, gristle, and Fig. 94.—Collared Beef. coarse inside' skin; then pickle as above directed; or use No. i for a still more highly-flavoured dish. A piece of eight pounds or more may be left for a fortnight to three weeks. For a plain, family dish, garnish with parsley or watercress. Or glaze the meat (aspic may be used instead); put some salad about the dish, with scraped horse-radish, cut lemons, and boot-root. Cost, Gd. to 8d. per pound. This is easily carved. The knife must bo sharp, and tho slices ovcnly and thinly cut, horizontally.