77 STOCKS AJ?t> SOtJPS. little white roux, stock, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Cost, about 2s. 6d. First put the liquor from the tinned and fresh oysters into a small sauce- pan ; put in the oysters, and plump them; then set them aside, and rub the tinned oysters through a sieve, moistening them with the hot liquor. When all are through, add a little white stock, either “ second stock ” or made from veal (as No. 9), about half a pint; boil the milk, add to the rest, then boil up, and thicken with roux or flour and hutter, well blended. Put in about a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, or less, if it is very strong, add the oysters, and serve. Natives are not necessary; blue points answer for cooking. Oyster Soup, Rich. — Take three dozen oysters, beard them, and lit the beards boil in two pints of fish stock for twenty minutes. Pound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, an ounce of fresh butter, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a teaspoonful of anchovy essence and lemon-juice. Strain the stock, stir the pounded mixture into it, add the oyster liquor, and simmer all together for a few minutes. Add more salt and pepper, if neces- sary, and a pinch of cayenne, together with the oysters and the yolks of two unboiled eggs which have been well beaten. The soup must not boil after the oysters and raw eggs are added ; it must be stirred by the side of the fire until it is thick and smooth, and then poured into a tuTeen, and served very hot. The soup may be thickened slightly with white roux or arrowroot mixed with milk or cream, and boiled up and skimmed be- fore the oysters are added. Any nice fresh fish of the white kind may bo used for the stock. Serve small croutons with the soup. Russian Fish Soup. — Tte- quired: some vegetables and herbs of the usual kinds for soups, fish, mixed varieties, and some stock or water, and seasoning. First boil down the vegetables in a little stock until it is well flavoured, then strain it, and add more to make up the quantity re- quired. Into this put any well-cleaned fish, such as pike, perch, or any ordi- nary white fish; some should be rich, as eels, to give the soup good body; to ’ a quart of stock about a pound of fish will bo wanted. When woll done, strain, and season to taste, and thicken a little with any of the usual white thickenings and a few ounces of sliced potatoes—about two ounces to a quart of soup. Where potatoes are objected to some potato-flour can be substituted. Serve cream with this; it should be handed separately. Skate Soup. — The bones of skate are so delicate and gristly that they can easily be converted to jelly; consequently, good nourishing soup may be made of this fish. Clean two pounds of skate, and hang it in the open air for a day; cut it into small neat fillets, and put the trimmings and head into a saucepan, with two quarts of fish-stock or water. Let it simmer gently for an hour, and carefully re- move the scum as it rises; then add an onion, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a few sticks of celery, and simmer all gently together till the liquor is re- duced to one quart; then strain it carefully. The soup may be finished in two ways: either thicken the sauce with a little brown thickening, add the fillets, simmer them till done enough, and flavour the soup with a dessert- spoonful of ketchup, a glass of sherry, and pepper and salt, if required; or drop two ounces of vermicelli into the soup, and when it is done enough— which will bo in fifteen minutes—mix with the soup a quarter of a pint of cream beaten up with the yolk of an egg, stir it over the tiro for a minute or two, then serve. When the soup is finished in the latter of these two ways, it is well to boil all the skate in the stock, and thus dispense with the fillets. A mixture of skate and ling, to