UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 216 ill the centro, and garnish with French plums stowed in claret, and Braised Olives ; pour some more sauce round the border; this may be rather thinner. Cost, variable. Duck, Filleted, in Potsdam or Schiller Sauce is obtained by using either sauce for the duck, in place of the above. Ducklings a la Wells dene.— Prepare the birds as for roasting; wash and dry the insides, then season with salt and pepper. Stuff them with a good Veal Forcemeat, with a lablespoonful of tomato pulp added to the quantity required for each duck- ling. When half roasted, put them in a baking tin with more tomato pulp, and finish the cooking, basting well from time to time with the tomato. When done, flour them, and let them brown ; mix a little gravy or brown stock with the contents of the baking tin; scrape well to re- move any encrustation from the bottom, then boil it up. Pour some on the dish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Before dishing the ducklings, joint thorn, and uso the best parts only for the dish. They should be placed high, and only enough gravy to coat them poured over. A macedoine of vegetables, or green peas only, may be used round the dish. Cost, about 4s. 6d. each. Financiere Ragout is a de- licious mixture. It is sold in bottles, the ingredients being preserved in a clear jelly; nothing more is wanted but good brown sauce. The bottle is set in the bain-marie until the contents are hot, then the sauce is added, or the ragout is served separately and the sauce sent to tablo in addition. Cocks’ combs and kernels, truffles, button mushrooms and scallops of sweetbread are the main ingredients of the ragout, which costs from 4s. to 8s. per bottle; and although expensive, it would cost as much to prepare the ingredients at home, separately; and it is questionable if the result would be so satisfactory in many instances, though very often, for economy’s sake, it is a good plan to add more sweet- bread, small quenelles of white meat, or brains cooked and cut up, to make the ragout go further. Needless to remark, such a preparation is only suited to dishes of the most recherche kind, liagoftt a la Toulouse is mado by mixing Financiere Ragout with bechamel or supreme, instead of brown sauce. The uses of these two ragouts are detailed in various recipes. Foie Gras with Financiere Ragout.—This is a rich entree; a little goes a long way. A tin of foie gras, of the size required, should bo heated in the bain-marie, then wiped with a clean cloth, and some Brown Sauce, No. 2, poured over. A round croustade should be put underneath it. This should be an inch and a half thick, and a triflo larger than the foio gras. The Financiere RagoCt should then be heated in some of the above sauce, and put on and round the foio gras, hatelet skewers being used for the top garnish. A potato border, glazed, may be used in place of the bread, if liked, and to make the ragout go farther, a few pieces of tongue may be stamped out and heated with it. These should be cut in the shape of cocks’ combs. Foie Gras with Turkey.— Heat the foie gras as above, and cut the breast of a cooked turkey into fillets; these should be heated in gravy or sauco which has been served with it; then cut the foie gras into slices of the same size, and dish the two alternately. After masking the foio gras with rich brown sauce, and tho turkey with thick bechamel or supreme sauco, they may be put in a ring, or straight down the dish. Garnish with fancy-shaped crofitons, masked alter- nately with the two sauces: the white should be sprinkled with truffle, and the brown with sieved egg yolk and parsley. In between, put little heaps of button mushrooms, cooked and glazed.