UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 274 than the edge of the cases. Cut some chillies into shreds, and chop some pistachios and French gherkins ; sprinkle these over the surface, and set tho cases in an ice cave for half-an- hour, or rather more. Bombay Cutlets, Iced.—Make a mixture as for Bombay Creams, Iced. Add a little strong aspic to it, just to set it when cold; this can ho tested by pouring some on a plato. Spread tho mass in a smooth layer, on a baking sheet with turned-up edges, and set it by until cold and firm. Then cut out with a cutlet cutter. Put a small quantity of mayonnaise in a cutlet- shaped paper case; mix a little green salad with it, then put in one of the cutlets, with more mayonnaise on the top. Proceed until all the cutlets are used up, then set the cases in an ice cave for half an hour; dish them on a lace paper, and garnish with green salad. Should any difficulty be ex- perienced in detaching tho cutlets (or any similar ones) from the tin, wring a cloth out of hot water, and place it underneath for a few seconds, taking care that it is not left long enough for the cutlets to get warm and run. Cost, about 3s. per dozen. Bombes de Foie Gras.—Lino some bomle moulds (see page 146) with pale yellow aspic ; put about it some star shapes of truffle, rings of white of egg, poached, and little strips of French gherkin; set the garnish with another layer of aspic; then put some brown chaudfroid sauce at the bottom of the moulds, and fill up with foie gras (free from fat), divided into small pieces, and pour in more aspic to set it. Turn out when quite firm, each on to a cooked artichoke bottom, coated with becha- mel, or coloured chaudfroid sauce. Put some chopped aspic and fancy slices of truffle about the dish, with little piles of cooked beetroot in dice shapes. The moulds should hold about half a gill. Bombes (or Darioles) of Game.—Line bomle, or plain dariole moulds with tomato aspic, thinly; when set, put in a puree of game (as directed for Canapes de Game en Meringue), and pour more aspic over; turn out when set, and garnish tho tops with chopped pale aspic, and truffles. Have some slices of ripe tomatoes, rather larger than tho moulds; coat them with sauce, brown chaudfroid for choice; set a bombe on each, and servo on a flat dish, with little piles of red currants on slices of dressed cucumber as garnish. (See Bed Currants, Spiced, in Sweet Pickles). Cost, variable. Canapes de Foie Gras en Meringue.—Kequircd : custard, foie gras, eggs, sauce, quenelles, salad, and aspic. Cost, about 3s. 6d. per dozen, or more. First make a savoury custard with half a pint of stock No. 16, the yolks of four eggs, and a pinch of salt and cayonne (see Savoury Cus- tards in Garnishes for the method). When cold and set, cut it in round slices, two inches in diameter. Cut some foie gras in small pieces; moisten it with brown sauce, and lay a little heap on each round of custard. Then boat up the whites of four eggs, with a pinch of cayenne and salt; when stiff, put it over tho foie gras from a bag and pipe, sprinkle with fried crumbs, and hold a heated salamander over to lightly brown tho surface. Put tho canapes on a dish, and garnish with more of the custard, cut into fancy shapes; and some small game or chicken quenelles, coloured pink, and little heaps of salad and chopped aspic. The meringue should entirely cover the custard rounds ; and tho salamander should be held a distance above, to cook as well as colour the meringue; otherwise it would have a raw taste. Canapes de Game en Merin- gue.—Required : game, sauce, jelly, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Make a puree of game by mixing six oimces of sieved cooked game (any kind), with a tablespoonful each