183 FISH. small square tin boxes; the boxes aro filled up with oil, the lid is soldered on, aud the box is exposed for a short time to the action of steam or hot water. These cured sardines are largely exported to various countries, where they are considered a delicacy. The real sardine resembles a small pilchard; but many of the fish cured as sardines are not genuine ; they are either sprats, pilchards, or small herrings. Sprats are said to be very largely used, and sent out from our own country, and reimported as sardines. The best way of getting the genuine article is to buy of good firms and pay a fair price. In addition to many savouries, in subsequent chapters, giving various methods of serving this popular fish, and for which see Index, we append a recipe for Sardines, Curried..—Required : a tin of sardines, a dessertspoonful each of curry paste and fine rico flour, a few bay-leaves, and a little hot chutney. Pour the oil from the tin into a pan, and put the fish on a dish in the oven, ready for serving. Mix the rice flour with water to a paste; add it and the other materials to the oil, stir, and boil up ; then take out the bay-leaves, and pour the sauce over the fish. Rico, boiled as for other curries, should ac- company this. It is a good breakfast dish. Pilchards in tins may be curried similarly. Another way.—Add to the ingredients above named, three or four tablcspoon- fuls of brown sauce. This produces a milder curry, and one which agrees better with some than a dish in which oil only forms the foundation. Sardines, to Serve.—They aro generally served from the tins in which they are preserved, but may be vastly improved if put into fresh oil, of the best quality, and lightly dredged with cayenne. It should be remem- bered that any sardines left over from a meal should be well covered with fresh oil, and set in a cool place, Sardines, Various.—In addi- tion to the best known kind preserved in oil, there are 1 ‘ sardines in tomatoes,” “ sardines, boneless,” and “ sardines, smoked.” The sardines in tomatoes are excellent just as they are; but the “boneless” may be used with advan- tage in sandwiches and other savouries; while the “ smoked ” are of delicious flavour, and are thought by some to be less rich than the plain kinds. They are particularly good as a break- fast snack, if seasoned well, and warmed up, then served on hot toast or fried bread. Sardine paste is useful for sandwiches, &c. It is sold in small tins, the price of ordinary potted meats and fish. Scad (or Horse Mackerel).— This fish is found on the south-western shores of Europe, but is rare in the Fio. 47.—Scad. north; it appears in largo shoals, and is caught in immense quantities, and salted, in which state it is in demand as an article of food. Its flavour is not unlike that of the mackerel. Scalloped Fisk a la Cardinal. —Required : half a pint of Sauce a la Cardinal, an egg, a pound of raw, white fish, and. seasoning, &c., as below. Rone the fish; steam it; skin it while hot, and flake it nicely; any white, flat fish doos, or whiting or haddock. Add it to the sauce, made as directed in the recipe, but with twico the quantity of arrowroot. Butter a fireproof china dish; put some bread- crumbs at the bottom; put a little