UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 354 PORK. This, more than any meat, must be chosen with the greatest care. The pig, from its habits, is particularly liable to disease and'if killed and eaten in an unhealthy state, those who partake of it may pay dearly for the indulgence. Dairy-fed pork is best, and it is safest to buy it direct from a farm, or from a reliable dealer. Pork is in season only in cold weather, and should be rigidly avoided in summer; it is then positively dangerous. The fat should be firm, and the lean delicate in colour, and fine in the grain; the skin should be delicate. If the skin is thick, the pig was old; if clammy, it proves staleness. Kernels and discolorations in the fat prove an unhealthy condition at the time of killing. Pork cannot be kept long in the fresh state, but unless hung for a short time it will be hard. All the internal organs cannot be too fresh when eaten. We would specially waru the inexperienced against what is known in the trade as “ offal-fed pork.” It is, however, never seen in good localities, and no butcher with a reputation to maintain deals in it. It can be told by its dark colour, strong smell, and un- pleasant flavour. No meat requires more care in cooking than pork: the least portion underdone is more than unwholesome, and it should be withheld from persons of weak digestion, as well as invalids generally. A porker—i.e. a pig less than a year old—is usually divided as follows:— 1. Leg. May be boiled or roasted. A very profitable joint. 2. Loin. Includes fore-loin and hind-loin. Roasted • generally. 3. Spare-rib. Usually roasted, or cut into chops, like the loin. Fm. 92^-a^Side of 4 Belly. Boiled, either fresh or slightly salted. ,r .. ' p 5. Hand. Sometimes boiled fresh, often salted. ' 'bacon!) 10 SCC 6. Head. Boiled fresh, or cut through and salted. Also used for brawn. In addition to the above, there are the feet, which are often salted and boiled, but there are various ways of serving them ; the fry, which includes the heart, liver, sweetbread, &c.; and the chitterlings. The internal fat is melted down for lard. Recipes aie given under the respective headings. (Sec also Sucking Pig.) See the chapters Entries and Made Dishes, Cold Meat and Scraps, Sausages, &c., Pies and Puddings, and Pastry, for such pork dishes. Dishes from salted pork are given under Salted Meats,