281 COLD ENTREES. the gelatine has been melted: then stir in a tablespoonful of trutllo essence, and whip the mixture until it looks spongy. The stock should be cool before it is added to the foie gras and veal. Put it into the prepared mould; pour more aspic over the top, and set in an ice cave, or on ice until firm. Turn it out on to the oval border of aspic cream, and put a few slices of truffles and blocks of aspic round the base. Pheasant, Chaudfroid of.— Required : pheasant, sauce, foie gras, aspic, truffle, and watercress. Cost, about 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d., but variable. Take the breast from a brace of roasted pheasants; cut into fillets, and mask them with brown chaudfroid sauce. Place them in a ring round a dish. Then pass some foie gras through a sieve: mix it with an equal bulk of semi-liquid aspic, and whisk together ; put this mixture on the top of the fillets. Next pour over some white chaudfr oid, and sprinkle with chopped truffle. Or put a star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre. Fill up the dish with water- cress. Pheasant in Surprise.—Re- quired : a pheasant puree, tongue, and ham, aspic, sauce, salad, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, on an average, from 4s. to 03., but variable. Linea plain mould with yellow aspic; when set, coat it with a garnish of foie gr&3 in thin slices, cooked tongue and pink ham in fancy shapes, and strips of hard-boiled white of egg. Then pour in a coating of thick brown chaud- froid. “When set, fill up with a ptireo made by mixing a gill each of brown sauce and liquid aspic with half a pint of pounded cooked pheasant; stir over ice until it begins to set before filling the mould. Then smooth it, place the mould in ice, and turn out when firm. Itound the mould put a vegetable salad. Sprinkle a chopped truffle and some »fived egg yolk over, and serve as cold as possible. Quail3 en Chaudfroid.—Re- quired : quails, sauco, salad, and garnish, as below. Cost of quails, uncertain. Bone and stuff some quails {see recipes under Game), and braise them; then divide when cold. Spread the outer part with brown sauce, good chaud- froid, and when firm garnish it with green chaudfroid, fr om a leaf pipe down the centre, and put some white or pink down the sides from a smaller pipe; leave the brown edge visible all round. The sauce must be used for this pur- pose before it sets; or, instead of coloured chaudfroid, somo thick may- onnaise sauce, or whipped cream seasoned with cayenne pepper, can be used. Have ready some paper cases; half till them with watercress salad, lay half a quail in each, and put round a flat dish. Quails with Foie Gras.—After boning and cooking the birds as above, cut slices thinly after the birds have become cold, and have a similar supply of foie gras in slices. Lay these in cases, one slice of foie gras on the top of the quail, and garnish with chopped jelly of two colours, pale in the centre, and a deep pink for the edges, or vice versa. Salad can be put in the cases, as in the above recipe, and should also be used for garnishing the dish; or olives, sliced beetroot, and plovers’ eggs may be used instead. Ragout of Game a la Finch- dale. — Required: four ounces of cooked game, two ounces each of boiled ham, truffles and foie gras, all in dice shapes; two eggs boiled hard, three gills of stock, No. 6, clarified, half an ounce of gelatine, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, from 2s. to 3s. Dissolvo the gelatino in a glass of Madeira, add it to the stock and stir in the meat, &c., and the eggs in strips—whites only. The stock should bo on the point of setting when they are put in. Lino some sandwich moulds with pink aspic, then put in a layer of the above, then more aspic, another layer of the ragout, and aspic again ; five layers in all. Turn them out when firm ; they should bo put oq