COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 527 from the meat, and if it contains no stuffing, season the meat with sage, or thyme and parsley. When hot through, beat in the yolk of a raw egg for half a pint of sauce, with a morsel of made mustard and hot chutney. Serve hot, and put Potato Chips or Tomato Chips round the dish. A small quantity of nicely-cooked pig’s liver may be minced and added to the sauce if liked. Bread sauce can be used in the same way; but for re-heating pork, the ordinary white sauces, of a richer kind, are not so suitable as they are for plainer sorts of meat. Those who are able to indulge in them, may, however, try those given for poultry, veal, &c.; white onion sauce is very good, so is celery; the yolks of one or two eggs being added if the dish is served a la blanquette. Without the eggs, serve it simply as “ pork in sauce.” Pork in Apple, Curry, or Digestive Sauce.—Required : for each pound of cold pork, about a pint of either of the above sauces, and other ingredients as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. inclusive. The meat may he sliced or minced, and should be pretty free from fat, or the dish is likely to be too rich. If any gravy he left over, supposing a roast, heat it, and let the meat warm through in it; then, when the sauce is ready, Lake the meat from the gravy, and let it remain in the sauce until well flavoured. Have a hot dish, with a border of any suitable vegetable of a green kind, or a puree of peas, or some curried rice for a change; put in the meat, and send gravy, if liked, to table separately. For a cheaper dish, put the peas, or what else may be used, in a thick layer on the dish, then one of meat and sauce, a thin layer only. Go on until all 1re used. If this be covered and sot over hot water for a short time, the vegetable will become well flavoured, and a little meat goes a long way. Pork and Cod-fish, Ameri- can Ragout of. -Required : for the foundation, equal weights, say a pound each, of pork and cod-fish; either pickled pork with fresh fish, or fresh pork with salt fish, seasoning, cracker crumbs, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. without salad. Cut the pork in small slices, and flako the fish, which should be first boiled or steamed. Grease a dish, and put in pounded crackers to form a lining; make a well-seasoned sauce, about a pint, using stock for the foundation, and seasoning with salt, cayenne, mace, mixed herbs, mustard, and grated lemon peel. Mix the flaked fish with this, and heat the whole. Fry the pork a little, season with the same materials used in the sauce, adding a little flavoured vinegar to taste. Put these materials in alternate layers in the dish, haring fish and sauce top and bottom; each layer of pork is to be dredged with crumbs. Have plenty of crumbs at the top; moisten with butter, then brown in a quick oven. Send to table with salad and a dish of sweet pickles. Note.—"When onions are liked, pound one, and add a teaspoonful of the juice to the pork, or some fried onions may be mixed with the rest. For a plainer dish, frying the pork may be omitted; reheating in a little gravy well boiled first. Pork Crepinettes.—Required: pork, potato pastry, raw tomatoes or cooked Spanish onions, seasoning, and egg and crumbs. Cost, about 2d. each. Make some plain Potato Pasth y into little rounds ; cut the same number of slices of tomato or onion, and half the number of slices of pork. On half the potato rounds, put a slice of tomato, season with salt and pepper, mustard, or chutney, then add tho meat, and another slice of vegetable seasoned in the same way. Cover with tho rest of tho potato rounds, and press the edges well together, then coat with egg and crumbs and fry brown, or omit the egging for a plain dish. Tho potato rounds should bo rather larger than the rest, that tho edges may be securely fastened.