KITCHEN" PROCESSES. 13 outside with the red juiciness of the interior, which betoken the perfect grill. For a beef-steak or a mutton chop, from eight to twenty minutes may be regarded as the approximate, but the latter would be enough for a very thick steak. For a mutton cutlet cut thinly a very few minutes is suf- ficient, because the thinner the meat the greater may be the heat from start to finish : that is to say, the grid need not be raised as it is for thicker pieces; and while beef and mutton are pre- ferred underdone, it must be borne in mind that pork and veal must be thoroughly and more slowly cooked. A little experience will enable anyone to tell when the happy medium has been reached. The meat will be firm and free from flabbiness, without being hard, and the gravy will settle in a clot on the surface when ready for dishing; and then, the hottest of hot dishes and the quickest • of quick service should give the finishing touches. As to sauce, many contend that hunger is the best, but some prefer a spoonful of ketchup or store sauce poured on the dish, or a pat of MaItue d’Hotel Butter is sometimes served with steaks. Many other sauces are also employed to give a distinctive character to the grill. A separate gridiron should be kept for fish, for however well it may be washed, the heat will bring out the flavour ; and this, after a bloater has been cooked, is notxalculated to improve a lamb chop ! So far, we have assumed the use of the plain single gridiron: there are many varieties, from wire ones, costing but a few ponce, to the enamelled iron, with fluted bars and a well for the drippings—not the gravy, that should be kept in the meat. Then there are double gridirons, by the use of which the turning of the meat is dispensed with, it is only necessary to reverse the gndiron. The revolving gridiron is a very good one, and by just touching it the meat is moved without the aid of a skewer or fork, therefore there is no fear that the gravy will be lost. A kidney or bird, split through the middle, should always be placed cut side down first. (For the grilling of fish—see Fish.) Larding and Barding.— Lard- ing is more difficult in theory than in practice; every woman who can use a needle ought to be able to lard, though it cannot be denied that speed and neatness are attained only after a few experiments; success at first cannot bo expected. In warm weather the bacon has a tendency to “run,” and to obviate this the lardoons should be laid on a tin set upon ice ns soon as cut. A cool hand is a deside- ratum. “ Lardoons ” is the term applied to the strips of bacon used,