PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 657 cookery is alone admissible. To a great extent, we agree with him ; but we cannot forget that much deponds upon the skilful admixture of the several ingredients, and that those who serve tomatoes almost daily at their tables in some form or otherare generally glad of a new method. Indeed, we think the popularity of the tomato is due in no small degree to the changes that can be rung upon the modes of serving it. Still, it has a very distinct and in- dependent flavour of its own, which needs neither enhancement nor di- minution, and the delicious sub-acid must not be destroyed by spices and herbs—only developed. There are many varieties of the tomato; the best kinds have fine, smooth skins. English-grown ones, when just ripe, are very inviting in appearance, the red ones being of a very beautiful colour. For the purpose of loosening the skins of tomatoes for peeling, boiling water is recommended; but its use should be discouraged; if properly ripe, the peel can be removed without any soaking. For a great number of dishes of the ordinary class, it is not necessary to remove the peel; but for high-class dishes of cold dressed tomatoes it is an improvement. Then the pips: it is common to meet with recipes, no matter how plain the dish, in which the words “ throw away the pips ” occur. Here discretion is wanted; for one cannot take away the pips without a good deal of the pulp adhering; when they are removed, therefore, by way of making room for stuffing, or simply from choice, the pulp should be sieved, that only the seeds may be wasted. Another point to be borne in mind is the fact that the cooking should never be prolonged further than necessary ; beyond this the tomato suffers in flavour. Cost, about 2d. fo 4d. per pound for im- ported, and Gd. to Is. for English- grown tomatoes, except early in the season. Of the imported, the red plum tomatoes are very good. Of the round varieties, the small ones are best for salads and garnishing purposes; and for ordinary dishes, the medium size are usually better than very large ones. Tomatoes, to Bottle.—This is an American method. Some wide- necked jars are to be made hot, by letting them lie in boiling water, or as nearly boiling as possible, then drain them when ready to fill. Take ripe tomatoes, equal in size, and scald them to loosen the skins ; take them off, and with the scalding water drain off any liquor that will run easily from the tomatoes without pressure. Put them in a jam kettle, and stir with a wooden spoon until they boil; then give them a good boil for ten or fifteen minutes: pour into the jars while boiling, and finish off in either of the following ways, but do not lose an instant, and be sure to fill to such an extent that the juice runs over; the jars should be set upon plates. The first and best way is to have jars with “grooved” necks and metal tops ; screw the tops on tightly, and as the contents cool, give another screw now and then, but before putting on the covers wipe the necks of the jars. When cold, wipe all the jars clean, and dry them, then put them in the coolest, driest, and very darkest place in the house. To save time, th'o tomatoes may be bottled thus without skinning; if not even-sized, the large ones should be broken up. Boil rather longer than above directed, and pour off a little of the moisture before filling the jars. The next way to finish off the bottles is to cork and wax them, and if this is done, the corks should bo soaked for a time in some of the boiling liquor from the fruit. Under the name of the “Climax” Bottle, a glass jar has boon specially manufactured which is admirably adapted for the preservation of toma- toes. It has an air-tight glass cap, the contents thus come in contact with the glass only; thoro is no trouble of corking, sealing down, or bladdoring; a great saving of timo is thereby effected. A strong glass top fits on the wide, open mouth, and presses