250 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rooms, with a small oaion mixed, a bunch of herbs, and a gill of olive oil; when hot, lay the meat in; cook until brown, basting often. Then pour off the oil, cover with a but- tered paper, lay a slice or two of lemon in, and pour stock from mutton bones to half cover the meat. Cook gently (about twenty minutes to each pound must be allowed). When nearly done, add three or four truffles in shreds or slices. Dish the meat, glaze it, then keep hot while the gravy is skimmed, thickened, and boiled up; more stock must be added to make up the quantity required. Pour it round the meat, put the truffles in little heaps, with small rolls of grilled bacon in between. Small mutton may be served as above. Lamb a la Sudhalle.—Roast a loin of lamb in the usual way, then cut it up, and place the pieces en couronne round a hot dish. Put a puree of spinach in a forcing bag with a fancy pipe, and ornament the dish, between the pieces of meat, with it. In the centre put some fancy shapes of carrot, turnip, and cucumber, all braised (see Vegetables). Pour a little Cafek Sauce over, and send more to table separately. Cost, as above. Lamb a, la Swindon (See recipe for Mutton X la Turque).— Prepare and stuff some lamb similarly, except that the curry powder is to be omitted. Koast this nicely, and when done, sprinkle some fried crumbs over it. Prepare a dish of Rice a la Swindon, and put it in piles round the meat on a large dish. Send Cucumber Sauce and gravy to table separately. Cost, about Is. per pound. Lamb Cream, Moulded.-- Required: a pound of raw lamb, half a pint of cream, a gill of thick Veloute or Supreme Sauce, four eggs, and some macaroni. Cost, about 2s. 6d., without the vegetable garnish. Parboil some pipe macaroni, and cut it into rings ; stick these together on a buttered border mould. (See Garnishes.) Cut the meat up; pound and sieve it; add the cream, sauce, and yolks of eggs; season with salt, white pepper, a dust of cayenne and nutmeg, and a pinch of powdered herbs. Cut up two to three tablespoonfuls of the macaroni, mix well together, then whip the whites of the eggs stiffly, stir them in, and fill the mould with the mixture. Steam it for an hour and a half, then turn out on a hot dish. In the middle of the mould put some asparagus points or peas, mixed with a little of the same sauce used in the mixture, and put more vegetables and sauce round the mould. Mutton may be similarly cooked ; and for a cheaper dish white sauce of a plain kind may bo used in place of veloute, and half the cream can be dispensed with; a gill of milk, thick- ened a little with panada or roux, taking its place; or some thickened white stock can be used instead. Lamb Cream, a la Parme- san (See recipe above).—Proceed as therein directed, but add one ounce of grated Parmesan to the mixture. When done, turn out and pour- over the following sauce. To half a pint of Creamy Bechamel, add two ounces of grated Parmesan, a pinch of cayenne, and a dash of French mus- tard ; beat in the yolk of an egg, and add an ounce of butter last thing. Garnish round the mould with Cro- quettes of Macaroni and Parmesan. Fill the centre of the mould with macaroni boiled in white stock and mixed with a little sauce as above. On the top put some poached eggs, with most of the white removed; a sprinkling of grated cheese, and a dust of coralline popper should bo put into the centre of each yolk. Mutton may be used instead of lamb, or half meat and half poultry makes a nice dish. Lambs’ Sweetbreads, with Bacon. — Required : sweetbreads, bacon, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Wash and trim them, and boil