UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOoK< 224 Brown stock, No. 16 or 17, should bo used for making it. Sweetbreads a la Houghton. —Required : four sweetbreads, a mac- aroni border, cocks’ combs, truffles, croustade, &c. Cost, varies with season. Blanch, parboil, and press the sweet- breads, lard them round tho edge with bacon and truffles, and braise them on a bed of vegetables, with a little stock until tender. Butter a plain border mould, decorate it with the macaroni {see Garnishes), and fill it with a white farce, veal or chicken, made as for quenelles, but coloured pink. The croustade should fit tho centre of tho border, but be made higher. When the sweetbreads are done, glaze tho larded part, and crisp them by moans of a salamander. In the centro of tho sweetbreads put some thick supremo sauce, and sprinkle it with chopped truffles and lobster coral. Dish theso on the border, lotting them lean against tho croustade. Take an equal number of cocks’ combs, and slices of tongue and truffle, cut to the same shape; heat them and make a ring, using them alternately round the top of tho border, and stick a whole truffle on the top, using an ornamental skewer to fasten it. Up between the sweetbreads fasten .some more of the same garnish used on the border. The tongue should be brushed over with thin glaze, and the cocks’ combs masked with sauce, like the sweetbreads. Pour some thin supreme sauce round the base, and servo hot. Sweetbreads A la Verecroft. —Required : a couple of sweetbreads, and a puree made as under. Chop a tablespoonful of button mushrooms, a fourth the measure of truffles, and a saltspoonful of parsley ; add a suspicion of shalot, and cook in an ounce of hot butter for a few minutes, stirring all the time; then take tho pan from the fire, and. mix in an equal bulk of pounded chicken, veal, or rabbit—the lirst is preferable. This must bo cooked, and during tho pounding it should be moistened with white sauco or thick cream. Set aside untii cooi. Braise tho sweetbreads and put by, pressing them in tho usual way. When cold, slice them and spread with tho mixture; place them again in their original shape, and egg, crumb, and fry them. l)ish them on a croustade, garnish with button mushrooms, cooked in stock and glazed, and sliced truffles, and send Italian or Madeira Sauce to table. If for an entree, pour it round the sweetbreads. Cost, varies with season. Sweetbread, with Asparagus and Quenelles.—After blanch- ing, let the Bweetbread cool, then put it in veal stock, or that from rabbit or chicken bones, and give it an hour’s cooking with frequent basting. Then slice, and dish in a row, and mask with supreme sauce. Make some Veal Quenelles and colour them pink ; they should be very small; use these for garnish, together with strips of truffle. Round the dish put a border of Asparagus Puree, with tho points sticking out half an inch or more above the surface; or cut some little rounds of truffle, and lay a quenelle on each; these have a pretty effect. Artichoke bottoms, masked with white sauce, can be used instead of asparagus; they should overlap all round the dish.- Lambs’ sweetbreads may bo used as in the foregoing recipes, but a larger pro- portion will bo required. Sweetbread, with. Sauce Herbace. — Required : a call’s sweetbread, half a pint of Sauce Herrac£, a dozen chicken quenelles, some cream, macaroni, tongue, and truffles. Cost, varies with season. Boil a sweetbread for ten minutes in white stock, after blanching it; put it in cold water for half an hour, cut it in dice and put it in the sauce; leave it just at simmering point for an hour. Prepare tho garnish by cut- ting tho red part of a cooked tonguo in fancy shapes: leaves or cocks’ combs; and the truffles in round slices ; heat them both in clear stock ; dry and glaze the tonguo. Boil the