risn. m ounces of butter. Garnish as under- mentioned. Have ready a tin, any shape, hut it should be wide enough to just hold the fish when laid close together. Put in it the wine and lemon j uice ; lay the fish in, and sprinkle with the parsley, &c. Work into the butter a little salt, an- chovy essence, cayenne, and a pinch of nutmeg, using a wooden spoon ; when creamy, lay a piece on each fillet of fish; cover with buttered paper, and set the tin in another containing hot water, and cook in the oven for ten or twelve minutes. Dish the fish in a pyramid form, add a spoonful of w'liite roux to the gravy, and a teaspoonful of herbal wine mixed with an equal measure of caper vinegar, and the fish stock ;* give a boil up, but do not skim, and pour over the fish. Garnish the base of the pyramid with fancy shaped slices of lemon, sprigs of parsley, button mushrooms, glazed, and tiny croutons. The mushrooms should be placed each on a crovlton, then a slice of lemon with parsley; some chopped parsley and mushrooms should also be shaken on the top of the sauce. Serve as an entree. Whiting with Shrimps.—In- quired : three medium-sized fish, half * Tliis should Pc boiled down to half a gill. a pint of freshly shelled shrimps, half a pint of stock, seasoning, &c., as under. The fish should he prepared and skinned, then divided into fillets by cutting down the back on each side, from head to tail, taking the flesh off close to the bone; each is to bo again divided; this gives twelve pieces. Season with salt and cayenne, brush over with warm butter, and roll up. Lay them close together in a tin, with a little wine, and a glass of French vinegar. Boil tho hones down for stock (sec Stocks) ; strain it, and add a little of it to tho vinegar; then cover with buttered paper, and hake for ten to twelve minutes in a good oven. Dish the fish, add the rest of the stock to tho gravy in the tin, put in a tea- spoonful of brown roux, and boil up : season to taste, then stir in the shrimps; when hot through pour into the centro of the dish, the whiting" forming an outer circle. The fish should ho prepared early io give time for the stock. A small, fresh haddock is good thus cooked ; it is made firmer for filleting if sprinkled with salt an hour before using, then wiped well, and dried in a soft cloth, in which it should he folded for a short time. So prepared, it can bo cooked in any of tho ways given for whiting, for which it is a good substitute.