POTTED MEATS AND FISH. 499 potted; the only ingredients that need be added are about half the weight of butter (though the exact amount must depend entirely upon the dryness, or otherwise, of the meat used), salt and cayenne, with a suspicion of nut- meg or mace if liked, but many will prefer it without either. The pounding should be very thorough. Finish off in the usual way and send to. the table nicely garnished. Game, Mixed, Potted for Keeping. — Required : pheasant, partridge, grouse, &c., with any poultry there may be handy, butter and seasoning as below. Cost, very variable. The- game and poultry should he roasted in the ordinary way and well cooked. If underdone the meat will not keep, whereas by thorough cooking and high seasoning it may be kept for some time. Birds that are somewhat old may he made into tasty relishes by this pirocess. When cooked leave until cold, then take away the skin and cut up the flesh; it should be raised clear from the bones; if the legs are wanted for a devil or grill, leave them, but if not, put them with the rest. Put all the bones aside with the skin, &c., for conversion into a “ fumet ” for other dishes, or for stock for soup, &c., as required. Then pound the meat after chopping, adding clarified fresh butter by de- grees. The amount must be regulated by the condition of the meat; if very dry it will take a third or more its weight. Salt, cayenne, and black pepper are the only seasonings really required, but other spices and anchovy essence may be used. Small pots should be used, and the covers must be of bladder. Store in a cold place. Sole.—A small proportion of mild fat bacon may replace some of the butter. More seasoning than for potted meat for present use is required; the meat should taste quite hot. This is nseful for many purposes. Game, Mock, Potted.—Re- quired : four ounces of bacon, the same weight of rabbit, half a pound of calf’s liver, a bead of garlic and season- ing as under. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. Mince the cooked liver and bacon; the first should be fried, and the latter may be fried or grilled; mince the garlic, pound all together, adding about a teaspoonful of good Worcester sauce, and the rabbit (this maybe from boiled or baked rabbit), and nearly a teaspoonful of Heruaceous Mixture, for which see Seasonings. Then put in a tablcspoonful of brown mushroom puree, made by cooking mushrooms in a little butter to a pulp (sec Mushrooms). Then pound well for some time; press very tightly in the pots, and set for a few minutes in the oven. Finish off in the usual way. This is a very nice relish, almost equal to potted game of the genuine kind. We may add, though, that if a morsel of game be used, or hare instead of rabbit, or some game livers, the mix- ture is still nicer. Add no salt until all he pounded, then taste it; the bacon may salt it almost enough. If more pepper is needed, use black; or for a very highly-seasoned compound, ground cloves may be used in addition. Ham, Potted, Economical. —Required: ham, butter, bacon, and seasoning as below. Cost from Is. to Is. 4d. per pound jar. The remains of a ham will serve for this, and if very lean a little fat bacon should he boiled for mixing with it; otherwise, a good deal of butter is wanted, and this is a costly item. As a rule, mild-cured ham is preferred to smoked ham for potting; the smoky flavour is apt to he too strong. Should it he used, more butter will he wanted. For ordinary ham, allow about four ounces of fat bacon and butter mixed to each half pound. The seasoning most gener- ally approved is a mixture of mace, cayenne, and pepper; some people add finely-powdered buy leaves or French mustard. A piece of bacon, any nice part in which the fat and lean are fairly equal, makes a good imitation of