104 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. first straining it from the seeds. This may also be served cold. Sauce, Piquant. (See Caper Sauce, Brown.)—Make a pint of sauce as given in that recipe, and add to it a good tiblespoonful of chopped French gherkins, with their vinegar, a teaspoonful each of orange-juice and tamarind chutney, and twice that measure of sweet mango chutney. Another way.—Add to the caper sauce a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, the same of cucumber vinegar, and a teaspoonful of hot pickles, cut up very small. Another way.—This is mild. Put a pint of Brown Sauce in a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, and half that measure of pickled walnuts, with a teaspoonful of onion vinegar. Another way.—Instead of walnut ketchup and walnuts, use mushroom ketchup and pickled mushrooms, with a little of their vinegar. Another way.—This is commonlv called pickle sauce, and is useful for grilled meats, game, or fish of the rich kind, as cels, salmon, mackerel, and the like. To make it, mince a good tablespoonful of that favourite pickle known as piccalilli: mix with it a tablespoonful of brown sauce and the same measuro of stock, or the gravy of a joint. Stir altogether in a saucepan until quite hot, and serve. This is appetising, and is generally liked. Sauce, Soublse. — Required : half a pound of onions, a gill of cream, a gill of white stock from veal or chicken bones, half a pint of Thick Bechamel, salt, and peppercorns, about half a dozen. Cost, about lOd. Blanch the onions a3 in Onion Sauce, slice them, and boil them in the stock until nearly done : then add the bechamel, and cook until tender; sieve the sauce, and re-heat it with tho cream, add seasoning to taste, and serve. Another ivay.—Boil the onions (after blanching) in water until they can bo sieved, then add them to half a pint of Ore vmy Bechamel, Sauce Supreme.—Required: a strong white stock, as for bechamel, but flavoured with only half the quan- tity of vegetables therein given. Boil it down until reduced to a fourth—a quart to half a pint—-with two ounces of button mushrooms, most carefully washed and cut up small. Mix with this, after straining, half a pint of good cream, first brought to the boil, and thicken with white roux ; it should resemble creamy bechamel; boil and skim for ten minutes more, and at the instant of serving add half a teaspoon- ful of lemon-juice. This, as its name implies, is the creme de la creme of sauces, although it is quite common to meet with a plain white sauce bearing the same title. It is expensive and rich, and only needed for high-class dishes, such as delicate entrees of chicken, sweetbread, &c. It lends itself readily to decorative pur- poses, and when well made is delicious; but strong stock and good cream are essential, and although some cooks make it by adding a gill of cream to three gills of stock, others use more cream than stock; hence there are various ways of making it, but the proportions above given, half cream and half stock, will be found rich enough for any purpose, and when a cheaper sauce is required it will be better to select some other kind than to attempt to rob sauce snprime of its characteristic richness. Sauce Veloute.—Put some white stock (as No. 9) on to boil until reduced to three-fourths the quantity; a few pieces of fresh vegetables should be added to freshen the flavour; then strain, and when cold, skim, and for a quart of sauce put a pint and a half of stock to half a pint of boiling cream ; boil it up with white roux—it should be as thick as very good cream—and just before serving put in a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Make this the same con- sistence as creamy bechamel, unless required thick, then it can be reduced by boiling, but never put the cream in imtil ready to serve, This sauce should | be velvety.