322 ■UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. aro frequently cut oft' (care being taken not to spoil the appearance of the joint), and served on a separate dish as an entree. (See Veal X la Marengo.) When the breast of veal is largo it is well that this should bo done, as thoy are often lost by being under-dressed. They must of course, bo cut off the moat before it is dressed. The place where the tendons begin and the ribs end is. shown by a line of white gristle. The stock from veal tendons may be used for sweetbread soup, and others of the 'same class. It should bo prepared as No. 9, the tendons being-separately sorved: any other white meat may be used witli them to make up the required quantity. Veal with Rice. — Required: throe pounds of knuckle of veal, three ounces of rice, three pints of stock made as directed below, a tablospoon- ful each of capers, chopped onion, and shredded celery, salt and pepper to taste. Cost, about 2s. 3d. .Some hours before tho meal is re- quired, put the shank bone on in three pints of cold water with a few popper- corns, a clove or two, and a bunch of herbs; boil gently down to a quart, then strain, and add another pint of water. Put in the meat, and stew slowly for an hour, then add the washed rice and the scalded onions, and stew for another hour (broken rice does for this). Season, add tho capers, chopped finely, and in ten minutes serve on a hot dish, the meat in the centre. The shank bone will still have somo' nourishment left in it, and should go into tho stock-pot. Another way.—Boil the bone down- as directed, and cook the meat in the stock, with the onions, first fried a delicate brown : only a pint and a luilf of stock will be wanted. Then thicken it with brown roux, and serve on a dish, first covered with a thick layer of savoury rice. (Sec Rice.) Garnish the dish with clear hot pickles, warmed, and slices of lemon or lime. Some forcemeat balls stewed in tho gravy are a further improve- ment ; or some little rolls of bacon may bo put about tho dish. MUTTON. GENERAL REMARKS. The best mutton, and that from which most nourishment is obtained, is that of sheep of from three to six years old, and which have been fed on dry sweet pastures. The flesh of sheep which liave been reared on farms near the sea-coast is also sweet and wholesome; the saline particles abounding in such situations impart both firmness and a fine flavour. To suit the palate of an epicure, a sheep should never be killed earlier than its fifth year, at which age the mutton will be found firm and succulent,, and full of the richest gravy. This is, however, not easily obtained at the present time. To ascertain the age of mutton the following directions, may be given Observe the colour of the breast-bones when a sheep is dressed, that is, where the breast-bone is separated. In a lamb, or before the sheep is one year old, it will bo quite red; from one to two years old, tho upper and lower bones will be changing to white, and a small circle of white will appear round tho edge of the other bones, and tho middle part of the breast-bone will yet continue red; at three" years old, a very small