197 FISII. In all the foregoing recipes it is assumed that the usual tests will be employed for ascertaining if the fish is done. A common direction in recipes for trout is “ cook until the eyes start; ” hut this test is not referred to in any recipe herein. Tunny Fish.—This is a fish which somewhat resembles the mac- kerel ; it is caught in the Medi- terranean, and sent out preserved in oil; the flesh is delicate and much esteemed: it is something like veal. It may he bought in tins, from Is. 6d. to 2s. each, and can be used in salads, or served plainly as a break- fast dish, with sauce, or oil, vinegar, and pepper. It also makes good curry. The oil from the tin should be used in making the curried sauce, and the fish heated in it; this is considered a very wholesome way of serving it; when cold, tunny fish is somewhat in- digestible. Another favourite dish consists of tunny fish and thinly sliced cucumber, dressed plainly. {See Salads.) Fio. 64.—Tunny. Tunny fish is, however, a dish which is known to and enjoyed by a comparative few. Turbans of Fish. —There are almost endless ways of making fish turbans, and very pretty dishes most of them are. The idea is to line tho mould with one sort of fish farce, and to fill up with another, preferably of a contrasting colour. A mould shown below is correct, but it is not absolutely nocessary. Any round mould will do if of sufficient depth, with an in- dented top, and fluted sides, but it is not a border mould.* Fio. 55.—Tukban, ok Turk's Caf Mould. A very effective dish may be mado as follows : butter the mould well, and sprinkle it with shrimps, truffles, and parsley, all chopped. Take any whito farce, that given for White Fish Quenelles, Moulded, for instance, add to half a pound of it a little good sauce, bechamel or any other, a spoon- ful or two of thick cream, half a gill of picked shrimps, and a bit of crayfish butter to colour and flavour. Lino the mould with this, press it evenly and closely to the sides, then fill up with a ragout of white fish. To mako it, cut up raw fish, and add good, thick whito sauce to moisten, with a raw egg or two to bind, and season nicely ; or use parboiled rice or maca- roni, and sauce, &c., as above; then cover with another layer of fish farce as used at first. Poach just as directed for quenelles, but set the mould on a fold or two of paper in the stowpan. Allow from forty minutes to an hour in proportion to depth. Garnish tho top and base with shrimps or crayfish tails, heated in whito wine, and pour crayfish sauco round the turban. Another wuy.—Use salmon farce, ns given for quenelles, to lino tho mould, and fill up with fillets of whito fish. * Border moulds arc sometimes used for turlians, tliosc called “ sunk to])" being most suitable. (6'ce Garnishes.)