120 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK to tho vanilla, a pinch of ground cinnamon may bo (faded if tho flavour is likod. Claret Sauce.—Required : half a pint of good claret, two eggs, a tea- spoonful of rod-currant jolly, a few drops of essenco of cinnamon, cloves, or nutmeg ; one to two ounoes of loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of arrowroot, and a little water. Cost, about Is. Blond the arrowroot and water, add | a little of the claret, and stir to tho I boil; then put tho rest of the wine in j tho pan, with tho eggs, first beaten, and idl tho other ingredients. Whip tho sauce quickly until frothy and on the point of boiling, then pour it over a hot pudding. ..tnothrr way.—Use a tablespoonful of apple jelly (omitting the red-cur- rant), add, a glass of port, and proceed as above directed. This is a l'ich sauce. Climax Sauce (** Climax 1Yi>- lUNo).—Solve with it the following sauce : Mix togother a tablespoonful of lemon conserve (mo Lemon Cheese- cakbs in J'axtry), the same measure of tho crumbs of a sponge linger biscuit and lemon marmalade; add a table- spoonful of rum, and the same of sherry, cover, and set the pan in a warm place for a short time, then stir hi a quarter of a pint of rich melted butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and it teaspoouful of castor sugar; stir until quite hot, and serve. This sauce is equally good with other puddings, as Lemox or Ouaxge Pcodings, &c. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Required : the white part of half a cocoa-nut finely grated, water, sugar, cream, and a little essence of vanilla, or some rose-water or orange-flower-water. l’ut tho nut in an enamelled pun (see that no bits of brown skin are mixed with it); first cover it with cold water, and boil it softly for an hour, then flavour and sweeten to taste, and put in some boiling cream, or add some j of the milk of the cocoa-nut if very sweet and good ; boil again—it should I bo like thick cream—and sorve hot or cold. Another way.— Simmer the nut in its own milk with a little water, if required, then add a little cream last thing, and a well-beaten egg, with tho grated rind of an orange; beat hard for a minute after the egg is in. This is a very useful pudding sauce. Cocoa-nut Sauce from Desic- cated Nut.—Dried cocoa-nut may bo bought sweetened or plain; in either case it should be soaked for a short time in cold water before its conversion into sauce. It can then bo finished off in either of the foregoing ways. Tho best, qualities of the dried nut are decidedly preferable to a fresh nut of inferior quality ; they should never be used if rancid in the least degree. (See Cocoa-nct and Ouaxge Pudding) Coffee Sauce.—Required ; tho third of a pint of strong clear coffee, made as for Coffee Ciikam Ice or, if more convenient, coffee essence may be used ; four times tho usual quantity will be required. Mix with it two- thirds of a pint of custard (ere Rich Custard, Unflavouued), add a couple of ounces of loaf 'sugar and a good flavouring of vanilla, then stir tho mixture in the bain-marie until thick and at boiling point ; add half a gill of thick cream, and serve hot with coffee souffle, or cold with coffee and vanilla cream. Corn flour Sauce. For a plain sauce, mix one ounce of corn-flour to a smooth paste with cold water: first make a hollow in the centre of the fiour, pour in the water slowly, and stir with the back of a small wooden spoon : when free from lumps, add a pint of boiling water or milk, pour into a saucepan, and stir until it boils up, then simmer for five to ten minutes, and sweeten to tasto; add a little nutmeg or other spice, and serve with plain puddings. Anothtr tray.—Uso jam instead of sugar, or a little fruit syrup of any kind; or add, off the fire, a tew drops