358 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. with peas pudding and green vege- tables, or oaten cold with sharp sauce. If not to he eaten hot, leave them in the liquor until cold. The vegetables, cut up, with some thickening, as peas, beans, or lentils, will bo all that is nocessary to convert the liquor into good soup, after the addition of more water or stock. Cost, from Id. to 2d. each. Feet and Ears.—Wash them, and boil in the above way, or in milk and water until tondor. Use a brush in cloansing them. Draw the bones from the feet, and cut the cars in strips, lto-heat them in any nice, plain sauce, as usually served with pork ; or heat the oars only, then dip tho foot in liquid butter or drip- ping, and then in crumbs, and broil them. Place thorn on the dish, and garnish with slices of lemon. For frieaseed feet and ears, re-heat them in white sauce, rich or plain as required. Cost varying with the sauce, &c. Fry.—See that it is fresh, and very clean. The recipe given for Lamb’s Fry may he followed. The heart can ho cooked separately if liked, so may the sweetbread; tho liver and fat will then make a tasty dish. A common way of cooking fry is to put it in. a baking-tin, with the fat spread over it; but it is much nicer if first cooked for a short time in stock, then finished off in the oven; the stock from the stewing being used to make the gravy in the pan. Time, about two hours. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Fry witli Veal Stuffing.— ihis is a change from ordinary dishes of fry. Cut up all the meat, and put in a stew-jar; see recipes for Gravies for Stews and Hashes; make enough gravy to cover the meat, and cook it in a gentle oven. Mean- while, make somo small balls of veal or plain herb forcemeat, about a dozen for two pounds of fry ; fry them a little to brown them, and put them into the gravy, or into a separato vessel, to simmer for an hour before serving. Place them on the dish round the meat. Time for the fry, two hours or more. A spoonful of brown vinogar and a morsel of mustard should be stirred in at tho commencement. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Head, Boiled.—If fresh, boil in the way directed for pork. A pickled head needs different treatment; see Brawn, p. 375. Cost, uncertain ; from 4d. to fid. per lb. is the average. Head, Pressed (a German dish). —Required: head, feet, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Cut a head through, and boil it with the feet, some sage and onions, and water to cover. Add cloves and other spices. When the bones slip out, take up the hoad, and cut away the meat, leaving tho skin side intact. Cut up the meat, with that of the feet; season it, add the minced tongue, then boil tho gravy down to a jelly; mix some with the meat when nearly cold, and then lay some on each half of the skin of the hoad laid on a dish, covered with a wet cloth. Draw the two parts together, and fold the cloth over. Then pin or sew it very firmly. Put it in a pie-dish to just hold it, with a dish and some weights on the top. Serve in slices iaith salad and pickles when cold. This is considered^Rer if a little smoked ham or tongue be mixed with the rest; or some tongue which has been salted only will answer. (See recipes for Salted Meats.) If a pickled head is preferred for this, put the fresh head into pickle for four or five days, or more. Head, Hoast. -Take up a fresh pig's head which has been already boiled until it is sufficiently tender to take out the bones. Shape it neatly, and skewer it firmly. Sprinkle over it some sago leaves, finely powdered, and a little pepper and salt, and put it in a tin before the fire. Baste it well whilst it is roasting. Serve on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured over it, and send apple sauce to