UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 628 make a smooth paste. This is eaten in France, and there are many ways of adapting it to English palates. {Sec Savouries.) Garlic Puree.—Skin the cloves of garlic, and cook them in a saucepan of boiling water, changing it every livo minutes, until the garlic is soft; a goo 1 pinch of salt should be put in the last water. Pound it, and add gravy or brown sauce to make a thick purde. If for roast mutton, use the plain gravy of tho joint. For braised meats use the gravy from the pan, or some good, strong stock. After mixing, stow the garlic and gravy togethor for a short time, and serve very hot. This is very mild, hut can ho made still milder by using a very little garlic and a proportion of onion. This is also useful in concocting savoury dishes. Good King Henry.- This is a plant that is plentiful about farm yards as a rule; it is host in June and July. The leaves are cooked like spinach ; and the stalks may be boiled and served like asparagus. When cold, they can be used in salads. English mercury is another name for this wholesomo plant. Greens.—{Sec Cadhaoe.) Herbs, Bunch or Bouquet of. — Two sprigs of parsley, one sprig each of thyme and marjoram, an inch strip of lemon peel, a small green onion, or leek, or shalot, a clove, and a bay loaf, should be used for a very savoury dish. The neatest way to form the bunch is to lay tho lemon peel and clove in tho centre of the herbs ; fold tho latter over to make a compact little bundle, and tie it with cotton; any loose sprigs which might become detached should bo snipped off with scissors. This is only necessary when tho herbs are put in any prepa- ration for a few minutes; when stewed in the sauce or gravy which will have to be strained or tammied afterwards, a few loose pieces are no object; but many a useless straining may be avoided—when a slight flavour of herbs only is required—by taking the trouble to tie the bunch. For everyday uses, a bunch of herbs is generally understood to mean a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, and a morsel of lemon thyme or common thyme. When tho leaves of herbs have been used for forcemeats, the stalks can be tied up, and used for flavouring various liquids. Herbs, Dried and Powdered. — Gather the herbs on a dry day, in the cool of the evening, and just before they flower; cleanse them quickly, remove decayed leaves, and dry them by spreading out on sheets of paper, or lay them on a sieve; they may bo dried near a fire, say the plate-rack of the range, or in a cool oven, or in the sun ; but the quicker the process the better the flavour. Tick carefully from tho stalks, and rub through a fine sieve, then store in bottles. For the blending of herbs, alone, or with spices, sec the chapter on Seasonings. It is common to sco bunches of dried herbs hanging by the kitchen fire; this is a dirty plan; tho herbs become covered with dust, besides losing flavour; apart from this, it is better to use a spare hour to dry and powder them (tying up the stalks for use in soups, &c.), and have them ready for use. Those who have no gardens will find it as cheap to buy the herbs in bottles as to prepare them at home. A good-sized bottle can be had for a few pence. The paper packets are no use at Jill, being often entirely flavour- less. Horse-radish. —This is common in our gardens ; it is a very pungent plant, and a favourite adjunct, either raw and scraped, or made into sauce, with roast beef. It is said to be very wholesomo. Cost, from Id. to Id. per root. This forms an ingredient of many store sauces, and is a most useful article for flavouring purposes. When required for garnish for cold meat, wash and scrub very thoroughly; let