54 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. a pinch of cayenne, and serve very hot. Cost, about 6d. per quart. Mock turtle soup made with pig’s head is objected to very often because it so frequently tastes greasy. Conse- quently, great caro should be’taken to get rid of the fat. This can only be done by making the soup the day be- fore it is wanted, so that it can be poured out, and when cold the cake of fat can bo taken from the top. As even after this a great deal of fat may bo held in solution in the soup, the liquor should be boiled again in a covered saucepan, and afterwards sim- mered gently by the side of the fire, and the fat removed as it is thrown up. Finish this off as directed for Mock Tciitle. If it can be had, a calf’s foot is an improvement to this, the meat being cut up and served in the soup ; then less of the head is needed. In any case, uso only a por- tion of it, as it is very rich. Another good soup of the kind can bo obtained from a set of pig’s feet and cars. The latter must be boiled for a very long timo; they will enrich the soup and furnish a separate dish. (See recipes for Pig’s Feet, various ways.) Mushroom Soup. — Required: half a pound of flap mushrooms, a quart of stock (No. 4), salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, an ounce and a half of butter, two ounces of browned flour. Cost, about 9d. Peel and stalk the mushrooms, break them up, and put them into a small stew-pan with the butter, lemon-juice, and parsley — a dessert - spoonful of each; cover, and leave them cooking gently until they can be rubbed through a sieve. Wash the stalks and peelings, tie them in muslin, and simmer them in the stock for a short time to draw out the flavour, then remove them; add the flour, mixed with cold water, and the mushroom mixture, boil for ton or fifteen minutes,season, and serve. Skim during the boiling. For a superior soup uso slock No. 7, add a couple of ounces of minced ham to tho mushrooms, and serve fined croutons with tho soup. When tho flavour is not disliked, a morsel of chopped shalot may be mixed with tho mushrooms. Mushroom Soup (White).— Substitute medium white stock for the above, and thicken it with a white mushroom puree (see Dkessed Vege- tables) until as thick as good cream; add salt, cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and a gill of hot cream. Serve as hot as possible. Mutton Broth.—Required : two quarts of the pot liquor from boiled mutton, two ounces of pearl barley, a carrot, a turnip, half a dozen small onions, a couple of leeks, salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Take the fat from the liquor when cold; re-boil it, and add the vegetables, cleansed and sliced or cut into strips or dice. The leeks should be freed from tho root, dark green leaves, and ends, but the green stalk should be left on. Tho barley needs washing and scalding, and at least two hours’ boil- ing. The carrots and other vegetables need not be fresh; any left over from the previous day can be used up. Add the parsley a few minutes beforo Serving, and season delicately. Mutton Broth (No. 2).—This is more nourishing. Allow a pound and a half of fresh lean meat—scrag-end of the neck will do—to the above quantity of liquid, either water or liquor from boiled mutton; wash the meat well, and add the water cold; bring to the boil with a little salt, skim well, and cook for a couple of hours. Add vegetables, &c., as above. Cut the meat into squaresand servo in the broth, and put the bones into the stock-pot. Rice can be used instead of barley. Okra Soup.—Required: a tin of okra (or gumbo), salt, pepper, and herbs, an onion, a stalk of celery, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, two quarts of stock (No. 4), half a pound of cooked meat, a slice of raw ham,