673 DRESSED VEGETABLES. flour; stir in a good tablcspoonful of chopped mushrooms cooked in butter, a fourth as much paisley, the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, the same bulk of chopped bay leaf and tarragon mixed, and a small chopped onion that has been fried brown. Give a few minutes’ cooking, then put in an ounce of butter, a bit of glaze the size of a small nut, and seasoning to taste. Have some thin slices from a hot braised or boiled tongue, either calf's or sheep's; form a ring with these and some croutons the same shape; mix the beans in the sauce, and pour them in the centre; then serve hot. This is a good luncheon dish. Beans a la Ponlette, Vege- tarian.—Required : beans, seasoning, butter, eggs, thickening, &c\, as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. Boil some small broad beans; they cannot be too young for this dish; drain them, and put them in a sauce- pan, with two ounces of butter to each quart; add a dust of sugar, and salt and pepper to season nicely ; shake in a tablespoonful of flour, stir to the boil, then draw the pan back and beat in the yolks of two eggs ; go on beating just below boiling point for a minute. Serve with a squeeze of lemon juice or white vinegar over, and as hot as possible. By adding chopped shalot or very mild onions, a tablespoonful to the quart, and some mixed herbs in place of plain seasoning, the dish becomes a la Bourgeoise. A few spoonfuls of vegetable stock can be put in the pan, and the quantity of flour slightly increased. The onions should be fried a little first of all. Beetroot Purde.— Required: beetroot and other materials as below. Cost, varies with the adjuncts used. Boil some beetroot, and make a purde of it in the way directed for artichokes or turnips ; or add some brown sauce to it, with a few drops of carmine to make it a rich colour. It is very useful on account of its appearance, as it forms a pleasant contrast to dishes of white meat. A still prettier dish is made by dividing tho beetroot puree into sections by means of chopped white of egg, or the sieved yolk, or some green puree from a bag and pipe. A pretty effect is also got by putting rows of the above, with turnip or other white puree in stripes, from base to point, or in rounds, until a pyramid is formod. A puree of onions or celery can bo used in this way, and the dish improved in taste as well as appearance. Broad Beaus with Brown Sauce.—Required: beans,sauce, ham, eggs, and bacon as below. Cost, about 9d. to Is. If quite young beans are used, this is a very good dish. Boil them until the outer shells can bo removed, then put them in a saucepan, with enough browm sauce to cover them; add a tablespoonful of chopped ham to each pint of beans, and, when hot, serve with a squeeze of lemon last thing. Garnish with hard eggs in slices to form a ring, and rounds of fried bacon in between; or with croutons and eggs. Either of the piquant brown sauces may be used similarly. Small fried onions are sometimes used as garnish to the above ; or some fried sliced onions may be put in the sauce. Broad Beans with Bgg Sauce.—The beans are to be boiled and husked, then covered with Egg Sauce, and left for a few minutes. After dishing, garnish with ham, boiled or fried, and cut in dice. This is a very tasty and favourite dish. Cost, if a quart of beans, about Is. 3d. Broad Beans with Tomato Chips. — Required: beans, sauce, tomatoes, macaroni, Ac., as under. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. Boil and husk tho beans; they should be young; pile them up, and pour a pint of good Melted Butteh over each quart. Sprinkle thickly with Tomato Chips, and a little shredded tarragon. Garnish with little heaps of the chips, alternated with boiled macaroni; sprinkle tarragon over the latter. This goes well with boiled ham.