COLD ENTREES. 277 of the sauce, and put a little heap in the centre of the cream, with tomatoes in little squares, dressed with oil, &c., as for salad, all round. Serve as cold as possible. Braised meat is better than any other for this dish. Cream cf Chicken and Ham. —Take a square copper baking-sheet with turned-up edges, and line it with tomato aspic. Mix a puree of ham and chicken (see Ham and Chicken Pc itee. Iced), with a little chopped parsley; spread it over the aspic when set. Coat with more aspic, then set on ice until cold. Garnish the top with alternate rows of green butter and egg butter, using a bag and pipe. Leave a clear space between the garnish, so that the cream can bo cut neatly into squares. Serve one to each person. They may be on little plates, or in paper cases. Garnish with chopped tomato aspic, or small salad. Cost, variable. Cutlets in Aspic Cream.— Required : seven or eight lamb cutlets (or veal can be used in the same way), some sauce, asparagus puree, and gar- nish as under. Cost of meat, about 3s. Grill the cutlets, and leave them until cold. Put a pile of iced aspa- ragus puree in the centre of the dish, an t put the cutlets round it. Prepare some aspic cream (see Cold Sauces) and whip it over ice for a short time; then ornament the cutlets with it, and put some round the base. Cutlets in Chervil Cream.— F r this, a piece of lamb or veal, either roasted or braised, may be used. It should be left until cold before it is divided into cutlets. Substitute chervil cream 'see Coi.d Sauces) for that given above, and use it in the same way. In the centre, put some whole dressed asparagus (sec Dressed Vegetables), the best part only; every bit of the hard stalk must be removed. This should be placed in a border of rice, high enough to keep it in shape; the cutlets resting against the border. Fancy slices of cut lemon and little blocks of aspic should bo used as garnish. For the rice border see Garnishes ; if preferred, a border of aspic can bo used in place of rice. Cutlets, with Queen’s Own Sauce.—Take as many cutlets as may be required; they may be mut- ton, lamb, or veal, and grilled, fried, or broiled ; or braised meat is equally good. Lay each singly in an oval paper case, on a bed of cress and shredded lettuce, or any other salad preferred; mask with bechamel or supreme sauce; then ornament the top with queen’s own sauce (see pago 112). Garnish the surface with chopped parsley and coralline pepper; or the sauce may he coloured pink, and sprinkled with chopped truffles. Cost, variable. Duckling, with Fruit Salad. —Required : duck, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, variable, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. The breast of a duck is required for this, and one that has been braised is to be preferred to a roasted one. Slice it when cold, and see that the slices are even in size. Dip each into tomato sauce, made by mixing the pulp of a ripe tomato or two with sherry and glaze, in the proportion of a quarter of an ounce of glaze and a tablespoonful of sherry to a gill of the pulp, and a tablespoonful of good brown stock or gravy, and the same of very strong aspic. Cut some pieces of pale aspic, a little larger than each slice of duck; lay one on each when the tomato sauce has become cold, then dish on a bed of watercress salad straight down the dish. In between the slices put some cherries, drained from the salad dress- ing, and cut in four, mixed with a small proportion of chopped olives. Put a spot of white mayonnaise on each slice of duck, with a fow hits of olives in the middle. More cherry salad (the fruit left whole), with a fow olives, complete the garnish for tho sides of the dish. Another way.—Use orange salad,