HORS D’CEUVRES. GENERAL REMARKS. The custom among Continental nations of commencing dinner with some savoury plat, which shall stimulate a jaded appetite or serve as a whet to the palate, is gaining ground, probably more in deference to fashion than from individual requirement. As to the wisdom of the practice, much difference of opinion exists. On the one hand, it is asserted that such dishes are injurious where appetite and digestion are lacking, and that given a good appetite, they are quite unnecessary; while ou the other, it is urged that they are in many eases of real benefit. But between the two extremes—from the Russian habit of indulging in several varieties of highly-flavoured food, followed by strong liqueur or spirit, to the oyster served au naturel, declared by many to be the hors cl'oeuvre par excellence —there is ample scope for the introduction of little dishes, appetising and free from injurious properties. It should be remembered that, while over-elaboration should bo guarded against, in such as precede a simple dinner, careless service is inexcusable. Dainty service aucl suitable garnish must not be neglected; tiny dishes of glass or white china, holding just enough for one person, are most suitable and effective for dotting about the table; though for less ceremonious occasions large dishes may be used, say two or three, each containing a distinct variety. The following list will enable a selection to be made, and suggest many other combinations. The chief materials available are anchovies, anchovy paste or buttex-, beetroot, capers, cress, celeiy, chervil, cods’ roe paste, cucumber, caviare, herring roes or fillets, marinaded herrings, lemons, lax (Norwegian salmon), mussels, olives plain or stuffed; oysters, pickles, smoked ham, sausages, tongue, Ac.; tarragon, tomatoes; Ac. Ac. Various potted meats, fish pastes, and butters, play an im- portant part in the garnishing of the dishes. Many Shall Savouries which could also be served as Hors d’CEuvres will be found under that and other headings later on. Details of the adjuncts of the following recipes, as anchovy butter, green butter, crayfish butter, aspic jelly, Ac. Ac., will be found in their appropriate chapters. (See Index.) Anchovies So. 1).—Wash the Ssh in milk, dry them, remove the hones, and fillet them as even in size as possible: put them iri little dishes — shell-shaped, or anything small and pretty—with sliced cucumber and beet- root, and little heaps of cress and chervil, seasoned and daintily arranged. Guard against uniformity of arrange- ment ; vary it as much as possible. Anchovies (No. 2). — Lay the fillets, prepared as above, on strips of fried bread the same sizo; coat the fillets, some with hard-boiled yolk of egg, sieved; some with the white of an