674 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Broad Beans witli White Sauce.—These are served with any good white sauce (see recipes for tur- nips, Jerusalem artichokes, and other white vegetables). Purees of broad beans can be made as directed for white haricots. Good Parsley Sauce, or any kind with a nice seasoning of herbs, is particularly good with beans. Cost, varies with the kind of sauce. Brussels Sprouts with Cheese Sauce.—Required: sprouts, sauce, croutons, cheese, ham, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. for a dish of two pounds of sprouts. Boil and drain the sprouts, and pilo them in a dish in circles; there should be one sprout only on the top, and that is to be left as it is. Over the rest, pour some cheese sauce (sec page 94). Round the pile put some small croutons, glazed and sprinkled with grated cheese, then with grated liam; put a little brown sauce over. Serve very hot. If wanted more substantial, some strips of cooked ham may be put between the croutons. This is a very nice dish. Brussels Sprouts with To- mato Sauce.—Proceod as above, using a sauce made from the pulp of some ripe tomatoes, thickened with roux to the consistence of custard, and seasoned. Or the sauce of page 106 may be used. On the top of the sprouts put some cooked macaroni, and a border of it round the base. Use croutons as above, in addition, and the dish will have a very pretty appearance. Cardoons, Boiled.—Choose a few heads of sound white cardoons. Cut them into pieces about six inches long, remove the prickles, and blanch them. Scrape off the skin and tie them in bundles. Cover them with nicely-flavoured stock, and boil till tender. Drain them, and serve on toast, with plenty of good melted butter. Half a dozen will make a dish. Cardoons, Fried. — Proceed as above, and when the cardoons are tender, melt a little butter in a pan, drain the cardoons, dredge a little flour over, and fry them till they arc nicely browned. Send good melted butter to table with them. Cardoons en Ragout.—Pre- pare the cardoons by boiling as above until nearly done. Then lay them in a stewpan with enough stock to cover them; it should be rich bi’own. Just before dishing, add half a glass of sherry, and half an ounce of glaze to each half pint of gravy. Salt and a pinch of cayenne are the only condi- ments required for the seasoning. Cost, too variable to give an average. Carrot Cutlets.—Required: two or three carrots, egg, bread, garnish, and sauce as below. Cost, about 9d. or lOd. Large carrots are wanted for this dish. Slice them lengthwise after boiling, or, better still, braise them until nearly done, then egg and crumb, and fry brown. Cut them out with cutlet cutters, either plain or fluted; coat half the number with sieved egg yolk and chopped parsley, and dish them in a ring, with the plain alter- nately ; they should rest on a ring of fried bread. Cut up the trimmings into small pieces, put them in the centre of the dish, and pour a little thick white sauce over—Bechamel, or any similar. Carrot Puree.—See the recipe for Carrot Sauce, page 92. Cook as therein directed, but let the carrots cook in the butter longer; sieve them, and add brown sauce only—no stock. If colour is an object, add a little yellow colouring; or, instead of brown sauce, use a good white one, and beat in tho yolk of an egg to each half pint of carrots. By using grated carrots as directed, a full-flavoured puree is ob- tained; but a very good one can be got by braising or stewing some carrots, and sieving them; the pulp thus obtained may be enriched with a little brown or white sauce, according to the purpose for which it required, or butter or cream may be used. Chopped capers or parsley will give a nice flavour, or