20 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. eaten apart from their liquor, is lost; and herbs too are a wholesome addi- tion. The temperature of the water (or better, stock, if only from bones) is not unimportant, and about this, again, the “doctors disagree.” Now, most people know that cold water extracts the juices (if about to make beef-tea, where the meat itself is not to be used, this would be the plan of action); all admit this, and the meat, though tender, will lose its flavour and good- ness. What matter, say some, you will have it in the gravy. Granted; but on the other hand, it is argued, and rightly, that such meat is stringy, and far less easy of digestion than when the juices are retained, if only partially ; and so boiling water, or gravy, at start- ing, is pronounced by others the thing. True, this closes the pores, and leaves the meat with its full flavour, but unless it is of excellent quality—and inferior meat is usually employed—it will remain hard. Therefoi'e, the prac- tical solution of the difficulty lies in the adoption of the medium tempera- ture ; for it must not be forgotten that often very small pieces are used, and are thus utilised to the best advantage ; but to expose so many cut surfaces to the action of cold or boiling' liquid has equal and obvious disadvantages. The quality of the meat, too, must be con- sidered. Briefly, we advise cold water for any tough, gristly parts ; warm for meat such as steaks of medium quality ; while for prime meats for choice ragouts the temperature may be nearly boiling point. We quote from Mr. Buckmaster’s “ Hints on Stewing,” as follows:—All the gristly parts—the feet, shanks, knuckles — should be stewed. There is no other way of cooking these parts to advantage. They require time, and this is often the difficulty and objection; but what is there to prevent a woman, when the family are all sitting round the fire in the evening, thinking about to- morrow’s dinner? The fire which warms the children will also cook their dinner. The great vice of most women, not only among the poor, but among the middle classes, is that they never think of cooking till they feel hungry. Trimmings of all kinds of meat can sometimes be purchased cheaply. A woman who has but little to spend should watch her opportunities. Sheep’s feet, the shank-bones of legs of mutton, and pieces of bone and ox-tails to the tan-yard; and even now much goes there which could be turned to good account. As to the best utensils * for making stew, a copper pan, for those who can afford it, is hard to beat, but it must be kept well-tinned. Steel is good and durable, and that or a well-tinned iron pan may bo used for the most delicate dishes. Of earthenware, the best are the French fire-proof china, because they are non-absorbent; while the worst are those of an absorbent kind. Nothing cooked in such a vessel can have a fresh flavour, and to their use may be due, in a measure, the com- plaint made by some that “all stews taste alike.” But this is the fault of the individual, and may easily be avoided. Again, such jars are often carelessly washed, and the thickening used for the gravy is perhaps allowed to “ cake ” on the bottom, with a most unpleasant result so far as the next stew made in it is concerned, for any- thing of a delicate flavour would be hopelessly ruined. A stew from fat meat or with a greasy gravy is an abomination; and such errors, together with those above indicated, may have called forth the assertion of a certain writer that a cook who can make a stew free from grease does not exist. This is sheer nonsense, and calculated to do mischief, by depriving those to whom money is an object of a host of savoury and economical meals. * See final section on The Kitchen and Cookino Utensils for details of various cook- ing apparatus.