PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G23 water, then drained in the same way as potatoes, it becomes insipid, and loses much of its nutriment, therefore we do not adviso it. The beads should be made even by cutting off some of the root, and they should he put close together in a saucepan that will tako them easily, both with regard to cir- cumference and depth. If more con- venient, some may he cut from the tops. Boiling water should then be poured round to about half the depth, with a little butter and salt. Tie with a piece of tape. The cooking should he gentle. The roots must be tender, and the tops soft, but unbroken. For a very plain dish, some thickening may be added to some of the liquor to make sauce; the rest will serve as the base of a vegetable soup. Celery Puree, Plain. — See Celery Sauce ; follow the directions, bnt use more celery ; the puree should just drop from the spoon. Celery Roots are of value for flavouring soups, &c. They must bo washed and cut up. Celery, Stewed. — Slice the celery up; if the root is used, that part must have more time than the rest. Cover with boiling rvater or plain white stock, add salt, and a few peppercorns, and, if liked, parsley or other herb, hut the natural flavour is often the most relished. When nearly done, and the water almost absorbed, add a little milk, and about an ounce each of flour and butter to each half pint of liquid in the pan, which is right for a good head of celery, the white part only. Serve on toast with the sauce poured over. The celery can be cut into lengths of two or three inches if liked, then tied in little bundles, and served like sea kale, on toast, with the sauce poured over. Before thickening the sauce, tako the celery up with a slice, and keep it hot and covered while the sauce boils up. Celery, Stewed, with Cheese. —Required: celery, milk, stock, seasoning, butter, cheese, and thicken- ing, as below. Cost, about Is. This is an excellent supper dish. Put the hearts of two heads of celery in a stewpan, -with an ounce of butter; cover for ten minutes, shaking often; add a little salt and cayenne, a grata of nutmeg, and half a pint of the water from boiled rice or macaroni, or any plain stock. Cook until almost tender; then add half a pint of milk, mixed with an ounce of corn-flour or rice- flour, another ounce of butter and seasoning to taste; stir to the boil, drop in two ounces of well-flavoured grated cheese, shake the pan until dissolved, then serve on a very hot dish. Celery salt is the best to use for the seasoning of this. A very small shalot improves it for some tastes. Chervil.—The leaves of chervil are tender, and of delicious flavour, which has been compared to a com- bination of fennel and parsley, but more aromatic than either. It is much used in salads, and for decora- tive purposes for all sorts of cold dishes, its small, pale leaf being very- pretty. It is employed in clear soups, and however used is very generally liked. Cost, a few pence per bunch or basket, on an average. It may be dried j ust the same as parsley during the months of May, Juno, and July. It should be remembered that the root is poisonous. Chestnuts.—Those are so rich in starch, and contain so little oil, that they might almost be included among bread-stuffs. Large quantities are imported from Spain and Italy, where, as in Southern Europo generally, chestnuts are considered a very im- portant article of food. Cooked in various ways, they take tho placo of vegetables, and it is with tho chestnut in this connection that we are now dealing. It is a matter of regret that anything which is so digestible when cooked, as tho chestnut is, should, to the majority, bo known only ns a sort of dessert after a full meal; for many