UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 420 and when underdone is most indi- gestible. At tho same time, it is cer- tain that gooso is often over-cooked. Tho flesh is not so close in tho grain as a turkey; and supposing a goose and turkey of the same weight, the turkey would need a third more time, on an average. A very high authority contends that a goose only needs half the time that would he given to a turkey of the same weight; hut he goes on to say that hy the time the breast is done, the bird should he dished. This is practical enough if one could predict with certainty that the legs would not he required; for everyone knows how I nicely they come in for grilling or devilling, and that hy the time they are tender the breast must suffer a little. But when it is certain that the legs will he wanted, much may he done to protect the breast, hy covering it with a few folds of greased paper, and hy the exercise of a little care and. ingenuity it is quite easy to give the logs the full benefit of the fire, always remembering that the heat must he gradual. Time for a tender goose of moderate size, from an hour and a half to two hours. For a very largo goose, nearly three hours may he wanted, and the cooking slower in proportion. It is, however, always better to cook a bird that is past its prime hy some other method than roasting or baking. Goose, Roasted, Sauces for. —Those named in the preceding re- cipe may he termed every-day sauces. For company dishes many others may he served with advantage ; good brown sauce, Madeira, and others of tho same class, will he found excellent; and those who appreciate olive sauce with duck will not object to it with goose. A puree of cucumber or gooseberries will also he found worth trial. Goose, Roasted, to Carve. —Begin by turning the nock end of the goose towards you, and cutting the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another. (See the lines a, b.) To take off the leg, insert the fork in the small end of the hone, pressing it to tho body. Put the knife in at a, turn the leg hack, and if the bird he young, it will easily come away ; if old, we will not answer for it. To take off the wing, insert tho fork in the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body; put the knife in at n, and divide the joint. When the leg and wing are off one side, attack those on the other; hut, except when the company is very large, it is seldom necessary to cut up the whole goose. The hack and lower side hones, as well as the two side hones hy tho wing, may he cut off; hut the best pieces of a goose are the breast, and the thighs after being separated from the drum- stick. Serve a little of the seasoning from the inside, hy making a circular slice in the apron at c. Should there ho no stuffing, a glass of port or claret may be poured into the body of the goose, at the opening made in the apron hy the carver for this purpose. (See also Goose, Bonne-Bouche vor.) The unpleasantness arising from eating sage and onion stuffing used for roast goose may be in a great measure prevented by putting in the centre of the stuffing, before the bird is cooked, a lemon with the yellow rind taken off, and as much of the thick white skin left on as possible. Before the gooso is sent to table, the flap should be opened and the lemon taken out and at once thrown away. The lemon will have absorbed a great part of the im- purities, which otherwise would have remained in the stuffing. Care should Fig. Oft.—CJoose, Roast, to Carve.