GAME AND POULTRY. 403 Fowl Curry, Kofta.—Required : a fowl, curry, suet, egg, stock, milk, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 4s. upwards. Of the varieties of curried dishes served at the diimer tables of Euro- peans in India, tho Kofta or force- meat ball curries, nre as great favourites as any. Once the details are mas- tered, " dishes in endless variety may be produced with strict economy, and exquisite results, and really high- plass curries are obtainable by the employment of such cheap articles as tinned lobster and salmon, and the remnants of joints and poultry. Still, it must be owned that the best of the type result from the use of good poultry, choice meat, and the best of fish. Take a well-grown chicken, and remove the fleshy parts; reduce them to a pulp with the liver, heart, and previously cooked gizzard, using a pestle and mortar. The meat could be minced in a machine, but nothing short of pound- ing would satisfy an Indian cook. Add to each pound of fowl two ounces of good, fresh suet. Make a little strong stock out of the bones, skin, and odds and ends; the best only of the meat must go to make the curry. Add to the pulp some salt, black pepper, any garden herbs to taste, some finely grated crumbs, about two ounces, a very little of the fowl stock, and as much of raw beaten egg as may be needed to make a paste, which can be rolled up into balls the size of a large walnut. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add a tablespoonful of onion paste, and a teaspoonful, or less, of garlic paste, a tablespoonful of curry powder, and a little good vinegar. Stir well, then put in the balls, after they have been well rolled in bread-crumbs. Add a little salt, and turn the balls about to brown; they should be a nice uniform colour. Then put in half a pint of milk, chicken stock, and cocoanut milk, mixed; cover, and cook for a couple of hours. Tho flavour and bouquet of tho dish will bo improved by the addition of two cloves, a bay leaf, a tiny bit of cinnamon, anil a pinch of cayenne. Note.—The onion and garlic pastes are obtained by pounding the ingre- dients. We would add that the gizzard is, in our opinion, preferably omitted from tho forcemeat, and used in the stock. Supposing cooked meat to be used for these delicious little balls, it is nicest if underdone, or there will be atendency to dryness. The time of cooking must of course be shortened, and the tempera- ture kept below boiling point. The stock should be boiling when added, then reduced, and about half the usual quantity only will be needed, as loss by long simmering has not to be allowed for. Fowl Cutlets, Cold.—Required: a fowl, aspic, ham, seasoning, and garnish as below. Cost, from 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d., according to season and the garnish. Take the white meat only of a cooked fowl, and cut it into the thinnest possible slices; it does not matter how small. Cover a baking tin with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; lay on some of the slices, making them flat; then put some finely chopped ham and parsley over ; then more fowl; between each layer of fowl and ham spread a little good white sauce ; this should be nicely seasoned, that it may flavour as well as moisten the meat. Cover with a second layer of aspic, and when quite firm cut out with an oval cutter, the size, say, of an egg. The cutlets should be half an inch thick. Then dip the edges into liquid aspic, and coat a third of the cutlets — edges only — with Chopped parsley and pickled gherkins, a third with the sieved yolks of some hard-boiled eggs, and tho remainder with the chopped whites mixed with ham. Dish them, overlapping, in one or two rows down a glass or silver dish’ with a garnish of salad; lettuce, cress, endive, &c. These are very nice for outdoor gatherings in tho summer, or for ball suppers and similar occasions. Tho trimmings from tho cutlets, if chopped up, and mixed with tho re-- mainder of the eggs, will make a good mince for sandwiches.