MADE DISHES AND KELEVES. 231 salt, equal parts. Lard the meat all over, lay it in a stewpan with a few slices of bacon, a bay leaf, a large crust of bread, a grated carrot, and a chopped onion. Pour over the meat a glass of claret, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and some common bone stock to half cover it. Cover the pan, and cook for three hours or there- abouts, for a piece weighing six pounds. Drain, put the meat on a dish before the fire, pass the gravy, with the bread, through a coarse strainer, boil, and skim, and season nicely, then pour it round the meat. Garnish with spinach balls, or tiny sprouts, or any vegetable preferred. Remember to baste the meat with the gravy while cooking, and to turn it when half done. Bsef and Hare, Minced and. Rolled,—Required : a pound of beef steak, a pound of hare, two ounces of suet, two ounces of bacon, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a gill of bread crumbs, an egg, salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of tomato pulp, some stock and sauce as below, and some lemon juice. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. Mince the beef and hare (the best parts of the latter should be used), pass them through a mincing machine with the suet and bacon. Beat up the yolk of the egg with the tomato pulp, add to the rest with the crumbs and seasoning, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix well, and then work in a little brown sauce, about half a gill. Beat up the white of the egg, brush the roll in every part, cover with crumbs, and brown it in hot fat; it must be turned often. Then put it in a clean pun, with stock No. 4 to half its depth, cover, and stew gently, turning every quarter of an hour, for two and a half hours. Then put it on a bed of spinach on a hot dish, add some brown sauce to the gravy, and a bit of tomato jelly or currant jelly; boil up, and season, and pour round the meat. A puree of onions, chestnuts, or | mushrooms may be used in place of the spinach if preferred. In shaping the roll, flour the board and the hands a little; it should look like a large sausage when cooked. Beef Boudins a la Boston.— Required: twelve ounces of lean steak, two oimces of calf’s kidney, two ounces of butter, a gill of stock No. 4, two ounces of fine Horn', two eggs, salt, pepper, and herbs, and a small mush- room. Cost, about Is. 6d. Cut the meat up, pass it three times through a mincer, then sieve it, and pound it with half the butter. Make panada with the rest of the butter, flour, and stock; add to the meat with seasoning, chopped mushroom, and eggs, and mix thoroughly. Butter some boudin moulds (see page 209) ; fill them with the mixture, and poach for twenty minutes or more according to size. Turn out and serve with Sauce a la Boston, and send Potato Chips or Ribbons to table with them. For the method of poaching these see Quenelles, page 153. Beef Boudins a la Burette. (See Bukette Sauce.)—Add enough to give zest to a tureen of brown sauce or gravy, and servo instead of the sauce in the preceding recipe. Beef Braised, a la Jardin- iere.— Required: nine to twelve pounds of the rump of beef, wine, stock, and vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. per pound, including wine, &c. Bono the meat, tie it in shape, put it in ordinary bone stock, warm, and boil it slowly for two hours and a half. The liquor will make excellent soup; only just enough to cover the meat is wanted. Then drain and lay the beef in a braising pan with a bod of mixed vegetables under it. Put in some herbs and mixed spice—a few cloves, blada of maco, a dozen allspice berries, and peppercorns—half a pint of stock No. 17, and half a bottle of marsala. Cook gently, with a buttorod paper over, until done ; about half an