CEREALS. 547 everywhere. It is sold in bags as above, but costs more. Hominy, as a Vegetable.— Wash and place the hominy in a greased jar, with a quart of water or weak stock to each quarter pound; soak it all night if possible. Season to taste, add an onion if liked, cover and cook for at least two hours, better still for three; it should be quite thick, but must not bum, and a little more liquid may be wanted. A thickening of barley, pea, or lentil flour may be put in, or it can be eaten as it is with all sorts of meat; and, almost needless to add, should the meat be a roast or stew, the gravy improves the hominy. This may' be converted into a very tasty dish". (See Barley, Savoury Stew of.) Cost, a few pence only for a good-sized dish. Hominy, Tried. — Any spare hominy, prepared as above, should be poured out to cool on a flat dish, and cut into squares or fingers when cold ; flour well, and fry' brown; the dish is improved by flavouring the hominy with sage and garnishing with little piles of fried onions. This is a tasty breakfast snack, alone or with meat, bacon, &e. (See also Hominy Fritters in a later chapter.) Hominy Kromeskies. — Re- quired : hominy, bacon, batter, &c., as below. Cost varies with the adj uncts. Take hominy as above, when cool, but soft enough to form into shape; allow half a tablespoonful for each; have a sufficient number of slices of cooked bacon, cut thinly, lay the hominy at one end, and roll up like a little sausage; flour them, and coat with thick Frying Batter. Drop them a few at a time into hot fat, and take them up with a slice as soon as a pale brown. These may bo varied by adding minced kidney, hard-boiled eggs, scraps of- cooked forcemeat from cold meat, a morsel of fish, or somo grated cheese to the horniny ; they may be served plain, or with a suitable sance or gravy. Hominy Porridge. (See the remarks under Porridge and the re- cipes for Oatmeal Porridge.)—Allow about a quart of water or other liquid to a fourth or fifth the measure of hominy, and cook in either of the ways given under the above heading. A mixture of rice and hominy' makes a very good porridge ; a still smoother one is to be had from sago and hominy'. The dish is nicer when the hominy is soaked well beforehand. Hominy, to serve as a Sweet. —Required : hominy, milk, sugar, and spice, with adjuncts as below. Cost, from 6d. upwards. Bake in a jar, or cook in a double saucepan, four ounces of hominy and a quart of good milk, with a pinch of salt and any spice to flavour. It will take quite three hours if the dish is to be served in perfection; it should be of por- ridge-like consistence. If for a hot dish, add a little white sugar, and turn on to a dish, and send sweet sauce, or stewed fruit, or jam to table. This is a famous dish for the nursery dinner. If for serv- ing cold, mix a raw egg with the hominy', then pour it in a mould, and turn out when cold; or spread it in a shallow tin, and serve in squares. There is a good deal in varying tho modes of serving even such simple dishes as these by way of making them more appel ising. Italian Raviolis.—Required: a forcemeat, stock, gravy, cheese, butter, and nouillea paste as below. Cost, from Id. to 2d. each. Take some noililles paste (see page 54 6); roll it out, and cut in rounds two inches in diameter, with a crimped cutter. Slake a forcemeat by mixing four ounces of roasted game or poultry', finely minced, with tho herbs and other season- ings given in tho recipe for Nouilles with Ham (second mode). The propor- tions may bo regulated by taste; then add somo grated smoked ham; tho result should bo a very savoury mixture. Lay tiny balls of this on each round, moisten the edges, fold over, and pinch together; leave them for an hour on a sieve to dry; then simmer them in boiling