306 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. The most economical way for a family to obtain steaks, is to hang tho meat, and cut it as required; and when joints aro kept hanging, this can easily be done, and the required thickness and tenderness are assured. Yet, as it is possible to spoil an otherwise tender steak in the cooking, care is always necessary. Under the head of Grill- ing we have given instructions for that process, and we would here repeat the advice that when the frying pan is resorted to, the aim should be to imitate as far as possible the grilling process. (See Dry Frying.) It is always an improvement to give a steak a coat- ing of oil, or clarified fat, good beef dripping for instance, before cooking ; needless almost to point out, the fat should be liquid and quite hot. Steak and Onions.—In many cookery books the recipe for the above dish directs that tho steak be fried, then kept warm, while the onions are fried in the same pan. Bearing in mind, however, the universally ac- knowledged fact that a steak, like a chop, should be served as soon as done, wo think that tho better way is to fry the onions in one pan, while the stoak is cooked in another; or to broil or grill the steak, while tho onions are fried; so timing them, that both may bo done together. (See Onions, Fried.) Anothor way is to fry the onions a little, then take them up, and fry the meat a little, just to brown the sur- face ; then to drain off tho fat, and put a layer of onions at the bottom of the pan, then tho stoak, and a thick cover- ing of onions on the top. The addition of a gill of stock, supposing a pound each of meat and onions, and a sprink- ling of salt and pepper, and an hour’s gentle simmering (more or less accord- ing to the ago of the onions, and the quality of the steak) will convert this into a very tasty and digestible dish. Still another way for this old-fashioned favourite is to cook the sliced onions in a shallow tin, in a sharp oven, while the meat is cooked: or small onions, baked or stewed, may be served instead, Many other combinations of steak and vegetables may be prepared on the above lines. Steak, Fried.—Cut the steak an inch or a trifle less in thickness ; if too fat, trim off any that is not likely to be eaten, and add it to the fat which is to be used for frying, &c.; pepper and flour it a little, then lay it in a clean frying pan, in which an ounce of clari- fied fat has been heated. It must be quite hot, but not burnt; a watchful eye is very important, as so small a quantity quickly changes from the right degree of heat to a burnt condi- tion. After a minute or less on one side, turn on the other, then raise the pan, and turn often until done. Bo- member that the better the meat the quicker may be the cooking. Give from eight to fifteen minutes, accord- ing to thickness, quality, weather, and whether liked well-done or much under-done. Generally, it is right when the gravy clots on tho surface, and the meat is firm to the touch. (See Dry Frying for further details of the final treatment.) Steak in Gravy.—This has the merit of extreme simplicity, and is usually much enjoyed. Take a thick steak, not less than an inch and a half, and a pound or rather more in weight: pepper it on both sides, and flour it slightly. Then put it in a firo-proof china stew jar, with two or three tablespoonfuls of beef gravy. Cook it in a gentle oven for an hour and a half, more or less according to quality, &c. It should be turned when half done, and salt added ten minutes before it is taken up. A thick mutton steak from tho leg is excellent in the same way. A simply-cooked vegetable should be served with this, and if there is any suspicion of toughness, a toaspoonful of French vinegar should be added to tho meat, but if well hung, and cooked gradually, it is almost certain to bo tender. Steak. Roasted. — In small