287 JOINTS AND 1>LAIN MEAT t)I§HE§ There is, however, much in custom, and with respect to carving, many chefs, and others who can speak authoritatively, argue that the ordinary methods, even when most carefully performed, might with advantage be altered. For example, one writer points out that a loin of mutton suffers by being jointed before cooking, and served in chops, and advises that it be cut just as a saddle, which consists of two loins. He asks, too, why should not a leg be carved as it is when joined to the loin, and served as a haunch? Perhaps tire question with regard to the homely neck of mutton is still more pertinent. Why, it is asked, if it is ruinous to a neck of venison to cnt it in chops, should not mutton be subject to the same rule ? If one gains by being cut saddle-fashion—i.e. from end to end—the other will be the better. But these points must be left to individual decision, and while one might easily bring forward other arguments in favour of different methods, it is likely that the majority will cling to the more familiar ways. Therefore, our diagrams for the most part are illustrative of the modes of carving as generally practised. But as it does not fall to the lot of everyone to meet with “ saddles and haunches” in daily life, we indicate also how the neck, loin, or leg, should be dealt with, where the desire exists to put into practice the suggested alterations. BONING. On this point there is much to be said on both sides. That a boned joint goes farther is obvious to all. The ease with which it is carved, and the fact that the bone in the fresh state can be utilised for soups, &c., prove this; but there is no denying a loss of flavour to some extent. We urge the importance of every housekeeper making herself proficient in the art of boning, because we think that the gain— notably in the case of a loin of mutton—outbalances any loss; at the same time, we do not think that the meat is as rich in flavour. But here, again, opinions differ. We once knew a man who could tell, after a mouthful, whether a helping of meat was from a boned joint, and his palato was equally keen with regard to fish. But for one such, there are scores who would detect no difference; and in such cases, where economy has to be studied, a boned joint might with advantage bo served for the family dinner. Besides the economy, a pleasant change may be obtained by inserting some forcemeat in place of the bone. How to acquire the art is the question for any who may be disposed to try, and here again certain underlying principles must be understood; briefly, avoid hacking the meat; remove it with a clean cut, so to speak, and leave as little as possible on the bones. If it be true that the nearer the bone the sweeter the meat.it is a misfako to leave the sweet meat behind. It is also a mistake to leave on the meat anything which would • be better in the stock pot; paxy waxy, “— and other portions that would, if Fig. 70.—Boxing Knife. served with the meat, be left upon the plates, should all be removed; a little piece of fat can bo dexterously slipped in the vacant places. A boning knife, as illustrated, is a necessity, and the cost is trifling.