FISH. 173 a dish half a gill of oil, half a teaspoon- ful of salt, and the same of pepper; put tho fish in and leavo for an hour, turning often. Then drain them, and dip into a well-beaten ogg, and bread- crumbs prepared as follows: to six tablespoonfuls of the crumbs, add a teaspoonful of herbaceous mixture [see Seasonings) ; a small onion, chopped finely, and a pinch of grated lemon peel and cayenne. Fry brown, and serve with any good piquant sauce. Fish for this dish must be carefully scaled. These quantities are for six or eight fillets. Perch, Stewed with Wine.— In addition to the usual mode of stewing fish (see Gravy for Stewed Fish) the following is recommended for perch. Equal parts of light wine and water, enough to cover, should be brought to the boil; tho fish should be cleaned and skinned, and laid in the pan with a bunch of herbs, a few whole spices, and an onion, and a mushroom if handy, with a little lemon juice and salt. When done, drain the fish, thicken the sauce with brown roux, first seasoning with salt and anchovy, and straining it from the herbs, &c. It should be as thick as brown sauce, and be poured over the fish on a hot dish. Periwinkles.—These are called pinpatches in some parts; although considered the poor man’s luxury, they may be enjoyed by anybody. If eaten while hot, just after boiling, with pepper and vinegar, they are said to bo very nutritious and digestible. Pickle for Fish..—Required : a quart of vinegar, an ounce of salt, half a tnblespoonful of scraped horseradish, half a dozen cloves and allspice berries, a couple of bay leaves, and a good pinch of celery seed and cayenno pepper, with some whole black pepper. firing the above ingredients to tho boil. \y ash any kind of fish, just as if for boiling, and trim it neatly; cut it np, and pack it in a stone jar; pour over enough of the pickle to cover it, tie the jar down, and cook it in a very slow oven (slow enough for a rice pudding) until the fish is done. Set it in a cellar or any cool place, and lot it remain until cold, before removing tho cover. Fish thus cooked is excellent for salads, or may be drained from the pickle, and sent to table with any suitable cold sauce. It keeps very well, and the pickle may be used again if reboiled with more seasoning. Pike.—This fish is found in most European lakes, particularly the north. It was long a disputed point as to tho pike being indigenous in England; it is now thought that there is full proof of its being a native. Its size is con- siderable ; instances of pike attaining a length of three feet, and a weight of thirty to forty pounds are not uncom- mon. The usual colour is a pale olive grey, deepest at the back, marked by yellowish patches on the sides, with a white abdomen, slightly spotted with black. The pike is so voracious as to Fio. 42.—Pike. bo called tho “fresh water shark ; ” it attacks and devours smaller fish, and often falls a victim to its own greed in its inability to swallow its prey. It should bo remembered that it is highly dangerous to swallow tho bone of a pike; it is very sharp, and of a pecu- liarly hard nature. Tho roe of the pike is made into a caviare, and tho flesh salted and dried in some countries. There aro various ways of cooking tho pike; if boiled, follow tho recipe on page 145, Tho term “ Jack ” is applied