UK I VERSA!, COOKERY BOOK. 534 rice with it. From a pint to a pint and a hall of sauce will be wanted. A few ounces of cooked ham or bacon, or boiled pickled pork, may bo used; it will improve the mutton considerably ; and for a plain family meal, some small dumplings can be sent to table. (See Dumplings.) Another way.—This is for a dry curry, and is very simple. For half a pound of meat fry a small onion in fat; when brown, take it up, sprinkle the meat with a teaspoonful of curry powder, and fry it also ; then put the onion back, add a tablespoonful of apple sauce or tomato sauce, and the jelly from the meat, with seasoning to taste : let the moisture evaporate, then serve the meat with rice. During the heating, stir lightly now and then with a thick wooden skewer. Tinned Mutton, with Eggs and Eeans.—Required : a pound of meat, half a pint of gravy (see Gravy for Hashes, Minces, &c.), a tablespoonful of pickled gherkins or capers, with a little vinegar, five eggs, some French beans and toast. Cost, about Is. 6d. Mince the meat, add it to the gravy with the gherkins, sliced. Cover the bottom of a flat dish with a slice of toast; turn out the mince on it. Then fry or poach the eggs; dish each on a little round of toast; lay one on the top of the mince, and one at each side and the ends of the dish. Boil the beans; pile them between the eggs, round the mince. Put a bit of gherkin on each egg, and servo hot. This is tasty, attractive in appearance, and made nutritious by the addition of the eggs. Broad beans, with chopped parsley, may be used instead of French beans. Tinned Mutton, with Eggs and Carrots.—Make a plain puree of carrots, and fry some small ones whole (see Vegetables). Dish the mince as above ; use the whole carrots in place of the beans, and make a hollow in the centre, into which put the carrot puree; about half a pint will be wanted. This is verv cheap, but is a most tasty dish. Tinned Mutton, Haricot of.—Required: a pound of meat, some stock and vegetables, seasoning, &c. Cost of meat, 5d. or 6d. This mode answers for the utilisation of scraps of previously cooked vege- tables. Supposing carrots, turnips, onions and potatoes to be at hand ; melt the fat from the meat, cut up the meat in squares, and flour it well, season with pepper and herbs, and fry it lightly; then cut up the vegetables, and brown them in the same fat. Make a gravy in the pan, following the directions given for plain hashes, &c., and using the jelly from the meat; half a pint or rather more will be wanted; let it be well seasoned, then pour it over the meat on a dish and put the vegetables round. Another way.—If no cooked vege- tables are available, boil some pur- posely, and then finish them off in the gravy. If not convenient to fry the meat, it can be just heated in the gravy, but is not so tasty. When fried, it must be kept hot until dished, should the gravy not be quite ready ; but it is always better that the gravy should be ready, and the dish served at once. Fried meat is never so nice if it has to stand for any length of time. Tinned Mutton, Rolled and Baked.—Required : a pound of mutton, a quarter of a pound of boiled bacon, the same weight of bread-crumbs, seasoning, gravy, Ac , as below. Cost, about Is. Mince the meat, cutting through the grain, or it will eat stringy; scrape the bacon or cut it small; put it with the meat, add a half teaspoonl'ul each of salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, the crumbs, and a chopped mushroom, or cooked onion. Mix well, and when it has become a paste, shape it with the hand on a floured board. Then brush it over with a little liquid bacon fat, and lay it on a thin sheet of plain Potato Pastry; wrap