393 GAME AND POULTRY. done in twenty to thirty minutes; a fine one—a chicken in point of age, hut a fowl with respect to size—may take three-quarters of an hour or longer. Serve and carve like a fowl, unless very small, then cut up pigeon-fashion. Cost, from 2s. Gd. to 3s. 6d. Anothei• icay.—Boil the liver with some herbs in chicken stock; pound it with a boned anchovy, the grated peel of a lemon, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and a little pepper, and stir it into half a pint of good melted butter; put in a tablespoonful of lemon juice last thing. Pour this over the chicken, and garnish with lemons in slices. Chicken and Tomatoes.—Re- quired : a chicken, white sauce, tomato butter, whole tomatoes, bacon, and croutons. Cost, about 5s. to os. 6d. Boil a chicken, and pour over it some rich white sauce, thick enough to coat it. Prepare some tomato butter, and while hot, decorate the bird, letting the white sauce show through. Cut some round croutons, and lay on each a small slice of cooked bacon the same size, and coat them with the tomato butter. Put these round the chicken,- with small whole tomatoes, nicely fried or stewed, in between. This is a Very delicate and much-liked dish. Cygnet, to Roast.—Required : a cygnet, stuffing and gravy as below, and some red currant jelly. Cost, un- certain, the birds being seldom sold. Truss this bird in the same way as a goose. Make a stuffing of three pounds of beef, fat and lean together, chop it small with three boiled onions, add three ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and a whole nutmeg grated. Pound it smoothly in a mortar, stuff the cygnet, and sow it up securely to prevent the gravy escaping. The amount of stuff- ing must be in proportion to the size of the bird. It is generally cooked in the same way as haunch of venison, with a thick crust over it, but this is unnecessary. The gravy may be kept by covering it with paper from tho outset, heating it gradually through, basting it patiently and thoroughly, and when it is nearly finished removing the paper, and bringing it near the fire to brown. Send it to table with a sauce made of equal quantities of good wine and beef gravy. Red currant jelly, hot and cold, should also be served with it. Cygnets should be roasted at or before Christmas, after which time they' decidedly deteriorate in quality. They make a very hand- some and delicious dish. Time to roast, from two to three hours on an average. Many years ago the swan was regarded as a very fashionable dish ; only now and then does it ap- pear at modem tables. The flesh is highly appreciated, as a rule. Only young birds, or cygnets, are chosen for cooking. Buck.—A full breast, supple feet, and clear skin, should be sought in a duck. “ A young farmyard duck, fat- tened at liberty, but cleansed by being shut up for two or three days, and fed on barley-meal and water ” is said to be the best. 'Two small, young ducks make a better dish than one large, hard- fleshed drake, which, as a rule, is most fit for a stew. Ducks should hang for a few days when the weather permits. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 4s. each for ducks. Ducklings (or young ducks), are a little less, except early in the year, but the price varies according to the quality and season. Size and weight, combined with youth, are aimed at in feeding for the table. Duck, to Carve.—In carving a duck, due regard must he had to its size and condition; a large, fat duck may be cut up like a goose, viz., in thin slices from the breast, then the wings are removed; the carver should, however, leave part of the side of tho breast attached to each wing. Next the legs are cut off, then the neck-bone. The breast-bone is separated by cutting through the sides, and tho back-bono is divided in two by cutting downwards. But in the case of a poor, skinny duck, to attempt to cut slices from tho breast