676 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Carrots a la Kurrachee.— Required : carrots, butter, stock, glaze, curry, sherry, cocoa-nut, gravy, rice, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. Boil a pound and a half of young carrots in a small quantity of water until they are almost done, then lay them in a cloth and dry them. Put a couple of ounces of butter and a pinch of sugar in a stewpan, and lay the carrots in ; turn them about for a few minutes, then pour over them the water they were boiled in; add brown stock to make up a pint, a bit of glaze, a teaspoonful of curry paste, the same of grated cocoa-nut, a teaspoonful of sherry, and the same of lemon juice. Simmer for ten minutes, taking care the carrots do not break, then add a little browned flour to make the gravy rather thick; take the carrots up and glaze them; sprinkle half with chopped parsley, and the rest with sieved egg yolk ; place them alternately round a dish, and fill the centre with half a pound of boiled rice, then pour the ravy over it and serve at once. The ish looks nice if a little of the white rice is put in the middle and garnished like the carrots. For a very piquant gravy, add a little hot chutney. Cauliflower Aigrettes.—{See directions for Cheese Aigrettes.) Required : a small cauliflower, sauce, batter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is., but variable. Boil some cauliflower, and break it into sprigs; season them, and coat them with cheese sauce (page 94), and leave until cold. Then coat them with frying batter (see Index) mixed with an ounce of grated ham, and a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley to each half pint. Fry, and serve in a ring with fried parsley in the centre. This is a very good savoury ; it has a nice appearance, owing to the feathery shapes of the sprigs. Cauliflower in Butter.—The cauliflower should be a good firm one, neatly broken into sprigs, and cooked until half done in boiling water and salt (see Cauliflower, to Boil). Then drain it well, and put it in a stewpan with a couple of ounces of dissolved butter; more if a very largo one, but a moderate-sized is best; add the juico of a small lemon, the same measure of pale stock, and a pinch of cayenne. Cook until done, strain the mixture from the cauliflower, add it to half a pint of good Melted Butter or White Sauce, pour over the cauliflower, and serve very hot. Cost, about Is. Another way.—Pour Dutch Sauce over, or Cream Sauce is delicious. A small vegetable dish should be used, and the vegetable piled lightly in, with sauce between the layers, plenty being reserved for the top. Cost, about Is. Cauliflower au Gratin.—Re- quired : cauliflower, sauce, and cheese as under. Cost, from 8d. to lOd. on an average. This is an old favourite ; cheese and cauliflower seem to blend peculiarly well. After a cauliflower has been boiled and drained, put it, flower up, in a dish that will just take it. Mask it with Cheese Sauce ; for a good dish, make it by the rich recipe; sprinkle with grated cheese, and finish it in the oven; if not brown, finish with the salamander. Some cooks use white sauce, first sprinkling the cauliflower with cheese, then grating more cheese on the surface of the sauce, together with bread-crumbs, and finishing as above. Cauliflower, Moulded. — Re- quired : cauliflower, milk, bread, cream, eggs, seasoning, butter, and lemon juice. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of sauce. This is a Brittany dish, and a very good one. Break up the cauliflower (one medium or two small) into sprigs, and, after washing well, boil them in milk until almost done. Drain and weigh them, and add an equal weight of bread-crumbs, then mix them up with a gill of milk, half as much cream, the yolks of four eggs, about a tea- spoonful of salt, half as much white pepper, and a pinch each of cayenne and ground mace. Last of all, stir in two