UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 604 methods of boiling, mid which eventually find their way down the sink, we should all be the richer both in health and pocket: this point surely is worthy of attention. But how are these salts to be retained ? Mainly by management and forethought. In many casos the water from celery, carrots, and other vegetables forms the basis of soup ; but everybody does not take soup, and there are other ways of using it up. Supposing the dinner to-day is composed of boiled meat, with the usual adjuncts-carrots, turnips, &c.; and to-morrow’s meal is to be a stew of fresh meat and vegetables; many poople would boil down to-day's pot liquor, and use it with any left-over vegetables, but au equal number would throw it away. Want of thought, rather than wilful waste, has most to do with acts of this sort. Another way to get the benefit of the saline matter is to cook such vegetables as admit of it in a small quantity of water. The cabbage family are, of course, excepted; neither could one use the concentrated liquor from boiled onions. But take, for example, a bunch of spring carrots: why should they be boiled, as they often are, in a gallon of water, and that thrown away ? A less quantity would often get used up, in the above or some other way, where a huge potful is poured off. It has been rightly said that our system of plainly cooked plants for service witli animal food is right enough in principle, and well suited to the average digestion; but it must be carried out with judgment, to avoid loss of their good properties. And here wo may very fittingly say a few words about purees. A puree forms a pleasant variety at table; it may be very attractive in appearance ; it may be so cooked, as shown farther on, as to retain to tho full both flavour and nutriment; while it is a most digestible way of preparing vegetables. Some people do not masticate their vegetables; others cannot. A puree is freed from skins, seeds, and tough fibres; and it is noteworthy that cases are quite common where a particular vegetable, served whole, causes suffering, while in puree form it is digested without inconvenience. It seems, therefore, a matter for regret that any vegetable should be condemned ns indigestible until it has been tried as a puree. The little extra trouble entailed by the process is not worth consideration, compared with the foregoing and other advantages : special mention must be mado of the facilities afforded by purees for tho using up of many remnants, and tho introduction of a variety of wholesome seasonings—as herbs, &c. So far, wo have for the most part dealt with vegetables as adjuncts; and, no doubt, much of tho monotony complained of in this branch of cookery is due to this habit of regarding vegetables, with few exceptions, “ as an accident, or a something to be thrown in.” English dinner tables of the artisan and middle-class population are seldom furnished with a dish of vegetables as a separate course ; but we are one with the French chef who said that such an innovation would lead to general reform in matters of diet. Such variety as is here referred to need not be either costly or very troublesome. Take the most ordiuary of the class, say a cabbage, or cauliflower, or a dish of beans or potatoes; and it is surprising wnat deft manipulation with other inexpensive materials will accomplish. To go a step higher, it is not too much to say that in thousands of English homes, where meat is served in pleuty, such dishes