113 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. the bones in the fish stock, with a bit of bay-leaf and parsley, a strip of lemon-peel, and half a dozen white peppercorns; boil for half an hour, strain the liquor through a cloth, and mix it with the liquid aspic. Cut the sardines up small, or sieve them ; mix altogether, add a little seasoning, and serve. If boneless sardines are used -—and they are less trouble—ordinary fish stock, boiled down as above, must be used. The cream must be stiffly whipped. Hulf cream and half melted butter can be used, if more convenient. Sauce a l'Alceste.—Required : half a teaspoonful each of French mustard, white sugar, and English mustard, a saltspoonful each of celery salt, grated orange-peel, and tarragon vinegar; a tablespoonful of horse- radish vinegar, an egg, and two gills and a half of stiffly whipped cream. Boil the egg hard; put the yolk through a sieve to the cream. In another basin mix the mustard, sugar, salt, and the liquid ingredients, very thoroughly; add the cream, and blend the whole perfectly, then put the mixture in a mould, and set in an ice cave until stiff. Another way.—Use a tablespoonful of grated horse-radish instead of the vinegar. A very shallow border mould should l>e used for the above. Sauce a la Barbe.—Required; cream, mustard, salt, sugar, and tarra- gon vinegar as above; a large ripe tomato, carmine, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound the tomato with the whole of the ingredients (cream excepted), pass the mixture through a hair sieve, add the whipped cream, and colour the sauce a pale pink. Fill some small paper ot china cases, and set them in an ice cave until stiff; or use a border mould ; turn out on a cloth to drain, then dish it on a lace paper, and fill the centre of the mould with plainly- dressed salad. Sauce a la Calcutta.—Re- quired : a gill of cream, a gill of strong white stock, a toaspoonful of curry paste, half the quantity of pepper water (see Seasonings), a little salt, lemon-juice, and French vinegar, a teaspoonful of clear Indian pickles, finely chopped, and an egg. Boil the egg hard, pound it with the curry and salt, add the pickles, vinegar, &c., and the stock, which should be on the point of setting. Whip the cream stiffly, stir it in, and blend thoroughly. Put in a little yellow colouring, and freeze in small moulds. Sauce a la Dresde.—Required : a giU of brown sauce, a gill of mayonnaise, half an ounce- of glaze, a tablespoonful of shorn-, the same of tomato pulp, a teaspoonful each of grated horse-radish and French vinegar, a saltspoonful each of French mustard and chopped fennel, salt to taste, an egg, and a large tablespoonful of strong aspic jolly. Into a basin put the blown sauce, tomato pulp, sherry, glaze (dissolved in a little stock), half the mustard and vinegar, and a pinch of salt. Into a second basin put the mayonnaise, horse-radish, the rest of the mustard and vinegar, the fennel, and egg, first boiled hard and sieved, both yolk and white. The aspic should be cool, but not set; put half of it into each basin, then fill little cases with the sauces in alternate layers, or mould them in layers in a shallowmould or Neapolitan ice box, and when stiff cut the sauce in squares, or any desired shape, and dish on a lace paper. Very small louche cups, or other fancy moulds, may bo used for this. In turning out, drain on a cloth before dishing. Sauce a la Guernsey.— Required : a gill each of tomato con- serve, aspic jelly, and mayonnaise, a good pinch each of salt, sugar, and cayenne, a half gill of strong stock from chicken bones (it must be a firm jelly when cold), a few drops of lemon-