ENTRIES, MADE DISIIES, AND RELEV&3. 217 Chicken can be used instead of turkey. This is an exceedingly nice entree, very rich : a small dish will serve a good number of persons. Fowl a la Jubilaire. (See Rabbit a la Lymchurch.)—Joint a fowl and cook it exactly as therein described; use the breast, legs, and wings for the dish. If liked, cook the fowl whole, and joint it after. Pile lip tho pieces, and mask with Sauce Jubilaike. Make a Pubee op As- paragus, reserving the points; place this round the dish, and garnish it with ham and tongue, as in the recipe referred to. Prepare some pea-shaped pieces of carrot, cook them until tender, and place little heaps alternately with the asparagus tips about the dish, or some turnips may be halved and scooped out, forming cups : these can be filled after cooking with the above vegetables, and placed about the dish. Before filling, coat them with sauce. Cost, varies with adjuncts. Another way.—Bone the fowl, cover the inside with strips of ham and tongue, season, and sprinkle with chopped parsley, roll up tightly, tie in a buttered cloth, and cook as above. Then slice it, mask with the sauce, and proceed as in the preceding recipe. This is a superior dish; it is more convenient for serving, and there is no waste. The bones should be boiled with the fowl, then cooked longer for stock as usual. A very white-fleshed bird must be usftd for this. Game in Vermicelli. — Re- quired : a mould of vermicelli, a few Game Quenelles, some croutons, brown and white sauces, foie gras, etc., as below. Cost, varies with the game. Make a mould as directed for Chicken in Vermicelli. Turn it out and fill the centre with a game puree— any cooked game may be used; it should be minced and mixed with brown sauce No. 2, until thick enough to only just drop from a spoon. Make some foie gras puree by rubbing foio gras through a sieve, and mixing with tho same sauce used for tho game; spread the crofttons with it, and dot them about the top of the mince; on tho border lay some quenelles, moulded (see Game). Then mix some chopped truffle with a little thick bechamel, or other good white sauce, and pour round the base of tho mould. Put a spot of it on the top of the mince in the centre, and a similar spot in tho middle of each crofiton. Hare,Moulded and Steamed. —Required : half a pound of hare, raw, the same weight of bacon, half the weight of bread, soaked in stock, squeezed dry, and pounded with the yolks of three eggs; seasoning, gravy, and jelly. Cost, about 2s. to 2s.fid. Butter a plain mould (it should be shallow), pass tho hare and half the bacon through a mincer, season well with salt, pepper, cayenne, lemon peel, parsley and thyme, a powdered bay- leaf, and some tomato puree, about a tablespoonful; add the bread and eggs, with the rest of tho bacon cut in thin strips. Press this firmly in the mould, and twist a buttered paper over. Steam it from forty to fifty minutes, accord- ing to the depth of the mould, then turn out. Melt four ounces of red currant jelly, pour this over, after glazing tho mould well, then pour round tho base some brown sauce, with a tablcspoonful of claret, the same of tomato pulp, and a seasoning of salt and pepper ; to half a pint. If preferred, tomato jelly can take the place of the currant. Tho sauce should bo coloured a little with carmine. Small moulds may be used for this. They should be dished on crofttons, or rich potato cakes, wTith a little cold fruit jelly on the top, and the sauco poured round tho base. Kidney d la Vance.—Required: a calf’s kidney, half a pint of Brown Sauce, No. 2, a small tin of mushrooms, seasoning, green peas, garnish, &c., as under. Cost, about 2s. Gd., variable. Cut tho fat from tho kidney, slico it, after rinsing in cold water with a few drops of lemon juice, then dry, and cut the slices into dice. Melt an