266 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. lard the fleshy portion evenly and neatly with strips of fat hacon. Butter a braising-pan, and cover the bottom with a layer of sliced vegetables (onions, carrots, celery, and herbs), put in the larded veal and any hones and trimmings of meat that may bo at hand, pour in as much white stock No. 9 as will just touch the surface of the veal, and braise it very gently over a slow fire. Butter a round of paper to fit the braising-pan, lay this over the meat, and cover tightly with the lid. Baste often, and stew very gently; this part of the leg needs long slow cooking. When done, brown the meat, slrim and reduce the gravy, and add a morsel of glaze or extract of meat to it. Garnish the dish with a variety of vegetables, cut in any fancy shapes, and send a rich Puhee or Sorrel or Spinach to table separately. Time, about thirty minutes per pound. Veal Cutlet, Stewed, a la Baginliurst,—Required: a cutlet, ham, sauce, broad, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Trim the cutlet into an oval shape, and saute it in a couple of ounces of hot butter. Drain and lay it in a clean stew- pan ; pass the meat that was cut from it through a mincing machine, then pound it with an equal bulkof minced ham, raw; season, and stir in some bread crumbs soaked in stock, and squeezed dry; thero should be a largo tablespoonful of each; add some of the yolk of a raw egg, and make into tiny rolls, like sausages, an inch long; Baute these in the butter also, for ton minutes. Then set aside, add to the veal cutlet half a pint of thin brown sauce mixed with the juice of half a lemon, and a little of the grated rind; a teaspoonful each of mushroom ketchup and tarragon vinegar, and half a glass of light wine. Stew gently for an hour, turning a time or two, and basting with the gravy. Then lay the little rolls round the cutlets, and give a quarter of an hour’s further cooking, keeping them turned constantly. Have a hot dish ready, lay on it a fried crouton, the size and thickness of the cutlet; put the latter on, and brush with glaze; arrange the rolls round, leaning on tho crouton; put a slice of lemon between each, and then boil up the gravy ; skin, and pour it round the crouton. Veal, Fricandeau of.—For this dish—a segment of veal, larded and stewed, with hacon, sliced vege- tables, sweet herbs, and seasonings— we are indebted to the age of Leo X. Fio. 07.— Fricandeau of Veal. The following recipe will ho found excellent:—Take about three pounds of the fat, fleshy side of a fillet of veal, of the best quality, or a slice about four inches thick. With one stroke of the knife cut it oven, trim it into an oblong or oval shape, then lard it thickly and evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Slice two carrots, two turnips, and two onions, and put these into the centre of a stewpan with two or three slicos of hacon, tho trimmings of the meat, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay loaves, and a little white pepper. Put the fricandeau on the vegetables, and pour in about a pint of stock. Cover the stewpan closely, and let its contents come slowly to tho boil, then stew very gently by the side of the fire or in the oven, till the meat is quite tender. Baste frequently with its liquor. A short time before it is to be served take it up and put it into a well-heated oven to crisp the bacon. Strain the gravy, skim tho fat from it, boil quickly, and add a little glaze, and baste the fricandeau with it till it looks bright and glossy. Serve with the larded surface uppermost, in the centre of a