UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 564 and colouring it a pale pink. Between this sauce and the strips of ham put a narrow ring of any cooked white vegetable, cut in shreds, and moistened with cream ; celery or French turnips answer as well as any; or hard white of an egg does equally well. Dust this with coralline pepper, and the pink sauce with tiny sprigs of fried parsley. This is a good second-course dish ; it should be garnished with fried parsley. Any sort of Italian paste may be similarly served. Rico Finryers a la Dijon.— Required: rice, milk, butter, cream, eggs, sauce, meat, crumbs, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d., exclusive of sauce or gravy. Put a quarter of a pound of blanched Carolina rice into a stewpan with threo gills of milk, a bay leaf, and an ounce of butter. Cover with a buttered paper, and simmer softly for an hour or more ; the rico must be dry, and the milk absorbed. Then stir in half a gill each of cream and Supreme Sauce. Add the yolks of three eggs, and beat the mixture well. Take the pan from the fire, stir in a tablespoonful each of braised sweetbread, cooked ham, and any game or poultry, all in shreds. Season nicely, and turn out to cool on a flat dish, well buttered. It must bo spread evenly. When cold, cut it in fingers, coat with egg and crumbs, and fry nicely. Serve in a pile, and send a tureen of good brown gravy or sauce to table. Rice G&teau, Rich.—This is prepared as described above; the difference consisting in the strength of the stock and the number of eggs. Take a pint of rice after cooking and cooling, and add the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, with a good season- ing of salt and pepper, with a dust of cayenne, and any nice horb mixture. (See the chapter on Seasonings.) Then beat up the whites of two eggs to a froth, and incorporate them lightly. If for a separate dish, put in four ounces of minced gamo or poultry, previously cooked; prepare the mould as directed, and cook gently. A ladle- ful of Brown Sauce improves the mixturo. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and pour gravy or sauce round it. Stocks 4 or 5, or either of the richer ones, can be used for this. Cost, about Is. Rice Gateau, Savoury.—Re- quired : rice, stock, an egg, seasoning, meat or bacon, and bread-crumbs as below. Cost, about 5d. This recipe is for a very cheap dish ; but it will bo found a tasty accompani- ment to a dish of meat, or can be served alone. First boil some rice in any weak stock until soft and the liquid is absorbed (see Rice, Boiled Plainly). Supposing a pint of rice, which will make a good-sized dish ; mix with it, after it has cooled, a raw egg, well beaten, salt, and pepper, with any other seasoning, about a gill of bread-crumbs, and a morsel of fat bacon in tiny dice ; or cold fat meat answers. Beat the whole well together. A nicer gateau is to be had by using another egg, and reducing the crumbs by half. Prepare a plain round or oval cake tin, by greasing it very thoroughly and coating it with bread-crumbs. Or it can be greased, and strips of bread, cut to fit the tin, bo put round it. If this is done, the bread must be dipped in warm liquid fat of some kind. Nearly fill the tin with the mixture, level the top, and bake in a modorate oven for about half an hour. It should be a nice brown, and slip easily from the tin. Sauce or gravy may be put over or round it. For separate service, any odds and ends of meat or fish may be put in the mixture. Rice ala Lncknow.—Required: rice, butter, onions, meat, and season- ing. Cost, about 8d., exclusive of meat or other adjunct named. Put four ounces of blanched Carolina rice in a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, a bay leaf, and half a pint of the liquor from a boiled fowl or rabbit. Lay a buttered paper oyer and coo]v for an hour and •> half, adding