UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. ■218 ounce or two of biittor in a saute pan, coolc tho kidney for ten minutes, lightly, shaking the pan often, and taking care not to harden tho meat. Then drain the butter from it, and add tho brown sauce, with a teaspoonful each of sherry and lemon juice; simmer for ton minutes, then stir in the mush- rooms, cut up, and heat the whole; season nicely, and pile up on a hot dish. Boil some green peas, or use tinned ones, place them round to form a border, and garnish with leaf-shaped croutons, brushed over with glaze, placing some on tho top, and the rest round the peas. Some whole button mushrooms may he fried and glazed {see Mushrooms), and used for garnish- ing in addition to tho peas if liked, then some Musuiioom Purise may be mixed with the kidney. Kidney a la Vera. —Prepare a calf’s kidnoy as described in tho preceding recipe, but instead of brown sauce and mushrooms, use white sauce and cooked macaroni cut into half-inch lengths. Pour on a hot dish, and sprinkle grated Parmesan choose over, then place some croutons round, brush thorn with butter, and sprinkle with choose. Brown with a salamander, and put heaps of cookod macaroni, mixed with a little warm cream, between tho crohtons. Then cut some cookod ham into strips, and glaze them—after warming them in stock—and place them about tho macaroni. Kidney in Potato Gases.—Re- quired : a calf’s kidnoy, a small slice of liver, two or three ounces of bacon, a small onion and a mushroom, season- ing, sauce, and potatoes; garnish as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 6d. Prepare tho potatoes as for a “bor- der ; ” line some china cases at the bottom and sides. Cut tho bacon up and fry it lightly; remove, and fry the kidney, liver, onion, and mushroom in the same fat; then drain, add a gill of Brown’Sauce (or tomato) and a tea- spoonful of sherry, simmer, and rub through a coarse wire sieve; add the bacon and fill the cases. Tut some Potato Punta in a hag with a rose pipe; cover the tops, and brown in a quick oven. Dish up on a lace paper; sprinkle some with chopped parsley, some with grated ham and coralline pepper, and the remainder with truffles, or pickled walnuts, heated, drained, and cut finely. Put the mix- ture in deep, china scallop shells if more convenient, and serve as Kidney, Scalloped. If preferred, mince the kidney, &c., by putting it through a mincer instead of sieving it: this should he done before cooking. In lining the cases, moisten tho palette knife now and then; the coating of potato at the side should be thinner than at tho bottoms of the cases. Kromeskies a la Beaufort.— Required : four ounces each of cooked fowl, ham, and tongue; some Tomato Butter, two eggs, seasoning, as below; frying batter and ham to form tho kromeskies. (See next recipe for making them.) Cost, about 2s. Mince the meat, season with salt and pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg and lemon peel; add tho eggs, boiled hard, and cut in dice, and enough tomato butter to mako tho mass soft enough to just drop from a spoon; it should ho added gradually until tho right consistency is obtained. In forming the kromeskies caro must be taken not to put in too much “ filling,” and it must bo kept well from tho edges of the slices of ham (these must be very thin, and cut from boiled ham); great care is always necessary when tho filling is of a soft nature, but tho result, when cooked, repays for the little extra trouble. Sprinkle a dash of coralline pepper over when fried, and garnish with fried parsley. Kromeskies a la Carslialton. —Required: two ounces eacli of cooked game, tongue, and rabbit; a pinch of mushroom powder, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a morsel of thyme, fresh if possible, chopped; if dried thyme, rub it through a fine siovo;