COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 515 Devizes P&t6.—Required : some cooked calf’s head, cold lamb, pickled tongue boiled, hard-boiled eggs, bacon, and strong stock and season- ing. Cost, very variable. Slice the calf’s head thinly, also the lamb and tongue; have some Brain Cakes, or cook and slice the brains; slice the eggs also, season rather highly with salt and pepper, a little lemon peel and cayenne, and mushroom pow- der if liked. Put all in a deep dish, arranging the layers alternately. Enough stock to form a jelly when cold must then be poured over; a flour and water paste should be used to cover, and the pate baked in a slow oven. For a dish which holds a quart allow an hour and a half. When cold, take the paste off, turn out the pate, and use parsley, with some eggs— Pickled Eggs arc correct—for gar- nishing. For a better class pate some cooked sweetbreads are used instead of brains; or some nice Forcemeat Balls can be mixed with the rest of the ingredients, and for a plainer pate an ox foot or some sheep’s feet may tak6 the place of the calf’s head. There are many recipes for this old- fashioned pate, but one made as above can be recommended. Dry or Scalloped Hash.-— Re- quired: half a pound of boiled salt beef, four to five ounces of mashed potatoes, a good-sized onion, chopped and fried, and black pepper, butter, and bread-crumbs. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. The meat is to be put through a mincer, or chopped and pounded, as convenient, then mixed with the vege- tables and seasoning; it is a great improvement to pass the whole again through a mincer. Then put the mixture into one good-sized or a few ' small scallop-shells, or spread on a flat dish ; either must be greased ; put the crumbs over, and the butter on the top in small pieces,'and heat in a good oven. The top should be nicely browned. Note.—Although a departure from the original, we can recommend a mixture of beef and ham or bacon, with a dash of parsley and thyme, in addition to the onion; or, for a change, the latter may be omitted, and a pinch of powdered bay-leaf added, together with a dash of ground nutmeg or other spice, or a few drops of store sauce. Another variation is to line the shells with the potato and onion mixed, and to put the meat in the centre, after sprinkling it with a few drops only- of ketchup; then to cover with more onion, and finish off as before. Any kind of beef may be used, either plainly salted or spiced ; the dish is all the better with a fair share of fat; with all lean meat, dryness is to be expected. Exeter Hash.—Required : a pound of cold meat, a pint of common stock of any sort, either from meat or vegetables, a good pint of mixed vege- tables, of the kind used for stews, sliced or in squares, seasoning, vinegar, and half an apple ; thickening, &c., as below. Cost, from Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Take a stew-jar, put half the vege- tables at the bottom. Cut the meat up in rather thick pieces, dip each in vinegar with a little pepper in, add them to the vegetables, grate the apple and put it on the meat; then put in the rest of the vegetables and half the stock; cover and cook for an hour or moro, then add the rest of the stock, with the thickening; some cooked rice or other grain may bo used, or the stock may be mixed with flour, &c. Go on cooking for another hour, or thereabouts, until the vegetables are tender; then add salt to taste and serve hot. Note.—If carrols are used for the above they must be grated if raw, or cold ones may be used up; the onions must be scalded or parboiled. The stock should be warm when put in. Note.—Only meat which is under- done, or which is somewhat tough, should bo used for this form of hash. (See remarks on page 504.) Fry, Minced and Baked.— Required : half a nound of cooked fry.