355 PORK. Boiled Pork.—Fresh pork may be boiled like other meat, and is very delicate eating. It should be small and lean, or will be found too rich. Let the water boil, and then put in the meat, with some carrots and tur- nips, an onion, and a stalk or two of celery; add a morsel of salt, and simmer all the time; skim as needed, and put in more salt near the end. A bunch of herbs, consisting of a leaf or two of sage, a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme, parsley, and marjoram, will improve the meat considerably. As to the time, it must be proportioned to the age of the meat and the thickness of the rind. A leg may take twenty to thirty minutes per pound ; a belly may want fifteen minutes or a trifle more only. Send a nice sauce to table. Celeb?, Mild Onion, Parsley, Pars- ley with Chives, Kice, and Tomato may be instanced as suitable; and Bread Sauce, although more often •served with roast pork, is very delicate -and nice; a sprinkling of sage can be added to it. Vegetables, as carrots, turnips, or parsnips, should be served freely; or a puree of split peas, or peas-pudding, is suitable. The puree is the nicer. The foot should -be taken from a leg, and the knuckle- bone garnished with a frill, if a dish removed from a very plain one is desired. Cost, from *6d. to 8d. per pound, according to the part chosen and time of year. Chine.—This is taken from the spine, between the shoulders; it is generally salted for a few days before boiling, and is frequently sent to table with boiled fowls or turkeys. There is a good deal of fat about it. If only lightly salted, it can bo put on to boil in warm water. It is sometimes kept in brine for ton days, then it must go on in cold water; it wants slow cook- ing and frequent skimming. It is sometimes roasted, after sprinkling with salt and hanging for a day or two; then, to avoid hardness, it wants very •slow cooking; the meat should bo scored lengthwise, and brushed with butter or oil, and well basted. Pow- dered sago is sprinkled on it before it is taken down, and a good gravy is poured round it. Sometimes the fat, or most of it, is removed. For a very savoury dish, a powder made by mix- ing together popper, cloves, and nut- meg, with salt, sage, parsley, and thyme, all dried and sieved, is put in after the meat is scored. In country places, chopped chives or small onions are added, and an excellent dish is the result. The chine is frequently left until cold before carving when this method is adopted; and although it may be baked, it is oftener boiled. The quantities of the various ingredients are regulated by taste, but the herbs should predominate. In a chapter on Seasonings, &c., will be found recipes that could be followed by those un- accustomed to dishes of this sort. They are more frequently met with in the country than the town. Cost, about Gd. per pound, but variable. Chops, or Cutlets.—Speaking generally, it will be found that plainly cooked chops and cutlets of pork are best liked, though rich sauces and gTavies are often served with them. For any but small meat, frying should be avoided ; broiling or grilling is the better. The meat may be floured, and brushed with liquid fat; or coated with crumbs; or with egg and crumbs; or simply seasoned with pepper. At least twenty minutes must be allowed for a chop of medium thickness; tho kidney end of the loin is most liked. The best end of the neck must be chosen for cutlets. When any dressed variety is required, many recipes given under veal and mutton (see also Made Dishes) may bo followed with certainty of success. Very slight addi- tions to the seasonings, &c., will in somo cases bo necessary, and to soino of the gravies a dush of French mustard will give the necessary piquancy. Fat, coarse pork, is nover good as a joint; but in tho form of a cutlet or chop it is simply detestable. The