446 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. A knifo which can he readily bent is apt to slip; indeed, such a knife would he useless, even to just split a fowl down the back for grilling. The next thing is a steady hand. Boning is an art that cannot he acquired in any other way than by repeated trials; it is seldom that success crowns one’s first effort; but even if the bird he spoiled, i.e. supposing the flesh gets cut, no great harm is done, as it will make an excellent stew for a home dinner, and the bones will yield nutri- ment, both in the form of gravy and soup. Indeed, if any sceptical person wishes to prove the truth of the oft- repeated assertion that there is a great deal of goodness in hones, a few ex- periments with those of a fowl will re- sult in conviction. Again, after a first or second attempt at boning a fowl, however hacked may be the flesh, it will make an excellent pie. For de- tails we refer tho reader to page 400. Some writers say that written details for honing are useless. We agree that one practical lesson is of greater value than pages of written description ; hut as it is not in everyone’s power to obtain this, we have made our di- rections us explicit as possible, in the hope that they will he found prac- ticable. Poultry, to Joint and Bone. •— It often happens that a fowl or turkey is required boned for a rich dish, as a curry, fricassee, or pie; it must then he very nicely jointed, as de- scribed on page 405, then honed care- fully. The main thing is to begin at the head of the large bones. Take the legs, cut the skin round the first joints, and pull them out; then work the point of tho knife round the thigh hones; loosen the flesh, and go on until the bone comes out. Cut the pinions off the wings, hone the upper joints, and then take off the breast meat, either in fillets, or cut the hone through, and remove the flesh in larger pieces. Keep the back for gravy or stock; also tho giblets. In honing a rabbit, the neck should be stewed for use in tho same way. The legs, shoulders, and back may be honed with ease in the case of a young, fleshy animal; if old and tough the process is difficult. Poultry, to Sweeten. — A popular method across the “ herring pond” is to add to the last water in which a fowl, turkey, or goose is washed, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. It is particularly recommended for birds which may have been kept full long before drawing, and for re- moving any unpleasant odour which may “ hang around the hind-quarters.” This remedy deserves trial on account of its simplicity; but we would say that few things surpass, or even equal, a little permanganate of potash—a bird rinsed through with this must be very foul should it fail to acquire sweetness and purity. The best way to perform tho operation, so as not to soak and dis- colour the outer flesh, is to add enough of tho potash to cold water to given deep pink tinge : then to pour it through the bird, rinsing in every part. Finally, plenty of clear water must be poured: through, and the interior well dried. If to be stuffed this should be done some time beforehand. More than one writer declares em- phatically that the custom of bringing poultry to market undrawn ruins the flavour of the flesh ; others assert that poultry drawn as soon as killed would not keep, and that tho flesh would be- come dry. One thing is certain, viz,, that the entrails are often left in the bird much longer than they ought to be. Poultry, Boiled.—If youth bo guaranteed, the turkey, fowl, or rabbit should go into boiling water at first. If any fear of toughness, owing to age, warm, or even tepid water only must be used, that the muscles may bo re- laxed, and tenderness brought about by the gradual heating. Here there • will bo some loss of nutriment and flavour naturally, consequently the pot liquor should always be used, Very old poultry should not be boiled •