PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. To classify vegetables strictly is by no means an easy task; one person might urge that arrowroot, being the product of the root of a plant, should be placed in this group; while another might contend that a cucumber or tomato would be more fittingly grouped with fruits. Exact classification must, therefore, give way to custom; and the methods of serving the various edibles, for which recipes are given iu the following pages, have influenced their arrangement. We will first consider the vegetable world iu the shape of roots and tubers ; green plants, iu the form of leaves, stems, and stalk, and the fruit of the plant; edible fungi; and lichens and seaweed. Of l-oots and tubers, carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, parsnips, beetroot, and Jerusalem artichokes afford familiar examples. Of green plants, cabbages, asparagus, marrows, pumpkins, spinach, tomatoes, and celery may be regarded as every-day types ; with which must be grouped the entire salad tribe, various wild plants, and pot-herbs of all sorts. Of fungi, the most largely used are mushrooms and allied species, as the truffle and the morel; these are called cryptogamic or flowerless plants. Of the lichen and seaweed family, Iceland moss, Irish moss, and laver illustrate the composition, and aro types of the whole range. To enjoy fresh vegetables in perfection is the lot of comparatively few people. To compare a dish of peas or a cabbage, culled from one’s own garden iu the early morning and cooked for the mid-day meal, with garden produce that has been closely packed and brought many miles by rail or road, then further exposed for a day or two iu the greengrocer’s shop, would be tantamount to saying that a mackerel which has lain in the dust and sun of a hot street is equal to one fresh from the sea. The thing is to get our vegetables as fresh as circumstances permit, then to make the most of them. But do we make the most of them ? We fear not, and we believe that most of the charges brought against ns in this respect have much truth in them. One of the most frequent is the charge of neglect. It has been said that a number of the most common of our wild plants, that make wholesome and pleasant dishes, and that can be had for the gathering, are unknown to hosts of our peasantry ; the British pig, as he roams about our hedges and ditches, gets the benefit of his owner’s ignorance. Another accusation is that of prejudice in the. matter of diet, especially vegetable diet; in short, this branch of the cuisine is declared to be but little understood in our tight little island. As to tasty ways of serving, those who are best able to judge assure us that scores of dainty dishes, that are regarded as every-uay preparations across the Channel, are practically unknown to the majority of English people. And with regard to our ‘‘ plain vegetable cookery,” we are all pretty familiar with the assertion that by the utilisation of the soluble salts, that are washed out of our plants by our ordinary