UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 242 the liver with this, and leave it for a couple of hours, hasting often. Then wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and hake it for an hour and a half to two hours, according to size. Baste often with the marinade and a little veal stock, first mixed in the haking-tin. When done, take the paper off, dish the liver, and brush it with warm glaze; let the surface crisp nicely, and serve a Puree of vegetables, as Sorrel, Endive, Lettuce, or Spinach round. Have ready some brown sauce, mix with it the gravy from tho tin, boil and skim, then add lemon juice or French vinegar to give piquancy, and send it separately to table. Calf's Liver, Quenelles of.— Required : four ounces of calf’s liver, two ounces of veal kidney suet; pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of chopped onion fried in butter, a saltspoonful of powdered mixed herbs, including bay- leaf, four ounces of bread crumbs, an ounce of butter, and two eggs, with the yolk of a third. Cost, about 1 s. First chop tho liver and suet separ- ately, then pound them together; add the butter, creamed, the crumbs, &c., and the .eggs, gradually ; pound until smooth, then cook in moulds, or drop from a tablespoon into stock, and cook in the usual way, but allow rather longer, that tho suet may bo done. Before cooking the whole, try a small portion; should the mixture be too stiff, add a little more butter; or if not stiff enough, increase the crumbs ; eggs vary in size, and bread differs so much that only the approximate pro- portions are given. These may be served small as a garnish, or, if of good size, as a separate dish ; with a rich sauce, they may go in ns an entree. With a sauce or gravy such as would be served with game, they are a good substitute for game. Cavaliers’ Broil. — Required: cooked meat, seasoning, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. per pound. Half roast a small, lean shoulder of lamb or mutton, then put it by until cold. Score it down to the bone, season with cayenno and grated lemon peel, and a little French mustard. Brush over with beaten egg, cover with crumbs, and brush over with olive oil. Put it in a Dutch oven, and finish tho cooking at a nice clear fire, and as soon as done, serve on a hot dish, with Cavaliers’ Sauce over or round it. A cold shoulder may be similarly treated. Another way.—Take some cooked breast of mutton, which has been boned, score and season the meat, and dip it in oil or warm butter; finish the cooking as above, then cut up and dish the meat in a pile; pour the sauce over, and put fried carrots, tur- nips, and small onions round. Cavalj-ers’ Stew.—Required : a pint of Cavaliers’ Sauce, half a pint of brown stock No. 1, a pound each of calf’s liver and beef skirt, vegetables and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Cut the liver in slices, after washing and drying; skin and slice the skirt; put them in a stewpan with the stock, warm, a bay leaf, some herbs, sliced onion, carrot, and celery, a tablespoon- ful of each, and a tablespoonful of tomato vinegar; cover and stew for an hour and a half, then season to taste with salt. During the cooking, a little stock must be put in from time to time. Take up the meat, add the pint of sauce to the stock, &c., and pass all through a sieve, including tho vegetables; then re-heat, and pour over the meat. A border of nicely cooked macaroni or rice should bo put round, and garnished with a little mixed pickles, and hard-boiled eggs in slices. A stew made of mutton, with half the weight in sheep’s kidneys is equally appetising. A few slices of cooked bacon, cut in dice, will improve the dish. Chateaubriand Steak.—This is considered the acme of steaks. It should be cut from the fillet, quite two inches thick, and put into a marinade of the purest olive oil, with a little pepper, for a few hours. Some cooks