BEEF. 209 meat. Add stilt to taste, and browned flour to thicken; boil up tiro gravy, and serve the whole in a hot deep dish. For a better dish, use double the quantity of meat to the samo weight of vegetables. A few chives, or a leek or two will improve the ragout. The scrapings of a bone from which steaks have been cut can often be bought cheaply, and answer admirably for such dishes as the foregoing; then less time is needed for the cooking. Frico (Spanish).—This is a very excellent dish, though it is a most economical one; care is needed in the preparation, then success is certain. Required: two pounds of lean beef, fillet, or any other juicy part if well hung and lean; two pounds of pota- toes, and one pound of Spanish onions, seasoning, butter, stock, and claret as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Cut the meat into thick pieces, of a couple of inches square: parboil the potatoes, and slice them thickly : slice the onions, and fry them a yellow colour in butter, for ten minutes or so, then put all into a jar, with onions top and bottom, together with the butter they were cooked in ; add pepper, no salt, and half a pint of stock, as No. 1 or 2, and a glass of claret; tie down with greased paper, and cover the jar with the lid. Cook in a “ water-bath ” (tee Jl'ogeii Hake), or in a gentle oven, setting the jar in a pan with hot water half the depth of the jar, the contents of which must not reach boiling point. In two to three hours the meat will be tender, then add salt to taste, nothing else, unless more pepper is needed, and serve in a hot, deep dish. If the meat is good, and the cooking slow enough, there will be plenty of gravy. Heart, Roasted. —After the heart haa hung for a day or two, wash it well, removing the pipe, and all trace of blood, then dry the cavities thoroughly, and fill with forcemeat; the plain herb, or veal stuffing is suit- able. (See Forcemeats.) Hew it up securely, and wrap it in a sheet of paper, well saturated with warm drip- ping. Hang it to roast, and cook slowly, with very frequent basting. Time, from three hours, according to size. Brown sauce or gravy, onion, celery, or tomato sauce or purfie may be served with this, and the dish garnished with vegetables, or they can be served se- parately. Bacon and forcemeat balls may be added. Another way.—This is very superior. Parboil the heart in weak stock before baking or roasting it. It can be stuffed as usual, and should be tied in a cloth. Take it up when half done, dry it, and wrap it in paper as above. Finish the cooking, and serve -with brown sauce or gravy, and red currant or any other fruit jelly. Or the boiling may be kept up until the last half hour: then the heart should be put before the fire until brown, and basted and floured like a joint. Kidney.—This makes a nice dish, if cire be exercised in its preparation and the length of time that is given to the cooking ; one extreme is as bad as the other, for if overdone, although less indigestible than when underdone, a kidney is very tasteless. Whatever the mode of cooking, the core must be removed (the core is the hard, fatty meat which runs along the kidney). After this, the kidney must be washed in cold water and vinegar, a table- spoonful to the pint, then dried. This treatment removes a certain strong, and rather unpleasant flavour, always to be found in an unwashed ox kidney. Cost, about 8d. per lb. Kidney to Broil.—Follow above directions, then cut the kidney into slices a quarter of an inch thick; brush both sides with warm buttor or clarified fat, pepper each piece, but do not salt them, then cook them in a Dutch oven, very gently, turning every minute, and servo each on a crouton or sippet of buttered toast: fir place the slices in a circle round a pile of mashed or fried potatoes. Any sauce which is suitable for steaks can