548 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. stock until done; drain and lay on a dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, and put bits of butter on them ; put them in a brisk oven for about ten minutes (but they must be watched); then serve with good g'ravy. Another way.—Usg the meat as above, but the ham is better unsmoked; omit the herbs, and use some chopped fried mushrooms; cook as directed, and serve with gravy or Italienne Sauce. There are a number of preparations in the shape of minces and forcemeats in this work that could be used precisely as here indicated, and which would result in very savoury and, to most people, novel dishes. Kedgeree.—This is an Indian dish of cooked fish, rice, and hard- boiled eggs, with various seasonings; it is commonly served for breakfast, for which it is well adapted, being easily and quickly prepared. There is no limit to the changes that can be made in those dishes, as all sorts of iish are suitable, and the proportions of fish and rice are a matter of taste or convenience. The recipes that follow will serve as a guide to all the sorts. Fora plain dish, put an ounce of butter in a stowpan ; when melted, add four ounces of rice that has been boiled and dried as if for curry (any left over from a curry is thus used up in a very nice form), stir for a minute, then put in from five to six ounces of cooked fish, either flaked or in dice ; add salt and pepper, with a dash of nutmeg or cayenne ; then stir in a couple of hard- boiled eggs in dice. When quite hot, dish in a pile. The dish looks nicer if the whites of eggs only are put in, and the yolks sieved and sprinkled over the top. If the fish used is very dry, rather more butter is wanted, or, for economy, milk will do. Mustard or chopped chillies, or any hot pickles, cut up, are quite suitable as seasonings. For a better kedgeree, use half a pound of fish to a quarter of a pound of rice. Note.-—Tinned salmon, sardines, or lobster make a good kedgeroe; and mackerel, eels, and other sorts of oily fish, cooked in a piquant way, are excellent thus treated. Kedgeree, Rich.—Required: four ounces of boiled rice, nine or ten ounces of any white fish, with half a gill of any rich sauce that may be left over, or a little can be made; or cream with the yolk of a raw egg may be used, and is by some liked the better; three hard-boiled eggs, and a few shrimps. Cost, about 9d., but varies with the fish and sauce. If cream is used, add an ounce of butter only ; but if sauce, double it; mix as above directed, pile up, and garnish with the sieved yolk of one of the eggs on the top, and put the shrimps round the base ; they are to be heated first in a little fish stock. If a rod fish (as salmon) is preferred for this, garnish with small dice of white fish, first filleted, and cooked in any approved fashion. Wholo chillies, both red and green, may be strewn over instead of the egg-yolk. Macaroni. — This is the best known and most largely used of the Italian pastes, and in the country where it is made in perfection, is eaten alone, or in combination with almost every variety of animal or vegetable food. So far as flavour goes, macaroni can only be regarded as a neutral substance ; in a perfectly plain state it is insipid, and those who taste it thus for the first time, are not likely to regard it with favour : but on account of this, it may form the basis of any number of dishes, both sweet and savoury. The wheaten flour from which macaroni is made is very rich in gluten ; to this it owes its nourish- ing properties; therefore it must not be classed, so far as its nutriment is concerned, with rice and other cereals that aro mainly composed of starch : on the contrary, a dish of nicely pre- pared macaroni can be served as a substitute for meat. In cooking it a few points must be borne in mind, to ensure success; for simple as is the right way, few things are more often spoilt in the cooking. Do not soak it;