119 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. mainly intended for serving with fruit compotes. It is some little trouble to prepare, but is well worth it; we may mention that white bread sauco similarly made is a different thing altogether, and any attempt to sim- plify the foregoing or to alter the method of making it will result in dis- appointment. The custard should be made by the recipe for Rich Custard, Ux flavoured, in Custards. Cherry Sauce.— Required: a pound of ripe red or black cherries, a gill of water, half a pound or more of loaf sugar, a few drops of ratafia essence, colouring, and a tablespoonful of sherry. Cost, about 8d. Wash and pick the fruit; put it in a stew-pan with the water, bring to the boil, and add the sugar ; cook until all can be sieved, then return the sauce to the pan, with the wine, and the kernels blanched and shredded. Serve hot or cold. Another way.—To obtain a sauce of fuller flavour stone the fruit at first and crack the stones, then boil them with the kernels for an hour in a little water; strain off the water into the sauce, and add the kernels, pounded or cut up. A pinch of powdered cloves may be added, and if the cherries are black, port may be substituted for sherry. Either way it is a good sauce. Cherry Brandy Sauce.—Make a gill and a half of rich Melted But- ter; add to it a few drops of essence of cloves and a glass of cherry brandy, put in a few drops of colouring, and serve with any rich pudding, of which Metz Puddixg is a type. (See also Gateau de Fruits.) Chestnut-Flour Sauce.—Re- quired : two ounces of chestnut-flour (sometimes called meal), a pint and a half of milk, a little sugar (about an ounce; but the flour varies in sweet- ness), a pinch of salt, and flavouring to taste.^ Cost of flour, uncertain. I rench faring de Chataiyncs is sold at a shilling or fifteen pence per pound ; but Italian flour, recently imported, and sold loose, is from fourpencc to sixpence only. • Blend the flour with cold milk to a paste; add the rest of the milk, boiling, then simmer from ten to fifteen minutes, stirring almost all the time, sweeten, and flavour with lemon-rind, or spice essence, or ground nutmeg or cloves; very little is required. Another way: Richer.—Use a pint of milk, and when the sauce is cooked add a gill of hot cream and the well- beaten yolks of two eggs, then thicken in a double saucepan or bain-marie. Vanilla flavouring, a few drops, may be used for this. If to be served cold, beat the cream up stiffly, and add it last thing. Chocolate Sauce.—Required : three gills of water, two ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of good chocolate, flavoured with vanilla (fail- ing this, use a little vanilla essence), an ounce of arrowroot, corn-flour, or rice- flour, and a tablespoonful of cream. Cost, about od. “ Soluble chocolate ” is best for this, but ordinary cake chocolate will do. Mix it, after breaking it up, to a smooth paste with a little of the water, boiling, add the rest of the water and the sugar, boil up; then mix the arrowroot with cold water to a paste, add it, and boil for a minute; stir in the cream, and serve. If rice-flour is used, cook it for ten minutes. Colour with coffee blown (see Ices). Chocolate Sauce (Rich).— Required : three gills of milk, one gill of cream, one egg, three ounces of good chocolate, two ounces of sugar, half an ounce of arrowroot, and vanilla essence. Prepare the chocolate as above, using milk instead of water; add the arrow- root, and beat in the egg off the fire. Beat the cream in ufter separately heating it, then flavour to tasto. The exact quantities of sugar and vanilla must be determined by the kind of chocolato UBcd; Bomo of tho very best is strongly flavoured with vanilla, and contains but little sugar. In nddition