632 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. FOik them in a little oil or liquid butter for half an hour; .grease the gridiron with the superfluous oil, and lay them on, brushing them with oil now and then, and taking care they do not stick to the bars. Serve hot, with a sprinkling of salt and black pepper ; some like cayenne. Broiled mush- rooms are the same thing, except that they are cooked in front of the fire in a Dutch oven, or shallow tin. About twenty minutes should be allowed for medium-sized ones; if underdone they are tough ; and when too much cooked they shrink considerably. In turning, do not stick a fork in ; use a wooden spoon or palette knife. For a cheaper way of grilling, grease the bars of the gridiron with dripping, and just dip the mushrooms into a little warm fat, then drain and season; cook as above directed. Mushrooms, Powdered.—Get large mushrooms, but remove the brown end and the outside skin, and see that they are quite free from grit and dirt. Put two pounds or more into a stewpan with a large onion, six cloves, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and salt. Place them by the side of the fire to heat gradually, and draw their juice, then shake the pan over a clear tiro until the moisture has dried up; this must be done briskly, or the mushrooms will get burnt and useless. Dry them in a cool oven; they will require to be put in several times, until they can be reduced to fine powder; they may be pounded, then passed through a hair siovo. Powdered mushrooms may be bought in bottles at about ninepence, or less; and as a small quantity goes a long way, it is as economical to buy as to prepare them at home, unless they can be had for the gathering. It is necessary to store the powder in small bottles, with good corks, and to wax them well over. Mushrooms, Puree of. — See the recipes for Mushroom Sauce ; prepare the puree in the same way, but make it thicker, using more mush- rooms, and less stock. Flavour it delicately. (See also Dhesszd Vege- TAHLES.) Mushrooms, Stewed.- Furious ways of stewing mushrooms might be given ; an American fashion is to put them in a jar in the oven, moistening with pale stock, and sea- soning with salt and pepper, and sometimes lemon juice, and mace, or nutmeg. When half done a little milk is added, and a thickening of flour and butter. As soon as done, they are served plainly, or on toast. Another way.—If flap mushrooms aro used, the stock may be dark, but it should not be highly flavoured with other vegetables; if large, break the mushrooms up, and after cooking them I gently, with seasoning to taste, add roux to make the gravy as thick as cream; and serve as above directed. A morsel of onion is sometimes added, or a little bunch of herbs, but the mushroom flavour must not be destroyed. Browned flour does instead of roux for plain stews. Mushrooms, Stewed in But- ter.—Take a pint and a half of button mushrooms; cleanse them, and put them in an enamelled stewpan with three ounces of butter, first melted and allowed to brown a little. Stir them gently, and shake over a moderate fire for the butter to cling well to the mushrooms. Then add a very little powdered mace or nutmeg, and some salt, white pepper, and cayenne. Cover, and cook until done, when the}' will be found excellent as a breakfast or luncheon dish. They may be served on toast, or with a garnish of croutons. They may be eaten cold, and the butter from them will be useful for forcemeats. Thus prepared, they may be kept some time if put in small pots, and covered with clarified butter. They can be used up as required. When plentiful, they are well worth the trouble of preserving thus. Mushrooms, Tinned. — We have seen it stated that tinned mush- rooms answer every purpose of fresh