690 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. fourths done, slice them and squeeze a little of the lemon juice over, add the herbs and a dash of seasoning; leave them to got quite cold, taking care to cover them. Chop the shalot and sweat it in the butter, then add the potatoes, and shake the pan until the contents are cooked; add more lemon juice and seasoning at the end. These are very good alone, or with steaks and chops; they should be pale in colour, and the shalot may be kept out if preferred. Sometimes a hint of shalot juice (obtained by pounding) or a few drops of any flavoured vinegar is used to heighten the flavour, and by some lemon juice only is employed. Potatoes a la Duchesse.— (See the recipe for Rich Potato Pukee, with Eggs, on page 689.) Make some in the same way, but add an extra white of egg—that is, three whites to two yolks. Half fill some greased deep patty-pans, and bake in a sharp oven. The mixture should taper at the top in putting it in the patty-pans. Detach very carefully, and dredge with chopped parsley or coralline pepper, or a little sieved egg-yolk. Serve with a good mince or hash, or other dishes as pre- ferred. Potatoes, Fried, Superior.— There are various names for this dish —Potatoes, Fried a la Souffle is one ; Puffed Potatoes is another. Those who would eat fried potatoes in perfection should try it. First slice or cut kidney potatoes into shapes like the sections of an orange; after washing, dry them ; a floured cloth is used by some, but flour is not needed. They must then be fried in fat to cover, not hot enough to colour them, only to cook them, and when soft they must be taken up ; they may take five minutes or more, and a frying-basket should be used. The fat should then be made very hot, the potatoes being kept warm meanwhile; they are then put in the basket and again plunged in. If the fat be right, they will puff out; the basket should be gently moved, and must be taken out as soon as the potatoes are a golden brown. Drain well, sprinkle with salt and, if liked, with chopped parsley or cayenne. They are an excellent ac- companiment to game, beef steaks, &c. Note.—If not dried well, or the second fat is not hot enough, the dish is not a success. Potatoes, Minced, and Sauted. -New potatoes are nice thus; boil them whole until half or three-parts done. When cold, cut them in dice, and finish the cooking in butter; they should be delicately coloured and kept soft; old potatoes can be so treated if not a very mealy kind. Maitbe d’HGtel Sauce or Butteb is often served with these, or any good white sauce is equally nice. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. per pound when plentiful, including adjunct* Potatoes with Puree A la Brough. — Required : potatoes, a purSe as below, and some croutons. Cost, about Is. Cloanse and boil some new potatoes, and turn them into a hot soft cloth as soon as done. They must be even in size or the dish does not look well. Make a puree as follows for a pound of potatoes:—Put in astewpana table- spoonful of brown sauce, the same of fresh tomato pulp, an ounce of fresh butter, a half tablespoonful of sherry, a morsel of glaze the size of a nut, a little salt and cayenne, a dash of French mustard, and a few drops of carmine. Stir these to the boil, then add a tablespoonful of grated ham, the sieved yolk of a hard egg, and the white first chopped, then sieved. Add more colouring if needed; the mixture should be a pretty pink; now put some small oblong croutons on a dish, one for each potato ; lay them on, and mask with the sauce ; the croutons are to be large enough to show a rim nil round the potatoes. Another way of serving, when a rather more substantial dish is wanted, is made by laying a slice of hot ham on each crouton before putting the potatoes on ; mask with a little brown sauce, then finish off as directed. The