UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 252 in a ring, with Devil Sauce or gravy round it, and a pile of Tomatoes, Grilled, a la Diable, in the middle. Instead of tomatoes, fried onions, mixed with a little thick brown sauce, in which some curry paste has been dissolved, may be used; or either of the sauces piquant can be poured over the onions. Liver in a Mask.—Required: a pound of liver, sheep’s or lamb’s, two kidneys, mashed potatoes, bacon, grated ham, sauce, and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. 4d. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute pan; slice, flour, and fry the liver until dono, turning it often; then put it in a clean saucepan, with the kidneys minced very small, after they have simmered for five minutes in a tablespoonful of claret. Then add half a pint of Brown Italian Sauce. In the butter in the saute pan stir two ounces of grated ham, and a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, with a little seasoning. Fry some slices of bacon separately; spread them with a little of the mixture, roll them up, and put a little skewer through each. Put a hank of Rich Mashed Potatoes straight down a dish; spread the liver, &c., on it, then put more potatoes on the top, using a bag and pipe; it should cover the meat. Dredge crumbs over, and put it in the oven for a minute, then sprinkle the lop with chopped parsley, and garnish with the rolled bacon. Another way.—Spread the potato over, using a palette knife; then mark it with.a skewer in cross bars; brown us before, and garnish with fried parsley. In following either recipe, the liver should bo cut in one inch squares after frying it. This facilitates the serving. Liver, Sauted. — Required : a pound of liver (any kind will do except bullock’s), bread, wine, butter, season- ing, &c. Cost, about Is. 6d. Slice the liver, dry it well, and cut the bread the same size and thickness; season both liver and bread with pepper, grated nutmeg, and powdered herbs. Make the butter hot in a saute pan, two or three ounces will be wanted; lay the liver in, and cook gently, turning every minute. Time, according to kind; as soon as all trace of redness disappears it is done. The bread must be fried in the usual way [see Croutons). Then dish both alter- nately on a hot dish; flour the pan, scrape it well, pour in a gill of light wine, and a gill of clear stock, No. 6 or 7; boil up, and pour round the meat. Fill the centre with vegetables of any kind, if for luncheon or dinner; if for breakfast, it may bo served plainly, or with tomatoes or mush- rooms, cooked in any approved way. Meat Porcupine (a Conti- nental Lisk).—Required : a pound of beefsteak, four ounces each of lean ham and fat pork, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a saltspoonful of mixed spice in powder, a chopped onion, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a fourth as much thyme and basil mixed, an egg, some stock, and bacon for larding. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Put the steak, ham, and pork through a sausage machine; add all the seasoning, and blend well. Beat up an egg, with half a gill of strong warm stock (it must jelly when cold); add it to the mass, and form it into a smooth oval shape. When cold and firm, lard it thickly with the bacon. Heat a little oil or butter, and brown the meat in it for ten minutes, then pour the fat off; add half a pint of stock (No. 1 or 2) and cook for an hour and a half, gently, then thicken and season the gravy, and pour it round the porcupine on a hot dish. The larding is to be carried right through the meat. Garnish with scraped horse-radish, put in little heaps between a Puree of Spinach or sorrel; this is to be forced from a bag with a fancy pipe. Any of the sauces for dark meats may be served with this : Oyster, Mushroom, Chestnut, &c., &c.j in addition to the gravy.