UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 280 star-shaped pieces of cooked carrot, turnip, beetroot, and cucumber; or little rings, or othor devices will do. Then pour pale aspic over to set the garnish. Dish as above, and round the base put more of the same vege- tables in olive shapes, mixed with any nice salad dressing. Garnish with olives and capers. Small mutton can be used just as above directed. Little Bouchees of Beef en Chaudfroid.— ltequired : half a pound of cooked beef, a gill of brown sauce, No. 2, half a glass of sherry, a gill of stock, No. 16, and a quarter of an ounce of French gelatine. Cost, Is. 6d. to 2s., oKclusive of salad and vegetables. Prepare the meat asfor beef quenelles; add a little pepper and nutmeg, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Mix in 1 he brown sauce ; dissolve the gelatine in the stock and sherry, add it when rather cool, then whip the mixture over ice and fill some little bouehS moulds, using a bag and pipe. Set them in an ice cave for an hour, then turn out and mask them with brown chaudfroid; put them back to set, then pour pink aspic over; return to the cave for a short time before serving. Dish them on a border of rice, and fill the centre with a nice iced sakid. Serve with dressed vegetables. Little Timbales of Hare.— Required: hare, liver, kidney, wine, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to :1s., according to salad used, &c. Chop and pound some cooked hare -; (o six ounces add the liver of a fowl or the hare, and a sheep’s kidney, both braised in stock, then pounded and sioved; stir in a gill of good aspic, well flavoured with sherry; the same measure of thick brown sauce, and a teaspoonful of chopped truffle. 1* ill some timbale moulds and set them on ice ; turn out, and fill up the centres with tomato aspic in little block's, and tiny fried forcemeat balls, coated with chaudfroid or aspic, with little sprigs of chervil or tarragon in the centre. Serve a salad of tomatoes in a separato dish. Mousse of Fowl a la Lil- lington.— Substitute fowl for the veal as above, then proceed in the same way, except that cooked ham or tongue may be used instead of cocks’ combs or sweetbread. When turned out of the mould, garnish w’ith a let- tuce or cress salad and omit the truffles and aspic. Put a few' fancy-shaped slices of ham, coated with aspic, about the dish. Mousse of Pheasant.—Re- quired : half a pound of cooked phea- sant, a gill of brown sauce, the same measure of stock from the bones of the bird, half a gill of Madeira, half a gill of cream; garnish as below. Cost, variable. Skin and pound the meat, add the brown sauce, rub through a sieve; mix in the pheasant stock—this must bo strong and clear, but need not be clarified—whisk for a few minutes, then add the cream and whisk again. Have some little fancy moulds, with pink aspic to line the bottoms, and sprinkle them with truffle shreds and chopped white of egg boiled hard. Line the sides of the mould with aspic cream, palo yellow ; fill up with the mousse mixture, and set on ice. When finn turn out, and dish with green salad round each, and a cherry salad in the centre of the dish. Mousse of Veal a la Lil- liugton.—Required: three ounces of cooked voal, two ounces of foie gras, half a pint of stock, No. 6 or 7, a glass of sherry, half an ounce of sheet gela- tine, a border of aspic cream {sec Gau- nisiies), jelly, and garnish as below. Cost, varying with the garnish. Line an oval Charlotte mould with yellow' aspic; garnish with slices of truffle and cooked cocks’ combs; or instead of these, stamp out some sweet- bread in the same shapes. Pound and sieve the veal and foie gras; mix it with the stock and sherry in which