UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 414 brown sauce, a glass of good port, and seasoning to taste. Cost, variable. Pound the meat, add the rest of the ingredients, and pass all through a fine sieve. Use for patties, or for masking croutons, and various other purposes as directed in recipes for game dishes. Glaze, or extract of meat, can he added in proportion to the nature of the dish. For game toast, or anything for which a moist puree is suitable, less of either will be wanted than for little dishes that require a firmer mixture. Of the latter class, kromeskies, croquettes, and rissoles are familiar types. Game Quenelles.—Required : ten ounces of raw game, eight and 4 half ounces of panada, half an ounce of bufter, the yolks of five eggs and the whites of throe, half a tablespoonful of brown sauce, a tablespoon ful of thick cream, and a little salt, pepper, and cayeiine. Cost, variable. Pound the game, then the panada and butter; rub through a fine sieve after tho- eggs have been mixed in; they are best put by degrees to the panada while being pounded. They should be most carefully strained from the germs. Add the rest of the ingredients, blending tho mass very thoroughly. They are then ready for cooking, either in moulds, or as directed for ordinary quenelles, (fe Entrees.) This repre- sents what may be termed the founda- tion of game quenelles, for although very good made as above, various additions may be made, according to the kind of game, and the dish for which they are to form an adjunct. (See recipes under Entrees.) With game for which orange gravy or sauce is served, a morsel of tho grated rind of an orange would be a suitable addition ; while for game with mush- rooms in any form, mushroom powder could be used. But it must be re- membered that the consistency of the quenelles must be maintained ; if any liquid is added for flavouring, more eggs or panada will be wanted, or the mass will be too moist. Game Quenelles, Economi- cal.—These are less trouble than the foregoing, and furnish a nice dish at small cost. Take any sort of cooked game, and any part, so that bones skin, and sinews aro removed. Re- quired : half a pound of game, an ounce of butter, a little seasoning, four button mushrooms chopped finely, a small shalot, also chopped, and some bread- crumbs soaked in stock, and squeezed dry; eggs as required. Cost, variable. First, mince the game, and add the rest of the ingredients, putting in the moistened crumbs by degrees,- until the mass is firm enough to mould with the fingers. The yolk of an egg is then to bo mixed in," and if, after cooking one, it appears not well bound, the yolk of a second should be added to the mixture. About threo or four tablespoonfuls of crumbs will be wanted, and, after soaking, they must be beaten with a fork, or pounded. The quenelles may bo either poached in stock, or shaped in tho sumo way and then fried, after coating with egg and crumbs. With these, sumo sauce should bo sorvod ; brown mush- room is very suitable, or a nice game gravy may be sent to table. Game, Roasting of.—The cry of over-roasted and spoilt game is often heard; but we believe that the main cause of the grumble is usually tho fact that the birds are cooked too soon, and become dry : we mean that the actual time allowed may not be too long, but by the waiting the cooking goes on to an extent. The flavour suffers likewise, and it is ceitainly better that the guests should wait a minute for a bird, than that the bird should be kept waiting ten minutes for the guests. It has been said that to over-cook a snipo or Woodcock is a positive cruelty, bearing in mind tho old saying that a snipe, to be properly cooked, should fly through the kit- chen I To wait, and put down tho gamo at the right moment, it has also been well said, requires nervo; and many, in tbeir anxiety to be ready