658 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. upon an elastic Land, which rests upon a rim outside the hottle mouth. Thb metal screw ring then fits over this glass top, and presses it hard down upon the elastic-covered ring, thus making the jar absolutely air-tight, without wax or bladder. To prepare the tomatoes for these bottles is very simple, and either of the following methods may *be adopted. Put the fruit in whole and unskinned, and cook in a pot of water over the fire until the tomatoes look tendor; the bottles must bo wrapped round with hay or old lags,' and they must be raised from the bottom of the boiling-pot by means of a trivet on legs, or a meat dish set upon a weight, or some other device; a baking-sheet answers the same purpose, if raised by means of four pieces of wood at the corners. In this mode, the glass stoppers must be provided with a vent hole for the escape of the steam (these cost a trifle more per ' dozen). When done, the holes are filled up with bits of cork (sent with the bottles), and want a spot of wax on each. They can cool in the water or on a board; the first is the better way, and there is no foar of the bottles cracking. The next plan is to cook the to- matoes as directed above, first mode, or bake them in a jar in the oven; in either case, drain off some of the watery liquid. Fill the jars while hot (tho jars being lioatod first), and screw down. When cold, try if they can bo screwed a little tighter. For this way, stoppers without vent holes answer. The rubbers can bo renewed when worn. Tomatoes, to Preserve in B cine (Italian Method). — Choose sound, ripe fruit: wipe it with a cloth, and reject any broken or over-ripe. Take the stalks off. but do not skin. Make a brine by boiling a tablespoonful of salt in half a gallon of water until reduced to two-thirds the quantity. Skim a few times. Put the fruit in dry jars, pour the brine over, and put something in the necks to prevent floating; small plates or saucers arc useful; no metal will answer. When cold, cork and wax the jai'S, or tie down with bladder. This can be used like fresh fruit, if rinsed and wiped, and the skins removed. It answers for soups, sauces, &c. It is a good plan to soak it, and for all dishes less salt will be wanted. Tomatoes, Baked. — Take the green stalks from some tomatoes, ripe, and even in size ; allow two ounces of butter or clarified fat for eight medium- sized ones; put it in little bits about them, and cook in a moderate oven from twenty minutes upwards. Serve with roast meat, &c. If split through, cook tho cut side up. Tomatoes may be sliced for baking if large; put them in a single layer on a baking tin, first groasing it; brush them over with butter or dripping, and dredge with , salt and pepper; and if they are not fully ripe, a pinch of sugar. Give them from seven to ton minutes, and serve hot. When eaten as a separate course, add a little stock or gravy to tho liquor in the pan, and boil it up, then pour it over the tomatoes. When eaten with meat, &c., just pour the liquor over them as it is. Cost, about fid. per pound when in full season. Another way.—Put a little mustard with the seasoning named above, with any herbs that may be preferred; use it for halved or sliced tomatoes, and cook as directed. Cayenne pepper or grated nutmeg, a suspicion of either, may also be uddod ; and a finely-minced onion, distributed over half a dozen tomatoes, give additional piquancy. A little lemon juice, squeezed over just before serving, will develop the flavour to perfection. Tomatoes, Baked, with Onions.— Required : a pound of tomatoes, the same weight of Spanish onions, four ounces of cheese, reason- ing, &c. us below. Cost, about lOd. to Is. Bake the tomatoes after wiping and cutting them in halves (see above); bake or fry the onions, and chop them