UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 38 minutes, but do not let it boil once after the meat is in. For a thick beetroot soup add a little brown roux, and pass the beetroot through a sieve after chopping it up. About four ounces of meat will serve. Game or poultry can be used instead, if more convenient. Bottled Soups. — These differ from the soups in tins. They are of better quality, and higher in price— from fifteenpence to two shillings is the average for the ordinary kinds. Turtle and rich concentrated prepara- tions and invalid specialties are much higher—six or seven shillings per pint. Both French and English firms do a largo trade in these soups. The clear and thick varieties are well re- presented, tho former being beauti- fully bright, and worthy a place at any table. To those people who arc always bettor satisfied when they see what they are buying, and who are of opinion that tinned goods always taste of the tin, these soups will commend themselves, the ad- vantages of contact with so un- objectionable a material as glass being obvious. In most cases directions for use accompany the soups. Some are served with little dilution ; others bear a considerable quantity of water. One hint as to tho re-heating may be useful. They should never, especially the clear kinds, be put into a saucepan that is not most scrupulously clean, for not only would the flavour suffer, but the brightness would bo lost. Those who are acquainted with the process of clarification will not need this caution, but sometimes—indeed very often—these'goods are bought for special occasions or for invalids, when appearances have to be carefully studied. Brown Artichoke Soup.— Required: two pounds of artichokes (Jerusalem), two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of extract of meat, a table- spoonful each of sliced carrots, celery, and turnips ; seasoning, a little brown roux. Cost, about 9d. Prepare the vegetables as for Arti- choke Punek ; fry them in the butter, add a spoonful of flour, and brown it, then the stock, from two to three pints. For a good soup use No. 8, for plainer soup No. 2 or 4. Boil until it can be sieved, then add the meat extinct, roux, and seasoning, and a little more stock if needed; skim care- fully, and serve. Many other soups usually prepared with while stock are very good thus made. Turnip, marrow, parsnip, &c., are examples. Some vegetables, being very watery, require less stock. If at any time too much is added, more thickening must be put in, or the soup reduced by boiling it quickly for a few minutes. Brown Liver Soup.—This will be liked by all lovers of game soups, of which it is an imitation. It is a very excellent soup of the savoury kind. First make the foundation as follows :—Put into a saucepan a bit of bacon, an onion, some cloves and black peppercorns, a pound of lean beef, minced, and an ounce of grated carrot; fry for a minute, then pour in water to cover, and simmer until the moisture has nearly dried up; then pour over three pints of stock, ordinary, from bones, &c., and cook gently for an hour or two ; press tho meat from time to time, then strain the soup off, and put to it six ounces of calf’s liver that has been fried and pounded, and seasoned with salt, black pepper, nutmeg, and powdered herbs, and rubbed through a sieve; add a little brown roux, boil the whole up, and serve with strips from a French roll dipped in hot butter, and crisped in tho oven. Cost, about Is. fid. per quart. Another variation of this is made by frying the liver with the other in- gredients at starting, and cooking with the rest. It is removed with the beef in this case, and a thickening of sago or other cereal is put iuto tho soup with the roux. Both soups need care- ful skimming. The beef should go into the stock-pot.