310 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. VEAL. Veal is considered best when the animal is from two to three or four months old. The flesh of the bull calf is most suitable for joints, being firmer in grain, and fuller in flavour, but the cow calf is whiter, and there- fore preferred for many dishes; the fillet, too, is esteemed on account of the udder, which is largely used for forcemeat, particularly by French cooks. In choosing veal, look out for a nice coloured flesh, freo from bruises, and the fat of a pinkish white; a small kidney, well surround 11 " ‘ sweet to the smell, and firm to the touch, with no spots or blemishes: the same remarks apply to the sweetbread. Veal has a tendency to turn very quickly, and is most unwholesome if the least tainted; it should not be kept- more than a day or two in hot weather, though, if eaten quite fresh, it is apt to be tough. To assist it in keeping, the pipe should be taken from the loin, the skirt taken from the breast, and the inside wiped and floured. It is a good plan to put it in boiling water for a few minutes, then in cold, until it is cool; dry it, and hang it in the coolest part of the house until wanted. No meat is more generally useful for gravies, soups, and made dishes; and none is more insipid in itself, and consequently more dependent upon judicious seasoning. With regard to the digestibility of veal, the opinion amongst medical and other authorities seems to be almost universal, that the suffering proves good condition. The suet in the region of the kidney sometimes caused by it is duo, for the most part, to its highly gelatinous nature, as this renders mastication difficult: and thero seems good reason for the belief, when one remembers that many people can eat braised or stowed veal without discomfort, who suffer from a meal of roast veal, particularly if eaten cold. At any rate, there seems no reason to think that there is anything in the composition of the flesh itself which should give rise to suffering, where it can be perfectly mas- ticated. Here, as elsewhere, each must be a law unto himself. (See also Invalid Cookery.) 1. The Loin. 2. The Chump, consisting of the rump and hock bone. 3. The Fillet. 4. The Hind-knuckle. 5. The Fore-knuckle. 6. The Neck. 7. The Breast. 8. The Shoulder. To these must bo added the head and feet, and the pluck, which consists of the heart, liver, lights, milt, skirt, nut, and the sweetbreads : of the latter there are two, one from the throat, and the other called the heart sweetbread, the larger and dearer, if sold alone. The annexed diagram shows the usual method of cutting up a calf:— rump and hock bone. Hind-knuckle. 5. Th Pio. 76.—Calf, Joint- ing OF. .