387 game and poultry. will preserve them from flies. If there is any dauger that they " ill not keep, a little charcoal, powdered, should be sprinkled on them, alter pick- ing and drawing them. If they appear spoilt, they may be brought round sometimes by the aid of vinegar and water, or boras and water, or permanganate of potash; the last is particularly useful for a hare. But unless necessary, washing game-birds should be avoided; a wipe with a'damp cloth is enough. Game that is frozen will not. cook well, unless brought some hours beforehand into the kitchen. With regard to the cooking of game, not only the time, but the actual methods of cooking, and the adjuncts to the dish vary greatly in different households. “ The epicure demands game in its native sim- plicity,” says one writer ; “ he asks only gravy, and that of the best.” “ To lard or farce a grouse or partridge is the reverse Fia. 97.—Game Hooks. of a compliment, equally to the game if mature, and to the guest if a connoisseur," says Sir Henry Thompson. This is true no doubt to an extent ; game of the best requires nothing to heighten its flavour, and is spoilt by new flavours which destroy its own savour and aroma. But foreign game (much of it inferior to the native article) is now sent by shoals into England, and is certainly improved by treatment of the kind referred to. Then change is demanded by those who eat much game—a few genuine epicures excepted—to say nothing of fashion, which in the craze for new dishes is responsible for many that appear at modem tables, and for the base of which a tasteless piece of meat would serve as well as the finest pheasant, so completely is the original flavour obscured. The thing is to hit the happy medium, and to rememljer that birds of the tribe which are often classed as “ fishy,” will bear a sauce or gravy that would ruin an English partridge. Finally, we would add that in every instance, owing to the reasons above stated, the time given for cooking can only be regarded as approximate, particidarly for roasts. Poultry.—A writer has it that “ thousands who talk learnedly on the subject of table poultry, have never seen a first-class bird.” We quote this, not with a view to enter upon any lengthy disquisition, but rather because therein, in a nutshell, lies the cause of many a failure on the part of the cook. She opens a cookery book; it tells her to roast a fowl for a certain time, or a chicken for a certain time, if young and tender; but what sort of a fowl or chicken ? Necessarily, much is left to the commou- sen-e of the person who is scanning the recipe ; she may be about to deal with the most miserable specimen of a bird that ever adorned (?) a table and thousands such are sold in large markets in England every week, worth nothing but to be consigned to the stock-pot); or sho may possess a specimen which would justify the remark that it looked liko a young turkey. But between the puny bird, all skin and bone, and a fowl that might adorn a luncheon table at Epsom, there is a wide gulf. So far as our own recipes go, we are assuming an average bird, either fowl or duck, goose or