UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 570 oatmeal lias a very softeuiug effect ou pulse, and is, therefore, a good addition to the soaking water; a couple of ounces will serve for a pint of beaus and a couple of quarts of water. When used, increased attention to the rinsing is necessary. Concerning the cooking, as a rule, the water or stock should be cold when added; green peas and beans of the best kinds may be put in hot liquid, and as a natural consequence, the colour will be improved. Salt must not go in at first; it retards the cooking by hardening the skins ; a pinch of sugar is useful, so is a morsel of fat free from salt; it induce; softness and swelling, and improves the flavour. A woodeu spoon is the best for stirring ; au iron one tends to shrivel the vegetables; this is especially noticeable in beans. The slower the process the better, but the cooking should be continuous. And what of the residue in the shape of superfluous liquor ? We may take the case of a dish of beans to be served as a vegetable. If during the final stage of the cooking the water be allowed to evaporate, there will be little, if any, to strain off; but it is quite common to see a quart or more poured down the sink, carrying with it a good deal of nutriment ; so common in fact, that wc have ceased to regard it with surprise, only witli regret. To the thrifty Frenchwoman, who makes much of the liquor from boiled vegetables of all sorts, it seoms incredible that the wilful waste of such a valuable residue as pulse liquor can bo the rule in our country. One thing is certain: it is so useful for all sorts of purposes that, once tried, no intelligent housekeeper would willingly dispense with it. Beans, Haricot, Boiled.— ! This is a plain dish, suitable for serving with roast meat. AVash and soak the beans, put them on in cold water, add 1 a lump of dripping the size of an egg' i to the pound, and, when they have bogun to soften, a little salt and a few peppercorns; cook until dono (see remarks on page o7o), then add more seasoning to taste, and either put the beans in a hot vegetable dish, shaking them up with a little butter, or, what is by many considered the nicer way, put them on a dish with the joint, and some of the gravy. This is excellent if the joint bo a shoulder or nock of mutton, and a tureen of onion sauce is served with it. Cost, about 3d., without sauce. Another way.—Stir an ounce of butter and some chopped parsley, with seasoning to taste, into the beans, and shake the pan over the fire for a f6w minutes: add a squeeze of lemon juice, and 6crve in a dish. This way is popular; so cooked, tho beans go well with a hash or stew. For vege- tarians, oil or butter must replace the dripping used at first. A suspicion of garlic is added abroad to beans so cooked (see Garlic in Vegetables). Green or white beans may be cooked in either of these ways. Cost, from 4d. upwards, according to kind. Another way.—With white beans, boil soma small onions, or a little celery (whito part only), and serve with the beans. There may be about a fourth the bulk of either of these. Sometimes the water is poured off when the beans are nearly dono. and some hot milk is put in, with a thickening of Hour and butter. This is a delicate and delicious dish ; but the surplus water should be used for soup. In all the foregoing recipes, a plain meat stock, or a vegetable stock, can replace the water at starting,