ENTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEV^S. 213 The illustration (Fig. 62) shows tho kind of patty pans referred to; they may be had in tin or copper, and are useful for many purposes. Tho wheel paste cutter is illustrated under Pastry. C'orbsilles, Superlative. (See the recipe above.)—Pass some cooked game through a sieve after pounding it; add to a gill of it a tablespoonful of sherry, the same of Brown Sauce, a dessertspoonful of Fumet of Game, a chopped truflle and a mushroom, a half teaspoonful of sweet herbs, a table- spoonful of whipped cream, and a little salt and pepper. Stir in tho bain-marie until hot, then fill tho corbcilles, and garnish the handles with a sprinkling of egg yolk, boiled hard and sieved. Tiny leaves of pastry can be baked, and used for decorating the tops after filling. Cost, variable. Creams, Pigeon, in Cases. —Mince the meat of some cooked birds, and mix it with any of the sauce or gravy that may be left, just enough to moisten it. Braised, stewed, or roasted birds can be used up in this way. Then put some white farce in buttered china cases; put in the mixture, and cover with moro farce; cook as directed for Quails in CAses, p. 221. Then take the cases up, and finish by masking with white of egg, &c., as therein directed. The white farce may be from veal or Chicxes Quenelle mixture; a table- spoonful of cream, and the same of creamy bechamel being added to four ounces. A small proportion of foie gras, or liver forcemeat, is an i mprove- ment; if any stuffing from the birds is at hand, this will not bo needed. Other birds may bo used in the same way. Creams, Veal, k la Dela- ville.—Required: some Veai. Sausage Meat, truffles, sauce, &c., as below. Butter some little fancy moulds, and put tiny stars of truffle about them, with strips of cooked tonguo and ham; fill with tho sausage meat, adding to half a pound a tablespoonful each of grated Parmesan cheese, and cream, and a dust of cayenne. Poach these just like quenelles; time ac- cording to size. Have ready a mixture of cucumber, carrots and turnips, all cut into rounds or olives (if the former, they should bo tho size of a nut), and nicely cooked. (See Dressed Vegetables.) Somo arti- choko bottoms should be heated and put round a dish, on each of which one of tho little creams should bo placed, with tho mixed vegetables in tho centre. Make some Cream Sauce, using any white stock for tho basis; flavour with Parmesan, and let it stand for a few minutes, then pour somo round the base, and some in the middle of tho vegetables. Tho sauco for the base should be coloured pink or pale green. CoEt, about Gd. each. Croquettes it la Heine.— Required : threo ounces of cooked chicken (breast), three ounces of boiled sweetbread, two ounces of ham, half a dozen button mushrooms, an ounce each of fine flour and butter, half a gill of good white stock, half a gill of cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little lemon juice, bread-crumbs, and an egg. Cost, about 2s. Remove the skin from the chicken, and any fat from the ham ; mince very finely ; cut the sweetbread in tho samo way. Then mix together, and boil thoroughly, the flour, butter, cream, and stock ; peel the mushrooms, rinse them in lemon juice, and chop them small; add them, with tho meat, to the panada, and spread on a buttered dish. When cool, mould them into small balls, tho size of walnuts, but perfectly round ; egg and crumb them, and fry a pale brown. Garnish with fried parsley. If sauco is served it should be rich, Supreme or Sauce Jaune, for instance. These are bettor if prepared an hour or two before frying, as they become firmer. To onsuro firmness, somo advise a second coaling of egg and crumbs. This is not dcsirablo when tho articles aro very small and