407 GAME AND POULTRY. eoil in tho liquor, and do not cut it until cold. It is then to be jointed and skinned. Put the skin and back- bone by for stock, and cut up tho breast ; these slices should be placed on the top. Coat every part, with Remoulade sauce, and garnish nicely with eggs and cooked vegetables, or raw salad. (See Salads.) Cost of fowl, 3s. to 3s. 6d., on an average. Fowl, Roasted.—A fowl for roasting should be picked and singed, firmly trussed, and prepared like a turkey : but while the legs of a turkey need not always he done through (when there is plenty of breast meat to go round), it is safe to assume that those of -a fowl will be cut at table as a rule, and therefore, in order to cook them without over-cooking the breast, great care is needed, and in proportion to its size, the fowl will take longer than the turkey. In many cookery books the time given for roasting a fowl is not enough. When roasted at an open fire, and with almost incessant basting, a fowl takes less time than when laid in a Dutch oven before the fire, and basted only occasionally, because the hot fat assists the looking; and when baked, as perhaps fifty per cent, of the fowls of everyday life are, still longer must be given. The time will vary from fifty minutes to an hour, for a medium sized, to an hour and a quarter or an hour and a half or even longer, for a larger one, its quality and tenderness con- sidered. The method of serving is the same as for turkey. A garnish of watercress only, or some little sausages or forcemeat balls, arc suitable for ordinary dishes: bread sauce and gravy (for which see recipes) are also every- day adjuncts. For various forcemeats, see a ’ later chapter, and for other methods, see Turkey. If the. liver is wanted- lot other purposes, tt cun' be kept. back ; otherwise it is generally put in one wing, and the gizzard in tho other. A roasted fowl, to look as appetising as possible, should be well frothed; give it a dredge with fine, dry flour, at least ten minutes before serving, then baste with butter con- tinue for a minuto or two, and remem- ber that if not as brown as it is liked, a coat of thin glaze willimprovo it. For sauces, sec Turkey ; and many given under Boiled Fowl are equally suited to the roasted bird, the very white, delicate sauces excepted. (See Fowl, to Pick and Singf, and Fowl, to Truss.) Fowl, Roasted (a Normandy dish).—Take the breast-bone from a fine fowl, and fill it with good forcemeat, either ham or veal, wel 1 flavoured with savoury herbs and grated lemon peel. When it is nearly done, and has acquired a light brown tinge, take it dowrn and dip it into fine bread-crumbs, tlt&n into clarified butter, and again into crumbs. Finish the cooking, browning wTell, and serve lemon sauce in one tureen, and fowl gravy mixed with minced parsley in another. Tiny sausage cakes fried, slices of lemon, and bunches of watercress should bo put alternately round the fowl. No gravy or sauce must be poured over it. Cost, from 4s. 6d. upwards. Fowl, Roasted (a simple dish).—This is much liked generally, and is. to be met with in many parts. When the fowl is three-parts cooked, take away the dripping pan, and put another tin or dish under; then begin to baste with batter, lettjng the separate coatings become set until an outer crust of half an inch or so is obtained. The fowl should be kept a fair distance from the.fire, or it will get too brown. When done, after a quarter of an hour's basting, or rather more, send to table with nice gravy. In somo places, little dumplings, or small pancakes made of tho-same batter, aro rolled up and served with it- For the batter, sec Yorkshire Pudding. Cost,from 3s.fid. to 4s. Fowl, Roasted, to Cai-ve. Insert the knife betwoen tho leg and tho body, and cut to the bone; then turn the leg back with the fork, and, if tho bird is not old, tho joint will give