EGGS. 599 the yolks from some hard-boiled eggs, and pound with enough butter or white sauce to make a rather moist paste; then season with pepper and salt and any finely-powdered herbs, or a little store sauce or chutney, or the liquid from some thick hot pickles. Grated lemon peel and a little of the juice may be added, and a dash of cooked ham or tongue is a welcome addition. All sorts of potted meats, ns well as game and poultry, may be used up in the same way, and serve to give variety. Another way is to pound the yolks with butter, black pepper and cayenne, and chopped parsley. This forms a good breakfast dish with dry toast and a plain salad. Various kinds of gravies and sauces of the most savoury kind, mixed with the egg yolk and pounded to a soft paste, will furnish many tasty snacks. Then there are potted fish and fish essences of all sorts, which may be used as described under Eggs, Anchovy. Lobster, Balmon, sardines, shrimps, and prawns are all good thus. Eggs stuffed with cheese are excellent; English or foreign cheese may be used, but a small proportion of Parmesan should beadded, if possible. Equal parts of egg yolk, butter, and cheese, flavoured to taste with cayenne, and a hint of nutmeg, if liked, may be recommended. If the mixture is put into the half-eggs by means of a bag and pipe, the effect is prettier. (See recipes under Salads and Garnishes.) Cost of the above varies from Is. 6d. to 2s. per dozen, on an average. Egg Toasts a la Souffle.— Cut a slice of bread, round or oval, to fit the dish for table, and sufficient for seven eggs, that a portion of toast may be served with each egg. Take the crust off, toast and butter it, and lay it on the dish, then divide it into portions. Spread a little warm cream over, and season with cayenne and nutmeg, j'ust a pinch. The eggs are to be poached and cut neatly, free from most of the white, then laid on the toast. While this is being done tho following mixture is to be prepared : —Boil together half a pint of milk, a gill of cream, a pinch of salt and pepper, and an ounce of fine flour, for a few minutes; take it from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, an ounce of grated Parmesan and half as much Gruyere cheese; beat for a minute, then stir in the stiffly-whipped whites of eggs. Coat each egg with this, in such a way that the shape is apparent: this is to facilitate the serving. Set the dish over hot water in a sharp oven, and brown with a salamander, if required; the surface should bo dredged with grated cheese and fried crumbs j'ust before dishing. This is a very good dish for luncheon. The mixture will rise like a souffle if properly baked. Cost, about Is. 6d. Eggs and Vegetable Hash. —Prepare a hash of mixed vegetables, as directed in the chapter on Vege- tables ; one of a piquant kind is the most suitable. Pile it high in the middle of the dish, put a ring of eggs, cooked in any approved fashion, round the base, and one on the top, and send a brown sauce of the sharp kind to table. For a maigre dish, use Brown Sauce, Vegetarian. Cost varies with the sauce and the season. There are many ways of varying this dish, and it is good in all. Some fried crumbs can be sprinkled over the vegetables, and croutons used for garnish. Or capers may be mixed amongst the vegetables, and a little Brown Caper Sauce poured over the eggs. If the hash is composed of white vegetables, a delicate sauce, rich or plain, as preferred, is suitable. A small proportion of rice or other cereal, cooked plainly or in any piquant way, improves these dishes for most palates: it can be served round or amongst the vegetables. Eggs a la Volaille.—Required : rice, cream, poultry, garnish, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Use rice boiled as for curry, moisten with warm cream, and line tho cases as directed on page 593 ; put in a poultry mince with sauce over (see Sauce