UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 592 that a lightly-boiled duck egg is best; it is a matter of taste, but we find them generally liked best when well done. Owing to their uncertain flavour, do not use these eggs for custards and other delicate preparations. Pheasants' Eggs.—A note of warning was recently sounded that the eggs of the plover were in danger of failing to meet the demand, and some went so far as to prophesy extinction; so a supply of pheasants’ eggs sent daily to a few of the best poultry shops in London supplied the deficiency, and were pronounced very good. They cost from 3s. to 4s. per dozen, therefore are only suitable for high-class dishes. They may take the place of plovers’ eggs, and the recipes for tho best of the ordinary egg dishes may be followed. To give special recipes for cooking them would involve useless repetition. Turkeys’ Eggs.—These may be cooked and served in the same ways as ordinary eggs, and may be used for puddings, &c., due allowance being made for the difference in size. They are almost as delicate in flavour as hens’ eggs, therefore their use is not restricted to certain dishes, as ducks’ eggs are. Cost, uncertain. Sivans’ Eggs.—The eggs of the swan may bo boiled ; the following is generally considered the best mode ;—Put the eggs into a good supply of boiling water, and leave them for twenty minutes, below boiling-point. Then boil for a quarter of an hour, taking care that the water quite covers them. Let them remain in the water for about five minutes before taking them up, the pan being closely covered. They retain the heat for a long time. Cut them through when cold, and divide them lengthwise into quarters or halves, according to size. Cost, very uncertain. Wild Fowls’ Eggs.—These are coloured or spotted, and generally partake of the flavour of the bird. Those of the sea-fowd have a somewhat fishy taste, as a rule. The eggs of the guinea-fowl are small and delicate in flavour. Cost, uncertain. Eggs, Anchovy. — Bequired : eggs, butter, and anchovy paste. The eggs should bo boiled hard, and the yolks pounded with about a fourth the hulk of butter, and enough anchovy paste to season. The eggs should be cut in two, and the halves filled with tho mixture. Cut a hit from the ends so that they will stand level, and use as they are, or with salad, &c., for garnishing purposes. Eggs and Artichoke Bot- toms.—Required : an equal number of eggs, artichoke bottoms, and crou- tons, some sauce, cream, and garnish, as below. Cost, about 4s. 6d. per dozen. Heat some tinned artichoke bottoms and dish each on a crouton, tho same shape, but a trifle larger. Trim some poached eggs, lay one on each, and mask with any rich white sauce: Supreme, for choice. Heat two table- spoonfuls of cream, mix it with tho samo measure of cooked button mush- rooms, chopped and sieved, then stir in the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Put a spot of this from a forcing bag in the centre of each, and garnish with tiny fancy shapes of truffle. Eggs, Baked. —Butter a saute- pan a little, and break in some eggs in the samo way as if for poaching; set it in the oven, and let the whites set, but not got hard ; sorve in tho modes directed for poached or fried eggs. Or