Force meats. 483 minced onion or two, or a few shalots should be added. Fill the skins very hghtly with the mixture, putting (ho squares of fat here aud there; tie them in links of about five inches. To boil them, put them in warm water, and cook them softly for two hours. When half done, some advise that they bo pricked, but if plenty of room bo left for swell- ing they will not buret. All super- fluous milk must bo drained from the groats. After boiling, they should bo loft to get cold, and then heated for serving in a Dutch oven, or on a grid- iron. These are the puddings familiar to country residents at pig-killing time, but almost evervono has a different recipo for making thorn. More fat than above given is often used, and the minced meat is composed of fat and lean. In some, melted lard is mixed with the groats. FORCEMEATS. Many very coarse and unpalatable compounds are commonly met with under the name of forcemeat, or stuffing (which is a more homely name for the same thing), due to nothing blit careless preparation and mixing of (lie several ingredients. In all forcemeats, except tlie very simplest kind, trouble and time must not be begrudged if tlie result is to reflect credit npon the cook. Those who are given to what they call “ knocking things together” at random will never succeed in preparing the delicate forcemeats which are the making of so many dishes, aud for which a pestle and mortar are absolutely necessary. And we believe that it is owing to the lack of proper utensils that many break down in culinary operations of all sorts. Some people are fond of arguing that only bad workmen quarrel with their tools; others will tell you that no one can work without tools. Be this as it may, it is certain that there is no more useful tool in a kitchen than the pestle aud mortar; and wliero forcemeats and potted meats are prepared in good quantities, a mortar which has a capacity of two to three pints should be purchased. (See the list of Kitchen Utensils at the end of the book.) Other utensils are a good knife and board, or some prefer a bowl, with the well-known form of knife made to fit it. Then there are sieves to be considered—many purees for which recipes are given herein need sieving as well as pounding—and we may here remark that the durability of sieves may he increased by using them more equally than they are generally used. Tlie sides, as well as the middle, should do a share of the work, and all sieves of copper or steel wire ought to he washed and dried each time they nro used; a small brush should be kept for them, and care taken that the holes do not clog. Assnming, then, that the utensils are ready to' hand, anyone who will may make good forcemeat, and all that comes under that head. First, I lie ‘■net that enters into so many of the every-day forcemeats: tiiis should he from tlie kidney if possible, skinned with care, and any (races of blood re- moved and it must bo chopped without Hour. Those who cut it into rongh, irregular-sized lamps at starting, will never got it fine. The tiling is to shred it very finely first, so finely that the knife seems to shave rather than cut it; if lightly chopped after, and rubbed into tlio crumbs until lost sight of, there will be no visible lumps of suet when cooked; tliero cannot