FISII. 191 mix with this the gravy from tho solo and a little of that in which the mussels were cooked. Reduce tho sauce till it coats the spoon; pour a little of it upon the sole over the mussels, and put the dish again in the oven for a few' minutes to make it quite hot, hut he careful not to colour tho sauce at all. Serve very hot, and scad the sauce which remains to table in a tureen. For a superlative dish, oysters and mushrooms may be laid upon the sole, as well as mussels, and the liquor from the oysters may be added to the sauce. Also filed smelts, crayfish, and fried croutons of bread may be used to garnish the dish. When preparing the fish for baking, it should he remembered that cider and perry replace French wine so well that it is almost needless to employ the latter. Some cooks use cham- pagne, or other expensive white wine. The Xormans use the best sparkling cider. Another uay.—Cook the sole in white wine and fish stock enough to cover it: put it on a hot dish, and add to the liquor, which must be thickened with white roux, a few button mush- rooms, oysters* or mussels,* and a little onion if liked; when done, pour all over the fish and send to table hot. The object is to keep the sauce white. Time was when this excellent dish was more extravagantly cooked. It is considered one of the best, if not the best way of serving sole. Garnish with prawns or crayfish and fried croutons. Sole, to Fillet. —After washing and skinning a sole, lay it on a board, and cut down the middle with a sharp ■ knife, straight over the back bone. Make an incision down each side, just where the fins commence—the head -should be first removed. Then raise the fillets on the left band side, keeping the knife fiat and close to the bone; turn the fish round, cut off the other * Boil these first In the ordinary v.ay ICse small oysters, bearded ; and add a little •of their strained liquor. fillet (always, that is, have the side that is being removed to your left hand); turn the fish over, and take tho fillets from the other side. This gives four; if small, leave them; if large, cut again in a slanting direction ; sometimes they are rolled up, or twisted over once or twice; either is done after egging and crumbing, when that is done. They should he smoothed with a knife, and any ragged pieces removed. Boil the head, hone, and trimmings for stock. When the fillets are rolled or twisted the side that was next the hone must he outside, or, in cooking they will come undone. Soles an Flat.—Required: a paii- of small soles, a teaspoonful of shrimp essence, a large tablespoonful of picked shrimps, two ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of fish stock, salt, cayenne, and lemon juice, a few bread-crumbs. Take off the brown skin, and trim the fish. Melt the butter, put half in the dish in which the fish are to he served; add the seasoning, lay in a fish, white skin down, sprinkle over it the shrimps, a few drops more lemon j nice (a little should be put with the butter), and a little salt; then Lay the other fish on, white skin up; brush the top with milk, sprinkle the crumbs over with seasoning, pour the rest of the butter over, and bake in a good oven. The fish stock should he poured round the fish, and when nicely browned serve at once. Send cut lemon and cayenne to table. Another way.—Put a little fish stock in the baking dish or plate ; lay in one solo, white skin down; on the side from which the black skin was taken sprinkle some bread - crumbs, first brushing the fish with milk, warm butter, or oil; sprinkle over some fresh parsley and mixed herbs; or some chopped mushrooms, with seasoning to taste; pour a iittlo butter over, and hake. These are good breakfast dishes. I f preferred, leave the fish unskiuned, then it must bo cooked white sido up ; this rulo applies, whutever tho mode.