UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 196 add an ounce of butter, and a little white wine, or lemon juice; cook gently, and baste well. Dish, and pour over some Brown Caper, Brown Mushroom, or either of the brown piquant sauces. One made of brown fish stock, thickened with roux, and flavoured with claret, anchovy essence, and chopped parsley, is also suitable for trout. Another way.—Lay the fish on slices of fat bacon in the tin, and baste with the bacon liquor; flour it a short time before dishing, and let the surface brown. Pour Tomato, or other suitable sauce round it, not over. Time about twenty to thirty minutes. Baked trout is delicious cold ; servo a good, cold sauce with it. Trout, Boiled. — Prepare tlio fish, and boil it in Court Bouillon. Drain carefully, and dish on a napkin; garnish with parsley and cut lemons. Send Dutch or other rich sauco of the usual kinds for boiled fish, to tablo with it. Trout, Fried.—The fish should be filleted in the usual way, and the flesh divided into uniform sized pieces. If for serving hot, egg and crumb them; if to be eaten cold, flour them lightly, then egg them, then sprinkle them with pounded biscuits, crushed to powder. Fry in hot fat. Drain well, and if to serve hot, dish en couronnc with filed parsley in the centre, and a slice of lemon, with a shrimp or prawn in between each fillet. Send sauce to table in a tureen. For a cold dish, dish the fillets when cold, on a lace paper, and serve with Sauce Yerte, or Tartare Sauce (see Cold Sauces). Garnish the fillets with parsley only, or with aspic or mayonnaise; or the fillets may be coated with liquid aspic, as directed for soles. They should then be gar- nished in the centre of the dish with a little dressed salad. Trout, Pickled.—Make a pickle, of equal measures of vinegar and fish stock; take the skin and bones from some trout, previously boiled or baked, and pack it in a jar in neat pieces. Add an onion, and a bunch of herbs, with the usual spices to the fish pickle; boil for a quarter of an hour, and pour over tho fish. This keeps well in a cool place. Trout, Potted.—Take four fish, of a pound or less each; clean them, cut them open, take out the back- bones, cut oil the heads, fins, &c., and season them inside with a mixture of salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg; using about a dessertspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, with very little cayenne and nutmeg: then sprinkle over each some dried herbs in powder. Put them two and two together, sandwich fashion ; lay them in a flat dish or tin to just hold them, and pour over them a glass of white wine, an ounce of butter, and tho juice of a lemon ; then bake the fish ; drain them, and lay them in a shallow jiie dish, pressing them well together, each pair being laid in a contrary direc- tion. Fill up any vacant places with lumps of fish aspic, then cover them a fourth of an inch thick with clarified butter, and set in a cold place. This must be done when the fish are cold. This method answers for many kinds of fish. It is an excellent picnic dish. If liked, the fish may be cut up, and the aspic put in when cold, then a dish of any size or shape can be used. Trout, Stewed.—Cleanse and cut up the fish if large; if small, leave them whole. Pour over just enough Brown Sauce to cover, first adding to it some claret or sherry, half a gill or so, and somo French vinegar; about a tablespoonful to each pint; when the fish is tender, dish it in a pile, season the sauce to taste, and pom- it over the fish. For a plainer way, use Gravy for Stewed Fish ; or for a rich stew, sec Matelote, and other rich brown fish sauces. Trout stewed in Madeira Sauce is very good. Time, from half an hour to three-quarters.