FORCEMEATS. 487 have been sieved. Add as much raw egg yolk ns will make a stiff paste, form it into balls the size of a very small nutmeg, and cook them in boil- ing water, slightly salted, until firm, l’ut them in the soup in time to heat through. Another icay.—Take some veal pre- pared as for Qce.velles, and add to it the necessary herbs, and hard-boiled eggs to make the mixture firmer ; one of the balls is better tested before all are made up. Forcemeat Balls, Ordinary. —Any forcemeat may be made into balls ; in some instances more crumbs must be used, but so long as the mass can be moulded that is all that is re- quired. If for frying, forcemeat free from suet is the best; for adding to stews, or anything that will be well cooked, those with suet will answer equally well. For dishes of hare, &c., any of the most savoury ones may be selected. For white meats, mixed forcemeats are best. Fowl, Forcemeat for.—Re- quired : half a pound of raw fowl, two to three ounces of pork or bacon, three ounces of veal suet, seasoning, the yolks of two eggs, and four ounces of bread panada. If suet is objected to, use butter ; the pork or bacon should then be reduced to about an ounce and a half. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. -id. Mince and pound themcats,then pound the whole. Any other seasoning besides salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg may be added, but the adjuncts to the dish must be considered, that the season- ings may not “ clash.” Used for staff- ing a fowl or turkey (for the latter the proportions must be increased) or for garnishing purposes. Game Forcemeat.—Itequired: game livers, raw game, bacon, butter, seasoning.cream, egg, stock, and panada. Cost varies with the kind of game. Take the livers of the game, and ponnd them with an equal weight of raw bacon, butter, and raw game; mix in some salt and pepper, and a pinch of powdered cloves and nutmeg; then make the whole into a paste with the yolk of a raw egg and a spoonful of thick cream, together with a spoonful or two of bread panada, cooked in game stock. If for tilling birds, this may bo moistcr than for moulding into balls, cakes, &c.. For a more solid forcemeat, use dry crumbs instoad of panada. For a more economical forcemeat, use any remnants of cooked game that may be hand)', and poultry livers instead of game. In either ease, tho liver must be in good condition, and after pounding should be passed through a sieve. Game Pies, Forcemeat for.— Kequired : half a pound of raw veal, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, tho same weight, of calf’s liver, the liver of a fowl or pheasant, or any other game or poultry, two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of cooked mushrooms, the same of sweetbread or brains, cooked, and cut in dice, and seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Gd. Pass all tho meats—sweetbreads or brains excepted—through a sausage machine ; put them in a pan with tho dissolved butter, and a bunch of herbs, with a pinch of cayenne and black pepper; stir for a minute or two, then pass through a sieve, after taking the herbs out and putting tho mushrooms in. Then add either a tablespoon ful of Fumet or Game, or tho same mea- sure of tho best brown slock or gravy that is available, with salt to taste, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Beat in a couple of raw eggs, yolks only, and tho sweetbread, and set aside to cool. This is so good, and may bo used in so many dishes, tiiat special attention is called to it. To make it stiff enough for moulding, either dry crumbs or panada will be wanted; as detailed, it is intended for using in layers, generally termed “spreading.” Godiveau (a rich French Forcemeat).—Required : veal, suet, water, or stock, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is.