460 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Turkey a la Brockleigli (a cold dish).—Required : a boned turkey of moderate size, forcemeat as below, aspic, brown and white sauces, a tin of macedoines, salad, sliced tongue, que- nelles, &c., as undermentioned. Cost, from 15s. to 18s. on an average, but may cost 20s. A pound of ham, fat and lean mixed, half a pound of cooked tongue, half a pound of truffled sausage meat, the same of button mushrooms, salt and pepper, some grated lemon peel, and a little nut- meg and cayenne are to be blended and passed through a mincer, then mixed with a few sliced truffles, and bound with raw yolksof eggs. This is to be put in the bird, which should be trussed into its original shape. The birdisthen to be nicely braised. (See page 461.) When done let it cool, then mask it with white chaudfroid, and when that is cold with brown chaudfroid. Some rings or stars of truffles and cooked white of egg are to be laid on to form a pattern, together with pickled gherkins and savoury custard, cut into fancy shapes. Then pour pale aspic over to set the garnish. Garnish the dish with some little moulds of macedoines in aspic. (See Garnishes.) Here and there lay some slices of tongue, cut with a crimped cutter, and the quenelles, and little piles of salad of various colours. This is a good dish for any festive occasion. Time, about three to four hours. In estimating it, remember that the stuffing alone weighs about three pounds. The bones should be braised with the turkey, then added to the sf ode-pot; or the liquor from the braise may bo made into very delicious soup, gravy, or sauce ; the bones being sim- inored in it until the goodness is ex- tracted. Dishes of this kind are need- lessly increased in cost, unless full benefit in some way is obtained from the residue. Turkey a la Chipplata. — Roast a turkey, and let it become nicely browned; glaze it if necessary ; decorate with chipolata garnish (see Garnishes), and send pice sauce to table; a good brown sauce is suitable; or make gravy from stock No. 16 or 17, thickening with roux and glaze. The bird may be stuffed with pork sausage meat, or with good veal forcemeat. Cost, variable. Turkey, Baked, American.— Required: a young turkey, oysters, cream, seasoning, gravy, sauce, wine, &c., as below. Cost, from 8s. to 12s., according to size and season. The oysters are to be bearded and dipped in cream, then in a mixture of cracker crumbs, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. Put a lump of butter in the bird, and pack the oysters in well, then truss, and give the bird a good shape. Roast or bake with frequent basting, and while it is cooking make a gravy from the giblets and oyster liquor; it can be made white by adding milk or cream, and a little flour and butter or white roux; or if liked brown, use brown thickening, and a glass of sherry or other wine. Send a dish of cran- berry sauce to table if convenient. The bird is to be wrapped in buttered paper, and requires careful cooking, and only one that will be suro to be tender should be chosen, as it is not desirable to cook the oysters longer than is necessary. Another way.—Stuff the bird, both breast and body, with a good oyster forcemeat, and cook by roasting or baking. When done, dredge with fried crumbs. Mako a gravy from the giblets, and add some oysters and the liquor, with roux to thicken, and a glass of wine with a dash of anchovy essence. Pried oysters should be used to garnish. A fine fowl may be cooked in either of the above ways. Turkey, Baked, Italian Re- cipe.—Required; a turkey, a glass of Marsala, some French plums, bacon, chestnuts, sausages, butter, seasoning, drc. Cost,about 2s.,exclusiveofthebird. Cut from six to eight ounces of sausages in pieces; stone the French plums—two or three ounces only ; cut them up, put them in a pan with some butter, add the chopped liver of the