Universal cookery book. 138 stows; or it may bo baked, boiled, fried, &c. The value of the conger for turtle soup is recognised by many; and in a paper read at the Fisheries Exhibition of a few years ago by Sir Henry Thompson, he stated that turtle soup when at its best was composed of a stock made from conger eel, the turtle furnishing the garnish and the name. Cost, from 3d. to 6d. per pound. Conger Eel, Baked.—Take a piece of eel a foot long; after skinning and cleansing, dry it well, and stuff it with plain fish stuffing (see Force- meats) ; tie a greased paper over each end, and bind it with tape to keep in the stuffing. Have some hot- fat in a baking-tin; flour the fish, and baste it well, then cook it gently, with frequent basting, for an hour or longer, accord- ing to thickness; see that it is well done. Dish on a hot dish, dredge with raspings, and send a piquant sauce or gravy to table with it. This is both good and cheap. Cost, about Id. per pound. This may be cooked in a Dutch oven with still greater success, as the chances aro it will got more basting. To boil conger, add a bunch of herbs to the water, and rather more than the usual quantity of vinegar. To fry it, parboil, and let it become cold, before frying. (See Eels.) Court Bouillon,—Required: half a pint of vinegar, half a pint of wine, a quart of water, an ounce of salt, a bunch of thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, and marjoram or basil, a sliced onion, a carrot cut up, a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and a bit of mace. Put the whole of the ingredients on to boil; let the liquid attain simmering point as slowly as possible, then skim, and boil from forty to fifty minutes, and strain for use. This is used for fresh water fish; the quantity made must depend upon the size of the fish, which should be well covered; the recipe will serve as a guide to the re- spective quantities. For ordinary purposes a less expensive bouillon, made with a gill of wine only and the same of vinegar, answers very well; but the above is a preparation which may bo re-boiled, and used many times, if diluted each time with half a pint of fresh water; otherwise, it would become too strong and concentrated. Fish boiled in Court Bouillon is often served cold, simply with oil and vinegar, or any sauce of which oil is the principal ingredient. (See Cold Sauces.) Court Bouillon au Blanc.— Boil some water with a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, an onion, a teaspoonful of white pepper- corns, and a couple of ounces (or more) of salt to each half gallon ; skim very thoroughly, and after twenty minutes’ simmering strain, and add an equal measure of new milk. Put together in a fish-kettle, and when it simmers put in the fish. The above is used for boiling white fish of various kinds; when for in- valids, the salt should be reduced. No lemon-juice or vinegar must ever be added, but in preparing the fish it may be rubbed on the white side with lemon-juice and left for a while, then rubbed again, finally rinsed in clear water ; and during tbe boiling it must be kept skimmed constantly. Crab.—Select a crab of medium size; it should bo heavy : a light crab is likely to be watery. To test it, hold it by the claws, and shake it from side to side. If it rattles much it should be rejected, as it will contain water and be of inferior quality. If good and freshly boiled, it will be stiff, with the tail pressed to the body. The male crab is considered the better, and preference should bo given to those with rough shells and claws. The points of the claws shonld be stiff, the shells bright red, and the eyes bright and firm. The crab is at its best and cheapest in the summer; it may then be had from 4d. or 6d. ; while in winter it may reach 3s. In preparing dishes of any sort from crabs, the gills and the bag found in- side the shell should be thrown away.