UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 6*4 Inspecting the above method, we may add that many writers who have made a study of scientific cookery are in favour of the boiling water plan; though we are well aware that, by cooks generally, the cold water plan, as given in the next recipe, is con- sidered correct for old potatoes. Some give no reason for the preference; others say that if potatoes are put in boiling water, the outside breaks before the middle is done. In reply, we suggest a trial of the method—the rules given on page 642 to be carried out minutely—and we think that the verdict will be in favour of it. Another ivay.—Peel anc^ cover the potatoes with cold water, salted; briqg to the boil, then simmer for twenty minutes, more or less, according to size; the)' may be strained a few minutes beforo they are done, covered with a cloth, and left near the fire to finish ; or they may be strained just when ready, and served at once, after a shake over the fire. Should the potatoes break—as they sometimes will, in spite of every pre- caution—it is better to mash them than to send a dish of so-called whole ones to table in an unsightly condition. Potatoes, Boiled in their Jackets.—If sent to table in their skins, a small plate should be put to each person for the reception of the skins. It cannot be said to be a tidy or con- venient method of sending to table (as they are not so easily removed as from baked potatoes), and it is perhaps better to cook them thus, and peel them quickly before serving. A saucepan should be ready by the fire, and when all are peeled, a minute’s shaking over the fire is required. It is quite true that potatoes thus cooked have what is described as an earthy taste ; this can be removed in a great measure by changing the water when they are half done ; it should contain more salt than for peeled potatoes; cold water is generally used, but we incline to the boiling-water plan, and, save the addition of the salt and an increase of time, the rules for peeled potatoes (first recipe) should be followed. Time varies according to their size and the condition of the skins ; they may take nearly an hour, or be done in" forty minutes. Another very good way to serve is to take each potato in the corner of a soft cloth, and give it a sharp twist to dry and shape it neatly, as soon as peeled. There is one drawback, viz., the little waste, as a small portion will stick to the cloth. This is sometimes done before serving ordinary boiled potatoes. An Irish method of boiling potatoes is to cook them so that they may have, as they call it, a “bone” in'them: that is, be rather firm in the middle. They are put into an iron pot with a good supply of salt, and boiled until the skins crack. The water is then pourod off, and the potatoes are loft with a cloth on by the fire for a quarter of an hour or so, then served. Where turf forms the fuel and is burnt on the hearth, some of it is scraped up round the pot to keep up a gradual heat; by this plan the potatoes are both boiled and baked. Potatoes, Breakfast, Ame- rican.—Boil some small potatoes in their skins; the moment they are barely done, take them up and skin them. Have ready a pan of very hot lard, drop them in, and fry a rich brown; they want plenty of room, and fat enough to cover them in every part. Drain before tho fire, and serve at once with a sprinkling of pepper. Another way.—Put some mashod potatoes on small plates, pyramid form, each plate to hold enough for one person; season all over with salt and pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg; brush over with a beaten egg, and brown well all over at a quick fire ; put sprigs of fried parsley here and there, and dredge with coralline pepper. Another way.—Parboil some potatoes in their skins; set aside to cool after peeling; then fry a chopped onion in some very hot fat until it turns brown, and put in the potatoes after cutting