UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, 116 ratafia essence, four ounces of sweet almonds, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a tablespoonful of milk. Cost, about Is. 5d. First blanch the almonds, and pound them smoothly (see Pastry), pour the tablespoonful of milk over, and leave them to stand for an hour or so ; then add the boiling custard. If re- quired hot, re-heat the sauce in the bain-marie, and add the brandy and essence off the fire ; or for a cold sauce, add the last-named ingredients just before serving. The almonds may be bought in the ground state, then they only need infusing in the milk, but the sauce must be passed through a tammy. AlmondandCocoa-nut Sauce. —Required : one gill of cream, one ounce of butter, two eggs, yolks only, a glass of brandy, half an ounce each of cocoa-nut and ground almonds, and a little milk. Cost, about Is. Infuse the nuts in the milk for some time, without actually boiling, then add the rest of the ingredients, and thicken as directed for custard; stir in a few drops of almond essence, and serve with rich puddings. Amber Sauce.—Required: a pound of apples, weighed after peeling and coring, the rind and juice of a lemon, two eggs, two ounces of butter, four ounces of moist sugar, a wine- glassful of ginger syrup, and some yellow colouring. Cost, about Is. Bake the apples in a covered jar, with the lemon-rind and juice and the sugar ; when done, pass through a hair sieve, then add the eggs, well beaten, the butter, just dissolved, the ginger, and enough paste or liquid colouring to impart a rich tint; beat well, re-heat, but do not boil, and serve with any plain pudding, cereal, suet, &c„ or with boiled rice, macaroni, or any kind of batter or other light pudding. It is a very good sauce, and inexpensive. Another way.—Omit the ginger syrup, and add pineapple-juice, apricot syrup, or some orange marmalade; if the last-named is added, use less lemon- juice. The rind may go in as before, and it should be grated, though if time is an object it may be peeled very thinly, but the flavour is not so good. Amber Sauce (Rich).—Mix a gill of orange marmalade, the grated rind and juice of an orange, the juice of half a lemon, and an ounce—more or less—of loaf sugar ; stir to the boil, add half a glass of raisin wine, and serve over or round a hot pudding. (See recipes.) Angel Sauce.—Required: a tea- cupful of apricot marmalade, a table- spoonful of brandy, the same of sherry, an ounce each of almonds and pistachios, a dessertspoonful of noyeau syrup, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Blanch the almonds, dry them, and chop them into pieces the size of split peas; bake them on a tin in the oven until golden brown, add them to the marmalade, set it in a pan of boiling water to liquefy, then put in the flavourings and the pistachios, first blanched and chopped finely. This is a very delicious sauce. It may be served hot or cold, with Angel, Alma, Little Coburg, and any similar puddings, or with various creams and pancakes. (See recipes.) Apple Sauce.—This is especially suitable for serving with Apple Char- lotte. It is also referred to in the chapter on Pastry. Put in a stew-pan half a pound of apples, peeled and grated-— they must be weighed after grating; add a little water. The kind of frui$ must be considered: very juicy apples will need but little, some sorts will take nearly a gill; put in a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and twice the measure of the juice, with loaf sugar to sweeten ; boil to a pulp, then beat the sauce well for several minutes with a whisk; put it back on the fire, and melt in it a small jnr, about four to six ounces, of apple jelly, then pour it round the Charlotte or other pudding, Paradise Pudding for in- stance.