UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. D54 mixed with the gravy usod; j ust before serving, put in the yolk of a hard- boiled egg rubbed through a sieve. Oatmeal.—Oats are of great value as food, and the meal may be made into a large number of very nourishing dishes. Scotch oatmeal is considered the richest. There is no doubt about its being a good food for breakfast, both for children and adults whom it suits; but wo do not on this account agree with those who consider that it should bo served every morning, and that no breakfast table is complete without it : for, as we have elsewhere remarked, we believe that the advan- tages of changes in diet are many. As to the time for cooking oatmeal, wo incline to the opinion that it is hardly possible to over-cook it. We are quite aware that there are thousands of families who from custom, or, may be, convenience or choice, are content with the often-advised ten or twenty min utes’ simmering; and that many a hardy Scot or North of England man can eat and digest it when only mixed with boiling water. But dishes of this sort are for the fow, and from experience wo know that people who dare not venture upon oatmeal porridge of the half-cooked typo, can talce it with impunity when reduced almost to a jolly ; and the same remark applies to other dishes made from the same grain. Fine oatmeal is generally made into gruel, and tho coarse or medium used for porridge and other dishes. Oats in the whole state (called groats) are much liked by some; but they want very long cooking. There are several varieties of cooked or “patent” oatmeal to be had; they are useful when a dish is wanted in a hurry, or when the coarser forms are not found palatable, or do not agree; but their chief uses are in tho sick room and for young children. Oatmeal is spoiled in flavour if allowed to become damp, and it should bo bought of a thoroughly reliable dealer; for fow foods vary more in quality. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 3s. por stone. The best will be the cheapest. Oatmeal enters into many dishes scattered through this work, for which see Index. Oatmeal Porridge.—For a very nice and easily made porridge, take a brown stew-jar, which must bo kept for the purpose, or, at any rate, for sweet dishes only; put in as much water as may be required, and four ounces of medium or coarse oatmeal to each quart. Add a good pinch of salt, and if it can soak for a few hours all the better. Then put the lid on, and give it two or three hours in a gentle oven, or the hob will do after it reaches simmei-ing-point. It will keep for a day or two, and may bo heated iis required in cold weather; we do not advise that it be kept in summer. An improvement on this—as tho stirring is dispensed with—consists in setting tho jar in a saucepan of boiling water. The exact thickness is best regulated by taste; but, on an average, two ounces of meal to the pint of water is about right. When only cooked for a short time, more meal must be used, as it gets thicker by being- cooked longer. The porridge should be served on hot plates, and some like cold milk with it, while othors prefer hot; sugar or treacle is also required; the accom- paniments par excellence are said to be honey and cream. Buttermilk is less known, but a most wholesome addition. Another ioa\j.—Have ready a sauce- pan of fast-boiling water, with a half teaspoonful of salt to the quart; take a porridge stick in the right hand, or tho handle of a largo wooden spoon is a very good makeshift; drop in the meal gradu- ally from the left hand, stirring each portion in by degrees, and avoiding lumps. When the full amount is in- corporated, put the lid on, and only remove it when the porridge needs stirring-; if burnt, it is spoiled. We advise at least an houi-’s cooking, and more will improve it; but if preferred, it can bo served in half an hour; then from three to four ounces of meal to tho pint is needed. The best way, wo think, to cook this or any other porridge is by means