645 PLAIN* VEGETABLE OOOKEftV. them in dice; a frying-pan should he used, with a small quantity of fat. Stir for a minute, then take the pan from the tire, and leave for a few minutes; the potatoes should he kept pale. Pour the fat away, sprinkle some chopped parsley over, first skim- ming out the onion, season well, and shake over the fire for a few seconds, and serve very hot, with cayenne and lemon juice. Potato Cakes. — Prepare as Balls, or as Croquettes below; if liked, add a little parsley, ham, or cheese to flavour; for serving with a joint they are better plain. Make into balls the size of a chestnut, then flatten them into round cakes, and finish^off as Balls ; or they can he rolled in crushed vermicelli. They are nicer laid in a frying basket, and cooked in plenty of fat. Drain and serve hot. Potato Chips.—(See Potatoes, Fried.) Potato Cones.—Prepare as for Balls or Croquettes ; shape them like tiny sugar loaves; rough the sur- face with a skewer, and brush with beaten egg; or a mixture of egg and milk answers. Bake them brown, and serve with meat or fish ; Qr add the ingredients above referred to in Potato Cakes, and serve with gravy or sauce. Potato Croquettes.—Required: potatoes, seasoning, butter, and egg as below. Cost, about 4d. Scoop the inside from some baked potatoes; put it in a saucepan with salt and pepper, half an ounce of butter, and the yolk of an egg to each pound. Beat well until the paste leaves the sides of the pan, and is firm, then take it from the fire, and spread it out to cool. Shape it into balLs the size of a Large walnut, or into cork shapes, and fry as directed for Potato Cakes. Potatoes, Curried.—Required : half a pint of rnilk and plain stock (meat or vegetable) mixed ; a good- sized onion, a teaspoonful of curry powder, two teaspoonfuls of rice-flour, seasoning as below, and some potatoes. Cost, about 4d. Chop and fry the onion a pale colour in a little dripping or butter ; add the stock, milk, and rice-flour; boil up, and simmer until the onion is done; cut some cold potatoes into dice, add them to the above with salt and a little lemon juice, toss until covered, but do not break them up, and servc.as soon as hot through and impregnated with the curry flavour. This is very simple and cheap. For a piquant curry, take some cold fried potatoes ; make a sauce with any brown stock (see Curry Sauce in Hot Sauces and remarks on Curries, page 242). Add any of the adjuncts therein mentioned—such as a spoonful of chutney or a little tamarind, &c. Another good way to use up potatoes thus, and any remnants of sauce at the same time, is to take a few spoonfuls of sauce, such as onion or celery, or mix them, and add stock to bring it to the proper consistence, then season to taste with curry, See., and heat the potatoes as above directed. The curry may be moist or dry, just according to taste; if the latter is preferred, the lid must be left off the pan until most of the moisture has evaporated, and the sauce just adheres to the potatoes. Potato Cutlets. — Shape the foregoing mixture for Croquettes into little cutlet shapes; and, when done, stick a bit of pipe macaroni in to re- present the bone; it should be brushed over with a morsel of glaze ; or, if this is not at hand, dip into warm butter, then roll in very fine raspings warmed in the oven ; some may be shaken over the cutlets also, if it is more con- venient to bake than to fry them. Potato-flour. — The farina of the potato, properly granulated and dried, is frequently sold as a substitute for arrowroot. If kept dry, it will re- main good for years. A tablespoonful of potato-flour mixed with two table- spoonfuls of cold water, stirred into a pint of boiling soup or sauce, and boiled for five minutes, will make the liquid of the consistence of thick cream.