273 COLD entrees. Ballotines of Hare, with Cherry Salad.— Required.: hare, forcemeat, sauce, and garnish, as be- low. Cost, variable. The legs of a hare will make a small dish ; they should be boned, then filled wit h any game forcemeat, or with a puree of foie gras or game; or a rich mushroom forcemeat can be used; it should be mixed with a few pieces of cooked sweetbread or brains, if possible. The legs should then be sewn up, and braised in stock for an hour or more. When cold, cut them into slices, and mask with good supreme or bechamel sauce, or with white chaudfroid; let it set, then pour some liquid aspic over ; this should be pale pink or deep yellow. Trim the edges when firm, and dish straight down a block of aspic cream, of a contrasting colour—a white one if pink aspic is used, or a pale green looks pretty. Put little heaps of the cherry salad down thesides, withblocks of aspic cream, or clear aspic jelly in between. Prepare a ballotine of rabbit in the same way. Or, if liked, either can be braised, then finished off in the oven, and masked with brown chaudfroid only. Ballotines of Pheasant (see recipes under Forcemeat).—Stuff the legs of one or more pheasants with any rich forcemeat; braise as above, and when cold slice them, and brush over with thin glaze; then sprinkle with chopped jelly, truffles, and chopped white of egg, with here and there a pinch of chopped chervil and tarragon. Dish straight down a block of rice, and garnish with cherry or currant salad. Cost, variable. Ballotines of Turkey.—Re- quired : turkey, forcemeat, stock, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, variable. Bone, the legs of a turkey, and stuff thorn with veal or herb forcemeat; sew the skin over to keep in the farce, and sprinkle the outside with lemon juice; then tie up in buttered rnuslin, and boil in white stock until quite tender. When cold, take the skin off, slice them, and pour some white sauce over —supreme is best. Let this set, then garnish the top with ham butter, using a bag with a leaf pipe ; or take a rose pipe, and form a rose in the centre, with leaves of chervil round it. Cut some slices of lemon and beetroot, and divide some hard-boiled eggs in quarters; ornament the latter on the yolks with ham butter. Take an aspic border made in a fancy mould (see Garnishes) ; arrange the slices of turkey on the top, and put between the slices some of the lemon and beetroot. Put a dressed salad in the middle, and lay the eggs in a pattern on tho top. Put more lemon and beetroot round the base of the border. Another way.—Instead of a border of aspic, take one of salad mayon- naise in aspic; lay the meat on as above, and put a beetroot salad in the centre (supposing a pale salad to have been used for the mould). Garnish the base with eggs, lemons, and beetroot; or in place of beetroot, use little rounds of ham and tongue, coated with aspic or chaudfroid. It is very necessary that only young birds be used for the above, or any similar dish. Bombay Creams, Iced.—Re- quired : two eggs, a small tomato, an onion, a teaspoonful of mulligatawny paste, a gill of white stock (No. 9), a gill of whipped cream, a teaspoonful of Bombay chutney, colouring, season- ing, and six ounces of any cooked white meat, or poultry. Cost, about Is. 8d. Peel and mince the onion ; fry it in hot butter, then drain ; add the pulp of the tomato, paste, stock, ehutnoy, with a pinch of cayenne, and grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Cook until all can be passed through a hair sieve; then stir in the sieved yolks and whites of the eggs, first boiled hard, tho meat, pounded and sieved, or very finely minced, and a little yellow colouring. Whip tho cream stiffly; add it lightly ; then fill some little paper cases—round, square, or oval—using a bag and pipe, and making tho mixture stand higher