668 UNIVERSAL COOKERY rook. a saucepan with a small quantity of sauce herbace, or sauce verte (see pages 102 and 104); stir until hot. Artichoke Bottoms with Chestnuts.—Required: a tin of artichoke bottoms, chestnuts, stock, butter, cream, bread-crumbs, and gar- nish as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Slake a tin of artichoke bottoms hot. Put the liquor from the tin in a stew- pan, with a pound of chestnuts that have been roasted and peeled; bring to the boil, add a little white stock to make about half a pint of liquid altogether, and an ounce of butter. Simmer gently until the liquid is absorbed, then take up the best of the chestnuts, and put one on each arti- choke bottom; pass the rest through a sieve, add a little thick cream, and re-heat, then pour it over the whole chestnuts. Sprinkle some fried crumbs over, and set in the oven for a minute or two before dishing. Garnish with fancy croutons masked with Tomato Butter. Artichoke Bottoms with Iced Sauce.—Required : artichoke bottoms, celery puree, sauce, and gar- nish as below. Cost, varies with the kind of sauce and garnish. The combinations that are possible are too numerous to mention ; but the following ways ai'e recommended both for the appearance and flavour of the dishes. Drain a tin of artichoke bottoms from the liquor, and dry them in a cloth. Put them on ice to cool, then arrange them on the dish for serving, and put in the centre of each a little pile of rich celery puree (page 677); this is also to be first cooled; round the celery lay tiny squares of Sauce a la Barhe, that has been frozen in a shallow mould and coloured a rather deep pink. Place them on a dish paper, and serve at once. Another way of serving, which is very pretty, is to freeze the sauce in a very shallow tin and stamp it in rounds when firm, and lay one on each artichoke bottom ; the latter should be the larger, and they should be placed en couronne on a dish, with the celery puree in the centre; this may be garnished with the trimmings of the sauce, cut up finely; a few leaves of cress or chervil, here and there between the sauce, will improve the appearance. Another way.—Make some Sauce a la Dresue, and cut it in rounds when frozen. Lay one on each artichoke bottom, so that the two colours that compose the sauce show alternately ; arrange as in the preceding recipe, but with a mixture of artichoke bottoms and beetroot in dice in the middle; moisten these with oil and vinegar, and season with mignonette pepper; garnish with the trimmings of the sauce and some plain mayonnaise. Artichoke Creams.—Required: an artichoke puree, spinach, cream, stock, eggs, and seasoning .os below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 3s. The illustration shows the kind of Fio. 111.—Artichoke Mould. moulds required. They are very use- ful for many purposes, and are made small enough to serve one to each person. Make a puree of artichoke bottoms (page 667) ; add to a pint a tablespoonful of cooked sieved spinach, twice tho measure of thick cream and strong stock, and when the mixture is cool, the yolks of three eggs; beat well, then season with salt and pepper, and a dash of cayenne and nutmeg. Then whip the whites of the eggs and stir in, and three-parts fill the moulds with the mixture after buttering them with clarified butter. Bake in a pan of water, or steam, and turn out as soon as firm. Serve as a second course dish