124 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flower water, two eggs, two ounces of castor sugar, and a little “apricot yellow ” colouring. (See page 84.) Wipe the orange, grate the rind of half of it into a jar, add the other ingredients, with a few drops of vanilla essence, set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and whip the sauce until it thickens: it must then be taken from the fire at once; colour a rich yellow. The yolks of the eggs only aro needed; they must be very carefully separated from the whites and per- fectly fresh, or the delicate flavour of this sauce will suffer. Orange Sauce.—Required: threo large sweet oranges, a dessertspoonful of arrowroot, a gill of cold water, and some loaf sugar. Cost, about 5d. Wipe the fruit, rasp it with a few lumps of sugar to extract the yellow part of the rind, and put the sugar in a saucepan with the water; bring to the boil, then put in the pulp and juice of the orange—the pips and white skin being first removed; a spoon should be used for scraping out the pulp—and thicken with the arrowroot; add a little more sugar if required, boil up, and sorve. For a very superior sauce of this kind use the juice of an extra orange in which to dissolve the sugar (omit- ting the water), then proceed as above, and when the sauce is done rub it through a sieve, and re-heat it with a tablespoonful of maraschino or curaqoa. Orange Sauce, Plain—Put half a pint of plain Melted Better in a saucepan, with one to two ounces of sugar and the strained juice of a large orange; remove the yellow rind first, either by grating it or peeling, and cutting into very thin shreds; if the latter, boil it for half an hour in water to cover, and add to the sauce; if grated, stir it into the sauce with the juice. Serve with any plain pudding. The sauce in the previous recipe is only suitable for rich puddings or Orange Souffle, Peach Sauce (sec Apricot Sauce).—Make this in the same way, using peaches instead of apricots, and reducing the lemon by half, also the water; in addition to the flavouring, add a dessertspoonful of brandy. Noyeau is more suitable than almond flavouring, if at hand, and the kernels of the peach stones, skinned and poundeu, aro an excellent addition to the sauce. Peach Sauce from Fresh Fruit.—Divide the fruit, and lay it in a saucepan, with a gill of water and four ounces of crushed lump sugar to half a pound; add the kernels after blanching and shredding them, and boil altogether to a pulp, then rub the puree through a hair sieve; re-heat it, and add a tablespoonful of red- currant juice, from fresh or bottled fruit, or a little lemon-juice and a few drops of carmine, with more sugar if required, and if liked, a tea- spoonful of brandy. Serve hot or cold ; if the latter, set it on ice for an hour or so. Nectarines can be used in the same way. Poach sauce with raisins is a favourite sauce in America ; it is made by boiling stoned raisins in the juice of canned peaches until soft; it is then swoetened and flavoured, and served with or without the raisins, according to taste. Pineapple Sauce, Plain.— Put half a pint of the syrup from tinned pineapple into a stew-pan, with the juice of half a lemon ; mix a tea- spoonful of arrowroot with cold water, add it, and boil up the sauce; if not sweet enough, put in a few lumps of sugar; when dissolved, it is ready to serve. For a richer sauce, add a glass of sherry or half a glass of rum—the latter always blends well with pino- appl0_and a tablcspoonful of pine- apple jam, or the grated pine sold in tins.