UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 578 porridge of the usual sort, the beans should ho soaked, and cooked like oatmeal porridge for a couple or three hours, then sorved with milk and sugar; but a savoury porridge is more likely to be appreciated. Vegetable stock can be used instead of water; it gives softness and a superior flavour ; and a morsel of butter stirred in at the end is a great improvement; or sorao milk thickened with corn-flour or barley-flour (an ounce of either to half a pint of milk) is liked by some; it should be stirred in a little while before serving. Salt and pepper are the only seasonings really necessary. A mixture of hari- cots and pearl barley makes a famous porridge ; they should be soaked and cooked together, and, where no porridge pan (i.e. a double pan) exists, we advise baking in a jar; this can hardly be cooked too long, and there are few better dishes for cold weather. Cheese may be used to flavour if approved; with the addition of an onion or two, it forms a good dish for supper. Beans, Haricot, with Pota- toes.—Required: beans, stock, butter, potatoes, an onion, a tomato, crumbs, cheese, flour, and seasoning as below. Cod, about 8d. or 9d. Boil half a pound of haricots in plain stock until done ; red or brown beans are best for this dish. Put them in a fireproof china dish ready for table; put a few bits of butter over, cover, and set in a good oven for a few minutes. This trifling detail has to do with the success of the dish. Next add a good-sized onion and a tomato ; both sliced and fried (see recipes in Ve- getables), and cut up small. Stir the whole well, level the top, and cover it an inch thick with mashed potatoos. (See Vegetables.) Dredge with bread- crumbs and grated cheese, and bake a good brown. Take half a pint of the stock from the beans, add it with a little flour to the pan the onion was fried in; boil up well, season, add a dash of browning and store sauce, and servo in a boat; a bay leaf will improve this, and it must be carefully strained. Brown Sauce may be used instead of this gravy. Beans, Haricot, Brown Puree of.—Required: beans, stock, herbs, seasoning, dripping, and vege- tables as below. Cost, about 6d., exclusive of garnish or adjuncts in the form of rice, &c. Soak some brown beans, cover them with stock No. 1 or 2, add a bunch of herbs, a few black peppercorns, an onion stock with two cloves, a piece of carrot, a stalk of celery, a pinch of brown sugar, and an ounce of dripping to each quart of beans. Bring to the boil slowly; if hurried at first, the beans are very difficult to soften after; skim just before the liquid boils. Go on simmering for three or four hours, or until soft; pass through a wire sieve or colander, and return to the sauce- pan; add seasoning, with a dash of browning, and any approved store sauce. Serve with any cereal—as rice, cooked plainly—and garnish the puree with a few small slices of hot bacon ; or it can go to table with meat, if the latter is eaten in small quantities ; but in itself it is a highly nourishing dish. (See page 574.) For a maigre dish of this sort, use any vegetable stock, oil instead of dripping, and serve with onion or celery sauce, or with vegetarian brown sauce (see Hot Sauces). Fora more savoury dish, add a fried onion or two to the beans. Beaus, Haricot, Brown Puree of, B.ich.—Cover the beans with stock No. 4 or 5; cook as above, and, when nearly done, add half a gill of clarot to every pint of beans. After sieving, season highly with black pepper and a pinch of cloves and nut- meg, with salt to taste; stir in a teaspoonful of red or black currant jelly, and the same of tomato conserve. This is very nice, and may go to table with any hashes of game or dark meats. Cost, about 8d., for a dish of a pint of beans. Beans, Haricot, Green Pu- ree of.—Put as many green beans as