512 tjRlVEliSAL CiOOIiERV liOOk. in the middle of the dish with the meat round ; or the meat can be arranged neatly on the top; some- times the meat is served in the middle, and the cabbage as a border. A small proportion of mashed potato is some- times put in with the cabbage, and a shredded onion is liked by some, or a few chives may be used. A very nice dish, similar to the foregoing, is made by frying the meat, and making mashed potatoes and boiled cabbage up into little flat cakes ; they are then rolled in crumbs and fried brown; a seasoning of herbs is generally added to them. Great care is needed in fry- ing the meat; it must be constantly turned, and as soon as pale brown and just hot through it is ready. Calf’s Head, Hashed.— Re- quired : sauce, calf’s head, &c. Cost, according to garnish. Allowa pint of sauce, any of the kinds which are usually served with boiled calf’s head, for a pound of cooked head, and tongue if any should be left. Cut the meat neatly ; moisten it with a little of the liquor, and heat it between a couple of soup plates set over a sauce- pan of boiling water; or put it in a steamer. When hot through, lay it in the sauce, and cover for a short time. Should any of the brains remain, they may be put in little piles, on some slices of tongue, and put about the dish ; eggs for garnish are also suitable, so are small croutons and Forcemeat Balls. For more elaborate dishes, when a rich sauce is used, the crofitona should be glazed if the sauce be a brown one; and mushrooms, cooked in any approved fashion, may be served round the moat. Reference to dishes under Veal in this chapter, and in Made Dishes, will suggest many varieties of this hash. Cavaliers’ Hash. — Required: meat, sauce, potatoes, and seasoning. Cost of meat, about Is. per pound. Cut some slices, nearly the third of an inch thick, from under-done mutton. Cut them in oblong pieces, then lay them in Cavaliers’ Sauce to heat through ; allow three gills to a pound. Put some Potato Ribbons round a very hot dish ; pour the meat in the centre, and garnish with little fancy croutons on the top; they should be brushed over with thin glaze, and sprinkled, some with chopped capers, and some with chopped red chillies. Send any sort of sweet chutney or sweet pickles to table with this. A cooked mutton kidney improves the above ; or some sheep’s or lamb’s liver may bo used up thus. Cold Meat Puffs.— Required: minced meat and potato pastry. Cost, from 2d. to 3d. each. Make a mince of cold meat of any sort, using thick sauce or gravy to moisten; let it be highly seasoned, as the crust should be rather thick, and the interior ought to be piquant, that the whole may ho free from insipidity when eaten. For each table- spoonful of the mince—for which see recipes, under the various kinds of meat, poultry, &c.—roll out some rounds of good Potato Pastry, the sizo of the top of a largo breakfast cup; put the mince on one side, brush the inner edges with the beaten egg, fold over, then press them, and pinch them up. They can then be baked or fried; if the former, mark them across slantwise, and brush them with raw egg, or part milk will do, and bake brown in a quick oven or before the fire. Serve with any suitable sauce or gravy. If fried, coat them with egg and crumbs, or egg and crushed vermicelli, and plunge into plenty of hot fat. As soon as brown and crisp, serve, and garnish with little sprigs of fried parsley, and lemon sliced and cut in dice. (See Cornish Pasties in Pasti-y.) Cottage Pie.— Required: a pound and a half of cooked potatoes, half a pound to three-quarters of cold meat, seasoning and gravy as below. Cost, about 9d. The potatoes must be nicely cooked and mashed while hot (see directions for Mashed Potatoes). They should /