G41 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. black pepper, full of fragrance, freshly ground, over them, and a pinch of salt according to taste, and the whole stirred.” The author adds in a foot-note that the pepper mill “ has now for some time been growing in favour here, and may be seen at many tables, and for sale in many shops but at the time the foregoing was written, he could not have found a table pepper mill in London, and obtained his own in Paris. Peas, Green, Puree, Vege- tarian.—Required: a lettuce, peas, butter or oil, seasoning, thickening, eggs, and toast, as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d., if four eggs be used. The peas should *be shelled, and put into an enamelled saucepan, with a large lettuce cut into shreds, and two ounces of butter or oil (if the latter, olive must be used) to each quart, measured after shelling. In another pan, at the same time, put some of the best of the shells, and cover with water, a little salt and sugar ; boil fast until well reduced, and the liquor is flavoured nicely. While the shells are cooking, the peas should be cooked gently in the butter, and a spoonful or two of water. When soft, add some of the liquor from the shells, and some of the shells themselves rubbed through a sieve, then pass all through a sieve together; or, to save trouble, mash the peas up well with a fork before adding the liquor. Finally, add a little white thickening, with a few drops of green colouring, and season to taste; serve hot with toast, and poached or fried eggs. Time, nearly or quite an hour. Peaa, Green, Stewed. — Re- quired : peas, sugar, salt, and pepper, butter, flour, and stock. Cost, about 6d. 'Phis recipe applies especially to peaa which are somewhat old and tough. Shell them, and cover with boiling water; add a lump of sugar and an ounce of butter to a quart of shelled peas, and a saltspoonful of salt, with the smallest possible pinch of carbonate of soda; boil until the water is almost dried up; by the time the peas are tender, there should be none to drain off: to ensure this, boil quicker during tlie latter stage. When quite soft, add a little stock made from the shells, about a gill, mixed with a teaspoonful of flour or corn- flour ; boil up, stirring it well amongst the peas; add another little pat of butter, and serve. To peas stewed in any way, many persons add a little chopped mint, and a few young onions are liked by some. Another way.—Instead of the stock and flour advised above, a few table- spoonfuls of white sauce or plain melted butter can be used; then a little green colouring improves the dish: otherwise it looks pale. To make a puree of the above, pass the peas, &c., through a sieve before the thickening is added; then re-boil with the thickening. Pile in the centre of cutlets, &c.; or, for a separate dish, garnish with crotrtons. Peas, Green, Tinned.—Nine- teen out of every twenty tins of peas may be pronounced excellent; and, although there is a difference in the quality, it is very seldom that a really inferior tin is met with. While it would be foolish to use these in place of fresh peas, it should be remembered that by the aid of tinned peas a dish may be had all the year round, which, would otherwise be confined to a few weeks in the year. The peas may be heated in their own liquor in the tin; if put into a saucepan of cold water, they will be heated through in about a quarter of an hour after boiling point is reached, and should then be strained from the liquor, and mixed with a little white sugar and salt, and, if liked, a pinch of pepper and a pat of butter ; see last page. If to be made into a puree, treat them precisely like fresh peas; but if some of the liquor from the tin bo used in moistening them, they will have a better flavour than if it is all strained off. For