639 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY, browned up in the dripping-pan in tho oven, or before the fire, under tho joint they are to accompany. Same should be put on the dish with the joint; the rest served in a vegetable dish. Parsnips and Potatoes.—This is a favourite dish in some parts of Scotland. Mashed potatoes and chopped or mashed parsnips are just beaten together with pepper and salt, and a little butter or dripping, then stirred over the fire for a minute, and served hot in a vegetable dish; or they can be pressed into a dripping-tin, browned up before the fire, and cut in squares like Yorkshire Pudding. Peas.—The pea has been cultivated as a culinary vegetable from a very early period. Either as a horticultural or as an agricultural product the pea is of great importance. In a green state the seeds are held to bo one of our most esteemed vegetables, when boiled; when ripe they are much used in forming a favourite and nutritious soup. The choicest kinds are grown in gardens to be eaten green, but vast quantities are also cultivated in the fields, and allowed to ripen for drying. Grey peas are coarse in flavour, and are used solely as food for horses and cattle. Peas are sown in the garden at different periods, so that they may be fit for gathering in suc- cession. They are usually divided into early and late peas; the former, which constitute one of the great luxuries of the beginning of summer, are often forced on hot-beds. The peas, however, which are best in quality are those which have been brought to maturity by the natural heat of summer. Peas vary much in price; the best garden ones are sold often at from 2d. to 3d. per pound (unshelled); or by the peck in other places, from Is. to 2s. being average prices. Field peas and garden peas, when past their best, may often be got for 6d. per peck; and when too old for table, will make good soup. Peas are often ex- posed for sale ready shelled: they are certainly easy to carry home, and may bo a boon to some very busy people; but it is questionable if these advan- tages will make up for the probable toughness and loss of flavour, con- sequent upon their exposure to air and sun. Besides the recipes that follow in the present chapter, and under Diiessed Vegetahles [see Index), peas enter into a great number of dishes in this work. For dishes of dried peas, see recipes under Pulse in the preceding chapter. Peas, to Bottle.— Gather tho peas on a hot day, and shell them out- of-doors in the sun; spread out on sheets of paper, and leave for a few hours; put them into dry bottles, and shake them down well; set them in a pot of water, and bring to the boil over a gentle fire (wrap each bottle in rag or hay wisps), and let the water reach to the necks. Keep the water simmering until the peas look tender, then fill the ’bottles with boiling water, salted as for fresh peas. Pour a spoonful of pure salad oil, or melted suet, in the neck of each, and fix in the corks securely. Have ready some bottling wax, melted; take each bottle in the hand with a cloth, and wipe the necks dry, or the wax will not stick; then dip the corked end in the wax, to get a good coating all over the cork and neck of the bottle. Take the pot from the fire, pour oil some of tho water, and set the bottles back in it until the water is cold; then take them out, wipe carefully, and set aside in a dry pkice. In taking tho bottles from tho pot for waxing, remove them ono by one, and set them on something warm, until they are ready to go back into the water : if put on a stone floor or a sink, they would crack; an old tray or baking-sheet, set. on a cool corner of the cooking-range, is the best thing to use. When first put in the wator, the necks should be only lightly covered or corked; but it is essential that fresh, new corks be used for tho final