•10') GAME AND POULTRY. go in. At one time, one sort of stuffing was usual in the breast; now- two or three are sometimes employed. The idea is that those who do not care for one, may like the other—supposing two distinct kinds, one of a mild nature like chestnut, the other well flavoured with herbs ; but the flavours become more or less blended in the cooking, and the argument has little weight. It is more likely that the elaborate customs of the day, and tho craving for something new, gave rise to the fashion. Tho recipe which follows is a good one of this kind. Turkey, Roasted (Mo. 3).— This is a very rich dish. A fine bird should be chosen, and the breast-bone taken out, excepting just at the point. Fill the body with veal sausage meat mixed with oysters [see recipe under Forcemeats), and stuff the breast with a creamy chestnut forcemeat. Use strings and skewers to make the bird a good shape, and cover it entirely with greased paper ; also lay sliced bacon on the breast. When the bird is cooked dish it, and garnish witli fried oysters and small sausages (made from the farce used for the filling). Send good oyster sauce to table, or a nice brown gravy, just as preferred. Brown sauce is also suitable. Turkey, Rolled.— Required : a turkey, forcemeat, bacon, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per lb. inclusive. This may be described asa simplified galantine, and many may succeed in making it who would fail in the attempt to bone a whole turkey. Cut a } oung turkey down the middle into two parts, remove the bones without injur- ing the skin, lay the pieces flat on tho table—skin downwards—and spread over each a layer of good forcemeat or sausage meat an inch thick. Roll them up like a sansage, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie this on with twine. Cook the rolls in stock to half cover them. Rolled turkey may be eaten hot or cold. If it is to be eaten hot, put the rolls on a hot dish, remove the twine, strain and thicken tho sauce, pour part of it over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. It cold, it may be just glazed and gar- nished plainly, or it can be finished like a Galantine. With regard to the treatment of the wings in the above recipe, remove the largo bone only (cutting the rest off at starting) ; do the same with the legs; then draw the rest inside. Cutoff then as much as possible from the legs and wings that were removed, and put the bits of meat about amongst the forcemeat. Should those parts look unsightly when cooked, i.e. where drawn in, endeavour to hide them with the gar- nish. If by chance they get torn, draw- them together with a needle and thread. Time, according to size. The cooking should be gentle. Turkey, Stewed.—Required : a young tmkey, stock, and seasoning, sausage meat, bacon, butter, wine, sauce as below, and a vegetable puree ; celery, haricots, &c. Cost, about 10s. Mix the sausage meat, about two pounds, with a couple of shalots chop- ped, a little nutmeg, and a spoonful or two of stock ; this helps it to cut firmly when cooked. Brown the bird in a stewpan (that just takes it) in the butter and slice of bacon cut up ; add a bunch of herbs, some sliced vege- tables of the usual sort, a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and some liquor from boiled white meat or poultry ; a calf’s foot is a good addition, that and the liquor w-ill make good soup next day. Simmer slowly for two hours, or more. A short time before serving, take some of the pot liquor; cool it rapidly by plunging tho vessel into cold water ; put a pint and a half in a saucepan, with a good spoonful each of sherry and mushrocm catsup, thicken with brown roux, and add salt to taste. Boil up, and pour some over the turkey; serve the rest in a boat. Tho giblets may be stewed with tho bird, and served as a separate dish, or left in the soup. [See Giiilet Sore.) Serve the vegetable puree inn separate dish.