POTTED MEATS AND FISH. 497 Oue warning may bo given respecting- tlie condition of tlio meat; wo have already said that the veriest scraps may bo used so long as they are sweet; bnt some people seem to regard all animal food that is not actually putrid as sweet; so long as any slightly unpleasant flavour can be masked by seasoning, they consider it fit for table and consumption. This is mistaken economy; worse still, it is most dangerous economy. If, by accident or mismanagement, meat is ever allowed to become unpleasant, there is only one tiling to be done, i.e. throw it away, for it should not be forgotten that though it may be possible to make it palatable by seasoning, it is not possible to render it wholesome. Potted meats will keep some time, if well seasoned, and stored in a cool, dry place; and in preparing them the seasoning should be considerably in- creased if they are to be kept long. In filling the pots room should be left for a layer of clarified butter or lard, to the depth of a quarter of an inch; or if for long keeping, it is safer to use melted suet. This is, however, to be removed when sent to table, a little butter being then melted and poured over. To keep out the dust, “ parchment paper,” or “ vegetable parchment ” as it is generally called, should be tied over it. The pots used are round or oval, generally of earthenware, but for keeping, we recommeud the use of glass; oval or round “ moulds ” are sold very cheaply, and the meat can thus be watched from time to time. Anchovies, Potted.— Required: anchovies, butter, seasoning,and colour- ing as below. Cost, about 6d. for a small pot. Boneless anchovies are best for this. {See Anchovies.) After scraping them very clean, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste, then rub through a fine sieve. But the paste back in a mortar, and pound again with fresh butter, which should be at least equal in weight to the anchovies, and if a mild paste is wanted it must be in- creased. Mace and cayenne are the usual seasonings ; a little colouring is an improvement if desired pink, but care must be taken to blend the mixture, or the colouring will give a streaky look. This keeps well, and only a thin layer of butter need be put ovct it. Small pots are best, that it may be quickly used when opened. Tie them down with bladder or parch- ment ; if for present use, paper answers, as it is only wanted to keep out the dust. Note.—A mixture of anchovies and sardines will be found very agreeable ; or a little cooked white fish may be introduced. Beef, Pointed.— Required : beef, butter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. for a half-pound pot. In the opinion of some people, the best potted meat is made from that which is cooked on purpose, by placing it in a jar, with a tablespoonful of water to the pound, tying it down, and setting it in a saucepan of water, “ jugged hare ” fashion, and letting the water boil for some hours round the jar. The meat should get cold before tlio jar is opened. This method is very good, undoubtedly, when a quantity is required, and it is worth while taking the extra trouble. But for ordinary occasions tho remains -of a roast, if not too much done, answers admirably. From six to eight ounces of butter is not too much for a pound of lean meat; if some of tho fat is used—which is really an improvement —reduce the butter. Flavour with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. By