JOINTS AND PLAIN MEAT DISHES. {For Braised Meats, see Entrees, Made Dishes, and Removes.) GENERAL HINTS ON MEAT. The choice of food is one of the most important of the duties of every housekeeper; much of the requisite knowledge involved in the judicious selection of wholesome fare, and the careful avoidance of what is bad or doubtful, can result only from practical experience. "We will first point out the leading features of good meat generally. Further details of each kind are given under their respective headings. One of the surest sigus of a healthy auimal is the condition of the tongue; this should be plump and clear skinned, the fat at the root being fairly plentiful and of good colour, with no unpleasant odour. A shrivelled tongue, with rank smelling fat, may not indicate actual disease, but goes far to disprove perfection. Then the internals. These—viz., the heart, liver, kidney, &e.—furnish an equally reliable test. A bright, clear kidney, with firm clear fat round it; a smooth-looking liver, uniform in colour, and free from blotches on the surface ; or a heart, clear and bright-looking, are prominent sigus of a healthy condition. On these points the highest authorities are agreed. As to the flesh itself, we must refer to our remarks under the separate headings for Beef, Yeal, &c. &c., for details; but speaking generally, it should be firm, free from flabbiness—i.e. pleasant both to the sight and smell—and when cooked should neither shrink, nor separate when cut to any great extent. A certain loss of weight is unavoidable, given the priinest meat and the most careful cooking; we refer rather to the dry, shrivelled appearance of poor meat; whereas good meat, to use a homely phrase, will “plump.” But to ensure good results at table, the great thing is personal inspection: one soon becomes acquainted with the outward signs of good, indifferent, and bad meat; and the lines of demar- cation are many; while as to the choice of joints, a so-called inferior ono from a first-class animal is to bo preferred to a prime cut (?) from a poor, badly-fed one. Meat should always be hung up as soon as it comes from the butcher, after careful wiping with a damp cloth, then with a dry one. Kernols, marrow, kidneys, and other parts which taint readily should be removed; a good dust of pepper, round the shank bone of a leg or shoulder of mutton, or other meat, is a simple preservative ; and some flour should be dredged all over. The cellar or larder should be cool, airy, and dry; damp, lack of ventilation, or proximity to open drains will render the meat unwholesome; and those who have not facilities for hanging it