PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 643 Do not cut them (if to bo served as a vegetable) before boiling if it can bo helped; as they absorb more water if cut, and lose moro of their soluble salts than if whole. For soups it is different; they should bo cut then, that thev may' amalgamate with the liquid. Never omit salt in boiling; not only for its flavour, but because it makes the outer part firm, and prevents breaking to an extent; a good supply of salt, by increasing the temperature of the water above boiling point, will bring about good results; see the first recipe for Potatoes, Boiled. Potatoes cooked in their skins are more nutritious than when peeled ; a baked one is better than a boiled one, because the starch grains are more perfectly ruptured, the salts are better preserved, and solanine, the poisonous principle, is completely dissipated by' dry heat; the result is mealiness, good colour, and a particularly sweet flavour. In purchasing potatoes, it is true economy to get the very best; and when a good store is laid in at a time the sizing is easy; the largest should he kept for baking in their skins; the medium ones answer for general pur- poses. Cost, about a penny or less per pound in good seasons. Potatoes, Baked.—Choose large potatoes of uniform size. Wash them well in lukewarm water, and scrub the skins with a soft brush. Dry them thoroughly'. Put them in the oven, and bake until done enough. Do not let them remain in the oven after they'are cooked, or they will become hard and shrivelled. Serve on a hot napkin neatly' folded, and send pats of butter to table with them. The oven should be of a good heat, but not fierce enough to scorch them ; they should be turned a few times while baking, and, shortly before they are done, a hole or two should be made in each with a skewer for the escape of the steam. Be careful not to leave them too long, or they will burst. Baked potatoes so often form a separate dish, that it is well to vary it by serving a little sauce with them for a change (see Hot Sauces). Good- sized ones will take nearly or quito two hours. Potato Balls.—Required: pota- toes, milk, egg, and seasoning. Cost, about 4d. Steam or bako in their skins some mealy potatoes; add to a pound, a tablespoonful of boiling milk and part of a beaten egg, with a little salt and pepper; cayenne and nutmeg are some- times added. The mass must be beaten well, and, when cool, made into balls the size of a nutmeg or smaller, then coated with the rest of the egg', and rolled in fine bread-crumbs. The balls may be fried brown, or baked in a greased tin in a sharp oven, turning them as required. Potatoes, Boiled.—Wash and peel the potatoes (see page 042); have ready some boiling water salted (a tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon), drop in the potatoes, the largest a few minutes before the others if not equal in size, and cook very slowly; the water should just simmer the whole time. It is common to read—“just cover them with water;” but plenty of room is required; if crowded in a small pan with little water, the potatoes are liable to break : everything containing starch wants room to swell. When a skewer will pierce them easily', take them up; if left, they will break and absorb the water. A fork is generally' used for trying potatoes, but a skewer is preferable, as it makes one hole only; again, less chance of breaking them. After straining, give the saucepan a shake, and set it near, not on the fire ; remove tho lid, and lay over the pota- toes a soft, lightly-crumpled cloth (an old serviette or piece of a tablecloth). In five minutes or rather moro, tho last traces of moisture will have dis- appeared, and tho potatoes, if a good sort, will be mealy. Dish in a hot dish. A warm serviette is tho best cover; many high authorities condemn the lid of the dish, both for potatoes and rice, but it is almost suro to hold its own. in deference to custom.