697 I) ItESS ED VEGETABLES. place of some of the stock, and the champagne may he reduced; or, for a less expensive dish, light wine of good quality may be used instead for the stewing, a glass of champagne being added near the end. Turnip Balls or Marbles. — Prepare some nice young turnips, by cutting them into balls the size of a common marble; blanch them, then cook in white stock until tender, if to be coated with white sauce. Turnip Cups. — These are re- ferred to in several recipes. Boil and halve some turnips; scoop out the centres, and fill with peas, carrots in dice or pea shapes, beans, or beetroot; anything, in short, that will form a pleasant contrast in point of colour. These can be put round a dish of lamb or veal. The scooped-out part can be used for a puree, and, if liked, the cups put round it. Before filling the cups, coat them with white sauce; caper or parsley is also suitable. Turnip Puree, Rich.— Required : turnips, cream, sauce, butter, seasoning, and garnish, as below'. Cost, 4d., exclusive of the turnips. When French ones are used, the puree is much more expensive. Boil and sieve the turnips; to a quart of the pulp add a tablespoonful each of cream and Bechamel, or other rich sauce, and half an ounce of butter; season nicely,and stir for some minutes. Very white turnips are best for this— French ones are sure to be of good colour if properly cooked. This may be served plain, or sprinkled with chopped parsley, or shreds of cooked carrot or beetroot may be put round the base, with a few chopped capers; but this must depend upon the nature of the dish it is to be served with. Mote.—If wanted stiff, a little flour should be dredged over the turnips before any liquid is added, after they are sieved. Turnip Furde, with Bread.— This is called Fkexck PchIsb, or Turnip and Bread PcbHe. It is recommended as being rather more substantial than the above. To make it, take the sieved pulp, preferably of French turnips, and put it in a sauce- pan with its bulk of bread-crumbs that have been soaked in cream as for sauce. Boil for a few minutes—it should be thick; then season and serve. Cost, rather less than the above. Turnips au Beurre. —Young turnips are required; they are lo be shaped, according to taste, in olives, pears, &c. Sufficient butter is then to be melted in a stewpan; it should j ust cover them in a single layer, and the cooking should be gentle, or they are liable to break. They will take from thirty to forty minutes. A great im- provement in the flavour is effected by parboiling them in white stock. Serve as they are, or sprinkled with chopped parsley or capers. They are nice with lamb or veal. Turnips, Fried.—After boiling in white stock until nearly done, dry and finish off as directed for Onions, Fried, Superior. They are nice- for garnishing, and may be in balls or olives, slices, dice, or like the sections of an orange. If served with fried tomatoes the appearance of the dish is improved. Turnips, Glazed.—Boil until nearly done, then dry and fry in a little hot fat, turning them about until golden brown; brush with thin glaze and serve. Vegetable Marrow, Mari- naded.—By treating as follows, the vegetable is greatly improved :—After paring, seeding, and cutting up the marrows into suitable pieces for serving, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, then pour over them a mixture of half a gill of olive oil, a tablespoon- ful each of brown vinegar and herbal vinegar, and a teaspoonful of spiced or chilli vinegar; this will servo for a good-sized marrow, or two small ones ; after coating with the above, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over thorn, and leavo for awhile, covered. Take