PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY*. G17 ready for serving, and to improve the appearance rub a bit of butter over the top. Some dislike this if it is to be eaten with a roast. Prepare the water as directed for C Aim age on page lilt, and wash and prepare the cabbage in the same manner. To serve as a separate dish, treat the cabbage as spinach, or any other green vegetable. Cabbage, Stewed, Arme- nian.—Required : a cabbage, a mince of cold meat and bacon as below, dripping, stock, seasoning, and thick- ening. Cost, exclusive of meat, about 4d. Scald a neatly trimmed cabbage 5 the outside leaves must be removed, so as to leave it close and compact. Make a mince of any sort of cold meat and bacon ; it should be highly seasoned, and mixed to a paste with about the same bulk of parboiled rice; broken rice does very well. Introduce this in amongst the inner leaves, and tie up the cabbage with tape. Brown it well in a morsel of hot dripping, then add some weak stock, and stew for an hour and a half or two hours. Untie it, and thicken and flavour the gravy to taste, pour it over or round the cabbage, and serve hot. A large lettuce is excellent thus treated. A similar dish is made by using sausage meat to stuff the cabbage, with parboiled rice, or some cooked peas or lentils, mashed and moistened with gravy or stock. 'This sort of dish is a change from meat and vegetables as ordinarily served. Cabbage, Stuffed.—Required: cabbage, forcemeat, stock, thickening, and seasoning. Cost, about 6d. or 8d. This is a tasty dish. Prepare a plain herb forcemeat [nee Forcemeats), and use it in the manner described above; or take the heart out and put the stuffing in its place; in this case, the heart is boiled and served in another dish. Stew in some plain meat or vegetable stock until the cabbage is done; then serve it on a I hot dish and thicken the gravy; add I seasoning, and pour over the cabbage. Use a forcemeat without suet. Cabbage Turnip, or Cole Rape.—This is a vegetable favoured in Germany (Kohlrabi) ; the flavour is something like cauliflower. To cook them, they must be peeled like turnips, and quartered or halved according to size, and boiled in water or stock like turnips; when a skewer goes easily through they are done. Meanwhile, the tenderest of the green tops are cooked just like spinach. The kohlrabi are sliced and heated in white sauce, seasoned nicely—a grate of nutmeg is generally approved—and served in the centre of the dish with the green round them. Ordinary turnips, vegetable mar- rows, or any other of the insipid class of vegetables, might be thus served, any green-meat in season forming the wreath; it improves the appearance and the flavour. Cabbage, with Cheese and Eggs.—Required : cabbages, sauce, eggs, cheese, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 10d., without the adjuncts named. This is a nice maigre dish. A couple of young cabbages should be boiled and pressed, then chopped roughly, and put in a saucepan with a gill of plain Melted Butter, or White Sauce, and stirred for a minute or two. Four eggs boiled hard, and cut in six or eight pieces are then to > be added, with an ounce or more of grated cheese, a pinch of cayenne, and nutmeg and black pepper to taste. As soon as the cheese is melted, the whole should be served as hot as possible. With this a dish of macaroni or rice is good eating. Other combinations may be tried; for example, some melted butter and eggs can be put in, and any preparation of rice or macaroni, with cheese, laid round it; or some fried or toasted bread, with grated cheese on a plato, are sometimes handed round, with the cabbage. Cabbage, with. Pickles.—Re- quired : cabbage, vinegar, pickles,