ENTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEVES. HOT ENTREES. On glancing at the above heading, the first thought of some will probably be, why entrees and made dishes P au entree is a made dish. So it is; but a made dish is not necessarily an entree. Heuec the distinction, although some of the made dishes of another section of this chapter could be served as entrees. But we will first consider, briefly, the main features of an entree proper. Au entree is a light, delicate, and daintily served dish, complete in itself; i.e. the sauce or gravy is served in the dish, which must, therefore, be deep enough to hold it, and afford scope for garnish ; for the dish should bo as pleasing to the eye as the palate, the one being affected through the other. Should vegetables form part of the dish, faultless cooking is an absolute necessity, or the dish will be only half complete. As to the foundation of an entree, it may be meat, game, poultry or fish ; the precise form in which it appears varying according to the style of the meal, the number of guests, the dish which ifnmediately precedes or follows the entree or entrees, and to other circumstances. As a rule, where two entrees appear, they should differ in kind and appearance; for instance, a dish of white quenelles, fowl, veal, or rabbit, with a puree of celery, furnishes a contrast to a civet of hare; while oyster or sweet- bread croquettes, rissoles, or vol-au-vents readily suggest themselves as suitable dishes to follow quails, or other birds, in a rich brown sauce. By the way, while some contend that birds, when served as an entree, should always bo the first if two arc provided, others say that the more delicately flavoured dish, whatever its composition, should take precedence; but such minor details are best settled by an intelligent hostess. In the case of two entrees, ono hot and one cold, the first-named is served first. There is a good reason for this, for were it otherwise, it would be difficult for the cook to determine the time when the hot one would be needed, and as is well-known, every minute detracts from the excellence of many dishes (cutlets are a striking example) when kept waiting. We said that the sauce should bo served in the dish; but an exception may be made in the case of souffles and little dishes, served separately to each guest, with which many people never think of taking any sauce; here the sauce should bo handed. It goes without saying that dozens of delicious entrees nre of the dry order — kromeskies, croquettes, and the like—because, if well made, i.e. moist inside, they require no sauce, as they may be said to contain it ; and the same remark applies to patties, vol au-vents, and other delicate wastry.