DRESSED VEGETABLES. 693 and beat hard; season and set by to cool, then till any little fancy moulds, buttered, and cook thorn until firm. Either set the moulds in a potato steamer, or in a stewpan with boiling water round them, but see that it sim- mers only. A buttered paper should be laid over the motdds. Turn out very carefully. A dessertspoonful of arrowroot or potato flour, mixed with the milk, and boiled before adding to the spinach, will ensure the moulds turning out firmly, but they will eat rather less delicately. Or the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, sieved, and an extra raw yolk may be used if liked. These are useful as a garnish; they look pretty round a dish of mince or hash (of a superior kind); they go well with sweetbreads, whole or sliced, veal cut- lets, and made dishes generally. Or they can be garnished with strips of poultry, ham, tongue, &c., heated in a little good sauce, and served separately. With other vegetables cut into fancy shapes, they are suitable for putting round a braised joint. Spinach. Puree {see page 654). —The finer the sieve through which the spinach is passed the better. For a very good dish, return the sieved epinach to the saucepan, with half a gill of thick cream to a quart, and stir until hot. This is nice for using from a bag and pipe. Another good puree is made by beating in the sieved yolk of a hard egg to the above quantity, with a little cream or butter, and seasoning to taste. A puree of spinach pressed into a mould or basin, turned out, and coated with thick bechamel or other good sauce, and garnished with fancy shapes of glazed ham, slices of hard eggs, and croutons, is a very nice dish. A good puree of onions or celery may be used instead of sauce with the spinach. Cost, varies with the adjuncts employed. Tomato Chips. — For cooked chips, take the outer part, with the skin adhering, and see that the toma- toes are sound and fully ripe ; cut up into chips, and fry or cook them quickly, so ns to retain their shape. They nre a ready and effective gar- nish for many colourless vegetables, also rice, &c. For raw chips, simply cut them in the same way, and season them ; they may be left plain, or sprinkled with chopped parsley or other green meat; if oil be used, with tarragon, &c., they are useful for salads of many sorts. A sharp knife is wanted, and if the fruit be over-ripe and “pappy ” the chips are a failure. Tomato Rolls, Italian.—Re- quired : tomatoes, seasoning, stock, cream, ham, chicken, eggs, crumbs, and vermicelli. Cost, about Is. 8d. Take four ripe tomatoes, the size of a medium orange, or a proportionate number of smaller ones. Break them up and rub through a sieve; no seeds must go through, and it saves time to use a little warm stock to moisten them. Chop a teaspoonful each of parsley, onion, and basil and thyme mixed; add these to the pulp with three ounces of chopped ham, the same weight of chicken (the white part of a braised or boiled one), as much bread as the two meats combined, to be soaked in stock or cream, and squeezed dry first, and pepper and salt to taste. Add as much beaten egg as is required to bind the mass, then put it by in a cool place for a few hours. Shape it on a floured board the thick- ness of ordinary sausages, and two inches long, if for garnishing; but for separate service they may bo longer. Brush them over with law egg yolk, and roll them in fine bread-crumbs; set aside for an hour, then egg again and roll in crushed vermicelli. Fry in plenty of hot fat, to a delicate brown. Another way. — Omit the herbs named above, and season with chopped chervil and tarragon, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Tomatoes au Gratin. — The recipe for mushrooms (pago C8G) may be followed so far as the filling of the tomatoes is concerned. Tho pulp must bo removed with a small spoon; a