CEREALS. 507 Another variation of this consists in adding the lime to the x-ico and using the raisins for garnishing. E.ice-flour. -— This is a superior fonn of ground rice; it is very white and fine, and is a most useful prepara- tion. It is adapted for gruel and other invalid dishes; also for cakes, pastry, biscuits, &c.; while for the thickening of white soups, and all sorts of vege- table stews, &c., it is excellent. It has the further advantage of cooking-very quickly. It costs but a trifle more than ground i-ice—about 4d. per pound is the average ; the French preparation, Crime tie Hi;, costs from fld. to Is. per pound. In addition to the following, recipes for the use of rice-flour are given in various other sections. Rice-flour Porridge. — lic- quii-ed : xiee-floui-, milk, sugar, &e., as below. Cost, about 3d. to 4d. This is a good breakfast dish for children, and may be made sweet or savoury. For the first, take three ounces of rice-flour, and mix it smoothly with cold water or milk to a paste. Add a pint of boiling milk by degrees, stirring all the time; pour into a clean saucepan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Unless a double pan is used it must be stirred all the time, as it bums quickly. Sen- e with milk and sugar, or treacle or a little honey is as good, or better. Some will prefer this made with water, with an accompaniment of stewed fruit. Ground rice can be used in the same way: but it takes nearly as long again to cook, and two or two and a half ounces to the pint of liquid will be sufficient. Ground rice is generally sold loose, while rice-flour is in packets, and is on that account much cleaner. Risotto. -This is a dish to be had in perfection in Italy; there are various ways of preparing it, most of which are vei-y tasty and much liked. It is a famous dish for the commencement of dinner in the place of soup, though it may be eaten at any meal. The following recipes will illustrate the different sorts of l-isotto. Risotto, Austrian.—Wash four ounces of rice and boil until done ; pour the water off, and wash the i-ice in cold water. Drain it, and put in a pan with a couple of ounces of fat or butter and two ounces of grated Parmesan; when the cheese hisses, serve with melted butter over it. Cost, about 5d. Another wni/.—Tiiis is very nice. Put some marrow in a saucepan, and before it is quite hot add some shredded onion and chopped parsley. Then put in some raw veal in dice, and cook until done. Wash and drain some i-ice and add it with enough stock to prevent burning, then cook until the rice is done; it should not he stirred ; flavour to taste with grated Parmesan, stir then for a few- minutes, and servo on a vex-y hot dish. The precise proportions of the several materials are here left to the discretion of tho cook; but we think that the dish will he liked best if only enough maxTOw to cook the veal ho used; tho rice may he double the amount of meat, and the stock may be increased in proportion to the consistence desix-cd. Risotto, Italian.—Required: an ounce of butter, a small onion, from two to three ounces of rice, a pinch each of saffron and nutmeg, about a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan, aud half a pint of any nico stock. The onion is cut up iinely and fried in the butter to a yellow coloux-, the washed rice goes next, and, if a thick dish is liked, tho full quantity above named may he used; it should ho stirred rapidly for a few minutes ; tho stock goes next, and the rice is left to cook until swollen and tender. After seasoning, it is ready to servo. This is risotto for one person, as served abroad. Cost, about 3d. Another way.—This is a more sub- stantial dish. Tho onions are fried in a mixture of marrow and butter; tho fat is then drained off and the rice put in and stirred for a short time; about