399 GAME AND POULTRY. scraping can give a really youthful appearance. Dark-legged fowls are the best for roasting, being more juicy; white-legged are preferred for boiling. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. on an average. Fowl, Blanquette of.—Re- quired : a fowl, with sauce and stock as under. Cost, from 4s. or 4s. 6d. upwards. This takes its name from the sauce, which masks the fowl, for which there is no need for a special recipe. It is a good white sauce, containing cream, and should be thickened with eggs. Our recipes offer a wide choice of sauces of this description. If a cold fowl be used, it is better boned, though this is optional; all skin is to be re- moved, and only as much sauce as will just coat it is wanted. For a fresh fowl, the cooking consists in stewing the joints in good white stock, which is then c inverted into sauce of the desired kind, and thickened and en- riched as above described. Supposing a fowl to be boned for a good-sized dish of this sort, the bones themselves should be stewed down for stock, then the flavouring ingredients (as added to bechamel and other good sauces) should be added, and the fowl cooked in it. The whole is no more expense, save for the eggs, than would be entailed by a boiled fowl with sauce; the differ- ence is, that by giving the bones plenty of time, a very superior dish is obtained. Fowl, Boiled,—Under Poultiiy, Roiled, will be found directions. The time must be regulated by size, and whether the fowl is stuffed or not. The water cannot- boil too gently; aTtefThe first boil it should scarcely simmer. If a fowl has been boned, the bones should be boiled with it, to- gether with vegetables to give flavour. -Alter the fowl is dished, there will then V: material for sauces and soups.' When sauce is poured over after dish- ing, there should.be enough to cover the breast and the flat part of the dish, nnles.s a puree of some kind is to be poured round. An inferior fowl should not be boiled, nor a dark-fleshed one. During the cooking skim often. Time, about three-quarters of an hour_; ;m hour or more for a large fowl, much longer for an old one. Should the skin break, hide it with the garnish. Cost, from 3s. to 4s , exclusive of sauce. Fowl, Boiled, to Carve.—This is cut up in a similar manner to roast fowl. Care should be taken to cut plenty of the breast meat off with the wings; the knife should be drawn, and much downward pressure avoided, as the flesh is apt to crumble. Sometimes the legs are taken off before the wings. A very large fowl should be served like a turkey, which see. If little sausages be put about the dish, serve one with each portion of fowl. {See Sausages.) Fowl, Boiled, Sauces for.— Among many others we majr instance asparagus, celery, white mushroom, egg, rich oyster, bechamel, veloute, supreme, sauce lierbace, sauce verte, sauce it la Juliette, sauce volaille, tomato, and chestnut, as most likely to meet with general approval; but there are others in this work that might be served when variety is an object. But it must not be forgotten that a boiled fowl is a delicate dish, and no sauce is suitable which would overpower it. A sauce that would improve some mild dishes would spoil a boiled fowl. Fowl, Boned.—We will com- mence with directions for boning a fowl without opening it. It should be plucked, but not drawn. Put it on a table, neck towards you; cut tho neck off, loosen the skin, which is here very elastic, and proceed until the bottom of the breast is reached. Take away tho merrythought, dotaching it very carefully from tho wing-bonos and breast-bone. This is a very diffi- cult stage of the operation. After this, the meat must bo detached from tho ribs and back ; although the bones are still in tho wings, they can be turned