PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 615 water as little as possible, as it should he made to boil up quickly, that the cabbage may be a good colour. There should be "a good supply of boiling water; if stinted, there will be a strong smell, and the vegetables will be a bad colour. If it is necessary for any dish that some of the strong smell of cabbage be removed, let it soak for an hour in boiling water before cooking. Add to the boiling water two table- spoonfuls of salt to the gallon, and for old cabbages, a half-saltspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda, or powdered borax. A bit of stale bread, tied in a linen bag. will reduce the cabbage smell, which is objectionable. Always leave the lid off, and avoid smokiness. Skim the water before the cabbage goes in, and during the boiling. These remarks apply to all sorts of cabbage. (See also Cabbage, Savoy, Colcaxnon, Hot Slaw, and Sauerkraut, in this chapter: also the chapters on Salads and Pickles. ) Cabbage, Boiled.—For young spring cabbage, cut the stem across twice; prepare and cook them as directed above, allowing twenty minutes or more; their sine and fresh- ness must be considered. Keep them well under the water by pressing them down from time to time, and strain as soon as done; over-boiled cabbages are unpleasant. The colander should be hot, and the cabbage pressed; a wooden press is handy, but a small plate or saucer answers; the lid of a brown stew-jar is useful for the purpose. This part of the business is often neglected; and it takes away the appetite to cut cabbage on one's plate, and find it swimming with water. Have a hot dish ready, and serve at once. Note. — Always take the outside leaves off, if withered, as they must lie thrown away. The above is the plainest and simplest way of boiling; a better dish is obtained by putting the cabbage, after pressing, in a chan saucepan, with a morsel of butter; dredge a little flour in while stirring, as it assists the butter to adhere to the cabbage. A little vinegar and a pinch of sugar are further improvements, if to be served as a separate dish. Cabbage, Large, Boiled.—The difference consists in the preparation of the cabbage; it must be halved, or quartered, if very large; some of the hard stem removed, and the parts tied together with tape ; it is not advisable to throw the stem away, but as it takes longer boiling than the cabbage leaves, it can be put into the water first; or some prefer to cut the stem into strips, and boil for another little dish. Another way often advised is to cut the cabbage through, and put in the stalky parts first, and the thin, leafy tops later on. The thing is to avoid rawness of the stalk, and pulpi- ness of the leaves; all that is wanted is a little management. It is im- possible to lay down a rule as to time for these ; they may take from forty or fifty minutes to an hour. Another excellent method of cook- ing very large cabbage is to shred it, giving the stalk twice the time of the leaves; it should be finished off with butter, as above directed. Cabbage Boiled in Three Waters.—It has been many times remarked that much of the disfavour shown towards the common cabbage is the result of careless cooking ; “ the puddling drop of water, or the hasty and imperfect washing, would turn a strong stomach,” says one authority. The following is recommended as one of the best ways of serving cabbage in a delicate and digestible form. Take some , small white-heart cabbages, wash well, and cut the stalks through once or twice, then put them on in fast- boiling water, lots of it, with salt in the usual proportion (soda is optional; fee Cabbaoe). In ten minutes drain, add a fresh supply of water and salt, boiling as before; give ten minutes more, then renew the water again and finish the cooking. If very small cabbage, supposing it is estimated that they will bo done in twenty minutes.