81 GRAVIES AMD SAUCES. tomato; skins and pips can be thus used up, but it is well not to add them in the early stage, as we will point out later. Then the appearance of the gravy. Freedom from fat is essential (to attain this, see page 32); and to make a somewhat paradoxical remark, brown gravy should not be grey, yet it often is. The chief causes are the hastily-added thickening of raw flour and water, and the disregard of the fact that gravies, like soups, take time; when well made, gravies require but little added colouring, even for the brownest kinds. Those we have given on page 33 may be safely employed. Colouring-balls, a French preparation sold in tins, and granular browning salt, are also unobjectionable for some sorts, such as are to accompany very savoury dishes. Then the thickening. A common error is to make thickened gravies too thick. The distinction between a gravy and a sauce is often not sufficiently marked—a gravy served with a roast fowl is an illustration— Fig. 10.—Gravy Strainer. Fig. 17. —Pointed Strainer. and need we add that brown roux is the best thickening medium. Remember that by this means not only is the raw taste avoided and the gravy thickened, but that important element, colour, is introduced or strengthened. For gravies which are required thickened, but clear also, brown roux, of course, is out of place; here arrowroot comes to the rescue, and it is easy to get any desired consistency by adding it little by little, and letting it boil up (see page 35). Corn-flour is similarly used. Gravies should always be carefully strained ; for this pnrpose strainers are necessary. The illustration in Fig. 16 shows the commonest and cheapest form; but the pointed strainer (Fig. 17) is much moro useful, especially when required for gravy which has to bo poured round instead of over meat, &c. Both kinds may bo had with fine bottoms, suitable for clear gravy, varying up to the coarsest, which answer for sauces also. Two or three should be found in every well-appointed kitchen. SAUCES. M. Soyer has said that sauces are to cookery what grammar is to language and the gamut is to music ; and all good cooks know well that sance should serve both as a relish and a finish to the dish which it, accompanies. Even the plainest kinds should bo attractive in appear- ance, for the most homely dish is rendered more enjoyable, and the most