449 GAME AND I'OUI.TlH*. excellent dish. They aro loss rave than formerly, vast quantities being imported by English poulterers. They may be kept for a few days after killing. "When plentiful, the cost is from Is. to Is. 6d. each. In the opinion of if. Ude and others, quails are popular because somewhat rare. Quails, Boned.—It is, perhaps, only possible to give a general idea of this process, by describing it as working the knife to the bone in such a way that the birds may be literally turned inside out. One practical lesson in the matter of boning any small birds is worth much written description. To bone without opening is the most diffi- cult ; but by shirting from the neck, first using the fingers to “ ease ” the flesh, and with care, it is quite possi- ble to avoid cutting through the outer flesh; though few will succeed in the first attempt. The pinions should be cut off, and the leg-bones may be left in; the thigh-bones must be removed. If to be served in halves, the birds may be split through before boning them. Quails, Boned and Stuffed, Cold.—Required : three birds, some liver forcemeat («er Forcemeats), sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, variable, about 5s. 6d. to 6s. 6d., or more. Bone the birds without opening—that is, work the knife from the neck; do not split them down the back ; fill them from a forcing bag. Roll them in buttered paper after trussing, and bake on a buttered tin in a brisk oven. Let them get cold, and cut them through, then mask the outsides with brown chaudfroid sauce, and sprinkle it over with chopped French gherkin and hard- boiled white of egg. Spread the flat sides with white chaudfroid, and sprinkle with the yolks of the eggs, sieved ; put a bit of truffle in the centre. Have a plain aspic border; put five halves round it, in couronne, and fill the border with a cooked macedoine of vegetables. Half a bird should go underneath. Mask the top with good mayonnaise, and garnish with the o same materials used for the birds. The outside of the border may bo decorated either with salad or chopped aspic, or with plovers’ eggs in aspic if thoy aro to be had. This is a very nice dish ; it may be served as an entree. Quails, Boned and Stuffed, Hot.—Cook the birds as above, and dish them whole on a rice block or border. Mask them with good brown sauce, flavoured with sherry, and put watercress about the dish. Or cut them through with a sharp knife, smoothing them nicely ; dish in a pile, and pour sauce or gravy over. For dishing, a crouton ora ring of fried bread should be used, and some truffles aro a nice garnish. Cost, about Is. Dd. each, inclusive. For other methods of serving, sec Pigeons. Quails, Braised. — Required : quails, stuffing, sherry, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 9d. each. Remove the trails and livers of as many birds as are needed; chop them with half their bulk of fat bacon; add a tablespoonful of fine bread-crumbs for four birds, season with fine herbs and pepper; moisten with a teaspoonful of sherry for each. Take out the bones (leave the wings untouched), and fill the birds; sew them up, and brush with butter; cook before a sharp fire until half done; then lay them in a stewpan, and pour good sherry and clear stock mixed to half their depth. Finish the cooking, and add a morsel of glaze and roux to the gravy, to thicken it very slightly. Serve with the gravy round, and fried crumbs in a boat. A morsel of shalot or onion, scalded, may be pounded and mixed with the stuffing. Quails, Broiled or Grilled.— The birds should bo split down the back, and well flattened, then seasoned with white pepper and salt and a little lemon j uice, and moistened with a tea- spoonful of warmed butter for each bird. If time permits they should bo left for a time before cooking. Then cook over or before a very dear fire.