UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 352 deep to cover the surface of the haunch, the ingredients being in the following proportions :—With a pint of vinegar put a quart of water, two onions finely minced, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a teaspoonful of peppercorns, a little salt, a sliced car- rot, three or four sticks of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all together for half anhour,strain, and put into a pan large enough to hold the roebuck. Put the haunch in the marinade for a week. Take it up, spit, and roast before a clear fire, being careful to baste con- stantly. Unless this is done the meat will be very dry. Take it up, brush it over with melted glaze, and serve very hot. The dish should be gar- nished with stewed prunes and fried potatoes, and a sauce, prepared as follows, should accpmpany it, a little poured over the haunch, and the rest in a tureen :—Cut an ounce of lean ham into dice, and fry it in a little butter with a small carrot, a stick of celery, and an onion, all cut small, half a teaspoonful of peppercorns, a quarter of a blade of mace, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Stir these ingredients over the fire until they are lightly browned, then add two table- spoonfuls of vinegar and one of ketchup. Let the'liquor boil, and put with it half a pint of brown sauce, a wineglass of sherry, and a teaspoon- ful of anchovy. Let the sauce boil carefully, skim off the fat, &c., strain it, and it will be ready for use. Time, about an hour and a half. Roebuck is better if larded. Roebuck, Jugged.—Required: meat, stock, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, uncertain. Cut a breast of roe- buck into small chops, fry these with three or four slices of good bacon in butter till they are lightly browned, then pour off the liquor, and mix flour with it to make a roux (see Roux). Moisten this with as much good stock as will cover the pieces of roebuck, and add four or five onions with half a dozen cloves stuck in them, three or four inches of thin lemon rind, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt; a few mush- rooms may be added if liked. Rut all into a stewpan, cover closely, that no steam may escape, and when the liquor has boiled draw the pan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently until done enough. Put the meat on a dish, arrange the vegetables round it, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Time, about two hours. Sauces and Gravies. — On page 88 will be found three recipes for gravies. If sauce is served in addition, the gravy should be plain— i.e. the first recipe. The third, viz., sweet gravy, is, in a sense, a gravy and sauce in one; i.e. it is not necessary to serve any sauce; but some gravy of the plain kind is always desirable, as it is so often preferred, with a morsel of jelly, to any other. When sauce is wanted, any of those given in hot sauces for game or dark meats may be served : Sauce a la Calvpso is very good, either with venison or mutton. Shoulder, to Roast.—See that it is not separated from the neck until the animal is cold and stiff, or the appearance of both joints will be spoilt. When it has hung long enough, cover it before roasting with thin slices of fat mutton ; this is important. After this, cover with a greased paper, and although it is better if a flour and water paste be added (like the haunch), this may be dispensed with if the mutton fat be plentiful, and the basting very thorough. Finish off and serve as directed for haunch, but cook a shorter time. Cost, very variable. Shoulder of, to Stew.—This is a very excellent joint; it is not costly, but takes some little time. Bone the shoulder and flatten it well on a board. Season it inside and out with a savoury powder, made with a tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a good pinch each of cay- enne and ground nutmeg, and the rind of a quarter of a lemon grated. Then, over the lean, put a few thin slices of v