GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 83 jars, and cover them; this takes less room, as several may bo set in one tin. To Thicken and Enrich Sauces, brown and white roux, arrowroot, corn- flour, rice-flour, chestnut-flour, eggs, butter, milk, and cream, are commonly employed. We may hero mention that when roux is required, if by chance it is not available, the next best thing is to melt the butter in the saucepan, then to stir in the flour, and cook it; if for a brown sauce, let it become brown before the liquid is put in. This is not equal to roux, but it is a good substitute. When milk is added, it should be first boiled ; the same with cream. Arrowroot, or anything of the same starchy nature, must be blended with cold liquid before adding it. Eggs must be fresh, and should be strained after beating ; the liquid must never boil after I lie}’ are put in, and if acid is put into the same sauce, that should bo added most carefully ; letnou or orange juice should always bo strained. Butter is often put into sauces at the moment of serving, to enrich and give smoothness; this should be done off the fire, and the sauce is not to bo heated again. Bad butter, stale milk, and musty eggs, will spoil the most carefully concocted sauce in the world; it is far better to cheapen the sauce by reducing the quantities of expensive ingredients, than to try the experiment of introducing inferior articles. To Sieve and Tammy Sauces.—A special tammy should be used for white sauces: that is, when a new cloth is bought it should be kept for white dishes for a time, then transferred to the brown and coloured section. Brown and other sauces which are sufficiently liquid may be wrung through a tammy; anything which demands' rubbing through requires two persons, each holding the cloth in the left hand, and rubbing with a large wooden spoon held in the right. A tammy-cloth must bo well washed; it should be put in soak as soon as doue with, and dried, never put into a drawer when damp. The best will be found the cheapest. Hair sieves, some very fine, almost as fine as a tammy, may now be had, and cost but little; these require thorough rinsing, especially the rim, and careful drying each time they aro used; anything of an acid nature should, if jjossible, always be put through a hair sieve in preference to a wire one. A large spoon or a round vegetable press the size of a saucer is useful to rub purees, <fcc., through a sieve, and saves time; with a small spoon the process is very tedious. Colouring Sauces.— Colouring for brown sauces must be regulated by the nature of the sauce itself and the dish to which it belongs. For a rich deep brown, a few drops of carmino are most useful; all for which a good stock is used, and to which claret or port is added, are generally dark enough. Then in roux, glaze, and meat extract, we have materials which serve the triple purpose of giving colour, body, and richness of flavour. Unless otherwise specified, always skim while boiling Iroion sauces or gravies to which thickening has been added. For green sauce, the “ vegetable colouring ” sold by grocers is useful; it may be had in the form of liquid and paste ; the first for clear sauce, and the second for any dish in which clearness is not an object. Colour- ing may also be made at home from spinach or parsley. The leaves shonld be washed, and pounded in a mortar until the juice flows; it is then poured ofE into a jar, set in boiling water for a few minutes, and