GAME AND POULTRY. 431 throat, and another passed through the shoulders. Skin tho ears, and leave them whole, then put string round the body from skewer to skewer, fastening it over the back. Leave the tail on, but be sure to remove the eyes. Hare, Stewed in Port.—Re- quired : the back, legs, and shoulders of a young hare, slices of bacon, wine to cover, seasoning and ham, rcux and glaze. Cost, about 6s. to 6s. 6d. Cutthoback intoneat pieces, and each leg in two; cut the bacon in strips, and lay them (a strip or two) on each joint. Take a large saute pan, and put the joints in in a single layer ; a frying-pan will do if it can be tightly covered. Sprinkle over a teaspoonful of black pepper; the same of sweet herbs, a tablespoonful of chopped shalot, a saltspoonful of grated cloves and nutmeg mixed, a few drops of essence of celery and two tablespoonfuls of grated ham. Pour port and claret in equal parts just to cover, then lay a sheet of paper, greased on the top side over, and put the lid on. Place a weight on, and bring the contents gently to the boil. Cook, with an occasional shake, for an hour and a quarter, then put in a glass of very good port, a dessertspoonful of brown roux, and half an ounce of glaze. Stir to the boil, and put in salt to taste. Pile very neatly on a hot dish, and serve with any garnish that may be preferred. Small quenelles or force- meat balls, or little croutons spread with a liver puree, are suitable; or some potato chips or ribbons can be used. Nothing by way of recommendation need be added ; we will simply say that as the sauce is not to be skimmed —the bacon being left in—unless served very hot it is not so inviting, either in taste or appearance. Those who favour hare dishes into which some of the blood enters, will use some in the above, remembering that it must not afterwards boil for a moment. For this and similar dishes a copper pan is the best—the heat is more evenly distributed; next to that we ad vise a steel one. Iron pans do not answer for this sort of cookery. landrail, or Corn Crake, to Hoast.—This delicious bird, which is in full season at the end of August and the beginning of Septem- ber, should be trussed like a snipe, with the head under the wing, and a skewer passed through the thigh and the body, to keep the legs straight. Fasten two or three slices of bacon over the breast, and roast before a clear fire. Dish it on fried bread- crumbs, or, if preferred, omit these, and serve with brown gravy only, or with bread sauce in addition. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cost, uncertain, the birds being seldom offered for sale. Larks, Roasted.—Pick and cleanse the larks, and pick out the gizzards with the point of a knife. Season them with a little salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Brush them with beaten yolk of egg, and coat them with crumbs, then run a long skewer through them; fasten each end of this to the spit, and roast briskly. Baste well, and put more crumbs on until within five minutes of dishing, then leave them to brown. They will take ten to twelve minutes. Dish on fried crumbs, and garnish with slices of lemon. If liked, the trail may bo left in. Instead of egging and crumb- ing the birds, wrap each in a slice of fat bacon, and see that they do not touch each other on the skewer. Roast as above, and garnish with water- cress. These, and other small birds, may be laid in a tin before the fire, after skewering; or they can be baked. They nro also nice grilled. Larks, Stewed, are very good eating (see recipe for Birds, Small, Braised). “A lark stewed,” says a writer, “ is passable, but roasted, no; tho very sight is pitiable, so miserable does it look upon one's plate ; ” not