STOCKS AND SOUPS. 30 Brown Onion Soup.—Required: two pounds of onions, two leek3, a dozen peppercorns, two cloves, a bay- leaf and sprig of thyme, two ounces of raw ham, two ounces of clarified fat, salt, sugar, two ounces of browned flour, two quarts of stock (Xo. 2), a morsel of pastille de legumes (Season- ings) or a pinch of browning salt, and a few slices of carrot. Cost, about 9d. Put into a pan the fat and ham in strips ; when hot, add the onions and leeks in slices, the carrots and sugar, stir until brown, then pour in the hot stock; boil up and skim, put in the spices and herbs, and boil down to a pulp. Pass through a sieve, and re- turn it to the pan with the thickening, colouring, and salt to taste; add a little more stock if required, but it should be thick; boil up, and serve. Grated cheese may be served with this, if liked. If English onions are used, they should be first scalded; Spanish ones do not need this. Brown Onion Soup (Rich).— Use stock (Xo. 4), and thicken with brown roux, taking care to skim well. Serve fried croutons, cut into rounds the size of a shilling, with this. Brown Rice Soup,—Required: a quart of stock (Xo. 2 or 4), a tea- spoonful of pure mushroom catsup, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, two ounces of browned rice, and a medium- sized onion; salt and pepper to taste. Cost, about 4d. The rice should be Patna, boiled as for curry, but left until cold. Put it in a baking-tin with a little liquid butter; set it in the oven, and bako it until golden brown all over, and the butter absorbed. It must be turned about from time to time. Meanwhile, peel, mince, and fry an onion in a little more butter until nearly tender; drain it, and put in a pan, with the rice and all the other materials; boil until the onion is soft, and serve hot. This is an American soup, very savoury and appetising. It is necessary that the rice be well rinsed in water after boiling, and well dried; other- wise, in baking it the grains will clog, instead of separating, as they should, for every grain to be distinct. Brunoise Soup.—A good Vege- takian recipe.—Required : one quart of stock (Xo. 11), one pint of milk, one ounce of butter, one ounce of corn-flour, one ounce of fine sago, salt, pepper, and celery salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions, a few slices of cucumber, a bay-leaf, and tiny blado of mace. Cost, about Sd. Prepare the vegetables by cleansing and cutting them into slices the third of an inch thick, then into dice shapes. Bring the stock to tho boil, put in the carrots, and sprinkle in the sago ; add tho parsley, bay-leaf, and mace tied in muslin. In ten minutes put in the onions and leeks, then the cucumber and turnips; there should be enough vegetables mixed to fill a half-pint measure. Xow boil, and stir gently until all are tender, then mix tho corn- flour and milk, and boil them sepa- rately; remove the bag from tho soup, squeezing it a little to give a green tinge; add the milk, season to taste, and serre. Brunoise Soup, Brown. — This may be made from clear stock, clarified or not ; if the former, boil the vegetables separately until quite done, and add them last thing, with a teaspoonful of sherry to a pint of soup. If the stock is not clarified, boil the vegetables until nearly done in water, then finish them in the soup. There should bo about a sixth tho measure of vegetables to stock ; young vegetables should bo chosen. To pre- pare them, wash them thoroughly, and cut them into slices of about the third of an inch, then into squares like tiny dice. The most suitablo kinds aro carrots, turnips, onions, cucumber, and celery, if obtainable; tho outer part of carrots should be used, and turnips, unless young, are better omitted. French are useful, but they take longer to boil than English