UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 222 Sauce (No. 2) at the bottom. Spread the halves of quail with a small quan- tity of Mushroom Purf.e, or Force- meat, and pour a teaspoonful of sherry over each; cover with a paper buttered on the outside, set the cases in a tin, with boiling water three-fourths up, and cook for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Then whip tiro whites of two eggs to a froth, with a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper; put a little from a bag with a rose pipe on each case, and put back in the oven (out of the tin of water) for six to eight minutes more. The tops should be firm and nicely coloured, and before baking a sprinkling of fried crumbs will improve thorn, or hot browned crumbs can be put on after they are done. Garnish wifi watercress salad, or.small cress with lettuce shredded and plainly dressed. Quenelles a la Chasser- esse.—Required : throe ounces each of cooked game and beef sausage moat; an ounce of butter, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, also that of a raw egg, a little seasoning of mixed spice and powdered herbs, salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of port or claret, and a morsel of red currant jelly. Mince the game, pound it with the butter, sieve it, and add the beaten egg and sausage meat, with the rest of the ingredients ; pound again, then flour the fingers, before shaping the mass into little balls the size of a nut. Iliji them into a little white of egg beaten up, and drop them into boiling stock, then simmer them for ton minutes, and serve them in Potage A LA ChASSERESSE. Those may also bo served as an entree, in which case garnish some quenelle moulds with strips of truffle, and little fancy shapes of cooked tongue, the red part only; fill them with the mixture, and poach as di- rected for Quenelles of Game, Truf- fled. Prepare a Macaroni or Rice Border; dish tho quenelles on it, glazo them, and fill the centre of tho border with any nice puree of vegetables, mushrooms, tomatoes, &c., for which recipes will bo found under Dressed Vegetables. Quenelles, Beef.—Make in tho same way as game quenelles, using beef instead of game. Quenelles of Game, Truf- fled. [See Game Quenelles.)— Pre- pare tho mixture, and add to half a pound, a small truffle, chopped ; a tea- spoonful of sherry, with a morsel of glaze dissolved in it; a pinch of finely chopped shalot, and a dust of cay- enne. Prepare some quenelle moulds by buttering them, and garnishing with strips of truffle, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Fill them, and poach in game stock for twenty minutes, then turn out and drain, and use as an entree or for garnishing purposes. Quenelles of Hare.—Make as other game quenelles, but add to four ounces of tho meat, some aromatic or herbaceous mixture (given in Season- ings), as much as will half cover a sixpence; put in the same quantity of mushroom powder, and season with essence of mace or nutmeg. Instead of mushroom powder, a few drops of mushroom ketchup can be used, then rather more panada must be used, or the liquid will thin the mixture. Quenelles of Rabbit. [Sec Veai, Quenelles.)—Substitute rabbit for veai, then proceed in same way. Rabbit a la Juliette.—Re- quired : a young rabbit, six ounces of cooked ham, three eggs, a gill of thick bechamel, a pint of Sauce a la Juliette, some Rich Veal Force- meat, and seasoning. Cost, 3s., ormore. Bone the rabbit, and use the best parts only, the rest can go into the stock-pot. Pass it through a mincing machine with part of the ham, add the yolks of the eggs and the bechamel, and mix well. Butter a plain border mould, put some ham cut in strips at tho bottom, and over that a layer of force- meat. Fill up with the rabbit mixture after adding the whites of tho eggs