UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK 134 a piquant sauce. This fish is sometimes potted and preserved in various ways. Cliub. —This is a river fish, some- what like the carp, but longer; its Flo. 23.—Chub. flesh is coarse, but the roe is good, and tho best of the flesh is about the head and throat. The roe may be* cooked by any of the recipes given for the roe of other fish. Clams. —These are a sort of cockle, found in Devon, Cornwall, Wales, Scotland, and Ireland. They are not much used in England, but figure largely in American cookery. No less an authority than Soyer says that they are superior to the oyster in flavour, but this is certainly a disputable point. If eaten raw, they should bo about the size of an oyster; larger ones are best reserved for cooking. Clams in tins or jars, as well as clam chowder and clam juice, are sold by dealers in American produce. They are of reasonable prices, and excellent quality. Clam Chowder.—Required : a dozen large clams, four ounces of salt pork, two onions, three potatoes, a quart of milk, and seasoning. Cost, uncertain. Cut up the pork, fry it lightly in a stew-pan; slice tho vegetables, add them with the liquor from the clams, strained ; cook gently for a short time, add some of tho milk, cook until the pork, &c., are done; put in the clams and the rest of the milk, bring to the point of boiling, and serve in a quarter of an hour. Clams, Fried.—Divide them if large, and roll in egg and pounded biscuit-crumbs; or coat with batter, and fry in tho usual way ; or cut the clams up, and mix with stiff batter, and fry by dropping from a table- spoon. In this way they are called Clam Fritters. Cockle. —This is a favourite bi- valve ; it is very abundant on many parts of the coast, where sandy. Some people can eat cockles largely with impunity, and they have sometimes staved off the pressure of starvation amongst the poor of our coasts. They attain to a large size by culture. Cost, about fid. per quart. Cockles, Boiled.—Wash them, and scrub the shells with a brush, put them into salt and water for some time, then put them in a saucepan with a little water, just to cover the bottom ; put a towel on the top, shake the pan constantly to prevent burning, and when the shells open they aro ready to serve. Cockles, Roasted. — Wash, scrub, and dry them, and cook on a tin laid on a stove, or cook before tho firo until the shells open, and eat them with salt, popper, and lemon-juice or vinegar, and bread-and-butter. Cockles may be stowed, scalloped, made into sauce, or cooked in any way given for Oysters and Mussels, except frying. Cod,—This is a useful fish ; it lends itself readily to all methods of cooking, and is often to be had very cheaply. A good fish is plump, with firm stiff flesh, which will rise instantly upon pressure; the tail should be well rounded. It is not advisable to cook a whole fish, or the tail is overdone before the thick part is cooked. Tho head and shoulders may be boiled; tho gelatinous parts of the head aro much enjoyed by epicures. Tho middle of the fish forms a good dish if baked, or