533 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. ounces of cooked pipe macaroni in half-inch lengths; other ingredients as undermentioned. Cost, about Is. 2d., exclusive of vegetables. Put the meat in a saucepan, with enough plain white sauce to make a thick mince—or any sauce which is left over from the veal, whether brown or white, will answer. Then put in an oimce of grated cheese, some herbs and seasoning, and beat until the cheese is dissolved. The sauce should boil up before the meat is added, but not after. When the right consistency is attained the yoik of a raw egg is to be added; beat it first and stir it in by degrees; keep the pan near the fire for a few minutes, but do not boil; then squeeze in a little lemon juice. Turn out on a round of toast or fried bread on a hot dish, and put any cooked vegetables round; or serve with eggs, or with sippets of toast only, just as most con- venient. It is a tasty dish for any meal. The precise proportions of the several ingredients are immaterial; the dish ri an illustration of what may be done with scraps, when manipulated with care. In adding the sauce the right con- sistency will be readily determined by taking up a spoonful of the mixture ; it should just drop from the spoon. A little stock or milk should be at hand to thin it if required, either being first heated. To this ragout cold green peas, or sprigs of cauliflower, carrots, &c., may be added if liked. Tinned Meat Sea Hash.—In- quired : meat, vegetables, and pudding as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. This is rather like Sea Pie, but the crust is separately cooked. First make a hash by cutting up a pound of meat in thick pieces and heating it in plain gravy. Put in all sorts of cooked vegetables, equal in bulk to the meat; the greater the variety the better. The mixture should be thick. Put it in a deep, hot dish; then cut up a plain suet pudding, boiled on purpose—a roly-poly is best. The slices should be an inch thick, and put all over the meat, &c., to form a cover. Brush with fat and brown in the oven. This is a good dish in cold weather. Tinned Meat, Slieplierd’s Pie.—Required: two pounds of meat, half-a-pint of canned tomatoes, half-a- pound of fried onions, salt and black pepper, and any herbs preferred, four pounds of potatoes, and some gravy. Cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. First grease a deep baking dish with some of tbo melted fat from the tin. Boil or steam the potatoes, mash and season them (see Potatoes), and put them an inch thick at the bottom and sides of the dish. Then put the onions all over the potato layer. Mince the meat, add the jelly from it, and the tomatoes, with a little more stock or plain gravy of any sort; pile this in the centre of the dish; put the re- mainder of the potatoes thickly on the top; rough the surface with a fork, and bake until well browned in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour. The potatoes will absorb some of the gravy and be very savoury. The dish is an excellent one, consider- ing its small cost. If liked, some pork can be added, and apple sauce used instead of the tomatoes. Tinned ox-tails, ox cheek, kidney, &c., may take the place of the beef or mutton. Either will provide a hot, cheap meal in a short time. Tinned Mutton, Curried. —Required : mutton, rice, and sauce as below. Cost of meat, lOd. to Is. Take a two-pound tin of mutton, remove the fat and melt it in a frying- pan; set the tin in a pan of boiling water until the jelly melts and can be poured off, then cut the meat through the grain into neat pieces, as even in size and as square as the condition of the meat will allow, then make Cuiihy Sauce as directed, using the fat to fry the onions, and the jelly from the meat in place of some of the stock. When the sauce is ready, put in the meat, let it heat, then turn the whole carefully on to tho hot dish, and serve