296 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. to prevent escape of steam as much as possible, and in an hour turn tho meat, hut lcoop tho carrots on tho top. Then add to the gravy a dozen little onions and mushrooms, and half a dozen turnips, all sliced. Simmer for another hour; turn again, keeping up tho quantity of stock, and in three hours thicken, colour, and season to taste, adding more gravy if required. The vegetables may he sieved, or added just as they are round tho meat. A squeeze of lemon juice improves the dish. This is excellent, very little trouble, and is economical. Chuck ribs may bo used for it, and will bo found very tasty. Baron.—This is a double sirloin; tho weight varies considerably accord- ing to the size of the animal. It is always roasted, and served only on festive occasions at - the tables of tho rich, or at great public entertainments. Beef Cheese.—Required : throe pounds of steak, half a pound each of veal and ham, half to three-quarters of a pound of bacon (fat), seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. 6d. Put tho steak, ham, veal, and four ounces of the bacon through a mincing machine; mix with this about a dessert- spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a chopped shalot, a tablospoonful of chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, fresh or dried—in fine powder, if tho latter; add a gill of brown stock (No. 4 would do), and half a glass of light wine. Mix very thoroughly, then lino a dish or an oval jar with the rest of the bacon in slices, leaving some for the top ; press the mince in firmly, cover with the bacon, and then with a flour-and-water paste. Bake it in a very slow oven, three or four hours, and set it in a cold place for twenty-four hours before removing the paste. It is then ready to serve, and forms a very economical and convenient dish for a number of guests on any occasion; it also makes very good sandwiches. Boiled Beef (improved Gorman recipe).—Choose fresh, lean beef; cover it with water or stock from bones, a few whole spices, some chopped onion, celery, and carrot, and a spoonful of grated horse-radish. Boil, and after skimming well, cover, and simmer very gently, giving thirty minutes per pound if thick. Half an hour before it is done add a little salt, and a small bunch of herbs. Reserve the liquid for soup, after taking from it enough to serve with the moat as gravy. It should also be accompanied by horse- radish sauce, and a dish of dressed beetroot or fruit in vinegar. For the latter, see rocipcs for Sweet Pickles. If not wanted hot, put aside all the liquor for soup, &c., but leave tho meat in until cool, first pouring it in an earthen pan ; then, when tho meat is cold, glazo or brush it with aspic jelly, garnish with salad, &c., and sorvo as a breakfast or luncheon dish. It also makes tasty sandwiches or potted meat ; and may he added with advantage to hashos, &c., to give piquancy. Brazilian Stew. — Required : two pounds of beef, cut from the leg or shin in pieces, about two or three ounces in weight; they should be in lumps, not slices; half a pint of sliced vegetables ; seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Dip each piece of meat in vinegar, and put in a stewpan with the sliced vegetables, and a few peppercorns and allspice berries. Add no water; put the lid on, and lot the contents of the pan heat very gradually, then put in a tablespoonful of store sauce, a few drops of browning, and a squeeze of lemon juice. In two to three hours the meat will have yielded a good supply of gravy, and will be tender, if from the best part of the leg, and well hung; but the shin will take four hours. Add salt, and serve in a hot dish. The meat may be cooked in a stone jar in a slow oven, or in a “ water bath” over the fire. (Sec JfoGEi) Hare.) This is a good dish for busy days. Savoury dumplings, or rice or macaroni can be served with it.