UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 576 then fowl again; put a layer of sauce over all, and smooth it; then leave until cold, when a cutlet cutter, or an oval cutter (plain or crimped), should he used for stamping out the pieces. A little more sauce should then be spread round the edges. A small piece of pipe macaroni will serve for the bone, and a centre ornament of truffle, or the skin of a pickled walnut, with a sprinkling of lobster coral round, has a pretty effect; or the simple addition of some pickled gherkins or cucumber with the skin of a bright chilli or cap- sicum is not to be despised, while even a sprinkling of chopped parsley will serve to take off the “ bare look.” Remember that the whiter the sauce, the nicer the cutlets. These may now be dished on a flat border of savoury custard, pink or green, with a salad in the middle; or they can be put in the centre of an aspic border, decorated in various ways (see Garnishes) ; then some garnish should be put outside the border; this should consist of the same materials used for the interior. Chicken Mayonnaise, in Shells.—Required : chicken, mayon- naise, salad, and garnish. Cost, from 2s. Gd. to 3s. per dozen on an average. Mix together some minced cooked chicken, and mayonnaise (the meat only requires to be thickly coated with the sauce). First put a little heap of dressed salad in each shell; cover with the above mixture, and level the surface with a knife. Rut some fancy shapes—as leaves or stars—of tomato aspic round the edge of each shell, and cover the centre with chopped truffle and parsley, or with sieved egg yolk and cooked ham or tongue, either grated or sieved. Tile on a dish covered with a lace paper. Another way.—Mix the chicken with pink mayonnaise ; smooth the surface, then ornament it with ham butter and green butter round the edge, and put a little pile of chopped capers and beetroot in the middle. Chicken Mayonnaise, with Quenelles.—Required : aspic, aspic cream, chicken as above, quenelles, and garnish. Cost, variable, about 4 s. to 5s. Line a border mould thinly with pink aspic; when set, fill up with yel- low aspic cream, put in a cool place until firm, then turn out, and fill the middle with chicken mayonnaise (sec recipe above). Make some chicken quenelles, moulded; coat them with pink aspic, and put them round the base of the mould, and place a few on the top, intermixed with slices of tongue, cut in fancy shapes; truffles, in crescents or stars; and slices of cucumber, cut with a crimped cutter. This is a very effective dish if the ingredients arc tastefully arranged. Co quill es of Beef.—Required: beef, foie gras, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, about 3s. per dozen. Mix some braised or roasted beef with a fourth its weight of foie gras; pass through a fine mincing machine, and then moisten with brown sauce No. 2. Take some china or plated shells; put a teaspoonful of horse-radish sauce in each, fill up with the beef, and level the tops. Then coat them with pink chaudfroid, and garnish with horse- radish butter from a bag and pipe, to form any pretty design, so that the pink shows between. Serve piled on a dish covered with a lace paper. Coquilles of Mutton. — Re- quired : mutton, mint sauce, aspic, salad, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. Gd. per dozen shells. Cut some lean, cooked mutton into dice shapes. Mix some good mint sauce with strong liquid aspic; the latter should be twice the usual strength, then equal measures of the two can be used. Stir them together over ice until on the point of setting, then pour into a shallow mould, and set on ice until Ann, when it must be turned out, and cut in dice the size of the meat. Ar- range some cucumber salad at the bottom of some shells,as above described; fill up with the meat and sauce, and pom- salad cream over all. Chop more