FISH. 141 Cray - fish Mould (or Krebs Koch; a German dish).—Required : half a pint of cream and milk mixed, half a pint of bread-crumbs, five eggs, a dozen cray-fish, some Cray-fish Butter, and seasoning. Cost, uncer- tain. Put the crumbs in a bowl with the boiling cream and milk, cover, and when cooling stir in two ounces of cray-fish butter, and the yolks of the eggs when cold. Then beat the whites to a froth as if for souffles. Butter a basin, using cray-fish butter or plain butter: in the latter case sprinkle with lobster coral; put in some cray- fish tails at the bottom, then some of the bread, after the whites have been added, then more tails and bread. When quite full, twist a sheet of buttered paper over, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out, and pour round a little Cray-fish Sauce, the bodies being used up in making it. Cray-fish. Tails.—These may be bought in bottles usually where the Krebs butter is obtained. (See Cray- fish Butter in Garnishes.) They are excellent for small dishes of various kinds, and for garnishing fish, as mayonnaise of turbot, &c. They cost from one to two shillings per bottle, according to size. They would be found handy for some such dish as tho above; a little lobster meat might bo added to the sauce; or a plain one of melted butter, flavoured with cray-fish butter, would answer very well. Crimping of Fish.--This < peration consists in making deep cuts :n the flesh of the fish on both sides as : !|r as the bone. It must be done while the fish is fresh, as soon after landing as possible. It makes the flesh firmer and better, both for cooking and serving. Crimped cod is always valued more highly than plain un- erimped fish, and sold at a higher price. A salmon which is caught in the morning, crimped, and cooked for dinner the same evening, is quite a rovolation to those who have never before eaten a really fresh salmon. Curried Fish.—For each pint of Curry Sauce take about two pounds of fish; if the white sorts, as cod, haddock, &c., simply take the bones out, and divide the fish into pieces of an inch and a half square, and cook them till tender in the sauce. If river fish, cleanse in the way given under the various headings, and if strong fish of the carp tribe, parboil them, and finish cooking in the sauce. All sorts of cold fish may be curried, the bones stewed down for stock for the sauce, and the fish broken into good-sized flakes. Shrimps or prawns may be added to the sauce, or used in garnishing the rice; a flavouring of ketchup, shrimps, or anchovy essence, &c., can likewise be put in. There should always be a good supply of rice, and the proper way to serve it is on a large dish, with the fish and sauce in the centre ; or it can be put in a sepa- rate dish. In putting the curry on a plate, take the rice first, hollow the portion, and serve the fish and sauce in tho hollow. Various tinned fish may be curried; when in oil, like sar- dines, use the oil for the sauce instead of the ordinary curry fat, butter, &c.; most kinds are best taken from the tin and laid in the sauce to get hot, for example, herrings, lobster, mackerel, and eels; tho last-named are improved if some of the liquor from the tin be strained and used for the sauce. Dabs.—These fish are small, but very good; they are caught mostly in rivers near the sea ; tho Thames fur- nishes a good kind. If washed in salt and water, and put to soak for a short time in water, with an ounco of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar to each quart, they will bo iinprovod in flavour. They are best friod or grilled, and should bo sent to tnblo with cut lemon or melted butter flavoured with lemon- juice. In some parts of England tiny soles, usually termed slips, are called dabs; indeed, many fish which aro