UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 672 dish and fill up tho middle with the asparagus, or arrange the asparagus round a dish, and cut up and pile the sauce in the middle. Or a rice block can he used for tho centre of the dish, tho asparagus put round it, and the sauce cut up and placed at the base. Another way.— Use Sauce A la Baube, and pound the inferior part of the asparagus, then mix it with the other ingredients before freezing. After turning out the border of sauce, pack the asparagus close together in the centre, the heads stahding up above the border. If preferred, omit any asparagus in the sauce, and use asparagus tips only (fresh or tinned) in the centro. Or use Sauce A la Guernsey in place of the foregoing. This is preferably left all pink for this dish, and the tips of the asparagus only are wanted. Peas can be used in the same way, so can French beans. The cost of the above varies with the season. (For cost of sauces, see the recipes.) Asparagus with Sauce Verte.—Make the sauce by either of the recipes, except the last, on page 114. After mixing, put it in the dish in a pile, and set it to get cool, then put a small quantity of white mayonnaise round the base, and stick the asparagus, freed from the extreme ends, round it; that is, the ends of the asparagus are to he inserted in the white mayonnaise. The dish should then be served at once; hut the asparagus is to be set on ice for a time before adding it to the sauce. Total cost, variable. Asparagus with Vinaigrette Sauce.—Make the sauce as directed on page 115, but omit the sugar. Boil the asparagus, and serve in the usual way, with the sauce in a boat. Or send it to table with cold asparagus, with which it is excellent. The vege- table should then be set on ice, or in a cave, until cold. It may be dished alone, or with a ring of beetroot; the points of the asparagus should meet in the centre of the dish. Total cost, variable. Aubergines Farcies. — Be- quired : aubergines, onions, seasoning, mushrooms, parsley, bread - crumbs, eggs, and oil as below. Cost, exclusive of aubergines, about 9d. Total cost, uncertain. Take three medium-sized auber- gines ; cut them through lengthwise, and scoop out a portion of the inside, leaving the rest adhering to the skin; sprinkle them with a little salt, and leave them on a sieve. Chop up a couplo of onions, add the portion taken from the aubergines, but first let the onions brown in a little butter; then add some chopped mushrooms and parsley, with an equal amount of bread-crumbs; stir for a few minutes, then draw the pan from the fire, and put in the yolks of a couple of eggs. Stuff the halves with this, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs. Arrange them in a baking tin, and pour some good olive oil over; bake in a gentle oven to a delicate brown. Another way.—Take some small auberginos, and cut the stalks off; remove some of the inside through tho opening with a scoop or spoon-handle; make tiny incisions in the skins, and insert some thin shreds of onion or shalot. Chop up the inside with raw meat, or add sausage meat, and a small proportion of boiled rice, with a good seasoning of salt and pepper, and herbs. Fill up the aubergines with this; dip them into hot oil for a second, then drain, and bake with more oil; or pour a little tomato conserve over, and baste with it during tho baking. Serve very hot. Cost, very variable. Beans a la Jersey.—Required: beans, stock, wine, butter, mushrooms, parsley, seasoning, meat, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. Either broad beans or haricots can be used; they must be boiled, and then treated as follows:—Take a gill of the liquor they have been boiled in (it should be good white stock of any kind) for a quart of beans; add to it the same measure of white wine, and boil with a teaspoonful of fine rice