UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 146 more digestible. Time in proportion to thickness, but all of this class need to be well done. In adding water, if more is wanted during the cooking, pour' it from the sides, not over tho fish, or it will break. The above process is far from com- mon ; many adhere to the custom of putting fish into cold water. Perhaps a trial of the two modes for the same fish would be more convincing than any argument as to the need of boiling water to retain the goodness; and although our remarks are tho outcome of personal experiments, it is satisfac- tory to know that many of the leading lights in the culinary world, from a chemical standpoint, are now loud in condemnation of the cold water plan. A last warning : the slightest pu- tridity will spoil both tho colour and llavour of the fish. To be good, it must be fresh. Fish Bomhes a la Carlton, — Required : four ounces of cooked sole, turbot, or whiting, three eggs, half a gill each of cream and milk, garnish, sauce, &c., as below. Drain and dry some French capers ; Fio. 27.—Bom be Mould. wash and dry some parsley; chop them both, and sprinkle them over tho in- sides of some small, deep moulds, as shown above: they are sometimes called “dome top dariole moulds.’’ Then put at the bottom some small, pink shrimps. Cut the fish up, add the eggs, cream, milk, a little salt and popper, and two tablespoonfuls of any good fish sauce, anchovy, shrimp, &c. Pass all through a sieve, and add a few drops of carmine colouring. Nearly fill the moulds with this, and put more shrimps on the top. Twist a buttered paper over the tops, and cook in a steamer, or in a stewpan, with boiling water to half their depth, until firm, about twenty minutes. Turn out on a border of rice (see Rice a la Carlton), and pour round it a little sauce, as used for the interior. Fill the centre of the mould with a ragout of white fish, and ornament the top with shrimps or prawns. For the ragout, cut up some cooked white fish; moisten it with sauce as used for tho bombes, and add a spoonful or two of minced shrimps, and a littlo of the chopped capers and parsley. Serve as an entree. Fish, Broiled or Grilled.— In addition to the methods of prepar- ation given in our recipes, so far as the utensils are concerned, we may mention the use of common whiting. The bars are rubbed with this instead of grease by some ; and by many cooks tho use of oiled straws is considered necessary. In our opinion, tho method is an admirable one if there is fear of scorching by the time the fish is cooked—say, if very thick, or if the fish is cn papillate, as the danger of burning tho paper is reduced; but for ordinary use straws can bo dispensed with. In using them, grease them well, and see that they are longer than the fish, or piece of fish; put them near together, but not touching, in the contrary direction to the bars of the grid. The straws on which cream cheeses are sold answer the purpose, but it is not enough to rub a bit of grease on them: they must he in it; either liquid butter or some oil is best. Fish Cakes.—Required : twelve ounces of boiled or stewed white fish, any kind, six ounces of cooked potatoes, a little seasoning of salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, if liked, one egg, one ounce of butter. Cost, about 9d. Take tho fish from the bones while warm, if convenient, and sieve the potatoes whilo hot (steamed ones aro