585 CHEESE. it may be used up iu endless ways—not a scrap need be wasted. It should be grated and put into bottles for use iu any of the dishes in the present and other chapters. Many cheese dishes, especially those of the Welsh Rarebit type, owe much of their excellence to their “ piping hot ” condition ; to attain this, a cheese dish is almost a necessity, and those who do not possess out' should convert any dish of a suitable kind into a hot-water dish by way of a substitute A muffin or kidney dish will serve the purpose. Other cheese dishes are given in various parts of the book, under pastry, souffles, puddings, etc., for which see Index. We will close these remarks with a reference to a few preparations of cheese with cereals, etc., to which the term “ digestible ” has been employed. The dishes are detailed on page 589. We think we are correct in stating that the treatment of cheese by the addition of bicarbonate of potash, the digestive agent in question, originated with the late Professor Williams, and the recipes herein are the outcome of experiments made in accordance with the suggestions given in his admirable work ‘‘ The Chemistry of Cookery.” The main advantages of this particular treatment are summed up thus:—It makes up any deficiency of mineral matter that is left behind in the whey in cheese-making; it neutralises the acid ; and converts the casein into its original form, as it existed in the milk. The average amount of potash required is a quarter of an ounce for each pound of cheese used, whatever may be the nature or amount of the other materials added. If these proportions are used, the bitter flavour of the potash will not be detected ; but, in excess, it is readily perceptible. One result of what the Professor calls his cheese- cooking researches is cheese porridge, and he recommends it especially to those who work out of doors; it must be cautiously used by sedentary livers, “ lest they suffer from over-nutrition, which is but a few degrees worse than partial starvation.” Beignets of Cheese and Semolina.—Required : milk, butter, potato-flour, semolina, cheese, season- ing, eggs, and bread-crumbs. Cost, about 9d. Cook together in a double saucepan a pint of milk, an ounce of butter, three ounces of semolina, and an ounce of potato-flour. It will take about an hour. Draw it from the fire, add salt and pepper to taste, and the yolks of four raw eggs; beat hard for a few minutes; then stir in two ounces of grated cheese. Turn out to cool on a buttered dish, and when firm cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter. Brush over with beaten egg, and coat with fine crumbs, seasoned like the interior, then fry delicately. Serve on a folded napkin. These beignets aro inexpensive and very dainty. Cheese Aigrettes.—Required: three ounces of Vienna flour, one ounce of butter, tho yolks of three eggs, and the whites of one and a half, a pinch of salt, cayenne and ground mace, an ounce of grated Parmesan, and the same weight of Cheddai cheese, a gill each of milk and water. Cost, about Gd. Boil the milk and water together, add the butter, stir in the flour by degrees, it must bo dry and sifted, then take tho, pan from tho tiro and drop in the yolks of the eggs, singly, s'