112 UMlVEliSAt tiOOKKltY BOOK. surface, is often met with, hut it is not mint sauce. Mint Sauce, Superior.—Re- quired : mint and sugar as above; after chopping, pound them in a mortar, with a teaspoonful of lemon- juice, then add gradually some French vinegar, five to six tablespoon- fuls, and let it stand as above directed. A little water is sometimes added to reduce the piquancy, in place of a fourth, or thereabouts, of the vinegar. Olive Sauce.—Blanch and cut up enough olives to fill a tablespoon ; add them to two or three gills of Mayonnaise and whipped cream mixed, with a little mignonette pepper and a teaspoon ful of lemon-juice. This must be cooled thoroughly, and may be served with many dishes, fish, poultry, or game. Piquant Sauce for Salmon. —Required: a gill of olive oil, one tablespoonful of pickled gherkins, the same of French vinegar, a teaspoonful each of French mustard, tarragon vinegar, and anchovy essence, salt, a pinch of cayenne, and two eggs. Cost, about 9d. Put the yolks of the eggs, raw, into a bowl, add tho oil, drop by drop (see Mayonnaise), and when mixed add the rest of the ingredients; the gher- kins should be minced finely, and mixed separately with the anchovy and mustard, before the vinegars are added; the whole must be carefully blended with the beaten oil and eggs ; and if not ready for the sauce as soon as it is made, set it on ice. It must be made in a cool place. If possible, set the bowl on ice while mixing the ingredients. Poivrade Sauce. — Required: two tablespoonfuls of Brown Sauce, twice its measure of salad oil, a table- spoonful and a half of French vinegar, and half a tablespoonful of tan-agon vinegai-, a shalot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of salt, cayenne, black pepper, and white sugar, a teaspoonful or thereabouts of chilli or cayenne vinegar, and a few drops of herbal vinegar. Mince the shalot, pound it with the dry seasonings ; add the brown sauce and oil, and mix thoroughly with a whisk, then put in the vinegars by degrees, whisking well for fi few minutes. Another way.—Use claret in place of half the French vinegar, and add a half teaspoonful of French mustard and cucumber vinegar. These sauces are very good with bacon, calf’s head or feet, &c. Potsdam Sauce.—Put a gill of game stock in a basin; mix in a des- sertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of port, a tablespoonful or two of good aspic, cool and on the point of setting, salt and cayenne to taste. Whip the whole for a few minutes, and set on ice for a short time before serving. This is useful for cold game. By using stock from venison bones, it is a good sauce for venison or well-hung mutton. Queens Own Sauce. — Re- quired : two ounces of fresh butter, two eggs, the j uice of half a lemon, salt, a gill of cream, cayenne, and a teaspoon- ful of herbal wine (see Seasoning). Cost, about 9d. Boat the butter to a cream, add tho eggs, yolks only; beat again, whip the cream up stiffly, mix altogether in a jar, set it in boiling water over the fire, and thicken like custard; add the seasoning lightly, and set aside to cool in the tureen in which it will bo served. Just before serving, dust tho surface of the sauce with lobster coral and chopped parsley, or tarragon and chervil. This is a very good sauce, and its uses are manifold ; it is recommended to those who cannot take sauces con- taining oil. Sardine Sauce.— Required: half a dozen sardines, a gill of aspic, a gill of cream, a gill of fish stock, seasoning as under. Wipe the sardines, bone thorn, put