UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 616 change the water first after seven minutes’ boiling. The thing is to give throe boilings, and about the same time in each water. There is no objection to this but the little extra trouble, but the result will amply repay it; if the cabbage be well drained and served hot, with melted butter or any other of the usual accompaniments, a dish quite different from an ordinary boiled cabbage is a certain result. Whether boiled in this or any other way, never throw cabbage water down the sink; it should be got rid of out of doors, if there is a bit of ground on which it can be thrown. Cabbage, Fried.—There are various ways of re-heating cold cab- bage ; one of the nicest is frying. Chop the cabbage roughly, season with salt and pepper, and a pinch of herbs and spice ; molt a morsel of dripping or other fat to keep it from burning, then put it in and turn it about until brown and dry. Cold carrots can be added, so can a morsel of grated apple, it gives a pleasant flavour; onions are liked by some, and any of the edible wild plants may be mixed in. Fried cabbage may form a dish of itself, or go to table with meat. In the first case, make it tasty, and serve neatly with some hard-boiled eggs, or strips of toast or fried bread as gar- nish : sauce or gravy adds to its excellence (see Colcannon, page 624). Fried cabbage is sometimes flavoured with ground carraway seeds; it is considered a good addition, by reason of cabbage giving rise to flatulence, for which carraways are a well-known remedy. The same seasoning is as suitable for stewed cabbage as for fried. For the above use an ordinary frying pan. Another way.—Take a pint of boiled chopped cabbage; sprinkle it with a teaspoonful of curry powder, and fry it as above directed. Dish it in a border, and sprinkle fried onions over. Put any mince of meat in the middle: this is tasty and economical. Cabbage, Red, with. Apples. —Required : a cabbage, an onion, two apples, vinegar, seasoning, and thick- ening. Cost, about 6d. This is a rather peculiar dish; to many people it will be a novelty, and will become a favourite: it is, perhaps, one of the most wholesome ways of serving this vegetable. Take a close small cabbage; all the stem and heart part must be removed, then cut it up in shreds, and put it in an earthen stewpan with a good-sized onion, chopped, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a gill of water. Cover and cook softly for a couple of hours; add two large sour apples, chopped; give an hour and a half to two hours more cooking; then season, and thicken with a little flour mixed, with water or stock, and add a little more vinegar or lemon juice. This may be served with roasted or stewed meat, or as a separate course. The seasoning is left to taste; a little spice of some sort is wanted, and a morsel of sugar is generally liked; though those who do not care for sweetened apple sauce will like this unsweetened; salt and pepper are the only other ingredients necessary. Red cabbage is generally pickled, but many good dishes may be made from it. If stock bo used instead of water, the above is nicer. A favourite dish in some parts is made from red cabbage, stewed in thickened stock, and fried sausages. (See also Pickles and Salads.) Cabbage, Savoy.—This is dis- tinguished from the close-hearted cab- bage by its full heads and wrinkled leaves. There are several varieties of this—the large green, the German (a distinct and superior sort), the yellow, the dwarf, and the globe, are all familiar ones. This cabbage is eaten by some who do not like the white cabbage ; again, others prefer the last- named. To keep this a nice colour, give it lots of room and lots of water ; take it up as soon as done and press well; cut it into squares in the dish