Fisir. 181 bug with a plain pipe ; any size, from a pen upwards ; pour in boiling water to just cover, then draw aside, after it has boiled up again, and leave to trimmer only until firm. Small ones take four to six minutes: largo ones eight to ten; and good sized quenelles, fifteen minutes. Always rinse them in clean, hot water before serving ; and if fish stock is used, seo that it is quite clear. '1'hoy want rinsing, whether stock or water is employed for tho cooking. Salmon, Scalloped.—For this we will suppose some boiled salmon, with tho usual accompaniment, groon pe ts, to be at hand, and a little sauco, anchovy, or something similar; a tasty dish can bo had from tho fragments, by following these directions. Grease some scallop shells, and lino thorn with a thin layer of potato pastry. Fluko the salmon, and mix it with the sauco; rf not enough to moisten, add a littlo Ihiekened milk, it should ho a thick mince; the fish may be cut up small if preferred; put a spoonful over tho potato, then convert tho peas into a puree {see recipes), l’ut some of this over the salmon, and cover with moro potato pastry. Brush over with beaten i gg, and dredge with fine crumbs, and hike brown in a quick oven. File up on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley. There are a number of ways of varying these ; the tins can he coated with crumbs, and lined with rice, first cooked, or with macaroni ; the fish and peas go next, then more rice or macaroni, with crumbs on the top; with tho top layer of either, a little sauce should be mixed, and the scallops are best heated in a shallow tin of boiling water, and just browned in the oven or near the fire. Instead of peas, some cucumber puree may be used, and if sauce has to be made pur- posely, a piquant one will be found very good if the cucumber has been Used. Salmon, Smoked.—This is a great delicacy, and may be served as a breakfast dish, or a hot savoury. It is also a groat favourite with many when cut into tho thinnest possible slices arid served raw. Itocipus are given in the chapters on Savouries and Salmis. Smoked salmon varies in price and quality; tho best is often sold at from two to throe shillings per pound, or higher still when vory scarce. Salmon, Spiced.—Take of tho water in which tho fish was boiled a pint, with tho same measuro of good malt vinegar, six cloves, a blade of mace, twelve black peppercorns, six allspice berries, a bay loaf, and a strip of lemon pool. Boil all together and skim ; put in two ounces of butter, and pour it over tho cooked fish, from three to six pounds according to thickness, which it should thoroughly cover in every part. Sot it in a cold place, and when quite cold, cover it. It will keep some days. This makes a good salad, or may bo sent to table with some of tho liquor. To some palates it is pleasanter if two-thirds fish water, and one third vinegar bo used. Salmon, Pickled,—This is less highly seasoned than tho above, and no butter need bo put in. Tho fish liquor and vinegar should bo used in equal parts, with a few popporcorns, a clove or two, and a bay-leaf to each quart. Good vinegar should ho used in all such dishes, or tho fish flavour is quite spoiled. Salmon, Tinned. To serve this plainly, take tho pieces from tho tin as neatly as possible (the salmon cut- lets in tins aro generally but littlo broken, and may bo removed almost whole), and pile them domo-slmped on a dish, with a garnisli of groon round the base. Vinegar, both plain and flavoured, should ho sent to table, tarragon vinegar is a suitable accom- paniment; also black popper and cayenne. As a rule, the fish is pre- ferred free from the liquor in tho tins. If required hot, put tho tiiiH in boiling water for about fifteen minutes, then drain, and put the fish on a hot dish. Garnish as for ordinary boiled salmon.