DRESSED VEGETABLES. 679 the mould may be lined with aspic only, and the filling allowed to show through; or it can bo coatod with a puree such as tomato, or anything that will form a nice contrast to the sides. For a very superior dish of the sort, some asparagus stalks (with the points removed) and strips of tomato look nice for the side decoration. The garnish should con- sist of the asparagus points, with chopped aspic and tomato chips. For a more elaborate garnish, use a greater variety of vegetables and aspic of two colours. Cost of these dishes is very variable. Note. —In hot weather, set the mould on ice after lining, and again after filling, and let it be quite firm before turning out. This principle may be applied to small moulds with equal success. Chestnut Puree.—For a very good one, see the recipe for Beef with Chestnuts, page 236. Or follow the directions for either of the Chestnut Sauces, decreasing the amount of liquid. "When a rich white puree is required, add eggs, &e., as for the rich potato puree (page 689). Chicory a la Cream.—Whore chicory is cultivated for the table, there are many ways of preparing it. A favourite dish in Normandy is made by boiling, pressing, and chopping it; then putting it in a saucepan with a little butter, in which it is tossed until the butter coats it. A little hot cream is then added (or good white sauce takes its place), and the chicory served on hot toast. Cucumber a l'Espagnole.— Required : a medium-sized cucumber, stock, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 3d.—more or less, according to season. Peel the cucumber, cut it in pieces two inches long and an inch or less wide; remove the seeds, sprinkle with salt, place between two plates for an hour, then drain. Cover with good brown stock, and cook gently until done, then pile on a dish, and pour somo brown sauce ovor; a spoonful of sherry is an improvement. Cucumber a la Poulette.— Required : two small, quickly-grown cucumbers, seasoning, stock, butter, cream, and eggs as under. Cost, about Is. Cut the cucumbers as above, or in slices half an inch thick if preferred; cook until half done in a little water seasoned with salt and lemon juice, then drain. Blend in a saucepan an ounce and a half of butter and an ounce of flour; add a pint of nice white stock, stir to the boil, and simmer for a quarter of an hour with the cucum- bers, or more or less as required. When tender, add the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of thick cream, and the juice of half a lemon with seasoning. Re-heat and serve. Cucumbers with Onions.— Required: cucumber, onions, stock, glaze, seasoning, thickening, and toma- toes. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. This is a good ragout; allow a pound of cucumber to half a pound of mild onions (or half shalots), other in- gredients as below. The onions are to be shredded and fried lightly. Peel the cucumbers, and slice thinly ; add them to the onions in a clean stewpan, pour over enough stock (No. 6 or 7) to cover; add a bit of glaze the size of a nut to every gill of stock nsed, and simmer until nearly done. Towards the end, season with lemon juice and tarragon or tomato vinegar, salt and pepper, and thicken with brown roux. Lay a slice of fried bread on the dish for serving ; put the ragout on, and put a border of onions fried as above, mixed with Tomato Chips. Note.—In such dishes, it is advisablo to draw off some of tho cucumber juice. This eats well with many “ made dishes ” of meat. Cucumbers with Sauce Verte.—Required: cucumber, force- meat, sauce, &c., ns below. Cost, varies with tho stuffing; from 2s. to 2s. Cd. inclusive is tho average.