PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. Gil the “ bunch of herbs ” so often men- tioned in cookery books generally. They should be usod in moderation, and in many dishes it is sufficient to let the bay leaves, or bunch of herbs, as the case may he, remain in the gravy, or other liquid used for the dish,' hut a short time only. For many dishes a pinch of powdered hay leaves is enough; a stock of both the fresh and the dried, which should he powdered very finely, is useful in every kitchen. Bay leaves enter into many mixtures of herbs and spices {see the chapter on Seasonings). Beans, Broad (or Windsor). —These are excellent eating when young. They are a favourite accom- paniment of ham or hacon. Although mostly seen on the tables of the poor and middle-class population, broad beans are convertible into dainty dishes, and in this form make their appearance at first-class dinners. Cost, usually about fid. or 8d. per peck, when plentiful. Broad beans are much nicer, and more digestible, when freed from the outer skin, there being a very pronounced difference between that and the inner green portion. When this is done, the husks (so-called) need not be wasted ; if boiled for a long time, the water from them can be strained off, and with the addition of vegetables or cereals, will make nour- ishing soup. Cold beans make a good salad. Beans, Broad, Boiled.—-For a perfectly plain dish, shell and wash the beans, and put them on to boil in salted boiling water. Young ones will be done in twenty minutes, or a trifle under; older beans will take about half an hour. The skins will look wrinkled, and the inner bean may bo easily slipped out between the thumb and finger when ready to serve. Drain in a hot colander, and serve hot. A lump of butter, and a pinch of salt and pepper, should be shaken amongst the beans, if no Parsley Sauce is served with them. Another way.—Boil a good hunch of herbs with the beans; drain when nearly done, and put them in a clean saucepan with a little oil or butter, and some chopped parsley; toss them until heated through. Fry some dice- shaped pieces of bread, and sprinkle them over the beans after dishing. Serve egg sauce with these. This is a good maigre dish. Beans, Broad, Boiled (Supe- rior).— Take off the husks before boiling, and cook them precisely the same as peas. They are excellent; and, thus boiled, may be served with any good sauce, either with meat, or as a separate dish. A very good dish is made by boiling them with a bunch of herbs in the water, then drain, and add some Maitre d’Hotel Butter at the moment of serving. The slightest suspicion of garlic may be added. Another good sauce is obtained from Melted Butter; it should be slightly thicker than given in our recipes, and to each half pint, a teaspoonful each of French vinegar and onion vinegar, with a bint, of garlic, should be added; some very finely-powdered herbs may be put in last tiling. This goes well with pork or bacon; or the beans can go to table alone, or with a garnish of sliced eggs, and the sauce in the centre. Beans, Broad, Mashed.— This is really the only way in which plainly boiled beans, when old, can be served to advantage. After boiling as above directed in the first method, until quite soft, remove the skins, and mash the beans with a fork, or pass them through a sieve. A little hot stock can be used to soften them ; or a spoonful of milk, with a slice of butter in it, is even better. When smooth, add salt and pepper, and re-heat them. Parsley can be chopped and mixed in, or the usual adjunct, Parsley Sauce, be served with them. Beans, French, or Kidney. —Perhaps no vegetable is more popu- lar than this. One variety is largely grown abroad for the sake of the inner bean, so much eaten in the freBh state.,