• 153 FISH. perforated bottoms are used, otherwise much of the goodness of the fish would escape, by running into tho water below, and be wasted. Some steamers are furnished with inner tins to fit tho outer vessel [see Steaming, page 18). But we will suppose that no steamer of anv sort is at hand : by a little in- genuity, it is very easy to cook the fish by the action of steam, and al- though a little more trouble, the result will be almost as good as if a proper vessel were used. For a flat fish of three or four pounds, lay it in a baking add to the fish, and pound again, with a little salt and cayenne and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix in the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, then pass all through a sieve, and leave in a cold place until ready to use. Fish, White, Quenelles, Moulded. -— Required : ingredients as in the foregoing recipe and some little moulds, well buttered. The annexed illustration gives an idea of the kind ; various sizes and patterns may be had, but such as shown are a FIG. 28.—QCENELLE-MOCLD. tin with a tumed-up edge, and set this on the top of a deep pie-dish, or a good-sized pudding basin or cake tin ; whichever is used, should be placed in the boiling kettle, with boiling water, salted as usual, to half its depth. Or, if a few slices of fish (or a short, thick piece), they am be put in a pie-dish, with just a little water boiling round it. In any case, keep tho lid on tightly, and replenish tho boiling water if necessary. Another way is to cook between two plates over boil- ing water (tee Fish, Fillets of, Plainly Steamed). Fish, White, Quenelles of.— Required : fhe flesh of a raw whiting, panada, butter, eggs, and seasoning. Free the fish from bone and skin, and scrape it; weigh six ounces of (he scraped flesh, and pound it with one ounce of butter. Pound separately fourouncesof Panada [see Foucemeath), useful size, either to serve as an entree or for garnishing large fish. They should be garnished prettily, according to taste, the materials at command, and the purpose for which they arc required. A plain decoration can bo found in chopped parsley, hard- boiled yolk of egg, and chopped shrimps; while truffles, lobster coral, chopped lax, and filleted anchovies, serve every purpose when elaborate dishes are wanted. Tho mixture must then bo put in from a bag with a plain pipe; take care not to disturb tho garnish; knock the moulds on the table (for tho mixture to sink well they should bo quite full); then dip a knifo in warm water, and level the tops. Then cook them in a potato steamer with a buttered paper over; or put them in a stowpan, with a sheet of paper at tho bottom, and boil- ing water just enough to float them; cover with paper (buttered), put tho