45 STOCKS AND SOUPS. are very quickly cooked, and useful not only for soups, but for plain sauces and gravies, for hashes, stews, &c. Then there are portable soup-tablets, made both by English and foreign firms. These only require the addition of stock or water, and are- a useful addition to the store-cupboard, as they furnish a ready means for the quick preparation of soup. Besides giving thickness or body, they give also a rich look to the soup; and, in the case of plain meat liquor or bone stock being hand}', it may be made to do duty for a much better stock by the addition of these preparations, with a little suitable flavouring. We would strongly advise that tins be bought in preference to packets; in the latter form, the flavour and colour are impaired, but in tins, from four ounces upwards, the desic- cated soup in powder keeps almost indefinitely. Another form of desiccated soup, very highly concentrated and made into tiny cakes, is especially suitable for travellers, as it occupies but little space. Family Soup.—Take the liquor from any meat or poultry, or bone stock, or ordinary liquor from the stock-pot. If the first named, boil it until reduced to half the quantity; to each quart allow a good teacupful or so of mixed vegetables, minced or sliced—celery, onions, leeks, turnips, carrots, and a bit of parsnip, some chopped parsley, and a little mixed herbs, dried, tied in muslin, or some fresh herbs, and a bay-leaf and parsley tied together. Boil these until the whole can be sieved or passed through a colander or potato-masher; return it to the pan, and thicken with either of the following:—Crushed French tapioca or sago—these will take fif- teen minutes; ground rice or rice- flour, mixed with water to a paste —these will take ten minutes ; corn- flour or potato-flour — five to ton minutes’ boiling will be sufficient ; or any cooked grain, rice, barley, &c., can be used, or cold macaroni cut into short lengths. These only want warming up, and the soup is ready. Where oatmeal porridge is a stand- ing dish, some cooked oatmeal is a valuable thickening medium. Whole wheatmeal, too, is very nourishing, and may bo added cooked or raw; if the latter, it will take nearly an hour. Baw oatmeal, coarse or medium, takes more than an hour. Barley-flour or fine oatmeal can be used with advantage in a soup of this kind, and ground haricot beans, though less smooth, are excellent for thickening purposes. (See also Desiccated Soup.) Cold potatoes can be used up in this way. For a brown soup add a little colouring, and, if convenient, fry the vegetables before adding; or if only an onion is fried and the rest of the vegetables used plainly the soup is much more savoury. In a white soup any remains of onion sauce, celery sauce, parsley sauce, or caper sauce (besidesmany others), may be used up, if made with meat liquor or milk (of course, if with fish liquor they would be unsuitable). We men- tion this because the scrapings of a sauce tureen are so often wasted ; but in a subsequent chapter on Scrap Cookery we show how this may be easily avoided. Flageolet Puree (Good).—Re- quired : one pint of milk, one quart of stock (No. 9), three eggs, one tin of flageolets, herbs, vegetables, croutons, and seasoning. Cost, about Is. Sd. Put the stock into a saucepan, with the flageolets (green haricot beans) and a pinch of sugar; add herbs as follows, tied together :—A sprig each of thyme and parsley, a bay-loaf, and a few leaves of spinach or beetroot tops; boil up, and pass through a sieve, after standing a timo to oxtract the herb flavour. Put tho liquor back into the saucepan, and add tho milk, first boiled with two ounces of arrowroot. Beat the yolks of two eggs up in the tureen with a little of tho hot milk, then add the soup gradually, and sorvo (after seasoning to taste) with croutons prepared as follows: — Cut some