454 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. ■warm it between two platos ; put it in little piles round the rabbit, omitting the sausages. Rabbit may also bo hashed or minced in the same svay as veal {see recipes under Poultry also). For a brown hash, use rabbit gravy, or make some piquant sauce ; re-heat the meat, and garnish the dish with croutons, or put a border of cooked vegetables round. A bit of jelly im- proves the gravy; a pint will be wanted for half to three-quarters of a pound of rabbit. Put fried force- meat balls about the dish if liked. Stew down the bones for the gravy. (See recipes under Hare and other sorts of game for superior dishes of this description.) Rabbit, Liver of.—With refer- ence to the livers of rabbits, a writer says that “as a rule, domestic rabbits, and particularly those from Ostend, abound in internal parasites. Wild rabbits are not so abundantly pestered, yet scarcely one out of every hundred is free from worms in or about the region of the liver. These resemble little bags of white of egg, each with a denser, opaque, milk-white spot upon it, altogether about the size of a pea seed. In fact, these little blobs of albumen are nothing more nor less than undeveloped tape-worms, waiting to be swallowed by some other warm- blooded animal, to grow in the intes- tines of the latter into the active agents of wasting disease; and their presence within the human economy cannot be "pictured with any feeling short of abhorrence.” These remarks may enforce the necessity of examin- ing all liver before using it, and of throwing it away if it looks the least suspicious. To submit it to the action of fast-boiling water for a minute or two, though not always needful, is certainly a wise precaution, and should bo remembered when to bo used in forcemeat, &c. Rp.bbit Pate. — Required : a boned rabbit, four ounces each of raw fat pork and lean veal, two ounces of cooked ham, a bay leaf, a shalot, a teaspoonful of parsley, fresh, half as much of powdered thyme, a tea- spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a pinch each of grated nutmeg, cayenne, and cloves, a glass of sherry, and a few slices of fat bacon. Cost, about 3s. 4d. Line a jarwiththe bacon; powder the bay leaf, chop the shalot; make all into a compact mass, just as directed for Teurine or Grouse. Fill the jar, and put more bacon on the top. Cook in a water bath for two hours and a half, and serve cold, with a garnish of salad or parsley. This is a good breakfast dish ; it also makos very nice sand- wiches. It is for immediate use only. Rabbit.Roasted.—Seethe recipe for Rabbit, Baked, and prepare it similarly, or fill it with chestnut force- meat. Basto often, and cover with bacon, unless the rabbit be larded, which is a great improvement. If liked, it may be roasted minus any stuffing; a good piquant sauce is then suitably served with it, and there should be plenty of garnish, in the shape of herb or sausage meat cakes. Time, an hour for a good rabbit. For better rocipes, see Hare, Roasted. If tenderness is doubtful, partly cook by stewing, steaming, or boiling first. {See Rabbit, to Truss.) Rabbit, Spanish way of Cooking.—Required : rabbit, onions, bacon, and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. 3d. to 2s. Gd. A stewpan or earthenware pipkin is taken, having a tightly-fitting cover, and of sufficient Bize to hold a couple of rabbits when cut up into small pieces; also fourmoderate-sized Spanish onions in thin slices. A layer of sliced onion and bacon is placed on the bottom of the pan; then a layer of the pieces of rabbit previously seasoned with salt, pepper, and whatever other seasoning may be desired. This is covered with a second layer of onion, then rabbit, and so on alternately, until the whole of the rabbit is used up. A few' thin slices of bacon or ham aro put over