494 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. second blanching answers the same purpose; that is to say, the water should bo renewed, and again brought to the boil. (See Spanish Onions, under Vegetables.) Shrimp Forcemeat, Plain. —Required: bread.shrimps, butter, egg, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 4d. to 6d. per half pint on an average. For the foundation, bread-crumbs and chopped shrimps, in equal parts, should be mixed together, then made into a paste with an ounce of butter—to each half pint or so of the mixture—and a beaten egg. The seasonings are regulated by the sort of fish it is to be used for ; it is excellent for fresh water fish, then rather a high seasoning is wanted : salt, pepper, and cayenne, with a little essence of shrimps or anchovies. For any white fish—and we may refer to fresh had- dock as very good stuffed with it— a more delicate seasoning is desirable. Another way.—Use more butter, say another ounce, and instead of shrimps take half a pint of bread-crumbs, and mix in a teaspoonful of shrimp paste with essence as above named. In addition to the egg, a spoonful of milk improves it. By some, a small quantity of parsley is thought an im- provement. The flavour is certainly rather peculiar, but pleasant. White Sauce, or Shrimp Sauce, should be served with the fish. Tomato and Mushroom Forcemeat. — Required: half a pound of white mushrooms, the same weight of tomatoes, other materials ns below. Cost, about Is. Make a puree pf the mushrooms (sec recipes under Mushrooms), brown or white as required ; add, while it is still hot, the tomatoes, rubbed through a sieve, a chopped shalot, salt and pepper, lemon juice and a pinch of herbs. Stir for a few minutes, and if white mush- room puree, put in a good tablespoonful of any nice white sauce; if a brown puree, use brown sauce. Then mix in fine bread-crumbs until the mixture forms a soft paste ; in a few minutes turn it out, and add a beaten egg; continue the mixing until the whole is smoothly blended, and forms a mass free from streakiness; it is ready for use when cool. Many people have tested the excellence of mushrooms stuffed with tomatoes, or tomatoes filled with mush- room puree; fewer, perhaps, have tried a stuffing of the two combined. Its uses are endless for fish, flesh, and fowl, and it is as nice cold as hot ; for cold dishes, however, it is all the nicer if an ounce of butter be stirred in just as it is taken from the fire. Tomato Forcemeat. — Re- quired : a gill of bread-crumbs, half a gill of tomato pulp, either from fresh tomatoes sieved, or the pulp in bottles (see Tomatoes), two ounces of butter, an ounce each of veal and ham, seasoning, and a raw egg. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. Mix the crumbs and pulp in a basin: add the butter, just melted, and the ham and veal chopped small; put in salt and pepper, a little lemon rind, grated, and a few drops of colouring to give a pink tinge. Mix in the yolk of the egg, first well beaten, and set aside, covered, for an hour before using. This is nice for filling a rabbit or fowl, or for a boned shoulder or anything in which it will be enclosed. If it is to be spread, it must be made firmer by decreasing the amount of tomato pulp, or adding more bread. May be varied by adding beef sausage meat, or any other sort preferred, in- stead of the veal and ham. A small onion or shalot, chopped, would im- prove this for some, so would parsley. Tomato Forcemeat,for Fish. —Required: fish, stock, bread-crumbs, an egg, brown sauce, an onion, a tomato, butter or dripping, fish and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d., but varies with the fish used. This is very savoury, and suitable for a baked fish w'ith which Tomato Sauce, or a sauce or gravy of the brown kind would be served. Pour a little boiling fish stock over half a pint of bread- crumbs ; pour off any superfluous moisture, and add a beaten egg and a