466 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. This is inexpensive, and will be liked by those who find braised or roasted turkey somewhat rich, and yet com- plain that a boiled one is insipid, us many people do. If only the breast be stuffed, less sausage meat is wanted ; the above is intended for the body also. Tux-key, Stuffed with Chicken.—Required ; a turkey, a chicken, sausage meat, &c., as below. Cost, from Is per pound upwards. Bone a young chicken without in- juring the skin. Draw the legs and wings inside, fill the body with freshly- mado nicely-seasoned sausage meat, and make it round and compact in form. Put it inside a boned turkey ; fill all the empty spaces with sausage meat, and truss the turkey firmly, restoring it as nearly as possible to its original form. Cover with buttered paper, and put it down before a clear fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally, and roast very slowly, or the outside of the turkey will be done enough before the heat has pene- trated to the interior of the chicken. In carving the turkey slices should be cut across the breast, so that each guest may have a share of turkey, chicken, and forcemeat. Time, three hours or more. Another way.—Let the chicken be boned, and put inside it a calf’s tongue, salted, boiled, and skinned. See that it is nicely trimmed about the root be- fore it is used; fill up the vacant spaces with forcemeat, and use force- meat also between the chicken and turkey. Leave no gaps anywhere. This may be served hot, with the usual sauces and gravies. It makes, too, a famous cold dish for a large party. It is excellent if covered with good white sauce, thick bechamel, or chaudfroid, then coated with aspic, and nicely gar- nished. {See also recipes for Iced Sauces.) Many excellent varieties of garnish may be evolved from them. Instead of roasting, boil the turkey, or braise it. If the former, the stock must not be quite boiling when it goes in, and it should be tied in a clean cloth, after the buttered paper is wrapped round. Do not take it up until the stock is cool. Turkey, Stuffed with Tongxie. —Required : a turkey, forcemeat, a tongue and adjuncts as below. Cost, about Is. per pound, inclusive. This is a favourite supper dish and is very handsome in appearance; it is also easily carved. A plump turkey must be boned, and the empty spaces, legs, &c., filled with forcemeat. The tongue is then put in. (See Turkey,Boned ; also Turkey, Stuffed with Chicken, in which directions for cooking are given.) The time for this varies, but only enough to cook the turkey, and heat the tongue through is required, as that is in every case to be first cooked until done. We mention this, because we have known instances where a large raw tongue has been put in, and the bird cooked for an hour and a half or two hours, with the result which may readily be imagined on a moment’s thought. Now, the exact sort of stuffing depends upon circumstances. If expense is no object, and the garnish is to be of an elaborate nature, truffled forcemeat, or some other rich one should be chosen. But for ordinary occasions, sausage meat, or a veal stuffing, without suet, will answer the purpose ; and if the dish be simply masked with white sauce, and gar- nished with lemons and parsley, and a few fancy shapes of cooked vege- tables (not forgetting beetroot), it will taste good, and give satisfaction. For all such dishes a little aspic jelly should, however, he used when ob- tainable. (Sec recipes for Galantines of Fowl and Veal.) Turkey, Truffled.—There is no dish more highly esteemed than a truffled turkey. The easiest, and per- haps in the end the most satisfactory, way of getting one, is to procure it from France (through a first-class poulterer), ready fattened, stuffed with truffles, and ready for the spit. It will be all the better for the winter’s