GAME AND POULTRY. 460 for the purpose. Claret or port, is a suitable addition to such gravies and sauces. Wild duck makes a good salmi. Wild Duck, with Oranges. —Required : wild duck, orange salad, brown gravy, port, orange juice, roux, glaze, and other adjuncts as below. Cost, variable. An orange salad is one of the best adjuncts to a wild duck when nicely roasted. A good brown gravy should be served also, well flavoured with orange juice and port, about half a gill of each to a pint of gravy; a thicken- ing of roux should be added, and a bit of glaze. Stock such as No. 5 may form the foundation. Better still is good brown sauce with a flavouring of orange, or lemon or lime juice will serve equally well, and some good port: or claret, with a morsel of currant jelly, may be substituted. Wild ducks are objected to by many, on account of their fishiness. Then- cost is uncertain; about 3s. per brace is an average price when very plentiful, but they are often much higher in scarce seasons. Wild Duck, Roasted. — The main points to be observed are to keep the gravy well in the breast, and not to over-cook the bird. It must be most carefully plucked and drawn. The inside should be wiped out, the head and neck cut off; the feet scalded, and placed like a tame duck’s ; or by some they are trussed like the feet of a fowl. The duck is put close to a sharp fire for a few minutes, that the gravy may be kept in : it is then to be basted plentifully with butter until done. Froth it well, and serve with gravy or sauce. (.S'-* recipes.) A lemon'cut through should be sent to fable. The carver often likes to dip one half into ralt, and the other into cayenne, and squeeze the two portions together into the breast, after scoring it in a few places. A glass of port is next poured in, and the breast becomes a perfect boiine-bouche. A caution respecting Ihis process may be given. Take care in squeezing the lemon to hold it close to the bird, and mind that none is “ squirted ” into the eyes, or, owing to the pepper, it will cause a good deal of suffering. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes on an average to roast a wild duck. Cost, from 2s. each on an average. Wild Duck (American way).— The bird is well seasoned inside and out with salt and pepper, and stuffed with bread well buttered, and soaked until soft in hot water. It is basted for a few minutes with slightly salted water, in which an onion has been soaked, to take away the fishy flavour. It is finished off by bast- ing with butter. The gravy is made from the giblets, thickened and flavoured with black currant jelly, port, and cayenne. The fishy taste can also be taken away as directed for Wild Fowl, Roasted. Wild Duck, Stewed, — Re- 'quired : a duck, vegetables, seasoning, butter, stock, cream, milk, thickening, &c., as under. Cost, about 3s. Parboil the duck for ten minutes, with a bit of carrot and onion in its body, then drain, and remove the vegetables; lay the duck in cold water for a short time. Then joint it, and season with pepper. Flour well, and fry pale brown in hot butter. Put it in a saucepan, and cover with stock that has been made from the giblets and a bit of veal, with vege- tables and herbs; it need not be a strong stock. Stew until done, from twenty to forty minutes. Skim the gravy, then pour it off, and add to half a pint a gill of hot cream (or half milk) and a little thickening. Boil up, stir in the yolk«f a raw egg, and beat hard for a minute. Then put in tho juice of half an orange or lemon, last thing; either should be mixed with hot stock, and put in gradually to (ho rest, or it will curdle. This is a very good way of treating wild ducks, or tame ones either, if they are strong in flavour, as they often are. Wild Duck, Stuffed.—A stuff- ing made by soaking bread-crumbs in port, then seasoning with cayenne and