PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 659 up. Put tho tomatoes, cut side up, on a dish for serving; cover eacli half with a thin slice of cheese, and put some onions on tho top ; season nicely, then spread some bread-crumbs over; these must be browned in tho oven or fried (see BitEAn). Grate a little cheese over, and serve hot. Another way.—Use half the quantity of onions given above, then put some small whole ones about the dish; they are nicest fried or stewed. Another way. — Dish each half tomato on a little round of hot, buttered toast, or fried bread, and use onion sauce in place of onions. These dishes are tasty, and when tomatoes are in full season, at three or four pence per pound, are very cheap. Tomato Conserve. — This is one of the most useful forms of preserved tomatoes, as it is simply pulp without skins and seeds, and is un- flavoured ; therefore, it is practically the same as the pulp of the fresh fruit. It is handy for sauce, purees, and other purposes to which tomatoes in tho fresh state can be applied, and can be flavoured as required. The price varies considerably, as does the quality ; about 6d. per half-pint tin is an average price. Conserve in bottles is a little dearer. French conserve is considered good, so is the Italian. When English is bought, it should bear the name of the manufacturer or importer. Very low-priced stuff, bearing no name, should be regarded with suspicion, or is better avoided; for it i3 probably not pure tomatoes at all; or else a small proportion of tomato pulp is mixed with that of some other vegetable, coloured to resemble the genuine article. The difference in tho price of various samples, allowing for all possible variation in the quality of the fruit, is sufficient to justify this impression. This will not keep long, and as soon as a tin is opened it should be turned out into a jar or bottle for use, and kept in a cool place. It will be good for a few days in cold weather, but soon “turns” in warm weather. (See Tomato Catsup and Tomato Store Sauce in a later chapter on Pickles, &c.) Tomatoes a la Diable.—Slice, coat with butter, a little mustard, and cayenne and black pepper, then grill, or bake sharply. Tomatoes, Fried,—Unless to- matoes are coated and fried as directed under Dressed Vegetables, they arc better whole than cut, and should be rather small. The frying medium may be oil, buttei, or clarified fat, or bacon fat used after bacon has been frieth; it must be quite hot, and only a little is needed, the tomatoes being turned about with a wooden spoon or skewer until done. Take care not to use a fork, or the juice will escape; they must not be over-ripe or bruised, for the same reason. In ten minutes or thereabouts they will be ready. Supposing a dish of fried bacon to bo ready for breakfast; by frying tomatoes in the fat, it becomes more wholesoiVio as well.as more economical, especially if some bread be fr ied in tho same fat and dished with the rest. Cost, about Gd. per pound. Tomatoes, Grilled. — These should be small, ripe, and whole, then coated with any fat described above, and grilled over a clear fire, on a greased gridiron, for five to ten minutes. If cooked in a Dutch oven before the fire, i.c. broiled, they are almost as good, and less trouble. They may also be cooked in the baking tin before the fire while a joint is roast- ing ; the}’ should be put at the coiner, that tho fat may not drop on them ; in this way they are generally called “roasted tomatoes.” Cost, as above. Tomatoes, Grilled, Ameri- can. — Cut thin slices, coat with butter, mustard, and a pinch of salt and sugar, and grill in the usual way. Tomato Puree.—A very cheap puree may be had from tinned tomatoes. Put the contents of a quart tin in a