UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. fJo Put the vinegar, lemon-juice, and water in a stew-pan, boil until a fourth reduced, then strain it into a jar; put in the yolks of the eggs and the butter, set the jar in a pan of boiling water, and stir the contents one way until thick, and on the point of boiling. Then season and serve. If liked, a little tarragon vinegar may be added. This can be served with fish, or meat, poultry, or vegetables: anything, in fact, which requires a delicate sharp sauce. For a cheaper sauce, melt two ounces of butter in a pan, stir in a teaspoonful of flour, cook for a minute, then add vinegar and lemon-juice (half the above quantities) and a little season- ing. Beat two eggs up with a little water, stir them into the sauce until well blended, then serve. A much safer way to avoid curdling is to make the sauce in either of the foregoing ways, except that the lemon- juice is added off the fire. If the sauce is poured in the tureen, and the juice stirred into it, there is little or no fear of curdling. Very fresh eggs must be used, and the best fresh butter. Egg- Sauce-—For a plain sauce, boil three eggs hard, cut the yolks and whites separately into small dice, and add them to half a pint of Melted Butter (icsing the liquor from the meat or fish with which it is to be served), with a little salt and pepper. If for fish, put in a drop or two of anchovy essence ; and some people like chopped parsley added. For a richer sauce, take half a pint of Creamy Bechamel or good Melted Butter ; boil the eggs, and rub the yolks through a sieve : add them to the sauce, and cut the whites into very small dice, or they may be omitted ; put in a teaspoonful of lemon-juico if for fish. Another way.—Use veal or other white stock instead of the bechamel, thicken* with roux, then finish as above directed. Gooseberi*y Sauce. —Required: a pint of young gooseberries, with seasoning, &c., as below. Top and tail the fruit, wash it well, and boil it in enough cold water to cover until soft; then press it through a hair sieve to keep back the seeds; put the pulp in a stew-pan with a bit of butter, a little moist sugar, just to take off the extreme acidity, and a pinch each of grated nutmeg and ginger; stir to the boil, and if hand}', put in a little spinach-juice: it improves colour and flavour; failing that, use some vegetable colouring. Another way.—Prepare the pulp as above, then add to it about half its bulk of Melted Butter or any nice white sauce; finish off as directed. This is a less piquant sauce than the first, and is often preferred on that account. Bottled fruit, unsweetened, can be used for this. Horseradish Sauce (Brown), for hot roast or boiled beef.—Put a pint of stock made from roast beef bones on to boil, add a tablespoonful of grated horseradish, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a little lemon-juice; strain when well fla- voured, and thicken with a little roux very slightly ; it should be more like a gravy in consistency. Boil up with a pinch of castor sugar, and serve. For a plain sauce, if for boiled beef, use the pot liquor, coloured brown, instead of stock. See also Cold Sauces. Lemon Sauce. — Required : a lemon and half a pint of Melted Butter. Put the melted butter in a saucepan; peel the lemon, take away the white pith and the pips, cut the fruit into tiny dice, add to the sauce- pan, cover, and simmer for a short time. Serve with boiled fowls. Another way.—Use the strained j uice of half a lemon; it should be added to the melted butter very gradual! y, after it has been boiled and cooled a little. Re-heat, and put in a saltspoonful or more of grated lemon-rind and a little salt. For Lemon and Liver Sauce, the liver of the fowl should be boiled and