LAMB. 343 LAMB. House Lamb (by which is meant lamb born in the middle of winter, reared under shelter, and fed, in a groat measure, upon milk) is considered a great delicacy. It may be obtained from Christmas to Lady Day. Then, gTass lamb, or lamb brought up out of doors, and fed upon grass, comes into season. Like all young animals, lamb ought to he thoroughly cooked, or it is most unwholesome. Lamb is usually cut into quarters, aud of these the fore-quarter, which consists of the shoulder (3), the breast (5), and the neck (4), is considered by many the best. It should bo cooked fresh, and its quality may be easily tested by the appearance of the vein of the neck, which should be ruddy or of a bluish colour. 1 f green, it is not good. It is generally roasted, though in very young lamb, the leg, which is frequently served by itself, and makes a useful and excellent joint, may be boiled and sent to table with a suitable sauce. The hind-quarter, consist- ing of the leg (1) and loin (2), is better for hanging two or three days. As, however, lamb will not Fio. 88.- Lamb Divided into Joists. keep well in unfavourable weather, or for any length of time, it should be examined daily, aud the moisture carefully wiped from the joints. In order to ascertain whether or not it is fresh, place the finger between the loin and kidney. Any taint may be easily discovered by the smell. The fat of lamb should bo firm and light, the lean clear and also firm, especially the knuckle. If the fat be yellow, and lean flabby aud red, the lamb is of iuferior quality, and will not keep. Where economy is a consideration, lamb should not be bought before it is five months old. When lamb becomes large enough, the quarters are sub-divided into joints. The leg is the most profitable for a family, but the shoulder is very delicious in flavour. The loin makes a most excellent roast, while the neck and breast may be cooked in various ways, all of them appetising. The head, sweetbread, and fry are much esteemed, and furnish many dishes of a dainty kind. See also Entries, Cold Meat Cookery, and recipes under Mutton. Breast, Boiled.—Follow the recipe for mutton ; serve a nice white sauce with it; caper, white mushroom, and others are equally suitable. The vegetables served with it should bo young, and may be cut into fanciful shapes. Green peas are as good with boiled lamb as with roast, though seldom served with it. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. per pound. Breast, Broiled. — Required : lamb, stock, seasoning, &c. Trim a breast of lamb, and put it into a stew- pan .with as much stock as will just cover it. ' Add a,bunch of sweet herbs and an onion stuck with one or two cloves, and let it simmer very gently until it is sufficiently tender to remove the bones, then take thoso out. Sprinkle a little pepper and Balt over tho moat,