STOCKS AND SOUPS. STOCK, AND THE STOCK-POT. Stock is the basis of many soups, sauces, and gravies; and in houses where its manipulation and manufacture are unknown or neglected, good cooking and economy are practically nil; for besides the main uses of stock, as indicated above, the products pf the stock-pot are the “ making,” so to speak, of the little dishes which afford ready methods of re serving food in an appetising manner, and tend so largely to the prevention of waste. “ Keep your eye on your stock-pot ” is an old saying, and has a double meaning; and certainly, by keeping the stock-pot in her mind’s eye, the housekeeper will learn how to put everything to the best use. and avoid waste all round. The mentiou of stock alarms some people; they at once assume a great expenditure of time and money. Old fashioned' recipes, handed down through generations, have much to answer for in this respect ; but it must be remembered that they were written in the days when moat was cheap and largely consumed, when beef and beer formed the standard English breakfast of many a hearty squire, and the food resources of the people were comparatively limited. But altered prices, combined with the changed dietetic habits of the people, have brought about a reform. Now we know that we can make stock without the huge quantities of meat and poultry demanded for the family soup tureen in the “ good old days.” In fact, with a clear understanding of the principles the rest is plain sailing, and the cost singly a matter of requirement aud management. From the homely stock of a single bone to the grand consomme of the palace there is naturally a wide range; and we shall best meet the require- ments of middle-class households by dealing with the stock-pot of every- day life, and giving the method of preparing a foundation that shall serve not oidy for soups aud sauces, but for a vast number of purposes for which water is frequently used because no stock is at hand. We must explain at the outset that when a high-class stock for clear soup is wanted, it is only possible to get the requisite distinctive flavour by separate preparation of the meat, game, or poultry, as the ease might be; aud that a stock of mixed flavours, such as we are about to describe, would spoil the whole. Thus the stock-pot is capable of use or abuse. A great mistake is sometimes made hi regarding it as a sort of culinary dust- bin, into which everything that has not a clearly-defined use is to be thrown. Incredible as it sounds, we have heard of cheese-parings being 1 bus disposed of. Perhaps this may bo set down as tho chief abuse ; tho next is to keep the pot always going, adding from time to time fresh scraps. This gives a stale flavour, which no after treatment can eradicate, while the contents are very unequally cooked. To make our meaning clear: