282 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. ice, or in the cave for a short time. Garnish with green salad, sprinkled ■with the egg yolks, sieved. Stock No. 7 or 8 may be used in- stead of No. 6; in fact, any kind suitable for clear soup answers. Supreme of Veal a la Trego. —Required: nine or ten thin shoes from a fillet of veal; garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 3s. The shoes should be about three inches long, and an inch and a half wide, and batted out evenly with a wet knife. Put them on a buttered tin, sprinkle them with lemon juice and a spoonful of white wine, then pour a gill of white stock over, and cook, covered, in a gentle oven, for five minutes. Then put a pinch of salt and pepper on each fillet, and cook for five or seven minutes more. When cold, mask with pink and green chaud- froid, half of each, then dish them alternately on a border of aspic—this should be pale yellow. Put a row of the same aspic, finely chopped, between the fillets where they overlap, and fill up the middle of the mould with a mixed salad of cucumber and tomatoes. Over the centre surface spread some mayonnaise; the foundation should be white; colour a small quantity green and pink, and uso for ornamenting from a bag and pipe. Supreme of Veal a la Stock- dale.—Cook the meat as above, but mask with pink chaudfroid only. Sieve some yolk of hard-boiled eggs, and cut the whites into diamonds; lay them on the top of the meat to form a pattern, and dust them over with lobster coral or coralline pepper. Coat the surface of the salad dressing with the sieved yolks. Sweetbread Bouchees a la Husse. —Required : aspic and other garnish, sweetbread, ham, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. per dozen, or more. Lino some little deep dariole moulds with pale yellow aspic, and sprinkle it with chopped parsley and chervil, with some tiny stare of truffle at the bottom. Mix together some cooked sweetbread and ham in tiny dice shapes; moisten them with creamy bechamel and may. onnaise in equal parts; fill up the moulds and pour more aspic on the lop. Turn out when set, and dish each mould in a little bed of “ macedoine of vegetables ” tossed in mayonnaise. Sweetbreads with Foie Gras in Aspic. — Required: aspic, foie gras, sweetbread mixture as above, and garnish as below. Cost, variable, ac- cording to sweetbreads used. Line a square tin, with deep turned- up edges with pale aspic, then cover it with thin slices of foie gras; next put the mixture as given in above recipe; then more foie gras; then aspic again, making five layers in all. When set and cold, divide into squares or fingers, and dish nicely in a pilo, with a garnish of chervil and tarragon, and fancy shapes of beetroot and cucumber. The part that was bottom in the mould should be the top in serving. Lamb’s sweetbread does quite as well as calf’s for dishes of this kind. Sweetbread and Tongue Cutlets.—Required: some thin slices of cooked tongue and sweetbread, thick white sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, varying with the gar- nish. Put the slices together in four layers, dipping them in white sauce; tlm top layer should be tongue, and that must bo dipped in sauce on the under side only. Coat these with very pale aspic, and lay in the centre a star cut from a truffle or pickled walnut; put tiny shreds of tarragon round, and a leaf or two of small cress or chervil. Round the edges of the cutlets put some pale aspic, chopped small, and passed through a bag and pipe. Put a block of rieo down the centre of a dish, and put the cutlets in a row overlapping. Garnish the dish with olives, green salad, and prawns; or with cut lemons and beetroot, and hard-boiled eggs, with blocks of aspic