UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 372 so easily. Some of it is very little inferior to ham. It should be put on in cold water. The thin streaky parts of the best Wiltshire bacon need no soaking, hut long boiling, owing to the thickness of the rind, or it will be found difficult to remove. The loin is excellent boiled; the fact of its being cured with the hones in, making it so sweet and full of flavour. Some of the recipes for savoury rice may ho followed with success, when an adj unct to a dish ot hot boiled bacon is wanted. Vegetables may he served also if liked; peas will he sure of find- ing favour; while those who may try any of the spiced fruits and sweet pickles in a later chapter, might serve any of them, side by side with a salad, as an acceptable novelty at any time of the year. Such would he found a welcome change from a plain joint in many houses. The cost varies from about 7d. to lOd. per pound, according to quality and the part. The loin is always more than the streaky. Rolled bacon is cheaper. Bacon, to Pry.—See that the pan is clean, and then lay in the slices, thinly cut, evenly and carefully trimmed. Turn over, and cook until rather crisp and a delicate brown. To know when done, see that the fat has lost its raw look in every part. If it is not desired to crisp the bacon, a little fat should be melted in the pan to start with; this must not get very hot; the bacon should be turned as before, and in this way may be fried without gaining colour to any extent. Therefore, the purpose for which it is required must be a guide as to which method should be adopted. For curled bacon, cut it thinly, and fasten it with tiny skewers, then fry it crisply. This is also called “ rolled bacon.” Another way consists in taking off the. edge on one side, leaving the rind on; this, however, is not so good, as it only curls partially, and for garnish- ing purposes the first-named mode is the one to follow. Bacon which is somewhat over-dried may be put in warm water for a short time, and dried before frying. It will then be soft; it will not crisp or brown, but many will find it more agreeable. Bacon, to Grill.—There is no doubt about the excellence of a slice of good bacon when nicely grilled, and there is no questioning the extrava- gance of the method, the fat being literally in the fire. It should be cut thinly and trimmed both sides, then turned often until done through, and a delicate brown. Time, a few minutes. Bacon Olives.—Required: half a pound of bacon, raw, cold meat, bread, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. Cut the bacon thinly, remove the rind, and lay a bit of stuffing on each slice, made by mixing equal parts of crumbs and any sort of cold meat finely chopped, and seasoning them with herbs and pepper. A little milk or stock can be used to moisten this. Roll up the slices and tie them, or put a little skewer through, then cook in tho Dutch oven or frying-pan, until the bacon is done. Remove the string, and dish on a strip of toast. Ham can bo used in the same way, and game or poultry put in instead of the meat. Slices of cold boiled pork are equally appetising so cooked, and the appearance is improved by dredg- ing the olives with raspings before serving. Bacon and Peas. —Peas-pud- ding, or a puree of peas can bo served with bacon, j ust as it is with pickled pork; and if the peas be surrounded by stewed or baked tomatoes, the dish will be found very agreeable and wholesome. Instead of tomatoes, onions can be served ; they furnish a pleasant change. Bacon and Potatoes.—Re- quired : half a pound of bacon, raw, a pound or more of potatoes parboiled, seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d.; more if with sauce.