UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 580 paste mixed smoothly. Then tako half a pint of liquor from the lentils, which should he hoiling in a separate saucepan; add it with the rice-flour, and boil gently for about half an horn-. When the lentils are done, put them in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the sauce round, after removing the herbs, and adding the lemon juice and seasoning. The sauce is improved by sieving. Another way.—This is very simple. When the lentils are boiled almost enough, and not much moisture remains, add the ingredients above detailed, after frying them. They should he put in half an hour before dishing—the lemon juice, &c., being added at the end. Rice with these dishes is quite optional. Another excellent dish is ohtainod by adding a large fried onion to half a pound of lentils, and about two or three tablospoonfuls of cooked carrot, mashed or chopped. Curry powder can ho used in place of paste; hut it is loss soft and smooth. Lentils, Curried, with Slice and Barley.—There are few cheaper curries than this; it is very easy to prepare, and a trial will convince any- one of its excellence. Required : half a pound of lentils, two ounces of rice, the same of pearl barley, a gill of tinned tomatoes, the same measure of chopped \ogetables (carrot, onion, celery, &c.), seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. First fry the onion brown with a good bunch of herbs, put in a baking jar or dish, with the lentils, vegetables, l ice, and barley, all washed and soaked; add a tablespoonful of oil or butter, and cover with cold water. Set in a very gentle oven, and cook for three or four hours, until most of the liquor has dried up. The contents of the jar must be stirred now and then. Add, half an hour or so before serving, salt to taste, a dessertspoonful or more of curry paste or powder, a pinch of brown sugar, and enough vinegar to give a pleasant acidity. Beat the whole well before serving to blend the ingredients, take out the hunch of herbs and serve hot, alone, or with meat. With such a dish, a little meat goes a long way. Lentils, Green, Boiled. -Cook as above directed, and add a little colouring before serving; or boil a morsel of spinach with them ; chopped parsley, or dried mint, or any other herb can be used to season this dish, which is all the nicer if a little butter be stirred in just before serving. Cost, about 3d. per pound. Lentils, Potted. — This is a well-known portable savoury; the tasto for it is an acquired one, but it is very sustaining, and may be a very palatable compound; much depends upon the care taken in its preparation, and the nature of the seasoning. First boil some lentils in water or stock until soft enough to sieve; the pulp should then be mixed with butter, salt, pepper, and a little mushroom powder, or curry powder or paste, or some nice herb mixture or celery salt; anything of the kind to taste; a pinch of cayenne and mace will also increase the zest of the dish. A little good cheese, dry enough to grate, is a very general addition; an ounce will be enough for half a pound of lentils ; and bread-crumbs are frequently mixed in, but we think that they are well replaced by some well-cooked rice. The whole should he well pounded, when it may bo pressed into small pots or used for sandwiches. Cost, about 6d. or 8d. per pound inclusive. The exact proportions of the several ingredients must depend upon circum- stances; if for keeping, more oil or butter will be wanted than if for present use. Small pots are host, as they can be used up quickly. The surface of the paste should be brushed over with oil, and a paper tied over if it is likely that the lentils will soon bo eaten; hut for storing for a week or more, clarified butter should be poured over, the same as for potted meats. (See page 497.) Lentils a la Proven£ale.— Required : lentils, oil, herbs, an onion,