532 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Tinned Meat, with Oat- meal. — Required: half a pound of tinnod moat, any kind, three ounces of coarse oatmeal, a pint and a half of water, salt and pepper, and herbs, &c., a3 below. Cost, about 6d. Put the oatmeal and water in a deep pie dish, with a pinch each of salt and pepper; add an ounce of fat from the meat, and bake until nearly done, then stir in a good-sized onion, previously sliced and fried, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, or half as much dried sage. Finish the cooking, then stir in the moat, cut up very small; also the jelly, first mixing it with a few drops of browning; then set the dish in a cool part of the oven, or on the hob, and serve when the meat has had time to heat through; about ten minutes will do. A great improvement to the above is the reduction of the oatmeal by an ounce, and the addition of the same weight of sago or tapioca; either gives smoothness, and “ binds ” better than oatmeal alone. An egg may be added with the meat; it should be beaten well with the dissolved jelly. Time altogether, from two to three hours; tho slower the cooking the better the dish, which is very nice, and suitable for children’s dinner. Mince from a joint can be used instead of Australian meat. A plain gravy improves, but is not really necessary. Tinned Meat Pasties. — These are made like tho Cornish Pasties given in Pastry, but the crust is made from potatoes (see Potato Pastry), and a thick mince from Australian meat furnishes the interior. Any sort of cooked vegetables, or some thick sauce, Onion, Celery, &c., should be mixed with it. The pasties should be brushed over with beaten egg, or half egg and half milk, and roughed with a fork, then baked in a brisk oven. Or, with very thin crust, they may be laid in a flying basket, and fried. Garnish with parsley. Excellent pasties are made with tinned rabbit; it is better if mixed with pickled pork or bacon, and wants well seasoning. A mince of mixed meats answers very well ; odds and ends may thus bo used up with advantage ; the pasties may he very tasty, at tho most trifling cost. A cold sausage, together with a slice of boiled suet pudding, may be cut into tiny dice, and put in; the sausage gives a more savoury character, and the pudding renders the mince more substantial. Some stuffing fiom a joint is always a suitable addition, and a morsel of cooked liver is useful. Haricot beans or split peas (either should be mashed), about equal in weight to the meat used, makes a solid pasty, useful for children’s dinners. Cost, about 2d. each. Tinned Meat, Piquant Ragout of.—Required : two pounds of meat, a large apple, two leeks, a teacupful of canned tomatoes, a pint of plain stock, a tablespoonful each of brown vinegar, store sauce, and browned flour, a few peppercorns and a clove or two tied in muslin, together with a pinch of celery seed if handy. A few drops of celery vinegar or essence may be used instead. Cost, about Is. 2d. Melt a little fat from the tin, fry in it the chopped apple, sliced leeks, and the meat; the latter should be taken up and kept hot; the stock is then to be added with tho other ingredients, boiled up, and seasoned with salt to taste, then poured over the meat, which should bo piled up on the dish ready for serving. Note.—Previously boiled leeks arc intended for this : onions may be used in the same way. Instead of the flour, some cooked barley or a little corn-flour may be used for thickening. The fat must be carefully Bkimmed from the gravy, or it will be very un- ' pleasant when it begins to cool. The stock should he added cold ; it throws up the fat better. Some apples or other fruit (see Sweet Pickles) go well with the above. Tinned Meat, Ragout.—Re- quired : four tablespoonfuls of minced meat (tinned beef or mutton), the same measure of boiled bacon and cold veal, cut up similarly, and a couple of