MADE DlSItES AND RKLEVES. 253 Mutton a la Lucknow.—Re- quired : a pound and a half of lean mutton, from the neck or loin, cut up as for curry; sauce, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Sd. Sprinkle the meat with the follow- ing mixture a saltspoonful each of ground ginger, white pepper, ground allspice, and curry powder, and a tea- spoonful of celery salt. Make some fat hot, fry the meat a nice brown, then fry some onions in rings, in the same fat, first seasoning them with curry powder. Put both meat and onions in a clean pan, pour over half a pint of stock, No. 6 or 7, bring to the boil, skim very thoroughly, then add a tablespoonful of Lucknow Chctxbt. In half an hour, stir in an ounce of fine rice flour, mixed smoothly with cold stock to a paste, and a glass of claret; simmer for an hour longer, adding a little stock now and then. Just before serving, put in a gill of tomato conserve, a little lemon juice, and a few drops of essence of ginger. The sauce should just coat the meat. Put a border of rice round the dish; it should be blanched, then cooked in stock as used for the meat, and seasoned with the same spices used for sprinkling the meat; a little chutney should also be added, and some chillies should be sprinkled on the top. Mutton a la Turque.—Re- quired : a loin of mutton, boned, and freed from most of the fat; and some rice, stuffing, See., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound. Take some veal stuffing, and to half a pound, add two ounces of chopped sul- tana raisins, and a teaspoonful of curry powder; mix well, lay this on the mutton, and sprinkle it with some lean bacon, about four ounces, in thin strips; roll up tightly, and bind the meat, then roast it well; it must be basted often, AVhen done, take it up, and make some gravy in the usual way, but with a tablespoonful of sherry and a teaspoonful of extract of meat to half a pint. Have ready some Ricb a la Tukciue. Put the meat on a very hot dish, with the rice round it; sprinkle the surface with chopped capsicums and a few shreds of saffron, and strew two or three ounces of sultana raisins over, first stewing them in a small quantity of stock for twenty minutes. Send the gravy to table separately, and if liked, some currant jelly. For this the Rich Veal Forcemeat made with butter is best. This is an excellent dish when cold. Mutton and Okra, Curried. —Required : a tin of okra (see Vege- taiii.es), two pounds of lean mutton, cut into squares of an inch and a half, curry, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. Put the contents of tho tin into a lined saucepan, bring to the boil, add an onion, fried after slicing, and a seasoning of curry paste and powder, about a dessertspoonful of each, mixed with stock to a paste; add a bay leaf and the meat; cover, and cook gently for half an hour, then add a table- spoonful of rice flour mixed with stock to a paste ; boil up, and simmer for another half hour. The meat should by then be tender; if not, continue the coolring, but it should not be allowed to become “raggy” in appearance. Take out the bay leaf, and add salt to taste, and a little lemon juice. Remove the meat, put it on a hot dish, boil tho sauce quickly for a minute or two (it should be thick) and pour it over; serve with a plentiful supply of rice boiled ns usual for curries. For a superior dish, pass the okra and sauce through a sieve; reboil, and lay in the meat again to reheat. Send cut lemons or limes to table with it, and sprinkle the rice with corallino popper. “ Okra and tomatoes ” in tins may bo used in the same way. Mutton Curried, witli Sul- tanas.—Required : two pounds of lean, raw mutton, cut in tho usual way, a pint of Cuuky Sauce, two ounces of sultana raisins, half an ounco of glaze, Bomo lemon juice, &c., ns below. Cost of mutton, ubout Is. 8d.