STOCKS ANL) SOUPS. 53 into the cold stock, with a little salt; bring to tho boil and skim : boil until tho meat can be removed from tho bones—from threo to four hours; it should be tender, but not over-done; remove it carefully, and press it be- tween two dishes, tho under ono upside down; skin the tongue, and put it by to cool. Return tho bones to tho sauce- pan with a little more stilt, and go on boiling. In a clean saucepan put a slice of ham, cut up, one ounce of butter, herbs as for Tuktle Sour, a carrot, a turnip, half a parsnip, or less, a few leeks, white part only,-or an onion or two stuck with a few cloves, a score of white peppercorns or some mig- nonette pepper, a few allspice berries, and if handy, a couple of ounces of button mushrooms; fry these for twenty minutes, then add a pint of told stock, and boil for an hour or more, to half the quantity. Remove tho bones, and strain the contents of the second saucepan to the first. Add some brown roux, letting it boil up well until as thick as cream ; skim carefully, put in salt to taste, tho juice of half a lemon, a little soluble cayenne pepper, and, if no mushrooms were used, a dash of good ketchup. Cut up the meat into squares of an inch and a half or so; it will not all be required : the thickest should be chosen ; cut the tongue into cubes, and add them, with a gill, or nearly, of sherry or Madeira; boil for a few minutes, then serve. Add, if liked, brain-balls, egg-balls, or quenelles (see Index for Recipes), and hand cut lemon in quarters, and cayenne, with the soup. Mock Turtle Soup.—This is very inexpensive. It would be more appropriately entitled Calf’s Head Sot'F. We will suppose that a calf’s head has been boiled for dinner. If it is desired to convert the remnants into soup, proceed as followsInto the water used in boiling put the bones of the head, a slice of ham, and some vege- tables, herbs, 4c., and boil it steadily for a few hours, until there remains Only a couple or three pints. Then strain it, put it in a saucepan with thickening, ns before, or plain flour, if browned, will do; add a littlo colouring and ketchup, or store sauce, a squeezo of lemon-juico, and seasoning to taste; cut up the remains of the moat as even in size as possible; boil for a few minutes, and servo. A spoonful of wine may bo added or not. This is very littlo trouble. Naturally tho soup is less rich than tho first one, and paler—tho non-frying of the vege- tables makes a great difference in this respect, and a much better soup may bo had from these materials by follow- ing the modo given in the previous recipe. As this soup costs so little, the extra trouble is well bestowed. In both these soups, or any others in which dried herbs are recommended, it must be remembered that they are not given in preference to fresh ones. Should the soup be made when fresh herbs can bo had, they should always be used, a less quantity suffices. Mock Turtle Soup (made with l’ig’s Head).—Take half a pig’s head from a young pig, scald it thoroughly, and put it into a saucepan with three quarts of good, nicely-flavoured stock (Nos. 4 or 8 aro most suitable). Lot it simmer gently for an hour and a half; take it up, let it partially cool, cut the meat into neat squares, and lay these between two dishes, the bottom one being placed upside down, to keep the meat from curling. Put tho bones and trimmings of the head back into the saucepan, and let them simmer an hour longer, with a eouplo of bay-leaves, fresh vegetables, thyme, and parsley, and a little more seasoning should tho stock require it, and be very careful to remove the scum as it rises. Pour out tho soup, let it remain until tho next day, and then take tho cako of fat from tho top. Thicken with brown j thickening, and after it has boiled let it simmer by the side of tho fire, and as tho fat is thrown up, remove it. When no more rises, put in the pieces of meat. Lot them boil gently till tender, add a glassful of sherry and