529 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. fried parsley, or as preferred. Pass tho meat through a mincer if convenient. Scrap Mince (A Vegetarian Savoury). — Required: a large larrot, a small turnip, an onion or two, or some shalots or leeks, a few stalks of celery, a morsel of parsnip (if not objected' to), a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, a tablespoonful of rice or pearl barley that has been boiled until tender, sauce as below. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. The vegetables must all be cooked, and very finely chopped to a perfect pulp, or they may be mashed with a fork, or put through a coarse sieve. After seasoning, add the rice orbarley. If required for use in pies, make up into little balls or cakes ; they may be fried if liked, if first coated with batter or bread-crumbs, and served separately. But supposing the mincemeat to be wanted moist, for the filling of little patty-cases, &c. (for which recipes will be found in later chapters), then a little sauce, either white or brown, should be put in; recipes will be found in Hot Sauces. To make this more nourishing, a little Hahicot PubIse or Peas Pukeb may be mixed in. The exact consistence of the mince can only be determined by the purpose for which it i3 required. It is very cheap and tasty. Scrap Popovers. — Required : mince, tetter, bread crumbs, and sea- soning. Cost, about 6d. per dozen. /Make a mince as in the foregoing recipe, and a batter as for plain Yobk- shire Pudding, but with twice the usual quantity of flour. Then mix together equal measures of mince and batter, blending well. Stir some baking powder in last thing, and bake in deep gTeased patty-pans in a hot oven. Sauce or gravy is an improvement. Any odds and ends of cooked maca- roni or other cereal may go in, and for non-vegetarians, any meat-scraps, the flour in the batter being reduced a little. The remains of any vegetable sauce may replace some of the vegetables. Scrap Toast.—Required : toast, meat, vegetables, sauce, and seasoning. Cost, about 4d. Make a round of buttered toast in the usual way, then prepare a savoury mixture for spreading it; cooked meat and vegetables form the foundation. Supposing some cold boiled mutton to be handy, with a supply of the usual vegetables served with it, and a spoonful or so of caper sauce. Cut the meat very small, and either chop or mash the vegetables; add the sauce, and stir over the fire until hot. Now this, as it is, would be rather insipid, and the seasoning should be liberal and of a piquant kind; a few more capers, or some other pickle, or a little store sauce, with salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg are suitable. Pour hot over the toast, and dredge some browned crumbs on the top. Another way.—Equal parts of cooked ham and cold mutton make a good toast; some cooked rice maybe stirred in with, or instead of, tho vegetables. Another ivay. — Take roast meat (beef is excellent), and to each table- spoonful after mincing, add tho same measure of gravy, tomato-pulp, and cooked onions, fried or baked, chopped small. Stir until hot, add salt, a little browning, a few drops of hot sauce, and a morsel of mustard. Spread on the toast and serve hot. The mince should bo half an inch thick. These are very cheap and homely preparations. Better ones are given in a chapter on Savoubies. But even the plainest are very good, and furnish variety, especially as breakfast dishes. Spanish Hash.—Required : a meat hash, chestnuts, and garnish as below. Cost, about 3s. Make a hash of any kind of meat, and, in dishing, make a hollow in tho centre. Supposing two pounds of meat and a pint of sauce to huxe been used in the hash, put in tho hollow a puree of chestnuts, made by stewing a pound, in stock, ns given in a subsequent chapter (w Chestnut