r.KF.F. 305 the under part can be cut, as already described, from oud to end, f to g, or downwards, as shown by the marks at h. The latter is the more general method, and the slices should be rather thick; those from the top should be thin. If only the fillet is eaten while hot, the top of the joint should be glazed, and the dish garnished with fresh parsley and scraped horse-radish ; it will then furnish a most appetising cold dish. Sirloin, To Roast.—The time given to this joint must depend mainly on the taste of those who partake of it, for while many prefer it very much under-done, others like every part thoroughly cooked : in the latter case, it is then not easy to prevent the end becoming rather over-done. If the fire is fierce, a piece of greased paper should be tied over the end at first, and removed in time for the meat to brown nicely. With a moderate fire, or if the meat is baked, this precaution is not necessary. The meat should be dished with a little gravy round it, the rest served in a tureen; some horse- radish sauce, and a Yorkshire pudding, with sprouts and potatoes, are favourite accompaniments for a plain, family dinner. The top of a sirloin is sometimes taken from the hone, and rolled; the Hap should be inside, and the meat tied with tape, and skewered firmly. It is then e;isy to carve, hut will take rather longer to cook, about twenty to twenty-three minutes per pound. In serving it, proceed as if cutting a round of beef. The fat and lean being fairly distributed, there is practically no waste, and the meat can ho evenly carved to the bottom. The remains will then make a nice jar of potted meat, or a little dish of mince. Shirts. — These are very good grilled, fried, or stewed: they should always be skinned. liy either of the first named methods, they may be quickly cooked. If dipped in oil before grilling or broiling,and sprinkled with pepper, they are very delicious. If fried, they can he cut in strips, and cooked by immersion in fat, or left in large pieces, and cooked by the Day Fuying process. If the gravy is made in the pan, a little ketchup or sauce can be added. Some will prefer them plain, or with a pat of butter only. An entire skirt, skinned and peppered, and folded over a time or two, then tied up to resemble a little joint, and cooked before the firo or in a sharp oven, is very delicious with horse- radish sauce, and mashed or fried potatoes. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. per pound, and wo would strongly advise the purchase of skirts if it is a ques- tion between them and inferior steaks ; for the skirts will he tender and of good flavour; the same cannot be said of steaks, unless of the best. Skh’ts with Kidney and Mushrooms.—Kequired: an ox kid- ney, a pound of beef skirts, a pound of mushrooms, seasoning, and a quart of plain stock, or gravy, as given for stews. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. fid. Cut the skirt and kidney up, and brown them in a spoonful of melted dripping; add the stock, skim, and putin the prepared mushrooms, broken up; stew for forty or fifty minutes, thicken, season, and add a few drops of browning, and serve hot, with a border of toasted or fried bread cut in triangles. To increase the flavour, wash the peelings of the mushrooms, and boil them down in a little stock or water; strain, and add to the stew. This dish will prove that a small quantity of meat may be made to go a long way by judicious treatment, and will be all the nicer if some fried bacon be used in garnishing it. Steak.—This can only bo eaten in perfection in cold weather, because in summer the meat cannot he hung long enough to become tender. The chief faults of steaks are insufficient thick- ness, and an over-cooked condition; indeed, some steaks can only he de- scribed as horny; the dish is then very wasteful, and extremely indigestible.