335 MUTTON. A loin is delicious cooked thus. It is advisable to pare off the greater proportion of fat, and to semi-roast it. The chump end should bo cut off. It is almost needless to add that the above recipe may he varied to any extent, as reference to the chapter on Pickles will show; and in place of onions, sholots can be used; leeks, too, are very good. Sheep’s Brains, Cakes of.— Take care not only to wash, but to trim these well from the fibres. It is most unpleasant to find anything of a stringy nature in the mouth. The first water should be cold, and the next hot: then, when skinned, tie them in a bit of muslin, and boil them in a little salted and flavoured white stock for a few minutes, and beat them up, either with powdered sage or parsley (finely chopped), or the two mixed, a little cayenne and white pepper, with a drop of mace or nutmeg essence, or a grate of nutmeg. Then beat in the yolk of an egg for each set of brains. A bit of grated lemon peel is often added. Finally, mix in a tea- spoonful of fine bread-crumbs, if very delicate cakes are wanted, and drop the mixture from a spoon into hot fat; when lightly browned, serve them. Cost, about 2d. to 3d., exclusive of the brains. Xo. 2.—These are more economical. Use enough bread-crumbs to make the mass firm enough to be shaped with the hands into cakes the size of a florin, and less than a quarter of an inch thick. These can be put in a frying-basket to cook. Little balls, the size of a large marble, can be made; or small ovals, like a nutmeg, if pre- ferred. They are useful for soups and many garnishing purposes. If the yolk of a hard-boiled egg be added, fewer crumbs are needed. A o. 3.—Boil the brains in gravy for ten or twelve minutes, drain them on a sieve, cut them in dice when cold, then coat them with beaten egg yolk, and icell-^easoneil bread-crumbs. Fry a light brown, and drain well. Sheep’s Brains with Tongue.—Required : brains and ton- gue, with seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Gd. to Sd. Remove the brains without breaking them, soak them in salted water for an hour, skin them, and pick away the fibres. Put them into boiling water, put the tongue, previously boiled with the head, with them. Let the brains boil quickly for a quarter of an hour; take them out, mince them, and beat them up with three tablespoonfuls of the liquor in which they were boiled, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a table- spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Add a spoonful of white roux, and boil up. Skin the tongue, put it in the centre of a small dish, pour the brains x’ound it, and serve very hot. Another way.—Mix a tablespoonful or two of tomato pulp with the brains, and other ingredients above-named, cream excepted. Boil up and serve. Or Cheese Sauce, about a gill, added to the brains after they are boiled, makes a savoury dish. Garnish with cooked Italian paste, and a few sprigs of fried parsley, or with any small, cooked vegetables. Sheep’s Brains, Roasted or Baked.—Required : brains, bacon, sauce, and vegetables. Cost, about 9d. to Is., exclusive of the brains. Four or six brains wiR be required for a dish. Prepare the brains as for stewing, and procure as many slices of bacon as there are brains. After they have been boiled and thrown into cold water, drain and dry them perfectly; brush over with oil, and roll them in highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Put them on the bacon before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake in a well-heated oven, turning them about that they may be equally cooked, and basting them occasionally. When they are nicely browned and the bacon is cooked, take them up. Serve on a flat dish covered with mashed potatoes browned in the oven, and send a sharp sauce to table. Or put the brains and bacon on a largo