STOCKS AND SOUPS. 41 spoonful of extract of meat with half an ounce of French sheet gelatine or “ amber opaque gelatine ”; but if the latter is used, it must be soaked in cold water for an hour or two before adding it. The inner part of the carrots can be put into the stock-pot; the outer being used for the best dishes, both colour and flavour being superior. Celery Cream Puree (a very good soup).—Required: four heads of celery, four leeks, two ounces of potato-flour (French), seasoning, two ounces of butter, a small slice of raw ham, one pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and two pints of medium stock (No. 9). Cost, about 2s. 3d. Take off the root end from the leeks, and slice the white part into a deli- cately clean saucepan; take the root from the celery and all the outer stalks, then cut up the inner portions into shreds; put them in the pan, add the ham and butter, a pinch of salt, a few white peppercorns, and a bit of mace ; cook without browning for a quarter of an hour, add the stock, and skim ; then simmer for about an hour and a half to a pulp, pass through a hair sieve, then return it to the pan. Heat the milk and cream separately, mix them with the puree, and serve with dice-shaped croutons. The potato-flour should be very smoothly blended with a little cold milk, and added ten minutes before serving. Cereal Cream Soup. -Required: two quarts of stock (No. 9), one ounce each of fine oatmeal, rice-flour, barley- flour and butter, salt and pepper, a gill of cream, and a grate of nutmeg. Cost, about 8d. Melt the butter, blend the cereals with a little cold water, pour in with the butter, and stir well; add the stock by degrees, and stir until it boils, then simmer gently for an hour; season to taste, add the cream, bring to the boil again, and serve. This is a very nourishing and digestible preparation. For a vegetarian soup, use stock No. 10, or water and milk in equal parts. Cereal Velvet Soup. — Re- quired : a quart of milk, two eggs, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, two ounces of crushed tapioca or sago (French), one ounce of potato-flour, and one pint of medium stock (No. 9). Cost, about 9d. Boil up the stock, season to taste, and sprinkle in the thickening; stir until done, or it will form into lumps; as soon as transparent it is ready. Mix the potato-flour and milk, boil up, and add the yolks of the eggs gradually; return to the fire to thicken, then pour into the tureen, and stir in the boiling soup. This is very nourishing, and quickly prepared. The French semolina can be used in the same way. Chestnut Soup, Vegetarian. —Required : one pint each of milk and the water from boiled rice, three ounces of chestnut-flour, salt and pepper, a slice or two of onion, celery, and turnip. Cost, about 4d. Boil the vegetables in the water for twenty minutes or more, strain off the water, make it up to a pint, season to taste, and add the boiling milk pre- viously mixed with the chestnut-flour, and boiled for ten minutes; re-boil for ten minutes more, then serve. The French chestnut-flour is not here referred to. (See Chestnut Sauce.) Clear Soup with Croutons.— This is a very popular soup in Ger- many. Some clear stock is required; it should be boiled with enough mixed vegetables to impart a delicate flavour. The soup is then clarified (see Stocks Nos. 6 and 6, pp. 24, 25), and at the moment of serving some croutons prepared as follows are put in the tureen. Cut some thin slices from a light bread roll of a few days old, take off the crust, and stamp the crumb into rounds the sizo of a shilling or a little lurger. Have some hot butter ready: it bhould be clarified; dip the croutons in, then roll them in B