254 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Fry the meat until nicely browned, then remove it, and make the sauce, using for its foundation stock No. 4. Put the meat in, and cook until nearly done, adding a spoonful of stock now and then; then put in the sultanas, picked and blanched (i.e. put in cold water, and brought to the boil); cook for twenty minutes or so longer, add the glaze, with lemon juice to taste, and more seasoning if required. Turn out, and put a Pice Border round; sprinkle with coralline pepper, and put a few chillies in the curry. During the cooking add a hay leaf to the gravy, or put some powdered hay leaf in with the onions, &c. Another way.—If it is desired pale in colour, the above may he converted into cream curry, by omitting the frying of the meat, and using stock from mutton hones, instead of brown stock. Just before sorving, a gill of thick cream, heated, should be stirred in. Mutton Cutlets a la Russe. —Required: half a dozen cutlets, trimmed neatly, and the bones scraped, a gill of white wine, a gill of tomato pulp,half a pint of Brown Sauce, No. 2, a sprig of parsley and thyme, a slice each of carrot, onion, and celery, a tablespoonful of chopped capers, butter and seasoning. Cost, about 3s. Melt the butter, brown the cutlets in it; a minute on each side will suffice; put them in a clean pan, with the wine and vegetables; add the herbs and a few peppercorns ; when the wine is absorbed, take out the vegetables, &c., put in the tomato pulp and capers, and in ten minutes dish the meat, with the pulp spread over ; make the brown sauce hot, and pour it round the cutlets. Mutton Cutlets, with Hari- cots.—Kequired : mutton, beans, ham, butter, cheese, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Divide the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and grill or broil nicely. Boil a pint of white haricot beans (supposing six or seven cutlets) in the usual way, with a Spanish onion; it should be peeled and minced, and added when the beans are half done. When they are tender, put in two ounces of chopped ham, an ounce of butter, a table- spoonful of grated cheese, and seasoning to taste; shake the pan for a minute, then turn the contents on a hot dish, and place the cutlets round the pile. If liked, the cutlets can be egged and crumbed, and fried; then, after cooking, a little cheese should he sprinkled over, a salamander being held over to brown the surface; and the beans may he sieved, and re- heated before the ham, &c., are added. This treatment is a great improvement. During the latter part of the cooking, the pan should he uncovered, so that when done there is no moisture to pour off; only just enough to moisten the beans. MuttonCutlets,withOnious. —After cooking the cutlets, brush them with glaze, and sprinkle them with finely shredded onions, fried until brown and crisp. Dish them in a circle, with a brown onion puree in the centre. Mutton Escalopes, Fried.— Cut the under-meat from the loin in pieces, as directed for Cutlets, Loin, Fried, and cook them in the same way. They may he served in any of the ways given for cutlets, and take their name from the sauce or other accompaniment. Lamb may he simi- larly served. The sauces, &c., sent to table with it should he delicate in character. (See remarks at end of Cutlets, Loin, Fried.) Mutton Escalopes, withKid- neys.—-Required : six escalopes, three sheep’s kidneys, gravy and seasoning, forcemeat, &c., as under. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Divide the kidneys, skin them, take out the core and pepper them, cook them in any approved way, together with the escalopes. They may he grilled, or fried plainly, or egged and