COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 531 and a sharp knife will do much in this direction. Another way.—Cut up the meat and mix it with its own jelly melted, and more strong stock which will “jelly” when cold. Spread it in a layer, an inch or so thick, on a dish or tin, and leave it until very firm; then cut it into squares or fingers, and finish off as described above. This method can be especially recommended, as, owing to the moist nature of the meat, or rather of the jelly, which when heated becomes liquid, quite a dainty dish at very little cost is obtained. The cook- ing, however, must he carefully per- formed ; the fat must he very hot, and a complete coating of egg and crumbs (better done a second time) must be put on the meat, or failure will result. The stock for this and all similar dishes should be tested, and if not firm when cold some gelatine must be added. It should be well flavoured with salt and black pepper. (See Meat Pies in Pastry.) Tinned Meat, Fried, -with Onions.—Required : meat, bacon, onions, &c. Cost, variable. Fry a pound of onions (see Vege- tables), and put them in little piles round a hot dish, with small slices of fried bacon in between. Prepare the meat in one of the ways given in the foregoing recipe, and pile it in the centre. A little sauce or gravy should be put round the onions. For this, the meat should be flavoured with sage or mixed herbs. Tinned Meat and Marrow 3alls.—Required : four tablespoon- fuls of beef or mutton, half that quan- tity or less of marrow from a cooked beef-bone, salt and pepper, a few drops of anchovy essence, bread crumbs, an egg, and some mashed potatoes. Cost, about 6d. Make a mince of the meat and mar- row, stir in the yolk of the egg and a teaspoonful of good gravy ; then add bread-crumbs to make a soft paste. Prepare some mashed potatoes as directed for Potato Pastky, but in- stead of rolling it out, take up a por- tion with a spoon, hollow it in tho centre with the back of the spoon to hold a teaspoonful of the mince, then close it up and flour it; proceed thus until all are done, then brush the balls over lightly with the beaten white of the egg, and fry them ; or, after flour- ing, pour a little melted dripping over, and bake brown in a quick oven. These can be served separately, or with hashes or stews. Another way.—Add some chopped parsley to the meat instead of the anchovy, and wrap the mixture in thin slices of cooked bacon ; shape into balls and finish them off with potato pastry as above directed. A cold sausage or two, cut up, is an improvement to these. Tinned Meat, Mince.—A dish of this sort is soon prepared, and will be found useful as a plain emergency dish. Supposing some stock in the kitchen, this can be flavoured and thickened nicely ; some desiccated soup is useful for the thickening, as it gives colour and flavour (sec Soups) ; but com-flour or roux is more expeditious. The meat, cut up, right through the fibres, not chopped into a pulp, is then to be added to make a thick mince; all the nicer if a morsel of cooked liver or kidney can be put in, especially if mutton be the meat used. The dish may be garnished with sippets of toast, or the mince poured upon a slice of it; fried bread is superior for the same purposes. Reference to other dishes will show how this may be varied by the aid of store sauce, &c.; and a gar- nish of pickles is suitable. The vege- tables may be accoi-ding to convenience. Poached eggs or, if preferred, fried eggs, can bo laid here and there on tho dish, in which caso a few strips of cooked ham could be cut up, and put in the mince. A bunch of herbs and a little spice are the making of tho stock for dishes of this sort, if time can bo given for the simmering. Fried onions, too, aro valuable, unless it is known that they are disliked.