COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. (See aJso Fish, Game and Poultry, Pastry and Salads.) GENERAL HINTS ON COLD MEAT COOKERY. There are many people who pride themselves upon the fact t-liat they spend no time over the concoction of tasty dishes from scraps; “ wo have a joint,” they will tell you, “ hot one day, and we eat it cold until it is gone ; then we get another.” First, we wisli to say that we are not writing one word by way of condemnation of cold meat, which is a very good thing in its way—though, to judge by the manner some writers treat this subject, cold meat might be positively poisonous. No, a well- cooked joint, tastefully served, on a suitable dish, not much larger, that is, than the meat itself, is appetising both to eye and palate. It is rather the habit of so serving it, down to the last bit, that is so unsatisfactory and extravagant. “Why extravagant ? ” says one who is labouring under the delusion that plain monotonous fare must be cheap, and that time and money are wasted in every attempt to present the daily meals in any new form, by way, perhaps, of tempting a flagging appetite. In reply, we would urge the truth that cold meat is less satisfying than hot; it is common to hear persons say “ I had a cold dinner to-day, and am so hungry ; ” or “ I do want my tea; ” most likely long before the hour at which they usually take that meal. This is especially true in cold weather, and is such an established fact that nothing more than passing reference is necessary. Then, cold dinners, day after day, are less nourishing, conse- quently our charge of extravagance is proved; for meals that induce a feeling of hunger shortly after, and which do not supply the requirements of the body, must be the reverse of economical. And there is one more point in this connection : as a rule (there are exceptions), those who light shy of the trouble of preparing tasty dishes from joints, Ac., seldom got ne benefit of their purchases in the way of stock for soups and gravies from their bones. Very often those who put a joint on the table until the bone is bare, do nothing with that bone; it is given to the dog, or consigned to the dust-bin. “But,’says another, “is not twice-coolced meat very indigestible ? ’ It is, indeed, as prepared in some houses, but the same may be said of a stew ; a hash or mince is not a bad thing in itself, but may become a really unwholesome compound in unskilled hands. A writer says, ■' When you are confronted with a lingo dish of a watery gravy, not unlike dish-water, in which float hard lumps of meat, with perhaps a big bone in the middle, and aro asked to ‘ take some hash,’ don’t, if you can get any- thing else.” But this is an extreme case. On the other hand, if a dish is set before you with neat slices of meat, coated with a thick, rich-looking gravy, and tastily garnished, a very enjoyable snack is at your disposal;