290 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. put on a very hot dish, with a ring of fried onions and apples round it, or an onion or celery puree. The forcemeat may be “ plain veal.” If boiled, tie the heart in muslin or a thin cloth ; if roasted, tie a piece of greased muslin over it. Many other sauces may be used in just the same way. Hotch Potck (Cheap and Good).—Required: the scrag'end of a nock of mutton, say two pounds, an ox foot, two quarts of cold water, a large carrot, an onion or two, a small cabbage, and a pound of dried green peas, or split yellow peas. Cost, about 2s. Prepare the meat by washing and cutting it up ; the foot may bo bought at the tripe shops ; cut it up and put it with the mutton and cold water; bring to the boil, add the sliced vege- tables and a little pepper ; cook gently in a covered jar for three hours, then add the cabbage, boiled separately for a fow minutes, drained and shredded. Give a quarter of an hour’s further cooking, then season to taste, and sta- in the peas, which should be cooked in another vessel. Before adding the peas, draw out the bones from the mutton and the foot. Another way.—Use boiled lentils instead of peas, either plain or curried; the latter make a savoury hotch potch, very acceptable on a cold day. Kidneys Roasted in a Sauce- pan.—Take two ox kidneys, or three or four pigs’ kidneys, and after washing and drying, flour them well, and pro- ceed as directed for heart, on page 289. Be sure that the cooking is slow. Give beef kidneys about forty minutes; pork, being smaller, will be done in less time. Serve with gravy or sauce, with a dish of filed or stewed onions or any other vegetables. Cost, variable. Iiivex”, Moulded. - A breakfast dish. Required : half a pound of fat pork, two pounds of calf’s or sheep’s liver, a quarter of a pint of bread crumbs, a raw egg, a dossertspoonful of salt, a chopped onion, a tablespoon- ful each of brown sauce and tomato pulp, a teaspoonful of pepper, a salt- spoonful of grated lemon peel, half the measure of ground cloves and nutmeg, and a little cayenne to taste. Cost, about 2s. 2d. Pass the meat and onion through a sausage machine, add the crumbs and sauce, mix well; put in the seasoning, which should be blended first in the dry state. Press the mass firmly into a buttered mould, with a lid, and steam it for a couple of hours. As soon as done take the lid off : turn out when cold, and garnish with cress, parsley, celery or beet leaves, nastur- tium loaves, or anything of an equally simple kind. Salad should be served with it. The egg should be beaten and strained beforo adding it; it should be mixed in last of all. Pickled pork may be used, or bacon instead of fresh meat, then the salt must be decreased. Meat in a Mask.—This is a simple and good way of heating a cold joint from any animal. Some mashed potatoes must be prepared, with which the meat is to be covered until even in shape ; a knife should bo dipped in hot water for smoothing the surface If brushed over with beaten egg it will look nicer, or it may be dredged with raspings. A quick oven is needed, and as soon as hot through and brown, the moat is ready. Gravy or sauce should be served with it. Cost, vari- able, according to circumstances. Discretion is needed in preparing this. If the joint is large and under- done, the potato covering may be thick; but a small joint, well cooked, must be thinly coated, as it is not desirable to expose it to the heat of the oven longer than may bo necessary. If their flavour is liked, a layer of cooked onions, sliced, can be put underneath the potatoes; this will improve a piece of pork, and sage is a suitable addition. The remains of a tureen of sauce can be used up on the top of the meat nndor the potatoes.