562 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rice, seasoning, stock, and an onion ns below. Cost, about 5d. Take half a pound of good rice,wash it and pick out all faulty grains. Put a gallon of water in a saucepan, add a tablespoonful of salt and a large onion, previously scalded; then bring the water to the boil. Put the rice in a thin cloth, drop it cautiously in the saucepan to form a bag, but it must not touch the water. Put the lid on, which, as the edges of the cloth arc outside, will fit well. Let the water boil fast until the rice is tender, then turn it into a clean saucepan, and add a teaspoonful each of mixed mustard, grated horse radish, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. Chop the onion from the boiling water, add it with a gill of brown meat stock, thickened with a heaping teaspoonful of baked flour. Stir for a few minutes, pile on a hot dish, and send to table with beef or veal. Wo call attention to this recipe, as it is a very good way of cooking the rico, which is practically steamed; thus prepared, it is very handy for con- version into rice cakes and other little snacks ; or the rice can go to table as a Bwcet or savoury. In the first case no addition beyond salt must be made to the water. This method hails from Chicago. Rice, Curried.—For a plain dish, the rice may be boiled to absorb the stock (See Rice, Boiled Plainly) ; to each pint or so, after coolring, add a fried onion and a teaspoonful of curry paste or powder (see Curries), and simmer for a short time. For a better dish, take rico boiled for curry, and mix it with a small quantity of Curry Sauce ; it should not be sloppy—the rice is only to be moistened; a bay leaf can be boiled in it. For a really rich dish, any of the adjuncts given in the recipes for curries of meat, &c., may bo put in. Cost, from -Id. to 8d. for a dish of half a pound. Note.—Almost any cereal or macaroni may be curried thus. Rice a la Custard.— Required : rice, stock, butter, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about Gd. This is a good dish to serve with cutlets; it is equally nice with braised or boiled poultry or meat. Use the best Carolina rice, and cook it in veal stock; allow a pint to four ounces to begin with; cover with a buttered paper, and let the rico cook slowly. More stock may be wanted, but by the time the rice is done it should be almost dry, and swollen to the fullest extent. Take the cover from the pan, and lay a soft cloth over the rice for a few minutes; then add an ounce of butter, a dust of cayenne and salt, a morsel of ground mace and a little white pepper. Have ready the yolks of two eggs and half a gill of thick cream, heated together ; add them, and stir carefully with a fork just to blend the ingredients, but avoid breaking the rico. Serve at once. This is also a first-class dish for separate service ; it should then be flavoured with choose and garnished with croutons. Rice a la Custard, with Ham. —Required: rice as above, white sauco, ham or bacon, toast or fried bread, or any green vegetable. Cost varies with the adjuncts. This is a tasty luncheon dish. Pre- pare the rico as above, but add a little thick white sauce in place of half the cream, so that the mixture is a trifle firmer. Have some small square slices of ham, it must be hot, and the pieces cut thinly, and all lean; a boiled or braised ham is best, or a piece of lean bacon does as well. Put a pile of the rico mixture in tho middle of each piece, about a dessert- spoonful, take the four comers up, and join them at the top by means of tiny plated skewers. !Sot tho dish over boiling water for a minute or two, then serve on squares of dry toast or fried bread; or, if preferred, on a green puree. Rice Cutlets, Plain. — Re- quired : five ounces of rice, seasoning to taste, a little fat bacon or butter, an