UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 624 a child would enjoy a meal of chest- nuts in England, as well as in those countries where the peasantry count themselves fortunate if they are able to obtain such fare. In addition to the recipes below, see next chapter for richer dishes suitable for serving with meat. (See also Sours, and Sauces, both savoury and sweet, and recipes under Cereals and Puddings.) Cost, about 2d. per pound. Chestnuts, Boiled.--Make a slight incision in the outer skins, and throw them into plenty of boiling water with salt, in the proportion of a teaspoonful to the quart; as soon as they arc soft, after steady cooking, they should be drained and wiped, and served in a hot napkin laid in the dish. Time, about an hour. Another way.—Peel by removing the outer and inner skins, and mash the chestnuts, and treat them like pota- toes when plainly mashed; or make them tasty by the aid of herbs and spices, with a little oil, bacon fat, butter, or dripping to give the desired smoothness. Chestnuts, Roasted.—These are always bettor if parboiled, the ends being first cut; they should then be put in the oven, or before the fire, or over the fire on a closo grid, and cooked until done. A dish of these, with salt and a bit of butter, would be as welcome to many as potatoes roasted in their skins; and only cus- tom is to blame for the one being considered worthy to constitute a meal, while the other is regarded as a dessert, although quite as satisfying. Chestnuts, Stewed.—Take as many chestnuts as may be needed, and take the outer rind away, then put them in hot water, and bring to boil- ing point; as soon as the second skin can bo removed, take them up, put into cold water, then peel and wipe them dry. Return them to a clean pan, and cover them with any weak stock, either moat or vegetable, or even tho water from boiled haricots, rice, or macaroni; add an onion if the stock has not been already flavoured, and a little salt, with a bay leaf or any other herb, and cook gently until tender ; but they should not be broken up. The gravy may be left as it is, or thickened with a tablespoonful of corn- flour to each quart; or some fine sago can be sprinkled in in time for it to be cooked. Time, about an hour and a half. For a more savoury dish, at very trilling cost, the nuts, after the second skin has been taken off, can be floured and fried in a morsel of dripping; any stock, vegetarian or otherwise, is then to be added, and when soft the liquor should bo thickened with browned flour, and made tasty by •means of a few drops of store sauce or vinegar, with salt and pepper to taste. Cllickweed. — “ The commonest of all tho weeds, but not without its virtues,” says a writer. There are several varieties ; tho right one to use is the low-branched weed, so common in garden beds, with small, white flowers, short, broad leaves, and round, green stalks, which have a weak, divided look, and commonly lean on tho ground. This plant is said to be very valuable for its juices, which cool and purify the blood. When boiled, a very good substitute for spinach may be obtained from it. Like all its tribe, it wants most careful cleansing; if neglected in this respect, the result will be particularly unpleasant; this is true of all the plants that grow near the ground. Chicory (or Succory).—The leaves of this plant when blanched are used in salads; it is wild, and of the nature of endive. The root is roasted, and added to coffee, or serves in some parts as a substitute for it (sec remarks under Coffee in a later chapter). Of late, a good deal of impetus has been given to the cultivation of chicory. Colcannon.—One of the simplest of those dishes, which are favourites at vegetarian tables, is a mixture of