UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 560 through a sieve or potato masher first. Rice, Boiling for Curries.— To boil rice properly, so that each grain is distinct and the rice tender without being broken, oertainly re- quires care, hut it is not the difficult or mysterious process that some seem to imagine it. First wash the rice in several lots of cold water until it ceases to look cloudy. Patna rice is the kind to use. It will look nicer if blanched, but this is not always neces- sary, though when it is done it must he remembered that the rice will boil in less time afterwards. (See Rice, Blanched.) For each quarter pound of rice have ready a saucepan with at least a quart of boiling water in, and a larger quantity is bettor still. Add a tcaspoonful of lemon juice, this is to whiten it; and half a teaspoonful of salt, this raises the temperature of the water. Drop in the rice and let it boil for about thirteen minutes, or a trifle over or under according to the quality of the rice; the way to test it is to take a grain between the thumb and finger; it should be tender but not smash up ; after a little experience its appearance will indicate the moment for straining. Whon this point is reached, strain the rice through a colander, and pour a little cold water over to separate the grains. Many prefer to use hot water, as the rice takes so long to re-heat after the cold treatment; and it answers nearly as well. Shake the colander well, and pass a fork lightly through the rice a few times. Take care not to break it. To finish it off, several ways are open. A good one is to set the colander on a plate, and crumple an old soft cloth lightly on the top to absorb the steam; then set it on the plate-rack or in a meat-screen, or anywhere, for it to dry thoroughly and gradually. A plan better liked by some is to butter a saucepan and turn the rice into it, and set it on the hot-plato with the lid half on—though we think there is nothing like a cloth—-to swell and dry. The rice may bo left for an hour or two, or it may be got ready some time in advance, as it can be re-heated by putting it between two soup plates over a saucepan of boiling water, and will take but a few minutes. In order that this may present a nice appearance, it is very necessary that all discoloured grains be picked out. We may mention that we have seen directions for soaking rice for two hours before boiling it for curry; but straight from the washing water to the cooking pot is the motto of the majority, and that wo have found to be the best. For rice that is to soak up the liquid, the soaking is advisable, but not when dryness is to be the main feature. Rice Border for Hot Sa- vouries.—There are many ways of making these borders; somo of them are very troublesome, for which written instructions would be of little use, and others are far from economical; we give, therefore, such as may be prepared by any intelligent cook, and which are as little trouble as is consistent with tho class of dish. First wash and blanch the rice, which should be best Carolina; put it to boil in white stock, adding a quart to a pound of rice; put in two ouncos of butter, and cover the rice with a buttered paper; a copper stew- pan is best, tho heat is more evenly sustained. Cook softly, adding moro stock now and then, but by the time the rice is dono, it must all be absorbed and the rice dry; it is a good plan to take off the lid and paper towards tho end of the cooking, for if the rice is left wet, the dish is sure to be a failure. Then pound it or sievo it, or beat it to a paste with a large wooden spoon. Supposing a pound of rice to havo been used, add the yolks of four eggs, and a little suitable seasoning; for instance, if for a delicate mince of poultry or fish, the seasoning must be adapted to it; if for a dark mince, a brown stock (such as Nos. 6, 7, or 8) should be used for cooking the rice, and the seasoning may be in increased proportion. When tho rice and eggs are cool, take a border mould, round or