PULSE. 01 I just according to tasto and conve- nience. Beans, Haricot, Curried.— For an ordinary plain curry of white or green beans, follow the instructions given for Lentils. For brown or red beans, the stock used should be brown; it may, of course, bo a vegetable or a incut stock (see Stocks), and should be made more piquant than for the others ; fried onions are always suitably added to the beans at first, and it is a good plan to serve some rice cooked in a savoury manner with them. (See recipes under Rice ; for instance, Cckkied Rice or Saffron Rice would be suitable.) Cost, variable. A very simple way of making a curry of beans, when only a mild flavour is liked, is to dissolve some curry paste in boiling stock (brown or white) and stir into the beans ten minutes before serving. From a large teaspoonful to a dessertspoonful may be used to each pound of beans. Beans, Haricot, with Eggs and Black Butter.—Required: beans, eggs, seasoning, croutons, sauce, (cc.. as below. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. This is tasty. Boil half a pound of white or green beans (see preceding recipes), but omit any herbs; season with salt and pepper only. To each pound add six or eight eggs; they should be fried and trimmed (see Eggs), and laid round the beans. Prepare some Black Butter (see Hot Sauces), and pour some over each egg. Place a crouton in the centre of the jmlks (a tiny star or half-moon shape looks pretty), and serve hot. Beans, Haricot, with Eggs and Tomatoes.—Required : beans, eggs, tomatoes, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, from Is. upwards, if six eggs are used. Prepare the beans as above; to each pound add a gill of tomato pulp, just in time to get hot through; season nicely. Lay the eggs on, fried or poached; put between them a littlo pile of tomatoes which have been sliced and grilled, then cut in dice shapes (see Tomatoes). Pour a littlo Parsley Sauce round the white of the eggs; tako care not to smear the yolks. Tho combination of colours and flavours in this dish is very satisfactory. Caper sauce may be used instead of parsley. Note.—White beans are intended, and, after adding the tomato, put in a drop or two of colouring to give a pale pink tinge. Beans, Haricot, Fried.—One of the most tasty and popular ways of serving beans is in the style of the national cookery of Mexico, called “frijoles,” pronounced “fre-o-les.” The beans are boiled until soft; they should bo swollen to their fullest capacity, but not broken, and must be left until cold; the more perfectly they are drained, the better the dish. Some thinly-sliced onions are first fried in olive oil; when these are half done, the beans are added ; they should be sprinkled with sage and pepper, no salt, and fried a good brown. Toss and serve altogether, piping hot, adding a little salt at the end. This is said by one writer to be “ first-rate when cold, but good enough for a king when hot;” “ and if for a king,” says another writer, “ why not for his loyal sub- jects ? ” Cost, about 4d. to 5d. per pound. A crust of bread, rubbed with garlic, may be tossed with the beans for a moment if the flavour is liked. Where sago is objected to, parsley and thyme may replace it; but it is not easy to improve the original recipe. A very good dish is made by serving any other vegetable, cooked in a tasty maimer, round the beans : for example, carrots, turnips, or celery, stewed or as a puree ; or potatoes, fried, curried, or in balls or croquettes, or any other tasty form. A dish of rice also goes well with the beans. Beans, Haricot, Porridge of.—For this, the split beans referred to on page 675 may be used; or, what are still better, ground haricots ; these are the same thing in a finer form, but aye not so generally obtainable. For a