cereals, 565 more liquid as required. Season it with pepper, salt, and a pinch of ground coriander and cloves. Put this in heaps round a hot dish. Fry some onions iu dice to a nice brown, and add a good seasoning of Lucknow Chutney. (<S« the chapter on Pkki.es.) Put a little in between the heaps of rice; the precise quantity of onions used is a matter of taste. Fill in the centre math a pile of Browned Rice. This is a tasty dish for serving alone, or with meat. It forms an excellent medium for the re-serving of cold meat, game or poultry ; a small quan- tity of either can be cut in dice, and mixed with a little thick brown gravy or sauce that may be left over from the dish, then piled over the centre. Rice a la Lymphe.—Prepare the rice as in the recipe for Rice a la Custard, but use a brown stock instead of white, and in place of cream add a mixture of sherry and brown sauce; the other materials are the same. Put this in a fire-proof china dish, and level the surface: garnish the edge with a puree of flageolets (nee Veoe- taiiles), then put a ring of sieved egg yolk; go on thus until the centre is reached. Heat hefore serving. This is a very dainty dish. Cost, from Is. upwards. Rice, Moulded.—This is a very plain dish, often liked in hot weather. Allow a pint of milk to a quarter of a pint of well-washed rice ; cook together for an hour and a half or so, then flavour and sweeten to taste, and pour into a damp mould to set. Turnout, and serve like the Rice Snowballs. The cheapest rice may be used for this if well washed. Cost, about 3d. Rice and Pickle Stew.—The dish may be made mild or very piquant, as desired. The foundation consists of rice cooked as for Rice and Egg Stew; to this is added,a short time before dish- ing, some finely minced mixed pickles; they may be clear or thick. The eggs must be put in first, and the pickles warmed in a little stock; the stew must not be allowed to boil again. About three good tublespoonfuls of cooked moat are also wanted ; the most suitable being calf's or pig’s head, or calf’s or cow’s foot. Tripe is often used in the same way; a morsel of ham or bacon is a welcome addition. This is completo in itself, but a tureen of onion sauce can be served with it. If a really substantial meal bo re- quired, increase either of the meats above-named to a pound; cut it up neatly, and pour the rice over. Rice Rings, Savoury. (Sec the recipes for Rice Cutlets.)—Make the mixture for these in the same manner; it should be spread on a tin to the thickness of a little less than half an inch, and, when cold, cut out with a round, crimped cutter, two inches in diameter; cut the centres out with a smaller cutter, leaving the lings half an inch wide. Finish off, and fry the rings the same as the cut- lets. They may be used for garnishing a dish of mince or hash; or can bo filled with any nice mince of fish, or any kind of meat; or forcemeat balls may be put in the centre; so may the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, coated with a good sauce: in fact their uses are numerous, as they Clin take tho place of croutons in all sorts of savouries, the seasoning of the rico being regulated by the filling of the rings. A particularly pretty savoury is made by making three mixtures : one of rich egg sauce ; one of brown meat or game with brown sauce ; and a third with a white mince, moistened with parsley or any other green sauce. After filling, arrange the rings round a dish, for the three colours to contrast nicely, and put in tho centre the small rounds that were cut out. They are to be fried like the rings. Either of the three mixtures should be put in a thin layer on the dish before the rounds are piled on it. This can le served as an ontrfio. Rice Snowballs. — Supposing sweet snowballs are wanted, the pre- paration given for Rice, Moulded,