STOCKS AND SOUPS. 29 and if necessary boil a few peppercorns with it; no pepper, or anything which would cloud it, must be put in after the clearing. To clarify game or poultry soups, proceed just as above, but use raw game or poultry in place of half the beef, of which neck or other coarse portions answer very well. Rich Stock (No. 7). — The method of making this is similar to the last, but beef only is used. It may be all shin, or part shin and part from the neck. It gives a darker soup than the foregoing, and though not so generally used, paler soups being- now fashionable, it is still preferred by some people. Cost, about 12a. per quart. Medium. Stock (No. 8).—Make it as No. 6 or 7, but use three pints of water to two pounds of meat and bone, which for ordinary purposes is sufficiently strong. Cost, about Is. 6d. per quart. This and the preceding stock may be clarified as No. 6, or by the follow- ing method, which is quicker. Use three eggs, whites and shells, for each quart of stock, whisk until it is just on the point of boiling, then stop instantly, and leave the stock, partially uncovered, for twenty minutes, then strain as directed; a lump of sugar will assist the brightness—put it in before the second straining. This is apparently a cheaper way, and many writers on the cuisine contend that clarification by the meat process is extravagant, since eggs alone answer the purpose. So it is, if the ortho- dox twenty minutes only be allowed for the simmering, but by giving an hour or more the nutriment is extracted from the added meat, and a wonderful change effected, the soup gaining in flavour; whereas, when eggs alone are used, it is robbed of flavour; and it must always be re- membered that by clarification a soup is robbed of certain elements of nutri- tion, left behind in the scum ; this is inevitable. A soup clear enough for every-day use, though not actually bright, can be obtained by straining the stock (after freeing it from fat and sediment and dissolving it) through a cloth, without clarification of any sort; and will have in it more nourishment than if bright, while expense and trouble will be saved. For such a soup arrowroot is a suitable thickening. White Stock (No. 9). — The foundation of this is veal. Knuckle is best, or half knuckle and half neck will do. The bones of a boiled chicken or rabbit, or fresh poultry bones, are an improvement, and the liquor used should be from boiled veal or poultry, if possible. For a strong stock, use meat in the propor- tion given in No. 6, or for medium stock use the same as No. 8. A small piece of calf’s head with the skin on, or a calf’s foot, together with a slice of lean ham to each half-gallon, will be found a further improvement. Add to each quart of liquid after it boils a small turnip, half a carrot, a couple of celery-stalks inner portion, a tiny bit of mace, half a dozen white peppercorns, a leek -white part, or a button onion or two, and a saltspoonful of salt. This is all at this stage of the proceedings, as there are many uses for this, and various flavourings are added afterwards. The method of treatment is the same as already de- scribed. At least eight hours should be given. This cannot be made in a hurry. Cost, as Nos. 6 and 8. White Stock (No. 10).—This is plain, and costs very little. To make it, take a quart of water in which mutton, veal, fowl, or rabbit, has boiled ; add to it vegetables ns above, sliced, and enough to fill a teacup. Season slightly, and boil down to half the quantity. This is for immediate use only, for plain soups, hashes, and minces of white meats, &c. Strain before using. If vegetables have been boiled with the meat, the stock can be first boiled down without further addi- tion. White Stock (No. 11).—This is a purely vegetable preparation, but if