63 STOCKS AND SOUPS. add the vegetables and herbs, all finely cut, and fry for a few minutes ; put in the stock, boil up, and skim, then cook until the vegetables are a completo pulp. Mix the oatmeal, &c., to a smooth paste with cold water, add a pint or so of the boiling stock, gradually, then pour it into the pan, and stir for a few minutes; boil for half an hour or more, and season to taste. In the soup tureen have some stale bread, crisped in the oven and broken up, pour- the hot soup over, and then serve. Before serving, take out the bunch of parsley and mint. This is a very cheap and nourishing soup, and will be liked by those who object to the flavour of pulse soups ■without other additions. A valuation of it is made with ground haricots or pea-meal instead of lentil-flour; and if any carrots used are grated instead of being cut up with the rest, a very much better soup is the result. Potato Soup (Superior).—If made just as directed, few people would imagine that this soup owed its flavour to such homely materials. It is very excellent and economical. Re- quired : the water fiom a boiled fowl or rabbit, one pound of potatoes, two or three shalots, a few stalks of celery, a bunch of herbs, one egg, one pint of milk, two ounces of corn-flour, salt, and a teaspoonful or so of mignonette pepper, and a small slice of lean bacon. Cost, about 9d. Put in a clean pan the meat liquor and the bones of the fowl or rabbit, with a little salt; boil it for a few hours until reduced to three pints, or rather leas, skim it, and strain care- fully. Put in a clean small pan the bacon, herbs, pepper, celery, and sha- lots ; sweat them without browning, pour over them about half a pint of the meat liquor, and boil for an hour, then press the heTbs, &c., well, and strain the liqnor to the first lot. Boil the corn-flour and milk, beat in the egg, then put the. potatoes (previously cooked by baking in their skins) into a large bowl, mash them well, add tho milk, &c., then the stock, very gradually. Re-heat, and season to taste. The potatoes should be weighed after peeling. The soup will be much nicer if a potato masher or coarse sieve is used, the potatoes being passed through, and allowed to fall lightly into the tureen; then they only want careful mixing with the liquids. Puree de Haricots Verts.— Required : a pint of dried green hari- cots, five pints of stock (No. 1), one pint of milk, two ounces of butter, two ounces of corn-flour, a bunch of herbs, enough mixed vegetables when sliced to fill a teacup, seasoning to taste. Cost, about Is. Soak the beans for twenty-four hours, put them on to boil in the stock, sweat the herbs and vegetables in the butter, add to the rest, and boil for several hours; then sieve the puree, put it back in the pan with the milk and arrowroot, previously boiled to- gether, season to taste, and serve with croutons. If the water used for soaking the beans be first boiled and left until cold, they will be improved, or a pinch of bicarbonate of soda may be boiled with them. Vegetable stock or water may bo used for this, and a handful of spinach will improve both colour and flavour. Puree de Legumes d la Chicago.—Required : one pint each of tomato pulp'(fresh or canned), stock (No. 1 or 2), anil milk, and half a pint of cream, one small cucumber, one onion, salt and pepper, a small vege- table-marrow, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Cost, about Is. 9d. Peel tho cucumber and marrow, add the stock, onion, and tomatoes, and boil to a pulp; pass through a sieve, and return it to the pan ; add tho milk and cream, separately boiled, then season rather highly with salt and pepper, and .stir in the lemon-juico off the fire. Cut some small fancy shapes from thin slices of stale bread, fry them a delicato brown, and add to tho puree. This is un American recipe.