478 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, suetr separately ; then mix them with four ounces of tinely-preparcd bread- crumbs aud put them into a basin with a seasoning of thyme, marjoram, and powdered mace, and some pepper and salt. Moisten with the yolk of a raw egg. Fill skins in the ordinary way, then fry the-.sausages until lightly browned; leave* them to drain until cold, then cook them in stock or gravy for at least an hour; they must simmer only. Recipes for sausages with suet in, of which the above is an average specimen, often direct that they be fried in the usual way. We strongly dissuade anyone from making trial of any dish of which beef suet forms a part cooked by any quick process; it is most indigestible and likely to cause suffering. On this point more is said under Suet Puddings. Cooked as above, the sausages are very good, and a change from the ordinary kind. Another wai/.—Drop the sausages into boiling stock or water, and give them an hour’s cooking; let them get quite cold, then fry them, or brown them up in a Dutch oven, first basting with a little hot fat. These require no gravy or sauce. Oyster Sausages.—Required: three dozen small oysters, nine ounces of very fine bread-crumbs, the same weight of veal suet, shredded and then chopped small (use as little flour as possiblo while chopping), about half a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a quarter of a very small nutmeg, grated, the raw yolks of three eggs, and the white of one. Cost, about 4s., with oysters at Is. per dozen. The oysters must bo bearded, and then rinsed in their liquor first carefully strained, and cut into pea- sized pieces, then mixed with the above- named ingredients. The crumbs are to be soaked in the oyster liquor and squeezed dry. When thoroughly blended set the mass in a cold place for a few hours before using. It is then ready for making up into little sausages for garnishing; or sausages of the usual size and shape ; or into cakes or balls. They may be cooked by flour- ing slightly, then frying them in a pan with a little hot butter; or by coating with beaten egg and crumbs, and cook- ing in boiling fat; but if this mode be preferred they must first bo poached like quenelles, or the suet would not be cooked; and if for cook- ing in this way, it is necessary to add a few ounces of fish panada to the mixture. Pork and Potato Sausages. This is a French recipe. Required : one pound of pork, three pounds of potatoes, seasoning as below. Cost,about Is. The pork should be cooked until about two-thirds done, then chopped ; the potatoes must bo cooked in their skins, and beaten to a paste; plenty of salt and pepper should be added, with a little nutmeg and mace. The skins are then to be filled in the usual way, and left in a cloth for a day, then hung in a current of air for a few hours, previous to frying or broiling. For richer sausages, use a pound of meat to two pounds of potatoes. Any herbs can be used in addition to the other seasoning. In boiling the meat, use only enough water to cover it; this can then be reduced by quick boiling, and mixed in with the rest in filling the skins. PorkBlack Puddings. When black puddings, or blood puddings, are liked at all, they are generally liked very much. They are boiled in the intestines of the hog, and these must be very carefully prepared for them as follows: — Empty them, wash and scrape them in several waters, turning them inside out two or three times, and lay them in salt and water all night. The next day rinse them in fresh cold water, and they will bo ready for use. To make the puddings, throw a little salt into a quart of the warm blood, and stir until the blood is cold. Mix with it a quart of whole gloats which have been soaked in cold water all night, add the grated crumb of a quartern loaf soaked in two