UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 198 with a little sauco on. Cover with more farce, and cook as above. This wants careful turning out, and a white sauco goes best with it. White quen- elles should be used for garnishing, or little heaps of cooked macaroni. Note. —In lining such a mould as the foregoing, it makes the task much easier to use a spoon, dipping it often in boiling water. This prevents it sticking to the farce, as it does when used dry. Variations of the turbans may bo made by using any nice fish forcemeat [see Forcemeats), with a good ragout of another sort for the centre, always covering the ragout with more forcemeat on the top. Turbot.— This is an excellent fish, the most highly esteemed of all the flat fish. Its flesh is very white, rich, and gelatinous. The parts most relished by epicures are tho Fio. 06.—Turbot. thick portion of the fins, and tho skin. In selecting turbot, a moderate sized fish is to he preferred to a large one. The flesh should bo firm, and tho whito side creamy', not bluo. In preparing a turbot for cooking, it must be well cleansed, by rubbing tho outside with a little salt, and washing in several lots of water, dried Carefully insido and out, then rubbed with a cut lemon on the white side. Tho fins are not to bo removed. Any tinsightly' spots on tho white sido will generally yield to a mixture of salt and lemon juice, with which they should bo rubbed. The price varies; it is often as high as Is. Gd. per pound, but may bo had occasionally under Is. ; but it is never a cheap fish. Turbot will keep for a day or two in cold weather. Turbot a, la Froventjale.— For this, any' other firm white fish may be used, or mixed with turbot. Tako all skin and bone from some cooked fish, and flake it. Grease a dish, and put enough chives, parsley, and sbalots, all chopped, to cover the bottom. Season with salt, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg, a little pepper and cay'enne; then pour over enough salad oil to moisten these ingredients. Then spread the fish on the top in a layer of an inch or more; it may bo moistened with a little sauco or milk. Then put more seasoning on the top, with more oil, or bits of butter. Bake for a quarter of an hour or so, uncovered tho latter part of tho time, but closely covered at the first. Serve very hot. This method is for a small amount of fish. If there is more than enough for a single layer, put some of the seasoning in the centre, between the layers of fish, and bake longer. This looks nicer if some raspings are dredged over before serving, or tiny croutons (see Garnishes) may be put in a pattern on the topi. To serve with this, Potato Cakes or many dishes of Macaroni are suit- able ; the same may be said of liiCE. (See Index.) Turbot, Baked.—This is a very good way of cooking a turbot. If a small one, follow the directions given for Baked Sole, or Sole au Gratis ; tho latter is particularly recommended. For a large fish, after washing and drying, brush it over, white skin up, with butter, and cook it slowly' in a baking tin well buttered. Cover with buttered paper, and baste often ; mix a little lemon juico and white wine, and add to the liquor in the tin. When done, drain thoroughly, and servo with any' sauce : Melted Butter, Anchovy, Shrimp, Lobster, Dutch,