UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. o36 slice of toast, and put some sauce over ; Tomato is as good as any. Sheep’s Brains, Stewed.— Required: some brains, bacon, stock, and seasoning as under. Cost, about the same as above. Wash, skin, and clear the brains of fibres, after they have soaked in salt and water. Put them in boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of white vinegar. Boil for twenty minutes, then drop them in cold water. Dry them well. Put each on a slice of bacon, lay them flat in a stewpan, cover with any plain stock, add a bit of onion and lemon pee), and simmer for as long as will cook the bacon. Thicken the liquor, add seasoning and a little lemon juice, and pour it over the whole on a hot dish. Garnish with toast or fried bread. Four or six brains make a nice dish. Sheep’s Harslet, Minced.— Take the liver, heart, and lights of a sheep, and wash them well in several waters. Boil them gently till tender in salted water, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Mince them finely, Season with pepper and salt, and add a seasoning of powdered herbs, if liked. Moisten the mince with stock, thicken witli brown thickening, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot. Serve on a hot dish, and send potatoes and boiled carrots to table with it. A few pickles may be served with it, if desired. Cost variable; but this is a cheap dish, popular in some parts of the country. The liquor is useful for soup. (See Remarks under Veal Pluck.) The recipe there given may also be followed. Harslet is the same thing as pluck, but the pluck of a sheep is generally called harslet. Sheep’s Head.—Sheep's hend has so little meat belonging to it, either inside or out, that it seems to many persons as though it wero scarcely worth the trouble it gives. Nevertheless, it constitutes good nourishing food at a moderate ex- pense, and when it is liked at all it is very much liked. Several recipes are here given for preparing it. It is one of the ancient national dishes of Scotland, and to dwellers north of tho Tweed is almost always welcome, not only on account of its intrinsic ex- cellence, but also because of the asso- ciations which belong to it. Tho village of Duddingston, near Edin- burgh, was long celebrated for this dish. A sheep’s head may be stewed with or without the trotters and the pluck; nourishing and wholesome broth may bo made from it; it may bo hashed, curried, or served as a ragout, or it may be made into a pie. When sauces are required for it, those usually served with cow-heel or boiled mutton are tho best adapted for it. Some prefer tho head of a ram to that of a wether, though it needs longer boiling. The liquor is often thickened with coarse oatmeal, and a nourishing dish is the result. Sheep’s heads may be parboiled, then finished off by baking or roasting. They want frequent basting, and are nicer if stuffed. (See recipe below.) Sheep’s Head, Boiled.— Required^ : two ounces of rice,, two turnips, two carrots, half a head of celery, a medium-sized onion, a bunch of herbs, seasoning and thickening, and a sheep’s head. Cost, about Is. 2d. Divide the head, take the brains out, and put them in cold water with a pinch of salt. Cut away all the little bones from the nose ; take away any bits of hair; clean the sockets of the eyes with the finger dipped in salt; then wash it thoroughly. Put the halves together, and tie them ; lay in a pot with the tongue ; cover with hot water, bring to the boil, and remove the scum, adding a pinch of salt now and then. Prepare and slice the vege- tables; put them on with the rice, washed, herbs, and some peppercorns, and boil gently. Put the brains in in time to make sauce with lliem and some of the pot liquor. Slash the