GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Ill Mix the whole well together, and serve with fish or meat. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (or Butter).—Required: butter, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, in the following proportions : two ounces of butter, two teaspoonfuls of parsley, half a teaspoonful of lemon- juice, a pinch of salt, and a suspicion of cayenne. The butter, parsley, and seasoning should he worked well together with a spoon in a basin, and the lemon- juice (or white vinegar) added gradually. Thus "made, it can be served with steaks, kidneys, &c., and with various kinds of fish, but sometimes a grate of nutmeg is added; and if for serving with eels or salmon, a morsel of finely-chopped onion, first scalded and dried, may be put in, hut it must be so fine as to be almost lost in the sauce. Whether laid on the dish or placed on the meat or fish with which it is served, it should never be added until the dish is ready for table. Mayonnaise Sauce. — Re- quired : the yolks of two raw eggs, three gills of olive oil, a good pinch of salt, and a dust of white pepper, a dessertspoonful each of tarragon and white wine vinegar, half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, half a teaspoonful of French mustard, and a saltspoonful of English mustard, in the dry state. Add cayenne to taste. Put the yolk3 of the eggs in a basin; add all the dry condiments, and stir in the oil, drop by drop, with a wooden spoon; when quite thick, add the vinegar and lemon-juice drop by drop, and set in a cool place. This 3auce has innumerable uses, and various additions are made accord- ing to the dish for which it is required: such will be detailed under their respective headings; and when “ thick mayonnaise” is referred to in any recipe, the foregoing is the kind of sauce intended to be used, as it forms the basis of the sauce for all tho fish, flesh, fowl, &c., which can be desig- nated mayonnaise. Mayonnaise Sauce (Hints on).—Have a cold basin in a cold place, and if very warm weather, set it on. ice while mixing. Use good oil, and add it literally drop by drop, especially at starting; this is easily done by holding the forefinger of the left hand over the neck of the bottle, leaving room for the sauce to just run out in drops. Stir continuously ; it is no use to pour in some oil, and then stir; the two processes must go on simultaneously. After the sauce is thick, and the oil all worked in, do not thin it by adding a lot of common vinegar; use the best, getting a maximum of strength with a minimum of fluidity; the best for tho purpose is “ white wine,” and a few drops of chilli vinegar may take the place of the dry cayenne. If these rules are followed, the, sauce may be made ns thick as creamed butter at any time of the year. If it has to stand long before using, and the weather is very hot, two tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic to three gills of sauce will prevent it running; and this ad- dition should be made when the may- onnaise is used from a bag and pipe for garnishing pur-poses. In some cases, even more aspic will be needed than given above; a tablespoonful to the gill may be wanted, if the dish has to stand a while after it is ornamented. Mint Sauce.—Take some fresh young mint leaves, wash them, and dry them in a clean cloth; do not squeeze them, or tho flavour is lost; chop them as finely as possible, and add two tablespoonfuls of castor or finely- sifted loaf sugar to three tablespoon- fuls of the mint. Mix them together in the tureen, then add tho vinegnr, about five tablespoonfuls, and stir well; it should be pulpy, and made, if possible, some hours before using. The common faults of mint sauce are excess of vinegar, deficiency of sugar, and coarsely-chopped mint. A tureen of vinegar, with a dash of sugar, and a few pieces of mint floating on the