550 Universal cookery book. together. Any of the fancy-shaped macaroni, such as “ celery cut,” and also some of the varieties of the same paste, shaped as described under Home-made Macaroni, serve the same purpose. Macaroni, Brown.—This pre- paration of macaroni may he very plain or rich as required. To serve with a joint or family stew, take as much macaroni as is wanted, parboil it in water, then drain it and pour over it as much boiling stock as will cover it. Nos. 1 or 2 answer for this. Lot the macaroni cook gently until it is fully swollen but not broken; tho stock is to be absorbed. Then servo as it is in a vegetable dish, or sprinkle the surface with raspings. For a better dish, suitable for serving with braised beef or a dish of fillets, or a steak, proceed as above, but use stock No. 4. For serving with game, stock No. 5 is bettor, though No. 4 will do. For very superior dishes, give the macaroni only a few minutes’ cooking in the water, and drain it very thoroughly; it is better to let it cool before putting the stock to it; No. 16 or 17 should be used, or if a plainer one has to be substituted, make up the richness by the addition of glaze and extract of meat. Macaroni cooked as described will furnish a most welcome change for serving with animal food in the place of vegetables, or with a suitable garnish as a separate course. A reference 'to the chapters on Vegetables, both plain and “ dressed,” will also show that by judicious combination many tasty dishes of macaroni and vegetables nre possible. Wo use the term ju- dicious, mainly with regard to harmony of flavour. Such dishes as celery or onions braised in brown stock, fried or braised mushrooms, or purees into which brown gravy or sauce had entered, would be very satisfactory: relief from an all-prevailing brownness could be given by some bright garnish, as tomatoes, eggs, spinach balls, and r* other adjuncts. So much attention is now given to dishes that will replace the joint, and to tho dainty service of vegetables, that those who may make trial of any such combinations as are here suggested will have the satisfaction of knowing that they arc following the tide of fashion, as well as furnishing their tables with digestible and delicious dishes. Note.—Any gravy from a joint may be advantageously added to ihe maca- roni. By the same rule, a small quantity of good game stock, or fumet of game, is an acceptable adjunct. In tho latter case, any fruit jolly, or a glass of wine—in fact, any of the usual game seasonings—are quite admissible, and a great improvement. Macaroni and Cheese.—This is a plain recipe, and these proportions are for a good-sized dish, liequired : a pint and a half of milk, twelvo ounces of macaroni, eight ounces of cheese, three ounces of butter or very nicely clarified fat, an ounce and a half of fine flour, a little salt and pepper, a hint of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful or more of made mustard. Cost, about Is. 2d. Boil tho macaroni in water; pipe macaroni answers : it should be cut up when done into convenient pieces, or may be broken up at starting. Make a sauce by boiling the flour, milk, and butter together. Stir in the grated cheese, and let it dissolve; then add the macaroni. Season, and when well mixed pour into a-deep baking dish, or a cake tin, sprinkle with a little more cheese and brown it up before the fire or in the oven. If a tin, pin a clean napkin round, and serve at once. If a cheese too soft to grate be used for this, it should bo dissolved in a little of tho milk before mixing it in tho sauce; but by following the above recipe, cheese which is too hard for table may be used. It is more digestible without tho top layer of grated cheese, and raspings can lake its place. For a more nourishing dish.