618 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. butter, flour, and seasoning. Cost, about 5d. Take the heart from a medium-sized cabbage ; boil it in two waters until it is three parts done; then shred it, and lay in a stewpan; chop up a pickled onion or two, also a gherkin, and a few capers ; add them, with a gill of vinegar, some from the pickles, the rest plain ; cook for twenty minutes or so, then thicken with browned flour, give a few minutes’ more boiling, add an ounce of butter, and salt and black pepper to taste, and dish at once. Many persons always add vinegar to cabbage; this will commend itself to such, as the cooking in the vinegar reduces the sharpness, and gives a piquant, but not unpleasantly acid, flavour; but it may be improved for some, by using half vinegar and half stock. Chutney may be added to increase the zest, and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup or conserve is a decided improvement. Cabbage, with Tomato Pur6e.—Boil the cabbage as above ; put it in a stewpan with enough Tomato Pur£e to cover it; see the recipe later on. Stir and simmer until the cabbage is tender, then serve hot; it goes with almost any meat; or, with the addition of eggs, forms a good maigre diBh. Capers.—These are obtained from a plant grown in South Europe; our supplies are mostly from France and Italy; they vary in kind and price, and the French Nonpareils are con- sidered the best, and are the most expensive. Capers are mainly associ- ated with boiled mutton in the form of sauce; but they are extremely nice with many vegetable concoctions, as well us savoury preparations of rice or other grain. Capers must be kept well covered with their vinegar, and the bottle corked tightly. For the various salads and savoury dishes into which capers enter, reference must be made to those chapters (see also Gar- nishes). Cost, from 4d. per small bottle; the larger bottles are relatively much cheaper. Cardoon. — This is a handsome plant that has long been employed in French cookery; it is cultivated in England, but is very costly ; the stalks of the inner leaves are the parts eaten, the prickles being removed by means of flannel. Cost, very uncertain. Cardoons are to be got in the winter. It has been often said that cardoons are valued more on account of their high price than their flavour ; and that many cheaper vegetables are better. Cardoons may be got in tins, but they are expensive. Cardoons, Boiled.—Choose a few heads of sound white cardoons. Cut them into pieces from four to six inches long, remove the prickles, and blanch them in boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Scrape off the skin, and tie them in bundles. Cover them with nicely-flavoured white stock, and boil till tender. Drain them, and serve on toast, with plenty of good Melted Butter, or any rich white sauce. Five or six heads suffice for a dish. Cardoons, Fried.—Proceed as above, and when the cardoons are tender, melt a little butter in a pan, drain the cardoons, dredge a little flour over, and fry them till they are nicely browned. Send sauce as above to table. Cardoons, Stewed. — Prepare the cardoons as above. Then put them into a stewpan, and cover with a little good gravy, and stew very gently till tender. When sufficiently cooked, thicken the gravy with roux, season with cayenne and salt, and add a glass of sherry. Put the cardoons on a dish, and pour the gravy over them. The cost of all these dishes is very variable. Carrot.—This vegetable is very wholesome, and much liked, generally speaking; but not nearly enough is made of it as a dressed vegetable of