178 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Salmon are never found in warm latitudes. They are distributed over the North of Europe and Asia, and are abundant, and even comparatively cheap, in some parts of North America. The price is kept up, however, by the facility with which the fish is packed in ice, and sent long distances by rail. The flesh of the salmon is rich and delicious in flavour; few people have ever tasted it in perfection, that is, before it has “ lost a tide.” There is then, between the flakes, a white, creamy substance, very highly es- teemed ; in a day or two this disap- pears, and the flesh w less delicate in flavour, though said by some to become more digestible. Many, how- ever, hold the opposite opinion, and assert that the oily taste of fish that has been caught a couple of days, is really due to the fact that decomposi- tion has set in, and that it is less likely to agree than when quite fresh. Few of us, unfortunately, can test this point, but it is well to remember that salmon is always more or less rich, and very satisfying, and should be eaten in moderation. In addition to the following, recipes for salmon will be found in other chapters. (See Index.) The price of salmon is very uncer- tain ; when at its cheapest, it is seldom below lOd. or Is. ; and early in the season, it is often 3s. or more per pound. Salmon, Soiled.—For a plainly boiled dish allow five ounces of salt to the gallon of water; let it boil, skim well, and prepare the fish by scaling and cleaning it; put it in the water, and at once reduce the temperature by drawing the pan aside; cook evenly and slowly until done. A thick piece may take as much as twenty minutes for each pound ; a thin piece may be done in little more than half the time : so long as it sticks to the bone, or looks raw in the part next the bone, it is not ready to dish; but as soon as the same appearance of opaque, cooked flesh throughout is perceptible, it should bo taken up; it loses flavour otherwise. The middle, and thick end of the tail arc the parts usually chosen from a large fish; or the head and shoulders, which is cheaper ; some prefer the tail end, it is sold at less per pound than the middle cuts. A small fish is often boiled whole; then great care is needed, or the tail will break before the middle is done. Dish the fish on a napkin as shown in the engraving, and garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve any suitable sauce, anchovy, shrimp, cucumber, &c.,with it, and hand round a dish of dressed cucumber. To carve the fish, cut through from a to n ; make cross cuts (as shown) from cto d; the former cut takes the thick, and the latter, the thin part; a portion of each should be given to each person. In the case of a very largo fish, it is also necessary to make one or more cuts, parallel with a and b. Salmon, Boiled in Court Bouillon.—Ace Corner Bouillon, and follow the recipe in making it, using a gill only of wino (no vinegar) to a quart of water. Then cook tho fish as above directed. Salmon thus pre- pared is generally coated with sauce, and served on a Pukee of Cccumbf.ii ; or a Tomato Pukee may be put under it, and a good tomato sauce poured over: one made by cooking ripe tomatoes in fish stock and light wino to cover, then sieving, and boiling up with a rather high seasoning and a little glaze, is suitable. It should be coloured with carmine, and boiled until well reduced. This makes a very excellent dish. Crimped