UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 202 Turbot, Ragout of.—Required: one pound of raw turbot, half a glass of light wine, one egg, half a lemon, two ounces of butter, salt, cayenne, half an ounce of flour, &c., as below. Butter a dish (to send to table) and coat it with grated Parmesan cheese. Cut the fish into dice, cook it in the dis- solved butter and juice of the lemon for twenty minutes, or thereabouts ; then add the flour, mixed with the wine; boil up, take from the fire, and beat in the egg, with seasoning to taste, and a couple of spoonfuls of melted butter or white sauce; pour into the dish, and sprinkle more grated cheese over, with a few bread crumbs; an ounce or more of butter, oiled, should be poured over. Set this in a tin of hot water for ten minutos, in a mo- derate oven, then brown the surface delicately, just before serving. Another way.—Instead of grated cheese, use, for lining the dish some cooked pipe macaroni cut into short pieces, half an inch or less ; fill up as above, and cover the top with more macaroni, cut in the same way. Brush over with oiled butter, and after first heating through in the oven, sprinkle fried crumbs over, and serve. Turbot Ragout, Iced, a la WallllCOtte. — First free a ripe tomato from pips, cut it up, and add to it a teaspoonful of French capers, cut up, a teaspoonful of smoked salmon in thin shreds, three tablespoonfuls of cooked turbot, the white part only, in shreds or dice, a little cayenne vinegar and tarragon vinegar, and a little pale Fia. 59.—Shell Moulds. aspic. Stir over ice until just beyond the liquid point, but not on the point of setting ; then take some small shell moulds, either of the shapes shown in Fig. 59, and fill them, taking care to level the tops. Set them in an ice cave to cool, then turn out. Dish them on a bed of salad; garnish with smoked salmon and shreds of tomato, and some pink aspic. This is a dainty dish for al fresco fare, or a ball supper ; any fish, sole or whiting preferably, may be used in the same way, and chopped lax does as well as ordinary smoked salmon. Weaver.—The great weaver is about a foot in length; is armed with sharp spines, which are usually cut Fig. 60.—Weaver. off before the fish comes into market. It is a sort of marine perch, very good eating. The lesser weaver is the more common on our coasts, and having the faculty of striking with its sharp spines, is often called the “ sting fish.” Whelks.—The whelks should bo procured alive, washed in fresh water, and put in salt and water to boil; the small ones, which are eaten like periwinkles, take from forty to fifty minutes; and large ones, with shells as large as an egg, need an hour and a half; they are sometimes fried after boiling, but are indigestible at tho best, and the majority will do well to avoid them altogether, or use thorn for stock for fish soups only. Whitebait.—This favourite fish belongs especially to London; it is found in the Thames as far as Black- wall. The difference of opinion as to its parentage is great; many suppose