UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 622 procure, the most should he made of cauliflower leaves, or any other which are eatable, though habitually wasted. Cauliflower au Gratin.—Re- quired : a cauliflower, clarified fat, cheese, seasoning, and bread-crumbs. Cost, about 6d. This, as generally prepared, is more or less expensive. The recipe below is very tasty and cheap. After pre- paring- the cauliflower in the manner detailed in the next chapter, for dishes of the samo title, divide the flower into sprigs, and dry them in a cloth; dip each sprig into a little clarified fat, melted (it need not be very hot), and build up the vegetable into its original form in a baking dish. Pour a little more fat over, and cover thickly with any sort of cheese, grated ; the milder the cheese, the more it must he seasoned; a hint of nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste are sufficient; just a pinch of celery salt is an improve- ment. Cover with a layer of bread- crumbs, a quarter of an inch thick; these must he previously browned in the oven. Put a little more fat over the crumbs, and bake to a good rich brown, then serve at once. Another dish, equally good, is mado by using bacon fat instead of dripping, and, if liked, coat with a thin layer of crumbs, then the cheese can be added to some plain white sauce, which may be served apart, not poured over. When the dish comes from the oven, just a sprinkling of cheese may be advantageously shaken over it, and lightly browned. Cauliflower, Various Dishes of.—See next chapter, also Sours, Salads, and Pickles. Cauliflower is also introduced into many dishes of mixed vegetables in the present chapter. When served as a separate course, a boiled cauliflower is very nice with Eoo, Tomato, Rice, and many other sauces. Celeriac.—This resembles celery in flavour; it may be cooked in any of the wavs given for celery. The root is more rounded than ordinary celery, for which reason it is called turnip-rooted celery. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. For garnishing purposes, this is use- ful, when strips or any fancy shapes are required, as a good number can be cut from one root. Celeriac is not universally known and cultivated in England, and in many towns of con- siderable size it is not purchasable. Celery.—This is much eaten raw, and is a favourite accompaniment of bread and cheese. There are many ways in which it can bo cooked, and it is then far more easily digested; indeed, in the cooked state it is highly recommended, particularly to sufferers from rheumatism and allied disorders. Celery is better when it has been touched by the frost. The seed answers for flavouring purposes when the vegetable is not to bo had. Cost, about 2d. to 4d. per head. In our recipes “ a head of celery ” means the entire head, or stick, as it is sometimes called. By “a few sticks or stalks” we mean the separate stalks of a head. The outer stalks, however dark and tough, will answer for flavouring soups and stews of the brown class. Celery may be preserved for some time, if gathered on a dry day, before it has been touched by frost. The leaves and roots are to be cut off, it is then to be laid in a cool, airy place until partially dried, then taken to a cool cellar, where it will be quite secure from frost, and packed up with sand in alternate layers, sand forming the bottom and top layers, thicker than those put between the celery. For other recipes, see Index. Celery, Blanched. — For all dishes of celery that are wanted very white, put the inner portion only into cold water to cover, bring it to the boil, give it a rinse in clean cold water, and use as required. By this method, some of the flavour is sacrificed to appearance. Celery, Boiled.—When celery is put to boil into a large quantity of