UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 458 Snipes, Roasted.—Pluck the birds very carefully so as not to tear the tender skin, and singe and truss without drawing them (see Snipes, to Truss). Put them to a clear fire, and baste frequently with butter or drip- ping. When they have been down five minutes, put under them slices of the crumb of bread toasted and buttered on both sides. This toast is intended to catch the droppings of the trail, and is considered by epicures a greater delicacy than the bird itself. A slice ■Should be allowed for each snipe. After the toast is put under the birds, a dish should be held under them when they are basted. When they are done enough, flour and brown them. Take them up, dish them with a slice of toast under each, and serve without any sauce in the dish with them. If liked, a slice of lemon may accompany the birds, or a little plain melted butter may be sent to table in a tureen. Snipes should bo served very hot, or they will be comparatively worthless. They should not be over- roasted. The thigh is considered the best part. Time, about twenty to twenty-five minutes; or twelve to eighteen minutes if liked much under- done. The snipes are all the better if burded. Snipes, Roasted (another way). —Pluck, singe, and draw the snipes, remove the gizzards, and carofully pre- servo the trails. Truss the birds, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie those on securely with twine. Put thorn down before a clear fire. Take a slice of the crumb of bread for each bird, and .toast and butter it on both sides. Chop the trail, spread it on the toast, and put the slices in a brisk oven. Take the birds up, and dish them on the slices of toast in a hot dish. Snipes, Superlative. — Re- quired : snipe, forcemeat, puree, sauce, and a garnish as below. Cost, from 6s. or 7s. upwards. Partly roast two or three birds ; take them down, and split them down the back. Have some game forcemeat ready—liver forcemeat is best for this; make a ring of it on a dish; and spread the snipe on the. cut sides with some of the same forcemeat. Lay them in the ring, and make them high in the centre. Spread a game puree over the top, and finish the cooking in a hot oven. The dish should be covered. Then pour away any fat from the forcemeat, and dredge fried crumbs over the top; garnish with croutons, and mushrooms or truffles: serve a truffle puree separately, or a good truffle sauce. Snipes, to Truss.—Follow the directions given for Woodcock ; or truss them by cutting the first joints of the wings off. and pressing the legs to the body, then passing the bill of the bird through the legs and body. This method has almost supplanted the other one referred to, as it facilitates the carving. Teal.—The flesh of this beautiful and delicate little waterfowl is highly prized. It is thought to he better in flavour in frosty weather, though it is to be had from September to February. It can be cooked like wild duck, though less time will be required. Cost, about Is. 6d., but is uncertain. Teal, Filleted.—This is a nice dish. The birds are half roasted, then taken down, cut into fillets from the breasts and legs, and stewed for ten minutes in brown gravy or sauce, well- flavoured with port or claret, and a little lemon or orango juice. With this some mushroom sauce should also be sent to table. The gravy should be poured over the birds. Make stock of the rest not used for the dish. If for an entree, garnish with or-ange salad and watercress, or with glazed mush- rooms and croutons. The Allots should be in a pyramid. For a more economical dish, joint the birds when half done, having boned them to commence with, then cut the joints into even sizes. Cost, for a dish of three birds, about 6s. to 7s. on an average.