FORCEMEATS. 489 pound of bread-crumbs, tho white part of some leeks, enough to fill a quarter- pint measure after chopping, two eggs, an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half as much thyme and sweet marjoram, mixed, and a littlo grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Cost, tid. to 8d. Mix the crumbs, herbs, seasoning, and leeks. Rub the butter in, then add tho eggs beaten first. Amal- gamate the whole very thoroughly, and use in pies, stews, soups, &c. For pies, add a little milk to make it moist enough to spread; for stews, soups, &c., mould it into small balls, and boil for an hour or so. A much more delicate flavour can be had by scalding or parboiling the leeks ; and an ounce or two of boiled rice, with less bread in proportion, is a further improvement. Liver Forcemeat (or Mock Foie Gras).—Required : six ounces of calf’s liver, three ounces of lean veal, four ounces of fat bacon, an ounce of butter, a bunch of herbs, i.e. bay leaf, thyme, parsley, and basil, a small onion, a tablespoonful of . chopped truffle, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about Is., exclusive of truffles. Chop the onion, fry it in the butter, add the liver, cut up, and the herbs; fry for a few minutes, then take from the tire, mix in the bacon and veal (these should be first scraped to pulp), then rub through a sieve; add a little salt and pepper, tho truffle, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Cover if not wanted at once. Another nay.—For this, fry the bacon with the liver; add tho veal as above, then rub through a wiro sieve, and instead of using the bunch of herbs (which are to be removed) add the -■lire herbs in powder; the parsley should be fresh, and about a teaspoon - fui used; tin- rest may tie dried, and about half a teaspoonful of the whole will suffice. For some dishes, the truffles may be advantageously in- creased. This is a very savoury and excellent forcemeat. Note.—By pounding this while warrp in a mortar, it is much more easily sieved. Rabbit, instead of veal, may always bo used when requirod for game dishes, such as stuffing birds, or in pies, &c. Lobster Forcemeat, for Fish. —This is a useful preparation ; made as described it can be used for stuffing fish ; or for making into balls for fish stews or soups. Required: the flesh of a medium-sizod lobstor, two ounces of butter, two raw eggs, one egg boiled hard, about a gill and a half of bread-crumbs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. or 8d., ex- clusive of lobster. Tinned fish may be used for it. Cut the lobster up small; add tho bread, and the butter dissolved by gentle heat; mix in the hard egg, minced; add salt and cayenne, a dust of black pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a teaspoon- ful of anchovy essence. Bind with the raw eggs, and use as required. This is nicer if the yolk of the hard egg be sieved, and the white cut up as usual ; and if for balls, for soups or stews, the addition of a tablespoonful of panada makes it easier to cook ; it can be poached like quenelles, or fried brown. Lobster Forcemeat, Plain. —Requiied: a pint of bread-crumbs, two or three ounces of butter, or less butter and a little milk, an egg, a tablespoonful of lobster essence, salt, pepper, and cayenne, a few drops of anchovy essence, and enough fish stock to make a rather moist paste. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. This is very good for giving flavour at small cost; and useful for stuffing large, rather coarse, or insipid fish. Meat, Forcemeat for (very plain).—Required: four ounces of bread-crumbs, an ounce of dripping, a grate or two of nutmeg and lemon peel, a saltspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, and a tablespoouful of milk, herbs as below. Cost, 3d. or Id. Put the crumbs in a bowl, rub the dripping in with tho fingers until fino;