BEEF. 303 should be put in at first. Then season and thicken, put in a little sauce, and boil up; the vegetables can be sieved, or left behind, just as preferred. If the tail be Homed and fried a little with an onion bofore stewing, it will be much better. Another way.—Fry tho tail, and 11 cook it in stock No. 4; then, when done, thicken the gravy, and garnish the dish with vegetables cut in dice and boiled separately. Or serve a puree of onions, mushrooms, celery, or tomatoes with it. It is desirable that the thick part of the tail be cut through in the contrary dhection ; otherwise, the thin pieces will be done too much by the time that is ready. Ribs, Roasted. — The best piece to roast is the fore-rib, and it should be hung for two or three days before being cooked. The ends of the ribs should be sawn off, the outside fat fastened with skewers, and the strong Fio. 74.—Kies or Beer. sinew and chine bones removed. The joint should first be placed near the fire, and drawn further back until done. Haste'freely with clarified drip- ping at first, as there will not bo suffi- cient fat when first put down ; dredge with flour a quarter of an hour bofore taking it up. Care must bo taken not to allow it to bum, as it is very easily spoiled. Serve with horse-radish sauce. Probable cost, lUd. to Is. per pound. Time, about fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over. To carve ribs of beef, a sharp knife is necessary, and if it is run along between the meat and the bones, tho carving will bo more cleanly and quickly done. The slices should be thin, and out from a to b as shown in tho illustration. Unless this is well carved, it is a wasteful joint, and it is more economical to cut the end off to a greater extent than is usually done, or it becomes dry and overdone by the time the thick part is cooked. This can be boiled fresh, or may be salted separately, or with another lean piece of meat, and if the two are cooked and eaten together a very good dish for breakfast may be had at little cost and trouble. If, however, the butcher is requested, he will cut the rib short | before sending it home, but a trifle | more per pound must be paid for it if tho thin end is not taken. [See dotted line in the illustra- tion. It indicates the portion which may advantageously be removed.) Rolla Cheese.—Pequired: two pounds of tripe, the same weight of beef skirt, seasoning and stock, vegetables to flavour. Cost, about Us. 9d. The tripe must bo prepared in the usual way, then cut into pieces about three inches square, and laid on a board, the rough ^ side of tho meat upwards; sea- son with salt and pepper, first mixing them, allowing a lon- spoonful of salt and half as much popper to each pound of meat. Then out tho skirt into pieces rather smaller, take the skin off, lay a piece on each piece of tripe, season it, and roll up; tie the rolls with twine, and drop them into hot stock, with a bit of fresh vegetable to flavour. Boil gently until quite tender, then put file rolls on a board, and press them until cold. Serve with any sharp sauce, and keep tho rolls in a dish