598 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. nicely cooked, they want hut little trimming; only the part that may have run needs removal. Chopped parsley may be sprinkled over them, if liked. Eggs, Preserved.—The first tiling of importance is the freshness of the eggs ; if this cannot be guaran- teed, the process will result in loss and disappointment. Many ways are re- commended ; a solution of gum arabic is said to answer well. The eggs should he smeared with it, and covered when dry with bran or sawdust. They may he preserved by putting them in a net, say a dozen at a time, and plunging into boiling water, in which leave them for not more than twenty seconds. They are then packed as above. The yolks will be fairly soft, and the whites only slightly coagulated. For long keeping, the lime treatment is by many considered the best. A solution is made, in the proportion of three pounds of quick- lime, half a pound of salt, and one ounce of cream of tartar to a gallon and a half of boiling water. This is poured over the eggs when quite cold. Salt, as in all cases of food preserva- tion, is of use here. Take a dry box or barrel, cover the bottom with dry salt, and lay in as many eggs as it will take without their touching each other. Put in salt in fine powder, enough to fill all the spaces between the eggs, then add a complete layer of salt. Go on thus until full, and let the top layer be salt an inch or two in thickness. Press it down firmly, and cover with a thick cloth and a tight-fitting lid. The place of storage must be cool and dry. A plan recom- mended is to smear each egg with salad oil, and wrap up separately in tissue paper; the ends are to be twisted and threaded with worsted, then strung up in a dry, well-venti- lated place. Pure lard may be used if free from salt, and if packed in saw- dust in a tin, soldered, the eggs are said to be good for any length of time. Eggs, Pyramid of.—Required: half a pint of melted butter or white sauce, which can be of any desired richness; two ounces of grated cheese, a flavouring of nutmeg, lemon rind, salt, and pepper, and eggs as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. To the sauce as above beat in the yolks of three eggs off the fire, and after they are well amalgamated with the sauce stir in a teaspoonful of lemon j uice; have ready four hard-boiled eggs, in slices; pile these pyramid fashion on a dish, and pour the sauce over; then sprinkle some pale raspings over the surface and dredge with grated cheese; this should be Par- mesan, but that for the sauce may be half English. Put it in the oven to brown, then dot it about with the whites of two eggs that have been beaten to a froth with a pinch of cayenne and nutmeg; do this so that the brown shows between; put it back for the whites to become tinged with brown ; choose a cool part of the oven for this. Put a few sprigs of parsley about the dish, and serve at once. This is a very good savoury. The same mixture may be prepared in a number of little cases, if liked, and served one to each person. Or it can be put into scallop-shells, and served as “ scalloped eggs.” Eggs, Savoury. — (See Egos, Stuffed.) Eggs, Scrambled. — Mumbled, jumbled, and rumbled are other names given to similar preparations of eggs. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and break the eggs in us for frying; as soon as the whites are on the point of setting, stir the mass together with a spoon, and when done, they will look streaky. If dished too soon, they will rim; if left too long, they get tough. Do not let them get dark on the bottoms; great heat is not required. The mass should just set, then be served at once. Eggs, Steamed.—(See the chap- ter on Invalid.Cook.ery.) Eggs, Stuffed.—These are to be' eaten cold. For a simple dish, take