127 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. portion only; put about a teacupful iu a saucepan, with half a glass of port and a few drops only of lemon- juice; as soon as hot, serve round a pudding of light batter, or any with which the rich colour of the sauce forms a contrast. (See Pudding a la Victoria.) A very good imitation of the fore- going may be made by the aid of the syrup from bottled damsons. It should be boiled up, with more sugar if required, and finished off as above directed. Sauce of Four Fruits.— Required : half an orange, half a lemon, a small teacupful of stoned raisins, quartered, the same measure of apples, first peeled, cored, and cut into dice, one pint of Melted Butter made thin, a glass of wine, sugar, and spice. First cut the rind of the orange and lemon into strips; boil them in a little water to draw out the flavour, add the water to the melted butter, put in the raisins and apples, then the orange and lemon, freed from skin and pips, and cut up like the apples, put in a little sugar, with grated ginger, and nutmeg or cinnamon to taste, and boil slowly ; the fruit should be tender, but not broken up. Last thing add the wine, and as much more sugar as may be required. This is an American sauce, and a very good one for many kinds of hot puddings. Another way.—Use pineapples in- stead of apples, and rum instead of wine; then the spice should be re- duced. Sovereign Sauce.—Take half a pint of jelly which has been clarified in the usual way, and coloured pink {»ee Jellies), and mix with it a quarter of a pint of good port : it must be clear : the dregs will not do for this sauce, it should be added when the jelly is coo), but before it begins to set. Put aside until cold, then at the moment of serving put in a small quantity of gold leaf. (See Jellies.) This is a suitable accompanir'f?* l-o various cold sweets. (See Sovereign Gateau, and other dishes in the Chapter on Sweets.) Tunis Sauce. — Required : a pound of good dates (if Tunis are not obtainable, use Tafilat), water, and a little lemon-juice. Cost of dates, 5d. to Sd. per lb. Cut the dates up small, put them with cold water to cover in a stew-pan, simmer them until quite soft, and then add the lemon-juice; take out the stones and serve hot or cold. This is a very delicious and whole- some sauce; sometimes grated cocoa- nut or ground almonds are put in, and wine is used to flavour; but perfectly plain, as above, we can recommend it. Vanilla Sauce (Plain).—Add essence of vanilla or vanilla sugar to some plain custard or melted butter; if the essence is used, about a tea- spoonful to each pint is required. Do not boil the sauce after adding the flavouring ; add it off the fire for hot sauce, and for cold ones let the sauce cool before putting it in : a saving of half the quantity will be thereby effected. Vanilla Sauce (Superlative). —Required: two eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of .brandy, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, half a pint of custard, flavoured with vanilla pod (see Custards), two ounces of castor sugar, and a grate of lemon-j uice. Melt the butter in an enamelled pan : it must not discolour; stir in the sugar, using a wooden spoon; when thick, take the pan from the fire, and add the yolks of the eggs (first beaten well) by degrees, beating for some minutes. Then add the custard, which should be warm, but not hot, very little at a timo; thorough mixing is very necessary, and it is important that the custard be carefully strained. When quite amalgamated, cover, and sot aside until cold, then stir in tho brandy, vanilla, and lemon-peel, a pinch only. No sugar must bo used in making the custurdj tho above