295 BEEF. Palate.—This can bo cooked iu various ways; it needs long cooking ; and when fried should be first parboiled. Heart. — This may ho roasted or baked, but is more digestible if first partly stewedi may also bo braised. Skirt.—This makes good gravy, or can bo cooked like steaks, used for puddings, Ac. It should be skinned. Tripe and Sweetbread are cooked iu various ways. The various parts of an ox are, however, subdivided somewhat dif- ferent! v. and called by various names, in different conuties, and this is somewhat bewildering to the purchaser. For instance, it is quite possible to meet with a butcher who makes no distinction between thick and thin flank and brisket, but classes them under one heading; while, as to the “ shoulder-of-mutton piece,” a writer asserts that the inquiry for that was met with the reply, “ that there are no shoulders of mutton iu cows! ” This, however, was ignorance of a rare kind wo should say. We would also add, that in the diagram wo can only indicate iho parts of the ox from which the joints are taken ; for, setting aside the fact that the methods for cutting up arc not uniform, it is not possible to show the exact shape of the several joints here. They are more clearly given, with directions for carving them, under their separate headings. See Cold Meat Cookery, Invalid Cookery, Entrees and Made Dishes, and Meat Pies and Pdddings, for other dishes from Beef proper to those headings. Aitchbone of Beef.—We advise that this be boiled; it is excellent boiled fresh, but recipes for salting will be found under Brisket, Rump, Ac., which answer equally well for this joint. If it be allowed to boil fast at first, no after-care can make it Pin. 73.—A itch bosk or Beep. tender. Vegetables (carrots, turnips, and parsnips) and suet dumplings are the usual accompaniments, 'll10 soft, marrow-like fat is generally enjoyed while hot, but the hard fat may he left nntil cold. From the remains, very ! good potted meat may Is; made. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. per pound. In carving this, cut across the grain, the knife following the lino from A to n, as illustrated above. The slices should he even and moderately thick. If extra fat is required, it should ho taken horizontally from the side of the joint. If roasted without pre- liminary hanging, toughness is almost certain; hut a well-hung joint, from a prime animal, may ho roasted or slowdy baked. It can be stowed also, but the fat should be removed. Bachelors’ Stew.—Required : four pounds of lean beef, from the rump or buttock, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. 3d. Slice some carrots, one for each pound of meat if large; brown them in hot dripping, with the moat, first tied in shape. About twenty minutes must be given ; the moat should le a rich colour all over. Add a pint of stock (No. 1 or 2), just warm ; let it boil up, then skim all the fat off; add a bay-loaf, some herbs and spice, and put tho lid on ; keop a weight on it