UNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK. 424 sudden change in the weather will cause it to become high very quickly. A little powdered charcoal put inside helps to keep it; pepper is used for the same purpose. Should it become too high to he pleasant, wash it in a solution of permanganate of potash, or in vinegar and water. An authority says that old hares are improved by soaking for a few days in butter-milk. In a freshly-killed hare the flesh will he stiff. The ears may ho torn readily, and the jaw-hone easily broken if the hare bo young. Sharp claws also denote youth; as age creeps on, they become blunt and rough. Cost, about 3s. 6d. to 6s. In addition to the following dishes, recipes for hare cookery will be found in various chapters. (See Index.) A special hint respecting hare livers is necessary. Never use them in any dish if the least decomposed, as they are then very unwholesomo. Hare, Baron of (a German re- cipe).—In Germany a hare is fre- quently made up into two dishes, and may he served at different times, which, when the family is small, is often a convenience. The baron, which con- sists of the back and thighs (the legs are cut off), is the superior dish, and it is this to which the present recipe re- fers. Divide the hare into two parts, cutting close to the shoulder-blades. Leave the kidneys in the loins, and re- move the thin skin from the back. Rub tho hnre over .with moist sugar, and leave it for three or four hours, then put it into a deep dish with a finelv- minced onion, a bay leaf, a dozen juni- per berries, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let it remain in this mari- nade for two days, turning and basting it frequently. Drain it and lard it in neat rows with thin strips of bacon. Put it down before a clear fire until it is nicely browned, then put it into a stewpan with tho marinade, a tcaspoon- f ul of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and the contents of the dripping-pan taken from under it. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let tho raoat steam until tender, basting frequently during the process. Put the hare into a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and send the sauco in which it was stewed to table in a tureen, after having strained and thickened it, and added a large tablospoonful of red currant jelly, and a wineglassful of claret. Time, three-quarters of an hour to roast, three-quarters of an hour to steam. Cost of hare, from 3s. 6d. to 6s. Hare, Blood of.—Modem tasto is somewhat opposed to the use of blood in soups, stews, &c. When it is liked, one rule must bo observed— the liquid must not boil after the blood is stirred in, or it will curdle. Hare, Boned and Roasted. —A hare may be made more plump in appearance, and easier to carve by taking the bones out of the back and thighs; a good knife is wanted, and great care noeded to prevent cutting through the skin just over the spine, as it adheres very closely to the bone. Nearly double the usual quantity of forcemeat will he wanted; the legs must be filled, so as to restore the original shape, and tho body should be lined with thin slices of good bacon, from which the edges and rind have beon trimmed away. After stuffing, sew up, and truss as usual, and serve in either of the ordinary ways. It can ho larded if liked, then the insido bacon is not wanted. To remove tho backbone, first clear it from the inside flesh; lay this back on both sides, and work the knife on tho upper side, quite to the spine. When the whole is detached, except the skin which adheres to it, separate the bone, at the first joint from the neck-bone, and pass the knife cautiously under the skin down the middle of the back. The thighs can be treated like those of a fowl. (See directions on page 400.) The cooking of a boned hare must be slow, and more time must be allowed than for an unboned one. Hare, Braisett.— Roquired ; a