UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 346 the bacon, but care is needed to pre- vent burning of the lamb. Lamb, with Okra and Toma toes.—Required : a loin of lamb, or small mutton, a tin of “ okra and tomatoes,” a dozen small tomatoes, a cucumber, cut into dice shapes and boiled until tender. Cost, about lOd. or lid. per pound. Roast the meat as usual, then cut it up; put tho pieces round a hot dish. The tin of okra and tomatoes should be heated, and the superfluous liquor drained off; mix with the tinned vegetables an ounce of butter and a little seasoning, and put in the centre of the dish. Bake and glaze the toma- toes, and use them for garnishing, some on the top and the rest round the meat, using the cucumber as a foundation for them to rest upon. Make gravy as usual, add the liquor that was drained from the tin, boil up, and serve separately. Yeal may be served in the same way; and pork is equally good; but the latter is improved by adding some French mustard to the gravy, and a good-sized onion, fried, may be used instead of cucumber for the garnish. (See also Okra Salad.) Lamb, Roll of. — Required: lamb, bacon, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. inclusive. Take three pounds of lean lamb, and mince it very finely with a pound of fat bacon. Mix with it a teaspoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a lemon, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, a finely-minced shalot, half a tcaspoonful of pow- . dcred thyme, one egg, beaten up, and salt according to taste. The quantity of salt will depend upon the condition of the bacon. When thoroughly mixed, roll the seasoned meat into a neat shape, something like a roly-poly pudding; cover it with a thick fold of buttered paper, and placo over this a coarse crust made of flour and water. Put it in a moderate oven, and when cooked enough, remove the paste and paper, and serve tho roll of lamb on a hot dish, with Tomato or Cucumber Sauce round it, and green peas, spinach, or asparagus as an accom- paniment. It will take two hours. Lamb’s Feet.—Proceed as for Sheep’s Feet, and after tho cleansing and parboiling, finish them off in either of the ways given under that heading; or follow any recipe for Calf’s Feet, reducing the time in proportion to their size. They are delicious when coated with a nice white sauce. Cost, variable. Lamb’s Fry.—A fry proper con- sists of the heart, sweetbreads, liver, kidneys, frill, and milt; and if the head is bought at tho same' time the brains may be added with advantage. If carefully treated, this is delicious; but it is often fried and hardened, so as to be scarcely eatable. Trim the sweetbreads, and boil them in white stock for twenty minutes; then take them up, and boil the brains in the same stock until firm; then dry them, and cut them up with the sweetbreads ; egg and crumb them, and fry to a delicate brown. Stew tho heart and milt in the stock; slice and fry thorn with tho liver and frill (the latter need not bo parboiled), Slice the kidneys, fry them for a minute or two, tossing and turning. Now thicken and season the gravy, and pour it over the fry. Garnish with sprigs of fried parsley and some slices of lemon. Cost, variable, according to demand; about lOd. per pound. For ordinary methods of cooking this, sec Pig’s Fry, p. 358. For tho separate treatment of the sweetbreads, see Entrees and Made Dishes. Leg, Boiled.—Put a plump log of lambinto as much boiling water ns will barely cover it. Let it boil a few minutes, then add a little cold water ; draw the pan to the side of tho fire, remove the scum carefully as it risos, and afterwards simmer gently until done enough. A teaspoonful of salt should, bo put. into the water when the lamb is three parts done. Put tho meat on a hot dish, garnish it with