Universal cookery book. 388 turkey—such as is obtainable at any good poulterer’s. We would add that in baking any bird, extra time must be allowed over roasting. The removal for basting, and the loss of heat occasioned by the opening of the oven door, necessitate this. There is but little to say about the hanging of poultry; it keeps so short a time in comparison with game, and requires nothing more than watchfulness on the part of the cook. If the least high it is spoilt. It is certainly better to cook a fowl in too fresh than in too stale a condition; When bought at a shop the purchaser should state if to be cooked at once * then a bird in the right condition will be guaranteed, if the poulterer knows his business. Poultry sold in the markets of towns, such as is brought in by small dealers from the surrounding villages, is generally freshly killed, and wants a little hanging. Those who kill their own birds are in the happy position of having them just ready for the spit as required. Over- fed poultry is never satisfactory ; the flavour is spoilt; the fat melts in the cooking, and serves no purpose but that of swelling the contents of the dripping-pot—by no means a cheap way of so doing. The small amount of space allotted to some birds in the following pages, compared with that given to others, is the result, not of accident, but design. Both game and poultry have been so treated that the sorts that are cheapest, and to be had for a greater part of the year, and which lend themselves to more variety of treatment, shall present themselves to the reader in as many forms as possible; while those which, from their costliness, or the short time of their season, or the fact that they are best when served but in a few ways, necessarily occupy but little space. Birds, Small, to Braise.— Required; birds, stock, vegetables, bacon, and garnish. Cost, variable. Any edible birds may be braised. The}' can be stuffed or cooked plainly, and a very small quantity of stock suffices for a good number if they are laid flat in a stewpan, as it only need half cover them. A little bacon should be put at the bottom with chopped vegetables, and a sheet of buttered aper, or some bacon be laid over them, n this way they are really less trouble than roasting, and will be free from dryness. When done, they may be glazed, then dished in a row on a croilton, or potato block, with a garnish of cress. The gravy is to be finished off in the usual way—wine or other ingredients being added just according to the nature of the birds. Another nice dish may be had by putting the birds on a dish with some fried potatoes round them, and finishing with little croutons spread with tomato butter. Many rice dishes are excellent with small birds ; they may be put upon a bed of rice, or it can be arranged as a border, and macaroni is also very good. Grilled tomatoes, sliced, are always useful as a garnish. Reference to dishes of larger birds will suggest other methods of serving them. Birds, Small, in Cases,—Birds that have been either roasted or braised look nice when served in small oval cases of china or paper. If they are not stuffed before cooking, a little forcemeat may be cooked and put in the bottoms of the cases. The bird is then placed on the top, and for those of a homely sort some brown sauce over, and a sprinkling of fried crumbs finishes the dish: or a well-made tomato puree can be used in place of brown sauce. Cost, variable. Another way.—If the birds are boned and stuffed, a little potato puree can be put at the bottoms of the cases,