GRAVIES AXD SAUCES. 121 of essence of lemons, vanilla, or any other well-known kinds. Make plain Akkowkoot Sauce in the same way. Cosmopolitan Sauce. — For this, live ingredients arorequired: viz., equal measures of port, brandy, red- currant jelly, raspberry vinegar, and rich melted butter. Put the melted butter in a saucepan, with the wine and brandy, add the raspberry vinegar, and take from the fire: melt the jelly, and stir it into the sauce, which will be found very good with hot puddings. Curacoa Sauce.—Make a pint of custard, medium or rich, and flavour it with a tablespoonful of curagoa liqueur, or use the syrup, increasing the quantity. Brandy is often added to this. It is suitable for serving with any pudding for which the same flavouring has been used. Currant Sauce.— Use red or black currants, in the way directed under Blackbekry Sauce. Diplomatist's Own Sauce.— Required : a pint of rich custard, a tablespoonful each of brandy and the syrup from preserved ginger, two tablespoonfuls of the ginger cut small, and a teaspoonful each of essence of vanilla and lemon-j uice. Let the custard cool, then add the other ingredients; leave until cold, then pour it round the pudding. (See Diplomatist’s Own Pudding.) German Pudding Sauce.— Required : the yolks of two eggs, a gill and a half of light wine, sugar to sweeten. Dissolve the sugar in the wine, heat it, and add it to the eggs, first tho- roughly whisked in a basin. Put the whole into a pan, and whisk over the fire until frothy and hot, but not quite boiling. The juice of half a lemon is sometimes added to this. Serve with German Pudding. Ginger Sauce (Plain).—Add a little grated ginger or a few drops of essence of gingCT to a tureen of melted butter, with a little lemon-juice, and sugar to taste.' Ginger Sauce (Rich).—Make a custard with a gill each of milk and cream and the yolks of three eggs. Stir in a gill of preserved giDger syrup, the grated rind of half a lemon, and half an ounce or more of castor sugar; serve with Rich Ginger Pudding. Another way.—Put a gill of Melted Butter (rich) in a saucepan, with half a gill of ginger syrup and a table- spoonful of orange-juice ; add a few lumps of sugar, stir to the boil, then put in a tablespoonful of ginger wine, raisin wine, or sherry. Hard Sauce, American.— Required : four ounces of butter, eight ounces of castor sugar, a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a tablespoonful of lemon-j uice. Cost, about 9d. Put the butter in a bond, beat it to a cream, as if for making cakes, add the sugar, and beat hard for several minutes, then the wine and juice very gradually; when quite stiff, set on ico to cool; or put it in an ice cave for a short time. Another way.—Make as above, add- ing half a glass of rum and a table- spoonful of pineapple syrup in place of the wine and lemon-juice. Another way.—As above, with brandy and vanilla essence in place of the rum and pineapple. Another ivay.—Use butter and sugar as in the first recipe; add a quarter of a pound of red or black currant jelly and the juice of half a lemon; or reduce the sugar and increase the jelly. In cold weather the butter may be put in a warm basin, and the jar containing the jelly set in a pan of hot water for a short time. The blending of tho ingredients will be thereby facilitated. These sauces-are served with all sorts of puddings, both hot and cold, and with creams, blancmanges, &c. Honey Sauce.—This is made simply by adding a gill cf clear honey to a pint of melted buttor or corn-flour