UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 200 serving turbot, or any similar fish. First, pass the fish knife straight down from a to b. Then take even slices from c to d, and c to c, leaving the bone clear, and giving some of tho best part to each person, viz., from tho head. Turbot, Broiled.—Clean a small turbot, and dry it well. Lay it on a dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt on it, and pour over it four tablo- spoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar or lemon juice. When it is to bo dressed place it in a double broiler, and broil it before a slow clear fire. Turn it overy five or six minutes, and on each occasion brush it ovor with the marinade in the dish. Turbot, Cold, to Reheat.— This can bo done in a groat many ways ; indeed, it may be said that any recipe for re-heating cold fish of any other white kind is applicable to turbot. That is so far as good recipes go ; wo do not mean that a very plain method should be followed; for turbot being somewhat expensive to start with, is worthy good materials in the concoction of a rechauffe, and should always bo nicclyand suitably garnished. There are few nicer dishes than turbot heated in any good sauce, bechamel, melted butter, crayfish, shrimp, an- chovy, &c., from which it should take its name. All that is needed is to divide tho fish into flakes, and lay it in the sauce until heated through. Then turn it on a hot dish, in the centre of a border of rice, potatoes, or macaroni {see Inoex), and garnish suitably. Tho kind of sauce used will indicate the necessary materials; cut lemons are never out of place, whatever may be the other ingredients; and small quenelles always look nice on a border, the tiny quonello moulds being used for them. Or if the turbot be simply heated in white sauce, with some grated cheese to flavour, a bordor of macaroni, lightly arranged round it, is suitably garnished with small croquettes of macaroni and cheese, or with grated cheese only, shaken over tho macaroni border, and lemon and parsley round. Small mushrooms aro also useful as adjuncts to fish. For curry, vol-au-vents, &c., turbot is an excellent fish. Turbot, Cold, to Serve.—A small fish, cooked whole by boiling, preferably in Coukt Bouillon au Blanc, makes a delicious dish if accompanied by a nice cold sauce (see Sauces), and some salad {see Salads). If the sauce is served with it, tho fish must be garnished with aspic, &c., in the usual way; but if tho sauce is spread over it, very little else is required. To smooth the sauce, take a palette lcnifo, and dip it in cold water. Fillets of anchovy, olives, and truffles may bo used together, with aspic for a border, if a really elaborate dish is required. Beetroot, cucumber, &c., aro also suitable. {See Gaii- NISHES.) Turbot en Coquilles.—Re- quired : cold turbot, one tablespoonful of button mushrooms, one truffle, seasoning, two eggs, a little sauco, sherry, and butter. Free tho fish from skin and bone, cut it into tiny dice; cook tho mush- rooms in a little butter, cut them small, also tho truffle ; mix together, add salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of wine and a grate of nutmeg, and somo creamy bechamel, about five or six tablespoonfuls ; there should bo tho same measure of turbot. Butter somo small china or plated shells ; fill them with tho mixture, and set them on tho drainer of a fish kettle, or in a largo steamer over boiling water, until just hot through; or they may be set on a large meat stand, over a tin of boiling water in tho oven, or on a range. Then boil tho eggs hard; rub both the yolk and white through a sieve; sprinkle the tops of the shells with tho two, to form a design, using also a morsel of truffle or lobster coral; serve hot on a dish, covered with a serviette, either as dressed Jish or an entree. Turbot en Coquilles, d, la, Roxane.—Prepare tho mixture as