UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 406 sprinkle with fried onions, a palo colour, and very dry; then add a dust of cayenne and salt. Use about four ounces of onions. Fowl, to Pick and Singe.— Take the bird in the left hand, and begin by pulling the feathers out undor the wing; when this side is plucked, turn the bird, proceed in the same way with the other wing, then remove all tho rest of the feathers, leaving only the down. To singe, take the bird by the neck, in the left hand, and by means of a lighted paper, passed quickly over to avoid any scorching, go over the entire surface, not for- getting the down, which will be hid- den from sight after the bird is trussed. If any feathers remain, pull them out; do not burn them off; the singe- ing is intended to remove the down. A better and quicker way is to take tho bird at each end, and hold it over a flame; a little methylated spirit may be burnt on an old plate for the purpose. This is perhaps the best way, especially when several are being dealt wdth. After trussing, if necessary singe again. This iB often wanted when birds are bought, ready trussed, of other than first-class poulterers. Fowl, Pilau, Indian.— Re- quired: a fowl, butter, rice, onions, seasoning, and almonds and sultanas. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. 6d. on an average. Boil a fowl in veal broth, and reserve the liquor in which it is boiled. Put four ounces of butter in a stew- pan, and fry in it two onions, sliced, two cloves, a morsel of cinnamon, and a few peppercorns. When the onions are golden colour, stir in ten ounces of rice; go on stirring with a fork until tho rice has absorbed the butter. Pour in the fowl liquor (it should cover the rice, and reach an inch above it), go on simmering until it is nearly done. Then clear the rice from the centre, and put the fowl in the hollow. Let the rice become very soft, and the moisture be dried up. Then put the fowl in a deep dish, and smother it with the rice. Have some little onions ready boiled, also somo eggs, boiled hard; these should be quartered. Arrange them about the dish, and add somo blanched almonds and sultanas, with a few cloves sprinkled on the top. Tho cinnamon and peppercorns should bo taken out. This is done most easily by tying them in a bit of muslin. The rice should bo washed and dried an hour before frying. Fowl, Pooloot, Indian.—Re- quired : a fowl, stock, rice, onions, eggs, bacon, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. 6d. Truss a fowl in tho ordinary way for boiling. Have roady a quai-t of white stock, and a pound of rice that has been parboiled for five minutes and then drained from the water. Put tho fowl with them into a stewpan over a slow fire. Add some onion juice (pound half a dozen, and extract all their moisture by squeezing them in a thin cloth), a tablespoonful of ground ginger tied in muslin, nnd the juice of a lemon. Boil gently, and whon tho fowl is sufficiently done, keep it warm and dry the rice beforo tho firo. Have ready three or four onions, sliced and nicely fifed in butter. Cut up the fowl into neat pieces, and fry these in the same butter, then pile the rice in the centre of a dish; tho, joints of fowl on the top, and the sliced onions next the fowl, lightly scattered. Strew stewed cardamoms and peppercorns over all. Garnish with fried curled bacon and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour, unless" the fowl be large. During tho boiling, more stock must bo" added; by degrees as required. Great care-must be exercised to keep the contents of tho pan from burning. It is Well to butter the -bottom of the pan slightly, and it must bo Very often shaken; ,or it can be set at the begin- ning of the cooking in another vessel of boiling water. Fowl a la Remoulade. — Boil a fowl in white stock. Let it