341 MUTTON. the seasoning and spices to the smallest limit, it will bo found a nice dish for an invalid. If the feet are not easily obtained, add a calf’s foot or two, or an ox foot, or some meat from a sheep’s head. Cost, about lOd. Shoulder, Boned and Rolled. —In the diagram below is shown a shoulder of mutton (lamb or veal) as it will appear when the bones (knuckle excepted) are removed. It may be stuffed, and then roasted, or cooked as desired. It is a nice looking dish, and easy to carve. We wish, too. to call Shoulder of Mottos, Boxed and Rolled. attention to the method of tying it, as well as to the joint itself, as it illus- trates clearly the way of binding any- thing of a similar kind, and can be more easily followed than any written description. Calf’s Head, Ox Cheek, and Galantines of all sorts should be tied thus, with tape, not string. As to the boning, we can only repeat our advice to keep the knife close to the bone, and avoid piercing the outer flesh. The accomplished boner may like to bone the knuckle also, then draw the meat inside, and so give the joint a still more compact appearance. Shoulder, to Carve.—Simple as is the carving of this to the experienced hand, it is a joint which some find rather difficult to servo evenly and fairly. We give two diagrams. Some will succeed better with No. 1; others may find No. 2 the easier. In Fig. 86 a cut is made as shown from b to a. Tho joint will then open, Fio. SG.—Shoulder of Mutton. and leave a triangular space; slices must then be removed from b a and c a, until the bone is reached ; then slices must be taken from tho meat on the under-side, by turning the shoulder over, and cutting horizontally, lilre a round of beef. In Fig. 87 make a cut as shown by a to b ; take off as many slices as can be removed, then cut in the direction of c D and E F. Then turn the shoulder, and cut from the other side, which is tender, though coarser in the grain than the top part. Shoulder, to Roast.—Let this hang from two to three weeks in cold, dry weather; if damp, it will not keep nearly so long. Put it down to a clear fire and basto well at first; the same may be Eaid if it is baked ; and by tho latter method, a shoulder may be very