683 DRESSED VEGETABLES. in, also a sprig of mint if it is liked, and a morsel of spinach or some parsley juice will improve the colour. Take them up when they are soft, and rub through a hair sieve. Put back in the pan, season to taste, and add a very little thick cream, a tablespoonful or so of the yolk of an egg, or thick white sauce. Beat the puree until hot and smooth, add colouring if needed, then pile it up in the centre of a dish of cutlets, &e., or use it from a bag with a pipe for garnishing purposes. Tinned peas require heating in the butter, and are then easily converted into a puree. It goes without saying that peas cooked as described are very delicious served whole. For ordinary purees, boiled peas are sieved, then finished off as described. When a little additional flavour is required, a spoonful or two of stock is added to the peas at starting. Haricot Puree.—(See Flageo- let Puree.) Haricots with. Curried Macedoines.—Required : haricots, stock, sauce, macedoines, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. For a good-sized dish, boil half a pound of split white haricots in white stock (see page 576). Put them round a hot dish to form a border in the same way that rice is used, and fill the centre with a tin of macedoines that have been mixed with a gill of Curry Sauce. In making the sauce, use the liquor from the tin. Sprinkle the haricots with saffron shreds and a dust of coralline pepper. Put three hard- boiled eggs in slices round the haricots; or use the sieved yolk of one to sprinkle here and there on the top, and put the chopped white in the macedoines. The sauce for this dish is to be as good as possible. Iced Vegetables.—Vegetables maybe dressed with butter or any rich sauce while warm, then, when cool, put in an ice cave until cold, and served on a dish with a lace paper. Or the sauce may be iced, and sent to table in a boat—not frozen into shape like the iced sauces given in Coin Sauces, but simply made icy cold. When butter is used for the dressing, it should be clarified, oiled, and seasoned to taste, and the vegetables w’ell coated with it. A very pretty way of serving is to break up some pure ice, fill a dish, and set it in the centre of the dish of vegetables. The one containing the ice should be smaller and higher ; the one for the vegetables should be an entree dish or any other of a similar shape. A specimen glass, containing a few delicate ferns or other greenery, set in the centre of the ice, adds to the effect. Note. — When no ice cave is at hand, other methods of icing must be followed. (See the chapter on Ices.) Macedoines in Cases with Asparagus and Macaroni.— Required: a tin of macedoines, or a proportionate amount of fresh vege- tables, six to eight ounces of macaroni, eight or nine little cases as below, and some asparagus and sauce. Cost, about Is. 9d., exclusive of asparagus and sauce. Take some rich potato pastry for the cases (page 648). Line some deep patty pans and bake carefully. Cases of rice or fried bread may be used if preferred. The macedoines are to bo heated, and put in the cases after a little sauce has been put in, and this may be of any kind that is usually served with vegetables. The asparagus should be boiled and arranged in the centre of the macaroni, and that is first to be cooked nicely and coated with sauce or heated cream. (For the precise arrangement of the dish, see Coloured Plate, No. 6.) A tureen of the sauce should be sent to table. This dish may be varied by using rice or other grain instead of macaroni, and sea-kale or celery in place of asparagus; in either case, a little green puree of some kind should be placed between tho centre vegetable and tho macaroni. Note.—The main point in tho pre- paration of this and all such dishes is to so time tho cooking of the various materials that thoy may bo served hot,