SALTED MEATS. 385 Tongues, Pigs’ or Sheep’s, to Cure.—These, as well as calves’ tongues, may he cured in either of the pickles given for ox - tongues, and boiled in the same way. Pigs’ tongues will take a long time, although small; sheep’s tongues are done in much less time. When done, thev may be skewered on a board, or can be collared, if a small, round tin is at hand. They are also useful for mixing with pork for brawn. The remains are excellent if potted for breakfast or tea. The tips of tongues may be grated, and used up in a mince, or for flavouring sauces or gravies. The pickles recommended for the above are Nos. 2 and 4; or the liquid brine No. 7 may be used. About a week in either case will be enough to give a good flavour, or shorter time will do if a mild-cured tongue is liked. Pigs' tongues are sent from America ready pickled, and are sold at about fourpence or fivepence per pound. They want a few hours’ soaking, and are improved by the addition of vege- tables to the boiling pot. Vindaloo.—This is a curry and a pickle combined, and is said to be a prime favourite among Europeans in India. When well prepared, it will keep good for an indefinite time. When wanted, it can be served after just warming up. Beef and pork are said to be the best meats, and this recipe is for pork, as many may be glad of something new in the pickled pork line. Take, say, four pounds of young, fat pork, freshly killed, and not washed. If water be used in any form, the meat will not keep. Cut it up into square pieces, of two inches or thereabouts, and rinse them in good vinegar. Hub each well over with curry powder, steep them in good French vinegar to cover for twenty-four hours, with half a tea- spoonful of salt. Heat in a copper pan some good mustard oil; watch for the blue smoke, the usual test, then put in four tablespoonfuls of freshly- made curry powder, mixed into a paste with vinegar; add a heaping tablespoonful of pounded garlic, and the meat, with the vinegar it was steeped in; then put in salt to taste, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, and four bay leaves, and cook until the meat is quite tender. Set by until cold, then put the meat in a perfectly dry jar of earthenware. Pour in oil in which it was cooked, to come an inch or two above the meat; secure it with a stopper, and tie over with bladder. It must be air-tight. Cost, about 3s. u