UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 370 should then be cooked first. In pur- chasing a piece, its goodness can bo guaranteed if the fat has a clear, pinky look ; should it look rancid and yellow, or have streaks of yellow in it, and the salt be crusted on the lean, rej ect it; nothing will make it palat- able, though it might be eatable. For frying or broiling, streaky bacon is boat, and is generally preferred in the case of home-cured bacon; but from Wiltshire bacon, the loin is much liked. For boiling, the shoulder, any part, will be found excellent, and is lower in price than the streaky. For ordinary unsmoked bacon, the price is from 6d. or 7d. for American “ belly drafts,” to 8d. or 9d. for best home cured; the latter may reach lOd. per pound. Bacon, to Cnre and Keep free from Rust (Cobbett’sRecipe). -—William Cobbett, in his “ Rural Economy,” gives the following method of curing bacon. Practical persons highly recommend it:—Take two sides or flitches of bacon, rub the insides with salt, then place one on the other, the flesh side uppermost, in a salting- trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine ; for to have sweet and fine bacon the flitches must not be sopping in brine, which gives it the]^objectionable taste that barrel and sea-pork have. Everyone knows how different is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state; therefore, change the salt often—once in four or five days— let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long; change the flitches every ten days ; put that at bottom which was first on the top. This mode will cost a great deal more in salt than the sopping mode, but without it the bacon will not be so sweet and fine, nor keep so well. The time required in making the flitches sufficiently salt depends on circumstances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place ; but for the flitches of a hog of seven or eight stones, in weather not very dry or damp, about six weeks may do; and as the flitches should be fat, it receives little injury from over-salting. Bacon, to Cure (No. 2).—For a medium-sized pig, take a pound and a half of coarse Bugar, the same weight of common salt and bay salt, and six ounces of saltpetre; mix them and set aside. Sprinkle the flitches with salt, and let the blood drain off; then pound the mixture after warming it, and rub it into the meat; turn it daily for a month, and give it at the same time a good rub; then hang it to dry. This is sweet, and of good flavour. It may be smoked if liked, and will then resemble Wiltshire bacon. If not smoked, coat the bacon with malt dust before hanging it to dry. This method has been followed with success for many years at a farm in the Midlands. It is important that if no salting trough be handy, the bacon be so laid that the brine is retained as it runs off the bacon, that it may be used again—that is, it should be poured over the bacon each day when it is rubbed. Towards the end of the curing, some more salt may be warmed, and put on the bacon; and if bay salt is not to be had in the first instance, three pounds of common salt can be made to serve tho purpose, instead of a pound and a half of each kind; but bay salt is much the better. Bacon, to Cure and Roll.— After the hams have been removed from the bacon, it must be boned after the chine has been removed. The bones can then be taken out easily with care. Weigh the bacon, one or two sides as required, and for every seven pounds allow the following in- gredients : — foui- ounces of coarse sugar, four ounces of salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and half a pint of white vinegar. Warm the dry materials, and rub the meat well, particularly on the flesh side; then lay it in a pickling pan, rind down, and leave it for four days. The vinegar is then to be added, and