UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 508 to all as nice with mutton and lamb, it should be remembered that variety is always good, and that many others are just as suitable. J THE TREATMENT OF SCRAPS. With respect io scraps generally, our dishes in this and other chapters should be regarded as suggestive. To give the possible combinations of meat and the various adjuncts, in the shape of detailed recipes, would exhaust the whole of our space; and by “ meat,” we mean animal food of all sorts. Most housekeepers know that a glance at the larder shelves will often reveal many fragments that could be turned to practical account; the ex- penditure incurred being time rather than money; and if only meals were nlauned in advance to a greater extent, the “left overs” would be less of a bugbear. It is the “leaving everything to the last moment” system which prevents the most being made of scraps. By keeping a bottle of raspings handy, some crumbs ready sieved, herbs in powder, and the frying fat clarified and ready for use, it is astonishing how much one is helped in the manufacture of little dishes. Then there are various uteusils that play no small part in saving time and labour (see Index) ; and one is illus- trated here, because, although useful in nearly every branch of the cuisine, it is particularly valuable, in scrap cookery. This handy little machine costs but a few shillings, and will grate to perfection bread, cheese, horse-radish, cocoa-nut, chocolate, suet, and many other ingredients. Then it will reduce cooked vegetables to a pulp, or grate them when in the raw state. Indeed, its uses are almost innumerable. We would next urge the necessity of exorcising personal ingenuity in dealing with scraps, for this reason: the recipes will bo robbed of half their value unless it be borne iu mind that iu scores of instances deviation from the original is not only permissible, but will probably result in an improved variety of the dish : besides, in so many of them accurate proportions are of little acconnt. or one ingredient may do duty for another. Take for example, scalloped meat or fish, or a savoury toast. Then, iu the little suacks, of which we may give croquettes as about the most familiar typo, where a certain consistence has to be given, that the mass may “ bind” and retain its shape, a cook who can originate will work wonders with the materials at her command. Hero a row bread- Fm. 105.—Rotarv Grater.