UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 636 brown at the finish; they will take from two to three hours, unless par- boiled, when they will take less time, but the flavour will be milder; this, to many, is an advantage. Onions, Boiled.—Peel and cut them twice across at the root end; pour boiling water over in a basin, cover, and strain in a few minutes; this is called scalding, by means of which a good deal of the strong flavour is got rid of. Put them in boiling water, plenty of it, with a teaspoonful of salt to the quart, and a pinch of sugar for English onions ; cook until tender, and if wanted very mild for sauce, &c., change the wator when they are half done. Persons who onjov the full flavour of the vegetable need not scald them, or change the water. Time, according to size and kind; from one to two hours on an average; very large ones will take nearly three hours ; small button onions are nice boiled; they will take from half to three-quarters of an hour only. Onions, Boiled, for Superior Dishes.—Onions that are to be used in high-class sauces, or purees, when colour is an object, as well as mild flavour, should be treated as follows : —After peeling and washing, put them on to boil with cold water to cover, and a pinch of salt; when it boils, strain, and wash the onions in fresh cold water ; leave them in a large basin of cold water for a short time, then cook them as above, changing the water once. If English onions, only the mild varieties must be used; not old, coarse onions; and if milk is used in place of the second water they will be much nicer. Onions, Browned.—Take small onions, and boil them until almost done; drain them, and take the outer skins off ; then put them in a saute or frying-pan, with just enough hot fat to keep them from burning; add a pinch of sugar, and turn the onions about until lightly browned all over. Use for garnishing a roast or stew, or serve with steaks, chops, &c. Onions, Fried.—Do not attempt to fry very old, strong onions, because, in order to make them palatable, they would need parboiling, then they do not brown so well. Take young onions, peel and slice them thinly, and put them in a frying-pan with hot fat to keep them from burning; do not add salt; turn them about until tender and brown ; the time will vary accord- ing to age and thickness of the slices. After putting them in the fat, in a minute draw the pan hack for a little, that they may cook; then give greater heat again towards the end to brown up well. Or put the sliced onions in the pan, and cover for a time that they may cook, then uncover and pour off a little of the fat; turn them about until well browned. In slicing, cut across, that the slices may form rings ; if cut lengthwise, from crown to root, they remain intact. Onions, Stewed, Brown.— Required: onions, stock, seasoning, fat, and thickening. Cost, about 2d. per pound. Peel the onions, about the size of a small orange is convenient if to be cooked whole; put them in a single layer in a saucepan with an ounce or two of clarified fat. or other frying medium, and turn them about until lightly browned. If Spanish onions, be careful not to cut the tops too short, or the bulb will fall to pieces in stewing ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and a pinch of sugar; pour off the fat after browning, and add a little stock, No. 1 or 2, and cook until done. A short time before they are taken up, thicken a little with browned flour, or roux, and season to taste; to some tastes vinegar is an improvement. With a dish of rice cooked in a savoury manner, onions so prepared are very enjoyable. Time, about an hour and a half. Onions, Stewed, White.—Re- quired : onions, stock, milk, flour, butter, and seasoning. Cost, about 2d. per pound. In place of the stock given above,