147 FISH. better than boiled, but best for this, and all similar uses, are potatoes baked iu their skins). Melt the butter, stir in the potatoes, then the fish, flaked or cut up (not pounded); take from the fire, stir well, and put in the yolk of the egg when cooled a little, and the seasoning; turn out on a board, make small balls of the mixture—about a tablespoonful—then flatten them into cakes, making the sides even; this is best done by dipping a knife in milk or beaten egg. When all are ready, beat up the white of the egg, brush the Kikes over, then coat them with bread- crumbs, and fry them a light brown in hot fat. Dish en couronne, and garnish with fried parsley. These are very plain, and the cost is trifling, but they are very tasty as a breakfast or luncheon dish. Another way.—These are better. Add to the fish a large tablespoonful of any nice sauce left over from the previous meal (anchovy, oyster, lobster, or any other); let the mixture become perfectly cold before making it into cakes. Use the whole of an egg to bind the cakes, and a second one to brush them over. Pish., Casserole of.—Required: one pound of cold fish, half a pint of sauce (any kind suitable for serving with the fish), some mashed potatoes, bread-crumbs, and butter or clarified dripping, one egg, seasoning, &c. Mash some potatoes carefully (see Potatoes), add salt and pepper and a beaten egg to a couple of pounds. Grease a plain cake-tin and put in some browned crumbs; use plenty, then shake out the loose ones. Put tho potatoes in, about three-quarters of an inch thick at the bottom, and half an inch at the sides, or more for a very plain dish. Set in it a jar or smaller tin, to keep the sides up, and put in some hot water, then bake in a good oven until brown, and turn on a hot dish ; reverse it on to another dish ; it is then ready to receive the fish, which should be flaked, and heated in the sauce. Put some chopped parsley or other plain garnish over the top, and serve hot. Remove the jar carefully, to avoid spilling the water. Another way.—Bake tho potatoes in a border mould, turn them out, and fill the middle with the fish and sauce. A tin of salmon, with a half pint of anchovy or caper sauce, makes a nice dish of this sort. (See also Rice Cas- serole and Potato Casserole.) Fish Chowder.—Required: two pounds of fish, four ounces of pickled pork, an onion, two medium-sized potatoes, salt and pepper, milk and water, spice, and flour. Cut the pork up and fry it a light brown, then slice an onion or two and fry with the pork. Slice the fish on a dish, season it with pepper and salt, and put on it tho onions and pork ; leave for an hour; stir a tablespoonful of flour into the fat left from the pork ; when smooth, put in a pint of milk, and stir to the boil; slice the potatoes, and boil them for a few minutes in tho water, then take them out, and put them in a clean pan, with the fish, onions, pork, and a pint of milk and water mixed ; boil until the pork is tender (the fish must be thickly sliced), about half an hour or forty minutes. Then add the pint of milk which was added to the thickening, with seasoning to taste, and a little spice. Another way.—Put in a kettle pork as above, after frying, with two pounds of fish in slices, half a pound each of sliced onions and potatoes, seasoning, and the liquor from canned tomatoes, to come to the top. Cook gently until all are tender, then stir in a pint of boiled milk, thickened and seasoned, and serve hot. Any firm white fish— mixed kinds if convenient—should bo used for these dishes. Sometimes pounded cracker (i.c. plain biscuit) crumbs aro added to thicken tho liquid. Fish, Cold, Savoury Cake of. —Required : ono pound of cold fish (baked or rousted is preferable to boiled for this dish), throo ounces of bread- crumbs, a large onion, a tablospoonful