272 UNIVERSAL CdOKERi? BOOIf. sprig of chervil, or an ounce or two of savoury butter, as the case may be, that raises the dish above the commonplace, to the rank of an entrco proper. The list of dishes given under this heading may seem somewhat short; the reason for this may bo readily explained by the fact that they aro selected by way of illustration only, mainly because, in so many other chapters, hosts of dishes equally suitable for the entree course will be found. Amongst others, we may instance dressed fish, salads of all sorts (the most elaborately dressed ones), small savoury pastries, aud iced souffles of the savoury order; besides which, a number of game and poultry dishes may become entrees by the addition of a little suitablo garnish; while some of the hot entrees will readily suggest themselves as suitable for serving in the cold state, to those who are accustomed to what may be termed “ decorative cookery; ” garnish must, of course, bo added at discretion. In speaking of the scope afforded by cold entrees for the exercise of the decorative powers of the cook, a word of warning on this point may not be out of place. Some err on the side of over-elaboration, and it should be remembered that the dish itself should always stand out, so to speak, clearly from the garnish; whereas, it is sometimes difficult to determine which is the entree and which the garnish. Then, every- th) ug which can be called in any way a concomitant of the dish, should be eatable. “ Of course, everybody knows that,” says the experienced cook. The novice may not know it, however, aud we have hoard so- callea good cooks declare that it does not matter about the taste of certain garnishing media, notably aspic, because nobody eats it. This is a sweeping assertion, and calculated to mislead. As a matter of fact many people do not eat aspic, and all which comes under the head of savoury jelly, but some do, and find it very refreshing and palatable; aud guests ought to be able to assume safely, that sufficient care has been exercised in the preparation of such dishes as to render them fit to eat; the experience of many will, however, prove the contrary to be true. We would boro point out that all the dishes we aro now dealing with, and referring to as entrees, can be served for ball suppers, alfresco gather- ings, and cold collations generally; indeed, whenever a spread of pretty dishes is required. Others will be found under Eggs. In conclusion, we would draw attention to what is, perhaps, the greatest advantage of cold entrees, viz., the facilities they afford for getting some of the dishes out of hand early in the day. This, in a house where the cook works perhaps single - handed, aud is inexperienced, and therefore unable to cope with the difficulties of dishing up, is not to bo despised. The worry of sending to table several hot dishes in perfection, in rapid succession, is greater than can bo imagined by those who have every facility for the cooking and serving of a large dinner; and to reduce tho hot dishes even by one, is often quite a boon. For tho various adjuncts to cold entrees, reference must bo made to tho index: tho majority aro given under Garnishes, Adjuncts to Entrees, &c. ; others aro in Forcemeats, Dressed Vegetables, &c.