KITCHEN PROCESSES. 15 enough to take them easily should be used. barding.—This operation may he called a ready substitute for larding. To harder is to envelop the article— usually game or poultry—in bacon, the slice of bacon used being called the barde ; in this, slits should be made in a crosswise direction, in either of the ways shown below, or some similar manner. Barding is much less trouble than larding, and many cooks favour it for that reason; and while it cannot be said to be quite the game in its effect as larding, it is at the same time very useful for dry meats, such ns require almost constant basting, as it renders them proof against the dry- ness that will result if they are put down to the fire minus bacon in any form, especially if the basting be neglected at the start, as it often is, owing to the number of things that require attention at the same time. Pheasants, hares, guinea fowl, and small birds generally, may all be barded, and the sending the barde to table or removing it is optional. If served, as it frequently is, with a roasted pheasant, it should always be glazed. When boiled poultry is enveloped in bacon, that is always to be taken off. Precisely the same sort of bacon is required for barding as for larding, viz., free from saltpetre, and the slices must be thinly and evenly cut; after trimming the edges, they should be smoothed out with a palette knife, and kept very cool until ready for use. Roasting.—We all know that a good roast of the old-fashioned kind is well-nig'h obsolete, and not a few appear to regard it in the light of a national calamity. There is, how- ever, much to be said on both sides. First, the advantages, which are briefly as follows:—It is easy to baste the meat, and assuming it to be well hung, tenderness is certain. The joint, being surrounded by air, has a flavour peculiarly its own, and the required degree of colour is easily attained. Roast meat is also very nourishing, as there is less dissipation of its nutritive juices than when cooked by other pro- cesses. Now for the disadvantages:— Cost, both of fuel and time. Discom- fort, due to the large fire and the necessary close proximity thereto, on account of the almost incessant basting. Loss of weight, due to the melting of the fat and the evaporation of the water; though, as a set-off, the reten- tion of the nutriment (which remains condensed in the cooked solid) must not be forgotten. On this point we know thero is much controversy ; some scientists contend that meat loses less in roasting than in baking; but the majority agree that thero is greater loss in roasting than by any other method of cooking, though much depends on tho degree of heat and quality and size of the joint. To roast is to cook by exposing the meat to tho direct action of tho fire, the object being the retention of the