SALTED MEATS. 383 beef. The collaring-tin must be set on a plate, that any moisture from the drainer may be preserved. It consists mostly of fat, and should be clarified Fio. 9ti.—Collarixo Tin. with the pot skimmings, for use in the kitchen. A collared tongue is carved like a round of beef, and is not only very easy, but insures the fair distribution of fat and lean. Ox Tongue, to Cure.—When the tongue is brought in, see that there are no bruises on it; if so, they will not take the salt, and will have to be cut out after cooking. Rub a little salt on, and drain it, then put it in pickle. No. 1 is a good one if spice is liked; or the same without the spices may be used. Half the quan- tities of salt, &c., will do for one tongue. No. 2 can also be used, and if a high flavour is wished for, the other dry pickles for Dutch or Ham- burg Beer will serve equally well for tongues. From two to three weeks should be allowed, according to their size; as a rule, a little over a fort- night will cure a medium-sized tongue sufficiently. If a number are cured together, the Pickle No. 7 may be used. Pig’s Feet, Devilled.— Boil some feet that have been salted in the usual way, until the bones may be drawn from them. Then press the separate halves, and leave until cold. For a couple of feet, put in a saucepan a gill of the liquor in which they were boiled, a tablespoonful of hot chutney, the same of mushroom catsup and brown vinegar, a teaspoonful of dry mustard blended to a paste with the same measure of browned flour, and finely minced onions to suit the palate; salt to be added at discretion. When this has boiled up stir in an ounce of butter, and pour the whole over the feet laid flat in a stewpan. Put the lid on and leave for a quarter of an hour. This is suitable also for calf’s feet Or head, sheep’s feet, or anything else of a gelatinous nature. In serving, strain the sauce over the feet, leaving the onions behind, unless fried onions aro used, then they may be left in. Cost, about 9d. Pig’s Peet, with Eggs.—A very good breakfast dish. Required: a set of feet, half-a-dozen eggs, water, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. In preparing this dish it is supposed that soup is to be made for the next day’s dinner (see recipe for Mock Turtle Soup made with Pig’s Head, on page 63). The feet should be salted for a couple of days only, and well rinsed, then boiled until the bones fall out. The meat is then to be cut up and put in a saucepan, with enough of the liquor from the pan and boiling milk to just cover it. A tablespoonful of flour to each half-pint of liquid should then be' stirred in, and the whole boiled for a few minutes, when it will become n thick mince: pepper and cayenne, with a little salt and nutmeg must be