STOCKS AND SOUPS. 71 to fill a large breakfast-cup ; put it in a pan with the butter and the let- tuce, washed and shredded, and cook for a few minutes, then add the bean water; bring to the boil, sprinkle in the sago, and boil until it is done. The French sago or crushed tapioca is done in twenty minutes. Season to taste, stir in the cream, and serve in a very hot tureen. This is a little known soup in this country; it is considered a very good blood purifier. Nettle- tops or dandelion-leaves can be used with or instead of sorrel, and stock No. 11 can take the place of water. White Soup.—This is simple and cheap, and quickly made. Required: one pound each of potatoes, celery, and onions, one pint of milk, two pints of water, salt and pepper, coralline or rizine to thicken. Cost, about 8d. Parboil and slice the potatoes. Scald and slice the onions. Wash the celery, and cut it up very small. Put them all into a pan with the water, boiling, and the seasoning, skim, and simmer until thick and pulpy, then add the milk, and sprinkle in an ounce or two of rizine or coralline, these are quickly cooked; stir for a few minntes, then dilute with a little more hot water; boil again for a short time, and serve. White Soup (Rich).—Required: one quart of stock (No. 9), one pint of milk and cream mixed, three ounces of French tapioca or sago, a few celery stalks and a small onion, salt and pepper, a few ounces of ham, and some croutons. Cost, about Is. 3d. Make the stock hot, add the ham and vegetables, with a few white peppercorns or some mignonette pep- per, and a pinch of salt; boil until reduced a fourth, then add the tapioca, stirring until it is transparent; boil tho milk and cream, add them to the soup, after freeing it from the ham, vegetables, and spice (they may bo loosely tied in muslin); season, and serve. With the croutons, hand round some grated cheese. The ham can go in the stock-pot, as only a little of the goodness will be drawn out in the above. Wines for Soups.—See Wines for Gravies and Sauces, p. 84. Winter Soup (Cheap).— Re- quired : one pound each of whole Egyptian lentils, split peas, coarse oatmeal, crushed wheat, and pearl barley, half a pound of Indian meal and half a pound of broken rice, two large carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, three or four leeks and one pound of onions, a large bunch of parsley, a teaspoonful of celery-seed, salt and pepper, an ounce of mixed pepper- corns, allspice, and cloves, and six gallons of cold water. An ounce of brown sugar and four ounces of drip- ping are a great improvement. Cost, about 2s. Wash the lentils and peas, soak them with the barley aU night in the cold water; put them on to boil, add the sugar and dripping, bring to boil- ing point very slowly, skimming often; then add the vegetables in slices (herbs, spices, celery-seed, and parsley, all tied in muslin), the rice well washed, and the oatmeal. Boil for three hours or more, until pulpy, then mix the Indian meal with a little more cold water, add it to the soup, and boil for forty minutes longer. Some of the salt may be put in with tho meal, the rest is to be added just before serving; none should be put in at first; take out the spice- bag, and serve. The wheat should go in an hour and a half before the Boup is served. Coarse whole-meal will do instead. This is excellent for soup-kitchens, cheap dinners, &c.