UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 504 and by “ ricli-looking,” we mean a gravy that contains nutriment and flavour by long stewing of the bone and trimmings, and by suitable and careful seasoning. Here is the secret; timo is required. It is no use to say at twelve o’clock, “we will have a hash for dinner,” if the meal be atone. The meat 1ms to be cut off neatly ; the bones may be scraped for a little dish of mince for another meal, or for a savoury toast, rissoles, croquettes, and tho like, and then put on for the foundation. Our directions for stock, gravies for hashes and minces, and the recipes of the following pages, will, wo trust, show how to do it; many are all too familiar with the way it should not bo done. We do not mean that the separate stewing of every bone is necessary; in houses where the stock-pot is used this is, of course, unnecessary; but where stock is made just as required, we mean that hours before dinner the bones must be put on to cook, in order that the gravy may be good. Then we come to the method of re-heating our meat when the gravy is ready. Either it must be put in, and not once come to the boil after; or it must simmer for some timo. Why ? In the case of good, tender meat, already cooked enough, the first plau is the better ; because meat that just boils for a few minutes gets hard, especially when cut thinly; but by covering up, and leaving it below boiling point for the time specified in our recipes, it acquires the llavours of the gravy, and is served in a succulent, tasty condition. But supposing the joint to be tough (inferior meat), or too much underdone to be palatable, the simmering method must bo adopted, and about an hour may be allowed, by which time the tough meat will hare become much more tender (if some acid, which acts upon the fibres ba put in the gravy), or the underdone meat will have become sufficiently cooked. Therefore, discretion is wanted. It is the habit of treating cold meat generally like fresh meat, and cooking it perhaps for hours, and often at too high a temperature, that has done much towards bringing rechauffes into disrepute. Do not add salt at first, and always let the gravy boil up that the thickening may cook, are good rules. The tenderer the meat the nicer will bo any dish made from it. Braised meat is excellent for any rechauffe, being moist and tender. Boiled meat wants very nice seasoning to redeem it from insipidity. Roasted or baked meat needs care to prevent it hardening. Always remember that it is well to subject meats of any sort to the action of dry heat a second time for as short a timo as possible; and that it should be protected from direct action of the heat, by vegetables, <fcc. Cottage Pie illustrates this argument. Tho best and richest of the dishes in the present chapter, almost needless to say, are not made from scraps. Many of them can take the place of a “ made dish ” from fresh meat. In fact they range from very cheap to very good, and are so varied in kind that almost every requirement may be met, and a great variety indulged in. (See also Made Dishes.) % TINNED MEATS. Preserved meat, viz., meat in tins, is now a recognised article of con- sumption. One may here and there meet with a person who says, “ Oh ! I