136 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. boned and stuffed; oystei forcemeat is delicious, and oyster sauce should accompany it; or the herb forcemeat, with parsley or caper sauce ; or shrimp or anchovy forcemeat, with the same sauces, will be found equally good. In either case, supposing a cut piece of fish, after stuffing, bind with tape, and tie a piece of greased paper over the ends, taking them off to brown up last thing. Another good plan is to tie a greased paper all over the fish, without any previous preparation. Then, when done, brush over with glaze, top and ends, and dredge with raspings warmed in the oven. (See also Fish, Roasted.) Any thick fish is very good thus cooked. Cod, Boiled.-If tlio head and shoulders be the part chosen, very careful washing is needed in salt and water; the eyes should bo removed, and every part of the head rubbed with salt, and rinsed in cold water and vindgar. In case of no fish-kettle with drainer being handy, it will be well to tie it in a thin cloth, that it may be lifted out without breaking. Put it in water prepared in the usual way, and when it luis boiled up and been well skimmed, lay the fish in, and cook slowly. It will take forty minutes and upwards, according to size. Drain and dish carefully, and serve with the usual sauces. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley or horse-radish and parsley. (See Fish, Boiled.) For a cut from the middlo, boil as above, or in milk and water, or Court Bouillon au Blanc. Oyster sauco is very good with it. Cod, Fried,—The tail end is a good part to fry. It should bo washed and dried, and "split open, and the bone removed, then divided into neat pieces of even size. Steaks may be cut from the middle and served in this way also. Cut the fish into slices an inch thick, wash them well and dry them tho- roughly. Plunge them into boiling fat, anil fry them brown. Put them on a piece of clean paper to clear them from fat; Berve them on a hot napkin, and send them to table garnished with parsley. Before frying, the fish should be dipped in batter, or egged and crumbed ; the latter method is the better. Cod Heads, Browned,—After boiling two or three heads as previously directed for Cod, Boiled, take the skin off, and dry them ; put them before a sharp fire or in an oven, and baste them with hot dripping; as soon as brown they are ready to serve. A little flour may be dredged over, and allowed to froth up, or some raspings can bo used. Melted Butter, with a little browning, some caper or other flavoured vinegar, or a little ketchup, makes a good sauce. The heads should bo dished and garnished with parsley and lemon or horse-radish. Cod, Moulded.—Required: a pound of cooked fish, three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, and some browned crumbs besides, a gill of plain white sauce or melted butter (see Hot Sauces), salt and pepper, and a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg. Butter a plain mould, round or oval —a cake tin does very well; coat it with the browned crumbs, putting plenty in, and shaking out all that do not adhere to the tin. Pass the fish through a coarse sieve, after freeing it from bones and skin; add the crumbs and cold sauce, with the beaten eggs and seasoning, and mix thoroughly. Put it in the mould firmly, and dredge more crumbs on the top. Twist a sheet of buttered paper over, and bake in a moderate oven, for half an hour, or thereabouts, according to the depth of the tin. Remove the paper in time for the top to brown well. Turn out carefully on a hot dish, and pour some sauce round it, the same kind used in the mixture, or plain Oyster or White Mushroom Sauce is equally suitable. For a better dish of the kind, use any rich sauce, both in the mixture and round the mould; and garnish taste- fully with cut lemons and fried parsley, or with prawns or shrimps.