132 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. black peppers, with a sliced onion and a bay-leaf. Cleanse and sew up the fish in muslin, fitted to its shape; when the water is warm, put it in, and let it boil gently, skim well, and give from eight to twelve minutes per pound, according to thickness; boil faster at tho end than the beginning. When done, unwrap, and serve with white sauce of the molted butter kind, well flavoured, or with drawn butter, mixed with lemon-juice. Bream.—This is a good-looking but not very good-tasting fish. It is Fio. 20.—Bream. to be had in abundance in Cornwall. Of tho various ways of cooking, it is said to be best when boiled (sec below), hut it may bo baked, plainly, or first stuffed, and served with a good sauce. It is nice stewed, and a little white wine improves the gravy. Bream, Broiled.—Wash and dry tho fish inside and out, but do not take off the scales; season it inside with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne ; herbs may be added; then broil it for half an hour, or more, according to size, at a distance from the fire; it should be browned well, and floured slightly if it cracks. In serving, lift up the skin and scales, and take portions from the under flesh, which will be found juicy. Any white sauce or a brown piquant one may accompany it. Grilled in the same way, bream is better still; the fire must be clear and tho cooking gradual; but, although these are tho usual methods, we advise that the fish he first brushed over with a little oil, or clarified butter or drip- ping. Frequent turning is necessary, that it may be evenly cooked. Brill.—This is a good fish; it is flat, not unlike the sole, hut broader; it should be firm, and, in choosing, look out for a creamy under'flesh; if bluish and the fish is thin, it will be poor eating. At its best, it is regarded by many as little inferior to turbot, while it is cheaper, often ranging from 4<i. to lOd. per pound. It may be cooked in any of the ways given under Turbot, Plaice, or Soles (largo soles, that is). When plainly boiled, Anchovy, Shrimp, Lobster, or any similar sauce may be served with it. For any of the fish rechauffes where white fish is named, brill may be used; it is air excellent fish for serving cold with mayonnaise or other good sauce, and it is very good curried, &c. If the fish is large, slit the back before boiling, and always rub the white side with lemon-juice, however it is to be cooked. Carp.—This is a pond rather than a river fish. The flesh has a muddy Fig. 21.—Carp. taste, owing to the habit of the fish of burying itself in mud. The best are oi a moderate size, and they should he kept a day before using. The gills should be removed, and the fish most tho- roughly cleansed, plenty of salt being rubbed on the back-hone. If put in salt and water (a handful to the gallon) with a cup of vinegar for a time, and well rinsed, carp is improved. Plain mothods of cooking are not suited to