481 SAUSAGlifl. Gravy is often dispensed with; if liked, a little is sometimes made in the pan, after pouring off the fat, in the way it is made for chops or steaks. A better gravy is made liy heating a little suitable stock separately; it should be slightly thickened, and poured round the sausages, or served in a hot boat. Sausages should be served very hot. They are often dished on fried bread or toast. Sausages, to Grill or Broil. —These are better if parboiled and left to cool, then brushed over with warm fat, and crisped up before or over the tire. In this form, sheep’s kidneys are sometimes served with them. Sausages, with Cress and Pickles.—Cook some sausages a nice brown colour; glaze them, and serve on a hot dish with toast under them. Put some watercress round, plainly dressed with a little oil, vinegar, salt, and mignonette pepper, and send sweet pickles to table. No gravy or sauce is wanted. This dish is wholesome and appetising. Cost varies with the kind of sausages. Sausages, with Pried Pota toes. — After frying sausages, some cold potatoes may be cooked in the fat. This furnishes a cheap and taste- dish. Sausages, with Vegetables. —Almost any sort of vegetable eats well with sausajes, but green ones are the most wholesome, particularly with pork sausages, as they will counteract their richness. It is quite as easy to serve them in a tasty-looking form, and they cost no more. Supposing some sausages, and sprouts, or spinach, turnip tops, or anything of the sort; the sausages should be laid on a toast on the dish, the vegetables round it (if a puree it looks all the nicer), then in between the green, some macaroni or rice, plain or otherwise, may be put; or little potato cakes or cones also mix in with the green with good effect. Tomato Sausages.—Required: pork, tomatoes, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8(1. to lOd. per pound, on an average. These are of comparatively recent in troduction. As arule, they are composed of pork sausage meat of the ordinary sort, well-flavoured with tomato pulp. The following recipe will be found a good one: To four pounds of pork sausage meat, allow twelve ounces of tomato pulp. Prepare it by putting somu ripe tomatots in a stewpan, slicing them first, and letting them cook, with fre- quent shaking, until quite soft. Then sieve the pulp, so that the skins and seeds are left behind. Put it back in the pan with a teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of coralline pepper and cayenne, and just a pinch of white sugar. Stir and boil for about ten minutes, then turn out into an earthen vessel, to get cold before mixing it with the pork. It must be weighed after cooking and cooling. If fresh tomatoes are not at hand, any good brand of pulp may be selected, but it is always advisable to reduce it by simmering, and to season it as above directed, to ensure its keeping. These sausages should be freshly made as required. They will not keep so long as plain sausages, but in cool weather, if made as directed, they will not become sour under a couple of days. They must be kept in a cold place, and may be parboiled with advantage, before frying or baking. Truffled Sausages.—Required: two pounds of young lean pork, a pound of fat pork, an ounce of salt, half an ounce of white pepper, nearly a teaspoonful of mixed herbs in fine powder, or half the quantity of fresh ones, from four to six ounces of truffles, a little trufflo essence, and a glass of good wine—sherry or Madeira. Cost, about 2s. 6d., exclusive of truffles. Put the mixture into very delicato skins before cooking. This may bo used for “ farcing ” purposes. It must be kept very cool until wanted for use. Little cakes made of it are very good for serving with game or e