330 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. or not, the experiment is certainly worth a trial, particularly as the cost is not increased. Leg, to Roast.—Choose a plump log with a short hone, not a large- boned, thin leg. Have some dripping ready melted, and baste it well, especi- ally about the knuckle. Remember to cut off the shank-bone in good time, for the gravy; it is usekss to leave it on ; it is very useful if made the most of for gravy. After five to eight minutes’ sharp cooking, remove the leg farther back-, and cook very slowly, on account of its thickness. The more basting the better. If flour is used at the end, put it on in time, that there may be no raw taste; let the meat be a nice, rich golden brown when done. Make plenty of gravy ; that from the bone should be poured off, and used for rinsing out the tin (see page 87). Serve well-cooked vegetables, and, if possible, some fruit jelly with it. Red currant is usual, but black currant or tomato will be found very good, and furnish variety. Either is, in our opinion, improved by being heated; the jar should be set in a pan of boiling water, and the jelly poured into a well-heated sauce boat. Mutton cools so rapidly that we think that cold jelly, or any- thing that tends to cool it, should be avoided ; and the flavour of the jelly is not impaired by heating. For a number of guests, it is well to serve jelly both hot and cold. Cost, about lOd. or lid. per pound. Time, about two hours for a leg of six to seven pounds. In cold weather, two hours and a quarter for a leg of six pounds or rather over. Leg, with Forcemeat.—This is a common dish in Australia. Take for it a leg of Australian mutton, bone it, then pare off the outer fat from the fillet end ; minco and mix it with half its weight of bacon, also minced. Fat ham may be used instead. A season- ing of garlic, onions, and pickles is then given to it, and the mince is ready; or it is sometimes prepared simply seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, if to be eaten by ladies or children. The hollow made by cutting out the bone, &c., is filled with the mince, and' the skin secured over tho opening to the under- side. Bread-crumbs are sometimes added. Meanwhile, a gravy is made by boiling the bone and trimmings with as much mutton broth or water as will be necessary to stew the leg; vege- tables are added, an onion and a carrot sliced, a small bunch of parsley, with a seasoning of pepper and salt. Lay slices of bacon over the top of the leg, and stew gently, with tho lid of tho pan closed, for three hours and a half or more. When done, strain the gravy, boil it rapidly, and reduce it to a glaze, with which glaze the meat, or thicken the gravy simply with browned flour, and serve it with the meat. French beans, boiled in the usual manner, drained, and then wanned up in some of the gravy, may be laid under and around the leg of mutton. Cost of mutton, from 7d. per pound. In some towns legs of Australian mutton are sold at ti^d. per pound, or less. Leg, with Haricot Beans.— The leg may bo roasted or baked ; if the latter, unless basted very often it will be dry; it is greatly improved if covered with a greased paper after a preliminary basting with hot fat. It should then be basted over the paper, which must be taken off in good time for the surface to crisp up, or it will taste greasy. As to the choice of the leg, sec remarks under Leg, to Roast. Writing on this subject, Sir Henry Thompson recommends tho beans known as “white Soissons,” a pint of which should be put, after boiling, into the gravy of the dish, round the leg (or shoulder) of mutton. Ho adds that “ with a good supply of tho meat gravy, and' a little salt and pepper, the haricots are by no means the worst part of the mutton.” Then, “ with a smooth puree of mild onions, which have been previously sliced, fried brown, and stewed, served freely