UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 634 butter, and it costs but about 7d. per pound. A preparation sold as “ vege- table butter,” and which is probably a mixture of fats, is also satisfactory; there are two forms of this—a solid and a liquid; or, as we ought to say, a semi-solid, to be strictly correct, the thinner kind being like thick oil in appearance. The first is used for pastry and cakes; the second for frying, and for dressings for vegetables and salads. Of the oils that may be regarded as substitutes for olive oil, those of the walnut, poppy, palm, and cotton seed may be mentioned. Walnut oil is largely consumed in France, and many consider that the finest sorts are de- cidedly superior to inferior olive oil. Cotton seed is wholesome; but it has a drawback in smelling strongly when liented. An oil sold as “ vegetable oil ” is a compound of vegetable pro- ducts of guaranteed purity; the oils we have named, with others, enter into it. The average cost of a good oil of this sort may be calculated at from 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. per gallon, or less if several gallons are bought at once. The very best should be bought for cakes and pastry and for the frying of delicate sweets ; also for salads. The cheaper kinds will answer for some purposes ; but the difference in cost is but trifling, and better results will follow' the use of the best brands. In all our recipes for strictly vegetarian dishes, when no special mention is made of any oil or fat, either of the articles now under discussion may be used. These products can be had from dealers in vegetarian specialities in London and most large towns. It is important that the goods be fresh, and for this reason a firm that does a large trade and whose stock is being con- stantly renewed should be applied to for them. For olive oil, see the chapter on Salads. Okra (or Gumbo).—This is a favourite in the East and West Indies; it entei's largely into the composition of many dishes of the class known as “ pepper pot.” It is now to be had in this country in tins. Okra is the fruit of a plant; it is greenish in colour, and contains seeds not unlike pearl barley in appearance; it is cut up into pieces before canning. By some it is disliked on account of its viscidity and peculiar flavour; others regard it as a great delicacy. To serve this as a vege- table, turn the contents of a tin into a lined saucepan ; add a little seasoning, and boil. Those who are unaccustomed to okra, will like it better if a little thickened stock or gravy be added; but w'hen the palate has become “seasoned,” such additions are gener- ally voted a mistake. A slight flavour of tomatoes is considered a great im- provement by some persons ; the pulp of the fresh fruit, or some conserve or catsup, may be used according to taste. Cost, about Is. per tin. Okra and Tomatoes.—A mix- ture of these fruits is to be had in tins; they only need heating as directed for okra. Cost, about 9d. to Is. 3d., according to size, from a pint to nearly a quart; the smaller tins are the more readily obtainable. Olives.—These can only be ob- tained in this country in the preserved state; they are sent from France, Italy, and Spain. The Italian olives are much esteemed for dessert, or handing between the courses as a whet to the appetite, and to clear the palate. French olives are small, and a dark green. Spanish are larger, and yellowish green in colour. Olives are largely used for garnishing, and for all sorts of savoury dishes, salads, &c.; they are also added to various meats, ns described in some of our recipes; and to sauce. (See Olive Sauce, in Hot Sauces.) If too salt for any purpose, they may be soaked in cold water; or, for gravies, &c., they can be blanched, by putting into cold wTater and bring- ing to the boil. The fruit must always be kept covered in the bottle; if ex- posed to the air, it will spoil. To turn or stone an olive, pass a knife in a