633 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. ones. With this we do not agre9 ; as they cannot be grilled, fried, &c., so as to resemble either in form, flavour, or aroma, the fresh article. But they are, for all that, very useful, us the mushrooms themselves are quickly re- heated, and may be served in white sauce, or used for garnishing purposes, or they can be chopped up and sieved, and used for forcemeats, &e.; and for the latter purpose they are particularly useful when fresh mushrooms are scarce and dear. The liquor, too, is excellent for adding to the gravy of a piece of braised meat, and for sauces and gravies generally. Like all goods of the class, they must not be left in the tin after it is opened; then, so far as we have been able to ascertain, there is little, if any, danger attending their use; and purchasers may rest assured that they are getting mushrooms, and not toadstools; because in the districts where they are tinned for export, only properly grown mushrooms are used in the trade. Cost, from 6d. or 8d. per tin upwards. Mushrooms may also be bought in bottles; these are to be preferred to the tinned ones. Mustard and Cress. —Since these are generally eaten together, they may be described together, al- though almost everyone is familiar with the tiny green leaves of this popular salad. The seeds may be sown upon any moist surface, and in addition to the uses of these plants for salads, they are so wholesome, that their amalgamation with parsley and other herbs, commonly added to broth and soup, i3 much to be recommended. If thrown into either a minute before serving, they impart an agreeable flavour ; or a small quantity might be added to purees of various sorts, to give pungency. Their value as gar- nish is well known ; they give a coo], appetising appearance to cold meats. Nasturti tun.—Indian Cress is another name for this elegant plant. The flowers are used as garnish for salads and other dishes; the young leaves are also employed in salads. The seeds are pickled, and may bo used as substitutes for capers. (See recipes under Salads, Seasonings, Pickles, and Sandwiches.) Cost, uncertain, being seldom sold in the manner of ordinary salad plants and herbs. Nettles,—The common nettle is one of a tribe of plants that includes the hop, fig, and others used as food. In many country places nettles are eaten freely in the spring, as they are valued as a blood purifier ; they are so wholesome as to be almost medicinal in their properties ; and deserve to bo much better known and more gener- ally consumed. The young, light, green leaves only are the parts to be eaten; if old, coarse leaves are cooked, the dish will be voted not worth the trouble. To prepare them, cut the leaves off with scissors, or put gloves on and pick them off; wash them as carefully as spinach, and boil in plenty of water, salted as usual. Some advise two waters, with a pinch of soda in the second; but this is only necessary when past their prime. They will take about twenty minutes to cook, and may be served plainly, or receive any of the additions given for Spinach. In taking them from the rinsing water ready for the boiling pot, by using a spoon or vegetable slice, there is no fear of stinging; and while washing them, a wooden spoon or stick should be used to stir them. Cost, uncertain, being seldom sold. Those who may make trial of nettles plainly cooked, and find them palatable, are advised to try them in the form of purees of the better class, as they quite merit the slightly in- creased cost. Oils and Fats, Vegetable.— By the term fats, we include all those that are semi-solid and such as are of firm, butter-like consistence. The en- tire group is now very largely employed for culinary purposes, especially by the class of vegetarians who refrain from the use of butter on principle. As a sub- stitute for tho latter, it is not easy to got a better substitute than cocoa-nut