368 itJNIVEUSAt COOKERY BOOK. people omit the sugar in “ pickle,” both “ dry ” and “ wet,” although it is a well-known powerful antiseptic, and gives mellowness to the meat. No doubt in days gone by, its omission was due mostly to its high price. Now this drawback is removed. Many authorities on the cuisine assort that the sugar should be at least a third the weight of the salt; others give a larger proportion; in a few eases, the sugar exceeds the weight of the salt. This is, however, seldom necessary. The quality of the salt is important. Bay salt is rather more expensive than common salt, but gives a finer flavour. Saltpetre gives a good colour, but hardens the meat; it should, therefore, bo used in small proportions only. When a savoury flavour is liked, a minced onion can be put with the pickle, and some herbs in powder are much liked by mai s to the respective merits of dry and wet pickle, there is something to be said for and against both. When salted dry, meat has a better flavour, bat it is rather more trouble to rub and turn, and loses in weight. When immersed in brine, by the wet process, meat gains in weight, and is said to keep longer; but there is the trouble of boiling the brine in the first instance. It is, however, cheaper than the dry salting, and is useful when large quantities of meat are being dealt with. It cau be boiled up and used again, if more salt be added, and it is carefully skimmed; the portion which would cause it to spoil, will rise in scum, and must bo removed. The meat must be kept well uuder the brine; to ensure immer- sion a board may be laid upon it. The pickling tub, or pan, must be dry and sweet at the time of using. If a tub, we advise that it be occasionally rinsed with a weak solution of permanganate of potash, and dried in the air. The time for keeping meat in briue can only be determined by the degree of saltness required, and its kind and weight. Beef—particu- larly lean beef—absorbs salt more quickly than pork; if a piece of each kind, equal in weight, were put in the same briue, the beef might be ready in a week, while the pork might be left twice or thrice as long, and not be too salt. Pork is made more digestible by salting; many can eat pickled pork or bacon who cannot partake of fresh pork. Beef, on the other hand, is less digestible and nourishing when salted, because a good deal of the nourishing properties are drawn from the lean by the salt; there- fore, although cured meat is much liked by many, and is useful when fresh meat is difficult to obtain, it should only be eaten occasionally by those who have ample facilities for obtaining fresh meat. Pickle, No. 1.—Required : a pound each of common salt, bay salt, and brown sugar, an ounce each of ground cloves, allspice, and nutmeg, and two ounces of saltpetre. Reduce the salt to powder; set it near the fire to become hot; add all the rest of the ingredients, and make them warm. Give a piece of meat of twenty pounds or so, twenty minutes’ rubbing, then strew the salt, &c., all over it. For small pieces, reduce the proportions, and rub for a shorter time. This will produce a very high flavour. No. 2.—Required : half a pound of bay salt, four ounces of common salt, six ounces of sugar or treacle, half an ounce of saltpetre,, nnd a quarter of an ounce of black pepper.