650 UNIVERSAL COOKERV ROOK. discolour tho potatoes. When done, give the steamer a shake ; set it on a plate near the fire, and replace the lid by a cloth,'and serve in a few minutes. They will take rather longer than boiled potatoes, and may be pooled or not; in the latter case, they are better finished off by baking. About the superiority of steamed over boiled potatoes, there is some difference of opinion. Some say that only a good potato is satisfactory when steamed. Certainly, a good one shows better results after steaming, and naturally so ; but our experience is that a potato of inferior quality is likely to be im- proved by stoaming, simply because the salts are better preserved, and it is likely to bo less watery. But apart from these considerations, there aro other decided advantages : viz., less watching is required; and in the event of the potatoes being left a trifle too long, they will not be spoiled, because, if they should break, the water cannot reach them. Again, the use of a steamor reduces the number of utensils (if something be boiled below)—a great consideration, if space is limited and fuel dear. Potato Straws.—(See Potatoes, Fried.) Potato, Sweet.—After the intro- duction of the potato into this country it used to be confounded with this plant, which it resembled, and from which it received its name. It is still cultivated to a certain extent in Spain and the South of France, and is largely eaten in tropical America. It may bo employed as a substitute for ordinary potatoes; and can also be served as a substitute for yams, and cooked in the same way. Pumpkin.—This is the fruit of a plant of the same order as the squash and vegetable marrow; it grows some- times to a great size. Pumpkins can be used in the same way as Vege- table Marrow. (See also Pumpkin Pie and Pumpkin Pudding.) The following is a popular American dish. Pumpkin, Baked.—Take a nice rich pumpkin ; pare and seed it; slice it a quarter of an inch thick, after cutting it in four or eight pieces; let them lie in cold water with a little salt for a time, then dry them, and place them in a double layer in a large, shallow baking-dish, with only just water enough to keep them from burning. Cook long, and at a gentle heat; a sharp oven will spoil the dish. Tho pieces should be very tender, and the moisture dried up. Season with salt and pepper, and spread both sides with butter. Serve with bread and butter for tea or any other meal. Cost uncertain, but on an average about the same as vegetable marrows, in proportion to size. Purslaue. — This is a common plant, used as a pot herb, and in salads; it is considered very cooling and wholesome, but is much less in demand now than formerly. Radishes.—These have a pun- gent taste ; they are much nicer when young and quickly grown. They are generally cheap, and are a popular relish with bread and butter. In preparing them for table, they should be washed, and tho tops cut off short; the radishes should he freed from any fibrous growth by light scraping; turnip radishes may be made more digestible by peeling them very thinly when fully grown. Radishes enter into many salads and savoury dishes, as their pronounced flavour imparts zest to more insipid edibles. They aro very useful, too, for garnishing pur- poses ; when used whole, they should be as even in size as possible. Cost, about Id. per bunch on an average. Radislies, Grated.—The con- sumption of radishes in tho raw state is often followed by extreme dis- comfort; if grated, there is less fear of this, for it has been proved that a good deal depends upon perfect masti- cation. After washing and scraping, tho tops should be removed, and the younger thoy are tho nicer. A little pile'of grated radishes is a nice relish