432 tWIVEfiSAt COOKERY ROOK. tlmt the stewing increases the size, but it obviates the tendency to shrivel into comparative nothingness. Any sort of brown stock may be used; there should bo a garnish to the dish ; fried potatoes are very good. leveret.—This is a young hare. It may be cooked by any of the recipes, given for hare, and is prepared in the same way. The flesh is more tender and delicate, and less time is required for cooking. A milder season- ing, both in gravy and forcemeat, is also preferred by many than for an old hare. Leverets, from their tenderness, are well adapted for pies and other dishes in which a tender hare is a desideratum. Ortolans.—These birds are small and rare, but much esteemed for the delicacy of their flesh. They are prepared for roasting as a quail, but the trail is always loft in. Instead of a vine leaf, a bay leaf is used some- times. They need basting all the time they are cooking. Cost, very uncertain. Ten minutes or less will cook them. Ortolans, Stewed with Truffles.—Required: half a dozen birds, half a dozen truffles, sauce, &c., as undor. Cost, very uncertain. Cut off heads and feet, take out crops, and season with pepper, salt, and a bit of grated nutmeg. Rut the sliced truffles in a stewpan with the birds on ; pour over some Madeira and stock, equal measures, and lay a slice or two of bacon- on. Stew softly for twenty minutes; then dish the birds high, with the truffles, on a large crouton laid on a dish. Strain the gravy; boil and skim well; then put in a little brown sauco; boil again, it should become thick, then pour it over all, and serve hot. If liked, the ortolans may be stuffed and trussed, then longer must be given them. Any nice clear stock does; the best is from game, or a mixture of game and meat, made as strong as given in the recipe for stock No. 6 or 7. Partridges.—These, like other game, should be hung. In the fresh state they are not good. Young ones should be chosen for roasting; old birds are only good for the stock-pot, for soup, &c. To test them, notice the under-feathers of the wing; they are pointed in a young partridge; the legs are yellowish, and the bill dark. In older birds the legs are greyer. If taken up by the beak, the lower one will snap if the bird be very young. If the vent be stiff it is a sign of freshness. If it is limp and discoloured, it proves staleness. The red-legged partridge is most esteemed in Franco, but it is inferior to the English, being of a drier nature, and having less flavour. They must be hung as long as possible, and well cooked, or will be dry and hard ; with care, they are nice eating. Cost, about 3s. per brace for English birds; the red-legged ones are very uncertain, and English birds vary considerably; they may reach from 2s. to 3e. 6d. each. The season for Russian partridges follows that of English birds. Partridges, a la Ragley.— Required : a brace of young birds, a glass of good sherry, a gill and a half of stock No. 16, two table- spoonfuls of salad oil, the same measure of tomato pulp, a pinch of salt and cayenne, a dozen crushed white peppercorns, a sprig of parsley, two cloves well bruised, and eight diamond-shaped croutons ; a liver puree as below. Cost, from 4s. Gd. to 5s. Truss the birds like chickens for boiling; put them in a stewpan with the oil and herbs; turn about for a ■few minutes, add all the rest, and stir to the boil. Cover, and cook, with an occasional shake, until done. Cook the livers of the birds in the stock for a short time, and make a puree with a little minced ham, some tomato pulp, and seasoning; add a few drops of carmine, and put a portion on each crouton. Place the birds on a hot dish; skim and strain the sauce, and pour it over them; garnish with the