561 CEREALS. oval, plain or fancy, as required, or as convenient. It must be most carefully buttered in every part; tlie best way is to put in some clarified butter, and turn the mould round and round, and then pour out all the spare butter; then dip a paste-brush in the butter, and go over the mould in every part; by treating the mould as first described, the cornel's get a fair share of the butter. Press the rice in, and bake as long as is necessary to give a golden brown surface and to make it firm enough to turn out. The moulds are shown in the chapter on Garnishes. l!ut it may happen that a mould is not available; then take two cake-tins, one, say, 7, and the other 5 inches in diameter. By putting one inside the other, and filling the space with the rfce, a border an inch wide is obtained. The inside of the large tin, and the outside of the small tin, must bo buttered, and the inner tin must be carefully removed. For a wider border, the inner tin must be smaller. The quantity of rice given would be enough for a very large mould; but it will be a guide to proportions for a medium- sized one. Sometimes the mould is sprinkled with fine bread-crumbs after buttering, for brown dishes. All sorts of rich ragouts, minces, &c., are served in these borders. Rice Borders for Hot Sweets.—The mode of preparation is the same as the above, but milk is used in place of stock, and less butter is needed; it is a good plan to just butter the bottom of the pan to pre- vent the rice sticking. In place of four yolks, two whole eggs can bo used; the border should be more delicately baked for this. Sometimes the rice is left in the mould to set, then, after turning out, is brushed over with wann butter, and baked on a copper sheet. In this way it can be watched, and as soon as hot through and dark enough, it should be served. The various uses of this are given in later chapters. Rice, Browned. —This is the dish referred to many times in this work; it is appetising in appearance as well as taste. Patna rice, boiled as for curry, is wanted; it must be left to get cold. Then take a baking-tin and butter it a little, put the rice in a thin layer, and bake it in the oven to a golden brown, turning it about to colour equally. It must not get dry; but only as much butter as is needed to keep it from burning is to be used. This is admirably adapted for the class of dishes above referred to. If boiled in stock, the rice is nicer. Cost, about 4d. for a dish of half a pound. (See Kice Casserole below.) Rice Casserole.—This differs from a border by reason of its having a bottom, and, in some dishes, a lid also. The word means, as here used, a case. The rice is prepared as for a border, then a mould is filled with it; or a better way, because less wasteful, is to line the mould only, and put a piece of bread in to fill up the middle; more rice is put on the top, and a marie made with a fluted cutter if for a fancy mould, or with a plain one if a plain mould: the latter are the easier, though less effective. The part marked forms the lid when baked, and must be cut out with great care, and the bread removed. The hollow is then filled with a mince of some rich savoury kind. The rice is sometimes scooped out, so as to leave a very thin wall all round ; but it should always be fairly thick to start with, or is liable to break: it need not bo wasted, as there are endless ways of using it up. A very useful mould to use for casseroles is the one illustrated under Baised Pies in a later chapter, and the directions there 'given for the pies will enable the reader to apply it to this and other purposes; speaking broadly, we aro of opinion that a casserole is more difficult and less useful than a border of rice. If the cover is not put on, the top is generally garnished nicely; details given under Vol-au-Vents and other dishes in Pastry apply equally to this class of casserole. Rice a la Chicago,—Kcquircd •