BEEF. 301 when thej’ go in. The doth and pasto should then be taken off, and a napkin pinned round tho bones, which should be put upright on a hot dish, covered with a napkin. Serve quickly, and as hot as possible. Marrow is much relished by epicures; it is, however, very often digested with difficult}’. Its nourishing properties are the same as those of fats generally. There are other ways of serving marrow than in tho bones. (See recipes under Sa- vouries.) Marrow bones are generally weighed and sold with the silver-side of the round. Olives.—Required : beef, season- ing, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Cut two pounds of rump-steak into thin slices, and beat well with a rolling- pin to make it tender. Lay over each a seasoning of chopped herbs, pepper and salt; roll up the pieces separately, and tie round with a narrow tape. Put in a stewpan one ounce of butter, two ounces of bacon, cut in thin slices, some chopped parsley, and enough stock to make gravy. Put the rolls of steak in the stewpan, pressing them closely together; cover with a piece of white paper, and stew gently from two to three hours. When sufficiently tender, thicken the gravy with brown thicken- ing, or flour and serve. A few drops of mushroom ketchup, or good store sauce, will improve this dish. If inferior steak, or freshly-killed meat is used, sprinkle it with vinegar a few hours before cooking. (For other recipes see Entrees and Made Dishes.) Olives with Hominy.—Boil some hominy as for Porridge: pour some plain stock over, and cook until it lees absorbed it; season nicely, and put the olives, as above, in tho middlo of a dish, with the hominy round it. Over the latter put a little Cheese Sauce, ami coat it with browned crumbs. This is a very savoury dish. An ounce of hominy should be allowed for every two olives. Bice can be used in the same way, and various other sauces will serve. By some a nice brown sauce flavoured with cheese would be relished. Cost, about 2s. 9d. Ox Brains.—After very careful washing and drying, these may be boiled in seasoned stock until firm enough to slice; they should then be egged and crumbed, and fried. The stock in which they are boiled may be freed from fat, and converted into gravy to serve with them. Ox Brains, Baked.—Skin the brains, and steep for half an hour in a little warm stock; then dry, and bake in the oven, or before the fire with a little chipping or bacon fat to haste with, for about half an hour. If par- boiled, less time will do. Serve with fried potatoes and bacon, or with fried mushrooms or tomatoes, and strips of ham or bacon. Ox Cheek, Boned and Boiled. —Required : an ox cheek, seasoning, dripping, vegetables, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s., hut variable. After the cheek has been washed and soaked, take the eye out, dry the cheek, and take the moat off the hone neatly. Then lay it outside down on a hoard, scrape the hone, if any bits of meat are sticking to it, lay these on the cheek, then dredge it over with pepper, a dust of grated nutmeg, and powdered herbs; half a teaspoonful or so mixed, together with a tablespoon- ful of freshly-chopped parsley. Roll it up tightly, and bind with tape; string is often used, but tho shape suffers, and the meat is not so nice. Next, melt four ounces of beef dripping in an iron saucepan ; when hot, put the meat in and brown it well; give it a quarter of an hour, and turn it often. Then pour off the fat, add stock (No. 1 j or 2), just warm, to cover tho meat; boil up and skim, thon put in vege- tables, herbs, and spices of tho usual kind for stows, and simmer steadily for three to four hours. Thicken and flavour some of tho liquor for gravy, 1 and serve the vegetables with tho