463 GAME AND POULTRY. Cut three or four large turnips to the shape of corks, and peel six or eight button onions. Put them into boiling water for five minutes, drain and dry them, fry them in one ounce of butter till they are lightly browned, and put them aside. Skim, strain, and thicken the gravy in which the giblets are stewed, and put in with the bacon the fried vegetables soon enough for them to be sufficiently dressed at the same time as the meat. They will require from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to age and size. Arrange the giblets neatly in the centre of a hot dish, put the vegetables round them, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. The wings only of turkeys are often stewed in this way. Pota- toes may be served with this dish ; or a border of macaroni or rice ; a puree of carrots is also suitable. Turkey, Hashed, a la Dela- ville, — Required : the legs of a turkey, a puree as below, gravy, wine, rice, and croutons as under. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of the turkey. Skin and cut the meat cf the legs into slices; put between them some slices of cooked forcemeat; place in the form of a roll, and lay in a baking tin to j ust hold it; cover with a buttered paper after moistening with stock, and heat in the oven, over a tin of hot water. For the puree, put two ounces of butter, two tomatoes, half a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of white vinegar, a chopped shalot, and a pinch each of salt, sugar, and pepper into a sauce- pan. Boil to a pulp, sieve, and return to the pan with a teaspoonful of rice flour. Boil up, and then beat in a raw egg, yolk only. Have a long crouton, hollowed in the centre ; put the turkey roll on it, and pour the puree over. Garnish with a few fancy croutons. Put some boiled rice on both aides the dish, and pour the gravy from the turkey over ; reduce it well, only a little is wanted. Then sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve as an entree for a plain dinner. The legs of a couple of fowls may be served in the same way, and the meat from the back of a nicely-cooked rabbit is equally nice. (See recipes under Fowl.) Turkey, Minced, — Supposing the best of the bird to have been eaten, take any flesh that may be left, and cut it in little dice. Any that cannot be so cut may be scraped from the bones. If the giblets be left from the gravy, they will probably yield further flavour by stewing them in stock or water with the bones. In any case, a nice gravy must form the foundation (see recipes) ; the bits of skin and gristle from the meat will help. If any sauce, as celery ox- oyster, be left over, put it in the gravy, making a brown or white mince, according to the materials at hand. Thicken the gravy with the meat that was sciaped off, and some roux; put in the dice-shaped pieces, and let them heat through. Flavour with nice store sauce, ketchup, or hei’bs. If a very good mince be re- quix-ed, a little wine, with a morsel of extract of meat or glaze w-ill be wanted. A little cooked ham or bacon will improve it for most tastes. If liked, pass all the meat through a mincer. A hash may be made as above, but the meat is then to be sliced evenly, both with x-egard to size and thickness. Gax-nish the dish nicely with crotltons, lemons, or little sau- sages. Cost, variable. Turkey, Potted.— ltequired: a pound and a quarter of raw tux-key, ten ounces of cooked, lean ham and fat bacon mixed, a teaspoonful of fresh parsley, chopped small, half as much thyme, and a pinch of cayenne, ground mace, and powdered bay leaf, pepper to taste, two ounces of butter, half a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a little strong white stock, and some slices of bacon in addition to the above. Cost, about 3s. Prepare the meat as directed for Potted Meat. Add the liquid in- gredients last ; of the stock made from the bones, not more than a