UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 108 so-called hot ones are equally palatable when cold; and such are indicated under their respective headings. With special reference to the iced sauces, we would point out that almost any cold sauce may be iced, if sufficiently rich ; it is. of course, obvious that some kinds could not be frozen successfully. A dish with an iced sauce would, however, be out of place in a meal other than one of all-round excellence, aud to serve a common sauce in an iced condition would be courting ridicule. In the matter of simply cooling a sauce, many ways are open; a simple, but effectual one is to soak a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the vessel, renewing the operation as the cloth dries ; or, the sauce-boat may be set in a bowl of cold water with a lump of salt in ; or better still, in a basin of rough ice aud salt, or in a refrigerator. We would add, in conclusion, that be the method what it may, let a cold sauce really be cold, in the strict sense of the word; and from the homely pat of butter (long regarded as a suitable concomitant) to the most elaborate sauce of the iced variety which may be served with hot meat, whenever it is put on the dish byway of garnish, serve the dish the instant after the addition. For the method referred to the chapter on Ices. Bretonne Sauce.— Required: a gill of French vinegar, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, the same of French mustard, a saltspoonful of English mustard, a tablespoonful of grate,1 horse-radish, a few drops of onion vinegar and tarragon vinegar, and the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon. Cost, about 5d. Mix tho horse-radish with the mustard and sugar, add the lemon- rind, then the vinegars gradually, mixing well. This may be bottled; it is an appetising sauce for cold meat or fish. Burette Sauce.—Required : a tablespoonful of soluble cayenne pepper, the same measure of salt, a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, a glass of port, the strained juice and grated rind of a large lemon, a tablespoonful each of mushroom juice and Harvey sauce. Cost, about 7d. Mix the dry materials thoroughly; add all the liquid ingredients, cover, and leave for a few hours. Serve with cold meat. This is a very piquant sauce, and will not suit ordinary palates. It is an improvement to set the vessel containing the ingredients in boiling water until the contents are of freezing iced sauces the reader is hot, then to set aside in a cool place until wanted. A small quantity of the above will give zest to many other sauces, and may be added to gravy for devilled meats, &c. Chaudfroid Sauce, Brown.— Required : a gill of strong aspic jelly, half an ounce of glaze, a gill of Bkowh Sauce, a tablespoonful each of sherry (or Madeira) and tomato conserve, or the pulp of a ripe tomato. Put the ingredients in a saucepan (the glaze being first cut up small), stir to the boil, then skim, and simmer until the sauce is reduced by a third ; set aside, and use when cool for masking (see Entrees), after tarnmying in the usual way. There are many ways of making the above, so far as the flavourings are 1 concerned; the basis, however, must be a rich gelatinous sauce that will j stiffen as it cools; for instance, sup- ' posing no aspic jelly (or not sufficient), some good clear stock, stiffened with gelatine, and flavoured, could be sub- stituted ; or supposing no brown sauce, a little more tomato conserve and glaze, with a small quantity of brown stock or gravy, thickened with