472 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Woodcocks, Terrine of (M. Dubois’srecipe).—Bone two woodcocks, divide each of them in two, which pieces put into a pie dish (terrine) with five or six peeled truffles cut in quarters, the same volume of cooked ham fat, or fat bacon, in largo dice. Season the meat and truffles lightly, and baste with the third part of a glass of Madeira. Take off the flesh from a leg of hare, cut it in pieces, fry it in a stowpan, with double its volume of liver of poultry or game. When well set, add the trails of the woodcocks, then let the whole cool, to be chopped afterwards with a third its volume of lean pork. Season the forcemeat, put it into a, mortar, pound, and add to it the same quantity of fresh fat bacon, previously chopped, and pounded with the trimmings of truffles. Season the forcemeat with a pinch of pounded aromatics; five minutes after, remove it into a kitchen basin, and mix with it the Madeira the woodcocks have boen soaking in. Mask the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with some of the prepared forcemeat, arrange the pieces of woodcock, the truffles, and the ham in the centre, alternating with force- meat. The pie-dish must then be completely full; smooth the top with the blade of a knife, and mask it with slices of bacon. Cover the preparation, and set the pie-dish in a saute-pan with a glassful of hot water, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for an hour and a half. When done, take it out; and when half-cold, put a light weight on tho top of the preparation. When completely cold, take it off the pie, cut it in oblongs, which dish in a circular order into the terrine. Woodcock, to Truss.—Pluck the bird entirely, head and neck in- cluded, and very carefully, to avoid tearing the tender skin. Singe off tho hairs and cut off the ends of the toes, but do not draw tho birds. Twist tho legs at the joints to bring the feet upon the thighs. Press the wings to the sides, and turn the head under tho wing, with the beak forward. Tie a string round the legs and breast, and pass one also round the head and tho tip of the bill. Hang the bird to the spit, feet downwards. Another way. — For a newer and more convenient way, see directions under Snipes, to Truss.