COI.D MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 52o should bo made stiller, by adding a little panada ; but they are nicer soft, if plenty of time can bo allowed for the setting. Mutton, Hashed, Plain.— Hashed mutton is so persistently avoided by some people, if they can get anything else, that it is quite worth while to take a little trouble to make it look, as well as taste, good; and this is very easy. (See the recipes under Beef as to the preparation of the meat.) Make a nice gravy (see page 79), and if it is preferred thick, some roux can be added, though in the opinion of many cooks corn-flour is more suitable for mutton ; the gravy should be a nice brown, and of good consistence, but if com-tiour be used it will not be thick-looking, as when roux or browned flour is used; these minor points are, however, a matter of taste. By way of garnish we strongly advise little croutons instead of the usual sippets of toast; the cost is very little more and the dish is considerably improved. Pickled walnuts are often served round a dish of hashed mutton ; they should be put between two saucers in the oven to heat, and drive off the extreme acidity. Or a plain Potato Bordek may be put round the meat. Other pickles can be used. Cost of a dish from a pound of meat, about Is. 3d. Mutton, Hashed, Rich. (See remarks under Beef.)—Use any suit- able sauce or gravy for the foundation, and garnish nicely with croutons and anything else preferred. Mushrooms are very suitable. The gravy should then be flavoured with mushroom powder or ketchup. Put a nice mush- room on the top of the hash, for snperior dishes, with a hatelet skewer through it; or use a good-sized fancy crouton in the same way. Tho mush- rooms should be nicely glazed. In seasoning hashes with store sauces or ketchups, use the best qualities only, and be careful not to overdo it. Worcester, Harvey, and many other sorts of sauce are excellent in a way; tho thing to avoid is to overpower every other flavour with that of the sauce, and this, as everybody knows, is frequently done. What is wanted is a blended flavour, and it is a very easy matter to avoid monotony. Cost of a dish from a pound of meat, about Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. Mutton, Hashed in Tomato Sauce.—Required : a pound and a half of lean mutton, a pint of canned tomatoes, measured with their liquor, gravy and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of any garnish. Prepare the slices of meat in tho ordinary way, and set them aside, covered. Put the tomatoes in a pan, with any bits of skin and gristle from the meat, a little sugar, browning, a few peppercorns, a couple of cloves, a sliced onion, and. a little salt. Cover, and stew down until nicely flavoured, and the onion tender, then rub through a sieve or colander, and put back in the pan, with any gravy from tho joint, or a little stock, with thickening to taste: this may he corn-flour, browned flour or roux. Lay in tho moat, and servo hot in twenty minutes. This is very good just as it is, but it may bo improved in several waj'S : some sliced baked tomatoes, cooked, with sliced onions, may be put about the edge of the dish, or some fried potatoes may be used; croutons, with or without eggs are also suitable, so is a puree of haricots, or if French beans are in season, a border of them, plainly boiled, should be used in preference. Another way. — Make the sauce as above, or use that given under hot sauces. Garnish the dish with poached eggs laid on little beds of spinach, and stick croutons in between them. Mutton, Minced. — Use tho samo ingredients as for Hashes, and for mincing tho meat, follow the direc- tions given under Beef, Minced. For good dishes of this class, a little claret gives a “ tone.” Brown Sauce forms a good foundation, or half brown sauce and half stock may bo used. Mince should never bo watery; i.c.