415 GAME AND POULTRY. in good time, servo a bird over-cooked and u-anit, instead of done to a turn and hot. In all our recipes, under each heading, will bo found the ap- proximate time for each variety; but due allowance must be made for size, the time the birds have hung, the state of the weather, and the tastes of those who are to eat them ; for although everyone knows that game is preferred, as a rule, somewhat under-done, rather than over-done, yet tastes differ. One may like a bird akin to raw; another may like it really well done. Game, Salmi of.—A salmi is made from birds roasted for the purpose, or from such as have been partly cooked; they are then finished off in the sauce. (See recipes for Salmi Sauce.) A hash differs from this, as that is made from game fully cooked, and left to get cold in the usual way. The meat must he very neatly divided, and freed from skin and gristle ; these will help to make the sauce. The bones, and trimmings above named, will the better yield their flavour if smashed and pounded before stewing ; and some fumet of game may be used with considerable advantage. After the sauce is made, the game should heat in it very slowly, that it may acquire flavour, and should be served when on the point of boiling. For rich salmis the sauce should be re- duced, and wine added (the kind must be regulated by taste, and the sort of game) a3 required. Recipes to suit various tastes and kinds of game will be found under Sauce foe Salmis. A garnish of croutons or gamo quenelles should be used. Cost, very variable. Game Stewed in Wine.— Required : game of any sort, truffles or mushrooms, seasoning and wine as below. Cost, variable. Take a pheasant or any other game in season; cut it into joints, or bone it, and then divide it. Pack the pieces in a jar with a lid (the fire-proof china are nicest), with some thin slices of truffles between; or if these cannot bo had, somo mushrooms may be used; or both may be dispensed with ; then, a morsel of bay leaf, thyme, and a few white peppercorns may bo tied in a little bag and laid in. Fill up the jar with wine; light wino of any kind used in cooking nnsweis, but good sherry is to be preferred. Fasten the lid with luting paste, and cook in a water bath, or in a tin of water in the oven. The length of time varies; if a good pheasant, allow nearly an hour; for a brace of young partridges, rather less ; small birds can be cooked whole, or boned, and stuffed with truffles if liked. If to serve cold, do not take off the lid until wanted ; leave the paper on also with which the lid is fastened down; by this means full flavour is retained. The dish can be served hot if preferred; either way it is one of the nicest of game dishes. Any wine left over may be used in game soups and salmis. Game Toast.—Required: game, meat, seasoning, toast, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. This is an inexpensive and good breakfast dish. Take the remains of any cold game; mince it with half its weight of cooked beef or mutton, and a fourth its weight of boiled ham. Supposing six ounces altogether, take any gravy or sauce there may be left oyer, and rf not enough to moisten, stew the bones down to make more; thicken until the mass will just drop from the spoon, the meat being heated in the sauce; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and seasoning to taste, bearing in mind tho nature of the game. Lemon or orange juice, mush- room liquor, herbs, fried shalot, Ac., as well as fruit jellies, are all suitable. Have a large slice of hot buttered toast, cut up for serving; spread the mixture thickly on it, then shake raspings, or better still, fried crumbs over. Bust with a little cayenne, and put in a quick oven for a minute, thon serve very hot. Chutnoy, hot picklos, or bottled sauce, may go to table with this. To thoroughly imbibe tho game