should only be applied to oats. Next in degree of fineness, we get cracked or crushed wheat; this is commonly used for Porridge and other purposes. The ways of milling are now numerous, and some are very complicated; and it is due to these differences that the names above referred to are given to wheat: we may cite “rolled,” “fiaked,” “ crystals,” and “ cyclone ” as familiar instances. In decorticated wheat, the germ and exterior husk are removed; this is to be had in the coarse state as well as tine for bread, &c. In genuine whole meal the grain is only cleansed before grinding, the outside branny coat being ground up with it. A recently introduced article, known as “ germ flour,” differs from ordinary kinds by reason of the. return of the germ to it; it is first removed, and, by a patent process, so treated that it has no injurious effect on the flour—in ordinary' cases it does act injuriously on the flour, hence its removal—which is used for bread and kindred foods with a good deal of success. The various kinds of flour—viz., wheat in its finely-ground state—are detailed in other chapters. As to the best forms of wheat, as here considered, for ordinary uses the changes may', we think, be rung upon them with advan- tage ; for even if one could decide on the very best from a nutritive stand- point, change is beneficial; but more of this when we come to deal with Bread. Wheat with Fruit.—This is a dish of ancient origin. It goes now ay the name of “ Durham Pudding.” ft is made by baking wheat in water as below, until perfectly tender, »nd of the consistence of ordinary porridge. It is then put in saucers, hollowed in the middle, and filled in with any fruit that may be in season ; blackberries are a favourite ; they are stewed, and may bo hot or cold; the fruit is to be well sweetened, as no sugar i.s put in the wheat. A spoonful of cream is put on the top. In place of cream, some thickened milk may be used ; it is made by boiling a tablespoonful of corn-flour or rice-flour with a pint of milk, and adding the whole or the yolk only of an egg. But if cream can be had, itshouldbe used; it then makes a famous dish for the break- fast of delicate children; the benefit derived from cream is often very' great. Wheat Frumenty (or Fur- menty).—This is a very old- fashioned but nice and nourishing dish, if sufficient time be given to its preparation. Take as much wheat as may bo required, wash it well, then put it in a jar, and cover with cold water; leave it to soak for twelve hours, then bake it in a very slow oven until done. It should crack and be soft, but not be broken up; it may take from four to six hours. Some prefer to bake the wheat in milk, which makes it nicer and more nourishing, but it does not cook so well; another way, and a good one, is to use water for the first part of the cooking, and milk for the finish. When ready for the frumenty', take somo of the baked wheat, and allow for each quart the same measure of new milk; put both over the fire, and stir to the boil; add about a quarter of a pound of clean dry currants, or raisins, stoned and halved, and in about twenty minutes take the pan from the fire, and stir in sugar to taste and some spice (nutmeg or cinnamon is often used); then beat in a couple of eggs, or, where they' are plentiful, more may be used; do not boil again, but beat for some few minutes. This should be sent to table in a junket bowl, and served in cups. To rich dishes of this sort, in the day's when frumenty was a Lord Mayor’s dish, brandy was one of the ingredients. When whole wheat cannot bo got, cracked wheat may bo used. Wo may mention that other fruits are as nice as those named. For example, prunes, figs, dates, and dried bananas are very suitable; currants are not digestible, and are better omitted if for children; the raisins are improved by soaking for a few hours in water. Wheaten Porridge.—This can