62 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. taste, and a little chopped parsley; add a few drops of celery essence or some celery salt, and a pint of milk previously mixed with one ounce of chestnut-flour, and hoiled. Thin with more boiling- stock to the desired thickness, and serve as hot as possible. This is an American soup; the taste for it is an acquired one, hut it is very wholesome and cheap. Cost of corn, from 7d. to 9d. Potage a, la Xavier. —Re- quired : a couple of quarts of white stock (No. 9), boiled up with a few fresh vegetables, herbs, and seasoning, until nicely flavoured, some butter as under, and some grated cheese. Cost, about Is. Boil the stock, and skim it well. Make a batter by mixing the follow- ing ingredients in the order given—- eight ounces of Hungarian flour, a tea- spoonful of salt, the same of finely- powdered herbs, a fourth ns much white pepper, and a good pinch of grated nutmeg; into the centre drop three eggs, add half a pint of milk, gradually, beating all the time from the centre with the back of a large wooden spoon. Beat hard for a few minutes, then, using a ladle perforated the same as an ordinary colander, put the hatter into the boiling soup, stirring as it falls in. When boiled for ten to fifteen minutes, remove it from the fire and serve, the cheese being handed round. The batter for this must bo regulated by the quality of the flour; more milk may be needed, it should be thin enough to just run through the ladle, but thick enough to retain its shape when in the soup. It is best to try a small quantity, after making as directed, adding more milk if required. Sometimes brown stock is used for the soup, and then stock takes the place of milk in the batter, and wine is sometimes added. Potage Printaniere. — (See Julienne or Bhunoise.) Boil the vegetables, slice them, and stamp them into small rounds with a cutter. If savoury custard of various colours is used in addition to the vegetables, it must be cut in the same way. The soup then becomes Potac.e Pkin-, tanieke A la Koyale. Whenever savoury custard is added clarified stock should be used for the soup. The vegetables must he very thinly sliced before cutting them—literally wafer- like, both in size and thickness. Potage de Riz ala Japonaise. —Required : three pints of stock (No. 8), two ounces of Japanese rice, season- ing, two eggs, half a pint of milk, a chopped shalot, some thyme and pars- ley, a few drops of spice essence (as nutmeg, clove, &c.), and some crushed vermicelli. Cost, about 7d. First wash the rice, bring it to the boil in cold water, then drain it, and add the milk, butter, seasoning, the chopped parsley and other herbs, &c., to flavour pleasantly; cover, and cook for an hour or so, then heat in the egg, and take from the fire. Pour it out, and spread it evenly over a flat dish to make a layer half an inch deep; then leave until cold, and stamp it out in rounds or ovals; brush them over with a beaten-up raw egg, then roll them in crushed vermicelli, and fry a golden brown in hot fat; drain, and put them into the hot stock just before serving. After cutting out the rice shapes, gather up the remnants and form into a cake; fry, and servo separately with meat of any kind. This soup is nicer if slightly thick- ened with corn-flour, and a morsel of glaze or extract of meat improves it. If liked, stock No. 6 or 7 can be used. Potage S ante.—Required: a gallon of weak stock, or water from boiled meat, a pound or more of mixed fresh vegetables, a bunch of parsley and some dried mint, salt and pepper, two ounces each of dripping, lean bacon, chestnut-flour, lentil-flour, and fine oatmeal, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Make the fat hot, cut up the bacon,-