CEREALS AND PULSE, CHEESE AND EGGS. GENERAL REMARKS. Yery few remarks are called for here, as each class of food above named is explained under its heading. By cereals we refer to all the edible grasses and the farinaceous grains that are generally associated with them ; likewise what we may best describe as manufactured foods of this class, nud to which fancy names are given by the manufacturers. The various products of wheat known as Italian pastes likewise fall into the same group. The dishes themselves are, for the most part, of the savoury order, but a few are included which belong to the sweet variety, yet, by reason of their plainness, would be misplaced in the chapter on Sweets. The possible combinations of cereals and pulse can only be briefly detailed, but the examples given will, if the preliminary remarks are studied, serve as the groundwork of a great number of dishes. The amalgamation of cheese and egg cookery in the present section is, for the most part, due to the fact that both eggs and cheese enter into a number of the cereal dishes, and rightly so. Such additions not only produce very savoury and nutritious mixtures, but also more wholesome ones than can be had from the same materials in their natural or separate form. For example, the starch of rice dilutes so to speak, the excess of nitrogenous matter found in cheese; while the eggs are necessary in many cases to bind as well as give richness to the composition. Again, in the grouping of the materials, an opportunity is given of detailing many points in connection, that will be of service in other chapters. We would call special attention to the variety of cheap dishes herein, particularly those of cereals and pulse. CEREALS AND ITALIAN PASTES. Of cereals in the whole state, excluding for the moment all the finely- gronnd forms, simple matter as it may appear to serve them up in a digestible form, no branch of cookery is more generally neglected, or more uncertain in its results. Those unfamiliar with a burnt rice pudding, with the grains as hard as the proverbial bullet; the semi-cookcd, lumpy, tepid gruel; or a huge dish of sodden pasty-looking boiled rice, from which the strongest turn with aversion, are in the fortunate minority. Perhaps the main stumbling-blocks are insufficient cooking, and too large a proportion of the grain to a given quantity of water or other liquid." By grasping the simple fact that all starchy foods want plenty of timo and room to swell and burst, it follows that hurried cooking is a mistake. Take the