UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 3G2. saucepan closely, and let them stew as gently as possible until done enough. Serve the pork on a hot dish with the vegetables neatly arranged round it. Pour part of the gravy over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time to stew, from two and a half to three hours. Pork, Stewed with Vege- tables and Fruit.—Bequired : a couple of pounds of lean pork, some vegetables and fruit as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Cut the meat up, as if for hari- cot mutton; fry it brown, add a good supply of sliced carrots, turnips, onions and celery, a pint, say, in all; cover with warm water, and take the fat off: briqg to boiling point, put in * some chopped sage and popper, and cook gently for an hour; then add brown flour and a little store sauce, a spoonful of tomato chutney, and a little salt. Boil up, and give another half hour, or more. Havo ready a small plate of currants, prepared as for sucking-pig, and when the meat is dished, sprinkle them over it. Put some sweet pickles or spiced fruit in a glass dish (sec Pickles), and send green vegetables of some kind to table; sprouts or cabbage, if in good con- dition. Another way.—Boil' some carrots and turnips separately, and use for garnishing; then only onions and celory need be put in with the meat. Fork, with Grilled Toma- toes.—Bequired: half a pound of tomatoes, cut in slices for grilling; half a pint of plain tomato puree, two pounds of pork, and some gravy and potatoes. Cost, about 2s. 9d. For a nice little roast this is excel- lent ; tho cost is small, and the trouble not greater than is required in the preparation of stuffing, which is here dispensed with. Any piece of meat may be chosen, from young, lean pork. The tomatoes should be seasoned with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar; then dipped in a mixture of mustard (half of it should be French) and clari- fied butter, next coated with bread- crumbs, and grilled or broiled. A few minutes will cook them. Put the puree on a hot dish, place tho pork on it, with the tomatoes and some browned potatoes round it. Serve somo hot gravy in a boat. Becipes for tomato puree, both plain and rich, are given under Vegetables. Pork, with Liver.—Bequired : two pounds of pork, belly, small, slightly salted, two pounds of pig’s liver, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 9d. Slice the liver, not thinner than half an inch; boil the pork in the usual way, then cut it in slices. Put tho livor into a pint of gravy (see Gravy for Stews or Hashes) ; add a grated carrot and a good-sized onion, sliced, and fried brown, with a sprink- ling of sage and pepper. Cook gently for an hour and a half, then thicken with browned flour, not roux, it would be too rich ; add the sliced pork, and some more gravy to cover the whole ; boil up, and serve with a puree of split peas round the dish. Another way.—Spread the puree of peas on a dish, and put the piece of pork, whole, upon it. Arrange the liver and gravy round, with some fried onions if liked. For a more delicate dish use thyme and parsley in place of sage. Lentils or haricots can take the place of peas, where the latter disagree. The exact time depends upon the liver. If from young pork, it is done in less time, but many prefer the liver of a good sized, farm-fed, bacon pig. Pork, with Pickles and Raisins,—Cook some pork chops as directed for Chops, with Apples and Baisins (p. 356). Put a heaping table-, spoonful of piccalilli in asaucepap^with the same measure of hot chutney.; dilute with gravy made in the pan (sec Gravy for Boast Pork) , and boil up; then put in some raisins stewed as before, so as to make a rather thick mixture. Dish the pork on a bed of green vegetable,