235 MADE DISHES AND RELEVl!)S. essence with two or three ounces of minced, bacon, and a teacupful of bread crumbs; season, and spread it over the meat; tie it up, and brown as above, then cook it in some plain stock until tender. Take it up, brush over with glaze, and serve Anchovy Sauce for Steak with it. Beef, Spiced.—Required : five or six pounds of beef, the thin flank, vegetables, wine, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. The meat must be salted for about ten or twelve days, and before salting, skin and bone should be removed. (See recipes under Joints.) When ready to cook, wash it and roll it up; tie with tape, and wrap it in a thin cloth, buttered. Then put it in a large stewpan, or a boiling pot that will just hold it, with an ounce or two of butter or dripping, a thick layer of vegetables sliced, over and under, and some herbs, a dozen peppercorns and allspice berries, and a clove or two. Cover for twenty minutes, then put enough ordinary stock to come half its depth, and half a pint of claret. Boil for about four hours, if six pounds of meat, then press it, and when cold take the cloth off, and glaze it, or coat it with aspic. Garnish with salad, and serve as a breakfast dish, or for a cold collation of any kind. In the latter case, garnish with aspic. The liquor from the meat will (if diluted with stock or water) make good soup. The vegetables may be sieved, and served in it. For plain dishes of this kind, see the chapter devoted to Joints and Plain Dishes. Bsef Steak a la Bridgport. —Required : a couple of tender loin steaks, an inch and a half thick, sauce as below, and some mushroom force- meat, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 3s. After cutting the meat into nice even ronnds as large as possible, pass the trimmings through a fine mincing machine. Supposing half a teacupful of this, add an equal bulk of forcemeat (tee recipe for Mushroom Forcemeat, Rich), and blend well; season with salt, cayenne, and black pepper. Brush each side of the steaks with salad oil, first adding to it a pinch of pepper, a few drops of soy, and a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup ; leave for an hour, then again brush over; at least half a gill of oil isTequired in all. Have ready a stew- pan, but little larger and deeper than the meat; put the two steaks together like a sandwich, with the forcemeat between, and tie them together to facilitate turning. Put in the stewpan a gill of brown stock, made by stewing any odds and ends of lean beef in water without vegetables; add a few peppercorns and a clove, and then lay in the meat; cover with an oiled paper, and set in a moderate oven. Baste and turn in half an hour, then baste and turn again, adding a little more stock as required. Then dish and glaze the meat, and keep it hot; add enough stock to make half a pint, thicken it with brown roux to the consistency of cream, then put in a teacupful of Brown Mushroom Sauce. Boil and skim, season, but do not destroy the mushroom flavour; pour round the meat, and serve with Potato Chips. This is recommended to all who appre- ciate the flavour of the mushroom, and we would advise a trial of steaks from the thick part of a leg of mutton, cooked in precisely the same way. Beefsteak a la Perigueux.— Required : a thick rump steak, of two pounds or more, some potatoes pre- pared as below, and half a pint of Perigueux Sauce. Cost, about 3s., exclusive of sauce. The steak should bo at least two inches thick ; after trimming it into a nice shape, make a slit, and cut round to form a bag in the centre, but leave tho external opening as small as possible. Inside, put half a gill of tho sauce, und a Bpoonful of breadcrumbs, mixod with a good sized trullle, chopped, and soaked in wine to cover for an hour. Then sow up tho steak, brush it with salad oil on both sides, and broil