SALTED MEATS. 375 into a pan, and remove the meat when cool. Finish off with a garnish of parsley and horse-radish, or the meat may be glazed, or brushed over with aspic. (See also Tongues.) Cost, as above. To carve this a sharp thin knife is wanted, such as are used in “ham and beef’’shops. Any unequal projections should be cut off, then slices taken horizontally. They are usually pre- ferred thin. The top slice may be divided at the family table. In res- taurants and hotels it is put aside, not given to customers. By the same rule it should not be given to a guest at one’s own table. Beef, Salted Quickly.—This dish is only just removed from a joint in the fresh state, but it is very tasty, and many will like it better than meat which has been salted fully. For six pounds of beef, from the brisket, or any other boiling part, put on a plate a quarter of a pound of salt, two ounces of sugar, a teaspoonful of pepper, and a good pinch of mixed spice; warm the mixture, and rub the meat for ten minutes. Leave it for an hour, and rub again well; repeat a few times, then let it lie all night. When ready to cook, rinse the meat, and put in a saucepan of tepid water; bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Allow rather more than half an hour per pound. If brisket, tie it across with tape a few times to keep its shape. An hour or rather more before dishing, put some young carrots in the same pan, together with some little dump- lings, marrow or suet (see Puddings). Serve the meat with the carrots and dumplings round, and some of the liquor, flavoured and thickened for gravy. Cost, about 8d. per pound: This will make a nice breakfast- dish when cold. A bullock’s tongue ran be prepared and served in just the same way. Treacle may be used in place of sugar, and other spices may be added. For large pieces of meat, the quantities of salt, 4c., must be increased in proportion. Beef, Smoked, American.— A piece of beef should bo kept in brine for ten to twenty days, according to its size, then hung in the chimney, over a sawdust fire, for a fortnight or more. It must then be rubbed with black pepper, and hung in a cool, airy place. When once it has been cut, the cut part must be wrapped in thick paper. When it is to be served, pare the outside skin off, and shave the meat into thin chips. If very salt, it is im- proved by soaking in warm water for a few minutes. For a pound of beef melt a slice of butter or dripping in a frying-pan; stir in the beef, after peppering it well, and when it begins to “ fizz,” shake a half tablespoonful of flour over it. Then pour in a little stock or gravy, not much more than a gill; when the sauce is thick, serve very hot. Two or three eggs can be beaten up, and stirred in the pan with the beef and gravy. The beef is sometimes cut into chips, and served without further dressing. Either of the pickles given will do for this, but Nos. 1, 2, or 4 will he most suitable. The meat may either be used in a week or two, or hung like bacon before cutting. Brawn.—Required : a pig’s head, of about five pounds, a pound of lean beef, from the shin, or from an ox cheek, seasoning, &c., as below'. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Split the head, take the brains out, rub it with salt, and leave for a day; drain it well, and put it in pickle No. 7, with the beef, just enough to cover them. Turn daily for five or six days; then wash the meat, and put it in a saucepan with a sliced onion, a bay leaf, a sage leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a dozen black peppercorns. Cover with cold' water, and boil until the bones slip from tho meat; skim very often; then tako the meat up and cut it in little squares; season with a tea- spoonful of pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, and the fourth of a small nut- meg grated, with some powdered herbs