STOCKS AND SOU PS. 5 7 Parsnip Puree.—Any of the recipes for other vegetable purees may be followed for this, but a soup of parsnips alone is seldom liked; generally a mixture of potatoes, carrots, turnips, or vegetable marrow, is pre- ferred ; an onion and some herbs should also be added. The parsnips should bo cooked in stock, and boiling milk added after the puree is sieved. To counter- act the sweetness of parsnip soup, a little tomato sauce is useful, or a few chops of some flavoured vinegar: tarragon or cucumber may be used with advantage. Tomato vinegar is also good for imparting piquancy. Peas Soup.—Required: a gallon of stock, one pound of split peas, vegetables as for Lentil Sour, salt, pepper, herbs, and dripping. Cost, about 6d. After washing the peas, soak them all night in the stock (that from boiled pork is suitable, or bone or other plain stock will do) ; put them on to boil, with a bit of dripping or the pot skirr.mings ; fry the vegetables in a little more fat (reserving a carrot), add these when the liquid boils; skim well, and cook for about three hours, until the soup can be passed through a sieve or colander. Put it back in the pan with the remaining carrot grated and any desired thickening, sago gives a very pleasant smoothness; boil half an hour longer, then season to taste, and serve with dried mint or sage, and fried or toasted bread. A teaspoonful or more of curry-powder to each quart is a good addition to peas soup. Peas Soup (Superior).—Boil the peas as above directed, but use medium white stock (No. 9), and add a couple of ounces of fresh butter and a pinch of sugar to tho peas; do not fry the vegetables; add them all, thinly sliced, after just sweating them in butter, without browning. Boil until the soup can be rubbed through a hair sieve, then return it to the pan, and add boiling milk to thin it to the desired consistence, about as thick as cream, and put in a gill of hot cream last thing. Peas Soup (Quickly made).— Required : some peas pudding and any stock from boiled meat. All that has to be done is to blend the stock and remains of pudding together until sufficiently thick, and to season in tho usual way. If liked, small pieces of boiled pork or bacon can be served in the soup. Another way is to mix pea- powder, sold by grocers, with any plain stock; directions for use are given on the packets, but it is advisable to increase the time given for tho boiling. This pea-powder may be had plain or flavoured with herbs; the latter kind, said to contain also a small proportion of meat extract, although in the form of powder, is usually labelled “peasoup.” Mashed potatoes can be added to peas soup : take, say, equal parts of potatoes and peas pudding, and blend smoothly with boiling stock; then re-boil and season. This is liked by many people better than peas soup of the usual kind. Whero peas soup is made often, the pea-powder should not bo bought in packets : it suffers bj* exposure to the air. Tho tins are preferable. Pepper Pot (a Hotch-Potch).— Put four quarts of cold water into a large stew-pan, with a mixture of any meats that may be preferred—either three pounds of gravy beef and half a pound of lean ham, or threo pounds of the neck of mutton and half a pound of pickled pork; add half a cupful of best rice, a bunch of savoury herbs, two large onions, and threo largo potatoes coarsely grated. Skim the liquid carefully during the first half hour, and lot it simmer gently until all the goodness is drawn out of tho meat. This will require from four to six hours. Strain tho soup and let it stand until cold, so that tho fat may bo entirely removed. Pul tho liquid into the stew-pan, with a large fowl cut into joints, then boil very slowly. When tho fowl is almost tender, put in a dozen small, light, suet dumplings, and