334 UNIVERSAL COOKERY book. Laver is a good accompaniment to roast mutton (see Vegetables). Good gravy and hot jelly must not be omitted. The diagram below shows the mode of carving, which is quite simple, straight slices being cut from a to n. Relays of hot plates and gravy should be in readiness, and very little gravy should be upon the dish. A hot-water dish, as used for venison, is the best to serve mutton on. Cost, about lid. per pound, but it depends upon the mode of cutting a good deal. For a largo family, where the best can be made of every part, the saddle should be bought in its entirety. Savoury Stew.—Required: two pounds of mutton, lean (the neck does very well), a tablespoonful each of capers, rice, chutney, and parsley, a quart of stock or water, an onion, and a carrot, salt and pepper to taste, and a morsel of fat. Cost, about 2s. Chop the meat, but do not divide it; add the hot stock, and bring to the boil; grate the carrot, and chop the onion; brown the latter in hot fat; then add the rest, all but the salt. Simmer for two hours, stirring often, or the rico will stick lo the pan. Serve the meat in the centre of a hot dish, with the rice, &c., round it. The capers and parsley should be chopped very small. If mint is to he had, that can be substituted for parsley. Lamb ean be similarly served. Scrag, with Mushrooms.— Required : meat, mushrooms, &e., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. Wash very well the scrag end of the neck; dry and sprinkle it with pepper; flour it, and turn it about in hot fat until brown. Put it in a clean sauce- pan, with the liquor from boiled meat to cover it; add some peppercorns, and the trimmings of some mushrooms, first well washed, with a small onion, and a sprig of parsley. Throw in salt for the scum to rise; skim just before it boils up, then cook until tender. While cooking, chop half a dozen medium-sized flap mushrooms, and stow them down in a little of the same stock used for the mutton, with a chopped slialot and a sprig of parsley; season with pepper and salt, and thicken with browned flour. The mushrooms should be quite soft, and must be chopped small at starting. When the meat is done, strain the liquor, skim and reduce it, thicken with browned flour, and season it. Put the meat on a hot dish, and spread the mushrooms over it; pour some of the gravy round, and serve the rest separately. This will be very tender and tasty. Any joint, which is lean, may be so cooked. A piece of neck of mutton, boiled, and served with a white mushroom sauce or puree, is equally satisfactory (see Vegetables). Scrag, with Pickles. (See Souag, with Mush booms).—Prepare the meat in the same way, and bring to the boil; omit the mushroom peel- ings, and add instead a teaspoonful each of chutney and mixed pickles, hot, finely chopped. When the‘meat is done, put it on a dish, and keep it hot while the gravy is skimmed and thickened. Put a dozen pickled walnuts in the oven, in a saucer, to heat; cut them up, and add them to tho gravy ; pour it round the meat, and garnish with carrots, small onions, and turnips, all cooked in stock instead of water (see Vegetables). They may be whole if young. If old, slice or cut them in dice. Cost, as above.