G82 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. half a pint of any plain stock, or bono liquor or moat water—i.e. from boiled moat—will answer. Lot this boil, then put in two or three lettuces broken up, or cut into coarse shavings, with a little salt; boil for ten to twenty minutes, then add a pint and a half of young green peas with a pinch of sugar, and cook uncovered for about twenty minutes more. If the lettuces are tough, they should cook longer before the peas go in. Shortly before serving, thicken to tasto and add the bacon; serve altogether very hot. Although it is an innovation, we can recommend the addition of rice or almost any other cereal to the above, when it becomes a vegetable dish, both nutritious and palatable, made savoury by the bacon. Green Peas a la Fran5ai.se. —Required : a pint and a half of young green peas, an ounce and a half of flour, an ounce of butter, eight to twelve button onions, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. Blend the flour and butter in a stewpan; add three gills of plain white stock, and boil up; then put in a sprig of parsley, a pinch of salt and white sugar, the onions carefully peeled, and a lettuce or two cut in fine strips ; add the peas, cover the pan, and cook softly for twenty-five to thirty-five minutes over a gentle fire. Before serving, the sprig of parsley is to be taken out, and some chopped parsley, with a pat of butter or a spoonful of cream, stirred in. A variation of this is made by using a grated carrot in place of the onions, or of part of them. Another way.—Take freshly-gathered young peas, and put into plenty of cold spring water. For a peck, take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and work them well with the hand until they stick together. Drain them in a colander, and put them into a saucepan, with a little pepper and salt, and a wineglassful of water, if necessary; but young peas seldom require water. Lot them simmer very gently for forty minutes, or until the peas are tender; add two large lumps of sugar dipped in water, and, when they have been taken off the fire a minute or two, the yolk of an egg beaten with a dessert- spoonful of cold water, or, for richer dishes, veal gravy is used. The above can be altered in numerous ways; herbs of various kinds may bo added; chives, leeks, or shalots may take the place of the vegetables named, and a little thick bechamel may be used instead of eggs or cream at the finish. Green Peas au Gratin.— There are a number of ways of pre- paring this dish. An Austrian one is very good; the peas should be young, and boiled nicely, then laid in a flat fireproof cliina dish, after mixing them with butter, and buttering the dish. The surface of the peas is masked with fine bread-crumbs, brushed with oiled butter, and baked a golden brown. This can go to table as it is, or be garnished with rounds of cooked ham, just brushed with thin glaze. Cost, varies with the garnish. Another way.—Butter and strew the bottom of a dish with crumbs; sprinkle a little chopped parsley or chopped cooked mushrooms over, then add a thin layer of peas, more mushrooms or parsley, then pour a very little cream over all just to moiston ; or slightly thickened pale stock answers. Coat and finish as above directed. For Peas and Chicken au Gratin, take some minced chicken, with a fourth its weight of ham, and moiston as above. Then put between two layers of peas. This is a very nice savoury; it should be finished off as above directed. Green Peas Puree.—Required: peas, seasoning, butter, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. To get this in perfection, cook the peas in butter; allow two ounces to the pint after shelling, and give them a rinse in cold water, then drain them at once. Cook them as slowly as possible for half an hour or until done, a pinch of sugar and salt should be put