UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, 552 celery salt, half as much common salt, four ounces of fat ham or hacon, cut up small, the same weight of forcemeat from cooked veal, and seasoning as helow. Cost, about Is. Break the macaroni into even lengths, boil for five minutes, and drain it; put it in a jar with the other materials, milk and forcemeat excepted. The stock should be boiling when added. Cook until the stock is absorbed, then add the milk and let the whole simmer until the macaroni is tender and the moisture absorbed. Cut the forcemeat into dice, add it with four ounces of sultana raisins, and a little curry powder and cayenne. The raisins are to he first stewed in a little stock. Turn all into a deep dish, dredge with a mixture of bread-crumbs and curry powder, and brown the surface well. Then serve as it is, or with meat. Macaroni, Leghorn. — Re- quired : macaroni, butter, cheese, sauce, tomato puree and seasoning. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. This is recommended as a most excellent dish, if the instructions are carefully followed. But half a pound of macaroni into at least three pints of boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of salt, and a morsel of butter the size of a chestnut. Boil fast, and drain as coon as soft. Then put it in a sauce- pan, add an ounce of fresh butter by degrees, shaking the pan as it melts; then put in two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and half a gill of nice white sauce, as Bechamel. Keep shaking the pan until the contents are thick and creamy, then arrange the macaroni in a dish, in alternate layers with some tomato puree, bottled or fresh ; the top and bottom layers to he macaroni. Serve very hot. Note.—The macaroni must not he broken up. The puree should he hot and nicely seasoned. Macaroni & la B-eine.—Re- quired : half a pound of curled maca- roni, the same weight of rich white English cheese, three gills of creanq two ounces of fresh butter, seasoning as below. Cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. Boil the macaroni in white stock until tender, drain it and season with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Free the cheese from the rind and the hard part adjoining, and cut it in thin slices ; dissolve it in the cream, season it like the macaroni, then add the latter and toss lightly until well mixed. Turn into a dish for serving, and cover with fine crumbs of bread that have been fried a pale colour and well dried. Serve very hot. This is a rich and delicate dish. It is often varied by using a mixture of rich white sauce and cream, then the quantity of macaroni may he reduced a little. It is safer to heat the cream before the cheese is added, to avoid burning; a copper pan is wanted and the heat must he gentle. The cheese cannot he too rich for this ; it is use- less to attempt the preparation with a poor cheese. Maize, or Indian Corn.— This is a cereal of world-wide use, and is described as the noblest of the grasses. It contains less nitrogenous matter than wheat, hut is richer in mineral matter, and owing to its high percentage of fat it is a suitable food for cold weather. Many preparations of the grain are used in the United States. The ear is called a “ cob; ” the pearled grains are “samp;” the unripe roasted grains are known ns “pop-corn;” broken or split up, it becomes “ hominy; ” while the starch of maize is termed “ corn-flour,1' and is used as a substitute for arrowroot. In Italy the yellow flour of maize is boiled in water and flavoured with cheese; this is known as “ polenta.” This meal, commonly called “ golden maize meal ” may now he had in this country at about twopence per pound; it is apt to become musty, and only enough for immediate requirements should be bought; it is not only very liable to the attacks of insects, hut requires to he kept in a dry place; when damp, the flavour is most unnleasnnt. It