UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 396 a little ginger, cayenne, and mustard ; re-heat them in a little sauce or gravy, and serve very hot. Dusk, Hashed.—Required : the remains of a duck, macaroni, cheese, tomato pulp, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, exclusive of the duck, about Is. This is a simple and savoury dish. Mix together enough gravy (served with the duck) and tomato pulp to cover the pieces, which should bo cut up neatly. Heat all together ; the sauce first, then put in the duck. For half a duck, stir in first before serving seasoning to taste, and a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Put a border of boiled macaroni round the dish; over this pour a little cheese sauce and put the duck and sauce in the middle. There should be only enough sauce to coat the joints, and it should be as thick as good cream. Brown roux is the best thickening for it. Another way.—Fry a good-sized onion, a bay leaf and some parsley; add a pint of stock, good, such as No. 4 ; cook for a few minutes, put in a tomato broken up, and cook for ten minutes more. Thicken with roux, then pass through a sieve. Re-heat half or throe parts of a duck in this, and put round the dish some oval crofttons, spread with brown onion sauce flavoured with powdered sago. Duck, Hashed, Rich.—Make enough olive sauce to cover the joints, tho skin being first taken off, and used in making the sauce. Let the duck heat through in the sauce, and serve in a ring of fried bread. Garnish with olives and croutons. Duck Hot Pot.—Required : a duck, a dozen little dumplings, a dozen potatoes of medium size, three large apples, one onion, seasoning, and gravy. Cost, about 4 s. Cut up the duck ; see that it is very clean; half cook and slice the pota- toes, scald and chop the onion, and grato or chop the apples. Make the dumplings from good suet crust, the size of a walnut. Butter a hot pot dish very liberally; put the above in layers, having potatoes bottom, then duck with onions and apples, and salt and pepper; then dumplings here and there, and so on until the top is reached; that must be formed of potatoes. Pour gravy from the giblets, stewed to rays, over all. Cover the pot, and cook like a jugged hare, in a pan of boiling water, for two hours or rather more. Turn out in a hot dish, and put all round some more potatoes, parboiled, and finished by browning in a good oven. More dumplings will also be an acquisition if the party be a large one, composed of children. Another way.—This is very superior to the above. Here and there, on every layer, put a few strips of pickled pork, and sprinkle the whole with a little sage and parsley—very little, or it will be too strong; a morsel of nutmeg further improves it. These dishes are similar to the American pot pies, and very good they will be found. Duck, with Olive Sauce.— A roasted duck with olivo sauce (for which see recipe) is a popular dish. Olive gravy is also very good; it can be made by preparing the olives as directed for sauce, and adding them to the ordinary gravy; or a very good gravy can be obtained by adding a teaspoonful of roux to a pint of stock, No. 16, olives being used in the same way. Cost of duck, 2s. 6d. to 4s., according to season. Duck, Roasted.—If not already done by the poulterer, the bird must be picked, singed, and emptied; the head and neck removed, but the feet left on ; these should be held in boil- ing water to make the skin peol off easily. The inside should be rinsed and dried, and the outside wiped with a clean cloth. The pinions should be cut off at the first joint, and the feet twisted round on the back of the bird, so that they spread out fan shape. By breaking the back-bone the bird will bo firmor on the dish when served. The nicer it is trussed the plumper