423 GAME AND POULTRY. very firmly, moistening the hand or spoon with cold water. Put a thin slice of bacon on the top and a greased paper over. Put the lid on, and lute it down. (See Luting Paste;) Cook this in boiling water, jugged hare ■fashion, for an hour, if small. For one made from a brace of birds, give nearly two hours. Do not remove the lid until cold, then cover the surfaco with clarified butter, like ordinary potted moat. When required pin a serviette round, or encase the jar in a paper frill, and set it on a dish covered with a lace paper or serviette. Grouse, to Carve.—If there be ample for all, a grouse may be cut in halves by putting the point of tho knife downwards, near the leg end of the breast, and splitting the breastbone in two along the keel, and cutting through the back. If small portions only are to be served, carve like a fowl, or take some slices from the breast, cutting well up to the wing, then take off the leg and wing. Try to serve a portion of the back with each piece, the back part being so much esteemed. Grouse, to Make Tender.— “ In the event of having on hand a supply of old, tough birds, sprinkle them inside and out, after drawing and cleaning, with allspice, ginger, wood charcoal, and pepper—equal quantities. Then sew them in canvas, and bury them three feet deep in the ground. The tendering process will be complete in four to six days; but watching is needed to prevent even incipient pu- trefaction. Putrid grouse should never be tolerated, for if most temptingly concocted, the dish will be disagreeable. \ oung, fresh grouse are incomparably more toothsome than those which have undergone even that slight degreo of decay known as ‘high.’ The reason that high game got to bo an institution in this country was simply that old, tough birds were thus made tender; the thing was afterwards done, and grew into fashion.” These remarks are quoted to show that fresh game is preferred to that which has been hung in some instances, while the making of tough birds tender may be useful to known Grouse, Various Dishes of. —Some of the recipes for pheasant are equally suitable for Grouse, and for many of the dishes under Game grouse is particularly suited. (See also Salads.) Guinea Fowl.—Tho flesh of this fowl is very good, being both savoury and digestible. It forms a good sub- stitute for game when out of season. When well kept, it is not unlike the pheasant, and in preparing it for table it is just a matter of choice whether it shall imitate game in the way it is served, or whether it shall appear as an ordinary fowl. It may, therefore, be prepared and served as a pheasant-; any of the recipes under that, head, may he followed. When cooked poultry fashion, egg sauce is frequently served with it ; indeed, that is sometimes sent,to table as well as brown gravy, when t)ie bird is dished game fashion. In no .case should larding or hording (i.e. putting slitted bacon on the breast) be omitted, for no bird stands more in need of ono or other.. Some writers say that Guinea fowl is tho driest meat sent to table unless it is larded or barded. Cost, from 3s. Gd. to 4s. on an average. Hare.—The hare is an almost uni- versal favourite. Its flesh is, however, rich, and disagrees with some pooplc;; it is also rather dry, and is improved by larding; when this is objcctod to!, bacon is used in other ways; barb minus bacon and good gravy or sauce is often voted poor eating. A hare should hang for a weok or ten days before cook- ing if tho weather permits. It is better if not paunehed for a few days after killing. When it is ready to bb paunehed, tho liver and heart should bo taken out and the inside wiped dry'; it requires careful watching, as it is the part that soon limn musty: (r