516 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. any sort, half its weight in macaroni, some mashed potatoes, gravy, and seasoning. Cost, 9d. or more, accord- ing to kind of fry. Mince the fry and mix with it a quarter of a pint of stock (No. 1 or 2) and some herbs, salt and pepper. Line a greased dish with mashed potatoes, put next a fried onion sliced, then the fry, more onions next, and a thick layer of mashed potatoes on the top; then put the macaroni over. This should he boiled until tender in stock of any plain sort. Cover this with more potato, and finish oS as directed for Cottage Pie. This is a cheap dish but very tasty. More gravy should be served with it, any left over from the fry being used up, and if there is no fat with the meat a little cooked bacon may be used. Another way.—Grease a shallow baking-tin and cover the bottom and sides with bread-crumbs, lay in some onions as above, then the fry; cover with a layer of boiled rice, moistened with plain stock; shake crumbs on the top, put a few bits of dripping over, and bake until heated through and the top a nice brown. G&teau.—See under Meat. Ghiac.—Enquired : meat, bread, eggs, seasoning, and vegetables. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. This is a Norwegian dish, a good meal from odds and ends. A pound of cold moat forms the foundation— meat and game, or meat and poultry, with a little bacon—a morsel of any of the savoury pates mentioned in this work could be used up in it. After passing through a mincer add a thick slice of bread, soaked in stock, soup, or gravy, and squeezed well, then passed through a siove; thero should be a breakfastcupful; two eggs, with salt and pepper to taste, are also wanted. The whole is then pressed into a flat tin, rather shallow, and baked slowly until Arm enough to turn out, then dredged well with crumbs, and browned before the fire. A good gravy is then poured over it, and peas, cauliflower! or other nice vegetable put round it. A very good dish is made by using cold fish and sauce, instead of meat and gravy. The bread may be soaked either in hot milk or fish stock ; any fish sauce can bo served with it. Another way.—Use white meat of any sort, or meat and poultry for the dish ; mix it with the bread as above directed, and put it in the mould in layers, with a sprinkling of boiled rice between the layers. Turn out and pour White Sauce flavoured with cheese over it, and put little Rice Cak.es or Balls round the base. Ham, with Spinach.— Re- quired : ham, sauce, and vegetables as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. if half a pound of ham be used. Cut some slices of boiled or baked ham, with but little fat, and lay them in a saute pan, cover them with a thick layer of Digestive Sauce, turn them and coat the other side. The pan should be slightly buttered, and the ham be left to heat through gradually, the pan being shaken a few times. Put some Mashed Potatoes in a smooth layer on a hot dish, dredge them with raspings, and lay the ham on. Prepare some small moulds of spinach (see Vegetables), and lay them round the dish; put a small crouton on the top of each, and pour a little gravy round them. To make this put some stock in the saute pan, scrape it well, then add a little thickening, colouring, and seasoning, and strain. While this is boiling up keep the dish of ham, &c., over boiling water all the time. Some sorrel, endive, nettles, turnip tops, or other green vegetables may be used in place of spinach ; small Brussels sprouts can be used also. A little Brown Sauce should bo poured over them, then no gravy is wanted round the dish. Ham with Tomato Sauce.— Required: half a pound of ham, cut in small round slices, half a pint of Tomato Sauce, a dozen small Potato