UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 438 dryness. Still it is not desirable to actually overcook it. Pheasant, Boiled.—Sometimes invalids find a boiled pheasant an agreeable dish ; it can hardly be called an epicure’s relish. The bird should be nicely prepared, trussed for boiling, and wrapped in a sheet of buttered paper, then a cloth, and put in hot or nearly boiling water, with a few game bones, and slices of fresh vegetables; the boiling must be gentle; an hour will be wanted for an old bird; half an hour to forty minutes will cook a young one. Celery sauce, oyster, sou- bise, and white sauces of various kinds may be served with it. Pheasant, Braised, and Rump steak.—Required : a phea- sant, bacon, forcemeat as under, season- ing and vegetables, stock and beef steak. Cost, from 6s. Gd. to 7s. Gd. on an average. Pick, draw, and singe a pheas- ant, and truss it as for boiling. Put into it a little forcemeat made with three ounces of finely-grated bread- crumbs, two ounces of fresh butter, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a few drops of anchovy essence, and a little salt, pepper, and cayenne. Cover the breast with slices of fat bacon, and fasten them on securely with twine. Take two pounds of good rump-steak, three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay two or three slices of fat bacon on this. Rub the inside of a good-sized saucepan with a clove of garlic. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in it, put in the beof, and round it a dozen chestnuts which have been skinned and scalded. Lay the pheasant upon it, breast upper- most, add a scraped carrot, three or four of the outer sticks of a head of celery cut into small pieces, four shalots, a good-sized lump of sugar, a small teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of mustard, a teanpoonful of anchovy sauce, a teaspoonful of soy, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. Pour over these rather less than a pint of hot stock, good ; No. 5 is suitable. Cover closely, bring the contents to a boil, then draw the pan to the side, and let them simmer as gently as possible for quite three hours. Serve the beef and the phea- sant on separate dishes, and as hot as possible, with a little of the gravy strained over the pheasant, and the rest in a tureen. The nuts should be used to garnish tho beef. If an acid flavour is liked, the juico of half a lemon may be added to the gravy, and a little salt put in if necessary, but this will depend upon the quality of the bacon. Glaze tho breast of the pheasant before serving, remove the bacon, and take care to skim the gravy well. If the breast bo larded, the sliced bacon can be dispensed with. Pheasant, Cold, with Fruit Salad.—Cut a cold bird into joints, and trim them nicely. Make a fumet of any remnants, and put in a little strong aspic, just to set it; it should be poured over tho pieces when on tho point of setting, just to give them a bright appearance. Put some sprigs of watercress about the dish, and send cherry salad to table separately. Any other fruit salad may be substituted as preferred. Cost, from 4s. to 5s. Pheasant, Cold, with French Plums. — Required : a pheasant, French plums, and salad, &c., as below. Cost, from 4s. Gd. upwards. Prepare the meat as above directed, but put the joints in the centre of a dish, and place stewed French plums round the base (see Fruit). On the top of the meat, which should be dished in a pile, put a few more plums, with any green salad round ; tarragon and chervil look nice, and if nothing else is handy, use fresh parsley. A few fancy slices of beetroot look bright amongst it; they should be seasoned with oil and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. For other dishes see Salads. A pheasant, plainly roasted, nicely glazed and dished, accompanied by watercress, or some equally simple garnish, is declared by some authorities