UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 380 left on being glazed. Cooked vege- tables, such as sprouts, or spinach with eggs, small carrots and turnips, or any others in season, should be put about the dish. The sauce must be served separately. If a more elaborate dish is wanted see pages 246 and 247. Hints on piping hams are given in a chapter on Garnishes, &c. Ham, Spanish. — These hams require care and attention ; the cleans- ing and soaking are very important. After scraping, put the ham in cold water for thirty to forty hours, chang- ing the water twice or thrice; then put it on to boil in cold water; take it up in an hour, after gentlo cooking, and put it in a braising pan with wine and stock to cover it. Then cook it gently for four hours, or more, accord- ing to size, and let it get cold in the liquor. Plain bone stock, or the liquor from boiled fresh meat or poultry will answer, although a bettor stock is pre- ferable. A ham of this sort has not a fair chance of attaining perfection if it is cooked in water only, and taken up as soon as done. After this treatment the ham may be finished off in the usual way, and served plainly; or it may be garnished, and served for any cold collation. Ham, to Steam.—The prepara- tion of the ham is the same as if for boiling; it is then put in the steamer over cold water, if the ham bo dry and old ; the water is then brought to the boil, and the ham cooked rather longer than if boiled. If tho ham be new, it may be put in over hot water. A piece of ham can be nicely done in a potato steamer; for a whole ham, a good-sized oval steamer is required. A piece of bacon may be steamed in the same way. If flavour is desired, some vegetables and other ingredients, such as are added to the water for boiled ham, may be put in the water under the steamer. There is a saving of weight in steaming meat, and it is not likely to be spoilt in the cooking. It also requires little attention, and for that reason commends itself to busy people, if for no other. A piece of steamed ham may bo brushed over with glaze, and served hot, with a nice sauce, and a salad. The latter may be of tho plain, un- cooked kind, or a vegetable salad may be served (see recipes). Ham, Westphalian. — "West- phalia is celebrated for tho delicacy and flavour of its hams. A West- phalia ham needs to bo soaked longer than one cured at home. It should be laid in cold water for twenty-four hours, drained, covered with fresh water, and left for another twenty- four hours. When sufficiently soaked, cleanse and trim it, put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Take it up, put it in a stewpan upon a bed of sliced carrots, onions, and celery, and add a bunch of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, three bay loaves, a dozen peppercorns, half a dozen cloves, and a blade of mace. Pour over the ingredients as much stock as will barely cover them, and let the ham simmer gently until done enough. Take the stewpan from the fire, and leave the ham in the liquor till cold. Take it up, draw off the rind, trim the fat evenly, put it in the oven for a few minutes, then press it with a dry cloth to free it from fat, and either glaze it or shake bread- raspings all over it. Time to simmer the ham, about five hours. If no stock is available for cooking the ham, use the liquor from boiled meat or poultry, with any bones that may be handy. “ Justice is not done to these hams,” says an authority, “ if plain water only is used for the cooking.” Ham, with Eggs and Veal Sausages. (See recipes for Veal Sausage Meat.)—Prepare some small sausages, and fry them ; if more con- venient, make sausage - meat cakes; then fry tho eggs in the fat from tho ham and sausages. Tho ham should be in strips, and very delicately