Universal cookery book. 550 together. Any of the fancy-shaped macaroni, such at “ celery cut,” and also some of the varieties of the same paste, shaped as described under Home-mare Macaroni, serve the same purpose. Macaroni, Brown.—This pre- paration of macaroni may he very plain or rich as required. To serve with a joint or family stew, take as much macaroni as is wanted, parboil it in water, then drain it and pour over it as much boiling stock as will cover it. Nos. 1 or 2 answer for this. Let the macaroni cook gently until it is fully swollen but not broken; the stock is to be absorbed. Then servo as it is in a vegetable dish, or sprinkle the surface with raspings. For a better dish, suitable for serving with braised beef or a dish of fillets, or a steak, proceed as above, but use stock No. 4. For serving with game, stock No. 5 is better, though No. 4 will do. For very superior dishes, give the macaroni only a few minutes’ cooking in the water, and drain it very thoroughly; it is better to let it cool before putting the stock to it; No. 16 or 17 should be used, or if a plainer one has to be substituted, make up the richness by the addition of glaze and extract of meat. Macaroni cooked as described will furnish a most welcome change for serving with animal food in the place of vegetables, or with a suitable garnish as a separate course. A reference •to the chapters on Vegetables, both plain and “dressed,” will also show that by judicious combination many tasty dishes of macaroni and vegetables are possible. We use the term ju- dicious, mainly with regard to harmony of flavour. Such dishes as celery or onions braised in brown stock, fried or braised mushrooms, or purees into which brown gravy or sauce had entered, would be very satisfactory: voliivf -fvnm nn n 11 -TvrftVflilimr lirOWTlTlfiSS other adjuncts. So much attention is now given to dishes that will replace the joint, and to the dainty service of vegetables, that those who may make trial of any such combinations as are here suggested will have the satisfaction of knowing that they are following tho tide of fashion, as well as fuF" Extract from ro The Journal of the Royal Institute qi of Public Health and Hygiene. November, 1941. gl x S'- No. 2810. “ SEMOFOOD ” MACARONI. Microscopical examination of this food, which is prepared by mixing Semolina to a dough with water and drying the latter electrically, showed it to be a pure wheat product, and chemical analysis yielded the following data, viz. :— Proteins (N X 5.7) 11.74% Mineral matter ... 0.79% Adulterants and preservatives ... Absent We have inspected the factory where the Macaroni is made, and have found it to possess excellent natural lighting and to be well ventilated and scrupulously clean. Male employees wear white, overalls, and girls wear white caps as well ; suit- able washing and lavatory accom- modation is provided for both sexes. We regard SEMOFOOD Macaroni as a pure food of good quality prepared in a factory in which a satisfactory standard of hygiene is maintained. a ■ aoove recipe, cmfuse wi j’ recipe'.'ciieese which is mo nmu for table may be used. It is more rKo-ostililfi without, the ton laver of