102 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and skim, and serve hot. Cost, about Is. Gd. Good sherry can be substituted, and is almost as good. Half an ounce of glaze improves tho sauce. Sauce de Mentlie.—Required: two gills of brown stock, made from mutton bones (it should be of good flavour and free from fat), a table- spoonful of finely chopped mint, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, three or four lumps of sugar, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, the same measure of light wine, half a lemon, rind and juice, and someroux. Mix the mint and hrown sugar; rasp the lemon with the loaf sugar until the yellow part of the rind is absorbed ; add to the rest, and pound in a mortar, putting in the vinegar by degrees, also the juice of the lemon strained, then the stock; cover, and leave for a few hours for the flavours to blend. Then put all in a small saucepan and bring very gently to the boil; much of the excellence of the sauce depends upon this ; add enough brown roux to bring to the consistence of good cream, with salt and pepper to taste. Servo hot with lamb or mutton. This will commend itself to people who enjoy a mint flavour, but find ordinary mint sauce too sharp. As in mint sauce, the exact proportions of sugar and vinegar can be deter- mined only by individual tastes. Sauce for Salmis.— Required: a pint of Brown Sauce, a gillof Fumet or Game {see Game), a glass of Madeira, a shredded shalot, two ounces of mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, seasoning, and butter. Melt the butter, fry the herbs, shalot, and chopped mushrooms a rich brown; add a little orange-juice and a tablespoonful or two of brown stock; boil gently for ten minutes, then add the brown sauce, fumet of game, and seasoning of salt, black pepper, and cayenne; boil and skim as long as necessary, put inthewine,andwhenhot, strain into a saucepan. It is then ready for any kind of game. {See recipes.) Another way.—Put in a glass of port instead of Madeira, or claret if pre- ferred, with a teaspoonful of red currant jelly and the same of tomato catsup. The other ingredients are the same as above. Another way.—Mix together a gill of brown stock (No. 5), a gill of brown sauce, and half a glass of claret, with a teaspoonful of orange-juice. Add a few olives, turned and blanched (see Olive Sauce), boil for twenty minutes very gently, season to taste, and serve. Sauce for Salmon.—This is particularly good with grilled salmon. Mix a tablespoonful each of tomato con- serve, fish stock, Brown Sauce, sherry, and tarragon vinegar; add a tcaspoon- ful each of essence of anchovies and French mustard, with a little salt, boil up, and serve. Sauce Herb ace.—Required : a pint of Melted Butter, a saltspoonful each of chopped fennel (or parsley), thyme, and bay-leaf, with a good pinch of basil and marjoram. Put the herbs in the sauce, and simmer for a few minutes; then add a few drops of tarragon vinegar and a sprinkling of chopped tarragon, with a little cayenne vinegar, and salt to taste. A pinch of celery salt can be put in with advantage. If dried herbs are used, the quantities must be in proportion to their strength; they should be boiled in a small quantity of stock to extract the flavour, and the strained liquor from them be added to the melted butter, with a little chopped fresh herb or cooked green vegetable (spinach, lettuce, cress, celery tops, beet leaves, &c., may all be thus employed), and seasoning to taste. Sauce Herbac6 au Parme san.—Required : half a pint of stock- made from salmon bones, a gill of white wine, a gill of cream, seasoning, roux, and grated Parmesan, with a little herbal vinegar to flavour. Boil the stock and wine down to half a pint; add the cream and roux to bring it to the consistence of good cream; add a tablespoonful of Parme-