GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 115 shalot, a teaspoonful of French mus- tard, half as much anchovy essence and chopped chervil, a little salt and shredded tarragon, and half a pint of thick mayonnaise. Cost, about Is. Mix the whole lightly, taking care that the shalot is very finely chopped; a small pickled onion, well drained and chopped, is sometimes used in place of the shalot. Another way.—Add to three gills of mayonnaise a good teaspoonful each of French pickled gherkins and capers, cut up small, a little of each of the vinegars, salt, and mignonette pep- per, with any other addition in the form of herbs, or a dash of herbal vinegar. To a sauce made in the latter way a couple of filleted anchovies, cut in dice, can be added, with a saltspoonful of French mustard. These sauces have many uses, being served with all sorts of fish of the oily class, in addition to cold dishes. Vinaigrette Sauce.— Required: six tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one table- spoonful each of tarragon vinegar and onion vinegar, a pinch of cayenne, salt, and mignonette pepper to taste, and a little brown sugar. Put the oil in a basin, add the seasoning, then the vinegar, gradually. Serve with brawn and other cold meats, such as calf’s head, feet, &c., or collared ox cheek. Another way.—This is suitable for hot meats, veal, &c., or for boiled vegetables. Omit the onion, vinegar, and sugar in the above recipe, and add to the other ingredients a teaspoonful of white vinegar and a little chopped parsley, or chervil and tarragon. SWEET SAUCES. GENERAL REMARKS. Very little need be prefaced to this section. Xot only is the variety of these sauces here given greater than can be found in the usual run of cookery books, but most of them are new, all are, or may be, suggestive of many others; and while a few of the richer ones can only be indulged in by the few, the majority are economical; of their goodness we will leave the reader to judge. The cold sauces will perhaps prove the greater novelty to some people, particularly the “ hard sauces ” of American origin; and those who desire to follow the dictates of fashion in the matter of food not less than raiment may be interested in learning that a cold sauce is now considered a more suitable adjunct to a Christmas pudding than the hot concoctions of olden times; but fashion is so fickle, that before very long people may perhaps be eating hot sauces with ices ! With regard to cold sauces and the manner of cooling them, we need only refer to the Introduction to Cold Savoury Sauces. The hot sauces need no explanation. (See remarks on wines and spirits under Jellies.) Almond Sauce.—Make a pint of arrowroot sauce [tee recipes), or the same quantity of plain custard, and flavour to taste with essence of almonds; a lump or two of sugar rubbed on the peel of a lemon, and stirred in the sauce, improves it con- siderably. Almond Sauce (Rich).—Re- quired : a pint of medium or rich custard [tec Custaiids), a few drops of