GRAVIES AS’b SAUCES. 95 milk to a paste; add a pint of thin cream and a gill of strong stock from the bones of any white fish ; stir until it boils, put in salt to taste, and a few drops of cayenne essence or chilli vine- gar, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsiey and chervil previously blanched (all the seasonings go in off the fire) ; stir, and serve with white fish of all kinds, or with salmon. This is equally good for use with white meats, in which case strong veal or poultry stock is used in place of fish stock. Cream Sauce for Vegetables. —Make as above, but use equal parts of cream and vegetable stock (the latter may be simply the water in which the vegetable has been cooked, if suitable); thicken with an ounce and a half of arrowroot to each pint, season as above, and add a few drops of lemon-juice. If liked, the green herbs can be omitted. This is ex- cellent with asparagus, artichokes, young carrots and turnips, marrows, various kinds of beans, &c. &c. Cress Sauce.—To half a pint of plain melted butter put some water- cress or small cress and mustard. It should be boiled for a minute, then wrung dry and chopped; a table- spoonful is enough for the above. If liked, colour it with spinach-juice or parsley-juice. This can be served with fish or poultry. Cucumber Sauce. — Take a quickly-grown cucumber, peel it, take out the seeds, then cut it in thin slices. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, put in the cucumber, with a little salt and pepper, a sprig of parsley, and a grate of nutmeg ; cook until it is soft, then add about an equal measure of good melted butter or creamy bechamel (the latter is the better) ; pass all through a hair sieve, add a drop or two of lemon-juice or white vinegar after re-heating, then colour faintly with vegetable-green colouring. For a brawn sauce, fry the cucumbers in the butter, cook until tender, add brown gravy or stock, with roux to thicken,, or some brown, sauco, Curry Sauce (Plain).—Re- quired : a good-sized onion or two, a sour apple, a tablespoonful of freshly- grated cocoa-nut, a small tomato, one ounce of curry-powder, one ounce of rice-flour, a bunch of herbs, a few black peppercorns, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a soupi;on of the grated rind of a lemon, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of sweet chutney, salt, and pepper if required, one ounce of butter, and one pint of stock (No. 4). Cost, about 8d. Melt the butter, slice the onion, brown it in the butter, put in the apple (uncored) in slices, the herbs, &c., and the nut. Blend the stock, curry, and rice-flour, add them, and boil all gently until soft enough to sieve ; after that process, put it back in the pan with the lemon-juice, and add to it any meat, fish, &c., previously cooked, if it is intended for a rechauffe ; but it may be served with various meats separately cooked, or uncooked meat can be cut up and cooked in it. (See Entrees and Made Dishes An- other recipes and hints on Curries.) Digestive Sauce.—This is a very pleasant and wholesome combina- tion of ingredients, and the sauce may be served with pork or mutton when stuffed with sage and onions, goose fashion. To make it, mix together equal parts, say half a pint each, of Apple Sauce and Onion Sauce. Add a teaspoonful of French mus- tard, a tablespoonful of tomato pulp or conserve, and the same measure of sweet chutney; stir in a tea- spoonful of mild curry or mulliga- tawny paste, boil up, and sorvo. If liked, two ounces of sultana raisins can be boiled in a littlo stock until tender, and added. Dutch Sauce.—Required: the yolks of throo eggs, a wincglassful of water (or veal broth), threo ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, and a small bunch of herbs. Cost, ubout bd.