UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 26 ingredients. They are practically the same, the only difference being in the consistence or brightness, but we have separately numbered them to facilitate reference in other recipes. To extract all the goodness from bones in making stock, a digester is necessary, and will be found a most economical investment in institutions where cooking is done on a large scale and the bones are sufficient in quantity to justify their separate cooking. Few people realise the full measure of nutriment derivable from bones, because the time necessary to extract it is so seldom given; and it has been well said that it must be reckoned by days rather than hours. The reason is that the gelatine, which it is the object of the cook to extract, is so encased in its earthy covering that not only is long cooking needed, but the tem- perature should be high, and pressure is necessary, and only by the aid of a digester is all the soluble matter drawn out. Some care is necessary in the management of a digester—which is a kind of stock-pot with a lid which fits so tightly that the steam can only escape when its pressure is enough to lift a small weighted valve in the top—as it should never be more than half to three-parts filled. The bones should be chopped small; sometimes they are crushed and tied in a bag, as it is only through the fractured surfaces that the animal matter exudes, this is owing to the cellular structure, and applies to bones from some parts of an animal more than others. Cold water should be put to the bones, and salt added at fh-st, with a renewal after boiling point is reached. When a bone looks dry, white, and full of holes, then, and only then, has it become useless for culinary purposes. These remarks may explain why cooking a bone for an hour or so in a haphazard fashion, with or without salt, at any temperature, the lid on or off the pan, just as it happens, is not a satisfactory culinary operation, and is quite certain to give rise to the opinion so often heard expressed—that there is “no goodness” in bones, and that they are not “ worth the troublo of stewing.” They are well worth it, but certainly not when stewed in such a fashion. The following stocks are suitable for many kinds of gravies and sauces, as well as soups, and will meet ordinary requirements, both for plain and rich dishes. For high-class sauces it is sometimes necessary to mako a special stock, such as those described in Nos. 16 and 17. Fio. 14.—Digester. Stock (No. 1).—When the time comes for straining, draw off from the pot the stock prepared as described on p. 25, or if the stock-pot has no tap, ladle out as much as possible without disturbing the bed of bones, &c,, at the bottom; pour it through a fine hair sieve or clean cloth into a basin, and set aside until cold. This will bo fairly clear, without much colour or flavour. It is therefore useful for many purposes as a foundation, and