374 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Beef, Butch, or Hung.-— Round or rump is used for this (see Pickle No. 6, p. 369). Before using it, rub the meat over with a handful of coarse sugar. Twenty pounds or more of meat should be left for about three weeks in pickle, then smoked; or the meat may be cooked in weak stock and pressed, then served cold. It is used mostly for heightening the flavour of gravies or sauces, a little piece being cut off as wanted. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. per pound. Beef Ham.—Take the silver-side of a round of beef, then rub it in every part with a handful of brown sugar warmed in the oven. Leave it for a couple of days, this will mellow it. Then wipe it, and rub it with half a pound of bay salt and an ounce of saltpetre mixed together thoroughly. Leave it for fourteen to eighteen days, according to its weight, rubbing daily. If liked, it can be smoked; or a very excellent flavour may be given to it by blending an ounce of black pepper, half an ounce each of ground cloves and nutmeg, an ounce of crushed juniper berries, and half an ounce of white pepper, with the salt, &e. Sup- posing this is to be boiled whole, roll it tightly in a cloth, and put some weights on it. Then, after twenty- four hours, put it on in plenty of cold water, and boil slowly ; keep it in the cloth, and press again until cold. . If not to be cooked whole, this must be hung up after smoking; it can then be cut in slices, and cooked like ham; or it may be boiled, but will re- quire soaking for a short time. Or it may be served in chips (see Beef, Smoked, American). Beef, Hamburg. (See Pickle No. 6, p. 369.)—Make enough to cover the meat; it may be ribs, round, or any part preferred. Leave it for a fortnight, then smoke it. It may be boiled, and is used for salads some- times. Cost, variable. Beef, Hunters’.— Required: a nice round of beef, twenty-five pounds or so. Salt it by the directions given in Pickle No. 1 (page 368), giving it three weeks, and rubbing and turning daily. Wash it from the pickle, and put a band- age of strong calico round it to keep it in shape, then lay it in a baking-pan with half a pint of stock; put some suet in shreds over the meat, then cover with a flour and water paste and a greased paper over. Bako in a moderate oven, allowing about twenty- five minutes per pound. The stock must be replenished if required. Remove the bandage when the meat is quite cold, also the paper and paste. Take care that the suet is quite sweet. Cost, 8d. to lOd. per pound. This is a good, substantial dish for a hunt breakfast, or for luncheon for large parties, &c. To serve it, put in some ornamental skewers, and glaze the meat; garnish with plenty of parsley and scraped horse-radish (see also Salads). For small families any piece of beef, aitchbone for example, suited to their requirements, may be cured and cooked in this way, and very good it will be found. Unfortunately, many begrudge the little trouble involved in this mode of cooking, but the flavour and tenderness of the meat will repay anyone who may try it. Beef, Round of. Spiced.—Pre- pare a pickle by the directions given in PickleNo. 4 (page369), but for eighteen to twenty pounds of meat, use double the quantity of each ingredient. Rub and turn the meat dailj-, or twice daily, for a fortnight. The lean is the part to rub most. When ready to cook, wash and dry the meat, and cook as directed for Hunters’ Beef, allowing at least thirty minutes per pound. If that way of cooking is not convenient, put it; in an iron boiling pot, with some sliced" vegetables, and enough weak stock to cover it—that from any fresh boiled meat will do—and cook gently for the time specified. The liquid must scarcely bubble, or the meat will be hard. The liquid must be renewed as required. Turn all out