513 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. be seasoned, and beaten until light with a wooden spoon. A pie dish should then be greased, and tho potatoes put at tho bottom, to form a layer from half to an inch in thickness. The meat should be made into a thick mince of tho usual kin 1 with stock or gravy, see page 79, or it may be mixed with Ox ion Sauce, or any other which may have been sent to table with the meat. The nicer the mince, the nicer, of course, will be the pie. The meat goes next, and should be put in the centre of the bottom layer, leaving a little space all round. Then drop the remainder of the potatoes on the top, beginning at the sides—this prevents the boiling out of the gravy when the meat begins to cook—go on until all be used, making the pie highest in the middle. Take a fork, and rough the surface all over, because it will brown better than if left smooth. For a plain dish, put it in the oven just as it is, and bake it for fifteen to twenty minutes. Or it may be just sprinkled with melted dripping (a brush is used for this), or it may be coated with beaten egg, part of which may then be used in the mashed potatoes. As soon as the pie is hot through and brown, it should be served. There are many recipes for this pie, or variations of it, and in some, directions are given for putting the meat in the dish first, and all the potatoes on the top. The plan above detailed will be found the better, because the meat being enveloped entirely in potatoes runs no risk of becoming hard, as it would do if ex- posed to the direct heat of the oven. Any other cooked vegetables may be added to the above, but they shoidd be placed between the meat and potatoes, both top and bottom. If a very savoury pie is desired, make the mince very moist, and allow longer time for baking. The potatoes will absorb orne of the gravy, and be found tasty. In this case, the heat must not be tierce at starting, only at the end for the pie to brown well. For a richer pie, allow a larger proportion of meat. For a vory cheap one, half a pound of meat will do for two pounds of potatoes. Croquettes, Cheap.—Required: meat scraps, stock, seasoning, and potatoes as under. Cost, variable. All sorts of meat, with or without bits of poultry, may be used; bacon or ham improves; there must not be much fat, and skin and gristle should be as carefully removed as for belter dishes. Mince or chop the meat, an l moisten it with well-flavoured stock that will jelly when cold (see recipes for gravies under Meat Pies, and Stock No. 3). When cool enough, mould the mince into little balls the size of a walnut, or larger; parsley and, other herbs may be added at discretion (see various croquettes under Meat, Mutton, &c., in this chapter). Then coat each ball with mashed potatoes, choosing a recipe in which egg is given (see Potatoes). Shape neatly, then coat with bread-crumbs, after just moistening with a little egg and milk beaten together ; all egg is better. Fry in hot fat to cover, and servo hot after draining. Curried Balls.—Required : cur- ried rice, cold meat, bread-crumbs, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about Is. a dozen, but variable. Any cold meat does; pork or bacon in small proportion is an improvement. Allow half as much meat as rice; the latter should be warm when added, as the flavour will be better ; tho meat is to be prepared as for a minco. Cover until cold, then add bread-crumbs and egg yolk, one for half a pound of meat, and more seasoning to taste; chutney, or pickles, or salt and pepper only may be used. Some cooked mushrooms or celery may go in. Tho mass should be of the right consistence to mould with the fingers (floured) into little balls, the size of a Tanger- ine orange. They can remain until the next morning, and bo cooked for breakfast; they can bo rollod in crumbs and fried, or browned before the fire; if fried, the “ dry ” process