FISH. 165 top (see Salmon Mayonnaise). Then put the chopped jelly round, and on that lay the slices of lobster; divide the claws, lengthwise and across, and place between the slices, 'with a few nice prawns or shrimps if at hand. If tastefully arranged, this is a nico looking dish, suitable for all sorts of al fresco gatherings, ball suppers, or any cold collation. Lobster, Tinned. — Generally speaking, the flat tins will be found the most satisfactory. We do not mean that the lobster in tall tins is never good, but that a few firms of high repute always pack the fish in flat tins, each tin containing the whole of a lobster; therefore, if there should be no coral, there will be all the red meat of the fish, and providing some lobster butter be at hand in the larder, the tinned fish can be used for any dish for which the fresh fish is suit- able. Then, in these tins, the fish is but little broken, as a rule; the claws are intact, and there is an appreciable difference between fish of this sort and the raggy-looking pieces that are often to be found in the cheapest brands. To serve this plainly, as a breakfast or tea dish, it should be turned out, and nicely arranged in a glass or china dish, the best pieces on the top, and garnished with watercress or parsley. Oil and vinegar, cayenne and ordinary pepper, should be served with it. Cost, from lOd. to Is. per tin, on an average. Lobster, To Bish.—Break off the tail and claws, and divido the tail in two lengthwise. Cut the head and body through, following a line between the eyes, then crack the claws. Put the head in the centre, the parts to- gether at the top, but dividing a liltlo at the bottom. Arrange the tail and large claws at the ends and sides of the dish, and put the small claws up- right, between the head and other parts. Use plenty of parsley about the dish, the centre of which should bo covered with a lace paper, or neatly folded KTvictte, Lobster Quenelles.— Required: four ounces of lobster, three ounces of panada, one ounce of butter, a tcaspoon- ful of cream, a tablespoonful of thick bechamel, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one, a pinch each of salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg, and cayenne, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Cut up the lobster, then pound it with the butter; pound the panada, add the cream and sauce, then put the two together; pound again, putting in the eggs and seasoning gradually; put all through a sieve, and use as required. If small ones, for soup or garnishing purposes, they can be put from a forc- ing bag with plain pipe, any size, sometimes not much larger than a pea; then several are put together to form a little bunch, but the method of cooking is the same (see Salmon Quenelles). A little lobster coral improves tho above, or carmine can be used to give a pink tinge. Quenelles should always be nicely seasoned, or they arc very insipid, and not worth the trouble bestowed upon them. Mackerel.—This is one of the most beautiful of fish, being brilliant in appearance when perfectly fresh; no fish spoils more rapidly, and to bo eaten in perfection it must be fresh from the sea. Its usual size is from fourteen to eighteen inches long, and under two pounds in weight. In some countries mackerel are salted, and if soaked and well cooked are very appetising; they are perhaps most relished when grilled or broiled. Cost is variable; whero caught the fish may bo had some- times twenty or more for Is.; but from 4d. to 8d. each is tho usual price in largo towns. Many who cannot cat mackerel with safety when cooked in tho usual way will find that if steamed (supposing it to bo quito fresh) it is as digcstiblo as some other kinds of fish; at tho same time it is one of a class of fish not digestible on tho whole. Tho flesh of a good mackerel is very stiff; when stalo and limp it Is notoriously un- wholesome. I n emptying and cleaning mackerel, takoeare not to break tho skip,