413 hAxifc Ax ft 1'ouLtrv. in preparing game as above described. Supposing the best parts are being cooked for an entree, the worst joints should be smashed up, bones and all, and fried with some herbs and shalots, a few peppercorns, and a clove or two, in hot butter until brown, then covered with stock, and cooked gently, until a pint has reduced to a gill, or even less. Fumet of game is Teally very strong game stock. It is essential that the stewpan be tightly closed the whole time. As soon as ready it should be strained, and used as required to heighten the flavour of soups, sauces, gravies, and other game dishes. For a more economical fumet, the bones and odds and ends of cooked birds will be handy, and will answer for plain dishes, but the flavour will not be so good as that from raw birds. Some mushroom peelings and trul'.e trim- mings will improve both colour and flavour. Game in Tins.—Game may be bought both in tins and terrines; the latter are superior, but both these forms of pate may be recommended. They are very useful as a breakfast relish, and form an admirable picnic dainty. The remnants may be utilised in various ways, for sucb dishes as patties, rissoles, &c. They will like- wise improve many kinds of forcemeat. When to be turned out and served cold, especially on a hot day, it is important that the tin or terrine be thoroughly cooled : for this some ice is needed. This rule should be observed if the pate is going to be converted into sandwiches, as it will cut much more firmly. All these dishes are somewhat rich, and must be regarded as a luxury to tempt the appetite, rather than in the light of a meal. The price varies from a shilling or eighteenpence for a very small pate, up to many shillings for the large ones. Game pates truffled are the most expensive. Small tins of potted gamo may be had from sixpence each, and furnish a relish not to be despised. Game Livers, Furbe of.—In- quired : six ounces of game livers, a small shalot, two ounces of raw ham, a bunch of herbs, a clove, half a dozen crushed peppercorns, a tea- spoonful of wine (this must be in accordance with the wine used in flavouring the dish), two teaspoonfuls of thick brown sauce, the same of good stock, either of the brown kinds, and a morsel of minced truffle ; or in place of part of the stock, a little truffle essence. If game livers are scarce, make up with calf’s liver, and add some herbaceous mixture, or a little of the aromatic seasoning given in a later chapter. Cost, variable. Chop the shalot, or a small onion, scalded, very small; cut the ham in tiny dice, also the liver; fry these with the herbs and seasoning for six to eight minutes, then put all in a mortar with a pineb of salt and the liquid ingredients, pounding well. Sieve the mass, and add the brown sauce. Re-heat and use as required. For garnishing purposes put it in a forcing bag with a plain pipe. Another way.—Use poultry and game livers mixed for the foundation. To this or the above, for the sake of economy, some bread-crumbs mav bo added ; they should be soaked in the stock or sauce used for moistening. Chopped mushrooms or parsley may be added to increase the flavour, if desired. Game Purbe.—Required: twelve ounces of cooked game, free from skin and bone, two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, a teaspoonful of extract of meat, a dessertspoonful of port, tho same of claret, a little cayenne and nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste. Cost, variable. Cut the gamo up, and put it in a mortar with the rest of the in- gredients. If convenient, a bit of dissolved glaze can be used instead of extract of meat. Pound well, and rub through a sieve. Use as directed below. Game Purbe, Rich.—Required : half a pound of game, half a gill of fumet of game, the sume meusuro of