123 GRAVIES AND SAUCES, Orange Sauce can bo made thus, but less sugar is required. lemon Sance, Rich.—Re- quired : half a pint of rich Melted Butter, a tablespoonful and a half of lemon conserve (see Lemon Cheese- cakes), and the same measure of raisin wine or sherry, with a little sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon. Heat the melted butter, add the conserve and the other ingredients gradually; use as little sugar as possi- ble : the lemon flavour should not be destroyed. lime Sauce.—Pure lime-juice, a wineglassful or more, added to a tureen of melted butter, sweetened to taste, is a very pleasant sauce, and if honey is used instead of sugar it is greatly improved. This is suitable for plain suet puddings, dumplings, &c. liqueur Sauce. — There are various way's of making this sauce. The usual liqueurs employed for the purpose are curagoa, maraschino, noyeau, kirsch, and chartreuse (fox- others, see Liqueurs). It is impossible to determine exactly the required quantities: the strength varies much, and many British liqueurs are now sold—very good in some cases, but still they are but imitations of the genuine thing; perhaps maraschino is one of the best, as it is certainly' the most useful. We may, however, put down a half gill as an approximate quantity for half a pint of sauce, supposing rich melted butter to form the foundation, though a larger quan- tity would better suit the palates of many people. The sauce may also be made in the way given for Madeira Sauce, the liqueur being added, and the wine reduced in pro- portion ; or, an ordinary rich custard may be employed for the basis; off the fire, add from half to a gill of liqueur, and serve either cold or hot. One thing should he especially borne in mind ; these sauces are expensive, and to retain the full flavour, and so avoid waste, the liqueurs should not be boiled, or unduly heated; if they are, the quantity' needs to be doubled. Various recipes for home-made liqueurs will be found under their respective headings in a chapter on Beverages. Madeira Sauce.—Put the yolks of four fresh eggs in a good-sized saucepan, with a gill and a half of Madeira, add two to three ounces of loaf sugar, rasped on the rind cf a lemon to extract all the yellow; set the pan in the bain-marie or a large pan of hot water, and with a chocolat.c mill or an egg-whisk, mill or whisk the sauce until it is thick, then take it from the fire instantly', and serve with a rich pudding. It is very nice with Christmas Plum Puddings. Matrimony Sauce, Plain.— Mix a pint of Melted Butter, a heap- ing tablespoonful of brown sugar (or treacle), and lemon-juice; make hot, and serve. This is an old-fashioned sauce, best known in connection with y'east or suet dumplings. Another way.—Use jam instead of sugar, or honey or marmalade; and vinegar is often used in place of lemon-juice. In fact, the sauce is said to take its name from the combination of an acid and a sweet. Nonesuch Sauce.—Pick and stone half a pound of Muscatel raisins, cut them into quarters, and just cover them with boiling water; cover, and leave for an hour or two, then set the jar or basin containing the fruit in a pan of boiling water, and cook softly until all can bo passed readily through a sieve. Put the sauce in a saucepan, and stir in a teaspoonful of arrowroot mixed with rose-water to a paste, just bring it to the boil, then take from the fire instantly, and stir in a dessertspoon- ful of pale brandy. Servo with None- such Pudding, or any' good pudding, steamed or boiled. Orange Custard Sauce, Rich.—Required : a gill of cream, a gill of milk, half a gill of orange-