UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 256 and a half or more, and sent separately to table. Some Glazed Mushrooms should be used for garnishing'. Time, from three to four hours. Mutton, Leg of with To- matoes.—Use for this a good Veal Forcemeat, adding to each pound the pulp of a large tomato. Braise as above, but with no vegetables, except an onion, if liked, and a couple of tomatoes. Dish the rice, and pour over it some Tomato Sauce, and send more to table in a tureen. Note.—After boning and stuffing the meat, it must be fastened with tape and skewers to keep it a good shape, and a piece of thick muslin should be tied over the fillet end. Lamb may be cooked in the same way. Time must bo given for the gravy to cool, in order that it may be cleared of fat. These dishes are a welcome change, when cold, from a plain joint. Salad and sweet pickles should bo served with them, or a nice cold sauce. Mutton, Heck of, Stewed with Oysters.—Bequired : a piece of the best part of a neck of mutton, the middle, if possible, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Wash the meat free from blood; dry, and chop it ready for serving; then turn it about in a little hot fat in a stewpan, until brown. Pour over half a pint of mutton stock from bones, cold, this will throw up the fat; skim, and add the liquor from a score of oysters, a little anchovy essence, the juice of half a lemon, and a sprig of parsley. Bring to tho boil, put iu a dozen peppercorns, and cook until the meat is tender. Then put it on a dish, and keep it hot; strain and skim the liquor; make it up to a pint, then thicken with white roux, and add a score or more of oysters. Pour this round the meat, and serve very hot. Another way.—Brush the meat with glaze, and dredge it with bread- crumbs mixed with cayenne pepper, ground nutmeg, and a little salt and powdered herbs. Brown this before the fire, while the sauce is being made. Mutton, Ragout of, with Gniocchi.—Bequired : two pounds of mutton from the thick part of a leg, or the under-meat of the shoulder, six ounces each of onions and mush- rooms, wine, gravy, seasoning, and tomato puree, and some Gniocchi. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Cut the meat about an inch thick, and in pieces two inches long. Put an ounce or two of bacon in dice in a stewpan; add the chopped onions and mushrooms, and fry for a few minutes, then put in a gill of tomato puree, fresh or bottled, the same measure of claret, and half a pint of stock from mutton bones, or the gravy of a joint; add a little pepper, and put on the lid. Cook gently for an hour and three- quarters, turning a time or two ; then put in salt to taste, and a gill or so more stock, with a small quantity of roux or browned flour; boil up gently, and in ten minutes serve in a hot dish, and either garnish with the gniocchi, cut into squares, or send it to table in the dish it is baked in. Mutton, Shoulder of, Boned and Braised.—Take the blade bone from a small shoulder, freed from most of the fat, put any nice forcemeat in the place, then shape it, and tie it securely; also sew it up with thread. Braise in the usual way with vege- tables and stock. Glaze when done, and servo with the giavy thickened, and some Glazed Onions round (lie meat. Cost, about 9d. to lOd. per pound. Mutton, Shoulder of, Boned and Roasted.—Take the bone altogether from the meat, then put forcemeat in, and form it like a ball, or into a nice oval; tho latter is the easier. The forcemeat should be shaped in a roll, then the meat should be rolled like a galantine, and tied securely. Make the forcemeat by mincing a couplo of sheep’s kidneys; add them to half a pound of Veal