450 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Turn every half minute, and do not let them get dry. When done rub more butter over the breast, and sprinkle with lemon juice. Serve breasts upwards on pieces of toast or fried bread, and garnish with watercress. Slices of lemon should be laid about the dish. Birds so cooked within an hour of being killed arc thought by some to be bettor than those that have been kept. Quails, Fried.—Required : quail, bread, batter, frying fat, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, very variable. The birds are to be split, and prepared as for roasting. Then season some Hour with a little salt and a hint of cayenne, and dip the halves of quail in melted butter, thou in the flour, and shake off all that does not adhere. Cook in a frying-pan in a little hot fat, which may be butter, oil, or goal clarified fat. After the first minute, reduce the heat, that the birds may cook through without burning. Another way.—The birds should bo roasted until half done, then left to cool, and be coated with seasoned frying batter, and plunged into enough hot fat to cover, and removed when a golden brown. Serve with a garnish of fried parsley and sliced lemons. - Another way.—Let the birds mari- nade in a mixture of oil, salt, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a dust of cayenne, with just a suspicion of sluilot or onion. Then coat with beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs, and fry in fat to cover. They should be first roasted or baked until partly done, and left to cool. Quails, Boasted.—It is optional whether the trail be left in or not. In the opinion of many, a quail without its trail is worthless. Pluck and singe, take the head off, and the neck-bone and crop out. Truss by pressing the legs to the body, pass a skewer through the thighs and pinions, but first cut the latter off at the first joint. Rub them over with clarified butter, and tie a vine leaf on the breast; cover this with a slice of fat bacon, then roast for ten or twelve minutes; fifteen minutes if liked well done. When several are cooked at once, a largo skewer may be passed through, but space must be left between. This may bo laid in a tin before a brisk fire, or arranged as most convenient, so that the birds get evenly cooked. Dish each on a piece of toast or fried bread; if the birds have not been drawn, toast is most suitable, it should bo laid under them to catch the trail. Remove skewers, but leave the vine leaves and bacon; send gravy to table in a boat, also a dish of fried crumbs. Lemon and watercress may be used for garnishing. Another way.—In drawing, take out the trail and livers; cook these in a little pan with a morsel of butter; pound them, and season with salt and pepper; spread on toast just before dishing the birds. Babbit. — There are two sorts-- the tame and the wild. Tame rabbits are the larger of the two, with the flesh white and delicate. Of these the Ostond rabbits are most highly valued, but tame rabbits are very distasteful to some. Rabbits are highly esteemed for food, and are valuable because they can be served in so many ways. As the meat is rather dry, bacon is generally served with them. When used for the table they should be young, and should not have been kept more than a day or two. M. Udo gives some additional particulars on this head “ It is to be observed,” ho says, “ that warren rabbits only ought to be sent up to a good table, tame rabbits in general having no flavour but that of cabbage; and you must be par- ticular in using for table only young rabbits. Whether they are so may be ascertained by breaking the jaw be- tween the thumb and finger; if they are old, they resist the pressure. Also by feeling in the joint of the paw for a little nut; if it is gone, the rabbit is old, and not fit for fine cookery. In such cases use them to make rabbit puddings or pies.” In all our recipes wo shall assumo