174 universal cookery book. to a pike under three pounds in weight, and less than two feet in length. Pike, Baked. — This may he stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with a little chopped chervil. The fish should be coiled and the tail fastened in the mouth. First brush with warm butter, then season well, and coat with beaten egg and seasoned crumbs. Finish off like haddock or cod, and serve with any brown piquant sauce or gravy. The fish needs careful cleansing and scaling. Pike, Larded and Baked.— Scale and cleanse a moderate-sized pike. Remove the gills, empty the fish, and lard it thickly over with strips of fat bacon (sec Lauding, page 13). Fill it with good Veal Forcemeat, and sew the body up with cotton. Butter a paper thickly, cover it with sweet herbs and a little popper and salt. Wrap the fish in this, lay it in a baking tin, basto well, and hake. Serve on a hot dish, and sond any nice sauce to table. Time: twenty-five to forty-five minutes. Pike, Stewed.—Clean and scale a pike weighing about four pounds, and cut it into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan. Put with it a shalot or a small onion chopped small, a tablospoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of ground cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Shako these ingredients over the fire for five or six minutes, then pour over them half a pint of stock or water, a glass of claret, and a gill of vinegar. Lay the fish In the stewpan, cover closely, and let it simmer until done enough. Take it up, and lay it on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce with brown roux, stir in a table- spoonful of bruised capers, let it boil a minute, and pour it over the fish. Pike, Stewed, Superior.— Take a medium-sized fish, prepare as usual, and lard it thickly with bacon (see pago 13). Put in a stewpan a slico or two of veal and somo minced bacon; lay tho fish on, and pour round it a sauce as above; stew gently, then take up the fish (the tail should be fastened in the mouth), crisp it before the fire, while the sauce is finished off as above directed. Somo herbs and fresh vege- tables will improve the fish; they should be laid at the bottom of the stewpan. Pilchards,—These are found in great numbers on tho coasts of Corn- wall and Devon. They are very oily, and are only eaten in the uncured state in or near the places where Flo. 43.—Pilchard. caught; hut they arc cured in large quantities after tho oil has been extracted by pressure ; even then, they are very rich. While fresh, they may he dressed like herrings, and the pil- chards in oil—sold in tins, tho Cornish arc the best—are very useful as a breakfast dish, or they may be con- verted into little savouries in the same way as sardines. The cost in tho fresh state is uncertain; tinned ones are about Is. for the best brands. In Devonshire, a pie is made of pilchards and leeks, hut the taste is an acquired one, and it would probably not prove palatable to those unaccus- tomed to such a combination. The fin of the pilchard is just in the middle of tho back ; it is thus easily distinguished from the herring. Plaice,—Most people are familiar with the taste and appearance of plaice. If more expensive, it would probably be more appreciated, for if care is exercised in the cooking it is very good