GAME AND POULTRY. 425 hare, bacon, stuffing, stock, seasoning, wine, vegetables, &c., as bolow. Cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to 6s. There are few better ways of cook- ing a haro than this. (See Bhais- ing, page 5.) The hare may be stuffed with a good forcemeat, and larded on the back and thighs; or this may bo omitted if covered with bacon. In either case put a buttered paper over, after placing the hare on a bed of minoed bacon (a couple or three ounces) with some sliced vegetables—say carrot, celery, onion, or leek, or a shalot or two, with a teaspoonful of peppercorns, allspice berries, and cloves ; of the latter, two will suffice. When nice and brown, in twenty minutes or so, put in stock to half the depth of the hare ; this may be such as No. 4 or 5, or for a very good dish No. 16 or 17 is to be pre- ferred ; either of the stocks given for clear, brown soups will also answer; for, in many instances, the sort of soup to be served at a dinner must regulate, to Eome extent, the precise kind of stock that is available for other pur- poses. Now put the cover on the pan —an ordinary stewpan does very well —and braise on the hot plate, or in the oven for two to three hours, ac- cording to the age of the hare. Season to taste, and strain the gravy, adding as much more stock as may be required. Glaze the hare, and after flavouring the gravy with port or other wine, strain a little round it, and serve the rest in a boat. If a slightly-thickened gravy only is desired, use a teaspoonful of arrow- root for each pint. For a browner, thicker gravy use roux; or, if liked quite thick, pass some of the vege- tables through the strainer. Many ways of varying the foregoing might be given; reference to other braised dishes will suggest some of them. Mushrooms are generally liked; they can be cooked in the grfvy; small tomatoes may also be used. Fruit jelly can be sent to table, and some nicely-cooked vegetables must not be forgotten. Hare, Braised, with Ham and Tomatoes.—Inquired: a hare, ham, tomatoes, seasoning, &c., as bo- low. Cost of haro, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Braise as in the foregoing recipe, and leave the gravy quite thin. Grill or broil some slices of tomato; cut them into dice, and prepare some ham by cutting slices of it from a previously cooked piece, then divide into dice; toss these in a small saucepan with a little gravy from the hare and a spoonful of sherry. When hot, and the mois- ture evaporated, mix in the tomatoes, equal in bulk, about half a pint alto- gether. Add some herbaceous mixture, a little carmine to colour, and a tea- spoonful of lemon juice off the fire; chop the cooked liver small, add it, and put little piles about the dish. All the gravy must be served in a tureen. Hare, Civet of.— Required: a young hare, half a pound of streaky bacon, stock, wine, thickening, sea- soning, and vegetables as below. Cost, about 5s. or 6s. Cut the hare in neat joints. Soak the bacon for a short time in cold water, then cut it up and fry it lightly; fry the hare also, then stir in a couple of ounces of browned flour, and a glass of port. Pour in about three gUls of good brown stock—No. 4 or 5 will do—but richer stock will be wanted for a very good civet. Next add a dozen button onions, the same number of button mushrooms, the juice of a Seville orange, a clove or two, some black peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, and a grain of cayenne. Cover closely, and cook gently until lender, adding more stock as it boils away. A quarter of an hour before serving putin some brown roux, salt to taste, and a glass more wine; let the sauce thicken, and then serve. Time, about three hours—more if the hare is old; but the younger the better for this. A civet is literally a dark, rich stew. Many additions and variations may bo made. 8omo would like a spoonful of black or red currant jolly stirred in; claret may be preferred to port; and