84 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. drained on a liair sieve. The greening thns made is for immediate use only. For red, carmine is now used in preference to cochineal, as it retains its colour well; very little is required, and any shade, from the palest pink to rich crimson, may be given. This is a liquid, and may be used for any dish. Yellow colouring is required but seldom, when yolks of eggs aro used in the sauce; when it is required, liquid saffron or apricot yellow, the latter in paste iorm, can be employed for all purposes. Only the best qualities of these articles should be employed. They should bear the name of the maker, and be certified pure. Low-priced, nameless goods of this class are dear in the end; not unfrequently spoil the whole dish ; will not keep ; and are often absolutely injurious. Wines for Gravies and Sauces.—It has been well said that imitation port added to a gravy has as disastrous an effect as the contents of a blacking bottle, but that mock sherry is a still more horrible compound. The moral is, use genuine wine, or dispense with it altogether. Taking the wines in common nse, first a word on Port. Always keep a bottle handy in which to put the dregs from wine decanted for the table. In time they will settle considerably, and serve excellently for such dishes as jugged hare, venison, &c., as well as for Salmi sauce, and many others that are served with game; and for purees and soups of hare and other game, or of brown meat. Sherry should be a golden wine, not a pale, dry variety. Wheu very good it may be used in place of Madeira. The latter is particularly recommended for the rich brown sauces that are sometimes served with calf’s head; it is also the wine par excellence for mock or real turtle soup. The dregs of these two wines may be bottled together. For clear gravies, of course the clear wine is wanted; the dregs will only answer for those that are thickened. Claret is a useful wine in the kitchen. It need not be a high-priced brand, but it must be sound ; a “ vinegary ” wine is very often destructive to the flavour of the entire dish. Burgundy may often take the place of port in a dish ; so may a good claret; but in snch cases a little extra flavouring and body must be given to the sauce or gravy. For instance, if fruit jelly is an ingredient, supposing a tea- spoouful to a glass of port, one might nearly double it for the same measure of claret or Burgundy. Light Wines.—In many recipes in this work the term “ light wine ” is used, aud much must be left to the discretion of the cook, and the materials at command. The French wines of the white class, Chablis, Hock, Sauteme, and others, may be used for many fish sauces. The same wines, to which may be added Marsala, are frequently used by French cooks in gravies for braised beef and similar dishes. If at any time Marsala is used in place of sherry, a better wiuo is needed than for such dishes as are only dependent upon the lightest of these wines for their flavour; that is to say, while a very cheap one might suffice for a marinade of fish, something better would be wanted in making the gravy for beef fillets or veal cutlets. Finally, we would add that all the stocks given under Stocks and Sou})s can be utilised for sauces, in high-class recipes choosing Nos. Id and 17 for the principal kinds of brown sauces.