530 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Puree, Brown). Then sprinkle the surface of tho pureo with grated bread- crumbs, to form a coating; brush over with butter, and brown with a sala- mander. Have some chestnuts whole (they may be roasted or boiled); peel them, then brush them with glaze, and use them for garnishing the dish; place between each a small cake of sausage meat, fried or boiled, and brushed over with glaze. Serve hot. This is an excellent dish for luncheon. Meat of the dark kind is best suited. If veal is preferred, or any other white meat, as rabbit, &c., use a pale gravy in making the hash, and prepare the puree by the recipe for White Chestnut Puree. Then no crumbs must be used for the surface. Veal sausage meat should be used for the little cakes, which are to bo egged, crumbed, and fried. The chestnuts for the garnish should be boiled and coated with hot white sauce, then sprinkled with chopped parsley or sieved egg-yolk. Steak, Crumbed. —Roquired: steak, seasoning, crumbs, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound. This is an excellent way to re-heat a piece of cooked beef-steak, supposing it to bo tender, thickly cut, and slightly underdone. If about half a pound of meat be handy, cut it into thin slices, straight through; if the steak bo an inch and a half thick, all tho better. Then prepare a seasoning : a pinch of salt, a good pinch of black pepper and cayenne, a few drops of hot sauce, or the liquid portion of some chutney or thick mixed pickles; coat the meat with this, then dip it into liquofied dripping or butter ; flour it a little, and roll it in bread-crumbs; each piece must bo done singly. Lot them lie for a short time, then dip again into butter, and again coat with crumbs. Drop the pieces into plenty of hot fat, and as they become brown and crisp, take thorn up with a small slice, and dish them in a pile. Serve very hot. Any sort of under-done meat, cut in tho same way, can be similarly cooked. Tinned Meat Brawn.—Ro- quired : two pounds of meat—beef, or ox-cheek, or ox-tails—tinned, an ox- foot, half a pound of pickled pork, seasoning and gravy as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. The foot is to be boiled until the bones slip out, then cut up; the pork may be from the belly or head, or feet can be used; this is to be boiled also. The meat (tinned) should be freed from fat. The whole must then be minced and mixed well, then seasoned like brawn of the ordinary sort, and moistened with the jelly of the meat melted in a little more strong stock; a tablespoonful of store sauce or herbal vinegar is a great improvement. Finish off in the usual way, and serve with plain salad. The remains of a calf’s head can bo used up instead of cooking an ox-foot purposely, and bacon answers as well as pork. By some the addition of some hard-boiled eggs in slices is con- sidered an improvement. Tinned Meat, Fried.—Many very nice little dishes for breakfast, or any other meal, may be made by taking the meat from the tin, and cutting it through tho grain into thick pioces, then seasoning them in the ordinary way, or with a “devil” mix- ture ; they should then be dipped in flour, noxt into a thick plain batter, and fried in hot fat to cover. Or they may be rolled in fine crumbs, after seasoning; these must be patted on firmly and evenly, and in an hour’s time a second coating should be given, the meat being first dipped into liquid fat. Or, needless to say, the ordi- nary coating of egg and bread-crumbs renders them nicer still; and as the meat itsolf is so cheap, the expenso is very trifling. Fried potatoes, or other vegetables, and gravy or sauce, cun bo served with the meat, or it can go to table just as it is. In cutting up the meat it is not possible to get the pieces as even in size and shape as when cutting from a joint, owing to tho tendency to crumble: but care