163 Flslt. potato border, or rice border {see Index) : turn the fish into the centre, and sprinkle the rest of the coral over the bonier, garnish the outer edge with shrimps or prawns, and fried parsley ; or. if no shrimps aro handy, use the whole of the little claws of the lobster. Serve for luncheon or dinner. Lobster, Curried,—This is a plain method, for which tinned lobster may be used. Required, half a pint of Curry Sauce ; a tin of lobster, and some boiled rice (plain method), season- ing as under. Heat the sauce, cut up the fish into neat pieces, and lay them in for ten minutes, to heat, not boil. Have the rice in a hot dish, sprinkle it with lemon juice and a pinch of coralline pepper, and pour the fish and sauce in the centre. Lobster Curry(Mandarins’). —Required: a lobster of medium size, a tablespoonful of good curry paste, a pint of sauce, a pinch of cayenne and grated lemon peel, the juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of tomato puree, a bunch of herbs, a capsicum, two ounces of freshly grated cocoanut, and a half gill of cream. Put the sauce in a stewpan, creamy bechamel, or a plainer sauce of the same consistency {.ice Hot Sauces) ; mix the tomato, lemon juice, capsicum seeds, and herbs, with a little salt; simmer for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a sieve. Cook the cocoanut in fish stock to cover it; stir in the curry paste and the tomato puree; add this to the sauce; put the lobster in, and leave to heat through. Last moment put in the cream, separately heated, and add more seasoning if required. Dish as described in the recipe above, and chop the capsicum, then sprinkle the rice with it, adding some lobster coral, or a dust of coralline pepper. Lob3ter Cutlets.—Required : a small lobster, three raw eggs, a gill of any good sauce, bechamel for choice, bread ernmbs, seasoning, &c., as below. _ Cut the meat of the lobster in small dice ; boil up the sauce, and stir in the yolks of two eggs off the fire ; add salt, cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and tho lobster, with a little colouring; set away to cool; then take up tho mix- ture from a tablespoon, and form into balls of even size, on a slightly floured board. Beat up tho other egg yolk, coat the balls, take a palette knife and form them into cutlets; coat with crumbs, again use tho knife, and level the crumbs in every part. Then set aside, and coat again with egg and crumbs in an hour. Put the cutlets in a frying basket in a single layer, fry them in hot fat, and drain well. Dish them in a circle on a lace paper, or serviette; stick a bit of parsley stalk in each, or use the tiny claws of the lobster, or a morsel of macaroni, coloured pink (see Garnishes). Fill the centre with fried parsley, and serve hot. Another way.—Add to the mixture above a little lobster butter, fry and dish the cutlets on a border of rice, potatoes, or bread (see Garnishes). Put fried, parsley outside the border, and fill the centre with any rich fish sauce, hot or cold. If the latter, add it last moment. Serve as an entree. Lobster Cutlets (a cold entree). —Prepare the lobster mixture as above; when cool, make into cutlets, and instead of egging and crumbing, pro- ceed as follows :—Have a tin with aspic in a thin layer, just set; lay the cutlets on after shaping them nicely— using no flour, and making them small —leaving a margin between of half an inch. Then sprinkle the tops with lobster coral; pour more aspic over, and when set cut out with a cutlet cutter. Dish in a ring on a laco paper, the red side up, with a small lobster claw in each, or a bit of pipe macaroni, coloured. Fill up the centre with salad, mixed with mayonnaise, and garnished with chopped or fancy shapes of aspic. If there is plenty of coral, roll liio cutlets in it to mask both sides. Another way of serving,—Take somo paper cutlet cases (sec Fancy Paper Cases) ; put a little bed of dressed salad