Universal cooRerv boor. 2G0 bay leaves, and a pincli of cay- enno. Turn and basto daily for four days, then melt in a stow- pan three or four ounces of butter; add two ounces of flour and brown it, and some bacon, minced, about four ounces; next put in a chopped onion and a grated carrot, add the liquor from the meat, after strain- ing, and somo plain stock to make up a quart. Boil up, then put in the tongue, and simmer with frequent basting for three to four hours. It may be served hot, in which easo add somo brown sauco to some of the gravy, with a glass of claret, and salt to taste; keep the tonguo warm whilo the gravy is boiled and skimmed, then dredge the tonguo with rasp- ings and pour the sauce round it. For a cold dish let it cool in the liquor, then skin, glaze, and gar- nish in the usual way. If thinly sliced, this is excellent for salad or sand- wiches ; and tho remnants will make a nice dish of potted meat, or come in for croquettes, rissoles, &c. Polish Buck.—This is a peculiar dish; those who mayhavoacquired atasto for Continental dishes in which sardines enter largely will enjoy it, but we may mention that filleted anchovies may be usod just in the same way if preferred to the sardines, llequircd : a thick slice, say an inch and a half, from a fillet of veal, some sardines (the bone- less should bo used), fat bacon, season- ing, onions, garlic, milk and butter. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. Gd. Skin the moat, beat it with a steak- beater or rolling-pin, then make holes in it with a wooden skewer, three-fourths the depth of the slice. Cut bacon into thick strips and sardines into thin ones; fill the holes, then rub tho moat over with somo sliced onion and next with a clove of garlic ; sprinkle with a half teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, tho same of salt, and a little white popper and cayenne, with a suspicion of ground mace, ltoll this up sausage shape, tie it with tape, and brush it over with clarified butter; then lay it in a stewpan with hot butter, until it is delicately browned. Put in a gill each of veal stock and milk, cover tho meat with buttered paper, and cook gently, basting sometimes, for two to two and a half hours. Then leave it until cold ; unbind, and servo in slices as a breakfast dish, garnishing with salad according to taste. Reindeer Tongue. — Before cooking, proceed as follows : —Put tho tongue in cold water for three or four hours, then leave it in an airy situa- tion until dry; soak again, and repeat the drying ; again soak and dry, making three times in all. Scrape it, and put it on to boil in cold water ; bring very slowly to the boil, with frequent skimming, and cook for throe hours or longer. Serve on a folded napkin and garnish with parsley, if for a plain dish for breakfast. For a moro elaborate one, the tongue can bo brushed over with aspic, and gar- nished in any of tho ways given for Ox Tongue. Tho remains of a tonguo may be minced, and served in any of the usual ways, or potted with somo Fio. GO.— Reindeer Tongue. ham or bacon; or, when dry, it can bo grated, and used for flavouring sauces and gravies. A nice breakfast relish can be obtained by heating thin slices of tho cooked tongue in good gravy, just to moisten, and serving with grilled tomatoes or tomato butter, or with horse-radish butter. Cost, from Is. 6d. to 2s. Salpicons in Sauce.—This is an exceedingly nice dish, and should