510 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. joint is down too low to make a nice hash a mince is preferable. Cost, when made from a pound of meat, about Is. (id. Beef, Minced, Plain.—Either cut the meat with a knife into tiny dice, laying the slices ono on another, and using a good knife; or chop it with a chopping knife on a board, or pass it through a mincing machine. In either case remove bits of skin and gristle. When meat is in such a con- dition that all the gristle cannot be taken away without a good deal of waste, abandon the idea of a mince, for nothing is more objectionable than these pieces of gristle, however tender may bo the meat itself; their best place is the stock-pot. Allow about a pound of meat to half a pint of gravy (sec page 79), season piquantly, and serve hot with garnish as for Hash. Cost, same as Hash. Beef, Minced, Savoury.— Required: about twelve ounces of beef, two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalots, a large teaspoonful of parsley, a saltspoonful of powdered thyme and bay leaf, a pickled walnut (chopped), and throe gills of plain stock ; fat and thickening, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Fry the shalots in a little hoof drip- ping, stir in the stock (No. 1, 2, or 4) with an ounce of browned Hour and a teaspoonful of store sauce, lloil up well, add the walnuts and a little of their vinegar, with salt and pepper and a morsel of mustard. Cut the beef in little dice (braised or boiled meat is first-rate for this), and leave it in tho gravy for twenty minutes. Bring it just to the point of boiling before serving. Put a border of potatoes round, or any other vegetables, or a few sippets of toast, or some croutons. This is very inexpensive, but most tasty, on account of the nature of the seasoning. By the exercise of a little ingenuity and forethought many varie- ties of this dish may bo indulged in. A pickled tomato furnishes a pleasant change, so does a pickled or fresh mushroom, and the same may be said of pickled fruits. (See tho recipes for Sweet Pickles.) Beef Minced, with Tomato Sauce.—Required : a pound of beef, sauce, potatoes, tomatoes, and croutons as belo\v. Cost, about 2s. (See Mutton, Hashed with Tomato Sauce.) Use beef in tho way there described, and dish similarly. Garnish with potato cakes or cones, and slices of grilled or fried tomatoes (see recipes in Vege- tables). Dot some little croutons about tho meat, or put a border of ring-shaped ones with a morsel of hot chutney or pickles, heated in stock, in the centre. This is very savoury. Beef Minced, with Vermi- celli and Marrow.—Required : a pound of meat, half a pint of gravy (see page 79), a quarter of a pound of vermicelli, and somo marrow toast for garnish. Cost, about Is. 6d. Take the meat and gravy, and when quite hot, pile the meat in the centre of half the vermicelli,which should be sim- mered in plain stock, then pile tho rest of the vermicelli over; sprinkle with chopped parsley, and put the toast hero and there (see Index for recipes). Serve very hot, or the dish is a failure. Various other toasts may be used thus, and rice or macaroni may be sub- stituted for vermicelli. Beef Pousse. —Required: twelve ounces of cold moat, one large baked potato, a teaspoonful of horse radish vinegar, the same of tomato vinegar, a little salt and pepper, a quarter pint of bread-crumbs, the same measure of brown stock and two eggs, liver as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Mince and season the meat from a tender roast; soak the crumbs in hot stock, squeeze dry, and beat finely; add a floury potato cooked in its skin, the yolks of the eggs, and the vinegar. Beat hard, then beat the whites of eggs to a froth, with a pinch of cayenne, and stir in very lightly. Have ready about two tablespoonfuls of minced calf’s liver; stir this in thoroughly, then fill any plain greased