148 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. of chopped parsley, some powdered mixed herbs, about a saltspoonful, the same of pepper, a toaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, a gill of fish stock, one ounce of clarified fat, a gill of brown sauce, and throe eggs. Melt the fat in a pan; chop the onion, add it with the parsley, and brown it well; add the sauce, fish stock, the fish minced, and the bread- crumbs ; stir well, and season ; leave to cool, then mix in the eggs, adding them unbeaten, one at a time. Have a shallow cake tin or plain mould of any sort, grease and coat it with browned crumbs, put the mixture in, and hake in a moderate oven, about an hour. Turn out, and pour any nice sauce round; or if for breakfast, no sauce is needed. There are many ways of varying this; a little tomato conserve or a fresh tomato, or a chopped mush- room instead of catsup, less onion, and, for a cheaper dish, two eggs only, with another ounce of crumbs, will suggest variations of other kinds. Any cold sauce can bo used up instead of the brown sauce. Fish, Egging and Crumbing of. —See that the bread is at least a day or two old, and, if possible, sieve it (see Bread Crumhs, To Prepare). The eggs must not be stale. Wo do not mean that a now-laid egg, strictly speaking, is necessary, but a watery egg is no good; it will not stick on the fish. Details of the application of the egg and crumbs are given under Sole, Fried, but we may add a necessary warning : never handle the fish after preparing it; take it up on a fork or skewer after the crumbs have been well shaken over it (sec also Haddock, Baked). If the whites of eggs can be utilised for any other purpose, use the yolks only for the fish. Should strict economy be necessary, use the whole egg, and a spoonful of milk, beating them well. In such cases bo extra careful that there is a good coating of crumbs. Fish en Blanquette. — Re- quired : a pound and a half of white fish, half a pint of good Melted Butter, half a gill of fish stock, wine, and cream, three eggs, seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. Bone and skin the fish, cut it in suitable pieces for serving, make stock of the bones, and boil to half a gill; put this in the pan, with the fish and a little salt and half a gill of light wine; cook until soft, then mix the melted butter with tho yolks of the eggs and a tablespoonful of cream; stir until thick, custard fashion, or in the bain- marie; then take up tho fish, dish in a pile on a hot dish, reduce the liquor rapidly, pour it over tho fish, and then mask it with the sauce, using a palette- knife. Some potatoes, first scooped out into olive or any other fancy shapes with a cutter, may be used as garnish. They should be carefully boiled or steamed, brushed over with warm butter, and sprinkled with lobster coral, coralline pepper, or chopped parsley'; a little of the same garnish should bo put on the sauce. This is a rich dish, and can bo served as an entree. If preferred, nicely fried croutons can bo used instead of potatoes (sec Garnishes). For a still richer dish, use creamy bechamel, mixed with eggs, for masking the fish. Fish, Fillets of, in Potato Pastry. —-Required: some fillets from medium-sized fish, sole, plaice, brill, &c.; some Kick Potato Pastry, mush- room puree, &c., as below. After filleting the fish, cook tho fillets in a steamer, or as directed in tho next recipe ; then let them cool, spread half of them, after dividing again, with White Mushroom PurEe, mixed with tho yolk of a raw egg and a tablespoonful of lino crumbs, making about a gill altogether; lay tho other half over, like a sandwich. Have ready the pastry’ rolled thinly, cut a little larger than the fillets; lay'one on a piece of pastry, cover with another piece, and press tho edges firmly' all round ; they should be brushed first with a little raw egg. Then brush the tops with raw egg, mark them with a skewer or