UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 264 skins and converted into a rich puree, (see Dressed Vegetables). Put it in a bag with a rose pipe, and form a border on a hot dish, then pour in the moat and sauce; garnish with the parsley and truffle chopped, and sprinkle tho lobster coral on the potato. All tho garnish must he in roadinoss ; the truffle should he heated in stock, and tho parsley scalded, before chopping. Veal, Fillet of, with Ancliov ies. — Required : veal, anchovies, but- ter, and seasoning, as below. Cost,' about Is. Gd. Cut a slice from tho thick part of a fillet of veal (it should be about three-fourths of an inch in thickness) ; brush it with oil, and grill or broil it. Put two boneless anchovies in a mortar, with an equal bulk of chopped parsley, and a clove of garlic, minced; grate in the rind of half a lemon, and po-und well; then sieve, and mix with two ounces of fresh butter. Lay this on tho dish, and put the meat on the top. Serve cut lemon with it. Another way.—If a larger dish is required, cut two steaks, and cook them as described above. Prepare just double the quantity of anchovies, butter, &c. When the meat is done lay the butter on tho dish, reserving part of it; put one piece of meat on the dish, spread it with the rest of the butter, and put the other steak on tho top. A little glaze improves the moat. Beef-steak is excellent cooked as above, and the meat is delicious when cold. Sauce and salad improve it. Veal, Fillet of, Braised.— Required : a fillet of veal, four ounces of bacon, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a bunch of herbs, seasoning and stock. Cost, about Is. per pound. Cover the bottom of a braising pan with part of the bacon, sliced; the vegetables, prepared by washing, peeling, and slicing; if at hand, add a few celery stalks also, and a gill of stock made from veal bones. Make the incat firm and compact by binding it with tape; lay it on the bed of vegetables and bacon, and put the rest of the bacon on the top; add a few peppercorns, a clove or two, and put on the lid; simmer to reduce the stock, then add more stock to half tho depth of the meat; put some hot cin- ders in tho lid of the pan, and cook gently for two and a half or three hours (for five or six pounds), basting often. When done, take tho bacon from the meat, drain the latter, and put it on a hot dish; strain tho gravy, thicken it with brown roux to make it like cream in consistence, skimming it all the time it is boiling; season to taste, and add, if liked, a little light wine. If the meat is not brown enough, it can bo brushed over with glaze, and put before the fire, or in a hot oven, or put back in the pan, the lid being replenished with fresh cinders while the gravy is being made; but if it has been attended to, it will probably be brown enough. Pour the gravy round, and send to table very hot, with nicely cooked vegetables separately dished. Another way.—Send the gravy sepa- rately to table, and round the veal put a Puree of Endive, Spinach, Souuel, Cucumber, Carrots, or Mush- rooms ; or green peas, young carrots, glazed, button mushrooms, or small tomatoes, besides many other vege- tables can be used whole in tho samo way; recipes for all will be found in later chapters devoted to Vegetables. See that the drainer of the pan is kept very clean; if the holes are allowed to clog, the draining is re- tarded, and the meat will acquire an unpleasant flavour. A bone or two, or a strip of lean ham will improve the meat; they should be put under- neath, with the vegetables and bacon. Veal A la Dude.—Required: a veal cutlet of a pound, an inch in thickness, and free from skin; it should be trimmed to an oval shape; half a pound of rice, seasoning, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound, exclusive of garnish,