DRESSED VEGETABLES. C91 puree answers equally well for other vegetables. It is excellent with young turnips or Jerusalem artichokes, to which it gives a very pleasant piquancy. Potatoes with. Puree a la Christie.—Required : potatoes, and a puree as below, with garnish, &c. Cost, rather more than the above. Prepare the potatoes as above, but after peeling them trim with a “root knife,” to give a ridged appearance. (See Vegetable Knives.) Make a puree as above, but add a tablespoon- ful of cooked game livers, pounded and sieved. (See recipes in the chapter on Game.) This is to be more highly seasoned, and if liked, the wine may be increased and the tomato pulp re- duced a little. Croutons may be used as above, or some rich potato cakes (page 689). If the latter, glaze them. Garnish with fried parsley and serve very hot. Potatoes a la Rose.—Re- quired : a potato puree and some arti- choke bottoms. Cost, if a small tin of artichokes, about Is. 9d. to 2s. with sauce. Prepare a puree (see page 689) and colour part of it pale pink; put this into one side of a forcing-bag with a rose pipe, and the plain, uneoloured part into the other side. Have a hot dish ready, on which some artichoke bottoms, previously heated, have been placed. Force out the potatoes to form a rose on each. Do this near the fire, the dish being set over boiling water; a cloth must be used over the forcing- bag. This can eifher go to table as a separate course, with a little good sauce, or be served round any nice made dish of fillets, kidneys, sweetbreads, &c. It is very pretty and has many uses. Potatoes Stuffed (a Chinese dish).—Required : potatoes, steak, &c., for the filling as below, and somo butter. Cost, about 8d. per pound, inclusive. Parboil some potatoes of even size, and let them get cold; take a morsel from one end, and scoop out the interior. Prepare the following mixture for filling the vacant places:—Pass some tender steak thi'ough a mincer, add a small onion to each half-pound, a couple of chillies, a morsel" of garlic, a little salt and mixed spice, with somo herbs; pound up finely in a mortar. Cook ail in a little butter; then, after filling the potatoes, replace the ends, and bake in a tin, with butter, to a golden brown. The potatoes must be thoroughly done without being broken. Drain and serve very hot. Another icay.—Use any white meat for the filling; cook it in a spoonful or two of white stock in place of butter, and flavour with herbs and spices; enrich it with cream, and thicken the mince with boiled rice carefully" pounded. This is a delicate dish. Another variety is made by using a little curry, cream, and lemon or lime j uice to flavour and enrich the meat. Potatoes a la Supreme.— Required: potatoes and sauce, egg and crumbs. Cost, about 8d. for a dish of a pound, including fried parsley for garnish. Steam the potatoes and leave to cool, mask them with the Sauce Supreme, then crumbs, then eggs and crumbs again; quarter them if largo. Fry and drain, and serve very hot. Puree a la Zouave, in Cases. —Required : half a pint of sauce, eggs, potatoes, and croustades as below. Cost, exclusive of the sauce, about Gd. or 8tl. Make the sauco as directed (page 107), but instead of adding meat to it, make it thick with cooked, sieved potatoes. Fry croustades, ono for each person (sec Garnishes), boil four eggs hard, and slice them, put a slice in each croustade, thon sauce, and a slice of egg on the top. If more egg bo liked, put slices round the sides. Servo hot, and dredge the tops with fried crumbs. Salsify & la Creme—Tako the roots, after boiling; dry them with a soft cloth, cut them into lengths of an inch or moro, and lay them in enough