UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 574 be made in either of the ways already given for Oatmeal Porridge. About six ounces of wheat may be allowed to a quart of water or milk, and the porridge may bo served with the usual adjuncts. If cracked wheat is liked, give it two to three hours; decorticated, if finely ground, will be done in one hour. There are no nicer porridges than this ; it often agrees better than any other, and it is very cheap. (See Steam-cooked Cereals.) PULSE. Pulse is to the vegetarian what animal food is to the meat-eater. The composition is the first thing to grasp. How many have jumped to the conclusion that all pulse is bad and gives rise to discomfort, after a hearty meal of boiled haricots and roast beef; or of lentil soup, perhaps made with meat stock, and followed by a cut from a joint. There is no reason why beef and beans should not be eaten together in very moderate quantities; but it must be remembered that a plate of potatoes and a plate of pulse are two things in more than one sense. Potatoes are about three-fourths water; pulse is only an eighth, or a trifle over. Here, then, we have a highly concentrated food; the amount of nitrogenous matter is very large; and the addition of food of both the fatty and starchy kinds are necessary to make the dish complete, whether it is to form the sub- stantial part of a meal or only an adjunct. Unless this be done, the system will be burdened with an excess of flesh-forming material, as the heat-givers in pulse are disproportionate. Our highest authorities are of opinion that the nutriments rich in starch, sugar, and fat should go to table with pulso, or be amalgamated in the same dish. Lentils.—Those are generally agreed to bo the most, digestible of the class, though opinions differ, and some writers give the palm to haricots. A few years ago we made various experiments with the whole brown Egyptian lentils; the resulting dishes were rich in colour, but not altogether pleasing to the palate; and in a few instances they caused flatulence. We have since learned that in the skin a certain bitter prin- ciple exists; the prociso nature has not been determined, but it is this that gives rise to the discomfort. Besides this, in whole lentils, there is a lot of fibrous useless material, aud no small amount of dirt; so we dis- carded them for the same thing, practically, in a cleaner and more nutritious form, viz., split lentils. These are far moro generally approved; they are less trouble to clean, cook in a shorter lime, and are nicer in flavour. ..... Then there are the green, or German lentils. They aro higher in price, but so far as we have been able to ascertain, their superiority consists in their taking less time to cook ; and their colour, especially when heightened by a little green colouring, is favourable to their adoption for such dishes as are entitled to rank above the commonplace. Lentil I lour is a useful thickening medium for ordinary soups, stews, and the like ; it is also of value for invalid dishes. (See Index.) Haricot Beans.— White beans are Jhe best known and the cheapest. They are the dry mature bean of the plant whose pods we eat in the green