UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK 688 abovo referred to give full instruc- tions for the preparation of thvonions; but it is well to remember that a puree cannot be too white, and it can hardly be too mild for serving with very delicate meats. Onion Puree, Rich, Brown. -—Fry some onions in thin slicos, and chop them; let them drain well, then simmer them in good brown stock, to cover, until they can be sieved. Put back in the pan, and add brown roux and a little glaze or extract of meat; boil for a few minutes ; it should be so thick that the spoon will almost stgnd in it, and must be constantly stirred. It may be made thinner and served as Brown Onion Sauce. For a piquant puree, add a little flavoured vinegar of any kind. A small proportion of celery is thought an improvement by some, and a bay leaf is often added. Onions with Macaroni.—Re- quired : onions, macaroni, glaze, gravy, cheese, croutons, &c., as below. Cost, about 4d. per pound inclusive. Select onions equal in size, about four or five to the pound is large enough ; bake them until tender (page 635), then twist some hoiled macaroni round and round, beginning at the bottom, until all but the top is covered. Before doing this brush the onions over with glaze, and when done coat the macaroni with glaze or good brown gravy. Servo on a flat dish, with a round crouton on the top of each onion, and some fancy-shaped croutons, sprinkled with grated cheese, about the dish. In preparing this a little care is needed to make the macaroni adhere. While twisting with one hand, it must be pressed into shape with the other; and it must not be over-cooked, or is liable to break. Another way of finishing off consists in dredging with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, after brushing over with butter, then brown- ing- up in a sharp oven. These may bo served alone, or with moat. Onions, Stuffed.—Required: onions, butter, gravy, forcemeat, bread- crumbs, and apple sauce. Cost, about 10d., for a dish of a pound or rather more. A very nice dish is mado by taking the centres from some parboiled Spanish onions, and filling tho centres with sausage meat, flavoured with sage; then put them in a baking-tin, with a little brown gravy, and cook them until nearly done, and the sausago meat is cooked. Pour the gravy off, and finish the cooking, basting with a little butter ; then dish the onions, and serve with tho gravy, thickened and boiled up, round them, and a tureen of apple sauce. Before putting the sausage meat in the onions, some bread-crumbs should bo put in. The cores of the onions may bo fried and put about the dish, if not wanted for any other purpose. Another way.—Use largo onions, par- boil and core them, and put half a sheep’s kidney in each; chop up the onion cores and add to some brown gravy, in which the onions may be stewed, or they may be baked brown. Many cheese preparations may be used for stuffing onions. (See Cheese.) Potato Border, Rich.—Re- quired : potatoes, butter, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, 3d. to 4d. for a small border. Bake the potatoes in thoir skins, and sieve them while hot. For every potato of medium size (such as go four to six to the pound), allow a quarter of an ounce of butter, or a proportionate quantity of cream, a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and nutmeg (and for very savoury dishes cayenne) ; and for every four potatoes allow the yolk of an egg. To be well beaten : the mix- ture should be a smooth, rich-looking paste; the finer the sieve the better. This can be used for baking in a bor- der mould, or it can be moulded by hand when quite cold on a board ; the less flour the bettor, just a dust is wanted. For ordinary borders, roll with tho hands into a round as thick as a thin rolling-pin, or, say, tho cir- cumference of a half crown. Join the