230 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. braised joint with those familiarly known as bakes, boils, and roasts : and by braising, we mean also stews of the best kinds, i.e., when braising is imitated so far as the resources of the kitchen will permit. To such dishes, as detailed in this work, we ask especial attention; as an effort has been made to render the directions so plain that anyone of average intelligence may carry them out to the letter, and present at table a dish, which shall not only be a very welcome change from the “ eternal roast and boiled ” beyond which thousands of housekeepers never rise, but, all things considered, more economical also; for besides the reduction of fuel, the trouble entailed (after a start is made) is but little compared with that of basting; while as to nutriment—well, to put it very mildly, it may be safely said that fifty per cent, of the baked, boiled, or roasted joints "contain less than one which is scien- tifically braised or stewed; although this is not always the fault of the cook. Respecting cold joints, we are glad to see that the custom of serving at dinner parties a daintily dressed piece of meat, with all the adjuncts cold (in many instances iced), is gaining ground. Among many other advantages, the charm of novelty counts for something, and all things considered, we should say that the fashion is likely to be a lasting one. We may be pardoned for pointing out that such dishes as we are now discussing are joints cooked for the purpose and left until cold, not joints cut while hot, and re-served in the cold state. First, the garnish has to be considered; then the character of the meal as a whole must decide what adjuncts are necessary: for very good dinners, one or other of the iced sauces, and a salad, or an iced puree of vegetables should be chosen; the garnishing media given under Cold Entrees will suggest variety in this direction. Beef a l’Alceste.— Required: four pounds of brisket of beef, sauce and garnish as below. Cost, about 6s. The beef should be salted for two or three days; then boiled in plain stock to cover it, the skin and bones being first removed; it must then be pressed until cold. A nice square piece is re- quired, to make the dish a success. Place the meat on a flat silver dish, and chop some aspic jelly, both pink and yel'ow; place a row of each, half an inch wide, alternately down the meat, dividing them by means of a little grated horse-radish. Place round the meat some blocks of the same jolly, with a tuft of horse-radish, grated finely, between them. On another dish, put a border of iced Sauce a l’Alceste ; fill up with a salad mayon- naise, and sprinkle a little grated horse- radish on the surface. If the party is large, and it is likely that all the meat will be eaten, the quantity of sauce given in the recipe may bo doubled; but two small moulds will be more satisfactory than one large one. Another way.—Garnish the beef with horse-radish butter in between the rows of chopped jelly; and in garnishing the dish, cut some small tomatoes in two, and ornament the cut side with the same butter; use them in place of grated licrse-radish. For the adjuncts, sec Garnishes. Beef a la Mode (German).—Re- quired : a piece of moat from the round, bacon, vegetables, herbs, sea- soning, &c., as below. Cost, from 4s. 6d. to 5s. Beat the meat, cut some bacon as for larding, and roll it in a mixture of pepper, ground cloves, nutmeg, and