381 SALTED MEATS. cooked. Have as many squares of bread as there are eggs ; fry or toast these, put on each two strips of ham, with the sausage in the middle. Lay an egg on the top; dish neatly, and serve hot. Cost, Is. 4d. for a dish made from half-a-pound each of ham and sausages, and four eggs. Ham, with Eggs and Vege- table Marrow. — Required: a pound or more of ham, a medium sized marrow, six or seven eggs, and half a pint of parsley sauce. Cost, about 2s. Broil the ham, then cut it in pieces even in size. Boil or steam the marrow, after dividing it in pieces rather larger than the ham. Poach the eggs, then dish as follows. Lay a few slices of fried bread or toast on a hot dish; put the ham on the bread, and an egg on each piece of marrow; lay them round the dish ; sprinkle the eggs with a pinch of chopped parsley, and pour the sauce over the ham. Another icay.—In addition to the above some green peas are required. In dishing, lay the eggs on the ham, and put the peas on the pieces of marrow; pour the sauce over the ham and eggs, and serve very hot. Ham, with Fried Haricots. —Required: half a pound of small haricots, white or green, a pound or so of ham, seasoning as below. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. After the beans have been boiled and become cold, season them with pepper and a pinch of mixed herbs in powder. Fry the ham, and keep it hot, then put the beans in the pan, and fry them in the ham fat, adding a little more bacon or pork dripping if not sufficient. Turn them about to heat them through, then put them on a hot dish, and lay the ham in neat pieces round them. This is excellent as it is, but may be improved by mixing a fried onion or two with the beans; or by pouring some brown onion sauce over them; or a little brown piquant sauce may bo put over the ham. Perhaps nothing is a greater improvement than a spoonful or two of hot cream, mixod in with the beans just before dishing, and some chopped parsley or other seasoning sprinkled on the top. Ham, with Fried Potatoes. —Any of the recipes for fried potatoes may be followed. The ham should be dished with the potatoes round. Potato chips, or ribbons, sprinkled with parsley and cayenne, may bo especially recommended. Cold pota- toes, Med, are not to be despised. Some brown macaroni can be put with the potatoes, alternately, round the dish for variety. Mutton Ham.—Choose a short, thick, fresh leg of mutton, weighing twelve or fourteen pounds, and cut it into the form of a ham. Pound in a mortar half a pound of bay salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse brown sugar. Make the mixture hot in a stewpan, then rub it thoroughly into the meat. Turn the ham every morning for four days, and rub the pickle well into it. On the fifth day add two ounces more of common salt. Rub and turn it in the brine for twelve days more, then drain and wipe dry ; rub it with dry salt, and hang it up in wood-smoke. No sort of meat is more improved by smoking with aromatic woods than mutton. When once dried it will keep for six months. Mutton hams may be roasted or boiled; but in either case they should be soaked, unless quite freshly done, when they will only requiro washing. As a breakfast-dish, with eggs, mutton ham is commonly used in the North of England and in Scot- land : it is cut in slices as required, and broiled lightly. Time to smoke, one week. Cost, lOd. or so per pound. Gx Tongues, to Boil.— A tongue which has been in pickle for a fortnight or so requires but a short time to soak; a smoked one needs some hours. Trim the tongue neatly about the root; wash it, and put it in a saucepan of cold water; skim just before it boils, then, when free from