MADE DISHES AND REDEYES. 265 Put an ounce of butter in u saute- pan, and when hot lay the veal in; cook it for ten minutes to a palo brown, then drain it. Meanwhile, wash the rieo (Patna), put it in fast boiling water with a pinch of salt and a tea- spoonful of lemon juice, and boil for five minutes, then turn it into a colander, and pour plenty of cold water over. Take a clean pan, put in it half a pint of Chutney Sauce and the rice. In a second pan put another half pint of the same sauce, and the veal; cook for half an hour, letting the contents of both pans simmer only, and give them an occa- sional shake. Then take a hot dish, spread the rice on to cover it, make it smooth on the surface, and then lay the cutlet on the centre of the rice ; re- duce the sauce by boiling it sharply for a few minutes, and pour over the meat. Next, between the edge of the moat and the rice, put the following in- gredients, which must all be in readi- ness : little heaps of olive, minced, and warmed in stock; tiny tomatoes, cooked whole in stock; and little heaps of cooked ham and tongue, cut in thin shreds, and heated in the same way. Over the meat, put some chopped parsley and a dust of coralline pepper. Serve very hot. Veal Cake, — Required : two pounds of lean veal from the fillet, twelve ounces of streaky bacon, a good teaspoonfnl of salt, half as much pepper, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, half as much store sauce, the rind of half a lemon grated, a good pinch of grated nutmeg, a gill of veal stock, and a pinch of cayenne. Cost, about 23. 9d. Mince the meat and bacon very small, or pass through a machine ; add the seasoning, then the stock, and work well with the hand, just moisten- ing with cold water from time to time. Press firmly into a deep dish or tin, buttered, and tie a buttered paper over. Bake in a moderate oven, for two to two and a half hours. Turn out when cold. This is a good breakfast dish. Useful also for a picnic, or for making sandwiches, &c. Veal, Curried.—Required : two pounds of lean moat, three gills of Cukhy Sauce, a gill of cream, rice, and lemons. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Cut the veal into pieces of an inch and a half square (any gristly portions should be removed); just cover it with white stock, and cook very softly for half an hour. Then put it with the stock into the curry sauce, cover, and cook until tender. Then add the boiling cream, off the fire, with salt to taste. Serve with rice round it, and lemon in quarters. This is a very mild and delicate curry. Any other white meat can be cooked in the same way, which will be acceptable to those who find ordinary- curries somewhat hot, as the cream has a very- softening effect. Time, about an hour and a half altogether, to cook the veal. Another way.— Fry- the meat in a little hot fat, after frying an onion; add an apple and a tablespoonful of tomato pulp, an ounce of curry paste mixed with a pint of white stock (No. 9), and a little lemon juice ; put in a tablespoonful of grated cocoanut, and cook for an hour; add a teaspoonful of rice flour and a pinch of salt, cook for another half hour, then sieve the sauce, and finish off as usual. Add a little more lemon juice at tho end. The sauce must he skimmed well at starting; and in place of an apple, a tablespoonful of gooseberries can bo used. Veal, Cushion of, Braised.— Required: veal, bacon, vegetables, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound, inclusive. The cushion of veal, or the noix, as it is called in French cookery-books, is simply that part of tho leg which is covered by tho udder. It should ho separated fion the undor-purt of the fillet with a sharp knife, and tho udder should he left whole, closely adhering to the cushion in its original position. Tho sinewy parts may bo cut away. Take tho cushion thus prepared, and