539 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. sauce before the meat goes in. Little forcemeat balls, made from either of the forcemeats without suet, are also suitable for adding to the mince, or for garnishing. For better mince, use a richer white sauce, and add more meat in proportion, about a pound to three gills. Cut lemon in fancy shapes should be used for garnishing, or the lemon may be in dice, in little piles. For a brown dish, the gravy should be thickened with browned flour or roux, the milk omitted, and a little store sauce added. Small rolls of fried bacon, or ham fried and cut in dice, may be put round the mince alternately with lemon, or croutons; lemons, cut, should be handed with the dish if not put on it. Limes are equally suitable. For the most savoury dishes of this class, a clove of garlic may be rubbed across the bottom of the stewpan; this will impart a slight flavour, not a decided taste of the bulb, which is a great favourite with some in veal dishes, but condemned by most be- cause not used in moderation. For any dishes of veal, mince or any other sort, for which boiled meat is used, the sauce must be well seasoned, or it is insipid. A dash of chutney, or the liquor from hot pickles, as piccalilli, will give variety to veal dishes. (See Made Dishes.) A morsel of meat of a gelatinous nature improves veal dishes for some palates : calf’s head or foot, for instance. A grate of Par- mesan cheese gives “tone” to the dish. Veal, Minced, with Eggs.— Required: veal, sauce,seasoning, eggs, and vegetables, and garnish as below. Cost varies with the vegetables and garnish. Mince the meat (about a pound), and heat it in half a pint of good White Sauce, or Economical B£chamel ; sea- son nicely with salt, pepper, and a pinch of mushroom powder, and grate in a bit of lemon peel just before serving, with a few drops of strained juice. Boil three or four eggs hard, slice them, and form a ring round the meat, after dish- ing it in a pile. Then pour over it a gill of MaIthe d’Hotel Sauce. All round the egg border put some vegetables— peas, asparagus points, or flageolets; coat them with thin bechamel—the vegetables should show through—and garnish with cut lemons. Another way.—Heat the veal as above; dish it, and pour some egg sauce round the base of the pile, and garnish the top with croutons, giazed and sprinkled with sieved egg-yolk and chopped parsley. Some small sausages, or cakes of sausage meat, fried, may be placed about the dish ; or some little rolls of bacon may be used. (See recipes.) Veal, Minced, with Hari- cots.—Dish the meat as above, and put some triangular croutons upright round the dish, with little mounds of green haricot puree in between, put through a forcing-pipe. Serve more haricots, whole or a puree, in a separate dish. Any fresh green vegetable puree can be used in the same manner. (See Vegetables.) Veal, Minced, with Mace- doines.—Required: a pound of cold veal, a quarter of a pound of bacon, about a gill of white mushroom sauce, and twice that measure of White Sauce or Economical Bechamel, lemons, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, from 2s. 8d. to 3s. The veal may be from a roasted or braised joint; take skin and gristle from it, cut it in small dice, heat the bechamel, and stir the meat in; fry the bacon (or it may be fiom a piece of boiled bacon), mince and add it, and season with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Heat a tin of mace- doines ; turn them out, and put them round the dish, wdth the mince in the centre. Fry some triangular bits of bread, and spread them with the mush- room sauce ; use them and some slices of lemon for garnishing. Another way. — l’ut some cooked button mushrooms about tho mince and amongst tho macedoines; place a star-shaped crouton on tho top, with a