STOCKS AND SOUPS. 65 Puree of Marrow (a very quick way).—Cut up some marrows into quarters, take out the seeds, and put them unpeeled into a potato-steamer, and steam until soft; then take oil the peel, put the marrows in a large bowl, and mash them to a pulp; add boiling milk, salt and pepper, and a little white stock ; boil up and serve. If liked, thicken as before. Only very young marrows will do for this. Flavour with celery salt. Puree of Peas (Dried).—Re- quired : one pint of dried green peas, three quarts of stock (No. 1), a little colouring, salt and pepper, a large bunch of herbs, some vegetables (see Lentil Soup), and three ounces of potato-flour. Cost, about Gd. Wash the peas, and soak them all night in cold water; if hard, it should be boiled, and left until cold. Put them on with the cold stock, bring to the boil, then add a pinch only of bicarbonate of soda, the herbs, and vegetables cleaned and sliced; boil until quite soft, then rub all through a wire sieve: put it hack in the pan, with salt and pepper to taste, and add the potato-flour, previously mixed with half a pint of cold stock. Bring to the boil again, and in fifteen minutes serve the soup with fried bread cut into dice. Add the colouring last thing; a few drops will suffice. “Ve- getable green” (liquid or paste) is quite harmless, or boil a spinach-leaf with the peas to give colour. To convert this into a vegetarian soup use water in place of stock. It is necessary to buy the very best peas for this; those known as “ mar- rowfats ” are reliable. Split green peas can also be bought; they cook in less time than whole ones. A pinch of white sugar improves, and if the flavour is liked, mint may be used instead of mixed heTbs for flavouring. The stock in which a piece of fresh pork has been boiled may be freed from fat, and used for the above. Htock from salted meats is unsuit- able. Rabbit Soup (White).—Be, quired: a small rabbit, a few slices of onion or shalot, turnip, and celery, a gill of cream, stock No. 9, some white peppercorns and salt, a sprig of lemon thyme, and some arrowroot for thickening. Cost, about 2s. Wash the rabbit well (put away the head, neck, liver, and kidneys), pour cold water over it, and just bring to the boil; then throw away the water, and add the stock, vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns. Stir until it boils, skim well, and simmer gently until tender; then take the meat from the bones and chop it finely, or moisten it with stock and rub through a sieve; put back the bones, &c., and boil for an hour or two longer; then strain, and add the meat, with more stock to make up the quantity to three pints ; stir in arrowroot enough to make the soup as thick as good cream; season delicately with a drop or two of es- sence of mace or nutmeg; add the cream, previously warmed, and serve at once. Rice Soup, Andalusian.—See recipe for Bice, Andalusian. Take as much of this as may be required, and add as much of the same kind of stock that was used at first us will reduce it to the proper consist- ence. Most people will prefer the greater portion of the fat removed by careful skimming. Any stock, brown or white, may be used. It should be served very hot. Rice Soup, Plain (Vege- tarian).—Take some plainly-boiled rice; add a little hot vegetarian stock of any sort, and about the same mea- sure of hot milk, about a pint of liquid to two or three tablespoon fills of rice. Bring to the boil, add a little salt and pepper, then shake in some dry grated cheese. Shake the pan, but do not stir, and servo with toast or fried bread. This is cheap, tasty, and digestible. Rice Soup, Ricli.—Take any sort of good white stock, and put in it somo well-washed and blanched