UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 488 This is much used as a garnish ; groat caro is required in its preparation. Take six ounces of lean raw veal, free from skin or gristle, and the same weight of veal kidney suet, free from any trace of skin ; chop both finely, or scrape the veal; pound them until they have become thoroughly amalgamated, then add a raw egg. Turn out and leave to cool, on ice if possible ; put back in the mortar with another egg, and go on pounding, adding a spoonful of iced water or pale stock, then put in a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper, and a little nutmeg. Turn out on a board, make a bit up into a round, or quenello shape, and poach it. If too firm, add a little more water, and if not firm enough, add half or the whole of another egg, according to the size. This should be made in a very cool place. It can be used for vol-au-vents, pates, and for garnishing purposes. The flesh of poultry can bo substituted for veal. Beef kidney suet can be used instead of veal, and the seasoning may be varied to suit different dishes, but it is a delicate forcemeat (or should be) and not highly seasoned. The addition of the iced water cools it, and helps to bind it; when cooked it will cut evenly. Goose.—Sec Sage and Onions. Hare Forcemeat (port or claret).—Required: bread, wine, suet, seasoning, shalot, parsley, ham, lemon, liver, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about 9d., exclusive of the wine. Take some stale bread-crumbs in pro- portion to the size of the hare, and pour over them enough port or claret to cover them. Supposing half a pint of crumbs before soaking, mix together four ounces of finely shredded veal suet, a toaspoonful each of chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, and chopped shalot, a tablespoonful of lean raw ham, passed through a mincer, with the liver of the hare if in a sound condition : if not, liver of any other sort of game or poultry will do. Blend the whole with the bread, and add salt and cayenne to taste, with a couple of raw eggs well beaten, and if claret be used, a tea- spoonful of melted currant jelly, red or black. This is a forcemeat which is somewhat old-fashioned, but much liked by many game-eaters. It is also very nice for a rabbit if it is intended to imitate hare. A very similar forcemeat is made by omitting the shalot, and putting in a boned anchovy, rubbod through a sieve; rather less lemon rind than above given, but other ingredients in the same proportion. Port should bo used when this modo is followed; it produces a very savoury forcemeat. Herb Forcemeat, Plain.— Use crumbs as above, and either half as much suet, or clarified fat, two eggs, and a little milk, herbs and seasoning as above. This, if made with the fat, does for baked fish. Herb Forcemeat, Rich.— Required : twelve ounces of fine bread- crumbs, six ounces of beef suet, an ounce of butter, a tablcspoonful of fresh parsley, chopped, a tablespoonful of mixed herbs—these should consist of thyme, marjoram, bay leaf, and basil, thyme being in the greatest proportion—half a gill of cream, three raw eggs, and salt, pepper, and cayenne, with nutmeg or mace to taste. Cost, lOd. to Is. The finer the suet is chopped, the nicer this will be; veal suet is better than beef, being more deli- cate, but beef answers for oi dinary purposes. If the herbs (other than parsley) are in the fresh state loss will answer; the above quantities are for dried herbs. Other herbs besides those named may be used ; the above proportions being observed. This is very good for rabbits whether boiled, baked or stewed; and it may be varied by using a little sausage meat, or chopped ham, or bacon, and reducing the suet. It ran be used also for veal, turkey, &c. The liver of a turkey or fowl can be minced and put in when for stuffing either of those birds. Leek Forcemeat.—This is a vegetarian recipe. Required • halt a