430 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. the pores of animal food would harden a hare. Then it must he home in mind that a stuffed hare takes longer (and tho cooking must be slower) than an unstuffed one; not only on account of the increased weight, hut because a solid mass like forcemeat is a had conductor of heat. Hare, Roasted (German way).—Put a quarter of a pint of vinegar and a quarter of a pint of water into a saucepan, with a sliced onion, two hay leaves, half a dozen peppercorns, a teaspoon- ful of parsley and thyme, and three cloves. Boil the marinade, and when cold pour it over a young hare, trussed for roast- ing, but not stuffed. Let it remain for twenty-four hours, and histe it frequently. Lard it, and put it down before a clear fire, or hake it in a moderate oven. Baste it with the liquid and a little butter or drip- ping. A little while before it is done basto it with new milk. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon. An hour and a quarter to roast. We once heard a German cook say, that by basting a hare with butter- milk very thoroughly before cooking, and leaving it to soak in it for a few hours, then basting it in the same way for the first half-hour after putting it to roast, even if quite old, it would turn out as tender as a leveret; but we cannot answer for the truth of the statement. Wo would add that, in the event of a hare being baked instead of roasted, the best way to treat it is to give it a thorough coating of drip- ping, melted, then to wrap it in bacon, afterwards in well-greased paper. Extra time must be allowed to make up the loss caused by the opening of the oven door for the purpose of basting ; and as this must be very often, a baked hare is a good deal of trouble. Hare, Roasted, to Carve.— Insert the point of the knife under the shoulder, and cut from that down to the rump, along the sides of the backbone. The slices should be moder- ately thick. Another way of carving hare is to remove the shoulders and legs, and cut the back crosswise into four or five pieces. This, however, can only be done when the hare is Fin. 100.—Roast Hare. very young, or when it has been boned. To separate the leg, put tho knife between the leg and the back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, which you must try to hit and not to break by force. The shoulders must be taken off by cutting in a circular line round them. These last are known as tho sportsman’s pieces; some prefer them, but sometimes they are thought little of, and are served only when the other portions of the hare are exhausted. The most delicate part is the back; after that come the thighs. When everyone is helped, take off tho head. The upper and lower jaw should be divided by insert- ing the knife between them ; this will enable you to lay the upper part of the head conveniently on tho dish. That being done, cut it in two. The ears and brains are highly prized by connoisseurs. With each slice of hare some of the stuffing should be served, and some of the gravy should ac- company it. A bit of bacon must be put on each plate, and a forcemeat ball, if sent to table with it. Hare, Roasted, to Truss.— The engraving shows how this is done, so far as tho placing of tho logs goes: cut the sinews underneath before placing them. Keep tho head back by means of a skewer down the