KITCHEN PROCESSES. 7 for four pounds. Boil gently with tho lid otf (mind it does not get smoked) for a couple of hours, or more; stir now and then. When done, the liquid portion will look clear, and the bits of fat will be brown, dry, and shrivelled looking. Let it cool a little, then strain it through an old hair sieve in which has been laid a piece of muslin; see that the jar or basin is dry; set it by until cold, when a solid cake of nice white fat will be the result -of the task. This is some little trouble; for that reason it is well to prepare several pounds at a time. Use this for frying purposes generally, plain cakes, pastry, and the like; other uses for it are referred to in various parts of this work. Fat, Frying, to clarify after using.— It is not necessary to clarify fat every time it is used, a good deal depends upon the nature of the article which has been fried in it; but, by clarifying it now and again, it may be kept a good colour for some time. After it is taken from the fire it must cool a while; it would be dangerous to deal with it in its heated condition. It should then be poured into a good-sized basin of water, as directed for the clarification of dripping, and finished as there de- scribed. Whether clarified or not, it always needs straining; if poured off carefully, a good deal of the sediment will be left behind in the frying kettle; this should be wiped out with a coarse cloth kept for the purpose, and placed where the air has free access to it. It must be kept dry, and wiped out, for fear of dust, every time it is used. Goose Lard. — This is generally termed “goose grease.” When the goose is drawn, strip the fat from tho intestines and take tho leaf of fat from the inside. Throw it into a bowl of cold water with a little salt; change the water a few times and leave until next day. Then cut tho fat up and put it in a saucepan; add a few slices of raw apple or a chopped onion ; melt over a slow fire, pour off through a hot strainer into a jar, add a pinch of wilt, and tie down when quite cold. Store in a cool place. Sometimes only the leaf fat is used, not that from the in- testines. This is a German recipe. The fat of geese is there used for bast- ing and other culinary purposes. Some English readers who have hitherto used goose fat in other ways may like to make trial of it in the kitchen. Lard.—Home -made lard is very superior to a good deal of the bought lard, and will beep almost indefinitely. Prepare it by taking the Head or inner fat of a pig, freshly killed. Clear it from all trace of skin and blood, ar.d cut it up small. Put it in a dry stone jar, and set this in a pan of boiling water, over the fire; keep the water boiling gently, and as fast as the fat melts pour it off into small dry jars or bladders. If jars are used, they should be tied over with bladder before they are put away, and they must be stored in a dry, cool place. The last drain- ings of the fat will not be so clear or pale as the first. Sometimes rosemary and other flavourings are added to lard, but it is more generally useful when made as above directed. The Head is also used for pastry, cakes, &c., and may be kept in an unmelted state by rub- bing it with salt and leaving it for a day, then putting it in brine made by boiling salt and water until strong enough to float an egg. When wanted for use, the dead must be wiped and put into cold water for an hour before it is cut up. In warm weather the brine must bo renewed after a few days or the flead will not keep. Marrow, clarified.—Prepared in this way, marrow may be kept for a long time—for some months in a cold place. It must bo taken from the bones as soon as possible—this is of importance —then cut small and put in a jar, covered, and set in a saucepan of hot water to three-fourths its depth, and melted at a gentle heat. The water should just simmer. When all is melted, strain it through muslin into another vessel; let it settle for a few minutes, then pour it into small dry jars. When quite cold, tie or pasto