493 FORCEMEATS. boiled and left to dry, then mixed with an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of cream (to each half pound), one raw egg, and a little seasoning of salt and pepper, with a pinch of ground mace or nutmeg. For superior forcemeat, the rice and butter are pounded before the other ingredients are put in; some- times a very small proportion of chopped raw ham is added, and is an improvement. For stuffing full-grown pork, either for boiling or baking, boiled split peas are added to the rice; the proportions being a matter of taste. Rich. Raised Pies, Force- meat for.—Required : twelve ounces of lean raw veal, eight ounces of fat raw bacon, four ounces of lean raw ham, and other ingredients as below'. Cost, about Is. 6d., without truffles. The veal should be very fresh, and cut from the fillet. Lay it on a board, and scrape it to a pulp, leaving nothing but the sldn. Scrape the bacon, and add it, together with the ham first chopped, then pounded with a morsel of butter. Season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace or nutmeg. Blend very thoroughly and add about a tablespoonful of veal gravy or stock, first strained; this moistens the force- meat, and makes it cut more evenly when cooked. This is to be regarded as the foundation ; various adjuncts for pies of different kinds may be added. For those of veal, herbs are indispens- able ; while for game pie3 truffles are an improvement. Sage and Onion Forcemeat. —Required: bread, onions, sage, and seasoning. Cost, about 2d. to 3d. per pound for the plain, and about 4d. per pound for the rich forcemeat. If required very mild, peel and boil the onions until quite done, and boil the «age leaves also for a few minutes; allow a fresh sage leaf, or two dried ones to each moderate-sized onion; after chopping, season with salt and pepper, and add about a tablespoon- ful of bread-crumbs to each onion used ; some soak the bread in the onion water, then squeeze and beat it up instead of making crumbs of it. Another way.—Boil the onions for a few minutes only, and add sago as above, with seasoning to taste. If dried sage leaves are added use double the quantity. The proportion of sago and onion can only be approximately stated, for while some like but a hint of sage, others prefer that flavour to almost overpower that of the onion. This may bo used as it is, or bread, about half as much as given in the above recipe, may be put in. In the opinion of some cooks bread spoils the stuffing; others use it in large pro- portion, and add butter and raw yolks of eggs. These two ingredients arc, however, quite unnecessary, because the meats with which this stuffing is used are sufficiently rich without them. These are suitable for pork, ducks, and geese. Sage and Onion Forcemeat (very superior). — Required: onions, butter, bread, sage, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 3d. per pound. Take some onions, cut them up into quarters, and put them in cold water in a saucepan, with a pinch of salt and sugar. Bring to the boil, drain, and dry them-well, then chop them up, and to half a pint, add an ounce of butter in a clean saucepan. Sweat them for about a quarter of an hour, and then add to them an equal measure of bread- crumbs, wdth seasoning to taste; about a hexped tablespoonful of chopped sage if fresh, or one and a half to two tablespoonfuls if dried, with salt and pepper, are all the necessary ingre- dients, but for some this is improved by adding a little parsley and nutmeg; or thyme is sometimes liked with sage. The above proportions of crumbs and onions can be varied at pleasure ; a pint of onions to half a pint of crumbs will suit thoso who like plenty of onions. The idea is to improve tho stuffing generally by tho preliminary boiling and sweating of tho onions. Should they be very strong, they may be scalded before blanching, or a