UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 440 Pigeons.—Tamo pigeons should bo cooked in a frosh condition; they quickly lose flavour. Wood pigeons are larger; those may hang a day or two. Rock pigeons are inferior to both those. Young birds are the best. They may be tested by the wings, which will not be fully fledged inside; the feet will be smooth, and the beak soft. Rough feet prove age. Dark-coloured birds are the fullest in flavour ; light ones are the most delicate. Cost, from 9d. to Is. on an average; may sometimos bo bought for 6d. each. Pigeons, Trussing. — Pigeons need to be very carefully plucked and cleaned, and they should, if possible, be Fig. 101.—Pigeons, Trussed. drawn as soon as they are killed. To truss for roasting Cut off the head and neck, cut off the toes at the first joint, and wash the birds well. Dry them carefully, truss the wings over the back, and pass a skewer through the wings and body. The gizzard may be cleaned, and put under one of the wings. To truss for boiling:—Cut off the legs at the first joint, put the legs into the body, and skewer the pinions back. To carve a pigeon, cut through the breast and back-bone ; or make three portions of one bird, by taking the leg and wing from each side, the breast making a third serving, by no means to be despised if plump. Pigeons, Boiled.—Truss like a fowl, and boil in the same way. Serve a nice sauce with them, and some vegetables, or macaroni, or any other Italian paste. Time, from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to size. The cooking must bo slow'; and, if possible, veal stock, or the liquor from boiled veal, should bo used for the boiling. Pig eons, Broiled. — Pigeons may Be broiled whole, or split open and flattened. They are more easily cooked when flattened, but retain their juice better if left whole. Pluck, draw, singe, and evas’ the birds. Dip in some oil or clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire until nicely browned. Baste once or twice ; and, in order to do this, put the pigeons on a plato, and brush them over rather liberally with oil or butter ; and w'hen done serve as hot as possible. Mushroom sauce or puree, piquant sauce, and many others, may be served. If cold sauce is liked, maitre d’hote], tartare, and others, may be served; tomato butter is ex- cellent with broiled birds generally. To be worth the trouble of broiling, •pigeons must be well grown and well fed. Fried bread-crumbs or croutons may be used for garnish. Another way.—Truss the birds for boiling, and put in each a bit of butter, seasoning, and a teaspoonful of gravy and tomato pulp mixed. Secure both ends, and broil or grill carefully ; when half done dip in butter, and coat with crumbs. Thus prepared they bring their sauce to table; but if liked, a little gravy and tomato pulp may be heated together, and poured on a hot dish before the birds are put on. Or a crofiton may be spread with the pulp only. Put sprigs of cress about the dish. Pigeons with Chestnuts.— Tho birds should be filled with chest- nut forcemeat, and sent to table with brown gravy. Or the usual way of roasting without stuffing may bo adopted ; then the}' should bo dished on a chestnut puree, or served with sauce. Cost, about Is. 3d. each, inclusive.