439 GAME AND POULTRY. to be one of the nicest breakfast dishes ever sent to table. Pheasant, Cream of (*<■« Par- tridge, Cream of). Pheasant, Curried.—Required: a fine pheasant, a quart of good stock, as No. 5, a heaping teaspoonful of good curry paste, an ounce of fine rice Hour, a large onion, a bay leaf, some thyme, and a sprig of marjoram and basil, a teaspoonful of raw, grated carrot, the same measure of preserved tamarinds, the juice of half a lemon, and some butter, or curry fat. By the latter is meant the fat which rises to the top of curry sauce; it should be taken off, and left to get cold; it then comes in for the next curry, and is belter than plain butter. Cost, 4s. to 4s. fid. Joint the pheasant, trim the pieces, and put the odds and ends on to boil with the stock. Fry the joints with the onion and herbs ; when brown, put them with the rest, except the rice flour. When done, pass all through a hair sieve, after piling the meat on a dish; return to the pan, and skim well; add the thickening and boil up ; put in salt to taste, and pour over the pheasant. Put a border of rice on the dish. For a better curry, use stock No. 13. Curried pheasant is excellent when cold. A large tomato may be added to the above with advantage, and if the curry paste is not fresh, a good pinch of coriander seed will improve it. A little sherry is sometimes put in game curries. Pheasant with Macaroni.— Required: the meat from a cooked bird, or the remains of one; about half a pound, after freeing it from skin and sinews. Put it aside after cutting it small, and boil down the bones with a pint of water, and some vegetables and herbs, until only a gill is left; rub any meat through a strainer with the gravy to thicken it. Then mix in the pheasant, re-heat it, and add a gill or less of boiling cream. Serve with a border of good macaroni, cooked in either of the ways given in a later chapter. Sprinkle with coralline pepper just before serving. Cost, from 3s. fid. to 4s. Pheasant, Roasted. — Pluck, draw, and singe a brace of pheasants. Wipe them with a dry cloth, truss them firmly, and either lard them or tie round the bx-easts a slice of fat bacon. Flour them well, put them before a clear fire, and baste liberally the whole time. Serve the birds on a hot dish, and gax-nish with water- cress. Send good brown gravy and bread sauce to table with them. If the fashion is liked, half a dozen of the best of the tail feathers may be stuck into the bird when it is dished. Time, three quartei's of an hour to roast a good-sized pheasant; half an hour for a small bird. Cost, from 6s. per brace on an average. To carve the bird, stick the fork in the centre of the breast, and take slices from both sides. Should there be moro guests than can be thus served, take off legs and wings as from a fowl. Cut off the merry-thought, by pa sing the knife under it; this, and the wings and breast are most highly prized, but the legs have a superior flavour. Some portions of the back should bo fcrvcd with the breast, wings, and merry-thought; the while meat alone, without this, is rather tasteless, comparatively speaking. The bacon may be removed or not (when larded) just as preferred. Pheasant. Stuffed and Roasted.—Pick, draw,and singe the pheasant, truss it as for roasting, and fill it with a forcemeat (sec Force- meats). Cover the breast of the bird with thin slices of fat bacon tied on securely with twine, and roast befoi'e a clear fire. When it is done enough, serve the pheasant on a hot dish, with brown sauce, or with brown mushroom or Italian sauce. Or a nice pux'ee of tomatoes, mixed with good gravy and sherry, equal parts of each, is excellent with it. Cost, from 4s. Gd. upwards.