UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 664 be poeled. Alter filling, tie with tape, not siring, twice round, a little way from the ends ; then put more tape in a place or two to connect these pieces, and so prevent their slipping off at the ends. The marrow may then be boiled or steamed until done ; or it can be parboiled, and finished off in the oven. In dishing, remove the tape, and pour over some sauce or gravy ; the kind of stuffing must be a guide as to the sort. Time, ac- cording to size; a thin skewer or trussing needle should go easily into the marrow when ready to dish. We have reserved mention of a very homely form of stuffed marrow until last, but it deserves a trial. Mix together some bread - crumbs with about half their weight of cooked fat bacon, and a small quantity of cooked liver, chopped up; season well with herbs, and moisten with a little milk ; no eggs or other fat will be wanted, the bacon is sufficient. Then, for another that will be liked by vege- tarians, try bread-crumbs moistened with oil and seasoned with herbs, salt, and pepper, and a hint of garlic. Onion Sauce goes well with this, so does Egg Sauce. Note.—In heating sausage meat or any other stuffing for the marrow, put it in a jar and set that in boiling water to half its depth, until well heated through. Vegetables, to Sweat. — A better term for this process would, perhaps, be “ steaming in butter; ” but sweat is the one commonly used. Although simple, a few points in connection with this process must be remembered, or failure is sure. A very clean pan is wanted, and it must lie free from burnt or adhering par- ticles of any sort. A fire-proof china one, or an enamelled one is best where copper is not to be had; the butter used must be free from the slightest suspicion of taint; or instead of the flavour which sweating is considered to impart, a very unpleasant one will be given that no after-cooking can eradicate. The vegetables that are most improved by sweating are such as are of an insipid kind; turnips or Jerusalem artichokes may be instanced. Naturally, the thing to guard against in all of the white varieties is the acquiring of colour; therefore, the contonts of the pan must be watched, and shaken now and then. Whether the vegetables are to be left in the butter for a few minutes only, as they are for many soups, &c., where cook- ing is completed in the liquid, or simmered in it for purees of the rich sorts that are to be served as entre- mets, it must be remembered that sweating and frying are not the same; in fact, they are quite distinct. This mode of treating vegetables is far more universal and better understood abroad than in England, but it is particularly deserving of attention, for few have any idea of the improve- ment that may be made in vegetable dishes of all sorts until they have made trial of it. In our recipes directions are given as to the time the vegetables are to he left in the butter; but one rule holds good for all: put them in as soon as the butter is melted, and before it is really hot or has taken any colour. Then let the heat be gentle and uniform until the end. Those to whom this is an un- known mode are advised to make a few experiments. They will be astonished at the complete transfor- mation in many a dish at a very slight increase of time and trouble. Vegetarian Curries, Indian. —These may be described as “ Bhah- jees,” “ Chahkees,” and “ Dhall ” Curries. The first word means “ to fry,” and the dishes are excellent and simple when the method is under- stood. Small cucumbers answer ex- cellently for frying. They should be split through lengthwise after peeling, all the pulpy part scooped out, then sliced, and steeped in a mixture of curry powder and salt, with a little vinegar or lemon juice; or instead of curry powder, turmeric is sometimes