395 GAME AND POULTRY. cover should be well heated; should it become chilled by waiting it will be spoilt. Cost, about 4s. to 4s. Cd. Duck, with. Burta. (See Fowl and Burta.)—A duck cooked in any approved fashion is very good eating served with the preparation of rice given in the recipe named. Many other rice dishes given in a later chapter can be served with duck. Duck, with Cabbage.—Re- quired : a duck, a cabbage, a faw ounces of fat bacon, and lean ham, abont half a pound of sausages, seasoning, vege- tables, and stock as under. Cost, about 4s. to 4s. 6d. First put a young cabbage in boil- ing water, salted; in five minutes drain and press it. Put some fat bacon in a stewpan to cover the bottom; brown a trussed duck in it, put a bit of lean ham under, after browning, with cabbage on, then put the duck in with more cabbage over, and some little sausages round it. Put sweet herbs in to flavour, with cloves and peppercorns, a slice or two of onion, and carrot and turnip if handy. Moisten with a little stock or gravy, cover, and cook until done, turning the sausages a3 required. Serve with the ham in strips laid with the sausages round the duck. The cabbage should be put under the duck. This dish requires care; it is then much nicer than might be imagined from the reading of the recipe. Duck, Devilled (French),— Required : a duck, gravy, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 3s. to 4 s. on an average. Cut a very tender aluck straight down the middle. Prick tho flesh all over with a skewer; and rub into it some French -mustard, cayenne, white, pepper, salt, and hot ehutnoy. Broil it very steadily at a clear fire for twenty to thirty minutes. It must be brushed over with oil or butter from time to time. Have ready a gravy made from equal measures of good stock and wine, and to half a pint add a pinch of salt and sugar, a tablcspoonf ul of lemon pickle, and a tea- spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Boil up, and strain over the duck. Garnish the dish with .watercress. A duck may be left whole, and seasoned in the same way, then roasted or braised, tho same gravy being used. In almost any way it wall commend itself to those who appreciate piquant dishes. Or it may be left whole and broiled, and instead of serving gravy with it, send some tartaro sauce or tomato butter to table, and if liked, some apple puree, made by mixing a gill of apple sauce with a teaspoonful of curry paste, a tablespoonful of thick brown sauce, and a small onion fried and chopped. Any sort of hot pickles' may go to table with devilled cluck. Sweet mango chutney is also a very good relish. Duck Giblets.—Prepare these by taking the gall bag from the liver, and any green-looking portion away; cut through the gizzard gently, and peel off the outside, which is the part used (the inside is a bag which has to bo thrown away; the contents of -it arc little stones, and if cut into, the wash-- ing of the inter-part is more difficult). Scald tho head, and remove eves and bill; pick and wash it well, also tho other parts, pinions and neck, &c. Cut them - up small, and then proceed ns- dir.ected for duck gravy ; or they will make a pie, which see. If used for gravy, they can be served in sauce or gravy as a separate dish; that is to say, after some of the goodness and flavour have been extracted by tho gravy which is to be served with tho roast duck, the giblets are by no means exhausted, as woidd be a piece of gravy bcef- after the samo treatment. JEyen if .served with only a little stock or gravy to. moisten them, with soino apple Sailed ibid fried onipps, they arc very good eating. (Sec also Goosk Giblets, aivl Dick, Roasted, Ameri- can.) Duck Giblets, Devilled.—Cook the giblets until almost done, then take them up, and score them ; rub in