COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 507 variety; they vary much in quality and price, from the homely tripe and onions to larded cutlets : the very cheapest, however, furnish plenty of choice, and are worth the attention of housekeepers who are anxious to save both time and money. Some of the thickest of the soups, or “concentrated soups” as ono firm calls them, will make an admirable hash, simply by adding a smaller proportion of water than would be required for conversion into soup. SERVING COLD MEAT. A joint sent from table should at once be placed on a clean dish, not only that it may look nicer when re-served, but that it may keep better. If the gravy is left about, it, in warm weather especially, it will sour very qnicklv. Any gravy left over should be most carefully strained for use, all the floating fat being removed and added to the fat reserved for kitchen purposes generally. Remember that just as fat spoils gravy, so does gravy spoil fat. When the joint is next sent to table, some little garnish should bo added, for the simplest of meals. The every-day sprig of parsley, or a buuch of cress, are generally obtainable, and always impart a fresh, appetising appearance. If the joint be much disfigured, or cut down low, the cut part, too, should be garnished. When required for one or two people only, or if the meat be cut down to the bone, a few slices, as neat and even as circumstances permit, will present a better appearance than the " joint ” itself. They should be served on a small dish, and suitably ornamented. Beef is best embellished with a few little piles of grated horse- radish and sprigs of parsley. Veal requires cut lemons, as well as something green; cucumber is suitable. (See directions in Garnishes for the preparation of these ingredients.) Mutton, for ordinary occasions, only requires a garnish of parsley, though savoury eggs of various kinds eat well with it, and are an improve- ment to the dish. The same can be said of veal. The green tops of young carrots or celery, or nice fresh mint leaves may be used, with other garnishing media. Beetroot is also useful; it can be cut in so many ways, and with a little “greenery ” gives a bright look to the dish. It should be brushed over with a few drops of salad oil, and added at the last moment. Ham and Tongue, when getting low, should bo sliced thinly, then rolled to look neat, and laid on a dish alternately with a morsel of parsley between each little roll; and if a few hard-boiled eggs can be added, or even a few slices or quarters, the dish is quite transformed. Pork requires some piquant accompaniment; ordinary store sauce should go to table with it, and many of the cold sauces in this work are very good. Some plain, green salad, should bo put about the dish, and various sorts of chutney and sweet pickles will tend to counteract its richness. A glance at the chapter on Salads will meet every require- ment, and although those that contain mint and cucumber at once occur