CHEESE. 583 cold water with a bit of fat in it, or use greasy stock—from pork or ham. Boil until done (from two to three hours!, then rub the peas through a colander, better still, a wire sieve, and put with them two ounces of dripping or butter, and salt and pepper to season well. A beaten egg makes it richer and smoother, and ensures its turning out a good shape. Flour or grease the cloth, tie the peas tightly, and boil again for half an hour or rather more. I Serve hot with boiled pork or bacon; and it is just as good with boiled beef. Many persons like the addition of mashed potatoes; they may be equal in bulk to the peas, or in less pro- portion, and may be added when the peas are sieved. They should be mealy and perfectly mashed; if lumpy or the least watery, they willspoilthe pudding. (See Potatoes.) Mint or any other herbs may be added to the pudding, or dried mint served with it. Cost, 5d. to 6d. Peas Pudding (very Su- perior).—Required: a pint of soaked split peas, a saltspoonful each of white sugar and pepper, a bunch of herbs, stock No. 11 or 12, and an ounce or two of butter. Cost, od. to 6d. Butter a stewpan at the bottom and [ round the sides as far as the peas I reach, add the sugar, and cover the pan, then shake it over the fire for a few seconds ; add stock as above just to cover the peas, lay a sheet of j buttered or oiled paper over, and I bring very slowly to the boil; skim thoroughly, and cook until soft, about ! three hours; an occasional shake is ; required, and a little fresh stock from time to time. When done, remove the | herbs, add salt to taste, and rub all I through a sieve; then put the peas back into the pan, add either an ounce more butter or olive oil, or cream may bctselif preferred. Beat hard until the i uree is hot through, then serve in a pile with strips of toast or fried bread round it, and send dried powdered mint to table. It may be served as a vegetarian dish, or with pork or beef. Peas Pudding, Superlative. -—Proceed as directed above, but use stock No. 1 or 2, with herbs to taste, and a pinch of celery seed. Sieve and finish as above, or pour round it a puree of carrots, onions, or celery, and send brown gravy or sauce to table in a tuieen. Another way.—To every pint of peas, add about four ounces of fried ham or bacon in strips, and a fried onion, sliced, a short time before serving, and serve as a separate dish. This is very test}'. Many other ways of finishing off, according to convenience and pre- ference, may be adopted; we wish, however, to call attention to this method of preparing peas pudding as very superior to that of tying it in a cloth and boiling it in a large quantity of water. In the one, much nutriment goes into the water ; in the other, it is retained; while the difference in flavour is very pronounced. The same prin- ciple may be carried out in the very cheapest forms of pudding ; a morsel of dripping, or even some greasy stock, will supply the necessary fat, for stock that is too greasy for any other purpose (so long as it is not very salt) answers excellently for peas. For persons who like a very soft pudding (many do)—a sort of go-between a pudding and a soup—the stock may be increased or the peas reduced at pleasure. CHEESE. CHEESE, as an article of food, is deserving of attention from the fact that it can be brought from all parts of the world, and may be readily stored and kept for a considerable time. As to its composition, that varies greatly ; but cheese must always bo looked upon as a concentrated food,