188 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. buttor into a saucepan with the mincod shalot, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch of salt. Stir this briskly over the tiro for five minutes, add tho parsley and tho mushrooms, and stir the mixture for five minutes longer; then pouritout. Butter a baking dish (Fig. 51) rather thickly, lay the herbs in it, place upon them a sole, neatly filleted and trimmed, then laid together in shape, and cover with finely-gratod bread- crumbs. Put little pieces of butter hero and there upon the fish, moisten it with a glassful of light wine, a tea- spoonful of anchovy essence, and a tea- spoonful of ketchup. Bake the solo in a moderate oven. Serve it very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. If the surface is not sufficiently browned, hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over it for three or four minutes. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Sole an Gratin, a la Fran- 9ai.se.—Mix together parsley, mush- rooms, and shalot as above; add a tablospoonful or two of bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a slice of bacon in tiny dice ; buttor tho dish, lay the seasoning on, then put on the fish, whole or as above; sprinkle it with a little of the samo seasoning as you put below', then pour over it a glass of whito wine and a littlo good fish stock; sprinkle more bread-crumbs over, and put bits of buttor on; bake moderately, and servo hot in tho samo dish. If it becomes too dry, add a littlo more stock. If liked, garnish with glazed mushrooms, or a few prawns, and fried parsloy. Sole au Vin Blanc.—Take tho fillets from a large, skinned sole ; cut them through again, making eight; season the insido with lemon juice, salt and cayenne; roll up, beginning with the narrow end, and tie with thread. Lay them in a buttered tin, squeeze a littlo lemon juice over, and pour in a gill of white wine ; lay a buttered paper over, and cook until done, then put aside to cool; reduce the liquor in tho pan hy quick boiling, add it to a gill of creamy bechmncb and season delicately. When quite cold, put each fillet (after untying) in an oval ramekin case of white china, on tho top of a small quantity of dressed salad (any nico, plain kind, lettuce, cucumber, cress, &c.) ; put on a little of the above sauce, then coat each with thick mayonnaise. Have ready some fish aspic, flavoured with whito w'ine ; colour it pink, and pour in a shallow tin. When set, chop it up, and use it for orna- menting tho tops of the fillets; then sprinkle over some chopped capers, and tiny leaves of cress and cher- vil, with a stoned olive, blanched, and cut small; the one olive is suf- ficient for the eight fillets. Serve as an entree. These are very pretty ; the combination of colours being ef- fective, while the tasto of tho dish equals its appearance. Sole, Baked.—Take a thick and very fresh solo, skin, and trim it, wipo it dry with a soft cloth, and if convenient let it lie folded in this in a cool place for an hour or more before dressing. Season lightly with salt and pepper, flour well, and egg and bread-crumb the sole. Lay it in a buttered baking-dish, put little pieces of butter hero and there upon it, and bako in a moderate oven. Shake the dish occasionally to keep the fish from sticking to the bottom. When done enough, lay it before tho fire for a few minutes to drain tho fat from it. Put it on a hot dish, covered with a napkin, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send Melted Better or any nice sauce to table in a tureen; or make sauce by mixing tho gravy which flows from the fish with a littlo lemon juice, a tcaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and some fish stock ; thicken, and boil up. A glass of wino is sometimes added to sauce thus mado. If more than one solo is to be baked, they must be dono in single layers, that is, they must not bo laid ono upon another. Time, ton to twenty minutes,