FISH. 131 may bo accepted that they aid the digestion as well as increase the palatability of the fisli. A table showing the best season for all sorts of fish will be found at the end of the book. Various recipes for Fish gouerally will be found in the following alphabet under that word, and many other recipes will be found scattered iu various chapters on reference to the Index. Anchovy.—This little tish plays a very important part in present day cookery. The best fish are small and plump; they are to be bought preserved in brine or oil; the former are more generally used. The bottle containing them must be kept corked, as the air spoils them. The scales should look silvery, and as there is a little knack required in filleting the fish, we will here detail it. First slide them out of the bottle carefully, if a fork is stuck in them they will most likely break ; keep as many as are needed, put the rest back, and see that the brine covers them. Wash away all the brine, any bits of salt, and a soft part near the breast (it is like the soft roe of a herring); nse several lots of water ; dry them in a cloth, then open them from head to tail: the fingers are best, but some manage them better with a knife. Then take hold of the bone, tail end, with the fin, and pull away the flesh, then take out the little fins. Each makes two fillets, and these can be cut again with a good knife in two or three strips. It is a mistake to wash the fish after boning. Gorgona an- chovies are the best. The island of Gorgona is the centre or head-quarters of the fishery. (For the various dishes made from anchovies, sec Hoks d’GSuvres and Savouries. ) In all the recipes wherein anchovies are named it is assumed that they will be washed as above, unless otherwise specified; if soaking is needed it will be indicated. [See also Sauces, Sand- wiches, Salads, &e.) Barbel.—This at its best is only pooT eating. A rich method of cooking is always recommended, and it is questionable whether so poor a fish is worth the trouble and expense some- times bestowed upon it. It takes its name from the barbs about the mouth. Wine is considered necessary in all Fxo. 19.—Barbel. dishes of barbel; a brown gravy mixed with port or claret is used to stew it, or sauces with wine are served with it when cooked in other ways. Bass.—This is a name given to many kinds of fish: a kind of perch is thus named, so is a large striped fish, foimd in North America ; but the real sea bass is said to he a small striped fish, of two to three pounds weight. This is never found in fresh water. The varieties are all cooked in one or other of the usual ways. The follow- ing is an American recipe. Bass Boiled.—Take as much water as would enable the fish, if alive, to just swim ;* add to each quart a teaspoonful of salt, a half cup of vinegar, a blado of mace, and a dozen • Tliis must bo left to the render's im- agination ; and we would remark that the drawn butter is the samo thing practically as our oiled or clarified butter. The water, prepared as above, is good for many oilier fisli: we can recommend it for fresli water fish of the coarse kinds.