390 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. other than those given in the following paragraphs, see Fowl; also the section on Invalid Cookeiiy. In the latter aro some dishes that may he served at the family table, where children or delicate persons have to be considered.) The cost of chickens is variable ; the quality rules it to an extent, but the weather, and other “ markets ”-(as when game is scarce) make a good deal of difference to the poultry market. Generally, chickens are the dearest in the spring, and cheapest towards the end of the year ; from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. may be given as average prices. Chicken and Artichokes.— Required: a chicken, artichoke bot- toms, puree, and sauce. Cost, about 6s. Gd. Take a tin of artichoko bottoms, heat them, and place them round a hot dish. Pom- over them some melted butter. In the middle of the dish put an artichoke puree, and dish a boiled or stowed bird on it. Pour more melted butter over, and sprinkle the breast with the cooked liver, sieved, and a little chopped fennel or parsley. Egg sauce is also very good with the above, and many other purees can be so served in the centre of the dish. Chicken, Boiled. — A boiled chicken should be compact in appear- ance, beautifully white, and served with a good sauco. Under the head of Poultry, Boiled, are full directions for the method. The nicest sauces should be selected, where expense is not an object, for a hot bird; such as supreme, veloutd, volaillo, &c. ; and for a cold bird we recommend any of the delicate sauces into which cream enters. If a vegetable sauce, as celery, is chosen, it should be as good as possible ; creamy, nice in colour, and delicately flavoured. The same is true of a puree. .Time, in proportion to size; from half-an- hour to forty minutes on an average ; but a fine bird will take longer. (See Chicken, Roasted ) The breast always looks nicer, supposing the sauce to bo white, for some little garnish; chopped parsley, sieved egg yolk,sieved liver, &c., according to- taste and the nature of the sauce. Chicken Cutlets, French.— Required; a chicken, bread, cheese, seasoning, egg, sauce, and a vegetable puree. Cost, from 3s. Gd. upwards, exclusive of the vegetables. Prepare these by jointing and skin- ning a cooked bird. Season some bread-crumbs with grated Parmesan cheese; sprinkle the chicken with cayenne, ground mace or nutmeg, and a little white pepper; cover with beaten egg and some of the crumbs; repeat this in half-an-hour; then fry them brown, and sprinkle with grated cheese. Dish round a pureo of sorrel or spinach, and send some white sauce, made from the chicken bones and flavoured with cheese, to table with them. Another way.—Season the crumbs with herbs, as varied as possible, and serve with sauce herbace, or a nice cold sauce; see recipes. Chicken, Devilled.—Required: a chicken, butter, and seasoning as be- low. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Gd., accord- ing to the season and size of bird. Mix together butter, French andEng- lish mustard, a morsel of anchovy paste, a dust of cayenne and white pepper, a pinch of salt, and some grated lemon peel. The mixture should be creamy ; the quantity of seasoning is best regu- lated by taste; some may like the addition of chutney. (See other recipes for devilled meats.) Skin and score the flesh of a cooked bird, and rub the paste in an hour or two before it is wanted. Then dip in oil or clarified butter, and broil or grill, and serve very hot, on a dish paper or napkin. Chicken, Fricasseed (American),—Required : a chicken, stock, seasoning, thickening, eggs, and pork, as below. Cost, about 4s. Cut up a nice chicken into joints; cover it with warm white stock or water; add three quarters of a pound of pickled pork, and boil up (bring to the boil gentLv), then put. in some chopped