593 EGGS. they may be cooked in a dish ready for table in this way, which is a com- mon one in France and Germany; it is called “ dished eggs ” somotime3. Eggs a la Belgravia. (See Tongue, a la Belgravia.)—Garnish with the butters used for the tongue. Eggs, Boiled.—Put the eggs in a small saucepan of boiling water by means of a spoon, so that they are dropped in gradually; then boil for three to three and a half minutes, according to taste and their size ; for a large perfectly fresh egg, allow four minutes; always remember that an egg a day or two old takes less time than a fresh one. A plan frequently adopted is to place the eggs in a sauce- pan of cold water over the fire, and serve them as soon as it boils; but this is not a reliable way, as the time taken entirely depends on the size of the saucepan and the heat of the fire. Eggs, Boiled Hard.—Put the eggs in boiling water, and cook gently for about ten minutes, rather more or less, according to size; some cooks prefer to put the eggs into cold water, and bring them to the boil very slowly, then give them from eight to ten minutes’ cooking. If to be sent to table hot, put them in cold water for a second to cool them, so that they can be handled; then take them up in a clean cloth and shell them carefully. If to be served with gravy or sauce, they can be put in it to heat, or it can be poured over them ; in this way they are often dished on toast or fried bread. If to be left until cold, drop them into a bowl of cold water and shell when required; and whether for table or for salads, or other garnishing purposes, do not shell them until they are wanted; and if to be quartered or otherwise divided, leave this operation until the last minute. .See that fresh eggs are used for salads, &c., or when cut they will be hollow at one end, and will probably smell unpleasantly. . Eggs a la Boston.—See Sauce a la Boston, and make half a pint for five or six eggs; boil them hard and take the yolks out, slice the whites and lay them on a dish, pour the sauce over and garnish with the yolks, brush them over with thin glaze, and surround them with dice-shaped crofi- tous. Cost, about Is. Eggs, Buttered. — The term “ browned eggs ” is sometimes applied to this dish. Break as many eggs as are wanted into a buttered dish ; sea- son with salt and pepper, and with nutmeg or cayenne, if liked; make some butter hot in a frying-pan, allow- ing an ounce to two eggs, let it brown, then pour it over them ; shake the dish that it may run well amongst the eggs, then set the dish on the hot plate or in the oven for the eggs to set, which they will very soon do, owing to the heat of the oven. Brown the surface with a salamander, and serve in the dish. Eggs a la Cavalier. (See Ca- valiers’ Sauce.)—Prepare an oblong slice of fried bread ; hollow the centre to hold seven fried or poached eggs in a row, pour about a taVlespoonful of the sauce over each, cover for a moment, then serve. A row of any green vegetable can be put down the sides, or some fried potatoes may be used. Cost, about Is. to Is. 2d. Eggs and Chicken in Cases. —Required: cream, chicken mince, sauce, eggs, and anchovy butler. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. Take nine small round china cases, and brush the insides with warm cream. Almost fill them with a mince, made by mixing bi'x ounces of cooked chicken with half its weight of ham, and enough rich Parsley or other sauce to moisten it; season very lightly. Poach nine eggs, trim them into noat rounds, removing most of the whites, lay one in each case, and garnish round the eggs with anchovy butter. Eggs, Cold.—{See Egc s,Stuffed.) Eggs and Cucumber. — Re- quired : bread, •cucumber, eggs, ham butter, and green butter. Cost, about Is. 3d.