PLAIN' VEGETABLE COOKERY. G49 of fried bread ; or any other vegetables may be used—tiny carrots or sprouts, or any that will contrast nicely. Potato Ribbons.—Wash and peel some good-sized potatoes; cut them into ribbons round and round, like peeling an apple; not too thinly, or they will break, and the strips should be as long as possible. They should be dried well before peeling. Then drop them into hot fat, and let them become a delicate brown; drain before serving, and sprinkle a little salt and cayenne or white pepper over. (See Potatoes, Fried.) Potato Rice.—Required: pota- toes, butter, milk, and seasoning. Cost, about 5<L Boil two pounds of potatoes—regents are best for the purpose—mash them with two ounces of butter and four tablespoonfuls of boiling milk, and season with pepper and salt. Put them into a large colander, and press them through this on to a hot dish, and, whilst doing so, shake the colander every minute or so, that the potatoes may fall lightly like rice. Serve very hot, with broiled steak or sausages. Potato Ring, or Border, Plain.—Prepare as for Balls or Croquettes above ; when cold, roll out on a board with the hand, to the thick- ness of a thin rolling-pin; join the ends neatly, and brush over with dripping, then bake brown, and serve with a mince of meat or fish in the centre. Potatoes, Savoury (a German recipe). — Required: potatoes, butter, or bacon, flour, stock, herbs, and other seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. Half boil six or eight large potatoes, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stcwpan, or, if preferred, substitute two ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces for the butter. Add a minced onion, and let it stew until tender. Dredge a tablespoon ful of flour into the butter, and stir until it is smooth and brown; then pour in u* gradually as much boiling stock or water as will mako the sauce of the consistence of cream. Add a pinch of thyme and marjoram, a large table- spoonful of chopped parsley, some pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg, a bay leaf, or any other flavouring. Let the sauce simmer a few minutes, put in the sliced potatoes, and when they are tender without being broken, turn the whole upon a dish, and serve very hot. If liked, tho butter and flour may be kept from browning, and a little milk may be used to thin the sauce. Potatoes, Scalloped.— Mash some potatoes in the usual way with butter and a little hot milk (see page 646). Butter some scallop-shells or patty-pans, fill them with the mashed potatoes, make them smooth on the top, and then draw the back of a fork over them. Sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs on the top, and lay small pieces of butter here and there upon them. , Put the potatoes in a Dutch oven before the fire till they are brightly browned, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin in the scallop- shells. Time, about a quarter of an hour to brown the potatoes. A small quantity of dried fish— haddock, bloater, &c.-—makes a savoury dish; it should be beaten in well with the potatoes; or any of the mixtures given under Potatoes, Moulded, may be scalloped. Cost variable—about 3d. per pound inclusive. Potatoes, Steamed. — Have ready a large saucepan of water, suited* as for boiling ; see that the steamer fits the pan, and the lid the steamer. Take a teaspoonful of salt for two to three pounds of potatoes, and shake it over as they are put in the steamer. Size them, or put the largest at the bottom ; cover, and lot the water boil fast all tho time; anything may bo boiled in tho water that will not * When a pudding is boiled underneath, t lie snlt must ho omitted, unless it be of a savour)' kind; tlien u little salt docs no harm.