PORK. 361 or fried—and in the latter form they are far more savoury—the steaming can be dispensed with, and the cakes browned only in a greased tin in the oven. A leg of pork, roasted without stuffing, requires a very nice sauce. Robert, Piquant, a good Tomato, Digestive, Brown Sauce flavoured with hot pickles, and many others, are suitable. Chutney Sauce is very good, and a reference to the chapter on Hot Sauces will suggest others, little known, but quite as suitable as the above-named. Cost, varying with the sauce. Liver, Baked in a Caul.— Required : liver, seasoning, and force- meat. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Wash and soak the liver until it is quite free from blood. Divide it into halves, horizontally, without separating the two pieces, and lay it upon a dish. Sprinkle pepper and salt on it, pour over it two ounces of clarified butter, and let it lie for twenty minutes. Spread evenly over it a layer of forcemeat, a quarter of an inch in thickness, close the liver, and wrap it in some pig’s caul, or “leaf,” which has been soaked in cold water, drained, and dried in a soft cloth. Put the roll in a deep dish, with a slice of fat bacon under and over it, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is done enough take it out of its covering, and serve on a hot dish, with the gravy which has flowed from it, mixed with a little lemon juice. A plain forcemeat, veal, with or without ham, herb stuffing, or sage and onions, may be used. For a much better dish, pour some piquant sauce over the liver. Liver, with. Apples and Vegetables.—This is a medley, but popular amongst pork - eaters wherever introduced. Grease a deep pie-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of sliced liver, sliced potatoes and onions, and quartered apples. Have onions top and bottom, and over each layer put salt and pepper, with a little sage and nutmeg. Over tho apples sprinkle a morsel of ginger and lemon rind, both grated. Fill up with warm water, or meat liquor; cover, and cook in a vory slow oven for two hours or more. Thicken the gravy with a spoonful of browned flour, and add a little mustard and vinegar. Cost, about 10d., supposing a pound each of liver, onions, and potatoes, and half a pound of apples to be used; but the proportions may be altered to suit the palate. To many, fewer onions and double the weight of potatoes would be more acceptable. Loin, Roasted.—Score the meat, and brush it with sweet oil. Follow the directions given for a leg of pork. Sometimes apples and onions are baked and served with the meat, and potatoes parboiled and browned (see Browned Potatoes), are a suitable addition. The loin always needs long, slow cooking, and half an hour to each pound is about the time to allow for it; it must be thoroughly basted, and wants plenty of good gravy in addition to apple sauce or baked apples. Apple and Curry Sauce may be served in- stead, and tomato sauce is also suitable. The kidney end is the nicer, and is generally (though not always) a little the dearer, but it must be very fresh, as all meat near the kidney of any animal becomes tainted very quickly, especially in damp weather. The usual way of carving this is in chops, like a loin of mutton ; but it may bo carved saddle fashion, as directed for mutton on page 334, then it needs no jointing before cooking. Cost, 8d. per pound on an average. Pork, Stewed with Vege- tables (German recipe).—Required: meat, vegetables, &c. Cost, about 2s. Cut the heart of a large savoy into quarters. Put these into a large iron stewpan with half a dozen carrots cut into lengths, three turnips halved, eight moderate-sized whole potatoes, and two pounds of fresh pork with more lean than fat in it. Season with pepper and salt, pour over them a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, covor tho