MADE DISnES AND RELEVES. 229 MADE DISHES AND RELEYfiS. As previously stated, some of the following made dishes can ho served as entrees, but" a brief consideration of the various kinds will show the necessity of selecting them with discretion. Take, say, a curry, of any sort. One high authority assures us that, it ought never to be served as an entree; another says, it may appear as a second entree, if a delicate one has gone before; a third asserts that a curry, or any dish of a similarly high flavour, is a fitting climax to a meal arranged to suit the guests, irrespective of custom; citing, as an illustration, a fish dinner, or a bachelors’ supper. But as various circumstances must decide the general arrangement of a dinner (the same dishes answering at times for different parts of the service), it is well not to draw too fast a line with respect to curries, or any other special dishes. One rule is absolute : all of a highly seasoned kind are unsuitable to precede any lightly flavoured one, for a pronouuced flavour will assert itself all through a meal. Small savouries, served in the second course, are not here referred to. The majority of dishes in this chapter are of all-round utility, including breakfast and luncheon dishes, and many that in a compara- tively plain dinner—consisting of sonp or fish, with a pudding to finish —would serve as the embodiment of an entree and a releve; of which class, steaks and cutlets, and good stews are typical dishes. The same may be said of many dishes given under Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery, for they aro “ made dishes ” to a certain extent, and may replace a number of those from fresh meat given herein. The same remark applies to the dishes of game and poultry, in the form of hashes, minces, &c.; these will be found under their respective headings. A word now on Releves, or removes as they are often called. These dishes at one time were set upon the table when the soup tureen was taken away, which explains the name. The word is now understood to mean the solid or substantial part of the repast; indeed, in the average middle class home, it may be said to form the dinner, with occasionally soup or fish to precede it, and a sweet dish to complete the meal. But the word is very elastic when applied to a public feast, or a private dinner of a high class: under releves one may find joints of all sorts, fowls, ducks, geese, turkeys, indeed an unlimited supply of poultry, as well as hams, tongues, meat pies and puddings: then, often game of some sort is the only thing which figures under roasts. Again, it is possible to meet with joints only under releves, the poultry being put under roasts, particularly if game is not included in the meal. _ f11 the present instance we havo separated the releves from plain joints, simply to facilitate reference. Those who want a joint pure and simple, or a plain meat dish of any kind, will find it under Joints, and in tlie chapter devoted to game and poultry will be found all the dishes of the latter class suitable for removes. Hero wo give all the braised meats, joints ns well as smaller dishes, for braising is not sufficiently understood in ordinary English kitchens to justify the jiisorljoit of ft