663 Plain VegEtABIe cookery. Vegetable Marrow, Broiled. —This is a good wav to re-heat some boiled marrow ; cut it in pieces,and lay them before the fire in a tin, witha little butter or dripping, and some seasoning; dredge with raspings and a little cheese, and brown up well at a quick fire. Herbs may take the place of cheese. Vegetable Marrow, Steamed.—" Boil your marrow by steaming it,” says a writer, “ and don’t take the skin off, unless yon wish to deprive it of its best properties ; cook it in the state that Nature pre- sents it, and prepare it for table afterwards.” Being of so watery a nature, this needs care; while the marrow itself is firm, but the skin soft — remember to put the pieces skin downward in the steamer—rub off the skin with a clean cloth, and cut the pieces again to a suitable size for serving: transfer them to a baking tin, and finish off in a moderate oven ; this drives off the excess of moisture, and improves the flavour. Only quite young marrows can be treated thus; and in cutting them first it is well to only halve or quarter them; or very small ones can be put in the steamer- whole, if care be taken to turn them well about. After peeling, they must be cut as above, and the seeds removed before baking. This way, they will be more fully flavoured, and will come as a pleasant surprise to those who may hitherto have eaten marrows peeled and seeded, and boiled, perhaps almost to a pulp, and have condemned them as almost flavourless, with very good reason. The fault, however, lies more in the cooking tlian the vegetable- very often. Note.—The marrow can bo sent to table in pieces with the peel on, if dished peel down ; thero is then no danger of breaking or disfiguring it. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed. —Required : materials as below. Cost, varies with the stuffing and size of marrow. The ways of stuffing vegetable marrow are numerous ; by varying the stuffing, very tasty and also substantial dishes may be concocted at small cost. A nice dish is made simply by mixing bread-crumbs with seasoning, a little Fig. 110.—Stuffed Marrow. cheese grated, and milk to moisten the mass. Or crumbs, with cooked onions and sage, with seasoning and milk. Under Foucemeats will be found very many varieties; those without suet are the best for the purpose ; a plain herb or mushroom forcemeat will be found very good; and where the marrow is to be served instead of meat, a sausage meat stuffing may be employed. One thing must be borne in mind in making the selection; that is, the size of the marrow ; it would be no use putting a solid forcemeat (one of the sausago meat variety) into a very small mar- row ; or, to get the interior cooked, the marrow would be overdone; therefore, fair-sized marrows are wanted when this sort of stuffing is preferred; and it should bo made hot before putting it in the marrow; if put in cold, the chances are that the marrow would break up by the time the filling was done. Having then prepared the stuffing, and peeled the marrow very thinly, proceed as follows:—Cut the marrow through, and scoop the seeds out; tho usual way is to tako the knifo straight through, but wo think that tho way shown in the illustration is better; thero is less tendency to slip, both in cooking and after dishing. If the marrow bo tender, it need not