376 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. if liked. Reduce a little of the liquor by quick boiling, down to a gill; mix this with the meat, then put it in basins or moulds, and leave until firm and cold. To turn it out, dip the mould in warm water (in cold weather the water must he hot), then dry it; put the dish on the top, reverse the mould quickly, and the brawn will slip out. If the stock he diluted with fresh liquor from meat that has not been salted, it will serve, with plenty of vegetables and cereals, for thick soup of the puree kind For any other sort it is not available. The tongue must he skinned before it is cut up. If liked, it can be kept for a separate dish. Brawn, Ormskirk.—Required : the head, ears, and feet of a small pig, two tongues in addition to the one in the head, seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. per pound. See Brawn ; prococd as directed ; lay all the meat in pickle No. 2; turn it daily for five days, then rinse and dry the meat, and boil until all the bones slip out. The ears will take a long time. Skin the tongues, and cut all up very small; season with black pepper and ground nutmeg, a little sage and salt; a pinch of cayenne improves it. Reduce the liquor to a pint or so; stir some of it to the meat in a saucepan; make all hot, and then pour into moulds or basins. Brawn, Superior.— Required: half a pig’s head, two feet, two sheep’s tongues, and a pound of streaky pork, belly-piece, seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Pickle the meat as above, then put all on to boil with a sliced onion, a carrot, and a bunch of herbs. When the bones fall out, cut it up as above directed; season it with white pepper, ground mace and cayenne ; add a little of the liquor, and salt if required. Put it in a tin mould, or collaring tin as shown on page 383, and leave until firm before turning out. Keep it in a cold place; it cuts so much firmer and nicer. Chaps, Bath.—Tho excellence of these will depend very much upon the amount of soaking and boiling they re- ceive. If these be neglected, the meat will be hard. Plenty of cold wator should be used for the washing and soaking; a small brush is needed to cleanse the chap; let it remain for a night, or longer if very dry. Put it on to boil in cold water, bring gently to the boil, skim well, and boil for two to three hours. In this instance, a cer- tain time for a given weight must be considered less than the time that will be required to soften the meat; i.e. its dryness plays a prominent part. When done, skin it, and dredge with rasp- ings. Sorve hot with green vegetables, or cold as a breakfast dish, with salad, &c. After dredging this, or any similar meat with raspings, put it near tho fire for a minute or two. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Ham, to Choose.—A ham with short bones should always be selected if possible. To know if good, pass a skewer through the middle, to the bone, and also at the knuckle; if it smells sweet, and is free from greasi- ness when withdrawn, the ham is good. Strong odour and a greasy skewer prove that the ham, although it may not be actually bad, is not first-rate, or even good. In buying half a ham, notice the fat. It should not be yellow and rancid looking, or streaked with yellow. It should be clear, and of a pinkish white. The kind of ham to select depends as much upon the pocket as the taste of the purchaser. For ordinary purposes, whether to serve hot with vegetables, or cold as a breakfast-dish, the small, sugar-cured Canadian are very good. They are low in price, and some are almost as mild in flavour as a piece of pickled pork. A good home-cured ham, well matured, is not easily beaten in point of flavour; such are not now very easily procured, for naturally, owing to the storage required, they cannot compote in price with those above-named; and, therefore, the