378 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. much more than its own size, then covered with three parts water to one part cider or light wine; a morsel of garlic, a sliced onion, some celery- stalks, and a piece of cat-rot should he tied in a hag, together with a leek if obtainable, and boiled with the rest. Boil, then skin, and leave the ham until cold after wiping the fat; then glaze it, and garnish to taste. This recipe may be confidently recom- mended. Another, similar one, directs that the ham be tied round with a wisp of now hay beforo the cloth is put on it. Another way.—Boil a ham until nearly done ; skin it, and pour a glass of sherry over. Put it to the fire, and repeat again in a few minutes. Then put raspings on, and serve hot or cold. Ham, Broiled or Grilled.— A matured ham is the nicest, but it must not bo hard. If there is any fear that it will bo, soak it in warm milk or water for a short time. The slices must bo even, and the cooking gradual, both at first and all through. The fierce heat necessary for the closing of the pores of fresh meat, would spoil salt meat of any sort. Broiled ham is more economical than grilled ham. If a Dutch oven be used, some cold potatoes may be re-heated in the bottom. They will absorb the dripping, and are generally relished for breakfast. When grilling is preferred, wipe the gridiron, and rub the bars with a bit of fat ham, then cook gently for about eight minutes. Ham, Cured.—An easy method. The pig should be a year old at least, and killed in weather neither damp and muggy, nor vory frosty. The ham should hang a day after it is cut out, then have a sprinkling of salt, and hang for another day. Mix half a pound of salt, the same of coarse sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Lay the ham, rind down, on a large dish, rub it well with the salt, &c., and baste and turn it every day. Leave it for a month, then drain it, and coat it with bran. Hang it in a cool place. If hot, it will be dry and hard, and may turn rancid. It must be watched, and should any part turn yellow, scrape it off, and rub the part with pepper, salt, and flour, mixed in equal proportions. Another way.—Use for each ham, six ounces each of bay salt and common salt, twelve ounces of sugar, an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of black pepper. Dry these before the fire, and rub the hams well. As many as may be wanted may be cured at once, these proportions being duly increased. The hams must then change places in the tub or pan, the one at the bottom being brought to the top, and vice versd. Before hanging up, hams should be dusted over with flour or malt dust. Some prefer to wrap them in brown paper, and coat over with lime wash. We think that nothing is nicer than malt dust; the ham may be first lightly floured. Ham, Cured (Bayonne).—Shorten a leg of pork as much as possible, put a press or weight on, and leave for a few hours, then rub all over with half a pound of salt and an ounce of salt- petre. Make a pickle by boiling to- gether wine and water in equal parts, with a teaspoonful of juniper berries, a sprig of thyme, basil, and sage, two bay leaves, some "hole peppercorns and coriander seed, about half a tea- spoonful of each. When well flavoured, strain, and pour off. Lay the ham in a pan, pour the pickle over, and spriuklo salt on it; leave it for three weeks, turn- ing daily; then dry it, and smoke it with aromatic wood. When smoked it should be rubbed over with wine lees, then dried, and finally wrapped in paper, and stored in wood ashes. Ham, Cured (Bordyke recipe).— After rubbing the hams with salt and draining them, take for every twelve pounds the following ingredients: three ounces of brown sugar, one ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of bay salt, and three ounces of common salt, all dry, and in fine powder.