419 GAME AND POULTRY. other green vegetables round a dish, and serve the meat and sauce in the middle. Goose Lard, (See section on Cooking PllOCESSES.) Goose Iliver Pate.—Required : the livers of two geese, butter, a calf’s tongue, and some liver, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, from 7s. upwards, ac- cording to the season and the size of the bird. Take the livers from two fat geese, as ordinarily sold; soak them in milk for a time; be careful not to break the gall bladders in draw- ing the geese. Put them in a pan with a lump of butter, cover, and cook gently until nearly done, but do not brown them. Boil a calf’s tongue and some liver, as much as the goose livers; or it is still nicer if cooked in the butter; the tongue must be boiled separately. Skin and cut up the tongue into square and triangular shapes; let the liver get cold, then pound it in a mortar, with some butter, added by degrees, with a little cayenne, black pepper, ground nutmeg and •cloves, salt to taste, a teaspoonful or thereabouts of store sauce and mustard, •and a tablespoonful of boiling stock, in which some sliced onion has been steeped to extract the flavour. Work well together, then pack the mass very tightly in buttered jars; cover and set in a cool oven for half an hour or so, then, when cold, cover with clarified butter, and store in a cool place. A terrine or pate de foie gras jar is the best to use for this. It keeps well, makes a nice breakfast dish, or comes in for sandwiches, &c. Truffles in shreds and dice improve the above; and poultry livers can be used in place of calf’s liver. The seasoning must be left to tho dis- cretion of the cook ; it should be added gradually until well flavoured. Goose Livers, Ragout of.— Required : the livers of two fat geese, milk, stock, and seasoning, wine, and garnish as below. Cost, variable. Tako the gall-bag and any dark portions from the livers; wash in ■warm water, dry them, and put in milk to cover them for six or eight hours. Take them up, and cover them with equal parts of light wine and stock—No. 4 is suitable—or a clear stock can be used. Add to the saucepan a chopped shalot, a bay leaf, sprig of parsley, two cloves, and a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper. Simmer gently for twenty minutes or so, then drain the livers, and put them on a hot dish ; strain the gravy, put it back, and add a teaspoonful of brown roux, and half a glass of sherry. Let it reduce a little, then pour it over the livers. Sometimes the wine at the finish is omitted, and a couple of eggs, yolks only, are beaten into the gravy; but this is very rich. Serve with croutons round the dish ; mask half of them with any good puree of vegetables, and glaze the remainder, placing them alternately. Goose liver as above may be used as a garnish instead of being served as a separate dish. It should then be cut up small, and the sauce made thick enough to coat it. It may be put round a dish of hashed goose, or served with a roasted goose. Goose, Roasted.—A goose for roasting is generally filled with sage and onion stuffing. The way in which this is made must depend upon the taste of those who are to eat it. Various recipes will be found in a later chapter. The goose should be well filled. When bread-crumbs are added to the stuffing, room for swelling must be allowed, then securely fas- tened at the opening, firmly trussed, and put down to a brisk firo. It may be baked equally well. Plentiful basting will bo required until done. The skewers and strings must then bo removed, and tho goose sent to table with brown gravy and sauce, which may be of tomato or applo; the latter is usually liked, and is considered to facilitate tho digestion of tho flesh of the goose, which is somewhat rich,