UNIVERBAL COOKERY BOOK. 172 centre, then frying it brown ; oysters to fall a skewer, seasoning, and egg and crumbs. Thread the oysters as above (no bacon), seasoning them well; then roll them in flour, coat them with beaten egg, then with bread crumbs, or biscuit crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. Have the croustade ready on a hot dish, put in the oysters, after changing the skewers as above, and serve hot. A tasty snack for any meal. Oysters, Stewed. —Required: twenty-five oysters, a gill of sherry, a lemon, a few drops of essence of mace and cayenne vinegar, a little salt, and a sprig of parsley. Drain the oysters, put the liquor in a stewpan with the seasoning, bring to the boil, and skim; add the wine, boil up, then take the pan from the fire, and lay in the oysters; cover for live to ten minutes, keeping thorn just below boiling-point, then servo. If likod, a little thickening may be added to the liquor, with a few drops of an- chovy essence. This recipe hails from the other sido the herring pond; and the oyster-eater will hardly need telling that it is a good one. Oysters, Stewed, White.— Open some plump, small oysters ; rinse them in the strained liquor, put thorn in a stewpan with the liquor again strained, bring just to the boil, then take them out, and remove the beards ; put back the beards with salt, cayenne, and a bit of nutmeg and lemon peel, to boil until the liquor is strong; then strain it, and mix with an equal measure of Thick Bechamel ; boil up, and lay in the oysters to heat through, but not to boil again. Squeeze in a little lemon juice off the fire. A nother way.—Stew the beards down in the liquor until a little is left; add it to some Dutch Sauce or good Melted Butter ; put in the oysters to heat as above diroctod. Oysters, Various Methods of Cooking,— Recipes for patties, vol-au-vents, omelets, souffles, force- meats, and small savouries, in which the oyster plays a prominent part, will be found in subsequent chapters (see Index). Perch.—This is ono of our com- monest fresh water fish, and is con- sidered one of the best; it is met with in most of the lakes and rivers of Great Britain, and many parts of the Contin- ent ; probably throughout the whole of the temperate regions. Perch abound in deep, dark, sluggish rivers, and about flood gates and similar places; a fish of a pound is a fair size; throe pounds is thought large; but they arc found very much larger. The flesh is firm, of good flavour, and digestible. They are tenacious of life, and may be cairied I'm. 41.—Perch. many miles if packed in straw. When frosh, the body is bright and shin)’, and the gills rosy red. Crimping improves them. To scale them is not easy; if plunged for a moment into boiling water, the operation is assisted; when boiled, the scales are often taken off after boiling, as being the easier method. Perch, Boiled.—Wash the fish in warm water to free it from slime. Empty it, and take off the fins and gills. Tut it in boiling water, salted, then cook it, scarcely at simmering point, until done. Servo any of the usual fish sauces with it. Perch, Fried, — The ordinary plain methods will answer, but prepared as below the dish is superior. If small, after cleansing the fish, leavo them wliolo ; if largo, fillet them ; then roll them in flour, and wipe again. Mix ip