tNIVEftSAu COOKERY BOOK. 448 cover it (after seasoning it with pepper, herbs, and spice at discretion). For the sauce, stew down any hones with the skin and gristle; strain it, and put equal measures of that and milk into a saucepan. For a pint, stir in, when it boils, bit by bit, two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour, mixed to a paste with cream ; a little of each alternately. Then mix in a teaspoouful each of chopped parsley and bruised capers, first drawing the pan aside. Next press the yolks of throe hard-boiled eggs through a coarse sieve, and stir the sauce to them, in a large bowl, very gradually; add the minced poultry and the cooked ham; the latter should be passed through a mincing machine. Stir, and if not flavoured sufficiently, a few drops of anchovy essence may be mixed in. Chop the whites of the eggs rather coarsely; then set the bowl over boiling water; put a plate over, and let the contents get hot; pour into a deep, well-heated dish, and shake the chopped whites over in little pieces, after moistening them with hot cream. Put parsley here and there, and garnish the base of the dish with chopped pickles or cut lemons, or with tiny balls made of stuffing or sausage meat; or in any other way according to fancy. Little egg balls or sausages have a pretty effect, and are very suitable. Poultry, Ragout of (American). —Required: poultry, gravy, jelly, thickening, &c.,asbelow. Cost, variable. This is a nice dish for breakfast; it also makes very tasty little patties, &c. Take any of the meat, brown or white, from poultry of any sort, that has been roasted or baked; cut it in nice even dice, or strips. For each pound, allow from two to three gills of brown gravy, or stock from poultry bones; put it in a saucepan, and make it thick with browned flour, about an ounce; stir in a little pun- gent store sauce, and salt to taste, and a good tablespoonful of cranberry jelly; or currant, tomato, or other sort does equally well. If liked, put in a spoonful of wine, but it is very good without it. Stir the meat in, and leave covered for a short time, then serve hot, with bits of toast stuck round the dish, and slices of grilled tomato in between them, if their flavour be approved. The foregoing may be scalloped. First grease a deep dish, and cover with cracker-crumbs that havo been moistened with milk or gravy to form a paste; add the mince (the gravy should be made thick enough to bind it), and then put more crumbs on the top ; these should bo soaked like tho lower layer, but are preferably mixed with a beaten egg. Put a few bits of butter over, and bake brown in a sharp oven. Any plain biscuits will serve for the crumbs. Veal is excellent as above ; so is a mixture of ham, with veal or poultry. Prairie Hen,—Prairie hens are sent from America, and may be treated like a fowl, or as a pheasant. The insides must be washed, and a rinse with soda or potash is a good sweetener. (See Poultry, to Sweeten.) If pre- pared like a fowl, the usual adjuncts are required; if like a pheasant, a brown sauce, with a little claret, and enough orange or lemon juice to suit tho palate, is one of the best. The bird is improved by larding; it wants well basting, and will take an hour or more, according to size. Cost, very uncertain. Ptarmigan.—This is found in cold, bleak situations, and is keenly sought by many sportsmen. Its flesh has a peculiar flavour, much relished by some, and disliked by others. It should be hung as long as possible. Ptarmigan is nearly the same size as red grouse. Roast, and serve the sumo as grouse; baste liberally, and send to table hot. Cost, uncertain; from Is. to Is. 6d. is the average when plentiful. Quails.—These little birds aro great favourites with many people. They form the foundation of many rich dishes, but simply roasted are an