VENISON’, 353 raw mutton fat, and lay a few more in place of the blade-bone. Roll it very tightly, and tie with tape ; wrap it in a cloth, and tie the ends like a pud- ding. Cook it in stock, made from the bones, until done, then untie it, coat with glaze, and serve with a pint of gravy, thickened with brown roux, and flavoured with a small jar of currant jelly. Steaks, with Bacon.—This is an American dish. The steaks are partly cooked in a frying-pan in the usual way; a slice of bacon cut to the size, is then put on each side, and when the bacon is cooked and browned the steaks are served round a dish. In the centre a sauce is put, made like the English bread sauce, but with stock or gravy in place of milk; it receives a rather high flavouring of cayenne, mace, and cinnamon, and to each half- pint a heaping tablespoonful of any fruit jelly is added. Sometimes the jelly is omitted, and put in heaps on little plates, one to each guest. Cran- berry jelly is one of the chief favourites. Smoked venison is much liked in America; it is usually sold in canvas bags, like Westphalia hams, and keeps a long time, if for cutting into steaks for broiling, &c., it is soaked in water first. It is also boiled in the same way as ham, but is cooked in a shorter time. Venison, Breast of.—This is often made into a pasty or pudding {tee Recu-es). Or it can be stewed. It is sometimes roasted, but is con- sidered the least satisfactory joint for the purpose. In many little dishes from mutton, some breast of venison would be a considerable improve- ment; and in dishes of gamo the venison could increase the meat if the gatne ran short, in many instances without detriment to the dish. This' joint furnishes material for a first- rate dish of devilled meat, cither dry or wet. A broil made by stewing the breast in stock until nearly done, then scoring and seasoning it, and finishing it off before the fire, can be strongly recommended. A tureen of brown piquant sauce, and some grilled mushrooms put on the dish, are the only adjuncts necessary ; though the addition of jelly is a matter of taste. Cost, variable. Venison, Roast (a German recipe).—Hang the venison as long as possible ; wash and dry it, when ready to cook, and beat it well; pull off the skin, and lard the fleshy part all over with bacon cut two inches long, and a suitable width. Bake the meat if more convenient, but whether baked or roasted, baste often, using sour cream, or milk with two ounces of butter to each half-pint. Make a gravy in the pan by adding a little water to the bastings, and flavouring with salt, lemon juice, and grated rind, and a little black pepper. Spice is sometimes added. A shoulder is a good joint for the above treatment. Venison, Roast (a New York recipe).—Take any joint, according to taste and requirements, and cook it in its usual coat of paste and paper. Flour it well, mixing ground ginger and pepper with the flour, and let it be well frothed. Make a thick sauce by putting a pint of pure tomato pulp in a lined saucepan, with a teaspoonful of extract of meat, and half an ounce of chopped capers ; an ounce of black currant jelly should be put in a few minutes later, together with the same weight of brown roux. Season with salt, a pinch of white sugar and ginger, a dash of cayenno, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Send to table very hot, and pour a little plain gravy round the meat. This can be recom- mended.