SALTED MEATS. 377 curing of them is said not to pay. The hams of Cumberland and York fetch a high price, and are very delicious, so are the Wiltshire smoked. Irish hams may be had both plain and smoked; some of the best are quite equal to Wiltshire, but there are several qualities; the same may be said of Irish bacon. Cost, from 7d. to Is. 2d. per pound, according to kind and quality. Average, 9d. to lOd. Ham, Baked.—A baked ham is much more delicious than a boiled one, and will keep better. Put a ham into plenty of cold water for some hours. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours will be necessary; for an ordinary mild-cured ham, from eight to twelve hoursissufficient. Wash it in lukewarm water, trim it neatly, and cut away all the rusty smoked parts. Cover it with a coarse paste made of flour and water, and take care to leave no loophole through which the gravy can escape. Bake in a moderate oven, liemove the paste and skin while the ham is still hot, cover it with raspings, and brown it before the fire. Time, according to the size. A ham of ten pounds will take about twenty - five to thirty minutes per pound if thick, while a heavier ham, if thin, might be done in the same time, or even less. The shape, as well as the weight, must be taken into consideration, and the age and quality play no small part in the matter. [See Ham, Boiled.) Ham, Baked (German recipe).— After removing all discoloured parts of a ham, strew over it a savoury powder, made by mixing a teaspoonful of ground cloves with the same measure of pepper, and a good tablespoonful of finely-powdered sage. A flour and water paste, of an inch in thickness, ii next put over it, and the ham baked in a moderate oven. The paste is re- moved while the ham is hot, and the ham finished off by glazing and gar- nishing. Note.—The skin is to be removed before baking. Ham, Boiled.—Soak the ham in several lots of water. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours or more will be required ; if not, from eight to twelve hours will suffice. Lukewarm water will soften it more quickly than cold. Scrub it well, and scrape off the rusty, discoloured parts, but do not cut the skin if it can be avoided. Put it into the kettle with plenty of cold water. If a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three carrots, and a bay-loaf are added, the flavour will be improved. Let it be brought to a boil very slowly, skim it carefully, and simmer veiy gently until sufficiently cooked. If it is not intended to be kept any length of time and still not to be cut until cold, it may be left in the water for an hour after it is done enough ; this will improve the taste of the ham, but it will render it less likely to keep. Lift it out by the knuckle to avoid sticking a fork into it. Take off the skin, strew over it some browned crumbs of bread, roll a frill of paper round the knuckle, and send it to table neatly garnished. If the ham is to be glazed, the bread- raspings must be omitted. Preserve the skin, and place it over the ham when it is put into the larder, as it will keep in the moisture. Time, for a new ham, about twenty-five minutes per pound. An old one may want more than thirty minutes. The thickness must be taken into account. Ham, Boiled (Various ways).— Wash and soak the ham, add to the last soaking water a gill of vinegar, and put in the water for boiling a half-pint of vinegar, and an equal measure of cider. This is an old recipe, said to be excellent. After the ham has been strewn with raspings, sot it in the oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Another uay.—Put in tho water for boiling a small quantity of ale; this is suited to highly-flavoured hams, for tho curing of which treaelo has been used. Another way.—Tho ham is to bo tied in a thin cloth, and put in a pan not