UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 400 back with, the meat, being loose. Next cut carefully from the breast-bone, round to the back. (See remarks under Tubkey, Boned.) The worst part is over when the back and ribs are done; as the boning proceeds, the meat should be rolled back, the knife being kept close to the bones : this, coupled with patience, is the socret. As the hind part is neared, care must be taken that the knife does not slip into the entrails. When the part is reached where the legs join the back, they must be detached at the joints, and this needs care. When both thigh-bones have been separated from the trunk, by still working on, the entire skeleton, minus its legs and wings, will come clean out, and can be removed altogether from what looks very much like a shapeless mass of meat; and the first thought will probably be that it will never again be got into shape. The next thing is to get rid of the en- trails; wash and dry the fowl; wash the liver and gizzard, and put the rib-bones and back-bones by for stock; add to them the rest after the wing-bones and leg-bones have been taken out. Remember to leave the little wing-bone, and the outer drum- stick-bone ; it helps to give the bird its old shape later on. In boning the legs, simply work the knife round the thigh-bones, until the joint is reached where the leg-bone or drumstick begins ; cut through this, and go half way down the drumstick-bone; leave a portion, as above directed, and remove the rest. Now turn the meat back into its old shape, or rather right side out; the old shape must be given by the aid of forcemeat. The first thing is to stuff the hollows made by the removal of the wings and legs. The latter may be made even plumper than they were, if well filled and gentle pressure be used to make them hold as much as possible. Supposing this is to bo filled with forcemeat only, it is not so easy to get it a good shape as it is a turkey that has been filled with a large tongue in addition; and just as that helps the turkey, so will a good-sized calf’s tongue help the fowl. Some will make a better shape of it than others ; the thing is to put as much forcemeat in as it will hold, and to work it with the fingers until it looks shapely. It must now be laid in a buttered cloth, and well tied in all directions to preserve the shape. It should go on in warm stock, and cook gently for two hours or more, then be loft to cool, when it is to be untied, and put on the dish ready for finishing off. Press it firmly on the dish, and wipe it over with a cloth dipped in hot water, then set by to get thoroughly cold, which will take some hours : if possible, leave it all night. In any case it must be what is known as “ stone cold ” before the garnishing is attempted. For the decoration of a boned, stuffed fowl, see Galantine if it is to be served cold. It may be cooked and served hot, in any of the usual ways. Fowl, Boned.—A farmhouse re- cipe :—This is a novel method, or will be to many, of boning a fowl. Sup- posing an old fowl, which would not be tender if introduced at table in any well known form, first put it in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and a little bag, containing some herbs, spices, and slices of fresh vegetables. Put the lid on, and let it simmer from two to four hours until the bones will all come out; take the skin off, put it back in the pan with all the bones, and go on boiling for an hour or two more. Chop up the meat, mix some salt and pepper with it, and a little nutmeg and powdered herbs. Then moisten with some of the strained and well-reduced stock, and press into a tin : when cold it will turn out like brawn, and may be served in the same way. The bones may be again covered with water, and the boiling kept up for several hours; the resulting liquor will make good soup, or may be used for other dishes. In case a cold dish is not required.