GAME AND POULTRY. (See also Soups, Entries, Pies, Puddings, Pastry, Souffles, Small Savouries, Salads, and Sandwiches. See also the Index for the various Adjuncts, Garnishes, Purees, Sauces, &c. &c.) GENERAL REMARKS. Game.—In its broad sense, the term ‘‘game” includes all wild animals that are hunted by sportsmen, and protected by law, while by “ poultry ” is meant the domestic birds, of which the turkey, fowl, gooso and duck are familiar types. Then there are the birds that from their migratory habits belong strictly speaking to neither of the above classes ; for although wild, they are no one’s property, and not protected by law, and therefore are not game. These, and the various small birds, form a sort of connect- ing link between game and poultry, and for our purpose it is not necessary to draw any line between them, as we are dealing with all such in relation to the cuisine. They follow, therefore, in alphabetical order, to facilitate reference; and later on, under Food in Season, we give the list, with the proper season for each bird and animal. Game is on the whole, digestible, and the primest morsels aro those in which the muscles have had least to do—for instance, in a snipe or wood- cock the legs are more juicy than the wings, and naturally so, when one remembers the length of time a snipe will keep “ on the wing ”; a proof in itself of the strength of that part of its body. To attain perfection of flavour, game must hang; the actual length of time (as is pointed out under various headings in the recipes that follow) must depend upon a number of circumstances ; and there is difference of opinion amongst recognised authorities. One says, A pheasant more than any game wants hanging—this is, perhaps, admitted universally—it will keep twenty days in a good airy larder, if the weather be cold and dry. Another says, Hang your pheasant ten days, if the weather holds favour- able, but that is about the limit. For ourselves, we would say that it. is chiefly damp that assists putrefaction, and so long as the weather be dry, and a current of air can be secured, there is no precise limit; but a watch- ful eye is needed, and the tastes of those who will eat the birds must be ascertained. One will liko it so soon as the first signs of decay are apparent; another will wait until the tail feathers can be readily detached, or detach themselves. The right way of hanging is of no small importance, for if birds bo bundled together, the air is excluded, and premature decomposition sets in. For this reason an improved hook, such as is shown in the engraving, is very useful. The single hook takes two, and the double hook four birds. Birds that are not much mangled by shot will keep the best. Black pepper