Universal cookery book. >50 gether. Any of the fancy-shaped icaroni, such at “ celery cut,” and jo some of the varieties of the me paste, shaped as described under omf.-made Macaroni, serve the same irposc. Macaroni, Brown.—This pre- ration of macaroni may he very ain or rich as required. To serve ith a joint or family stew, take as uch macaroni as is wanted, pa water, then drain it and poi as much boiling stock as wil Nos. 1 or 2 answer for this e macaroni cook gently unt' lly swollen hut not broken; th to ho absorbed. Then serv in a vegetable dish, or sprin rface with raspings. For a bettor dish, suitable for sA. ith braised beef or a dish of ’ a steak, proceed as above, 1-j. ack No. 4. For serving with ill do. For very superior dishes, gi-j acaroni only a few minutes’ c - the water, and drain i oroughly; it is better to let - rfore putting the stock to it; -■ 17 should be used, or if a le has to be substituted, make “ J C+ CO C+ other adjuncts. So much attention is now given to dishes that will replace the joint, and to the dainty service of vegetables, that those who may make trial of any such combinations as are here suggested will have the satisfaction of knowing that they are following the tide of fashion, fur" chness by the addition of glat :tract of meat. Macaroni cooked as describi' rnish a most welcome char rving with animal food in the vegetables, or with a suitable a separate course. A re:y the chapters on Vegetable- ain and “dressed,” will also ah*1 7 judicious combination man; shes of macaroni and vegir ■e possible. We use the tei’ oious, mainly with regard to haj flavour. Such dishes as ce - lions braised in brown stocl ■ ■ braisod mushrooms, or purees into hich brown gravy or sauce had itored, would bo very satisfactory: lief from an all-prevailing brownness iuld be given by some bright garnish, i tomatoes, eggs, spinach balls, and o x oi CD CD vO • P v» O 3 • CD C/3 CD X M H- X 3 (D H* (D P V# .—i rx 3 rj) .—i CD CD CD 3 x • CD P 03 o t X o tPd O 10 • P , 3 u, vjurtJat: «mu ia i for table may bo used. It is more digestible without the top layer of grated cheese, and raspings can take its place. For a more nourishing dish.