PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 031 distinct from peppermint and hairy- mint. Morel.—This has been described as a mushroom abounding in little holes: it differs much in its appearance from the common mushroom. It is far commoner in the south and middle of Europe than here. It is said to bo less difficult to digest than other fungi, but its main uses are to flavour gravies and sauces; it also makes very good ketchup. It may be prepared in the ways given for Mushrooms, but it has a more delicate flavour, and must not be overpowered with seasoning. Morels may be obtained of Italian warehousemen; they are sold both in the fresh and dried state. Cost, uncertain. Mushroom. — “ When eaten,” says Dr. Lankester, “ this ” (referring to the common mushroom) “ should be fresh gathered, as, after keeping, it acquires properties that render it liable to disagree; ” and in its very best and freshest condition, the mush- room sometimes gives rise to consider- able suffering, and many persons have to avoid it altogether. Those who can digest mushrooms regard them as a great delicacy ; they may be cooked in various ways, and give zest to hosts of dishes. Unfortunately, poisonous fungi are often mistaken for the mushroom, and this has caused both illness and death. On the Continent persons are specially appointed to examine all fungi sent to market— a very wise precaution. Various tests are given for the guidance of the novice: but as many of them can only Ire applied during the cooking (such as stirring with a silver spoon to see if it blackens), they are of little practical value to the purchaser; though we think it seldom that any but the real thing is to be bought in our shops and markets. One test is applicable, by way of judging mushrooms from toadstools; the latter have a putrid sort of smell; whereas the former have a pleasant odour; and when small will be pink on the under side, or rather pinkish brown, while the stalk and head will bo white. As they grow, and the “ buttons ” expand into “ cup ” or “flap” mush- rooms, the pink side gets darker, quite brown, in fact; but the dense black colour of some mushrooms, exposed for sale in back streets in this country, is the result of putrefaction to some ex- tent, and such should not be eaten. Cost, from Gd. to Is. per pound when in full season; they are expensive early in the year. In addition to the recipes in this and the next chapter, others are given in Pastry, Savouries, &c.; see Index. Never be content with wiping, but always wash mushrooms ; buttons should be rinsed in lemon juice and water. Mushrooms, Baked.— For this mode of cooking the flaps are best. It is a good way, because the whole of the juice is preserved. Wash and peel the mushrooms. Put them, without the stems, into a baking-dish, season with pepper, salt, and a very little pounded mace, if liked. Small bits of butter laid over the top will, with the juice that flows from them, be the onty sauce required. They should be served on a hot dish, with a small piece of butter on each, and a few drops of lemon juice squeezed over. Time, twenty minutes; longer if large. Mushrooms, Fried. — Small mushrooms are best for frying, but largo ones are often cooked thus. Peel and wash them, and dry them well. Cook them in a frying-pan with a little butter, turning them about well; when done, serve with the liquor from the pan poured over, first seasoning it with salt and pepper, and a little lemon juice ; or the liquor may be poured over a slice of fried or toasted bread, and the mushrooms piled on the lop. Mushrooms are often fried in bacon fat, after the bacon is taken from the pan. Mushrooms, Grilled. — Peel and prepare them a short tiino beforo- ! hand; let them be even in size, then