UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 364 Sucking Pig, to Scald.—A sucking-pig is generally sent from the butcher’s ready for the spit, but for the benefit of those who find it neces- sary to prepare it themselves, the fol- lowing directions are given :—Put the pig into cold water directly after it is killed, and let it remain for five minutes, then take it up, and hold it by the head in a large pan of boiling water for two minutes. Lay it on a table, and rub the hairs off with a coarse cloth. If they do not come off easily, put the pig in the water another minute. When quite clean, make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails, leaving the kidneys untouched. Cut off the feet at the first joint, and leave a small portion of skin to fold neatly over the end. Clean the nostrils and cars thoroughly, wash the pig in two or three waters, and dry it inside and out, with a cloth, then wrap it in a damp cloth until it can be cooked. The feet, the heart, and the liver of a sucking-pig arc generally served separately. Sucking Pig, to Carve.—A sucking-pig is usually sent to table in two halves, back to back on tho dish; a part of the head, and one oar, being placed at each end. The carver se- parates the shoulder, then tho leg, from each half. These joints are cut in the ordinary way, and tho ribs are cut straight down. As in carving generallj', the various tastes of those present should be ascertained; for while the pig is altogether very deli- cious, most people have a decided preference for some particular part of it. Tho shoulders are often left un- touched. They are excellent when re-heated by grilling or broiling. They may be whole, or cut up. In either case, season them, dip into melted butter, then into fine crumbs. If whole, see that it is heated through without becoming too brown ; frequent turning, and a sprinkling of butter now and then are necessary. 8erve any sharp sauce with this dish. Tomato sauce is nice, and grilled tomatoes are excellent, with a nice seasoning of French mustard, &c. (Sec Fork, with Grilled Tomatoes.) Sucking Pig, Baked.—With regard to roasting this animal, most culinary authorities agree that it re- quires almost constant attention ; the time and trouble are by no means in- considerable to say the least, and we suggest the following method of bak- ing, as almost equal in its results, and well calculated to economise fuel and time. Prepare the pig just as for roasting, and wrap it entirely in a few folds of kitchen paper, thoroughly soaked in butter, or pure salad oil. Moderate tho heat after a short time, and baste as often as possible—i.e. do not let the papers get dry. Before dishing, take off tho papers, and let the pig crisp and dry before the fire. Some cream may be rubbed over ten minutes before dishing; buttermilk can be used instead ; or the white of an egg. If the latter, mind it does not scorch. Sucking Pig, Baked (a German recipe).—In preparing the pig for the spit, the heart, lights, and liver are minced; the latter raw, the former par- boiled. They are then mixed with bread-crumbs, eggs, and butter, salt and pepper, and various herbs and spices; sage, with basil, and thyme ; nutmeg, with cinnamon or allspice ; then a few mild onions are cooked in butter, and added. The pig is filled and sewn up, and put on a meat-stand in a baking- tin, the legs bent under the breast. A gravy made in the pan is served with it. If baked without stuffing, the inside is sometimes seasoned with marjoram and carraway seeds, with a good pro- portion of pepper. We think that the ground spice is nicer, and will be more likely to be acceptable than the whole carraway seeds. Sucking Pig’s Pettitoes. This is tho namo given to the feet. They should be well cleaned, and put into veal stock to cover, with the