SALTKD MEATS. 367 as is used for good brawn. Set it by until cold, it will then turn out perfect in shape; then coat it with rich glaze, or with some strong aspic jelly, coloured a rich brown; then make some eyes by cutting out oval pieces from boiled white of egg, and cut a hole in the centre the size of a three- penny piece; fill the hole with aspic, and when setting, put a bit of truffle in the middle : failing truffle, use skin of pickled walnut. Put these in posi- tion on each side; then make tusks from Brazil nuts; crack them and boil them, rub the brown skin off, and stick them in an upright position near the mouth. The dish can be orna- mented with aspic jelly in blocks, and chopped jelly can be put about the head. A nicely-folded napkin should be put at the back of the head, and plenty of parsley, lemons, and fancy shapes of truffles, beetroot, &c., used. Or the head, at the neck, may bo decorated by “ piping ” with lard ; some white, some coloured; and devices of various kinds may be made about the head from hard-boiled eggs, jelly, beetroot, &c. The lard, too, may be “ piped ” on to form a flower, or leaves. In fact, there is free scope for ingenuity in giving the final touches to the dish. If it is not convenient to make brawn at home, some may be bought. The best brands of English tinned brawn are very good. The mould may be hired, and a dish almost equal to a Boar’s Head proper may be had at a comparatively small cost. Boar’s Heads with Truffles range from about 18s. to £2 or £3 each. Boar’s Heads with Pistachios are rather cheaper. To the ingredients mentioned in the foregoing recipe, either pistachios or truffles may be added. (See also Forcemeats and Sausages.) SALTED MEATS. GENERAL DIRECTIONS POE CUEING AND PICKLING. Although directions are given for salting various joints under their respective headings, and a list of pickles suitable for meats of all sorts is also inserted, nevertheless it may be useful to give in a concise form, general hints for the process. Meat for salting should be fresh. A piece should not be bought or ordered haphazard from the butcher, unless it is ascertained how long it has been killed; for while quite fresh, the kernels, sinews aud pipes should be taken away, and any blood and moisture removed. Not a trace of anything likely to favour decomposition must remain. Then, if the weather be favourable, the meat may be hung for a day or two, but it must not get the least dry or tainted. In warm weather it must not hang; but really hot, and very cold, frosty weather, are aliko unfavourable for salting meat. The great art of salting consists in rubbing the brine equally and thoroughly into every part of the meat; between the muscles, under the flaps, into any holes made by the butcher’s skowers, or from which kernels were taken; indeed, holes should bo filled up with salt. The meat must be examined often, and should mouldiness appear, that part must be cut off, and fresh salt applied. Meat which is slimy, or has much blood about it, should be rubbed with dry, warm salt, and left to drain well boforo it is put into the brine, or before the dry salt, Ac., which form the pickle, aro put on it. Many