288 universal Cookery Sook. To attempt to bone with a table knife is useless. The knife must be kept close to the bone, the point being used carefully round corners and in hollow parts to avoid cutting the meat. Patience and care and a few experiments will bring about the desired results; and one practical lesson, if obtained only by watching the butcher at a distance, will be a great lielp. Don’t leave the bones lying about; they rapidly deteriorate. Put them on at once with any other odds and ends, and so make the most of the entire joint. EXTRACT OF MEAT. It is doubtful if there is any more useful invention in connection with the table than the substance which bears this name. First introduced as invalid food, its use is now fully recognised in the kitchen, where it conies in handy for all sorts of purposes. With the few writers who assert that it is better than fresh meat, we do not agree ; but for saving time, when circumstances do not permit of due attention to stock of the ordinary sort, or when a sauce or gravy is hardly as good in colour or flavour as it should be, or for the hundred and one dishes that may be wanted on the spur of the moment, then it proves a real boon. It is worthy of note that many persons who are prejudiced against every other sort of preserved food, have no objection to the use of extract of moat. Some, however, while owning its utility, dislike what they term the “ burnt taste.” This is often the result of using it in excess, a common error in dealing with concentrated foods of all sorts; the fact should be grasped that one pound represents many pounds of meat in the fresh state. The large jars are much cheaper in proportion than the small ones; and where it is used regularly they should be bought, as it will keep well in a cool place. This is not the place to argue the question as to whether extract of meat is a food proper or only a stimulant; further remarks are made on this point in a later chapter; we aro here referring to its usefulness as a food adjunct, and of that there is no doubt. When glaze is not handy, a good substitute is made from extract of meat with a little gelatine and water. (See Glaze.) The extract is also a very valuable addition to the traveller’s store, since it occupies but little space ; with hot water a basin of soup is ready in a moment; or a satisfy- ing snack is made by spreading it on bread and butter. In many small savouries throughout this work, for which a spoonful of brown sauce, thick gravy, or stock is recommended as an ingredient, should neither bo handy, by mixing a morsel of the extract with water, and thickening with flour or roux, the deficiency is supplied.