UNIVERSAL CbOKE-RY BOOK. 278 both on tho top and round tho dish, instead of cherries; chop the fruit for the top decoration, and leave the rest in the usual sectional divisions. Escalopes of Pigeon in Cases.—Prepare as many birds as are required, by boning them and filling them with rich forcemeat (any suitable). They may then be braised or roasted and loft to cool, when they should be cut in slices the third of an inch thick. Have ready some paper cases, and put in each some nice salad, one of artichoke bottoms is suitable. Lay a slice of pigeon on each, and mask it with mayonnaise or chopped aspic. If the cases are square, put a slice of egg (plover's are most suitable) at each comer. Cost, variable. Escalopes of Pigeon, with Truffles. — Prepare the cases as above; mask the slices with good chnudfroid, pale pink or green ; sprinkle with chopped truffle, and cover with pale aspic. Hound the escalopes, in the cases, put a border of chopped aspic, with little rings or other devices of truffles, and small pieces of foie gras ; tho latter should be put in the centre of some little rings cut from hard-boiled white of egg. Cost, variable. Another way.—After the escalopes are cut from birds that have been boned, but not stuffed, spread them with foie gras, then mask this with brown cliaudfroid; when set, sprinkle pink aside, chopped into pea- sized pieces, all over it. Put into the cases, and garnish the edges with aspic cream, cut in fancy shapes, with here and there a shred of truffle, and a sprig of cress or chervil. Fillets of Beef in Jelly.— Required: beef, sauce, aspic, cherries, and salad. Cost, according to garnish. Braise or grill some small fillets of beef (see preceding chapters); leave them until cold, then coat them with brown sauce, mixed with strong aspic, suf- ficient to set it; or use, instead, brown stock No. 16, mixed with dissolved gelatine, about half an ounce to three gills of stock. When firm, cover the fillets with chopped pale aspic in the centre; then lay some glace cherries round the edge; they should be halved. Place the fillets in a row, overlapping, down the centre of a dish, and down each side put some nice green salad— flageolets, cucumbers, haricots, verts, &c.—and garnish with more cherries. (See Cheeky Salad.) Fillets of Mutton in Jelly. —Prepare the fillets as above; they should be in ovals, cut from the leg or loin. Mix some chopped mint in the aspic used for them, and garnish with an iced cucumber purfie. Put cheirics about the dish, and on tho meat, as above directed. Cost, variable. Fillets of Mutton with Foie Gras.—When tho cooked fillets are cold, cut them round the edge, and put in some sieved foio gras, press them together, and coat them with brown chnudfroid; then, when set, with yellow aspic. Before the jelly sots, coat it with chopped cherries and truffles. Glace cherries are best for the purpose. Dish as above, and garnish the sides with Sauce Vehte. Cost, about 3s. to 4s., for a dish of nine. Fowl a la Parmesan in Aspic.—Required: three ounces each of cooked ham and fowl, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. ,6d. to 3s. Pound and sieve the fowl and ham ; stir the cheese into a gill of creamy bdchamel while hot; when cool, mix it with the meat, thon add a gill of aspic mayonnaise, and stir until it begins to set. Have ready a plain mould lined with pink aspic, and garnished at tho bottom and sides with sprigs of chervil, cooked tongue, and ham in littlerounds, chopped capers or gherkins, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Set the garnish with more jelly, fill up with the cheese mixture, and pour jelly over the top. Set in an ice cave for an hour or more, thon turn out and garnish with the