455 GAME AND POULTRY. the last layer of rabbit, and all tho remaining pieces of onion ai-o placed on the top. The cover is then put on, and the vholo stewed at a moderate heat for throe hours. A slack oven, a hot plate, or a water bath answers admirably. Almost needless to say, that, as no water is added, the jar must not be subject to fierce, dry heat, whether on a stove or in an oven. When turned out, if nicely cooked, it will be found a tender, succulent, gravy-teeming dish; differing from the dry, stringy, and insipid dishes of rabbit often served. English onions answer very well, if scalded; and if a slightly thickened gravy is preferred, a dessertspoonful of flour may be added to the seasoning which is rubbed over the rabbit. A dish similar to this, and liked better sometimes, is made by adding to the rabbit, twenty minutes or so before removing it from the jar, about half a pint of White Sauce made with milk. The liquid from the rabbit is added to it gradually, and the whole boiled up; and those who favour cheese dishes will appreciate a rabbit to which half a pint of Cheese Sauce is added in the same way. Another change may be effected by using some celery in place of half the onions. Rabbit, Stewed, Brown — Required: a rabbit, an onion, a few celery stalks, stock, thickening and • seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. This is a plain dish. Wash and dry and cut up the rabbit, dividing the legs if large, then brown the joints in a little hot fat; this makes the dish more savoury, though it may be dispensed with. Add any plain stock, such as No. 1 or 2, or the liquor from boiled meat, and the vegetables cut up; a little carrot may be used, and the onion can be fried if approved. A bunch of herbs, and some peppercorns with a clove or two should be added. Cook very slowly for an hour to two hours, according to the age and size of the rabbit. Thicken with browned flour, and add a little colouring, or if additional flavour be imparted by means of store sauco or ketchup, the colouring will not be required. A little lemon juice or vinegar, either of the flavoured kinds, adds to the flavour and increases the tenderness. There should be a good supply of gravy, and tho vegetables may be served or removed with the herbs and spices. A little bacon or pickled pork may be cooked separately and served on another dish, or a few slices of ham or bacon may be fried and put round the rabbit. Remember to remove the neck, &c., before the other joints ; or put the thin joints in after the others. If all go in together they will not be evenly cooked. Various adjuncts may be used ; mush- rooms are an excellent addition, so are tomatoes, and either may be cooked with the rabbit or separately and used as garnish. Savoury preparations of rice, &c., may be put round the rabbit, and sausages are often served. For richer stews the recipes under Hake should be followed, and many hints may be gathered by reference to stews of poultry and meats, both for plain and rich dishes. Rabbit, Stewed, a la Fran- 9aise.—Required: a nice young- rabbit, two ounces each of bacon, butter, and lean ham ; a pint of stock, No. 1 or 2 (or for a better dish, No. 4), half a pound of small onions, a sprig each of thyme, parsley, marjoram, and a bay loaf; a glass of light wine, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar; roux and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. 4d. Wash, dry, and joint tho rabbit; put it in a stew-pan, with the onions in slices, the butter, first melted, the bacon in dice, and herbs, tied together. Cook until brown, turningand shaking now and again, then add tho ham in strips, tho stock, wine, vinegar, and somo white peppercorns and a clove or two; no salt until it is nearly done. Cover, and leave for an hour and a quarter to two hours; the age of tho rabbit affects the length of time re- quired ; stir a time or two, and when