UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 638 tako up the opposite corners, and pass the parsley backwards and forwards; or gather up the folds to form a looso hag, and swing it about. If a basket be used, it must he shaken well; a cloth is also wanted for the final draining. Tho fat must be in readi- ness, and very hot; the parsley should crisp at once, hut not turn brown, therefore it must not be left a second after it is crisp. Drain it before the fire on a sheet of kitchen paper. Nice clean fat should be used, not that which has been long in use. Parsley Sauce.—See Sauces. Parsley, to Wash and Chop. —Parsley is often very gritty; it should be put first of all into plenty of tepid water and stirred about with tho hand; the sprigs should be small, and freed from their stalks. Then wash it in cold water, several times renewed, or leave the parsley in a sieve or colander under a running tap; the washing, which needs to be very thorough, is often exceedingly im- perfect. When the water runs off clean, squeeze the parsley in the comer of a clean cloth (twisting in contrary directions, like clothes are wrung), then chop it finely. The drier it is wrung the better it will chop ; and by using a sharp knife, and keeping the parsley concentrated in a little pile, instead of spreading it all over the board, the operation is soon per- formed. Parsnip.—This is a native of Britain. It contains a good deal of sugar and woody fibre, and by many is disliked on account of its peculiar sweetness and texture. It is a very frequent accompaniment to salt fish or salt beef. The common parsnip is a cultivated variety of the wild parsnip. The roots are used for making a fermented liquor in some parts of Ireland, and parsnip wine is a favourite almost everywhere. Parsnips resemble carrots, and may be cooked in the same ways, but they take less time; they are used in the winter for the most part, and are improved by frost. Cost, about the same as carrots. In many recipes throughout this work, parsnips may be added to tho other ingredients, when it is known that they are not disliked; but they should always be very sparingly used, unless they are really liked, as many persons would reject any dish into which they entered. Tho stringy portion should always be taken from the thin end, however parsnips are to be dressed. In the following recipe for boiled parsnips, we have given the usual method; but when very old, they are better cooked by reducing the temperatur e of the water at starting; it may he warm or tepid only. Parsnips, Boiled.—Wash and peel the parsnips if old; if young, scrape them only, and remove the peel with a cloth when done. Take off a little slice from the root end, and cut them through twice, if large; once, if small. Boil them precisely as directed for Carrots until tender enough for a skewer to pierce them easily. After- draining, serve them as soon as pos- sible. The water must be skimmed well, and all blemishes carefully re- moved from the parsnips; these pre- cautions will make a difference to both flavour and appearance. Time varies considerably; young ones may be done in half an hour; old ones may take an hour and a half. Some prefer to cut the parsnips in two, and boil the thin end as it is, and cut the root end into halves or quarters; this facilitates the cooking. Thoso who aro partial to the flavour, may use the water, with other vegetable stock, for soups or other dishes; if mixed with tho water from rice, macaroni, haricots, &c., it is freed from its sweetness, and made palatable. Parsnips, Browned. — These will be relished by some who do not like boiled parsnips. After cooking as above until almost done, they should be drained and dried, then floured, and seasoned with salt and pepper, and