613 PLAIN' VEGETABLE COOKERV. added; or a small proportion of any green vegetable. A couple of raw eggs should be mixed in, and the beans pressed into a plain mould or basin, and baked until they will turn out. Send to table with meat, or as a maigre dish. Then it looks nice ornamented a little; some sieved hard-boiled egg yolk is suitable; the white may be cut into rings and put round the base ; or some fried bread-crumbs, or plain raspings, may be used. Sometimes bread-crumbs are mixed in to give more consistence. Beans, French, Puree of.— Old beans are best boiled and made into a puree by sieving; they want only a little butter or oil, and a slight seasoning, with a minute's re-heating, to make a good plain dish; chopped parsley improves them, so does lemon j uice. Or if to serve with meat, after sieving, a spoonful or two of sauce or gravy may be used to moisten the puree; the flavour is excellent. To a puree of this sort some other vege- table is sometimes added—lettuce or young cabbage,’for instance. Serve in a pile, and very hot. A flavouring of tarragon is a very pleasant one. Beans, Lima.—These beans are American favourites, and may be bought in England in tins, at about the same price as canned com and succotash. By mixing Lima beans with canned com, a very good substi- tute for succotash is obtained; the exact proportions can be regulated by taste, but generally more com than beans is liked. When these beans are to be served alone, follow the direc- tions on the tins. Another nice dish is obtained from a tin of Lima beans, mixed with some boiled French or kidney beans when in season. They are also nice for salads, if drained and dried; the liquor and any broken ones being used in soups and stews. Try a dinner of a tin of Lima beans with some fried ham and eggs, and a gener- ous supply of Parsley Sauce ; or by way of a change with Celery Sauce ; or leave out the eggs, and serve ham, bacon, or pickled pork with the beans, and a tureen of Melted Butter, with a dash of mustard, and a spoonful of lemon juice. Other changes can be rung upon these homely but excellent commodities. Beetroot.—The red garden-beet, which has long been grown in England, is a very popular vegetable, and valued on account of its beautiful colour; it is much used as garnish to various dishes, and is one of the nicest and most wholesome of all the pickles, being one of the few vegetables cooked before pickling. The garden-beet is rich in sugar. Beetroot is sometimes baked, but unless most carefully done it is spoiled in appearance ; the colour suffers, and if the heat is too great, it becomes shrivelled. Cost, about 2d. to 4d. per root on an average. (Sec Garnishes, Pickles, Salads, &c., for other recipes.) Beetroot, Boiled.—Free it from mould, but do not attempt to cut it before boiling, or, to use the term usually applied, it will “ bleed ” in the water, and lose its colour; henco it must be most carefully washed, that the skin may remain unbroken. Put it in boiling water, and cook it steadily, from an hour to three hours, accord- ing to size : two hours will cook a medium sized one. Take up care- fully ; a good deal of the peel can be removed by rubbing it; only cut where necessary. If to be served hot, plunge it in cold water for a moment before peeling; if for a salad, let it get cold. Small beet may go to table whole, with Melted Butter or White Sauce poured over; larger beet is better sliced, or cut lengthwise into quarters. The thin ends can bo cut off, and placed round the sliced thick part, if several are served together; small heaps of green vegetable in between will make a more inviting dish. Borage. — A writer says that “Borage has the credit of being a great cordial, but its virtues are best obtained by a cold infusion; therefore