GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 99 Oyster Sauce, Rich.—Alter simmering the beards of the oysters, with other ingredients as in the above recipe, strain the liquor, and add an equal measure of boiling cream and half the measure of thick bechamel; stir in a teaspoonful of white roux, and put in lemon-juice and a few drops of anchovy essence. Cut up the oysters (if very small, use a dozen and a half, and divide them once only), steam them as above, add to the sauce, cover for a few seconds, then serve. Another way. —Mix the strained oyster liquor with an equal measure of thick Bechamel, and finish off as above directed. This is suitable for serving with turkey or other meat, and the yolk of a raw egg is sometimes added ; no other thickening is needed. Parsley Sauce. — Required: parsley and Melted Butter, colouring, and salt. Pick the parsley from the stalks, wash it in tepid water, then in cold water several times renewed; squeeze it dry in the corner of a clean cloth, put it on a board, and chop it finely with a sharp knife; add a heaping tablespoonful to half a pint of melted butter, stir for a minute or two, but do not boil again. Some object to the flavour of the parsley when added raw, in which case scald it, by putting it in a bit of muslin (after picking and washing), and holding it for a second or two in fast boiling water with a pinch of salt in; then dip it in cold water, wring dry, and chop as above directed. Parsley Sauce, Rich.—Scald • the parsley as above; after chopping, rub it through a hair sieve, and add a tablespoonful to half a pint of rich Melted Butter, Bechamel, or othor . good white sauce ; colour a palo green with spinach-juice or parsley-juice, or U3e the vegetable green colouring. (See page 83.) Parsley Sauce, with Chives. —Add to a pint of parsley sauce a ! tablespoonful of chopped chives or young onions, first boiled until tender Serve with boiled meat. Perigueux Sauce.—Required: a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 2), enough truffles, minced finely, to fill a quarter pint measure, a gill of good sherry or Madeira, and a dust of cayenne; herbs, &c., as below. Put the browm sauce in a pan ; boil in it for a few minutes the following ingredients tied in muslin: a morsel of garlic the size of a pea, a bit of bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, and lemon- peel, and a minced shalot; then take out the herbs, squeezing them well; add the wine and truffles, boil for five or six minutes, then serve. Some authorities recommend the addition of a bit of butter just before serving, to “ soften the flavour.” When fresh truffles are used, they must be scrubbed well and peeled, and cooked for a longer time in the sauce; and a teaspoonful of lean ham, grated, is sometimes added. (See Truffles, in Vegetables.) Poivrade Sauce.—Mince some carrot, onion, turnip, celery, and parsley, a good tablespoonful in all; crush half-a-dozen peppercorns ; add a bit of lean ham, and brown them in hot butter; then put in half a gill of French vinegar, and the same of white wine ; reduce a fourth, then stir in half a pint of Brown Sauce and a lump of sugar, with a teaspoonful or more of mush- room ketchup. Boil slowly, and skim for a quarter of an hour, then strain for use. Claret is sometimes used for this, and lemon-juice instead of vinegar, or half of each. Cayenne is often added. Rice Sauce.—Put in a stew-pan an ounce of butter; pick and wash two ounces of the best Carolina rice ; add it and a pint of milk, with a pinch of salt, half a dozen allspice berries and white peppercorns, a bit of mace, and a slice or two of Spanish onion. Cook as gently as possible until tho rico can be readily sieved, tho onions and spices being first removed. Then return tho rice to tho pun, stir in a little more butter and half a gill of cream, with