105 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Sauce Verte.—{See Sauce Hek- bacb.)—Make the sauce in the same way, adding green colouring last thing; or make a puree of the herbs, the kinds being varied according to taste, and pass them through a sieve; then add them, with the colouring, to the sauce; any white sauce may be used as a basis, and in addition to the herbal flavour, there should be a pleasant acidity; any of the flavoured vinegars (see recipes) can be used for the purpose; lemon-juice and white wine are also employed. Serve with white meats which re- quire zest or piquancy. (See also Green Butter, in Garnishes). Sauce Volaille.— Required : a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, the same of lemon-juice, French vinegar, and white wine, a gill of white stock, from the bones of a fowl {see No. 9 for the method of making it), seasoning, cream, and herbs as under. Cost about 9d. Boil a pint of stock as above down to a gill; put the wine, vinegar, &c., in a stew-pan to reduce one-half; mix them with the stock, and boil up, then add a gill of hot cream (off the fire), previously boiled up with a teaspoonful of white roux. Put in a dash of cayenne, salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of parsley, tarragon, and chervil, blanched and chopped finely. Serve with chicken, veal, &c. Shrimp Sauce.—For a plain sauce, add a gill of picked shrimps to three gills of Melted Butter or plain White Sauce; season to taste, and put in a few drops of anchovy essence or shrimp essence, and a saltspoonful of lemon-juice, with a pinch of salt. Another way.—Boil the shells of the shrimps with any fish bones that are handy (see Stock No. 15) ; add a gill of good Melted Butter or creamy Bechamel to.thesame measure of stock, then put in the shrimps as above, with a little lemon-juice, cayenne, and anchovy essence; no salt is required. If melted butter is used, stir in a r>* tablespoonful of hot cream last thing, This is richer than the first recipe. Serve with white fish of any kind, (See recipes.) Another way. — Shrimp paste oi shrimps potted in butter may bo used, together with a few drops of colouring, and a little essence of shrimps or lobster. Prawn* Sauce, from tinned prawns, may he made by adding melted butter, &c., as in the first recipe above. Tammy, Use of.—(See page 83.) Tartare Sauce.—[A new Ameri- can recipe.]—Required: one table- spoonful of white wine vinegar, half the quantity of lemon-juice, a salt- spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, a pinch of grated lemon-peel, a feaspoon- ful each of Worcester sauce and mush- room ketchup, a quarter teaspoonful of French mustard, two ounces of butter, and half a glass of light wine. Put all the ingredients in a basin, and set it over boiling water until the contents are heated. Put the butter in another vessel, and make it hot in the same way ; remove the basins, and stir the butter by degrees to the other ingredients, incorporating them well; keep the basin in the water while mix- ing (as the sauce must not ho again heated), and as soon as ready, servo with mackerel, salmon, eels, &c., or with any fish except delicate white. After melting the butter, skim it, and pour it off gently from the sediment. Tomato and Chestnut Sauce. —Required: a gill each of white wine, white stock, from veal or chicken bones (see No. 9), chestnuts, sieved, and tomato pulp. Cost, about 9d. Pass ripe tomatoes through a hair sieve, and boil some chestnuts; peel and sieve them ; add the puree to the tomatoes, and mix the wine and stock in very gradually. Put the whole in a saucepan, and stir to the boil; add a teaspoonful of corn-flour mixed with milk, salt, and white pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of white sugar; boil for a minute or two, then add a little carmine colouring.