640 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. sealing. Peas thus preserved must be opened before being re-heated for table, for the purpose of removing the oil from them; they should then bo turned into a saucepan with the liquor from the bottle. Another way.—Proceed as directed above, until the peas are soft; then, instead of putting in water, take some of the bottles, and fill up all the rest, shaking them down as full as possible; put a good pinch of salt in each, and cover with bladder, or wax them as above; let them cool in the same way, and dry each bottle very thoroughly; then wrap in brown paper, or stack them upright in a box of bran or saw- dust. Another way. — This is an old method, and said to be a good one. Fill dry, wide-necked bottles with young, freshly-shelled peas; after shelling, they should be rubbed with a dry cloth ; let them be as close as possible; the bottles should be shaken several times. Add nothing to them ; just tin down with bladder, then bury them in a dry part of the garden until required. Cook them just as fresh peas, in any way required, but allow extra time, and add butter. We have seen this plan recommended for peas that have been dried in the sun, or in a cool oven, and think that thus treated, they would be the more likely to keep. Peas, Green, Boiled.—To be eaten in perfection, peas must be young and freshly gathered, and shelled just before they are cooked. Rinse them in cold water, then drain, and put them on to boil in plenty of water, with a teaspoonful of salt to the half-gallon. It should boil and be will skimmed before the peas are put in. The lid should be kept off all the time, and the peas kept at a steady boil with an occasional skim. If there is great inequality in the size, the peas should be “sized’’ as much as possible, that the largest may go in first. If mint is known to be liked, tie a little bunch up, and boil it with the peas, taking care to wash it. By some a slight flavour only is liked, then just a sprig should be put in a few minutes before the peas are done. Strain through a heated colander, and serve in a hot dish. When butter is added (some persons object to it) it can be dropped in the centre, or the peas may be put in a clean saucepan with the butter, and shaken over the fire for a few seconds. For old peas, a bit of sugar is a great improvement, and it is added by many to young ones. For very hard water or old peas, a pinch of carbonate of soda or powdered borax is a good addition ; but to make a rule of using either of the softening agents is a mistake, for young peas need no such aids. One rule is absolute: Do not shell the peas long before they are wanted, for no vege- table suffers more from exposure to the air. Some persons sholl them over-night to save time in the morn- ing ; such do not oat them in anything like perfection. In the opinion of a French chef, should it be necessary to shell peas half an hour or less before cooking, they should bo protected by means of a folded cloth wrung out of cold water, and set by in a cool, dark place. Peas, Green (Sir Henry Thomp- son’s way). — “ Garden peas when young, quickly grown, and fresh, have a delicious characteristic flavour of their own, are sweet and almost crisp when eaten, and maintain these attributes unimpaired, if simply boiled in salt and water. Such should be eaten a VAnglaise, the use of the term itself being a tacit admission on the part of the French chef that the simple cooking advocated here, and practised in this country, is in this instance justifiable. All that is produced under this name is a dish of peas cooked as described, served with a pat of fresh butter, and some salt, accompanied by the capital little pepper mill, which is natural to a French table, and almost unknown here. A morsel of the butter is stirred into the hot peas, a little