UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 558 most cases ; nevertheless, many persons find that when consumed in a plainly boiled state it causes discomfort, and that this is less marked when condi- ments of some sort are added. This seems to justify the opinion that in such cases the trouble is duo to the inert properties of the grain, and that any food adj uncts that compensate for the lack of mineral matter are decided improvements. Rice has constipating properties, and its value in dysentery and all kindred disorders is well known. In order to meet the wants of people other than the dwellers in tropical climates, fat in some form, with a little nitrogenous food, is needed to make a dish of rice complete. Butter, cheese, bacon, &c., may all bo employed to give variety to, and increase the feed- ing value of, the dish. When bought in quantities rice needs careful storage to prevent the attacks of insects ; it also requires most thorough washing, and for puddings, or whenever it is to absorb the liquid, it is a vast improve- ment to soak it. (See also Rice a la Chicago.) Steamed rice is not we think much known in this country ; but it is very superior to boiled rice for many purposes; besides, there is loss loss of nourishment. It has been many times said, probably with truth, that when rico is boiled and the water drained off, the water contains the larger share of nutriment. Many rccipos for dishes of rice will be found in various parts of this work. In some of our recipos the words “ rice boiled as for curry, but in stock instead of water,” occur ; in such cases wo advise the blanching of the rico first in water, as detailed in Rice, Blanched. It is then to bo put into the stock, which should be clear, although it need not be clarified. It must be remem- bered that unless the stock is afterwards used for soups, &c., the process is a very wasteful one. When boiled in fish stock, for fish curries, take care to skim the stock, and add rather more than the usual allowance of lemon j nice, that the rice may not suifer in colour. (S‘.c Pilau, page 555.) Rice, Andalusian.—Required : oil or butter, rice, meat or poultry, tomatoes, onions, lemons, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. if meat is used; more if poultry. This dish, which is one very commonly served in Spain and Portu- gal, is valued as a tonic during the heat of summer, and is also recom- mended as a preventative of intestinal indisposition : it is peculiar, but the taste for it is an easily-acquired one. Warm in a saucepan a quarter of a pound of best olive-oil or fresh butter. Throw in half a pound of picked rice, and one pound or one pound and a half of veal or poultry flesh, cut into neat squares. Add half a pint of tomato sauce, or three or four fresh tomatoes, one or two chopped onions, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered saffron, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. In Spain a clove of garlic is always added. Stir these ingredients into the warm oil, and let them stew gently for ten minutes; pour over them a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the rice has absorbed the liquor. Throw the whole into a heated strainer for a minute, to drain off any oil that may be left, and pile the rice, which will be a bright yellow colour, upon a hot dish. Hold a red-hot shovel or sala- mander over the top for a minute or two to brown the surface, and send the dish to tabic with cut lemons, that each guest may squeeze a little juice over his plate. The time for cooking depends upon the sort of meat used; about an hour and a quarter is the average. Any cold meat may be used up thus; the rice should cook until nearly done before the meat is added. It will be found very savoury. Rice,Blanched.—After washing in the ordinary way, put the rice in a saucepan, cover it with cold water and bring it to the boil slowly ; a little salt should be added. Strain it and rinso with clean cold water; it is then ready to cook in any desired