DRESSED VEGETABLES. 677 ounces of clarified butter, and a table- spoonful of lemon juice. Butter a plain mould, and fill with the mixture; bake in a slow oven until firm, and serve in the mould with a serviette pinned round it. Sauce is optional; if served, it should be white. If the crumbs be allowed to soak in the milk and cream for a short time before baking, the dish is all the better. The milk is to be taken from that in which the vegetable is boiled; the surplus milk, with the stalks of the cauliflowers, will come in handy for soup. For a richer dish, use less crumbs, and add one or two more eggs. Bake in a fancy mould, and serve with Dutch Sauce or Rich Melted Butter. Celery, Braised. — Required : celery, carrot, onion, butter, parsley, stock, glaze, and seasoning. Cost, about 8d. for celery. Total cost, variable, according to richness of stock, kc. Take a couple of heads of celery, and wash it well, then trim away the hard root part; lay it in a pan with a few bits of carrot and onion, and a small sprig of parsley; add a couple of ounces of butter, and cover the top with a buttered paper; put in also the part of the root that was removed, after cutting it in shreds; it will assist in flavouring the braise. In about twenty minutes, after shaking the pan from time to time, add a pint of good brown stock, and cover the pan; cook the celery very softly for an hour and a half to two hours; take it up when done, and cut the heads through lengthwise into four or six parts, flatten them, and roll them up; place these rolls on a dish and keep them hot over boiling water; boil the gravy fast for a short time, add a little glaze and seasoning, and pour it round or over the celery. If for serving with steaks, or braised beef, or other meat, it is now complete; but for a separate dish, add a few croutons, or fancy shapes of glazed ham, with a spinkling of sieved egg yolk if liked. Any stock that is suitable for clear soup may be used for this. The above quantity of stock will serve for three small heads. Another way.—Take the root of the celery right off, cut the rest up in pieces of a couple of inches, and tie them up to keep them in shape. Add the root and some of the green tops to the stewpan. Cook as before, taking care the celery does not break and become ragged-looking; it wants very slow cooking to avoid it; after taking the tapes off—always use tape in preference to string—dish the pieces upright, close together round the dish, and fill the centre with any nice green vegetable puree, and pour the sauce round the base. Or the dish can be filled up with any whole vegetables of a contrasting colour; small tomatoes, cooked nicely, answer admirably. The sauce must be strained to keep back the tops. Celery, Curried.—The recipe for curried vegetables (page 680) may be followed, omitting chutney and tamarinds, and reducing the apple, as the celery flavour should predominate. Another good dish is to be had by making some Curry Sauce, and adding- some celery—that has been braised as above directed, in a very little stock— to make it as thick as may be desired. Or the sauce may be poured over some cooked celery. Rice is optional. Cost, for a dish of two heads of celery, from lOd. to Is. or more. Celery Pur6e. — Required: celery, butter, thickening, seasoning, and stock or milk as below. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. on an average. For a good puree, put the white part of two or three heads of celery in a saucepan (the green part should bo removed), after cutting or chopping up; add two or three ounces of butter; for three largo heads, four ounces will be wanted; cover, and sweat for a quarter of an hour; the butter must not brown, and the pan must be shaken often. Then cover with good white stock or milk, cook to a pulp, and rub through a sieve. An onion or a bay leaf may be used to flavour the puree,