UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 126 Canned pears make a good sauce of this kind. They are suitable for serving with cereal puddings or creams. Raspberry Sauce.-(& Blackberry Sauce, and substitute raspberries. A little colouring im- proves the appearance.) Rose Custard Sauce.—Make a pint of rich or medium custard (see Custard), add half a gill of rose-water, and colour it a pale pink; pour it round the pudding (see Pudding a la Rose), and sprinkle it with crystallised rose-leaves. The above is also suitable for serving with any light pudding or souffle. Royal Sauce.—Make a pint of rich custard, colour it a pale pink, and add to it a couple of tablespoonfuls of mixed crystallised fruits, which have lain in enough liqueur and sherry to cover them for several hours; they should be cut up very small, and the greater the variety both of colours and flavours the better. Set aside to coo], and place it on ice or in an ice cave for an hour, before serving with any rich cold pudding of the ordinary kind, or with Royal, or any other iced pud- ding. Royal Seville Sauce.—Re- quired : a quarter-pound jar of Seville orange jelly, a tablespoonful of orange brandy, a teaspoonful each of lemon- juice and castor sugar, and the same measure, or rather more, of maras- chino. Dissolve the jelly by gentle heat, add the other ingredients, stir for a minute without boiling, and serve. There are few better sauces than this, and it is equally good hot or cold. In the latter case, let the jelly cool before adding the spirit, and use double the quantity of brandy, sugar, and lemon- juice. (See Royal Sbville Pudding.) Sauce A la Comtesse.—Put in a lined saucepan a jar of green gooseberry jelly—about half a pound; as soon as dissolved, add to*’f a table- spoonful of pale brandy and a little colouring. Cut up finely some mixed green fruits, glace, not crystallised, angelica, almonds, &c., enough to fill a couple of tablespoons; stir them in, and leave the sauce a short time, then serve it hot with Pudding a la Comtesse, or any similar sort. Sauce a la Bamiette.—Re- quired : six bitter almonds, a gill of milk, a gill of cream, the yolks of two eggs, some chestnuts, a tablespoonful of castor sugar, and a little flavouring. Blanch the almonds, cut them up, and infuse them in the milk for a quarter of an hour; it should be set on the range to keep warm, but not to boil; strain it when flavoured nicely, add it to the cream, sugar, and beaten eggs, and stir in the bain-marie to thicken. Boil some chestnuts, rub them through a hair sieve, and mix a tablespoonful of the puree with the cream, &c., then stir in a little brandy or essence of vanilla; re-heat in the bain-marie, and serve hot with Pudding a la Damiette, or with a good chest- nut or potato pudding of the ordinary kind. (See recipes.) If the chestnuts are not obtainable, use chestnut-flour; it should be boiled in the milk, then added to the eggs, cream, &c. Sauce a la Duchesse.—Beat three ounces of butter to a cream, add three ounces of castor sugar, and beat for ten minutes or more, then add a wineglassful of orange flower-water, with half the quantity of capillaire syrup and a tablespoonful of sheiTy; put all in a saucepan, and stir until quite hot, then serve. This is a very rich sauce, only suit- able for high-class puddings. (See Duchesse Puddino.) The sauce may be served cold; it should be placed on ice or in a refrigerator. Sauce a la Victoria.—Set a jar of damson jam in a pan of boiling water; when heated and liquefied, pass it through a hair sieve, the syrupy