568 universal cookery rook. half a pound of rice to four ounces of fat will answer. The onions can bo put back if liked. Some good stock to cover goes next (it should be fast boiling) ; when the rice is about half done, sliced sausages and chopped mushrooms are to bo added, with salt, and saffron to make the whole a rich yellow. By the time it is ready to serve it should be a thick stew. Butter is put in last thing for a rich dish; and cheese is added or handed with the dish. Any nice sausages may be used for this; they are to be first partially cooked. Cost, about Is. Risotto, to serve with Fish. —Cook the rice on the principle de- tailed above, using a mixture of stock and tomato conserve for the purpose. A morsel of onion should be fried in the butter at starting, and a bunch of herbs is an improvement. Season nicely and colour a pale pink. Any white fish with sauce, left over from a previous meal, may be divided and put in the centre or round the rice ; or small fillets of fresh fish may be cooked with it. Lobster coral is the best colouring, and the addition of cheese is quite optional. Cost, uncertain. Saffron Rice.—Required : half a pint of rice, a pint and a half of milk, or weak white stock, or the two may be mixed ; a teaspoonful of salt, half as much white sugar, an ounce of chopped onion, cayenne to season, and enough saffron to give a rich yellow tinge. Cost, about 6d. Blanch the rice (see page 538), and cover it with the stock; bring it to the boil very slowly, then add the rest of the ingredients, with a morsel of butter. Cook softly until the rice is done, and the moisture absorbed, then turn out for use. In the event of this being required as an adjunct to any fish dish, use a fish stock in preparing it. If to go to table with a curry (with which it is very good), use the same sort of stock the curry is made with. It forms alone a nice dish in warm weather; but various additions are admissible — such, for instance, as chopped ham or tongue, scraps of poultry, cold meat with a little stuffing, or the remains of any tasty fish snack: in fact, it can be varied in dozens of ways. For a vegetarian dish, use water, milk, or stock No. 11 or 12. Saffron Rice Cakes.—Prepare the rice as above directed; take half a pint, after it has cooled, add a tablespoon- ful of grated ham, a little powdered bay leaf and mustard, a gill of thick sauce, and a well-beaten egg. Then mix in by degrees as many fried bread- crumbs as will make the mixture firm enough to shape into cakes ; they may be round or oval, about a quarter of an inch thick. Brush them over with raw ogg, and coat them with fine white bread-crumbs, then fry them a delicate brown. Cost, about 8d. The flavouring can be varied by adding cold fish or chopped pickles instead of ham ; vermicelli may take the place of crumbs for the exterior ; and, for a cheaper dish, the white of the egg can be reserved for the coating. Saffron Rice Sausages. — Shape the foregoing mixture into small sausages, and cither fry them, or brown them in a quick oven, or before the fire. They are a nice addition to a breakfast dish of bacon or eggs. They are also suitable for serving with liver or kidneys. The rice is sometimes moulded in the form of tiny cottage loaves, and served as Saffron Rice Loaves. Sago.—This is obtained from the sago palm. It is a starchy food, and from a nutritive point is not to be compared with semolina, or any foods made from nitrogenous grain. At the same time, sago is a useful and generally liked food; it is a popular thickening medium for soups, vegetable stews, and many similar dishes, and is considered light and easy of digestion. Sago absorbs the fluid in which it is cooked, and becomes soft and trans- parent, but retains its shape. There are several kinds—small or pearl, medium, and large or bullet sago ; for