UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 232 hour per pound, including tho first hoiling, should be allowed. Frequent hasting with more stock from time to time, will he required. Then pour off the gravy, put fresh cinders in the lid to brown the meat well, then dish it and pour a little gravy round, after thickening, seasoning, and boiling it up ; serve the rest in a tureen. Round the meat, put some cooked vegetables, olive-shaped carrots and turnips, button onions, sprouts, or sprigs of cauliflower, and celery in short lengths; all, or as many as convenient. Then pour half a pint of Brown Sauce No. 2 on tho top of the meat. Braised meat makes a very excellent hash, or may bo re-heated in any other way. Beef Curry, Madras. —Re- quired : a pound and a half of steak, two onions, an apple, an ounce of curry paste, half an ounce of curry powder, tho juice of a lemon or lime, a salt- spoonful each of browning, mushroom ketchup, and anchovy essence, a soupgon of cayenne and grated nutmeg, half a pint of stock No. 4, and a gill of bi'own sauce. Cost, about 2s. 4d. Cut the onions in thin rings, fry them golden brown in hot butter ; put them by, then cut the moat up, roll it in the curry powder and other spice, add it and the chopped apple to the butter, and fry it well; then put in the paste and stock, with half tho lemon juice. Bring to the boil and stir in the onions; simmer for two hours, then pass the sauce, &c., through a sieve. Put it back in the pan with tho moat, brown sauce, rest of the lemon juice, and salt to taste ; when hot, serve with plain rice, or one of tho special rice dishes for curries given in a later chapter. During the cooking replenish the stock as required. For “ gravy curry ” use more stock; the quantity may be doubled. The above recipe will bo found excellent, and may be followed for game. A mixture of meat and game makes a good curry, but in either case, orange juice maybe used instead of lemon or lime with advantage. Tho thjng fq guard against is an overdose of anchovy, ketchup, and browning. In minute quantities they are an im- provement. Beef, Fillet of, a la Coutts.— Required : the fillet, i.c. tho inside of a sirloin of beef, half a pint of clear stock, as No. 6 or 7, a gill of Madeira, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. Gd. per pound, inclusive. Raise the fillet clean from the joint; take off tho skin, and lard it on both sides, first trimming neatly into an oval, and binding with tape. Put at the bottom of a stewpan (very little larger than tho meat) a few slices of bacon, the trimmings from the meat, a couple of ounces of celery, the same of carrot, outside only, a bay leaf, and a bunch of thyme and parsley; place tho fillet on, put in half the stock, cover, and reduce almost to glaze; then put in the rest of the stock and tho wine. Cook the meat very gently in a moderate oven, basting a few times, over a buttered paper, which should fit the pan. When half done, add a dozen peppercorns, and a scalded onion stuck with a clove. When tender (it will take from thirty minutes per pound) put it on a dish, strain the gravy, and cool it quickly so as to take off the fat; then boil it until reduced to a gill, pom1 this over the meat, and hold a salamander over for a second, if the lardoons arc not brown and crisp. Pour round a rich sauce, and serve hot. (See Hot Sauces.) This is a very rich and excellent dish. Beef, Fillet of, as Hare.—Re- quired : two pounds of fillet of beef (tho under cut from tho sirloin), bacon, and gravy, &c., as given for Jugged Hare. Cost, about 3s. Trim the meat into a nice compact shapo and lard it with bacon on the upper side; then stew it in a pan to just hold it with tho gravy and added ingredients. When tender, crisp up the meat in a brisk oven, while the gravy is skimmed and thickened. Dish tho meat with the gravy round, and some fqrcemeat balls [see Forcemeats)