FISH. 195 a minute or two, then scalo it from head to tail. Lay it on a dish, and sprinkle it with a small onion chopped, some powdered herbs, and seasoning; a grate of lemon peel if possible. Pour over some salad oil, just to moisten thoroughly, and leave for an hour. Then drain, and soak some writing paper in the oil, wrap the fish in it, tucking the ends in securely, and broil or grill it. When done, take off the paper, and send Piquant Sauce or Tartarb Sauce to table with the fish; or it may be poured over. Another tcay.—Leave the fish in the oil, but instead of wrapping it in paper, simply drain it, and while cooking, brush it almost constantly with the remainder of the oil. See also Marinade roil Broiled Fish. Thomback. - This is a very peculiar looking fish, not well-known; the cost is variable, but it is generally inexpensive. It is usually fried. First clean and skin the fish, then cut it into slices of an inch or less in thickness; dry and Horn- them, and leave for an hour or two, then re- flour, or coat with butter, and fry until crisp; or the Well-known method of egging and crumbing may be re- sorted to. The so-called “ wing ” of the fish is laid in salt and water for a day or two to free it from a strong, peculiar flavour. The thomback is of the my tribe, and is found on the coasts of Ireland and England. In washing fish of this sort, use salt plentifully. Trout.—Itiver trout is a very delicious fish, much prized by epi- cures ; the most delicate in flavour weigh from twelve to sixteen ounces. The female is the nicer; it is known by its body being deeper, and its head smaller than the male. Then there is the sea trout, which appears to form the connecting link between the salmon and the common or river trout. This reaches a larger size, sometimes more than a foot long, though that is about the average ; it is a very excellent fish. Trout may bo cooked in many ways; perhaps Fio. 53.—Trout. boiling is least to be recommended, so far as flavour goes. The under- mentioned recipes refer to common trout. Trout a l'Aurore.—After boil- ing a couple of moderate sized fish, take them up carefully, and drain thoroughly; then dish them, and pour over them the following sauce:— Half a pint of good melted butter, mixed with an ounce of grated cheese, the yolks of three raw eggs, a few drops of cayenne or chilli vinegar, and a little anchovy essence; thick- ened in the usual way. Have ready three hard-boiled eggs, mince them, and mix with them an ounce of grated clieeso (Parmesan is best) ; sprinkle over the sauce, and set tho dish in the oven to heat through, thon brown the surface with a sala- mander. Before serving, pour round the fish, a sauco of a contrasting colour to that poured over—shrimp, tomato, or lobster inay be usod. This dish is excellent. Trout, Baked.—Chooso small fish ; if fresh, tho skin has a beautiful appearance ; handle it carefully, wash, scale, and dry it, and season insido and out with a little salt, popper, and cayenne. Lay it in a baking tin,