257 MADE DISHES AND RELEVlis. Sausage Meat, a gill of Mushroom Puree, and some bread crumbs; just to give the mixture consistency while shaping it. Then flour and roast the meat; or it can be baked. Serve good gravy with it, made from the bones, and a dish of French beans or other vegetable. Cost, as above. Another way.—Use Mutton Sausage Meat, mixed with an equal bulk of chopped ham for the stuffing (or Oyster. Forcemeat is excellent; then Oyster Sauce is required). Another way.—Use Herb Forcemeat and serve Cucumber Puree with the meat. Bread crumbs and powdered herbs, with the rind of half a lemon grated, should be sprinkled on the meat after it is done, then browned well. Directions for the boning of meats will be found in the next chapter. Ox Palates a la Jardini- ere.—Kequired : two palates, and some vegetables, stock, &c., as below. Cost, very variable. Prepare the palates by cleansing and blanching (see Ox Palates) ; press until cold between two plates with a weight on. Cut them into rounds, and cover with any nice brown stock; lay them in a saucepan, and cook for three to five hours until quite tender. When nearly done, pour off any stock, add a glass of h'ght wine, and cook until it is all absorbed. Have a hot dish ready, covered with some cooked sparghetti; pour over it some Sauce Herbage and put the palates in a ring round the edge of the sparghetti, with slices of cooked cucumber and carrot in between. Prepare a little pile of the same with other vegetables, by cutting them in the proper shapes (kcc Vegetables for Garnish) ; put these on the top of the sauce, and add a few chopped capers or some sprigs of chervil, cress, &c. Send more sauce to table. The stock in which the palates were cooked will make good soup. Ox Palates an Gratin. — Required : two palates, two or three ounces of ham, seasoning and mixed herbs, two button mushrooms, a shalot, a tablespoonful of bread, and half as much cream. Cost, uncertain. The palates should be flrst cleaned, and then boiled and skinned. Make the above ingredients into forcemeat, scrap- ing the ham, and seasoning as if for veal, but rather more highly than ordinary veal stuffing. Cut tho palates in long slices, spread them with the mixture, roll each in a round, and tie it up. Bake them for half an hour in a buttered tin dredged with bread crumbs and sweet herbs; brush them with butter, dredge with crumbs, and put a few bits of butter on tho top. Serve plain or with sauce, any kind such as would be served with steaks, fillets of beef, &c. Gx Palates, Piquant.—After boiling the palates, cut them as above, and lay on each a small quantity of tomato pulp, bread crumbs, and a bit of cooked bacon in dice, mixed to a paste; roll up, and finish in the oven as above. Then serve them in a dish with Piquant Sauce to cover them ; put a few pickled walnuts in a dish in the oven, with stock to cover them ; when hot, use them for garnishing the dish ; serve Tomato Salad or Pickled Tomatoes separately ; the latter can be heated if preferred. In place of either, chopped pickled gherkins and capers will answer. Cost, uncertain. Ox Tail a la Nordica.—Re- quired : an ox tail, herbs, and vege- tables, claret, sauce, garnish, and seasoning as below. Cost of tails, very variable. Blanch an ox tail after jointing it; dry it well, and fry it until lightly brownedin a little hot butter, with a few bits of vegetables, and a bunch of herbs. 'Then drain it from the fat, and put it in a stewpan with a gill of claret, a gill of brown stock (No. 4), and half a pint of Brown Sauce. Put in (in addi- tion to the vegetables from the frying- pan) a tablespoonful each of minced onion, gratodcarrot, outer part only, and minced celery; a few black peppercorns,