208 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Dissolve tho butter (or clarified dripping), add tho flour, and brown well; stir in all tho other seasonings, salt excepted, then put in tho steak, cut in half-inch squares ; stir it about to brown it, then pour in half a pint of hot stock (No. 1, 2, or 4), or the water from boiled meat, with a few drops of colouring. Cover the stew- pan, and simmer as gently as possible for about forty-five minutes. Add salt and servo on a hot dish. Cooked vegetables may be cut in fancy shapes, and used as a border to the dish. Unless first-class meat is used for this, much longer time must be given, and the steak should be beaten before it is cut up. Fillet, Roasted.—Take the fillet from a sirloin of beef and remove the fat; trim it noatly, and tie it in shape, then cover it with a sheet of white paper, spread with beef dripping, and roast or bake in the usual way, taking the paper off for tho meat to brown. Make gravy in tho tin, and put in a little glaze; the meat should bo brushed over with thin glaze, and garnished on tho top with scraped horse-radish. Horse-radish sauco should bo served in a boat. Cost of tho fillet separately, rather uncertain. Another way.—This is a savoury roast. Sprinkle some chopped herbs over tho paper after greasing it (say parsley, thyme, and bay-loaf, with a chopped onion, some colory and carrot, also chopped or sliced). Wrap the meat in the paper and tie it up ; lot it brown as above directed, then glaze it and serve some good gravy with it and any suitable vegetable puree ; or some braised or stewed vegetables can bo put about tho dish. Tomato sauce is excellent witli this dish ; then tomatoes should be used for garnishing. It should be remembered that when meat is wrapped in paper for cooking, tho basting process is reduced; but, unless tho paper is taken off in good time for the browning and crisping, there will bo a certain amount of greasiness. Flank, Boiled. — If the thin flank bo chosen, and it is not rolled, it will not take long to cook ; it is, there- fore, a good part to seleet if time be limited. It should bo put into boiling water, or weak stock, with the usual vegetables, and well skimmed; then simmered until done, about twenty minutes per pound ; a little salt should bo put in towardstheend of thecooking. Flank, salted and rolled, is excel- lent. Dumplings are suitably served with dishes of boiled beef, and rice boiled with it is very good; the flavour of tho rico is improved, and there is no waste, as what the rice yields to the. liquid is not thrown away (as is the case when boiled in water) but serves to enrich tho next day’s soup. Complaints of the insipidity of boiled meats are often heard, owing to the custom in some families of ser- ving them minus sauco or gravy, with no addition but tho pot liquor. This arises, perhaps, from the popular idea that it is not worth while to go to the trouble of making sauce for so plain a dish. We advise a trial of one of the many that will be found in the section devoted to Ghavies and Sauces; or, at least, of one made by thickening and flavouring some of tho meat liquor. The dish will then be vastly improved, at a very slightly increased cost. (See recipes later on.) French Ragout.—Select some of tho cheapest parts of beef for this, and for a pound, take also half a pound each of onions, carrots, celery, and po- tatoes, an apple, some stock, &c., as under. Cost, about Is. Cut up the hoof tho size of a walnut; lay tho pieces innate w-jar with the apple, chopped, the celery in dice, and the potatoes parboiled; put in a sprinkling of herbs and pepper, half a “ pastille de legume ” dissolved in a pint of any plain stock, and the onions and carrots, sliced, and fried brown in hot drip- ping. Cover the jar with a sheet of greased paper, then put the lid on, and cook in a gentle oven for three or four hours, according to the quality of tho