476 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. water over; after a time the water is strained off and added to tho meat. Ox skins are to bo filled with the mixture and tied at tho ends. To boil them, put thorn on in cold water, and simmer for an hour. Take them up, and plunge into cold water for a minute, then dry and hang’ them up in a cool place. To these, fat pork, cut into small square pieces, is often added, when the mixture is put in the skins ; about half a pound to three or four pounds of tho minced meat is the usual proportion. Bologna Sausages.—Required: beef, pork, bacon, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Sd. per pound. Take beef and pork in equal parts ; cut it up, and pound it to a paste; add a high seasoning of salt and pepper, cloves, mace and garlic. When this is put in the skins, strips of fat bacon are inserted here and there. This is boiled for an hour or more, or smoked for a couple of months. The Italians eat it in the uncooked state. Another way.—These are very nice. Use some cooked calf’s head, the host part, in strips, with about tho same weight of chopped pork ; season with salt, pepper, spices and chives, cut small; moisten with a little white wine, then fill tho skins and boil. Coii- ander seed and aniseed, finely ground, are tho spices usually preferred. Breakfast Sausage (Ameri- can).— Required: a pound each of veal, lean pork, lean hoof and fat pork, half a pound of veal suet, four tea- spoonfuls of powdered sage, two tea- spoonfuls of parsley, thyme and marjoram mixed, a tcaspoonful of black pepper,and half as much cayenne, half a nutmeg grated, and tho third of a tcaspoonful of clovos, a large onion, minced, and from four to five tea- spoonfuls of salt. Cost, about 3s Prepare the'ineat in a machine of the usual kind ; the finer it is, the nicer tho sausage; stuff some large skins with it, tie them up, prick each in half a dozen places with a strong needle, and put thorn in hot water; heat to tho boil slowly, and cook for an hour and a half at a simmer only. Take flu m up, and lay in straw in Ihe sun to dry ; hay does as well. Rub the outsides over with olive oil and hang in a dry, cold cellar. If to bo kept long, rub black pepper and ginger over, wiping it off before serving. This is cut in thin slices and served cold, and a v< rv good relish it is. Sliced lemon anil sweet pickles, with some plain salad, should bo served with it. This is a superior sort of polony. Bi’unswick Sausage.—This is a great delicacy, sold at about 2s. per pound. It is served in thin slices. Curry Sausages. — Required : four pounds of beef, veal, or pork sausage meat, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Take the sausage meat, made and sea- soned in tho usual way. Prepare some tomatoes just as directed for Tomato Sausages, but omit the coralline pepper and cavenno. Put them to got cold, then mix with them two tablcspoonfuls of cooked apple pulp (from baked apples preferably), quite cold, and a large onion that has been fried and chopped, a small tcaspoonful of mixed herbs in the finest powder, and a tablcspoonful of good curry paste, that has been blended with a little good stock, and boiled for a minute or two. Tho apples for those should bo sharp, or tho sausages will lack piquancy. Now give this mixture a good boating with a spoon, and add somo stale fine crumbs, until it is about the same con- sistence as the sausage meat. Then put tho whole together in a large bowl, and let it stand in a cool place for a short time for tho crumbs to soften, and then fill tho skins as usual, and cook as required. If parboiled and fried these are excellent, either hot or cold. These, like the tomato sausages, should bo made as required. The curry paste may bo increased, but tho quan- tity named will give enough zest for most sausage eaters. Fish Sausages.—These arc of