608 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Have a hot dish ready, and either rub the artichokes over with a morsel of cold butter, or pour White Sauce or Melted Butter over them. A hint of chopped parsley may be sprinkled here and there by way of garnish. For the sake of extra whiteness, some cooks boil these in milk and water, or parboil in water and finish in milk ; ■and if very old, some favour cold or tepid water in place of boiling- water, but in our opinion, when cold water is usod, the artichokes are robbed of flavour and nutriment. Old ones are best mashed ; recipes under Turnips can be referred to for plain dishes. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Fried.—This way is a failure unless tho fat bo really hot. The artichokes should be very thinly sliced, washed, and dried, and put in a frying basket, then plunged into enough fat to cover them; when golden-brown tho basket should be shaken, and the vegetables sprinkled with salt and pepper (some- times cayenne and nutmeg are added), then served with lemon juice or vine-* gar, and bread and butter, if to be oaten as a separate course; or they may go to table with meat, &c., just as fried potatoes are served. Parboiled artichokes can bo fried halved or whole. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Stewed.—Required: artichokes, sea- soning, milk, butter, corn-flour, and bread, as below. Cost, 6d. to 8d. Peel, wash, and slice a pound and a half of artichokes; dry tl*m and put them in an earthen jar vMh enough milk and water to cover;' add a few peppercorns, salt to taste, a grate of nutmeg and ginger, a few drops of lemon juice, and a pinch of celery salt. Cover the jar and cook at a very moderate heat until the artichokes are tender. Take out the peppercorns, add a slight thickening of corn-flour and milk mixed smoothly, and an ounce of butter, with a dash of cay- enne, and another squeeze of lemon to bring out the other flavours. Boil for a few minutes, and servo in a pile, on a round of fried bread or hot buttered toast. This looks prettier if a few little Brussels sprouts, or tufts of any other green vegetable be put about tho dish. Some dried green haricots, plainly boiled, or a puree, also answer the purpose. (See the various recipes in the preceding chapter.) The flavouring of the above can be varied to taste, all sorts of herbs can be added, and many of the spiced vinegars and other liquid seasonings would give additional zest. Asparagus. — This delectable vegetable is a favourite wherever in- troduced, and is one of the few to which English people grant the privi- lege of a separate course. Very fine asparagus is grown in France; the variety called “ giant asparagus ” is a good sort to buy, tho stalks being so tender as to bo all eatable. Asparagus is also imported from Spain and other countries, but its excellence on arrival depends very much upon the state of the weather at tho time of packing and in transit. English grown comes into season later, and is smaller and greener than the French. The cost of asparagus is extremely variable, but it is never really cheap, and seldom within the reach of ordinary middle- class families; but it may occasionally be bought for Is. 6d. to 2s. per hun- dred, though 5s. or 6s. is a common price, and 10s. may be asked for it. It is very much a question of supply and demand. It is, however, likely that asparagus will be cheaper in the near future, as its cultivation on a more extended scale and under different conditions is receiving attention. Tinned asparagus comes as a boon to people who cannot afford the fresh vegetable; for while the tinned is usually reliable, the quality of the fresh is generally doubtful when it is low-priced. Asparagus, Boiled.—Place the green tops evenly together, then cut the stalk end, so that when done they shall be all the same length. Scrape the lower ends lightly, and lay the asparagus in cold water for a time