474 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. individual taste. Spice or herbs, or both combined, is used by some; nutmeg and mace in moderation will be more likely to meet with general ap- proval than allspice, and marjoram is a favourite herb; some prefer it mixed with sage. A little lemon rind gives zest to veal sausages, but it wants very cautious using; when sausages flavoured with it are fried, there is a tendency to ‘'repeat”; just a suspicion may be used with advantage in combination with herbs of any sort. Then there is garlic: one fears to name it almost, there is so deeply rooted an aversion to it, generally speaking. All the same, it gives a t wang to veal sausages that is much approved of when once tried; it is but a twang, though, and should be so slight that the sausages do not actually taste of garlic—tho veriest morsel will do for a pound or two of meat; or the board on which it is cut up may be rubbed over with it; or the strength is easily reduced by boiling (see Garlic). In the chapter on Seasonings, &c., will be found many preparations of herbs, &c., that may be used. Sausage skins are best prepared on a large scale ; to cleanse them at home is a troublesome and unpleasant process, and people as a rule get them of their butcher ready cleaned ; but it is always advisable to give them another rinse in clean, cold water. Then, there are “ prepared skins ” put up in tins. These may be had through first-class grocers, and some makers of the machines supply them. They want soaking, or tho sausages will probably be too salt, and should be washed well inside by fixing one end to the tap, and letting the water run through. There is no other plan so effectual as this. To fill the skins, put one end on to tho “ filler ” (the other end must be tied securely) and see that the meat only fills the skin slightly; tie the other end and twist them into shape. Loop thorn by passing them through each other, giving a twist each time. If the skins must be got ready at home there is no way so good as tho thorough scraping and washing of the intestines, which must soak for snnio days in salt and water, many times renewed, and be rinsed again and again in clean, cold water ; they are best attached fo a running tap. To the last water but one a little carbonate of soda should be added; the last of all must bo clear water, as cold as possible. Tho appearance of the skins, and freedom from the slightest unpleasant odour, are indications of sufficient cleansing. Tho intestines of t he pig are used for sausages of the ordinary size and kind, such as we have been considering. The ox supplies skins for the large, dried sausages, to which brief attention must now be given. The ordinary German sausage, sold at from tenpeuce to a shilling per pound, is most commonly eaten in this country, and it must bo purchased with caution. It does not follow that all which is highly-coloured is bad, for many of the makers say that this is done to meet the wishes of the public; but. it is quite certain that a great deal is far from good, and that f ho colouring often hides a multitude of—supposing we say deficiencies; cases that arc reported from time to time in (he daily papers prove this conclusively. It should, therefore, always be bought of a respectable sales- man; if it bears the name of the maker all the better; and it should bo avoided in hot weather. Of the high-class, expensive dried sausages, used chiefly for hors cl'ceuvres, a good variety may always be bought at