553 cbiiiiAi.s. ctm be used iu soups, nnd many vegetarian dishes, also in bread, cakes, puddings, &c. (See also Corn-flour, and Hominy.) Maize Porridge.—This is like- wise called Sun*awn. Boiling milk, water or broth is used for the founda- tion, which is thickened with nmize meal in the way that wheatmeal and oatmeal are used in England. It forms a good strong meal, and is thought sufficient as a breakfast or supper dish for a man to work hard upon. (See Hasty Puddings. ) Maize may be used with, or instead of, wheaten flour. Malted Cereals.—At the out- set it may be well to state that the method here detailed has nothing in common with malt extract, or foods malted by the addition of that agent. Our object is simply to show how cereals of all sorts can be made digestible by the addition of malt flow. And without in any way disparaging liquid preparations of malt that are either taken alone or added to food, we have it on very high authority that, for the purpose we are now con- sidering, malt flour is the best and most active. The process is very simple; but certain rules must bo observed. The food is to be first thoroughly cooked before the malt flour is added, and the temperature must not again reach boiling-point. If this rule be broken, the food is spoilt. Take a dish of porridge, by way of illus- tration ; it may be oatmeal, hominy, or wheaten, or any other; to each quart, after the cooking is finished, and while just below boiling-point, add a teaspociDful oratrifle over of malt flour; stir it in well, then set it where it will keep hot, but where there is no chance of its boiling. The malt will thin it; so, if liked thick, allowance must bo made for this. Gruel of all sorts may be malted in this way, and in estimating the amount of malt to add, regard should be had to the amount of grain used for the gruel, rather than the measure of the food aftor cooking; R* thus, a pint of gruel that had been made with an ounce of lino oatmeal would take only half the malt the same measure of porridge, made from two ounces of meal, would require. To all sorts of farinaceous or cereal puddings, the malt can be added by raising the brown skin after baking, and stirring it in carefully'; the skin is replaced, and the pudding left to stand as above directed. There is no need to render it unsightly if proper care be taken. Further hints and recipes are given in other chapters. (See Index.) Nouilles, boiled in Milk.— Required : nouilles paste, milk, butter, and adjuncts as below, according to the nature of the dish. Cost, from 9d. to Is. on an average. Take half a pound of fresh nouilles paste in strips (see page 546); brown it in a little hot butter in a stewpan, then cover with milk, and let it cook until soft, from ten to fifteen minutes. If for a sweet dish, add a little sugar and flavouring, and stir in two or three beaten eggs ; after a few minutes, servo hot and do not boil again. Forasavoury dish, to go to table with any delicate white meat, omit the sugar, add a dash of salt, pepper, and mace, with the eggs, or some white sauce or thickened stock. Stir very lightly, that the nouilles may not break. Nouilles with Ham. — Re- quired : nouilles paste, stock, butter,ham, cheese, gravy, and toast. Cost, about Is., exclusive of gravy. Take paste as above, boil it in light stock, salted a little, for ten minutes; then drain it and put it in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, four ounces of cooked ham in dice, fat and lean to- gether, and two ounces of grated Par- mesan; add boiling brown gravy to moisten well, and, after a few minutes’ simmering, serve in a hot dish with buttered toast in strips. Another wag.—This is an Italian dish. Add to the foregoing materials a sprig each of parsley and borage, scalded and pounded, with two an- chovies and a slialot; these should bo