STOCKS AND SOUPS. 37 delicately seasoned. For a quart, allow a sixth or an eighth the measure of asparagus tips or points (they are called by either name); these should he boiled until tender in water, and put in the soup just before serving. The water in which the asparagus is boiled may be put into vegetable soup of any kind. A mixture of asparagus tips, green peas, and cucumber, cut with a “ pea cutter,” is a nice garnish for clear soups. Austrian Bean Soup. — Re- quired : a pint of brown haricots, a small carrot, an onion or two, half a turnip, and some outer stalks of celery, salt, and peppercorns, two ounces of dripping, a pinch of sugar, and two quarts of stock (No. 2). Cost, about 7d. Soak the beans in the cold stock, bring it slowly to the boil, and add the sugar and peppercorns, with a clove. Slice the vegetables and fry them brown in the dripping; then add them, and boil the whole gently, with very frequent skimming, for three hours or more; then pass it through a coarse sieve, re-heat, and season to taste, and serve with croutons. This is very rich and nourishing. If liked, a glass of claret can be added. “ Barley Soups,” says a writer, “ are among the most valuable. The Scotch people, who use it (barley) abundantly, get from it both the thickening and blending element in the basis of their broths.” Count Rumford wrote many years ago that “ barley requires much management and Ion" boiling, but when properly managed it gives a degree of richness which nothing else can give, and thickens a vast quantity of water.” Barley-flour, a refined barley-meal, is very useful for thickening soups, as it requires much less boiling than pearl or Scotch barley. The last- named is more nutritious than pearl barley, but it takes longer to cook. When freed from husk, and rounded in the process of milling, Scotch or pot barley becomes pearl barley, which is often very dirty, and needs careful washing and scalding; or for delicate dishes it is better brought to the boil in water, and strained before using, as this ensures greater cleanliness. Barley Grits Soup.—Groats, whole white ones, are required for this. (See Coun Gkits Sour, and follow the directions, but allow from two to three hours for the cook- ing.) Much trouble may be saved by using a jar in the same way as for Cohn Soup. The groats should bo the best quality, the same as are used for white puddings; these are very nourishing for children. Water can be used in place of stock, then milk should be put in after the grain has become soft. A mixture of groats from oats, barley, and wheat, may be used. People with whom the old- fashioned dish known as frumenty, or furmenty, is popular, will enjoy all these soups, which are ' of German origin. Beetroot Soup.—Required one quart of stock (No. 8), some beetroot and onions, seasoning, vinegar, and cold meat. Cost, about Is. Boil up the stock, then fry some small onions, finely chopped, a delicate brown in hot fat, with a pinch of sugar. About a couple of ounces should then be put into the stock, with a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and celery-seed tied in muslin, with a dove or two and some Jamaica pepper- corns, about half a dozen. Boil and skim for a quarter of an hour; then hike out the seasoning bag, and add a tablespoonful of vinegar, French or Italian red—or they may be mixed— and a teacupful or so of boiled beet- root in dice or any desired fancy shapes. Then put in some underdone cooked meat (beef is preferable), very finely inincod ; it must bo quite free from fat and gristle. Cover, and leave to heat through for ton or fifteou