CASSELL’S IEV UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. KITCHEN PROCESSES. GENERAL REMARKS. We commence this Work with a description of the cardinal processes of cookery, chiefly in their relation to animal food. Many details, as applied to various articles of diet, will be given under their respective headings ; but we ask especial attention not only to the following paragraphs, but also to the introductory portions of all succeeding chapters. They em- body those general hints which simplify recipes, and which cannot be given in them, save by much repetition. No deviation from the principles enforced in the following pages should or need be made, however much the approximate time laid down for the cooking may vary according to the nature of the stove or other apparatus. For instance, everyone who has had any experience in cook- ing, knows how much ovens vary, and this is but a type of a thousand and one probable departures from any one precise standard. To be able to cope with such difficulties, should the necessity arise, is the duty of most women. Nothing will enable them to do so more certainly than a thorough knowledge of the general principles and methods, and the carrying out of these in the preparation of the homeliest meal. Baking.—'This operation is closely allied to roasting, and we may place it first in order o£ importance. It is, in fact, what is called “roasting” by the majority; for real roasting is dying out, at any rate in private houses of ordinary dimensions. It is a most convenient method of cook- ing, and if carefully performed there are few objections to it, either on the ground of flavour or economy. The A chief conditions are a regular supply of heat from all parts of the oven, due ventilation, and a double baking- tin (Fig. 1), by which the decomposi- tion and burning of the dripping are avoided. Some people assert that a baked joint always has an unpleasant taste, but when this is the caso a dirty oven is the usual cause. Mr. Mattieu Williams, a high authority, contends, however, that a joint cooked in a clean