UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 312 retained ; when for jelly, they must go on in cold water. They cannot bo boiled too slowly, and tho time should bo from three to four hours when tho meat is to bo served, and much longer when the extraction of all the golatino is the chief object. Cost, from 4d. to od. each generally. Calf’s Feet with Sauce. {See the Kecipes for Calf’s Feet Soup.)— Serve tho feet, or part of them, and make a sauce by thickening a portion of the soup, and adding any nice store sauce, or some pickles ; or servo either of the brown piquant sauces given in Hot Sauces. If white sauce is pre- ferred, fennel, parsley, caper, lemon, celery, or onion, may bo used. It should be poured over tho feet, and bo thick enough to coat them. If the bones are all removed tho feet are more con- veniently served. Remember to give tho bones a further cooking for “ socond stock.” Calf’s Head.—For the prepara- tion of this, see tho recipe for Mock Turtle Soup. If the head is wanted for dinner, put it, after washing, in a saucepan, with well cleansed vegetables in slices (as tur- nips, carrots, onions, and celory), a bunch of herbs, and some white pep- percorns, and enough boiling water to cover it. Boil up, adding a pinch of salt, and carefully remove any scum. Then cook steadily, skimming as re- quired until done. A very largo head may take four hours or more; a very small ono may be dono in less than three hours. Tho part called tho horn, as shown in tho engraving, and marked c to i>, takes a long- time; when that is tender, the head is ready to take up. It should not be allowed to fall from tho bones, but should leave them readily when carved. The meat is improved in colour by blanch- ing, i.c. putting it in cold water, and bringing it to the boil, then rinsing it, and covering with the boiling water. Tho tongue should bo skinned, and dished with tho brains round it, and the head may bo covered with plain melted butter, parsley sauce, or other suitable kind. Or tho bruins can bo beaten up, and added to a pint of parsley or cgg-sauco, some of which should bo put round the tongue, and the rest over the head. To prepare tho brains sec Calf’s Brains in Made Dishes. The bones should be put back in tho pot, and cooked for a few hours longer for soup. The meat will look nicer if the head be tied in a clean cloth; great earo being taken that no soap is left in it. For purposes of this kind special cloths should be kept, and separately washed, or the meat will acquire a most objectionable flavour. We would remind tho reader that a head with a skin on will be most nutritious, but will take longer to boil. During tho boiling, nearly a tablespoonful of salt may be added, a little put in from time to time will assist the scum to rise. For a perfectly plain dish, no vegetables need bo put in, but they are a groat improvement to the flavour of tho meat. Cost, about 3s. or 4s. when in full season. Sometimes, from 5s. to 8s. may bo given. To carve the head, commence with long slices, shown by tho dotted Fig. 77.—Calf’s Head, to Carve. lines a to n. With each of these, serve a cut of what is called tho throat sweetbread; this lies at tho