340 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them with herhs and bread-crumbs; add a dash of cayenne, and brush them with clarified butter. Broil them, turning often, for twenty minutes. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over last thing. If preferred, the salting can be omitted. They can then be boiled in the stock-pot, or with a piece of meat (a bit of pickled pork, for instance); if it is rather fat, all the better. Sheep’s Tongues, Grilled.— Boil as in the foregoing recipe; skin the tongues when cold, and coat them on the insides with the following: for four tongues—four good-sized mush- rooms, two ounces of boiled ham in little (lice, a half-teaspoonful of grated lemon peel and powdered thyme, the same measure of chopped parsley, and a little salt and pepper. Put the tongues in their original shape, and wrap them each in greased paper. Grill over a clear fire for ten to fifteen minutes. Remove the papers and serve very hot. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. Th is prepared, the tongues are very delicious with the heads, or with a dish of liver and bacon. Calves’ tongues aro equally good with head, feet, or cars, or as a breakfast dish. The paper can be dispensed with if the tongues are tied round, and dipped in hot dripping : or a thin slice or two of bacon can be tied round each. Sheep’s Trotters, or Feet.— These can bo had as a rule at the tripe shops, partially boiled. If neces- sary to prepare them at home, take the wool from the hoofs, singe away the hair, and put them in boiling water for fivo minutes. Clean and scrape them, and cut an inch from the end of the foot, including the hoof, and take away a dark substance which grows between the divisions of the hoof. Sheep’s trotters are sold in angs (four), and are nourishing and igestihle. They should be soaked for a few hours in cold water before they are cooked in any way. Cost, about Cd. per dozen. Sheep’s Trotters, a la Pou- lette. — Required : trotters, sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. For this, blanch the trotters, then put them on in stock from mutton bones, with vegetables to flavour, and boil until done. Drain them well. For twelve feet, have ready a pint and a half, or rather more, of white sauce, flavoured with lemon or mushrooms. Re-heat them in this, and serve in a pile: garnish with fried bread, parsley, or slices of hard-boiled eggs, or little mushrooms cooked in butter. Sheep’s Trotters, Fried.— Boil them as directed above, remove the bones, and press them until cold; then dip them in thick batter, and fry brown. They will be more savoury if seasoned with herbs or cheese before coating them. A sharp sauce should bo served with them. Sheep’s Trotters, Pate of.— Take a coarse earthen pate-dish which has a closed-fitting cover. Procure throe “ gang ’’ of sheep’s trotters already cleaned and parboiled, and cut each one into three pieces. Pack them closely in the pate-dish, and, to season them, sprinldo between the layers a little pepper, salt, and pow- dered spice, together with a moderate proportion of minced onion, chopped parsley, powdered thyme, and bay- leaves”. Place the cover on the dish, and in order to prevent the escape of the steam, fasten it down with a coarse paste made of flour and water. Put the pate in a gentle oven for five or six hours, or if it can be done let it be put in a baker’s oven after the bread is drawn, and remain there all night. If gently cooked the feet will be reduced to jelly, and will constitute an excellent dish, which may be served hot or cold. If the oven is too much heated the feet will be burnt up, dry, and good for nothing. A tablespoonful of vinegar, tarragon, onion, cucumber, or herbal, will give piquancy to this dish. By reducing