UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 410 stock, and seasoning. Cost, variable, old birds being sometimes very cheap. This dish is so little trouble, besides being excellent and economical, and is so well calculated to bring about per- fection (as nearly as possible) in tho case of an old bird, that especial atten- tion is called to it. First, put in the jar, which should be an oval earthen one with a lid, a bed of vegetables of a kind that yield moisture; onions, car- rots, turnips, and celery are good; vegetable marrow may bo added if in season. Let this be an inch thick; then put in a few strips of fat bacon ; next lay on the fowl; put more bacon, then more vegetables; see that the sides as well as the top and bottom of the fowl are covered. Then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and put in a good bunch of herbs, and a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, but not a bit of salt. Have ready a cup of stock, made from the giblets by long stewing; no thicken- ing is to be added ; pour this in, put the lid on, and cook in a very slow oven, for as long as may be necessary; if it is just brought to the boil, it could be left in a cool oven all night, and be re- heated for dinner. It can be served hot, with the vegetables and liquor sieved and thickened, and with some sort of white sauce in addition. Or it may be served when cold in either of the ways given; the gravy, &c., will then help to make a tureen of soup. A good sharp sauce will be wanted with it if cold; or a good salad will improve it. Fowl with Tarragon, Boiled. —Prepare a fowl for boiling; chop tho liver, add it to some forcemeat (see recipes), and then put in a suspicion of tarragon; if fresh, the leaves must be blanched and chopped; if dried, see that it is finely powdered. Boil, and pour tarragon sauce over. Serve ham or bacon, or pickled pork with it. Cost, without the bacon or ham, about 4s. Fowl with Tarragon, Boasted.—Stuff as above, and truss for roasting. Make a good brown gravy ; add a little tarragon vinegar, and a sprinkling of freshly-chopped leaves. Garnish with watercress, seasoned with tarragon vinegar, and lemon juice. In preparing the stuffing for both these dishes, the foundation must be free from other herbs: a plain sausage meat may be used, or a still plainer stuffing made as for roast veal, but minus the herbs. In cooking a couple of fowls in either of the above ways, unless it is known that all like tarragon, it is well to omit it in one, or to serve, in addi- tion, some sauce or gravy without tarragon flavouring. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. 6d. on an average. Fowl a la Tartare,—Required : a fowl, seasoning and garnish as below, and some tartare sauce. Cost of fowl, 3s. to 4s. on an average. Take the feet from a fine fowl, split it through down the back, and lay it in a dish of clarified butter ; turn in five or ten minutes, and let tho other sido be- come well moistened. Then cook it ho- fore tho fire in a Dutch oven, basting from time to time with the butter. Take it up in twenty minutes and let it get cool, then coat it with beaten egg and broad-crumbs, and give tho final cooking, either by plunging into plenty of hot fat until brown and crisp, or by dipping again into butter, and broiling or grilling at a sharp fire. Pile up the joints on a dish paper, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Send tartare sauce hot or cold to table, also cut lemons and cayenne, and hot, clear pickles. There are few better dishes of fowl than this, and it is very good when cold. Fowl with Tongues, Cold.— Required: a fowl, white sauce, aspic, garnish, and tongues, as below. Cost, exclusive of tongues, about 5s. Gd. to 6s. Boil a fino fowl, and when cold, mask it with thick white sauce; chaudfroid is the best for tho purpose. Cut some aspic jelly into diamond shapes, about an inch and a half long,