331 MUTTON. as sauce, our leg of mutton and haricots becomes the gigot <i la Bretonne, well known to all lovers of wholesome and savoury cooker}'.” We would add that the haricots are as acceptable with a loin or neck, as a leg or shoulder, and may be served with chops or cutlets with as much certainty of success as with a joint. For moro details concerning the haricots, see under Cereals an d Pulse. [Ike also Union- Purees and Sauce.) Leg, with Potatoes.—This is a homely way of cooking, not to bo despised on account of its simplicity. If baked carefully, and cooked to the right degree, it will be found excellent. Instead, however, of the usual custom of baking the potatoes in the same tin, by which they absorb the dripping and gravy, we prefer the following way :— Supposing the leg to be set on a trivet in a plain tin, or a hot-water tin, baste it well at starting, then cook it gently. Boil four pounds, or thereabouts, of potatoes, until three-parts done, then drain (or what is still better, steam them for the same time). Cut them through lengthwise, and lay them flat side down, in a single layer in a separate baking tin. Pour some of the hot fat from the meat over, and cook until crisp, brown, and well done, about twenty minutes. Time them, that they may- be done by the time the meat is. Make gravy in the pan for the meat. Dish the leg, put the potatoes round, and serve the gravy separately. Serve a leg of pork in the same way. Austra- lian mutton may he used in this way. Loin, Roasted. — Follow tho directions given for roast leg in every particular, but trim off all unnecessary fat, which may be used for a common pudding or pie crust. If the fat be not turned to account there is no moro ex- pensive joint than a loin of mutton. Cover the fat with paper until within a quarter of an hour of its being done, then remove, taste, and flour slightly, to get it frothed. Instead of paper, take off tho skin of the meat, and, after cutting off some of the fat, replace ths skin; remove it for tho meat to brown. If the loin bo small, or it is not necessary to tako off any fat, simply baste it; do not take off the skin. It is, however, generally necessary to remove some of the under fat; few people care for very much of it. Cost, about lOd. per pound. Loin, Roasted, with Hari- cots.—Thisisa very good dish. Either serve some boiled haricots in the gravy round the joint, as directed for a leg of mutton, or make a puree, for which tho split beans are nicer (see Cereals and Pulse). Or, cook some green haricots, sprinkle them with chopped parsley, and serve in a vegetable dish. If onion-sauce is liked, it is excellent with the haricots; a mild one is most suitable; best of all is soubise sauce. A puree of onions is delicious ; serve it apart from the beans (see Vegetables). Cost, about lOd. per pound. Loin Flap, to Stew.—Required: meat, vegetables, gravy, and seasoning, as below-. Cost, about ‘2s. Wo have, in some of our recipes, advised the re- moval of the flap before cookingtheloin; out of many ways of cooking it, the fol- lowing w-ili be one of the most likely to give satisfaction : Sprinkle the inner side with pepper, a grate of nutmeg and lemon peel, and some chopped parsley; or when mint can be had, use that. Lay it, fat down, in a pan, put on tho top of it a good-sized Spanish onion, sliced, a couple of young carrots and turnips cut up, and let it fry brown in its own fat; then take it up on a plate. Add a pint of cold stock to the contents of tho pan, remove tho fat. and put in two or three parboiled potatoes, and a small quantity of fresh green peas (a gill or so). When it boils, cut up the meat, put it back, and cook altogether for another hour or less, very gently. If tho peas are young, give them less time. Tho potatoes and turnips aro intended to boil down to a pulp, to thicken the gravy, which only wants the addition of salt and pepper, and a few drops of browning. If any mint-sauce is at