DRESSED VEGETABLES. 669 with a little good gravy or sauce, or send to table with braised joints, steaks, Arc. For separate service, dish on a rice or potato border, or a ring croustade. Serve as hot as possible. Another way.—This is a good cold dish. Required: a pint of puree (made by passing cooked artichoke bottoms through a sieve while hot), a gill of mayonnaise, the same of strong aspic, a tablespoonful of whipped cream, twice the measure of chicken stock, the same of cooked chicken, pounded, and a little green colouring.' Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. The ingredients mentioned should be put to the puree by degrees, and the mixture stirred over ice until on the point of setting; then, if not firm enough, a little more chicken and aspic should be added, as in warm weather it is likely to need this. Fill the moulds, and level the surface with a palette knife, and set them in a cave, or imbed them in ice until cold and firm enough to turn out. For a more ornamental dish, the moulds may be lined with pale green aspic. Artichoke Puree.—Required: Jerusalem artichokes, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. to Is. This is rich, and is very nice with cutlets, &c.; it can be put in the centre, or may be served in a dish, or round a small braised joint. After boiling the artichokes, mash them with a fork, then rub through a hair sieve. Put the pulp in a stewpan, and add to a quart an ounce of butter, and a little salt and pepper, with a couple of table- spoonfuls of cream. Stir to the boil, and serve hot. There are several ways of varying this. Any rich sauce that will suit the meat is used in place of cream. White mushroom, or good parsley, or any that would be suitably poured’over the vegetables in the whole state, answers. With veal, white sauce flavoured with grated cheese is often liked. After dishing the purfe, some chopped truffles or parsley, or grated ham, may be sprinkled over the surface; or it may be left quite plain. Artichokes A la Barigoule. — Required: artichokes, forcemeat, butter, stock, thickeniiTg, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to 2s. fid., varies with the season and kind of forcemeat. Take half a dozen globe artichokes; wash and trim them, and remove the chokes. Fill the vacant spaces with a veal forcemeat, or one of veal and ham; a little chopped mushroom may bo added if liked (see Forcemeats). Mix and bind with beaten egg, then, after filling, tie the artichokes into shape with tape. Fry them a little in a covered pan, then pour off the butter, and add some good brown stock to j ust cover them. Cook gently for about forty minutes, and serve with the stock thickened a little, poured round them. Stock that would be suitable for good clear soup is required for these; it should be of a good colour and flavour. Another way.—Put the artichokes in a stewpan, with a few chopped mixed vegetables at the bottom ; lay a slice of bacon over, and cook covered for a short time, then drain, and cook in another pan with stock as above directed. By some, the flavour of the bacon is preferred to that of butter. Artichokes a l’ltalienne.— Required : artichokes, sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about 4d. to fid. each inclusive, but variable. Wash and trim some globe arti- chokes, and quarter them; boil until soft, and take the chokes out; arrange them on a dish, leaves outwards, and garnish with watercress and slices of lemon. Pour some rich white sauce, that has been flavoured with mush- rooms, all over the artichokes. Any good sauce does, and about a table- spoonful of white mushroom puree will flavour half a pint sufficiently for this dish. Artichokes A la Lyonuaise. —Required : artichokes, sauce, butter, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. fid. Wash and trim some globe arti- chokes; put them on to boil just for a minute or two, then drain and dry