698 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them up and drain them, then stew them in brown gravy, or steam them, and pour thick sauce over. The marinade can be used up in plain vegetable salads. Vegetable Marrow Shapes or Cups.—(See Turnip Cups.) Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed (see recipes in preceding chapter).—By using a rich forcemeat, and serving with a good white or brown sauce or gravy, very nice dishes are obtainable. The marrow may also be cut in pieces after boiling or steaming, then scooped out into boat shapes or any similar, the hollows filled with a white or brown mince of meat, poultry, or game, and served hot. (See Index for various minces and purees.) Tur- nips may be treated similarly if cut through, and scooped out into cup shapes. Vegetables for Garnishing. —The preparation of vegetables for the garnishing of soups, and various dishes of the cold savoury class, in- cluding salads, entrees, &c., requires considerable care, or they will be most disappointing as regards their colour. This is particularly the case when they are intended for the decoration of aspic borders, or jelly in any other form ; and to bring about the desired results the following points may be empha- sised :—They must be most thoroughly rinsed at starting, after the preliminary cleansing ; the water they are boiled in should be plentiful and well skimmed, and the vessel must be scrupulously clean; they must be well cooked, but not over-done; and this is a rather • difficult task when very small shapes are in question—for a moment too long, and they break; still, if not done, not only are they practically un- eatable, but the colour and general appearance are quite different; this is especially the case with turnips. As soon as done, they should be strained and rinsed with clean cold water, then put, each vegetable separately, in glasses of cold water until wanted; in this way any imperfection can be readily do- • tected. Each colour must he boiled in a separate vessel, and the freshest and best vegetables only should be us <1. After putting them in the glasses, cover to keep out the dust. Vegetables, Iced.—(See Iced Veoetaiiles.1