434 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. while to stow one down for the sauce if no game hones are available. Cost, from 4s. to os. per brace. Partridges, to Carve.— The method depends upon the quantity of birds at the disposal of the carver, and the nature of the meal. If there is enough, and the birds are small, they should be cut right through, and half a bird given to each, supposing the oc- casion to he a bachelors’ supper or a game dinner. When the party is a large one, and small helpings only are possible, carve like a fowl, but give some breast meat with each portion, the breast being so highly and de- servedly esteemed. Partridges, Cold, to Serve. —A cold partridge is much enjoyed, generally speaking. It should he neatly dished, and garnished with lemons and fresh parsley, or with aspic jelly for more elaborate service. A nice plain salad should be served with it (nee Salads). Sauce may be sent to table; mayonnaise or tartare is generally liked; and amongst Cold Sauces are some of a more piquant nature that are equally suitable for partridges and other birds. Tomato aspic is an excellent jelly to put on the dish with cold game ; it is as nice to eat as to look at—no small desideratum in garnish of any sort. Pheasants may be served in the same ways. Partridges with Cran- berries, American. — Send as many partridges, nicely roasted, to table as may be required, and, in ad- dition to gravy and fried crumbs, let there bo a generous supply of cran- berry sauce and currant jelly. Some of your guests may like one, and some the other. If once tried this is likely to become popular, and the sauce and jelly will bo as acceptable with other sorts of game as with partridge. Cost of birds, from Is. 6d. each when plentiful. Partridge, Cream of. — Re- quired : partridge, cream, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d., for a cream made from the best part of a bird. This may be made from the remains of cooked partridges. Cut off all the meat, and pound it well, then pass it through a wire sieve. Boil the remnants for a fumet; for half a pound of meat, a half-gill of fumet will he enough; add also enough thick cream to make a paste; season nicely, and put in a pinch of herbs in powder —not enough to kill the flavour of the partridge, only to assist it. Press the paste into a well-buttered tin, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and make it hot through in the oven, then turn out on a hot dish. This is nice for invalids or old people, but by almost anyone it will be welcomed. Pheasant may be prepared in the same way, and grouse is excel- lent. In setting the tin in the oven, a second tin should be set underneath. For a very delicate dish of the sort, tho game cream may be steamed, but the tin must be tightly covered to keep in the flavour. Partridges, Roasted. — Let the birds hang as long as possible to attain perfection. In cool weather they should he kept fully a fortnight before they are put down to the fire. They may be trussed either with or without the head, though the latter mode is at present more generally pre- ferred. Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, and wipe them carefully inside and out; cut off the heads, and leave enough skin on the neck to skewer them securely. Draw the legs close to the breast, pass the trussing-needle and string through the pinions and the middle joints of the thighs, and tie and skewer the legs. If the heads are left on, they should be brought round, and turned under the wing, with the bill laid on the breast. To give the birds a plump appearance, pass the needle through the back below the thighs, then again through the body and legs, and tie the strings firmly. Put the birds down before a clear fire, baste liberally with butter (a quarter of