FISH. GENERAL REMARKS. No article of food is more abused in the cooking1 and more neglected as a standing dish than fish of every sort. The public .are not solely to blame, and the neglect is sometimes only apparent; for where there is the wish to purcliaso it. may happen that the supply is not forthcoming or the price too high. But this is not the place for argument with respect to high prices, due to “ rings ” and other causes; we can only hope that the dav is not far distant when the fish supply will be plentiful, and all may enjoy it as a daily article of food, instead of once a week, or in some houses once a month. One thing the public are guilty of—we have it on the authority of a leading fishmonger, in a (own which is rich in its fish supply, though far from the sea—and that is the unwillingness to try any variety which they may not before have seen, especially “ if they cannot be told how to cook it.” Wo hope that the recipes in this work, together with the description of many kinds, may be a help in this respect; and we would first advise that our readers familiarise themselves with the several kinds of fish, or rather tho several classes, and then with as many varieties of each class as possible; for it is only the knowledge of the sort—the composition, that is—that will guide one aright in the cooking. Suppose, then, we divide fish into classes, and give a little consideration to each. First, White Fish, because it is best known and most digestible, in fact, the only sort eaten by some; taking for examples whiting, soles, turbot, brill, plaice, flounders, haddock, and cod-fish—not an exhaustive list, only a typical one. Here, the first, on the list gives the most digestible; the sole (with smelts) ranks next, and cod-fish gives an example of the least digestible of this tribe, unless crimped and in fine condition : by which we wish only to say, that when a really digestible fish is needed, for an invalid or otherwise, the others rank higher than the cod. These arc all rich in nitrogenous matter, but poo’- in fat; and although they are proved by analysis to contain but little more water, weight for weight, than animal food, they are less satisfying; hence, supposing the price to be the same as meat, fish would be the dearer; relative nutri- ment must always be considered in estimating tlie cheapness, or otherwise, of any food. But with meat, say, at eightpence, and good white fish, say, at, fourpence, the economy of a fish dinner becomes apparent. Were it, however, even the same price, it should bo eaten, especially by brain workers and sedentary livers generally, if only for a chango. That fish is good for the brain is now a truism, but it seems due not to the possession of any special brain-restoring element., but rather to the fact that what is easily digested, and imposes no hard task upon or causes suffering to the rest of the body, is good, too,for the brain : this, in brief, is the tonclusion arrived at by those who aro best ablo to speak. r.