u UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and a milky sediment at the bottom— recollect, melt the butter, but do not boil it. Skim the frothy top, and pour oif what may be called the clari- fied butter, leaving the milky sediment in the pan. Now you have got rid of what is often called the milk in the butter. Next take the stewpan, and having wiped it clean, pour back the clarified butter into it, and gradually mix in the dried and sifted flour, this will make a sort of pudding, which will all cling together, and will not— or ought not if proper care has been taken to follow these directions—cling to the stewpan. Keep this over the fire, and keep stirring with an iron or wooden spoon till it begins to change colour—i.e., it will gradually, from being almost white, turn to the colour of underdone pic-crust. As soon as the colour begins to change, redouble the stirring, and occasionally remove the stewpan from the fire for a few minutes altogether, in order that the flour should not be fried brown too quickly, for this is really all that is being done. It will be found that the butter and flour will go on boiling after it has been removed from the fire ten minutes or more, such is the power enamelled stewpans possess of retaining the heat. Have ready two slices out of the centre of a good-sized onion about a quarter of an inch thick. Keep stirring the butter and flour till it is of a light brown colour, then take the stewpan oft' the fire, and throw in the two slicos of onion, which havo the double advantage of slacken- ing the heat and of imparting a rich flavour to the thickening. This will cause a spluttering, and care should be taken to avoid splashes on the backs of the hands. Keep stirring till all bubbling has ceased, and this will be longer than many would imagine. Pour oft' what will now be a rich brown fluid, which will assume the appearance of light chocolate when cold, into small jars for use. It will keep for months, and is always at hand; in the end it saves time and trouble, while the difference in the tasto of a soup or sauce thr-kened with roux and one thickened with raw flour is incalculable. Browned Flour.—This is use- ful for thickening plain brown soups, sauces, &c. It should be prepared when the oven is cool. Pass the flour through a sieve, spread it on a tin or old dish, and put it in the oven until a nice brown, like the crust of a well- baked loaf ; it should be turned edges to middle during the process, that the outer part may not be burnt; when evenly coloured, put it through the sieve again, and store it, when cold, in canisters or bottles for use. Ordinary flour, of good quality, should be used for this—that is, no flour of the self- raising kind must be used, neither does whole-meal answer, as it must be quite finely ground. Browning, Liquid.—Put two ounces of pounded loaf sugar in a small iron saucepan; let it melt, stir- ring with an iron spoon ; when very dark, but it must not become black, add half a pint of hot water ; lot it boil up, and when cool bottle it. This requires a little care; if burnt much, it is very unpleasant, but if not burnt enough to take off the sweetness it will be sickly. A very few drops are required to colour a quart of liquid. No. 2.- For this, equal weights of onions, vinegar, moist sugar, and water, are needed. Put the onions, sliced, in a stewpan of untinned iron, with the water; in a few minutes add the sugar, and boil until a very dark brown. Boil the vinegar sepa- rately, and add to the rest, then take from the fire, strain when cooled a little, and bottlo for uso when quite cold. This can only be used when an onion or an acid flavour may safely be added to the dish. It is quite un- suitable for delicate preparations, but for all kinds of plain savoury soups, &c., it is very useful. No. 3. —This is simple, as it imparts no unpleasant taste. Put two ounces of the darkest chicory in a muslin bag; put it in a pint of water,