300 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. be served with Ibis, or a tiny pat of maitre d'hotel butter may be put on each slice. Time, about a quarter of an hour. A much more digestible dish, as well as one of bettor flavour, may be ob- tained by soaking the kidney in a little warm stock, before cutting and broiling it. Kidney with Haricots.—Re- quired : a beef kidney, a pint of small, white haricot beans, a carrot, an onion, and tho outside sticks of a head of celery, seasoning, thickening, and a little vinegar and dripping. Cost, about Is. 2d. Soak the beans, put them in an earthen stew-jar, with a quart of cold water, or stock No. 1 or 2, an ounce of dripping, and a sprig of parsley and thyme. Cook them in the oven for an hour, then add the celery and onion, very finely sliced or minced, and tho carrot, grated ; return to the oven for another hour, then put in tho kidney in thin slicos. Give about tliroo quarters of an hour more cooking, then season to taste, and serve in a deep, hot dish. Tho vinegar is to be added to the water for washing tho kidney, and instead of slicing it, it can bo cut into thick pieces, and added with tho vege- tables to the stew; in this way it is loss likely to become hard. A small apple, grated, is a further improve- ment. Kidney with Peas. — Some peas-pudding and pork should be pre- pared in tho usual way, and for each two pounds of pork an ox kidney should be allowed. In dishing, turn the pudding on a dish, and put round it the kidney, first cut in slices, and stewed in stock, which must be seasoned, browned and thickened. Serve some of the gravy in a separate tureen. Liver, for Gravy.—Mi* half a pound of moist sugar with two tablespoon fills of salt, llub tho liver well with this mixture, lay it in a shallow pan, and turn it and rub it every day for a week. Make a pickle by boiling a pound of Balt and an ounce and a half of saltpetre in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour. Pour it when cold over the liver, and let it remain in the pickle for six weeks, turning it every other day. Take it out, drain it well, and hang it in a cool place. When dry, it is ready for use. The liver should be cured in cold weather. When gravy is required, cut about four ounces of the liver into thin slices. Add a quart of cold water and any other suitable ingredients, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Strain and serve after thickening it. Salt will not bo needed. Instead of using the liver in this way for a se- parate gravy, a small quantity may be added to plain stews, to flavour and colour the gravy; the liver must be taken out before the meat is dished. Drain tho liver from the salt aud sugar, before pouring tho brine over it. Liver, Stewed.—This can be fried in tho same way as tho liver of tho calf or sheep, but is hard to digest; if that method is adopted, wo advise that it be stowed until nearly done, then floured, and plunged iuto hot fat to brown and crisp it; but if the “dry” method be more convenient, the cooking must be very slow. To stew it, cut it after washing, in half- inch slices, and put it, with half its weight of fried onions, in plain gravy [.see (inaw roil Stews), and give it from an hour to two hours. It is not desirable to overcook it, and it is sometimes done in an hour. After the gravy has been finished off, it should be served, preferably with bacon, and a wall of mashed potatoes or other vegetables round tho dish. Cost, about 4d. or 5d. per pound. Parsley or sage will improvo tho stew, and a bay-leaf is a good addition. Marrow Bones.—Saw the bones into equal lengths, and secure both ends with a flour-and-water paste ; tie a floured cloth over, and boil for two hours. Tho water should bo boiling