144 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. quired : two pounds of mealy potatoes, two ounces of butter, two eggs, seasoning, two ounces of grated Par- mesan cheese, one pound of cooked white fish, one pint of Bechamel Sauce, and some raspings. The potatoes should be weighed after cooking, and passed through a sieve whilo hot. Mix with them the butter, seasoning, the yolks of the eggs, and half the cheese. Butter a flat dish, spread some of the potato mixture at the bottom, then the fish, flaked, and mixed with the sauce; the centre should bo higher than the sides. Cover the top with the rest of the potato mixture, putting it on from a spoon, and smoothing with a hot wet knife. Beat up the white of one of the eggs, brush the top all over, sprinkle with a few raspings and tho rest of the choose, and bake in a quick oven a golden brown. 'Phis is a good luncheon dish, is equally suitable for broakfast, and all except tho egging and crumbing of the top may be prepared over-night. A fire-proof china dish' such as are used for macaroni, is nice for savouries of this description. Instead of browning in tho oven, it can be set over boiling water for a short time, and browned before a clear fire. Any plain white sauce may be used. Fish, Baked, with Savoury- Custard.—Cut slices of half an incli thick from a cod, large fresh haddock, hake, or any similarly shaped fish; lay them close together in a buttered pie- dish : a shallow one. Season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Required, in addition, the following ingredients—for three or four slices, according to size—two level table- spoonfuls of flour, a teaspoonful of curry-powder, tho same of chopped parsley, one ounce of butter, two eggs, half a pint of milk, and a saltspoonful of anchovy essence. Mix tho flour, &c., to a smooth batter, with the eggs and milk beaten together; if lumpy it is spoilt. Dissolve tho butter, and stir it in; pour over tho fish, and bake in a very moderate oven from t wenty to thirty minutes. Send to table in tho dish, after sprinkling the surface with raspings, or lobster coral or parsley, if for serving at dinner. This is novel, cheap, and a good dish for any meal. It is necessary that tho dish be only large enough to take tho fish; the custard should coat the surface. Whiting, or similar fish, cooked whole in the same way, are excellent. If preferred, sweet herbs can be used instead of curry-powder. Fisli, Boiled.—To ensure the fish being taken up without breaking, a fish kottle with strainer, as shown in tho accompanying illustration, is the best utensil. It can be lifted out as soon as ready, and well drained, by setting the drainer for a minute across the kettle. If such a vessel is not at hand, a pot the size of the fish (that is, it must take it comfortably) is the next best thing. But the difli- cidty is tho removal; a couple of fish slices will be needed, and the fisli must be tied in a thin cloth. Another way is to lay it on a dish or plate, and set that on a cloth, then tic up the corners like a boiled pudding, and hold them, when putting the fish in and taking it Fig 26.—Fish Kettle and Drainer. out. But in all houses where fish is an institution wo strongly advise the-