GAME AND POULTRY. 411 and an inch wido across the centre. These should be a deop yellow or pink. Put them in a row down the breast, and on each side place a row of ham butter from a bag and pipe. Have jeady boiled two tongues, calves’ are nicest. They must be carefully skinned and trimmed, and split through length- wise, then coated with aspic jelly. Put them tips up at each side of the fowl, then decorate them with ham butter and chopped aspic in alternate rows : work from base to point in using the forcing bag. Between the tongues and at each end of the fowl, put little piles of dressed salad, and mix amongst it some boiled ham in fancy shapes or strips. {See Salads.) This dish is suitable for cold colla- tions of all sorts. Fowl with Tongue and Ham.—These make a nice supper dish. The fowl is sometimes jointed, then tied together with ribbon, the tongue and ham being put round the dish in alternate slices; these should be even in size. This is a good way •where several fowls are wanted, and guests have to be quickly served; or where bad carving is the order of the day; as it is much better to take a little trouble to carve a fowl in advance, than to do it hurriedly and badly later on ; and the tying up is but little trouble if a second person holds the joints together. Coloured ribbon can bo used (unless the occasion be a wedding or christen- ing) ; the bow should be on the top of the breast. The fowls should be glazed, and the garnish about the djsh may be of the kind used for galantine. This is, however, a less economical di3h than when the fowls are honed. Another way.—Cut up a cooked fowl, boned or not, and stuffed or plain; the slices, or joints, should be even; then cut slices of ham and tongue, the samo size. Put them alternately round a dish, and fill up with salad. .Servo a nice cold sauce with them. Stuffed eggs can be put about the dish. The meat may be put in a row down the dish, and the eggs, and salad to form a bed, down the sides. As fowl, with ham and tongue, seems to bo one of those standard dishes of which peoplo do not tire, it is well to introduce a little novelty in the methods of service. Cost of fowls, 3s. to 3s. 6d. : ham and tongue, Is. 4d. per lb. ; more if bought ready cooked. Fowl, to Truss for Boiling. —The fowl is to be very nicely picked and singed, washed and dried; the neck cut off even with the back, but enough skin left to roll back neatly. The feet are cut off and the legs inserted through a slit made in the skin at the sides of the fowl. The wings are twisted over the back; a skewer is then passed through the bottom of the wing and the leg; another is then put through on tho other side ; the points of each should be in the body, not projecting, and the heads of the skewers driven close up to the fowl. The tops of the logs should then be made firm by binding ; string is generally used, but tape is much better. Another xvay.—Instead of tucking the legs in the body, cut them off at the first joint, then loosen the skin, and draw it over the end of the leg- bone ; fasten in the way above directed. If very carefully done, this has a neat appearance, but it is easy to break the skin, therefore novices find the first plan tho easier. Omit the liver and gizzard. Fowl, to Truss for Roast- ing.—Fasten the skin over the back with a little skewer, after cutting the neck off; scald the legs, and cut off the claws ; then fasten the pinion and leg with a skewor long enough to go through the body, and fasten the other pinion and leg’. Pass a needle through the backbone, and tie the legs as in the next recipe. Fowl, to Truss without Skewers.—A fowl may bo trussed for roasting ns follows : it is at first lather more difficult than tho.ordinary