UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 54G to roll, a few drops more water must be put in ; and if too soft, more flour from the dredger. Flour varies so, that the exact amount cannot bo stated; but the paste will be all the nicer if the right quantity be put in at first. After the paste is rolled into sheets, spread them on a clean cloth to dry for half an hour or more ; the best way is to divide it into three or four parts, then while the first is drying, the second is being rolled, and so time is saved. When the sheets are dry enough, put them back on the board for cutting up into the required shapes. For macaroni (by which we refer only to the kind called tape or ribbon—not pipe, i.c. that with a hole through it), lay the sheets on one another and cut into long "shreds half an inch or so in width. For fancy shapes for adding to soups, use any small star or other pretty cutters that may be handy. To make nouilles paste, cut the paste into strips of a few inches long, and almost as thin as vermicelli; it assists the cutting to use a ruler, such as is used for ruling lines on paper. Besides the above thread-like variety, nouillcs are cut like runner beans, or shaped lilco birds’ eggs. The paste is also cut into rounds in Germany, filled with a mince of ham and herbs, and rolled up like a tiny pudding, then cooked in broth. These are called filled nudelns, the Gorman name for the paste. Raviolis are made by cutting the paste in rounds with a plain or crimped cutter, and filling with rich forcemeat, making them puff-shaped ; or the little ball of forcemeat is laid on one round of paste, and a second round is pressed over it. In this way many dainty little dishes are obtained. The paste will keep in tin canisters if it is thoroughly dried after cutting; but it is intended mainly for immediate use. It cooks quicker than the bought varieties. A last hint: do not try to roll the paste with a .pin that bulges in the middle; it must bo quite straight. A marble slab should be used in pre- ference to a board. Hominy.—This is one of the staple foods of the vegetarian, and is a very valuable article of diet; it is not too much to say of it that almost every person might eat it occasionally with advantage : for growing children it is excellent, but it is not suited to infants. In the United States hosts of the class known as brain workers, of both sexes, indulge freely in hominy at their mid- day meal. It can be served with equal success as a sweet or savoury, and it has the merit of extreme cheapness. But hominy has one drawback; it cannot be got ready in a hurry; to be worth eating, that is. In scores of recipes one may meet with some such direction as “ boil for ten minutes;” some go further and advise twenty : we know one American writer who asserts that the propounders of such recipes have never tasted hominy. It may be unfair to take this for granted ; but it is not too much to say that few persons, after tasting hominy after a couple of hours’ cooking, would ever again be satisfied with the orthodox twenty minutes. This necessitates a double pan for such dishes as are prepared over the fire, or much stirring is involved; but in most cases, even for porridge, the cooking may be done in a jar in tho oven, or the jar may be set in a tin of water on a cool corner of tire range: some people loavo the jar in the oven all night, and wisely. Perhaps no grain derives more benefit from tho soaking process than hominy; it softens it as no amount of cooking, minus soaking, will; but it is well to state that there is always a trace of roughness about hominy, however long it may bo cooked, and to some this is an objection : it can bo considerably reduced, however, by adding a small amount of any cereal of tho smooth kind, either whole or ground —sago and barley being amongst the most useful. Hominy comes over to this country in linen bags, so is cleaner than many cereals; but some washing is advisable. It is sold at about 9d. per bag of five pounds. “ Steam- cooked ” Hominy takes but a short time to cook, but it is not obtainable