DRESSED VEGETABLES. (See also Entrees, Souffles, Omelets, Fritters, Salads, Pastry, &c. &c.) In this chapter are dishes of vegetables for serving with meat that are entitled to rank above the commonplace, either by reason of the trouble involved in their preparation, or the'costliness of the adjuncts. Here also will be found the dishes known as entremets, or as they are some- times called, second course dishes; the latter term is hardly correct at the present time, ns many nice dishes of vegetables are served as a second entree. Considerable attention has been given of late to this branch of the cuisine, and rightly so; and there is not the slightest reason for people who do not dine late, or who do not partake of the number of courses that constitute a high-class dinner, to debar themselves of dainties of this kind. There is no question that the only way to enjoy and appreciate the delicate flavour of many vegetables is in the form of entremets; and their preparation is in many instances far less troublesome than it appears on paper. The first step to success is, we think, a right understanding of the initial preparation of the vegetable, whatever its kind; and for this reason those who serve plainly cooked vegetables in perfection will be likely to succeed with the dishes we are now considering. The rules for vegetable cookery generally are given in the preceding chapter, and to repeat them here would waste space. Of the iced vegetable dishes, which are just now fashionable—more fashionable than wholesome, some consider—only a few examples are given ; but others can be evolved by any intelligent cook. A number of the sauces that are served cold are just as nice iced as the kinds singled out for treatment, and almost any vegetable is sure of a welcome if perfectly cooked and left to get cold, then served in a tasty form with a good cold or iced sauce. But the dainty service of such dishes is important. It is not necessary that all should be elaborately garnished; but it is not enough to “ bundle ” them on a dish in any fashion, and it is just at this point that so many people break down; the finishing touches are completely ignored. We would call attention to the fact that many of the dishes here may do double duty; that is, they will by a very little alteration serve as salads; in fact in some instances it is rather difficult to draw a line between vegetable entremets and salads ; the latter term is now so elastic. We have already spoken of the uses of tinned vegetables, but perhaps they are never more handv than for little dishes of dressed vegetables, especially when a few of several kinds are required. Artichoke Bottoms Puree.— 1 Tut the cooked artichoke bottoms Required : artichoke bottoms, stock, in a saucepan ; the tinned ones answer and sauce as below. Cost, if tinned I well; add a little good whito stock, and vegetables, about Is. Cd. to Is. 8d.; of cook fora short time, then rub them fresh ones, uncertain. | through a wire sievo; put the pur6e in