627 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. tender; add the sorrel, and simmer until the water has evaporated, and the whole is soft. Add a little butter, and pepper and salt, and serve like spinach. The dish may be garnished in a variety of ways, either with hard- boiled eggs, sippets of fried bread, or slices of boiled carrot cut into shapes. It is usually served with white meats, as veal, sweetbreads, &c.; but it is excellent as a garnish for poached eggs. Some persons cook this vege- table without sorrel, but to our taste it is too bitter, and wants toning down. It will, in all probability, be more often found on the tables of the rich than of the poor, not from its cost, but from its peculiar taste and flavour. Other ways of preparing this homely plant for table will suggest themselves on reference to Spinach. Dandelion leaves, young and blanched, are not unlike endive; and are an excellent addition to salads. Cost, uncertain. Dandelion Roots.—These are said to be at their best from July to October; they are considered very good eating if carefully prepared. They want washing and scraping, and should be very gently boiled, like greens generally, until tender. They may then be finished off in various ways. (See recipes under Cabbage, Spinach, &c.) Endive.—This has long been cul- tivated, and is used as a vegetable and for salads. For the latter, the curled variety is preferred; but the dwarf white endive is more delicate when boiled for table. The cost is variable ; from 2d. to 4d. per head is the average. Endive may be obtained very early in the year. Endive, Boiled.—For a good- sized dish, take half a dozen heads; wash them well; the outer leaves should be stripped off, and the stalks cut to separate the rest of the leaves, and facilitate the washing. Lots of grit will be fonnd amongst the leaves, and scrupulous care is required. Put the endive into a large saucepan, half full of boiling water, slightly salted, and boil for twenty minutes, or rather more. Then drain in a colander, press and chop it, and put it in a clean saucepan with a teaspoonful of white sugar, a little salt and pepper, half an ounce each of flour and butter, and a gill of plain white stock. Stew for a few minutes, then serve. The sugar’ can be omitted if preferred. Stir all the time to prevent burning. If the bitterness is objected to, it may bo reduced by boiling the endive in two waters. Or, after boiling as above, it can be put in cold water for a few minutes, then squeezed, and finished off as directed, or in any of the ways given under Spinach. Fennel.—This plant is often found wild, but it is cultivated also, and is in that form very superior ; it may be used ns a garnish, its leaves being very graceful; it is also used for sauce in the same way as parsley. Cost, very variable. Garlic.—This bulb is related to the onion, but is very much stronger; each bulb is divided into cloves. When carefully used, garlic is valu- able, and will give a “twang” to many dishes, that cannot otherwise be imparted. It is natural that a wide- spread prejudice exists against garlic, seeing that it is so often used in the same way as onions; whereas, a rub over the bottom of tbe salad bow], ol- dish, with a morsel of it is generally enough ; or a crust of bread may bo rubbed rvith it, and tossed for a second in any liquid, as sauce or gravy. Garlic can be bought both in the fresh and dried condition. It enters into store sauces, chutnoys, &c. Pooplo who have had experience of foreign cookery will best appreciate garlic. Garlic Paste. — This is also called “ Ayoli.” Chop up two or three cloves of garlic, with from six to nino sweet almonds, and add the yolk of an egg; soak some bread crusts in water, squeeze them dry, then add them to the above, with onough olive oil to