166 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Mackerel, Baked.—Required : two mackerel, and some seasoning as under. Cost, about Is. 6d. Prepare the fish just as for Mackerel, with Onions. Mix the fol- lowing ingredients : two heaped table- spoonfuls of bread crumbs, the same of chopped parsley and minced onions, mixed with a mushroom, if possible (the onions should be scalded); a good pinch of cayenne, salt to taste, a little powdered or fresh thyme, and a grate of nutmeg. Sprinkle this over one fish, laid skin down in a greased baking tin; lay the second one on skin up. Grease a sheet of paper, put it over, tucking it down, and bake in a good oven for half an hour; loss if small fish. Have a hot dish, slide tho fish on, add their liquor to some good brown piquant sauce, as caper, mustard, &c. ; boil up and skim, and pour round tho fish ; shake some raspings over tho top, and servo. Garnish with fried parsley, or small onions or mushrooms, fried and glazed. It will be noticed that no fat enters into tho seasoned crumbs ; on account of the oily nature of the fish, none is needed. Another way.—Pour in tho tin a glass of vinegar and tho same of water ; omit tho greased paper, and baste tho fish, while cooking, with the liquor. When done, add some brown sauce; boil up, and serve as above. Mackerel, Boiled.—Open the fish just enough to take out the roe, and to cleanse the inside ; wash the roe clean, and lay aside; have the water salted as usual, but below boiling point, or the skins will break; lay the fish on tho drainer, and the roe by their side ; cook, after boiling point is reached, for about fifteen minutes, simmering only, and skimming well. The roe may bo replaced in the fish, or can be kept for other dishes. Drain, and lay on a napkin on a hot dish ; garnish with pnrsley or fennel, and serve the same sauces with them ; or gooseberry sauce is equally suitable. Sometimes tho sauce is poured over tho fish. In washing mackerel use salt and cold water; and in drying use a soft cloth; avoid rubbing, dab gently, or the skin will come oif. Always take the eyes out. Small, tender fish must go into water only warm, then they must be carefully watched. Time, about eight or ten minutes to simmer after the water boils, or less will do if very small. Steaming is a bettor method. Mackerel, Broiled or Grilled. ■—Wash and dry as above; open as little as possible; make three incisions in a slanting direction on each side tho fish; put in a little seasoning of salt, cayenne, mixed mustard, and salad oil, and brush all over with oil only. Cook gradually for twenty minutes or more, turning it often, and giving it a few minutes cooking on its back last thing. Put a pat of Majtre d’Hotel Butter in; closo, and serve hot. Or use a little Tomato Butter in tho same way, first mixing with it a saltspoonful of French mustard. The latter method is very delicious. Another way.-—Fillet tho mackerel before cooking, and serve devil sauce, or any similar kind with it; sauce ta.rta.re is excellent; a spoonful may be put on each fillet; small croutons may be used for garnish. Mackerel, Fillets, in Wine. —Raise tho fiesh from the bones on each side ; cut into two or three parts, slanting, according to size; saute or broil them until very delicately browned, then lay them in a stewpan with equal parts of fish stock and Madeira ; cook for ten minutes gently; lift out with a slice, dish them in a row, leaning one against another, slightly overlapping; stir a bit of glaze in the wine, and pour over the fillets. Gar- nish them with slices of tomato, cooked in a little butter without browning; put on each slice a little heap of chopped cucumber, cooked, and sprinkle with parsley and capers, chopped ; put between the tomato some lemon, cut first into thin slices, then each slice into quarters. This is a high class savoury. Serve for luncheon or dinner.