KITCHEN PROCESSES. 3 vary too much to allow more than an approximate specification. In some, a joint would be done in less time than at an ordinary open fire ; again, at the fire of a large grate in an hotel or a college, the same joint would he cooked more quickly than in a small oven with erratic tendencies. The main point is, get to know your particular oven and its workings, then treat it properly by keeping it clean inside; and in order that it may receive its due amount of heat, see that the flues are regularly and thoroughly swept. A last hint: Do not, for the purpose of turning or dishing the meat, stick a fork into the leanest and best part; a couple of good-sized wooden spoons are useful, as they form a good support for a large piece; or a fork or wooden skewer may be used if the fat or skinny portion only is pierced. The thing to avoid is making holes in the juicy part, which, for some unexplained reason, always seems to be the part to suffer. This is the age of invention; but, so far as we know, no one has brought out two handy articles for which we think there would be a ready sale. One is an automatic baster—i.e., a receptacle for dripping to be suspended over the meat; and the second is a revolving meat-stand. The use of two such articles would certainly reduce con- siderably the time spent in attending to a baked joint, whilo the cooking protest would be facilitated by the more evenly-regulated temperature. Barding.—See Labuixo. Boiling. -Meat for boiling should he freshly killed : if hung as for roast, ing, the colour suffers, and if the least tainted the dish will be spoilt. The water should boil when the meat is put in, and be kept boiling for a few minutes to prevent the escape of the juices ; a small quantity of cold water should then be added—from a gill to half a pint, according to the quantity of boiling water—in order to reduce the temperature; after which, sim- mering point should be maintained throughout. The scum should be most carefully removed; some kinds of meat, as heads and necks, often throw up "a good deal, even after very careful washing, and req-aire attention during the first part of the time; otherwise the lid should be kept on the pot, or there is much loss of flavour. Care, too, is necessary to prevent smoking over an open fire. A large quantity of water robs meat of much goodness, and only just enough to cover it should be used; while the vessel should be adapted, as far as possible, to the joint; one just large enough to hold it easily is better than one much too large. Fio. 3.—Boilixg-Fot. In Fig. 3 is shown a boiling-pot of the ordinary shape; such are usually made of cast iron or wrought iron, and are very durable, but heavy. Block tin ones, of the same shape, preferably with a copper bottom, Fio. 4.—Inox Saucepan, with Tin Potato Steamer. answer the same purpose for close ranges, or gas or oil stoves. In Fig. 4