UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 660 lined saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, and a little salt, pepper, and sugar. Cover, and simmer slowly; then, either take away the loose skins and beat the rest up to pulp, adding a little thickening, or, what is better, rub it through a colander or coarse hair sieve. The thickening may be flour or corn-flour, mixed with water or stock to a paste. For better pur6es, see the next chapter. If liked, add a little cooked carrot. Cost, about 8d. When very liquid, evaporate by quick boiling. Tomato Sauce.—-(See Sauces.) Tomato Soup.—(See Sours.) Tomatoes, Steamed.—Choose small tomatoes; cook in a single layer in a potato steamer, turning them once; they will take from ten to twenty minutes, and may be served with meat or fish. If brushed with butter the appearance is improved. Cost, as above. Tomatoes, Stewed.—Slice as many tomatoes as may be wanted, after taking off the stalks, and peeling them if liked. For a pound, allow a couple of ounces of butter, with a little seasoning. Cover, and cook softly in an enamelled saucepan until done— about twenty minutes. If more con- venient, cook the tomatoes thus in a covered jar or dish in a moderate oven. For any dish of this sort, uso a wooden spoon, or an enamelled one, in pre- ference to iron. For a cheaper dish, use dripping. Another way. — After melting the butter at starting, add an ounce of flour; stir until smooth, then put in a gill of plain stock or water. This will do for two pounds of tomatoes. Finish as directed above. Small tomatoes can be stewed whole. Tomatoes, Tinned.' — The quality of these varies greatly; the best and most expensive being the whole tomatoes in upright tins, im- ported from Franco; these are perfect in colour and flavour. Then there are the so-called whole ones, in the ordinary tins of a quart or so each, but, as a rule, they are more broken than whole. Noxt come the tins of the same size ; about od. or 6d. being the average price. These are broken very much; but they are extremely useful for soups, purees, sauce, &c., when further boiling is necessary, and the ingredients are sieved; in such cases, of course, it would be folly to give the increased prico for the whole fruit. But there is a vast difference even in those; some brands arc very pale and watery, and comparatively flavourless; others are of good flavour, consistence, and colour. Almost every grocer’s shop contains a choice of brands, and when one is found to be satisfactory, note should be made of it. In our recipes, when “ a tin of tomatoes ” is mentioned, one of the latter class, of the ordinary size (about a quart) is intended. In dealing with the whole tomatoes, the liquor must be drained off, and the fruit allowed to slide out on to a plate; the thing is to avoid breaking it. For hot dishes, it must be gradually heated (as it is already cooked), either in the oven or before the fire, with a little butter; or it may be simmered in gravy or stock; or heated in a potato steamer. Then there are certain preparations called “ tomato pur6e,” “ stewed ” or “evaporated tomatoes;” the leading feature being their freedom from skin, pips, and hard cores; some are flavoured a little, others are plain. These range in price from 8d. to 9d. per tin, some- what larger than tho ordinary size, and are very useful for the quick prepara- tion of soups and stews ; or they may be heated and turned into a vegetable dish, and served with meat. Most of these hail from America; ono or two firms have a wide reputation for goods of this class. By adding any coeked cereal or pulse, a more satisfactory dish is obtained; and with eggs, a little bacon, or a flavouring of cheese, a good meal may bo had at small cost, and in a short time. When served alone, if desired thick, any thickening may be