UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 88 brown sauce, or thicken with roux or browned flour to the thickness of cream ; colour, and add a few drops of flavoured vinegar if a piquant gravy is liked. A bit of red currant jelly and a tablespoonful of port or claret should be put in if a good gravy is required. Gravy a la Game may also be served with this. Gravy, Clear, for Roast Rabbit.—Pour the fat from the lmking-tin; pour into it a pint of stock (No. 16), boil it up, and add a glass of claret, sherry, or Madeira; strain' a little round the rabbit, and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. A slight thickening of arrowroot may be used, if preferred ; many people object to a thin gravy, however good it may bo. Gravy for Roast Veal.—There are many ways of preparing this; generally, for a plain family dinner a thick gravy is preferred. To make a good one, pour away the fat from the tin, and add some veal stock, made from bones or from beef and veal bones, about a pint to a small joint; scrape the tin well, then add a little brown roux to make it as thick as cream; boil up well, and flavour with store sauco or ketchup, or add a little j vinogar and soy. A small quantity of [ glaze or extract of moat is a further improvement, and for bettor gravy use j stock No. 6. Another way.—Make a tureen of plain melted butter; add a little stock, •and boil up in the tin ; put in a spoon- ful of browning. The melted butter should be made with veal-bone stock, or any trimmings of the joint can ho stewed down with a bit of ham for tho purpose. This is paler in colour than the above. Another way.—Boil up in the tin half a pint of any ordinary plain stock, then put in a little brown sauce to make it the desired thickness ; season to taste, and put in a teaspoonful of mushroom-juice or cook a mushroom or> two in the stock. A squeeze of lomdn-juico improves veal gravy. Gravy for Veal, Hashes, lAinces, &c.—(See Entries and Made Dishes, and Cold Meat Cookery.) Gravy for Venison, Plain.— Use any odd pieces of the neck or the trimmings of the joint; cut it up, and add to a pound a pint and a half of weak mutton stock from bones or the liquor from boiled mutton ; put in a little salt and a few white peppercorns, bring to tho boil, skim, and simmer for two hours, then strain for use. Gravy for Venison, Rich.— Use a richer mutton stock, and add two ounces of lean ham; simmer ns above described, with the same weight of meat, &c. Gravy for Venison, Sweet. —Required: a glass of port, a table- spoonful of red currant jelly, a strip of lemon-peel, half a pint of gravy as in the preceding recipe, a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix in a saucepan, boil up, skim, and serve. A morsel of glaze may be added, and tomato jelly may he substituted for the red currant jelly. Gravy, Orange, for Wild Duck, &c. — Put a minced shalot on to boil in a pint of stock (No. 6, 7, or 8). Add the thin rind of half a Seville orange, a little salt, a few pepper- corns, a clove, and a strip of lemon- rind, a few leaves of basil and thyme, and boil for twenty minutes ; then add the juice of half the orange and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, a glass of claret or port, and a pinch of cayenne; re-heat, but do not quite boil this, then strain through a hot strainer. For a milder flavour, use loss rind, or boil it before adding it. Gravy, American, for Wild Fowl.—To a gravy made as above an extra quantity of port is added, and a tablespoonful of black currant jelly. The flavour is good, so is the colour, and such a gravy “ goes ” with game of most kinds. Gravy for Wild Fowl, teal, widgeon, and pigeons, may bte made as