Universal cookery book. 180 Salmon in Jelly .—Required : two pounds of salmon, a pint and a half of liquid aspic, seasoning, and garnish as helow, and a nicely dressed salad (see Salads and Garnishes). Boil the fish, skin it, and divide it into flakes; boil three or four eggs hard, cut the white of one into long thin strips, and sievo the yolk; cut the rest into slices; wash a handful of small cress, with a little tarragon and chervil, shred the tarragon, and dry all well. Lino a plain mould thinly, sides and bottom, with aspic ; put in a pattern some slices of egg, with a few shrimps, and some of the salad ; put at the sides, an inch up the mould, the strips of egg, curling them round, with a shrimp or bit of grew, in the middle ; pour aspic to set the bottom garnish, and lay in pieces of fish an inch deep; then put in more jelly, and let it set. Then fill up the mould, loosely, with the rest of the fish, eggs, salad, &c., and add tho jelly. Leave until firm, turn out, and servo a dressed salad round the base. The sieved yolk should be sprinkled amongst tho gar- nish. This is a nice dish for luncheon in hot weather, or for out-door gather- ings. It may bo made more elaborate by increasing the garnishing. If carried all up tho sides of the mould, lobster coral, prawns, &c., being mixed in with the eggs, it is very effective; but made just as above it is compara- tively inexpensive and very pretty. Some shredded cucumber and capers may be mixed in with the rest, and dressed cucumber served with it. The ingredients must all bo ready before commencing, and tho fish quite cold. Salmon Mayonnaise.—For a large party, a cut from the middle will furnish a handsome dish, say from four to six pounds of fish ; it should be boiled and skinned, then loft intact and dished, and bo well coated with thick mayonnaise, flavoured with an- chovy essence. The garnish is the next consideration; some sliced cucumber (sec Cucumber for Garnish) in a row down the centre, with prawns, capers, and small salad, is suitable and effective. It should be borne in mind that in garnishing mayonnaise, anything of a non-edible kind should bo avoided, or waste follows: for instance, if sprigs of raw parsley were put on, they would bo left on the plates, with a good doal of tho sauce sticking to them. We mention this because wo have seen it done. On tho dish, round tho fish, crayfish or prawns may be used, with green salad, and fancy blocks of aspic. Raw tomatoes, sliced, and coated with white or green mayon- naise, then sprinkled with lobster coral or chopped lax (Norwegian salmon), are effective, and may bo freely used, together with fancy shapes of beet- root, slices of lemon, and sprigs of watercress or chervil. Any small salad should be lightly seasoned with oil and vinegar in tho usual way (see Salads), but much liquid must bo avoided. In hot weather, leave the dish on ice until tho instant of serving; to be enjoyed in perfection it must bo cold. For tho various adjuncts, sec Index. Salmon Peel.—This is the name given to an inferior variety of salmon, which seldom reaches moro than a few pounds in weight; it should bo dressed like ordinary salmon. On account of its size it is generally cooked whole, • and in tho shape of the letter 8. To truss it in this form, thread a large needle with twine, pass it through the eyos and under the jaw, tie it securely, then run tho needle through tho thick part of tho tail, and out again on the opposite side, and tie the thread tightly. Salmon Pickled.—See Salmon, Sficed. Salmon Quenelles.--See Lobster Quenelles. Use raw salmon in place of cooked lobster; omit the cream; tho rest of tho ingredients arc the same, so is the method. Thick white sauce will do instead of bechamel. To poach these, or any other quen- elles, have a saute pan ready, slightly buttered ; if they are not to bo shaped with a spoon, or moulded, use a forcing