468 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. to pull hard, holding the leg firmly. Next cut oft' the head and neck close to the body ; leave plenty of skin to turn over the back. Put the legs in boiling water, then peel off the rough skin. Next put in the forcemeat, and sew the neck over the back, or use small skewers. Press the legs close to the body, turn the points of the wing3 over the back ; put the liver through one pinion, and the gizzard through the other. Cut a slit in the apron, and put the nose through. Truss the bird very firmly; one skewer is wanted through the legs ; another through the noddle to confine the wings; and a third near the end of the merry-thought, under the wings. These will prevent the weight of the stuffing, &e., making it turn irregularly on the spit. Cover the breast, also the liver and gizzard, with plenty of well-buttered paper. Pass string across the back of the turkey, twisting it round the points of the skewers in a crossed direction. In a very large bird, put a fourth skewer through the ends of the legs, and put in the first and second skewers before stuffing it. The backbone should be beaten flat; and if the breastbone be so treated, place a thick cloth first over it, then use a stout rolling-pin. (See remarks on this subject under Goose, to Truss.) Wlieatears. — These should bo cooked the day they are killed. Pick, singe, and draw them, and cook by- passing a skewer through. Then bake or roast, broil or grill; they will take but ten minutes if well basted with butter. They are sometimes coated with egg and bread-crumbs before cooking. Gravy improves them, and bread sauce and fried crumbs are often served with them. They may be mixed with other birds for a pie or pate. Widgeon.—The common widgeon is plentiful in Britain during winter. The flesh is good for the table. The American widgeon forms also an es- teemed food. Tt breeds chiefly in the northern parts of America, and is com- mon in winter on the coasts of the United States, and in the rice-grounds. Widgeon, Roasted.—Rub the breast of the widgeon with the liver till it is red. Truss it securely, and put it down before a clear fire. Flour it, and baste frequently till done. Serve on toast in a dish, and send the gravyto table with it. It is generally preferred that a widgeon should be underdressed. If liked, it may be stuffed with the liver pounded and mixed with a few bread-crumbs, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon rind, and bound together with the yolk of an egg. Time to roast the widgeon, a quarter of an hour; if liked well done, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Widgeon are often treated just like wild ducks and teal, orange gravy being served with them. A very good hash may be made from a roasted wid- geon ; the gravy should be flavoured with sherry and orange j nice, or a salm i of the usual kind may be prepared. Cost from a shilling each, but very uncei tain. Wild Duck, Fillets of. —Re- quired : the fillets from the breast and sides of a wild duck, toast, gravy, or sauce, and an orange salad and garnish as below. Cost, about 3s. When it is known that the breast only is eaten at table, this is a very good way of serving the duck. The fillets should be nicely arranged on the toast, and a garnish of lemons or oranges put on the dish. Orange gravy or brown sauce should be served in a boat, and an orange salad is always a suitable addition, though it may bo dispensed with. Wild Duck, Hashed. — Re- quired : the remains of a duck, gravy, or sauce, and adjuncts as below. Cost, about 2s., or rather more. Supposing the fillets to have been served as above detailed, take the rest of the bird and joint it, then heat it in any sauce or gravy that may be left over, or make a little of a suitable sort