UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 382 scum, put in a few slices of onion and carrot, a bunch of herbs, and if a plain brine has been used to pickle it, add some spices tied in muslin. If spices have been used in the pickle they arc not needed. Boil as gently as possible; if fast, the tip will become ragged, and the root will remain hard. A medium- sized tongue will take three hours or more; a large one from four to five hours. Test it with a skewer, but avoid probing more than necessary, or a good deal of the goodness will be lost. Skin it as soon as it is cool enough to handle, and be careful to make no holes in the flesh. If not to be collared, put it on a board, and pass a skewer or two through the thick end, and another in the tip, to keep it in shape until cold. The under-part must first be cut evenly, for the tongue to stand well on the dish. If fat is not liked, a good deal must be removed. Those who like fat usually prefer it all left on, except any parts which would spoil the appearance. Cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Ox Tongue, to Carve.—The illustration below shows an ox tongue as generally served, garnished plainly with a paper frill, some parsley or Fig. 95.—Ox Tongue for Tabi.k. watercress, and some scraped horse radish, but the latter may be dis- pensed with. Perhaps the most common way of carving is to make a cut near the centre of the tongue, carrying the knife only about three-fourths down, and then taking slices from both sides until the root and tip are reached. This is wasteful—the fat left on the dish becomes discoloured by the time the tongue is consumed; and a more economical way is to cut the tongue right down, through the middle, then take slices thinly from both sides. As has been already said, superfluous fat should be cut off before it is dished j then the probability is that not more than will be eaten is left on. When the meal is over, the two parts should be pushed together, to prevent dry- ness. Any fat which may be left, so long as it is sweet, will come in useful for mixing with lean beef, or other meat for potting. Ox Tongue, to Collar.—The very simplest way is to roll the tongue round, tip inside, while hot, just after skinning, and tie it firmly with plenty of tape. A plate is then put over, and some weights put on the top. Or it can be put in a round cake tin, as nearly as possible the same depth; any cuttings from the bottom of the tongue may be put in the middle, and it must be rolled tightly, or it will not turnout firmly. The best method is to put in a collaring-tin, or brawn- press. There are many varieties, but the one shown is simple and inex- pensive. The tongue should be cut through, lengthwise, while hot, and the halves curled round and laid in, one on the other; the thick part of the second half being- placed on the thin part of the first. The tin, a, is made with a hollow bottom; the drainer, b, fits in; the meat is laid on it, and then the lid, c, is put on the meat. The lid being smaller than the tin, drops inside, so that, supposing the meat only reaches half the depth of the tin, it is as well pressed as if it quite filled it. Woights, or flat-irons, are set on the lid, and the meat is left until quite cool. The tin may be made any depth; one of about twelve inches is very useful. It will then serve for two tongues, or a nice-sized piece of.