SAUSAGES, POTTED FORCEMEATS, AND MEATS AND FISH. SAUSAGES. Toss of sausages are turned out weekly of the best possible quality; indeed, it is very doubtful whether the majority of “home-made” arc as good. But there are sausages and sausages; and we warn anyone against buying any that are the least suspicious. If highly coloured they should be rejected; and so should all that are not perfectly fresh; those which have been lying, perhaps, in the sun for a whole day in a shop window, are to be avoided. Those most generally offered for sale are of beef and pork ; the latter should only be indulged iu in cold weather. Home-made sausages are, however, a treat when properly made, and preferred by some to any other, even where ample facilities for buying them exist; and there are times when the cuttings of larger pieces of meat —say at pig-killing time iuthe country—may be used up in this form with advantage. The first thing is the meat. The second is ihe machine. Of the meat we cannot too strongly urge the importance of freshness. As to the machine, that should embody simplicity, cleanliness, and such an arrangement of the cutters that bits of stringy, sinewy meat are caught and retained, not passed through the holes into the sausage skins. Most of the machines, which are called by various names, look much alike to the novice. The one that will be found of all-round usefulness in an ordinary kitchen, and will cost from fifteen to twenty shillings, according to its size, may' be best described as a “ combination mincer,” and will serve for sausages as well as for cutting up meat for raised pies, for chopping suet, and many other purposes, simply by changing the cutting plates. A machine of a complicated character will not be a success; simplicity of construction is necessary to cleanliness, as the parts must be well washed and dried cadi time it is used: and we advise the enamel-lined machines in preference to any other. They are a trifle dearer to start with, but with careful using they last for years, and are as easily washed as a teacup. This, as users of such utensils know, is no small advantage. Perhaps the best thing is to see a machine at work before buying it, and this can bo done in most largo towns. The most thorough washing is necessary; plenty of boiling water and a little soda will keep the cutting plates and other parts free from grease or elogginess ; a dirty machine will spoil tlio next lot of materials that, may be passed through it, whatever the r nature ; whereas, with care, fruit and vegetables may bo put through a sausage machine without the slightest taint of “ foreign ” flavour. Next wo must consider the seasoning. Bought sausages, are, for the most part, seasoned with salt and pepper only ; or to pork sausages a little sago is sometimes added- Upon this point milch must depend upon