587 CHEESE. This is a savoury for use in hot -weather. To make it, put into a saucepan a gill each of cream and milk, the yolks of three eggs, and a pinch of cayenne and grated nutmeg. Whisk tho mixture until on the point of boiling, then take it from the fire and strain in a gill of milk in which half an ounce of French sheet gelatine has been separately dissolved. The two preparations should be cooled a little before mixing. Two ounces of grated Parmesan should be stirred into the first pan as soon as taken from the fire. This may be put in one large or a number of small moulds, holding about half a gill each. A very superior dish is made by adding a gill of stiffly-whipped cream just before the custard is moulded; it should be cool when this is done. Place the moulds on ice or in an ice-cave, and turn out when cold and firm on to a bed of green salad; or chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley can be used to garnish the dish. Cheese Straws or plain crisp biscuits should be served with the custard. Cheese Cutlets a la Meri- vale. — Required : eggs, cream, cheese, vermicelli, seasoning, white sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about Is. Break into a basin the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two ; add half a gill of cream, two ounces of grated cheese, half Parmesan and half Cheshire; season with mace and cayenne. Whisk this very thoroughly, then beat in half a gill of any rich white sauce: Bechamel for choice. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin with turned-up edges to the depth of half an inch, then let it steam gently until firm. This may be done in a potato steamer or in a tin of water in a slow oven. When perfectly cold, cut this into shapes with a small cutlet cutter, and dredge both sides with grated cheese as used for the mixture. Next coat them with raw beaten egg, and finally with crushed vermicelli. Lay them carefully in a frying-basket, and. plunge them into clean fat, very hot. As soon as golden brown, drain on soft paper, and dish. They may either be placed on a ring of fried bread or laid on separate croutons the shape of the cutlets, but a trifle larger. This is a dainty dish, and care is needed in its preparation. Note.—Take care to remove the specks from the eggs before adding the cheese, etc. Cheese, Devilled.—This can be varied with respect to flavouring, but it is, as its name indicates, a piquant preparation. Slice some cheese into a stewpan: a mixture of sorts is often liked; then add a little butter, or milk, or cream to moisten, regulating the quantity by the condition of the cheese. Stir until melted, when it •should be of the consistence of thick custard. Add cayenne, salt, mixed mustard, and some finely-chopped mixed pickles; chutney is another suitable adjunct; and many would think the dish lacked completeness without a dash of Worcester sauce. This can go to table in a hot water dish, or the mixture may be poured on toast or fried bread, in strips or squares. To be eaten in perfection, it must be piping hot. Cost, about 6d. for a small dish. Cheese Meringues.—Re- quired : cheese, flour, butter, eggs, and seasoning as below'. Cost, about lOd. to Is. Melt in a saucepan six ounces of sliced cheese, of which half should be Gruyere and half rich English ; three ounces of butter and a gill of water are to be stirred in as soon as the cheese begins to melt, and the whole must form a smooth creamy mass after a little stirring. Have ready some dry sifted Vienna flour, stir it in little by little until the whole becomes a stiff paste, then add tho yolk of an egg, beat well; add a second, and beat again. Tako two tablespoons, grease tlie insides of both; tako *up a spoon- ful of the paste, level it, and by means