31 STOCKS AND SOUPS. the butter with the ham and beef, after passing them through a mincing machine. "When a rich brown, add, little by little, two pints and a half of cold water, with a pinch of salt; skim carefully, then cover and boil gently for three to four hours; then strain and leave until cold, and remove all the fat. Cost, about 2s. Gd. per quart. Stock for good Gravies (No. 17).—This is richer than the pre- ceding. Put the same weight of meat and ham in the pot, with vegetables, &o., as above, but omit the butter and the frying. Add a quart only of cold water, cover after skimming, and sim- mer as above; strain, and, while hot, add a teaspoonful of extract of meat or a bit of glaze. Cost, about 2s. 9d. In straining both this and the pre- ceding stocks, let all go through except the debris of moat and vegetables. The coarser the strainer the better: a fine one would keep back a great deal of the goodness of the meat. SOUPS AND SOUP MAKING. There is no branch of English cookery so imperfectly understood, as a whole, by the average Englishwoman, as the preparation of soup. The basis of most soups is stock in some form, and although directions will be found for the various kinds under their respective titles, we give here a few rules of universal application. And first, why should it be, or rather, why is it true that so many fail in preparing a good tureen of soup, even when they have the command of ample material ? while as to concocting any out of homely materials, such as are, alas ! too often thrown away, it would frequently mean a complete break-down. Perhaps the chief cause of failure is, as with Stock, that tradition has handed down, recipes of such a nature, that the idea that soup is of necessity very trouble- some and expensive has gained so firm a footing that it will not be easily eradicated. For this reason recipes of an unnecessarily complicated nature have no place in this work. We do not, however, wish to convey the impression that soup can be made without trouble; on the contrary, the preparation of some sorts involves a good deal, and time must not be begrudged. We refer rather to some methods which are practically almost obsolete, but still included in some modern works on cookery. For instance, the boiling down of the meat for drawing out the juices to form a glaze at starting, mainly advocated for imparting colour, can be dispensed with; for the process, though easy enough to an experienced cook, would lead the novice all astray in nineteen cases out of twenty; while we now have in “glaze” and “extract of meat” useful media for this and many other purposes. For particulars of their preparation and chief uses, also for recipes for the cooking of vegetables, croutons, quenelles, and other Garnishes for soups, reference should be made to those headings in the Index. Then tho apparent number of soups bewilders some people “It lias been estimated,” says Sir Henry Thompson, “that the titles which denote these numerous varieties number altogether perhaps not less than five hundred, and proceeding on the principles on which they are produced there appears to bo no reason why the present list should not be doubled in length. In reality, the number of species is very limited, but the slightest addition to a soup having been