233 MADE DISHES AND RELEV^S. and crisped bacon for garnish ; or little sausages may be used. Serve tomato salad, or tomato or currant jolly, with this; or the Savoury Tomato Pre- serve given iu a later chapter. Beef, Fillet of, Savoury.— Take the fillet from the loin, cut it into slices, and sprinkle each with chopped onions, parsley, thyme, and all the other seasonings used for Veal Forcemeat, Rich. The onions should be plentiful. Then lay the slices to- gether, and tie the meat in its original shape. Roast before an open fire, basting well; or it may bo cooked in a Dutch oven. When done, glaze it, and serve any nice sauce with it; Piquant, Brown Onion, Chutney, and many others are suitable. When the meat is about half done, it should be seasoned with pepper, powdered herbs, and grated nutmeg and cloves. Cost, about Is. per pound inclusive. Bsef Fillets with Eggs. — Required : some fillet steaks, cut into sina'l rounds, the same number of eggs, some horse-radish butter, and Rich Potato Cakes. Cost, about 3s. Gd. for a dish of nine. Broil the steaks, after brushing them with oil or butter; they must bo from well-hung meat. Have the cakes ready fried, and Laid on a hot dish; put a steak on each, then poach the eggs, and trim neatly, leaving a circle of white half an inch wide only round tho yolk. Lay an egg on each piece of meat. Chop up the rest of the white into pea-sized pieces, and add to a gill of brown sauce. Put a little of this round each egg; on the top of the eggs put a small pat of horse-radish butter. This is a very good dish for any meal. Any other butter may be used in the same way. Beef Fillet with Olives.— Required : a fillet of beef, a bunch of herbs, a carrot, some bacon, an onion, and a few stalks of celery, stock, wine, seasoning, kc., and a dozen olives. Cost, about Is.-Id. per pound, inclusive. Put the sliced vegetables in a buttered stewpan, with a slice or two of bacon; lard tho meat, add it, and pour over a gill of stock No. 6, or any similar; let it become absorbed, then add another gill, with the same quantity of light wine. Cover with a little more bacon, and cook in a moderate oven, basting a time or two. When nearly done, stone and blanch a dozen olives; add them with a little more stock, and a bit of glaze and brown roux, and finish the cooking. Glaze and crisp the meat, and pour the olives and gravy round it. Servo with a Puree of Sorrel, Endive, or Spinach. Beef cooked as above may be served a la jardiniere or a la finan- ciere, just according to the garnish. An ox-tail, blanched and cooked in tho same way, is excellent. It should bo browned in a little hot fat, the thick end first divided; then well drained bofore cooking. The bacon may bo omitted, a sheet of buttered paper taking its place. Beef, French. Stew of.—Re- quired : a thick steak from tho rump, about three pounds, a pint of rich stock, as No. 0 or 7, half a pint of white wine, a bay leaf, shalot, head of garlic, salt and peppercorns, some roux and burnt onions. Cost, about 4s. - Beat the meat well; fry it brown in hot fat, then put it in a stewpan with tho other ingredients, except salt and onion colouring ; these should he added towards the end, with enough roux to thicken very lightly. Cover, and cook gently for an hour and a half to two hours; longer still if tho meat is fresh. Then finish off, and serve with tho gravy over and send a plain salad to table with it. Any left over will bo found delicious if served cold in a salad, or converted into potted meat. Another uai/.—Boat tho meat as above, and lard it; put it in tho stew- pan with the same stock to three- fourths of its depth; omit the wine, and put in a grated carrot and a grated apple, with a bay leaf, and a tablespoon- ful each of tarragon and cucumber ii