UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 582 chestnuts, passed through a coarse sieve, and allowed to fall lightly in. This is very tasty, and a good accompaniment to sausages or liver. Brown lentils are intended, and they should he par- boiled in stock. Peas Brose.—“In the West of Scotland, especially in Glasgow,” says Dr. Andrew, “peas brose, as it is called, is made of the line flour of the white pea, by forming it into a mass, merely by the addition of boiling water and a little salt; it is a favourite dish with not only the working classes, but is even esteemed by many of the gentry. The peas brose is eaten with milk or butter, and is a sweet, nourishing article of diet.” Milk is sometimes used for it. With reference to this dish, it is not too much to say that the number of persons who could digest it in England is comparatively small. Certainly, those who have been trained to cooked fare would not be wise to attempt experiments with dishes of this class. (See remarks on page 575.) When cooked, the brose is to be recommended to those who work hard in the open. It may be served with any of the usual porridge adj uncts. Peas, Dried Green, Boiled. —Soak whole or split peas (see page 575); if oatmeal be added to the water, rub them between the hands ■while rinsing, to get rid of it; if they seem soft, and look a nice pale green, something like fresh peas, they may go into hot water; if not, put them in cold; to either, add a pinch of white sugar and a little fat free from salt; oil or butter is best; use plenty of water, and cook slowly without the lid until done. Mint may be put in the water, or added after dishing, together with some butter, or the peas may be served without either. Add no salt until they have softened. It is im- possible to lay down any time for the cooking; we have found some samples tender in about three-quarters of an hour; others have taken more than double the time. It is a good plan to try a sample, and note the time required, then, if good, to lay in a stock. They must be stored in a dry place ; we think that canisters or jars with good lids are the best things for the purpose. Some prefer stout brown paper bags, suspended from the ceiling, the peas being first enclosed in calico bags. For superior dishes of boiled peas, reference should be made to the recipes for cooking fresh peas, in the next chapter, which will meet all requirements. Cost, about 2d. to 3d. per pound. Peas, Dried Green, Purde of.—Required : peas, stock, butter, cream, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 9d. or lOd. Put a quart of split green peas in a saucepan, and cover with white stock (No. 9 for a rich puree) ; an ounce of butter, with a little white pepper and sugar, and a bunch of herbs should be added, and the whole covered with a sheet of buttered paper. After simmering until soft and rubbing through a sieve (the finer the sieve, the better the puree), a few minutes’ re- heating with a gill of cream, salt to taste, and a suspicion of green colouring finishes the puree, which should be dished in a pyramid, and served with meat or as a separate dish. The nature of the dish with which the peas are to be served will be a guide as to garnish. When these peas are good and well dressed, they may be used as substi- tutes for fresh ones when they are not obtainable. For a cheaper pur6e, use a plainer stock, reduce the cream, and add milk, with a little corn-flour to thicken. Peas Pudding.—Wash and soak a quart of split peas; drain and tie them in a cloth, leaving room to swell; the best way is to tie the cloth in two places—the first within a couple of inches of the peas, the second a couple of inches higher; then, when the peas have swollen up to the first string, it can be cut. This is less trouble than having to re-tie the cloth in a second place, while it is hot. Put them on in