74 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Boon as tender, then added just before serving. Crab Soup (very good and eco- nomical).—Required: a freshly-boiled crab, a quart of milk, a quart of fish- stock, seasoning, rice, butter, &c. Cost, about Is. 2d. First wash half a pound of rice very carefully; put it on to boil in the milk, with a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper, and one ounce, or rather more, of fresh butter; when perfectly soft, mix with it all tho yellow meat or pith from the body of the crab, and the stock (No. 14). Rub all through a hair sieve, and add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies or shrimps, and more seasoning; return it to tho pan, stir until it boils, then tear up the flesh from the claws of the crab with a couple of forks; put them in, and leave until heated through, but do not boil again. For this and many other pre- parations of crab, great care in its selection is very important. A small piece of stick cinnamon may be boiled with the rice when the flavour is not objected to : it is said to render crab easier of digestion. After washing the rice, put it to soak in a pint of fish-stock for a few hours, and put it on to boil with the stock in addition to the milk ; more stock should be added during the boiling, until another pint has been used. This makes a quart in addition to that used for the soup. For a richer crab soup, use two crabs and rather less rice ; other in- gredients as above named. Tish Mulligatawny. — Re- quired : two pounds of fish, two quarts of stock (No. 14), two onions, two leeks, two apples, one carrot, one turnip, two ounces of clarified fat, a large bunch of herbs, plenty of parsley, one ounce of curry-powder, one ounce of curry-paste, salt to taste, and thicken- ing. Cost, about 2s. 2d. Prepare the soup as for Fish Soup (Brown) ; put the bones and trim- mings in with the stock and' a little salt, boil up, and skim well. In a separate pan melt the fat, mince the vegetables, and grate the apple; .add the herbs, and fry for ten minutes; mix the curry-powder and paste with a little stock, stir to the boil, then add the whole to the first pan, and boil gently for an hour and a half. Have ready in the tureen some boiled rice, and the fish, separately cooked,* and cut into small squares; then strain.the soup on to them, or rub the soup through a sieve, and re-boil before adding it. Put in a few drops of lemon-juice. If preferred, the soup can be thickened with brown roux or browned flour, and the boiled rice handed separately -with cut lemons, quarters or slices. Mulligatawny-paste is rather milder than curry-paste, and is sometimes preferred. If the curry-powder is not very fresh add to it a pinch of pow- dered coriander-seed. Fish Soup (Brown). — Re- quired: three pints of stock (No. 14), a bunch of herbs, a teaspoonful each of French vinegar, tarragon vinegar, and mushroom ketchup, a pound and a half of fresh white fish, a teacupful of minced vegetables (as great a variety as convenient, green vegetables ex- cepted), two ounces of browned flour, two ounces of butter, seasoning t-o taste, and a small tomato. Cost, about Is. 3d. Wash the fish, remove the head, fins, &c., and put them into the stock with all tho other materials (flour and butter excepted). Boil down to a quart, then strain. Put the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, and mix well; put in the strained soup by degrees, then the fish cut into squares of an inch or thereabouts. Cook until the fish is tender. For this any flat fish can be used, or fresh haddock, whiting, &c. The bones should be boiled with the trimmings. A mixture of sea and river fish may be used. * This may be boiled, steamed, baked, or fried ; the latter is the most savoury. It must not be bread-crumbed. (See Fish Fried Pi.mni.y.)