HOGS. G01 following, plovers’ eggs can be served in any of the best of the ways given for ordinary eggs. (See also Salads.) Plovers’ Eggs, Boiled.—Boil them in the usual way, allowing from eight to ten minutes; arrange them nicely, and if served in a napkin, garnish with parsley or a substitute. Serve brown bread and butter with them. Some dislike the method of serving in a basket above mentioned; then a napkin may be used for cold eggs: it should be prettily folded. Another way.—Shell the eggs, and lay them in little cases of fried bread (see Garnishes), then pour over them some rich sauce: amongst others, we may mention as very suitable, Becha- mel, Veloute, Supreme, Sauce Yolaille, and Sauce Italienne, W HITE. Plovers’ Eggs, Boucliees of. -—These are delicious morsels ; they can be served as an entree. Boil five or six eggs hard, cut them through lengthwise when cold, and musk the cut side with a little nice forcemeat; some pounded cooked poultry, moist- ened with rich white sauce or cream, delicately seasoned with fine herbs, and a dash of mace, white pepper, and cayenne, is the best for the purpose ; or a slice of any rich savoury pate, such as are sold in tins, answers well. Make this quite smooth, then coat with rich Frying Batter, and fry a golden brown. Pile in a serviette, and garnish with fried parsley. Cost, variable. Another xcay. — Proceed as above directed, but use some very thinly- rolled puff pastry for the cases, in- stead of batter; it should be cut in oval shapes, and the edges brought together across the top, then pinched up with the fingers; or, if preferred, the edges can be made to overlap and be neatly joined. Brush these over with beaten egg yolk, then roll them in crushed vermicelli, and fry as before. If the paste for these is not thin, they are a failure, as the moment they are a pale brown they are to be taken up, and should the paste be thick it will have a raw taste. Drain on paper before serving. Plovers’ Eggs, in Cases.— Required : eggs, forcemeat, and gar- nish, as below. Cost, variable; from Gd. or 8d. each, inclusive, on an average. Take some fireproof china cases, one for each egg, coat them round the bottom and sides with chicken force- meat, such as is described above; or it can be made more savoury by frying a chopped mushroom or two with the herbs, and mixing with it. Break an egg into each, and cover with another layer of forcemeat, making it even by the aid of a warm palette-knife. Set these in a tin of boiling water in the oven, and let them simmer for about a quarter of an hour or until firm ; or a potato steamer can be used if the tops of the moulds are covered with buttered paper, and the water allowed to boil very slowly. Turn out on a hot dish, pour a little rich white sauce over, and sprinkle them alternately with chopped truffle, parsley, and grated ham; do this as quickly as possible, and serve at once. Plovers’ Eggs, Fritters of.— Required : boiled eggs, sausage meat, batter, and a raw egg. Cost varies with the forcemeat. Take for six eggs about twelve ounces of rich veal sausage meat, or any preferred (see the chapter on Sausages). Shape this into a roll, and tie it in a buttered cloth, then cook it in a potato steamer for about half an hour; it should be the circumference of an egg in its shell in its thickest part. When this is cold, cut it in slices the sixth of an inch thick. Take the eggs, boiled hard and left to cool, cut the ends off, then slice them in the same way. Spread the sausage slices out on a board: there should be as many again as there are slices of eggs ; lay a slice of the latter between two of meat, and press them together, sandwich mode; then brush round the