UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. G26 Many persons object to it on account of its being so indigestible, and cer- tainly this is the case. If the stalk end bo kept standing in cold water, and the water be changed every day, cucumbei'S will keep hard for a W6ek or two. Cucumbers may be dressed in many ways; the rind is generally removed, but in the. opinion of some, if it were eaten, the fruit would be more digestible. It is customary to sprinkle it with salt after slicing it for table, then to drain off the moisture which exudes. This is declared by many to he an error; thoy contend (and we think, rightly) that one might as well draw off and throw away the juices of ripe fruit of any kind. We think that this mode toughens the cucumber. It may bo oaten with salt and pepper only, but vinegar is gener- ally added, and a little oil improves it. Various ways are given under Salads. We may add that tomatoes, eaten with cucumbers, are excellent; and tiro dish is more wholesome than cucumbers eaten alone; the acid of the tomato has the power of softening the cucum- ber, and reducing it to a pulpy con- dition, as anyone may prove by slicing the two articles, and covering them' for a few hours. Unions, especi- ally Spanish, arc also good with cucumbers. A refreshing dish, popu- lar in Chicago, is one of thinly-slicod cucumber, seasoned only with pounded sugar and lemon juice. In cutting a cucumber, it should be remembered that the stalk end is to bo left intact; that part being of no value ; those who cut that end make a mistake, as the flavour suffers by reason of a certain bitter principle, which is thus carried all through the cucumber. This principle is more pronounced in the common varieties ; but it is a good rule always to pool from the thick end downwards. Many ways of cooking cucumbers are given in the next chapter; see also Garnishes, Salads, Sauces, Sours, Pickles, &c. Cost, from 2d. to 6d. when plentiful; but often much more. Cucumbers, Boiled. — (See recipes under Vegetable Makhow.) Some prefer steaming; others liko boiling ; the latter requires the greater care to prevent breaking. Small cucumbers may be left whole, the seeds scooped out from one end ; larger ones can be halved or quartered. Either serve with white sauce or pour it over. Another way is to three-parts cook in the first instance, and finish the cooking in the sauce, a little thinner than usual; the cucumbers may be thickly sliced for this. A de- cided improvement is effected at little cost by flavouring the boiling water with herbs or vinegar, or an onion or two can be put in, or the sauce may receive the addition of a little chopped onion. (Sec Sauces.) Cucumbers, Stuffed, aud Stewed. — Required: cucumbers, forcemeat, stock, toast, and thicken- ing. Cost, about 8d. each, inclusive, when cheap. Cut them through lengthwise, re- move the seeds, and fill with any plain sort of stuffing free from suet; tie the two halves together, and cook in plain vegetable stock, or the liquor from boiled meat just to cover. When done, add a small quantity of flour and butter for sauce ; pour over, and serve on toast. Time, about an hour. A little tomato pulp in the gravy will make the dish more digestible, as well as more appetising. Curried Vegetables. — (See Index ) Dandelion. -The first mention of a dish of cooked dandelion will most likely create aversion ; but it can bo honestly recommended. It is inexpen- sive and easily obtained; for fresh growths after showery weather may bo had throughout summer and winter. Gather an equal quantity of fresh dandelion and sorrel leaves. Put the dandelion by itself into a stewpan, cover it with a small quantity of boiling water, and stew until nearly