514 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. answers ; if browned, dip them in hot dripping before crumbing them. Curry of Cold Meat.—This is very plain and cheap. Required : half-a-pound of scraps of meat, cut in dice or small slices (several kinds may be used together), a large onion, a small apple, or a few gooseberries or rhubarb stalks, or a tomato, half a pint of common stock (as No. 1 or 2), or the liquor from boiled meat or that from vegetables (as stock No. 10), a good teaspoonful of curry powder, an ounce of dripping, and half an ounce of browned flour; or, for white meat, ground rice or ordinary flour. Cost, about 10d., exclusive of the rice. Peel and slice the onion, then chop it up and fry it in the fat, first well heated; add the chopped apple, or either of the substitutes, stir for a few minutes, then mix in the powder, flour, and stock, and stir to the boil; skim the fat off and cook until the onion, &c., are tender ; add salt to taste and a little pepper if liked. Put in the meat and serve in twenty minutes, keeping it below boiling point all the time. Boiled rice should be served with this. (Sec recipes under Rice.) Supposing it is desirable to cook the meat—if underdone, for instance—let the sauce boil up well, then put the moat in and give it from half an hour to an hour’s gentle simmering, adding a little stock from time to time. Note.—A spoonful of sauce, either Apple, Tomato, or Gooseberry, or the same measure of Cucumber Sauce, or a little of the same kinds of puree may be put with the foregoing, to give the required acidity and piquancy, to increase which a spoonful of any sort of flavoured or pickled vinegar may be added; then the fresh apple is not wanted, as a plain curry of this de- scription will be just as good so treated, and the scrapings of a sauce tureen may be thus used up advantageously. Curry of Cold Meat and Vegetables.—This is a scrap dish pure and simple. To make it, take any sort of curried vegetables—a mixture is the nicest — and any left from dinner come in handy. (See recipes under Vegetables.) Supposing a pint or so of vegetables and sauce together, put in from a tablespoonful or two to half a pint, according to convenience, of any bits of cooked meat or poultry there may be in the larder; odds and ends of game may go in with any dark meats, and bits of ham, or bacon, or tongue, will “ blend ” with white meat or poultry. The whole mass should be quite thick, and put pyramid- shape on the dish, with some plainly- boiled rice or Curried Rice round it, and a hard-boiled egg or two, sliced, about the dish. Cost, variable. Cutlets, Prussian.—Required: a pound of cold meat—veal, with rabbit, chicken, or any other poultry, and a small proportion of bacon or pickled pork, or veal and bacon only— two shalots, a teaspoonful of salt, or less may do, half as much pepper, a tablcspoonful of parsley, or other similar sauce, a good-sized mush- room, a raw egg, some bread-crumbs, potatoes, and a morsel of butter. Cost, from Is. 2d. to Is. Gd. Let the meat be minced, then season it (a grate each of lemon peel and nut- meg are further improvements), chop the mushroom and shalots, and “sweat” them for five minutes in the butter; add them with the sauce, the white of the egg beaten, and enough mashed potatoes to give the desired consistency. Mould into little cutlets the size of neck of lamb cutlets, then brush them with the yolk of the egg beaten with a tablespoonful of milk. Coat them with the crumbs, and fry crisp and brown. Stick a morsel of pipe macaroni in the end to form the bone, and dish them in a ring round a mound of Mashed Potatoes or a pile of Potato Snow'. Another way.—Use mutton or beef and brown sauce instead of the above. Add the same seasonings, with the exception of the lemon peel. Serve round a mound of cooked vegetables of any sort in season.