ENTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEVES. 211 them as above, heat them in it, and then proceed as follows : Make some cooked artichoke bottoms hot, put some of the meat on each, leaving a margin, then round the edge of the artichoke, put a Pur fin of Peas from a bag with small pipe. On the top of the meat, in the middle of the pile, put a small ring-shaped crouton; in the centre, put more of .the peas puree, and round it, on the ring, place tiny egg balls ; the croutons should bo glazed, and the balls not larger than a pea. (Sir Garnishes.) These should be put fiat on a dish, the centre being- filled with more peas puree, dotted about with egg balls. These should be the size of a marble. This is a very pretty dish. Cost, 2s. Gd. to 3s. Calf's Head. Croquettes.— These will furnish a very good entice at small cost, if a little care be exer- cised in the preparation. Supposing the remains of a head cooked for dinner, with some of the sauce, brains, and tongue, are at hand. Cut the meat &e., small, and mix with enough sauce to form a creamy mass, which will mould when cold, and retain its shape. A little strong stock will assist this. It should be divided into portions the size of a small walnut, floured, dipped in Rich Frying Batter, rather thicker than usual, then fried in very hot fat. When cooked, the inside should be moist and creamy; but if made large, the fat not hot enough, or the batter not thick enough, the result will l>e failure. I>o not try to cook many at a time, or the fat will be too much reduced in temperature to brown and crisp them properly. Dish nicely, and garnish with fried parsley. If liked, a smail proportion of cook'd veal forcemeat may lie mixed with the above. Or some forcemeat balls can bo cooked, and put about the dish with the croquettes. Canapes a la Shorncliffe.— Required: a dozen croutons, cut with a two and a quarter inch cutter with a crimped edge. When fried, glaze the edges half an inch round, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Make a mince by passing half a pound of any sort of cooked game through a sieve, add two or three ounces of pate do foie gras, also sieved, a tahlespoon- ful of sherry, in which a morsel of glaze has been dissolved, the same measure of truffle essence, and brown sauce, No. 2. Make this hot in a bain- marie, and put a little heap on each crouton. Cut some small slices of the foie gras, free from fat; heat them as above, and put one on each canape. Sprinkle a few fried crumbs over, and serve hot. Cost, indefinite. Chicken Creams, a la Gra- itame.—Required : six ounces of raw chicken, two ounces of boiled ham, four ounces of Panada, four eggs, half a glass of sherry, half a gill of Brown Sauce, and a quarter ounce of glaze. Pound and sieve the ham and chicken; pound the panada, add the yolks of the eggs, mix altogether, and pound again. Dissolve the glaze in the sauce, add the wine, and whip the whites of the eggs (two only) to a froth. Blend all lightly, and season with salt and pepper, and a little grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Butter some little fancy moulds, “ leaf,” “ shell,” &c.; fill them, and cook like Quenelles. They will take from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn out and dish them on a shallow ring- croustade, with a spinach or any other green puree in the centre. The creams are to rest on tho purfie, the bottoms only on the croustade. A gravy, made from the bones, and thickened, should be poured round. Cost, about 2s. Gd. Chicken Creams, a la Victor. —Use thick supreme, or other rich sauce, in place of tho wine, glaze, and brown sauce in the above recipe. Cook in tho same way, and coat the creams with thick supremo sauce ; sprinkle them with a littlo chopped parsley, and sieved egg yolk, and servo a puree of any seasonahlo vegetable in tho centre. If a wliito one, mask it with supreme Banco, coloured a pale green.