UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 12 often undergo a further ornamental process (cold dishes, we mean); these are detailed in the chapter on Garnishes. For hot dishes, let the glaze he applied evenly, the colour being con- sistent with the kind of meat. Fillets of beef will take a darker glaze than sweetbreads. In the foregoing directions we have referred to the use of glaze in connec- tion with meat, game, and poultry; hut a few words are necessary with respect to the finishing off of many other dishes by glazing. By way of example, croutons, and various sorts of “borders” may he mentioned; but thero are hosts of other dishes that may be so treated with advantage, to which reference is made under their respective headings in subsequent chapters. What we would here point out is the fact that in many instances something is sprinkled over the dish after glazing ; the glaze, therefore, has two uses : it is in itself ornamental, and also serves the purpose of cement- ing, so to speak, the final garnish, which may bo parsley, chopped eggs (first boiled hard), shredded ham or tongue, etc. Then, glaze serves to enrich brown sauces, as will bo seen from our recipes; and it may be useful to point out that it is well to dissolve the glaze separately before adding it, unless the sauce can he stirred all the time, and full time allowed for it to dissolve. But it often happens that when several dishes are on hand, a hit of glaze is found very useful at tho last moment for a sauco or gravy that may appear to he not quite “ up to the mark,” cither in colour or consistence. We recommend, therefore, that a supply of glaze be kept in liquid form, ready for any emergency. Lastly, we must mention glaze in connection with rich, clear gravy, to which it is added just to give a sticki- ness and certain amount of body, without impairing its brightness, i.r., in instances where a little very good gra ry is w'anted, Such as is sometimes poured round savoury omelettes. Such gravies are further detailed in the recipes for the particular dish which they are intended to accompany. Grilling.—This mode of cooking can only be carried out perfectly where forethought is the order of the day : a clear bright fire, a perfectly clean gridiron, and tender, well-hung meat, being the chief desiderata ; with these, and close watchfulness, with judgment in taking up the meat at the right time, small dainty dishes may be cooked in a most digestible and ap- petising manner. The fire may bo cleared by throwing on a handful of salt, and coke is useful for mixing with cinders, which should be put on in good time. Tho gridiron must be made hot, and then rubbed over with mutton suet or salad oil before the meat is laid on ; or the meat itself may bo brushed over with oil; a sprinkling of pepper may also be added, but salt never, it would harden the meat. The gridiron should be put near the fire in a slanting direction, and as soon as the pores of the meat are closed on one side, it should be turned, in order that the other side may be so treated, after which the gridiron may he slightly raised, and kept so until the meat is done. A pair of steak-tongs are em- ployed by good cooks for turning the meat, but a spoon will answer the pur- pose, or a skewer may be passed into the fat part, but never into the lean, or the gravy will run out, and the meat be spoilt. As to the turning of the meat, it is a disputed point whether once only during the process is correct, or whether very frequent turning is desirable. We recommend the latter method, once every minute, as the most generally successful. The time must be regulated by the weather, the kind of meat, and its quality; the latter is important, for only good meat may safely be subjected to the fierce heat at starting necessary for the sealing-up of the juices, and. the production of the rich dark brown