GAME AND POULTRY. 443 boiled and flavoured with grated Par- mesan; recipes will be found in a later chapter. More rice is to be put over, and brushed with raw egg, then dredged with crumbs and cheese, and browned in a good oven. Macaroni, sparghetti, &c., are also used in this way. Cost, about Is. 3d. each, inclusive. Pigeons, Roasted. — Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, as many as are required ; wash them well, or they are very objectionable, and dry them thoroughly. They may be stuffed, or not (see recipes for Forcemeat) ; if they are, extra time must be given. They may be larded, or a slice of fat bacon can be tied over the breasts. They want a clear sharp fire; from twenty to thirty minutes must be al- lowed. For a small unstuffed pigeon fifteen minutes will be enough. Unless briskly roasted they will eat very differently ; for, although they should be well cooked, they should yield gravy when cut. Dish on a toast or crouton, and if the pigeons are not brown enough, brush them with glaze. Brown gravy is generally served, and bread sauce is still liked by many. Brown sauce, or any other that would go to table with fowls, will go equally well with pigeons. Gravy can be made as for fowl, using the gizzard, See., if not required for any other dish. (.Set also recipes under Rabbit.) Fora very superior dish, use any good brown stock for the gravy, as No. 18 or 17, seasoning and thickening to the de- sired consistency, and flavouring with a little wine, sherry, or Madeira. Cost, i)d. to Is. each for the birds. A vine leaf is sometimes put under the bacon previous to roasting. Pigeons, Stewed.— Required: two pigeons, stock, butter, thickening, See., as below. Cost, from 2s. 6d. up- wards. Pluck and prepare the birds, and divide into quarters. Put them in a saucepan with plain brown stock to nearly cover them; add a sprig of parsley and thyme, and a morsel of onion, if liked, and stew gently. When nearly done, add brown roux to mako the gravy as thick as cream. Serve with the gravy strained round them. Potato chips are a good addition. Another way.—Add a little cheese to the gravy, and serve with a border of rice cooked in stock. (See recipes under Rice. ) For a white stew, use white stock, and thicken with white roux, or a little cream or the yolk of an egg. Pigeons Stewed with Vege- tables.—Required: four plump young pigeons, white stock, bacon, vegetables, and acroustade as below. Cost, about 5s. Truss for boiling, and tie a slice of bacon over the breasts. Cook in white stock according to the directions given above, and while the birds are stewing prepare a mixture of vege- tables, such as carrots, turnips, beans, and cauliflower, and so arrange that they shall be done by the time the pigeons are. Take a square piece of bread, and cut it in a slanting di- rection, so that the top is two and a half and the bottom four inches square. It should he about three inches high. Then fry it and set it in the middle of the dish. Place one of the birds against each of the four sides of the bread. Arrange Ihe vegetables so as to hide the bread entirely. The top should be ornamented with the best sprigs of the cauliflower, or a few sprouts. Any good white sauce may be poured over the birds, and more served in a tureen. This is a very nice dish, and for a change the same recipe may be carried out with brown stock, and brown sauce of any kind suitable for serving with game or poultry. Many variations can bo made in the matter of the vegetables—artichokes, celery, and others can be added. Pigeons, Stewed, & la Beale. —Required: threo pigeons, butter, roux, wine, stock, vegetables and bacon, herbs, &c. Cost, about 4s. to 4 s. 6d. For each pigeon allow half an ounce of butter, mixed with a little salt, pepper, ground cloves, and nutmeg, a pinch of