389 GAME AND POULTRY. and more on tho top. These then want browning in a quick oven, any gravy being served separately. Another uay.—French rolls, cut through, and fried after hollowing, form suitable eases; each half takes a small bird. The bottom and sides should be coated with forcemeat or a little thick sauce, and the rolls should be nicely arranged on a hot dish, with a garnish of salad. (See Dresden Patties, Croutons, and Ououstades.) Black Cock, Roasted.—This bird is hard, dr)’, and flavourless, if not well hung; but the flavour is remarkably fine when it has been kept until it shows signs of having been hung enough. Pick and draw, but do not wash the inside; a dry cloth will be all that is necessary. Truss it like a fowl. Some like the head under the wing, but the former mode is more general. Place it before a brisk fire, and baste unsparingly with butter till done. It will take nearly one hour, if a fine bird, but three-quarters of an hour will be enough forone of moderate size. Dip a piece of thick toast into a little lemon juice, and lay it in the dripping pan under the bird ten minutes before it is to be taken from the fire. Serve with the toast under, and a rich brown gravy and bread sauce. Cost, about 6b. per brace; but English birds are often higher, while the foreign game which succeeds the English, is sometimes to be had much cheaper. Black Cock, Stewed.—Joint the black cock in the same way as an ordinary fowl, and fry in plenty of butter until nicely browned, with a clove of garlic, which should be removed before the stewing is commenced. Put a small wineglassful of stock and two of port, and a seasoning of salt and pepper into the frying-pan with the butter, make a nice gravy, then put the black cock into a stewpan, pour the gravy over, and simmer very gently about half an hour, or until tender. Serve the meat high on the dish, and the gravy with sippets of toast around it. Old birds are best done in this way ; thoy require more time. Cost, as above. Black cock can also be served with watercress, or in other ways given for pheasant. A very good salmi may be made from black game. Capercailzie Fdte.—Required: a capercailzie,. butter, meat, wine, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 7s., but variable. For this a young bird is very necessary; if old it will bo tough, and, owing to the nature of its food, very unpalatable also. Let it hang for a short time, then proceed as follows. Cut off the flesh, or bone the bird entirely, and divide the flesh into dice ; fry these a pale colour in good butter, then season with a little light wine and vinegar, a small onion, chopped, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, and leave for a few hours. Pass through a mincer four ounces of veal, the same of pork, and half a pound of beef ; mix in five ounces of bread- crumbs, seasoning to taste, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cut small, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Grease a pate mould well, put some sliced bacon at tho bottom and sides, and pack in the meat and seasoning in alternate layers ; press them in well. Put more bacon on the top, and pour over some light wine, as much as it will absorb. Let it stand for a few hours, first placing slices of lemon over, then cover it well, and cook it in a water bath for three to four hours. When done, take away the lemon, add a little more wine in which a morsel of gelatine has been dissolved, and serve when quite cold. Capercailzie, Roasted. (See Grouse.)—Roast in the same way, with due allowance for the size of the bird. Cost, about 3s. to 4s.; sometimes more. Chickens.—These may be had all tho year round. No form of animal food is so tender and digestible as the flesh of a chicken. Choose dark-legged ones for roasting, and singe them, as it makes the flesh firmer. (For recipes