316 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Cold Veal, To Re dress.— Cold veal can be served in various ways, for which recipes are given in a later chapter. It may bo minced, hashed, moulded, curried, or converted into rissoles, croquettes and the like with a certainty of success if the seasoning be judiciously added; for while no meat is more insipid when insufficiently seasoned, it should retain its delicacy of flavour ; that is, it must not bo overpowored by condiments. Amongst the most suitable adjuncts to dishes of veal, may be noted lemons, mushrooms, tomatoes, bacon, ham, and eggs and cream. The spices employed are mace, nutmeg, cayenne; every herb, in moderation, may be brought into play, while vegetables, daintily dressed, are, to some dishes a real necessity. Cheese is also used in veal rechauffes, and all sorts of Italian paste will be found useful, either as a part of the dish, or as a garnish. Collops, Veal. — Required : a pound of veal from the fillet, a season- ing of pepper, mace, grated lemon peel and powdered herbs, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. The meat should be in pieces, half an inch, or rather more, thick ; one inch wide, and two inches long; season it, and brown in hot (hipping, then add weak stock to cover, skim, and simmer for an hour to an hour and a half. Add salt to taste, a squeeze of lemon juice, and white roux to thicken. Boil up and serve, and gar- nish with sliced lemons. If liked, put some rolls of bacon, and croutons in finger shapes round the dish. Another may. — Cut the meat in squares of an inch ; when done, add half its weight of bacon, cut in the same way, and fried separately; keep it hot, and fry some thin slices of tomatoes in the bacon fat. Take them up, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley, then put them round a dish with the meat in the middle. The gravy should be made quite thick for this; just enough in quantity to coat the moat. Cutlets.—Those may be from the best end of the neck, or from the fillet. If from the neck, the skin, gristle, and chine - bone should be removed, and the upper part of the rib-bones shortened. After trimming, the meat should be beaten out with a cutlet bat or knife. If the slices from the fillet are cut into rounds, they become escalopes ; if larded they are grenadins. (See various recipes under Entrees and Made Dishes.) Cost, from 9d. to Is. per pound. Broiled, Plain. — Divide the best end of a neck of veal into neat cutlets, allowing one bone to each. Prepare them as directed :—Sprinkle pepper on both sides, brush them over slightly with oil, and broil before a clear slow fire, till they are nicely browned on both sides. Serve on a hot dish, with a few slices of ham or bacon on a sepa- rate dish. Good brown gravy, or tomato or any piquant sauce, may be sent to table with veal cutlets. Time, fifteen to eighteen minutes, according to thickness. To grill, cook over the fire on a gridiron. Crumbed and Broiled. — Divide the best end of a neck of veal into cutlets. Prepare and season them. Brush them over first with clarified butter or oil, then with beaten egg; dip them in bread-crumbs, once more into oil, and then into the bread-crumbs again. Broil before a clear fire of a moderate heat, and turn them that they may be equally cooked on both sides When they arc brightly browned take them up, arrange them on a dish alter- nately with rashers of ham or bacon, and send good gravy, or tomato, or any piquant sauce to table with them. Pried.—Cut a slice of lean veal, about the third of an inch thick, from the fillet. Divide this into neat cutlets convenient for serving. Prepare some finely grated bread-crumbs, season with popper, salt, and pounded mace, and add a tablespoonful of parsley, which has been scalded and finely minced. Dip the cutlets into hot butter or drip- ping, coat them with the crumbs, and fry them in a frying-pan, with a little