520 tfNivliiiSAL cookfcitV book. kidney mince over, and put potatoes in any approved way round the dish. Another way.—Supposing some beef kidney that has been stewed to be handy, cut it in thin slices or mince it, with half its weight of cooked bacon, heat altogether in some of the gravy, and flavour to taste. Any kind of vegetables may be used to form a border; a carrot puree is very nice, or any green puree, or plainly-boiled vegetable will answer. Either should be garnished with the little rounds of artichoke that were cut from the rings. These are tasty little snacks, which may be greatly varied. King’s Rings.—This is a very appetising little dish ; it can be varied a good deal, as the recipe is very sug- gestive of many others, the idea being to serve the meat in rings of some sort of vegetable. Supposing a small quantity of minced veal to be handy, with perhaps a cooked carrot, cut the latter into rings, stamp out the in- terior, then lay the rings flat in a buttered saute pan, and heat them in a little pale stock. Drain, and fill with the white mince, first arranging the rings on the dish for serving, a crous- tade, or some rice, or a bed of some cooked vegetable being first placed on it, otherwise it would have a flat appearance. If a cucumber can be cooked and sliced, and the rings placed alternately with the carrot, the effect will be still nicer. The mince should be put in from a bag with a pipe, and a little garnish used on each little pilo: a morsel of the outside skin of a picklod walnut, alternated with parsley or a bit of red or green chilli, looks nice. Round the rings pour some nice sauce of the kind used for the meat; then make some ring- shaped croutons, and put them over- lapping to form a border round the dish. If liked, the interior of the vegetables used for the rings can be sieved and mixed with the sauce. If chicken mince be used, the garnish may be more elaborate—olives, Jittle egg balls, &o. Lambs’ Tongues. -See Tinned Tongues. Meat Croquettes. —These are very plain and quickly made. Re- quired : equal weights of cold meat and mashed potatoes, a cooked onion to half a pound of each of the foregoing, also a little salt and pepper, and an egg with a little milk. Cost, about Is. per dozen. Chop the meat small, pass the pota- toes through a sieve, while hot if possible, add the meat and seasoning, and the yolk of the egg ; it should bo first well beaten. If the potatoes are dry and mealy a tablospoonful of milk or a little melted dripping may be added; if they are not mealy this is better omitted. Then make them into little balls the size, say, of a large walnut, or a trifle larger, then fry them in hot fat to cover them, or bake them in a quick oven. In the latter case, put them on a greased tin, and brush them over with a small quantity of liquid fat. Drain before dishing. Another way.—Omit half the pota- toes, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs to each half pound of meat, and a spoonful or two of gravy well thickened. To either of these herbs may be added; the onion may be fried or boiled, and should be chopped small; a fried one makes the dish more savoury. In place of the onion and gravy a spoonful of onion sauce may be used. Mixed meats can bo used. Meat Gateau.—Required: twelve ounces of cold meat, fat and lean, free from gristle, and cut up small; season- ing, fat, crumbs, gravy, and two eggs. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. Melt an ounce or so of dripping, fry in it a chopped onion, stir in a table- spoonful of flour, brown it, add nearly a gill of plain stock or gravy from a joint, with browning, seasoning, and a little sauce or ketchup to taste; then stir in the meat. When cool beat in the eggs very thoroughly, with a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs. Take a plain cake tin, rather shallow, greaso