UNIVERSAL COOKERV BOOK. 238 take but a short time to cook after the blanching. Calf’s Brains a la Fran- £aise.—Required: a dozen button onions and mushrooms, veal stock and ■wine, seasoning, and two sets of brains. Cost, variable. Prepare the brains as above. Fry the onions, then add a gill each of veal stock and light wine, with a bunch of herbs, the brains, and a little salt and pepper; cook for ten minutes, put in the mushrooms, give ten minutes more, then strain, and add a little thickening to the sauce; skim and boil it up; serve altogether on a hot dish. Calf’s Brains, Fried.—These may be plain or quite elaborate, ac- cording to the sauce, garnish, &c. For a plain dish, coat them with warm butter, then with egg and crumbs, and fry after blanching. They should be first sliced. For a better dish, slice the brains and coat them with Rich Frying Batter, then servo with any rich, hot sauce. See also Cold Sauces ; some are very suitable for serving with brains; and for an entree the dish may bo garnished with any of the iced sauces, taking its name from the sauce. Black butter, as for skate, is a favourite sauce with many people; by its aid, the dish, somewhat insipid in itself, is made very piquant. Sheep’s or lamb’s brains can be served in the same way. Cost, variable. Calf’s Brains with Eggs.— Required : a pint of Brain Sauce, six or seven eggs, some black butter, and croAtons. Cost, variable. Make a crouton for each egg, and one large one in addition, for the centre of the dish, on which the brain sauce is to be poured. Fry the eggs, and place them on separate croutons round the sauce. Pour a little Brack Butter over the eggs, and garnish with fried parsley; a little bunch between the eggs. To make the sauce, boil and chop the brains, one or two sets. and add them to thick white sauce, Parsley, or Economical Bechamel, just as preferred. Another way.—Mix the brains with a pint of egg sauce, then put some croutons round, and place on each a small brain cake (see Brain Cakes). For a superior dish, fry some small veal sausages, and put a row all round the dish. Forcemeat balls can bo used similarly. Calf’s Eai’s a la Juliette.— Boil the ears by the recipes given for heads and feet; when nearly done, take them up, and put them in Sauce A la Juliette to finish the cooking; gar- nish the dish with quenelles, forcemeat balls, mushrooms, truffles, or anything usually added to rich dishes of veal. If more convenient, cook the ears until quite done, then just pour the sauce over. Plenty of time must be given; quite three hours. Cost, vari- able. Calf’s Ears, Stuffed.—Use any of the forcemeats given in a later chapter, or ordinary sausage meat will serve the purpose. Cook the cars until almost tender, then fill them with the forcemeat; tie them up, and cook again until done. They should be laid in a stewpan with a little stock, and put in the oven with a buttered paper over. The paper may be taken off last thing for the forcemeat to crisp a little; or some crumbs may be sprinkled over, unless the forcemeat is of a delicate kind—white mushroom, for instance—then -white sauce may be poured over it. For a brown dish, the ears may be glazed, and Bordelaise, or other nice sauce, served round them. Cost, variable. A puree of calf’s liver can be used for stuffing the ears, and a rich brown sauce served with them; so cooked they can be sent to table as an entree. There are many other ways of pre- paring them. The dish takes its name from the forcemeat and the sauce. Calf s Feet a la Parmesan. —Required : a couple of feet, some