Universal cookery book, 0+8 four hours out of the ground. Although agreeable to the taste, they are by no means so digestible as fully-grown tubers. Time to boil, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to size. Kidney potatoes are the nicer, and aro more generally agreeable when fair-sized ; very tiny ones are watery and deficient in flavour. Excellent potatoes are sent over from Jersey and other places before English ones are • ready. Cost, from Id. to 2d. per pound as soon ns plentiful; but early in the season ns much as fid. per pound may bo paid. As they get larger, the skins cannot be rubbed, and must be scraped off. Good-sized ones may be steamed. Potatoes, New, Stewed in Butter.—Take new potatoes when they first come into season and are young and small. Kub oft' the skins with a flannel or coarse cloth, wash and dry thorn well, and put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter —four ounces will be enough for two to three pounds. Let them steam gently until they aro done enough, shaking the saucepan every two or three minutes, that they may be evenly cooked. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and serve very hot. They will take half an hour or more. If the flavour is diked, some chopped mint may be added, or a dash of tarragon and chervil, or some parsley, or a squeeze of lemon. This is a very good way of cooking new potatoes. Potato Pastry (or Crust).— This is useful and economical; it Answers for many purposes—such as covering plain pies, making into rolls, puffs, &e., with meat or fish inside, instead of pastry of the ordinary kind; , and it is generally found agreeable. It will, however, prove a failure unless good mealy potatoes be used, and it is necessary that they be cooked in their skins; sharp heat is also required for the cooking of the crust. Ao. 1 {Plain),—Weigh a pound^of the potato pulp after it is cooked; freo it from lumps, and beat well; add a raw egg, a little salt and pepper, and two ounces of butter or dripping. Then work in just as much dry, sifted flour as will make the mass stiff enough to roll out on a floured board; it must be left until cold before this can be done, or it will break. For a still plainer one, rub the fat into half a pound of flour, then add the potatoes, until the right consistence is reached. A"o. 2 (fitch). — l’nt a pound of potatoes in a bowl after mashing them; add the yolks of two eggs, and four ounces of dissolved butter; beat thoroughly, then sift in the flour, and set by for several hours before using; season with salt, white pepper, and a pinch of cayenne: herbs, or lemon rind, or grated nutmeg aro also admissible. When ready to bake, if for pie or puffs, brush over with the whites of the eggs. But potato crust is best fried. Sup- posing it to be used for small sausage rolls, or anything similar, roll it thinly, and enfold the crust well round the interior, which must bo of something previously cooked. Then drop into hot fat, and fry a good brown. The surface may be left plain, or marked with a fork. (Sec the chapter on Colp Meat and Sckac Cookkky. ) The crust may bo egged and crumbed with advantage before frying; but this treatment is quite optional, and for tlio plainest dishes can be dispensed with. Potato Puree.—Required : pota- toes, stock, butter or milk, and season- ing. Cost, about 3d. per pound. For a plain dish, cook and mash some mealy potatoos; to each pound add a tablespoonful of any plain white stock, nnd the same measure of milk, or a morsel of butter instead ; season, and stir in a saucepan until hot through ; do not place the pan on the fire, or the puree may burn ; then pile it lightly on a hot dish in the centre of eutlots, or as an accompaniment to meat of any sort. If to serve with fish, a little milk only should be used, and a few drops of anchovy or other fish essence added to the seasoning. The puree may bo garnished round the base with little triangular shapes