60 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. foot,* cut neatly into half-inch squares, pour on them the wine, and then strain to them the soup. Cover, and in a few minutes slip into the tureen the que- nelles very carefully; pour the hot soup over them, and serve. Potage Et la Conde.— Required: one pound of reel haricots, one onion, a glass of claret, three quarts of stock (No. 2), salt and pepper, a hunch of herbs, and one ounce each of butter and rice-flour. Cost, about 9d. Soak the beans in cold water for twenty-four hours, drain them, and put them on to boil with the cold stock and butter; cook until they can bo sieved, adding the onion (scalded) an hour beforehand. Remove the herbs, return the soup to the pan with the rice-flour blended with the clai'et, and salt and pepper to taste; boil for ten minutes more, and serve with fried croutons. Time, from two to four hours. Potage & la Cond6 (No. 2).— This is an excellent vegetarian soup. Required: beans as above, two largo onions, a few stalks of celery and slices of carrot, herbs and seasoning, ono ounce of butter, two ounces of browned flour, and three quarts of cold water. Cost, about 8d. Wash the,beans, and soak them in the water in which they will be boiled ; put them on with the herbs and a pinch of brown sugar. In another pan fry the vegetables in the butter until well browned; add them, and boil for two to three hours, until they can be sieved; then put them back in the pan, add the thickening, and boil for ten minutes more. Skim well, and season to taste. This is very savoury, and extremely nourishing. Potage a la Crecy.t—Required; carrots, butter, stock (No. 8), seasoning. Cost, about 4d. per quart. For each quart of stock allow four * This should be boiled in the stock-pot, and the meat pressed between two flat dishes until cold. t Sometimes spelt “creci” or “dressy.” large carrots; wash them, and grate the outer part; cut up the inner portion into slices. Put the latter in a pan, with a morsel of white sugar, salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne; add an ounce of butter, and cook for a quarter of an hour; then add the stock, boiling, and cook for an horn' or longer, until the carrots can be sieved; then return the whole to the pan, with the grated carrots, and boil for forty to fifty minutes, adding more stock to make up the quantity. It should be as thick as ordinary cream. Ten minutes before serving put in one ounce of potato-flour, smoothly mixed with a little cold stock. Stir while adding it, and serve very hot, with fried croutons. Potage a la Palermo.—This is one of the best of the maigre soups. Re- quired: two quarts of stock (No. 11), two eggs, four ounces of Naples macaroni, two ounces of butter, salt and pepper, a teacupful of cream, and two dozen croquettes, as under-men- tioned. Cost, about Is. Mako the stock hot, add the season- ing and butter, and the macaroni in half-inch lengths. Boil slowly for thirty or forty minutes, then beat up the eggs and cream ; make them hot by setting the vessel in a saucepan of boiling water, and stirring until thick. Beat the hot soup to this by degrees, and put in the croquettes just before serving. For the croquettes, blanch two ounces of good rice (Carolina), boil it in stock to cover until soft and tender, and the stock* absorbed; season with salt and pepper and one ounce of grated Par- mesan cheese; add about an ounce of dissolved butter and a raw egg well beaten, then leave until cool. Mako up into round balls of even size, dip into beaten egg, and then in crushed vermicelli; repeat this again, then fry 1 About two or three gills will lie needed ; it should be put to the riec by degrees, and not stirred during the cooking. If the sauce- pan be slightly buttered, and the cooking gradual, it will not burn; but for all such preparations a double saucepan is the best.