66 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rice, in the proportion of two ounces to each pint. Add any white vege- tables in season to flavour and thicken; a small mushroom, with a morsel of leek or shalot, or a turnip or two, or some celery or vegetable marrow may he used. Add a hay-leaf, and boil until all can he sieved, then add suffi- cient boiling cream (or half milk) to bring it to the desired consistence. Various additions may be made to this ; some small egg balls, or dice- shaped croutons (see Garnishes) are suitable; or grated cheese may be served with it; while for a first-rate soup little white quenelles are excel- lent. (See Chicken or Veal Quen- elles, in Hot Entrees.) Scotch Broth.—For this there are many recipes, but it has been said that a true Scot laughs at their pre- cision ; for, given harley and water, whatever vegetables are to be had are chopped up and thrown into the family broth pot-—cabbage, carrots, onions, leeks, turnips, green peas, and beans. There could not be a more convenient and compendious form of food; there is scope for endless variation. Here all the valuable constituents of vege- tables are retained and made the most of. Sometimes a carrot is grated, and added to the soup half an hour or so before serving. If mutton broth forms the basis, and the soup is made very thick with vegetables, it differs but little from Hotch Potch, save that in the latter case meat is served in the broth. Sheep’s Head Broth.—After washing and soaking the head, split it, and take out the brains. Required in addition: any suitable vegetables, a gallon of water, three ounces each of broken rice and pearl barley, and seasoning to taste. Cost, about Is. 2d. Bring the head and cold water to the boil, with a little salt; skim well, then put in the vegetables and a bunch of parsley, and the rice and barley, previously washed and soaked; boil until perfectly tender, then serve the head separately, and if liked, a portion of the vegetables, some of which'can be cut up and served in the broth. This is very plain. For a better broth, use less water, and, if liked, make some Brain Cakes, and put into the broth; otherwise, the brains may be used for sauce, and served with the head and tongue. Sometimes the brains are used for thickening the broth. They are cleared from all fibre, and boiled for a few minutes in the liquid, then beaten up with a little ketchup and vinegar and some chopped parsley, the hot broth being added gradually. Oatmeal can be used for this instead of rice and barley, or a mixture of the three. It is very suitable for children’s dinners. Sheep’s Head Soup.—This is a very good soup. Required: a sheep’s head, a small slice of ham, some herbs and vegetables, seasoning, and colour- ing. Cost, about Is. 3d. Prepare the head by washing and soaking, take out the brains, and pro- ceed as for Sheep’s Head Broth. Boil until the meat falls from the bones, then cut up the best pieces into neat squares, also the tongue (put bones, skin of tongue, and odds-and-ends of meat into the stock-pot), and make some brain cakes (q.v. in Made Dishes) from the brains; add a little brown roux and seasoning to taste, with a spoonful of ketchup or store sauce; boil up and skim, and put in the meat, &c., a few minutes before serving. For plain soup, reserve the tongue and brains for a separate dish, and serve rice, macaroni, or anything simi- lar, in the soup. Sometimes tiny dumplings, plain or savoury, are added to it. Spinach Soup.—Required: two pints of stock (Ko. 8), a dozen and a half of small spinach-balls (q.v. in Garnishes), salt and pepper, and a little brown roux or other thickening. Cost, about 8d. Make the stock hot; season and thicken it a little; if no brown roux, uso corn-flour or brownod flour, about