125 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Pineapple Sauce, Rich.— Put a small tin of grated pine in a saucepan, with a glass of sherry and half a glass of rum, a half teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half that measure of grated lemon-peel; put in a little castor sugar, about an ounce, stir just to the boil, and serve hot or cold. In the latter form this is particularly suitable for serving with blancmange, cereal cream, custard pudding, Ac. Prune Sauce.—Required : a pound of prunes, a gill of water, a gill of claret, sugar, and lemon-juice. Wash the prunes thoroughly, rub- bing them between the hands : they nr often very dirty; put them in a s.ucepan with the water and claret, bring slowly to the boil, and cook until they are half done, then add the juice of half a lemon, and cook until soft; pass the liquor through a strainer, and stone the fruit, rub the latter through a sieve, mix it with the juice, and sweeten with loaf sugar, from four to six ounces; put in a few drops of essence of nut- meg or any other spice, or a pinch of mixed spice, and stir the whole over the fire until it boils. Serve with boiled puddings, or, when cold, it is a wholesome and delicious accompani- ment to cereal creams, Ac. If the prunes are very dry, they may require from a gill to half a pint more water. For a plain sauce, all water instead of claret may be used. It is important that no sugar be put in at first, or the fruit will take much longer to soften, and be more difficult to sieve. As a great improvement to the above, we advise that the kernels be blanched and shredded, and ndded with the sugar. Punch Sauce.—Required: a gill of rich Mscran Butteu, a glass of sherry, half a glass of brandy, a lemon, loaf sugar, and two eggs ; a few drops of spice essence, if liked. Wipe the lemon with a doth, take off the yellow rind by rasping it with the sugar, from two to three ounces, put it in a saucepan with the wine and brandy, add the melted butter (pre- viously boiled in the usual way) and tho yolks of the eggs, well whisked; set tho pan in a bain-marie or another pan of hot water, and whisk tho sauce until thick and nearly boiling. Before adding tho melted butter, crush tho sugar or let it dissolve, and strain tho eggs after beating them, before adding them. This may be varied by using rum instead of sherry, or whisky instead of brandy ; or the melted butter may be increased and the eggs omitted if a plainer sauce is required : in that case it should just be stirred, not whisked, until hot. An orange may be used instead of a lemon. Serve with any good pudding. Punch Sauce 2To. 2.—Re- quired : a gill each of rum and Madeira, half a gill each of water and orange-juice, the rind of half an orange, from two to four ounces of loaf sugar, and a teaspoonful of arrowroot. Boil the orange-juice, sugar, water, and grated orange-rind to a syrup, mix the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it, and boil up ; put in the wine and rind, and thoroughly heat, but do not boil the sauce. Serve with Plum Puddings. (See also Souffles of various kinds.) Quince Sauce (from Canned Pruit).—Required : a tin of quinces, sugar, spice, and colouring. Cost, about lOd. Turn the quinces, with their juice, into an enamelled pan; add a little essence of any spice (cloves, cinnamon, mace, or nutmeg are most suitable), boil for a few minutes, then add as much sugar as may be required (some- times none is needed) ; when soft, rub all through a sieve ; re-heat, and colour tho sauce if necessary (it should bo a pale pink), and serve. The fruit makes a nice dessert dish. If a small quantity of sauce only is needed, put some of the fruit aside, for serving plain or with cream, and make sauce of the rest; it must ho boiled longer than usual, or, owing to the larger proportion of juice, it would be too thin.