FISH 149 back of a knife, and fry them pale brown; sprinkle them with a little chopped parsley or lobster coral, dish them in a circle, onq against another, on a paper, with fried parsley in the middle, and serve white Mushroom Sauce with them. Fish with shrimp forcemeat and shrimp sauce, anchovy, oyster, or other forcemeat, with appropriate sauces, will be found quite as good as the fore- going. Serve for luncheon or dinner, or for breakfast without sauce. In covering with the pastry, remember to cut the top pieces larger than the bottom, to allow for covering the sides of the fillets. Fish, Fillets of, Plainly Steamed.—This mode of cooking can always be resorted to when a digest- ible dish is desired or when whiteness is the main object; other advantages are apparent in the flavour, which is all retained, and the comparatively litlle trouble. Take a couple of plates, tin ones, such as are used for baking tarts; slightly butter them; on one lay fillets of fish (skin side down, if the white thin is left on), then sprinkle with salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon j uice or vinegar, and put the second plate over. Sit them on a large pan of fast-boiling water, and if the water is kept boiling, they will be perfectly cooked in fifteen to twenty minutes. Small, whole fish, like whiting, are excellent so prepared. If sauce is used, add the liquor from the tin. This is a good way of cooking fish for made dishes. Slices of fish may be thus prepared, but take from thirty to forty minutes if thick, and when half done they should bo turned. " Fish, Fricasseed.—Required : two pounds of white fish, herbs, season- ing, and sauce as under. I’repare the fish by cleaning .and cutting it np, then put it in a pan with boiling stock to cover, about half a pint; add a bunch of herbs, a bit of nutmeg, and a few peppercorns, tied up in a bit of muslin, with a littlo salt; boil until done, then tako out the bag, and put in half a pint of thick white sauce ; boil- up, and season with lemon juice or any flavoured vinegar. This is plain. Another way.—Pour equal parts of milk and stock over the fish at starting, and when nearly done, add white roux to thicken ; or use flour and butter,■* giving it time to boil up and cook tho flour. When requiied richer, use a better sauce, or add the yolk of an egg to each half pint of saute as above. Hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices or quarters, may be used as garnish to the above. Fish, Fried.—Under Sole, Fried, we have given what we consider the best way of frying fish—i.c. by the complete immersion in fat, as described in Frying (p. 8). But there are many reasons why this method cannot be adopted universally. The next best way is to use a pan as deep as can bo obtained—a good-sized, deep frying- pan, for example—and to heat in it at least as muih fat as will half cover the fish. It is then necessary to cook one side and turn it, and give the other side nearly as long as the first; not quite, though, because, although not in the fat, the upper side gets heated through, and soon cooks. Care is needed in turning ; if a whole fish, put a skewer or fork in the head ; be care- ful not to drop it, or the hot fat may be splashed in the face. It should be drained and served very hot, and if much is being done, fillets or slices, more fat must be added now and then and allowed to get hot, or tho result will be the sodden dish we have pre- viously referred to. If the egging and crumbing method be adopted, (ho crumbs may bo mixed with a small proportion of flour, if liked, and pepper and salt can bo added to taste, so may powdered herbs. For this way of fry- ing, batter cannot be used; it would run off the top while tho bottom was coeking. Fish, Fried Plainly. — For this we will suppose that something plainer than egged nnd crumbed fish is wanted; or if the fish is to bo served up eventually in a curry or other dish,