442 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. materials are to be mixed, and put as an outer border, and tho croutons in little heaps about the dish. The gravy is served separately. A potato border can be used if preferred ; and, to vary the mode of serving, some of the macedoines can be put in the centre, with joints of pigeon round; the mac- aroni, with a sprinkling of parsley, should come next, the rest of the pigeons and macedoines forming the outer border. Pigeons en Papillotes,— Re- quired : pigeons, seasoning, and bacon as below. Cost, from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. Prepare in the usual way two young, freshly-killed pigeons, and split them in two down the back. Season rather highly with pepper, and cover them with a mixture made of the liver finely minced, two shalots, chopped small, half a dozen sliced button mushrooms, a tablospoonful of chopped parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Lay thin slices of fat bacon over the mixture, and wrap each half in a sheet of thick paper, oiled on both sides ; twist tho ends ns shown in tho engraving. Broil or grill for about twenty minutes, and serve in the papers. They will require no sauce. If preferred the bacon may be in dice, and mixed with the liver, &c. Pigeons, Piquant.—Required: two pigeons, vinegar, seasoning, bacon, wine, an onion, thickening, stock, &c., ns below. Cost, about 2s. Cd. to 2s. 9d. Slice a large onion, and put it into a shallow dish with two ba}r leaves, twenty juniper berries, half a tea- spoonful of peppercorns, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Lay two pigeons in this marinade, and turn and baste, them twice a day for two days. If the birds are old, they will need to remain in the marinado a day or two longer. Take them up, wipe them dry, and lard the breasts evenly, then put them, into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and turn them about over a moderate fire until they are brightly and equally browned. Lift them out, stir a spoonful of flour in with tho butter, and mix it briskly with a wooden spoon until it begins to colour, then add four ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces, the liver of the birds, a cupful of stock or water, the strained juice of half a lemon with an inch or two of the rind, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let this sauce boil, then put in the pigeons, cover them closely, and let them stow for half an hour. Servo the birds on a hot dish with the sauce poured round them. Time to stew, about an hour. This is a German dish. Pigeons, Piquant, with Salad. — Kequircd : a couple of pigeons, some piquant sauce, salad, and garnish, seasoning as under. Cost: from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Diride each bird into throe by removing the leg and wing of each side, then the breast. Tut tho backboned on with water, &c., to boil for stock, with which make a pint or so of piquant sauce, selecting the reoipe which best suits the palate. (See Sauces.) Sprinkle the birds with pepper, herbs, a grate of lemon peel and some lemon juice; leave them for half an hour, then grill or broil, and put them in the sauce for ten minutes to heat. Just before serving, colour the sauce with a few drops of carmine, and dish neatly. Put little tomatoes round (cooked in any piquant way), and send plain salad to table. Pigeons with Rice and Par- mesan.—For this the birds may be stowed until done, then dished on rice, Fig. 102.—Pigeon's en Bapillotf.s.