327 MUTTOV. resting against a icall of mashed potatoes, or down each side of a block of mashed potatoes. For a pound and a half of meat, make a pint of rice sauce (sec p. 99), and send it to table in a tureen. This dish is delicate and digestible Cost, about Is. lOd. Another good method of serving tho above is to use a puree of white or green haricot beans, instead of pota- toes ; the sauce in that case may be poured half over the haricots, and the rest round (not over) the cutlets. Cutlets, witli Rice Sauce and Onions.—This is very delicious: of a rather more savoury nature than the foregoing. Grill some cutlets, and spread each, when done, with a thick layer of white onion ' sauce. Serve them round a mound of spinach, and send a tureen of sauce to table. Cost, about 6d. each, inclusive. Haggis, Scotch.—Take the stomach of a sheep, wash it well, and let it soak for several hours in cold salt and water, then turn it inside out, put it into boiling water to scald, scrape it quickly with a knife, and let it remain in water until wanted. Clean a sheep’s pluck thoroughly. Pierce the heart and tho liver in several places, to let the blood run out, and boil the liver and lights for an hour and a half. When they have boiled a quarter of an hour, put them! into fresh water, and during the last half hour let the rest of the pluck be boiled with them. Trim away the skins and any discoloured parts there may be, grate half of the liver, and minco all the rest very finely; add a pound of finely-shredded suet, two chopped onions, half a pint of oatmeal, or, if preferred, half a pound of oat-cakes, toasted and crumbled, two teaspoon- fnla of salt, and one of pepper, half a nutmeg,grated,and a grain of cayenne. Moisten with half a pint of good gravy and the juice of a small lemon, and put the mixture into the l«ig already prepared for it. Be careful to leave room for swelling, sew it securely, and plunge it into boiling water. It -will require three hours’ gentle boiling. Prick it with a needle every now and then, especially during the first half hour, to let the air out. A haggis should be sent to table as hot as possible, and neither sauce nor gravy should he served with it. The above is sufficient for eight or ten persons. Of this dish it has been said, as of the English plum pudding, that every- body has a different recipe, and every- body thinks her own the best. In Scot- land, it is highly prized; and regarded as “ the great chieftain o’ the pudding race.” When partly boiled the haggis will keep for some little time, and is thus sent from Scotland to friends in other parts. Those who have tasted it in perfection, declare that the haggis is a very delicious morsel. Great care is needed that no thin parts in the stomach be left unrepaired, or it will burst, and tho whole be spoilt. A haggis may be made from a lamb’s stomach and pluck, and it is safer to tie it in a cloth after sewing up the bag in the usual way. Cost, un- certain ; generally cheap. ~ Haricot Mutton. — Enquired: two pounds of mutton, a pint of stock, a pound of young turnips, a slice of onion, seasoning, roux, and dripping. Cost, about 2s. Take lean meat, shoulder or neck; cut it into squares of an inch and a half or so, fry it lightly in clarified dripping, then dredge a little flour over, and fry for a second or two more ; add the stock, hot, or tho liquor from boiled meat or poultry does: if stock is used it should be from mutton bones; 'boil up and skim, put in tho onion, and leavo to simmer. Peel and cut the turnips into slices like tho sections of an orange, and fry them ii pale brown, in butter with a pinch of white sugar. When tho moat has cooked for an hour, put in tho tur- nips, and cook for twenty minutes, then dish neatly; thicken and boil up tho gravy, add a pinch of browning salt, and salt and popper to