kisli. 135 it may be stewed, or divided into cutlets. The tail may bo served any way ; if split open, boned, and fried, it is very nice. As to rechauffes, many of the daintiest may bo made from cod. The Dogger Bank cod are the best, and fetch the highest price. Cost, on an average, fid. per pound. Cod a la Drusille.— Required : one pound of crimped cod in slices, half a pint of Sauce a la Drusille, and some milk and water. Put enough milk and water in a pan to cover the fish (it should be laid for a short time in cold water with a little salt and lemon-juice, then dried). When the liquid boils, lay in the fish in a single layer; cook very softly, then drain, and dish the slices in a row ; take the skin off, and pour the sauce over. Coda TEspagnole.—Required: two pounds of the tail end of a cod, a pint of Brown Sauce, a little salt, cayenne, and lemon-rind, the juice of half a lemon, a glass of sherry, a small onion stuck with a couple of cloves, and a little butter. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; wash and dry the fish, and cook it in the butter until lightly browned; then drain it very' thoroughly. Put it flat in a stew-pan, with the other ingre- dients, wine excepted, and cook gently for twenty minutes, more or less, ac- cording to thickness. Lay it on a hot dish, add the wine, and give a boil up ; skim, and pour the sauce over the fish through a strainer. It is a great im- provement to skin the fish and remove the bone. Cod a l'Indienne,—Required; three pounds of cod, the thick end of the tail, some forcemeat, sauce, &c., as below, some tomatoes and pickles. \\ ash and dry the fish, remove the bone, and put it on with the usual seasonings and a pint of water, to boil down to a gill; strain, and add to it three-quarters of a pint of Brown Sauce, a dessert-spoonful of hot chutney, a tablespoonful of French mustard (or some curry or mulligatawny paste can bo used instead of tho mustard), a table- spoonful of tomato puree or conserve, and a little lime or lemon juice, with a small quantity of soy, and salt to taste. Have the fish baked, after filling it with Herr Forcemeat highly seasoned with pepper and French mustard. It should be sewn or tied in shape. (See Cod, Baked.) When done, remove the thread or string ; dish, after draining well, and when the sauce has boiled up pour it round the fish. Garnish with grilled tomatoes in thick slices, each slice brushed over with warm thin glaze, and sprinkled with chopped clear pickles (Indian), first warmed in a spoonful of stock. Serve hot, for dinner or luncheon. Cod a la Maitre d’Hdtel.— Put a cut from tho middle of a cod in a steamer: say, from two to three pounds. In the water, under tho steamor, put the usual quantity of salt and vinegar, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Brush the fish on each of the cut sides with lemon-j uice; before putting it in the steamer lay it in a shallow tin or dish, the shape of the steamer; put a buttered paper over the top, then close tho steamer, and cook until tender, turning when half done. When ready to serve, the flesh will look creamy at the ends and whito all through, leaving tho bone readily. Take it up, remove the skin, and brush tho top over with warm butter, and sprinklo it with a little chopped parsley. Strain the liquor from the fish, and mix it with a pint of MaItre d’H6tel Sauce, then pour it round the fish. This is a very good dish. The fish will be excellent in flavour if not over- cooked. Fish cooked in this way can bo served with other sauces (see recipes); the liquor from the tin should always be added. Cod, Baked,—A piece from the middle is nico for this, or the tail end does very well. Either may be finished off, lifter washing and drying, as directed for Haddock. Or tho fish may be