UoLt) MEAT AND SC It A P COOKEUV. 621 aud coat it thickly with crumbs, hut shake out all the loose ones. Put in the mixture, shake a few more crumbs over, cover with a bit of grca-ei paper, and bake in a moderate oven from thirty to fifty minutes, according to depth of tin. Turn out and pour gravy round. For dishes of this sort always have more crumbs in reserve, in case any stick to the bottom of the tin in baking; then just sprinkle a few more on the top. .Raspings are, of course, better than crumbs, being already browned. If crumbs are used they must be browned first. Any trimmings of game—just the scrapings of the bones—are a wonder- ful improvement to this. Mushrooms instead of onion make a pleasant variety. Meat in Savoury Jelly.— This is a good dish for breakfast in summer time. Required : a pound of cooked meat—mixed sorts if liked— two eggs, and two ounces of cooked ham or bacon; stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. First heat the stock—about half a pint—add a teaspoonful each of onion vinegar, tarragon vinegar, and mush- room ketchup or walnut ketchup; strain it a few times through muslin, and leave to cool, then test a little ; if firm nothing is wanted, if not stiff enough add a little dissolved gelatine —a quarter of an ounce to half an ounce may be wanted. Boil the eggs hard and slice them, dip the slices in warm butter, then in chopped parsley, and a little pepper and nutmeg. Take a plain mould, put in the eggs, meat in dice, and the bacon in strips loosely ; then pour in the stock, and when cold turn out. Braised meat makes the best mould ; any other can he used, but it must he tender. Meat Moley.—A moley is a dish that is very well known and much liked in all curry-eating countries; the recipe we give is for moley as prepared in Ceylon. The first consideration is the sauce; the foundation is plain or rich stock, or milk, according to the degree of richness desired and the meat to be used. Put half a pint of either in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, the same of finely- chopped ham, a large onion, sliced thinly, a bay leaf, a pinch of cayenne, a saltspoonful of saffron powder,a pinch of salt, two or three cloves, and half an inch of stick cinnamon. Let the whole cook for some time; it should be kept at a gentle simmer; then put in any nice pieces of cold meat of any sort (pork excepted); veal may bo mixed with rabbit or fowl, but beef and mutton are better used singly. Mash up a large mealy potato with a spoon- ful or two of cream, and add this also to thicken the sauce; squeeze in a little lemon juice before sending to table, and serve some mashed potatoes browned in a mould and turned out (see Potatoes) on a separate dish. Cost variable. Note.—From eight to twelve ounces of meat may be used for the above quantity of sauce. The potato for the thickening should be baked in its skin ; a watery potato would spoil the dish. Meat Pyramid.—This is a tasty and economical dish, very good for supper or any other meal. Required : two pounds of potatoes, four eggs, half a pound of cold beef, underdone, salt and pepper, and a few drops of anchovy, two ounces of beef dripping or butter, and a little gravy. Cost, about Is. Bake the potatoes in their skins, turn them out, and mash while hot with the seasoning and dripping; the latter should be wanned. Beat hard for some minutes, this makes a great difference to the dish ; then add the yolks of the eggs, two only; beat again, and sot by while the meat is minced and mixed with the gravy, which must be rather thick and nicely seasoned. Boil the other two eggs hard, cut them up, and add them to tho meat. Now take a plate, cover tho bottom with potato, then put a layer of meat, making it smallor than the layer of potato ; goon until the whole is used up, and bring