Another teat/.—Mix with the bread- crumbs a small onion, scalded, and .chopped as finely as possible ; or mix □aushroom powder with them; in the 1 latter case, serve with brown niush- I.-oom sauce, mixed with the liquor :rom the baking-tin. This is very savoury. May be served for lun- cheon or dinner, or without sauce for Breakfast. Sole, Boiled.— The flesh of a Boiled sole is tender and delicate, and KHnewhat resembles turbot in flavour, ft is particularly suited for invalids md convalescents. Choose the fish fresh, and very thick—a sole for Boiling should weigh at least two ■Bounds. Seale and clean it, remove he tins and gills, and the brown skin, : f liked. Put it in boiling water with u tablespoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar; let the liquor ■roil up, then draw the pan to the ■aide, and let its contents simmer very .gently till the fish is done enough. In jaking up the sole, set the fish-drainer .across the kettle for a minute, then I-ay the fish on a dish, covered with a varm napkin. The white side must oe uppermost. Garnish with parsley :.nd cut lemon, and send Melted But- ter, or Shrimp, Anchovy, Caper, .^obister, or Oyster Sauce to table in , tureen. Time to boil the fish, ac- cording to size. Sole, Boiled, with Mush- rooms.—Boil a good sized sole, from ■ wo pounds upwards, in Court Bouil- •on ac Blanc; when done, drain, lay •n a hot dish, and pour over half pint of white mushroom sauce, lamish with a dozen or so of button mushrooms (tee M ush rooms for tarnish), and serve hot. Brill is equally good prepared in tho ■ame way ; so is plaice. Sole, Broiled.—Take a medium ized fish, prepare it in the usual ■ vay ; it is better if the white skin is eft on. After drying, cut a slit or wo, slantwise, on each side, that is, on >/hat would be each fillet, supposing they were removed. Brush with oil, season a little, and broil with frequent turning, from eight to twelve minutes. Serve any nice sauce, hot or cold, with it. Sole en Chaudfroid. — Re- quired : a gill and a half of pink, and a gill of green chaudfroid sauce, a medium-sized sole, some salad, &c., as below. Fillet the fish, bat the fillets out, sprinkle with a little chopped lax, salt and pepper, and roll up each; tie with a bit of cotton in a few places, and cook in a buttered pan, with half a glass of white w’ine, for ton minutes or until quite tender. Then set aside, and when cold untie them, and put them on a dish, lengthwise. Mask them lightly with the pink sauce, smoothing it with a wet knife; then use the green sauce as garnish—tho pink showing between—from a bag with a small pipe. If to he separately served, dish them with the ends meeting in the centre, and put between them little heaps of chopped lax or cut lemon or cucumber; or dressed salad, with shrimps or prawns, and here and there an olive. Or fillets pre- pared thus can be used as garnish to a mayonnaise of any large whole fish, but for this purpose they must be quite small. Sole, Fillets of, Fried.—Theso may be treated like a whole fish, by egging and crumbing; or just brushed over with flour and milk, or floured and dipped into frying hatter. The first and third methods are preferable. Tho fat must be hot, and the fish put in a piece or twro at a time in tho case of a good number; otherwise the tempera- ture of the fat is lowered. They should be delicately brown, and take but a short time to cook. Drain, and servo as directed for Sole, Fried. They can be dished lightly in a pile, or en couronnv. Some people sprinklo salt over when done, but it tends to destroy tho crispness. If a few fillets only, and only just enough fat to cover them, a trying