575 PULSE. state as French beans ; including the various kinds of kidney and dwarf beaus that differ according to soil and locality, and aro distributed over a good part of Europe. The “giant” haricots gain preference at most tables ; but we prefer the small beans ; the skins are thinner, so they are more digestible, and the time required to cook them is more easily reckoned. It is quite possible to boil the “ giants ” for four or five hours before the desired softness is attained ; while a very good sample of the same beans might be done in little more than half the time. Split White Haricots are handy when time runs short, as they take less time than whole beans ; and in purees, and all such dishes, the final mashing is greatly facilitated by the splitting. Brown Beans'are about the same price as the white ; they make good soups and stews, but must be cooked long and slowly. Bed Haricots are rather dearer; their flavour is excellent, and in con- sequence of their rich colour they are valued for good soups. (See the recipe on page 60.) Green Beans, called Flageolets, are the highest in price ; they have thin skins and are of delicate flavour. In the hands of an intelligent cook their uses are legion ; they are admirably adapted for winter salads. These cost about fivepence per pound ; the other sorts range from two- pence to fourpence. If bought in quantities a saving is effected, but careful storage is of importance, pulse being readily attacked by insects. Peas.—These are familiar to most people in the shape of peas pud- ding ; a dish by no means to be despised when well cooked, and it is found to agree; but of the entire pulse tribe peas are, as a rule, the most difficult to digest. Split peas are preferable to whole ones, but for the majority, pea-flour or pea-meal is best of all. It should be freshly ground and stored in tins. (See (he third recipe for Peas Soup, page 57.) Lastly, a few words on dried green peas. These aro to be had both whole and split; the latter aro the more useful. The main difficulty is to get them all one sort; “ marrow-fats ” are the best; a reliable dealer should be applied to for them, for the mixing is a hindrance to successful cooking. When dishing-up time comes, it is a common experience to find half the peas green and mellow, and the rest a bad colour and of flinty hardness— all due to the mixing. We now turn to the initial treatment of pulse generally, and for the whole and split it is the same, and is simplicity itself if a little forethought be exercised, and just a few rules are observed. The first thing is the washing, and this is certainly some little trouble. To put peas or any other sort of pulse into water, and pour it off, is not washing and will not suffice. Lentils are the dirtiest of all as a rule. Plenty of water is wanted, and it must be renewed several times. The pulse should also bo rubbed between the hands until quite free from dirt. Renew the water until it comes away clean, then put the vegetables in a siove, or colander, under a running tap for a final rinse. The soaking should be from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to convenience ; use plenty of cold water, and if very hard add a morsel of borax or bicarbonate of soda. Do not use ordinary washing soda. When the time comes for the cooking, the soaking water should be thrown away, and with it all vegetables that float; they are gmb.ea'ten, therefore worthless. We may remark that