16 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. juices. The first consideration is the fire; it must be made up in time, in order to be bright, clear, and strong. The grate should be large enough to cover the joint, with an inch or two to spare at the sides. All dust must be removed from the bottom of the grate ; small knobbly pieces of coal should be packed at the front, and cinders, mixed with a little damp coal- dust, behind. This helps to retain the heat, besides throwing it to the front, where it is wanted. Coal in small quan- tities should be added now and again, to avoid a thorough making-up of the fire during tile roasting. Whatever the apparatus used it must be clean, and the hook should not be pushed through the prime, juicy part of the joint. The full perfection of a roast is due in a great measure to the amount of basting it receives, and to well-hung meat. Moat just killed is not suitable for roasting. Inattention to the basting will result in a dry horny surface and an unpleasant odour. The fat should be poured off as soon as it flows freely, only enough for the basting being kept in the pan. The greatest heat should be given at the outset, by putting the joint near the fire, to coagulate the outer albumen and keep in the gravy. Basting with hot fat at the start is a help in this direc- tion. Then move it farthor back, to cook gradually until done, when it has been down from five to ten minutes. The average time required is fifteen minutes to the pound and fifteen minutes over for beef and mutton, and twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over for young animals, as veal and lamb ; while pork, if thick, may require from twenty to thirty minutes per pound. So much depends upon the thickness of the joint, the weather, and other circum- stances, that the time given must only be regarded as an approximation. And the shape of a joint determines to a great extent the time required; and we specially mention this, as it is but seldom grasped, or even considered. To illustrate our meaning, supposing a neck or breast of mutton weighing four pounds were required: it would take but little more time than if divided and half or three-quarters were cooked ; and why ? Because the whole surface, assuming a sufficiently wide grate, would be exposed equally to the action of heat; hence a cut-and-dried rule of a certain time for a certain weight, even allowing for the difference in thickness, would in such a case be obviously non-applicable. In frosty weather meat should be brought into the kitchen an hour or two before it is cooked, or when dishing-up time comes it may be found that the happy medium between cinders and rawness has not been hit. All meats take longer in winter than summer: and it must not be forgotten that while beef and mutton are preferred by many when somewhat underdone, meats of the close-grained kind are indigestible in the highest degree unless well cooked. A word about flour. Many are of opinion that meat browns better if floured at first; but, given a good fire and sufficient basting, there is no need for it, so far as imparting colour goes. And it is a common fault to use too much ; a little is not objectionable, but it should be put on away from the dripping-tin if a clear gravy is desired. To “ froth” the meat, it should be well basted a few minutes before dishing, then lightly floured, and put near the fire. Every trace of the raw flour must disappear—that is, it must cook and become brown. Never add salt at first, it hardens meat and draws out the gravy. A little may bo sprinkled on last thing, after the dripping has been poured off. When the steam rises it is a proof that the joint is saturated with heat, and any unnecessary evaporation is a waste of the nutriment; and if the flesh yields readily to tho pressure of the fingers it is a further sign that it is done. A warning concerning the dripping may save much disappointment. It need not be separately put by for basting from the various kinds, but it is most important that oidy good