538 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. of fried, bread, with fried parsley and cut lemon as garnish. Another way,—Omit the mushrooms in the mixture, and take out the shalot after it has boiled up in the milk. Add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan or other cheese, and fry as above. Serve with Cheese Sauce or Cream Sauce. These may be made some hours before- hand ; they are better for standing. Veal, Fried, with Cabbage.— Required : veal, cabbage, bread, sauce, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, if a pound of meat be used, about Is. 9d. This is rather like the well-known dish called “ bubble and squeak.” Any veal not thoroughly done, may be re- heated very successfully in this way. The moat is to be cut in slices, then into fingers, seasoned with pepper and mixed herbs, dressed with flour, and fried in a small quantity of hot dripping, by the “dry frying” pro- cess ; it will take but a few minutes. Some boiled cabbage (spinach answers just as well) should then be fried, also some bread, the size of the pieces of meat; or, if more convenient, toast will answer. Arrange on a dish, the meat on tho bread, the vegetables round. Before serving, pour a little piquant sauce or brown caper sauce over tho cabbage, but leave the meat dry. Or send the sauce to table, and pour a small quantity of hot Tomato Butter or (Tomato PurEe along the cabbage border. Another way.—After the cabbago is boiled, it may be pressed dry, and used for lining the bottom and sides of a plain mould. The fried meat, with a little thick sauce is then put in, and more cabbage on the top, and made quite level. The mould is then put in the oven to heat, and the contents turned on to a hot dish. A few raspings should be sprinkled over, and some fried bread put round the base. More gravy can be sent to table. Veal, Hashed.—A hash may be brown or white, and the ways of varying, by seasoning, &c., are many. For a tasty brown hash, any gravy from the roast should be heated; it should be' the consistence of thick cream, and if not enough to coat the meat, stock must be added, any skin and gristly parts of the meat being used in its manufacture. The meat should be in oven slices, not too thin. It may lie in a mixture of claret and flavoured vinegar, just enough to moisten, for an hour before being heated in tho gravy; or a glass of claret, and a tablespoonful of any vinegar preferred, may be added to a pint or so of gravy. Should the meat be at all under-done, it may be put in the gravy while it is warm, and brought very gradually to not quite boiling-point, at which it should remain until tender and cooked. Brown roux or browned flour is best for the thickening. In place of claret, use good store sauce or ketchup. Garnish with croutons, and any nicoly cooked vegetables, or bacon or ham. (See also recipes in Made Dishes, and Mince below.) Veal, Minced, Plain. — Re- quired : veal, bacon, slock, milk, thickening, toast, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. without a garnish of vegetables. For a white dish, take a pound of meat, either braised or roasted, and mince it by cutting or passing through a mincer. Take a pint of plain white stock, in which boil down any bits of skin and gristle from the meat, with a bunch of herbs, and a bit of mace and lemon peel. When well flavoured and reduced to three-quarters of a pint, thicken with an ounce and a half of flour, and add a gill of milk and an ounce of butter. Put in the minced meat, with a couple of ounces of cooked ham or bacon in dice, salt and pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a grain of mace or nutmeg and cayenne. Serve hot with sippets of toast round it, or croutons are nicer; potatoes in various forms are also suitable. Any stuffing may be added to this, or parsley, or other herbs, can be put in, so can a few button mushrooms, cut up ; they must be cooked in tho