371 SALTED MEATS the bacon left for twenty-four days more. It must be turned daily. Then take it up and let it drain for twenty- four to thirty hours ; press it as flat as possible and roll it very tightly, rind outside; tie it with strong string, and hang it to dry in the usual way. Bacon in Batter.—Required: two eggs, half a pint of milk, three ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, enough powdered herbs and pepper mixed to cover a threepenny piece, a small onion, scalded and chopped, and four to six ounces of raw bacon, or salt pork, cooked. Cost, 8d. to lOd. Grease a shallow baking-tin with some bacon fat; dredge it with bread- crumbs, and shake out all the loose ones; cut the bacon up in dice, and put in the tin, then make a batter of the rest of the ingredients, adding the whites of eggs last; pour this over the bacon. Bake in a sharp oven for twenty minutes or so; the surface should be brown. Cut in squares, and serve on a hot dish. If a shallow dish is not handy, a deep one must be used; then an ounce and a half more flour will be wanted, and longer time for the baking; but this is not nearly so nice as tho first lecipe. Bacon and Beans.—Required : a pound of small, white haricots, sea- soning, stock, and half a pound of bacon. Cost, about 8d. Boil the beans in the usual way; do not drain them, but let them absorb all the liquor; then turn them into a deep dish for serving, and pour over half a pint of any plain stock, thickened, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Cut the bacon in slices; it can be boiled or cooked in any other way; lay it round the beans, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Stick some sippets of toast here and there, and serve hot. The other varieties of haricots can be served in like manner; lentils serve the same purpose; and in place of the thickened stock, many sauces are equally suitable and will furnish variety. It should be remembered that bacon, or fat meat, is a suitable accom- paniment to pulse, as the element lacking in beans, &c., is thereby furnished. Bacon, to Boil.—The more highly dried the bacon, the more soak- ing it needs, and the longer must it cook in order to soften the lean. If, after washing and brushing, any rusty parts remain, the}' must be cut care- fully away; but it should not be cut unless really necessary. Bacon which is only moderately dried may be cooked after very little soaking; while new bacon can be put on as it is, supposing the cut to be from the back ; but it is always well to soak the shoulder, particularly the part known as the “fore-hock,” or “fore-end.” In soaking, tepid water at the first will be found to soften the meat better than cold water ; the latter should be used later. Both need renewal. Put the bacon on in cold water, if old and well dried; mild cured, new bacon, can go in tepid water (shoulders excepted); bring to the boil, and skim often, then cook slowly to the end. Tho time varies greatly; a couple of pounds may take an hour and a half or more, or may be done in rather more than an hour if thin and new; while a thick piece of a pound only, if dry and hard, might require even longer, owing to its condition. Good bacon should swell and plump; and it should be done enough for the skin to come off easily, but not long enough for the lean to fall apart in strings when cut; that is a proof that it is overcooked and has lost much flavour. It should be tender, but should hold together in a compact slice. Bacon, Smoked, to Boil.— Wiltshire, Cumberland, and Ireland, all send large supplies of smoked bacon to all parts of the kingdom. Of tho best brands of either, almost any part may be boiled without soaking, shoulders excepted. The rolled smoked bacon is very nice, and con- venient for boiling; it may be carved