319 VEAL. circle, with a good puree of vegetables in the centre of the dish, and a nice sauce. If liked, bacon can accompany them, or the kidney or sweetbread may be served on the same dish. They should, in any easo, be slowly cooked. Knuckle.—This is often boiled, and is delicate, though rather insipid, unless flavour is imparted by the addition of vegetables. The usual time for cooking is not long enough for this, owing to its gelatinous na- ture. When boiled, long, slow cooking, and careful skimming are important. A slewed knuckle is excellent. A roasted knuckle is not to be recom- mended, unless the fleshy portion only is cooked, the knuckle-bone being used for stock, for which it is very useful, and should be used while quite fresh. The illustration shows the method of carving, which is very simple, slices being cut from a to is. The thick part is the best; the fat is very delicious ; but by some the tendons about the knuckle are preferred. Knuckle, Stewed.—Required: about, three and a half pounds of mesit, a quart of gravy made as below, sea- soning, mushrooms, and sauce. Cut off the shank-bone, and make the gravy; see Stock No. 9; then bring it to the boil; add a bit of mace, a few white peppercorns, a strip of lemon peel, and a sprig of parsley ; put the meat in, and cook for an hour, then add half a pound or more of button mushrooms, broken up, and go on simmering until the veal is done. (See Veal, with Rice.) Shortly before serving stir in some white roux, or put in half a pint of thick, white sauce, made with milk; or instead of mush- rooms, add to the stew half a pint of white mushroom puree. A piece of boiled bacon can be sent to table with this, or some grilled or fried bacon, with little forcemeat balls or cakes may be substituted. A dish of vermi- celli or macaroni, with white sauce, may also be served with it. Cost of knuckle, about 7d. or 8d. per pound, but it is variable; some butchers sell it for less than 7d. Much depends upon the quantity re- quired. Loin, Stuffed and Roasted. —After taking the bones from the meat, lay it flat on the table, and spread it with veal stuffing; mince the kidney, and strew it over, then, roll, and tie tightly with wide tape, or sow it up ; cover it with greased paper, and cook it gently until done. Then take up the meat, and remove the paper; let the meat brown, and serve it on a hot dish, with brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice poured round it. Garnish with little rolls of bacon, and small mushrooms or tomatoes, with sliced lemons ; or use little forcemeat balls, and bunches of any green vegetables in season. Cost, about lOd. per pound. Another tvay. — Instead of brown sauce, use white sauce, the foundation made from stock No. 9 ; or for a superior dish, substitute either of the rich white sauces made with cream; see recipes. White mushroom sauce is also excellent with this dish. Loin, Stuffed and Roasted (No. 2).—These directions apply to a joint cooked with the bones in. If the chump end, make an incision round the thick part of the joint, in the skin, and insert some veal stuffing. Wrap a greased paper round, and after a