311 VEAL. Wo would Again urge tint importance of long, slow cooking. A joint of veal, with the slightest appearance of rawness, will prove unwhole- some ; it should bo of au uniform whiteness right through to tho bone; and, in order that the colour may be preserved, veal should never be laid upon a dish before cooking for any length of time; the very pressure causes, not only discolouration, but taint. This may be said to au extent of all meat, lint especially emphasised in the case of veal. See also Stocks, Soups, Sauces, Entrees, &c., Cold Meat Cookery, Pastry, Pies and Puddings, and Invalid Cookery. Calf’s Brains.—See page 237. Calf’s Brains, Cakes of.— See Sheep’s Brains, and make tho cakes as there given, using the herbs that are generally employed for veal force- meat. (See also Brain Fritters.) Calf’s Chitterlings (Praise or Crow).—These are the different names given to the fat round the stomach of the calf, which forms in some parts a favourite dish First wash and cleanse them very thoroughly ; leave them for twelve hours in salt and water, then put in boiling water for twenty minutes, dip in cold water, and drain them. Cut them up in small pioces, and put in a boiling pot, with a few slices of bacon, a small onion, a clove or two, a little salt, some peppercorns, and a hay leaf. Add some weak stock, and boil until done, then reduce the gravy, thicken and flavour with vine- gar or lemon juice—or make parsley sauce, or any other kind preferred— and serve very hot. Cost uncertain, often very cheap. Another ica>j. When nearly done, take up the chitterlings, and coat with thick, plain batter ; fry crisp, and serve with fried paisley. Sometimes they are Liken up when half boiled, then brushed with bacon fat or drip- ping, and baked brown. Brown gravy should be served with them, or a brown sauce. Calf’s Bars. — Take as many' ears as may he wanted; they should be cut rather deeply, then scalded to remove the hair, and most thoroughly cleansed. For a plain dish, they may be boiled until tender in water or stock, or in equal parts of milk and water; or, when half done, they can be taken up, and stuffed with any forcemeat suitable for veal, and tied up with thread. Then put them in a stewpan with some of tho liquor in which they were parboiled, and finish the cooking, flavouring and thickening in the usual way. Or they can be put hack in the pot, and finished off, then drained, and served with a nice sauce, or puree of vegetables and gravy, and tho liquor reserved for soup. AVhcn elaborately dressed they are served as an entree. Calf’s Feet. — Calf’s foot aro generally prepared for boiling by the butcher; but if this is not done, they should be put into water j list upon the point of boiling, and kept in it for two or three minutes, when the hair must be scraped off, tho hoofs knocked off on the edge of the sink, the claws split, and the fat that is between them taken away. They must then bo washed with scrupulous care and nicety, first in salt and water; they should then bo loft under running water for a time. When required very white, they should bo bleached, by putting them in cold water with a pinch of salt, and bringing them to the boil, then rinsing them in cold water. This is also called blanching. Itemombcr in cooking by boiling, &o., to put them on in hot or boiling stock or water, if tho nutriment is to ho