COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 530 it up, and close the ends: the crust should he just large enough to go once round the roll, and wrap over slightly. Then bake it in a sharp oven to a rich brown. Take half a pint of stock, No. 1 or 2, and add any jelly from the meat; thicken and flavour to taste ; a little onion vinegar or walnut vinegar is suitable • boil it up, and pour round the roll. Tinned Rabbit Hot Pot.— Required: a tin of rabbit, vegetables, pork, &c., as xmder. Cost, about Is. 9d. Take a deep dish, grease it with bacon fat, and dredge the bottom and sides with bread-crumbs. Put a layer of fried onions at the bottom, then one of boiled pork in dice, and season with pepper, salt, and mixed herbs. Then put in the rabbit, cut up, and the bones removed; season in the same way, cover with more pork and onions; about half a pound of pork and a pound of onions should suffice for the dish. If some cooked carrots are handy, chop up a few tablespoonfuls and mix with the rest. Take a gill or so of plain thickened stock, well seasoned, and pour over the rabbit; it should not be thin enough to i-un amongst the crumbs. Cover the top with some browned potatoes cut in halves: all the mateiials are to be used while hot. Set the dish in the oven for ten minutes, then serve. Boiled pork is the nicest; it may be fresh or pickled; but ham or bacon may take its place. Roast pork, with the kidney, will also serve; if cold, heat it in a little gravy or stock, and mix it amongst the rabbit. Another way.—Prepare a cow's, or a couple of pig’s kidneys, by stewing (tee recipes in Joists, &c.) ; when hot and ready for table, tarn a tin of rabbit into the stew-jar, and leave it to get hot through. Then turn on to the dish, and cover with halves of browned potatoes ; or some boiled sliced potatoes can be put in the gravy. This is a good dish; the kidney flavour gives zest to the rabbit. Another way. (See recipes for plain savoury dishes of rice in next chapter.) —Lineapie-dish at the bottom and sides with a layer of the lice while hot; turn in the rabbit, well seasoned ; put a few thin slices of broiled bacon over, then more rice, and, when heated through, sei-ve. Curried rice may be especially recommended, and some hot mixed pickles, minced, and stirred amongst the x-abbit. 1Vote.—A tin of rabbit and one of lambs’ tongues maybe served together in either of these ways. A cooked calf’s foot, or pig’s foot may also be used, or the remnants of calf’s (or othei-J head. "When dishes of this sort are well seasoned, and attention is paid to the gravy, they may be very tasty at exceedingly small cost. (See recipes in Game axd Poultry.) Tinned Tongues, Lambs’, Sheep’s, or Pigs’. —These are generally eaten cold; but they are convertible into tasty hot dishes at small trouble and cost. They are by no means of unifoim quality, and re- gard should be had to their condition, some being rather hard and salt, as if brine-cured, while others are very tender, and almost insipid by reason of their mildness. The first thing is to remove the tongues from the tin, then to heat them by setting them in a dish or basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and let tho water boil round the tongues, or they may bo put in a potato steamer in the same way. Another plan, and a good one if at all hard, is to pour a little plain stock over to moisten in a stewpan, and bring to the boil. The tongues are then ready for the sauce in which they may be put, or it can be poured over or round. A glance at the chapter on Sauces will furnish a good choice, and a number of vegetable purees can be used in the same way ; or a nice plain gravy will be preferred by some, with vegetables served apart. Curry must not be forgotten. Whether tho tongues are heated in curry sauce, or curried rice only is served with them, tho dish is sure to be acceptable to those who like