UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 680 This is a very nice entree. Stuff a nice straight cuocmber with a quenelle mixture, after taking out the seeds; or use a very good forcemeat or sausage meat of a delicate kind. Tie it up and simmer in enough white stock to cover until done. Remember to make the meat hot before using it, otherwise it takes a time to heat through, and may not be done when the cucumber is. This is done by putting it in a jar, and setting in a pan of boiling water over the fire for a few minutes. Take up and pour Sauce Yeiite (page 104) over —it should be thick enough to mask it; then put a little good white sauce round, and sprinkle with a small quantity of the peel of the cucumber that has been very finely chopped. For such a dish it is more suitable than parsley. In peeling the cucumber, cut as thinly and as evenly as possible. White fish quenelle mixture is some- times used for the interior, then a few shrimps or prawns can be placed at intervals round the white sauce, and the dish has a very pretty appearance. Cucumbers, Stuffed. — Any delicately-flavoured forcemeat may be used, and' the cucumbers treated as directed for vegetable marrows. They may be cooked in any approved fashion; but one of the nicest ways is to fry lightly, then stew in gravy. There are two ways of stuffing them : they may be cut through lengthwise, then tied together, or pieces may be cut from the sides and the seeds removed, and the pieces replaced; when this is done, strips of wide tape should be tied round the replaced portions. For white dishes, it is a good plan to steam until nearly done, after stuffing, then finish off in any white sauce or thickened white stock. Curried Vegetables, Good,— Required : vegetables, curry powder, and other adjuncts as below. Cost, variable, about Is., more or less, according to season, for the following quantities. Take some vegetables cut into dice, enough to fill a pint measure; carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, lettuce stalks, and a morsel of parsnip, with some cauliflower sprigs, and French beans or peas, form a good mixture; but there are others equally good. To the above quantity add a teaspoonful of curry powder, and brown in a little olive oil, then stir in a grated apple, or some rhubarb or gooseberries, or a little tamarind chutney, or some preserved tamarinds; in the latter case tie them in muslin, that the stones and stalks may be kept out. Add a gill, or rather more, of stock No. 11 or 12, and cook until soft and the stock nearly dried up. A bay leaf improves this, so does a hint of garlic; season to taste, and add a little lemon juice. This may be eaten as it is, or served with rice, and garnished with eggs and cut lemons. The stalks of lettuce, &c., should always be parboiled for curries. (See Index for other Curries.) Note The wateriness of the vege- tables must be considered, and the amount of stock increased or reduced accordingly. Flageolet Purde.—The flageo- lets sold in tins make excellent purees, and, being already cooked, want nothing more than heating and sieving. They are then ready, and may be finished off precisely the same as peas ; or the recipes given for the dried green haricots under Pulse can be followed. The beans may be served whole just as peas or French beans. These are exceedingly useful, as they are so readily converted into a puree or soup; for the latter, see page 45. They make good salads, for which see next chapter. French Beans d, la Crdine.— The beans should be cut very thinly, and carefully boiled until almost done; then drain them most thoroughly. For twTo to three pounds of beans, put a good tablespoonful of white roux in a stewpan, with half a gill of veal or chicken stock; stir to the boil, add half a pint of thick cream, and again bring to the boil; mix in the beans very carefully, and put the lid on the pan; before serving, grate in a morsel