UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 344 brush it over twice with egg and bread-crumbs, to which, if liked, a little chopped parsley can be added, or a teaspoonful of powdered herbs, and broil it over a clear fire. When it is brightly browned on one side, turn it carefully to brown the other; serve hot with Sauce de Menthe, or with ordinary mint sauce. The following can also be recommended. Put a gill of good stock from lamb or mutton bones on to boil; add the same measure of Brown Sauce, the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped capers, and the same of red currant jelly; put in a pinch of cayenne last thing. This recipe may be followed for roast lamb by way of variety. Brown Caper Sauce is delicious with the above, or with the same joint baked or roasted. Cost, Sd. to 9d. per pound. Chops, Fried.—Cut a loin of lamb into chops from half to three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Dip each one into beaten egg, and after- wards into bread-crumbs, flavoured as follows :—Mix three ounces of finelj’’- grated bread-crumbs with a salt- spoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of finely- chopped parsley or mint, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of tinely-minced lemon rind. Fry the chops in good dripping until lightly browned on both sides. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon or crisped parsley. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Cost, about Is. per pound. Chops, Grilled.—Cut the chops about half an inch thick, trim them neatly, flatten them, place them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and let them remain until brightly browned on both sides, turning them with steak- tongs when required. Season them with pepper and salt, and servo as hot as possible. Garnish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or spinach are usually served with lamb chops. Time, about ten minutes. Cost, about Is. per pound. Chops with Cucumber Sauce.—Dip the chops in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them {see Chops, Fried). When nicely browned, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, and put in the centre a puree of cucumber (see Dressed Vegetables). Or cucumbers fried or boiled maybe substituted. Cost, about 3s. 6d. for a dish of six or eight. Fore Quarter, to Roast.— This joint can scarcely be too fresh when dressed. Remove the scrag, the shanlc-bone, and the chine-bone, and crack the ribs half-way between the edge of the breast and the spine. Lay the meat down to a quick fire, and baste plentifully from the start until it is ready for the table. About ten minutes before it is taken up dredge a little flour over it, and froth and brown it nicely. A slice of fresh butter, a cut lemon, and a little cay- enne should be sent to table, so that when the shoulder is separated from the ribs they may be ready for being laid between the two. This separation is sometimes effected before the joint is sent to table, but, of course, this must depend upon tho wish of the carver. Serve the lamb with a cut paper ruffle on the shank bone, and send a little gravy made from the roast under it. Mint sauce and salad generally accompany this dish, also a tureen of gravy. To carve, separate the shoulder: see A a a in the diagram. This is then transferred to another hot dish, some lomon juice being squeezed over the