Universal cookery book. 4 a common iron saucepan, with block- tin steamer (see Steaming), is given, and for open fireplaces this is the most durable kind, and may be used for either boiling or steaming. The time required must he regu- lated by the meat itself and its thick- ness (see Roasting) ; the average for beef and mutton is fifteen or twenty minutes per pound, with fifteen or twenty minutes over.* Veal must have rather longer; pork needs from twenty to thirty minutes per pound, according to age and thickness ; a leg from quite a young pig should have at least the last-named time. Many leading scientists are of opinion that meat is better if kept at a lower temperature than we have indicated, after the first ten minutes or so, to form the outer layer of solidified albumen, from 190° to 200° being given as .the average heat required. Some, too, go so far as to say that if meat boils at all, it may as well cook fast and furiously as slowly and steadily, pointing to the fact that the heat of the water is the same in either case in support of their arguments. True to an extent; but there is a difference in the result: for all are aware that in fast boiling the very knocking about of a joint, especially in too large a pan, will reduce it to rags; and most of us are painfully familiar with the bare bone, say, of a shank of mutton, and its accompany- ing horny flesh, due to furious boiling. In the case of tough meat, as old fowls, such a severe process may have its advantages; but for meat of good quality the ordinary simmering pro- cess — by which we mean just a tiny bubble here and there on the surface—is low enough, and tender- ness and good flavour may be relied on. Salt or no salt ? This is debatable ground. Salt increases the heat of the water—t.e., when put into boiling water it will reach several degrees * Reckon the time from the first bubbling up after the cold water is put in. above boiling point, according to the quantity put in ; hence, it is some- times recommended, in order that the increased heat may the more effectually prevent the escape of the juices by closing more completely the surface. Others contend that salt produces hardness, and that is our own opinion; we prefer to add it, in minute quantity only, near the end of the boiling. Boiling is a wasteful process unless most carefully performed and use made in all cases of the pot liquor; not so much from loss of weight, for figures seem to prove less loss than by baking and roasting, but by reason of the escape of so much flavour and nutri- tion. We will now turn to a brief consideration of Boiling Salted Meats.-—Here the ap- plication of boiling water to seal rip the surface pores is not practicable. In the first place, the meat, by salting, has already lost a large percentage of albumen and other nourishing elements. Then, as salting induces hardness, if put into boiling water the meat would become harder still, and by locking up, so to speak, the salt within the meat, it would bo unpalatable. We may here remark that we are referring more particularly to lean joints of beef, ox- tongues, &c., which should, as a rule, be put into cold water; but smaller, fatter portions, as breasts of pork, that have been in pickle only a short time, may, after washing, be put on in tepid or warm-water. The time for boiling salted meats is chiefly regulated by the time it has been in salt and its thickness; to be wholesome, it must be cooked long and slowly, and nearly double the time for the same weight of fresh meat must be given in some instances. Frequent skimming is necessary ; and if it is not required to bo cut while hot, the meat will be more tender and of fuller flavour if left in the liquor until cool. Usually the pot liquor is too salt to be of much use, unless it can be diluted with fresh meat liquor or stock from bones or vegetables.