103 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Kin, with a teaspoonful of chopped chervil and half as much tarragon, just before serving. This is excellent with salmon, gr illed, fried, or baked. Sauce Italienne (Brown).— Mix a pint of Brown Sauce, a gill of brown stock, and a gill of light wine, and bring to the boil. Put in a sauce- pan a tablespoonful of chopped onions or shalots, with twice the measure of chopped mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, and an ounce of butter; fry for ten or twelve minutes, keeping them deli- cately coloured; add the contents of the first pan, boil and skim for about ten minutes, then season to taste; take out the herbs, and put in a teaspoonful or more of finely chopped parsley, with a few drops of herbal vinegar. If no fresh mushrooms are handy, use tinned ones. Sauce Italienne (White).— Cook the mushrooms, Ac., in butter without browning (button mushrooms are required for this), then add the wine, and boil for a few minutes ; then stir in a pint of creamy Bechamel, boil gently, and skim well; season to taste, and add a little parsley last thing. If tinned mushrooms are used, boil down the liquor until well reduced, and add to the sauce. A few drops of essence of nutmeg or a pinch of ground mace improves it; parsley stalks cooked in the butter will give a good flavour, the leaves to be reserved for chopping. Sauce Jaune.—Required : half a pint of creamy Bechamel, the yolks of two eggs, half a glass of light wine, a tablespoonful of orange - j uice, cayenne, a pinch of celery salt and ground mace, a saltspoonful of French mustard, and colouring. Put the wine, mustard, and orange- juice in a stew-pan, and bring to tho boil. In another pan mix the bechamel and the yolks of the eggs, first well beaten; stir in a bain-marie until at boiling point, then take both pans from the fire, and let the contents cool a little; add the wine, &c., very gra- dually, to the sauce and eggs, mixing well; re-heat in tho bain-marie, and serve hot. The colouring should bo stirred in last, sufficient to give a rich yellow tinge. This may be served with boiled fowls, rabbits, or veal, or with fish ; it is a very excellent sauce, but needs careful manipulation. It may be made with melted butter or white sauce, if cost is an object; or half bechamel and half milk may be used. Sauce Jubilaire.—Mix in a saucepan a gill each of stock (No. G or 7), Brown Sauce (No. 2), good sheiry, and mushroom liquor; add half an ounce of glaze, a tablespoon- ful of Fumet of Game, and the same measure of minced olives, first blanched ; simmer and skim for a few minutes, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve with game. Sauce Maitre d'Hotel.— Required : three-quarters of a pint of any good white sauce, Bechamel, Yeloutk, &c., two ounces of butter, tho juice of half a lemon, a pinch of soluble cayenne, and a tablespoonful of parsley, finely chopped. Cost, about Is. Make the sauce hot; stir in tho butter, a little at a time, off the fire, also the other ingredients, and serve at once, with calf’s head or any white meat, or with fish. In the latter case the foundation should be a white sauce or melted butter, made from fish stock ; or, fish bones may be boiled down to a strong stock, which can be added to tho becham el or other sauce used. [See also MAiTRE d’Hotel Butter, page 111.) Sauce, Mandarins’.—Mince a capsicum, pHt it in a saucepan, with the seeds, a tablespoonful of castor sugar, a gill of claret, half a gill of mushroom ketchup, and the juice of a lime ; put in a good pinch of salt and a teaspoonful each of brown roux and extract of meat. Bring gently to tho boil, then put ou the lid of the pan, and leave tho sauce to blend for a quarter of an hour; re-hoat tho sauco with a drop or two of cayenne vinegar or cayenne popper to suit the palate, and serve with game of any sort,