COLD ENTREES. ■270 same materials used for ornamenting the mould. Ham and Chicken Puree, Iced.—Mix together three ounces of boiled chicken, and the same weight of cooked ham ; pass them through a mincing machine, and mix with them a gill of liquid aspic, and a gill of whipped cream and mayonnaise stirred together. Season with cayenne and a pinch of salt: colour a pale pink, and stir over ice for a short time ; then fill any fancy moulds, and freeze in an ice cave; or pour into sandwich moulds, or a large plain mould, and cut into small blocks. In either case, dish with a border of green salad, plainly dressed; sprinkle with finely chopped pickled gherkins, and put small strips of cooked ham, coated with pink chaudfroid, here and there about it. Cost, about Is. lOd. to 2s. Ham and Veal Puree, Iced. —Required: four ounces each of cooked veal and ham, a gill of thick supreme sauce, half a glass of sherry, and a gill of white stock No. 9, firm enough to set into a jelly when cold; or aspic may be used instead. Seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to 2s., ex- clusive of quenelles. Prepare the meat as for quenelles; add a little celery salt, cayenne, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg. Fill a plain border mould—after whisking the mix- ture over ice—then freeze in an ice cave for an hour or more. Turn out, and fill the centre with a rich vegetable salad, and garnish the top of the mould with quenelles, masked with aspic, or coloured chaudfroid sauce. Indian Cutlets.—Remove the white meat of a young chicken which has been parboiled in white stock; free it from skin, then mince, and mix it with the following ingredients: a gill of fine bread-crumbs, soaked in white stock and beaten finely ; a salt- spoonful each of Xepaul pepper, grated lemon peel, white pepper, chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil; a tea- spoonful of mulligatawny paste, the yolks of two eggs and the wliito of one, a gill of thick bechamel, and a little salt. Put the mixture into but- tered cutlet moulds, and poach for fifteen or twenty minutes. Turn out when cold, and coat them with white chaudfroid sauce. Round the edge of Fin. 6S.—Cutlet Mould. each put some chopped pink aspic, mixed with clear mixed pickles, finely chopped, and sprinkle tiny' strips of red and green capsicums ower the entire surface. Dish the cutlets on a border of pink aspic, and fill the middle with salad. Cost, about 2s. fid. to 3s. per dish of nine or ten, exclusive* of salad. Fig. G8 shows the shape of the moulds. They are made in copper, and are very useful for various kinds of entrees and made dishes. lamb Cutlets a la Brad- leigh.—Required: the best end of a neck of lamb, braised and left until cold, pureo, and garnish as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3.S. fid. Cut tho lamb into neat pieces, take the bones away, and coat the meat with palo aspic; sprinkle it with finely chopped mint. Dish in a circle over- lapping, and put some iced cucumber purfie all round each, using a bag and pipe. A block of rice, or a croustude, may bo used to rest the cutlets against. Round the base put moro of the cucumber puree, sprinkled with chop- ped mint and beetroot in thin strips or tiny dice. Lamb Cutlets a la Taunton. —Required: cutlets as abovo, vege- tables, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. Od. Divide tho meat, glaze it, and lay on tho glazo, on ono side only, some