GAME AND POULTRY. 435 a pound will be required for a brace), and a few minutes before they are taken up flour them well, so that they may brown nicely. The birds may be dished upon fried bread-crumbs, or upon a slice of buttered toast, which has been soaked in the pan under the birds, or they may be put on a hot dish, and garnished with watercress. Brown gravy and bread-sauce should be sent to table with them; two or three thin slices of fat bacon, tied round the birds before they are put down to the fire,wdll greatly improve their flavour; when ob- tainable, a large vine leaf may be laid on the breasts under the bacon. (See recipe for Gravy for Boasted Phea- sant.) The same may be served with partridges. For a rich gravy, see Stock Xo. 17. A little very good sherry or Madeira may be added, and a slight thickening of arrowroot or roux, with a small quantity of good game stock or fumet of game. Be sure not to over- flavour partridge gravy; one that would go well with coarse, strong game would overpower the flavour of a partridge. A stock made from veal and beef, like those given for clear soups, may also be converted into very good gravy for partridges. Time, about twenty or twenty-five minutes for young birds; thirty minutes or more for older ones. Cost, from 2s. to os. per brace. Partridges, Salmi d la Chasseur.—Take some cold roasted partridges—all the better if under- done ; cut them into joints, and take away the skin and sinew. Put into a sancepan ingredients in the following proportions, regulating the quantity according to that of the partridges : — Four tablespoonfuls of puro salad oil, six tablespoonfuls of good claret, the juice of a lemon and the grated rind, a pinch each of salt, cayenne, and white pepper. Coat the joints with the mixture, and let them lie in it, then heat them gently. When boiling- point is reached, serve at once. Cost of birds, about Is. 6d. to 2s. Gd. each. Partridges, Salmi of, a la Francaise.—Boquired: a brace of partxidges and a sauce made as below. Cost, about 6s. Boast a brace of well-hung young partridges, baste them liberally, and take them down when they are only three-parts cooked. Let them get cold; then cut them into neat joints, remove the skin, fat, and sinew, and put the good parts aside, being cax-e- ful to cover them, and keep them in a cool place to prevent their be- coming hard. Melt three ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan. Put with it a dozen small mushrooms, a scraped carrot, two sliced shalots, half a blade of mace, a bay leaf, a handful of pars- ley leaves, a medium-sized onion, stuck with two cloves, a small sprig of thyme, and four ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into small pieces. Stir these over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned, sprinkle over them a table- spoonful of flour, let it brown slightly, and then stir in, very gradually, a pint of good veal gravy and a glassful of sherry. Add the bones and trimmings of the birds, and boil the sauce gently until it is reduced to half; then strain it, let it boil up once more, put in the pieces of partridge, and when they are quite hot, dish the salmi, and serve immediately. Garnish the dish with crofitons. When mushrooms cannot bo obtained, their place may bo supplied by a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Partridges, Salmi of, with Truffles, — llequired : partridges, butter, bacon, fowls’ livers, truffles, wine, sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about 7s. to 7s. 6d. Semi-cook a brace of young birds in a saute pan, with two ounces of butterand a slice of bacon, cut in dice; add the livers, and those of a couple of fowls. When half-done, put by to get cold. Make a fumet of the remnants, and add it to the livers; pound well, and put in a few truffle trimmings, cut up small. Slice 'half a dozen truffles, and heat them in Madeira; stir in u morsel of glaze and a spoonful of the fumet, just