UNIVERSAL cookery BOON. <58 the macedoines, with their liquor, a tiny lump of sugar, the extract of meat, and the glaze or gelatine. Bring to the boil, and as soon as the gelatine or glaze is thoroughly melted it is ready to serve. This recipe shows how a poor stock may be very quickly converted into good soup. If preferred thicker, add an ounce of arrowroot or corn-flour. If good stock is available, leave out the glaze. Soup, Clear, with Mace doines.—In this case the vegetables should be drained from the liquor, then rinsed in hot water, and put into the clear soup. Stock No. 6 or 7 is suitable. It should be flavoured and clarified in the usual way. The liquor in the tin contains a good deal of flavour, and should be used in vegetable soups or stews, &c. Cost of macedoines, about 9d. per pint tin. Add a teaspoonful of wine, if liked. Soup Piquant. — This is a winter soup, one of the best of the many maigre soups. Required : three pints of stock (No. 11), three ounces of potato-flour, one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of scraped horse-radish, the same of chutnee and curry paste, a few drops of tarragon vinegar and lemon-juice, a saltspoonful of French mustard, and a little browning salt. Cost, about 8d. An hour or two before using put into a basin the curry and all the other condiments, mixing well and covering. A pinch of sugar should also be added. Then bring the stock to the boil; melt the butter in another pan, mix the potato-flour with cold stock, add to the butter, and boil up, then pour the whole into the stock. Stir in the contents of the basin, first passed through a sieve, add more salt to taste, and the browning, and serve very hot. In passing the condiments through the sieve they should be moistened first with a little of the hot stock, and the mixture must all be carefully scraped from under the sieve, or it will be wasted, and the soup will suffer in flavour. If not convenient to mix them beforehand, they may be put straight into the soup, but a larger quantity will be needed, and the flavour is not so good. ' A small quantity of lemon pickle is an excellent addition. Spring Soup).—Prepare the vege- tables as for Julienne, but instead of cooking them first in butter, put them straight into water, if for clear soups, and boil until tender; or they may be parboiled and finished in stock if not required to be clarified. (See Bhunoisb Sour, Bkown.) Shredded lettuce or young cabbage can be used with other vegetables for this. Vegetables may bo cut in other than strips for spring soups, but strictly this is not correct, (iSec also Consomm6 Jardiniere,Nivek- NA18B and PoTAGE PlUNTANIEltE.) Succotash Soup.—Succotash isan American preparation, sold in tins. It consists of beans of various kinds, and com, cooked ready for serving. It is generally served as a vegetable (direc- tions will be found on the tins), but by adding an increased quantity of milk or vegetable stock to make it the required consistency it will furnish a very delicious soup. It is also highly nourishing and cheap. Cost, about a shilling per tin. Some tomatoes may be used with the succotash, if liked, or for a plain soup some mashed potatoes are a good addition. There are many combina- tions—for instance, cooked haricots or some fresh beans ; broad beans, if young and tender, are a very suitable addi- tion, and barley or any other cereal can be used with succotash—in fact, some such food makes it still more acceptable to some English palates. Sweethi’ead Soup.—Required: a calf’s sweetbread, a quart of the liquor from veal tendons (see the Index), a pint of milk and cream mixed, somo veal forcemeat, seasoning, &c.,as below. Cost, about 4s. Will vary according to the time of year.