170 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. may be kept alive for somo days, by feeding them with salt and water (changed every twenty-four hours) ; oatmeal is usedalso; it gives plumpness, but the flavour suffers. Oyster Curry. — Keduce the oyster liquor, and add it to twice its measure of sauce made as below; beard the oysters and lay them in to get hot through. They should bo first scalded as usual, and the beards stewed in the stock with which the sauce is made. Required, for a gill of sauce, a teaspoonful each of chopped onion (scalded), lemon juice, white wine, and curry paste ; tho same, or rather more, of white roux; salt, cayenne, and a pinch of nutmeg, a few drops of anchovy essence, and a bit of apple pulp, scraped from a cooked apple. The whole should be cooked, and sieved or tamraied, and after mixing with the oyster liquor it must not bo boiled. Enough oysters—whole if small, divided if large—must be used to make a thick mixturo. Serve with rice, boiled as usual, or Browned Rice can bo sorved with it; either may be sprinkled with curry powder and lemon juico. Oyster Cutlets.—Required: a score of small oysters, four ounces of raw veal, bread, eggs, seasoning, and sauce as under. Cost of oysters about Is. 4d. per score. Scald tho oysters in their liquor; beard them, and mince them very small; then scrape the veal, adding the scraped meat to the oysters. Reduce the liquor to half tho measure, and season with cayenne, chopped parsley, and a hint of onion, first scalded, a little salt and lemon juico, then add an equal measure of thick White Sauce ; beat in the yolk of a raw egg, and stir in the oysters and veal, and a small quantity of bread crumbs. This depends upon the time tho oysters can be left before frying; if they can stand all night, a good tablespoonful or two will do; if only j ust long enough to cool, use double the quantity. Beat tho whole for a few minutes over tho fire, but do not boil it; fill somo cutlet tins, and when cold, turn out; thon coat with egg and bread crumbs in the usual way, fry them a nice brown, and dish on a lace paper, in a circle ; fill the centre with filed parsley. If no tins are at hand, pour the mass on a flat dish, .and cut out with a cutlet cutter, or an oval plain cutter when quite cold; or tho mixturo can be formed into small cakes; see Fish Cakes for the manner of shaping them. Oyster Cutlets, a la Danes- liury.—For these, first prepare about half a pint of Oyster Sauce, and let it get cold. Pound together three boned anchovies, a tcaspoonful each of lemon juice and thick cream, a little salt, cayenno, tarragon vinegar, and Fronch mustard, tho yolk of a liard- boilod egg, and a couple or three table- spoonfuls of any cooked white fish, whiting or solo for choice. When well mixed, stir in tho oyster sauce, and work the whole well together. Have ready somo cutlet moulds, as illustrated below, and put in enough Pin. 40.—Cutlet Mould. (Deep, straight, with round bottom.) aspic mayonnaise (see Garnishes) to line the bottoms. When firm, fill up with tho oyster mixture, first adding to it just enough liquid aspic to set it. It is well to test this by sotting a little in one of the moulds first over ice, as tho quantity varies according to tho weather. When firm, turn them out, and garnish the tops with mayonnaise of a contrasting colour, forming' any pretty design. Dish them down a straight block of rice (see Garnishes), and garnish with aspic and green salad. Serve as an entree. Oyster Toast, Plain. — Re- quired : a round of buttered toast, somo Oyster Sauce, made in tho usual way