UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. G14 tho custom of «putting it into cold drinks, of which claret cup is an average specimen, is a wise one.” This is, we think, one of the chief uses of this plant. Bottled Vegetables. — See Beans, Peas, and Tomatoes. Broccoli. — This so much re- sembles Cauliflower that the same recipes answer for the cooking of it. We may remind the reader that the leaves need not he wasted, but can be cooked like large white cabbages, with which everyone is familiar. The thick parts may be stripped from them, not for the purpose of throwing them away, but that they may go into the boiling pot before the tender parts. A dish of these leaves, with a few slices of 1mm or bacon, and a tureen of plain sauce, is a meal not to bo despised on account of its cheapness. Brussels Sprouts.—These are a very nice green vegetable, welcome at almost every table ; they are whole- some, and, as a rule, fairly cheap, about 2d. per pound. The sprouts want going over one by one; the Btems cut evenly, and any outer decayed leaves removed; the part to cook should look like a tiny compact cabbage. Soak for an hour in cold, salted water, after many times rinsing, then drain in a colander, and put them in the boiling water by degrees, that they may not take the water off the boil. Have a good supply of water, and salt it as for cabbage. Boil with the lid off, from twelve to fifteen minutes, if very small and tender; some sprouts may take twenty minutes. Drain very thoroughly on a sieve, or in a colan- der, and serve very quickly; sprouts soon become absolutely cold. With regard to the pressing of sprouts, if they are to be plainly served with a joint, say roast beef, unless time can bo given for them to drain well, and they are afterwards re-heated as under- mentioned, it is well to press them a little to get rid of the water, for nothing is more unpleasant than to find one’s plate of gravy diluted with the water from greens; yet, they should retain their shape, and after the slight pressure should be well shaken up. But, if the sprouts are to receive the addition of White Sauce, or to be finished off spinach fashion, then drain them without pressure, and put them back in a clean saucepan over tho fire, that the moisture may be got rid of by evaporation, with a little butter, salt, and pepper, and, if liked, lemon juice and a grate of nutmeg. Shake the pan well. When hot through, serve with a garnish of toast or fried bread. See next chapter for other ways of serving; also Cadhage, for further hints on cooking greens generally. Burnet.—This grows by the way- side, and flowers in July ; its leaves are very beautiful. It is used in the same way ns borage, and is considered equally wholesome. Cabbage. — This is one of the commonest of vegetables, and a most useful one; it is liked as a rule, but has to be avoided by some persons of a flatulent habit. Tho entire tribe is a large one, and embraces sprouts and kale, spinach, &c., as they have a common origin in the wild plant which grows upon the coasts of England, Ireland, and Wales. Cabbages are generally cheap; from Id. to 2d. each is a good price, and they may some- times be got for less. There are cer- tain rules applicable to cabbage cookery, which may be here noted, and which will avoid repetition in our recipes. All need most careful wash- ing, lots of water, renewed several times, and a good lump of salt added to the last—in which they should lie for a time — will draw out insects; they should be put upside down in the water. If any doubt exists, pour boiling water over, after taking them from the cold; this will dislodge in- sects if any are hidden in the ieaves. Always drain well before putting them on to boil, that they may chill the