UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 43G to coat the truffles. Finish off the birds in good brown sauce, to which add some wine, truffle essence, and fumet; dish in a pile, and put the sliced truffles round the joints and some on the top. Make some tiny rings by cutting the centres from small round croutons; put in each a bit of the liver puree, and shake fried crumbs over, so as to coat the interior. In the middle of each, lay a bit of truffle, and arrange them about the dish in any desired form. Many other birds are equally deli- cious thus prepared. If more conve- nient, semi-roast them. In finishing off the birds, they may be cut into five parts : the backs being used for stock. For other larger birds the division must be regulated by their size. The skin is to be taken off as usual. Peacock. — This beautiful bird makes a showy and ornamental dish ; but, in spite of its lovely plumage, the flesh is rather poor. The tail-feathers are generally stuck in when roasted. The hen is, however, more frequently served than the cock. Cost, very uncertain. Peafowl, Trussing. —Peafowls should bo trussed in the same way as pheasants, excepting that the head should be left attached to the skin of the breast unplucked. It should be carefully (overed with buttered paper, and fastened under the wing. If larding be omitted, the legs of tho birds, as well as tho bodies, should be bound with slices of bacon. Peafowl, Larded and Roasted. — Choose a young bird, and lard it closely over the breast and legs. Fill it with a good forcemeat, or it can be omitted; it is a matter of taste; truss it firmly, and roast before a clear fire for an hour or an hour and a half, according to the size of the bird. When done enough, take off the buttered paper which was round the head (see Peafowl, Tuussino), trim the feathers, glaze the larding, and serve the bird on a hot dish, with a little clear brown gravy under it. Garnish the dish with watercress, and send broad sauce to table in a tureen. Per gilin.—The common penguin is the size of a duck; the great pen- guin is as large as a goose. It is only used as food in rare circumstances. Pennant describes the Patagonian pen- guin as follows :—“ They are very fat, but taste fishy, not unlike our puffins. As they are very full of blood their heads must be cut off as soon as killed, that it may run out. They must also bo flayed, or the flesh is scarcely eatable. When salted, it is good food, and takes the place of salt beef or pork for long voyages and in times of scarcity. Pheasant.—The pheasant, almost more than any other bird, requires to be hung as long as it possibly can be with safety. When this is done, the flesh acquires a delicious flavour, peculiar to itself; when it is not done, the flesh is tough and flavourless. The length of time that the bird should be kept de- pends, of course, upon the state of the ■weather. In cold, frosty weather three weeks may be safely permitted; in warm, damp weather four or five days will probably be found sufficient. As a general rule, the bird is ready for the spit when it begins to smell slightly, and to change colour; cer- tainly it should never be cooked until the blood begins to drop from the bill. The hen pheasant is more delicate in flavour than the cock. The old birds may be known by tho length and sharpness of the spurs, which in tho young ones are short and round. Young pheasants are, of course, to be preferred. Some writers of note declare that an English dish of pheasant is never so perfect as it ought to be, the damp of the climate preventing the birds hanging long enough to attain- the flavour which they otherwise wotdd. Cost, about 6s. per brace, but are often higher. Pheasant, to Truss.—Pheas- ants may be trussed either with or