universal Cookery book. 100 more salt, if required; bring to the boil, and serve as a substitute for bread sauce with pork or poultry. (See also Vegetables and Scrap Cookery.) Cost, about 6d. If preferred, half stock (white) and half milk can be used for the rice; either way it is a cheap and good sauce, and the cream may be omitted for a very plain sauce. Robert Sauce.—Fry a heaping tablespoonful of minced onions with a bay-leaf, some crushed peppercorns, a clove or two, and half a tomato; when a rich brown add a pint and a quarter of Brown Sauce ; boil up, skim well, and simmer for ten minutes, then tammy or sieve the sauce ; put it back in the pan, with a good toaspoonful of French mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of French vinegar; re-heat, and serve. This is a good sauce for pork. Flavoured vinegars are sometimes added to this, and an in- creased quantity of French vinegar, reduced by boiling before adding it, is preferred by some. Roe Sauce.—Boil or fry the roes of any fish : both hard and soft roes can be used ; sieve them, and add a good seasoning of salt and popper, a little mixed mustard, and flavoured vinegar, or Fronch vinegar, brown or white ; stir two tablespoonfuls of the mixture thus prepared into a pint of plain White Sauce or Melted Butter, and serve with the fish from which the roes were taken ; or, if the roe3 are fried, make a brown sauce, by thickening some fish stock with brown roux or browned flour, and flavouring with ketchup or store sauce. To heighten the flavour of this, a few drops of essence of shrimps, an- chovies, lobster, &c., will bo found useful; or a small pat of sardine butter may be stirred in, or an an- chovy, boned and sieved. Schiller Sauce (German).— Mince two shalots, and brown thorn in one ounce of hot butter; add three ounces of preserved tamarinds, throe gills of nice brown stock (No. 4 would do, or clear stock, as No. 6, 7, or 8), some salt, peppercorns, a clove or two, and some browning; boil up and add a gill of claret, then stir in a tablespoonful of brown roux ; cook gently for a quarter of an hour, skim often, then strain, and serve hot with game, well hung mutton, venison, or beef. A good bunch of herbs should be fried with the shalots, or some herbs in fine powder may be put in the sauce. Sauce a la Boston.—Required : ono pint of Brown Sauce, one tabic- spoonful of smoked ham or tongue, grated, four ounces each of tomatoes and Spanish onions, a teaspoonful each of French mustard, anchovy essence, and pepper water, seasoning, and butter. Make the butter hot, slice and fry the onions a rich brown ; break up the tomatoes, add them with all the rest of the ingredients (ham excepted) ; cook until soft, skimming often, then add the ham, and rub all through a sieve after a minute's further boiling ; re-heat, season to taste, and put in a few drops of carmine and lemon-juice. This is a good sauce for grilled meat, game, or fish, and for made dishes of every description. Sauce a la Calypso. — Re- quired: four ounces of ripe black cherries, one ounce of sugar, three gills of Brown Sauce, one gill of claret, one tablespoonful of tomato pulp, salt, cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Pound the cherries, sugar, and tomatoes ; add all the rest, except the lemon-juice and cayenne; boil gently for half an hour, rub through a hair sieve, then re-heat and season, put in a few drops of carmine, and serve with any game or dark meat. Good stock from game, thickened with roux, can be used instead of brown sauce. Sauce a la Cardinal.—Re- quired : a gill of fish stock (No. 13), a gill of cream, half a pint of Creamy Bechamel, a teaspoonful of arrowroot, a pinch of cayenne and salt, and a pat of Lobster Butter. Cost, about Is. 3d-