17 KITCHEN PROCESSES. sweet dripping be used to baste a joint. To begrudge the trouble of clarifica- tion, to mix fresh with stale—perhaps in summer-time there may be a sus- picion of putridity—or to use fat which lias been poured from game, for meat, ale all grave mistakes, which may be easily avoided by the exercise of a little common sense. The usual method employed for roasting meat is to hang a bottle-jack on the movable bar placed for its re- ception on the front of the mantelshelf, to suspend the wheel from the jack, and to hang the meat by a hook from the wheel. A screen made of tin, or lined with it, is then put in front of the tire to keep in the heat (it serves too as a plate wanner), and the jack is wound up two or three times whilst a joint is being roasted. By a modem improvement the bar can be Fio. 11.—Bottle-Jack and Sckekx. altogether dispensed with, and the jack fastened above the screen, which is so made that the heat will be con- densed as much as possible (Fig. 11). Those who do not wish to go to the expense of a bottle-jack may find an economical substitute for the bottle- jack in the chimney screw-jack, which may be fastened upon any mantelshelf when wanted, and unscrewed when done with. It requires a little more watching than the ordinary bottle- jack, but if a key be hung upon the hook with six or seven thicknesses of worsted wound round it, one end of which is fastened to the meat-hook, the twisting and untwisting of the worsted cord will cause a rotary motion like that produced by the more expensive bottle-jack. The Salamander and its Uses.—A very handy utensil, known as a salamander, is made of iron, and may be bought either with or without a stand. The article itself costs about four shillings, or, with the Btand, nearly double that sum. In the latter form its utility is considerably increased, as it is only necessary to fix it in position over the dish which requires browning. The salamander must be made red- hot, and the length of time which is necessary to brown the dish, and the nearness of its proximity to the sala- mander, depend entirely upon the nature of the viand and the degree of brownness desired. In most cases a few seconds is long enough, and the dish must never be placed near enough to scorch. A salamander is almost indispensable in houses where appearances are studied, for it will give just the one “ finishing touch ” to many dishes which raises them from the ordinary or commonplace to the artistic and high- class at no increased cost whatever save that of a minute’s time and trouble. An old shovel may be used as a sub- stitute, and is better than nothing at all; but it is hardly necessary to point out that shovels which are made red- hot very often will not last long, and a salamander will be found the cheapest in the long run.