357 PORK. quired. The stock is preferably made from the water from boiled fresh meat or poultry; a strip of lean ham should be simmered in it to give flavour. The point is, freedom from grease and ex- cessive richness. In addition to boiled rice, fried apples may be put about the dish. The rice can also be sprinkled with currants, prepared as for sucking- pig, or little piles of stewed sultanas will do instead. Cost, varying with the adjuncts. Cutlets, with Moulded Pota- toes.—Take the cutlets from the neck of nice lean pork. Trim them neatly, and sprinkle with pepper, and dip in warm butter; broil them for ten minutes, turning as usual; the heat must be gradual after the first minute or two. Then put them in butter again, and coat with bread-crumbs that have been browned in the oven; put them on firmly, and finish the cooking, giving ten minutes or longer, according to thickness. Dish them on a very hot dish, with moulded potatoes (browned) in the centre (see Vegetables), and pour round any nice sauce of the piquant kind, or chutney ; or any other can be substituted. A puree of onions or celery can be used in place of potatoes, or both vegetables may be served. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Cutlets, with Onions.—Re- quired : Some cutlets as above; a pinch of cayenne and mixed herbs Bhouhl be mixed with the crumbs, and after the partial cooking by grilling or broiling, the meat may be fried after crumbing, or finished off in a moderate oven. It should be nicely browned, and well done. Then put a ring of fried bread in the middle of the dish, spread it thickly with fried onions, and fill the centre with apple sauce, mixed with a small quantity of thick brown sauce. Dish the cutlets round the bread, and pour a little more apple sauce round the base. Cost, about 9d. per pouqd.. Faggots.—Few people make these at home in towns where they are readily obtained at pork - butchers’. There are many ways of preparing them; the cheapest varieties consist for the most part of bread and herbs, with a small proportion of liver and pork. The following is a good recipe: Required : a pound and a half of pig’s liver, half a pound of fat pork, a tea- spoonful each of sage, parsley, and thyme, powdered, a good-sized onion, half a pint of bread-crumbs, two eggs, a teaspoonful of pepper, and double the quantity of salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a pig’s caul. Cost, about Is. 6d. The meat must be very finely minced, and mixed with the seasoning, then put in a jar or basin, and steamed in a saucepan, with boiling water half way round it, for an hour. It must then be left to cool before mixing with the crumbs and eggs. After beating well, make the mass into balls, and flatten a little; wrap them singly in pieces of the caul, and bake gently to a pale brown, about half an hour; or the pig’s caul can be omitted, and tho faggots baked with a little gravy in the tin. The onion should be scalded and chopped if a mild flavour is liked ; otherwise it can be put in raw, and in rather larger pieces. A sheep’s or calf’s liver can be used if preferred, and a kidney may be added with advantage. Feet, Boiled.—Scald and scrape the feet of a fully - grown porker, and carefully remove the covering of the toes. Split them in halves, lengthways, and bind them securely with tape in their original position. Put them into a stewpan, with a quart of hot stock or water, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, two onions, two carrots, a stick of celery, and a little salt and cayenne. Let them simmer gontly until they are tender. Drain them, and draw out tho largo bones. After tho feet have been boiled ns above directed, they may be either served hot.