130 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Now for the tests of the goodness of fish. Under various headings we have specified the tests for that particular sort. Bright eyes and red gills: yes, at one time these alone proved goodness ; now alas! the brightness and colour may be artificially produced, so more is wanted. Well, given firm flesh, which rises when pressed, and a pleasant odour, together with aforesaid brightness, there will be nothing the matter with the fish ; and, although fresh scales, uninjured, prove goodness, yet it does not always follow that loose scales are indicative of a stale condition, x-ough handling or packing may cause it. Turbot, cod, haddock, and soles, keep very well. Closely allied to sea fish are the mild kinds of fresh water fish. The muddy varieties, found in stagnant water, must be divided from the foregoing by a decidedly sharp line; however well cleaned and cooked, some people cannot eat them. As a rule, all fresh water fish from streams and pools with sandy, gravelly bottoms are more agreeable than such as are caught in dirty water, the flavour of fish being due both to its food and the state of the water in which it lives. Then come the oily fish, of which salmon, mackerel, eels, and herrings, are familiar types. The eel is richest in fat, then come mackerel, hori’ing, and salmon, in the order named. These are highly nutritious, when they can be digested; all the tribe have to be avoided by some, and others can indulge in one or two sorts, while the rest cause suffering; as a rule, they should never be given to invalids unless ordered. The same may be said of smoked, dried, and pickled fish. Sprats, sardines, and pilchards, must be classed with the above in point of digestibility. We must now turn to shell fish. There are two varieties : the crusta- cean and the mollusc. Oysters, cockles, mussels, scallops, and other fish enclosod between two shells, comprise the last named; while in the ci'ab, lobster, shrimp, prawn, eray-fisli, and craw-fish, we get well-known types of the former. We are beset with difficulties in attempting to deal with these; to repeat a tithe of all that has been said against them would be to condemn them absolutely. Here, indeed, every man must be a law unto himsolf : one can eat a lobster and suffer nothing; another fights shy of a shrimp; sometimes a shell fish of any sort (oysters excepted) causes pain if oaten with tea, and no discomfoi’t whatever if taken without liquid. The crab, from the foulness of its feeding, is the most likely to disagree; it has been called the scavenger of the sea, and should never be oaten by any one, except it is in very prime condition. The oyster stands alone ; when eaten raw it is highly digestible and nourishing. A mere crushing between the teeth is sufficient to place a largo part of the oyster beyond tbe need of further digestion, because it consists largely of liver, and this contains a ferment, which converts it into digestible sugar. “ Cooking, by destroying this feimient, aud rendering the body of the oyster hard, reverses the state of matters ”: so writes Dr. Bridger, in his valuable work on “ The Demon of Dyspepsia.” A last hint on sauces and other accompaniments to fish. It may bo laid down as a general rule that the white-fleshed, nitrogenous kinds need a fatty sauce, i.e., of the melted butter type: this is a scientific combination; while for the fatty sorts of fish tbe piquant varieties are suitable. Condiments in moderation are in such general demand, that it