549 CfcREALS. many do, on the ground that it absorbs moisture, and is therefore more eco- nomical. This is true, but if soaked it is liable to become “ pappy,” and if left to boil a minute too long may fall to pieces. The thing is to boil it until quite tender, without losing its shape. Then the water, or stock, should be fast boiling when it is put in, and this is best done gradually, that the liquid may not cease boiling. Crowding is a very common stumbling block: the best cook in the world could not boil macaroni properly in a little pan, with a small quantity of water—barely enough to cover it, as some people use. A couple of quarts of water is none too much for half a pint of macaroni; this is less than many advise; ten or twelve times the measure of water is laid down by one high authority. This is, of course, for the preliminary boiling; the final treatment is described in our recipes. Again, it is no use to lay down any hard-and-fast rule as to the time macaroni will take to cook. This varies according to the quality, kind and age. Xaples, or pipe macaroni, generally cooks in less time than Genoa, or curled macaroni, although the first- named is the thicker. From twenty- five to thirty minutes may be set down as the approximate time for pipe ; and from forty minutes to an hour for curled macaroni; but it is best to test a portion when purchased. There is generally a slight saving by buying a box of four or seven pounds, which is none too much for a family. A well- known writer on the cuisine suggests that those who wish to taste macaroni in perfection should pay a visit to a good Italian restaurant in London ; at many vegetarian restaurants it is also served in a host of appetising forms. Sir Henry Thompson says that most people can digest macaroni more easily and rapidly than meat, and that it is therefore an admirable substitute for flesh, for mid-day meals, for those whose employment demands attention daring a long afternoon. Macaroni costs from 4d. to 8d. per pound on an average. (Sec also Italian Paste, Sparghetti, and Vermicelli.) Besides the following recipes, others will be found in various chapters. (See also Digestible Cheese Dishes.) Macaroni in Batter. — Re- quired : macaroni, oil, seasoning, brown flour, eggs, an onion, cheese, herbs, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. There are endless ways of preparing this, and any of the batters-given in a later chapter might be used: but the following is so popular at the restaurant where it is served that we give it in its entirety. Break up six ounces of pipe macaroni into short pieces ; drop it into fast-boiling water, with a little salt, a tablespoonful of olive oil, a sliced onion, and a little pepper. When done drain it, and make a batter with half a pound of brown flour, a pint of the water from tho macaroni (when cool); two eggs, and the onion, chopped small. Bub the inside of a deep pie dish with oil, lay in the macaroni, and season with mixed herbs and cayenne, just a hint of the latter ; nutmeg can be added if liked. The batter should then be poured over, and the dish set in a quick oven. It will take about three-quarters Of an hour to become nicely browned. Make a pint of plain white sauce, flavour it with grated cheese, and serve separately. Another way.—Bake the above in a shallow baking tin, and cut it in squares when done ; many will prefer this, because there is more of the brown. Macaroni Borders.—These for * the most part belong to high-class savouries, therefore the ornamental ones are detailed in the chapter on Garnishes. A plainer sort of border, that is for which no mould is used, may be had by parboiling the macaroni as directed for Brown Macaroni, and cutting it up into half-inch lengths before the stock is added; it is a good plan to brush it over with thin glazo after putting it on tho dish, to form the border, ns this not only improves its appearance, but also holds it