UNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK, 208 to displace the lardoons. In five minutes—more or loss in proportion to thickness—they should be put in a sharp oven to finish, after covering with a buttered paper. When done, if not brown enough, use the sala- mander ; brush over with glaze, and let them crisp nicely; they should not be greasy. Any other iced sauce may be used in this way, the dish talcing its name from the sauce. When not moulded, the sauce can bo cut in cubes or other shapes, just according to fancy. Beef Fillets a la Kars- lake.—Required: a dozen fillets of beef, truffles, throo gills of Brown Sauce No. 2, seasoning, butter, wine, &c., as below. Cost, 4s. to os. The fillets should bo oval, the size of a large egg, and about tho tliird of an inch thick ; and after brush- ing them on both sides with salad oil, and seasoning with pepper and cayenne, they should be grilled for five minutes. Tho brown sauce should then be heated, and after the fillets are drained well they should bo laid in the sauce, and kept at sim- mering point for about seven or eight minutes. In a separate saucepan, have tho truffles cut into dice shapes, enough to fill a couple of tablespoons, and half a gill of light wino; lot them simmer for a few minutes; then take a hot dish, and put on it, to form a border, some rice boiled as for curry, but in white stock instead of water. Arrange the fillets and sauce in the centre, and put the truffles and wine all over; pour a little more brown sauce round the rice, and all over it put a little good tomato sauce, mixed with a small quantity of glaze. This should be coloured to contrast with the rest of the dish. Servo as hot as possible. Beef Fillets h la Marleigh. —Prepare the meat and gravy just as directed in tho following recipe. Put some Potato Puree on a hot dish, making it pyramid shape; rough it with a skewer, and pour a little thick brown sauce mixed with a morsel of glaze over, then put on tho top somo Brown Mushroom Puree, from a bag with a plain pipe. Dish the fillets round tho potato, and pour the gravy round the fillets; tho latter should bo glazed. Warm some truffles in stock or wine; slice them, and cut them in fancy shapes; put one of those between the fillets; chop up tho remnants, and sprinkle them on the sauce. Two or three medium-sized ones will bo wanted. If no truffles are handy, use pickled walnuts for the garnish, and chop up a musliroom or two for putting on the sauce. Beef Fillets d, la STturn! on. —Required: seven fillets of beef, three-fourths of an inch thick, and cut into oval pieces; seasoning, &c., as bolow. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Bat the fillets out, lay them on a dish, and mix a little lemon juice, half a gill of salad oil, somo popper, a dust of cayenne, a pinch of thyme and bay-leaf in powder, and a little chopped onion. Marinade the fillets in the mixture for a couple of hours, turning often, then drain, and saute them in hot butter. They will take from seven to ten minutes if the meat is well hung, rather more if fresh. When tho gravy clots on the surface they are ready. Put them on a very hot dish near the fire, and prepare the gravy by boiling a gill of brown sauce, half a gill of gravy from roast beef, a tablcspoonful of sherry, and a squeeze of lemon juice; season to taste, and dish tho fillets overlapping, straight down the centro of a Block Croustade, slightly holknved, then pour half the gravy over. Round the fillets, put some macaroni cooked in stock, and pour over it the rest of tho gravy. Garnish with glazed croutons. Beef Fillets with Shrimps. —Required : nino fillets of beef, some potatoes, shrimps, and sauce as below. Cost, about 4s. Lard the fillets round tho edge only, then cook them as directod for Beef Fillets a la Calcutta. Make a