Brisket Stewed.—Take a piece of fresh brisket, of any required weight; take out the flat bones, wipe and flour the meat, and fry it brown in an ounco or two of dripping [see Ox Cheek,Rolled) ; and finish the cooking by the directions given in that recipe. If for a cold dish, the meat should be pressed. Few people, comparatively, are acquainted with the merits of a piece of beef of this description, stewed and served cold, boiling being so much more general; a moment’s considera- tion will, however, suffice to convince anyone that the chances arc in favour of the stewed joint being more tasty and tender. Brisket is often rolled; it must then receive double the usual time for cooking, whether fresh or salted ; it is then carved like a round of beef. It is desirable, in railing it, that a pickle containing sugar should be chosen. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. per pound. Chuck Ribs.—This is an excel- lent piece for boiling; and in the opinion of an American writer it is also one of the best pieces for braised, rolled, piquant, savoury, and a hundred other beef dishes, all familiar to thrift}' German housewives, and which should be more generally known, as they add variety to the daily menu. This may also be larded and served as is fillet of beef. It is quite acceptable as steak, with sauce Bordelaise, or any other, while the most exacting epicure would probably be content with chuck rib bones, when grilled or devilled. W'e would also recommend a trial of it, boned, rolled, and stewed; whether simple or elaborate, it will be found full of flavour, and very tender if the j rinciples of the method are carried out. bleaks may Ik: cut from chuck ribs after the part ha.s hung, but take caro that the steak does not hang after it is cut. A favourite* dish with some is a rib covered both sides with slices of raw bacon. laid in a stewpan with an ounce of melted butter or dnpping, and ex- posed to a quick heat fora few minutes; the pan is then removed to a cool part of the stove that the meat may cook gently. All sorts of herbs and spices arc sprinkled on, together with chopped onions or slialots; and sometimes a suspicion of garlic and a spoonful of flavoured vinegar are put in. Collops (German).—Required: ten ounces of lean beef, six ounces of young pork, two ounces of bread crumbs, an ounce of butter, a small shalot or a chive, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and an egg. Broth or bone stock in which to cook them is also wanted. Cost, about Is. Dissolve the butter, stir in the crumbs, seasoning, and a spoonful of broth, take from tho fire, and add the minced meat; stir well; the shalot should be chopped and browned in the butter, or some parsley can bo substi- tuted for it. Then bind with the egg, and form little balls, using the yolk only; beat up the whito and dip tho collops in, then put them into the broth, which must be boiling, and simmer them for half an hour, turning them as required. When done, thicken the sauce—there should bo a pint or more—and season it; then put in some sharp pickles, and sliced lemons in dice. Boil it up and pour round tho collops. KLores is the German name for these. Another way.—Flatten the balls into little cakes and cross-bar them with a skewer; brush over with the white of an egg, and cook in a mixture of light wine and broth. Dish in a wreath, with the gravy thickened and poured over, and some fried potatoes in the centre and round tho collops. These may be in any desired shapes. Collops, Savoury.—Required: two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and onions, a good pinch of powdered thyme and bay-leaf, tho juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, a tcaspoonful of salt, and half as much popper, and a pound and half of tender beef steak. Cost, about Is. 8d.