EN’TREES, MAM DlSHfiS, AnI) MLEVeS. 207 Iu describing an entree as a light and delicate dish, at the risk of being misunderstood, we must explain that we are assuming the usual order of service, viz., the entrees before the releves. When this order is altered, by dispensing with the releve, in the form of a joint, an entree of a more solid nature is required, and is then admissible. At some houses, the releve always precedes the entrees, and various reasons are given for this. The usual explanation is, that guests who do not care to attack entrees until they have partaken of a plainer form of food, ought to be considered ; or that those who are really hungry, prefer the substantial part of the repast at an early stage of the meal. Whether this, or the reverse order is the better, is an open question, for very high authorities find much to say on both sides; what we would point out is that, when the remove does precede the entree, the latter may be as light in kind, and as delicate in flavour as circumstances permit, in order that the enjoyment of the roast, so often of game, and looked forward to by many as the bonne bouche of the meal, shall not be interfered with. Taken altogether, entrees afford full scope for the taste and ingenuity of the hostess, and for the skill of the cook. Our remarks would be incomplete without reference to entrees in tins, for they form no small portion of the stock of first-class grocers; and while many of them are excellent and moderate in price; yet it must be owned that to others, the term entree is somewhat of a misnomer. One caution may be enforced in connection with all, viz., never leave them in the tins after opening them. It is also well to remember that they are fully cooked, and that re-lieating, not re-cooking, is all that is needed; many, in fact, are over-cooked, and it is not easy to disli them without spoiling their appearance; though much may be done by means of garnish to hide any damage, and some sauce, thick enough to mask any broken places, often proves a real boon. Of the best quality entrees, put up by leading English and French firms, it may be said that for the most part, they are in every sense quite ready for table ; no addition, either of seasoning or wine, need be made ; but in dealing with goods of a lower class, especially kidneys, and meats which are somewhat dry, such additions, with a little good stock or gravy, will often completely transform the dish. All are useful, especially in emergencies, and a few tins should be stocked by all who are likely to be taken unawares by unexpected guests, or who are not within easy reach of shops, as every requirement may thus be met. Beef Billets a la Calcutta.— required : seven fillets of beef, cut in small rounds, and beaten out flat and even ; bacon, seasoning, sauce, and vegetables as below. Cost, about 3s. Gd. Brush the fillets with oil, and sprinkle with white pepper and cayenne; lard them, grill them lightly, and dish in a row, over- lapping, on the top of a puree of vegetables, or on cooked artichoke bottoms. Down each side put some Sauce a la Calcutta (in Cold Sauces), and servo instantly; tho sauco must not stand. In grilling the above, or any other fillets which may ho larded, a de- parture from tho usual method is necessary. They must ho grilled on tho under side only, and not turned