UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 302 moat; or reserve them, with the rest of the liquor, for soup, &c. Brown Rice or Macaroni, Hominy Fritters, or Suet Dumplings may be put round the dish; or pickles of any kind can be sent separately to table. The moat is excellent, when cold, for breakfast, &c. If time is limited, the cheek may be cooked unboned. It must be laid in a large boiling pot. For a very plain dish, water can be used instead of stock. Ox Cheek, Potted. —See Ox Cheek Sour. Put the meat (or as much as may be loft over after serving it either in the soup, or as a sepa- rate dish) on a warm dish, and cut it up small; keep the dish over hot water, or set it near the fire—the pro- cess is thereby assisted. Mix on a plate, supposing a pound to a pound and a half of meat, a small teaspoonful of salt and celery-salt mixed, a good pinch each of black pepper, ground cloves, and allspico, a small pinch of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of herbs in fine powder; mix this thoroughly with the moat. Put a gill and a half of stock in a saucepan, boil it down to a third; moisten the moat with it, and press it in a mould or brawn tin. (See Brawn.) Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. This is nice for making sandwiches or for breakfast. Horse-radish scraped, and fresh parsley, aro suitable for gar- nishing it. In all dishes of this kind, “ second stock,” or some equally strong, should be used if possible. If not firm when cold, the meat will not keep so well, especially in warm weather. Ox Palates.—Ox palates may be served in three or four different ways, but they always require the same pre- paration. They deserve to be better known than they aro, as they are both inexpensive and wholesome. Three or four are enough for a dish. To pre- pare them, dissolve a handful of suit in a gallon of lukewarm water, put in the palates, let them lie for several hours, and press them frequently with the fingers to draw out the mucus. Drain them, and put them in a sauce- pan of cold water over a gentle fire. Let them heat gradually, and before the water boils lift them out and scrape off the horny skin which covers the roof-part until they look white and clear. If the water boils, the skin will be difficult to peel off. (See Made Dishes. ) Ox Tails.—These are so dirty as a rule, that they need soaking as well as washing; a rub with salt assists in removing the dried blood. They should bo dried with a cloth before cooking in any way, and for delicato dishes they must be blanched by put- ting on in tepid, or if very dirty, cold water, and brought to the boil; this water is then to be thrown away ; the slight loss of nutriment entailed by this process is sometimes really neces- sary. When the tail is to be fried before stewing or braising, the washing should be done some time before that the tail may be dry ; it will then brown well. When tails are cheap, as they aro in some towns, they afford a vory nourishing and economical dish ; when two or three shillings is asked for them they become a luxury for the few. Ox Tail, Broiled.—After wash- ing and jointing, boil the tail in the stock-pot until it is quite tender. The tail will taste better than if boiled in water, and the stock will be improved. Then take it up, and after it has drained, season it, and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; put a few bits of butter or dripping on, and cook in a Dutch oven until brown. Serve a nice sauce, gravy, or vegetable puree with it. Cost of tail, very uncertain. The thick joint of the tail is best cut through; sec below. Ox Tail, Stewed.—This is a plain method. Just cover the tail with stock No. 1 or 2, while warm; add a nice mixture of the usual vegetables, sliced or in dice, and somo herbs, and after skimming, cook for about three hours; some cloves and peppercorns