456 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. tender thicken with a spoonful of roux, and add more stock if plenty of gravy is wanted; keep the rabhit hot; it should be dished on a round of bread, fried or toasted ; then pass the gravy, onions, and liver through a sieve; remove the spices, re-heat, and pour over the rabhit. In the case of an old rabbit, much longer time must be allowed. It may bo steamed for a short time before cooking, and will bo more likely to turn out tender if the preliminary browning bo omitted, although the stow will bo loss appetising. This is a very good dish. Rabbit, Stewed, White.—For a white stew or fricassee, sec the Index for dishes of veal, fowl, &c. Rabbit, Tinned. — These are amongst the best of the many excellent tinned meats, and their cheapness is no small point in their favour. They are thoroughly cooked, the meat easily falls from the bones, and may be used in minces, &c., and for potted meats. liaten cold, just as they are turned from the tins, with a nice salad, they are very appetising. They may bo converted into curries, fricassees, and all like dishes, at little tost and trouble, or rc-hoated, and served with any sauce such as would accompany a freshly-boiled rabbit. For pies they are very good (see Pastry); also for many other dishes for which fresh rabbit is employed. The recipe below illustrates tho principle which should govern the re-heating. Required : a tin of rabbit, a pint of onion sauce, made with milk, from six to eight ounces of cooked ham or bacon, hot. Cost, about Is. 9d. Take the rabhit from the tin; separate the pieces ; cut up tho bacon into little slices, then put alternate layers of all in a jar, having sauco top and bottom. Cover this, and sot it in a saucepan of boiling water, until the rabbit has become heated ; then turn out on to a hot dish. This is very little more trouble than it would he to heat the rabbit, and just pour tho sauce over, and garnish with the bacon. Tho difference will be at once apparent upon trial of both methods. Rabbit, to Truss.—If not already skinned and paunehed, this must be done first. Cut the rabbit open and take out the intestines, liver, lungs, and heart. Leave tho kidneys. Wash the liver and heart, and at once throw the rest away. Bo careful in removing the liver to avoid breaking the gall bladder, or the flesh will bo made bitter. Loosen the skin on both sides, towards the hind legs, then draw the skin off, inside out. Chop the first joint of the legs off. Go on skinning the body until tho fore-legs (shouldors) are reached ; skin and chop them similarly. Cut off the cars, and peel round the nose, then skin tho head, and take the eyes out with tho point of a knife. Rub with salt any parts where the blood has clotted, then wash and dry the rabbit. It is best to leave it under a running tap for a time; it saves a good deal of trouble. If for boiling, thread a needle, pass it through the end of a hind leg, pushed forward, then through tho end of tho fore-leg, drawn back- ward ; pass it through tho body, and secure the other legs in the same way. Bring the needle through again to the starting point, and pass it through the jaws, after twisting tho neck, so that the animal is, so to speak, looking backwards. Tie the two ends firmly. When done, tho string is readily withdrawn. Skewers are al- ways better dispensed with in trussing for boiling. If for baking or roasting, proceed in the same way, but fasten the head by means of a skewer passed through the shoulders and neck ; or by skewer- ing through the mouth. The head must bo kept upright. A roasted rabbit looks nicer if the cars bo left on (see Roast Hare). A slit should be made in each thigh, close to tho body, about an inch long, that tho legs may ho more easily turned, and fastened close to the body; and iq