CEREALS. 01 1 only requires re-heating. This should he done hv setting tho jar in another of boiling water over the lire. It is also very handy as a base for savoury stews, by adding vegetables and seasoning, the recipe under Barley.) Tapioca with Cheese Sauce. —Take a pint of tapioca as abovo ; add while hot a little celery salt, pepper to taste, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir in an ounce of butter, and make the whole hot. Turn it out, and pour a pint of Cheese Sauce over it. The appearance is improved by dredging wTith bread- crumbs and grated cheese, and browning it in the oven. Cost, about 6d. to Sd. Tapioca with Cheese and Tomatoes.—This is a nice supper dish. Halve some medium-sized toma- toes, and spread them thickly with tapioca as above. Sprinkle with crumbs and cheese, and put a morsel of fat of some kind on each half. Cook in a sharp oven, and pour cheese sauce round them. Another way.—Bake the tomatoes, plain or savoury (see Vegetables) ; when done, lay a thin slice of cheese on each, and as soon as it has melted— after a minute in the oven—cover with the tapioca; sprinkle with browned crumbs and grated cheese, and serve as hot as possible. Cost, from Id. to 2d. each inclusive, according to size. Vegetarian Brawn. — Re- quired; a pound of pipe macaroni, half a pound of tomatoes, two ounces of cheese, an ounce each of corn-flour and barley-flour, six eggs boiled hard, two raw eggs, a teaspoonful of sage and parsley mixed, a tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, salt and pepper, and half a pint of water. Cost, about Is. 9d. First boil the macaroni, cut it in half-inch lengths, and put it in a sancepan. Pour half a pint of the water from it, boiling, over the toma- toes. Then sieve them to leave skins and pips behind. Add them with tho water to the macaroni in the saucepan. Then chop a large onion, or a few stalks of celery, according to taste— either must be cooked ; add it with the grated cheese and the other seasonings, and stir to tho boil; then mix in the thickenings and boil for a few minutes, stirring all tho time. Take the pan from the fire, and add the raw eggs gradually, boating hard; they must first bo well beaten and strained. Take a basin or mould, and add tho hard eggs to the mixture, either in slices or dice; when cool, fill tho mould and set it in a cold place for at least ten hours, then turn out and garnish with green salad or parsley. Brawng of this sort are varied in many ways; curry powder or paste can take tho place of ketchup; boiled white haricots, ground or split, may bo used instead of some of the macaroni; lentil flour can be used for the thicken- ing ; hut the above is very nice,, both to look at and to eat. A further im- provement is effected by using a good vegetable stock instead of water, and flavouring with a good store sauce and a dash of chutney. Vegetarian Haggis. — Re- quired : onions, oatmeal, seasoning, herbs, wheat, lentil flour, bread, eggs, milk, and potatoes. Cost, about 8d. Allow a pound of Spanish onions, a teaspoonful of powdered sage, half as much parsley, a teaspoonful of salt and half as much pepper, to four ounces of coarse oatmeal, two ounces of crushed wheat, and one ounce of lentil flour.. Chop the onions, put them into a bowl with the other ingredients, then add two eggs and half a pint of milk, or half may be vegetable stock; thuse should be beaten well first. Then add two ounces of brown bread-crumbs, and beat hard. Put the mixture in a plain tin mould, basin shape, drop into boiling water, and keep it boiling for three hours. Servo with mashed potatoes. For a cheaper dish, leave an egg out, and add moro bread or an ounce of fine sago. Where oatmeal is much liked, the wheat can bo left out, an extra weight of oatmeal being used ; to vary tho flavour, add bay leaf or thyme in powder in place of sage. Those arc