UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 5G6 may be poured into little cups or deep patty-pans and turned out when cold. They are best with simple custard or some jam or stewed fruit. For a cheap savoury, take some rice that has been boiled until nearly done ; spread it on small cloths, and put a little cold meat seasoned and just moistened with thick gravy in the middle. Draw the rice round and tie to form a ball, then steam or boil until the rice is done. Turn on to a dish, and pour plain White Sauce over. Eiics a la Soeur. — Required: rice, fish stock, haddock, eggs, cheese, butter, and seasoning. Cost, 7d. to 3d. Boil six ounces of rice as if for curry, but in white fish stock instead of water. Let it dry well. Add to it two ounces of butter, and a seasoning of salt, popper and nutmeg. Take half a pound of dried haddock that lias been cooked in any way preferred, but it should not be dried up, and a fleshy fish is wanted. {See recipes under Haddock.) Tear the fish into flakes, and add with it the whites of two hard- boiled eggs, chopped up. Pile this on a dish that will stand the oven, sieve the egg yolks, and mix them with an equal bulk of grated choose, Parmesan for choice; coat the pilo with this, pour a little oiled butter over, and heat the dish in a sharp oven ; the surface should be a nice brown. It will be found an excellent dish for any meal, and if prepared in advance, it may be heated over boiling water before putting it to brown; this prevents dryness, which is to be guarded against. Elce, Steamed.—If a potato steamer is to bo used, proceed as follows Spread at the bottom either a piece of muslin or a thin cloth, then put the rice in an even layer; the thinner the layer the quicker it will cook. Have the water well salted and keep it boiling fast. Turn tho rice about if the layer is thick, that the top may get equally cooked. Any sort of rice will cook in this way, and will take from an hour to two, in proportion to the quantity and kind. It is a very convenient as well as economical method, as a pudding, or anything of a mild flavour, can be boiled under it, and the rice will be perfectly cooked. Eice a laTremain.—Required: an onion, gravy, jelly, wine, eggs, croutons, rice, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. or 8d., exclusive of eggs and gravy. Chop a medium-sized onion, fry it as dark as possible without burning; then stir to it, after draining tho-fat off, half a pint of gravy, made by boiling down the bones of any cooked game. Stir in half a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of black currant jelly, and a bit of glaze the size of a nut. Simmer for ten minutes and rub through a hair sieve. Take as much Browned Rich as will fill a half-pint measure, pile it on a dish, pour the sauce over, and mix lightly together with two forks. Have ready four boiled eggs, plovers’ or pheasants’, quarter them, and put round the base; sprinkle the top with small dice-shaped croutons, and servo as a savoury. The gravy should be well seasoned. Eice a la Turque.—Required : rice, butter, an onion, raisins, lemon, stock and seasoning. Cost, about 7d. to 9d. Take a pint of Browned Rice while still warm; this will make a good- sized dish. Chop and fry a good-sized onion a delicate brown in two ounces of butter; turn the rice in the pan with it, and stir well that the butter may coat the rice ; add salt and pepper and a dash of nutmeg, a chopped capsicum and the. seeds, a teaspoonful of glaze dissolved in stock, and a couple or three ounces of sultana raisins that have been stewed in a little stock, and cut through. Turn out and garnish with strips of limo or lemon. This may go to table with any highly-seasoned meat dish, and may be served instead of plain rice with a curry; it is also excellent with fish stews of tho piquant brown sort.