DRESSED VEGETABLES. 675 the puree may be left plain. Young carrots produce the mildest puree. Cost, varies with the mode of cooking the carrots and the season—about 6d. to 9d. per pint. Carrots, Braised.—Required : carrots, stock, butter, seasoning, &e., as below. Cost, varies with the season and stock. For a first-rate dish, use stock No. 16 or 17. Prepare the carrots as for Buttered or Fried Carrots, or cut the red part in slices lengthwise, then divide it into strips or any shapes preferred. Bring the carrots to the boil in water to cover, then dry them ; to a quart add two ounces of butter, sweat them for ten minutes, then add a gill and a half of stock as above, or a plainer stock for a less expensive dish. Cover, and cook for thirty minutes to an hour, according to shape and thick- ness. Baste often, and add more stock if required. When tender, dish in a pyramid, and pour the gravy over after seasoning to taste. These go well with rich braised meats. Carrots, Buttered.—Boil some carrots; slice them, and cut into dice about half an inch square; they should be barely done when taken up. Put them in a stewpan with a few ounces of butter to a quart; sweat them in this for ten minutes, shaking the pan ; add salt and pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The butter should adhere to them. Then serve in a pile in the centre of cutlets, fillets, &c. The water from the carrots will make nice soup. For a better dish, use the red part only, and make the dice smaller. Shapes as below can also be buttered. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. Carrots a la Flamande.— Required : carrots, seasoning, butter, eggs, cream, and parsley. Cost, about Is. Take a bunch of young carrots, which alone are suitable, wash them well, cut off the heads and points, and place them in boiling water for five minutes. Take them out, drain, rub off the skin with a coarse cloth, cut them into very thin slices, and put' them into a saucepan with a gill of water, a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter the sizo of a small egg. Cover them closely, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally that they may be equally cooked. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a gill of cream, and a dessertspoonful of finoly-chnpned parsley'. Draw the pan from tlu lire for a couple of minutes, taking off the cover, put a tablespoonful or two of the liquid with the eggs and cream, then pour the whole gradually into the saucepan. Stir the sauce until it thickens, and serve the carrots with the sauce poured over them. Carrots, Fried.—Plainly-sliced carrots may' be fried; but they look nicer treated as below. Boil them in stock until done; when cold, cut tho thick ends into slices an inch thick; cut these into shapes like the section of an orange; season them plainly, or with herbs, then dip into beaten egg and crumbs, and fry a good brown. Thus fried, they' look nice as a pile in the centre of cutlets. The thin ends should be fried whole, and used for garnishing. Or, for a separate dish, they can be coated with grated cheese before frying, and served with a good white sauce. Cost, about the samo as the above. Carrots, Glazed.—Use medium brown stock to cook the carrots, after preparing them as for Cauiiots, Braised. They' may be whole if young, or in any shape if large. During tho end of the cooking, let the stock boil rather fast, and, just before dishing, add a morsel of glaze, just to give stickiness, not to make the stock thick; coat them with this, add a pinch of sugar, and dish. Or tho carrots can be drained from tho slock, and brushed over with glaze prepared as for meat; the stock should then be poured round them. Ordinary boiled carrots can also be glazed and usod as garnish ; they should bo dried in a doth before tho glaze is put on.