FISH. 143 cold, is excellent with fried eels, so are any of the brown, sharp sauces. Eels, Grilled.—It is usual to find in recipes for grilling, broiling, or frying eels, that the fish in the raw shite Is indicated; but they should in each case be parboiled, or three parts boiled. They then need but little further cooking, and are more tender and digestible, while equally savoury. After parboiling, dry the fish, then coat it with egg and bread-crumbs as usual, adding to the crumbs some powdered sage or mixed herbs, or parsley only, with a little black pepper. Grill over a clear fire until delicately browned (first brush the grid with oil or butter), and serve hot, with sauce as above directed. Instead of crumb- ing the eels, they may be lightly (loured and brushed over with salad oil. Eels, Mayonnaise of.—Re- quired: two pounds of silver eels, a glass of light wine, a gill of French vinegar, a bay-leaf, sprig of parsley, tarragon, and chervil, half a dozen allspice berries and peppercorns, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and a morsel of mace. Prepare the fish, cut them into two- inch lengths; sprinkle them lightly with salt in a baking-dish, add the foregoing ingredients, and water to cover the fish. Cover, and cook in a slow oven until tender; then remove the fish, and add a little sheet gelatine to the liquor: half an ounce to half a pint, or less may do (see Aspic Jelly). Then clarify, and pour in a shallow tin to cool. Serve the eels, when quite cold, piled high in the centre of a dish ; cover them with half a pint ot more of thick Mayonnaise, and chop the jelly, using it as a border. Garnish with shrimps or prawns, and with slices of lemon or cucumber here and there amongst the jelly; fancy shapes, cut from thin slices of beetroot dipped in salad oil, are very effective; capers, chopped parsley, cress, etc., are all suitable. Eels, To Skin.—(&« Whiting.) Eels, Stewed, Brown. — Re- quired : two pounds of eels, a glass of port or claret, a teaspoonful of mush- room catsup and Worcester sauce, a pint of Buown Sauce, a gill of fish stock, a few black peppercorns, salt to taste, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Prepare tho fish, cut it into short lengths convenient for serving, lay them in a stew-pan with the fish stock, seasoning, and all but the brown sauce ; cook very gently for a quarter of an hour, then add the brown sauce, and boil gently until the eels are quite tender, then pile them in a dish and pour the sauce over. Eels, Stewed, White.—Re- quired : eels as above, a glass of white • wine, the juice of half a lemon, a few drops of cayenne vinegar, some powdered herbs, tied in muslin, or herbal vinegar, a gill of good fish stock and three-quarters of a pint of white sauce made with milk, fish stock, or veal stock. (See White Sauce.) Put all except the lemon-juice and white sauce in a stew-pan, cook hs above; serve in the same way, re- membering to keep the stew under boiling point after the white sauce is added, and to put the lemon-juice in last thing; adding also, if liked, some chopped parsley. Remove the herbs, squeezing the bag well. A garlic flavour may be imparted by mincing a morsel with the parsley, or a slighter one by nibbing the bottom of tho pan. If possible, before serving stewed eels take the fish out of the gravy and let the gravy cool, then skim it well, and re-heat it; put back the eels to got hot through. Button mushrooms are ■ a good addition to either brown or white eel stow, and to a brown one some small onions fried a little may also bo added. (See Vegetables.) Egging and Crumbing Fish. —(See Fish, Eooino and Cuumhino, and Sole, Fuikd.) I Fish and Potato Puff.-Re-