UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 610 more expensive. Bottled asparagus is also to be had by those who are pre- judiced against tinned goods; this is of the very best quality and higher in price than the tinned. To heat a tin of asparagus for table, put it into cold water, and bring it to the boil; it should then be left until heated, from ten to twenty minutes according to size, and opened, holding it with a cloth. If the liquor in the tin is not used for sauce, it should be added to soup or some other dish, as it contains some flavour. Asparagus heads, or points, are also tinned (see next chapter). The above is the method recommended by many firms who deal in this class of goods, and it is adopted at soveral cooking schools. Others, who also speak from practical knowledge, con- tend that no vegetables should be reheated in the tins. One says:— “ Asparagus should be turned out on to a fish drainer, and, if possible, steamed by resting the drainer on two jars in the kettle to keep it out of the water.” This is worth attention ; but we suggest in place of a fish kettle, unless it is one kept apart from that used for fish, that a substitute in the shape of a close wire meat-stand or pastry-rack on legs be employed; either could be set in a vessel with just enough water to create steam. The difficulty in dealing with tinned asparagus is that it is tender, and the more it is handled, the greater the risk of breaking it. The writer quoted above says of pens, that the water should bo drained from them, and they should be put in an enamelled saucepan with a little butter, to prevent burning, then the sugar, if necessary, and a little salt and mint be added. (See Peas, page 671.) Aubergines. — These are ver3' delicate ana delicious if nicely cooked. In hot countries they grow wild, and are cultivated in the South of Europe. The colour varies from white to yellow, and from dark purple to red; the purple are considered the best. They are very extensively eaten in France. The seeds must be removed., however they may be cooked. Epicures as- sert that there is no way of cooking equal to braising ; “oil top and bottom of the vegetables, and fire under and over, will ensure good results, if the oil bo pure and the firo gentle.” Cost, very uncertain; sometimes to be had for a few pence each. Aubergines, Broiled. —This is an easy and inexpensive method. Cut the aubergines through; cut up the inside part with a hint of garlic, or shalot or onion, if preferred; season well with salt, white pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg; mix in a few bread- crumbs, and replace the mixture in the cut halves. Moisten well with fresh olive oil, and cook gently before the fire ; or grill over a clear fire, if more convenient, using a little oil to moisten from time to time. Aubergines, Fried, ala New Orleans.—-Slice the plant a quarter of an inch thick; dust it with cayenne and salt, and roll it in fine dry flour. Put some good cotton seed, or other oil, in a flying pan; brown a few slices of onion in it first, then skitn them out, and drop in the slices. Give them about ten minutes’ cooking; the heat is to be reduced after the first minute, or the oil may burn. Drain well, and serve with no sauce but hunger. This is a favourite in Louis- iana. Young leeks may be cooked in the same way. Balm.—This is a garden plant with tonic properties; useful in many non-alcoholic drinks, and for adding to claret cup and similar compounds, to which it imparts fragrance and flavour. Basil.—The perfume of basil is very fragrant; it is something like that of cloves. It is considered a good addition _ to mock turtle, and other gelatinous soups, and has the character of extreme wholesomeness. Bay leaves. — Owing to the kernel-like flavour of these leaves, they are used in sweet as well as savoury cookery; they form an ingredient of