261 made dishes AND RELEVlis. take its name from the sauce; the best is supreme, but good bechamel or veloute, or other kinds will do. Take the remains of a fowl (the whitest part), some sweetbread, tongue, and button mushrooms; all these must be cooked, and there should be equal quantities of each as nearly as possible. Put them in the sauce, enough to coat them, and make a thick mince, and when hot serve as they are, with any suitable garnish. The same mix- ture may be used for filling little vol-au-vents, &c. ; and when cold, owing to the nature of the sauce, it will be firm enough to shape into cro- quettes, small rolls, or other forms. These may be cooked in the usual way, and should be served with a little more sauce. In addition to the in- gredients named, truffles are added, or good forcemeat; all except the truffles must be in dice (that is the feature of this preparation), but the truffles may be in “ chips,” as the trimmings from sliced truffles are called. Again, game may be used instead of poultry for a similar mince. It often happens that portions of the ingredients re- quired are left over from a dinner; in such cases the dish is not extravagant, but is somewhat costly if they are purposely prepared. For an economical variety of this, a small quantity of cooked brains is sometimes used in- stead of sweetbread. Cost, variable. Sheep’s Head, Fried.—Boil a sheep's head in the usual way, after blanching it, then take the bones out, and press the head until cold. The tongue and brains will make a separate dish. Cut it into squares or fingers, and coat with thick batter, or with egg and crumbs, as preferred; fry brown, dish in a pile, and serve with vegetables as below. Boil young cairots and turnips, and some cucumber in dice, or peas in place of the latter. Cut the turnips through. Lake the insides out, leaving them like little cups; fill these with the peas, glaze the carrots, and place them round the dish; some can also be put in the centre. The meat should bo lightly fried, and well drained. Any white sauce is suitable, or a pureo of onions or celery can be served with it; or a turnip puree (using up tho portion scooped out) mixed with white sauce may be used [see Dressed Vege- tables). Cost of head, about 8d. Total cost, variable. Steak, Italian (Beef).—Re- quired : steak, butter, vegetables, wine, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. per pound, inclusive. Take two or three pounds of steak from the rump or fillet—let it be quite an inch and a half in thickness. Brown it in a stewpan with two or three ounces of butter, turning it frequently over a quick fire. When brown alike on both sides, remove the steak to a baking- pan, with a tight-fitting lid (earthen- ware pans are always used for this purpose on the Continent), and fry two medium-sized onions, sliced, a shalot, minced, and a bunch of parsley in the same butter. Add these to the steak in the pan. Add two large wineglass- fuls of port, and two breakfastcup- fuls of brown stock, with a few stalks of celery cut into pieces, two pickled gherkins, four or five cloves, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover down the lid tightly, that no steam may escape, and let it bake in the oven nearly an hour and a half, when put in a turnip and a carrot, quartered, and close as before. D’ the roots are young, they null be done in half an hour. Cut them into dice, and lay them over the top of the steak, which should be placed on a hot dish. Send to table with tho gravy strained over. It may be thickened slightly. Salt to taste should be added when the vegetables are put in ; a pinch may be put in after tho moat has cooked a short time. Another way.—After cooldng a beef steak of a pound or so in weight, by grilling or broiling, put it on a hot dish, and glazo it; then pour round it somo Brown Italian Sauce, and send vegetables separately to tablo. Steak, Italian, Veal. — Thp