496 Universal cookery book. ordinary sausage meat, and if the suet is objected to it can be left out, and then will be rich enough for most. Owing to the use of panada instead of crumbs, it is less close than ordinary forcemeats, but when this lightness is not liked, crumbs can take the place of some of panada. Whiting Forcemeat. — Re- quired : two or three whiting, half the weight of panada, eggs, &c., as below. Cost varies with the price of the fish. Skin the whiting, rub theflesh through a wire sieve, first scraping it from the bone with a spoon ; add panada as above, put both in a mortar, and add an egg and an ounco and a half of butter to half a pound of the mixture. Put a little salt and cayenne in, and g'° on pounding to a smooth paste. Grated lemon rind and powdered herbs can be added. The seasoning must be regulated according to the purpose for which it is required. When forcemeat of whiting would be too expensive, or the fish not to be had, fresh haddock, if small, makes a very fair substitute. Soles and other white fish may be used in the same way, but fresh, firm fish is absolutely indispensable. A watery fish will not answer. POTTED MEATS AND FISH. These arc very useful, and as a rule are much appreciated. By the ex- penditure of a little time, many excellent relishes may bo made at a trifling expense; for the veriest scraps of meat, so long as they are sweet and not too dry, may bo.thus turned to good account. In the recipes we hare given the approximate amounts of butter and seasonings, but very much must, of necessity, bo left to the discretion of the cook. For example, a piece of salted meat or ham that is very lean will take more butter and less seasoning than juicy meat, either roasted or braised. Then, of seasoning in the form of spices, while cloves and all- spice are appropriate for hare, they are quite unsuitable for delicate meats, like veal, rabbit, or chicken ; but in potting meats, as beef, tongue, and the like, the samo spices may be used if it is desired to impart a gamey character to the dish. The main points, however, are care in the preparation of the ingredients, and the use of good butter. For without these precautions, the most artfully-seasoned meat will be a failure. In cutting up the meat, all gristly portions, as well as bard, outside fat, should be removed ; so should any parts which will not go down smoothly in the pounding. In fact, the mas3 should bo a smooth paste, free from a single lump, or a particle of unbroken fibre. The preparation of fish for pottiug is less trouble than that of meat.; for, given freedom from bone and skin, it is a simple matter to reduce it to a paste. In every instance, though, it should be borne in mind that pounding is necessary after all the ingredients are mixed—even after the mass looks smooth—in order that the whole may be equally blended. It is quite as unpleasant to get an over-dose of spice iu potted meat, as it is to eat a mouthful of plum cake with a lump of carbonate of soda in it. If no mincing machine be at hand, the meat must be chopped on a board with a good knife before pounding, for if it is put into the mortar in coarse, uneven pieces, much labour is entailed that might be spared, and the result after all is far from satisfactory.