FISH, 151 agree that it is one of the best possible ways of cooking fish. In fact, it is a complcto revelation to people who are for the most part acquainted with insipid fish dishes only, by which wo mean boiled fish, particularly when care has not been taken to preserve the flavour. (See Fish, Boiled.) Fish, Roasted, with Oysters. —Required : a large haddock or small cod-fish (many others are quire as good), a tureen of Oysteh Sauce, a scoro of oysters, and some cracker-crumbs and seasoning. After preparing the fish and drying it well, rub the inside over with a little butter and anchovy essence, mixed with salt and cayenne. Season some crumbs of any sort of plain dry biscuits—Toast, Water, Milk, and the like—and roll the score of oysters singly in them, lay them/'in the fish, sew it up, and roast; add the super- fluous liquor from the oysters to the sauce, first reducing it. Melted But- ter only, flavoured with it, minus any more oysters, will do if strict economy has to be studied. The dish, which hails from America, is a very good one. Fish Roes.—When to be served with the fish, the roes should bo taken out and cleaned, then replaced. In a sole, a black streak is sometimes seen near the roe on holding the fish to the light, said to be due to death by suffocation when the fish are crowded. From the roes of herrings, mackerel, and other fish, many nice little savouries may be made while large ones will form quite a meal: cod's roe, for instance. A good way to cook the latter (if hard, tio it in buttered muslin) is in warm water, salted, from half an hour to an hour, in proportion to thickness; it may be served with any nice sauce. Or if left to cool, and then skinned, if. can be dipped in batter and fried. A favourite dish is one of cod’s roo and bacon. After cooking bacon, take a boiled roe, skinned and cut in slices, and brown it in the bacon fat. Wo recommend steaming as tho best way of cooking soft roes generally, as when prepared in other ways they want delicate handling to prevent breaking. After this preliminary treatment, they can be finished off in many ways. (See Savouries.) Fish, Scalloped, a la Cardi- nal. (See Scalloped Fish.) Fish Souchet. —For any flat fish souchet, take soles, dabs, floun- ders, plaice, or any similar fish ; they may be neatly trimmed, and left whole, or filleted. Cover with hot stock, made from fish of tho same sort, with a well clonnsed parsley root, a sprig of thyme, a few pepper- corns, a little salt, and a sliced onion. Cook until the fish is tender, then remove it, and put in a deep dish, with the strained liquor over, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley being added to each quart. This is a simple dish; no other sauce is needed. Brown bread and butter should be served with it. Another way.—Boil a small carrot, cut it in shreds and add it with the parsley, the inferior part being boiled with the fish to flavour it. Some- times a little hot milk is stirred in first, to whiten the fisli; and for superior dishes the stock is clarified before pouring it over the fish. For fish other than the flat kinds, cut it up into neat pieces, and cook in the same way; small eels are very good. Perch, tench, &c., are good fish for a souchet, but give them tho usual preliminary treatment in the way of washing. These dishes are not very popular, but they can bo recommended as very light and easily digested, though not so savoury as many other fish dishes. Any left over can be made into a salad, or re-served in any way pre- ferred. Fish, Tinned.—Fish in tins, while amongst tho most popular ami useful of preserved provisions, re- quires tho greatest possible care in its