UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 408 way. The wing is next to bo broken off, and this is done in the direction of a to b, only dividing the j oint with the knife. The forequarters having been removed in this way, take off the merry-thought at n, and the neck bones; these last are to be removed by putting the knife in at c, and pressing it, when they will break off from the part that sticks to the breast. Next separate the breast from the body of the fowl, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast, quite down to the tail. Turn the fowl now back upwards; put the knife into the bone midway between Fig. 98.—Roast Fowl, to Carve. the neck and the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and take off very neatly the two side bones, which completes the operation. The breast and wings are considered the best parts of a roast fowl, being very tender, but in young birds the logs are the most juicy. In the case of a capon or large fowl, slices may be cut off the breast, just as is done when carving a turkey. Give part of the liver with each wing, and some stuffing to all, unless objected to. Fowl, Saut6 A la Royal.— Required : a fowl, a few strips of ham, a mushroom, an onion, half a pound of streaky bacon, some stock, parsley, and two ounces of butter. Cost, about 4s. to 4s. 6d. Joint the fowl, put the back and giblets in a saucepan with a pint and a half of water, and the ham, onion, mushroom, and parsley; put in a few peppercorns and a clove, boil gently' until reduced to a gill and a half. Melt the butter in a saute pan, cook the joints until pale brown, shaking often. When it has cooked for twenty minutes strain the stock over, then simmer for fifteen to thirty minutes, according to the age of the fowl. Put in a morsel of glaze. The gravy should only just coat the joints; there should be none to run into the dish. When done, arrange nicely on a hot dish, with a good-sized crouton laid at the bottom ; sprinkle some chopped parsley all over, and put the bacon in little rolls, separately fried, round the base. A few button mushrooms, fried, improve the dish, which is very easily prepared, and a most excellent one. It is suitable for any meal. If served for luncheon or dinner, macaroni, or any nice vege- table may be served with it. Fowl, with Sparghetti.—Re- quired : a young fowl, lour ounces of sparghetti, half a dozen sauce oysters, some wine, sauce, croutons, and season- ing as below. Cost, about 5s. to 5s. 6d. Cut the fowl into joints, season them with pepper and a pinch of herbs, and saute them in oil until pale brown Pour off the fat, and wipe the pan out; put back the fowl, with the oysters and their liquor, the juice of half a lemon, a glass of white wine, a minced sbalot, and a sprig of parsley. Cover and simmer for ten minutes, then add three gills of brown sauce, and cook for half an hour more. Add salt and cayenne to taste, and strain the sauce. Pile the chicken up, and pour the sauce over. Have the sparghetti ready, plainly boiled, then seasoned with a pinch of cayenne and a little parsley, chopped after scalding. Put this round the fowl, and place a few glazed crohtons about the dish; garnish them with a little hot ham puree, or some chopped ham mixed with thick brown sauce. Fowl, with Spinach.—This is well known ; and a puree of endive or salsify, much less known, will be found a very pleasant adjunct to a nicely cooked fowl. When spinach is used, it should be accompanied by fried eggs. Cost, about 4s. 6d, witboufeggs.