GAME AND POULTRY. 421 be taken not to cut the lemon so that the juice could escape. Goose, Stewed.—Required: a goose, bacon, vegetables, seasoning, stock, sherry and thickening as be- low. Cost, variable. Supposing a goose to be too old to be tender if roasted, it may be very successfully treated as follows : —Truss as for boiling ; put it in a stewpan with a slice or two of bacon under it; they should be sprinkled with mixed herbs and pepper, and a grated apple, then sprinkled with French vinegar and tomato vinegar—a tablespoonful in all. Put more bacon on the goose, with the same additions. Slice a boiled onion, and grate a carrot; lay these round the bird, and over all pour a glass of sherry and a pint of stock, quite plain from bones, or the liquor from boiled meat. Add the giblets prepared in the usual way; put the lid on, with weights on the top, and then stew for four hours, turning the goose a time or two. Then reduce and skim the gravy, keeping the goose hot; pass the onion and carrot through a coarse sieve (as the gravy is more like a sauce it should be thick), season it nicely, and thicken with browned flour or roux. Boil it well, and pour it Tound the goose. The giblets will make a separate dish. This is a very good recipe, but it may be varied in many ways. Some sliced tomatoes may be used instead of the carrots; and, if liked, some apple sauce may be sent to table as well as that made as above described. If the goose be very old it may require nearly five hours’ cooking. Goose, to Truss for Roast- ing.—Pluck the goose carefully, singe off the hairs, cut off the feet and pinions at the first joint, then cut the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over; re- move the liver, &c., very carefully, then make a slit between the vent and tho rump, draw it, wash and wipe it well, and beat the backbone. Pass a skewer through tho under-part of one wing, then through tho body and tho other wing. Draw the legs up closely, skewer the first joint, pass tho skewer through the body, and secure the other leg in the same way. After stuffing, cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole in the skin large enough to pull the rump through. If properly done, this will prevent the escape of the stuffing. (See Goose Lakd.) It may be noticed that both here and under Duck no directions for beating the breast-bones are given. The ad- visability of the method is much ques- tioned by many experienced cooks and trussers. Personally, we think that those who fail to give the bird a good shape by leaving the breast whole, will not be more likely to do so by breaking it; indeed, some say that the trussing is thereby rendered more difficult. By breaking the backbone, the bird rests firmer on the dish. It is, however, quite optional whether that be broken, as it is sometimes objected to. Goose with Chestnuts (a French recipe).—Required : a goose, stuffing as under, gravy, and a puree of chestnuts. Cost, variable, according to size of bird or the season. Roast forty or fifty chestnuts ; skin half of them ; add them to half a pound of sausage-meat, a morsel of garlic, sage, salt and pepper to taste, a grate or two of nutmeg, and the liver of the goose, chopped finely. Mix this well; seo that the chestnuts are well mashed and free from lumps. Skin the rest of tho nuts, and put them in whole. Roast the goose, and serve with gravy and a puree of chestnuts. Goose with Cranberry Sauce.— Required: a goose, cran- berry sauce, gravy, and stuffing as below. Cost, variable. This is a popular dish in America. The stuffing consists of fat pork in small pieces, bread-crumbs, cream, and beaten egg to moisten, and a seasoning of salt and popper; no herbs. Tho breast is covered with a flour and water paste (like English venison), which must bo removed in time for the browning.