519 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. that is the part to choose. Slico it neatly. Make a pint of gravy of the usual kind for plain hashes (see page 79), add the above ingredients, together ■with seasoning to taste, salt and bacon excepted. Cover, and stew as softly as possible for an hour, then put in salt and a tablespoonful or two of grated cheese-—it does not matter what kind, so that it is dry enough to grate and of good flavour. After this the mixture should not boil again. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once with cut lemon and the bacon. Another way.—Use cooked celery in place of onion, and leave out part of the potatoes, adding some sort of cooked cereal to make up. A tomato can be used as well as the other vege- tables if liked, and the cheese may be reduced in quantity to suit the taste, but as first given the hash is ex- cellent. -Vote.—Supposing the meat to be thoroughly cooked, heat the other ingredients first, then put in the meat for a short time only. Hot Pot —-Sec Tripe and Cow Heel Hot Pot and Tinned Rabbit Hot Pot. Hotch Potch, Ox Tail.—Take for this a tinned ox tail. The jelly should be melted, and added to half a pint or so of plain brown stock, nicely flavoured and thickened as for stews. The pieces of tail should be put in this to heat. They want careful treatment, being generally somewhat “ raggy ” looking. The adjuncts, in the shape of vegetables, must depend upon cir- cumstances ; a Puree of Carrots, or dried or fresh Green Peas may bo used; it should be spread on a dish ready for serving, and the tail and gravy put high on the top. The surface is then to be covered with more vege- tables, either a puree, or mixed vegetables as for a haricot (see recipes for Mutton, Haricot) ; or any cold carrots, onions, turnips, potatoes, &c., can be sliced and fried, and used for the purpose. Ox cheek is excellent in the same form. Cost, about Is. 3d., but varies with tho adjuncts. (See Polpetti, Italian.) Italian Polpetti. — See Pol- petti, Italian. Jersey Fish Curry.—Re- quired : two ounces each of Hour and butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a pinch of nutmeg and lemon rind grated, a pint of milk, or half fish stock, a pound and a half of any white fish (mixed sorts answer), a teaspoonful each of mild curry paste and powder, a tablespoonful of chopped onion, a little powdered bay leaf, and the juice of half a lemon. Cost, about Is. 4d. with fish at fid. per pound. Melt the butter, fry the flour in it to a straw colour, add milk and boil up. Flake the cold fish, and brown in a little hot fat. It should first bo spread with the curry paste. The onion is to be fried in the same fat, then drained and put in the sauce with the seasoning and fish, and left for half an hour just off the boil. Cut lemons and rice should be put round the dish. Curried or plainly-boiled rice is suitable. The Onion is some- times omitted. White meat may be used; then the curry stuffs should be increased a little. A tamarind maybe cooked in the sauce to give slight piquancy. The curry powder may be blended with the sauce, or the onions can be dredged with it before frying. Kidney with Vegetables.— Required: kidney, vegetables, and gravy as below. Cost, variable. Take some of the kidney from a cooked loin of veal, mince it with a mushroom or two in proportion to the quantity of kidney, pass it through a mincer, ar.d moisten with any gravy left over from the joint, enough to make a thick mince; fry some tender vegetable marrow in little boat shapes (see Vegk- tarles), and fill.them with the mince. Serve hot for breakfast. Another way.—l’ut a piece of toast or fried bread on a dish, pour tho