MADE DISHES AND RELEV^S. 249 them into hot fat as above directed. Then put them in enough sauce or , gravy to cover them, and simmer for fifteen to twenty minutes. Dish with a border of fried potatoes, macaroni, or other suitable garnish. See Sauces and Gbavies. Of the former, chutney, or a brown piquant sauce is best; of gravies, Gravy tor. Devilled Meats will answer ; or for a rich dish, stock No. 16 or 17 may be ■ employed for the foundation, tho usual flavourings being added in proportion to taste. Kidneys, Mutton, with Chablis.—Required: half a dozen kidneys, wine, seasoning, and bacon, as below. Cost, about 2s. Remove the cores and skins, slice tho kidneys, and fry some pieces of bacon of the same size ; then put the kidneys in the bacon fat, toss them about all the time (they must not harden); add some thyme and parsley, salt and pep- per, and a glass of chablis, with a squeeze of lemon juice ; do not boil this, just let it heat, then put the bits of bacon on oblong croutons, put the kidney on, and moisten with the strained gravy. Place these in a row down the middle of a dish, and put vegetables down the sides, or serve plainly. The gravy may bo very slightly thickened. Kidneys, M utt on, with Vege- tables. —Required : kidneys, bacon, vegetables, garnish, &c., as below. Cost of kidneys, about Is. Total cost, variable. Remove the cores, and cut the kidneys in halves; cook them in bacon fat as above directed, then dish them, each half on a bit of bacon laid on a crouton as above. Have some vegetables cooked as for j ulienne soup ; moisten these with Brown Sauce, or Sauce Piquant is better still; put a little heap in each half kidney, and serve some potatoes round the dish ; or instead of the latter, some carrots boiled until nearly done, then dipped in beaten egg and crumbs, and fried brown, may bo used (tee Dressed Vegetables), This is a good dish for breakfast. The remains of any savoury potted meat may be minced, and put in the kidneys, under the vegetables, and will greatly improve them. Kidneys, Pig's, Stuffed.—Re- quired : two kidneys, some pork sausage meat, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 2s. Prepare the kidneys in the usual way (see Pig’s Kidneys) ; mix some chopped onion with the sausage meat, and add a teaspoonful of grated ham, and the same of French mustard. Put a teaspoonful of tho mixture in each half kidney, level it with a warm knife—it should be dipped in hot water—then dredge with crumbs, and brush over with oil or butter. Cook in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, turning them about that every part may be done. Then serve with any suitable sauce round them. Allow about twenty minutes, and brown the crumbs well. Another way.—Use cold pork for the stuffing; it may be mixed with a little ham or bacon; and use mushroom or tomato pulp in place of the onion. Kidneys, Pig's, Truffled.— Required: kidneys, forcemeat, sauce or gravy, &c., as below. Cost, in- clusive, about 8d. to lUd. each. Dip each half kidney into warm butter, then fill with Truffled Force- meat, level, and cook as above. Mix some truffle essence and sherry, a table- spoonful of each, with a gill and a half of brown sauce or gravy ; if tho latter, stock No. 6 or 7 may bo thickened slightly and used, or No. 16 or 17 for a better dish. Dish each half kidney on a crofiton and pour the gravy round. Calf’s kidneys may bo cooked as above. The sauce given is enough for two kidneys. ILamb a la Perigord.—Re- quired : a loin of lamb, oil, bacon, mushrooms, stock, seasoning, &o., as under. Cost, about Is. per pound. Trim tho meat neatly; put in a stowpa.n a layer of chopped mush*