UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 422 Serve with thin brown gravy and cranberry sauce. The author of this writes, “ If you begrudge the trouble of making the paste, use lots of paper; but those who may try the plan, or rather the goose so cooked, will not again grumble at tho method.” Geese, Strasburg. — The fat livers of these geese are known tho world over, in the form of pdte dc foie gras and foie gras entire. The first is, perhaps, the better known; it is com- posed of the fat livers, truffles, and a rich forcemeat; while the second is the liver of a goose, whole, in rich fat. Both may be said to be luxuries ; they are costly, and a little goes a long way. They have many uses, and no cook worthy of tho name need over waste a portion, however small, for the fag- ends may_ bo used up in scores of ways, some of which are given in the recipes of several chapters. Cost of the pate, from half-a-crown upwards; and for the whole livers, from 5s. Grouse.—Those birds should hang as long as possible; if cooked too soon, their peculiar flavour will he wanting. Young birds only should be cooked whole; old onos are fit only for the stock-pot. They may bo tested by holding them up by the beak, which will break if tho bird bo young. They want very caroful plucking to avoid breaking the skin, and the breast- feathers are sometimes left on until the bird is trussed to prevent this. The term grouse includes several species. The red grouse is a native of the mountainous districts of the North of England and Scotland. The white grouse, or ptarmigan, is very good if nicely cooked ; it is sent from Norway in large quantities. Then there are tho black grouse and cock of tho wood. “ Black cock ” and “ grey hen ” are other names given to black grouse, and tho cock of the wood is best known as the “ capercailzie.” Cost, about 5s. er ,6s. per brace, but very uncertain. Grouse, Cream of.—(See Part- ridge, Cream of.) Grouse, Roasted.—Squeeze out the interior, and wipe the bird well; if washed, it must bo done quickly. Finish off, and cook and serve like a pheasant; or only bread sauco and. gravy, as for roasted fowls, need go to table with them. In no case omit the bacon on tho breast, and baste them well, particularly at starting. Time, from twenty to forty minutes. Groxise, Salmi of.—Required : a grouse, some sauce, croutons, olives, Ac., as below. Cost, on an average, from 4s. 6d. to 5s., but variable. For a very superior dish take a semi- roasted bird; skin and joint it, and heat the pieces in wine, j ust to moisten. Make a good sauce (see recipes), and pour it boiling over the grouse in a stewpan. Cover for a time to im- pregnate the meat with tho flavour of tho sauce. Fiy a good-sized ring of bread, and dish the salmi in it. Make some little oval croutons, and spread them with a puree of game livers. Use them, with some olives, for garnishing the dish. Grouse, Terrine of.—Required: grouse, pork, liver, seasoning, wine, a truffle, and an egg. Cost, from 4s. to 5s., on an average. Take tho meat from a grouse, or a brace, if needed large ; for a small terrine, one will do; skin and bone it, and cut it up. Weigh it, and for twelve ounces allow two ounces of lean pork, two ounces of calf's liver, in addition to that of the bird, a little salt and cayenne, a pinch of nut- meg and savoury seasoning herbs, a glass of good Madeira, and a good- sized truffle, the white of a raw egg, and a tablespoonful or two of cold water. Pound all the meat, mix it with the seasoning, and siovo it; mix in the wine, white of egg, and moisten with tho water; slice tho truffle thinly. Fill up a terrine, or a small clean jar with a lid, with the mixture, putting in the truffle here and there. Press it in