652 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOR. one in some districts. Sauer kraut is considered an excellent antiscorbutic. Take large well-grown cabbages with line white hearts. Remove the outer leaves and stalks, and shred tho cab- bages very finely. Cover the bottom of a large pan or tub with cabbage leaves. Throw in the cabbage as it is shredded, and sprinkle salt evenly upon the layers. One handful of salt will be amply sufficient for a large pan- ful of cabbage; too much salt will prevent fermentation. Keep pressing the cabbage down closely as it is thrown in. When tho vessel is quite full, sprinkle a little salt over the top, and cover it first with cabbage leaves and then with a linen cloth; lay a wooden cover over all, and on this put a heavy weight. Keep tho pan in a warm cellar till fermentation has begun. This may be known by small white globules forming on the surface. When tho moisture dries in a crust over tho top the kraut is ready for use. It should be kept in a cool place till wanted. Once a week the cabbage leaves should either be renewed or washed, and the linen cloth should be washed in cold water and replaced. Some persons put carraway seeds and juniper berries amongst the layers, and think the kraut is improved by the addition. If, owing to any cause, after waiting two or three days there is no sign of fermentation, a cold, weak brine of salt and water should be poured over. The cabbages will be all tho better if they are allowed to lie in a cool corner for several days before being used. Time, three weeks to prepare the kraut. It will keep for a year. Sauer Kraut, to Cook.—Lay a good-sized piece of butter in a sauce- pan and let it melt. Put in half the saner kraut, and lay on this the meat to be made ready with it: either ham or bacon smoked and pared, pork, or any sort of sausage. Over all place the other half of tho kraut, pour in a glassful of white wine, and add a little water occasionally to moisten it. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the con- tents stew gently till the sutler kraut is soft and yellow. When cooked enough, take out the meat. Dredge in a table- spoonful of flour, let the kraut stew half an hour longer, then place the meat again in the saucepan to get quite hot. Stir the kraut now and then with a wooden spoon, and take care that it docs not burn. What is left over of the sauer kraut is good warmed up on the following day or a day or two after; it may be served with some other meat. As an accom- paniment to smoked meats, roast pork, sausages, &c., sauer kraut may be prepared in tho way just described, but without the meat; if so, stir in a thickening of flour and butter before sending to table. It is to be observed that sauer kraut can hardly be cooked too much. It requires at first from two and a half to three hours’ stewing. Cost, variable, according to the kind of meat, &c., and tho proportions used. Scorzonera.—The roots of this plant are sugary and well flavoured. The coarse outer rind should be re- moved, and the roots soaked in cold water for a few hours to extract any bitterness. They can be boiled like parsnips, or treated like salsify; a favourite way of cooking them, with many, is to parboil, and egg and bread- crumb, and fry a good brown. Cost, very uncertain. In Germany, where this root is thought more of than in England, a little flour is added to the cold water used for the soaking ; the final soaking medium being milk or milk and water. Various kinds of sauces of the white class are used, in which to dish up the roots—the richer ones being reserved for separate-course dishes. Scotch Kale.—This is a nice vegetable; it goes by various names ; t( curly greens ” is one, but it receives misleading titlcs'in some localities. It is generally chenp, about Id. to 2d. per pound. The kale should bo washed in salt and water, and may be boiled like Turnip Tops, or cooked spinach.