GAME AXD POULTRY. 405 Fowl, Howtowdie.—Required: a fowl, butter, onions, spinach, stock, rice, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, exclusive of truffle, about 4s. 6d. The following is a very old Scotch recipe. Truss a fowl as for boiling, it may be large, if tender; brown it in two or three ounces of butter in a stewpan, turning as required. Then put in a few small onions, a pinch of salt, half a dozen white peppercorns, and a couple of cloves; add three- quarters of a pint of nice white stock, and simmer very slowly for half an hour, then put in more stock, and give another half hour’s cooking. Have some spinach boiled and well pressed; make a border of it on a hot dish. Have also some boiled rice, pressed in little moulds; turn these out on the top of the spinach. Put the fowl in the middle, add more salt to the gravy, and boil it for a minute or two more ; strain some over the fowl, and servo the rest in a boat. The rice shapes may be decorated with pieces of truffle, or little stamped-out slices of tongue. To the foregoing we would add, that in some instances the time allowed for the fowl must be very nearly doubled, if success is to crown one’s efforts. Fowl, to Joint for a Sant6.— These directions may be useful to the inexperienced. The words, “cut up neatly,” are intelligible enough to the experienced cook, but convey but little meaning to others ; and, unless a right start be made, the bird will have a very untidy and ragged appearance when cooked and dished. Take then a fowl which has been picked and singed, and ready for cooking, i.e. drawn but not trussed. Lay it on its side, hold a leg towards you, and pass a sharp knife round the thigh; remove it with a dean cut; turn it over, take the other leg off in the same way ; remove the wings in the usual way, then cut tho breast in two or three pieces across. Trim off any rough parts; put tho back-bone aside. Trim the legs by cutting off the leg-bones just bejow the joint; remove the thigh-bones and tuck in the rough parts, making the legs compact and plump in shape. If the thigh-bone is not removed (and this is optional) be sure to make the legs neat by tucking in any loose flesh. These directions may be carried out in jointing a fowl for many other dishes, or for a pie, but in the case of a fine fowl, it is sometimes necessary to again divide the legs and wings; or the wings may be left entire if cut free from breast meat; then tho breast will make three or four pieces. Fowl A, la Marengo.—Re- quired : a fowl, olive oil, mushrooms, gravy, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, 4s., exclusive of eggs for garnish. Take a tender fowl, joint it, and flour the pieces, using half a tablespoonful of flour. Put some olive oil in a saute pan, from three to five tablespoonfuls, size of the fowl considered; when hot, fry the joints a nice brown. Some time before put on the giblets for gravy (if it can be spared, use also tho back of the fowl); when reduced to three gills, strain it over the fowl, put in a morsel of garlic, a shalot, a dozen button mushrooms, and a little lemon juice. Simmer gently until the fowl is tender; season to taste, arrange the joints in a pyramid, best parts at the top, and put the mushrooms with them. Strain the gravy over, it should be re- duced a little, and for a very good dish, add a little light wine and glaze. The proper garnish consists of fried eggs and triangular shaped croutons, placed alternately round the base. People who object to oil in any form, will substitute butter, but the dish is then quite altered; oil being tho special feature of Fowl a la Marengo. Fowl a la Mayonnaise.—Split a cooked fowl in two, and coat the parts with mayonnaise; or joint it, and do tho same; or serve a boat of mayonnaise, and put some cress or parsley on the dish. (See also Salads.) Cost of fowl, about 3s. or 3s. 6d. Fowl, with Onions.—Fry tho fowl in either of tho ways given for Chicken ; pile up tho joints, and