GAME AND POULTRY. 437 without the head; modem fashion is in favour of the latter plan. The thighs of the bird are brought eloso under the wings, a skewer is then passed through the pinion, body, and leg; the other side being fastened in the same way. The legs are then tied firmly down. If it is preferred to retain the head (though there is nothing to recommend the custom), it must be brought round under the wing, and fixed on the point of a skewer, with the bill laid across the breast. A slit must bo made in the hack of the neck for the removal of the crop. "When the head is taken off leave plenty of skin on the neck to skewer back. Pheasant a la Bonne Femme.—Pick, draw, and singe a well-hung pheasant, and put it into a buttered stewpan with three ounces of good beef dripping and six ounces of ham, fat and lean together, cut into inch squares. Fry over a gentle fire until the pheasant is equally and lightly browned all over, then add a table- spoonful of chutney and three or four large Spanish onions cut into thin slices. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently until the pheasant is done enough, and the onions are quite soft. Put the bird on a hot dish. Beat the onions over the fire for eight or ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and put them round the bird. Serve immediately. Time, about an hoar to stew the pheasant, longer for an old bird, for the cooking of which this homely dish is to be recommended. Cost, about 3s. fid. to 4s. Pheasant a la Sainte Alli- ance.—Required : a pheasant, and a staffing as below, gravy, sauce, &c. Cost, very variable. This dish has been declared by its originator to be fit for beings better than men. Take a well-hung pheasant (cock), draw and truss it for roasting. Mince the flesh and intestines of two wood- cocks or snipes; add two ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, a small bunch of savoury herbs, finely powdered, and as many chopped truffles as will be required. Stuff the bird with this, and truss it firmly; roast before a clear fire, basting liberally with fresh butter. Lay .under it in the pan a round of toasted bread, upon which spread a little of the stuffing. Serve the bird on this, and send brown gravy and bread sauce to table separately. Time, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to size. Many variations of this recipe arc in existence ; in some a little anchovy paste with the other ingredients for the stuffing is given. In others, anchovy on the toast only is said to bo good; and by a few writers, shalots or onions are favoured. Pheasant a la Stein way.— Required: a pheasant, larding bacon, truffles and seasoning, stock, glaze, gravy, sherry, and a crouton. Cost of bird, about 3s. Truss a nice bird, lard the breast, and put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a small bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns, and some slices of truffle, carrot, and celery, with a morsel of onion. Cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and in ten minutes, when the pheasant has browned a little, put in a gill and a half of stock, No. 17 ; cover, and cook for half an hour or so, basting a time or two, and adding a little more stock if needed. When done, dish the bird and crisp the breast; glaze it a little and add more gravy to that in the pan. Boil it up, and put in a tablespoonful of truffles in fine shreds. Put a few whole truffles on the dish ; they should be equal in size, and braised first in a little sherry. Stick some of the tail feathers in, and place the pheasant on an oval crouton, cut with a crimped cutter, and glazed after frying. Time to cook the pheasant, nearly an hour. In dishes of tins description a few minutes more than the necessary time is of less importance than in tho case of a roasted bird, the gravy preventing