DKESSED VEGETABLES. 689 ends very neatly ; it is well to rub them over with egg-yolk, and then make an oval or round border as do- sired. It can bo marked with a fork, then egged over, and baked a nico brown ; or it may be baked minus ogg, and glazed afterwards. If more convenient, the border can be flattened, to look as if baked in a plain border mould. This is best done with a palette knife, dipped in warm water, before egging the border. Potato Cakes, Rich.—Prepare a mixture as for borders, flatten into thin round cakes of any desired size, then finish as for croquettes below. Potato Croquettes, Rich.— The preparation is the same as for Potato Border, Rich. The mixture is then made into cork or ball shapes, and may be fried, after egging and crumbing, and served plainly; or herbs or grated cheese may be added. Another way is to hollow the centre, and insert a little rich, thick mince; various recipes are given for rissoles and patties (see Index); or any purees of game or liver may be used. The ball is then made compact, and well coated with egg; a second coating is desirable, and they are nicer if left for an hour before frying. The garnish should be fried parsley, and a hot dish paper or serviette placed under them. The best kinds are served as entrees. Potato Puree, Rich, Creamy. —Required: for each half-dozen pota- toes (about the size of a large duck egg) one ounce of butter, a little salt and pepper, a large tablespoonful of cream, and the same of milk, and a dust of cayenne and nutmeg. Cost, about 3d. to 4d. Bake the potatoes in their skins, and sieve while hot. Melt the butter in the milk, add it while warm, then put in the cream, cold, and the seasoning, and beat well to make the mixture both light and white. This is useful in many ways. It can be forced from a bag with a plain pipe, or a leaf or rose pipe, or piled up as a pyramid in the middle of a dish of cutlets, &c. It does well for masking anything in scallop shells. Potato Puree, Rich, with Eggs.—Omit the milk and cream, add the yolks of two eggs, with other ingredients as above, then beat the whites stiffly, and stir them in at the last minute. This will be a rich colour, and will rise considerably if put on to a hot dish and set in the oven for a short time. It should brown delicately. If to be served in a vegetable dish, the dish or plate on which it has been baked may be set in it if small enough ; but if for an entree dish (with meat, &c.) the pyra- mid must be slipped on to it by means of a vegetable slice or palette knife. In forming the above for the oven, use a bag and pipe, or arrange it in spoonfuls, tapering towards the top. Cost, a little more than the above. Potato Pyramid, Italian Method. — Required : potatoes, croutons, cheese, gravy, butter, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. Cook and slice a pound of pota- toes. Put some croQtons round a dish to form a border, or make a ring crouton. Put in a saucepan a tablespoouful of veal gravy, an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces and a half of butter, a large table- spoonful of lemon juice, a good seasoning of salt, pepper, and nut- meg, with the yolks of three esrgs. Whisk over the fire until hot and thick, and nearly boiling. Form a pyramid, pouring some of the sauce over each layer of potatoes. On the top put grated cheese, and bread- crumbs over the last layer of sauce; bake a nice brown, and serve very hot. This is a very good dish. Potatoes ilia Bonne Bouche. —Required: half a dozen medium- sizod potatoes, a shalot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a fourth as much celery-salt, the same of powdered thyme, a little tarragon, two ounces of butter, seasoning to taste, and tho juice of a lemon. Cost, ubout 6d. Steam tho potatoes until throe-