356 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. quality of the meat is the first neces- sity, and a clean, well-heated gridiron is the next; the same may he said of the frying-pan or broiler. The toaster shown on page 325 can b6 used, and very successfully; the meat must be put a fair distance from the fire after a minute on each side, then when nearly done, if not brown enough, it must be put nearer. Pork chops are improved in appearance by glazing. Cost, from 7d. to 9d. per pound. Of sauces suitable for serving, Chut- ney, Shown Sauce, Partake, Celery, Onion, Apple, and others mentioned under Roast Pork, may be instanced ; and it may be taken for granted that fruit in any form—apples, raisins, tomatoes, and sweet pickles by way of oxamplo—not only add to the goodness of the dish, so far as the palate is con- cerned, but increase its wholesomeness. There is no doubt that pork and apple sauce are a scientific, though homely, combination of ingredients. Chops, with Apples and Raisins.—Required : two pounds of loin chops, the kidney end, apples and raisins as below. Cost, about 2s. Trim the chops free from some of the fat, sprinkle them with a pinch each of black pepper, ground ginger, cayenne, and curry powder. Rub the bottom of a frying-pan with a clove of garlic, melt in it some pork dripping, and fry the meat a good brown ; flour it a little first, and see that it is well done. Have ready a tureen of apple sauce. Mix in four ounces of sultana raisins, first stewed in a little gravy to cover them ; then add a pinch of curry powder. Dish the meat on a bed of spinach, and serve the sauce separately. Another way to serve the above is to put some fried apples round the dish; or some apple sauce may he used; and to serve the raisins sepa- rately in a little thickened gravy. It has been said, with truth, that a curried chop is a chop spoiled; hut chops to which just a seasoning of curry is given, as above, are very agreeable eating. Collops.—Required : a pound of pork, fat and lean together, two ounces of lean ham or bacon, four ounces of bread-crumbs, and some salt, pepper, and allspice; a pinch only of the latter, with a morsel of grated nutmeg, some raw eggs, and sweet herbs. Cost, about Is. exclusive of sauce. Mince the meat, and bacon or ham, add the crumbs and seasoning, and a raw egg; the yolk of a second may be needed; the mass should be soft enough to shape easily. Then make it into little cakes, the size of a florin; dip them in beaten white of egg, and coat with more crumbs. Put them in a saute pan with a little pork dripping, turn them about until well cooked, hut only lightly browned. Serve with gravy, or a sharp sauce, or with apples or tomatoes fried. Or they may be put in boiling stock for a few minutes; they should then he only dipped in the white of eggs, no crumbs, then drained, and put in a pan on a bed of white onion sauce; another layer of sauce must be spread over them, and the pan kept hot by setting it in a tin of boiling water. They will be done in ten minutes, if they have had ten minutes’ boiling. Curried Pork.—This dish needs care, or it will be too rich to be pleasant. We recommend lean pork, and young; if bacon meat is used in- stead of that fr om a porker, the greater part of the fat should be cut away. For a pound of meat, make a pint of sauce [see Curry Sauce), and first par- boil tho meat, or fry it a little in a separate vessel; the latter is the more savoury. Then put it in the sauce to finish tho cooking, letting it stew softly. A morsel of mustard, French is nicer, will improve this curry, and the proportions of apples and onions may be slightly increased; the richness of the dish wiil be the better counter- acted. Time to cook the pork in the sauce, about an hour. It must be shaken from time to time, and a little liquid, water or stock, put in as re-