695 DRESSED VEGETABLES. and be on the point of setting before it is put into the moulds. Set them in an ice cave or on ice for about half an hour and turn out, either on a border of aspic or rice, or on a dish paper ; use parsley or other green material as garnish. The chicken for these is to be delicately seasoned. For Tomatoes a la B£chamel, use sauce of that name for the one given above, and for an economical dish cooked veal or rabbit can be used in place of chicken. Tomatoes a la Tyrrell.— Required : tomatoes, butter, jelly, store sauce, brown sauce, crumbs, egg, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, very variable, according to the ad- juncts named below. Take good-sized tomatoes for this dish, as even in shape and size as pos- sible ; use the centre slices only, and cut them about a quarter of an inch thick; take the skin off, the hard core out, and the pips away. Mix in a basin a couple of ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, the same of store sauce and mushroom ketchup mixed, a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper, the same of salt and castor sugar, and a tablespoonful of brown sauce. These are the pro- portions ; the quantity must be regu- lated by the weight of the tomatoes; this mixture does for about a pound. Brush a baking sheet over with butter, put the tomatoes in in a single layer, brush the upper side with beaten yolk of egg, then with the mixture above ; put in a sharp oven, and when half- done dredge with crumbs, preferably lightly-fried ones; finish the cooking,- then put the white of the egg on in tiny spots round the edges of the slices; it must be beaten to the stiffest possible froth first; brown up in the oven, or with the salamander. These are now ready for serving as a separate dish on round croutons, or they may be used as adjuncts to other dishes. As a breakfast dish they may be garnished in the centre with bacon or ham cut in dice and mixed with • thickened gravy or brown sauce. Or some sausages can be sliced and piled up in the same way. The remains of any of the rich sorts of pates in tins are also very handy, and by using with them some meat or poultry a little goes a long way. All the minces of liver of game and poultry of the most savoury sorts, as given in the chapter on Game and Poultrt, answer ad- mirably ; but delicately - flavoured minces are not suitable. Then there are various ways of garnishing with forcemeat or eggs. {See Index.) Truffled Tomatoes.—Required: tomatoes, truffles, sherry, stock, crumbs, glaze, croutons, and brown sauce. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. per pound, without truffles. Take some fully-ripc tomatoes of moderate size, cut them through ; re- move the skin and pips and the hard core from the centre; mince a few truffles, moisten them with sherry, and add them to an equal bulk of bread- crumbs that have soaked in rich stock ; season a little and mix well, then add a little brown sauce just to make a moist mass. Fill the tomatoes with this, level each half, then press to- gether in their original shape ; put each in a round china case and steam them until the tomatoes are done; then brush the tops with thin glaze and lay a fancy crouton on the tops ; stick tiny triangular croutons all round the edges, and serve hot. Truffle Fur6e,—Wash, brush, and peel half a pound of fresh truffles. Pound them with an ounce of butter and press them through a hair sieve. Put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of good brown sauce, and let them boil for ten minutes. Just before serving the puree, dissolve an ounce of glaze and an ounco of butter in a little stock, and add to it. Cost, variable. Truffles h l’ltalienue.— Cleanse thoroughly, dry, and pare eight truffles, cut them into thin slices, and put them into a baking-dish with