STOCKS AND SOUPS. 55 and. one ounce of com-flour. Cost, about 2s. 2d. Put the ham (or bacon will do) into a pan, with the celery and onion shred- ded very finely, the tomato catsup and seasoning, with a good bunch of herbs, and let them cook slowly, covered, for twenty minutes. Then add the stock, bring to the boil, and skim well; take out the ham, put in the okra, and cook for half an hour slowly, skimming often. Then stir in the corn-flour, mixed with cold stock to a paste, and more salt and pepper, as this soup re- quires to be rather highly seasoned; boil up, then put in the meat—it may be beef or mutton—minced as finely as possible and freed from every particle of fat, skin, and gristle. If possible, pass it through a mincing machine in preference to mincing by hand. Now put on the cover and leave for ten minutes, but do not boil again; the meat should only become heated through. For a richer soup, use stock No. 7, and add the yolks of a couple or three eggs, and a gill of cream just before serving. Okka and Tomatoes may also be bought in tins. Use it as above, but omit the tomato catsup. For light soups use stock No. 9, and add a little cream or the yolks of some raw eggs- Onion and Gniocchi Soup.— Required: a quart of medium white stock (No. 9), half a pound of small onions, one pint of milk, one ounce of semolina, seasoning, and cheese, two ounces each of Parmesan and good English, and one ounce of butter. Cost, about 7d. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in a couple of ounces of fine flour, cook for a minute, then add the stock and boil up. Peel the onions, shred them, and cook them in the stock, with frequent skimming. While this is going on, prejuiro the gniocchi by put- ting the semolina and half the milk into a saucepan, and cooking for an hour, with salt, pepper, a dust of cayenne, and a bit of butter. When soft, turn out on a dish, and when cold and set, cut it into squares with a sharp knife. Put these into the tureen with the cheese, pour tho hot soup over, and add the other half pint of milk separately boiled. The Parmesan cheese should be grated, the other may be thinly sliced. It should not be dry. If possible, tho gniocchi should be made over-night, and put in the soup just long enough to heat through. Onion Soup, with Cheese - Required : one pound of Spanish onions, two ounces of cheese—Par- mesan or Gruyere—salt and cayenne, one ounce of butter, half a pint of milk, one ounce of flour, and one quart of stock (No. 1). Cost, about Gd. Slice the onions, pour boiling water over, cover them, and leave for a few minutes; then pour the water off. Make the stock hot, put in the onions, and cook until tender enough to sieve. In the saucepan melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the onion puree and the milk; bring all to the boil, add a little seasoning and the grated cheese, and serve very hot. Onion Soup, with Dumplings (a German recipe).—Required : two quarts of boiling water, a large onion, an ounce and a half of flour, a table- spoonful of butter, tho root end of a head of celery, and salt and pepper to taste. Cost, about 7d. First mince the onion and brown it in tho butter, add the flour, stir until brown, and the water by degrees; then put in the celery root, cut into thin shreds, and boil until nearly dono. For the dumplings, bent an egg with a gill of milk, add these to four ounces of flour and a seasoning of salt, pep- per, and nutmeg; beat hard for ten minutes; then stir in some bread- crumbs, to make tho mixture just firm enough to bo shaped into little halls the size of a small walnut. Put these into tho soup and boil for twenty minutes, then season, and servo as hot as possible.