247 MADE DISHES AND RELEV^S. by grilling or frying, and serve the above-named sauce with them. Cutlets, Venetian—Required: veal cutlets, herbs, mushrooms, stock, eggs, cream, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about 3s. Chop finely and separately, then all together, half a pint of mushrooms, two shalots, a little parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Mix them thoroughly and stew them for ten minutes over a slow fire in a little butter, with a slice of fat bacon cut into dice. Sprinkle a little popper over two pounds of veal cutlets, put them into the saucepan, and cook them gently till quite tender. Add a gill of white stock by degrees while cook- ing. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two ; then thicken the sauce with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs mixed with a gill of hot cream. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Before serv- ing, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. The meat will require about an hour’s cooking. Add salt to taste when nearly done. Ham in Curry Gravy.—Re- quired : two pounds of ham, a pint of gravy as above, vegetables, &c. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of gravy. Cut the ham in a nice square shape, and boil it in the usual way until almost done. Then put it in a sauce- pan, the fat uppermost; pour the gravy round it, cover, and leave for twenty minutes; serve on a hot dish with the gravy round it, and send suitable vegetables to table. The ham should be skinned as usual. A piecj of ham previously boiled, may be sliced and heated in the gravy ; the dish should then be garnished with tomatoes, onions, or other vegetables, nicely dressed, or a puree of any kind can be used, or rice boiled as for curry. Ham in Gravy & la Diable.— Boil the ham as above directed ; dish it on a bed of fried onions or shalots, well- seasoned; pour CiiiAvy X la Diable round it, and garnish with croutons, seasoned ■with French mustard and curry powder before flying. Ham in Robert Sauce.—Boil the ham until nearly done, then put it before the tire, and finish the cook- ing, basting often with a glass of light wine. Take the skin off, cover with raspings, let them brown ; then put a little glaze on with a feather. Serve on a hot dish, with sauce as above round it. Send a puree of sorrel, spinach, or other vegetable to table with it. Ham,Roast, a la Crawsliawe. —Required : a ham, wine, sauce, glaze, vegetables, &e., as below. Cost, about lOd. per pound, exclusive of the ad- juncts. Prepare the ham by trimming and soaking, for twelve hours or more, then put it on to boil in plain bone stock, with a good plateful of mixed vegetables; boil it until half done, then take it up when cool, and put by until quite cold. Wrap it in a greased paper, and cover with a common paste, just as for venison, and finish the cook- ing by roasting or baking. When done, take the paste and paper from the ham, and pour over it a half pint of Madeira mixed with half a gill of herbal vinegar; put it before the fire for twenty minutes, and baste well with the liquor; then glaze it, and pour off the wine which remains; add to it some brown sauce, mixed with an equal measure of tomato pulp ; boil up, and season rather highly ; skim well, and pour a portion round the ham, and servo the rest separately. Plain tomato sauce should be served also. Garnish with braised tomatoes, mushrooms, and small pork sausages, all glazed; or use truffled sausages if liked. After the ham is cooked, before adding the wine and vinegar, it must be skinned. If possible let it be from a small home-cured pig, to ensure mildness of flavour and freedom from salt. Time, about half an hour for each pound.