UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 542 case of rice. What must happen if a dish filled to the brim with milk, and with perhaps three times too much rice, is set in an oven unduly heated P Just this. By reason of the intense heat, the milk soon boils ; over it goes into the oven, causing waste and a smell that pervades the whole house; the grain hardens, and the milk, that is to say, the albuminous part of it, forms a black skin on the top ; the dish burns, and in a short time the rice becomes a hard mass; it cannot go on swelling, as there is no milk left uuabsorbed; therefore, the longer it remains in the oven the drier and harder it becomes. This is the point we would press home : starch has a natural affinity for water, milk, or any other liquid—and it is only by prolonged cooking at a gentle heat that the proper use is made of starchy foods. The finely-ground cereals above referred to, as well as the pastes, like macaroni, that are made from them, naturally take less time to cook; yet even in the case of arrowroot, than which nothing can be finer, a minute or two’s boiling is an improvement, though many think that the addition of boiling water answers, and that no actual cooking is wanted. An exception must also be made in the case of cereals in packet form, known as “ steam- cooked; ” here the starch grains are already ruptured ; but even for these our experience is that a longer time than is directed by the makers may, as a rule, be allowed with advantage. Most of us know that a change of diet is beneficial; and we would advise all whose lot it is to cater fer a family to vary these dishes to the fullest extent. A mistaken notion often prevails that, because a certain article is nutritious, one cannot do better than stick to it day after day. Oatmeal is a valuable food, without question, and in many a home oatmeal porridge is a standing dish ; but both children and adults might with advantage be served with an occasional plate of hominy, barley, or other grain. The modes of serving, too, may well be varied; the most trifling change sharpens the appetite and gives zest to the dish; the substitution of stewed fruit for the familiar treacle or sugar, or a savoury porridge instead of a sweet one, would break the oft-complained-of monotony, so frequently due to want of thought. We pass on now to a matter that will be of interest to those who, despite the most careful cooking, find starchy foods hard to digest. We refer to pre-digestion by the aid of malt flour, and ask attention to the paragraph on Malted Cereals in the present chapter. The value of malt as a digestive agent is a well-established fact, further increased by its imparting no unpleasant flavour to the dish, while its low price is another recommendation: at the time of writing malt flour costs but fourpence per pound. So far as we are aware, no mention is made of malted foods in the ordinary run of cookery books, therefore these hints may be the more useful. The subject is exhaustively dealt with in the writings of Dr. Bridger and Professor Mattieu Williams; but the hints in this work are given as the result of personal experiments, and if space permitted, the dishes named might be largely augmented. Before quitting cereals we would point out the need of careful storage to protect them from dust, damp, and insects; thorough washing is of equal importance, and soaking of the hardest sorts is very advisable. Concerning Italian Pastes, but little need be said. A visit to any