PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G07 many other kinds, may be kept a day or two without injury; they are rather expensive, sometimes as much as 5d. or 6d. each, but 2d. to 4d. is a more usual price. They are much used for separate dishes, and can he dressed in various ways. The illus- Fio. 108.—Artichoke in Section. A The Leaves. B The Choke. C The Bottom. trations above show the artichoke whole, and in section: for some dishes the choke is removed; for others, the bottoms only are used ; in such cases the tinned ones answer (see next chapter). Artichokes, Globe, Boiled.— Soak them in cold salted water, upside down, for an hour or two; they should be most carefully washed and looked over, that any insects may bo dislodged. The stalk should be trimmed off, also the hard leaves Tound the bottom, and the points of the rest of the leaves should be clipped. The water should be fast boiling with salt, about a teaspoonful to the quart; cook them until a leaf can be easily polled out, from twenty-five to forty minutes if quite young; but fully- grown ones will take much longer— from an hour upwards. Drain well, npsida down, and dish with sauce over, or in a boat. All the good white sauces, as usually served with vegetables, are suitable; but Dutch is one of the best; some give the pre- ference to Oiled Buttek, and Melted Butter is very generally liked. Another way.—Boil as above, but add an ounce of butter to the water, and a bunch of herbs; this is a common French way of boiling. Dish in a nicely-folded napkin laid in a hot dish, and serve quickly. Artichokes, Jerusalem. — These tubers have been grown in England for nearly three centuries; they are generally liked and are con- sidered wholesome. They are not starchy like potatoes, therefore do not become mealy when boiled. No vege- table needs more care in the prepara- tion and cooking in the very simplest form. A careless cook will spoil both appearance and flavour very readily. Cost, about 2d. per pound. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Boiled.—Wash them thoroughly, then peel them. They look nicer if trimmed into a round or an oval form, or they are sometimes cut to form a pyramid; but as these methods entail waste, and are not necessary foraplain dish, the artichokes may be plainly peeled, just to look as even as possible. If the cuttings can be used for soup, or in any other way, then they can be shaped as described above, or in any other form according to fancy. While peeling, keep them under water as much as possible, and throw them instantly into plenty of cold water, with a few drops of white vinegar or lemon juice. Have ready boiling a large saucepan of water with salt, at least a heaped teaspoonful to the quart : unless well salted they aro most insipid. Put them in, and boil from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to age and size. That all may be dono together, it is advisable to put the largest in first (see Boiled Potatoes). The very moment they are done, strain them ; if left in the water after this point is reached, they become flavourless and discoloured.