93 GRAVIES AND SAUCES; them in; let the sauce stand a minute, then serve. This is excellent with all sorts of grilled meat and poultry. Note.—Small capsicums are here referred to. Carp, Sauce for.—This is equally good with any other lish of the same ( hiss. Required ; a gill each of fish stock and light wine, a tablespoonful each of vinegar and lemon-juice, a teaspoonful each of grated horse-radish, soy, and anchovy essence. Boil the horse-radish in the stock, then strain; add all the rest, with roux or flour and butter to make it as thick as good cream; boil up, and put in salt and pepper to taste. Many kinds of fish which are often condemned as worthless would be relished if this, or some such sauce, were served with them. It gives piquancy to a tasteless fish, and renders “ woolly ” or “ dense ” fish more di- gestible. Carrot Sauce.—Required: car- rots, brown sauce, and seasoning as below, butter, and tomato. Wash, scrape, and grate the carrots (outer part only) until there is enough to fill a half-pint measure ; put it in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter a ripe tomato minced, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bay-leaf), a pinch of salt and sugar, and a saltspoonful of ernshed white peppercorns; cook for twenty minutes, shaking often; add a gill of good brown stock, and boil until the whole can be sieved; return it to the pan with a gill of Brows Sauce, boil up, and serve with steaks, cutlets, &c. By using less stock and more carrots, the sauce may be converted into a puree for serving •n the centre of a dish of cutlets. (See Dressed Veoetabi.es.) For a cheap carrot sauce for boiled meat, add a teacupful of carrots, boiled and sieved, to an equal measure of plain melted butter. Cavaliers’ Sauce.—Required : a pint of Brown Sauce, a teaspoonful each of chutney, chopped capers, sweet pickles minced, and French musjprd ; , a dessortspoonful each of tomato vine- gar and Madeira, and seasoning to taste. Put the above materials, wine ex- cepted, in a stew-pan ; bring to the boil, add salt and pepper, then the wine and a squeeze of lemon-juice; cover, and let it stand a few minutes, then serve. This is a delicious sauce; it goes with almost anything; is also useful for re-heating cold meat, game, and fish. {See Cavaliers’ Broil.) Celery Sauce.—Take the white part from a couple of heads of celery. Required, in addition, some white stock, white roux, and cream. First wash the celery, remove all green leaves and discoloured portions ; put it in a stew-pan with cold water and a pinch of salt, bring just to the boil, strain, and wash in cold water, then dry it; cut it up, and put it on to boil with enough white stock (No. 9) to cover ; cook until tender, then sieve or tammy it, and put back in the pan with white roux to thicken, and a little boiling cream. This should be as thick as Onion Sauce (which see). Instead of the cream and roux, a small quantity of thick bechamel may be used. For a cheaper sauce, cook the celery in plain white stock, and add boiling milk, with corn-flour or roux to thicken. Serve with poultry, veal, &c. For a brown sauce, cut up the celery (outer parts), and fry it with a bunch of herbs and a slialot; then add stock No. 4 and boil; when tender, rub through a sieve, then boil up, and thicken in the usual way. Season delicately ; the celery flavour should not be nullified. Cheese Sauce.—Required : n tablespoonful of any good dry English cheese, twice that measure of grated Parmesan cheese ; half a pint each of milk and medium white stock, a dash of cayenne, while pepper, and salt; a few drops of lemon-juice, the yolk of an egg, two ounces of flour, and ono ounce of butter. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock and milk, and boil up ; put