STOCKS AND SOUPS. 73 best olive-oil, a clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, a few slices of lemon, two or three tomatoes or a little tomato sauce, as much powdered saffron as will go on the point of a table-knife, and. lastly, a glass of white wine or Madeira. Put in sufficient stock to cover the whole, and boil from ten to fifteen minutes, skimming carefully the whole time. When ready to servo throw in a handful of chopped parsley, This quantity of flavouring is intended for six pounds of fish. On the Conti- nent it is usually sent to table in two separate dishes—that is to say, the fish in one, and the sauce in a small deep dish; but we think the whole would look better served in a deep entree dish. Bouillabaisse (true Marsoillaiso fashion) should, according to Sir Henry Thompson, receive the addition of a portion of conger eel and a couple of dozen mussels, to four pounds of whit- ing, sole, red mullet, and fresh had- dock. Two hay-leaves, two cloves, parsley, thyme, slices of lemon, the zest of a Seville orange, salt, pepper, pimento, saffron, a clove of garlic, and two red capsicums, are to he tied in a coarse net bag, and put in with the fish and six tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil and three pints of water. Half an hour’s boiling for all except the whiting is required ; toasted bread in slices may be served apart or put in the soup tureen. Two or three glasses of French wine should he added, and, almost needless to say, the fish is to be cleansed with great nicety; and al- though it is usual to bone and cut it up first, we think the bones should be pint in for the sake of their flavour. They can be tied up in the bag, and removed with the rest. Clam Soup.—Wash the clams, and just cover them with boiling water; when the shells open, after a little boiling, take the clams from the shells, and save all the liquor; chop the fish, and strain the liquor; put both together in a pan with pepper, boil for a quarter of an hour, then thicken a little with white roux or flour and butter. Sometimes milk or water is added to the fish liquor, and a bit of onion used for flavouring. Toasted bread is often cut up and put in the tureen. For rich clam soups the yolks of eggs are used, with a spoonful or two of cream. Cost of clams, uncertain. Clam Soup, American.—Boil the juice of the clams, after careful straining, season with salt, cayenne, and strained lemon-juice, and, if liked, a grate or two of nutmeg; enrich with drawn butter and a spoonful of cream, and thicken with cracker-crumbs. The clams are to be cut up small, and boiled for half an hour, the lemon- juice and cream being added at the moment of serving. Conger Eel Soup.—Required : three pounds of conger eel, three quarts of water, a carrot, an onion, a good bunch of herbs, some whole spices (mixed, about a teaspoonful), salt, vegetables to serve in the soup, and thickening. Cost, about Is. 4d. Only the head and tail ends are re- quired for this (the middles of the fish can be kept for other dishes). Wash them and put them on to boil in the water with the spices and a little salt; add the vegetables, lightly fried, with the herbs, and boil slowly, with fre- quent skimming, for about three hours. Then strain the soup, put in some cooked green peas or any other vege- tables (about half a pint will do), and flavour with catsup or store sauce, and more salt to taste. Thicken a little with browned flour, or roux if liked ; but this is often served unthickened. Conger Eel Soup (White). Do not fry the vegetables, use white peppercorns instead of mixed spices, and rvhite roux or flour to thicken. Add some boiled milk just before serv. ing, and omit tho peas, using instead cooked white vegetables of any kind. A further improvement to this is effected by putting in a few pieces of tho middle of the eel; they should bo cooked with the rest, and removed as