6 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. double ones, with a fitted tin pan underneath, as illustrated in Fig. 6. Fig. G.—Hanging Broiler. Dutch ovens and game ovens are very useful, and serve practically the same purpose, while their hood-like shape concentrates the heat in the same way as a meat screen. The general principles may he regarded as identical with grilling, therefore we refer to that paragraph for details of the process; and when a plain gravy is required it should be prepared in the same way as for a piece of roasted or baked meat. Clarifying Fat.—The proper clarification of fat, dripping, &c., though simple, is of more importance and demands fuller treatment than is usually given to it. It is common to meet with the directions, “ Take some clarified fat or dripping,” &c. &c., al- though perhaps the method of clarifi- cation is passed over. It will be seen from the chapters on Pastry and Cakes, that many nice dishes may be made at little cost in houses where clarified fat is used regularly; and it is quite certain that the use of burnt or unclarified fat is the ruin of many a dish that would otherwise be whole- some and palatable. Clarified fat is also, in many families, the cheapest and best to use for frying purposes. Dripping, to clarify —A. very simple way is to pour the dripping, while hot, into a basin containing cold water, to each quart of which a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda should be added. These quantities are enough for half a pint of liquid dripping. Stir for a few times, then set aside: when cold tho dripping will he firm, and can be re- moved in a cake; any impurities must bo scraped from the bottom. The skimmings from the liquor in which meat, bacon, or ham, has been boiled, as well as the dripping from roast meat, may be clarified in this way. Another way.—Pour the dripping, while liquid (or leave until cold, it makes no difference), into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring a few times; then pour the whole out in a good-sized bowl, and finish as before. This is the more useful way, when largo quantities have to be dealt with, and the fat will keep well. In hot weather it will assist the “ setting ” if tho vessel containing the fat be set in a second vessel containing cold water, with a handful of salt to tho half gallon. If wanted quickly set it on ice. It is always important, if possible, to keep pork dripping in a separate vessel. Other drippings may be mixed, unless there is a special objection to mutton dripping, then that must be kept apart; but if treated as above, it will be found very useful, and with no disagreeable flavour. Fat, to clarify.—The fat may be cooked or uncooked, or mixed; but if cooked fat is used it should bo put in towards the end, not with the raw fat. Fat from beef, mutton, &c., can be clarified altogether. The trimmings of joints, chops, steaks, &c., skinny portions of suet, and all similar odds and ends, may be used up. See that not a particle is tainted, or any bits of lean left in. Cut all up small, about half an inch square. If tho homo supply runs short, fat can often be bought of the butcher for 5d. or Cd. per pound. Put all into an iron saucepan, and add enough water to create steam; half a pint will suffice