409 GAME AND POULTRY. Fowl, Steamed, with. Oys- ters.—Required : a fowl, oyster force- meat, and oyster sauce. Cost varies with that of oysters; about os. to 5s. 6d. on an average. A fowl cooked in this way will be full of flavour, and very tender. Fill a young fowl with oyster forcemeat, and lay it in a tin ready for steaming; pour round it a gill of white stock and oyster liquor mixed, then cover and steam until done ; it should be turned a few times and basted with the liquor. Serve with oyster sauce, using the liquor from the tin in making it. The fowl may be stuffed with any sort of stuffing that may be preferred, if oysters are not in season, but the tinned ones do very well. (See recipes under Forcemeats.) Another way.—This is richer, and a really delicious dish. Fill a fine fowl with rich oyster stuffing; rub it all over with lemon juice; wrap it up in a buttered paper, and cook in a tin laid in a steamer; give it an hour and a half, or more if required. Dish it, and pour some white sauce over the breast, and put some little veal and oyster sausages round the dish. Send rich oyster sauce to table in a boat. 1 Fowl may be steamed, and served with any other sauces which usually go with boiled fowls; and we again call attention to a fowl partly cooked by steaming, and finished off by roast- ing or baking, as a very good dish, especially suitable for a fowl past its youth. Fowl a la Steinway. — Re- quired : a fowl, stuffing as umler, stock, quenelles, white and brown' sauces, mushrooms, and gravy. Cost, from 5s. 6d. to 63.; more when fowls are dear. Lard the breast of a fowl, first dipping it in boiling water to make it firm. Put in the body a rich mince of ham and tongue, both cooked, mixed with some button mushrooms cut in dice, and cooked in butter. This should be bound with a few bread-crumbs, a beaten egg, and a little cream; it is to be very delicately seasoned. Put in the butter from the mushrooms. Truss for braising. Then cook it in some pale stock to half its depth, for nearly an hour. Take it down and brown before the fire; glaze nicely, and serve on a hot dish. Put round it some chicken quenelles, masked with white sauce; veal sausages, masked with brown sauce; and mushrooms, glazed after frying. Serve with brown gravy flavoured with the mushroom peelings. Fowl, Stewed and Glazed.— Required: a fowl, gravy, seasoning, sherry, and salad. Cost, about 4s. 6d. on an average. This is a very good dish. A tender fowl or good-sized chicken must bo used for it. Make a gravy from the giblets some hours beforehand ; the usual seasonings, but no thickening, should be added; strain it off, and put half a pint into a clean stewpan. Lay in the fowl, breast up; cover with buttered paper, and stew softly for half an hour to three-quarters; then remove the paper, put into the gravy a heaping tablespoonful of fresh tomato pulp (made by passing a large ripe tomato through a sieve), a glass of sherry, and haP an ounce of glaze. Stir until the glaze is melted, then cover up, and leave for a quarter of an hour, first turning the fowl breast down. Then take it up and glaze the breast, put it in a moder- ate oven for a few minutes while the gravy is seasoned, then pour a little round the fowl, and serve the rest in a boat. Send watercress salad to table. If a chicken, reduce tho time of cooking. Another way. — Instead of adding tomato pulp to tho gravy, put in some brown mushroom puree, or a spoonful of good mushroom ketchup. Another way.—In place of either tomatoes or mushrooms, add to the gravy half a tin of green peas, and the same measure of carrots and turnips, mixed, pea shapes, separately boiled; then put in rather more stock. Fowl, Stewed in a Jar. — Roquired: a fowl, vegetables, bacon,