19 COOKING PROCESSES. is cooked enough, but has to be kept hot, it is only necessary to close the valve e. Such can be used on a close range or over a gas or oil stove with equal success. A compartment can be added or taken away, and some of these compound steamers are of sufficient magnitude to fur- nish a dinner of several courses for a dozen people. The chief advantages are economy of fuel and time, and of the food itself, both in bulk and weight. In the case of a leg of mutton, from half a pint to a pint of good gravy, which in the ordinary way would be lost by evaporation, will be forthcoming. Then the slow' cooking and retention of the juices make the meat very tender and digestible, and particularly suitable for people of weak digestion. Last, but not least, space is economised, and “ washing up ” is reduced to a mini- mum. Now, to use the potato steamer, or some equally simple kind, we w'ill sup- pose that an experiment is about to be made by steaming a piece of meat. It will not do to put it into the steamer without further trouble; a dish or tin just large enough to hold it, and rather smaller than the steamer, should be used. This will preserve any liquor that may escape, and the meat should be turned a time or two. The water should boil fast all the time, and rather more time must be given for steaming than for boiling. Discretion must be exercised as to the boiling of anything in the water under the steamer. In such a case as we have referred to—i.e., steaming of a small portion of meat— carrots or turnips might be cooked with it in the steamer round the dish holding the meat, while plain suet dumplings might be boiled under- neath. It does not do to boil any- thing that would impart either a disagreeable taste or colour to the article steamed, but by the exercise of forethought the number of cook- ing utensils going at once might often be reduced. Thus, in boiling rice or macaroni, a pudding of the most delicate kind, in a mould writh a lid, or covered with a sheet of paper, could bo steamed overit; or, supposing the cooking of two puddings to be going on simultaneously, one of jam and ono of fruit, both with a suet crust, the steam from ono could not injure the other. Such instances might be multiplied indefinitely. But not the least of the steamer’s uses is that of re-heating food, a good deal of which is wasted in the ordinary ways of re-warming; or, if not actually wasted, its nourishing properties are diminished, and it is rendered indi- gestible. Stewing.—This is a mode much favoured by the French; and while there is much difference of opinion as to the wholesomeness of stews in general, there is no questioning the economy of the process, not only on account of the small quantity of fuel needed, but because food cooked in this way, even if coarse and hard in itself, may be rendered tender and palatable; while it is certain that a pound of meat stewed with plenty of vegetables and gravy will go farther in furnishing a meal for a given num- ber than would the same weight of meat (of even the best quality) if cooked by any other process. Then there is absolutely no waste of nutri- ment. “ But a stew boiled is a stew spoiled,” and this is the stumbling- block. Stewing is often confounded with boiling, but a far lower tempera- ture is desirable, particularly for gristly tough portions, and the toughest meat may be made tender by the addition of a little vinegar. In France a sour apple is sometimes substituted, the acid has a softening effect on animal fibres. The long slow cooking will drive off most of the acidity, so that there will be no unpleasant sourness. Among other advantages of a stew should be noted the fact that when vegetables are added, as they usually are in some form, much valuable saline matter is introduced into tho system, which, in the case of plainly-boiled vegetables