UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 48 preferably), the white part of four leeks, a small teaspoonl'ul of white peppercorns, three quarts of stock (No. 10), a pint of milk, and half a tablespoonful or more of salt. Cost, about lOd. Soak the beans in cold water for twenty-four hours, throw away any discoloured or floating ones; put them in a pan with the cold stock, pepper- corns, arid sliced vegetables, and bring to the boil slowly. Simmer for three or four hours, then sieve the whole: a coarse wire sieve will do for this; add the salt, and milk separately heated, re-boil, and serve with fried bread. Add no salt to this until the beans are quite soft. “ Giant haricots ” may bo used, but the skins are tougher, and they take longer to cook. Split haricots may be had; they take less time. The foregoing is for a plain puree, but highly nourishing. For a richer one use stock No. 1, and add half a pint of single cream in place of half the milk. Or the water from boiled poultry or meat makes a good stock for this. A morsel of butter added assists the cooking of the beans. Hare Soup.—This is very econo- mical. Required : a hare, three quarts of cold water or stock (No. 2), one onion, one carrot, one turnip, a score of black peppercorns, salt, a table- spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and the dregs of a bottle of port, a large bunch of herbs (hay-leaf, thyme, marjoram, and parsley), a small slice of ham, three ounces of browned flour, one ounce of clarified fat. Cost, about 5s. Wash and joint the hare as if for jugging, dry the pieces, and lay them, with the ham, vegetables, herbs, and clarified fat (first heated,) in a pan ; stir until well browned. Put in the water or stock, stir all the time until it boils ; skim well, add a little salt, and skim again; then cover, and boil until the hare is tender. Take out the back, shoulders, and legs, and put them aside. Continue the boiling until the meat and vegetables in the pan will pass through a coarse sieve. After this treatment return the whole to the pan, with the ketchup and seasoning; mix the flour with cold water, add it,’ and boil up for a few minutes, and put in the wine just before serving. Put the bones and trimmings into the stock-pot. The back, shoulders, and legs will make a separate dish. (See Recipes under Hare.) Hai’e Soup (Rich).—Proceed as above directed, but use a better stock- one similar to or made by the recipe for No. 5 is most suitable; or use a clear stock, and add a little roitx or extract of meat. A quarter of an hour before serving cut up the meat from the joints of the hare that were set aside (see preceding recipe) into slices, then into strips, as equal in size ns possible ; put them in the soup, with a table- spoonful of tomato jelly or half tho quantity of red-currant jelly, and a little fresh tomato pulp or conserve; these two flavours blended give a decided “ tone ” to hare soup. Then add w’ine (double tho quantity abovo given), and some forcemeat-balls or game quenelles ; cover, and leave for a few minutes, but do not boil again. The forcemeat-balls must be cooked in stock before adding them. It is an open question whether tho blood of the hare is an improvement. Some consider it tho making of tho soup, others shudder at the bare mention of it. When it is added, it should be stirred very gradually to the soup, after first mixing it with a spoonful or two under boiling point. After the mixing, the soup should stand at simmering point only, if it boils it will curdle. Hotch-potch.—This is a recipe for use in warm weather. Take three quarts of mutton broth; when it boils, season a little, and slice into it a supply’ of young vegetables—carrots, turnips, onions, lettuce, or young cabbage, cauliflower in sprigs, and some chopped parsley—enough altogether to fill a quart measure. Boil for an hour and