STOCKS AND SOUPS. YD For a richer soup add,half an ounce of glaze and a glass of white wine when the fish is put in. Brown roux can be used instead of the flour and butter. When fish with a strong taste is used, it is well to lay it for a while in vinegar and water. This treatment modifies the muddy taste complained of in river fish. Fisherman's Soup.—Make a soup according to the following recipe, by which means the smallest fry may be utilised:—Take the fish caught in a day's angling—carp, dace, roach, perch, &c. Wash them in salt and water, and put them in a stew-pan, with a tomato, a leek, an onion, and a carrot sliced, a hunch of sweet herbs, and enough -water to cover them. When boiled to a pulp, strain, and put the liquor hack into the saucepan, with seasoning to taste, and a small quantity of rice or other grain for thickening. When this is cooked, put in some flavoured vinegar and a teaspoonful of soy or store sauce, and serve. If any of the fish are of good size they may bo filleted, the bones to be stewed down with the rest, and the fillets divided, and put in a short time before serving. Fish Soup a la Cardinal.— Make some stock by recipe No. 15; to a quart add the following : one ounce of white roux, one ounce of corn- flour mixed with a gill of milk and boiled, eighteen Lobster Quen-elles (y.r. under Fish), a tablespoonful of lobster butter, a few drops of colouring, seasoning, and the yolks of two eggs. Put the stock in a pan, add the roux, then the milk and arrowroot or corn- flour, boil up and skim; add salt, cayenne, a squeeze of lemon-juice, a few drops of carmine, and whon off the boil stir in the lobster butter. Put the raw yolk3 of eggs into a well- heated tureen, add the soup gradually, taking the u.sual precaution; put in tho quenelles and a tablespoonful of light wine. Serve crofltons with this, and a plate of boiled rice. Cost, about Is. 6d. Fish Soup a la Guildhall.— Required: the head of a small cod-fish, a quart of fish stock (No. 15), a gill of white wine, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf, a large onion, a ripe tomato, two ounces of butter, a tea- spoonful of essence of shrimps, one ounce of white roux, a dozen quenelles (see Fish, White, Quenelles of), and a quarter of a pint of freshly-shelled shrimps. Cost, about Is. lOd. Wash the head, put it on to boil with cold water to cover, and a little salt; bring to the boil and Bkim, then cook for two houi-8; strain the liquor, about half a pint, into a clean pan with the fish-stock, herbs, tomato, and a little salt; fry the onion brown in the butter, add it to the rest with some crushed peppercorns, and boil for half an hour, skimming very often ; stir in the roux, boil up, and skim again; put in the wine and anchovy essence, with salt to taste, a little soluble cayenne, and a few drops of lemon-juice, then strain the soup through a hair sieve, put in the shrimps and quenelles, and serve. For a clear soup, clarify in the usual way with eggs, add the shrimps and quenelles as above, but omit the roux, and put in a couple of ounces of cooked Italian paste, or macaroni in very short lengths. A few drops of carmine colouring should be put in the soup. Haddock Soup.—Required: a fresh haddock of two to three pounds in weight, seasoning, roux, herbs, bread-crumbs, bacon, a little cream, some raw eggs, and four ounces of boiled rice. Cost, about 2s. First wash the fish, and take tho flesh off in fillets ; put the heads, tails, bones, skin, fins, &c., on to boil with three quarts of cold water, a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and a few slices of carrot; add salt, boil gently, and remove the scum. Whon reduced to a pint and a half, strain tho liquid. With tho flesh of tbe fish pro- ceed as follows:—Scrape it finely, by laying it on a board, and with the pulp I thus obtained mix a slice of bacon,