596 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. oggs, sauce, and seasoning, with gar- nish and adjuncts as below. Cost, very variable. There is here plenty of scope for variety, and a dish of this sort is generally much liked; being somewhat more substantial than the usual run of egg dishes, a fricassee is a suitable one for luncheon or dinner. The founda- tion is a nice sauce of the white variety, to which may be added button mushrooms, or the addition of a spoon- ful or two of mushroom sauce or puree is just as suitable; flavour this nicely with salt and pepper, a dash of mace and cayenne, then pour it over the hard-boiled eggs, which may be in slices or quarters, and should be arranged on a hot dish. If the eggs are first seasoned a little, and moistened with a few drops of lemon juice, the dish is all the nicer. About half a pint of sauce to five or six eggs will be wanted. When the rich white sauces —as bechamel or supreme—are used, make no addition by way of seasoning; but any small pieces of cooked poultry or white meat may be put in, and the dish will be found very delicious. The remains of calf’s or lamb’s feet or calf’s head make admirable dishes of this kind. For a similar dish from fish, cooked white fish with a suitable sauce may be employed ; the garnish may be lemon or any such as would be suitable for the fish in the first instance. Eggs, Fricasseed, a la Bengal.—Required: eggs, onions, butter, stock, cream, bacon, seasoning, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d., exclusive of salad and chutney. This is a particularly nice way of serving eggs ; although rather more trouble than many others, the result repays it. Peel and chop enough onions to fill two tablespoons, cook them in butter without browning, then add a gill of cream, the same of good white meat stock, a pinch of grated ginger, cayenne, salt, and pepper; thicken with a tablespoonful of arrow- root, and boil up; then add a teaspoon- ful of sliced lemon in tiny dico, off the fire; this must be free from peel and pith. Have ready on a hot dish four hard-boiled eggs in dice, and an equal bulk of broiled bacon, cut up similarly; season them a little as above (salt on the bacon excepted), then pour the sauce over. Have the yolk of one etrg whole, put this in the centre, with bacon dice round it; then serve with a little dish of Bengal chutney and one of any green salad. Eggs, Fried.—At the best this is not a digestible, though it is a favourite way of cooking eggs; but it can be made more digestible by using a little fat and cooking the eggs slowly, taking care not to burn the fat; if this is done, the bottoms of the eggs get very dark and are by no means wholesome; in this state they are quite unsuited for persons of weak digestion. The frying medium may be oil, butter, lard, nice dripping, or bacon or ham fat; the latter is quite suitable if the eggs are to bo served with theso adjuncts, but see that the fat is not too dark in colour. The next thing is the pan, which should bo quite clean; so soon as the fat is hot slide the eggs in from a cup, then slackon the heat, and as soon as the whites are set take them up with a slice. Should it happen that the bot- toms are done while the tops are hardly cooked, pop the pan in the oven for a minute to finish. Take the slice in the left hand, and trim any dis- coloured parts from the white with a sharp knife in the right hand; avoid waste, but the eggs are most unsightly if not trimmed. Slide them on to the ham or bacon, if any, or on to dry or buttered toast. Fried eggs for garnishing spinach and other dishes must be so trimmed that only a clear ring of white is round each yolk. Another ivny.—Use plenty of hot fat, and as the eggs are dropped in take a wooden spoon and turn them over and over; they will puff out and look like balls; theso are often used for garnishing vegetable dishes and hashes of meat.