UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 236 or grill for half an hour, turning every two or three minutes. When done, lay it on a hot dish, and put the pota- toes round ; serve the sauce separately. A pound of potatoes should he cut into olives or marble shapes, then dried in a floured cloth. Put them in hot fat to cover, and as soon as a little browned take the pan from the fire and leave for five minutes, while they cook ; then put it hack over the fire for a couple of minutes or so. Drain well, and sprinkle a little salt and cayenne over them. Brush the steak with warm glaze, and put a row of chopped truffle, seasoned in the same way, down the centre. Beef Steak, The Mandar- ins’.—Required: a thick beefsteak, sauce, &c., as below, vegetables and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 3s. Take a pound and a half of meat, cut it into a nice oval shape, pass the trimmings through a mincing machine; add a fried onion, and some ham chopped small, with a spoonful or two of brown sauce, a beaten egg, and some bread crumbs, enough to bind the whole, just as for croquettes. Then form the mass into little balls, not larger than a cherry, and egg and crumb them ; then cook them in the saute pan. Grill tho steak, put tho little balls round it, with Potato Balls or Cutlets in between ; or put a ring of the cutlets round tho dish. Pour a gill and a half of Mandarins’ Sauce over tho steak, and serve as hot as possible. Beef Steak with Marrow.— Required: a thick steak, from the rump, of a pound and a half; marrow, seasoning, and sauce as under. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Lay the meat in a mixture of oil, pepper, and grated horse-radish for an hour, then grill it. Put a tablespoon- ful of chopped beef marrow on a plate, with an equal bulk of chopped shalot, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a spoonful of French mustard. Place it on the hot plate, or in a slow oven, and let it melt while tho meat is cook- ing. Spread a little on the dish, put the meat on, and spread the rest over it. Round the dish put some fried potatoes, with little heaps of grated horse-radish, or send Horse-Radish Sauce (hot or cold) to table in a boat. The steak may bo broiled if more convenient, and basted with the marinade. Another way.—Instead of horse- radish sauce, put a pat of Horse-Radish Butter on the steak after dishing it. The shalots are to be removed after the marrow is cooked. Beef Steak with Oysters.— Required : two pounds of thick steak, lean, a score of oysters, seasoning and stock. Cost, about 3s. Gd. Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a stewpan, brown tho steak in it, turn- ing every minute, then pour tho fat off; add stock No. 4 to half tho depth of the meat, and the strained oyster liquor; season as directed for oyster sauce. Turn and basto tho meat now and then ; when tender, thicken with brown roux and boil up; then lay in the oysters, draw from the tire, and in less than a minute serve the meat, &c., all together on a hot dish. Send potatoes separately to table. Time to stew, about an hour and a quarter; longer if freshly killed meat. Beef Steak with Oysters ancl Anchovies.—Required: steak, an- chovy butter, seasoning, stock, and oyster Fauce. Cost, exclusive of sauce, about 3s. for a steak of two pounds. Cut a thick rump steak into a nice shape; brush with saladoil andcayenne ; cut it half through, with the exception of tho edge, and make the external open- ing as small as possible. Put a good pat of anchovy butter inside, sew up the edge, then lard the meat on the upper surface, first dipping the bacon used into cayenne, and brush over with a little anchovy essence. Braise in stock to half its depth ; a plain stock minus vegetables is required; basto often, and in an hour and a half, supposing two or two and a half pounds, it should be tender. Crisp up on a hot dish,