122 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, sauce. It may be served with many kinds of pudding. Imperial Sauce.—Required: a pound of French plums (Carlsbad, Imperial), a gill of water, a gill and a half of claret, a glass of port, a little spice if liked, and a grate or two of lemon or orange rind. Cost of plums, about Is. 2d. Simmer the fruit, water, and claret (sec Prune Sauce) ; when done, rub it through a sieve; blanch and shred the kernels, add them with the sugar and lemon-rind, or a teaspoonful of juice, and the spice—cloves, nutmeg, cinna- mon, or allspice; bring to the boil, then stir in the port, and serve hot or cold. (See Imperial Pudding.) For a better sauce, use three gills of claret; . instead of sugar some red- currant jelly may be added, a very rich and delicious sauce being the result. For a plainer sauce, use water only, or reduce the wines as desired. Jam Sauce (Plain).—Required: four tablospoonfuls of raspberry or currant jam (gooseberry, strawberry, or blackberry, may be used in the same way), the same measure of water, the juice of half a lemon, half a dozen lumps of sugar, a few drops of carmine, and a teaspoonful of corn-flour. Cost, about 4d. Mix the jam, water, and sugar, and stir until the mixture boils; mix the arrowroot and lemon-juice, add to the rest, stir, and boil a minute longer, then strain through a fine strainer, and add the colouring. This is a useful pudding sauce. For a better sauce, put in a tablespoonful of wine. Another way.—To a pint of plain Melted Butter add a teacupful, or thereabouts, of any kind of jam; if stonoless, it may bo sieved or strained or not, according to taste, but with stones it must be strained; if a red jam is used, a few drops of colouring will improve it, and a teaspoonful or less of lemon-juice brings out the flavour. Another way.—Use a sauco mado of corn-flour and water, one ounce to half a pint, with one ounce of butter stirred in; then add half a cup of jam. This is suitable for plain puddings for children’s dinners. Jelly Sauce, American.— Required : half a pound of red-currant jelly, the rind and juice of a largo lemon, a grate or two of nutmeg, a glass of wine, sherry or Madeira, and two ounces of butter. Cost, about Is. 2d. Cream the butter as if for cakes, add the jelly, with the grated rind and strained juice of the lemon, little by little, beat very thoroughly, and leave on ice until wanted. Serve with pud- dings : if with cold ones, place it rockily round them; with hot ones, servo in a separate dish. If required as an accompaniment to cereal creams, &c., this sauce makes a very pretty garnish, and should be used in the same way as whipped cream. Jelly Sauce, Economical.— A very simple sauco may bo made from any of the tablet jellies. Dissolve the tablet just as if for a moulded jelly, but reduce the quantity of water : i.e., from a pint tablet make half to three-fourths of a pint only. A small quantity of corn-flour may bo added to give body; it should be boiled up separately in a little water before adding it; a spoonful of jam, samo flavour as the jelly, is a further im- provement, and orange marmalade may be used with orange or lemon jelly. Serve with plain puddings, boiled rice, corn-flour, &c. Lemon Sauce, Plain.—Re- quired : one lemon, a gill and a half of water, two ounces of sugar, and a little corn-flour. This is very simply made. Put the sugar and water in a saucepan, add the strained lemon-juice, and boil for ten to fifteen minutes, then add the rind of the fruit, grated, and a teaspoonful of corn-flour mixed with cold water; boil a few minutes, and serve hot or cold.