GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 101 Mix the arrowroot with the fish stock (cold), add tho cream and sauce, and stir to the boil; off the fire, put in the lobster butter and seasoning, with a lew drops of lemon-juice. Do not boil again, but let it stand a minute. There should be enough butter to give a rich colour and flavour. This is a very rich and delicious sauce; it may be served with whiting, brill, or turbot. (See recipes; also Scalloped Fish a la Cardinal.) Sauce a la Drusille.—Make a strong stock from the bones of any white fish, in the proportion of a pound to a pint of water; after straining, boil it down to a gill, and mix it with a gill of cream; bring to the boil, then thicken with half an ounce of arrow- root, and stir in an ounce of butter. Put in a saucepan a gill of white wine, with some parsley stalks, a sprig of thyme and chervil, and a few fresh leaves of tarragon ; boil until reduced to half the quantity, strain, and add to the sauce, with seasoning to taste— salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Sauce a l'Imperatrice.—Re- quired; a pint of creamy Bechamel, a gill of white wine, a gill of strong fish stock (made by boiling down a pint of No. 13 to a gill), two eggs, a small tin of preserved mushrooms, one ounce of arrowroot. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Put the mushroom liquor on to boil; when reduced to a gill or less, add the wine, and boil for a few minutes; add the arrowroot, and the mushrooms cut the size of a pea, then stir in the bechamel, and bring to the boil again. Boil the eggs hard, sieve the yolks, add them to the sauce off the fire, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and if re- quired, a pinch of salt. The whites of the eggs are not used. Another way.—Add the yolk of a raw egg, in addition to the other in- gredients. This is a very excellent sauce for white fish of all sorts. (.See recipes.) Sauce ala Juliette Mixapint of Sauce Svprkmp, or VkloutE, with a teaspoonful each of lemon-juice, tarragon vinegar, and the liver of a boiled fowl rubbed through a sieve; add a teaspoonful of chervil, blanched and chopped, and half tbo measure of shredded tarragon; re-heat, but do not boil again. Serve with boiled chicken,veal, sweet- breads, &c. Except for chicken, no liver is required. Cost, about Is. 3d. Sauce d, la Matelote. - Re- quired : half a pint of Brown Sauce. or brown stock thickened with roux, a tablespoonful of chopped onions, a bunch of herbs, some mushrooms, chopped, about the same quantity as the onions, a few cloves and allspico berries, salt, black peppercorns, half a glass of any red wine, a little lemon- juice and anchovy essence, a gill of fish stock from bones, or the liquor from boiled fish, salt to taste. Make some butter hot, an ounce or more, fry in it the herbs, onions, and mushrooms; add tho fish stock and brown sauce, with the spices; boil up for a few minutes, then sieve it; return to the saucepan, with tho wine, lemon- juice, and anchovy essence, bring to the boil again, season, and lay in the fish. This is the foundation for rich fish stews. There are many ways of making it; the foregoing is suitable for eels and various other fish. Some- times button mushrooms and onions are separately fried, and added; and wine is used in much greater propor- tion : claret or port, equal in measure to the stock, or equal measures of red wine, brown sauce, and good fish stock being the proportions frequently used. If mushrooms are not at hand, good ketchup must be used, or tinned mush- rooms will do ; mushroom powder will also serve, but tho flavour of mush- rooms is almost indispensable to a good matelote sauce. Sauce de Madere.— Mix ono gill of Madeira with three gills of Brown Sauce ; add a few drops of cayenne vinegar, a pinch of salt and sugar, and a tablespoonful or two of clear brown stock or gravy; boil up