UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 234 vinegar. Cook slowly, add salt to taste, put the meat in the oven to crisp the lardoons, and pass the gravy, &c., through a sieve ; add a few drops of Parisian browning essence, and a bit of glaze; boil up, and pour round the meat. Send a plain watercress salad to table with it, or, if preferred, a lettuce or endive salad. (See Salads.) A morsel of onion or shalot will improve the dish. Beef Fricandeau.—Required : three pounds from the rump, or the fillet from the sirloin, vegetables, wine, &c., as below. Cost, about 4 s. 6d. Lard the meat on the upper side; rub together a pinch each of ground cloves, mace, and black popper; sprinkle over the meat, then lay it in a stewpan on a bed of vegetables—chopped celery and shalots, with a littlo carrot and turnip; add a good bunch of herbs, a glass of white wine, and a gill of stock, such as No. 6 or 7. Cover, and cook until the liquid is absorbed ; then put in a pint of stock, and simmer in a slow oven for two hours. Strain and skim the gravy ; add salt to taste, crisp (ho meat in a hot oven, and serve with a Puree or Sorrel, Spinach, or other vegetable round it. Another way.—Fry the meat and vegetables in the stow’pan, with an ounce of butter or minced bacon ; when nicely browned, put in the wane and stock, and proceed as above. The moat will then only require crisping with a salamander before dishing. Beef Olives, Piquant.—Re- quired : a dozen slices of beef, thin, cut into shape (see Beef Olives, Plain), a pint of Sauce Piquant (either of the recipes maybe followed), a dozen little slices of bacon, the same number of French plums or good prunes, a gill of claret, seasoning, and glaze; garnish as below'. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Thin, streaky bacon is needed for this ; trim off the rind, and cut the pieces three inches long. Brown tho beef olives in a little hot fat, then lay them in the sauce and simmer them until tender (about an hour and a half) ; meanwhile, rinse the plums, stew them in the claret, and when done stone them. Then add the claret to the first pan with the meat. Put a plum on each hit of bacon, roll up, and fasten with thread or a little skew'er; then fry them brown or cook them before the fire ; the bacon should ho cut very thinly, and looks nicer if dredged with raspings. When done, put the olives and bacon alternately on a hot dish, first glazing them. Thicken tho sauce by reducing it, and pour it in the centre. Outside the olives, put some small glazed croutons, leaf shape or oval (the latter are better); they should overlap to form a border : or, instead of tbeso, some Rice Croquettes in cork shapes, fried and glazed, can he used. The bacon is preferably cut from a piece that has been boiled; it then takes a very short time to cook. Beef, Rolled (a German recipe). —Take some flat ribs of beef, bone and skin it, and hat it out flat. Required: (supposing four pounds of meat) a large onion, a clove of garlic, ground spices (a teaspoonful or less), salt and pepper to taste, and six ounces of fat bacon in small dice. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Mix these ingredients, spread them over, and roll the meat up tightly; bind it up with tape, and brown it in hot fat (bacon fat answers very well). Then drain it, and put in some stock (about a pint), with a gill of light wine and half a gill of vinegar; boil for two to three hours. Thicken the gravy and add salt to taste; then pour it round the beef. This is very good when cold, but a still better dish is to he had from meat cooked as above, then pressed and glazed. Brisket (or thin flank) can be used in place of ribs, or any part which will roll W'clI. Beef, Rolled, with Ancho- vies.—Required : beef as in the above recipe, forcemeat and sauce as below, bread, bacon, &c. Cost, about 3s. Mix a tablespoonful of anchovy