270 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. turnips, and cook for another hour; add salt to taste, and moro stock, thiokonod with wliitc roux, and sea- Boned. Servo altogether on a hot dish. Veal a la Ransforde.— Cook tho meat as above, but instead of putting carrots and turnips in, proceed as follows :—Divide somo turnips,scoop out the halves cup-shaped, cook them carefully, and till them with shredded carrot, separately cooked, and minced truffle, heated in wine or stock. Before tilling, tho turnips should be coated with white sauce. For this dish, tho meat may bo from any part of the calf. Veal, Breast of, Stuffed and Stewed.— Roquirou : a breast of veal, a sweetbread, some forcemeat, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Tako some rich veal forcemeat ; add tho sweetbread, finely minced; raiso the skin, and put tho mix- ture under, in a thin layer only; sow tho edges, and put tho meat in a stewpan. Pour in half a pint of veal stock (see No. 9), and any odds and ends of poultry that are available ; add a gill of white wine, cover with a paper buttered on the upper sido; put tho lid on, and cook for an hour and a half. Then add somo button mush- rooms and young carrots (failing these, some old ones must be cut to imitate young ones, but then longer time is needed); cook until the carrots are done, take tho meat up, and lay it on a hot dish; pour some thick Bechamel or Supreme Sauce over, and sprinkle it with chopped truffle, parsley,and grated ham or tongue, in a pattern, Reduco the gravy, season and thicken a little ; pour it "round, and garnish with tho vegetables. A breast of lamb is equally good thus prepared; peas can bo used instead of carrots. Veal, Fillet of, in Jelly.— Required: a fillet of veal, aspic, and other garnish, ns undermentioned. Cost of meat, about Is. per pound. Stuff a fillet of veal, and roast it well, but keep it a pale brown only. The shapo should bo compact; to ensure this, bind it with broad tape, and tie greased muslin over to protect tho stuffing. After cooking, leave in a cool plaeo until quite cold, then tako off tho tape, and coat the meat with liquid aspic; sprinkle so as to form a pattern, with chopped parsley and sieved egg yolk when tho jelly is firm, then pour more jolly over to set tho garnish. Trim the meat round tho bottom from any jolly, put it on a clean dish, and garnish with tho following, placing them in the order named :—Small raw tomatoes, fancy shaped blocks of aspic, slicod an inch thick, beetroot (cut with a small round, crimped cutter), and little heaps of dressed green salad. Cut some eggs, boiled hard, into quarters, and put them (yolk side up) on small, oval slices of ham or tonguo; place these about tho dish to form an outer border, with a little chopped aspic between tho slices, and servo for any cold collation, as ball supper, or for a tennis or other al fresco party. Venison, Hashed, Plain.—See various recipes given for mutton; or make somo plain gravy (see Gravy for Hashes), and season and colour it rather moro highly than for mutton. Heat tho meat without boiling, and serve in the usual way. Venison, Hashed, Rich. — Required : meat sauce, wine, and gar- nish, as below. Cost, variable, about 2s. 6d. Make brown sauce No. 2 ; add a glass of wine to a gill of strong mutton stock; pour this over two pounds of cold venison in neat slices; cover, and leave for an hour with a seasoning of nutmeg, cloves, and cayenno. Then put all into the sauce, just enough to cover, and when hot through serve. Garnish tho dish with croutom. and place one on tho top with a plated skewer. Some cray-tish or prawns can also bo used for garnish. si not her uni/.—Use any nice gravy or sauce given for game; or make a thickened gravy from stock No. 16