FISH. 167 Mackerel, with Onions. — Required : two mackerel, twelve small onions, a large Spanish onion ; other ingredients as undermentioned. Peel, and fry the small onions; peel, mince, and boil the large onion in a little weak stock ; then drain it well; sprinkle with cayenne, chopped parsley, and salt, and stir in an ounce of butter. Wash and dry the fish, cut off heads and tails, take out the backbones, and lay them flat in a stewpan ; pour over wine and water to j ust cover; put in the little onions, with seasoning to taste, and simmer for twenty or twenty- five minutes. Have a hot dish; spread on it the chopped onion, lay the fish on, in contrary directions, then add to the liquor in the stewpan a hit of glaze, the size of a nut, and a teaspoon- ful of browned flour mixed with mushroom catsup; boil up quickly, jKmr over the fish, and use the small onions as garnish. This is piquant and very appetising. Mackerel so cooked will be generally enjoyed. When wine is objected to, use French vinegar and lemon juice, or any nice flavoured vinegar. Mackerel, Pickled.—Boil as usual; take the backbones out, and split the fish down the middle ; then, for four fish, take half a pint of vinegar, the juice of a lemon, a half gill of caper vinegar, a small onion, a bunch oi parsley, half a teaspoonful of allspice berries and black peppercorns, a few cloves, and a bay leaf; add to these three-quarters of a pint of the fish liquor, boil altogether for twenty minutes: pour over the fish laid in a deep dish, cover, and leave for twelve hours. Serve on a flat dish, with some of the liquor as required, and garnish with sprigs of fennel or parsley. Leave all the spices, &c., in the liquor, but do not put any on the dish. Mackerel Hoes.—S'ccSavouhies. Mackerel, Smoked.—See Sa- vouries. Mackerel, Stewed d. la Monica.—Make a pint of sauce (see Yacht Sauce a la Monica) ; clean and fillet a couple of fish, saute them lightly, and drain them well; then lay them in a pan, and pour the hot sauco over them; keep them at simmering point for ten minutes, then dish high in the centre of a hot dish. Garnish with fried croutons, of any desired shape; brush them with warm glaze, and sprinkle with chopped lax (see Savour- ies) . Mackerel a la Noiiah is equally good. Substitute the sauce of that name for the above. Use croutons for garnish, with here and there a prawn or shrimp. Mackerel, with Tomatoes.— Cook the mackerel as above; grill or fry some small tomatoes, and make some Tomato PuhIce ; serve in the same way as the above, and season similarly, omitting the onions only. Marinade for Broiled Fish. —Mix together a gill of oil, a chopped onion, a hunch of herbs, the juice of a lemon or some white vinegar; or half cider or white wine can he used-; a little salt and cayenne, or a few drops of cayenne vinegar. In place of herbs, some herbal vinegar can ho used. This is a French preparation; the fish are often scored, an inch apart in a slant- ing direction, nearly to the hone, before putting them in the marinade; they are then wrapped in paper, soaked in the same mixture, before cooking. Many kinds of dry skinned fish are greatly improved by the treatment; river fish of suitable size may be thus cooked with advantage. Mullet, Grey.—This is different from red mullet, and not so good. It is of variablo size and quality; largo fish may ho boiled like Con, Haddock, &c. ; smaller ones may he cooked liko Red Mullet. Court Bouillon au Blanc should ho used in boiling a really largo fish. Price is uncertain, lower generally than red mullet. Mullet, Red.—1 ’his is different from, and superior to, tho groy mullet; it is a much prized fish, and often reaches a high figure, though some-