4i6 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flavour, the beef or mutton should be put in the sauce for an hour or so. For a better dish, use all game, with ham as above ; or add some liver puree if handy. Dishes of this class must be Well and suitably seasoned. Goose.—Choose a young goose, especially if for roasting. If the breast be plump, the skin white, and the feet pliable and yellow, the bird will prove satisfactory. As age creeps on, the feet turn fed, so does the bill. Many consider that a goose at Michaelmas is past its best; others say that it is doubtful if any geese are so good as those fattened on the stubbles in September. To test the bird, squeeze the windpipe close to the body; if it yields easily to the pressure, the goose will be tender; if it resists, the bird will be hard. The excellence of a goose, like that of other domestic animals, depends greatly upon the manner of feeding. One writer states that in one district where geese were formerly fed on oats, their reputation as table birds is quite destroyed, in consequence of the substitution of Indian corn and other food for the oats. Cost of geese, about os. to 1 Os. each. A few days’ hanging will im- prove a goose. See Index for recipes for goose cook- ing other than the following. Goose a l’Arlesienne. — Re- quired : a goose and a forcemeat as below, stock and seasoning. Cost of goose, from 5s. or 6s. upwards. Mix together for the stuffing four ounces of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, and squeezed dry; four ounces of onions, boiled in milk, and chopped small; two ounces of fresh butter, some salt and pepper, a little chopped parsley and grated nutmeg, and. four ounces of cooked chestnuts, sieved. When stuffed, put the goose in a stew- pan with a few sliced vegetables to flavour, and some herbs and spices. Pour over some stock made from the giblets, and cook for two hours, or more, if the goose be large. When done, dish and keep the goose hot ; boil the stock down after straining and skimming, and add to it some tomato puree or sauce, or some catsup, to make the mixture as thick as melted butter; let this be nicely seasoned and poured round the goose, which should be slightly browned. The goose will be better if trussed for boiling, as it can be more conveniently turned in the stewpan. A tender goose should be selected for this dish. For a goose which is past the prime, see Goose, Stewed. Goose, Boiled.—Pick and singe a goose, and truss it securely. It may be stuffed, if liked, as for roasting. Put it on in hot water or stock, bring to the boil, and skim well, then cook very gently until done. Serve good onion sauce with it. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours, more or less, according to age and size. The giblets may be cooked in the liquor for soup; see recipe Giblet Soup. Cost, from 5s. or 6s. upwards. Goose, Bonne-Bouche for.— Mix a half teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a glass of port, and a spoon- ful of brown sauce; heat, but do not quite boil it, and pour it through a slit made in the apron just before serving. Suitable for a roasted or braised goose. Port alone, poured in cold, is liked by many people. Goose, Braised. (See recipes given for Duck, Bbaised.)—A goose, i\ la jardiniere is also a very good dish. When ready to serve, put in a good quantity of mixed vegetables, ready cooked, cut into nice shapes; heat all together, and serve. Beans of various sorts, peas, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, &c., may all be used, and apples may be mixed amongst them in small proportion. Goose, German B,ecipes for Cooking. — Among many ways of preparing geese for roasting may be instanced, as most likely to be accept- able, the following:—Apples, cut into little squares, and seasoned with spice,