586 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. beating hard; season, and stir in the stiffly-whipped .whites ; then put by to cool a little, but not to get quite cold. Have a deep pan of hot fat ready; then drop in the mixture from a fork, to form rooky or feathery shapes; they should be as large as a chestnut. The instant they are pale brown and crisp take them up, or they will become too dark; a slice must be used, and the aigrettes well drained on soft paper. Dish them in a pile on a hot serviette, and sprinkle them with grated cheese. This is a very good dish, but care is needed in the cook- ing ; the fat must bo hot as well as “ clean.” Cheese B alIs.—Required : cheese, bread, butter, seasoning, eggs, and flour. Cost, about 4d. or 5d. Cheese that has become too dry for table answers for these. Grate two ounces, put it in a mortar with an ounce of butter, a small tablespoonful of bread-crumbs, half the measuro of cream, a pinch of dry mustard, salt, and cayenne or white pepper, then pound all to a paste. Then add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and pound again. Test the mixture, and add, if it requires it, a little raw egg to moisten, but this depends upon the condition of the cheese; if very dry, the egg will be wanted, but if soft it can be shaped as it is. Flour the hands and a board, and make the balls the size of a common marble; then set theiff by to become firm. They are intended for soups, and can either be egged and crumbed, and fried in the usual way, or simmered in boiling stock for a few minutes. If the first mode is preferred, and the soup clear, be careful to drain them free from fat before dropping them in. They answer too for garnishing many dishes of cheese; or by increasing the pro- portions, and making the balls as large again, they can go to table as a savoury, in the way diroclei for Cheese Aigrettes. Cheese Bomhes, with Spinach.—Required : a custard as below, cheese, bread, hard-boiled eggs, seasoning, and spinach. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d., inclusive. Prepare a custard by beating the yolks of four eggs with the whites ol two, a gill of milk, half as much cream, a dust of cayenne, and two ounces of grated cheese, half English and hall Parmesan. Then add a large table- spoonful of bread-crumbs, soaked in half a gill of rich white sauce; poui all into a saucepan, and stir until it thickens; then take from the fire, and when a little cool fill some buttered bombe moulds, garnished with chopped ham at the bottoms. Steam them for about a quarter of an hour, and turn them out on a bed of spinach; this is to be put on a dish in the form of a border. Just before serving, fill the middle with four hard-boiled eggs sliced, and coated with thick white sauce, flavoured with cheese. Serve very hot. The mixture above will make seven or eight bombes. Cheese Cream.—This is a very delicious savoury. Required : bread, cream, eggs, cheese, crumbs, sauce, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. to Is. lOd. Prepare the cases as in Dresden Patties. The filling should be in readiness, and is made as follows: slice some Gruyfere and rich English cheese into a stowpan, equal parts of each; allow an ounce of cheese for each case; and supposing eight ounces of cheese and half a gill of cream, add the same measure of bechamel, rich creamy ; season with cayenne—it will probably be salt enough—and stir until the cheese is melted; it is then ready for use. After filling the cases, replace the portions that were cut from the tops; they should be Med with the rest. Dish on a serviette 01 lace paper. A dash of French mustard can be put in the seasoning, if liked. Cheese Custard, Moulded. —Required : milk, cream, eggs, gela- tine, and seasoning, with adjuncts as below. Cost of custard only, about Is. to Is. 3d.