DRESSED VEGETABLES. 687 Sauce ; or rich Melted Butter, fla- voured with lemon juice and grated cheese, is very good; any good whito sauce may he finished off in the same way. (See Mushrooms a la Soyer, on this page.) Mushrooms sur le Plat.— Required : mushrooms, seasoning, some croutons, and any pastry trimmings. Cost, for a dish of four to six ounces, about 4d. when plentiful. This is one of the best of the mush- room dishes, and the trouble is not great. Put small flap mushrooms on a plate that will stand the fire, and lay a morsel of butter in each; add salt and pepper, a squeeze of lemon, and a drop of water, and then press a strip of paste round the rim of the plate; the mushrooms must be in a single layer only. Press a second plate over, pressing it well into the paste; this is to keep in the flavour. Then bake in a good oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Take the top plate off and remove the rim of paste; put in the place of it some croutons, of any desired shape and size, sufficient to cover the rim of the plate. Any trimmings of pastry answer for this; if none are handy, a morsel of flour and water paste should be made for the purpose. The strip is to come well over the edge of the lower plate, and should be thick, so that when the upper one is pressed in, it may not cut through it. Mushrooms a la Soyer. — Required: mushrooms, toast, cream, and seasoning. Cost, about 4d. to 6d. on an average. Toast a square slice of bread to a delicate brown, lay it on a dish, and put on it four freshly-gathered mush- rooms. The toast should be spread with Devonshire cream, and the mush- rooms should be filled with it; or, if this is not at hand, ordinary cream or butter may be used in place of it. A little salt and white pepper are to bo dredged over the mushrooms. Next put a common tumbler over each mush- room, leaving a little &pacc between, and sot the dish beforo the fire, turning it about continually, that the glasses may not break. In about twenty minutes the mushrooms should be done; the glasses will be filled with vapour, and a minute should elapso after removal from the fire before they are taken off the bread. This dish is attributed to M. Soyer, who is said to have invented it while visiting Devonshire. Onions, Fried, Superior.— Required: onions, crumbs, flour, eggs, stock, &c. Cost, from 6d. per pound, inclusive. These are nice as a separate dish, or with meats of a savoury kind; small onions are best for the purpose. Peel and parboil in water, then drain and dry, and cook in a little brown stock until done; again dry, and leave for some time to get cold; then dip them in flour, then in beaten egg, and next into fine biscuit-crumbs. A few seconds in hot fat will crisp and brown them. In many cases the stock they were boiled in comes in for gravy to serve with them, or it can go into the stock- pot or be used for soups, &c. Onions fried thus eat well with sausages, kidneys, &c. Onions, Glazed. — The onions may be fried in the usual way (see p. 636), or they can be stewed in a very little brown gravy after parboiling. They should be taken up at the last, and kept hot while the gravy is boiled fast with a little glaze; it should look like thin treacle, and stick to them when poured over; or ordinary glaze, as used for meats, can be brushed over them. Remember a pinch of sugar in frying the onions. A little soy is often added to the glaze for onions. Onion Puree, Rich.—(SeeOsmx Sauce, page 98 ; follow the recipe for the “richer” sauce, but use loss liquid, as tho puree should be thick; about a third loss milk will bo right. See also Sauoe Sourish.) This makes a very good puree by reducing tho cream, stock, and bechamel, or increasing tho onions in proportion, Tho recipes