UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, 70 of stock (No. 1 or 2), one apple, one onion, half an ounce of curry-powder, a teaspoonful of curry-paste, the juice of half a lemon, or a teaspoonful of preserved tamarinds, a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, and hay-leaf), salt, pepper, a slice of bacon (lean) or ham, thickening. Cost, about Is. 3d. Cut up the bacon, melt it in the saucepan, add the herbs, sliced onion, and apple. The latter should not be sweet, a sour one is best. Put in the curry-powder and paste, add a little tomato liquor from the tin, then the rest gradually. Cover and cook for half an hour or more, then pass through a sieve; put back into tho pan, with more seasoning if required (a little salt should be put in at first), tho lemon-juice, and half an ounce of rice-flour mixed with cold stock. Boil up and skim, and serve with a plate of boiled rico sprinkled with a few saffron shreds. For a rich soup of this sort use stock No. 7, and add a teaspoonful of extract of meat or half an ounce of glaze, using all curry or mulli- gatawny paste in place of the curry- powder. Tomato Puree.—Required : one pound of tomatoes, fully ripe, and of good colour—see that they are not bruised or over-ripe—one carrot, a bunch of herbs, seasoning, a quart of stock (No. 4), an ounce and a half each of butter and corn-flour, a few drops of white vinegar or lemon-juice. Cost, about Is. Break tho tomatoes into an enamelled stew-pan with the butter, vinegar, herbs, a little salt, a jinch of castor sugar, and half a dozen peppercorns. Wash and scrape tho carrot, and grate the outer red part; put it with the rest, cover, and cook for half an hour; then add the stock, boil for half an hour more, and pass through a hair sieve. Mix tho corn-flour with cold stock to a paste, add it to the soup, and re-boil. If not a good colour, put in a few drops of carmine or cochineal colouring. Tomato Soup, Australian.— This is very cheap and quickly made. Required: a quart tin of tomatoes, tho same measure of boiling water, a two- pound tin of Australian mutton, a pound of potatoes, salt, pepper, and a little browning. Cost, about Is. 9d. Take all the fat from the meat, and put it aside (it is not wanted for the soup). Put the tomatoes and boiling water in a saucepan, take out the skins of the tomatoes, and add the potatoes, sliced thinly; season, and boil gently for an hour, or until the potatoes are a pulp; then cut up the meat, put it in the soup, with all the jelly from the tin, and let it stand for a few minutes to become heated, but do not boil again. This is a substantial dinner for children. It may be made thinner if required, and for a better soup uso stock No. 1 or 2. Veal Soup (German).—Tako the meat liquor from neck or breast of veal that has been boiled for table.- Boil it until reduced to half, add salt, and skim it well, add some sago or rice, previously cooked, and a quarter of an hour before serving, asparagus, cauliflower, or scorzonera, cooked, should be added. In the tureen beat up the yolks of two eggs with a gill of hot milk for each quart of soup ; add the hot soup slowly, beating well, then serve at once. This is very delicate and nourishing. For a more savoury soup, put in chopped parsley and some minced chives with a little pounded mace, with the other vegetables. Mace must, however, always be very cautiously used; essence of mace is useful. Vegetable Soup with Herbs. —Required: two ounces of butter, a gill of cream, some sorrel, a lettuce, salt and pepper, tarragon and chervil, an ounce and a half of fine sago and a pint and a half of the water from haricot beans (preferably the green flageolets). Cost, about 8d. Wash the sorrel, hike out coarse fibres, and tear it into shreds, enough