COLD ENTREES. 283 in between; or put a cherry or cur- rant salad round, with little quenelles of white meat on the edge of tho dish. These should be masked with chopped truffle. Timbale of Hare, Iced.— Required: a puree of hare, aspic, salad, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. Line a timbale mould with aspic, flavoured with a spoonful of dissolved currant or tomato jolly; pink aspic should be used, and the colour should be deep. Fill up with a puree of hare, and set on ice for a few hours. Turn out, and garnish with blocks of yellow aspic, and little heaps of currant jelly which have been on ice. In between these put some dressed salad and stuffed eggs in slices; coat the latter with a puree made by mixing sieved foie gras with brown sauce, No. 2, and liquid aspic, equal measures of each, well whisked over ice before using. Make the hare puree in the same way, using cooked hare in place of foie gras; but after the puree is put into the mould, pour a layer of aspic, half an inch thick, over it, so that when turned out the puree will be completely covered with the jelly. Garnish the top of the mould with the ingredients used for the base, mixing them so that tho colours contrast well. Tomatoes Stuffed, in Aspic. —Cut some plum-shaped tomatoes in two, lengthwise, scoop out tho pulp, and rub it through a hair sieve. Mix all that goes through with an equal bulk of sieved foie gras. In the toma- toes put a spot of mayonnaise, fill each half with the above mixture, place them together again, and put them singly into little oval paper eases, as shown in Fig. 69, with a bed of small salad at the bottom. Chop some aspic, put it all round the fruit to fill up the cases, and coat the top of each tomato with coloured mayonnaise, or a little pile of Iceo Sauce X la Raiioe (plainly frozen, not moulded) is better still. Cost, variable. These may bo served at dinner, or for ball suppers, or any outdoor gather- ings. They must be thoroughly cold. Instead of the purfie given above, some mince of chicken or game may be used, Fic.. G9._Paper Case. and the savoury pates sold in tins come in for such dishes. Many potted meats can be similarly utilised. Veal Chandfroid a la Lil- ling"ton.—Required: half a pound of cold veal, from a braised fillet, ham, vegetables, aspic, garnish, and sauce as below. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 3s. 6d. Cut the meat into thin slices, and then into ovals; all skin must be re- moved. Cut some ham into the same shape, but smaller. Mask tho veal with white chaudfroid, lay the ham on, and mask that with the same sauce coloured pink; sprinkle the white sauce with chopped truffles and capers, and the pink with truffles and cooked turnips in tiny strips, or with hard- boiled white of egg. Toss a tin of “ macedoine do legumes ” in mayon- naiso until well coated; pile them in the centre of a dish, and put a border of chopped aspic round. Dish tho meat on the border, and put little quenelles of veal or chicken round tho base; those should be pink and white. In between them place some rich forcemeat balls, made small, and mask them with brown chaudfroid. This is done very easily by holding them on a palette knife and pouring tho sauco over, then laying them on a wire sievo