50 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. is so characteristic of a true French Julienne as prepared in the foregoing way. Stock No. 8 is suitable for this soup. For Julienne Maigre a great favourite with some people—water or a vegetable stock may be used. Julienne Soup (from dried vege- tables).-—The dried shredded vege- tables, sold in packets, are useful for this when fresh ones are not forth- coming, or are too old for use. They are quite hard, and require soaking before boiling, and although not con- vertible into Julienne proper by the preliminary sweating process, an im- provement is effected by parboiling them in water, and then draining them, then cooking them in a little butter, and adding them (with the water in which they were boiled) to the stock to finish them. For plain soups they may simply be boiled in the stock, after soaking. If possible, some shredded lettuce or other “green meat” should bo added (purslain is a herb commonly used abroad). A drop of tarragon vinegar and a pinch of sugar will develop the flavour of the vegetables. Kidney Soup.—Required : an ox kidney, a quart of stock (No. 4), a leek or small onion, a few slices of carrot and celery stalks, a bunch of herbs, salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of sherry, a dessertspoonful of brown roux, a little fat or butter. Cost, about Is. 3d. Wash tho kidney, take out the core, then slice the kidney ; rinse quickly in vinegar and water, dry well, and put in a stew-pan, with tho hot fat and tho vegetables; brown all over, then put in the cold stock; take off the fat from the top, bring to the boil slowly, add salt, and skim well; then boil, covered, for an hour and a half. Strain the soup through a sieve, pressing the kidney ; but it must not go through. Return the liquid to the saucepan, add the roux, boil, and skim well; then put in the sherry, and season to taste. Kidney Soup (Clear).—Make it in the same way as the preceding, but use stock No. 8, and clarify the soup with eggs, or strain it 'through a tammy after tho kidney is removed. This must be made the day before it is wanted, that the fat may be removed. Or if this is not convenient, cook the kidney and vegetables without the preliminary frying. Kinross Soup.— Required: a gallon of water, eight ounces of peat 1 barley, a handful of watercress, a couple of bunches of young radishes, a bunch of young onions, salt and pepper, two ounces of butter, half a pint of canned tomatoes. Cost, about 9d. Wash and scald the barley ; soak it in the cold water for several hours, then put it on to hoil with half the butter. Cook slowly for two hours, then put in another pan the tomatoes, rest of the butter, and tho radishes and onions, washed and cut thinly; cook, with frequent stirring, to a pulp, rub it through a sieve, and add to the barley. Pick the cress from the stalks; add the leaves to the soup, with seasoning to taste : boil for a minute or two more, then serve. The above is the recipe of a lecturer on vegetarian cookery, and a first-rate soup is the result. The radishes are somewhat of an innovation; the flavour is very agreeable, and cooked radishes will agree when they cannot be taken in the raw state. They can be used in all sorts of vegetable soups, if liked. Lentil Soup.—Required: a gallon of cold water, one pound of split Egyptian lentils, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a small teaspoonful of peppercorns and a few allspice berries, mixed, a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, one ounce of dripping, one pint of milk, a head of celery, two carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, half a pound of onions, and two or three ounces of broken rice or other cereal. Cost, about Is. Wash the lentils well until the water comes away clean; put them to soak all night in the water, then bring them to the boil with the sugar and