UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 240 little stars or diamonds of bread fried in butter may be dotted about the dish. The truffles, prawns, &c., may he fastened on with silver skewers. It is generally found better to boil and bone this dish the day before it is wanted. Cost, very variable, depend- ing on the garnish. Another way.—The remains of a cold calf’s head inay be cut into small squares, heated in a little good gravy, and ornamented in the same way as the last dish. Make the sauce rather thick, put the meat in the middle of the dish, and garnish as prettily as possible with forcemeat balls, tlie yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and the whites cut into rings, gherkins, olives, and stewed mushrooms. Calf’s Head and Tongue, Curried.—Required : calf’s head, cream, sauce, and sundries, as below. Cost, about 3s. Gd. to 4s. if half a head. Parboil the head, or part of one will make a good sized dish; it will ho richer i f not skinned ; when it has boiled for an hour and a half take it up, and press till cold. Use some of the liquor to malco the Curry Sauce ; allow a pint of sauce and a gill of cream to two pounds of moat. Boil the sauce, cut the head into neat squares, also the tongue, after taking off the skin ; add them, and allow an hour or an hour and a half, then finish off just as directed in the recipe for Veal, Curried. Calf’s Head and Tongue, Curried, Bry. — Required : the whole of a tongue, and the best part of a head; by which wo mean the thick, fleshy portion, stock, curry paste, cocoanut, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 4 s. to 5s. when veal is plentiful. Boil the tongue unfil nearly done, then skin and slice it, let it get cool, and fry it brown in a little hot butter; in the same fat, fry a large onion, and an apple cut in thin slices; stir in a gill of brown stock, mixed with a table- spoonful of curry paste, and a dessert- spoonful of grated cocoanut; boil until all can be sieved. Then put back in [ the pan with the juice of half a lemon and salt to taste; put in the tongue and the pieces of head (the latter should be boiled until nearly done) ; stir the whole well together; the sauce should only just mask the meat, then leave covered until quite tender. Dissolve a bit of glaze the size of a nut, and half a teaspoonful of extract of meat in a little stock; add to the rest, stir well for a minute or two, then serve as previously directed. Calf’s Head, Collared. (This is to bo served cold.)—Required: calf’s head, stuffing, ham, and tongue, stock, seasoning, and garnish, as below. Cost, 4s. Gd. or more, without garnish. Bono the half of a large head; wash and blanch it, then dry it, and lay it on the table flat; some of the thick flesh should be cut off, and mixed in with the stuffing- to make it level. First, put over a layer of good veal forcemeat, slicis of ham and tongue (the latter should be cooked), then hard-boiled eggs, sliced and seasoned with herbs, salt, pepper, lemon rind, and nutmeg; roll this tightly, bind with tape, then tie in a cloth ; put it in a pan with stock to cover (this should be boiling) and cook for three hours. Then put to press under weights, remove the cloth and tape when cold, and garnish as for Veal in Jelly. The brains can be used separately and the bones will make stock. Calf’s Head, Collared. (This is to bo served hot.)—Required: calf’s head, sauce, and sundries as below. Cost, variable, according to adjuncts. The forcemeat for this may be ordi- nary veal, or good mushroom or other kind is equally suitable. The brains should be mixed with it, and the tonguo parboiled, used with ham as above. It should bo finished off as in the above recipe, and served with any nice sauce; Tomato, Parsley, Eoo, Mushroom, Chervil, &e., are suitable. If a large dish is wanted, uso the whole of tho head, but make two rolls. If pre- ferred, tho tongue can be boiled