35 STOCKS AND SOUPS. and boil to half a pint; strain and bottle when cold. More of this is required than of tho others for the same proportion of liquid. No. 4.—This is tho most homely of all. It is favoured by vegetarians for browning soups. Toast a pieto of crust of bread very carefully until well dried and dark, but unburnt ; put it in the cold water or vegetable stock which is to be used for the soup; when sufficiently coloured take out the bread. It must not be put into boil- iwj liquid, or it would break up. Iiiaisons.—This is a French term, given to various thickening media—a liaison is really a support to tho liquid; by its aid separation is prevented, and the ingredients are all amalgamated. The most commonly used materials are roux, arrowroot, ground rice, barley, Sec. The same term is often applied to butter for enriching sauces, but this is a misnomer, as that does not thicken of itself. Eggs and cream furnish tho liaison for rich soups, together with (in some cases) the French prepara- tions of tapioca, sago, &c. The yolks of the eggs only are used; they should be beaten well, and blended with a little of the soup, somewhat cool, and added to the rest, always below boiling point. It must then be thoroughly heated, and this requires attention ; if not hot enough, it will not “ bind,” and if too hot—should it happen to boil—it 'will curdle. Always strain the eggs after beating, that tho “ speck ” may be removed. In using the dry materials, either kind, mix it first with a little cold liquid, then with some of the hot soup, and stir the whole well, while adding it to the contents of the soup pot: to guard against lumps, it is well to strain after mixing it, beforo putting it in tho soup. White Roux.- This is made in the same way as tho brown, but it is removed from tho fire before it has acquired colour; it wants cooking, without browning—that is, just before it begins to turn colour it should be taken from tho fire. Between this and raw flour there is as distinct a differ- ence as between unbaked dough and a crisply baked loaf, or raw and baked pie-crust. This is used for many kinds of white soups and sauces, and the quantity required varies from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful to each pint of liquid; to tho thick soups or purees the minimum quantity only is required ; but it is well always to add it gradually, and a small quantity only at first. MEAT, GAME, AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. Almond Soup.—Required: one quart of stock (No. 9), one pint of milk, two eggs boiled hard, one ounce of almonds, two ounces of bread-crumbs, two ounces of cooked white meat or poultry, seasoning. Cost, about Od. Mince the meat, pound it in a mortar with the bread and the yolks of the eggs, moistening from time to time with a little hot stock; then add the almonds, sweet ones, finely ground; pour over the rest of tho stock, and put into a clean saucepan. In another saucepan put tho milk, with a blade of mace and half a dozen white peppercorns, bring it to the boil, then stir in tho rice-flour blended with cold milk into a smooth paste; take out tho spices and boil for ten or twelve minutes, stirring all tho time. When the stock boils, mix tho contents of tho two pans together, adding salt to taste, but this should bo delicately flavoured. For richer soup, beat in a gill of cream last moment, and increase tho quantity of meat. For a still more delicato almond flavour, soak some shredded almonds in a littlo milk until flavoured, then strain the milk to tho rest of tho liquid.