955 MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. crumbed; if the latter, a little nice forcemeat (any suitable kind free from suet) should be put in the hollow of < each half kidney. Dish them alter- : nately round a very hot dish, and serve a nice gravy round them. Fill up the middle with cooked Italian 1 paste (see recipes under the various headings), mixed with a little parsley, scalded and chopped, and a seasoning of pepper and mushroom powder. Another way.—Sprinkle the meat •with curry powder before cooking, and serve with curry sauce or gravy, and boiled rice in the centre. Mutton, Fillets, with. Kid- mey.—Required: nine thin shoes of mutton kidney, skinned and cored, twice the number of thin slices of : mutton, any lean tender part the size of the kidney, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Put a piece of kidney between two : pieces of meat, and lard them light through with thin strips of bacon in five or six places. Then trim the .lardoons almost level with the meat. ! Broil or grill for about twelve minutes; or cook in a buttered .tin in the oven under a buttered paper, turning when half done. Glaze and crisp the surface, then dish with a pile of French beans, or a Puree of iFi.AGEoi.ETs in the centre, and pour ■round a sauce, made by mixing a gill ■and a half of brown sauce with half a ■gill of tomato pulp, a tablespoonful of wherry, and a few drops of carmine. Mutton, Kebobbed.—This is a favourite Oriental recipe, and with our English mutton, a dish superior to ■any found at Turkish or Egyptian tables ought to be easily obtained. A loin of mutton should be first jointed at every bone; all superfluous fat removed, particularly that of the kidney, and the skin taken away. ITho next thing is the seasoning. For '.this, a well-proportioned mixture ac- cording to taste must be made from the ’following ingredients Borne bread- crumbs, sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, ■ and salt; brush the mutton chops over with yolk of egg, and sprinkle the above mixture thickly over them; then tie the chops together in their original order, run a large skewer, or slender spit through them, and roast before a quick fire, basting them well with butter and the drippings from the meat, and putting more of the seasoning on them from time to time. Have ready a boat of gravy, to which has been added two tablespoonfuls of ketchup and a thickening of flour; let this boil; skim, and mix it with the gravy in the dish. Remember that all dishes ‘ of mutton should be served as hot as possible. Time, about twenty minutes per pound; rather less in warm weather. A nice vegetable should be served with this; stewed onions, with any dish of rice or macaroni is suitable. Cost, Is. per pound. The best end of the neck may be substituted for loin. Lamb or venison can be prepared in the same way, but for venison a higher seasoning is required; cloves, allspice, or. coriander seeds, finely ground, may be added to the rest, and powdered ginger is liked by some. Mutton, Leg of, with Rice.— Required: a small leg of mutton, Mushroom Forcemeat, rice, stock, and vegetables, &c., as under. Cost, about Is. 2d. per pound inclusive. The meat must be lean, and a nice shape at the fillet end; the bone should be removed, with the exception of the knuckle end. Then put in the forcemeat, and braise the meat with mixed vegetables, and a little stock made from mutton bones, adding more as it reduces. One or two mush- rooms, or some ketchup, should bo put in to flavour the meat. Dish and keep hot, glaze it if liked, then spread some rice, plainly boiled, on a hot dish ; mix some brown sauco with a glass of sherry, boil for a fow minutes, pour this over the rice, and dish the meat on it. I ho gravy from the stewpan should be boiled quickly, then mixed with more brown sauco to make a pint