392 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. lemon juice and oil. Turn them fre- quently. Drain them, and dip each piece in good frying batter, and plunge into hot fat, enough to produce a golden brown, crisp coating, almost instantly. Garnish with fried parsley, and dish on a napkin. Cost, about 4s. Chicken, with Mushroom Fur6e.—Required : a chicken, sauce as below, a puree of mushrooms, croft- tons and bacon. Cost, about 5s. Boil the trimmings of a chicken with a morsel of ham, a few slices of vegetables, and a sprig of thyme and parsley, in a quart of water until reduced to a gill. Strain, and mix with it a gill of cream, boiling. Have ready a good-sized chicken, boiled ; pour the sauce over— it may be thickened with arrowroot or roux, just as preferred. A good deal of this will run on to the dish. Then pour over the chicken some thick, creamy, mushroom puree. (See recipe in chapter on Dkessed Vegetables.) Prepare some little crofttons; coat them with the mushroom puree, and put on each a little pile of cooked bacon, cut small, and mixed with the liver of the bird, cooked and sieved. Put a bit of parsley on each, and use them for garnishing—some on the breast, the rest on the dish. A fowl is excellent thus served ; it can be stuffed with forcemeat, mushroom or herb, if liked. Time to boil the chicken, from fort)' minutes ; less if small. Chicken in Rice.—Required: a chicken, some milk, and white sauce, a teacupful of rice, garnish and season- ing as below. Cost, about 4s. Wash and blanch the rice, then cook it in milk to cover, with a little salt, some white peppercorns, and a blade of mace. When the milk is absorbed, put a gill of sauce, economical be- chamel. Add to it some cooked, lean ham in dice, or passed through a min- cer, a couple of hard-boiled eggs in dice, and a tablespoonful of choppod parsley. Boil a chicken, cut it up while hot, and mask it with bechamel, or good white sauce. Pile it up, and form a wall of rice round it. Put the best joints at the top. This is econo- mical and excellent. It may be much elaborated by garnishing the top with more eggs, and fancy-shaped pieces of ham, warmed between two plates over boiling water, or with truffles. The rice will require an hour and a half to two hours. The chicken will take from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Both must be ready at the same time. Chicken and Rice (Spanish). —Required: a chicken, a gill of olive oil, a couple of onions, half a pound of rice, a pint of stock, salt and red popper, tomatoes, and a bead of garlic. Cost, about 3s. 9d. Make the oil hot, cut up the best parts of the bird and cook it in the oil to a pale brown, make stock with inferior portions. The onions, with the tomatoes, a couple or three, are to be fried a little in another pan. Then the whole, with the washed rice, are to be boiled until tender; the liquor should be absorbed by the rice, which must be perfectly soft. This needs care; the best way to avoid burning is to set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, after all the materials are mixed; or to use a double sauce- pan. Any nice plain stock, may be used, but white stock, as No. 9, is the best. Chicken, Roasted.—A young chicken wants very careful handling; the flesh is tender and soon tears; indeed, the entire appearance may be readily spoilt unless this be remem- bered in the plucking and trussing. No stuffing is needed, though somo prefer it; then a delicately-flavoured forcemeat should be used. A lump of butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and some powdered herbs if liked, should be put in when not stuffed. Truss just like a fowl, and cover the breast with greased paper. Baste well, and let the tint acquired be a very delicate, even brown. Froth it nicely in the usual way, but take especial care that the breast is not dried. Time, very variable; a small bird may be