1(54 Universal cookery Book. at the bottom, lay the cutlets in (with- out coating with jelly) leaving a space between the cutlet and the case ; fill the space up with chopped aspic, and mix in a few shrimps; or colour a little mayonnaise green, and put it from a forcing bag, in a pattern round the edges of the cutlets, or here and there on the chopped jelly. These can be served for any cold collation, and are useful for such purposes, as they can be prepared some time beforehand. They should be set on ice until ready to serve. Lobster Darioles.—Line some plain dariole moulds, flat-bottomed onos, such as are shown in the next recipe, with pale aspic jelly. Put a star, cut from hard-boiled white of egg, at the bottom of each, and sprinklo the sides with chopped truflle; or it may be cut into fancy shapes. Mince some lobster meat, and to four good tablospoonfuls add two boned ancho- vies, sieved, two and a half tablespoon- fuls of liquid aspic, tho same of thick mayonnaise and thick cream, and a teaspoonful of chopped fennel, parsley, and tarragon mixed; very little of the latter. Mix well, and season to taste with cayenne, lemon juice, and salt, if required. Fill the moulds, and set on ice until they are .thoroughly cold; then turn out each into a little paper case. Put some green mayonnaise into a forcing bag with a leaf pipe, and ornament tho tops of the moulds; a little bunch of lobster coral should be piled in tho centre. The dish they are served on should be garnished with chopped aspic, chervil sprigs, and small claws of the lobster; or other small shell-fish may be used. Lobster Darioles, a la Clar- ence.—Take somo moulds as illus- trated below ; make a ragout, by mix- ing together some cooked asparagus points, ripe tomatoes in dice, chopped prawns, and cookod sole in littlo squares; then add just enough thick white mayonnaiso to make a creamy mixture. Lino the bottoms of tho moulds thinly with pale pink aspic, then put in a layer of the ragout, half an inch thick; when set, cover with more aspic, and let it become very firm. Next cut up some lobster, both the white meat and claws, into even Fio. SS.—Plain Dariole Mould. sized pieces, and season them with cayenne and lemon j uice; pack them loosely in tho moulds, then fill up with pale yellow aspic. When cold, turn out, and dish each on a cooked artichoke bottom, first spread over evenly with green mayonnaise. Arrange them nicely on a dish, and garnish with green salad, blocks of aspic, and mayon- naise, and prawns. Both this and the foregoing may bo served as entries for dinner, or at any cold collation. They are very pretty dishes. Lobster in Aspic.—Required: a lobster, aspic, salad, mayonnaise, &c., as below. Pour some aspic to form a thin layer on a flat tin, with a turned-up odge ; cut tho back of the lobster in slices, lay them on, and garnish them nicely, using the coral and any small green salad, capers, &c., forming a pattern according to taste; pour more aspic over to set the garnish, then pour another thin layer all over, and when cold, cut out with a fancy round cutter; take up the slices carefully with a palette knife, and set aside. Chop up the jelly left on the dish, with moro to make half a pint. Cut up the rest of the lobster (excepting the large claws), mix it with salad {see Salads), and dress it with oil, salt, mignonette pepper and vinegar; pile in the centre of a dish, pour some thick mayonnaise over, and ornament the