UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. G66 and cooling. A salad from young nuts is popular in France. The nut in the ripe condition is said to be in perfection when the skin parts easily from the kernel. Cost of wal- nuts in the green state, about a shilling per hundred when plentiful, but may reach double that amount. Ripe nuts are from three or four pence per pound on an average. (See Index for recipes for Pickled Walnuts, &c.) Watercress.—This herb is pos- sessed of valuable medicinal properties, and by most persons may be eaten freely. It is, perhaps, most largely eaten with salt, as an accompaniment to bread and cheese, or butter; it makes, with other materials, excellent salad; is most useful as a garnish ;. and can be cooked and served like spinach. Watercress is said to be the most popular and wholesome of all the salad plants; its dietetic value is great, owing to the mineral matter, aromatic oil, and other minor ingredients. In preparing cress for table, great care is necessary to free it from adhering animal matter; plenty of water, with a little salt is needed; and after the last rinsing, the sprigs should be well shaken, and drained in a cloth before dishing; never serve sodden or drip- ping. Sometimes, nothing but the coarse stalks need bo removed; at others, fibrous matter clings about the stalks, then the leaves must be picked off neatly in little bunches. Cost, about Id. or 6d. per pound. Watercress, Boiled.—Boil as spinach, sorrel, &c.; or add a little to any other green puree. It is also very good in soups; it may be thrown in in leaves, or chopped and added like chervil, tarragon, &c. It takes but a short time to cook, and is almost always acceptable to the palate. Watercress enters into many dishes in this work; viz., Sandwiches, Salads, Savouries, &c. Yam. — Yams are now to be had of dealers in Indian produce in Lon- don ; they cost about three shillings per cask of fourteen pounds. The same firms sell sweet potatoes at the same price. Yams, American.—This dish is much liked; slice and cut the yams into rounds; wash and dry them; put them in a well-buttered saucepan, with a little salt and nutmeg; just moisten with water, and stew them, closely covered, until done. They should bo turned sometimes. Some white sauce should be served with them; it may be sweetened, or seasoned with salt only. Yams, Baked.—A writer says that “ although excellent when boiled, yams are best baked in their skins, in the embers of a wood fire if possible. They want nothing more than salt and a morsel of butter; besides being the best way, it is also the least trouble; but for variety, they may be prepared in any of the ways in which potatoes are familiar. Potato eaters are sure to like yams.”