FISII. 175 eating. It is good when tho body is thick and firm, the eyes bright, and tho white side tinged with pink. Tho dark side is spotted, and if the spots Fig. -H.—Plaice. are of a bright orange hue, tho fish will be satisfactory. Tho price of plaice varies a good deal according to the scarcity of other fish, as soles, &c., for when there is a short supply, up goes the price of plaice. It is, how- ever, generally cheap, from 3d. to 4d. pier pound, and sometimes lower, though it may reach Gd. When filleted and fried, plaice is perhaps served in its best form: it can be baked, boiled, stewed, &c., and may also be cooked in most of the ways given for sole, and other more costly fish. Plaice, Baked.—Wash the fish, trim it neatly, by taking the eyes out (or, better still, remove the head and stew it for stock), the gills off, and cutting the fins evenly round. When dried, lay it in a cloth for a short time, then melt some clarified fat in a baking tin; flour the fish well on both sides, baste it thoroughly, and cook in a moderate oven. It should he laid on a trivet, like a piece of meat, if a large fish. When the thickest part is white all through, serve, first sprinkling over some raspings warmed in the oven. Make gravy in the tin, or serve Brown Sauce with it. This is the cheapest and plainest way of baking plaice, but very good. For other, better methods, sec Had- dock, Sole, and Tckbot. Plaice, Boiled.—In preparing the fish, wash it in salt and water with a little vinegar. Cut a slit, if large, on the dark side, and put it on to boil in water prepared in tho usual way, white side up. Boil carefully, or rather keep it under boiling point; it cooks in a short time, and soon breaks if not watched. When done, dish, and garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve a plain sauce with it. We would recommend steaming in preference to boiling, where suitable utensils are at hand; and -where the method is not practicable for a whole fish, it could often be followed if the fish were cut into slices. Plaice, Broiled or Grilled, is excellent. It should be well dried after washing; this is important, and should be done an hour or two beforehand. The usual modes may be followed (sec Sole) ; but it will be firmer and fuller of flavour if un- skinned. Only a small fish should be thus cooked. Plaice, Pried.—This, if small, can be cooked whole, or cut into slices an inch or two wide; or large fish can be filleted like a sole, but is better not skinned. The black skin is not easy to remove; it is of a very gelatinous nature, and sticks tightly. If, how- ever, it is preferred removed, it may be done more easily after filleting, each piece being held on a board with tho left hand, while a knife is passed between tho black skin (next the board) and tho flesh. The flesh must then bo smoothed with a knife. Batter may bo used, if not skinned, but egg- ing and crumbing is necessary if skinned; or, owing to the watery nature of tho fish, it is sometimes not so crisp as it might be. When batter is used (and this is more economical for a family) the fish must be well floured first, and the batter made thick. Plaice, with Mushrooms.— I Required: two pounds of plaice, a pint of fish stock, half a pound of mush- rooms, seasoning, thickening, aud butter. Wash tho fish, trim it, dry it, and cut into slices an inch wide. Make tho