347 LAMB. ' tufts of boiled cauliflowor or carrots, or other vegetables to taste, and send caper sauco to table with it, a little poured over the joint, and the rest in a tureen. Time, from eighteen to twenty minutes per pound. Cost, lid. or Is. per pound. Leg, Roasted or Baked.— Follow the directions given under Mutton. If the joint is baked, a hot water tin or a substitute must be used, that it may retain its delicacy of flavour, and very frequent basting and slow cooking are important. Remem- ber these in estimating the time required. Leg, Stewed.—Required: meat, stock, and vegetables. The first thing to decide is whether a brown or white stew is desired. If the first, brown the meat all over in hot fat, then drain it, and cover with stock. made from mutton bones, and coloured a pale brown. The shank of the lamb should be added in making' it. Put in vegetables of the usual kind, with .a few peppercorns, but do not over- season it. Half an hour before it is -done, boil some peas separately; they should be young; prepare some turnips, by boiling, and cutting them in halves, and cut some carrots into dice; scoop out the centre from the halves of turnip. (See Vegetahles.) Take up the meat, thicken the gravy (the vegetables will not be wanted), and pour a little over the meat. Put the turnip cups round, filled with the peas, and the carrot in heaps between. Serve the rest of the gravy ■in a hot tureen. For a white stew, do not fry the meat or brown the -gravy ; and before serving, make .some white caper sauce, by taking some of the stock for the purpose. Pour some oyer the meat, and put vegetables as above about the dish ; or white vegetables only, with Iittlo heaps of peas, will do. Or plain white sauce can be poured over the meat, and the same sprinkled with chopped parsley', over the vegetables. Cost, about lid. per pound. Neck, Stewed.—Required: meat, stock, and vegetables. Joint a neck of lamb, and put it in a stowpan with a carrot, turnip, and an onion, sliced; add stock, made from a mutton bone, to just cover it; or the liquor from boiled mutton will do ; put in a table- spoonful of chopped capers, and an ounce of rice ; cover, and cook an hour and a half or thereabouts, very gently —nice young vegetables should be used, and the onion should be scalded. Put the meat and vegetables on a dish, boil the gravy' quickly', add a little brown roux .and seasoning; boil up well, and pour it over the meat. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Another way.—Prepare the meat as above, _and add the stock; cut the vegetables in squares {see Hakicot Mutton), and add them after the meat has cooked for a time; or, in- stead of mixed vegetables, a pint of freshly-shelled green peas jnny.be put in, half an hour before serving, with a tablespoonful of mint sauce last thing, or some chopped mint can be added with the peas. The scrag end of a neck of lamb, or mutton,1 must be weU washed, or constant skimming during the cooking will be needed. For other methods of cooking this joint, see Mutton. Saddle.—A saddle of lamb is an elegant and excellent joint for a small party'. Cover it with buttered paper, and lay' it down to a clear fire. Baste it well, and when nearly' cooked enough, removo the paper, dredge a little flour over it, and baste it again until it is nicely' browned. Mint Sauce should be sent to table with it, and green poas, spinach, cauliflowers, or potatoes are very' suitable as accom- paniments. The meat is improved by' a thin coat of gla?e. Allow about twonty to twenty-five minutes per pound. Cost, about 1 s. per pound. Shoulder, Stuffed and Stewed.—Take a shoulder of lamb, remove the blade-bone without injuring the outer skin, but leavo in the shank.