187 FISH. egg and bread-crumbs. Use a frying- basket if handy; if not, cook them in hot fat to a golden brown, and remove them with a fish slice; drain them carefully, dish and garnish with fried parsley, with slices of lemon in between; or uso fancy-shaped slices of cucumber. Send sauce to table, hot Ccccmber, Anchovy, or Shrimp ; or any of the cold sauces ; Tahtare is suitable, and usually liked. When these or other small fish are served for breakfast, send no sauce to table: only cut lemon and cayenne; assuming that Harvey, or some other good bottled sauce finds a “ standing ” place on the table, together with a chutney, or ketchup. Smelts, Grilled or Broiled. —Flour them after drying, brush over with oil or oiled butter, and cook quickly. No sauce is needed; only cut lemon and cayenne. Sole.—This is a general favourite, its only drawback being its price. It is never really cheap, and is often very expensive; and although it furnishes scores of dainty dishes of the class known as “ dressed fish,” it is also Fro. 50.—Sole. a typical invalid's fish, ranking next to the whiting in the ease with which it can be digested. Soles may be bought alive sometimes, in fishing centres; if killed and cooked at once, they urc I then in perfection, though in cold weather they may be kept for a couple of days. Soles vary greatly in size, from tiny slips to fish of three to four pounds each; when largo, they may be served whole in the same way as turbot. It is customary to take off the skin on one or both sides; if filleted, they are skinned both sides ; but doubtless the sole is robbed of flavour, though improved in appear- ance by the process. When fresh, the fish is firm, and the under side of a creamy whiteness. The small soles are sweet in flavour, but medium-sized ones are best for filleting, and for many dishes when served whole. Cost, very uncertain; from Is. to 2s. per pound is the average. Lemon Soles are a cheaper kind of soles, but very good eating. One skin is darker than the other, but not black like a sole proper. To bo in perfection they must be fresh, and although they may bo prepared in any of the ways given for sole, they aro very nice cooked plainly, with both the skins left on. They vary in price, may sometimes bo had for 4d. or Gd. per pound, or they may cost Is. When large, they are ex- cellent if cooked and served like a turbot. If not skinned, the white side should be rubbed with salt, and rinsed after scraping well, and rubbed with lemon juice or vinegar to whiten it. Sole an Gratin.—Required : from three to four ounces of mush- rooms, a tablospoonful of parsley, and two ounces of shalot. Peel the mushrooms and tlio shalot, and wash the parsley, then mineo tho ingredi- ents separately. Put half an ounce of