518 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. half a pound of lean ham, half a pound of onions, two fresh limes, a pint of Brown Sauce, a tablespoonful of Nabob Pickles, and seasoning as below, boiled rice, and two ounces of sultana raisins. Cost, about 2s. 9d. Put on a plate a teaspoonful of lemon juice, the same of sherry, the pickles and raisins; the latter should bo picked, and chopped a little; add the rind of half a lemon, grated, and a little white pepper; mix well, and cover until required. Peel the onions, cut them in rings, fry them a little, then put them in the sauce, with the seasoning- from the plate, and cook until tender. Cut the ham in strips, and fry in the fat from the onions; then put it in the sauce with the cold meat, and leave covered for half an hour; it must barely simmer. Boil the rice as for curry, but use stock instead of water; wipe the limes, but do not peel them ; cut them in slices, and then in strips. Put the meat and sauce on a dish, with the rice round it, and sprinkle it with the strips of lime, and a dust of coralline pepper. Ham of good quality must be used for this; it must not be hard or salt, or the dish will be quite spoiled. It is very good if care be taken. Note.—If “Nabob Pickles” are not at hand, any similar sort may be used. Hash, Norman. — Required : cold meat, onions, stock, and seasoning, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Peel a dozen and a half of button onions, fry them a rich brown in hot butter, add an ounce of flour, brown well, and then stir in half a pint of stock from the bones of the joint; the ' meat may be beef or mutton ; when it boils up put in a gill of gravy, skim well, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and Lemon Pickle, with a few drops of mushroom ketchup. Have ready about a pound and a quarter of meat, in nice even slices; this is a superior dish, and a little trouble is necessary; all skin and gristle must be removed: lay it in the sauce, and cover up for half an hour that it may become impregnated with the flavours. Then re-heat, and serve with a garnish of Pickled Mushrooms, or sliced lemons, and send vegetables to table in a separate dish. For a cheaper hash, the gravy can be left out; a dash of French vinegar taking its place, and more stock being used to make up the deficiency ; but for the first-named recipe, if no gravy is at hand, a little extract of meat or glaze should be used for the purpose. Hash, Nursery.—Required : a pound of cooked mutton or lamb, half a pound each of onions, potatoes and celery, a pint of Rice Sauce, and some seasoning. Cost, about Is. -Id. to Is. 6d. Parboil the onions and potatoes: cut them up, slice them into a stewpan with the celery, add a little salt and pepper, and some weak stock (liquor from boiled meat, &c.), and cook until the celery is soft, and the potatoes broken up. In a separate saucepan heat the cut up meat in the rice sauce; then mix the contents of the two pans. This is a very good and nourishing meal for children. It is more sub- stantial if some small dumplings are served with it. Note.—The same kind of hash for “ children of older growth,” is excellent with a small proportion of chopped capers, and some of their vinegar stirred in ; or caper sauce from boiled meat can be used, the rice sauce being reduced in proportion. Hash, Save-all. — Required : meat, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. For this, which is very good and economical, take half a dozen cooked potatoes; slice them a sixth of an inch or so in thickness, add a good- sized Spanish onion, boiled or baked, and sliced similarly. A slice or two of broiled or fried bacon should be cut in small pieces. Then take from twelve ounces to a pound of roast veal; it often happens that the centre of a large fillet is somewhat underdone :