BEEP. ?09 fried ci'isp and brown in enough hot fat to cover, is a very good dish. Fried onions are a common adjunct, hut other vegetables may bo usod. A piquant gravy or sauce may bo served, together with sweet pickles or chutney. This is less digestible than boiled tripe. Tripe in its own liquor.— This is a simple and favourite mode of serving. Tire tripe i3 re-heated in tile liquor, just as it comes from the shop ; onions are boiled in the liquor, or apart, or baked, or fried, and served with it; potatoes are also a common accompani- ment. The liquor is often made piquant by vinegar, mustard, and herbs of some sort, such as sage or parsley. Some per- sons prefer to dispense altogether with the original tripe liquor, and re-heat it in fresh stock, mixed with a small quan- tity of milk ; a bay leaf and an onion, with a sprig of thyme and parsley, improve tire flavour. Tripe in Savoury Batter.— This is very nice. (See Toad in the Hole.) Use about a pound of cooked tripe in fingers, to a quart of hatter, made savoury with salt, pepper, and herbs. (See Puddings.) When baked, put a layer of fried onions on the top, and serve hot in squares. Cost, about Is. 6d. _ Tripe with. Tomatoes and Spinach.—Required : two pounds of tripe, a tin of tomatoes, a Spanish onion, and someplainlydresscdspinach. Cost, about 2s. 4d. The tripe should he boiled until done, and cut in pieces ready for ser- ving. l’ut the contents of the tin of tomatoes through a colander into a suticejian; add salt and pepper after the pulp has boiled up; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and put in tiic onion, first chopped vory small, and scalded : boil for ten minutes. Then thicken with an ounco of Hour and butter, lay in the tripe, and in a quarter of an hour dish it, with tho spinach in little heaps round tho dish. For a superior dish, lay a poached egg on each hod of spinach, and put little rolls of fried bacon in between. Tx’ipe with Vegetables.— Required : tripe, vegetables, apples, seasoning, &c. Cost, about Is. (id., for a pound of tripe, &c. An American breakfast dish. Tho tripe must ho boiled the day before it is wanted, and pressed between two dishes. When required, cut it in strips or squares, season with salt and popper, and then dip in beaten egg, in which a little French mustard has been mixed. Coat with cracker crumbs, and fry in hot fat until brown. Have the vege- tables ready, round a hot dish. They should consist of sliced, grilled toma- toes, see Grilled Tomatoes, Ameri- can ; and carrots and turnips, par- boiled and fried; see recipes. These may he in slices or any fancy shapes. Here and there, amongst the vege- tables, put a little heap of apple puree, prepared as follows:—Bake two large apples in their skins—supposing a pound of tripe—scoop out the pulp, and mix in a little white sugar, a pinch of allspice, and ground ginger, and a dust of cayenne. Or, instead of the above way, spread the slices of tomato with this mixture. Serve very hot, and send chutney to table with it. We need scarcely say that this dish is as palatable at any othor meal as at breakfast; and would add that fried onions, in place of tho carrots and turnips, furnish a pleasant variety, which will commend itself to thosu who indulge in our well known dish of tripe with onion sauce.