UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 342 nicely cooked. Time, about a quarter of an hour per pound, and a quarter of an hour over. If thick, and the weather cold, give twenty minutes per pound. Browned potatoes—i.e. par- boiled and finished off in the oven— are frequently served with this joint; so are Spanish onions (boiled, baked, or stewed), together with onion sauce. Grilled or baked tomatoes, or a tureen of tomato sauce, may be also recom- mended. Celery or mushroom sauce (brown), or one of a piquant kind, furnishes yet another change. With regard to joints generally, we are strongly of opinion that many who complain of the joint itself, do so because the changes are not sufficiently rung upon the ways of serving it. It is quite common to meet with people who have never served boiled mutton with any other sauce than caper, or roast mutton with anything but onion sauce. Both aro excellent, but apt to become monotonous. Spiced Mutton.—Required : a pound and a half of lean meat (from the leg if at hand), four ounces each of onions and celery, seasoning as below, and some hot chutney. Cost, about Is. 9d. Cut the meat into pieces about the size of a walnut, sprinkle them with a mixture of curry powder, ground all- spice and coriander, powdered ginger and cloves; a good teaspoonful in all; less of cloves than any other. Then dredge each piece with pepper. Melt some dripping, fry the meat a delicate brown with the onions in dice, then pour the fat off, add half a pint of brown stock (as No. 2 or 4), put in the shredded celery, boil up and skim. Cook until the meat is very tender, add a heaping tablespoonful of sultana raisins half an hour before serving, and salt and chutney to taste, also an ounce of rice flour blended with stock. When finished, the whole should be thick, the sauce just coating the meat. Serve with any approved vegetable. This is very appetising, affords a nice change from the usual methods of serving mutton, and is as good cold as hot. If cinnamon is not objected to, a pinch am be put with the rest of the spices. Lamb can bo cooked as above, but the quantity of seasoning should bo decreased. Steak of Mutton.—For this, wo will suppose that a leg of mutton has been bought, the fillet roasted, and the knuckle end is intended for boiling or stowing. Cut off from the thick end of the knuckle a slice of twelve ounces or so in weight, and grill or broil it nicely. Put it on a hot dish with a pat of butter, for which various recipes aro given (see Index), and surround it with vegetables of any kind; amongst’ the most suitable are potatoes (fried), mushrooms, tomatoes, carrots and turnips, braised, grilled, stewed, &c.; or a puree of greon vegetables of any sort. So obtained, this need not be a costly dish; but if bought of the butcher for the purpose, it is expen- sive. If cut thick enough, this is likewise excellent when stewed, or braised. [See Made Dishes.) Steaks with Oysters. —Re- quired : two steaks, equal in size and thickness, some oyster forcemeat (see Fohcemeats), and gravy as below. Cost of oysters uncertain, about Is. 4d. per score. Lay the steaks flat, season one side of each with pepper (cayenne), a pinch of ground mace, and grated lemon peel; then spread with the forcemeat, half an inch thick ; lay the two steaks together, brush over each of the outor sides with warm butter, and sprinkle with the same seasoning that was used for the interior. Put them before the fire, and give each side a minute, then draw them back, and cook gently for about thirty to forty minutes, unless thin, then less time does. Make a little gravy, and season it with some of the oyster liquor, with salt and pepper to taste.