94 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. in the seasoning and cheese, and heat well. Beat up the egg with a table- spoonful of warm stock very tho- roughly ; add the hot sauce gradually, and continue the beating for a minute or two; serve at once, without re- heating. For a rich sauce, add another ounce of butter and a half gill of cream. This is very delicious with plainly boiled macaroni or rice, or with various white vegetables. For a vegetarian recipe, use all milk. Chestnut Sauce.—Required: twenty-four chestnuts, a small tea- spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, one ounce of butter, a gill each of milk, cream, and good white stock, either from meat or poultry, and a grate of nutmeg and lemon-peol. Roast the chestnuts, remove the outer and inner skins, put them in a mortar with the butter and seasoning, pound, and add the liquids by degrees; put into a clean pan, bring to the boil, and serve. Or, add the stock and milk to the paste, pass through a sieve, stir to the boil, and add the boiling cream last thing. This is the better way. For a cheaper sauce, use milk and a plain white stock in equal parts, and put in a spoonful of cream last minute. Chestnut Sauce, Brown.— Proceed as above directed, using stock No. 4, or either of the clear brown stocks (omitting the milk and cream); boil up, and put in a tablespoonful or two of brown sauce, and season rather highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Chutney Sauce.—There are various ways of making this, but the most generally acceptable is a sauce for which both sweet chutney and hot chutney arc used ; take equal parts of each kind, and add to four tablespoon- fuls, when mixed, an equal measure of brown sauce, a teaspoonful of French mustard, and a tablospoonful of fresh tomato pulp or conserve; put in a little brown stock, e. tablespoonful or so, boil altogether, and put in a pinch of salt if required. Good with grills, broils, &c., of all sorts; and a first-rate basis for a rechauffe. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Required : a pint of white stock, from veal or poultry (see No. 9), a gill each of milk and cream, a heaping tablespoonful of freshly-grated cocoa-nut, a pinch each of salt, white pepper, and grated lemon-rind, and three or four drops of lemon-juice; roux to thicken. Boil together the stock, nut, and seasoning, for twenty minutes; it is well to soak the nut in the stock for an hour; add the milk and cream boiled, and enough roux to make it as thick as good cream; when boiled and skimmed, tammy, and re-heat for use. Serve with white meats or poultry. Desiccated nut can be used, if plain unsweetened; it should soak in the stock for an hour or two, and be boiled for half an hour or more. Colouring for Sauces. (See p. 83.) Crab Sauce.—Cut up the claws into dice, add to half a pint of Melteii Butter, season, and flavour with anchovy essence. If the body of the crab is not required for other purposes, that can be added ; it should be mixed with the melted butter and sieved, and finished off as directed. Some- times mustard is added to this. Crayfish Sauce.— Required: a dozen crayfish, one egg, seasoning, &c., as under mentioned. Put the shells of the fish, after bruising them well, also the small claws and tails, in a pan with cold water, and boil down to half a pint; strain, and thicken with roux, and add a gill of cream, or milk for a plain sauce ; beat the egg, add the sauce by degrees, then put in the flesh of the fish cut up very small; add a pinch of salt, cayenne, white pepper, and grated lemon-peel; stir well, and re-heat, but do not boil again. Cream Sauce, American.— Blend an ounce of arrowroot with cold