Made dishes and releves. 24 J separately, and dished with brain sauce round. Calf’s Head, Stuffed,—Re- quired : a calf s head, forcemeat, hum, stock, sherry, cream, glaze, vegetables, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, very variable. Bone a calf s head, take out the brains and tongue (keep these apart), then fill the head with Rich Veai. Forcemeat, mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence and a chopped truffle; put in four ounces of lean ham, in strips an inch long and half an inch wide. Place the head in its original shape, sow it together, and tie in a buttered cloth. Then put it in veal stock, with the bones, and the tongue, boil steadily, removing any scum; add sdfne vege- tables and herbs when the liquid boils. In about three hours the head will be done: meanwhile, the tongue should have been taken up, skinned, and laid in stock and sherry just to cover; and the brains boiled, and mixed with some of the stock from the head, and a little cream and seasoning. Before dishing the head tuk: a pint of the stock, put with it some glaze and wine, boil up, and season. Glaze the head, lay it in the centre of a dish; cut the tongue in four, after heating it, spread each portion with the brain sauce, just brought to the boil, and sprinkle with chopped trnllle and lobster coral; lay one piece at each end and side of the dish, anl fill up the vacant spaces with Forcemeat Balls. Fasten some truffle in slices or fancy shapes, on th : top of the head with plated skewers; glazed mushrooms will also answer the purpose; and send the gravy to table in a boat. Note.—The hones should he put into the stock while cold, and the head Laid in just before it boils. If time permits, give the hones a few hours’ bailing first; or after dishing the head, cook them for some hours mare, an.l make soup of the stock. This dish is very good when cold. It will also make a delicious hash, fritters, &c; or can he mixed with sweetbreads for vol-au-vents and other dishes. Calf s Heart a la Bordelaise. —Required: a calf's heart, a pint of Bordelaise Sauce, bacon, croutons, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s., ex- clusive of sauce. After preparing the heart in the usual way, cook it in stock until done ; then divido it into neat slices. Dissolvo a morsel of glaze in a spoonful of claret, brush the slices over, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley; dish them quickly on a very hot dish (heart soon becomes cold) ; pour the sauce over, and garnish with croutons, oval shaped, with a little roll of glazed bacon laid on each. Put a pure 3 of vegetables in the centre of the dish. Heart in liiaunvAN Sauce is equally good. Use sauce of that name instead of the foregoing. t Calf’s Heart with Caper Sauce.—-Cook the heart as above di- rected ; pour some Brown Caper Sauce over, and put a puree of any wliito vegetable in the centre; pour some thick Wkite Sauce over and sprinkle with chopped capers, and fennel or parsley. Calf’s Heart with Capsicum Sauce.—Pour Capsicum Sauce over the heart; put a pile of olive shape! potatoes, fried, in the centre; brush the surface of them with warm butter, and put chopped parsley and capsicum over, or use a few whole chillies. Calf’s Liver, Larded and Baked.—Required : a calf’s liver, bacon for larding, herbs, Ac., as below. Cost, about Is. a pound, inclusive. Lard the liver on tho upper side, then lay it on a soup plato or dish, and pour over a tablespoonful of French vinegar, half a gill of olivo oil, and a tablespoonful of claret; add a ten- spoonful each of chopped parsley, onion, and celery; a good pinch of cayenne and ground nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of white pepper. Baste