171 F1SII. but rather thicker, and seasoning to taste. Take the crust from the toast, which should bo buttered liberally; pour the sauce over, and serve hot. It is a good breakfast dish. Fried bread may be used instead of toast, and be cut into any desired shape. Oysters, a la Creole.—Put a layer of oysters in a shallow dish; sprinkle them with cracker crumbs, a few bits of butter, a dust of salt, pepper, and cayenne, a squeeze of lemon juice, then more crumbs; and so on alter- nately, fish and crumbs, the latter forming the top layer, over which more butter should be put, and it is prefer- ably melted; if put on in cold dabs, some of the crumbs are apt to get dry. Put the dish in a sharp oven until the surface is nicely browned. The liquor of the oysters may be used in the dish : or it can be boiled down until well reduced, and added to a good white sauce, as bechamel; or the liquor itself can be simply seasoned, and thickened with roux. Oysters, Fried. — These are sometimes used as a separate dish, or for garnishing fried fish. Thoy are nice coated with beaten egg and bread crumbs, or with frying batter. Thoy should be chosen as even in size as convenient, and dried well before coating; then, after frying, welldrained on a hot cloth. Crispness is essential, and a plentiful supply of fried parsley is the usual accompaniment. They are generally eaten minus sauce, but a good one, when preferred, is made by boiling dow n the strained liquor to a fourth the quantity, and seasoning it with anchovy essence, cayenne vinegar, and mignonette pepper; it must be served very hot. Thicken it slightly, if preferred. Oysters, Scalloped. —Choose small oysters; scald them in their own liquor, and beard them; then take them np, and boil down the liquor with seasoning {we Oysters, Stbwkij), until reduced well. Butter some deep shells, china or plated; lay in some bread crumbs, seasoned with a pinch of salt and pepper, and a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg; put in an oyster, cut in two or three pieces, then more bread, and so on, having bread at the top ; use three oysters, moro or less accord- ing to size, for each shell. Pour some clarified butter over, and brown in a quick oven. The oyster liquor may be mixed with a little white wine or lemon juice, and should bo poured over tho fish and crumbs after the last layer is put on. Oysters, Scalloped, a la Seine.—Reduce the oyster liquor, add it to an equal measure of white wine; reduce again to half; then, supposing there is a gill of tho two combined, add half a pint of Thick Bechamel, mixed with the yolks of a couple of raw eggs. Butter the shells, and coat with fine bread crumbs, fried lightly: then fill up entirely with the sauce and oysters, sufficient to make a thick mixture ; coat again with crumbs and brown in a quick oven. Serve on a dish covered with a serviette. Always have crumbs at the bottom, or the oysters will become hard. A few minutes will suffice for the browning. Oysters, Spindled.—Required: an equal number of oysters and thin slices of bacon, cut as nearly as possible tho same size; a little pepper, ground mace, and anchovy essence and lemon j uice to taste. Mix the seasoning; put a soupqon on each oyster and bit of bacon ; thread them alternately on a skewer, passing it through the fleshy part of tho oyster ; lay it across a baking tin, and cook in a sharp oven until tho bacon is crisp. Pass a plated skewer through the whole, and draw out tho first ono ; lay on a hot dish, and send cavonno and lemon juico to table. This is an American snack, and wo need scarcely add, a very good ono. Oysters, Spindled, en Croustade,—Required : a croustade, made by cutting a thick slico of bread the length of tho skewer, and tho width of the oysters, and hollowing it in tho