PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G53 fashion, so far as the after-treatment goes, by making it into purees; it always wants boiling in salted water until done. Winter greens generally are cooked in the same way ; lots of water, well salted, will always preserve the colour; but if tough or discoloured to start with, a pinch of borax or soda does no harm. For all the purees, when white sauce or anything that detracts from the colour is used, add a few drops of green colouring. When in first-rate condition and well cooked, it is difficult to find a nicer vegetable than this. (See recipes under Cabbage, Lettuce, &e.) Sea-Beet.—This grows on many parts of our coasts. It belongs to the same natural family as the spinach, and is probably the original form of the cultivated beet. The leaves are large, and resemble spinach in flavour when boiled. In many parts of Ireland the leaves are gathered in succession as they grow, and eaten by the poor as food. The richer the soil, the better the flavour of the leaves. Sea-Kale.—This is a plant very much like asparagus, and is generally highly esteemed. It takes its name from its being found wild in districts near the sea. It is the blanching process that gives the delicate character to this plant, for in the unblanched state it is worthless; as it is the action of light that imparts the strong and bitter taste, as well as the green and reddish-purple colouring. Conse- quently, after it is cut, sea-kale should be kept in a dark place until wanted. If exposed in an open situation it will acquire a decided tinge, that injures colour and flavour in the course of two or three days. Cost, very variable; sometimes less than Is. per basket, but often from Is. Gd. to 2s., or more if scarce. .Sea-kale is amongst the earliest of vegetables. When fresh, it is white and crisp to the touch ; when dark and limp, it is shale. Sea-kale is said to be one of the few plants improved by forcing; and fqrce4 shoots at mid- winter itro crisper and better in flavour than the naturally-grown ones of April and May. Sea-Kale, Boiled.—This wants nico washing and brushing ; any worm- eaten and black portions of the roots must be cut out, and it is some little trouble to free it from all the adhering grit. The object in cooking should be to retain the delicate flavour and colour as much as possiblo. In this form, it is delicate and digestible, and most persons may safely eat it. It should be tied up in little bundles, and left in cold water after washing, then put on to boil in water lightly salted, and with a few drops of lemon juice in; some competent authorities advise that the steam be allowed to escape, by putting the lid only half over the saucepan. Time, from a quarter of an hour for very young fresh kale to half an hour or more for older. Drain thoroughly, and serve on toast, with a good white sauce in a boat; some prefer it without sauce, but if two dishes are served, sauce may be poured over one of them. If in that condition that may be de- scribed as very stale, the water should be changed when half done, and fr om forty to fifty minutes must be given. In dishing, put the heads all one way, and draw off the tape with which it is tied very carefully. This (and all vegetables of a similar kind) wants well draining, and must be served hot. Shalot .—-The shalot, or eschalot, is a kind of onion—the mildest culti- vated—used for seasoning soups and made dishes, and for flavouring sauces, gravies, and salads. The shalot has a bulbous root, made up of a number of smaller bulbs, called cloves. It ought to be taken up in the autumn, and bo hung in nets in a cool airy place. "When properly dried, it will keep till spring. It is stronger in taste than tho onion, but does not leave so strong an odour on tho palate, and for this reason is often employed instead of tho onion, both in cooking and for eating in a raw state. Shalots can be added to melted butter or white sauce,