cold ml At and scrap cook cry. 537 Tripe and Cow Heel Hot Pot.—Required : about a pound of tripe, a cooked cow heel, a quart of onion sauce, half a pound of fried onions, chopped, three pounds of pota- toes, and seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. The meats are to be cut up in conve- nient-sized pieces, and stirred into the onion sauce while the latter is hot. A deep dish with a lid is then to be lined with the potatoes, which are to be boiled until nearly done, then sliced and fried a little. They should form a good bod at the bottom, but a thinner layer does for the sides. Then sprinkle these with stilt and pepper and the chopped onions fried, and if extra zest is liked, a pinch of sage or other herbs. Then put the sauce and meat in the centre, and cover with more potatoes. The dish should be covered and set in a moderate oven, and the cover removed for the potatoes to brown well. Should it be more convenient to use mashed potatoes, the dish should be heated and greased before they are put in ; then, if the oven be sharp, they will brown nicely and be very savoury. This is a dish that can be recommended; it is savoury and cheap. In place of onion sauce, some nice savoury preparation of rice can be used. Bits of macaroni, cooked preferably in stock, may be cut up and mixed with the meat; and calf’s feet, a couple or so, will give a milder dish than if the cow’s foot be used. Rem- nants of head, sheep’s or any other, will come in, the brains being a great improvement. There should not be much fat with the tripe, or it will probably lie too rich for most people. Another way. — Instead of onion sauce, use a larger proportion of fried onions, and put them in layers with the meat, and over the latter sprinkle a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. In place of potatoes, the top layer may consist of slices of fried bread. Tripe, Hashed (German Mode).—Required : a pound of tripe, half a pound of onions, thickening, and seasoning. Cost, about Is. 2d. Cut the boiled tripe in long, narrow strips. Steam the onions, then cut them up small, add bread-crumbs and milk, and a slice of butter, and a good flavouring of chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and marjoram. The mixture should be thick. Cover for a time, then take the marjoram out, and put the tripe in, re-heat, and serve very hot. Tripe, Hashed (Normandy Mode).—Required: two pounds of tripe, a few ounces of cooked bacon, a carrot, an onion, a bunch of herbs, half a gill of weak stock, the same of cider or light wine, with water as required, and seasoning to taste. Cost, about 2s. Cut the tripe in squares, put it in a stewpan, with the vegetables parboiled and sliced, the seasoning, wine and stock, and water to just cover. Cover tightly, simmer until the vegetables are soft, remove the herbs and spices, and thicken the liquor if liked, or leave as it is. Dish, and strain the gravy over. A cow heel is very nice so served, and vinegar or lemon juice may re- place the wine or cider. Veal Boulettes.—This is a very good dish for any meal. Required : two ounces of flour, an ounce of butter, a gill of milk, half a gill of cream, a chopped shalot, six ounces of cold veal, two ounces of cooked ham, salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped button mushrooms, a little lemon rind, grated, eggs and crumbs as below. White stock can replace milk if preferred. Cost, about Is. 2d. Make sauce of the flour, butter, cream, and milk; add the seasonings, and the meat chopped, or passed through a mincer; stir for a minute after tho sauce has boiled ; remove it from the fire, and beat in the yolks of two raw eggs, then set by to cool on a plate. Shape them like sausages, but only half the usual length. When ready to cook, flour tho boulettes, brush them with white of egg, and roll them in crumbs, to which a little nutmeg and cayenne should bo added. Fry in a basket, and dish crosswise on a square