220 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. with frequent shaking for forty minutes, then brush over with glaze, and dish in a ring round Potato Olives. The latter should be brushed over with warm butter, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Heat the mush- rooms in Cream Sauce ; add the liquor from tho pan, first reducing it, then pour tho whole round the cutlets. Lamb Barioles with Peas.— Required : a pound of lamb, any lean part, four eggs, some peas, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. Cd. Lay the raw meat on a board, and scrupo it; put tho pulp thus obtained in a basin, season to taste, add the eggs, beaten and strained, and a gill of Brown Sauce. Fill some moulds, as illustrated, garnish tho tops first with some cooked carrot and tongue in thin strips, and cook them in a potato steamer for about half an hour. Pre- pare the peas by boiling nicely, put them in tho middle of the dish, with tho dariolos round, and pour a little Fig. 04.—Flat-top Fluted Dariole Mould. Sauce he Menthe round tho base. These little moulds require very thorough buttering to onsuro the con- tents turning out well. Tho copper ones, tin-lined, are tho best, as tho cooking is more even, besides lasting much longer. Lamb Barioles with Tuv- nips.—Prepare tho darioles as di- rected above, but substitute White Sauce for brown. Put a nice Puree of Turnips in the contrc of tho dish, and pour white sauce over the darioles. To this and the preceding, another egg and an ounce of panada should ho added if the full time cannot be given for tho cooking; by thickening tho mixture, less timo is required. Lamb and Eggs, a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Required : a pound of lamb, a pint of MaItre d’Hotel Sauce, three eggs, some small tomatoes, crou- tons and seasoning, carrots and tur- nips. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 6d. Cut the lamb, which must be lean, in squares as if for curry; fry them a little in a saute pan, then drain, and pour over them a little warm stock, from mutton bones, to cover; bring gently to the boil, and cook until done; a few peppercorns and a small bunch of herbs should be put with tho meat. Boil the eggs hard, quarter them; slice, and broil or grill the tomatoes; boil tho carrots and turnips with tho lamb, and slice them also, or cut them in any nice shapes. Then put tho meat in tho sauce and heat it; pour it in tho middle of a dish, and form a border with tho sliced vegetables, alternating them. Put tho eggs on tho croutons, which should bo oval, and place them round the dish, leaving one for the top. Note.—The stock in which tho meat is cooked, should be reduced to a few spoonfuls, and skimmed, and added to the maitre d’hotel sauce. Larks in Cases, —rut some Salmi Sauce made thick, into small china cases; cut up tho remains of boned larks which have been roasted for dinner, add an equal amount of Liver Forcemeat, and fill up the cases within an inch of the top. Then put a little more sauce over, dredge somo fried crumbs over, and heat in a tin of hot water, on the hot plate or in the oven. Garnish tho dish with watercress salad and put a sprig of cross on tho top of each ease. Larks, Salmi of.—Roast or bake as many larks as may bo required: they may bo boned and stuffed, or cooked plainly. When done, put them while hot in enough Salmi Sauce to cover them, then lot them heat through; pile them in a dish, and garnish with croutons, put on with small skewers. Put somo Potato Chits or Rmpoxa