464 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. gill will be wanted. Line a buttered jar with raw bacon, all fat, and in the thinnest possible slices; fill up with 'the mixture, and finish off as directed for Tekhinb op Grouse, p. 422, allowing about an hour and a half for the cooking. This is good for breakfast, a picnic, or other outdoor festivities—fowl taking the place of turkey—or for making a pile of sand- wiches for a Christmas party. For a very superior dish of the "sort, the meat may be put in the jar in alternate layers with truffled sausage meat; the latter layers half an inch, and the former an inch in thickness. Or in place of the truffled sausage meat, pork, veal, or heef can bo used, according to the kind of dish required : veal produces a delicate dish ; pork or beef is more savoury. Turkey Poult, to Roast.— The turkey poult or young turkey is an excellent substitute for the fully- grown bird, as it is most easily ob- tained in summer and autumn, when the large turkeys are out of season. The young ones may be said to be in season whenever they are large enough to be used. They may be roasted in the same way as a fully-grown bird. It is not usual to fill them with forcemeat, though some epicures, re- gardless of expense, are partial to them when truffled. Tongue, bacon, or sausages are generally sent to table with them. Turkey poults are some- times trussed with the head tucked under the wing, and the legs twisted under like a duck. Unlike the grown bird, the feet may be left on, though the claws must be cut off. A turkey poult should bo put down to a clear fire, liberally basted, and when done enough should be served on a dish garnished with watercress. Brown gravy and bread sauce should be sent to table with it. A turkey poult braised is an excellent dish. If boiled, serve in the same way as a fowl. Time, according to size. To roast, about an hour and a half; moro or less as required. Turkey, Roasted. —There are several methods of preparing a turkey for roasting. The bird may be simply trussed like a fowl, and roasted with- out being stuffed at all, and will bo found excellent, the pure flavour of the bird being then presented itn- mixed with any taste that does not belong to it. When dressed in this way it should be served on a dish garnished with watercress, and sent to table with gravy. The usual way of serving roast turkey, however, is to stuff it either with veal forcemeat, chestnuts, or sausage meat, and to send it to table accompanied by a string of sausages, bread sauce, and brown gravy, or chestnut sauce. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss the turkey. Tie a buttered paper over the hreast, and hang the bir d before a clear fire. Baste frequently whilst it is being roasted. Unless tliis point is attended to the meat will be dry and tasteless. A quarter of an hour before the bird is taken down, remove the paper, dredge a little flour over the breast, and baste it well with butter. This will make the froth stronger than if dripping is used. Let it brown brightly. Garnish with lemon and sausages, or forcemeat balls. Servo very hot. Time, for a turkey of ten or eleven pounds, about three hours, or rather less. For larger or smaller, more or loss in proportion, not only to weight, but age. A stuffed turkey would take longer than an unstuffed one, even if both weighed the same. This is an important point in the cooking of poultry generally. Turkey, Roasted (Wo. 2).— For this, take two sorts of forcemeat; one for the breast, and tho other for the body. For instance, they may be of sausage meat and chestnuts; or of plain herb forcemeat, with either of the others named; or a good ham or veal stuffing, with one of mushrooms, can be used. The crop is stuffed in the usual way, and the body may be filled in the way ducks and geese are stuffed, or a roll of the stuffing may