692 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. cream sauce just to cover them (see page 94). Dish in a pile and serve hot. Salsify can be re-heated in good melted butter or other sauces. Cost, variable. Salsify, Fried.—Cut the boiled salsify into long pieces, or cut it short if preferred, and moisten with thick sauce that will cause them to adhere, and form little rolls when cold. Then coat with beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry brown. Add a drop of an- chovy to the beaten egg. Garnish with fried parsley. Cost, variable. Salsify, Scalloped.—Boil the salsify till tender, and rub it through a sieve. Put it into a bowl, which is placed in a larger one half filled with boiling water. This is to keep the salsify hot. Work into the pulp a little butter and cream, and season with salt and pepper. Add a pinch of celery salt, if it is at hand. Butter some scallop-shells, cover them with grated bread-crumbs, and fill them with the puree. Cover with crumbs, and plaee little pieces of butter here and there, and bake a nice brown. This is a favourite way of serving. Chopped parsley is sometimes added, and a little anchovy essence is an im- provement ; the two combined, with a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg, give an excellent flavour. Cost, variable. Spinach Croquettes.— Required: spinach, game, potato pastry, eggs and crumbs, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. to 9d. per dozen, but variable. This is a good dish for any meal, and as remnants come in for it it is not costly. Take some cold spinach puree and make it into little balls the size of a large walnut. Hollow the centre and put in a morsel of game puree, or one of the livers only (see recipes under Game). Close up and cover with a thin layer of potato pastry, and fry as directed for croquettes generally. Or instead of this, a coating of beaten egg and bread-crumbs, or crushed ver- micelli can be used. Those are to bo well drained, and served with a little game gravy or sauce. Another way.—Use a little grated cheese, moistened with a spoonful of white sauce to every four ounces, and season nicely; theso cam be served plainly or with Cheese Saucb. There are many mixtures given in the chap- tor on Cheese, &c., that will furnish an improved variety of these. Any green puree can be used up thus. Spinach Croutes. — Required: croutes (see Gaulishes), eggs, cream, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. per dozen. This is a pretty dish, and any other “green” of a similar kind may be used instead of spinach; nettles, dan- delion, endive, and others are just as good. After cooking the vegetable, and pressing it well, put it in a sauce- pan with a little spice and the yolks of an egg or two, to form a sort of paste ; add a little cream and stir, then fill some hollow croutes, size and shape according to taste; see that they are fried a delicate brown only. On the top of each put a slice of hard-boiled egg, sprinkle somo with chopped pars- ley and somo with coralline pepper; or use a pinch of fried bread-crumbs. Serve as a separate course or for garnishing meats. Spinach Croutes with Ham. —Prepare the croutes as above, and lay on each a little slice of nicely broiled ham, nearly the size of the croute ; it should show just a margin of spinach ; brush over with thin glaze or good gravy, and put a tiny pile of hard-boiled egg, sliced and cut into very small dice on the top. A morsel of parsley or chervil completes the dish. Serve very hot. Cost, 9d. to Is. per dozen. Spinach Custard.—Required: six tablespoonfuls of cooked spinach, sieved, half a pint of milk, the same of cream, the yolks of five eggs, and a little seasoning. Cost, about Is., with- out spinach. Put the sieved spinach in a bowl, add the strained yolks of eggs, and beat well, then the milk and cream heated together; add them by degrees