92 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. bears tho above title. We know that oiled butter in literally melted butter; and authorities never tire of telling us that there should he less of flour and water than of butter. Such a sauce is, however, too rich and expensive for most people. Then we are told that tho sauce should never boil, or the flavour suffers; this, though, is mis- leading, for the flour would then havo a raw taste. We think that the difficulty may he overcome by adopting tho method given in the following recipes. The result will be a sauce neither oily, lumpy, nor raw. Butter, Melted, No. 1. (very plain).—Melt in a very clean pan an ounce of butter ; put an ounce of flour through a sieve, stir it with a wooden spoon into the butter, then add gradually threo-quarters of a pint of cold water, stirring all tho time in one direction until it boils. Stir for a minute more, then take the pan from the fire, and put in, bit by bit, blend- ing each portion thoroughly, another ounce of butter; it is then ready to serve as it is, or with added ingre- dients from which tho sauce would take its name. A few drops of lemon- juice should bo added. No. 2.—This is rich. Melt the butter, and add flour as above; put in half a pint of water only, and when it boils take it from tho fire, and stir in, as above directed, two ounces more butter, or three or four if a very rich sauce is required ; add a pinch of salt off the fire. If anything richer is wanted, use Oiled Butteu. When for boiled fish or meat, use the stock in place of water, but first boil it and skim it well, and let it cool before adding, or the sauce is liable to become lumpy; made as advised, it cannot become lumpy, hut it should be passed through a fine strainer or tammy to give smoothness. Sometimes the yolk of an egg is added, and some cooks put in cream; but such additions are not necessary. Milk should not bo used ; that is suitable for various white sauces, tiot for molted butter. Butter, Oiled .—This can he served with fish, or dressed vegetables, asparagus, artichokes, &c. Put as much butter as is required into a very delicate pan (enamelled is best); heat it slowly on the hot plate of the range until it looks frothy; remove this scum, and stir the butter; skim again, and when it looks clear pour it off from tho sediment; the object is to get rid of the scum, which comes to the top, and the sediment, which goes to the bottom; care must be taken that it does not become burnt. The better tho butter the less there will bo to remove, and only good butter, the very freshest, is suitable for this. Caper Sauce.—Required : half a pint of melted butter, a tablespoonful of French capers, with half that measure of their vinegar. If for boiled mutton, use the liquor from the pot for tho melted butter; chop the capers, and add them with the vinegar after the sauce is boiled ; it will have more flavour than if they are used whole. Caper Sauce, Brown.—Use a gill each of Brown Saucb and ordinary stock, as No. 4; bring them to the boil, add capers and vinegar as above, and if for high-class dishes, a tea- spoonful of sherry or Madeira and the same measure of extract of meat. This is useful for grilled meats, &c. It may also be served with fish, then fish stock should he put in in place of No. 4. If for baked fish, add the liquor from the tin. Capsicum Sauce.—Required: four capsicums, one teaspoonful each of French mustard, French vinegar, and hot chutney, and a few drops of caper vinegar, with salt to taste, and a pint and a quarter of Brown Savce. Take the seeds from the capsicums, put them in a little of the sauce with the other ingredients, and boil for ten minutes; add the rest of the sauce— after tho first mixture has been sieved to remove the seeds—and boil up, then cut tho capsicums into shreds, and put