MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. 243 add a few drops of French vinegar. The steak is best grilled; to ensure perfection, a double gridiron, well oiled, is recommended, and some authorities insist upon the envelopment of the steak in two thin slices of beef (any lean part; it can be put in the stock pot afterwards), to protect the exterior, as it should not be allowed to harden. Without this precaution, great care is needed to cook thoroughly, without hardening, owing to the thickness of the meat. After eighteen to twenty minutes’ grilling, lay the meat before the fire on a hot dish, and finish off in either of the following ways: (1) Put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter under the steak, and a little gravy round; this can he made by mixing a gill of stock Xo. 1G with the same measure of brown sauce Xo. 2. (2) Put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter in a gill of brown sauce, first heated with a glass of white wine and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. (3) Mix chopped parsley and lemon juice, a teaspoonful of each, with a gill and a half of stock Xo. 16, thickened with a small quantity of roux and glaze, to the consistency of good cream. Serve fried potatoes, chips or ribbons with the steak. Cost, variable. Collops, Savoury (See Coi.lops under Joints.)—After browning the meat, cover it with stock such as Xo. 5, season with pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley; a small onion may be minced and fried with the meat at starting; add a little mushroom ketchup, and simmer for an hour or more. Thicken with browned flour or roux, add salt to taste, and garnish with croutons. If a glass of port or claret be added near the end of the cooking, and a good seasoning of sweet herbs be put in at first, the dish is almost equal to game, and may be served as a plain entree. Curries. -Curried dishes of all sorts are usually much favoured by those who have resided in India. It is almost impossible to serve them in perfection in England, owing to the lack of various commodities in the fresh state ; but they might be much more palatable than they are, if the seasoning were adapted to the meat and to the taste—so far as possible—of those who have to eat it. The same flavouring is not suitable alike for chicken, fish, or calf’s head; indeed, unless the various ingredients are compounded to suit the viands of which the dish is composed, the curry will not be as successful as it might be. Good stock, suitable seasoning, and a generous supply of rice are essential. The meat, or whatever is used, should be so cut as not to need further division; by this method it becomes thoroughly impregnated with the flavour of the curi'y, and almost needless to add, raw meat makes a better curry than cold meat. Acid in some form is generally necessai-y; apples, cucumbers, goose- berries, rhubarb, and tomatoes are the most readily obtainable; but tamarinds, and many other ingredients of a like nature are used abroad. It is abso- lutely necessary that all the ingredients used for the sauce be sieved and put back in the pan to thicken the sauce. Xobody who objects to the use of the sieve should attempt to make a curry, the proper amalgamation of the materials used being of primary im- portance. Much difference of opinion exists as to the order and manner of adding the curry paste or powder. Some contend that it should be put in and fried with the meat, while many others think that by this method it does not yield its flavour so well as when mixed with some liquid before it is put in—the hot fat sealing up the flavours, the liquid enabling them to be drawn out. In our recipes will be found details of both methods, and under Seasonings we give the method of making curry powder; but wc are of opinion that the best preparations of bought powders and pastes are more satis- factory than home-made ones, and they may bo purchased cither pungent or mild to suit various classes of dishes. It is, however, always easy to give