646 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Potato-flour may bo bought at about the same price as corn-flour, and is very useful for all sorts of purposes. (See the chapter on Cereals, &c.) Potatoes, Pried.—French kid- ney potatoes are considered best, but ordinary ones will answer; bo very careful to peel thinly, and after wash- ing-, dry in a clean cloth. Cut them in slices- across, as thin as a shilling; then throw them in very hot fat, or put them in a basket, moving it about in the fat that all may be uniformly cooked. When pale yellowish-brown and crisp, remove them; if left after this point is reached, they become too dark; drain before the fire, and sprinkle with salt. Serve hot with chops, steaks, &c. When cut into slices so thin that they are almost transparent, they are termed chips. When cut through into lengths of an inch or rather more, sometimes two inches, and rather thicker than a common match, they becomo straws ; and these take but a few seconds only: some little confusion arises from these being- called “ chips ” sometimes. (See Vege- tahle Slicer in Kitchen Utensils.) Another way. — Take potatoes which have been parboiled and left to cool; those may be sliced rather thicker than the others, and may either be fried as above, or turned about in a frying- pan -with a little hot drip- ping until hot through * and pale brown. These are good for breakfast. Another way (common- ly called-Devonshire way). — Chop up roughly some cold potatoes in a frying- pan, with a little hot bacon fat; stir, and season when browned a little. They take but a short time and are very nice. Goose fat is used by some; but bacon fat is most liked, and it is a good way of using- it up. Potato Klosse (a German dish).— Required: potatoes, butter, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about 6d. or 7d. Scoop the floury part from five or six baked potatoes, until six ounces of potato flour have been obtained. Mix with this two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixture thorough];-, and form it into small balls. Drop these in boiling salt and water, and bo careful to do this with a metal spoon, and to dip it into boiling water each time it is used. Serve with soup. Another way.—Take some potato flour. Beat it until smooth with two ounces of butter which has been beaten to a. cream, and add two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, one ounce of grated Parmesan, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, the yolks of two and the white of one egg, to six ounces of the flour. Mould the kldsse, and boil them as above. Servo on a hot dish, with fried bread-crumbs sprinkled over them. Time to boil tho klosse, ten minutes. Potatoes, Maslied. — After boiling or steaming the potatoes, beat Fig. 109—Potato Masher.