UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 350 Dutch oven at a sharp fire. Fried bread-crumbs, first seasonod, should ho sprinkled over just before they arc served, and the dish should be garnished with sweet pickles,, or pickled walnuts; if the hitter, put them in the oven to drive, oft' the- acidity. Let the sauce or gravy be little and good, aud if jolly is served, it may he heated with advantage. If more convenient, the crumbing can ho omitted. Hash or Mince. [See Cold Meat and Sckap Cookbh»y.)—Under the head of Mutton will also he found dishes, in which the remains of cold venison might ho served up in a very “appetising manner. Haunch.—Take a well - hung haunch of venison, weighing from i eighteen to twonty-fivo pounds. If it weigh loss it will not be fully-flavoured. Be sure that it is in good condition. To ensuro this, it should he hung, as soon as it is brought in, in a cool, airy situation. The kernel of tho fat should he at once removed, tho part, from which it is taken wiped dry, and it, as well as the ontiro haunch, should ho dusted with pepper and powdered ginger. The haunch should ho examined twice a day, and if any moisture appears it should be wiped with a dry cloth ; and tho meat should he kept as long as it can he preserved swoet and untainted. In order to ascertain whether or not it is ready for dressing, run a skewer into the flesh close to the hone, and from this judge of the state of the meat. When it is to he roasted, saw off the shank-hone, remove the sinews, scrape away the dark dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Wipe the haunch thoroughly with damp cloths which have been wrung out of lukewarm water, then dry it perfectly. It should he remembered ■ that the more fat there is on the joint the better it will ho, and that, in roast- ing the main object is to preserve the fat. Therefore, first cover the haunch with a large sheet of well-greased, thick, white cartridge paper, then with a stiff paste of flour ■ and water rolled out to tho thickness of three-quarters of an inch, and tie securely over this' with string or tape two additional sheets of groasod paper. But the haunch down to a clear, sound fire, quite near at first, to harden the paste.' Draw it hack after a minute or two ;• haste tho venison tho moment it is put down to prevent the outer paper and the string from burning, and continue to haste frequently and liberally till' done enough. Half an hour before it' is done, remove tho paper and the paste from the meat, and fifteen minutes after take away the last paper. Sprinkle a littlo salt ovor the meat,' dredge the surface lightly with flour, and then baste with butter. Pour tho fat from tho dripping-tin, keeping hack any brown gravy there may be. Add half a teacup?ul of boiling water- to this gravy, pour it into a saucepan,, and skim off the fat. Boil it, and add a little salt to it. Put the haunch on1 a very hot dish, and pour tho boiling' gravy through a strainer round it. Pin a frill of white impel- round tho knuckle- bone. Send venison gravy to table,' and let rod currant jelly he served separately ; some should he heated, and- some cold. French beans plainly boiled are a suitable accompaniment' to haunch of venison. Venison fat freezes so quickly that especial care should bo taken that the plates are very hot; indeed, hot water plates, as-' well as a hot water dish, ought to be used. Timo to roast the venison, from four to five hours, or about thirteen minutes to tho pound when the haunch ; is weighed with the paste on. Doo venison will be done half an hour before buck venison. Venison is pre- ferred underdone rather than over- done. Probable cost, very uncertain. Some cooks omit the flour and water paste ; then the haunch will not • need to bo down so long. This is condemned by many cooks, but some contend that in some respects tho meat is improved by the omission.