Stocks and SoupS. 33 ingredients plays no small part in the matter. A puree of the strictly vegetable class "will take almost double the salt required for a clear soup (clarified); from a teaspoonful per quart, to half the quantity, may be set down as the approximate amount for soups ranging from the one extreme to the other in consistency, and bearing in mind the points above indicated. Should an overdose of salt by chance bo added, if it is not desirable to dilute it with more liquid, a turnip will have a nullifying tendency; a little more thickening, as ronx, or an egg, or some cream, just according to the nature of the soup, will serve the same purpose. Pepper and other spices vary so much in strength, especially in the ground state, being often adulterated, that this muse be left to the judgment of the cook; the best is always the cheapest, and the quantities may be more accurately gauged; soluble cayenne, the best of its kind, leaves no dregs, but it contains salt (it is sometimes called Indian salt), and this must be remem- bered in using it. Lemon juice is usually added to give a slight piquancy and blend the other flavours, not to give an actually sour taste; anyone interested in cookery will find out by experience the meaning of this remark. Of purees, the chief point is to see that they are purees in the true sense of the word, by passing the compound through a sieve. No one who fights shy of the sieve or the tammy will ever become a cook of more than mediocre powers, for by these processes—viz., sieving and tammying—are smoothness, blended flavours, and digestibility alone ensured. In conclusion, we decidedly join issue with some who are well able to speak with authority, in expressing the opinion that if the middle class and artisan population made soup a standing dish, not only would there be a decrease in the meat bills, but people would be better for the change ; while as to the rural population, it is not too much to say that a knowledge and practice of the uses of the herbs and vegetables of their gardens and fields would be equal to a rise in their wages. Of the recipes that follow, iu addition to what have now become standard soups, there arc many less known, but which are very wholesome, and have the merit of cheapness and all-round utility. We would again remind the reader that the stock is not included in our estimates of the probable cost, and that such estimates must, in all cases, be regarded as purely approximate. While people who have the run of a country garden may reckon the cost of some vegetable purges as almost nil, some dwellers in towns, where such things are expensive, may have to pay even more than the average which we have endeavoured to calculate. The same remark applies equally to the relative value of milk and cream. COLOURINGS AND THICKENINGS FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES. Brown Uoux.—Required : some fine dry flour—say, half a pound—the same quantity of butter, an enamelled etewpan, a clear brisk fire, and an h onion. First plnco the butter in tho stewpan, and melt it till it runs to what cooks call oil. It will bo found that there is a whito scum at the top,