526 UNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK. when put on the dish the gTavy and meat should not separate. The richest minces are served in entree dishes; for every-day occasions, a vegetable or other deep dish is betterthan a flat meat dish, as the mince will keep hotter. __ Mutton with Rice and 3aush»g?eg.—Required: a mince from it jiflufadof cooked mutton, half a pound 6f sausage meat, rice and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Follow the directions for hashing or mincing mutton by either of the plain methods, for which see recipes. Make the sausage meat into little halls, and fry them for a minute or two, then drain, find put them into the gravy to simmer for ten minutes before the meat is added. Veal Sausage Meat is the nicest for these, and they are a great improvement to dishes of mutton of many kinds. About a quarter of a pound of rice may be boiled as for curry, or Saffron Rice is very good with this dish.. This should be ready by the time the meat is, round which it should be dished. Savoury dishes of rice may also be used. (Sec Rice.) Another dish is made by mixing two or three ounces of lean, cooked ham, in amongst the mutton, then the little balls, or small sausages, should he placed on the rice by way of garnish. Ox Foot, with Ouious and Cheese.—Required : about half an ox foot, the same weight of Spanish onions, cheese, &c., as below. Cost, about 7d., exclusive of sauce. The foot must be well cookod, free from bone, and cut into neat pieces. Slice and fry the onions, and lay them in a greased dish, coated with bread-crumbs, alternately with the ox foot. Put some thin slices of bread on the top. Each layer should be seasoned with salt and pepper, and a little grated cheese, and be moistened with stock from the hones of the foot. The broad should be moistened with oiled butter, and the dish set in the oven until crisp and hot through. Serve plain Cheese Sauce with this, or a herb sauce. Ox Foot, with Peas and Cheese.—Prepare the dish as above, but use cooked peas (green, or split yellow as preferred) in place of onions ; or haricots or lentils, cooked and sieved, may be substituted. The stock for moistening should be made piquant in flavour. Finish off as directed above, and send the same sauce to table, or a sharp sauce goes very well with this dish. (See Peas Pudding.) Polpetti, Italian.—The founda- tion of this is cooked meat, any sort; for half a pound, which should bo free from fat, and minced small, allow two or three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, the same weight of ham and tongue, or bacon will do instead of ham, and a gill of Italian sauce, brown or white, according to the nature of the meat (see recipes under Hot' Sauces). To this, something should' be added to give piquancy, or to. heighten the flavour, first stirring the- foregoing ingredients together over the fire until hot. A little rich force- meat, cooked, or the remnants of one of the savoury pates sold in tins, or some cooked liver puree ; just a tablespoon- ful or so of either is sufficient. Then spread the paste on a flat dish to form a quarter-inch layer. When cold, cut out with a small round tin cutter, then egg and crumb the cakes, and fry in plenty of hot fat. Lard is said to bo the correct frying medium for these : clarified fat of the usual sort answers as well—in our opinion, better. The remnants left after cutting can bo pressed together and cutout as before, until all be used up. Cost, variable. Pork d, la Blanquette.—Re- quired : meat, sauce, ana seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of the vegetable garnish. See the recipe for Rice Sauce, and make half a pint for each pound of meat to be used. Cut the meat into neat slices; the nicest part for this dish is the kidney end of a loin that has been stuffed with a mild sago and onion stuffing. Let it heat through in the sauce; all fat must be taken