30 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. made as directed, will be found very good. It has “ body,” and is nourish- ing and tasty. Take a couple of quarts of the liquor from boiled haricot beans, rice, or macaroni, or mix them if more convenient. Put in a large turnip, a carrot, and half a parsnip, all sliced. Wash in several waters an ounce of pearl barley, then scald it for a few minutes in boiling water, and add that to the rest. In another saucepan put an ounce of butter. Slice into it an onion, the white pai’t of a leek, a tablespoonful of minced celery, and a couple of button mushrooms. A bunch of herbs and a few whito peppercorns should also go in. Cook for ten minutes, covered, shaking often to sweat the vegetables without browning them. Then turn the whole into the first pan, and boil for two hours or longer, stirring often, that the barley may not burn. A little white sugar, a tiny lump, and half an ounce of salt should be put in just before the first boil-up, and any scum, however slight, should be taken off. Strain for use as re- quired. This will not keep in summer. To those who think that there is no flavour in vegetables worth mention unless meat be added this will be a revelation. Vegetable Stock (No. 12). — Omit the bai'ley in this, and add to the vegetables above - mentioned a handful, mixed, of shredded 'lettuce, watercress, sorrel, and dandelion; and in sweating them altogether let them become slightly brown. Boil as above directed, using the same liquor for the foundation, and shortly before straining put in a little gravy salt to colour, a teaspoonful of mush- room or walnut ketchup, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar or a sprig of fresh tarragon can be boiled in the stock. Fish Stock (No 13).—This is a plain stock, suitable for sauces. Break up the bones of any white fish, fresh or cooked. The head, fins, tail, and bones from a sole that lias been filleted yield flavour and nutriment, and are advantageously added to other kinds. To each pound put a quart of cold water, a dessertspoonful of white vinegar or lemon-juice, a tiny piece of mace, six white peppercorns, thyme and parsley a very small bunch, and a small teaspoonful of salt. Skim often, and boil gently for two or three hours. Strain through a very fine sieve or cloth. The lemon-juice whitens, and helps the scum to rise. Fish Stock (No 14).—This is useful for soups. The mode of making it is the same as the foregoing, but longer time must be allowed. Cods’ heads, conger eels, fresh haddocks, and any cheap white fish, can be used for the foundation. A sliced onion and a bay-leaf should be added, and for a good stock a pint of water should be used for each pound of fish and bone. Fish Stock (No. 15).—The shell of a lobster, with the heads and shells of shrimps or prawns, should be used for this, as it is a stock for “ bisque ” soups. Other fish, as above indicated, may be put with them. They should be just covered with the water (other flavourings as above), and allowed to cook for several hours. To this or the foregoing, oyster liquor or tinned oysters can be added with advantage; so can a pounded anchovy, which has the power of developing the flavour in a marvellous way; a little essence of anchovy answers the same purpose, but either must be used with caution, not in sufficient quantity to overpower the taste of all the rest. Stock for good Gravies and Sauces (No. 1G).—Required: two ounces of butter, a bunch of herbs, a carrot, a leek, an onion, the outside stalks of half a head of celery, a small tcaspoonful of mixed peppercorns and allspice berries, a couple of chillies, a couple of cloves, a bit of mace, a large tomato, four ounces of lean ham, a mushroom or two, and a pound and three quarters of gravy beef. Fry the sliced vegetables, herbs, and spice, in