UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 308 for irons, and an oval tin will serve instead of a round plate or tin. In short, the materials employed are capable of variation ; the thing to grasp is the principle. The water should boil steadily the whole time, and if of sufficient depth, dumplings may be boiled, and served with the meat. Marrow dumplings are very good. Sweetbreads. — Much depends upon the condition of the animal, whether those are, or are not, worth the cooking ; sometimes they are good if carefully cooked, but, at the best, are naturally of a stronger and coarser nature than those of other animals. They must ho trimmed, and boiled in • a little stock, seasoned with herbs, vegetables, and spice ; then they may be fried or broiled. The juice of a lemon may bo served with them, or a piquant gravy or sauce. Or they can be curried, or added to a dish of stewed ox cheek, or some similar preparation. They can also be served with liver. Tripe.—There are five kinds of tripe, viz., the blanket or double, the honeycomb, monk’s hood, reed, and another, oaten only in Scotland. The double and honeycomb are generally most highly esteemed, and sold at the highest price. Tripe is nourishing and very easily digested. As sold at the tripe shops it is usually dressed, and only requires re-heating, or rather re-cooking (in one of the various ways in which it may be served) as it is seldom boiled enough. If bought in the raw state, it must bo soaked in salt and water for some hours, then steeped for a short time in hot water with a morsel of soda in. It is then ready for scraping, after which it is blanched, then boiled. In our recipes, dressed tripe is referred to ; i.c. tripe cooked until almost done. Cost of tripe varies ; it is generally from Gd. to 'Jd. per pound, according to kind. {Sec Index, for recipes other than the following.) Tripe and Onions. Uoquiiod: tripe, onions, seasoning, milk, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. inclusive. Have ready a couple of pounds of tripe, with enough of the liquor to cover it; bring to the boil, and add a pound or more of onions in quarters or halves, and cook until they are tender. If very large, parboil the onions separately. Add towards the end of the cooking about half-a-pint of milk, mixed with an ounce and a half or more of flour; boil up, cook for ten minutes longer, season to taste, and servo on a hot dish. The tripe should be in convenient pieces for serving, and the onions and gravy poured over it. For a plainer dish, thicken the tripe liquor, and omit the milk. Celery can bo used instead of onions. Another way.—Boil the tripe in its liquor until done, and have ready a pint or more of onion sauce for each pound. Drain the tripe, and pour the onion sauce all over it. Serve as hot as possible. Another way.—Prepare onion sauce as above, hut make it a trifle thinner, and simmer the tripe in it for about a quarter of an hour, after it lias been previously boiled until tender. This dish is excellent; the tripe gains in flavour, and the sauce is improved by the tripe. Fried onions, mixed with thickened brown stock, may be used instead of ordinary onion sauce for a change. In this form, a little piquant store sauce or ketchup improves it. Tripe, Baked.—Required: tripe, vegetables, and stock as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. Cut a pound of parboiled tripe into fingers, pack in a jar with minced celery and onions (the latter fried a little) ; add herbs, and pot liquor to cover, and cook for an hour or more, liice is a good thickening medium. Season nicely, and add a dash of vinegar and browning. A few strips of lean ham or bacon improve this dish. Tripe, Fried.—Cold tripe, cut into fingers and coated with baiter, or beaten eggs and bread crumbs, then