139 FISII. Tho creamy meat of the large shell, and the flesh of the claws are the parts to use. The small claws serve for garnishing. For recipes from crab, in addition to the following, see Index. Crab may also be used in place of lobster, for some of the dishes under Lobster. Crab, Boiled.—Put some water into a saucepan, and to every quart add a tablespoonful of salt. When it boils, put in the crab, previously taking the precaution to tie its claws. Boil briskly for twenty to thirty minutes, or longer if the crab is large. When taken out, rub a little sweet oil on the shell. Crab, Curried. — Required : a crab, half a pint of cream and milk mixed, salt, lemon juice, cayenne, a tablespoonful of grated cocoanut, the same measure of curry paste, and an ounce of butter. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan; mix in the curry paste mixed with some of the milk; add the cocoanut and the rest of the.milk; stir to the boil, and simmer for a few minutes. Then put in the crab and the cream, with cayenne to taste, and a little salt. Stir for a few minutes, then put the cover on, and leave the saucepan where the contents can remain below the point of boiling for a quarter of an hour-. Give another stir, just to the boil; add some lemon- juice, and serve with a border of rice. This is a delicate and delicious curry. To make it more piquant, put in a dash of French mustard, and a tea- spoonful of hot chutney. For a plainer curry, use inilk or milk and fish stock, and leave ont the cream. IWc.—Simmer the cocoanut in just enough milk or water to cover it for a few minute's before putting it in the curry; and, if liked, use the liquid only in the curry, then a slight thick- ening of rice-flour must bo used, or the sauce will bo thin. A morsel of shalot will improve this for some palates. Crab, Devilled (American). —Put the meat of a freshly boiled crab in a basin, first throwing away the part called the “ apron or sand bags,” and tho gills. Season highly with pepper, mustard, and cayenne; add a grate of nutmeg, some chopped parsley, a suspicion of minced onion, first scalded, and a little chutney sauce or mushroom ketchup: tomato sauce can be used instead of either. Stir all in a saucepan, moistening with milk or fish stock; add a tablespoonful of cracker (biscuit) crumbs, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with the “feelers ” of the crab, and some sprigs of parsley. Send crackers to table, also brown bread-and-butter, with cayenne and cut lemons. Crab, Dressed.—For a plain dish, pick out the meat of a crab; mix it with half a wineglassful of mild vinegar, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a little salt and mustard to taste; then add a tablespoonful of salad oil, or a bit of fresh butter. Put the mixture in the shell, put it on a napkin laid on a dish, and garnish with the small claws, and some water- cress or parsley. For a hot dish, mix some bread crumbs in with the rest, and moisten with a little fish stock or milk. Cover with crumbs, put bits of butter over, and brown in a quick oven. Chopped parsley may be put in this, or a bit of cooked onion. Crab, Minced.—Cut up the meat of the claws of a crab ; mix them with that of tho bod}'; add the flesh of a couple of boned anchovies, or some good anchovy paste; put all in a sauco- pan with a glass of sherry, a table- spoonful of French vinegar, a morsel of mustard, and a heaping tablespoon- ful or two of cooked rice. Stir for a minute; draw the pan aside, and.bent in tho yolks of two raw eggs. Con- tinue to beat without further boiling, and pour tho mixturo over a largo slice of fried bread, divided into pieces ready for serving. Garnish with friod