509 COL!) MEAT AND SCUAP COOICUKY. crumbs instead of mashed potatoes; there a spoonful of rice in place of macaroni; and so on; while as to seasonings, there is no end to the changes that may be rung. We refer to these points, which appear so insiguitieaut to an experienced cook, as we know that the most can never be made of scraps by those who are tied to a few cut-and-dried recipes. In short, this is, of all others, the branch of cookery in which common sense is a very important ingredient. American and Australian Tinned Meats.—See recipes under Tinned Meats in this chapter. Beef Darioles, Cold. — Re- quired : aspic, beef, and pickles. Cost, abont 3d. each. Take for these some plain moulds, or hexagon or fluted if at hand (see recipes in previous chapters for various kinds of darioles); cover the bottoms half an inch thick with brown aspic, then put into each a teaspoonful of any hot, clear pickles, mixed ones for choice, cut up extremely small; stir into the aspic, and let it set. Meanwhile, prepare the meat by cutting it in the very thinnest slices possible. It may be from braised, boiled, or roasted meat. Fill up the moulds loosely with these little slices, with a sprinkling of the pickles here and there between them. Fill up with the aspic, and turn out when cold on a dish of small, green salad. Another way.—These are very nice. Lino the moulds, bottom and sides, with aspic. When quite firm, fill up with slices of meat the size of the moulds, each slice coated with IIorse- l; a dish Sauce. When within half-an- inch of the top pour more aspic over. These are pretty when turned out, the stripes of brown and white showing through the aspic. Dish them on a bid of small cress, with bits of celery round them, and outside the cress put some ring3 of cooked beetroot, with scraped horse radish in the centre. These are very nice for outdoor festivi- ties, &c. Beef, Hashed, Plain.—Re- quired: meat, gravy, seasoning, Ac- Cost, about Is. 3d. For a pound of meat, take a pint of grqvy (see page 79). Cut the meat into slices as equal in size as convenient and about a quarter of an inch thick. They are preferred thinner by many people, but there is greater fear that they will harden if too thin. Bring the gravy to the boil, then put the meat in and cover. A morsel of a pastille de legume improves the gravy, or a scrap of burnt onion. (See Seasonings.) The thickening of the gravy may be increased to suit the palate; browned flour should be used if no roux be handy. If the meat be already well cooked, dish it as soon as it is hot through; see remarks on page o04. A small dish should be used, as it keeps the meat hotter, and it should be made very hot. Add something by way of garnish—toast, in little tri- angles or other shape, is the plainest form; or some mashed potatoes, put in piles or all round the dish, or cooked vegetables of any other sort may be used. (See also Hash, American.) Beef, Hashed, B,ich. — Use meat as above to half a pint of gravy or sauce. Our recipes in Hot Sauces afford a variety. If gravy be chosen, it should be thick enough to coat the moat. Stocks Nos. 4 and 5 make good gravies, but for the best hashes the hotter stocks should be used. A rich brown colour is necessary for beef, and may be easily attained by the uso of glaze, extract of meat, and colouring. Some crofltons should be used for garnish, and the dish sent to table very hot. As a rule, the fat should bo re- moved from the meat ; gristlo should always, and tho slices should not bo raggy-looking and uneven. When u