UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 470 salt, is old-fashioned, but liked by some. A mixture of bread-crumbs and herbs, in which tarragon predominates, may be used ; a little butter should be mixed in this. Wild Fowl, Plucking of.— To remove the down which adheres so closely to the generality of wild fowl, immerse them, when divested of their feathers, into scalding water. Have ready some powdered resin, and rub it over the bird with the hand. This is said to be the most effectual remedy. Wild Fowl, Roasted.—When of a kind that is usually impregnated with fishiness (most inveterate when they are not fat) they may be improved by rubbing with tarragon vinegar a few hours before cooking. In a hash or salmi, a little tarragon may be used with advantage, but very little only, or the dish will suffer, owing to its peculiar flavour. Wild Fowl, Truffled, Saute of.—Required : a wild fowl, truffle parings, ham, seasoning, butter, wine, and stock as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d., except when very dear. Cut up the bird, and put the giblets in a stewpan with a bit of ham, a shalot or two, a mushroom, a bay leaf, and an ounce of butter, with the paring's of two or three truffles ; fry for a few minutes, then add half a pint of port, claret, and brown stock mixed; equal measures of each. Fry the joints of the bird in a little butter, until brown. Strain the sauce over them, after it has simmered for two hours, and been made up to the original quantity. Cook for twenty ndnutes to half an hour, with an occasional shake. Serve very hot. A fresh bird is intended for this saute. Woodcock. -Like snipe, this bird should be fat. The most delicate and highly esteemed parts are the legs and intestines. If over-done, the breast is very poor eating, and those who cannot eat under-done game should avoid the woodcock ; to over-roast it is, in the opinion of the epicure, a positive cruelty. It is, perhaps, best liked when roasted, or as a salmi. It needs very careful cooking, and to be served as hot as possible. Cost, uncertain; about 5s. per brace; or may be much more, or a little less. Being so variable, no “ cost ” is given in the recipes. Woodcock a la Financiere.— Required : birds and garnish as below. This is an expensive dish. Take three birds and lard them, then roast or braise them. If the latter, use good stock ; glaze them, and rest them on a dish with a pyramid-shaped croustade in the centre. Garnish with financiere ragout, some at the base, and some at the point; bring the best parts of it into prominence. Fasten some hero and there between the birds by means of hatelet skewers, and place a handsome skewer on the top. Other birds may be served thus. Whero expense has to be considered, various additions may be made at homo to the ragout as bought (see page 216). But the sauce used must always be good, otherwise it is better to dispense with the ragout altogether than to mask it with an indifferent sauce ; for when garnish of this description is attempted all the adjuncts should be in keeping. Woodcock a la Lucullus.— Roast the birds in the usual way; catch the trail on a toast. While they are still under done take them up, and pour over them a little melted butter, with which the yolk of an egg and a spoonful of cream have been mixed; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and brown before the fire, or with a salamander. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes altogether. Woodcock, Devilled. — Re- quired : a woodcock, a devil mixture, wine, orange juice, the yolk of an egg, oil or butter,' and seasoning as under. This method may be followed in dealing with any bird with which the trail is served. Take a woodcock, rather under-roasted than otherwise; cut it into small pieces, and score it well. Season as directed (see Game Devilled). Crush the trail, add to it