UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. C06 bought of a grocer might reasonably be expected to turn out a failure, considering the window exposure. For actual details, reference must be made to recipes ; but we may here say a word in favour of the method of bottling detailed under Tomatoes later on. It is simple, clean, aud inexpensive; the first cost is not great, and there is the advantage of being able to see how the contents are keeping. We believe we are correct in stating that the bottles in question are the first of the kind made in England, and although introduced at first for fruit preservation, they are quite as well adapted for vegetables. In both instances they meet a decided want. In conclusion, the preservation of vegetables by means of salicylic acid warrants mention; because so much lias been written about it. By many it has been highly recommended as a fruit and vegetable pre- servative ; and there seems no doubt that it is a certain antiseptic and prevents fermentation. On the other hand, certain members of the medical profession have condemned the method. By taking any food so preserved, small doses of “ salicine ” would be taken with it, and to some persons the most minute quantities are hurtful. It is therefore safer, to say the least, to dispense with that or any other drug so uncertain in its action. Of other food preservatives, some of them sold under faucy names, for such purposes as we are now discussing, we have had no personal experience; but it is not too much to say that they should be used with extreme caution; what may be perfectly harmless in one case may be the reverse in another; the old maxim that one man’s meat is another man’s poison, applies with a peculiar and special force to food preserved by the aid of drugs. Artichokes, Chinese.—These are curiously-shaped spiral rootlets, said to be of a more dainty flavour than their cousins of Palestine. Be- sides being used as a vegetable, they may bo cooked with cheese, curried, and. prepared in many other ways as a savoury ; they are also sent to table with a dressing of anchovy or other sauce at the commencement of dinner. They will boil in about twenty minutes, and are considered very digestible. In the opinion of a writer, no sauce is 60 good with them as Chestnut Sauce. He also recommends that Chinese artichokes be planted freely in the West of Ireland, and the islands off, as they would be very useful vege- tables to fall back upon in case of part failure of the potato crop. The bulb is said to be so hardy that it matters little how much frost or rain, or how little sun it gets; and it seems likely that in a short time it will be as well j known and almost as cheap as the potato. Artichokes, Globe. — This is a very nice vegetable, and, unlike Artichoke.