304 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. with a little vinegar, if not all required at onco. Round, Roasted. — Hang the meat as long as possible ; the upper side ; the silver side is to be removed. The fat must be drawn over, and skewered, or bound with tape. For the cooking, see the following recipe. This may be baked, so may the rump, quite well with care. (See chapter on Bakino.) In localities where coals are very dear, a large joint, roasted at an open fire, is in some families an almost unknown luxury ; and many, under the impression that baked meats are not good, confine themselves al- most entirely to boiled joints. Every day brings some improvements in ovens, and many quite large ones may be economically heated. Those who can indulgo but seldom in a roast should, therefore, take pains to perfect their baked meats. The above, baked, and well basted—it cannot be basted too much—served with a large thin Yorkshire Pudding, and some sauce, hot or cold horse-radish, and plenty of gravy, is a most excellent dish while hot, and a very useful one when cold. Rump, Roasted. - Take as much as may be wanted from the chump end ; tie it evenly, and cook ns a sirloin. It can I e boned and rolled, bill will take much longer. 11 requires a steady fire, lots of basting and good gravy, and must be from a prime animal. The longer it can hang tho more tender it will bo. It can also bo baked. (‘See remarks above; serve it with the same adjuncts.) Savoury Beef, Stewed.—Re- quired : some lean beef, six pounds or so, from the top of tho leg, a teacupful of brown vinegar, bacon, Ac., as below. Cost, about 3s. fid. to 4s. fid. Cut the meat in a neat square shape, boil the vinegar with a bit of mace, a dozen allspice berries, and black pep- percorns, an inch of stick ginger, and a few cloves ; after boiling, let it stand till cold, then strain tho vinegar over tho beef on a dish. Turn and baste daily for four days, then lard it, by rolling some bacon, cut in thick strips, into ground herbs and mixed spices, and pushing it into holes made with a wooden skewer all over the moat. Lay it in a pot that will just hold it, put in three ounces of blitter, and a good plateful of vegetables, mixed as for soup, and some herbs ; cover, and cook for twenty minutes, turning a few times, then add a pint of stock from beef bones, and some whole spices, and stew for nearly throe hours, turning and basting every half hour. If to be served hot, add more stock, thicken and serve round it. If for a cold dish, let it cool in the gravy, then set aside until quite cold and set,when it can be glazed, or served plainly for breakfast. It makes excellent sandwiches, salads, ire. During the cooking, more stock must be added to keep up the quantity. This is a German dish. Fig. 75.—SincoiN of Beef. Sirloin, To Carve. —A sirloin should be cut with one good firm stroke from end to end of tho joint, at the upper portion, making the cut very clean and oven from a it to c. Then disengage it from tho hone by a horizontal cut exactly to tho bone, it to n, using tho tip of tho knife. Even- slice should bo clean and oven, and the sirloin should cut fairly to the very end. Many persons cut tho under side whilst hot, not reckoning it so good cold ; but this is a matter of taste, and so is the mode of carving it. The best way is first of all to remove the fat e, which chops up well to make puddings, if not eaten at table. Then