118 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and. to which lemon or other acid is added, blend them as above directed; add no sugar until the cream has become stiff, and do not beat after the sugar is put in. Attention to these apparently trifling details would pre- vent many failures and much waste of material. Bermuda Sauce.— Required: a pint of juice from red or black currants, raspberries, cherries, or strawberries— currant and raspberry juice mixed is perhaps the best for the purpose—loaf sugar, arrowroot, and brandy. Dissolve as much sugar as is re- quired in the j uice, about half a pound ; the fruit is to be treated as if for jelly, and the juice drawn off in the same way. Mix an ounce of arrowroot with cold water, add it to the syrup, and stir all to the boil, then put in the brandy, unless preferred plain. This is an excellent sauce for many puddings, both cold and hot, and is wholesome and cheap. It is especially recommended with steamed batter and all light puddings, souffles, &c., and with cereal creams of all sorts; or with a Gateau of Rice, Semolina, &c. Bertranda Sauce.—Put four ounces of sweet almonds in the oven after blanching and chopping them; when a good brown colour, pour over them a little milk, and set them by the fire to infuse for an hour or so, then strain off the milk, and add enough boiled custard to makeup a pint; add a little brown colouring and some ratafias, about two ounces, crushed and put through a fine sieve, and a little essence of almonds, with a .teaspoonful of brown brandy. This may be served hot or cold. It is a suitable accom- ■ paniment to Little Brown, Fio, and other Puddings. Blackberry Sauce.—This is a favourite almost everywhere, and very wholesome, and there are various ways of making it. For a .plain sauce, make a tureen of Melted Butter or Corn- flour Sauce, and add some bottled blackberry syrup; or, in the fruit season, some juice, drawn off as for making jelly. Or, dissolve some jam or jelly for use in the same way : if jam be used, it must be strained or sieved to free it from the seeds. For a rich sauce to be served cold, good cus- tard should form the foundation, and blackberry brandy be used to flavour it. Brandy Sauce (Plain).—Add a glass of brandy to a pint of Melted Butter or plain custard. Serve hot or cold. Brandy Sauce (Rich).—The equal measures of rich melted butter and brandy; add the spirit off the fire, heat, but do not boil again. Another way.—Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs, a gill of cream, and a gill of milk (see Custards) ; add a few lumps of sugar, and, off the fire, a gill of pale brandy. If liked, lemon- rind grated or Vanilla sugar may be added to this to heighten the flavour. Another way.—Boil together for ten minutes a gill of water and four ounces of loaf sugar; skim a few times, take it from the fire, and stir in a glass of brandy. These three sauces are suitable for rich plum puddings. They may also be served with many other kinds of puddings, both hot and cold ; for tho latter the third and fourth recipes are most suitable. Brown Bread Sauce.—Take a slice of bread (made from finely-ground whole-meal) a few days old, rub it through a wire sieve, and add a pint of boiling milk to half a pint of the crumbs. Crush an ounce of - ratafia biscuits to powder, sieve them, stir them into the bread and- milk, then cover, and leave until cold. Make a pint of rich custard, set aside to 'cool, then stir in a wineglassful of pure maraschino liqueur. Put the bread and milk in a pan, and stir it to the boil; let it cool again, then mix it with the custard, after sweetening to taste, and last of all add a gill of cream. Serve vory cold; iced if possible. _ ■ This is a very, delicious sauce-; it is