UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 210 with tomato butler. Cover with more sausage meat, and level the tops. Put a sheet of buttered paper on, and bake in a gentle oven, about half an hour. Pass a palette knife round, turn out carefully, and dish them on the border. Pour brown tomato sauce over them. While they are cooking, a-beef sausage or two should bo cooked, by frying or broiling. Then make some round croutons; put a little slice of the sausage on each, and mask with tomato butter; use these for garnishing tho base of the mould, with small cherry tomatoes, fried or braised, in between. Fill up the mould with Brown Macaroni, garnished on the top with tomatoes as used for the base. Boudins, Mushroom h la fjliarlecotta.—Required : some beef quenelle mixture, half a gill of mush- room ketchup, the same of beef gravy or stock, a pound of mushrooms, two ounces of butter, seasoning, eggs, maca- roni, &c. Cost, about 3s. per dozen. Wash tho mushrooms, cut them up, put them in a pan with the butter, some seasoning, a morsel of shalot, chopped, and the gravy and ketchup; cook and sieve the mixture, then beat in the eggs, two good-sized, or throe small. Butter some small moulds, sprinkle with grated ham and bread- crumbs, line them with the quen- elle mixtui'o, and put some of tho mushroom in tho centre, then cover with more quenelle mixture. Knock them on tho table, so as to well fill. Then cover with buttered paper and bake in a tin filled half their- depth with boiling water for ten minutes. Then take them from the tin (the latter must bo removed), dry them, and finish them on the oven shelf for ten to fifteen minutes more. Turn out, and dish on a ring-shaped croustado; fill up the centro with macaroni cooked in stock, and pour Brown Mushroom Sauce on the top. Pour a little Brown Sauce round, and serve hot. Make the quenelle mixturo as directed for Game Quenelles in this chapter, using beef in place of garno. Brains in Potato Cases.— Required: half a pint of Parsley Sauce, two eggs, boiled hard, tho brains of a sheep or calf, and a couple of ounces of cooked ham, some pota- toes, and garnish as below. Prepare the cases, round or oval, as directed for Kidney in Potato Casks, in this chapter. Make the sauce, and mix t he cooked ham and brains with it; both should be cut in dice; heat and season, and add the whites of the eggs also in dice. Finish off as before, and sprinkle with the yolks of tho eggs, passed through a siove. A pinch of powdered thyme, and a drop of essence of mace or nutmeg- should be added to tho sauce; a good deal of the success of dishes of this kind depends upon tho seasoning. Another way.—After filling the cases, put the rest of the potato mix- ture on with a spoon, then make it smooth with a knife, but form it dome shaped. Brush over with the yolk of a raw egg, and mark with a skewer, then heat in a sharp oven. The little cases must bo well buttered. In following this recipe, put the yolks of tho hard eggs into the sauce; they may be cut up or sieved. Egg sauce can bo used instead of parsley sauce. Calf’s Feet a la Elanquette. —Required : two feet, sauce as below, eggs, garnish, &c. Cost, about 2s. The feet should be boiled, and left to cool: the bones removed, and the meat cut into neat pieces of equal size. A pint of Bechamel should be brought to the boil, and thickened with the yolks of two raw eggs in the usual way, then flavoured with a single drop of almond essence. The meat must then be put in, and left until heated, turned on a hot dish, and garnished with cut lemons, and croutons coated with sieved egg yolk and chopped parsley. When almond flavouring is objected to, uso a little lemon juice, or herbal vinegar. Calf's Feet a l'Unez. {See recipe for Sauce Verte.)—Make enough sauce to coat the feet; prepare