696 ■UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. a quarter of a pint of Lucca oil, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, another of powdered mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them bake gently nearly an hour, squeeze the strained juice of half a lemon over them, and serve very hot. If liked, a clove of garlic may be minced and put with them. Cost, very uncertain. Truffles in Madeira.—Re- quired : a dozen tine fresh truffles, Madeira to cover them, a couple of cloves, a pinch of cayenne and mig- nonette pepper, salt, an ounce of butter, and half an ounce of glaze. Cost, variable. After the truffles are washed and prepared they must be kept cool until wanted. Put them in a saucepan with the wine and seasoning, and cook until tender; then add the glaze, and keep the truffles hot while the wine is boiled quickly for a few minutes; add the butter, pour the whole over, and serve the truffles at once. Truffles, Potted.—Wash, brush, peel, and slice six ounces of fresh truffles. Dissolvo a pound of fresh butter; skim it carefully, pour it into a basin, and let it stand two or three minutes, then pour the pure oiled part away from the thick, milky substance which will have settled at the bottom. Put the sliced truffles into a delicately- clean stewTpan, and pour the butter gently over them. Let it stand until it is set, then put the saucepan on a slow fire, and stew tho truffles very gently until they are tender. Lift them into dry preserving jars, cover them with the butter, and store them in a cool and perfectly dry place. They will keep for months, and will be a most acceptable addition to the break- fast or luncheon table. The butter which remains after tho truffles are thoroughly covered, so as to exclude the air, may be potted separately, and may be used for flavouring sauces and various delicate preparations. Time to stew the truffles, thirty minutes, or more. Cost, variable. Truffles a la Serviette.— Required: truffles, bacon, wine, gravy, herbs, &c., as below. Cost, uncertain. Wash and brush the truffles to free them from dirt and grit, using many waters; drain well, and put them in a stewpan lined with thinly-sliced bacon; pour veal gravy over with aglass of white wine; add a bunch of pars- ley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a clove or two, and a little celery. Cover closely, simmer until done, and let them cool in the liquid. When re- quired for table, re-heat, and drain, and dish in a folded napkin. Send to table with cold butter. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Another way.—After washing and brushing the truffles until quite clean, dry them, and wrap each separately in a buttered paper, then bake them in a good oven, or before the fire in a Dutch oven, turning them that they may be equally and thoroughly cooked. Take off the papers, wipe the truffles with a soft warm cloth, and serve on a prettily-folded napkin. Time, about an hour. Truffles, Stewed in Cham- pagne.— Select the finest truffles for this dish, reject an}- that have a musty smell. Wash and brush them well with cold water only, change it several times, and when they arc perfectly clean line a stewpan with slices of sweet bacon; put in the truffles w'ith a bunch of parsley, green onions, and thyme, two or three bay leaves, two cloves, and a little sweet basil; pour in sufficient rich veal gravy to cover them, with half a pint of champagne. Boil them very softly "for an hour, then draw them aside and let them cool in tho gravy. Heat them afresh in it when they are wanted for table; lift them out and drain them in a very clean cloth, and dish them neatly in a white napkin, which shall contrast as strongly as possible with the dark hue of the truffles. Tho above amount of champagne is for two pounds. Bottled truffles may be used in the same man- ner ; their liquor should be used in