192 universal Cookery Booli. Soles with Crayfish.— Re- quired : a dozen small fillets of sole, a dozen crayfish tails, some crayfish butter, and. Anchovy Cream. After cooking the soles, cut them out with an oval cutter, press them and leave them until quite cold. Mix the trimmings, after pounding and sieving, with a little White Sauce, bechamel if handy. Mask the fillets with the mixture, and lay on each the half of the meat of a crayfish tail, split lengthwise. Put the crayfish butter in a forcing bag with a small, fancy pipe, and ornament the edges of the fillets, leaving the same space between, then fill up with green mayonnaise; on each crayfish put a similar ornamenta- tion down the centre. Have an oval border of aspic with a garnish inside {see Gaunishes) ; lay the fillets on this, and fill up the centre with cucumber, beetroot, and watercress, mixed with mayonnaise. Ornament the top with the rest of the cray- fish tails, and some crayfish butter as above. Serve for dinner as dressed fish, or for any cold collation. In all dishes of this sort, when fish is filleted and left to cool, it should be pressed. This is necessary in addition to the batting out before coolring it. A plate or dish, or a baking tin should be used for the purpose, some weights being set on. If required to cool in a hurry, set it on ice. Soles in Cream (a delicate and delicious dish). — Take a pair of moderate-sized soles, skin the black side, and clean them with scrupulous care. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for two minutes. Take them up, drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan. Pour over them as much sweet cream as will barely caver them, add a little salt and cayenne, a pinch of pounded mace, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up with a slice, and place them upon a hot dish. Thicken the cream with a little arrowroot, stir a tablcspoonful of strained lemon juice into it, and pour it over the fish. It may seem unnecessary that the soles should be boiled in water before they arc put into the cream, but it will be found that if this is not done the sauce will have a slightly unpleasant fishy flavour. Time to simmer the fish, eight to ten minutes. Sprats.—Those are very common fish on many parts of the British coast, and elsewhere in the northern parts of the Atlantic. The sprat is much smaller than the herring, being only about six inches long when full-grown. It strongly resembles the herring, though it is easily distinguished by the serrated belly, and by' the position of the fins, the ventral fins beginning immediately beneath the first ray of the dorsal fin, and not beneath the middle of it, as in the herring and pilchard. The Firth of Forth pro- duces sprats—called “ gar vies ” in Scotland—so abundantly that they arc- sold in Edinburgh and Glasgow by measure, and cheaper than any other kind of fish. Sprats are wholesome, and of a good flavour. They may be smoked, dried, potted, or fried, but they are best when broiled, as they are of a very oily nature. They are in season during the winter. They should be chosen as fresh as possible. This may be known by the brightness of their eyes and their silvery look. Though many persons eat them with salt alone, it will be found that their flavour is improved by the addition of a squeeze of lemon juice and a pinch of cayenne. Sprats, Dried.—Dried sprats are sometimes eaten plain, but they are very dry and salt. If liked, they may be slightly broiled, but perhaps the best way to serve them is to put them in a basin, pour boiling water upon them; then in a few minutes skin them, and serve them very hot. Sprats, Fried.—Clean the sprats dry them well, draw them at the gills, dredge them with flour, and run a small skewer through the heads of