23 HORS D’ffiUVRES. These should be prepared just before serving. Croutons al’Alberta.—Prepare some square croutons; lay across them a row of chopped lax, and another row in the opposite direction, leaving tho four corners bare. In one corner put chopped beetroot, in tho opposite one chopped tomato aspic, and in the two remaining corners put little heaps of green butter or green mayonnaise. This is a very effective savoury, and will suggest other combinations, due regard being had to flavours as well as colours. Grated ham or tongue can be used instead of lax, or smoked sausage, cut up finely, can be substi- tuted. Sardines in Aspic.—Prepare the sardines by taking them from the tin, and cutting them into fillets, after draining them free of oil and drying them carefully. On each fillet put a morsel of chopped smoked salmon or lax, and roll it up. Pour some liquid aspic in a shallow dish or tin; when set, stamp out some small oblong pieces; put each fillet of sardine on one piece and lay it in the centre of a small plate. All round the sardine put some more aspic, coloured pink, and chopped finely ; garnish with sprigs of cress and chervil, and on the top of the sardines arrange some strips of tomato, beetroot, and cucumber. Shrimps a la Dorisa.—Cut 6ome thin slices of brown bread-and- butter ; divide them into strips of two inches by rather more than half an inch ; spread them with a drop or two of anchovy essence and tomato sauce 1 mixed, and roll them up. Cut some rounds of tomato—large sound ones must be chosen—very thinly, and lay on each a little pile of shrimps, whole I ones, potted in butter; round tho shrimps, on tho tomato, put a ring of cucumbor and pickled mango cut into tiny dice shapes. Round the whole put throe or four of the little rolls of bread-and-butter. For Prawns k la Dorisa sub- stitute a couple of prawns for the shrimps. Fresh or tinned ones can be used. Hors cl’CEuvres Assortis.— Slice some lemons thinly, take out tho pips, and lay each slice on one of beet- root, cut with a crimped cutter to tho size; on tho lemon put a slice of cucumber, very thinly cut; sprinkle with oil, tarragon vinegar, and a little salt and mignonette pepper. In the centre put an olive, plain or stuffed with capers or anchovies ; roll up, and dish in a circle, the folded part down, and slightly overlapping. Hero and there, between them, put shrimps and prawns, and some nicely - trimmed radishes. Fill up tho centre of the dish with more radishes, celery cut into oven-sized lengths, and strips of beetroot, with fillets of anchovy or sardine laid on them. Garnish tho strips with capers, sprigs of chervil, small cress, &c. Small rounds of cu- cumber, with an olive on each, and a little mayonnaise on the top, can also be used instead of, or with, tho strips of beetroot; if placed alternately, as a second ring, round the centre of the dish, they have a very good effect. But tho exact arrangement of this dish cannot well be detailed ; it is intended chiefly to suggest combina- tions. For a large party, two or three dishes should bo placed about tho table; or tho samo idea can bo carried out by arranging single plates, one tor each person.