91 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. —Use whole-meal bread, and water in- ■ stead of milk ; brown an ounce of flour and an ounce of butter together in a pan, mix in a fried onion and a clove or two, add the water and crumbs, and boil for a quarter of an hour; coloiu- with browning, or put in a little ket- chup or vinegar. Sometimes sage or other herb is added, and the onion, if : finely chopped, may be left in the -sauce. Remove the cloves before serv- ing. Brown Sauce.—In the prepara- tion of dinners including a variety of dishes it would be quite impossible to -make a start without a supply of sauce, ■such as the following. Besides, there are almost every-day uses for it in ihouses where little dishes are the -rule; a “ladleful of brown sauce” enters into the composition of so many -things; and we recommend the first r recipe as one likely to meet ordinary rrequirements, and which we will call Brown Sauce, Standard, 3To. 1 —Put a quart or more of brown ■stock (No. 4) into a saucepan, with a tomato sliced and a bunch of herbs; bring to the boil, and add some brown rroux, four ounces to the quart, by de- rgrees; continue to boil, and skim so long ■as it throws up any fat; when clear, ' ammy it, and set aside for use. In cold weather a good supply may be made, as if boiled up occasionally it --.will keep well. In recipes throughout (■-his work wherever “brown sauce ” is mentioned, the above is intended, unless otherwise specified. The following is r-icher, and will be referred to as Brown Sauce No. 2.—Substi- nte stock No. 16 (page 30), and make he sauce exactly as above. When I: r -onx is not at hand, use equal parts of lour and butter, and fry to a rich crown (with a slice of onion); two unices and a half of each will bo re- quired, and the sauce must bo boiled ►veil. Brown Sauce, Vegetarian. I —Required: one ounce of butter, one ounce of floor, one or two mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, one pint of water,- a crust of bread, one onion, two cloves, a teaspoonful of walnut ketchup. Cost, about 4d. Put the crust of bread, after toasting it, in the water; when a good colour, strain it. Melt the butter, fry in it tho onion, flour, mushrooms, and herbs; add the water, boil for half an hour, put in salt and pepper and the ketchup, then strain and use. No. 2 .—This is a piquant sauce. Fry together the vegetables as above, with a tomato; add the water (un- coloured), and a tablespoonful each of tomato vinegar and caper vinegar; boil for half an hour, then season and strain. The vegetable stocks, as used for soups, may serve as the foundation for these sauces; and to the last named some chopped capers, gherkins, or parsley may be added. Suitable for serving with boiled rice or macaroni, boiled and stewed lentils, peas and beans, baked onions, and many other dishes. (See Rice, Maca- roni, and Vegetables.) Burdwan Sauce.—Put in a stew-pan half a pint of stock (No. 7), or any similar; add a teaspoonful of soy, the same of cucumber vinegar, mushroom ketchup, and lemon pickle ; bring to the boil, and tammy; put back in the pan, with a teaspoonfui of extract of meat and a gill of brown sauce; boil for a few minutes, and serve hot. (See Entrees and Game and Poultry for the various uses of this sauce.) Butter, Melted. — “ So-called melted butter is the only sauce with which many people are acquainted, and the majority have never tasted it at all,” was tho apparently paradoxical sentence which met our eye a short time ago ; it was the expression of a chef, and there is doubtless much truth in it. Of course, a good deal that goes by the name of melted buttor, and which is sometimes very thick and lumpy, and often made with milk, has no connection with tho sauce which