UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 142 similar in taste or appearance are called by one name in some parts of the Flo. 24.—Dab. country, which is more or less confusing to the uninitiated. Dace.—This is enjoyed by those who angle for amusement’s sake ; it is Fio. 25.—Dace. best when treated as above described. A sauce of lemon-juice with cayenne is served with it, or any sharp saueo may be used. Dace is sometimes stewed like eels; and we may mention that any fish can be served en matelote. (See recipes in this chapter.) Eels.—Of the tribe of eels there arc several varieties: all have smooth heads and slippery skins, with soft scales, scarcely visible; all are rich, and to bo at all digestible need very thorough cooking. Eels are taken both in fresh water and the sea; the silver eel is the best. Buy them alive if possible, and kill them by dividing the spine just behind the head, without severing it from the body. The viva- city of its motion and colour and appearance of the skin are tests of the goodness of an eel. Cost, from 6d. per pound. Eels, Baked.—A good-sized fish is best for this. After cleansingand drying, fill it with Plain Shrimp Force-meat, fasten it securely, and put it in a round baking-dish with hot butter, and cook gently, basting often, until done. Then put the eel on a dish, add browned flour to the butter in the tin, then a glass of any light wine and half a pint of fish stock or water; boil up and skim, put in a little seasoning and a tcaspoonful of shrimp essence, or some shelled shrimps cut in small pieces, and pour round the fish. There are many recipes for baked eels, but the above is very good. They can be baked unstuffed, and any brown fish sauce served with them. Tomato Sauce is also suitable, but a little fish stock added is a great improvement. Eels, Boiled.—After cleansing, soak the eels for an hour in salt and water. Prepare the -water in the ordinary way, add a good bunch of parsley, and when it is quite hot put in the eels, and simmer them until tender. Melted Butter sharpened with lemon-juice or vinegar, is a sauce often served; but Brown Caper or the sauce named in the previous recipe, is also good with boiled eels. Eels, Fried.—Cut the fish into four-inch lengths, or fry small ones whole, curling them round like a whiting; they should be floured, egged, and crumbed (ere Eels, Grilled), and dished on a napkin, with fried parsley as garnish. Tartare Sauce, hot or