CERKALS. 569 general purposes the first-named is tlie most useful. Sago must be well washed; it should be rubbed between the hands, and the water changed several times. Cost, from 2d. to 3d. per pound. Sago meal is imported into this country, and used for the foundation of custard powder and other articles manufactured on a large scale. In this form it can only be distinguished from arrowroot by microscopic examination. For various dishes from sago, see Index. Sago, Moulded.—This is simple, but very nice with stewed fruit, or a sweet sauce. Put four ounces of washed sago into a saucepan that has been rubbed at the bottom and sides with a bit of butter; add a quart of cold milk, stir to the boil, and cook for an hour and a half. Sago burns very quickly, and if no double pan be handy, watchfulness and frequent stirring are needed. Beat in the yolk of a raw egg off the fire, then pour into a damp mould or basin, and turn out when cold. If preferred without fruit or sauce, the sago must be sweetened; for the sake of economy the egg can be left out. Cost, about 5d., exclusive of sauce or fruit. Semolina.—This highly nutritious cereal is made from wheaten flour of the best kinds. There are two sorts— the white and the yellow, the latter being considered the best. In appear- ance semolina is similar to hominy, but is less rough and cooks in a shorter time. It is admirably adapted for in- valid dishes of all sorts; and for general purposes it can be used like hominy ; it is added to many kinds of soups, both meat and vegetable. Cost, about 3d. per pound, or, for the best Genoa, 4d. (See Index for other dishes.) Semolina Mould, Savoury.— Required : semolina, milk, liver, ham, mushrooms, eggs, cheese, crumbs, seasoning, and sauce as below. Cost, about 10d., exclusive of sauce. Cook in a jar or saucepan, two ounces of semolina and a pint of milk for an hour. (See the recipes under Hominy.) Draw the pan from the fire, and add a tablespoonful of calf’s liver that lias been fried and minced, the same measure of fried mushrooms, and two ounces of grated ham. Season with salt nnd pepper, and a pinch of cayenne and mace. Add half a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and the yolks of two raw eggs; beat hard for a few minutes; then stir in the whites, whipped to a froth. Grease a plain mould, coat it with bread-crumbs, and pour the mixture in—the mould being only two-thirds filled. Bake until the top is firm and a golden-brown colour; about twenty minutes. Turn out care- fully on to a hot dish, and brush over with thin glaze; pour Brown Sauce round, and serve for luncheon or dinner. This is a very good dish; for another variety, omit the cheese, and add any remnants of cooked game. The mould may be surrounded with braised mushrooms or tomatoes (see Dressed Vegetables), and the sauce or gravy, such as would be served with game, sent to table in a boat. Semolina Mould, Sweet.— Use threo ounces of semolina to a pint and a half of milk; the grain should be very carefully washed and looked over for this. Cook as above, add an egg, after it has cooled a little, with any essence to flavour, and white sugar to sweeten, about an ounce. Pour into a damp mould, and turn out when cold. Serve with jam or fruit. Cost, fid. or (id., exclusive of adjuncts. Sparghetti.—This is a form of macaroni, thread or taper-shaped, in- stead of pipe-shaped. It is served at the commencement of dinner in Italy, and the ways of preparing it are many. A very simple one is to boil it in slightly salted water or plain stock, then to turn it into thedish for serving, and mix with each quarter pound a tablespoon- ful or more of grated Parmesan cheese. This is tossed lightly but quickly, until the cheese molts and has a cobwebby appearance; or, to use tho collect term, until it “spins.” About as much tomato conserve ns chocso is then stirred in, and the dish served at once.