UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 248 Ham, Roast, Cold.—Required: a ham, and adjuncts as below. Cost, about lOd. to lid. per pound, exclusive of garnish, &c. This is a very nice dish for a largo party at any time of the year. The ham should he cooked as directed for Ham, Roast a la Crawshaave, but use only half tlie quantity of wine for the final basting, and in skinning and trimming remove any superfluous fat, and make the surface smooth. Then set aside until cold, and lightly glaze the ham ; when this is set, pour over some pale pink aspic. When this is firm, trim tho edges, and put the ham on a clean dish, with a border of dressed watercross to surround it, and some pink and yellow aspic in fancy blocks, and here and thore, some small, whole tomatoes. Put a frill round tho knuckle of tho ham, pink, white, or silver (the latter is moro suitable for a wedding or a <hristoning), and garnish the top with Ham Butter, and Egg Butter, forming any design according to taste ; or some leaves of aspic cun be put all round the ham in a chain, and bordered with the butter; a largo star of aspic, with a similar border, should he put in the centre. For the butter, use a bag with a loaf or rose pipe. Serve any nice salad with tho above; one of fruit, iced, is suitable. XoTi^t- It is very necessary' that the ham be carefully washed for this ; any rusty parts must be removed, as tbe least trace of such will quite spoil the dish. A dish of savoury eggs (see Eggs) may be served with the ham. Kidney, Pig’s, in Batter. - Re- quired : a pig’s kidney, a pint of batter made asforRicn Yorkshire Pudding, seasoning, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. to Is. 6d. Take a kidney from a bacon pig, skin it, and mince it finely, add half its weight of minced ham; chop a small onion, a tablespoonful of parsloy, and a fresh sage leaf; put all in a pan with a little hot butter, and fry from five to ten minutes, stirring all the timo ; then put the whole in a strainer and leave to drain. Put back in a pan with a gill of sauce, Aiti.e and Curry Sauce is nicest; cover, and leave to simmer while the batter is baked. It should be put in two shallow tins, and cooked in a sharp oven. When done, cut into squares or fingers, and make into sandwiches with the kidney mixture; put in the oven to get hot, and sprinkle with coralline pepper just before serving. Make a ring round a dish by letting the pieces overlap, and fill the centre with Fried Addles. If round tins are handy, use them, and cut tho batter into triangular shapes, then the apples can bo served in a separate dish. A mixture of apples and onions, also fried, will bo enjoyed by some, and the same may be said of fried turnips. Kidney, Pig’s, in Sauce.—The sauces most suitable are Curry, Chut- ney, Piquant, or Tartars. Tho kid- ney should bo skinned and sliced, then cooked in a saute pan, and after draining be lnid in tho sauce until hot through. Kidneys, Mutton, Broiled, Whole.— These are very delicious, but care is required, though this may be said of every dish of kidneys. First skin, but do not pierce or cut them; then dip them into enough fat to cover them. It must be as hot as if for frying. Take them out instantly; have some pepper and a little mush- room powder ready on a plate (equal quantities), sprinkle a pinch on each side tho kidneys, and lay them on a greased gridiron over a clear fire. Turn them every minute, and give them from twelve to fifteen minutes. Dish them when the gravy clots on the surface. Have a dish ready as hot as possible, with oval croutons, one for each kidney, and put a small pat of MaItre d’Hotel, or other savoury butter on each. Serve very hot. If tho kidneys are very small, ten minutes will cook them. Kidneys, Mutton, Devilled, Whole.—Skin tho kidneys and dip