CEREALS. 5-45 a real delicacy, are now to be had in this country. They are in original tins of something over a hundred, and are eaten for tea or with cheese. They are obtainable through dealers in Italian produce. Cereals, French.—{See French Cereals.) Cereals, Malted.— {See Malted Cekeals.) Cereals, Steam-cooked.— {See Steam-cooked Cereals.) Corn-flour. -— Corn-starch is an- other name given to this, especially in works on American cookery. It is also sold under various fancy titles— as Maizena, Oswego, &c. There may be slight differences in the various preparations; but they can only be regarded as starch rather than flour, and the feeding value is the same in all. Corn-Hour is, however, generally amalgamated with milk, eggs, butter, &c., in the form of cakes, creams, &c.; the nutriment is thus increased, and for what we may call delicate cookery, com-flour is very useful. The remarks made under Arrowroot, as well as in that devoted to the consideration of food for invalids, apply with equal force here. Cost, from 4d. to 6d. per pound. Directions for use are to be found on all packets of corn-flour. {See Index for recipes.) French Cereals.—This is a general rather than a special term, by which we distinguish certain prepara- tions of French manufacture that are •veil known and largely used in this country—so largely used, in fact, that they would be greatly missed by all who are at all experienced in refined cookery. Their chief advantages over the ordinary sorts are their good quality to start with, the short time in which they may be cooked, and their digestibility. But owing to their cost, they are only likely to be utilised for better-class dishes or for invalids. Perhaps one of the best-known is the crushed tapioca to which reference has been made in former recipes; this is K called either Tapioca Groult, Creep, or Exotique. Of sago there are Sagou Groult, Mignonette, and others. Either of .these will cook in about twenty minutes if stirred into boiling soup or milk. The same rule applies to all— the stirring must be continued from beginning to end, or the grain forms into lumps. Semoule d'ltalie is fine semolina, and Creme de Eiz is the finest rice flour. Creme d'Orge is a prepara-. tion of barley, and Orge d'Allemagne is the distinguishing mark of the German barley. Besides these, there are potato flour and chestnut flour, called respec- tively Fecule de Pomme de Terre and Farine de Chataignes, both of which are admirably adapted for cakes and biscuits, as well as for puddings and souffles, and other dishes wheie light- ness and delicacy are of imporlance. Recipes for these will be found on reference to the Index. Frumenty or Furmenty.— [See Wheat.) Home-made Macaroni and other Italian Pastes.—The materials required are fine flour, eggs, water, and salt. The method is as follows :—Put the flour on a board, see that it is quite dry and properly sifted, and use only the best Vienna. To each pound of flour add four eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and some water (about four tablespoonfuls); whether this is better warm or cold is a disputed point; some cooks declare that it must be lukewarm, and others say that only an icy coldness will yield good results. Some, again, say that no water is wanted, and use eggs only ; but the water does facilitate the rolling ; the paste is richer if only the yolks of the eggs bo put in, but unless the whites can bo used up in some other dish, tho wholo eggs can be put in. In any case, tho paste must be stiff, the board must bo thoroughly floured, and the paste cannot be too thinly rolled. In mixing the ingre- dients a spoon should be used at first, then, as it gets thick, the fingers must be employed ; should it prove too stiff