401 GAME AND POULTRY. a famous curry may be made. After cutting up the meat (do not chop it), make some good curry sauce with some of the liquor, and heat the fowl in it. A gill or less, of cream, is a very decided improvement, and even then the dish is not extravagant, as old fowls can sometimes be bought very cheaply in the country. Fowl, Boned after Opening. —The first thing is to cut the fowl right down from neck to tail, through the back. A fowl ready drawn is wanted. The flesh is then raised on both sides with the point of the knife, until the sockets of the thighs and wings are reached. These may now be boned, as after they are detached the whole of the body may be taken out entirely, leaving only the merrythought and neckbones to be removed. If the pro- cess seems easier that way, the backbone can be cut through as well as the flesh; this may soon be removed, and the operator can then turn about the rest as most convenient. The precise way of boning a fowl when opened is of no importance, for some will manage it in a very different way from others. The thing is to get the meat clear of bones, and however it is accomplished the back, where cut, has to be stitched up afterwards. Thus prepared, fowl is generally used for a Galantine, which nee; or it can be so boned for pies and other dishes, instead of joint- ing it before boning, as some people find the latter the more difficult, though the majority consider it easier. Our recipes, however, include all the methods, so the requirements of all are met. Fowl, Braised, with Toma- toes.—Required: a fowl, wine, and seasoning as below, stock, cream, tomatoes, sausages, and sauce, and some celery. Cost, from 6s. to 6s. on an average. This is a very good dish. Rub the bottom of a stewpan across with a clove of garlic; put in a chopped shalot, a morsel of root ginger, a strip of lemon peel, a grain of cayenne, two cloves, a few peppercorns, the piece of a lemon, and a glass of light wine. Truss a fowl for boiling, lay it in, cover, and let it steam, with a shake now and then, until the moisture is absorbed. Pour in half a pint of white stock (such as No. 9), lay a buttered paper on the breast of the fowl, and cook for an hour, or until tender. Then put in a gill of pure tomato pulp, a pinch of sugar, salt to taste, and a little French mustard. Thicken with two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot. Boil up, pour through a hot strainer—it need not be fine, just to get rid of the spices, &c.—and mix in a half gill of boiling cream, and a few drops of carmine. Pour some of this over the breast of the fowl. Have ready some small pork sausages, coated with thick, white sauce. Place these round the dish, with little heaps of cooked celery, also masked with sauce, in between. Slice some cooked toma- toes, coat these with white sauce and lay them along the breast. Send the rest of the gravy to table in a boat, adding a little more stock to thin it. Veal sausages can be used in place of pork, or herb forcemeat is liked best by some. Fowl and Burta.—Required : a fowl, and a preparation of potatoes as below. Cost, about 5s. on an average. This is an Indian dish. Burta is the name given to the dish of mashed potatoes served with the fowl, which is jointed and sprinkled with curry powder, then fried a delicate brown, drained, and simmered for a short time in chicken gravy. Meanwhile, the potatoes are to be prepared as follows: boil a couplo of pounds of mealy potatoes, break them up with a fork, and mix them with a table- spoonful of very mild onions, chopped and pounded with a green chilli, uud a little pure mustard oil. Then add lemon or lime juice to taste, with salt and pepper. Work the mass until very Bmooth, then form into shape, re-heat, and serve the fowl round it. Garnish with sliced limes or lemons. The