UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 78 ■which hake may he added, will make excellent soup. Eels are a good addi- tion ; the bones should he boiled with the fish used for the stock, and the fillets cooked and served in the soup. Turtle.—The turtle, or sea tor- toise, is found in most of the seas of warm climates. The green turtle is the variety used for making the cele- brated turtle soup which forms such a noted feature of municipal feasts, hundreds of quarts being served every year at the Lord Mayor’s dinner. This soup is so expensive, and also so Fio. 15.—Green Turtle. difficult to prepare, that it is seldom made in private houses ; if it is wanted, it is bought ready-made, the cost being a guinea a quart. The turtles from which soup is made in England are sent alive from the West Indies. They vary in weight from 30 lbs. to 500 lbs., and in price from Is. to 2s. per lb., ac- cording to the state of the market. Turtle Soup.—This recipe is for soup made from the dried turtle flesh ; six ounces will make about three pints of good soup. It should be soaked in lukewarm water for three days and nights, and for the last twelve hours the heat of the water may be slightly increased. Change the water every twelve hours, and if a slightly un- pleasant odour arises from the flesh, rub it lightly over with salt. Whilst the soaking process is going on keep the basin containing the turtle in a warm place, and during the night let it stand in a cool oven. For tho last twelve hours let the water in which it is soaked be of a good warmth. When the meat has been soaked till it has lost its gluey appearance, and is swollen and comparatively soft, cut it into neat pieces two inches square, and boil it gently for twelve hours in strong stock prepared as follows:—Put a slice of lean undressed ham into a gallon saucepan, with a pound and a half of gravy beef, a pound and a half of knuckle of veal, two onions, each one with three cloves stuck into it, a head of celery, a small turnip and carrot, as much parsley as will fill a teacup, three teaspoonfuls of dried marjoram, three teaspoonfuls of dried basil, one or two mushrooms, if they are at hand, half a teaspoonful of lemon-thyme, half a saltspoonful of pennyroyal, a small teaspoonful of salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. If any chicken bones or pieces of cold roast meat are at hand, thoy may be added to the rest. Fill the saucepan with cold water, simmer the soup very gently for twelve hours, and remove the scum as it rises. The soup must on no account be loft in the saucepan all night; but if the simmering is not finished at night, the soup must be poured out into a basin, set m a cool place, and put on the fire again next day. When the soup has been reduced to two quarts, strain carefully, and remove the fat with scrupulous care. Get a pound and a half of fresh eels, cut them into pieces two inches long, and boil these in the stock. When they are tender, lift them out of the stock, and again strain it by passing it through a jelly-bag two or three times; if necessary, clear it with white of egg. When it is clear, put in the pieces of turtle flesh, and boil them gently till they are as tender as well-dressed calf’s head. At the last moment add rather more than a claret-glassful of good Madeira or good golden sherry. Pour the soup into the tureen, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and it will he ready for serving. If it is necessary to clarify the soup, whisk the whites of two eggs with about a gill of cold water. Stir this briskly