UNIVERSAL cookery book. 190 basket is useful, if they are egged and crumbed; but if coated with batter there must be a good supply of fat, and the fillets thrown into it, and taken up with a slice. In straining the fat after, ho careful that no bits of batter are left in. Soles, Filleted and Rolled. —First cover the fillets with a force- meat, Mushroom, Shrimp, or Lobster ; roll and tie them. Cook them in a buttered tin with lemon juice, and a buttered paper laid over. Dish them, and serve a sauce with them accord- ing to the nature of the stuffing; if shrimp or lobster is used, the fillets should be sprinkled with lobster coral; if mushroom, use truflle and parsley chopped. Sole, Fried.—Clean the solo, if not already done, by making a slit near the head; take out the gills and tho inside; skin it by making a cut across at the tail; run the thumb up the sides to loosen it, then hold tho tail down firmly on a board; take hold of the skin with a cloth, or it will slip, and draw it backwards; first see that it is free from the flesh, or it will leave the bone bare. Then take off tho skin on the other side in the same way. Trim off the fins and tail with scissors, wash and dry the fish thoroughly, and leave it for some time in the kitchen, that it may be warm as well as dry; then flour it well a time or two, by dredging, and shaking off all looso flour. Break an egg on a plate, boat it lightly together, lay the fish in, and brush it over both sides, remembering to use a skewer to lift it by ; then lay the fish on a sheet of paper, with plenty of bread-crumbs, made by rubbing the crumb of bread a few days old through a fine wire sieve. Take up tho opposite corners of the paper, shake the crumbs all over the fish, and smooth any uneven places with a broad knife; a palette knife is useful for all such purposes. Mean- while, the fat should have been heating (see Frying) ; and when quite ready, plunge in the fish; a medium-sized one will be done in seven minutes: a larger will require ten to fifteen minutes. It has already been said that the fat should brown and crisp the fish at once, hut in the case of a largo fish, some little management is needed, or it will he too brown before it is cooked through. In a minute or two the pan may be moved, so that the heat is somewhat reduced ; but a very thick sole is better not cooked whole. When done, drain on a sheet of paper or cloth before the fire, then serve with cut lemon, and fried parsley if liked as garnish; and send sauce separately to table; plain melted butter is often preferred. The head may bo left on or not, according to taste; at one time it was always left; now it is often taken off; but it must be done neatly and carefully, to avoid waste. Some cooks mix a little flour with tho crumbs, and a- sprinkling of white pepper may be added. The sole may be skinned black side only; or both may ho left on ; but it will take longer, and should he put in the fat black side down. If there is no drainer to the kettle, take up the fish with two fish slices, but it is very liable to break; should this happen, sprinkle a pinch of raspings over the crack. If in doubt about a sole, or other fish being done enough, slightly break it in the thick part; the test is the same as for boiled fish. Break the side that will he next the dish. Sole a la Normaiide.—Choose a thick solo, clean it, and draw off the dark skin. Butter thickly a dish that will stand tho fire, and strew over it some finely minced onions. Season the sole with salt and pepper, and lay it on tho onion ; sprinkle a little more onion and thyme and chopped parsley on tho surface, and moisten the fish well with French white wine. Put it in a gentle oven, and hake it until done enough. Take a dozen mussels, cleanse and scrape them, boil them in tho usual way, beard and drain them, and ky them on the sole. Make a quarter of a pint of rich White Sauce,