PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 625 mashed potatoes and boiled cabbage, heated together with a lump of butter and a little salt and pepper. Another Oolcannon is composed of boiled car- rots, instead of potatoes; they are chopped or mashed, and mixed with the cabbage; while yet another is made from the three vegetables ; they may be mixed up, or heated in layers in a saucepan, with seasoning, and enough oil or butter to moisten them. Colcannon, with Pulse.—A dish made in either of the above ways may be mixed with a small proportion of cooked peas, beans, or lentils, which should be seasoned with some sort of spice, a little ground cinnamon, and cloves, for example, or a morsel of curry paste or powder. With refer- ence to these combinations of fresh vegetables and pulse, a writer long resident in India, says, “ Pulse alone is not good in large proportion ; try it with other vegetables, or with rice; in England you have plenty of scope for variety; and by the addition of con- diments yon may make delicious dishes. Remember that oil or butter will be wanted, and for your green vegetable don’t depend upon cabbage alone; try some of the others that are so little eaten, but just as good, and you may benefit both in mind and body, to say nothing of your pocket.” Corn, Canned, is delicious for serving as a vegetable; it is particu- larly useful in winter, when fresh vegetables are, perhaps, both dear and faulty. It should be turned from the tin into a saucepan, with a little salt and pepper, and a slice of butter, and made thoroughly hot. Or some milk may be used instead of butter, and thickened with flour. Another way is to heat the com in a small quantity of sauce; white sauce is usually chosen, though there is no reason why brown should not be used. Biscuit-crumbs can be used for thickening. An American dish is prepared thus Put a quart can of com, with its liquor, in a saucepan, and stew it softly, then thicken with corn-flour, mixed with milk, and serve in a deep dish. Some persons liko some other flavour to give a slight piquancy to the dish, but it is more often served in the natural state. The exact time for stewing cannot be stated; some of the corn wants nothing- hut warming up ; while a good deal is improved by a little further cooking.' The average cost is from 7d. to lOd. per tin of a quart (nominal); or, from od. to 6d. per small tin, about a pint (imperial), of the best varieties. Green corn, sweet corn, and American corn are the various names given to this useful article. Corn, Canned, with Barley. —A nice dish, which goes well with boiled or baked meat, is made by add- ing some previously boiled pearl barley (about a fourth) to the corn; some of the barley liquor can go in, and a thickening of barley flour with milk is a very suitable one. Wheat or oatmeal may be used in the same way. Corn, Canned, with Fried Vegetables.—Required: a can of com, some mixed vegetables, and gravy, as below. Cost, about Is. to is. 2d. Turn the com out, without its liquor, into a saucepan. Add to a quart tin about half a pint of mixed vegetables, that have been cut up, and fried a good brown ; onions, turnips, carrots, and haricots, boiled previously, are very useful for the purpose. Then pour over a gravy, made by pouring half a pint of the corn liquor and water into the frying-pan, with season- ing and thickening; boil up and colour a little. Cover closely, and stew until all the vegetables are soft. This is very tasty, and may bo eaten as a separato course, or with meat. The appearanco of the corn is here sacrificed to the flavour. Cucumbers. — This delicious ediblo is a groat favourite. Though it may be served in various ways, it is never so good as when eaten raw.