Universal cookery book. 28(3 must either eat it iu a fresh condition, or get the butcher to hang it for them. Should a joint become tainted, owing to sudden change of temperature or any other cause, the best restorative is, we think, permaugauate of potash—enough being added to give the water a pink tinge; both must be renewed until the meat ceases to discolour the water. After this treatment, thorough drying is important, and for baking or roasting the meat must be floured. With regard to frozen meat, now largely consumed in this country, certain rules for its treatment must be carefully followed by those who would serve it in its best condition. Like fresh meat, it needs to be hung for a time to become tender. Supposing a butcher cuts up one of these sheep in the morning, and it is bought and cooked for the mid-day dinner, the result will be very different from that of the same meat cooked two to four days (according to the weather) later. But it must be remembered, both in hanging it before cooking and for cooking, that the cut end must be upwards, or a good deal of the juice will run out; where two ends are cut, as a loin or neck, the position must be horizontal. The time required is rather longer than for home-fed meat, as, after the usual preliminary closing of the pores, the cooking should be very slow. We may here repeat the reminder to bring into the kitchen, a few hours before cooking, any joint, whether English or foreign, in cold, frosty weather. It is astonishing what an improvement will thus be effected, both in flavour and the tender juicy condition of the joint. Frozen meat should not be floured during the hanging, it is apt to turn sour; but it should bo dredged with flour for baking or roasting. It is admirably adapted for stews, pies, and puddings, on account of its tenderness; boiling is the least satisfactory way of cooking it, and for beef tea or mutton tea, frozen meat is not suitable; this is explained in the chapter on Invalid Cookery. carving. That carving is an art none can deny, but whether the bad carving so often met with is really due, as is sometimes said, to stupidity, awkward- ness, or laziness, is an open question. Practice has much to do with it, and a good knife much more; given both, no one need carve badly, assuming that the general principles are rightly understood; and these are embodied in cutting fairly, so that the prime portions are not dug out, and the inferior ones left bodily on the dish; and in the retention of the gravy as far as possible. It is not possible to carve meat iu any way without the gravy escaping; the point is to avoid the hacking and chopping, which results in a dish full of gravy, and dry chunks of meat on everybody’s plate. There are many reasons why a bad carver should endeavour to perfect himself (or herself, as the case maybe); foremost, perhaps, are the palpable ones that meat has a very different flavour and appearance when nicely carved, and that a good deal of waste is prevented. A joint cut fairly to begin with can reappear a greater number of times as a joint than if spoilt in the first cutting, and fag ends only are left upon the dish.