VENISON. 351 Haunch., to Carve.—This is not a very difficult task. In carving a haunch of venison, first cut it across down to the bone in the line, a n; then turn the dish with the knuckle farthest from you, put in the point of the knife* and cut down as deep as you can. in the direction shown by the dotted lines, A to c; you may take out as many slices as you please on the right and left. The knife should slope in making the first cut, and then the whole of the gravy will be received in the well. It is held by genuine, epicures that some parts of the haunch are better flavoured than others, but it is doubtful whether ordinary palates will detect any difference. Slices of venison should not be cut thick, and plenty of gravy should be given with them. The fat is very apt to get cool soon, and become hard and disagreeable to the palate. For this reason, very quick carving is absolutely necessary for this joint. The long slices contain most fat at the loin end. The outside knots of brown fat are much esteemed by Fio. 90.—Hacsch of Venison, to Carve. most people. It should be remem- bered in carving, that to please one’s guests in the matter of serving the various parts of a joint, is as much the duty of the carver as it is to cut the meat to the best advantage ; and this may be done without disfiguring the joint, by the exercise of forethought in requesting those present to express their preference. Heck, to Boast.—Let it bo separated from the shoulder when quite stiff, then shorten the rib-bones, out do not cut through the fat. Baw off the ehino-bone, and remove the small bones that cover the fillet part of the neck. The piece of fat from which the bones are taken should be rolled over the ribs. Prepare the neck as already directed for other joints, and serve in the same way, and with the same accompaniments. Very often the flour and water paste is omitted in this case, and plenty of greased paper only is used. Time, about twelve or thirteen minutes per pound. This is an excellent joint for a small party. To carve it, proceed as for a saddle (this should always be cut saddle fashion), cuts being made in the' direction of a to b, and c to d ; from the latter part fat portions are ob- tained. Some from each part should be served to all present. Bed Deer.—This should be cooked in every respect like ordinary venison, as in other recipes. It re- quires to be well hung. Some regard it as very delicious, others as coarse and ill-flavoured. But whatever may be the opinion of sportsmen, it is, on the whole, les3 in favour than well-fed venison of the usual kind. Boebuck.— The roebuck, or" common roe, is of. a reddish-brown colour, and, though small, is elegant in shape, and nimble. Plainly dressed, it is not worth much, but when marinaded, larded, or jugged, it is, rery good. The flesh has been com- pared in flavour to mutton. . Boebuck, Haunch of, Mar- inaded. — Itequirod : meat, suuco arid mirinado, ns below. Cost, uncer- tain. Proparo a marinade sufficiently