PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G21 deal of flavour; it will serve to give a carrot flavour to a vegetable curry, or a stew of mixed vegetables. These little points should bo borne in mind in dealing with tinned vegetables of all sorts; for it is seldom that no use at all can be found for the liquor. Cost, about Is. per tin. Carrots, with Macaroni and Spinach.—Required : spinach, car- rots, macaroni, eggs, sauce, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. (id. This is a very economical and tasty- looking dish. For an ordinary-sized dish of spinach, allow about a dozen small carrots, and half a pound of macaroni. Boil the carrots (set; Car- rots, Young, Boiled, last method), and set them upright round the spinach, boiled, and put pyramid form in the middle of the dish. Put the macaroni round the carrots, in little heaps, with here and there a quarter of a hard-boiled egg; about eight quarters should be used in this way, and the same number put about the pile of spinach. The sauce from the carrots should be poured half over the macaroni, and half over the eggs and spinach. .Send Melted Butter to table, and serve as a separate course at luncheon or dinner. Any green vege- table may replace the spinach, and the macaroni may be plainly boiled, or cooked in a savoury manner, but it should be white, the better to contrast with the rest of the ingredients. [See Macaroni.) Cauliflower. — This favourite vegetable should be cut early, while the dew is still upon it. Choose those that are close and white, and of medium size. Whiteness is a sign of quality and freshness. Great care should be taken that there are no caterpillars about the stalk, and, to ensure this, lay the vegetable with its head downwards in cold water and salt for an hour or two, changing the water; if insects are in the leaves they will be drawn out and float. 'The outer leaves may be cooked like cabbage. Cost, from 2d. to 6d. each on an average. Cauliflower, Boiled.—Examine the vegetable, after treating as abovo described, to make sure there are no slugs left in ; drain, and put it on to boil in plenty of fast-boiling water, with a couple of teaspoonfuls of s lit to the half gallon. This should bo well skimmed, or the scum will adhere to the cauliflower, which should bo laid in, flower down, the stem cut evenly, the outer leaves taken off, and tho inner leaves trimmed round the edge, so that the flower stands above tho green. Boil, uncovered, very gently, until tho flower is quite soft, but un- broken, from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size. If a number of very small ones are cooked, cut the stems very flat, and place them in the dish to resemble one large cauliflower. Firm, close ones, of medium size, are best; when large and discoloured, and open, they should be used up in other ways. In draining, remember to turn the cauliflower upside down in the colan- der, and take it up very carefully with a slice. Serve, flower up, with White Sauce over. Parsley Sauce is some- times liked. Cauliflower, Boiled (French method).—Cut away all the stalk and green leaves, and divide the flower into quarters .or sprigs; soak for a short time in water, with salt and a little vinegar in, then boil in the usual way, and arrange neatly in a dish. Pour Melted Butter over, and serve. We may point out that cauliflower leaves can be cooked for a separate dish, just like white cabbage. In some families the vegetable is always put on tho plates without a morsel of the leaf or stalk, even when only the primest of the leaves are left on ; when this is the case, it is far more economical to remove tho loaves at first, and cook tho flower separately, as described above; or to boil it in milk (after par- boiling in water), then to add flour and butter to the milk for the sauce. When green vegetables aro difficult to