329 MUTTON. and seasoned with sago or parsley, or a spoonful of mixed herbs, and a little salt and pepper. This addition in- creases the nourishing properties of the dish. (See recipes under Cereals AND Pl'LSB.) Lancashire Hot Pot. — Re- quired: three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, four mutton kidneys, a score of oysters, four onions, and three pounds of potatoes. Cost, about 4s. 9d. Cut the mutton into chops, chop off about one inch and a half from the end, and trim away all superfluous fat. Place a layer at the bottom of a brown t arthenware stewpot (called in Lanca- shire a “ hot-pot dish ”) and put over the mutton a layer of sliced kidneys, an onion cut into thin slices, four or five oysters, and half a pound of sliced potatoes. Sprinkle a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoonful of curry - powder over them; then repeat until the dish is full. Place whole potatoes at the top, and pour in the oyster liquor and half a pint of water or stock. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake until the potatoes at the top are brown and crisp, but are cooked through. When ready to serve, pour half a pint of boiling gravy over the meat, and send it to table in the dish in which it was baked. Pin a napkin neatly round the dish for the sake of appearance. The oven must not be very hot, or the gravy will be dried up. For a very superior dish, at no greater cost, we recommend that the onions be scalded, and the potatoes parboiled. The top layer should be brushed over with butter. If the dish is set in another with hot water in, and a cover is put on the top, another improvement is effected. The onions, for some palates, might bo considerably reduced with advantage. The ends of the chops will make an Irish Stew ; or where strict economy is essential, they may be put in with the rest in the above dish. Leg, Boiled.—For boiling, this joint should not hang so long as for roasting. Two or three days will bo enough. Cut off the shank-bone, and, if necessary, wipe the joint with a damp cloth. Put it into a large oval stewpan with as much boiling water as will cover it. When restored to its boiling state, skim the surface clean, and in a few minutes draw the stew- pan to the side of the fire to allow the contents to simmer until done. Many cooks tie the meat in a cloth; this does away with the necessity for frequent skimming. For a.plain family dish, carrots, turnips, and onions may be boiled with the meat (the turnips mashed or not before serving, according to taste), and served on the dish. Fora more ornamental j oint, a few vegetable trimmings can be boiled with it for the sake of flavour, and the carrots, &c., may be cut into fanciful shapes and put in later, so as to be done by the time the joint is. A bunch of herbs will further improve the taste of the meat. Time, about twenty minutes per pound, or rather over. Caper sauce is generally liked, while onion or celery will be found equally good, and a pinch of celery seed, can be added to the herbs. (For other details, see Boiling, page 3.) Leg, to Carve.—The ordinary method consists in cutting straight across, like a leg of pork. The slice containing the kernel, and piece of fat called the Pope’s eye is considered the best. To carve this haunch fashion (see remarks on Carving, page 286) the slices must be cut parallel with the bone (see illustration on page 328). A nice leg of Southdown mutton, hung as long as is consistent with tho weather, and served with really good gravy, currant jelly, well-cooked vege- tables, and hot plates, will, if carved thus, compare very favourably with tho more aristocratic haunch. More than one writer asserts that if carved out of sight of the guests, not more than one in twenty would know the ono from the other. Whether this be truo K