328 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. tasto, and serve very hot. Carrots may be added ; they should he fried and put in with the meat. Take out the onion before serving, and skim the gravy thoroughly. Lamb maybe cooked in the same way; a teaspoonful of mint and parsley, chopped together, should be added to the gravy, with a few drops of lemon juice or white vinegar, last thing. Haunch, Roast.—Unless this joint has been well hung it will be tough and insipid. A haunch of good Southdown mutton, in fine, clear, frosty weather, may be kept a month ; but in damp weather it will require much attention on the part of the cook to keep it from getting tainted in half the time. The great point is to keep it dr)-, by dusting it first with flour, which should be rubbed 00 several times with a dry cloth, and again renewed. When to be cooked, skin the loin, and wipo dry; then cover with white paper, or make a common paste of flour-and-water for the joint. Put it on the spit, or hang before a good, even, vigorous fire for the first half hour, basting it constantly with good meat-dripping. When within half an hour of being done, take off the paper, and brown slightly. Dredge the haunch with flour, and baste copiously with butter, but first pour the dripping from the pan ; sprinkle with a little salt, and send it to table finely frothed. Make a gravy in the pan with what has dripped from the meat and a little boiling broth drawn from mutton trimmings: sgjt and pepper, Time, from twelve to fifteen minutes per pound; well done, eighteen minutes. Cost, about lid. per pound. To carve this, make a cut from a to b ; then tako off the slices as shown from c to n. A frill put on the knuckle improves the appearance, and, if liked, the meat can be glazed. Another way.—After taking off the skin and as much fat as may be neces- sary, the skin may be put back until the time for browning and frothing the meat. If the mutton is lean, and it is not thought necessary to hike off any fat from the top, simply baste the meat, and cook it minus papor or paste, but it will not be so full of flavour. If this method is followed, the basting must be almost incessant.* Irish Stew.—Required a pound of mutton, scrag end of the neck, two pounds of potatoes, half a pound of onions, salt and pepper, half a pint of water, boiling. Cost, about lOd. Cut the onions in rings, and the meat in neat pieces; put both in a saucepan with the water, and a sprink- ling of pepper; simmer for an hour, then add the potatoes, either in halves, or thick slices, and half a teaspoonful or more of salt. Cook gently for another hour, and serve on a hot dish. Some prefer the potatoes left whole, then they can bo put round the dish, and the meat, &o., in the centre. Shake the pan now and then, and stir a few times to prevent burning. If the potatoes are very mealy, rather more water can he used. This is a common mode, and for a much better dish, at the same cost, wo advise the scalding of the onions, and the par- boiling of the potatoes; or the latter may be boiled for a few minutes only, then drained, and added to the stew. Irish Stew, with Lentils or Haricots. — Prepare the stew as above, then serve round it, on the same dish, either of the above, boiled, * Many prefer to trim away only the super- fluous fat from the under part, and leavo the skin untouched.