67 STOCKS ANb SOl’t'S. an ounce; re-boil and skim, and just before serving add the spinach-balls. Spinach and Egg Soup.— Proceed as above, but put in some egg balls (q.v. in Garnishes), and, in addition, the -whites of two eggs, boiled hard, cut into tiny dice, or long, thin shreds. This is a very effective soup. Split Peas, Boiling of, for Sonps.—It will be noticed that some samples boil in a comparatively short time, and others retain their original form, no matter how long they are cooked. Those that fall freely into pulp should of course be chosen, and before laying in any quantity a few ^samples should be tried. This property of boil- ing depends upon the soil, &c.; beans and all leguminous plants are affected in like manner by the soil, from which certain matters are absorbed productive of the hardness complained of. A small quantity of borax or carbonate of soda will counteract it to a great extent. Soup a la Bonne Femme.— Required: one quart of stock (No. 9), half a dozen spring onions, a small cucumber, a tender lettuce—all outer parts to be removed—a good bunch of sorrel, a sprig of parsley and chervil, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper, two eggs, one ounce of butter, and a gill of cream. Cost, about Is. 4d. First wash the lettuce and sorrel, dry them, and cut into shreds; wash and mince the onions, put them on with the butter to sweat, add the cucumber, peeled, sliced, and cut into dice; in five or ten minutes add the rest of the materials (eggs, cream, and vinegar excepted); boil slowly until tender, but not reduced to pulp; then beat up the eggs and cream, add the soup, and beat well; return it to the fire for a minute or two, stirring well—it must not quite reach boiling point—then put in the vinegar, off the fire, and serve with fried bread cut into strips; or a French roll may be sliced and cut up, then dried in a slow oven to a pale brown. This was the old-fashioned adjunct to this soup, but the fried bread is usually met with, and generally preferred. This can be varied in many ways. Spinach is a suitable addition; tho cucumber may be reduced, and the parsley and chervil can either be shredded with the rest or put in in little sprigs. If fresh tarragon is used, the leaves must be finely shredded, then the vinegar can be omitted. Soup a la Mode. —Required : two pounds of shin of beef, one calf’s foot, two ounces of pearl barley, two ounces of crushed tapioca, salt, as much celery-seed as will cover a threepenny- piece, an onion stuck with two cloves, a teaspoonful of black peppercorns, a tablespoonful each of mushroom ketchup and brown vinegar, and five pints of cold water. Cost, about 2s. Take out the bone from the meat, remove the marrow, and put the bone into a large pan, with the meat tied in a nice shape with tape, the foot cleansed and jointed, and all the other in- gredients, except the tapioca and salt; bring to the boil, skim well, and then add a little of the salt; boil gently for two hours (or, rather, simmer; the object is to furnish both soup and meat from this) or longer. Twenty minutes before serving shake in tho tapioca, and stir, after it is added, very frequently; put in salt to taste, and pour into a hot soup tureen. Reserve a little of the soup, and continue the cooking of the meat and foot for another quarter of an hour, then thicken the gravy with brown roux; dish the meat in the centre, the foot round it, and tho gravy poured over. For a better soup, use stock No. 2 instead of water. For a cheaper soup, any ordinary thickening does in place of the French tapioca. Soup with Macedoines.—Re- quired : a tin of macedoines, stock No. 1 a quart or more, seasoning to taste, a teaspoonful of extract of meat, and half an ounce of French sheet gelatine, or a morsel of glaze. Cost, about Is. Put the stock into a Dan, turn into it