656 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. removed, and tho vegetable cut into quarters, or a greater number of pieces, according to size. Winter squash is often mashed; the recipes under Vegetable Marrow and Turnips can he followed ; squash can also be used in the same way as pumpkin, for pies and puddings, but it is not so rich in flavour. Cost uncertain, but not expensive generally. Succotash. — This is imported from America; it is a mixture of corn and beans; directions for use will be found on the tins. It is a very whole- some preparation, and furnishes a very welcome change from ordinary dishes of vegetables as served in England. (See Succotash Soup and Succotash Salad, also Lima Beans.) Cost, about lOd. for a tin of nearly two pounds Succotash, Curried. - This is a good dish, not much trouble or cost. Required : a tin of succotash, a table- spoonful of cooked apple or tomato pulp, three or four times as much cookod onion, a toaspoonful each of curry paste and powder, half an ounce ef corn-flour, milk, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Id. Turn tlie succotash into a saucepan with the apple, onions, and curry; the latter mixed with milk, stock, or water to a paste ; add the corn-flour, stir to the boil, and simmer until the flavours are well blendod. The onions may be fried for a more savoury dish. Season, and add a little vinegar or lemon juice. Servo with or without rice. Any of tho adjuncts added to meat and other curries may be introduced, and butter or cream is an improvement. A cooked carrot is thought by some to be the making of this dish. A little cooked celery also goes well with it. Summer and Winter Sa- voury.—These herbs arc used for seasoning purposes, and possess a very pleasant tasto and aroma. They should be gathered in July and August, and dried for winter use. Tho winter savoury has a more woody stalk ; both kinds are common in kitchen gardens. Mixed herbs and aromatic seasoning mixtures generally contain one of these. Tarragon.—This is closely allied to the well-known aromatic plants— common wormwood and southern wood; but, unlike those, its leaves are divided. Its uses are similar to those of chervil; the two are often combined in the same dish. Tarragon vinegar is very use- ful ('sec the chapter on Seasonings). “ Shredded tarragon ” is a term fre- quently used in all works on cookery ; it refers to the leaves cut into strips with scissors; they should not be used whole. Tarragon is a dangerous tool in the hands of an unskilful cook, owing to its strong flavour ; but judi- ciously employed, it is valuable. Many flavoured butters and cold sauces are greatly improved by it, and all the ordinary methods of utilising it are explained in pur recipes. Cost, a few pence per bunch on an average; never very cheap so far as its first cost, but is economical in use owing to the little required. Thyme.—This is one of our com- monest herbs, but an extremely useful ono ; its odour and taste are strong, pungent, and aromatic. Three varieties are used in cookery—viz., common thyme, and orange and lemon thyme ; orange thyme is ready for drying in June and July ; the others are a little later. It must be borne in mind that an overdose of this plant is disagree- able, as it imparts bitterness to the dish; when dried, double the quantity is wanted; fresh thyme, like all other herbs, is the nicer. Cost, about Id. per small bunch. Tomato. — The virtues of the tomato, or love apple, are now fully recognised both in the raw and cooked condition. It has been said that Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz has made chops and tomato sauce immortal; but only within recent years have we found out that tomatoes arc excellent and whole- some in almost any way. To stuff a tomato, is, in the opinion of Sir Henry Thompson, mischievous meddling car- ried to the highest pitch; and simple