498 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rubbing the mortar with garlic or onion, additional flavour is imparted. If for immediate use, add a spoonful of strong stock or gravy, but not when it is to be kept. Note. ■— Tinned beef, roasted or boiled, may be potted, but is all the bettor if mixed with some freshly- roasted meat. Some cookery books direct that the beef from beef tea bo potted, and assert that it will be found good. We can only say that if the beef tea has in it all the goodness it ought to have, the only nourishment in such potted moat would bo in the butter. Beef, ; alt, Potted.—Inquired: beef, butter, seasoning, and veal or mutton if approved. Cost, about Is. fid. per pound. ' If very lean, plenty of butter is wanted for this, which makes it some- what expensive; should the meat be fat, equal parts of the fat and lean, with about two ounces of butter will make a nice mixture; a couple of ounces of cooked veal or mutton is a decided improvement. Proceed as usual, and flavour with cayenne, nut- meg, and black pepper; no salt is wanted. Fresh boiled beef is very good potted; to this, salt as' usual must be added, and a dash of anchovy improves it. Beef, Spiced, Potted.—The remains of any pieces of spiced beef (for which sec Joints and Plain Dishes) can be used up by potting, but no salt or spice should be put in until it has been pounded with the butter; then any seasoning that may be wanted should be added by degrees. Beef and tongue together—the one spiced, and the other plainly cured— are a good combination. Bloaters, Potted (or Bloater Paste).—Required: bloaters, butter, cayenne, and nutmeg, and white fish if approved. Cost, about lOd. for a pot made from four bloaters. The fish should be scalded after cook- ing them, then dried well, and bone and skin removed. To each bloater of good size, add an ounce of butter, season with cayenne and nutmeg, and pound well; after filling the pots, put them in the oven for a minute, then let them cool before putting the clarified butter on; this should be liquid, but not hot. The bloaters should be mild-cured ones. Some white fish, about a fourth the entire weight, can be mixed with the bloater ; it is sometimes thought an improvement; fresh haddock or any firm fish answers, and baked fish is nicer than boiled. Dried haddock, nicely cooked, and prepared in the same way as the bloaters, may be potted. A large, fleshy haddock should bo chosen, and the butter must not be spared. Chicken, Potted. — Required : twelve ounces of chicken, four ounces of ham, three or four ounces of butter, about half a teaspoonful of salt, the fourth of a small nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, and the same of mace. Cost, from Is. 4d. to Is. fid. on an average. The meat may be cut from a roasted or braised chicken ; it should be freed from every bit of skin and gristle. The best of the meat should be used if first- class potted chicken is desired—the tenderest we mean ; it is a mistake to imagine that any bits do for potting, when chicken is under treatment. After cutting up the meat small, put it in a mortar with the ham, also minced; if both can be put through a mincer first so much the better. Begin to pound, adding the butter and seasoning little by little ; the various seasonings should be mixed first, but it is well not to add all the salt at starting ; it will not be required unless the ham is very mild. Store in little pots in a cold place. Note.—If any of this is required for immediate use, in the form of sand- wiches for instance, a spoonful each of cream and good white stock will make it very delicious; neither must be added to the meat if it is to be kept. Game, Potted. — Required : game, butter, and spices as below. Cost variable, from fid. to Is. for a small jar. Any sort of game, so long as it is nicely cooked and tender, may be