UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 412 mode, but is by many considered a better way. Thread a trussing needle with thread, and pass it through the under part of one wing, and top of leg, then through the body, and the leg and wing on the other side. Draw the thread tightly. Then pass the needle through the top of the wing, the skin of the neck, and top of the other wing; the fowl must be turned over before this is done. Draw the thread tightly. Then tie the legs, by passing the needle through close to the backbone, under the first leg; bring the thread over the second leg, back over the first, then tie at the starting point. Take care to press the legs well to the body. A fowl prepared thus is very easily baked ; it can be so securely wrapped in greased paper, that it is moistened in every part, as there are no skewers in the way to interfere with the covering. The liver and gizzard may be used or omitted, just as preferred; they are generally put one in each wing when the first method is followed, hut their use is quite optional. They should not be put in a braised fowl. To prepare them, see directions given for Turkey Giblets. Fowl A la Velont^.—Required: a fine fowl, sauce, aspic, custard, truffles, and garnish as below. Cost, from 5s. 6d. to 6s. upwards, exclusive of the melon salad. Joint a fowl (as white as can be got); bone the joints, and mask them with veloute sauce mixed with a very little pale aspic. When set, ornament them prettily with fancy shapes of savoury custard of various colours, and some truffle strips. A little aspic must be used to set the garnish. Pile up the pieces, and put here and there some chopped aspic, pickled gherkins, sliced, capers and truffles. Send melon salad to table with this. In arranging, give the breast fillets the prominent position. Game Cutlets, Cold. — Pour some liquid aspic on a large dish to form a thin layer ; then, when it is on the point of setting, sprinkle over some sieved egg yolk and chopped white, with some chopped truffle. Next put a quarter inch layer of minced game, such as would be used for rissoles, croquettes, &c.; coat again with aspic, then add more egg and aspic, and leave to set. Cut out with cutlet cutters, and use the trimmings, chopped up, with small salad for garnishing the dish. Cost, variable. Game, Devilled. — Required: game, seasoning, and gravy as below. Some hours before serving the game, score the flesh rather deeply, making the incisions close together if a high flavour is liked; but if mild, score the meat in a few places only. Mix together salt, black pepper, cayenne, mushroom powder, and—unless the flavour be objected to—curry powder; equal parts of each. Season the meat, rubbing the powder well into it, then dip the pieces into clarified butter, with a small quantity of mustard. Broil or grill until very brightly browned, but not in the least burnt. If preferred dry, send to table ns it is on a hot dish; garnish with cut lemons and fried parsley. For a wet devil, sauce or gravy is wanted. A very tasty sauce is made by mixing together a good teaspoonful of French mustard, a gill of brown sauce, a teaspoonful of orange juice, a pinch of cayenne, and a little chutney. As soon as boiling point is reached, it is ready; it may be poured over the meat, or served with it. Many other sauces will be found under Sauces. Gravy a la Diable may also be served with game or meat of any kind. There are few more acceptable ways of re-serving cold game than in the form of a devil, and by studying the tastes of those who are to eat them, and tho naturo of the game, it is easy to avoid monotony, and prevent every “ devil” tasting alike. Cost varies with the game used. Game, Fumet of (called also essence of game).—Required: game, seasoning, and stock. Cost, variable. Little and good must be the motto