588 Universal cookery rook. of tho second spoon slide it out on a slightly buttered baking-sheet; pro- ceed in this way until the paste is used up, then bake gently to a nice brown. While baking, whip the whites to a froth, add a dust of caj'enne, and coat the meringues with this as soon as done. A bag and pipe will be wanted, and if a small one is used, by which little dots of the egg can be “ piped”on in rows, the effect repays the extra trouble; but a plain pipe will do of the large size, such as is used for vegetables. The meringues are to be put back in a cool part of the oven until they are a delicate brown, then dusted with a pinch of coralline pepper, and dished like Cheese Aighettes. Cheese, Potted. — Required : cheese, butter, and seasoning as below, tlost, from 6d. to 8d. when half a pound of cheese is used. This is a popular savoury amongst vegetarians. The cheese should he sliced into a mortar, and pounded with butter or oil, about a fourth its weight, but taste and the condition of the cheese must be considered. The usual seasonings are salt and pepper, with a morsel of mustard, but curry paste or powder, cayenne, and store sauce or ketchup are used by some. All must be added gradually during the pound- ing. Then press into little pots. It will keep well in a cool place, but for long keeping the seasoning must bo increased and tho directions for Pot- ted Meats followed.* This is useful for taking on a journey, and may-be eaten with bread, plain biscuits, dry toast, or bread and butter. A little cress or other salad is an improvement. Cheese, Stewed. — This is a cheap and simple dish. Some sliced cheese is put in a saucepan with a little milk, then stirred until heated, and seasoned with pepper, mustard, and salt. This is a good way of using up stale cheese. It should be soft enough to spread on toast for serving, or it can be sent to table in a dish with triangles of toast stuck round it. Cost, about Id , if four ounces of cheese be used. Cheese Straws. — Required : cheese, butter, flour, eggs, and season- ing. Cost, about 6d. for a small dish. Mix together equal weights of grated Parmesan, fresh butter, and line flour; the butter and cheese are to be rubbed in the flour until the mixture is like bread-crumbs. Season with cayenne, a pinch only, and a dust of pounded mace. Add as much raw egg yolk as will make a stiff paste, roll out thinly, being careful not to break it, cut it into lengths of three or four inches, and a quarter inch wide, and bake to a rich yellow colour in a good oven, but not fierce enough to bum them. Remove with care and serve cold, either in transverse rows or put in bundles through rings cut from the same pastry, and baked with the straws. Another ivay.—These are plainer. Add to the above as many bread- crumbs as will equal the weight of the cheese, and of the latter use any kind available. These can be served hot, if liked. Either of the kinds will keep in a tin with a good lid, but they are nicer freshly made. (See Pastry.) Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Rarebit.—For a superior dish, put any good cheese, as Cheshire, in a stewpan; it should be thinly sliced, and moistened with a tablespoonful of cream and an ounce of butter to each quarter pound. A very good cheese will not need quite so much butter. Stir until hot. Add mustard and cayenne to season pleasantly, with a little salt; celery salt is an agreeable and suitable addition. Have some nicely-made toast well-buttered, and cut in strips or fingers, pour the cheese over, and brown it before the fire or by the aid of the salamander. Serve in a cheese dish (see page 585). Cost, about 6d., inclusive. Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Rarebit, Plain.—A good Ameri- can cheese answers for this dish. Molt the cheese in a saucepan, adding a