369 SALTED MEATS. Mix all iii the dry state, thou warm and use as above. Meat cured with this will be very nice and mellow. The proportions are right for a piece of ten or twelvo pounds, such as brisket or flank. No. 3.—Make this as above, but use common salt instead of bay salt, and increase the sugar or treacle by two ounces. No. 4.—Required : twelve ounces of bay salt and sugar, a small tea- spoonful each of pepper and mixed spice, half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, a large oniou, chopped, and a pinch of cayenne. Mix as direct ed above. Meat cured with this will bo tender, but not highly coloured, no saltpetre being used. No. 5.—This is called Hamburg Pickle. Required: a gallon of water, a pound and a half of bay salt, a pound of sugar (the coarsest brown), an ounce of bruised black peppercorns, and an ounce and a half of saltpetre. Boil altogether for twenty minutes, and skim well. Pour it into an earthen pan, and leave until cold. It is then ready for the meat. No. 6.—This is for Dutch, or Hung Beef. Required : two ounces of saltpetre, a pound and a quarter of bay salt, an ounce and a half of black pepper, a saltspoonful of ground mace, and a pound of treacle. Mix the dry materials ; warm the treacle, and mix with the rest, then use the same as an ordinary dry pickle. No. 7.—Required : a pound of salt, an ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of sugar, and three quarts of water. This is cheap and quickly made. Boil aud use as directed in No. 5. Pork is very good when pickled in this. The same quantity of salt, &c., will do for a gallon of water, if not to be kept for long; and the above proportion of sugar can be made to serve for twice the weight of salt and twice the measure of water, but the saltpetre should be proportionately increased. Bacon, to Cut up a Pig for. —In a pig of fair size, the chine, which is excellent for roasting or boiling, is cut from between the sides or flitches as shown in the diagram ; hut if the pig is small the flitches should be divided down the chine. The shoulders may be left attached to the sides, or separated, ac- cording to the size of the pig. The legs are made into hams, and the sides form what is bacon proper. The head may be served in various ways. If divided, the halves are called cheeks; or, if again cut through, the top fart is termed eye piece, and the lower one chap, or chawl. These are generally salted and boiled. The inner fat is made into Lard. The trimmings are converted into Sausages, Pies, &c. (See recipes for Brawn, Ears, Feet, &c.) Fio. 93.—Diagram of Bacon Pio. Bacon, to Choose. — Where much is consumed, in tho case of a largo fumily, it is most economical to buy a whole side. Tho fore-end a The Chine. u The Head. c The Leg. D Tbe Flitch. e The Shoulder.