384 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. used to season it. Have a hot dish ready, with a large piece of toast or fried bread on it, or in place of either a layer of mashed potatoes. Turn the mince on it, making it high in the centre ; put five eggs round the base, and one on the top; sprinkle each with a pinch of chopped parsley, and send to table very hot. The eggs may be fried or poached, or steamed, each in a separate cup (see recipes in a later chapter). Another xoay.—Use all pot liquor, and omit the milk in re-heating the feet. Thicken with browned flour, and season with mustard, Worcester sauce, and a spoonful of vinegar, plain or seasoned. This is very savoury. Fried onions may be served with it. The smaller the feet, the nicer looking will he the dish, on account of the colour, but larger feet will he more gelatinous and make better soup 6tock. This is of no importance if the second method be followed, but the first one requires white-looking feet. Pork, Pickled (Various joints). —Supposing it is necessary to pickle a good supply of pork, say a leg, a shoulder, the belly, head and feet; make enough brine to cover the whole, which may he put into a tub or pan. The meat should be sprinkled with dry salt, and left for a day and a night, then he drained. The brine, No. 7, should come an inch or two above, and a hoard with weights on should be put over. The belly may be cooked in a few days ; the head and feet in a week or so; the shoulder will be nice in a fortnight; so will the leg, unless it is desired to convert it into what is sometimes called Mock Ham, i.e. a leg of pork pickled for a month or so, then hung up to dry for a few weeks. But for this purpose the pickles given for hams may he used with greater cortainty of success. The leg will he found very delicious; one of eight pounds or thereabouts may be so cooked. It will take about four hours to boil, and should he treated just like a ham. To cat it in perfection it should not be cut until cold. (See Vindaloo.) Smoking of Tongue or Beef. —See Tongue or Beef, Salted and Smoked. Soused Feet and Ears.—This dish is American, and will be found very tasty. After thorough cleansing, the feet and ears of some bacon pigs are salted as usual (we recommend Pickle No. 4), then boiled until tender in the ordinary way, but with a supply of vegetables for flavouring. They are then taken up, tho feet split, and the ears divided, and packed in a deep jar. Boiling vinegar to oover is then poured over, and to each quart the following spices are added : a blade of mace, a dozen peppercorns, a dozen allspice berries, a saltspoonful of celery seed, a bit of root ginger and a bay leaf; a pinch of soluble cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of salt should be added if the meat is to be kept long. All should be tied in muslin, and boiled in a little of tho vinegar, and left in the jar with the meat. Keep covered in a cool place. Serve with a little of tho pickle, and send salad or sweet pickles to table with them. By way of a change we recommend the addition of a small quantity of herbal vinegar, or a bit of scraped horse-radish. Tongue or Beef, Salted and Smoked.—A very good substitute for the process of smoking, which is some- what tedious, is a preparation known as Cambrian essence, or essence of wood smoke. It is also useful for hams, bacon, and fish. Supposing the meat to bo cured in brine by the wet process, the essence must be added to the liquid. If the dry, or rubbing, process be chosen, then, some of the essence is applied at the end of the time, tho quantity being regulated according to the degree of flavour required. After this, the meat should be hung up to dry before cooking.