584 Universal Cookery book, because of its comparatively low percentage of water. A good sample of such a cheese as “ double Gloucester ” might contain less than half the water present in lean beef. But a practical question is, can we assimilate aud convert into our own substance the cheese food as easily as the flesh food P This is answered very decidedly in the negative by those who have given careful study to the matter. But the digestibility of cheese is, to some extent, dependent upon its age, texture, and composition. With few exceptions, a moist cheese, of the fatty kind, is less likely to cause trouble t ban one made from skim milk. A* brief consideration of the kinds in common use will best serve our purpose. Stilton is a general favourite; its quality varies according to its ripeness. A naturally ripened one, i.e. one that has been carefully stored for some time, is said by competent judges to be the best. The purchaser completes the ripening, in the case of a new cheese, by pouring in ale or port. Gorgonzola is a similar cheese in composition, both being of the fatty class; but much imitation Gorgonzola is said to be palmed off on the public. Cheshire is a favourite; it is rich and of good flavour. Gloucester is a milder cheese, that called “ double ” Gloucester being richer in cream than the “single.” Cheddar is a well-known and much-liked sort. Of the American cheeses, there are good, bad, and indifferent; of the good ones, American Cheddar is said to be the best. Dutch cheese may be looked upon as a perfect specimen of a skim-milk cheese, the consumption of which, just before retiring, is likely to result in “ a very eventful night.” The celebrated Parmesan, which is one of the most expensive, is another specimen of the not easily digested sorts; the same may be said of all that are dry enough to grate easily. The several varieties of Swiss cheese possess a fine and pronounced flavour; Gruy'ere is largely eaten in England; its peculiar taste is due to the addition of a special dried powdered herb. Many of the “ cream cheeses ” from France are very good, and some are made from a mixture of milk and cream from the cow and the goat. Some of the home-made varieties, though very nice, can only be regarded as solidified cream ; the “ milk cheeses,” made on the same principle, arc preferred by some, being less rich. Tastes differ much in the matter of cheese, and it is one of the few foods that the buyer may test by tasting; but a few hints as to the tests of goodness may be serviceable. In selecting any of the fatty sorts, look out for a moist, smooth surface, with rounded edges aud sides, though the latter should not be over-swelled. The top should not be elevated. Sharp edges aud straight sides indicate a poorer quality. A rough-coated, dry, rugged cheese will have in it mites or hoppers, or both. This is not. wholesome ; but we do not suppose that those on the look-out for it will be deterred from eating it so long as they can get it; still, there are people who are equally anxious to avoid it. One good test for cheese is to take a portion between the finger and thumb, and rub it slightly; if it softens readily, leaving the hand greasy, its richness is assured. When a whole or large portion of cheese is bought, the reserve part should be kept in a stone jar or pan, with a lid ; the place it is stored in must be dry and cool; some persons keep the cut surface moist by the aid of fresh butter. When cheese is too dry or too near the rind to send to table