o UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. oven, and over water—i.e., in a double mastering of the flues is a desideratum pan—will compare very favourably in the first instance. Fin. I.—Double Baking-Tin. witha “roast,” however juicy; and he I suggests a very fair test to the sceptical, | viz., that a piece of meat be cut in two, ' the one half baked and the other roasted, the results to be noted with care. The double pan above referred to is best; but joints and other dishes can also be baked on a meat-stand with legs (Fig. 2), which can be used in an ordinary tin of sufficient depth to prevent the splashing over of the fat into the oven. In purchasing such a meat-stand, a good-sized one should be chosen, as it will be found useful Fig. 2.-Meat-Stand with Legs. when a number of small articles have to be baked. That there are ovens and ovens goes without saying; but the ranges and kitcheners of the present day leave but little to be desired, so far as their baking powers are concerned. Most kinds have some peculiarity of con- struction, and in order 'that the “ bakes ” may turn out well, a thorough It is very important that the oven be large enough to take the joint com- fortably ; some ovens have a tendency to get very hot on one side, therefore frequent turning is needed to avoid burning, and frequent turning takes i time; besides, every inrush of cold air lowers the heat. Then, many of the I small stoves of a portable kind bake satisfactorily enough while shut up, | but should the top be required for grilling or frying, the oven quickly loses heat. Therefore, a fair-sized stove- oven, for even a small family, where baking is a regular thing, will be most satisfactory, and in the long run the most economical. The rules for baking are, in principle, identical with those for roasting (q.v.): viz., a large amount of heat at starting, gradual cooking afterwards, and plenty of basting. To ensure the first the oven must be hot. A joint put into a cold oven (we speak comparatively), and wanned through gradually before it begins to cook, is robbed of its flavour, and will be almost tasteless. Lay the meat fattest side uppermost; but, however fat, have in the tin some- hot dripping, and baste thoroughly ; a lump of dripping put into a cold tin, and left to melt with the joint, is not the same thing, and makes as much difference as does the cold oven. The average time required is about the- same as for roasting (q.v.), but ovens-