51 STOCKS AND SOUPS. dripping; skim well: prepare and slice the vegetaliles, add them, and boil for a couple of horn's, stirring often; then put in the rice and parsley, season to taste, and cook for an hour or so longer. Pass through a coarse sieve or colander, put back in the pan with the milk, boiled separately, re-boil, and serve. Mint can be used instead of parsley. If whole rice or other cereal, as oat- meal, hominy, or barley, is used, two hours must be allowed for the cooking. Sago and some other kinds will take less time. Pea-flour, maize-flour, or any other ground cereal, can .be used instead of the whole grain, if more convenient. Never add salt until the lentils are soft, and do not stir with an iron spoon. These remarks apply equally to haricot beans—all the varieties—also to dried peas. Contact with the iron spoon tends to shrivel them. Meg Merrilies’ Soup.—A soup for the sportsman or country gentle- man when game is abundant. In seasons of scarcity meat helps to form the basis or stock; but for the gourmet, boil down a rather old hare with the trimmings and inferior parts of venison and any game-bones; but all should be fresh. Use three quarts of water for three pounds of meat and bones, with a bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, two large turnips, two carrots, two middle-sized onions, each stuck with a clove, a dessertspoonful of whole pepper, and one of allspice. When boiled to a pulp, strain, and add to the stock as great a variety of game as can be procured—a young hare, or part of one (neatly jointed), black-cock, partridge, pheasant, grouse, &c.—all cut and well spiced, to be fried slightly, or not, according to taste, before being put into the strained stock. The blood of the hare mnsf not be omitted. Mix a little broth with a good thickening of rice-flour, and add it to the rest. More seasoning will be required of allspice, pepper, and salt. When boiling, throw in a dozen button onions, two sticks of celery (cut into quarter-inch lengths), and tho dregs of a bottle of port. Simmer gently until the gamo is tender, then serve, with a little more wine put in the last thing. Milk Soup. — (Suitable for child- ren.) Required: a pint each of milk, and water from boiled meat, a few potatoes baked in their skins, two ounces of hominy, salt and pepper, and some brown bread rubbed through a sieve or cut into small squares. Cost, about od. Make tho meat-water hot, mix it with tho potatoes, then cook tho hominy in the milk for an hour, as if for porridge; mix the contents of the two pans, and boil up, with seasoning to taste; pour the soup over the bread, and serve. Before cooking the hominy it should be washed and soaked for a few hours in half a pint of cold water, and brought to the boil in the water before the milk is added. This is a very nutritious soup. Semolina can be used instead of hominy. It is equally nourishing, and takes rather less time to cook. Mock Giblet Soup.—Take a quart of any plain brown stock, thicken and season it, and put in some powdered herbs and a heaping tabic- spoonful of apple-sauce, and sage and onion stuffing from roast pork or other meat. Tho sauce and stuffing are some- times added also to Giulet Sour. The compound is a very savoury one, although it is not suited to every one’s palate. It affords a convenient method of utilising any scraps of the kind. If more convenient, some small forcemeat- balls, seasoned with sago and onions, may be added to the soup, together with a largo apple, grated. Mock Hare Soup.—This is a vegetarian recipe. Required: threo quarts of water or stock (No. 11), a pint of brown lentils and rod haricots, mixed, half a pound of mushrooms, a largo onion, a bunch of herbs, a small teaspoonful of celery-salt, one ouneo