UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 76 first minced and pounded with about three ounces of bread-crumbs soaked in fish-stock and squeezed dry; add salt, pepper, and powdered mixed herbs, with the yolks of a couple of eggs to bind the mixture, and an ounce of boiled rice. Form the whole into small balls or oval shapes, and dip them into the beaten whites of the eggs. To the soup add white roux and a tablespoonful or two of cream; boil it up, then put in the fish balls, and cook them for five minutes, adding the remaining portion of the rice at the same time. A few drops of anchovy essence, both in the soup and the fish balls, is a decided improvement. Haddock Soup, with Shrimps.—This recipe is for a soup made from the remains of a cooked fish ; after taking it from the bones and flaking it, there should be enough to fill a breakfast cup. Make stock from the bones and the shells of the shrimps (see Nos. 14 and 15), of which a quart will be required; after straining it into a clean sauce- pan, put in the flaked fish, with half the measure of picked shrimps, a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, with any desired thickening (Liaisons, p. 35): boil up, and serve with dice-shaped croutons. Both to this and the foregoing soup a little white wine may be added with advantage, and other fish, as brill, plaice, turbot, soles, and whiting, may bo used just in the same way. If pos- sible, remove the fish from the bones while hot, it flakes more easily than if left until cold—that is, it is more easily taken from the bones while warm. Lobster and Prawn Soup.— Required: a fresh lobster, thirty or forty prawns, two quarts of stock (No. 15), from the shell of the lobster, and the heads and shells of the prawns flavoured with herbs and vegetables, cream, colouring, and thickening. Cost, uncertain. Make the stock, strain it, and skim well; put it in a saucepan with enough white roux to thicken—it should be like good cream. When well skimmed, put in the prawns and the white meat of the lobster shredded, the claws cut into small pieces, and salt, cayenne pepper, and a few drops of carmine. Cover, and leave for five minutes, then put in some lemon-juice and a few drops of anchovy essence, a gill of hot cream, and the lobster coral. Do not boil again. Lobster and Shrimp Soup may be made by using shrimps, in- creasing the proportion. If preferred, the soup may be sieved before adding the shrimps or prawns. Lobster and Rice Soup (Economical and good).—Required : a tin of lobster (best quality), three ounces of rice, one pint of milk, the same of water and stock No. 15, seasoning, &c. Cost, about Is. 4d. Wash the rice, and blanch it (tee Rice, to Blanch), put it into the water, and boil until soft; then add the stock and the lobster meat (claws excepted), cut into shreds, season to taste, put in a little anchovy essence, and rub all through a sieve; pound the claws with the butter and a few drops of anchovy essence and colouring, add the boiling milk by degrees, then the soup, also boiling; mix thoroughly, and serve at once. Oyster Soup.—Required : two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, three gills of milk, one gill of cream, a drop or two of essence of anchovies, twelve oysters. Cost, about 2s. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir until smooth; then the milk and cream, and stir until it boils. Boil the oyster liquor, 6kim it, season with the anchovy and a dust of cayenne; put in the oysters to “ plump,” but not to boil, or they would harden; then stir the contents of the two pans, and serve. The oysters may be cut up, but not bearded. This is an American recipe. Oyster Soup, Economical.— Required : a tin of oysters, a score of oysters, a pint of milk, seasoning, a