365 PORK. heart and liver, a morsel of bacon, and a few white peppercorns. In half an hour take out Idle heart and liver, and mince them; boil the feet longer, nearly an hour altogether. When done, put the mince, first seasoned with herbs, back in the pan; add a little roux, or fiour and cream, and give a little more simmering. Put the mince on a dish, with the split feet on the top, and some sippets round it, with a slice or two of lemon. Cost, uncertain. Sucking Pig, Roast.—Wipe the pig thoroughly, stuff it, and sew up the slit securely with cotton. Truss it like a hare, with the fore-legs skewered back and the hind-legs drawn forward. Rub it over with clarified butter, or fresh salad-oil, and put it down, not too near, before a clear, brisk fire. Baste constantly, or the crackling will be blistered and burnt, instead of crisp and brown. As the middle part requires less roasting than the ends, it is usual, when the pig is half done, to hang a flat iron from the spit in such a position that it will shade the heat of the fire from the middle. It is well to tie some butter in a piece of muslin, and rub the pig over with this two or three times whilst it is roasting. When it is done enough, cut off the head before the pig is taken from the fire, take out the brains, and chop them up quickly with the stuffing; add the gravy which has dropped from the pig, and a little more stock. To dish it, cut the pig open, and lay the sides back to back, length- wise upon the dish, with one-half of the head at each end and the ears at the sides. If preferred, the brains may be stirred into melted butter instead of gravy. Time to roast, according to size; a three weeks’ old pig, two hours. If liked, leave the brains in the head, or instead of mixing them Jn gravy, put them under the head on fho dish. Instead of following the above mode, the pig may be wrapped in paper, as for baking. If not the wholo pig, the middle is best thus treated, to avoid over-cooking and dryness, and to ensure a nice, even, brown colour. Sucking Pig, Sauces for.— Bread, Aitlk, Brown, Currant,Rice, Chestnut, Tomato, Piquant,and many others may be served with this. [See recipes.) Due regard should be had to the kind of stuffing used. If it is of the ordinary sage and onion type, or if pork farce be used, bread, or apple, or brown sauce may be served. With chestnut stuffing, chestnut sauce is most suitable. A piquant sauce com- mends itself in the event of the pig being cooked minus any stuffing. It is usual, when a good number are present at table, to serve two sauces, and if liked, some stuffing may be put in a separate tureen, that those who like may partake of it. Currants may always be handed round: they are more digestible if soaked for some time, and cooked in stock, then drained, and diied on a plate in the oven; but they are served minus coolring very often. If currant sauce is preferred, the fruit must be most carefully washed, then simmered in brown sauce; or the cur- rants can bo cooked in veal stock, then mixed in good melted butter; or the fruit and the liquor it is stewed in may be used for making bread sauce, in place of milk. In this case, there should bo about two ounces of currants to half a pint of stock, with bread to make it the right consistency. (See also Gravy for Sucking Pig.) Slicking Pig, Stuffing for.— These will l>e found in the chapter on forcemeats, &c., but we give one here which is but little known, and is, at the same time, one of the most whole- some. Steam some rice until tender; to each quarter pound add half the weight of ham or bacon, finely minced, a teaspoonful of chopped sage, thyme, and parsley mixed, a little salt and pepper, and an ounce of chopped sul- tana raisins. When this is used, some apple sauco should be served, ulso some nice gravy. For a richer force- meat of the kiud, a beaten egg or two