204 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. power of inflating the membranes which cover the eyes and other parts of the head, which, when thus dis- tended, have tho appearance of bladders. It is probably from this that it derives its name of pout. It is a deeper and stouter fish than the whiting, and its flesh is firmer, drier, and less delicate. It seldom exceeds twelve inches in length. It should bo eaten very fresh, and may be cookod in every way like whiting. It is im- proved by being salted for twelve hours, and still further improved by being dried in a current of air. To vary tho flavour of the fish, slightly smoke it over a wood firo, then broil it. The great Soyer pronounced this fish to bo quite equal to tho red mu Hot. Whiting, Baked.—One of tho nicest ways is to prepare tho fish with egg and crumbs as if for frying. A tin should be read}’, containing sorao liquid butter, with which tho fish is to bo basted. A buttered paper is then to bo laid over, and tho fish cooked in a quick oven, so that tho process may resemble frying as much as possible. It must be well drained, and nicely browned. Remove the paper a short time beforo it is done. Tor sauco3 see Whiting, Tuied ; or serve shrimp, anchovy, Dutch, or any of tho usual kinds with it. Plain melted butter, flavoured with tarragon and chervil, or tarragon vinegar only, is liked by some. Whiting, Broiled.—Clean tho fish, and dry in a cloth ; after flouring, brush over with beaten egg, then dip them in fine crumbs, and season with a little salt and popper, with a pinch of herbs in fine powder. Dip them into clarified butter, and mark with tho back of a knife or a skewer, in a few places on each side the fish in a slanting direction. Broil slowly, and serve as if fried. A Dutch oven is best for these, and during the cooking they should be moistened with butter. The livers of whiting are considered a dainty morsel, and should be cooked and served with them. Whiting, Fried.—Wash, skin, and dry tho fish; flour it, shako off all that does not adhere; egg and crumb the fish (tho tail should bo fastened in the mouth), smooth it, and drop into hot fat. A golden brown is tho shade required. Drain, and dish on a paper or serviette, and fill the centre of the fish with fried parsley. Send cut lemon and cay- enno to table if for breakfast; or sauce if for luncheon or dinner. A very good one is tho hot Tautare Sauce (American). .Mandarins’ Sauce is equally suitable. Whiting coated with French Try- ing Batter is a good dish if fried crisply. Very small fish can bo fried like smelts, and served with cucumber sauce. Wliiting, to Skin.—Owing to the thinness of tho skin, and tho ten- derness of tho flesh, great caro is required to avoid ragginess. As a rule, this operation is performed by tho fishmonger. The fish should bo held firmly; tho fins are first cut off, and with thorn, a morsel of the skin; this makes an incision, and by running the thumb up to loosen the skin, and then removing it from head to tail, carefully, the process is not difficult. Tho skin is taken from tho head after- wards. Fresh haddocks are skinned in this way ; so are cols, but from their slippery nature they must be held very firmly. Very small ones are sometimes cookod with the skin on, then they must bo rubbed with a cloth dipped in salt, while held by the head in the left hand. This is applicable to any fish of a similar kind and shape. Wliit-ing with Herbs.—Re- quired : three medium-sized fish, filleted, seasoned and rolled as for Whiting with Shrimps; a large tablespoonful each of chopped parsley, shalots, and button mushrooms; a gill of wine (Chablis), the juice of half a lemon, salt, cayenne, vinegar, and four