UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 366 may bo added ; also an ounce of butter to half a pound of rice; or a larger portion of bacon can be used. The same forcemeat is very nice for young pork, being very delicate eating. Wild Boar Ham. —Take a ham that has hung for ten days or more, singe off the bristles, wash the ham in lukewarm water, and saw off the bone two inches below the knuckle. Put it in a marinade made of equal parts of vinegar and water, to which has been added a tumblerful of light wine, a bunch of sage, and a little salt and cayenne. Let it remain for eight days ; drain it, and wipe it dry. Cover with paper that has been soaked in oil, put it down before a clear fire, and baste with the marinade every quarter of an hour. When done enough, take off the paper, and re- move the rind. Brush the ham over with liquid glaze, nnd put it in the oven for a short time, or, if preferred, instead of glazing it, cover with bread- raspings. Put a paper frill round the knuckle, place the ham on a dish, and send venison sauce, or sauce made of the marinade boiled with a little good gravy and strained, to table in a boat. If more convenient, the rind may be removed from the ham at first, and then it need lie in the marinade three days only. Wild-boar hams are very good either when dressed fresh or after they have been cured and smoked. Time to roast the ham, about three hours. Probable cost, uncertain. Wild Boar, Haunch of, with Cherry Sauce.—The following recipe is given by M. Dubois in his “Cosmopolitan Cookery:”—“Get a quarter of young wild boar, fresh and without rind; take out the thigh- bone, and saw off the thin end; salt, put it in a kitchen basin, pour over a quart of cold cooked “ marinade ” stock, let it macerate for two or three days, drain, wipe it on a cloth, and put it into a deep roasting-pan with lard. Cover it with greased paper, roast it in the oven for three quarters of an hour, basting often with the fat; then add a few spoonfuls of its marinade, and cook half an hour longer, basting with its own stock. When done withdraw the roasting-pan from the oven, drain the quarter, and spread on its surface a thick layer of black bread-crumbs rasped, dried, pounded, sifted, and mixed up with a little sugar and cinnamon, then moist- ened with red wine, but only just enough to give it a little consistence. Sprinkle over the layer some dry bread-crumbs, baste with the fat of the roasting-pan, into which put the quarter back, and keep it at the entrance of the oven for twenty minutes, basting often. When ready to serve, take it up, put a ruffle on the bone, dish up, and serve separately the following sauce :—Cherry Sauce. Soak in water two handfuls of black, dry cherries, as commonly sold in Germany —that is, with the kernels; pound them in a mortar, dilute with a glassful of red wine, and pour the preparation into a sugar-pan. Add to it a piece of cinnamon, two cloves, a little salt, and a piece of lemon zest. Let the preparation boil for two minutes, and thicken it with a little diluted potato-flour; draw the pan on the side of the fire, cover it, keep it there for a quarter of an hour, and pass it afterwards through a sieve. The cooked marinade mentioned above is prepared thus :—First of all some chopped roots and vegetables must be fried with butter, these arc moistened with common vinegar, in quantity nearly sufficient to cover the meats in- tended to be marinaded. When the vegetables are well saturated, mix with the liquid a little salt, cloves, pepper- corns, and other spices. The marinade should continue cooking at least twenty - five minutes. Sometimes a little water is mixed with the vinegar, in order to mitigate its pungency. Wild Boar’s Head, Mock (made from brawn).—Take a copper mould, which opens in the middle, the shape of a boar’s head; then fill it, after buttering, with the mixture such.