UNIVEESAIi COOKERY BOOK. <384 as, if allowed to become semi-cold, the result is disappointing both with regard to flavour and appearance. Mushroom Croquettes. —Required: half a pound of flap mushrooms, bread-crumbs, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. to 9d. Prepare and cut the mushrooms into dice; add an ounce of butter, and cook until soft, then add while warm enough bread-crumbs, or half crumbs and half bread panada, to make a stiff paste. Season with salt and pepper, and a morsel of chopped parsley and grated nutmeg; but do not destroy the mushi'oom flavour. When cold, mould into balls the size of chestnuts, and finish off like the asparagus cakes in this chapter. The above is a vegetarian dish ; for a more savoury one, add a few ounces of chopped ham or bacon, or a little cooked game is a very good addition; so is a morsel of liver, either poultry or calf’s. Always stew down the washed parings for flavouring any gravy that may bo served with little savouries of this class; they contain a good deal of flavour. If no gravy is served, they come in for other dishes. Another way.—Take some of the rich mushroom puree given in this chapter, and add a beaten egg and a few bread-crumbs to each half pint. Cut some little rounds of fat bacon, two for each croquette, and lay a small quantity of the mushroom preparation on half the number ; then cover with the rest of the rounds, so that there is no fear of the mince escaping. A little of either of the meats above named can be added to the mixture. Make them a good shape, and roll in crushed vermicelli after egging and crumb- ing ; a good coating of egg should be given after the crumbs. By talcing this precaution with regard to the coating, the interior mince may be made soft, and will eat much nicer than if stiff. Serve on a dish paper, and garnish with fried parsley or with fancy croutons. Mushroom Purse, Brown.— See the recipe for Baow.v Mushroom Sauce on page 97. By making as there directed, adding only as much brown sauce as will make the mixture as thick as good onion or celery puree —or, to bo more explicit, it should just drop from the spoon—a very nice puree is obtained, which is suitable for piling in the centre of a dish of cutlets,&c. But for a puree to be served in a sauce boat, or for pouring round a dish of meat of any kind, it should be rather thinner than this ; the manner of service must always determine the precise consist- ence of all purees. By many persons the flavour of the mushroom in its native simplicity is desired; then a very nice puree is made by sweating the mushrooms in butter, two ounces to the pound; when nearly done, a tablespoonful of good brown stock may be put in, but it must not be flavoured with other vegetables ; in such cases, a dash of extract of meat and a morsel of glaze come in handy; but this addition will spoil it for many, and nothing more than a little salt and popper and a few drops of lemon juice are wanted; the butter should brown unless a drop of browning is added. Grated ham (and sometimes beef as well) is added to purees of the more savoury kinds. Cost, about Is., when a pound of mushrooms are used. Mushroom Puree, White.— The thing to avoid here is the colouring of the mushrooms; this is especially necessary when they are to be mixed with chicken or oysters for patties and other dishes. The whitest mushrooms should be chosen, and perfect washing is needed. The addition of lemon juice helps to whiten as well as give flavour ; and the pan must be very clean. The mushrooms are to be added to the butter as soon as it is melted, and two ounces to the pound, unless cream is added, is a fair amount to allow; or a snoonful of white stock and less butter may be used ; then, as soon as they begin to draw down, a little cream should be added (see White Mushroom