107 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. cayenne to taste, a tablespoonful of lime-juice, and half a gill of cream. Cost, about Sd. Mix the curry-paste, rice, and saffron with the milk, put in a pan with the ham, onion, and capsicum, boil until soft, then rub through a sieve. Put back in the pan, with seasoning to taste, the cream and lemon-juice, and a little more hot milk to make up the quantity. Serve with any kind of.cooked vegetables or fish ; or re-heat cold fish in the sauce, which is very appetising. Yacht Sauce a la Norah — .Required: a pint of brown stock, as No. 4, a tablespoonful of brown roux, the same measure of Worcester or other good sauce, mushroom ketchup, and lime- or lemon-juice, an ounce or two of grated ham, and a Spanish onion of medium size, salt and pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful of soy. Make a little butter hot, slice the onion and fry it brown, add all the other ingredients, and boil until the onion is pulpy; then sieve the sauce, re- boil it, and use it for re-heating cold fish, game, or meat. It is a good sauce for serving with smoked salmon, dried haddock, &c., or with eels. Zouave Sauce.—Required : half a pound of onions, half a pint of tomato puree, half a pint of Brown Sauce, a tablespoonful each of tarragon vinegar, chilli vinegar, and French vinegar, and seasonings as under. Mince the onions, fry them lightly in hot fat, drain them, and lay them in a clean stew-pan, with the tomato puree, brown sauce, and vinegar; bring to the boil, and skim so long as the fat is thrown up ; then add salt to taste, a little French mustard, and enough “ Tabasco pepper sauce ” (sold in bottles) to suit the palate. If pro- perly made, this is a sauce of good flavour, and will bo sure to please any whose tastes are “somewhat Indian.” Next stir in a tablespoonful of Oriental chutney (see Store Sauces) and the same measure of sultana raisins, picked and cut into quarters. Simmer until the onions and raisins are tender, adding a little brown stock (common bone stock will do) from time to time, to prevent the sauce becoming too thick. Finally, lay in any white meat previously cooked—we may instance calf’s head, feet, veal, rabbit, and tripe; put the cover on, and leave the pan near the fire (but take care that the sauce is below boiling point) for twenty minutes or so ; and after dishing the meat give the sauce a boil up. For the tomato puree, if fresh tomatoes are not handy, use canned ones, rubbing them through a sieve ; or the bottled pulp or conserve is still better. Spanish onions are best for this. English ones, if used, must be scalded, or the quantity may bo re- duced a little. COLD (SAVOURY) SAUCES. (See also Salad . Dressings, in Salads.) GENERAL REMARKS. . V ith the increasing number of cold dishes there follows naturally an increased demand for cold sauces; likewise, as adjuncts to hot meats, iced sances are just now regarded as the proper thing, though this may be but a fleeting fashion. In the following recipes a suitable accompaniment to almost any dish may be readily found ; while from each one detailed, others may be as readily evolved; for the food adjuncts of the present day. in the shape of relishes and condiments, afford ample scope for variety.of flavour. In addition to the following sauces, it will bo noticed that many of tho