UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 612 and which we got dried in the form of haricots. The pods should be young ; when fully grown they want very care- ful preparation in the way of stringing and cutting; it is surprising the difference in the flavour of carelessly cut beans. When quite plainly boiled, French beans are excellent with roast meat—thoy are said by some to be the one vegetable to eat with venison —but they may be served in many nice ways as separate dishes, and thoy make excellent salads. The green pods of the scarlet runner are eaten in the same way, and closely resemble the French or kidney bean. Cost, vari- able ; about 2d. per pound, when plenti- ful, but much dearer early in the season. Beans, French, to Bottle.— Follow the instructions given for Peas on page 639. The beans should be cut as if for boiling. Young beans may just be brokon through after stringing, if more convenient. Another way.—This is very simple, and either jars or bottles can be used, the beans being broken or cut as pre- ferred. Put them on a large dish, and rub two lumps of dry salt together in the hands; it should be quite warm ; let it fall over the beans, then take two wooden spoons or sticks, and toss them together that all parts may be equally coated. Have the jars dry, and put in salt and beans in alternate layers until full, salt forming the bottom and top layers. Tie down with bladder (vegetable parchment will not do), and store in a cool, dry place. Thoy will shrink a good deal, and the contents of some of the jars may be used for filling up the others from time to time. Some may question the necessity for salti ng the beans separately before putting them in the jars; but without this the layers of salt do not penetrate the beans sufficiently. In cooking these use no salt, but add a pinch of sugar and borax to the water; do not stint the water, and boil rather longer than usual. Thoy will want soaking in plenty of cold water first. Beans, French, Boiled.— Gather the beans as short a time as possible before cooking; very small ones are cooked whole, the tips and side strings removed. More fully grown ones are first trimmed in this way, then cut into thin slanting strips. They should be rinsed in cold water, then put into boiling salted water. Time, according to age, fifteen ox- twenty minutes for young ones; old ones take nearly or quito half an hour. Beans cannot be sliced too thinly; this is a tedious process when a quantity have to be cut, and a handy little machine, called a bean cutter, will bo found serviceable ; it will slice to per- fection enough for half a dozen people in a few minutes. No vegetable spoils more by waiting, and a hot colander should be used for straining, and the hottest of plates served. A slice of butter may be shaken with the beans when likod, but they are frequently preferred plain. For a vegetarian dish, add some oil or butter after the beans are drained; a seasoning of chopped parsley is an improvement, with a little salt and pepper; some like nutmeg, and others will rub tho saucepan over with a clovo of garlic. The beans look nice served in a border of rice or macaroni, over which White Sauce should be poured. Plenty of water and quick boiling with the lid off will ensure a good colour. A pinch of soda or borax is, however, optional. Beans, French, Boiled (French Method).—Brain after boiling ; return to a clean pan, and add oil or butter, with seasoning to taste, and a little lomon juice ; shake the pan until hot through. An ounce of butter will serve for a quart of beans. Beans, French, Moulded.— When the beans are old, and it is likely that they would be tough in the plainly-boiled state, cook them until done, then chop them, or rub them through awire sieve,and add ateaspoon- ful of mixed herbs to each quart, with seasoning to taste ; or, instead of herbs, a few young onions may be boiled and