UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 72 FISH SOUPS. Fish soups are but little known and seldom met with except at the tables of the well-to-do and among fisher-folk; but they furnish a most wholesome and nutritious form of food, and a cheap one, where fish is plentiful; <tare is needed in their preparation, and the most gelatinous fish should always be employed for the basis ; certain kinds of oily fish, viz., mackerel, herrings, and rich fish like salmon, should not be chosen. Generally speaking, fish soups are found to agree better when vegetables are served in them. In our list of fish stocks, the fish named are to be regarded as suggestive, by no means as exhaustive. The delicate kinds of white fish, as soles, plaice, turbot, and the like, will agree best with the majority; but when fish is to be had in abundance almost every sort may be utilised. To all brown fish soups a little sage is a good addition, and bread should be eaten with most of the rich varieties. Bisques are soups made from lobster, crab, cray-fish, &e. Souchets are given under Fish in a subsequent chapter, as fish souchet is not a soup in the strict sense of the word, though soup-like in appearance; and it is often served at the commencement of a dinner or luncheon, thus taking the place of soup and fish, and shortening the meal by a course; or at more elaborate meals sometimes a soup is served also; or a second dish of fish of a richer kind is served in addition to the souchet. Bisque D’Ecrevisses (Cray- fish Soup).—Required: fifty small cray- fish, four ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of the crumb of a French roll, four ouncos of rice, two anchovies, an onion stuck with a couple of cloves, a bay-leaf, about a dessertspoonful of salt and half as much mignonette pepper, a few grains of cayenne, and a glass of light wine. Cost of fish, un- certain. Take out the gut from the centre fin of the tail, shell the fish, and keep the tails whole. Pound the shells with anchovies, bread-crumbs, and butter; put them on to boil with some stock (about two quarts of No. 14 or 15), and the rice, well washed ; add the onions and seasoning, and boil very gently for two hours; then pound the meat, re- serving the tails, add it, and cook for a few minutes, then rub all through a sieve. Return it to tho pan, re-heat it, hut do not boil again; put in the tails and wine, cover, and in five to ten minutes serve the soup with croutons or sippets any shape preferred, This is excellent, both in flavour and colour. For a more economical soup, or if tho supply of cray-fish runs short, add a little lobster meat, or tho shell of a lobster, or some lobster coral or “ butter.” The wine can he decreased or omitted, and a plainer stock used; or water, if the shell of a lobster is used, will answer. See that the cray-fish arc freshly- boiled ones. A hundred prawns may be substituted. Bouille a Baisse, or Bouilla- baisse.—Any kind of fish may be used for this dish : gurnard, haddock, whiting, mackerel, carp, rod and grey mullet, soles, plaice, or lobsters, all do admirably for a bouillabaisse. Chop two onions and put them with a piece of butter in a stew-pan, and let them brown without burning, then arrange the fish (which has been previously cut into small pieces) in the pan, allowing half a pound of fish for each person, Add a small quantity of fho