402 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flavouring ingredients mixed with tlie potatoes are blended some time before- hand, and put in a cool place. Fowl a la Carlsford. -For this, hone a fowl without opening (see Fowl, Boned), and fill the wings and legs with rich veal forcemeat. Then stuff the body with mushroom forcemeat, and more of that used for the joints, put- ting it in in alternate rolls. Make the fowl a good shape, and roast slowly, or it will burst. Servo with fowl gravy, and a mushroom puree. Cost, from 4s. Gd. to 5s. Fowl, Curried.—The ways of preparing this favourite dish are many : the following method, if first- class curry paste be used, is likely to give satisfaction. Required: a young fowl, medium size, a pint of stock, a tablespoonful each of curry paste and fine rice flour, a bay leaf, sprig of thyme, half a lemon, one onion, chopped, celery, white part, equal in bulk to the onion, half an apple, a teaspoonful of chopped sweet almonds, the same of freshly- grated eocoanut, a few outer strips from a small carrot, a little curry powder, and a gill of cream. Cost, from 4s. Gd. to 5s. Bone and cut up the fowl, see pages 399 and 401, then divide it into square pieces; roll these in the curry powder. Slice the vegetables thinly, try the onions in a little hot fat, then fry the fowl a little; add the herbs and other vegetables, with a strip of lemon peel, and the nuts, also the stock. This should he made from the bones of the fowl in the usual way. Stir to the boil, and go on cooking slowly for half an hour, then mix the rice flour with cold stock; add it, also the curry paste, and a little lemon juice. Boil for a quarter of an hour more, then take up the meat, sieve the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and put it back with salt to taste, cayenne, if needed, and the boil- ing cream. Add the meat to re-heat (it must not boil or the sauce will curdle), then serve as usual with boiled rice. For a largo fowl the stock must b6 increased. Sometimes the onion is objected to in the sauce; in that case take it up after frying in the butter. Use curry fat if at hand. For a plainer dish the cream can be loft out, and ordinary plain white stock- used; but it is really moro economical to bone the joints, if time allows; the bones yield such good gravy, while if not boned, the bones are left upon the plates and wasted. Gooseberries can bo used instead of apple, or a bit of cucumber answers; the lemon juice should then be slightly increased. A morsel of tamarind is good in fowl curries, and any nice chutney may be put in to suit the palate. Fowl with Curried Mush- rooms.—Required : a fowl, some cuiried mushrooms, cream, thickening, and sauce. Cost, from 5s. upwards on an average. Boil a fowl in white stock, and when half done, prepare the mushrooms separately as follows: — Fry a small onion, a bay leaf, and a sprig of parsley in hot butter; add a pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of mild curry powder, about the same measure of lemon juice, and half as much grated peel, the same of mango chutney and curry paste, half a pint of liquor from the fowl, the liquor from a tin of mush- rooms, and half the mushrooms, chopped. Cook gently until all can be sieved (the herbs should be taken out), then put bade the sauce with the rest of the mushrooms, whole, a table- spoonful or two of thick cream and’ a little white roux. Cook for ten minutes more, take up the fowl, and dish it; coat with bechamel, and pour the mushroom mixture round. This is a superior dish. A very good one, though much less expense and trouble, may be made by pouring ordinary white sauce over the fowl, and using curried mushrooms as given in the chapter on Dkessbd Vege- tables.