467 GAME AND POULTRY. journey, as birds so stuffed are always kept for several days after, to allow the perfume of the truffles to penetrate the flesh. The cost of a turkey thus pre- pared will vary from two or three guineas to five guineas. Fine fresh truffles are, however, so expensive, that mushrooms or chestnuts are often substituted for them, pounded with bacon in exactly the same way, and a turkey thus prepared will prove to most people quite as acceptable as if really truffled. When it is prefeirei, however, that the turkey' should be stuffed with truffles at home, procure a young, plump, freshly-killed hen turkey. Take a pound and a half of truffles for a moderate-sized bird, and two pounds for a large one. Smell them, and reject any that are mouldy. Wash them carefully, and scrub with a soft brush till not a particle of earth or grit remains upon them. Cut about a pound of the truffles into balls an inch and a half in diameter. Pound the rest with the trimmings to a smooth paste, adding an equal weight of fat bacon. The bacon should be rasped and pounded separately7, then mixed with the pounded truffles, and the forcemeat seasoned with salt and pepper only. When the forcemeat is quite smooth, mix the whole truffles with it, and put the preparation into the body of the turkey'. Let it hang for five or six days after it is stuffed, and when it is to be roasted, lay a slice of fat bacon upon the breast, and a piece of buttered paper over that, and baste liberally whi'st it is before the fire. If it is wished that truffle sauce should accompany this dish, a few may be put aside for the purpose. Truffled turkey is so rich that it is often served with no accompaniment in the way of sauces. Bread sauce is likod by some, but, properly speaking, no rival flavour should approach the truffle. When fresh truffles are not to be had, use bottled ones. Truffled capons may be had from a guinea ; these are useful for small families. The dealers in high-class comestibles, ns well as poulterers, in London and else- where, do a large trade in them during the Christmas festivities. Ttirkey, Truffled Economic- ally.—Required : a turkey, truffles, chestnuts, and veal forcemeat as below. Cost, exclusive of truffles, about Is. per pound. Take’a freshly'-killed, plump young turkey. If large, half a pound of tine fresh truffles will he required for it; if small, a quarter or a third of a pound will be sufficient. Wash and scrub the truffles carefully, as in the preceding recipe, drain and dry' them, and cut them into thin slices without peeling them. Boil or roast some fine, sound chestnuts; the quantity must be regu- lated by' the size of the turkey'. There must he sufficient with the truffles to fill the body of the bird. Before boiling them, make a little cut in the outer skin of each nut to keepit from bursting. Let them boil until quite tender. Skim them, mix the sliced truffles with them ; then fill the body of the bird with the mix- ture, and let the turkey hang for two or three days in a cool, airy' situation. On the day' that it is to he dressed fill the crop of the bird with good veal forcemeat, truss it firmly', tie a buttered paper over the breast, and roast it be- fore a clear fire. A turkey' prepared as above will he sufficiently' flavoured with truffles to satisfy most people; indeed, all but those who are exces- sively' fond of truffles. Time, an hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to size. {See recipes in Forcemeats.) Turkey, to Truss for Roast- ing.—Pluck, singe, and draw the bird ; mind that the gall bladder is not broken ; a hook is useful for the purpose. A little care will enable the operator to take out the entrails in a cleanly' manner. Wash and dry the liver and gizzard, the latter being pre- pared as for GibleT Pie. Cut the feet off, and draw the strings or sinews from the legs. To do this sometimes is difficult. The lust way is to hang the bird by the thin end of each log, separately, to a hook in the ceiling, then