ENTREES, MADE DISIIES, AND RELEVES. 215 eight cutlets) by boiling half a pint of claret down to a gill and a half; put in two or three tablespoonfuls of brown stock, and the same of glace cherries, halved, and a teaspoonful of glaze; simmer again for ten minutes, then pour round the base of the cutlets: put white frills on them. Have some cherries whole, cooked in the claret; put a ring of these round the edge of the vegetable puree, and a little heap in the centre. Send brown sauce to table, with a tahlespoonful of claret and the same of chopped cherries mixed in it. Cost, about 9d. each, inclusive. Cutlets with. Damsons. (See Cutlets with Cherries.)—Substi- tute Pickled Damsons for the glace cherries ; they should he drained from the liquid, dried, and the stones re- moved. Then proceed as therein directed. Cost, as above. Cutlets with Peas and Cream.—Take as many cutlets as are needed, from the loin or neck of mutton or lamb (veal may he used also), and dip them into warm butter, then into beaten egg and crumbs ; fry them, or saute, a very pale brown. Dish them on a potato border, and put pink frills on them. Ornament the centre of each with Greek Pea PuhJie, from a bag with a leaf pipe. Prepare the garnish by frying some small triangular croutons, coat them with thick tomato sauce, and stick them up round the base of the border. Put a high eroustade in the centre, and cover it with more peas puree from a large leaf tube. A little good gravy should be poured round the cutlets. Cost, about 9d. each. Darioles, Chicken. — Butter some hexagon dariole moulds (see Fig. 63), and put a star-shaped slice of tongue at the bottom ; round this, put some sieved egg-yolk. Orna- ment the sides: one with chopped parsley, one with shredded ham, the next with egg yolk, the fourth with little sprigs of tarragon and chervil, the fifth and sixth with ham and egg yolk, like sections two and throe. Fill up with a chicken mince, cover with buttered paper, and steam in a pan of boiling water for thirty, to forty minutes. The water must simmer only, and should not reach more than half way up the moulds. Put a thick fold of paper at the bottom beforo Fig. 63.—Hexagon Dariole Mould.* setting the darioles in. Turn out, and serve any rich white sauce round them, or put them in a circle round a dish, and till up with sparghetti or macaroni, garnished like the moulds. The mince is made by taking some chicken quenelle mixture, and adding to every four ounces a teaspoonful of white mushroom puree. Duck, Filleted.—Take the meat from the breasts of a couple of ducks, roasted, cut it into nice fillets, and lay them in a stewpan, with a glass of port and a little game gravy (see Gravies); add a bit of glaze, and season highly. Cover, and leave for ten minutes. Put a mound of green peas on a hot dish in the centre of a lvixo Crocstade. Dish the fillets on the bread, and pour the sauce over. Then put slices of tomatoes and olives (first cooked whole in stock) between, by way of garnish. Cost, variable. Duck, Filleted, in Olive Sauce.—Prepare the fillets as above; heat them in Olive Sauce, and dish them on macaroni, made by boiling macaroni in stock No. 5, until done, then forming it in a ring. The sauco should bo thick, so us to mask tho fillets. Put a Green Haricot 1’c it ins * Thin is n very useful mould for ninny pur» pospg; it turns out well, ami nllonls plenty of scope for gnrnisli.