GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 80 for Pheasant. Ur a slightly thick- ened gravy, from stock No. 16 or 17, flavoured with orange-juice or lemon- juice and wine, either sherry, Madeira, claret, or port, is suitable. Ortolans and quails may be similarly served. (See Game and recipe for Fumet or Game.) HOT SAUCES—MEAT, POULTRY, GAME, AND FISH. Anchovy Sauce.—The simplest method is to mix a tablespoonful (more or less, according to taste) of essence of anchovies with a pint of melted butter. Or anchovy paste, sold in pots, may be used, but then a few drops of colouring will be wanted. Anchovy Sauce for Beef Steak. - Mix half a pint of brown sauce with a tablespoonful of lemon- juice and a lump of anchovy butter the size of a walnut; heat it carefully, add a little carmine, and serve hot. A very good sauce is made as above, with the addition of a teaspoonful of bruised capers and a tablespoonful of cucumber cut into dice (or it may be pulped), after cooking in a little butter until tender; it is called an- chovy sauce piquante. Apple Sauce.—Peel, core, and quarter a pound of good cooking apples ; put them in a jar with a little- water, just to keep them from burning ; cook them, covered, in the oven to a pulp, then add enough sugar to sweeten, a little lemon-juice, an ounce of butter, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; rub through a sieve, and re-heat for use. If more convenient, the fruit may be boiled in a saucepan. For a plain sauce, leave out the butter, and beat to a pulp without sieving. A vegetable masher (called a potato masher) can be used for the same purpose. Asparagus Sauce.—Cut the green tops of asparagus into half-inch lengths, wash them, and boil quickly until tender; then drain, and put them at the instant of serving into some bechamel or good melted butter, with a squeeze of lemon-juice. The sauco must not stand, or the asparagus will change colour. There should be a gill andahalf of the asparagus points, before boiling, to each half pint of sauce. Another way.—Use the water in which the asparagus is boiled to make the sauce. (For the method of making, see Asparagus Puree dressed in Vege- tables.) Secliamel Sauce.—This is one of the most delicious as well as most useful of all the sauces; it is always popular, and worth making well. Be- chamel should be creamy, therefore cream is a principal ingredient. There are many methods of preparing this sauce, andsome areof a very complicated nature. The following is as simple as is consistent with so rich a sauce :— First, the stock, which must bo strong and white. Veal, poultry, and ham form the foundation ; a pound each of the meats and from two to four ounces of ham to two pints and a half of water will serve as a guide to proportions; and although fresh poultry is preferable (and it may be cheaper to buy an old fowl on purpose when large quantities arc needed), still, cooked poultry can be used (the remains of a boiled fowl, for instance); and for a small portion of bechamel, if the larder contains a bone or two only of a fowl, with a scrap of fresh veal or a bone, and a morsel of lean bacon, anyone may readily indulge in the desired luxury. First lay the meats as above in a pan, with an ounce of butter and vegetables as given in Stock No. 9 ; add a little of tho water, nnd bring to the boil; add the rest by degrees, with a pinch of salt now and again, and when the whole is added, cover, and cook for eight or nine hours; leave it to cool, then freo it from fat and sediment.