EGGS. 597 Eggs, Fried, for Spinach and other Green Vegetables. —(See Yolks of Eggs, Fried.) Eggs an Gratin.— Required : bread, butter, seasoning, herbs, eggs, and an anchovy. Cost, about 9d. or lOd. Chop an anchovy, a shalot, and a sprig of parsley; add two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pint of fine bread-crumbs; season with salt and pepper, and strew the mixture over a flat dish that has been buttered and heated. Put the dish in the oven or before the fire for the crumbs to brown a little, then break five or six eggs and lay them on the top, sliding them on very carefully. Put the dish in the oven until the whites are just set, then serve at once. The crumbs at the bottom of the dish require mixing with eggs in the raw state; for the above quantity three will be wanted ; or a more eco- nomical dish is made by using one egg only, and a spoonful of milk, or gravy, or stock. A tiny onion is sometimes added, and for a very savoury snack rub the bottom of the dish with a clove of garlic. Eggs a la Mandarin.—Re- quired : rice, eggs, game, sauce, and bread, as below. Cost, from 4d. to 5d. per case; more when game is very dear. Put a lining of Browned Rice in oval china cases, leaving room for the half of a hard-boiled egg, cut side down. Over the egg put a little minced game that has been moistened with Mandarins’ Sauce (page 103); put a thin layer of rice over, and moisten with more sauce, dredge a few fried crumbs over, and heat in the oven, then serve on a dish with a neatly-folded napkin. Perioueux, Schiller, and Sauce t»e Madere can be used in the same way. Eggs an Miroir. — Melt an ounce of butter in a dish that will stand the oven; break in two or three eggs, and season with pepper and salt. Put the dish in the oven for a minute, then hold a salamander over, but not too near, to finish the cooking; the yolk should look cloar and transparent and the white retain a slightly bluish tint. Cost, about 4d. Eggs and Peas au Gratin. —(See the recipe for Peas au Gratin in Dressed Vegetables.) Prepare the dish as directed, but cover the surface of the peas with fried or poached eggs before sprinkling with the crumbs. When quite hot, dust over with cayenne and serve. For an elaborate dish, garnish between the eggs with stars of truffle or Braised Mushrooms. If the latter, glaze them, or coat them with Brown Sauce. Cost, according to quantity prepared, about Is. to Is. 3d. if six eggs are used. Eggs, Poached. — If an egg poacher be at hand the process is facili- tated, as all that is needed is to break each egg into the little wire receptacle, and place it in boiling water until done ; but an ordinary frying-pan or saute-pan does very well. Put in it some boiling water, and to each quart add a teaspoonful of salt and a dessertspoonful of vinegar; a little lemon juice does, or better still is French vinegar. Break each egg into a cup and slide into the water—four or five can be done together—when the water boils up draw the pan aside, and let it simmer only until done. Tho whites should look opaque ; by watch- ing, one can tell when to dish them. If only one egg, use a tiny saucepan, or one of the little fire-proof china pans called cocottcs, otherwise tho white may run, and the egg look raggy if it has too much room. In using the cocotte, butter it a little, and break tho egg in it, then put a bit of butter on the top, and sot the pan in a vessel of boiling water ; this is a very good way. Small moulds are used as substitutes, or deep patty-pans answer. Poached eggs can bo dished on toast, or ham, or bacon ; take them up with a slice and drain them ; remove the slico with care, or they may break. If