492 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. putting thorn on in cold water ; dry and chop thorn, add tho veal, scraped, and the chopped bacon, and thon the bread, which has boon moistened with boiling cream and strained; rub all through a sieve, add pepper and a pinch of cayenne, and salt if needed ; beat in the egg yolk, and use for a brace of small birds, or one large one. To this many other seasonings may be added by those who like them; shalots or capers, mushrooms, horbs, and various spices are often put into such a forcemeat, but many will approve of one which allows the flavourof the bird to preponderate. Note.—By soaking the bread-crumbs in sherry insteal of cream, another variety is obtainable. Piquant Forcemeat.—This is intended for Con A lT.vdienn-e, or any similar dish. The quantity made must be regulated by the size of the fish; we give the proportions of the several ingredients. Required : bread, butter, onion, thyme, parsley, and marjoram, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne, pickles or chutney, egg, milk, &c., as below. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. Put a pint of bread-crumbs in a bowl, rub in three ounces of butter, or clarified fat (the latter does for very plain dishes), add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a small onion, chopped, a saltspoonful of thyme and marjoram, salt to taste, a quarter teaspoonful of whito popper, rather more French mustard, and a good pinch of cayenne. Chop up a teaspoonful or so of hot pickles,, either clear or thick; add them with a beaten egg and about half a gill of milk ; the staleness of the crumbs must regulate this; it should be added gradually; it must bo moist only, not sloppy. A morsel of chut- ney may ho used if no pickles are handy, and a pinch of ginger increases the piquancy. It is excellent for fresh water fish of almost any sort. Note.—Any ordinary herb forcemeat, with tho additions named above in the shape of mustard, pickles, &c., will serve the same purposes. Fork Forcemeat. — Required: apples, onions, sage, thyme, parsley, seasoning and potatoes. Cost, about 6d. This is an old-fashioned but very excellent forcemeat. It is only another variety of the popular sago and onion stuffing, and will be found as good for geese, ducks, or mutton, as for pork. Take for it four onions of medium size, apples, tho same size and number, half a dozen sage leaves, a sprig of lemon thyme and parsley, and some seasoning and potatoes. Peel and chop the apples, or bake them, and use the pulp, which is a better way. Boil the oniohs with the herbs until done, then strain them, and chop or sieve them ; add the apples, with black pepper and a little salt, and enough mashed potatoes to make a smooth mass. Then use, after it has cooled. (See also Sage and Onion Forcemeat.) Potato Forcemeat, for Goose.—Required : potatoes, butter, or dripping, seasoning, the liver of a goose, and other ingredients as below. Cost, on an average, about 2d. to 3d. par pound. There are several ways of pre- paring this ; one is, to peel and cut up the potatoes into dice, and to sweat them in a little butter until they are partly cooked; a good-sized onion to two pounds of potatoes is chopped and put in with them, salt and pepper, and the goose liver, chopped, being the only other ingredients. Another tvay, and we think a better one, is to use mashed potatoes, mixed with a small proportion of onion, sliced and lightly fried, the liver of the goose and a little sage, with black pepper and salt; an egg to two pounds of potatoes is a decided improvement ;tho stuffing will be smoother and cut more evenly. Rice Forcemeat. — Required : rice, butter, cream or milk, an egg, and seasoning. Cost, about fid. or 7d. per pound, for a plain forcemeat. This is suitable for sucking pig, or may be used for veal. Some rice should be