FISH. 199 &c.; or, strain the liquor from tho tin, boil it up in half a pint or more of good White Sauce, and skim well, then flavour as desired. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Or pour tho sauce over tho fish, and strew over the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and somo chopped parsley. Then use the white of an egg as a garnish ; it should be cut in rings, laid on slices of lemon, and tilled in with tufts of parsley. Sometimes scraped horse- radish is used with other garnishing media. This, and all other baked fish, will look the same all through when done. pieces of parsley upon it, so as to cover the crack. The suuces given under Turbot, Halted, may all bo served with boiled turbot. Lohsteh Sauce is very good; when used, somo Fic. 57.-^Tukbot Kettle. Turbot, Boiled.—Empty the fish, wash it inside with scrupulous nicety, then remove the scales and gills, and trim the fins, but do not cut them off, as the gelatinous parts about them are esteemed a great delicacy, llub a little salt all over the outside of the fish—this will make the slime come oft' more easily, and do away with the necessity for soaking the fish. Wash it until it is as clean as possible. Dry it, and rub it with a cut lemon or a little vinegar. Draw a sharp knife just through the skin in the thickest part of the middle of tho back on the dark side of the fish. This is to keep the skin from cracking on the white side. Put as much cold water as will bo required to cover the fish intoa turbot- j kettle, and dissolve in this a little salt, j in the proportion of six ounces of silt to a gallon of water. Bring the water to the boil and remove the scum as it rises. Lay the turbot on the fish-drainer the white side up, lower it into the boiling water, draw it back at once, and simmer the fish very gently until done; if loft soaking it will be woolly, and lose flavour quickly. Then take it up, drain the wrater from it, and slip it, the white side up, upon a hot dish covered with a napkin. Garnish with parsley, cut lemon, and scraped horse-radish, and if it should happen that the fish is at aft cracked, lay two or three little coral may be rubbed through a sieve and sprinkled over the fish. Somo cooks have an idea that the best parts of tho fish lio in the back, therefore they dish the turbot with the dark side uppermost. However this may be, the turbot looks best with the white side on the top. It is impossible to give the exact time for boiling, as turbot varies much in thickness as well as in size. The usual tests must be applied. The fish is also very good if boiled in Couut Bouillon au Blanc. The illustration above shows the shape of a proper turbot kettle ; they aro generally of steel or copper, and measure from twenty to twenty-six inches in length. An ordinary kettlo with drainer, if wide enough, will answer very well. Turbot, Boiled, to Carve.— The accompanying illustration will give a correct idea of tho way of cf Fiu. &8.—Caiivino Tuiuiot.