47 STOCKS AND SOUPS. giblets may be cooked in the liquor, but it must be left until next day, and very carefully freed from fat. A still better giblet soup is derivable from the liquid if stock instead of water be used for boiling the goose. Golden Puree.—Required : two carrots, two tomatoes, one parsnip, two ounces of polenta, two ounces of butter, seiisoning, one egg, three pints of stock (No. 1 or 2), and a teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Cost, about lOd. Brush and scrape the carrots, peel the parsnip, slice them thinly, and break up the tomatoes; cook them in the butter for twenty minutes, add the stock and sugar, a little salt and pepper, and boil until they will pass readily through a fine wire sieve; then return the whole to the pan with the polenta (or golden maize meal), mixed smooth- ly with water or cold stock, and boil for twenty minutes more. Beat up the egg in the tureen, and add the boiling- soup very gradually, beating all the time ; stir in the lemon-juice, and serve at once. If polenta is not handy, use yellow semolina, but it will take an hour to boil. It should he put in after the soup is sieved, and extra stock must be added to allow for the reduction by the long boiling. It will be safer to beat up the egg with a spoonful or two of stock under boiling point, then to add half a pint or so of the soup before the whole is added, or, owing to the acidity of the tomatoes and lemon, it is apt to curdle. Gravy Soup a la Don.— Re- quired : a quart of stock (No. 5), a gill of fresh tomato pulp, a glass of port or good claret, a couple of sheep’s kidneys, a dessert-spoonful of good chutney, the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper- corns, one onion, two cloves, and a tea- spoonful of brown roux. Cost, about Is. 2d. Break up some ripo tomatoes, sieve them, and add the clear pulp to the stock,with the onion minced, the spice, chutney, and the kidneys very finely minced. Tomato conserve or catsup can be used instead of fresh ones. Boil gently for half to three-quarters of an hour, then pour the soup through a sieve; put it back in the pan, with the roux and seasoning, add the wine, boil for a few minutes, (hen serve. A few drops of carmine colouring will give a rich brown colour to this; too much will make it red. The object is to deepen the brown shade. Green Pea Puree.—Required; a quart of stock (No. 10), a pint of green peas (measured after shelling), a small lettuce, half a small cucumber, a few leaves of spinach, the shells of the peas, salt, sugar, pepper, and a sprig of mint. Cost, about 10d. Break up the shells of the peas; wash them and the spinach ; wash and shred the lettuce, and put them into the boiling stock, with the sugar and a teaspoonful of salt; boil until the lettuce and spinach are pulpy, then pass through a fine hair sieve. Boil the peas and cucumber in salted water, with a pinch of sugar, then pass the whole through a coarser sieve; mix with the first-named liquid, season to taste, boil up, and serve with fried bread in dice shapes. This is very cheap and good. In boiling the peas, only just enough water to cover them is needed, and they should boil fast. Green Pea Soup.—This is richer than the foregoing. The ingredients are the same, but the peas arc cooked in two ounces of butter, with a gill of boiling water, and a pinch of salt and sugar, for half an hour, or until tender; they must be shaken frequently. Part of them are sieved, and part reserved for adding whole, just before serving. Thicken this soup with two ounces of arrowroot mixed with cold water, and boil for five minutes. A few drops of vegetable-green colouring may bo added. Cost, about Is. Haricot Puree, White.—Re- quired: a quart of small white haricot beans, half a head of celery (innerpart only), °no medium-sized onion (Spanish