J 186 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. it tomato or parsley sauce, or melted butter, flavoured with lemon juice and herbal vinegar. The fish liquor may be used for soup or souchet. Skate, Curried.—Make a pint of Curry Sauce : when hot, add a pound or more of skate cut into inch squares, or a trifle larger. In making the sauce, use stock made from the trim- mings of the skate. Boil for twenty minutes or so, taking care the fish does not fall to pieces ; add to the sauce a little tomato conserve, or sauce, and a spoonful of any nice flavoured vinegar. Serve on a hot dish. This is a favourite dish. Skate, Fried.—Prepare the fish as for Crimped Skate, but do not rolltho pieces. Dry them well, and leave for awhile, then flour and fry in the usual way if thin; if thick, fish which has been parboiled answers better. The fat should bn very hot, and the fish well browned and crisped. Tartare Sauce, hot or cold, is suitable; and fried parsley is an indispensable garnish. Skate with Parmesan.—Re- quired : half a pint of White Sauce, a couple of ounces of grated Parmesan, half a pint of stock from skate, trim- mings, a good seasoning of white pepper, salt., and cayenne, two eggs, and a gill of cream, bread-crumbs, and butter. Prepare the fish as for curry ; cook it in the fish stock; add the sauce, cheese, cream, and eggs (yolks only) when the fish is done; pour all on a hot dish, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, and a little more cheese ; then pour over some oiled butter. Brown before a sharp fire, or in a hot oven, and servo instantly. Almost any sort of fish is nice cooked in this way. It may bo served as it is, or garnished with hard boiled egg in slices, and sliced lemons; or sliced tomatoes, grilled, and sprinkled with grated cheoso and chopped parsley may be used. About a pound and a half to two pounds of skate will be required for the above dish. Smelt.—This is a small, delicately flavoured fish, highly esteemed, and with a very pleasant odour when quite fresh; said by some to resemble the cucumber, by others, the violet; but this passes off in twelve hours or so after it is caught. Smelts are much used as garnish for large fish. When cleansing them, handle carefully, take out the gills and the inside with them; leave tho roe; dry them on a soft cloth, trim them neatly, and put in a cool place if not ready to cook them. Unless for invalids, smelts are seldom served plainly boiled. When good, the body will be silvery, tho gills red, and tho eyes full and bright. Cost, about 2d. each. The true smelt is said to bo confined to tho western and eastern coasts of Britain. Smelts, Baked. — Prepare as above, cut the fins closely with scissors, and lay the fish flat in a baking dish which has been buttered. Mix to- gether a glass of light wine, a little lemon juice and essence of anchovy; pour it in the tin. Then mix a large tablcspoonful of bread-crumbs, with chopped parsley and powdered thyme, a little salt and cayenne; brush tho fish with oiled butter, sprinkle with the crumbs, and level them on tho top; then pour over a little more butter, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes, until nicely browned. Send to table in the dish they are baked in, with no other sauce but that in the dish. A fireproof china dish is nicest for this. The fish, about six, should be put close together. Another way. — To convert tho foregoing into Smelts au Gratin, cover the bottom of the dish with the crumbs prepared as above, but with the addition of a morsel of chopped shalot. Finish off in the same way. Smelts, Fried.—Trim and dry them, and flour thorn well, then cook them as they aro, or coat them with