670 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them. Put two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan for each half dozen ; add the juice of half a lemon, a pinch of salt and popper, and a grate of nutmeg. Sweat them in this very Boftly for about twenty minutes. Then drain them, and set them in a moderate oven for a few minutes. Add half a pint of good white stock (for six artichokes) to the pan, with a glass of light wine, and a slight thickening- of flour; boil up, and put the artichokes in; the sauce should only come half-way up them ; cover, and serve in ten minutes with the sauce round them. Artichokes with Brown Sauce.—Parboil some Jerusalem artichokes; cut them as desired (see page 607); then leave them to get cold. Roll them in beaten egg and fine crumbs, or crushed vermicelli, and fry them golden brown and crisp. Put them on a dish, and garnish with friod parsley, and serve a good brown sauce with them. It may be ordinary bl own sauce, or one of the best brown stocks can be thickened with roux and glaze to the consistence of thick cream. Thoy may also be dished each on a crouton, and sent to table with a puree of grec-n vegetables in the centre. This can be garnished with braised ham or tongue, and some fried or poached eggs. Cost of artichokes, from 3d. to 4d. each. Total cost, variable. Artichokes with White Sauce.—Both globe and Jerusalem artichokes are excellent with bechamel, supreme, veloute, Dutch, or any of the good sauces of the white class. It may be poured over, or sent to table separately, and the vegetables may be dished in various ways. If served as entremets, they should be put on croutons, or garnished with them, or with something of a contrasting colour. Jerusalem artichokes look nice with fancy shapes of cooked beetroot, or strips of glazed ham or tongue. Another nice dish is mado of a puree of some green vegetables, with arti- chokes, cut pear-shaped, placed round it. Eggs also go well with them. Oiled But-run or rich Melted Butter is very good with artichokes, and some prefer it to any other sauce. Asparagus & la Supreme.— Required: asparagus, sauce, cream, fowl, stock, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d., exclusive of the asparagus. This is a very excellent entree, if carofully prepared and cooked. Take fifty heads of asparagus and cut off the points as soon as done; they are to be boiled plainly; continue the cooking of the stalk parts until all but the extreme ends will pass through a sieve; sieve the heads also. Pound up the breast of a fine boiled fowl, and add it Fio. 112.—Asparagus Mould. proportionately to the two separate purees; mix in also two tablespoonfuls of Supreme Sauce, and the same mea- sure of rich chicken stock; then to each add a gill of whipped cream. Season the preparations pleasantly but deli- cately. Butter a mould like the ono shown, and put in part of the green puree to one-fourth its depth ; then mix the rest of the green with half the white puree, and put in the mould ; the white puree is finally added, to imitate the stalk ends of the asparagus. Cover tho mould with a stout sheet of white paper, very thoroughly buttered, and steam it for about forty minutes; tho water must boil at the first, but only simmer afterwards; see that it is firm before turning out; slip it gently on to a hot dish and fill tho centre of the mould with