145 F1S1I purchase of a fish kettle; one of block tin is strong enough for use ®n a gas or oil stove or close range, and will last some time, though an extra strong block tin, with copper bottom, or a kettle of steel entirely? is worth the extra money. Alter using, the kettle should always be washed in boiling water and soda, and thoroughly dried, or the next boiling of fish, however fresh it may be, will have an unpleasant flavour, and the fishmonger may be unj ustly blamed. For plaice, large soles, haddock, and the usual varieties of white fish, proceed as follows. Wash it well, but quickly; if soaked it loses flavour. Have in the fish-kettle water to cover it only; too much robs it of more flavour and good- ness. Add salt in the proportion of four ounces to the gallon; four table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of white peppercorns should also be used to the same measure of water, unless strong white vinegar or lemon- juice be used, then less does. The three combined give flavour, firmness, and whiteness. After boiling up, skim well, and unless the fish has a delicateskin, like whiting and mackerel, put it in while boiling. The cold fish lowers the temperature, and for small fish this reduced heat should be maintained to the end; for large thick fish the water should barely simmer, certainly not bubble. It may sound very contradictory to say that boiled fish should not boil; yet so it is. The very knocking about, if rapidly cooked, would result in a broken mass, almost distitute of flavour. Those who have given much attention to and made the most careful experiments in fish boil- ing say that there is always an escapo of nutritive matter. This is proved by evaporating the residue. Five per cent, may he taken as the lowest, though it is very seldom so little as this; only when the most minute care is exercised from start to finish. The loss may reach thirty per cent., if fish he put on in cold water, and left too long in the pot. Ibis is a serious loss, and explains how it is that a boiled fish is often a costly, wasteful, and highly unsatisfactory' dish. The time required may be estimated at from five to fifteen minutes per pound, according to land, size, and shape; the fish with the denser grain taking longar than the softer sorts. But experience here is the only teacher. A beginner would be wise to note the time required for various kinds by making experiments with a few sorts ; after a few boilings, it will be* easy to hit the medium between pulp and rawness, for fish should be served as soon as done. If it must be kept hot, dish it; set the dish over the kettle, lay a clean cloth wrung out of the fish water over it, and put a cover over. To know when fish is done: in many books one reads “ boil until the eyes start and the tail cracks.” Not a practical test, because every piece of fish is not supplied with a head and tail (and the eyes should be removed). In short, a redness near the bone, or a firm adherence of the flesh thereto, is an indication that a little longer- must be given; when the flesh looks white, opaque, the same all through, and parts easily from the bone, the fish must be dished at once; every second longer spoils it. It is of course much easier to watch for these signs in a cut piece than in a whole fish; in the latter case, by the time the tail begins to look cracked and in danger of breaking, the middle is generally done. For oily fish the water may be salted rather more, especially for salmon, and for that no vinegar is needed; acids bleach, and in salmon the object is to retain the pink tinge.* Time required may bo twenty minutes per pound if the fish is thick. For slrony fish—to use an oxprossivo term—Iho vinegar may bo increased, not only for its bleaching properties, but because it nullifies unpleasant flavours. The vegetables and herbs named in some of our recipes serve the same purpose, and make the fish * Vinegar is sometimes used for the sake of the flavour, although the colour of the UsU suffers a little.