185 FISH. rather the pink shrimp, is slimmer anil usually smaller than the brown. When freshly boiled the shrimp is tasty, forms a cheap relish, and may bo used in many dishes. Stale fish are not digestible : if they aro clammy to the touch, and give out an unmistakable smell, of a pungent kind, they should be discarded. For various dishes from shrimps, see Sauces, Hors d’CEuvres, Salads, Savouries, Pastry, and Forcemeats. To shell shrimps quickly is not so easy as might be supposed. For brown shrimps, “ take the head between the right finger and thumb, and with the left finger and thumb- nail raise on each side the shell of the tail nearest to the head, pinch the tail, and the shell will come away. ” If at all stale, they will not shell easily. To shell red ones, see Prawns. Skate.—This is of the ray tribe, is good and wholesome, and is fairly cheap as a rule. It is moro highly valued in France than in England. The youDg fish arc called maids, and aro very delicate. Skate is generally skinned, however it is to be dressed ; its flavour is improved by crimping, but it will not keep so well; in cool weather, uncrimped, it may bo kept for a couple of days. The brown side should look healthyr, and the under side of a creamy whiteness. It varies much in quality, and if bad or out of season, is one of the most unwholesome of the finny' tribe. The larger fish are more economical, having moro flesh in pro- portion to gristle. The very' young ones are excellent crimped and fried. The liver of the fish is valued ; it is boiled and added to the sauce very often. Average cost, 6d. to lOd. per pound. Skate, Boiled.—If boiled in Court Bouillon, the skate is prefer- ably left unskinned; when done, the black skin should be taken off. The fish should bo cut into square pieces, some thick, and some from the thin part; the latter, of course, take the shorter time, from fifteen to twenty- five minutes. As to the heat of the water, many assert that for skate cold water is indispensable; others hold the opposite opinion; we recommend that the water be boiling to start with, and reduced at once to simmering point. When the fish is done, drain, and pour Black Butter all over it. Skate, Crimped.—This is gener- ally sold in slices with a bit of liver in each, tied or fastened in a roll. These may bo cooked as they' are, or cut into narrower strips, and refastenod. They should bo put into cold water to cover, with a little vinegar and salt for an hour before boiling, then drained, after boiling as above directed, and served with the same sauce, or brown caper sauce. Another may.—This is very' delicato eating. Have ready enough fish stock to cover the fish ; to a quart, ndd half a tablespoonful each of salt and lemon juice, a sliced carrot and an onion, half a dozen peppercorns, and a sprig of parsley. Boil it up, skim well, lay in the fish, and cook gently. Irish tho fish in a pile, and pour over