EGGS. preferred. Fut a teaspoonful of brown sauce or gravy on each yolk, and garnish with fried parsley. .Vo. 3.—Boil somo eggs hard, and fry double the number of slices of bacon and bread. These are to be a little larger than half an egg cut lengthwise. Arrange the bread on a dish for serving, lay the bacon next, then moisten it with any sauce handy—one of the brown piquant sort is as good as any —put half an egg on each, white side up, and serve hot. Xo. 4.—Cook and divide the eggs as above; spread the bread with a small quantity of thick Mushroom Sauce, put the bacon next, then the egg ; a few whole button mushrooms should be cooked, and used for garnish- ing. Xo. 5.—Put a layer of rice, cooked in any savoury manner, on a hot dish; lay in some eggs, lightly poached, then cover with more rice, marking round to show the shape of the eggs. Set this over boiling water to heat, as it is assumed that rice from a previous meal will be used. Form a border of rounds of fried bread, or bacon, or sliced tomatoes ; or, if convenient, with a vegetable puree of any sort. Xo. 6.—This is a much approved dish. Butter a shallow pie-dish or a fire-proof china one; shake bread- crumbs over, then put a layer of chopped ham and tongue or cold sausages in slices ; break three or four eggs over in a single layer, add salt and pepper and herbs of some kind, then go on with another layer of ham, &c., then more eggs, ham again, and crumbs at the top. Put bits of butter over, and brown before the fire or in the oven. This is preferably heated over water before browning, as it is less dry. Time for the eggs to just set, not to get hard, is required. This is considerably improved by moistening the meat with a little gravy, and putting a morsel of butter on each egg. This may be varied by using a little onion or celery puree in layers with the above ingredients 595 Eggs, Easter, or Coloured Eggs.—These present a very pretty appearance, and are much served abroad at Easter time. There arc many ways of preparing them, somo very complicated ; the following is the simplest we know'. If required striped or mottled, wind some silks of various colours about the eggs previous to boiling them. For self-coloured ones, a solution of spinach-juice should be used for green ones, saffron for yellow', cochineal or carmine for red. Any of the colourings referred to in this work- may be used, and by varying the quantity added to the water, paler or darker shades of the same colour may be obtained, and the eggs served in great variety. After they have boiled for a sufficient time they should be left awhile in the water, then laid on a clean cloth to dry. They look nicer if rubbed over with salad oil before serving. The water should boil fast all the time. Should a “surprise” dish be desired, the eggs should be boiled in the colouring solution, then emptied when cold, and the shells filled with jelly, blancmange, or other liquid that will set when cold. The broken shells are to be neatly joined and fastened w-ith coloured ribbon, which should be gummed or pasted round, then tied in a bow. Eggs and Flageolets. —Re- quired : a tin of flageolets, a dozen eggs, sauce, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d., exclusive of sauce. Make a puree of the flageolets (see Dressed Vegetables), boil the eggs either hard or soft, as preferred, dip them in a little warm butter, and roll them in fried bread-crumbs. Pile up eight of them in the centre of a hot dish, then put the puree round from a forcing bag, to form a border. Garnish round this with small croutons in pretty shapes, and nicely glazed. Send thick Brown Sauce to table in a boat. Any other green puree may take the place of the one given. Eggs, Fricasseed.—Required: