UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 268 pan with, the liquid ingredients, and cook for three hours, hasting now and then over the paper. Brown the meat after draining1 and sot asido to cool. Meanwhile, reduce the gravy, and skim it well ; let it cool, then remove any fat and add a little dissolved gelatine in hot weather; strain it through a cloth and colour it with beetroot juice a deep rod. When the moat is cold, take oil' the binding, and coat the surface thoroughly with the jelly, letting each layer sot before the n ixt is added. Cut up any surplus jolly into shapes, and use them with slices of beetroot and lemon, and pickled cherries or plums for garnish- ing. Other joints may be boned, and similarly treated. Veal in Tomato Juice, American.—Required : a pound of veal, small chops, or a largo cutlet as convenient, half a pint of juice from cannod tomatoes, some bacon, season- ing, and watercress. Cost, about Is. 9d. Molt a bit of butter in a pan, put tin moat in, and turn it every minuto for ten minutes until brown, then pour the fat off, wipe out the pan and put in the tomato juice with a little salt, popper, and lemon juice. Lay the veal in and stow for twenty minutes. Season some small pieces of bacon with pepper and chopped herbs, roll them up, and broil them until crisp, l’ut the moat on a hot dish, boil the sauce quickly for a minute with a littlo white thickening, and pour it over, then lay the bacon round, with w atercress salad between. Note.—The exact time for the cooking of the meat can only be determined by its thickness and quality. 11 may tako thirty or forty minutes to stow. Veal Olives.—Required : slices of moat from tho fillet, three inches long, and two wide ; bacon cut in the same way, rich forcemeat, some olives, gravy, &c. Cost, about 3s. for a dish of nine. Tho meat must bo thin ; bat out the pieces, put tho bacon on, then the force- meat (see Forcemeats) ; stone the olives and put in tho hollows some chopped capers; lay ono on each, roll up, and tie with thin twine or tape. ' Put them into boiling veal stock to cover, and let them simmer for an hour very slowly. A squeeze of lemon should bo added, and the olives turned about as required. Tako them up and pour over some thick Bechamel to coat them with; sprinkle some with lobster coral, others with chopped tarragon, chervil, or parsley (a pinch only of tarragon, the flavour is strong), and the rest with trulilc. Reduce tho gravy they were cooked in, add a littlo thick Celery Pcree, or mushroom, artichoke, or asparagus may bo used, then pour it round tho veal and garnish with stoned olives or button mushrooms. Veal, Roasted (a French recipe).—Take a piece of three or four pounds, loin, neck, or any part; lard it, and put it in a marinade of oil, sliced onion, tarragon and chervil, powdered mace, and vinegar equal in moasuro to the oil; turn and baste now and then, and leave for six hours; cover with buttered paper, roast and baste with the marinade. Take tho paper off for the moat to brown, mako gravy in the pan and pour round tho moat, and send a sorrel or spinach puree to table with it. If tho flavour is liked, some leaves of tarragon may b’o put in with the larding needle, as well as tho bacon, and tarragon sauce may ho served with it. Cost, variable. Veal Roasted, with. Sauce Supreme.—Required : veal, sauce, and vegetables. Cost, varying with tho part selected, &c. Roast any part of veal, to a pale brown. When done pour the sauce all round it. Heat some artichoke bottoms; hollow them a little, anl fill up with Peas Puuke, Rich. Place these round tho dish, with small Braised Carrots in between them. If from the neck or breast, the meat may be cut up, and dished round a puree of peas, with the artichoke bottoms put in a ring round tho meat.