85 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. GRAVIES. Curry Gravy.— (See Gravy a la Diable.) Make in the same way, omitting the wine, and adding a table- spoonful or more of curry sauce, sold iu bottles. Keep this sauce well corked, or it quickly loses strength. In place of the latter a teaspoonful of good curry-paste mixed with a little stock can be used. This is useful for meat, poultry, game, or fish, and can be used in many ways. Gravy a la Diable.—Required : half a pint of clear brown stock (No. 6, 7, or 8), half an ounce of arrowroot, a tablespoonful of claret, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce, and a little soluble cayenne, with salt to taste, and a few drops of soy. Mix the thickening with the claret, add the rest of the ingredients, and boil for a few minutes. Serve with kidneys, steaks, &c., or with grilled fish. For a hotter sauce, increase the Worcester sauce, or boil a few cap- sicum seeds in the gravy. Another way.— Add a fried s ha lot to the gravy, and substitute port for claret; boil and skim well, and strain through a pointed strainer. Gravy a la Game.—Mix- to- gether the following ingredients: one ounce of arrowroot, one pint of stock (No. 4), one teaspoonful each of red cur- rant jelly and tomato pulp, one table- spoonful of claret, the same measure of port, a few drops of lemon-juice and a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, and marjoram), one onion cut up small, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. First blend the arrowroot with the stock, then put in all the rest. Cover, and leave for a time, when they will be warm, then bring slowly to the boil, stirring all the time, strain, and add a little salt. When straining, press the dehrie well to get out the flavour. Put the herbs and onion in the stock-pot. This is useful for kidney and brown meats generally; it may be served with the meat, or the latter may be stewed, or re-heated in the gravy. Cold game may also be re-heated in it. Gravy for Ducks.—(See Gravy rou Goose.) Make it in the same way, using the giblets of the duck : or, if they are wanted for other pur- poses, fry some mixed vegetables and herbs, including a few sage-leaves, in hot fat; add stock No. 4 or 8, and boil for an- hour, then strain and thicken a little, and add a good season- ing of salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Both to this and gravy for geese a spoonful of mustard can be added, either with or without wine. Put in a little browning and ketchup or sauce also. Apple sauce is usually served in addition to the gravy, but if not re- quired, an apple may be grated and boiled in the gravy, in which case enough thickening to bind the whole well must be used; a tomato can bo put in instead of the apple. Gravy for Baked Fish.—This is a plain gravy. Take the fish from the tin, say a haddock, plaice, or piece of cod-fish; pour off the fat, then shake in a teaspoonful of browned flour ; add half a pint of fish stock or water, a tablespoonful of brown vinegar, a teaspoonful of ketchup or store sauce, with a little salt; stir well, scraping the tin, then boil up, and pour through a strainer round the fish. This is sufficient for two lbs. of fish. Or, add to the water a little herbal vinegar or pickle vinegar, in place of the ketchup. A teaspoonful each of French mustard and chutney, or a little anchovy essence, may be used in place of vinegar, if preferred. Gravy for Roast Fowl, Plain .—Wash and put the trimmings