UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 44 minutes, after thoroughly mixing and covering, serve. This is a German soup. Cow-heel Soup.—This is very nourishing and cheap. Theheels should be bought at a tripe-shop (they requiro scalding and cleansing, and to be freed from fat, and are troublesome to pre- pare at home), and unboiled ones asked for. Cut each into four parts, and cover with cold water and a little salt; boil slowly, and skim well, then add any vegetables and flavouring herbs, and cook until the meat falls from the bones; then strain it, and flavour and season to taste ; thicken with rice or any other grain, or with any Italian paste—in fact, the finishing off is just a matter of taste. Each heel will make from a pint to a quart, according to the strength desired. The bones will make excellent second stock, while the meat will furnish a separate dish, with some suitable sauce. Parsley sauce is a usual accompaniment, but onion, caper, and others are equally good. Cost, a few pence per quart. Cow-heel Soup (Brown). - Proceed as above, but after straining the liquor, put in a little sauce or ketchup, a spoonful of sherry, a few drops of lemon-juice, and enough brown roux to make it as thick as cream ; add some of the meat, cut into small squares, and a soup very little inferior to mock turtle will bo the result. A small slice of lean ham is an improvement to this. Cream of Veal Soup.—Re- quired : one pound of veal from the fillet, one pint of stock (No. 9), one pint of milk, one gill of cream, one ounce of sago, one egg, salt and pepper. Cost, about Is. 8d. Lay the meat on a board, and scrape it until there is nothing left but skin. Put the scraped meat into the stock, and keep it cooking, but under actual boiling-point, for forty minutes. Cook the sago and milk together wdiile tho meat is cooking. Then pass the meat and stock through a fine sieve, add tho sago and milk, and season delicately. In the tureen, beat up tho yolk of the egg, with the cream first warmed; add the soup by degrees, and serve with strips of dry toast. This is suitable for delicate people. Mutton, rabbit, or fowd, can be used, and any other suitable thickening may take the place of sago—barley-flour, rice-flour, arrowroot, crushed tapioca, and the best semolina are all usable. Cream Soup A la Welling- ton.—Required: a gill of cream, one quart of stock (No. 9), one quart of milk, the bones of a fowl, with any inferior joints and trimmings— say, from a hoiled fowl, though a raw one is better—four ounces of rice, four ounces each of minced onion, celery, and carrot, two eggs, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf and sprig of thyme, salt and pepper, a small tin of button-mush- rooms, and one ounce of butter. Cost, about 2s. Butter the bottom of a stew-pan, put in the vegetables, bones—smashed up— and the spices; cook, covered, for a few minutes; add the stock by degrees, with a pinch of salt, bring slowly to the boil, and skim well; simmer for three hours, then add the rice, pre- viously blanched, and cook for another hour. Mix the eggs with the milk, stir over tho fire until the mixture thickens, then add the mushrooms, cut up small, cover, and leave by the fire, but it must not boil again. Take the bones from the soup, pass the rest through a sieve, re-boil it, and mix with the contents of the other sauce- pan. Have the cream whipped up in tho tureen (first well heated), stir the soup to it, and serve at once. This is a high-class soup. To make a plainer one use stock No. 3. All the skin and bits of fowl that do not go through the sieve should be put in the stock-pot. Desiccated Soups.—There are now several makes ot desiccated or dried soup before the public ; some are of vegetables only, others are a mix- ture of meat and vegetables. They are in the form of a dry, coarse powder,