Universal cookery rook. 17G stock from the cuttings with the usual additions (sir Stocks), and strain it into a dean pan. Wash and break up tho mushrooms, or cut them into squares ; fry them a little in a bit of butter, then add to the stock with a good table- spoonful of browned Hour. Put tho lish in, season to taste, and simmer for twenty minutes or so ; pile it in a dish, and pour the gravy over. It must bo taken up carefully, or will break. A whole lish may be cooked in the samo way. A boiled plaice, with white mushroom sauce; or a baked one, with brown mushroom sauce, is equally good eating, and a change from the ordinary ways of serving; and brill, or other tlat fish, are very good so served. Plaice, with Tomatoes. Mix together a gill of fish stock, a gill of brown sauce, and a tablespoonful of tomato conserve ; cook in it some plaice prepared as above—a pound and a half will bo enough. When done, serve with tho sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and put round some small tomatoes, fried, or largo ones, sliced and grilled (sir Tom atoes). Other fish may be thus served. Prawns. These are delicious fish, more delicate in flavour than the shrimp, and larger. They vary in price, and somet imes reach some shillings per dozen, when scarce or very fine. When fresh, the fish are firm and a good colour. To shell prawns, “ take the head in tho right hand, and tho tail in the left; straighten the body of tho prawn, bring the thumbs near together, give tho right hand a little twist to break the tail shell, then draw it off ; it will leave only a small piece if tho right twist bo acquired.” Prawns, Croquettes of.—Re- quired : six ounces of freshly shelled prawns; an ounce of fresh butter, a slight seasoning of mace, salt, and vayenno ; a few drops only of anchovy essence, two ounces of stale, white bread, a little hot cream, a tablespoon- ful or two of Bechamel Maiouk, tho yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. 'The prawns should bo chopped, then pounded with the butler and seasoning; the bread soaked in just enough cream to cover it, and stirred over the fire for a few minutes, then left until cold, and pounded with the prawns and sauce, and mixed with the eggs; put in with- out heating. When the mass is smooth the fingers should bo floured, and the croquettes formed the size of a walnut, into round, smooth bolls. They must then bo egged and broad crumbed (another egg is required for this), left for half an hour, then re-egged and crumbed, and fried in a basket in plenty of fat, a delicate brown only. lUsh them on a border of potatoes, or fried bread, and pour round a little rich Melted Buttrh, flavoured with shrimp essence and lemon-juice; a tea- spoonful of each to a gill and a half. A small border only is needed. Tho middle should be filled up with fried parsley. This is a very delicate dish ; it can be served as an entree. Shrimps may bo used in tho same way, the quantity being increased in proportion to their size. Prawns, Curried,—After shell, ing the prawns, measure them, and make fish stock with the shells : to half a pint of prawns allow the same measure of tho stock; boil it with curry paste, &c. (sir Ci kuy SACCK),and after it. is sieved, put it back to heat again; add tho prawns, and simmer a short time in the sauce. Serve with boiled rice. Prawns, Tinned.—These are a real delicacy at a small cost, as valuable for garnishing purposes as for separate dishes. Some firms pack them in lined tins, already referred to; others tie them up in linen bags before putting them in tho tins. Many recipes for tho use of tinned prawns will he found in various chapters, but a hint hero may be useful: when they arc used in the place of fresh ones, by way of example, in curry, or soup, or any other dish in which stock would 1h> made first from tho shells of the prawns, as there are no shells for tho