159 FISH. before a clear fire. Move them gently now and then, to prevent their stick- ing to the bars, and turn often. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over tho herrings before sending them to table. The roes must be served with them. They are nicer if fried. Herring's, Fresh, Broiled, a la Farleigh.—Scale and wash the tish ; dry them in a cloth, take out the back bones, and, for half a dozen fish, mix together the following : one ounce of butter, a saltspoonful each of salt, white pepper, French mustard, and vinegar; a good pinch of ground nut- meg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a fourth as much thyme in powder. Brush the insides with this, then skewer the fish two together, skins outside ; flour- them a little, and broil twenty or twenty-five minutes. Serve with a gill or more of Melted Butter, flavoured with lemon juice; or with Mustard Sauce. Herrings, Fresh, Grilled.— A Scotch recipe.—Scale, gut,_and wash the herrings, cut off the heads, tails, and fins, flatten them with great care, remove the back bone, and any little bones that can be taken out with it. Sprinkle the inside of each fish with a little pepper and salt; then place them together in pairs, and' press the two inner surfaces as close ns possible. Dip them in oatmeal, lay them on the gridiron over a clear fire, and when the undermost fish is done, turn them quickly and carefully, without separa- ting them. Serve as hot as possible. Herrings, Fresh, Grilled, a la Graythorpe.—Wash the fish; split them, take out the back bones, and as many others as possible. Re- quired, for six fish, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one tablespoonful of chop- ped parsley, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a saltspoonful each of mignonette pepper and salt. Mix tho dry materials, and sprinkle the fish, after brushing over with tho oil; then lay the halves together, and flour tho fish; grill for fifteen to twenty minutes, and serve with a pat of MaItre d’HStel Butter on each. This and tho preced- ing arq delicious dishes for breakfast, luncheon, &c. Herrings, Fresli, Pickled.— A French recipe.—Required: half a scoro of the freshest fish obtainable; four ounces of salt, warm and in fine powder; a large onion, half a dozen cloves, the same of allspice berries, a teaspoonful of black peppercorns, a blade of mace, two bay leaves, and a capsicum, minced. First take away heads and entrails, leaving the roes ; split them open, wipe, and strew the salt evenly over them on a dish; leave them for twenty-four hours, turning them once. Then drain them, fold them together, and put them in an enamelled stewpan, with equal measures of cold water and French vinegar to just cover them; slice the onion, add it and all the rest; bring gently to the boil, and cook for three minutes. Take them from tho fire, and when cool, turn all into a dry, earthen jar, with tho liquor, &c.; when quite cold, cover, and set in a cool place. They will keep very well, and furnish material for some of the most dainty little savouries at a merely nominal cost; for which see Savouries. Herrings, Kipperecl.—To give recipes that shall please all is not easy, for while some people find the flavour so palatable that they will not so much as wipe the herrings before cooking, others soak them so long that there is but little flavour left in them. To take a medium course, kippers should be washed and dried, then cooked like haddock (sec Haddock, Finnan, Broiled or Fried) ; or should they bo thick ones, and not too highly smoked, they may be wiped with a damp cloth, then brushed over with butter, and cooked before or over tho fire, turning them, and giving them a few minutes only. They are done, for Borne palates, as soon as hot through. Brush them with butter before serving, and send them to table very hot.