ENTitEES, MADE DISHES, AND UELEVES. 219 salt, cayenne, and black popper to taste, a morsel of shalot chopped small, and half a gill of Brown Sauce. Bacon and batter as below are also required. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. First, put the brown sauce in a small pan with the shalot and parsley; stir over the fire for a minute, then remove the pan, and put in all the meat cut in very small squares, but not chopped; stir in a bit of glaze the size of an olive, mix well, add the seasoning, and set by to cool. Prepare the batter by the recipe for Kick Frying Batter, and cut some thin slices of bacon about two inches wide, and two and a half inches long. Put a little mince on the bacon, roll up cork shape, close the ends, and dip each into the batter; see that it coats the bacon in every part, then drop them into plenty of hot fat, and fry a light brown, but quite crisp. Dish on a lace paper laid on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. The bacon must be as thin as possible, and after the slices are cut they should be flattened out with a knife, then trimmed evenly to the size required. Uromeskies a la Fortescue. —Required : two ounces each of cooked sweetbread, chicken, and tongue; a tablespoonful of rich sauce, Bechamel or Supreme; the same measure of cooked button mushrooms, seasoning, frying batter and bacon, and an egg. Cut the sweetbread into dice, and the chicken and tongue into small strips; chop the mushrooms, and mix the whole with the sauce over the fire, then remove the pan, and add the seasoning, and when cooled a little, the yolk of the egg. Mix thoroughly, and put by to get cold. Finish off as directed for Kkomeskies A la C'au- siialton. Cost, about Is. Cd. to Is. 9d. Kromeskies of Game.—Take any game which has been roasted or braised; cut it up, and pass it through a sieve ; to halt a pound, put an ounce of minced ham or bacon, cooked, a minced truffle, and a dessertspoonful of port; add a hard-boiled egg in dice, and season rather highly. Pleat half a gill of Brown Sauce, or any similar thick sauce which may have been served with the game ; mix with it the meat, &c., then put aside until celd, and finish off as directed for Keomes- kies A la Caksiialton. If more convenient, gravy can be used instead of sauce, but it must be thickened with roux and a hit of glaze. Lamb Cutlets a la Westma- cotte.— Required: five cutlets, a sheep’s kidney, a small onicn, a little flour and butter, half a pint of stock from mutton bones, a small cucumber, half a dozen olives, salt and pepper, a few capers, and a little vinegar and wine. Cost, about 3s. Gd. to 4s. Trim the cutlets and brown them \n the butter ; cut up the onion, add it, and sprinkle with flour, brown it also. When the meat is a delicate yellow put it in another pan with the onion, add the stock, and the olives, scalded, also the capers, chopped; then cut the cucumber upsmall,put itin,and simmer for twenty to thirty minutes; season nicely. Then pass the cucumber and stock through a sieve, and boil it up with a little glaze. Dish the cutlets round a bed of any vegetable pre- ferred ; pour tho sauce round, and uso the olives as garnish, together with some more whole capers, and the kidney. The latter should he cut in dice, and he lightly cooked in butter for a minute or two, then finished off in a tablcspoonful of sherry; a couple of minutes’ simmering is sufficient for it. The onion should ho removed beforo the sauce is sieved. Lamb Cutlets in Cream Sauce.—-Required : seven cutlets, a tin of mushrooms, some potatoes, wine, &c. Cost, about 4s., or more. Trim tho cutlets neatly, put them in a saute pan in hot butter or oil, and brown them on both sides; then drain, wipe out tho pan, and put in the liquid from tho mushrooms, half a glass of light wine, a morsel of shalot, and a few wliito peppercorns ; simmer,