REEF. 307 families, where little joints aro the rule, a nice, thick steak, say two inches, and two pounds in weight, will afford a nice little roast, or it may bo baked. In either case, pepper and flour it ; baste it well at starting; give it a few minutes’ sharp cooking, then reduce the heat. It will take about forty minutes, less if liked under-done. It can also be nicely cooked in a saucepan. (See Heart Roasted in a Saucepan.) If cut rather thinner, it may be spread with veal stuffing, then rolled and tied with tape, and covered with a buttered paper-, and cooked as above. A morsel of anchovy paste, or a spoonful of essence will improve the stuffing. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. Stewed Beef.—This is an ex- cellent recipe. Required : six pounds of lean meat, half a pound of fat salt pork, a turnip, a carrot, a parsnip, an onion, an apple, a tablespoonful each of salt, French vinegar, store sauce, and tomato pulp, six pints of hot water, a teaspoonful of mixed spice, a sprig each of thyme, parsley, marjoram, and a bay leaf, and a saltspoonful of celery seed. The last named, with the herbs, to be tied up in a muslin bag. Cost, about 4s. 6d. to 5s. Cut the meat fr om the shoulder, and divide the pork into strips; push them in the meat until lost to sight, and brown the vegetables in a little hot dripping. Put in all the rest, salt excepted, bring to the boil, and put in the meat; give it three hours’ cooking, or more if necessary. The apple can be grated, or cut up. Cover the stewpan, and put an iron or weight on the lid to keep in the steam ; when half done turn the meat, cover again, and at the end of the time thicken the liquor with browned floor, until like good cream ; add the salt and a little cayenne, and serve some of the gravy with the meat. Keep the rest back ; with the sieved vegetables it will make a nice tureen of soup. A teaspoonful of brown sugar may be added when there is fear that the meat will be tough ; it will improve it considerably. If from the leg, or | shin, longer time must be allowed than for the shoulder. Stewed Beef, Welsh. —Re- quired : meat, vegetables, &c. Cost, variable, but an economical dish. After bringing the meat and gravy to the boil, in the proportion of a pint to a poimd, some leeks and young turnips should be put in, in time to be tender by the end of the cooking : chopped parsley is essential, and a thickening of rice or barley must not bo forgotten. All stews containing barley need care- ful watching and stirring, to prevent burning. If convenient, the barley may be separately parboiled, in plain water or stock, and added to the stew to finish, with the liquid in which it was cooked. A grated carrot is a * further improvement to this. The stew should be quite thick with vege- tables. It resembles the Scotch dish called Hotch Potch. Stuffed and Stewed Beef.— Required: meat, stuffing, and vege- tables, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. 3d., exclusive of adjuncts. Take the bone from a piece of beef of four pounds weight, the upper part of the shin, then fill it with ve;il stuffing, or use any other kind preferred. Put the meat on a soup plate, and set it in a large saucepan on the top of a weight, or any- thing that will raise itafow inchesabovo the bottom of the saucepan. Then poui- in hot water, just to create steam. On the top of the meat put some slices of Spanish onion, and a few ounces of bacon cut in strips; just moisten with a tablcspoonful of vinegar, and a little bone stock. Cover, and cook until tho meat is done, about four hours, then serve with any nice gravy or sauce, and the liquid from tho plate added to it. The water must bo renewed as required, and must bo kept out of tho plate; a round shallow baking tin answers equally well. This is a most excellent dish, tender, and of good flavour; a dish of rico or vegetables should bo served with it. instead of a weight, a moat stand can bo used, or a stand such as is used