FORCEMEATS. 4 95 tablespoonful of brown sauce. Fry a small onion and a largo tomato, both sliced, in two ounces of butter or clari- fied fat; add them to the rest, with seasoning to taste. Then put in four or six ounces of raw white fish, cut up small or sieved; the latter is much the better. Blend well. This should be made stiff if for balls or cakes for fish stews, using some dry crumbs in place of some of the soaked ones. If moulded small, and coated with egg and crumbs, they may be fried, and used for gar- nishing many fish dishes. Udder, Veal, for Forcemeat. —Boil the udder in veal broth until quite tender; when cold, trim away the upper part, and pound it well before adding it to the other ingredients. Veal Forcemeat.—This is com- monly known as veal stuffing, and varies greatly in its composition, degree of richness, and flavouring adjuncts. The foundation consists generally of suet and broad; in some recipes directions are given for using' equal weights of these two ingredients, but such a forcemeat is very rich, and by no means light, and not suitable for eating cold. For ordinary use the following will he found rich enough. -Vo. 1.—Required: half a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of suet, half a lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of thyme if fresh, more if dried, a raw egg, a tablespoonful or two of milk, and about a saltspoonful of grated nut- meg. Cost, about 6d. Sieve the bread, chop the suet, grate the lemon, and blend with the rest of the dry mate- rials ; mix very carefully before the liquids are added, to distribute the seasoning, then beat the milk, egg, and strained lemon juice together, and add to the rest. Marjoram or any other herbs may be added, and leas lemon and nutmeg will suit some tastes. For a better forcemeat, pound the whole. Good clari tied fat or butter may take the place of the suet, and if a little fat bacon be used, less of cither will he required. When this is done remember to reduce the quantity of salt. No. 2.—Required: six ounces of bread-crumbs, two ounces of lean raw ham, one ounce of fat bacon, the same of butter, salt and pepper, cayenne and lemon peel to taste, about half the quantity of herbs given in the above recipe, and two eggs. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. Rub the butter into the bread, add the scraped bacon and chopped ham, and finish as above directed. If the eggs are large, one, and the yolk of tho second will suffice. This is a tasty mixture, and nice when cold. No. 3.—This is the rich force- meat refereed to in several of our recipes. Required : half a pound of bread-crumbs, four ounces of raw ham, rather fat, the samo of butter, half a lemon, rind and strained juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne, and herbs to suit the palate, and three largo, or four small, eggs. Cost, about Is. Blend the materials as directed in No. 1. If the lemon rind be chopped instead of grated, a pinch of salt facilitates tho process, but grated rind is the nicer. A portion of veal kidney suet may re- place the butter when to be eaten hot, but not for delicate dishes, such as pies, &c. {See also Veal Forcemeat, Rich.) Veal Forcemeat, Rich.— Required : six ounces each of raw veal and ham (or half bacon), three ounces of veal suet, seasoning, Sec., as under. Cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. After mincing tho meat and chopping the suet, add a little salt, pepper, cayenne and mace, and mix in about an equal bulk of Bread Panada, for which veal stock instead of water should be used. Pound the mixture, and add a raw egg "by degrees. The exact dogreo of moisture required is best determined after a little pounding; another egg yolk or a little cream may ho wanted, or a spoonful of veal slock may ho used. It can ho used for turkeys or fowls ; it is a change from