686 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. garlic vinegar to the lemon juice, for some tastes. Mushrooms au Gratin. —Required: mushrooms, onion, herbs, seasoning, bread, &c., as below. Cost, from 9d. upwards on an average. This is a very good dish, and may he served as an entree. Flap or cup mushrooms are best, and should be about two to two and a half inches in diameter. Peel with care, so as not to break the mushrooms, and scoop out the inside of the cup, to make it hollow. The stalks are to be cut out quite close to tho cup ; then peel the stalks and chop them up with the scooped-out part, and add a bit of chopped onion the size of a walnut for a dozen mush- rooms; put in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a fourth as much fresh thyme, or half as much dried thyme, and fry the mixture in a frying-pan, with a little butter, for a minute; season with salt and pepper and a dash of grated lemon peel or juice, then stir in some fine bread-crumbs to make a moist paste, and fill the cups with tho mix- ture, making it smooth but dome- shaped. Then dredge some fine pale raspings over, and bake in a tin, with a little oil or butter, until the mush- rooms are done; but take care they do not break. Take them up with a slice and drain from the fat; put them on a hot dish and garnish with fried parsley. For this, and all dishes that are served as entrees, use an entree dish if con- venient ; or one of plain white is the next best, and the fancy-shaped ones look nice ; many answer for salads or hot dishes of vegetables. The seasoning for the mushrooms can be varied to taste; some chopped ham or remnants of game or poultry may be put in, and other herbs than those named. The filling is often fried in scraped bacon fat, and some will like a more highly-seasoned mix- ture than others; the principle is tho thing, and there are few more delicious dishes if ordinary care be taken. Mushrooms a la Merritt.— Required: mushrooms, brains, butter, seasoning, ham, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 10d., exclusive of the brains. Take somo mushrooms, even in size, about the circumference of the top of a sherry-glass; lay them in a buttered tin, season them a little, and cover with a buttered paper; cook in a moderate oven. Boil some brains, calf’s or lamb’s (see Index), and beat them up while hot; to about two large tablespoonfuls add a pinch of salt and cayenne, a salt- spoonful of grated lemon peel, tho same of chopped thyme and parsley, a table- spoonful of chopped ham (cooked), a dash of French mustard, and a table- spoonful of rich white sauce or cream. The stalks of tho mushrooms should be chopped up and added to this mix- ture. Fill the mushrooms while hot, making tho surface level (not convex), sprinkle with fried bread-crumbs, and put in the centre a fancy-shaped morsel of cooked ham. Place them on a tin, and set for a few minutes in the oven over a second tin of hot water. Arrange nicely on a dish. Should any of the brain mixture be left over, spread somo tiny croutons with it, and dot them about the dish. The above mixture wall fill about nine mushrooms. Mushrooms a la Parmesan. — Required : mushrooms, seasoning, parsley, cheese, sauce, and bread- crumbs. Cost, about Is. inclusive. Take, for a nice dish, about nine flap mushrooms, of medium size, and pre- pare them carefully; pour a little oil and lemon juice over, with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and cover them up for an hour. Then pour off the oil into a baking-tin (it should just cover the bottom), lay the mushrooms in a single layer, and bake until done, bast- ing sometimes; then put them in a second tin (without oil), dredge with grated Parmesan, and give them a minute more in tho oven. Dredge again with fried bread-crumbs, and serve hot, each on a crouton a little larger than tho mushrooms, and gar- nish with fried parsley. If sauce is served, it should be a good Cheese