UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK 182 Salmon, Tinned, with Maca- roni.—Take half a pound of toiled macaroni, a tin of salmon, half a pint of plain anchovy sauce, some bread crumbs, and herbs, with seasoning to taste. A dish that can be sent to table is wanted; it should be greased and lined with crumbs, then filled with thick layers of macaroni, moistened with hot fish stock or milk, and thin layers of the fish, divided into flakes, each layer to be seasoned with pepper and salt, and parsley or other herbs; a morsel of scalded onion, finely minced, is liked by some with fish dishes of this sort. The anchovy sauce should be poured over all; the top layer should consist of macaroni, well coated with crumbs. Pour a little butter over, and bake quickly until brown. When the oven is too fierce, a dish of this sort should be set in a tin of hot water in the oven until hot, and the water taken away in time for it to brown. This is very savoury; a little fish goes a long way thus treated. Salmon Trout.—This varies in size from three-quarters of a pound to two to three pounds; it is a delicate fish, and may bo dressed according to the recipes given both for salmon and trout; boiling is tho least agreeable mode. The flesh varies in colour: the largo fish are tho whiter and the least prized; tho smaller, although rod, are not so red as salmon ; tho colour of tho throat inside is generally indicative of that of tho whole fish ; the redder it is tho moro it is valued. Salmon, with Lobster Cream. •—Required: four slices half an inch thick, from the tail end of a salmon of moderate size ; some lobster cieam (see Lobster, Creamed), and garnish, &c., as below. Tako tho skin and bone from the slices of fish, lay them in a saute pan, buttered, with a glass of light wine and a little lemon juice; put a buttered paper over, and cook for ton to fifteen minutes ; then drain, and lay them on a hot dish. Boil tho liquor in the pan quickly to reduce it; pour it over the fish, then fill the centre cavity (left by tho removal of the bone) of each slice with tho lobster cream. Garnish tho centre of the dish with watercress, dressed with oil, vinegar, salt, and mignonette pepper; and put a littla sprig of cress in the centre of each piece of fish. Serve as dressed fish, or an entree. This is equally good when cold. Salmon, with Tomatoes.— Cook tho fish in the above way, there shouldbe five or six slices. When cooked, arrange them nicely on the dish, reduce tho liquor as above, and mix with it the pulp of some ripe tomatoes, sieved, enough to fill a quarter pint measure; put this in a saucepan, add a piece of glaze tho size of a nut, a good seasoning of cayenne and French mustard, a little salt and carmine; when thick, fill the cutlets, first putting a crouton in the cavity. Fill up the centre and outer edge of the dish with a salad of cucumber and tomatoes (see Salads) ; garnish with prawns or shrimps, and serve as an entree. Sardines.—Tho best are tho small sardines caught on the coast of Pro- vence in Franco. From a thousand to twelve hundred fishing smacks are engaged in catching these fish off tho coast of Brittany from June to the middle of October of each year. The French often cure sardines in red brine, and when thus prepared designate them anehoisecs or anchovied sardines. These are packed in vessels previously used for holding wine, and exported to the Levant. When quite fresh sardines are considered excellent; they entirely lose their flavour, and become quite insipid if kept for any length of timo. On tho Mediterranean coasts of Italy and France sardine fishing takes place in the summer months. Tho fish are cured by washing in salt water, sprink- ling with salt, removing tho head, gills, &c., washing again, drying in tho sun and wind, stoeping in boiling olivo oilt draining, and packing in