UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 110 cut into half inch lengths; the tinned fish answer for this, and to the sauce a little shrimp essence should he added. Hong Kong Sauce.—Put into a howl the yolk of a fresh egg; add to it the yolk of another egg, boiled hard, a tcaspoonful of herbaceous mixture (see Seasoning), the same of French mustard and essence of anchovies, and a saltspoonf ul each of salt and celery salt. Mix with the hack of a wooden spoon very thoroughly, then add by degrees a gill of salad oil, as if for mayonnaise; next put in half a gill of claret, a teaspoonful of pepper-water, a tablespoonful of lime-juice, and the same measure of lemon pickle. When well mixed, add more seasoning, salt, cayenne, or mustard, if liked, and set on ice before serving. Last of all put in a toaspoonful of sugar. This may he sent to table with almost every kind of fish, flesh, or fowl; it also blends well with many kinds of salad. Use a fresh lime whenever obtainable; failing that, the best juice, pure, un- sweetened. A variation of this excellent sauce consists in the substitution of tamarind chutney for lemon pickle. Or a pre- paration called tamarind zest may be usod. Horse-radish Sauce. —Grate a stick of well-washed horse-radish as finely as possible ; to three tablespoon- fuls, add half a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, four table- spoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful each of mustard and castor sugar, and a few drops of cayenne vinegar. Cost, about 6d. Blend the horse-radish with the seasonings and cream, and add the vinegar last, of which a smaller pro- portion will be more acceptable to many palates ; for a milder sauce, the sugar should be increased or the mustard reduced, or it may be omitted. For a less expensive sauce, use milk in place of cream, and a teaspoonful of sweetened condensed milk. Horse-radish Sauce, Rich. —Beat a gill of cream until quite stiff; mix with it a couple of table- spoonfuls of horse-radish (use a fine grater in preparing it), a saltspoonful each of salt, sugar, and mustard, both French and English, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and a few drops of cayenne vinegar. Cost, about 8d. To improve the above, rasp a lump of sugar on the rind of an orange until a fourth of the yellow part is removed; add it with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve. Another way.—For a very superior sauce, use, for the foundation, half a gill of thick Mayonnaise and half a gill of thick cream; finish off as in the above recipe, the hard-boiled egg being added or not, according to taste. Lax Sauce. —Take from a tin of lax enough to fill a table spoon after chopping ; use it with the ingredients given in the recipe for Cream, Cray- Fish ; add colouring to give a pink tinge, and serve with cold fish or with hot fish, as grilled salmon or haddock, fried eels, &c. Lisbon Sauce.—Peel and slice a large Spanish onion, cut it small, then pound it with the undermentioned ingredients : a teaspoonful each of salt, sugar, curry-paste, and mignonette pepper, half a teaspoonful of French mustard, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a tablespoonful each of tomato pulp and salad oil. After the whole have become thoroughly blended, add half a gill of French vinegar and a glass of claret; stir thoroughly, and leave for a while before serving. This sauce is very appetising, inex- pensive, and generally useful for all sorts of dishes. Lorraine Sauce.—Required: a quarter pint of pure tomato conserve, half a glass of sherry, half a gill of brown stock (No. 6, 7,_ or 8), the same measure of liquid aspic, a teaspoonful each of onion vinegar and herbal vinegar, a little salt, sugar, mignonette pepper, and colouring.