PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G37 use that from any white moat, and do not brown the onions at first, but sweat them in a little butter. When almost done, thicken with flour mixed with milk, to make the sauce of the consistence of ordinary melted butter; or it can be made thicker if the onions are served on toast. A little grated cheese is sometimes liked with stewed onions. Another way. — Boil some small onions until almost done, then put them in a saucepan with Bice Sauce to cover; stew softly for a few minutes and serve hot. Many other com- binations will be found equally satis- factory. Parsley.—The foliage of parsley is of use for flavouring soups, &c., besides which it is nutritious and stimulating, a quality which it seems to derive from an essential oil present in every part of the plant. There are several varieties of parsley in use. Plain-leaved parsley used to be the only sort employed in cooking. It is not much cultivated now, however, the curled varieties being much more elegant; besides—and this is a good reason for avoiding it—it bears a marked resemblance to a poisonous British weed, fool’s parsley. It is well to know that the leaves of fool’s parsley are of a darker hue than the genuine article, and that when bruised they emit a very un- pleasant odour. When in flower, fool’s parsley may also be distinguished by what is popularly termed its head. Cnrl-leaved parsley, both for flavour and appearance as a garnish, is the best sort of parsley. Naples parsley, or celery parsley, is used in place of celery. It is a variety between parsley and celery. Hamburg parsley is cultivated for its roots. These grow as large as small parsnips. When boiled they are very tender, and agreeable to the taste, besides being very wholesome. 'They are used in soup or broth, or eaten with meat. Parsley is sometimes very scarce and dear, and it is well to bear in mind that the stalks need never be thrown away; they can always be used in some way or other for flavour- ing purposes. To keep parsley fresh for table, the stalks only should bo put into water; if the leaves are immersed, they soon decay and smell unpleasantly. A good imitation, when parsley is not to be had, is to boil a bit of the seed (tied in muslin) in the water for sauce, stews, &c., for a few minutes; a bit of spinach or other green stuff, boiled and chopped, will give the appearance of parsley. Parsley, Dried, for Winter Use.—Pick the nicest and greenest sprigs in May, June, and July. Wash them well, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted. Let them boil for one minute, then take them out, drain and dry them before the fire as quickly as possible, put them in a tin box, and store them in a dry place. Before using the parsley, soak it in warm water for a few minutes to freshen it. Parsley, Dried, and Pow- dered.—After washing the sprigs, and picking them from their stalks, dry them in a cloth, and put them in a single layer in a warm place to dry ; the plate rack, or a corner of the range, or the oven; the quicker the drying process the nicer will be the colour. Have ready some dry, wide- necked bottles; rub the parsley to- gether to powder it, and pass it through a fine sieve, that it may be uniformly fine. Store for use after corking the bottles well. All the coarse that does not go through can be kept for flavouring; the fine is useful for stuffing, and other purposes. People who have no garden will find it as cheap to buy the parsley ready prepared as to buy it and powder it at home. Parsley, Fried for Garnish- ing.—Pick the parsley into sprigs, largo or small, as required. Dry them, aftor washing thoroughly, either in a cloth or vegetable basket; if a cloth,