UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 320 quarter of an hour, draw the meat back to a good distance, and cook slowly, basting liberally. Finish off as directed above ; or make some melted butter, and after pouring off the fat, add the melted butter to the gravy in the tin ; stir up, and boil it; add a little colouring, and put part of it on the dish, and the rest in a hot tureen. (.SVralso Gravy for Veal.) If the kidney end, see that the kidney is covered with its fat, and cover the lean of the meat with a greased paper. When done, finish as above, and serve bacon, ham, or tongue with it if con- venient. In order to give the meat a rich brown coating, flour it when the greased paper is removed. A coating of thin glaze is a great improvement, and cut lemons should be handed on a plate. Time, from twenty to twenty-five minutes per pound; longer if very thick. Cost, about lOd. per lb. Loin, To Carve.—This is gener- ally served in chops, like a loin of mutton, and must be carefully jointed, or the carver will have to turn the knife about, until the place is found for the division of the bones; this produces a raggy appearance. The kidney and kidney fat are great delicacies, and a portion should be put upon each plate. If the loin is large, one chop may make two small helps, by putting the under-cut with the end, and serving the bone and upper part together. The most econo- mical way of sei^ng this is to bone it, then roll and carve it like a fillet, which see. Neck, Roasted.^Take the best end of a neck of veal, saw off the chine bone, wrap in buttered paper, and hang it to the jack. If the joint is not wrapped in paper, it must be basted very liberally with drip- ping from the pan. Put it down before a clear fire, and at a sufficient distance to keep it from being scorched. A quarter of an hour before the joint is taken up, remove the paper, dredge the moat with flour, and baste with a little butter. Finish as directed for other joints of veal. Rice Sauce will afford a pleasant change from thoRe generally served. For other ways of cooking, see recipes for Breast, Loin-, &c. Cost, 7d. to 9d. per pound, when plentiful, if bought whole. Pluck. — This consists of the heart, with the liver and lights. The heart should bo cooked whole ; it may be plain or stuffed, and can be baked, roasted or stewed. If baked or roasted, put a slice or two of bacon over it. Soak the liver and lights in waim water; mince them, put them in a stewpan with chopped parsley, thyme, and a little ketchup or store sauce, and enough plain stock of any' sort to cover. Simmer for nearly an hour, thicken the gravy', and season well. Put the mince on a hot dish, with the heart laid on it; round it place rolls of cooked ham or bacon, or poached eggs; and garnish with triangular sippets of toast, or with croutons. Fried parsley can be used if convenient. With reference to this recipe, a word of explanation is necessary-. It is given in deference to custom, but with due regard to the fact that hosts of people shun lights altogether as human food, and look upon them as cats’ meat. At the same time, numbers of people do eat them, and the recipe, if followed, will result in one of the tastiest and most digestible dishes of the kind. Those who discard them, will find the dish, cooked as directed, but minus the lights, worth a trial. This is not the place to discuss the pros and cons of the question, but we may remark that while many- medical authorities are against the consumption of any internal parts of any animal (sweet- bread excepted), others contend that every part may bo oaten, if well cooked, and quite fresh, except by' per- sons whose digestive powers are very weak. We are not including tripe, but the internals above referred to, together with kidney's, milt, &c.