452 UNIVERSAL COOlCEIiY BOOK. enjoy tlie picking- of a rabbit’s liead, otliers regard it as a most unsavoury- morsel. (See Babbit, to Truss.) Rabbit, Boned and Roasted. —See the directions given on page 424 for Hare. If preferred without bacon inside, it can be omitted, but the back of the rabbit must bo covered with slices of bacon; the legs, too, are all the nicer for this treatment. Brown gravy should be sent to table, and little rolls of bacon, with some small sausages, may be put about the dish ; or forcemeat balls can be used. The rabbit must be a fine one ; poor, skinny ones are not worth the trouble entailed by this method. Another way.—Bone the back only, and instead of forcemeat, fill the rabbit with tiny mushrooms, lightly cooked in butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and a little nutmeg. Sew up, and bake or roast, using the butler from the mushrooms for the basting. Make brown gravy, and flavour it with good mushroom ketchup, or add some pickled mushrooms to it. Rabbit, Braised.—The method is described under Hake, Braised, and if expense be no object that recipe may be followed with certainty of satisfaction. For a cheaper dish, stock No. 1 or 2 will do, or second stock No. 3, which is very good for many braised dishes. A puree of red haricots is excellent with this; it should be moistened with the gravy from the rabbit. (See recipes and re- marks in the chapter on Vegetables.) If second stock be used, a little colour- ing will bo wanted; if common stock, a morsel of gelatine, or gelatinous meat is an improvement. Small sausages of pork or beef may be put about the dish ; or rolls of bacon if preferred. A piquant gravy is very good with this; the ingredients re- quired are the same as given for piquant sauces. Rabbit, Broiled (or Grilled). —The legs of a cooked rabbit are very nice for a breakfast dish, if scored and nicely seasoned, then brushed over with warm butter, and broiled or grilled ; a rabbit which has been boiled or steamed may be vciy successfully used up in this way. The recipes given under FowLand Tirkev can be followed. Another nice dish is to be had by boning the legs, and filling them with a little tomato or mushroom puiee, made firm by the addition of bread-ciumbs; a few stitches will bo required to hold the flesh together. The legs may then be broiled or grilled, or heated in devil sauce. A small quantity of cold sausage or minced meat, may be mixed in the puree. The legs should be dished on a crouton, or served with a bolder of fried or mashed potatoes. Tartare sauce is an excellent accom- paniment. Another way.—Required : the legs of a rabbit, a seasoning of mushroom powder, mustard, chopped shulot, herbs, and salt and pepper, stock or gravy, and mashed potatoes, with one of the adjuncts under-mentioned. Cost, about Gd., exclusive of the rab- bit. The rabbit le gs aie to bo heated in the stock or gravy, then gashed and seasoned, and covered with the mashed potato, or a little potato pastry (tec Vegetables). Then brown before the fire, or fry if preferred. Serve with grilled tomatoes, or fried onions, or a litllo cooked rice, &c. The shoulders and back of a rabbit arc equally good in any of the above ways, but wo refer to legs as they are more often left over. Rabbit, Dry Curry of.— In- quired : a rabbit, cream, butter, rice, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. Gd. Take some slices from the legs and back of a fino rabbit, which has been steamed or boiled until done, and left to get cold; dip them into cream, seasoned with cayenne and hot chutney, and a suspicion of dried bay leaf in fine pow- der. Melt in a pan from one to two ounces of fresh butter—in proportion to the quantity of meat—and add to it a