97 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. minced finely, and added with the cut lemon; or if the second method is adopted, it should he pounded and sieved after cooking, and put in before the lemon-juice and peel. Lobster Sauce.—First boil the shell of the lobster, with a few pepper- corns, a small bunch of herbs, and a slice of onion, in cold water for forty to fifty minutes ; strain, and boil down to three quarters of a pint; add to it white roux to thicken, or two ounces each of flour and butter, with a gill of boiling cream, a dash of cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and the flesh of half a lobster cut in small dice shapes. Then put in some lobster butter or coral and a few drops of lemon-juice; do not boil again. Failing these, put in a drop or two of carmine. Another way. —This is economical, and may be made from tinned lobster of the best quality. Cut the fish up as above directed, and add it to some melted butter or fish stock mixed with an equal measure of boiling milk and a little roux. If lobster coral or butter an be added, this will be very good indeed—but little inferior to fresh lobster sauce. Some authorities advise that the lobster be pounded, but this makes it string}-. It may be cut quite small, but it should not be pounded or shredded. Melted Butter. —See Bcttek. Mushroom Sauce (Brown).— Wash and peel some mushrooms of medium size, dry them in a cloth, then J chop them as finely as possible with a small shalot or a spring onion to half a pound; put them in a stew-pan, with a squeeze of lemon-juice or a few drops of white vinegar, a pinch of powdered herbs, a little salt and black pepper, and an ounce of butter; cook slowly to a pulp. Then add to it Brow.v Sauce or thickened brown stock, nicely flavoured, by degrees; it should be quite thick: more like a puree than a sauce—the exact consistency is a matter of taste; then boil up and I) skim. This is much nicer than a sauce made by simply adding chopped mushrooms to some ordinary sauce or gravy. Serve with steaks, cutlets, &c. Mushroom Sauce (White).— Use button mushrooms ; wash them in lemon-juice and water, and cook in butter as above, without browning in the least. Add to the puree (in place of the brown sauce) some good Melted Butter, or Bechamel, or boiling milk thickened with roux, or any ordinary white sauce, according to the purpose for which it is required. For high- class dishes, Bechamel or Supreme sauce, or boiling cream, is most suitable. Mustard Sauce (Brown).— To half a pint of plain brown stock (No. 2 will do, if coloured) add a tea- spoonful of French mustard and half a teaspoonful of English mustard, mixed smoothly with a little cold vinegar, French or good English ; put in a little roux or brown flour to thicken, boil up, and servo. This is suitable for serving with baked had- docks or other fish. Mustard Sauce (White).— To three-quarters of a pint of Melted Butter, or plain sauce made from fish stock and milk, add mustard as above ; omit the vinegar, and put in a table- spoonful of cream. A superior flavour may be given by boiling a bit of horse-radish in a little fish stock, and adding it, or by the addition of a few drops of horse-radish vinegar. Okra Sauce.—Required: a gill and a half of the liquer from a tin of okra, tho same measure of Brown Sauce, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme und basil, a couple of shalots, seasoning to taste, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and an ounce of butter. Cost of okra, about Is. per tin. Brown tho shalots and hex-bs in the butter, add tho okra liquor, and boil up; put in tho sauce and season- ing, and skim well, then, after ton minutes’ boiling, strain for u«o.