game anp poultry. 457 the caso of a boiled rabbit this way is sometimes preferred. After the cuts are made, the tail end should have an almost V-shaped appearance. Not only does this give the rabbit a neater appearance, but it facilitates the cooking. Rook.—The meat of the rook is rather dry and coarse, though in the opinion of some there is a resemblance between tho flavour of the young rook and the pigeon. Perhaps rook pie is the best dish that can be made from the birds (see Pastky) ; but rooks can be mixed with other birds if cut up for a stew, or other dish, with plenty of gravy. Sole.—See Rook Pie for the pre- paration of the birds. Ruffs andReeves.—These little birds, of which the ruff is the male and the reeve is the female, take their name from the long feathers which stand round the neck of the male bird. Ruffs are birds of passage, and are caught in traps, and when fattened on meal and milk are esteemed a great delicacy. They should not be drawn, and should be trussed like woodcock. To prepare them, rim a small skewer through the thighs and pinions, lay over the bodies of the birds a slice of fat bacon and a vine leaf, run them on a skewer, and put them down before a clear fire. Baste we'll with butter, and put a slice of toast in the tin under the birds to receive the drippings from the trail. When done enough, dish them on the same toast with a little brown gravy round them, and more in a tureen. Garnish the dish with watercress, and send bread -ante or melted butter flavoured with lemon to table. They will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Cost, uncertain. Snipe. -The snipe is a migratory bird. Like woodcock, snipes, after being plucked and singed, and the head skinned, are not emptied, but are roasted with everything in them as they succumbed to fate. The thigh is more highly esteemed than any other part. They are most abundant and fattest in frosty weather. They fre- quent marshy meadows, and, during frost, the edges of rushy hills, and feed on worms and insects. The snipe is decidedly inferior to the woodcock. Mr. Gallon advises that when rank birds are shot, they should be skinned, not plucked, as much of the rankness lies in the skin : if un- skinned, they should be buried for some hours, because the earth absorbs the oil that makes them rank. The breast and wings are tho least object tionable parts, and. if there is abun- dance of food, should alone be cooked. If old, the feet will be thick and hard; when these are soft and tender, the birds are young and freshly killed. When the throats are muddy, and the bills very moist, they have been too long killed. Cost, about 2s. 6d. or 3s. per brace, but variable. Snipe, Curried.—“ The snipe should be plucked and cut through, not drawn, since the entrails afford a most delicious morsel. It may be considered a sacrifice to curry snipe, but one trial would at once abolish all such scruples, for a more delectable dish upon the tables of the opulent it would be difficult to discover.” The snipe is worthy of the best curry sauce that can be concocted, the nicest gravy or stock being used for its foundation ; and not a moment longer than is necessary for the cooking should it remain on the fire; neither should the pan be uncovered, or the aroma and flavour will suffer. Snipe and other game can be re- heated in curry sauce, but tho dish will not be so good as one from fresh birds. In making the sauce, the worst parts of tho birds should bo stewed for stock ; that and some good brown sauce, or game gravy, may form the foundation ; or brown stock No. ft makes a good basis for these curries. Should a little fumet of game be in the larder it will greatly improve the currv. Plenty of rice should be served with it.