Dressed vegetables. 681 of lemon rind, ns much ns would fill a saltspoon, and squeeze in a little juice ; season with salt and pepper, and a hint of nutmeg. Serve hot, and garnish with dice-3haped croutons; some as a border round the beans, and a little pile on the top. French Beans A la Fran- ijaise.—Required : beans, butter, sea- soning, and gravy. Cost, about 6d. to Sd. Cut and boil one pojind of French beans; drain well, and put them into a stewpan over the fire to dry; shake the pan that they may not bum. When quite free from the water, add three ounces of fresh butter, the juice of half a lemon, pepper, salt, and a table- spoonful of good gravy. Keep shaking the stewpan until the beans are quite hot, and serve quickly. French Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Boil some beans as usual, but drain them with care; if moist, the dish suffers. Keep them hot, and put in a saucepan a gill of Sauce Maitre d'Hotel (page 103) for each pound ; stir them in, and let them get hot. If a thin sauce is liked, add a little cream. The beans can be put in a dish, and the sauce poured over the top. Thus served, they are often garnished with eggs. Cost, as above, for a pound of beans. French Beans a la Pro- vengale. — Required : beans, oil, seasoning, and onions. Cost, about 6d., if a pound of beans be used. Fry a few thinly-sliced onions brown in oil; add beans that have been boiled as usual, and a seasoning of chopped thyme, parsley, cloves, and bay leaf. When done, add a little vinegar or lemon juice, and dish. French Beans, Stewed.—Re- quired : beans, stock, thickening, and seasoning. Cost, for a pound of beans, about 6d. This is a good dish to serve with mutton or venison cutlets. Boil and drain the beans well. Put them in a clean stewpan, with a little strong stock from mutton or venison bones and meat, to which no vegetables have been added. This is to just cover them; add a tablespoonful of brown roux, and glaze tho size of a nut to each half pint; season with salt and cajrenne, boil up, and simmer for a few minutes. Green Peas d la Creme.— Boil a good pint or so of newly-shelled, fresh young peas in the usual way. Drain them in a colander until quite dry. Mix an ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of flour smoothly together, over the fire; add a quarter of a pint of good, sweet cream; when it boils, put in the peas for two or three minutes, and sure as hot as possible. Cost, about 9d. Green Peas with Egg Cut- lets.—Required: peas, eggs, croutons, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. or more. Take a quart of green peas, plainly boiled; pile them in the centre of the dish. Arrange round them some slices of hard-boiled eggs, cut lengthwise, and crofitons of the same shape, the two being placed alternately. Make half a pint of Dutch Sauce, and put it round the cutlets. Serve very hot. Another way.—Lay each slice of egg on one of hot ham, lean, and the same shape ; place as above, and then put an outer ring of peas, and pour the sauce over them. Put little heaps of dice-shaped croutons at the ends and sides of the dish, and a few on tho centre pile of peas. This is a very- pretty dish, as well as a tasty one. Green Peas, Flemish.— Required: bacon, butter, stock, let- tuces, seasoning, and peas as below. Cost, about Is. 6d., but vni-iable. This is recommended as a decided change from the ordinary methods and very economical, when it is considered that it will take the place of a joint. Take first half a pound or three- quarters of nice streaky bacon, neatly trimmed, sliced, and cut into inch squares, or rather less. Just brown these in butter and put them aside. Into the same pan with the butter put