COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 505 never touch tinned meat; I tried it years ago when it was first introduced and did not like it, and havo never eaten it since.” Another will relate an account of someone who was poisoned by tinned meat, and will tell yon that he would not eat it if ho were starving, so firm is his belief that all tinned meat is poisonous ; while a third condemns it sold}' on the ground of appearance. In all theso arguments there is some weight, but a littlo consideration of the objections will do much to explain them away. First, it is quite certain that those who have not tasted tinned meats since their first introduction into England, can form no idea of the vast improvements that have taken place during the past few years. The meat is still overcooked to an extent, but it differs greatly from tho stringy stuff which was the rule then, when the trade was in its infancy, and the tinning process was only in its elementary stage. Improvements havo been made, and there are now various methods in common use, which have for their object the cooking and preservation of the meat for an almost indefinite period, and under varying conditions of climate, by subjecting it to a heat much higher than boiling water. This increased heat is due to the use of certain chemicals; there are several processes, differing somewhat in detail, but the same in principle, and by all of them the preservation, simply as preservation, is perfect. So long as the tin remains sound and air-tight, so long will its contents remain sound also; and at the London Exhibition of 1851, and others of later date, tins of meat which were put up a quarter of a century before, were tested aud found good. Stores of preserved meat have been left for years in the Arctic regions, brought back to this country, and found to be good. And this brings us to the poisoning charge. In buying tinned meats, note tho tin; if bulged outwards, reject it; it proves that the air has not been fully expelled; on tho contrary, if dented inwards, there is nothing to fear. A further safeguard consists in buying meats which bear the name of a firm, whether of the exporters or importers matters little. Those who wish to make or retain a reputation are ready enough to attach their name to their goods. Most important, perhaps, of all, is the emptying of the contents of the tin in an earthen vessel, the very instant it is opened. No one thinks of leaving food, such as lobster sauce or a stew, in a tin saucepan all night, but many think nothing of taking a portion of preserved meat or fish from a tin, and setting the tin up on the pantry shelf or in a cupboard until “ next time ; ” perhaps tho chief offenders are persons whoso room is limited, as in lodgings, and whose housekeeping experience is nil. The reason that mischief may arise, if not actual poisoning, is that, so long as the air is excluded the tin cannot hurt the meat; but as soon as the air is admitted the case is altered, and briefly, putrefaction begins, and naturally the food is harmful. When a tin is first opened a rushing sound is heard ; many think that the air is escaping; the air is really entering, and this whizzing sound is another proof of goodness. There is one exception to the above rule, viz. fish in oil. sardines, &c., they do not go bad when opened, because tho oil protects the tin from the action of tho air. (See recipes in Fish.) And now to turn to appearances. A good knife to open the tin is wanted, and a careful hand in turning out the meat; a little trouble in