UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 150 and the frying is regarded'as the pre- liminary process, then egging and crumbing is really better dispensed with. A coating with flour is a very economical way to treat the fish, and very satisfactory if the fat be hot, and the fish cooked at once; for while it improves it to stand after crumbing, it does not after flouring, as the flour gets damp, and the fish does not brown so well. Then, there is a mixture of fine flour and oatmeal, used for herrings and other small fish; fish so coated is pretty sure to be crisp and brown, but everyone will not like it. Another good way is to brush the fish with milk, then flour it and coat with crumbs, patting them on firmly. Again, there is'the well-known coating of batter. The more watery the fish, the thicker must be the batter, and a little flour should always be dredged on the fish first. (See Batter, Frying.) Pish, Fried to Eat Cold.— Prepare the fish some time before cooking, and leave it in a dry cloth; flour it well, shake off all loose flour, and cook it in enough oil to thoroughly cover it, to a light brown ; drain before the fire, dish when cold on a paper, and garnish with bunches of raw parsley, fennel, or cress. Any of the cold sauces may be sent to table with it, and a nice salad is a welcome accompaniment. If the fish are small, fry them whole, but slices fr om large fish are nice; they may be skinned or not. As there is no coating of egg and crumbs, the oil must be quite hot, and the fish well floured, or the juices will escape and it will not be brown and crisp. Fish. Livers.—The liver is the honne-bouche of the red mullet, and furnishes a g-ood_ deal of the gravy which is so much esteemed by epicures ; but with respect to fish generally, while by some the liver is regarded as a delicacy, others cannot partake of any kind or in any form; it should not, therefore, be put upon anyone’s plate unless it is first ascertained whether it will be agreeable. Liver exposed for sale separately should be bought with care, of reliable vendors only, for unless in good condition it is apt to bo productive of unpleasant after-con- sequences. A large liver is made more digestible if steamed for a short time, before cooking in any of the more favoured methods, as baking, &c. (See also Savouries.) Fish, Roasted.—This is un- doubtedly the least known mode of cooking fish, though it is so nearly related to baking as to be practically the same thing on an improved scale. The juices are fully preserved, and it is an easy matter to give due attention to the process known as basting. Wo may here remark that unless the fish is very largo, a little fat put on with a brush is all that is required. The dish should be adapted in size to the fish, but deep enough to keep in the juices; a Dutch or American oven answers admirably. Properly pre- pared, fish thus cooked has a most savoury flavour and odour, a crisp brown surface, and is juicy inside; care is needed to avoid over-roasting, and consequent dryness. The fish should bo cleansed, and prepared as if for baking, a stuffed fish being parti- cularly good thus treated. If, when done, the surface is not as brown as it should be, brush over with a little weak glaze, and dredge some raspings over; or use a salamander. The rules are the same as for roasting meat, therefore the condition of the fire is of equal importance; and a special warn- ing with regard to smokiness may not be out of place. Sir Henry Thompson, in the revised edition of “ Food and Feeding,” refers to roasted fish as a “now method of cooking fish.” This is doubtless due to the fact that few if any writers on cookery make any mention of the method ; for ourselves, we can only say that we have cooked fish in this way for many years, and have advocated the process whenever ■ opportunity offered; and we here strongly recommend any to whom such a dish is at present unknown to make trial of it. fooling sure that they will