GAME AND POULTRY. 397 the breast will look. Ducks aro stuffed in the body like geese, and finished off in the same way ; the loose piece of skin at the neck end is folded over the back. After twisting the feet under the body, take a skewer, and put it in the tip of the wing-bone, and through the leg on one side, then through the body, and out at the cor- responding parts of the wing and legs on the other side. Now pass a string round the lower joints of the legs; twist each end round the points of the skewer, and tie across the back, draw- ing it tightly. Put the duck down to a good tire, and roast according to size, plentiful basting being very impoitant. The duck should be brown and nicely frothed. Time, from forty-five minutes to an hour and a quarter, for fat ducks fully grown. Cost, from 3s. to 4s. or more. Duck, Roasted, American.— Prepare some stuffing of the sage and onion type, but make it very mild, using plenty of bread-crumbs soaked in cream, and some scalded onions (or parboil them in milk), in small pro- portion, with a very little sage. While the duck is roasting, the giblets should be stewing, but they must go on an hour and a half before the duck. When done, cut the giblets very small (the pieces at starting should be the usual size), thicken the gravy in which they were stewed so that it looks like a thick mince; add a spoonful of good port, and serve on the dish with the duck. Jiend some jelly to table—black or rod currant, or grape or cranberry. The stock or gravy for stewing the giblets should be brown. Duck, Roasted, with Apple Jelly .—Do not stuff the duck ; send good gravy to table with it, and in a sauce-boat some melted apple jelly. It must be of good flavour, and not over-sweet; the dish will then be found very delicious. By way of a change, tomato jelly may be similarly served. A spoonful of either of the above- named jellies, added to a tureen of gravy, may be substituted when economy has to be considered. Cost, from 4s. upwards. Duck, Salmi of.—Eequired: a duck, some bread, half a pint of salmi sauce (see recipe), and garnish and seasoning as below'. Cost, 3s. Gd. to 4s. 6d. Boast the duck until nearly done with some slices of bread under it; then take it down, and joint it. Cover the pieces with salmi sauce, and let them simmer for ten minutes, or more if necessary. Dish in a pile, and garnish with the bread cut in shapes, and some glazed onions. Another good salmi is made by laying the joints of a cold duck in hot tomato sauce to cover them. It should be made from tomato pulp, mixed with a little stock obtained from the trimmings of the duck; a morsel of glaze is to be stirred in, and a good seasoning of cayenne and lemon juice added. This should just coat the duck, and a garnish of little toma- toes and button mushrooms, both fried and glazed, or braised, are a great improvement. Duck, Salmi of, with. Salad. —Boast partially a young duck; do not stuff it. Joint and re-heat it in a little stock, No. 16 or 17 ; flavour with good Madeira, and thicken a little with brown roux. Serve with the sauce over, and send to table a nice fruit salad—cherry, strawberry, or melon. Such may also be served with roasted ducks. Time, to roast, about twenty minutes; to simmer, twenty minutes or more. Cost, from 3s. Gd. to 4s. 6d. Duck, Stewed, a la Carring- ton.—Eequired : a duck, larding bacon, stock, chestnuts, wine, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 4s. upwards on an average. Lard the breast of a duck with bacon, and roast it for twenty minutes, supposing it to be a full-grown tender bird; then tako it down. Put in a stewpnn a pint of good stock, No. 6 or 7 ; add two dozen or more of roasted chestnuts, peeled, a largo onion, fried in butter and sliced, somo parsley