UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 556 browning the i'ice, season it with lemon or lime juice, powdered herbs, and spice. For the richest pilaus some cream is put with it. Lay half the rice on a dish, put the meat over, squeeze a lemon on it, then cover with the remainder of the rice, and serve without a moment’s delay. A chicken may be used in just the same way. Curry powder can be omitted, and saffron and cayenne used. In either case the dish must be well seasoned. Polenta.—The maize meal that is sold in Italy, and sent to various parts from that country, goes by the name of polenta. Semolina is often used for the preparations that go by this name. Polenta, A l’ltalienne.—Boil a quart of milk, add a teaspoonful of salt; drop in by degrees, stirring all the time, as much golden maize meal as will make it quite thick. Stir and boil until smooth. If properly made, this will look like the English hasty pudding. Add an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, turn into a buttered mould, and bake for nearly half an hour. This is extremely nourishing, very cheap, and very nice. Cost, about Gd. Another way.—This will bo preferred by those who do not like the flavour of Indian meal; though it is likely that the dislike arises from their having tasted it for the first time in a stale condition. Boil a quart of milk with four ounces of semolina for a quarter of an hour. Stir nearly all the time; if burnt, it is spoiled. Pour it in a plain mould, and let it set; then turn out and cut in slices, rather more than half an inch thick. Now butter a mould ; pour in a little clarified butter, then grated Parmesan, then a layer of the semolina. Go on in this order until the paste is used up; the dish or mould should be nearly full. At the top put a thick layer of cheese, then more butter, and bake in a moderate oven to a bright hrown, about half an hour. Turn out, and send grated cheese to the table, and, if liked, brown gravy in addition ; but it is so good in itself, that many consider that it requires neither. Polenta, Moulded. -This is to eat with meat, in the way that the English serve Yorkshire pudding. Pre- pare the meal as in the first recipe above, allowing about four ounces for a pint of milk. When it has boiled well, season with salt and pepper, and beat in an ounce of butter. Bake in a greased mould for half an hour to an hour, according to the depth of mould. These dishes may bo cheapened for family use, and will be found very nice, by using clarified fat instead of butter. A variation 'of this is made with a mixture of maize meal and cooked rice. Send to table in slices if the mould is deep ; in squares, if a shallow one. Cost, about 4d. Porridge, General Remarks on.—Under their separate headings we have given the recipes for the concoction of porridge; we here add a few remarks that may enable the in- experienced housekeeper to present the various sorts at table in somewhat novel forms ; by taking a little trouble, dishes of this kind may be made more agree- able and wholesome than they are as a rule. First, the utensil. This seems the place to sound the praises of the “ double saucepan ” or porridge-pan. These are of block tin usually; but they are made with copper bottoms both to the inner and outer pans, and are well worth the extra sum charged. Most of the leading gas-stove makers have a good selection of such goods, or any tinman will make one; one of poor material is worthless, as it is soon worn out where porridge is a standing dish. We have already spoken of the stew- jar ; and another first-rate cooking medium is to be found in a recently introduced article, made of earthenware, with a metal handle. It is to bo bad in various sizes, is most inexpensive, fits into ordinary saucepans on the glue-pot principle, and may be had of ironmongers everywhere. Food cooked in these vessels can neither burn nor boil over, and no stirring is needed;