MADE DISnES AND RELEVES. 251 them in a little milk and water, or weak stock, to cover them, for fourteen to twenty minutes; add a few hits of vegetable, and a sprig of thyme and parsley to flavour. Take them up, dry them, and when cool egg and crumb them ; flavour the crumbs with a pinch of salt, pepper, and herbs. Try some little slices of bacon, two for each sweetbread (do not make them brown or hard), then keep them hot, and cook the sweetbreads in the bacon fat: a little more fat may be necessary, but the rales for Dky Frying must be ob- served. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with the bacon, for a breakfast dish, without sauce or gravy ; but if for a luncheon dish, a little suitable sauce may be poured round, and a vegetable puree, or nicely dressed whole vegetables served in the centre. Liver a la Millicent.—Re- quired : liver, bread, and garnish, as below. Cost of liver, about 8d. per pound. Cook the liver as directed in the recipe for LrvER, Sauted. Fry some pieces of bread, the shape of the slices of liver, but rather larger ; and prepare also some small, oval pieces of bread; coat these with brown sauce mixed with grated ham and mustard, after frying them. Dish the liver on the large slices, and put the small ones on the top. Garnish with fried parsley and potatoes in any approved form, or a puree of any sort. Make a gravy in the pan and serve separately. Liver, Braised.—Required : a calf 3, lamb’s, or sheep’s liver, gravy, vegetables, Ac., as below. Cost, about 91. to Is. per pound, inclusive. AV ash and dry the liver—it should be fresh—then season it with pepper, grated lemon peel, and powdered herbs. I*ut some vegetables of the usual kind in a stewpan to form a bed ; add a slice of bacon, Lay the liver on, and put slices of bacon over; cover, and let it cook for ten minutes. Add plain stock to half its depth, put a greased paper over, and the lid on, then cook in a gentle oven, basting often over the paper. When done, dish the liver, brush it with glaze, and put it on a puree of vegetables, or whole mushrooms laid on a hot dish; garnish with vegetables in fancy shapes, separately cooked. Skim and reduce the gravy; add enough stock to make a pint or a pint and a half, thicken, and season to taste ; pour a little over the liver, and serve the rest in a tureen. Or make some sauce (Tomato, Caper, or other suitable kind), and reserve the gravy for another dish. Little rolls of bacon, or small sausages, may also be used for garnish. A pig’s liver may be cooked as above. A piquant sauce should ac- company it; it will then be more digestible. Liver, Curried.—Cut the liver into suitable sized pieces, and cook in Curry Sauce. Serve with boiled rice and fried onions. A mixture of liver and kidney makes a nice curry, but the liver must be cooked longer than the kidney. Liver, Devilled (a Breakfast Dish).—Required : a pound of calf’s liver, a gill of bread crumbs, three ounces of pickled pork, a pinch of grated cloves and nutmeg, a small saltspoonful of cayenne, the same measure of black pepper, a large tea- spoonful of salt, a grate of lemon peel, and a little wine. Cost, about Is. 3d. Chop the liver and pork; add the seasoning and crumbs, and moisten with a tablespoonful of port; press down tightly in a jar with a lid, set it in a saucepan, with boiling water to three parts cover it, and let the water boil for two hours. Then take it up, remove the lid, and servo cold in tliin slices. Liver, Devilled (a Luncheon Dish) .—Slico some calf’s or lamb’s liver very thinly, after washing nnd drying; brush it with mustard and chutney, sprinkle with popper, and then dip "it in warm butter or oil; grill or broil it at a clear fire, and dish