POTTED MEATS AND FISII. 501 if loosened round tho odge. The handle of tho basket may be formed of a piece of flat cap wire, such as is usod by milliners. It must be bent to shapo, and stuck firmly into tho meat. This should be covered both sides with curled butter, and the rim—and if liked, the baso of the basket—is to be treated similarly. More butter is to be put on from a forcing bag with a thread pipe, as shown in the coloured Plate Y. (See also Garnishes.) For a basket made of pale meat, as veal or chicken, it is well to add a little cream during the pounding, for the purpose of whitening the meat. Green butter, or ham butter, or egg butter, may then be used for the decoration, with better effect than plain butter. The basket looks nice when dished on a block of jelly as shown. This must be stiff, or may crack under the weight. There is special danger of this if placed for some time in a hot room. A plain green salad may be used in addition, or parsley with eggs. Or the basket may be set on a block of lice. Small blocks or little heaps of chopped jelly with a nice salad, then form a tasty garnish. There are many ways of finishing off, for which see the chapter on Garnishes, where the recipes for the butters will also be found. Xote.—Fish may be potted into (he same shape, then any small shell fish is fittingly introduced into the decora- tion. Or a salad mayonnaise, sprinkled with lobster coral is very effective, and two dishes in one are thereby intro- duced at table. Where the number of dishes has to be limited by the space at command, this hint is worth re- membering. Generally speaking, the prettiest baskets are those made from about two pounds of meat, or rather less, though sometimes baskets which weigh nearly as much as a small ham are to be seen. Prawns Potted Whole.— Required : prawns, butter and season- ing. Cost very uncertain. After shelling the prawns, put the shells (well bruised) into ajar with some fresh butter; about four ounces to a pint of prawns, measured bci'oro shell- ing ; sot this in a saucepan of boiling water, and cover. When tho butler is melted let it stand for a time to extract tho flavour of tho prawns, then strain it, and add a little enyenno pepper and mace. Have tho prawns packed in shallow pots, and pour the butter over them; press them evenly, and when cold pour more clarified butter over. A little salt may bo added. The prawns will keep some time if tied down; the place thoy are stored in must be cool and dry. Bladder is best for covering if intended to keep long, but “ vegetable parchment ” answers very well. Another way.—Add Crayfish Butter or Lorsteh Better to the butter used for pouring over the prawns, instead of drawing out the flavour from the shells. The shells of the prawns can be used for fish stock, for sauce for boiled fish, &c. Rabbit, Potted. — Follow the directions for Chicken, Potted, or Veal, Potted. Babbit takes a good bit of butter, being a dry meat, and ham or bacon is also a necessity. Salmon, Tinned, Potted.— Required : a tin of fish, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, a pinch of cayenne, grated nutmeg and salt, a couple of ounces of butter, and black pepper to taste. Cost, about Is. to Is. 'Id. Tho fish should be very thoroughly drained before pounding, (lie other ingredients being added by degrees. Salmon is so rich in itself that the butter is added more for tho purpose of giving smoothness than richness. A little lobster butter or crayfish butter is a decided improve- ment to the colour, and tho flavour maybe heightened by adding a little, tarragon vinegar. By rubbing tho bottom of tho mortar with a slice of onion, just a twang will bo given which will improvo the mixture. ■Some recommend tho addition of chopped onion—we do not. If the paste