28 . UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. debris well to extract all the goodness, then strain through a sieve, letting all go through except the meat and vege- tables—that is, it does not matter how thick it looks. It ought to be strong both in colour and flavour. Both to this and No. 4 the outer stalks of celery should be added, or some celery - seod tied in muslin. We may mention that a very small quantity of liver, calf’s or sheep’s, is a good addition to stock of this sort, but it must not be sufficient to predominate. A few ounces would do for two to three pints of stock, and this, as well as the ham and kidney, should be fried with the rest of the meat, bones, &e. Rich. Stock (No. 6).—This is tho foundation of good clear soup, and must be carefully made. Take equal weights of shin of beef and knuckle of veal. The beef gives colour and flavour, and tho veal imparts tho de- sired gelatinous matter, ltemove all meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces; then put it, with the bones chopped up, into cold water, allowing a pint for each pound; and, supposing four pounds of meat and bone, add a pint over to allow for boiling away. Bring gradually to boiling point, put in half a teaspoonful of salt, skim, and then add the follow- ing ingredients :—A large carrot, a medium-sized onion, a couple of leeks, half a small turnip, half a head of celery, a largo bunch of parsley, with some thyme and a bay-leaf, a couple of cloves, and a score of mixed pepper- corns, and, if the flavour is not disliked, a small piece of parsnip. All the vege- tables must be well cleansed. The carrot should be brushed, then scraped, and only peeled if really necessary— the outside being the best—and the whole should boil not less than six hours, but not fast. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and leavo in a cold place all night. This must always be made the day beforo it is wanted for use. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. 3d. per quart. Now for the clarification of the above. Bemove the fat from the surface by dipping a spoon in hot water, for any remaining specks use the comer of a cloth wrung out of hot water; take all impurities from the bottom of the stock, and put it into a perfectly clean saucepan ; let it dis- solve by gentle heat, then measure it, and to each quart add the whites of two eggs and their shells, washed and crushed up, and half a pound of lean, raw beef, chopped small, or passed through a mincer, with a few vege- tables to revive the flavour; no turnip ; a bit of carrot, celery, and onion, will suffice. The meat must be well mixed with the slock, and tho whites of the eggs should be slightly whisked with a spoonful of cold water. Then whisk quickly until a scum forms, and leave the Btock, partly uncovered, to simmer for an hour or more—-it must barely bubble. There will be a thick scum on the top by this time : do not disturb it in any way, simply pass tho soup through a cloth a second time, or even a third, if not clear. For this, a linen cloth or damask napkin is often used, but many prefer a tammy cloth, which is, we think, the best material, as, being of wool, it absorbs any greaso left behind. It should be a finely- woven ono, and kept very clean, never washed with soap. In using it, it can be tied round the rim of a basin, to hang, bag-like, in the basin, or a chair can be turned upside down on a second chair, and the corners of the cloth tied to the four legs, a basin being set underneath. Never press the cloth in any way; when the liquid is all through, first gather up the cloth, and remove it without squeezing the residue, or the whole will be thickened and spoilt. Instead of tho cloth, a jelly bag is voted by some as indis- pensable, blit the process is then more troublesome and lengthy, and if made as it should be, there is no need of it so far as increasing the brightness of the soup is concerned. The soup is now ready for the garnish from which it takes its name. Kemember to taste it before clarifying,