UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 642 making poa soup, all the liquor in tho tin should, be utilised. (For another mode of re-heating, see Asparagus, Tinned, page 609.) Cost, about 6d. for tins holding a nominal pint; double-size tins are from lOd. to lid. each. In our recipes, “a tin of peas” refers to a pint tin. Peas are put up in bottles, both by French and English firms ; _ they are rather dearer than those in tins. In this form, both large marrow-fats and very small peas may be obtained. Pennyroyal.—This is a strong herb, and wants using with caution ; a small quantity improves many soups, of what are termed the gelatinous kinds, such as mock turtle, and similar preparations. It is blended with other herbs; its own flavour should not be allowed to predominate. Potato. — This is one of tho cheapest and commonest of vegetable foods. There are many varieties of potatoes, and generally each locality has its favourite, which is known by its local name. Its excellence depends largely upon the cooking, and whilst a good potato may easily be spoilt by bad cooking, a bad one may, with care, be made fairly good eating. Meali- ness is -a sign of goodness ; a waxy, watery potato is never really satis- factory. Perhaps nothing is more frequently wasted than potatoes, both in the preparation and cooking', and in the throwing away after cooking; but there is no excuse for waste in either of these forms. As to the using up of cold potatoes, there is no end to the ways, as they can be used both for sweets and savouries; and in addition to the recipes which follow here and in the next chapter, others will be found in the chapters on Soups, Salads, Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery, Pies, Puddings, &c. It has been said that the average English- woman leans too much upon the potato. There is truth in the remark ; and no doubt the absence of a pro- nounced flavour, and tho ease with which it can be procured and pre- pared, are tho main causes. Old pota- toes may be had the year round, but are not at their best just before, and while the now ones are in season; in tho autumn and winter they are in prime condition, if properly stored. At the time of storing they must be dry, or they will rot, and a few rotten ones will contaminate a large quantity. Tho value of the potato as an article of nutriment is illustrated by the remark made by a professor of chemistry, that “ a horse fed on pota- toes, and compelled to work, loses weight j when he does no work, his weight remains unchanged.” This shows that the root is unable to supply the loss by “ motor change ” when active muscular exertion is undergone; and although valuable on account of their salts, potatoes are of small food value on the whole, and, according to the late Professor Williams, their loss would not be much felt where fruits and salads could supply the salts. Of tho relative value of potatoes, it is estimated that at a halfpenny per pound, they arc dearer than good bread at three-halfpence. This may seem a mis-statement; but it should be remembered that three-fourths, or thereabouts, of every pound is made up of water; thus, four pounds repre- sents only one pound of “ water free ” food; and we hope to show in the recipes the best way to make the most of it. As a few rules are generally applicable to the various methods of cooking, they may be given here. Always scrub them well with a brush, and wash them clean before peeling, that they may not become discoloured by contact with dirty water. Do not peel them and leave them soaking in the water hours before cooking; and peel them as thinly as possible, because the best part lies just under the skin. This, in fact, holds the potato together, so to speak (the composition of the interior is different), and if it is removed by clumsy peeling, as it often is, the potato will fall to pieces.