551 CEREALS, Just put the pieces of toast on a chopped shalot, a tcuspoonful of as used by vegetarians, use whole- meal for the sauce. Wo have also tasted it made with barley-flour and line oatmeal; such deviations from the ordinary method are entirely a matter of taste. Macaroni and Clieese, Richer.—Required : cheese, stock, milk, flour, butter, macaroni, garnish and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. This is a very good, though not ex- pensive dish. Make a sauce by boiling together half a pint of milk, an ounce each of flour and butter, a gill of plain white stock, seasoning as above, and adding, after it has cooked for a minute, three ounces of cheese. Pre- pare four ounces of macaroni, by par- boiling it in water, then finishing it off in some of the same stock used for the sauce. Put the macaroni in a hot dish for serving, pour the sauce over and blend lightly. Stick triangles of fried bread or toast round, and if liked coat with grated cheese or raspings. Either of the recipes given for Stewed Cheese or Welsh Rarebit can be followed for combining with macaroni in the above way. For a still richer dish, add more butter or a little cream. Macaroni and Cheese with Toast.—This is a nice family dish. Prepare the macaroni and cheese j ust as detailed in the recipe for Macaroni and Cheese. The proportions must be regulated by requirements. Make some toast and butter in the usual way; it is nicer if somewhat thinner than for table; fill a dish with the macaroni, &c., and the toast in alternate layers, having macaroni at the top and bottom, and finishing off as already described. The toast should be in pieces of a convenient size for serving. If liked, the toast may be moistened with a few drops of brown store sauce, or tomato puree; if the latter add a morsel of mustard and a few drops of lemon juice or white vinegar. Amlher way.—This is less trouble. large flat dish ; then pour the macaroni preparation over it and dredgo with raspings. Cost varies with the adj uncts. Macaroni a la Cliylesdeaue. —Required: six ounces of the best macaroni, some garnish as below, a pint of rich Cheese Sauce, a gill of good Bechamel, and some stock. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of prawns. Boil the macaroni in white stock until almost done, then put it in the cheese sauce to finish the cooking; turn it on a hot dish ready for serving. Add a little lobster coral or coralline pepper to the bechamel to give a pink tinge, spread this over the macaroni smoothly, then garnish round it with prawns, heated in stock, and some triangular croutons, placing them alternately. Have some small fancy shapes of Italian paste ready; they must be carefully cooked to retain their shape; dot these over the surface of the pink sauce, forming any pattern according to fancy. The dish must be kept over boiling water while garnishing. This is a very good luncheon dish. Macaroni d, la Dttcie.—Re- quired : six ounces of macaroni, three gills of American Cream Sauce (page 94), one gill of lobster sauce (page 97), some fried parsley, and ring-shaped croutons, the size of a florin. Cost, about Is. Gd. Boil the macaroni as above, put it in a pyramid on the dish, after mixing a little of the cream sauce in amongst it; pour the rest over it; place the sprigs of parsley round the base, alternately with the croutons, and in the centre of the latter put a spot of the lobster sauce ; reserve a crouton for the top, and put tiny sprigs of parsley round it. This is a pretty dish, and any other pink fish sauce answers as well as lobster. Macaroni, Indian.—Required: six ounces of pipe macaroni, a pint of milk, half a pint of white stock, plain, one ounco of butter, a bit of mace, a