PULSE. 581 lemon, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. per pound inclusive. Boil some lentils (see Lentils, Boiled) until three-parts done; let them drain from moisture, then put them in a stewpan when cold, and add some good oil to keep them moist; in this the cooking is to be linished, the pun being shaken now and then. A good seasoning of chopped parsley is wanted, with a shredded onion, and some thyme and other herbs; the dish should be very savoury. Shortly before serving, add a dash of lemon juice, and beat in the yolk of an egg to every half pound of lentils, which must not boil after this addition. Serve hot. In many recipes for this dish, it is advised that the lentils be put into the oil after soaking, without pre- liminary boiling; such involves great care and trouble during the cooking, and we give the preference to this; but both methods can be tried. Lentil Puree, Vegetarian.— Required: lentils, rice, a lettuce, onions, oil or butter, an egg, seasoning, bread, &e., as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. Cover some German lentils (soaked and drained) with cold water; add two ounces of washed rice for each half pound, and a small lettuce, cut up, with a few young onions ; bring to the boil, stir in a lump of butter the size of an egg, or a tablespoonful of oil, and cook gently, skimming as required. When nearly done, pour off some of the liquor, a quarter pint or there- abouts ; beat it up with a raw egg, return this to the pan as soon as the lentils are tender, and beat well for some minutes. Keep below boiling- point, but quite hot; add seasoning to taste, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve with fried bread cut in dice or strips. This is very nourishing, and the egg gives softness. When no lettuce can be had, a little of the heart of a parboiled cabbage may be used. Soirel and many other plants of the kind are advantageously combined with lentils; vegetable stock is a further improvement. Sometimes the green lentils turn a dirty brownish colour, and a few drops of green colouring aro necessary to make the dish look appetising. Meat-eaters may make a puree in the same way, with plain meat stock, and serve with either white or brown meats. Lentil Rolls.—Required; lentils, bread, eggs, herbs, seasoning, parsley, lemon, vermicelli, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d., exclusive of sauce or gravy, for rolls made from a pound of lentils. See Lentil Pukkk, Vegetarian. Prepare the lentils ns therein directed, and, while hot, add some fine bread- or plain biscuit-crumbs to make a stiff mixture; set by to get cold, then flour the hands, and mould into two-inch lengths, the thickness of an ordinary sausage. Dust them with a seasoning of herbs, salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg. Dip them into beaten white of egg, and roll them in crushed vermicelli or biscuit-crumbs. Lay them in a frying-basket, and plunge into hot fat to cover. They should be brown and crisp. Serve with fried parsley and cut lemon, or any sauce or gravy. They are tasty and satisfying, and nice hot or cold. Another variety is made by taking plainly-boiled lentils, and adding a little butter and a good seasoning of grated cheese and cayenne; a dash of chutney improves these. Boiled macaroni, with a squeeze of lemon juice over, goes well with them ; they should be sprinkled w'ith grated cheese before serving. Lentils a la Venne.—Required; lentils, chestnuts, eggs, vinegar, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. per pound, inclusive of chestnuts. Prepare the lentils as above detailed, but instead of the herbs named, use sage, about half a dozen leaves to the pound of lentils, and omit the parsley; and in place of lemon juice, use the vinegar from pickled walnuts. Take the pan from the fire beforo beating the eggs in. Put the lentils in a ring on a hot dish, I and fill tho centre with hot boiled