662 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flavouring, they should be washed and scraped, not peeled. Cost, about 6d. per bunch, but very variable ; dearer than English turnips; although, taking into consideration the slight amount of waste when a small quantity for garnishing is required, it is quite worth while to buy these in preference to home-grown ones. Turnips, Mashed. — When tender, take the turnips up, and inash with a fork, or pass them through a colander or sieve; put them back into the saucepan, emptied and dried, with a morsel of butter, salt, pepper, and sugar; a grate of nutmeg or dash of mustard is an improvement. Stir for a minute or two, then serve. A little flour stirred in the butter, which should be first melted in the pan, makes the turnips less watery; a spoonful or two of thick white sauce has the same effect. Some persons wring them in a cloth to get rid of some of the water. Cost, about -Id. per vegetable dish. Although it is usual to boil turnips previous to mashing, we wish to re- commend steamed oneR in preference; any watery vegetable is nicer steamed than boiled. They may be cut in quarters or halves, according to size. Turnips, Various Dishes of. —(See Tuunip and Vegetable Mar- row recipes in the next chapter.) Turnip Tops (or Turnip Greens). —These should be freshly cut; their slightly bitter taste recommends them to many ; to others it is objectionable. All decayed leaves should be removed, also the tough stems; the tops only are to be usod. Wash them well, and boil in plenty of water salted as for Cabbage, with the lid off the pot. In about twenty minutes they will be tender. After draining, they are nicer if chopped up, and heated with a little butter and seasoning. For better dishes, a puree should be made spinach fashion. Cost, generally low; about Id. per pound. Turnip tops are very wholesome, and those with whom greens agree, will do well to cat them whenever they have an opportunity. Vegetable Fats and Oils.— (See Oils and Fats, Vegetable.) Vegetable Marrow. — This vegetable may be dressed in a variety of ways, and is wholesome and excellent in all. Various recipes Are given below. It comes into season towards the end of summer, and even after it is cut, if it is hung by the stalk in a cool, dry place, it will keep for some weeks. Very small marrows are likely to be deficient in flavour. Very large ones will bo full of seed. Cost, about 2d. to Cd. each. Vegetable Marrows, Boiled. —Vo. 1. Feel the marrows, free them from seed, cut them into six or eight pieces, and put them into boiling water, salted a little; let them boil gently till tender. Lift them up carefully with a slice, put them on toast, pour melted butter or white sauce over them, and serve. Vo. 2. Put the marrow whole and without skinning it into boiling water. Let it boil until tender. Take it up, halve, pare, and seed it, lay the halves on toast, with the hollow part uppermost, and fill them with sauce as above. Vo. 3. Pare and seed the marrows, divide them into quarters, and the quarters into halves. Trim them neatly. Rub the inside of a saucepan with butter. Lay the pieces of marrow in it, and sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, and pounded sugar. Pour upon them some weak white stock, to moisten, and boil gently till tender. Lift them upon a dish ; add to t he gravy the juice of half a lemon and a little piece of butter; pour it over tho marrow, and serve. If liked, the marrows may be stewed in milk instead of gravy, and they may bo seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Time to boil: ten to twenty minutes, if boiled in slices ; if boiled whole, longer, according to age and size.