620 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK, or plain Melted Butter. Or, instead of scraping, wash the carrots only, and when done rub off the skins with a hot, dry cloth; this must bo done very quickly, as the sooner they are dished the better. Another way.—This is very superior. Prepare the carrots for boiling, and lay them flat in a stewpan, with one ounce of butter to two pounds. Put in a teaspoonful or rather less of salt, and a pinch of sugar, then just cover with boiling water. When the boiling is almost complete, remove the lid, and let most of the moisture evaporate. Put the carrots in a dish, add as much milk as there is liquor in the pan, and thicken with corn-flour to the con- sistence of melted butter. After a minute or two, during which stir briskly, pour it over the carrots. This is a really first-class dish, although cheap; the flavour, owing to the re- tention of the juices, is excellent, while it is actually cheaper than a dish of carrots boiled in the ordinary way, because the liquor helps to make the sauce. Carrots, Fried.—Take cold car- rots, and cut them equally, both in length and thickness; pepper and sugar them (the two ingredients should bo about equal), then add a suspicion of nutmeg; it is better to dredge the seasoning over before the carrots are cold; sprinkle them lightly with flour, and either cook them in a frying pan with hot fat, by the “ dry pro- cess,” turning them with a spoon until equally browned; or (which is the better method) put them in a frying- basket, and plunge them into plenty of hot fat. Drain, and serve with a roast or stew of meat, or, as a separate dish, with any nice sauce. Another way. — Dip the carrots into molted dripping, then season and leave to cool; roll them in crushed vermi- celli, and fry brown and crisp. (Sec also next chapter.) Carrot Sauce.—See Hot Sauces. Carrot Soup.—See Soups. Carrots, Stewed, German.—1 Cut the carrots into strips, the size, say, of the finger. Put them in a stewpan, with a morsel of butter and some weak meat broth; cook softly, and thicken with a little flour, and add some chopped chives, or young onions, with a morsel of chopped parsley, a short time before dishing. Some cooked green peas improve this stew. Carrots, Stewed, Savoury Dish of.—Required : a quart of thinly- sliced carrots, a pint of stock—meat or vegetable, according to the nature of the dish—two ounces of butter, an ounce of potato flour, half an ounce of barley flour, a tablespoonful of chopped leeks, half as much parsley, salt, pepper, and spice as below. Cost, about 9d. Melt the butter, add the leeks and parsley, stir for a minute, then put in the carrots, which should be sliced with a cucumber slicer; fry for a few minutes, then add the stock, smoothly blended with the thickening, a (love, a bay leaf, and a couple of allspice berries. Cover, after the gravy has been stirred to the boil, and cook until the carrots are done, shaking the pan sometimes, then serve in a pilo, with the gravy strained over them, and garnish with croutons. The time depends entirely upon the age of the carrots. If young, half an hour or less will do; if old, they will take from forty to fifty minutes. Remember, a pinch of sugar, and frequent stirring. Carrots, Tinned.—Young car- rots are now to be had in tins, ready cooked ; they only need re-heating to be ready for use. (See Asparagus.) Being expensive, they will bo useful for tho most part for garnishing purposes; or for first-class dishes, when rich sauces are served with them. They are nice for salads, being of a very good colour. When used for garnishes, the liquor should be added to soup, or used in some other way, as it will be found to contain a good