GAME AND POULTRY. 459 Turkey.—The turkey is highly esteemed, and usually commands a high figure, especially at Christmas, when most extravagant prices are often de- manded and obtained for large, well- fed birds. Turkeys are at their best in December and January. If the weather is suitable, they should bo hung fully a week before being dressed. n very cold weather, care must be taken that they are not frozen in hanging, and if this is the case they should be brought into a warm place for some hours before being cooked, or they will be spoilt. Brillat Savarin says :— “ The turkey is the largest, and if not the most delicate, at least the most savoury of domestio poultry. It enjoys the singular advantage of assembling round it every class of society. When our farmers and wine-growers regale themselves on a winter’s evening, what do we see roasting before the kitchen fire, close to which the white-clothed table is set? A turkey. When the useful trades- man or the hard-worked artist invites a few friends to an occasional treat, what dish is he expected to set before them ? A nice roast turkey stuffed with sausage meat and Lyons chest- nuts. And in our highest gastronomical society, when politics are obliged to give way to dissertations on matters of taste, what is desired, what is awaited, what is looked out for at the second course ? A truffled turkey.” Hen turkeys are considered the best, especially for boiling ; one of moderate size is preferable to a large one for this mole of dressing. In young birds of both sexes the skin is soft and even ; in old ones it is coarse, hard, and wrinkled. While hanging, the bird should be watched; if kept too long the head will become discoloured, and a greenish mark will bo seen up the neck. The legs should look smooth; and in a cock turkey the length of the spur indicates age; a long spur, with rough, pale legs, are certain signs that the best days are over from a culinary point of view. Cost, about 1». to 21s. on an average, or from Is. per pound upwards. For other dishes of turkey follow the recipes given for Fowl. Turkey, Carving of. — The breast of a turkey is so large, that slices taken neatly from it and from Fig. 103.—Turkey, Roast, to Carve. the wings generally suffice for all the company. They should be taken from each side alternately, beginning close to the wings, and a little forcemeat and a small portion of liver should bo served to each guest. When it is necessary for the legs to be used, they should be separated from the body with a sharp knife, and cut in slices ; but it should be remembered that they, with the gizzard, will make an excellent devil. The dotted lines in the illustration show clearly the method, and render further explanation unnecessary. Turkey, Drawing.—Lay the bird on its breast, push back the skin of the neck, and cut the neck itself off close to the body, but leave the skin long that it may be securely turned over. Remove the windpipe and loosen the inside of the throat with tho finger. Make an incision under the tail an inch and a half long, with tho fingers remove tho crop and the intes- tines, and be particularly careful not to break the gall-bladdor, which is fastened to the liver, nor to let any of the gall touch the bird, as it will impart a bitter taste which cannot afterwards bo removed. Wash the insido with a soft rag, pour water through it, and dry it carefully.