UNIVERSAL COOKERY BO®K, 630 dish is a white stow of looks, with somo poached eggs and boiled rice; toast should bo served with it. Lettuce.—Of all the green plants, perhaps not one is more universally appreciated than the lettuce. There are many varieties, but they may bo classed as the cabbage and the cos. The former has a low head, spreading out near the ground, and the leaves are rounder than those of the cos, which are long, and beautifully crisp and sweet at the part known as the heart. In both sorts, the heart forms when the lettuce has reached per- fection, and being excluded from light and air, it is much paler than the out- sides. Lettuces consist very largely of water, and are therefore refreshing and cooling; but for this reason they often produce a good deal of discomfort when eaten at tea; as a matter of fact, the watery plants generally should not bo eaten at a meal when liquid of any sort is consumed in more than very small quantities. A good deal of mineral matter exists in raw lettuces, which is lost when they are boiled. When lettuces become bitter, the stem is to be removed. Cost, from Id. to Gd. each, according to the size and the season. Lettuce, Boiled.—Lettuces can be treated as young cabbuges, and served in just the same way. They take from twenty minutes upwards, according to size. For superior dishes, the hearts only are cooked, and are considered very delicate. They may bo laid on toast, asparagus fashion, after being split lengthwise. Lettuce, Braised Plainly.— Take two large lettuces, reserve the hearts for salads, and divide the rest into leaves. Pack them closely in a saucepan, with an ounce of butter at the bottom, and another ounce on the top; pour half a gill of water over, add a pinch each of sugar and salt, and cook until done, from forty minutes up- wards. Then press the lettuces, lotting the liquid run into the pan; chop them up, add a little flour to the liquid in the pan, stir, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Return the lettuces, and mix the whole together until dry, then press into the dish for serving. Cost, about 8d. Marigold (or Pot Marigold).— This is a garden plant with many good properties; and although less used in culinary than medicinal prepar- ations, it is still employed in many parts of the country in soups and broth, especially mutton broth, to which it gives a good colour and flavour. When in full flower, a store should be gathered, and spread out in the sun to dry, then put by for use. Marigold is said to promote perspira- tion, and is made into tea for invalids. The leaves of this plant are cooked spinach-fashion, in Germany and other countries, and said to be very good eating; young ones are the nicer; but old leaves are used, when freod from their stalks and shredded. Marjoram.—This plant has an agreeable odour, and is used in soups, forcemeats, and other dishes; there are several sorts ; that which is of use in the kitchen is sweet or knotted marjoram. The cultivated garden plant is superior to the wild. Mar- joram is thought by many to be one of the nicest herbs for seasoning sausages, either alone, or mixed with sage. Mint.—With the culture and uses of miut most people are familiar; its pleasant aromatic flavour makes it generally agreeable, but it has more than this to recommend it, being valuable as a stomachic and anti- spasmodic ; hence its value with dried peas soup, and other dishes of a similar kind. Mint forms an ingredient in. many drinks ; and is useful in salads. A stock of fresh mint should be dried and powdered for use in the winter, the herb being so plentiful that it costs next to nothing. Spearmint is the kind employed in cookery, and is-