9 KITCHEN PROCESSES. hot enough for most purposes. An- other test, more convenient sometimes, is to throw in a bit of bread: it will change to golden colour directly if the fat is ready; if it remains pale and soft, wait a little longer. The frying medium may be “ clari- fied fat” from cooked joints, or from fresh pieces bought purposely ; good sweet dripping and pot skimmings, or lard; while oil is declared by some to be the only thing worth using. Olive oil is the best, but too expensive for general use; cotton-seed oil, if pure, is excellent, but it is often adulterated, and gives rise to an unpleasant odour; and for either kind great care is neces- sary in using it. For the majority, then, clarified fat is the best and safest thing, and the method of preparing it has been fully detailed in the preceding section. Mutton fat is sometimes said to impart a tallowy flavour to food, but that is when it is not hot enough; we do not recommend it singly, but it may lertainly be mixed with other fats. Equal parts of beef suet, lard, and mutton fat, are a favourite mixture with some ; and lard and beef dripping are preferred by others. Of lard itself, we can only say that it must be pure. Very much of the low-priced lard now sold is watery (due to a certain treat- ment with lime, by which it is made to absorb water). This is absolutely use- less, and nothing fried in it will brown properly. But whatever is used must be perfectly free from taint, also from salt, as this retards browning. Butter is too costly for use in quantities ; and if it were not, it would not be satisfac- tory—when heated up to a high point, it has many objectionable features. And now a few words respecting the vessel. A proper frying-kettle as in Fig. 7 is deep, with a wire drainer fitted into it, which can be lifted in and out by the handles. But in many cases an ordinary saucepan will answer, or, better still, a stew-pan; from four to five inches deep, and nine to ten inches in diameter is a handy size ; and if a frying-basket be bought to fit, it will serve for almost any purpose. The handle of the frying- Fic. S.—Fryixc-Basket. basket should be bent as in Fig. 8, so that the basket may go to the very bottom of the saucepan. The best material is copper, next to that steel, heavily tinned; iron pans aye also used, but unless of the very best quality are not satisfactory. After frying, the fat should be left to coo], then strained, and put away in jars for use, that for fish being kept apart from that used for general purposes. It must also be clarified when neces- sary (fee page 7). Tho frying- kettle should lie put away, not only clean, but thoroughly dry. A lest of good frying is freedom from grease: to ensure this, lay the fish, or what- A