UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 8 some thick paper over, then cover with bladder or vegetable parchment, the same as Jams and Jellies are treated. If more convenient, melt the marrow in a cool oven; the jar must be set in a tin of water, or the colour will not be so good. Suet, to clarify.—Free the suet from skin, fibre, &c., chop it, or shred it thinly, and melt it as directed for lard. Or, put it in a large saucepan of boil- ing water; stir now and then until dissolved; then pour the whole into a shallow vessel, and, when cold, take off the cake of fat from the top ; wipe the bottom quite dry. Again melt it, then strain it through muslin into jars for use. This can be used for frying, or for plain cakes or pastry, and other purposes. If it is required to keep the suet, melt it as at first directed, pouring it off as soon as it melts into a pan of cold water. When hard, wipe the cake of fat; wrap it in grease-proof or vegetable parchment paper, then put it in a linen bag and hang it in a cool placo. "When required for use scrape it thinly ; it can then bo used as drip- ping. Fresh suet will keep for several days, if the veiny parts bo removed, in plenty of flour, in a dry place. Frying is, by some writers, com- pared with boiling, and spoken of as “ boiling in fat.” So far as the im- mersion of the food in liquid goes the simile is a fair one, but there it ends; for not only is the heat of hot fat greatly in excess of that of water, but it varies according to the nature of the food to be cooked; while anything cooked in boiling water (except where the temperature is chemically increased) is subject to a fixed degree of heat. As a rule, the smaller the article to be fried the greater the heat of the fat— whitebait, the tiniest of fish, is an instance of this. But to fry, according to the pre- conceived ideas of the average English cook, consists in cooking, say, a sole, in a pan but little deeper than the sole itself, and with barely enough fat to keep it from sticking to the pan; probably cold fat is put in in little dabs from time to time, to make matters worse. The first thing to grasp, then, is that the fat must be plentiful. This is not really extrava- gant, as there is very little waste, for the fat reduces but little in the using, and will serve again and again so long as it is not allowed to burn; whereas, by the scrappy process above referred to, not only is the food spoiled, but the fat is burnt, and what little remains is thrown away. It may, however, be asked, is it not possible to cook anything in a small quantity of fat? Certainly; many things are more conveniently cooked by what is know in this country as the “ dry-frying ” process, and a know- ledge of the two methods and of their underlying principles will prevent failure. We will come to this dry- frying presently. Meantime, the first thing in proper frying is to see that the fat is sweet, and care should be taken that it be allowed to heat slowly. The vessel should not be more than from half to three-parts filled. Attention to those rules may prevent accident; a pan of fat heated quickly is liable to “boil over,” and as the temperature for ordinary purposes should reach about 3o0°, a splash of hot fat on the face or arms is an accident to be remem- bered. A great secret of success is to allow the fat to attain the proper degree of heat; generally speaking, it should be hot enough to at once slightly brown the surface, and form a coating sufficient to keep in the flavour and j uices of the food itself, and prevent the entrance of the fat. If only half heated, the product of the pan must be greasy, sodden, and indigestible; for unless the food, whatever its nature, crisps at first, it will never crisp as it should do. To know when fat is hot, watch and listen. So long as a bub- bling crackling sound can be heard it is only getting hot; when it becomes quite still, it is hot. Shortly a pale bluish vapour will be visible; it is then