universal cookery Book. 32 held sufficient to confer upon it a distinctive name, the idea of com- plexity and number has been unnecessarily fostered.” This is the fact in a nutshell. In reality, there are but five leading bases, from which all other varieties spring: first, a decoction of meat, from the weak broth of the modest scrag end of a neck of mutton to the grandest consomme of the most accomplished French chef, made from a mixture of the choicest meats and poultry; second, a decoction of poultry; third, a decoction of game; fourth, fish soups; and fifth, a liquid, which is indebted to the vegetable world of grain, herbs, roots, and all allied substances. To take them in detail, we get from the first variety all the clear bright soups that owe their name to their garnish, and the slightly thickened specimens, which are a sort of link between clear soups and thick soups. The second and third class furnish us with all sorts, from chicken broth to thick game soups; and when the meat is passed through a sieve and added, the result is a puree. The fourth class furnishes many kinds, from fish souchet to purees; and from the fifth list we get a number of kinds, mostly purees, which take their name from the chief vegetable used in their manufacture. Then there are, outside the list above given, a few distinct kinds, of which thick ox-tail, mock or real turtle, giblet, mulligatawny, and true cock-a-leekie, are specimens. Either is substantial enough for a meal, or the main part of one ; for such, they are admirably adapted, but as the prelude to a good dinner they are decidedly out of place, and, with the exception of public dinners, are but little in vogue—much less, at any rate, than a few years ago. Now, in dealing with what we have described above as a decoction of meat, it will be found that the homely broth or stock from greasy meat will give the most trouble. Grease varies ; one form will harden and can be taken off in a cake, like the fat from a boiled leg of mutton; another is held in solution, like the fat of a pig’s head; after removing all that comes to the surface, it will be found, if boiled up again, that there is still a good deal to remove, and skimming is the only remedy so long as there is plenty of grease on the surface. But when it gets into the speckly condition, and is only dotted over with the grease, then a piece of blotting paper, or “kitchen paper” of the rough kind, will remove it: pass it lightly over, and the grease will adhere to it. This is also a good way to remove specks of fat from small quantities of stock or soup, if time cannot be given for it to become cold. Assuming care in the first stage, the ultimate success of a soup is certain if the seasonings are judiciously added. Much must be left to the discretion of the cook, but, as a rule, more seasoning, especially salt, is needed for thick than for clear soups; the latter are better without made sauces, ketchup of any kind, ground spices, or colourings. Wine is a matter of taste ; it is added much less than it was. Clear soup should owe its chief flavour to the meat and vegetables used in making it. “ Season to taste ” are words that occur in many of our recipes ; to lay dowu a fixed quantity is not possible. Not only do palates vary, but much depends upon the amount of salt, &c., used in making the stock; also, whether it has boiled down much or little; while the nature of the added