479 SAUSAGES. quarts of hot milk until the milk is absorbed. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Prepare a seasoning of a teaspoonful of winter savoury mixed with a teaspoonful of chopped thyme, a teaspoonful of chopped onion, half a teaspoonful of pennyroyal, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, half a dozen pounded cloves, half a nutmeg grated, and a quarter of an ounce each of pounded all- spice and ginger. Stir this season- ing into the groats, bread-crumbs and blood, and add two pounds of finely- chopped beef suet and six well-beaten eggs. Cut a pound of the inward fat of the pig into pieces the size of a large bean. Tie the skins at one end, and turn them inside out. Half fill them only with the mixture, to allow room for swelling, and put in the fat at regular intervals. Tie them in equal lengths or rounds, fasten the ends securely, throw them into boiling water, and when they have boiled for five minutes take them out, prick them to let out the air, put them back, and boil gently (or they will burst) for an hour. Take them up, and when they are cold hang them in a cool, dry place until wanted. When they are to be used, boil a few minutes in water, or toast in a Dutch oven. Cost, about Id. per pound. Pork Sausage Cakes,Soyer’s. —Required: pork, bacon, onions, pars- ley, seasoning, eggs, and a pig’s caul. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Chop some lean pork very fine, hav- ing previously detached all the skin and lione, and to every pound of meat add three-quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and a little chopped parsley. When the whole is well chopped, put into a mortar and pound well, finishing with three eggs; then have ready a pig’s caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, •keeping to the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and grill very gently over a moderate fire. This preparation is j ust as good made into sausages of the ordinary sort as in the foregoing way. A small pro- portion of bread may bo used by those who find it too rich. Pork Sausages.—Acquired : a pound and a half of fat pork,.the same weight of lean, about an ounce of salt, a teaspoonful of powdered sage, the same of pepper, and a pinch of cloves Mix and finish off as directed under Beep Sausages. Cost, about 2s. Another way.—Moat as above and a pound of bread-crumbs aro to bo well mixed; the seasonings are the same kinds as the above, but slightly in- creased; the sage can ho omitted, or if liked, a few small onions may he chopped and mixed with it. Another way.—Add nutmeg to tho seasoning; leave out the sage, and use thyme or marjoram, with a little lemon peel. Bread is a matter of taste, hut without it these are very rich. Pork Sausages, French.— Required : pork, seasoning, egg, bread, cream, &c., as below. Cost, lOd. per pound. Take pork, fat and lean in equal parts; chop, and season well with pepper, salt, and nutmeg or mace ; to each pound add a teaspoonful of chopped onion, one egg, and a table- spoonful each of milk and cream, with two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs. Pill the skins, then poach or steam the sausages; let them get cold, then grill or broil, and serve hot. These are very delicious if carefully seasoned. The “meat” is good for use in pies, &c. Rich Sausages of Mixed Meat3.—Required: pork, veal, season- ing, liver, mushroom purfie, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. per pound. This mixture can bo used in skins or not, or may be made up into cakes. There is no bread in it, and if mado as directed, the sausages will be votod very good. Mix half a pound of young, lean pork, with a pound of veal; after mincing this, put it in a mortar, and