LAMB. 345 breast, tho lemon first dipped in the cayenne. Then separate tho ribs and brisket, and cut tho ribs through; see c b. The guests should be asked if they prefer ribs or brisket The shoulder may not be required at all while hot, the other parts being usually first chosen. Another tcay.—Put slices of bacon over the thick part of the lamb, and brush the thin part with clarified butter before roasting. Before dish- ing, take the bacon off and dredge with crumbs; let them brown well, then serve. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Head, and Heart.—See recipes under Mutton. Reduce the time in proportion to the size. Hind Quarter.—Take a hind- quarter of lamb, saw off the knuckle- bone, and wrap the joint in oiled or buttered paper. Put the roasting- hook through the shank end, and place the joint before a clear fire. Baste it frequently with good dripping. Twenty minutes before it is taken down dredge a little flour over it, brown it nicely, and place it on a hot dish, with two or three tablespoonfuls of good gravy with it, and the rest in a tureen. Mint sauce should always accompany roast lamb. A second sauce may also be sent to table. Send to table an empty hot dish upon which the carver may place the leg when it is severed from the loin. Time, twenty minutes to each pound, and twenty minutes over. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Send lemon, cayenne, and butter to table, as for the fore-quarter. In carving, treat the joints as if they were separately served, ascertaining the preference of the guests with re- gard to the parts. Hot Pot (Superior).—Required : two pounds of loin or neck of lamb, four sheep’s kidneys, half a pint of gravy, seasoning as under, and two pounds of potatoes. Cost, about 3s. 3d. Cut the meat up, take the bones out, and stew them down for stock, which should be nicely flavoured, and thick- ened a little with roux. Butter a deep dish, line it bottom and sides with some of the potatoes, parboiled and sliced. Quarter tho kidneys, and put them next, with the meat, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper, with chopped mint or parsley, and a sus- picion of minced shalot over each layer. Put the rest of the potatoes on tho top, and pour tho gravy over. Bako in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. The dish should be covered until nearly done, then left uncovered, for the surface to brown. To assist this, brush the potatoes over with thin glaze, or shake fine raspings over. Before serving, sprinkle with chopped parsley. Send to table in the dish as hot as possible. Lean mutton can be used, and mushrooms or tomatoes added if pre- ferred to the herbs and shalots. Kidneys. — These are usually served with the Fry (see next page). Lamb, Cooked "Whole (some- times called Lamb a l’Espagnole).— On the Continent lambs are occasion- ally roasted entire, something like sucking-pigs, and are very delicate and good. It is evident that for this the animal must be very young, not more than five or six weeks old. The only preparation required is to remove the skin, take out the fry, and cut off the feet; then cover the lamb with slices of bacon fastened on with fine string, put it down to a clear fire, and let it remain until done enough. Take the bacon off about a quarter of an hour before the lamb is taken up, so that it may brown, and take care that it is equally cooked all over. Squeeze tho juice of a lemon over it before serving, and send Bread Sauce and brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time to roast, two hours and a half or three hours. Probable cost, uncer- tain, lambs suitablo for this dish being seldom offered for sale. Thickly buttered paper, fivo or six folds, is sometimes used in plnco of