228 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Veal Escalopes with Celery- Sauce.—Required: cooked veal, celery sauce, and puree, seasoning and garnish as below. Cost, tor a dish of nine, about 2s. 6d. to 3s. (See Mutton Escalopes a la Soubise.) Proceed as therein directed, using cooked veal instead of mutton, and celery sauce for spread- ing the slices. If any stuffing re- mains in the veal, mince a little, and mix with the sauce; the dish will then be more savoury; or, failing stuffing, add a pinch of sweet herbs and a morsel of cooked bacon, minced. Cook and dish ns before directed, and put in the centre a Pur£e of Celery. Instead of the white of egg, pom- over it enough thick bechamel to mask it; make it smooth, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs ; add a few bits of butter, and bx-own in the oven, or with a salamander-, or turn it in front of a clear fix-e for a minute. Any other vegetable can be used for the centre, a similar sauce being used for the filling; the dish taking its name fiom the sauce used. Veal Escalopeswith Spinach Puree.—Required : cold veal and ham, spinach, eggs, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. for a dish of nine. Cut the meat as above, and put a thin slice of cooked ham between two slices of meat. Then fry as before directed. Dish in a ring on a large round of fried bread, an inch thick. Fill up with a spinach puree, pressed into a round mould, and turned out (see Spinach, Moulded) ; garnish with eggs (see Eoos for Spinach), and pour any suitable sauce round the outside of the bread; tomato sauce is very good ; egg sauce is also suitable. Veal Quenelles.—Required: six ounces of raw veal, four ounces of panada, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one, an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful each of cream and thick sauce, supreme, veloute, or bechamel, a pinch of salt, white pepper, and ground mace, or a drop or two of essence of mace or nutmeg. Cost, about Is. Lay the meat on a board, and scrape it (it must be full weight after scraping), put the pulp thus obtained in a mortar, with the butter (pound it and the panada separately, then to- gether) ; add the seasoning, eggs, and sauce ; rub through a sieve, and then stir in the cream, and use as required. Other white meats are used in the same way. When it is necessai-y to colour the mixture pink, the carmine should be put with the cieam. The whole must then be blended well, to avoid streakiness. Vol an Vent au Financiere. —Prepare the case by tho recipe given in Pastry ; then when the interior has been l-emoved, put in a Financiere Ragout. Finish off In- putting the cover on the vol au vent; or, if a very elaborate dish is desired, garnish with cooked prawns or crayfish, sliced truffles, and cocks' combs, forming a pattern according to taste. Cost, variable. Vol au Vent A la Toulouse.— Substitute tho Ragout a i.a Toulouse for that in the preceding recipe. In either case, tako care that the sauce is thick, and that the bottom of the case is perfect; should an accident happen, brush the inside with a little glaze, and let it dry before filling. Should-the sauce leak, tho appearance of tho dish will bo spoiled. A vol-au-vent of this class will serve a largo number of people; it is so rich that a very small portion only is required. For other vol au vents, see Pastry.