STOCKS AND SOUPS. 43 The carrots and turnips may go to- gether, tho carrots put in first, hut tho green vegetables must he cooked apart. Sometimes vegetables cut into olives are added to this, but a soup in which the vegetables are all in that form be- comes XlVKIlNAISE. Consomni6 a la Monaco.— Required: three pints of stock (No. 6), the bones of a raw chicken, and some quenelles made as below. Cost, about 3s. 9d. Put the stock into a very clean pan, add to it the crushed chicken bones, and boil for two to three hours gradu- ally, adding a little cold stock from time to time; when cooked, strain, and make up the quantity ; set aside until cold, then clarify as the rich stock No. 6, p. 28, using half chicken and half beef for the purpose. The inferior parts of the bird will do for this. With tho white meat make some quenelles (see Chicken Quenelles in Hoi Entrees), then divide the mixture into three parts. To one, add a tea-spoonful of chopped truffles; to another,the same measure of parsley, tarragon, and chervil (a very little tarragon only),finely chopped; and to the third,put a chopped button-mush- room or two, and enough carmine to make the quenelles a pale pink. Make them small—about the size of a com- mon nut—and poach them in the usual way. Add them to the soup just before serving, and put in a table- spoonful of Madeira or good sherry. Put the bones into the stock-pot. Consomm6 k la Ran4e.— Required : three pints of clear soup, from stock No. 6 or 7, a glass of Madeira, half an ounce of glaze, some pink savoury custard, a dozen and a half of quenelles, chicken or veal, half a tin of green haricot beans (flageolets), and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. From the savoury custard cut leaves or stars, or any fancy shapes, about two dozen. Drain the beans from the liquor, and cut them into strips. Heat the soup, dissolve in it the glaze, add the wine and beans, cover for a few minutes, then put in the custard shapes, very carefully, just before serving. (See Index for recipes of the adjuncts above named.) Consomme a la Remus.— Required: a quart of clear soup, from stock No. 6 or 7, a dozen and a half of croutons, small round ones, cut with a crimped cutter, some cooked carrot, cucumber, and turnip, cut into olivo shapes or with a “ pea-cutter,” a glass of sherry, some glaze, and some slices of tongue, braised or boiled, the shape of the croutons. Heat the soup, add the wine and vegetables; warm the tongue in a little soup, then prepare the croutons, and lay a piece of tongue on each, after drying them as soon as removed from the soup; brush them over with glaze, and hand them on a dish covered with a lace paper. Corn Soup.—Put a breakfast-cup- ful of wholo wheat into a jar, with an ounce or two of butter; set it in the oven, and when the butter has melted add some cold broth or stock, a quart or more, with seasoning to taste —salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, chopped chives or shalots, parsley, fennel, thyme, &c., are the usual addi- tions—and bake in a slow oven until tender, adding more stock from time to time. When read)- for use, put the whole in a saucepan, and dilute it with more stock to the required consistence. For a superior soup put in some boil- ing cream or the yolks of a few raw eggs. This is a fast-day soup if made with water instead of stock. Corn-grits Soup. — Required : any kind of broth or bone stock, some crushed or rolled wheat, salt and pepper, chives and pai'sley, nutmeg, and eggs. Cost, about fid. Boil three pints of broth, sprinkle in six ounces of wheat, and boil for half an hour ; then add a handful of minced chives and chopped parsley and tho seasoning, and boil for half an hour longer. Beat up three eggs in tho soup-turccn with a gill of warm milk ; stir the soup to thorn, and in a fow