ENTREES, MADE DISHES, and Eeleves. 223 whipped stiffly. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for an hour. First put a thick sheet of buttered paper at the bottom of tho stewpan, ami seo that the boiling water only reaches two-thirds up the mould. It must only simmer tho whole time. When done, turn out, and fill the centre with a Macedoine of Vegetables, mixed with sauce. Pour the rest of the sauce round; good white sauce will do for mixing with the vegetables. Note.—The ham for garnishing the mould must be quite free from fat. Rabbit a la Iiymcburcb.— Wash and joint a nice young rabbit; blanch it, then put it in a saucepan with the white part of a small onion, and the middle of a head of celery, a few white peppercorns, and a morsel of mace. Cover with white stock (see No. 9), bring to the boil (the stock should be warm when added) and skim; then cook until tender. Divide the legs, put them with the shoulders, and tho back cut into pieces convenient for- serving, on a hot dish, and coat them with Supreme Sauce, making the sur- face smooth. Have ready some rich Cei.ert Puree ; mix this with a little hot cream, and put all round the dish, making a sort of border. Cut some ham and tongue in thin rounds ; they must be cooked, and heated in some of the stock the rabbit was cooked in; place these alternately, overlapping, on the top of the celery, mask them with a little more sauce, and spiinklo them with sieved egg yolk, chopped parsley, and the liver of the rabbit, rubbed throngh a sieve, using the ' three alternately. Cost, 3s., or more. Note.—All the inferior parts of the rabbit should be used, with the stock, for rabbit soup, or for a plain stew. Rabbit, Supreme of. (fire the recipe for Rabbit A la Lymciiuuch.) —After cooking as there detailed, take the flesh from the legs, shoulders, and back, in thin, even slices; cut sorno tongue and ban ham into similar i slices (tho two equal to half tho rabbit); heat the whole in enough thick Supreme or BEchamel Sauce to coat them well, then turn on a hot dish, and garnish as follows. Prepare some olive shapes of carrot, turnip, and cucumber; cook them carefully, and place them in little heaps, the three kinds together, about the dish, leaving- a space between. Cook some little slices of loan bam, coat them with Tomato Butter, roll them up, and lay them between tho vegetables. Rub the liver of tho rabbit through a sieve (or use any other poultry liver), and sprinkle it over the top. Servo as hot as possible. Use some Veal Quenelles in place of the ham, if pre- ferred. They should he moulded, and the moulds garnished with strips of ham, tongue, and truffle. Ragout a la Toulouse.—See Financiers Ragolt. Sweetbread, Calf’s, a la Eordelaise.—Prepare tho sweet- bread as directed under Sweetbreads, Made Itislics ; cook in a saute pan in a little butter and white wine ; a buttered paper should be laid on the top. After three-quarters of an hour, dur- ing which it must he often basted, take it up and glaze it; then Jet it brown before the fire. Servo with Bordelaise Sauce, and garnish with French plums in strips, olives, and lemon in slices. During the cooking, the pan may he set in a cool oven or on the range. Lemon juice and white stock can be used instead of wine. Sweetbreads a la Finan- ciere. (Sec recipe for Sweetbreads a la Houghton.)—Cook tho sweet- breads as therein detailed ; glaze anil crisp them nicely, then dish them on a border of white farce. The ragout must he heated in good sauce (sec Financier!! RaooOt), and placed about the dish just as described in the recipo abovo referred to, and served very hot. Tho sauco for tho ragout should ho thick and well flavoured, good sherry or Madeira being used for tho purpose.