SALTED MEATS. 379 Rub and turn daily for four days, then add half a pound of treacle, and keep in the pickle, turning and rubbing as before, for a month. Drain for a night, wrap the hams in brown paper, and have them smoked for a month. If a high flavour is liked, an ounce of ground black pepper and two ounces of bruised juniper berries may be mired with the saltpetre, and rubbed into the meat before the salt, &c., are added. Ham, Cured (H. Ude’s recipe).— As soon as the pig is sufficiently cold to be cut up, take the hams, rub them well with common salt, and let them drain for three days. Dry them, and for two hams, weighing sixteen or eighteen pounds each, take a pound of salt, a pound of moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Rub the hams thoroughly with this mixture, put them into a deep pan, with the skin downwards, and turn and baste them every day for a month, at the end of three days pouring a bottle of good vinegar over them. Drain and dry them well, and if they are to be smoked, hang them high in the chim- ney, to keep the fat from melting. “ This,” says M. Ude, “ is superior to a Westphalia ham.” Ham, Cured with Hot Pickle.—Rub a ham weighing about eighteen pounds with an ounce and a half of pounded saltpetre, and an ounce and a half of brown sugar. Leave it until the next day, then make a hot pickle, by putting one quart of strong beer or porter into a saucepan, with two pounds of salt, half a pound of brown sugar, an ounce of black pepper, an ounce of allspice, and a small piece of sal prunella. Pour this, when boil- ing, over the ham, and let it remain foT three weeks, rubbing in twice or three times every day. Drain and dry it, and, if possible”, smoke it for a fortnight. A ham cured in this way has very much the flavour of a West- phalia ham. The vessel for this must be deep, that the ham may be well covered. Ham, Fried.—Only ham of good quality should bo fried. Hard ham will be hardened further, and made almost uneatable, and quite indiges- tible. The pan must be clean, and the ham should be sliced and laid in with- out any other fat, unless exceptionally lean ham be used. It Bhould be turned often, and cooked gently. If eggs are wanted with it, keep the ham on a hot dish, set over a pan of boiling water, with a cover over (a deep dish will do, failing a cover). Do not put it near the fire to keep hot; it will go on cooking, and be hardened. Fry the eggs carefully (see Eggs), and dish them, one on each piece of ham. Poached eggs, it should be remem- bered, are more digestible than fried ones, and may be served with ham when fried eggs disagree. Many dishes of eggs, given in a subsequent chapter, are suitable accompaniments to a dish of ham. Ham, Fried, with Succo- tash.—For a novel breakfast dish— novel to most people, at any rate—this is worth a trial. Heat a tin of succo- tash, turn out the contents after sea- soning to taste, and put some sliced ham on the top. A dish of plain salad may be served with it. Cost, according to quantity. Ham, Garnished Plainly.— For a cold dish, draw the skin off, and dredge raspings over the ham; fasten a frill of paper round the knuckle, and garnish the dish with parsley, celery, or carrot tops, watercress, or small cress and mustard, with tomatoes or radishes intermixed; a few slices of lemon add to the appearanco of tho dish. Cooked vegetables may bo used in place of salad. By keeping tho skin, and laying it over the ham where cut, it will bo kept moist. A thin coat of glaze—which is now very cheap, He page 10—miy be put on the ham in place of raspings. This method should bo adopted when serving a hain hot for dinner; or a portion only of the rind mny be taken off, by carving it in an ornamental dovice; tho part