MIXED MEAT DISHES. 289 MIXED MEAT DISHES. The recipes under this heading are separately grouped, for several reasons. The meat dishes, many of which are cheap ana simple, aro for the most part made from mixed meats, or one recipe stands for several more; therefore, to place them under any one kind of meat would considerably limit their sphero of usefulness. Bread and Meat Baked.— Required : half a pound of stale bread, the same weight of raw meat, four to six ounces of scalded onions in thin slices, salt and pepper, dripping, and water or plain stock. Cost, about 6d. Grease a baking dish, cut the bread very thinly, spread with the dripping, slice and season the meat, and fill up the dish alternately, having bread top and bottom, and onions over the meat. Pour the stock over, about half a pint, and let it stand an hour or two, that the bread may soak; then bake for an hour or two: it depends on the kind of meat. Cover the dish for three parts of the time it is in the oven, then uncover for the surface to brown and crisp nicely. Many children would enjoy a dinner of this in preference to roast meat. The remains of a dish of cooked rice or macaroni can be used up in it, allowing more stock in proportion to the quantity. Bread and Meat Steamed.— Required: equal weights of bread and meat, or liver and bacon in place of meat. For half a pound of each, re- quired also an ounce of shredded suet, or beef marrow, seasoning, and a gill of stock, one egg, and a small onion. Cost, 6d. or 8d. Use a basin instead of a dish ; make this as directed above, and pour the egg and stock over last. The suet or marrow Dikes the place of the dripping. Steam it for four hours, as directed for Puddings. If the full time cannot be given for steaming this, some other fat must take the place of the suet; three hours will do if marrow or dripping be used. The outside fat of a cooked piece i of baked meat will do for this and similar dishes; it should be cut up very small, and used like suet. Heart Roasted in a Sauce- pan.—Prepare the heart in the usual way—it may be stuffed or plain—then dry it well by rolling it in flour. Put a quarter of a pound of beef dripping in an iron saucepan; when hot, lay the heart in and baste it for several minutes; on this its tenderness, or otherwise, mainly depends. Then grease a thick sheet of paper and put over it; put the lid on and cook gently, allowing about the same time as for roasting, or rather longer ; baste often, over the paper. When done, take the paper off, and put the heart on a hot dish in front of the fire for a minute and pour round it some sauce or gravy. During the cooking, the heart must be turned about every twenty minutes, that it may be evenly brow'ned. This is a useful method of cooking, when it is inconvenient to heat an oven, or make up a fire for roasting, as only just enough heat is required to keep the fat hot. Cost, variable. Heart with Digestive Sauce. —Required: a heart (pig’s, lamb’s, sheep’s, or calf's), half a pint of Diges- tive Sauce, and some stuffing and stock, or liquor from boiled meat. Cost, variable. Cook the heart by boiling in stock until almost done; or follow the directions given for Heart Roasted in- a Saucepan ; then take it up and slice it; put it in a saucepan with tho sauce, add a gill of stock (No. 1 or 2), cover, and lcavo for half an hour, below boiling point. When ready,