557 CEREALS. and anything that obviates this comes as a boon to the busy housekeeper. The cleanliness of any vessel is of primary importance. Many a child loathes porridge through life by reason of the burnt or “ foreign ” flavour imparted by cooking in a pan that has only been imperfectly washed. To ring the changes on porridge is very easy in houses where forethought is the rule ; and those who find that the plato of porridge palls—as it will sometimes—• upon the appetite of the child, will do well to try the effect of a dish of stewed apples or oranges, or one of dates or figs, as an accompaniment. Raisins, too, are excellent, and a glance at our chapter on Fruit will suggest other dishes. Then, it is a simple matter to alter the flavour by the aid of some such food as chestnut flour or banana flour; the latter is too sweet to be agree- able to many people when made into porridge of itself; but as a sweetening medium it is very nice. Then there is buttermilk; many country residents might indulge in this ; it is to be used in place of water, and is considered very wholesome, particularly in con- nection with oatmeal; skim milk, too, so often given over entirely to the pigs, is a valuable porridge basis; or either may be served with the porridge. Some may contend that such varia- tions are not necessary, and that children ought to cat whatever is good, or pronounced good for them by their elders. So far so good; but never is fruit more enjoyable than at breakfast, and never is it more wholesome; there- fore the expenditure is amply justified; while it is agreed by all who have studied the subject, that food that is eaten with a relish js more beneficial than that which is “ forced ” down; and no one can object to the use of such harmless zest-givers as we have enumerated. As to the “ savoury ” porridges, their name might indeed be legion ; from salt and pepper upwards, hardly anything in the way of savoury con- diments comes amiss. It seems to bo taken for granted very often that a child will eat anything sweet; but where distaste for sugar exists, a porridge to which a spoonful of gravy from a joint or a little savoury stock has been added, will frequently bo relished when a sweet one would be left upon the plate. Lastly, the time of year ought to regulate to some extent the food chosen. The oatmeal or maize dishes of the winter may, with advantage, giveplncc to lighter fare when warm weather sets in; rizino, florndor, coralline, and many other foods of modem introduction furnish a pleasant change, while wo have always with us hominy, barley, and rice to fall back upon. It is necessary to remember that the more starchy' and constipating the grain chosen, the greater the need of tho fruit as a counteractive. Hice.—This is a native of India, and is also grown in China and the East generally, as well as America and the southern parts of Europe. Carolina rice is large, and generally the dearest, from 4d. to 5d. per pound; it is used for such dishes as puddings, casseroles, &c., when the liquid is - intended to bo absorbed. For curries, or when tho rice is required dry, Patna is the sort to use : this is long and white, a trifle cheaper than Carolina usually', but tho finest kinds are the same price. Then there are Italian and Japanese rice, both a little cheaper than tho last named: with some, Japanese rice is tho favourite, as it is said to be tho most nutritious of all tho varieties. Rangoon and Java are the cheapest sorts; they' cost 2d. or less per pound. Both answer well for cheap soups and other dishes; so does broken rice, which is still cheaper, but needs very' careful washing. Rice is said to form tho main food of one-third the human race. Alone, however, it is not a perfect food, being deficient in flesh formers, and very poor in mineral matter; to tho latter fact is attributed tho difficulty' with which some persons digest rice. As a matter of fact it is considered very easy of digestion in