PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 661 added; or the preparation may simmer for a time in an uncovered saucepan, for some of the moisture to evaporate. Tomato, Various Dishes of. —(See Salads, Pastry, Garnishes, Pukles, &c.) Truffle—This is the most dis- tinguished member of the fungi family, for which pigs and dogs are trained to hunt, as there is nothing on the surface of the ground to indicate the presence of the truffle below. There are three kinds—-red, white, and black ; the last- named are best and most used. Truffles are found in England; but those of France are superior. The truffles of Perigord are famous for their odour. Lightness in weight in proportion to size, combined with elasticity, are signs of goodness. To have truffles in perfection, they must be eaten in the fresh state, as the preserved ones lose much of their aroma. They are considered stimulating, and not very digestible. Forcemeats, sauces, sausages, and gravies which are en- riched by truffles are much esteemed generally; but the taste is an acquired one. Owing to their costliness, the most should always be made of the scraps; for example, when fancy shapes have been cut for garnishing purposes, the remnants wiil serve for other dishes; the liquor from bottled ones should always be used up in gravies, &e. Fresh truffles are to be bought in the winter; but they are costly, and many people who use bottled one3 regularly have never tasted a fresh truffle. Cost of bottled truffles, from about eighteenpence to a sovereign, according to size and quality. For recipes, see next chapter: also Index, as truffles are mentioned in various chapters. Turnip. — This is a favourite vegetable, but not very nourishing, owing to its high percentage of water. There are many varieties; the best are finely grained, juicy, smooth, and sound. The liquor from turnips will keep but a short time, especially in warm weather; turnips boiled with onions will correct tho strong flavour of the latter. The peel of turnips, if well washed, can be used for flavouring soups, &c. For serving w'hole as a vegetable, small turnips are best; when very large and old they become stringy and strong in flavour ; In this condition they are better mashed; in the opinion of some, turnips of moderate size are best so treated. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. per bunch, sometimes cheaper. Turnips, Boiled.—Peel turnips rather thickly when they have attained any size; they are pithy and indigestible if this is not done; young ones need only thinly paring. Very young ones sometimes have a little of the green tops left on. Put them in slightly- salted water, and boil gently until done. Young ones will take from twenty to thirty minutes ; older ones, from forty-five minutes to an hour and a half ; these may be halved, or a couple of cuts can be made across without diriding them. Always keep them in cold water until ready to cook, to preserve their colour. Drain thoroughly, and send to table at once. White Sauce can be poured over, or served in a tureen; or, if to be served with boiled mutton with caper sauce, some of tho latter may be used in the same way. Boiled turnips may be made more tasty by grating a little nutmeg over them in the dish, and adding a morsel of mustard (French for choice) to the sauce or melted butter that is poured over. This way is nice if for serving with boiled beef, either fresh or salted. Turnips, French.—These are more inclined to tho shape of English carrots than turnips ; their flavour is very superior to that of ordinary t urnips, and when used for flavouring purposes only should be added cautiously, or tho taste may bo too “ tumipy.” They take some time to cook, much longer than might bo thought, judging from appearances only. Wo ought to say that a good deal of the flavour lies in tho peel; therefore, when used for