82 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. elaborate one is enhanced by a well-made sauce; while to turn for a moment to the economical side of the question, it is certain that the family joint goes farther, aud is made more wholesome, if a tureen of some substantial sauce be served with it. Were we asked to name the chief aids to the concoction of good sauces .and gravies—and by good we mean not of necessity costly, but carefully made—we should say suitable utensils, as pans of tinned copper or iron, enamelled iron, pure steel, or fire-proof china; sieves and strainers of hair and wire, and tammy-cloth; not all of them indispensable, but to many sorts a fine sieve or a tammy-cloth is ‘‘the making” of the sauce. A hot sauce cannot be served too hot; aud so far as possible, the white ones should be served as soon as they are made; sometimes the colour suffers a good deal by waiting, but when this is unavoidable, the bain- Fig. IS.—Bain-Marie Pan marie, or a substitute, should be employed. If any must be left in the saucepans, let them be the brown, not the white sauces. The bain-marie, as will be seen from the illustration above, is a shallow pan fitted with from seven to sixteen vessels (including a glaze- pot), in which sauces, gravies, and delicate dishes may bo kept hot, without spoiling, when sufficiently cooked; aud such a vessel affords the best possible way of conveying heat without burning or spoiling the tlavour. When used, the pan is filled (from half to three-parts its depth, according to the number of saucepans to be set. in it) with boiling water, and the vessels containing the sauces, &c., are covered and set into it; it is then drawn back and left on the hot plate, where it will remain just below boiling point., otherwise many sauces would become too thick. The principle of the bain-marie should be adopted in all households where, from any cause, regularity and punctuality in the serving of meals cannot be relied on. Where a proper pan is out of the question, instead of retaining the saucepans with their contents by the fire, by which means they would probably burn or bo smoked, or otherwise spoiled, proceed as follows:—Put the water, as above directed, in a stout baking- tin, cake-tin, stew-pan, saute-pan, or anything handy; adapt the size and shape to the size and number of the vessels to be kept hot; set in the pans, covered tightly, or turn the contents of the saucepans into upright