UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 480 add a teaspoonful and a quarter of salt, half as much white pepper, a little cayenne and mace, a tablcspoonful of White Mushroom Pur£e, and a small saltspoonful of grated lemon peel. Then add a tablespoonful of calf’s liver that has been scraped to a pulp ; only by this means will it be cooked properly in the short time required for the other meat. Mix well, then pound for a time to a smooth paste. If cakes are made, and they arc really the best for this, they should bo the size of a crown piece, and half an inch thick. They may be cooked before the fire; baked or fried in the same way as ordinary sausages: and are very good if rolled in plain biscuit-crumbs, and cooked in a saute pan, with a little hot butter. They will take about fifteen to twenty minutes. The board on which those are made up should bo slightly floured. Sausages and Apples. —For each pound of pork sausages allow half a pound of apples. Cook the sausages by frying or baking, and dish them crosswise on a square of toasted bread. Cut some of the apples into thin slices, and some into sections like those of an orange. Fry them as directed (see Apples, Fried), and put the slices round, and the rest on the top of the sausages. Cost, about Is. for above quantity. Tomatoes may bo used in the same way. Sausages and Baked Pota- toes,—This is a very good dish ; it is called also Sausage Potatoes. Take some potatoes, even in size, and bake them in their skins; allow one sausage for each potato. Fry the sausages, and cut them in two. Divide the potatoes, take out a little from each half, and put half a sausage in each hollow. Close them quickly, and put them in the oven for a few minutes. Brush the skins over with a little warm butter, and dish them in a pile on a hot dish, with the potato taken out passed through a masher, and allowed to fall lightly round them. Or put the potatoes in a ring, and let the rest drop into the middle. A sprig of parsley on the top improves the dish. Cost, about Id. to lid. each, inclusive. Sausages, to Bake.—Lay them in a tin which has been greased; it should be quite hot; brush them over with warm dripping or butter, and bake at a moderate heat until brown and crisp outside; turn them as re- quired. Allow from twenty to thirty minutes. Pork sausages will take quite the last-named time. Sausages, to Boil.—Thesesome- timos agree better than sausages cooked in any other way. Put them in boiling water, and give from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to kind and thickness; thin ones, of beef, wili be done in the shorter time ; while pork or veal, if thick, will want the maxi- mum time. To steam the sausages, lay them in a tin which will fit the steamer, and allow a trifle longer. Sausages, to Fry.—Some pre- fer these put in a cold pan, and cooked in their own fat, by turning them about until done. We think that the better way consists in making a small quantity of fat quite hot in the pan, and then cooking them, turning often until crisp and brown, for about fifteen to twenty minutes. Perhaps the nicest way is to boil or steam them until nearly done, then to plunge them into fat to cover for a few seconds, and serve as soon as brightly browned. If the skins are taken off, and the sausages are egged and crumbed, they aro ex- ceedingly good. Thus treated, they are generally served on oblong croutons. Pork sausages should look white when cut. The pricking of the sausages, by either method, is a disputed point; some direct that it be done, to prevent bursting; experience proves that some- times, in spile of all precautions, the sausages will burst, and the pricking certainly lets out the fat. There is no doubt that the filling of the skins has something to do with it, particularly if much bread be used, and enough room has not been left for the swelling.