665 PLAIN' VEGETABLE COOKERY. used, with a little cayenne popper. After steeping, the cucumber must be drained, and fried crisp in smoking oil or butter. For a “ chahkee,” some mixed vege- tables should be selected; pumpkins, potatoes, peas, cauliflowers, tomatoes, and many others may be used; they should all be prepared with care. Supposing enough to fill a quart measure, put two to three ounces of clarified butter, or oil, in a pan; when hot, add a tablespoonful of curry powder, nearly as much onion, chopped and pounded, a fourth as much garlio, salt, and vinegar, and lime or lemon juice to make a paste; stir well until there is a very savoury odour, then add a bit of brown sugar, and the vegetables drained and dried; all are to be cut up conveniently for serving. Go on stirring until all are coated with the mixture, then cover, and shake the pan while they fry. Add about half a pint of liquid, either water, milk, or vegetable stock ; to either of which some cocoa-nut infusion may be put with certain advantage. Con- tinue the cooking until the vegetables are soft, then serve with rice, plainly boiled, or either of the savoury pre- parations given under Rice may be used. Another dish of this class owes its foundation to tomatoes; they should be treated as above described, but some tamarind water is wanted, say a gill, with the same measure of stock to a pound of tomatoes. For English tastes this will be improved by the admixture of some other vege- table, as marrow, artichoke, or carrot, to reduce the extreme acidity of the dish. Of the “ dhall ” curries, one of the most popular is the one made from “ musson dhall; ” this is red, and something like Egyptian lentils, but of a nicer flavour. This has to be soaked. Some finely-shredded onions are fried, then taken from the fat while the dhall is fried (first drained and dried). Some curry, garlic, onions, and vinegar, as above detailed, are then stirred in, with the same sort of stock, &c., only just to cover; the whole being gently cooked until done. The fried onions are sprinkled over just before serving. This is eaten with rice or bread; or both can be served with it. Cost varies with the season, but the dishes am inexpensive on the whole. Vegetarian Irish Stew.— Required : a pound of potatoes, half a pound of onions, a couple or three leeks, half a pound of haricot beans, seasoning, a little oil, and a small turnip. Cost, about 6d. Peel and quarter the potatoes; cut up finely the onions and leeks, and slice the turnip ; add salt and pepper, and a pint of boiling water; stew for an hour or more, then add the beans (which have been px-eviously boiled); cover, and cook for a quarter of an hour longer. The oil should be added with the beans. In this dish, the beans take the place of the meat used in Irish stew of the usual kind; the oil making up for the deficiency of fat. If the water from the haricots is not wanted for soup, use it for the stew. Green or red haricots, as well ns white, may be used for this. Peas or lentils furnish another variety of the same class of stews. Boiled macaroni or rice can be sent to table. A few cloves and allspice berries, and a bay leaf, should be stewed with the above when a very savoury dish is desired; and the addition of a little store sauce or ketchup is optional. Walnut,—This nut is cultivated very extensively throughout Europe. On the continent it is looked upon almost as a necessary of life. The oil, while fresh, is but little inferior to that of tho olive, but soon turns rancid. Tho refuse matter, after the extraction of the oil, is eaten by the very poor in some parts of Switzerland. A very favourite pickle is made from unripe walnuts, also a ketchup. In some parts, walnut jam is elevated to the rank of a pleasant domestic medicine, and is considered laxative