212 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. If a green puree, the same sauce left white should be used. Cost, as above. Chicken in Vermicelli.—Re- quired : milk, eggs, vermicelli, chicken, and garnish as under. Cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. Mix half a pint of milk with an ounce and a half of vermicelli; let it stand for an hour or two, then add to it a little cayenne, chopped onion, first scalded, and a pinch of mace; put in a clean pan, and stir to the boil, then cook for a quarter of an hour; take It from the fire, add salt, and when cool beat in two eggs, first whisking them a little. Then beat in half a gill of ci'eam. Line a plain border mould with strips of cooked ham and tongue, free from fat, put in the vermicelli, cover and steam for half an hour. Turn out, and put in the centre any nice mince of chicken. (See Game and Poultry.) Outside the mould, place a few croutons with a little good sauce, as maitro d’hotel, veloute, bechamel, &c. In steaming the mould, place a thick paper at the bottom of the stewpan; or cook in a potato steamer, letting the water simmer only, but in this case it is well to place a fold of paper in the steamer, as the mould requires steady cooking. If the vermicelli is put in the mould alternately with Cuicken Quenelle mixture, a nicer dish will be the result. In putting the vermicelli in, a spoon must be wetted, and used for smooth- ing it. Any white moat can take the place of chicken. Chicken Quenelles.—See Veal Quenelles, and use chicken in placo of veal. Corbeilles si la Talbot.—Re- quired : a sheep’s kidney, a sweet- bread, some sauce, Bechamel or Rich Melted Butter, garnish, &c., as below. (See Corbeilles a la Toulouse.) Prepare the moulds as therein di- rected ; after baking, fill with a ragout made by mincing the cooked kidney and sweetbread, and adding it to the sauce, just enough to make a creamy mixture ; it must be deli- cately seasoned with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Have ready a couple of hard-boiled eggs, pass the yolks through a sieve, and chop some parsley. Fill the baskets with the mince, and sprinkle with the eggs and parsley. Instead of the sweet- bread, the brain of a calf, lamb, or sheep, may be used : after blanching, it may "be cooked in any way to preserve its colour. A very small proportion of cooked calf’s head can also be mixed in, and any rich white sauce will answer. Cost, 2s. to 2s. Cd. Corbeilles A la Toulouse.— Required, for these, some pastry niado as for a Savoury Fleur (see Pastry) and somo RagoCt A la Toulouse : see recipe. Cost, 6d. each, or more. Line some basket moulds with the paste, trim neatly round the edges, and then line with buttered papers filled with rice; bake until done, take out the rice and papers, and put back in the oven for a minute, then fill them with the ragout, and sprinkle the surface with a little chopped truffle and lobster coral. The handles* of the baskets may be made of strips of the paste.; it should bo bent be- fore baking to the required shape, and a weight, or anything sufficiently heavy, must be placed between the pieces to keep them from spreading, as they cannot be bent after baking. If no basket moulds are at hand Fio. 02.—Deep, Fluted Patty Pax. some deep, fluted patty pans, round or oval, may be substituted, but they must have wide tops and small bottoms. The handles look prettier if the strips of paste are cut with a wheel to give them a crimpod appearance. * See Pastry Baskets in l'astry.