11 KITCHEN PROCESSES. a small one. First, a copper stowpan is an absolute necessity, as the heat must be uniform ; in this the stock is boiled quickly until syrupy; it is then to be stirred until the exact point is reached when a little poured on a plate sets quickly. Experienced cooks can determine this by taking up a morsel on the point of a knife and twirling it in the air; but a novice would most likely be a second or two too late, and spoil the whole. For private houses, then, we advise the purchase of glaze in skins, to be had of grocers everywhere. It keeps indefinitely, and the average price is about two shillings per pound. It is important to keep the glaze in a dry place. When wanted for use, remove the skin, and cut it in slices or small pieces, and to every ounce add a spoon- ful of water or pale clear stock, and melt it, either in a glaze pot (on the principle of a glue pot) or in a jar set into a saucepan of boiling water, on the bain-marie principle. There must be water round the vessel containing the glaze; if placed directly over the fire it would burn. Naturally, the less water added the darker will be the glaze, and at one time it was hardly possible to get it too dark. Now, paler glaze is the fashion — indeed, for certain dishes, aspic jelly has taken its place, but we will speak of that later— therefore, when what is termed “ thin glaze ” is required, simply add more water. But there is another way of making glaze—or perhaps we ought to say a substitute—by a very quick and economical method, thanks to gelatine for the basis, and extract of nfeat, which gives the desired colour. Half an ounce of gelatine will make half a pint of strong glaze if a good teaspoon- ful of extract of meat be added. The gelatine is to be dissolved in the water before the extract is added. A few drops of liquid browning, or a little soy, will give a deeper colour if desired. For paler glaze, reduce the extract. This kind, we must add, is not intended to keep; it is to bo made just as required ; and the proportions of gelatine and water are to be re- garded only as approximate. The strength of the gelatine and the state of the weather must be considered (see remarks on this subject in the chapter upon Jellies, etc.). And this brings us to the use of aspic for glazing, for which reference must be made to Aspic Jelly. We would add here, however, that dark glaze is still used for joints and tongues, though hams, as well as poultry, are thought to look better when coated with aspic. This, however, may be a passing fashion, and the use of either medium is a matter for individual decision. In some cases, a compromise is effected by using aspic with just a hint of extract of meat to give more colour; and this is a very satisfactory glazing medium, for it must be owned that, for cold dishes which are kept long in cut, there is one drawback attending the use of ordinary glaze—viz., the meat has a tendency to get dry on the sur- face, which makes the carving more difficult, and necessitates the outer portion of each slice being left on the plates. Whatever the material used, the glaze is applied with a brush, which should be kept for the purpose, and always washed as soon as done with. The best kind are of badger hair with tin handles, but a little brush such as is used for glazing pastry will answer the purpose for occasional use. To ensure success, one or two points must be borne in mind. The meat must be perfectly cold before the glaze is applied, and if a second coating is wahted the first must be quite dry. The glaze itself must bo warm and liquid, and it goes without saying that if the meat is not cold, or the weather is very hot, or a warm place bo chosen for the operation, it will run off almost as fast as it is put on. The cellar is the best place to work in, and if many dishes are being glazed, and required to set quickly for further ornamenta- tion, they should be put upon ice. After the glazing, the various dishes