246 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. every minute until done; from seven to ten minutes, unless they are liked thick, then twelve to fifteen minutes must he given. The gravy should clot on the surface. Serve verv hot. Cutlets, Mutton, Neck. — Take the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the tops of the bones ; then cut the meat off, so as to leave the Fia. 65.—Cutlet Bat. bone bare to the extent of nearly an inch. The thick part of the chine bone must be chopped off, and the cutlets batted out evenly. A cutlet bat is the best for the purpose (sec Fig. 65), but a heavy knife will answer, if care be taken not to cut the meat. The knife should bo dipped in cold water before using it. The skin should be taken off each cutlet, and the bone scraped. A carelessly-pre- pared cutlet will never be enjoyed, however elaborately it may be dressed; while if care be taken to make it appetising in appearance it will be relished, however plain may be the method of cooking. Cutlets, Mutton, Shoulder. —A lean portion from the shoulder will furnish good cutlets; they should be cut in slices of half an inch or more in thickness, and after batting out may be cooked in any of the usual ways. They are particularly nice egged and crumbed, and nicely fried, and served with onion or celery sauce, or a puree of either of the vegetables. They are also very good when grilled, with caper or tomato sauce. Cutlets, Pork, a la Bins- woode.—Required : seven or eight small cutlets, neck or loin, from lean dairy-fed pork, wine, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 3s. 3d. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute pan, put in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, with a fourth as much thyme and sage, a bay leaf, and a slice of onion; add a clove or two, and a salt- spoonful of mignonette pepper; stir for a minute, then lay in the cutlets, pour a glass of light wine over, cover, and let them cook softly for fifteen minutes. Then take them up, drain well, and leave to cool. Have ready some seasoned crumbs and a beaten egg; brush the cutlets with a little French mustard, and |P sprinkle them with curry powder (a saltspoonful does for two cut- lets) ; coat them with eggs and crumbs, dip them into boiling fat to cover, and when brown and crisp, drain, and serve in a ring round a puree of split peas. Garnish the top with little croutons, spread with thick tomato sauce, in which a small quantity of hot pickles, finely chopped, has been mixed. Put a pint of tomato sauce round the base, first mixing with it any wine from the stewpan, and serve very hot. Clear mixed pickles are best for the sauce, but thick pickle, or picca- lilli, will do. Piquant, caper, tartare, and many other sauces are suitable for serving with pork cutlets when plainly drossod (see Joints and Plain DisHEs). Cutlets, Pork, with Sauce Robert.—Required : pork, sherry, herbs, eggs, and crumbs, seasoning, and sauce as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Lay two pounds of young pork —out into neat cutlets and trimmed properly—in a deep dish. Put in a saucepan a glass of sherry, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a few peppercorns and shalots, and a bit of mace; add a tablespoonful each of French vinegar and tarragon vinegar, boil up, and when cool, pour over the cutlets. Let them lie in the mixture for a few hours, turning often, then drain and dry them, and coat with egg and crumbs. Cook them thoroughly