477 SAUSAGES. recent introduction, and may be ob- tained through provision dealers. They are a digestible and appetising break- hist relish. To preparo them on a small scale at home would be trouble- some, and they can only be made in perfection by utilising the fish where caught, in a perfectly fresh condition. The sausages may be had either plain or smoked, and cost about lOd. per pound. They are very nice cold as well as hot, particularly the smoked ones, and make good salads or sand- wiches. Foie Gras Sausages. — Re- quired : sausage meat and foie gras. Cost varies with the amount of foie gras used. To any kind of sausage meat, of which perhaps veal, or a mixture of veal and pork, is the nicest, add a proportion of foie gras ; an ounce or two to each pound, according to the degree of flavour desired and the quantity available. The foie gras should be freed from its surrounding fat, and rubbed through a sieve, then thoroughly blended with the meat, first prepared in the usual way. These sausages should be made small, as they are a delicacy, and only a small quan- tity is required. The “meat” has many other use3; besides making up into sausages it may be used for pies, patties, Ac., in layers or balls, or can be made into cakes, &e., for garnish- ing. Game Sausages. — Required: bread, ham, game, butter and season- ing. Cost, varies with the game, from lOd. to Is. per pound on an average. Either raw or semi-cooked game, one sort, or mixed, can be used; skin and sinews must be removed; two ounces of butter, the same weight of ham, and from two to four ounces of bread- crumbs should be used for each pound ; the seasonings are silt, pepper, and cayenne, with a hint of mace if liked. These may be made up without skins. If semi-cooked game and ham be used they are quickly cooked, either by frying or grilling. If raw game is employed, they are best cooked in a sautd pan, in a little hot butter, for about twenty minutes. Liver may be added, either game or poultry. Liver Sausages.—These are very rich, but are a most delicious relish; they should be served cold in thin slices. Take two pounds of call’s liver (sheep’s may bo used), half a pound of good lard, a pound each of fat and loan pork, seasoning ns below. Cost, for this quantity, about 3s. 9d. Boil the pork until tender, then put it through a sausage machine. Wash and dry the liver, and either scrape it to a pulp or mince it extremely small; the former mode is the better; mix it with the pork, and add the seasoning; this should consist of a tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- ful of ground cloves and nutmeg, half a tablespoonful of dried herbs in fine powder—thyme, bay loaf, marjoram and sage, the latter to predominate— a teaspoonful of while pepper, not quite as much black pepper, and four ounces of raw onions, cut up small. These materials take some little time to blend properly, as it is necessary that the seasoning be equally distributed. Finally, the lard is melted and mixed in. Prepare some large skins; three parts fill them only, tie them securely at the ends, and put them into fust- boiling' water. Simmer them for about three-quarters of an hour, then drain and hang them up for use in a cool, airy place. Those are highly recom- mended. Mecklenburg Sausage.— There are several varieties of these ; to some, blood is added to give a red tinge to the meat. Mecklenburg liver sausages are similar to the Liven Sausaoes given above. Mutton Sausages. Required: mutton, suet, seasoning, bread, and egg. Cost, about Is. Id. A delicate sausage can be made from the remains of roast mutton, any joint from which slices can be got without fat, but raw meat is better. Chop a pound of lean mutton and six ounces of boot