162 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Dredge some bread crumbs over, and pour on a little oiled butter. Set it over boiling water for a few minutes, and brown the top with a salamander. Put it in a small dish, and set that on another dish, covered with a lace paper. Put a little fried parsley round and servo hot. Lobster, BashawecL—This is a very easy dish to make, and very tasty. Prepare it by cutting up the wholo of a lobster; if no coral or lobster butter be at hand, use some colouring, as the mixture should be red. Mix with it a spoonful or two of thick cream or white sauce first to moisten it, a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and anchovy essence, some black popper (it should be well seasoned), and a hint of finely chopped onion or shalot, first scalded. Stir altogether, and make the mixture hot. This can be done in two ways: if fresh fish bo used, fill the shell of the lobster, first buttering and dredging it with fine crumbs. Put more crumbs on the top, and bake it in a sharp oven. It is done as soon as hot through. If a tinned fish is used (and it answers excellently), substitute scallop shells of china, or use the shells of oysters or scallops, or a fireproof china dish, just as most convenient. If the top is not as brown as it should be, dredge somo raspings over, and put a pinch of chopped parsley on the top, or a little lobster coral, by way of garnish. Lobster, Boiling of.—Wash the lobster well before boiling, especi- ally if it be a hen, tie the claws securely, and throw the lobster, head first, into plenty of fast-boiling salt and water. If this be done life will be destroyed instantly.* Afterwards let it boil gently. When done enough, take it out, wipe it, and rub the shell with a little salad oil, which will give it a clear red colour. Caro should be taken not to boil a lobster too long, or tlio meat will be stringy. The Germans * This assertion is based on the opinions of (•inpetont authorities. put a handful of carraway-sceds into the salt and water. Time, moderate- sized lobster, fifteen to twenty minutes; large lobster, thirty to forty minutes; very large, one hour. Lobster Coral.—If required for immediate use, this only needs passing through a sieve, supposing it is to be used for sprinkling any sauce, fish, &c., by way of garnish. If, however, a good supply is at hand, it can be washed and dried, and put in a slow oven (a hot one would spoil it) on an old plate or dish, until dry enough to grate into powder, when it can be stored in bottles, and will be found very useful. In many books “ live lobster spawn ” is referred to. This means spawn taken from the outside of the shell before the lobster is boiled (the coral is of course cooked inside the lobster) ; when that is used, it is generally pounded with butter, and rubbed through a sieve, then put in soup, sauce, &c., and boiled until it turns red. It is also taken from the fish and preserved, when lobsters are cooked for sale, and may sometimes be got from fishmongers. The “coral- line pepper” referred to in some of our recipes is a pleasant, natural pepper, of beautiful colour; and as well as serving tho purpose of a season- ing, is equally useful as a garnish in place of the above; but it has no con- nection with coral, except its colour. For Lobster Butter see Garnishes. Lobster, Creamed.—Required: a large lobster, cream, stock, roux, and seasoning. Boil down the shell of the fish (see Stock, No. 15) and reduce the liquor to a gill; put it in a saucepan with the scraggy part of the lobster, and bring to the boil, then add a gill of cream, the firm flesh cut into dice, seasoning, and roux to make the mixture thick; it should just drop from the spoon; a tablespoonful of thick bechamel or other good sauce improves it; take it from the fire, put in a teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, cayenne, and a little anchovy essence, and somo of the coral. Have ready on a hot dish a