441 GAME AND POULTRY. Pigeons, Curried.— Follow the directions given for rabbit, fowl, &c., either for raw or cooked pigeons. Pigeons, Fricasseed, Brown. —Required: pigeons, seasoning,butter, stock, claret, and garnish asbelow. Cost, about 3s. 9d., exclusive of the garnish. Take three plump young pigeons; make them ready for boiling, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Put them into a stewpan with three ounces of clari- fied butter, and turn them about until they are brightly browned all over. Take them up, drain them well, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a pint of nicely-seasoned stock, No. 6, 7, or 8, and a glass of claret. Add a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, three inches of thin lemon rind, five or six small onions, a little pepper and salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the pigeons stew gently for half an hour; take them up, thicken the liquor with brown thickening, and add a few small mushrooms and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. When the sauce is smooth, heat the birds in it again, dish them, and pour the gravy over them. This dish may he varied in several ways. A few veal forcemeat balls may be boiled in the gravy, or a dozen oysters may be fried and laid over the birds, and the dish may be gar- nished with sliced lemon croutons, or curled bacon. Cost, about 3s. 9d. For a white fricassee, proceed as for fowl or veal. Pigeons, Fried in Batter.— If to be served whole, truss for boiling; if not, split them through, .and turn them about in a little hot fat for ten or fifteen minutes, first seasoning them ; or they may be stewed for a short time in a little stock. Then drain them, and dredge with flour; dip them into frying hatter (tee recipes), and plunge them into hot fat to cover them. The moment they are brown and crisp, serve, and garnish with fried parsley, or crisped bacon and lemons. Pigeons are very good fried plainly. They should be tossed in hot fat as above described, until done; or they may be partly cooked by stewing, then* left to cool, and finally egged and crumbed, and finished off as above. Tartare sauce is very good with them. Cost, 9d. to Is. each. Pigeons, Grilled, a la Cre- paudine.—Required : two pigeons, an ounce of butter, a saltspoonfui of pepper, a pinch of nutmeg or cayenne, a teaspoonful of chopped bay leaf, the same of parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, bread- crumbs, and adjuncts as below. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 2s. 9d. without sauce. Split down the back but do not divide the birds. Wash and dry them well, then flatten them. Heat the butter and the above seasonings together, and brush over, then dredge with fine crumbs. Grill over a very clear fire, then dish on a hot dish with a pat of mat ti c d’hotel butter on each. The gar- nish may be fried or grilled button mushrooms, or tomatoes, or potato ribbons or chips. If for a breakfast dish, no sauce or gravy is required, but for other meals should be served. This is a good emergency dish, as the time required is only about twenty minutes. If care be taken to baste well, the birds may be cooked in a good oven, or they are very nice broiled. When cold, they are excellent with tartare or other sharp sauce, or with tomato butter and any nice salad. Pigeons en Macedoines.— Required : three pigeons, a tin of mace- doines, or, what is still nicer, the same amount of mixed fresh vegetables, a tablespoonful of cooked button mush- rooms, cut in dice shapes, two or three tablespoonfuls of cooked macaroni in half-inch lengths, a little good brown sauce or gravy, and some dice-shaped croutons. Cost, about 4s. 9d. to 5s. Tho birds are to bo roasted and glazed, then jointed nicely. There should be a ring of fried or toasted bread on tho dish. Tho joints should bo neatly piled in this. Tho other