UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 694 portion of it, freed from the seeds, can he mixed with the mushroom preparation used for the filling. A round should be cut in the stalk end for the removal of tho pulp, and this must be filled up with fried crumbs or a little crouton. Many ways of preparing this dish are given ; the following is simpler than the above:—Slice some tomatoes, lay them in a flat dish, buttered and covered with bread-crumbs, then strew some chopped mushrooms over, with a little ham; or use herbs and ham, or chopped onions ; moisten with a little browm sauce, cover with more crumbs, add a few bits of butter, and bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Note.—In filling up the holes with crumbs (first recipe), to prevent their falling over the other part of the toma- toes, take a bit of paper, and cut a hole in it the right size; lay it over the tomatoes, and fill through the hole ; any loose crumbs will then be caught by the paper. Tomatoes with Iced Sauce. —There are many ways of serving these; a good one is as follows:— Halve some ripe tomatoes and core and seed them ; the skins may be removed or not as preferred. Make some Sauce a la Dkesde, and cut it in tiny dice shapes, then fill the halves with it and lay each in a fancy paper case. Arrange them on a dish covered with a lace paper and garnish with green salad. Another way.—Prepare the tomatoes in the same way, and put in each half a tiny mould of Sauce a la Cal- cutta. Instead of using paper cases, dish them in a bed of green salad; the effect of the three colours is very pretty. For a quicker method put the sauce in the tomatoes instead of in moulds; level it with a palette knife, and set in an ice cave to get firm, then dish as before. Another tray.—Make some Sauce a l’Alceste, by the second method; arrange it in a mould with a layer of thinly-sliced tomatoes in the middle, so that when turned out there shall bo two layers of sauce with toma- toes between. If a border mould, turn out and fill the centre with toma- toes in dice, mixed with ordinary mayonnaise, a little of which is pre- ferably coloured green for garnishing the surface. A plain mould can be used, and the sauce cut up into squares : these can be piled in tho middle of a dish, and the tomatoes as above but in pink mayonnaise, put all round. The latter is the prettier way of serving. Cost, variable. Tomatoes, Moulded. — The moulds illustrated below can be used for a number of purposes, both for hot and cold entrees, salads, and for the garnishing of a variety of dishes. With whatever they may be filled, it Fig. 113.—Tomato Mould. is important that the two halves of the mould are pressed firmly together, and that the marks on each side the mould are exactly opposite each other, or their appearance when turned out will be disappointing. For Tomatoes a la Supreme, line the moulds with Tomato Aspic, first adding to it a tablespoonful of whipped cream and the same of cooked chicken, pounded and sieved, to each half-pint. When firm, fill up with a puree made from chicken as above, mixed with cream and rich chicken stock, two tablcspoonfuls of each to half a pint of the chicken ; then add half a gill of Sauce Supreme, and mix very thoroughly ; this should be put on ice