DRESSED VEGETABLES. 671 asparagus heads, separately cooked, and pour more sauce round the base. If preferred, some chicken quenelle mix- ture may be used in place of the cooked chicken, but longer time is required for the cooking. Veal, either raw or cooked, may be used, and bechamel or other good white sauce may take the place of supreme. Before putting the three mixtures in the mould, note their colour, and, if needed, add a little green colouring or spinach j uice to the first one; the second should be a neutral or mixed tint. The resemblance to the vegetable is then very perfect when cooked. For a more substantial entree of the sort, a larger proportion of chicken can be added to the white puree; then rather more cream and sauce should be used. Medium-sized asparagus is intended. This will serve a good number. If the white of an egg be added, the pre- paration will he firmer, and cook in a trifie less time. Asparagus Cakes.—Required : a pound tin of asparagus, crumbs, eggs, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Take the asparagus from the tin, and cut it into half-inch lengths ; add two eggs beaten well, and a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and parsley, or marjoram; mix in bread-crumbs by degrees until the mass can be moulded into small balls, then flattened into cakes of half an inch thick and a couple of inches in diameter. About eight ounces of crumbs will be wanted. When all are shaped, let them stand for a time, then brush them over with the white of an egg, and roll in bread-crumbs ; fry a nice brown, and drain well. Garnish with fried parsley. This is a vegetarian recipe; non- vegetarians will like the addition of an ounce or two of chopped ham. The liquor from the tin should be mixed with milk, and thickened with flour and butter for sauce. (See recipes for White Sauce.) Asparagus Crotites.—Re- quired : asparagus, butter, cream, seasoning, eggs, parsley, and bread. Cost, from Is. Gd. to 2s. on an average. Cook the asparagus plainly, then chop up the tender stalk part, reserving the tips. Put a quarter of a pint or thereabouts of the chopped part in a saucepan; add an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a little salt and pepper, and a dust of nutmeg; stir until hot, then add the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a tablespoonful of bechamel. Have ready some rounds of fried bread, the size of a crown piece, pile the'mixture neatly on them, leaving the edges clear; arrange them on a dish, and garnish the tops alternately with hard eggs, both sieved yolk and chopped white, and scalded and chopped parsley; this is for the edges only; now put in the middle of all a little pile of the tips, that have been warmed in readiness between two plates. This is a very delicious little dish ; it can bo varied by using Hutch or any similar sauce in place of the one named. The dish should be gar- nished with fried parsley. Asparagus, Iced,—(See Iced Vegetaules, page 683.) Asparagus Puree.—After boiling and sieving the white part of the asparagus, put it in a stewpan, and treat it as directed for Artichoke Poree. Pile in a dish, and garnish with the points. This looks nice in the centre of a ring of cutlets. For variety, the points can be piled in the centre, and sieved egg yolk over the rest. Stick fancy croutons round, and serve hot. Cost, varies with the season. Asparagus with Iced Sauce. —After cooking a bundle of asparagus, drain and lay it on a dish, and set on ice or in an ice cave for a time. Slake some Sauce a l’Alceste, about half a pint for a bundle of fifty heads of asparagus; cut the stalk ends of the latter into tiny pieces, and mix in with the sauce before freezing; the heads should bo left with the tender green part-attached. When ready to servo, either turn the border of sauce in a