UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 262 meat may be cooked in a saute pan, or wrapped in an oiled paper and grilled, and served with White Italian Sauce. Or a thick piece may he taken from a fillet of veal, previously braised or roasted, and reheated in the sauce, and served with a garnish of small tomatoes, mushrooms, and rolls of bacon, all separately cooked. Sucking Pig, Galantine of.— Required: a sucking pig, forcemeat, seasoning, garnish, &e., as below. Bone a young pig, which, for this purpose, ought not to bo more than three weeks old. If this caunot be done at home, the butcher will do it. Lay it flat on the table, back down- wards, and spread on it alternate layers of good forcemeat, truffles, pink ham, tongue, or anything which will look and taste well when the pig is cut into. Season each layer with pepper and salt, and roll the pig tightly, binding it well with tape. It will be more succulent if a few slices of fat bacon are fastened on the outsido. Wrap it in a pudding-cloth, and simmer it gently in some good veal broth, in which may be put the bones of the pig, a large carrot, a blade of mace, twelve peppercorns, and some sweet herbs. When suffi- ciently cooked, let it cool in its own liquor, and when taken out, press it under a weight, and let it be eaten cold. Garnish the dish with aspic jelly, and salad, lemons, &c. It will be easier to make the galantine a good shape, if the head be removed. This will make another dish. Cost of pig, uncertain. Sucking Pig, Galantine of, Superior.—Spread the meat with a layer of Rich Veal Forcemeat, hard- boiled eggs in dice, truffles in slices, and chopped ham alternately: then put another layer of forcemeat. Finish off as above. Boil in stock to cover, with other ingredients, as in the pre- vious recipe ; add a gill of sherry, and some mushrooms (button ones must be used, the tinned ones do very well). Press as above, and garnish as follows : Give a plain coat of pink aspic, and sprinkle it in rows with chopped truffle, parsley, and sieved egg yolk. Pour more aspic over to set these, and garnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs, whole or sliced truffles, and blocks of aspic, with plenty of fresh parsley, or other green garnish. Cost, uncertain. Sweetbreads, Calves’.—First wash them in tepid water, renewing it as required, then lay them in cold water to soak for a time. Put them on to blanch in cold water with a little salt and lemon juice ; bring this to the boil, and then rinse the sweetbreads in cold water. If they are to be braised or stewed, they can be so cooked without parboiling, but if to be fried, baked, &c., they must be cooked in stock until nearly done, for half an hour, or more, according to size. They should then be pressed between two Hat tins, with weights on the top, until cold, when they are read}', either for cook- ing whole or in slices. If to be larded for braising, &c., this pressing is necessary also. In the chapter on Hot Entrees recipes are given for the more elaborate ways of serving sweet- breads ; many can be considerably simplified by using a plainer sauce, and dispensing with expensive or trouble- some garnish. Sweetbreads, Pried.—The par- boiling process must be carefully at- tended to here, as the sweetbreads should require but little further cook- ing. They must be cool before pre- paring them for frying. This is done by flouring, and coating with Frying Batter, or by egging and crumbing; the crumbs should bo seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and cheese, or fine herbs can be added to givo variety, or according to tho sauce which is to be served with them. The fat must bo very hot, and enough to cover them, and a golden brown tinge is the darkest they should acquire. Fried parsloy and cut lemon furnish suffi- cient garnish for an ordinary dish. The sauce may bo white or brown, as