CAM)-; AND POULTRY. 4G1 bird, and a couple of dozen chestnuts that have been boiled and peeled. Fry altogether for a few minutes. Make into a forcemeat with the wine, and till the turkey’s breast. Cover with the bacon, and bako in a gentle oven with frequent basting. A gravy made in the pan is served with this, and some nicely-dressed macaroni or sparghetti is a fitting adjunct. Turkey, Baked, Plain Method.—Supposing the bird to be rather old, it is well to steam it until three-parts done; or if this is not practicable, to boil it until the same point is reached, and leave it to cool in the liquor. After it has been dried and floured, wrap it in greased paper, and bake slowly. Jlist before serving, baste with butter, and flour it, to froth nicely, and serve with gravy and sau- sages, or with a chestnut puree. By this means the bird will be tender and of good flavour. The trouble is, of course, very slight, compared to that of roasting a turkey. Turkey, Boiled.—An old coup- let has it that “ turkey boiled is turkey spoiled,” but in this there is more rhyme than reason. A boiled turkey is a very dainty dish, agreeable to those who find a roasted one too rich, and a pleasant change to those who, during Christmas festivities, may tire of roast turkey. Choose a plump hen bird, and truss it like a boiled fowl. Veal forcemeat, or one of oyster or chestnuts, is often used. Bind it well that it may retain its good shape. Then follow the directions given under Poultry. Skim well. Take the turkey up when done, and drain it, then dish it, and pour over some white sauce. Some in harmony with the stuffing should also be sent to table in a tureen. Parsley or egg sauce is much liked ; so is good celery sauce ; they are suitable when veal forcemeat, sausage meat, or plain herb farce is used. Good mushroom sauce or puree is also excel- lent. A small ham, boiled; a tongue, or a nice piece of bacon, or a pig's cheek, is a suitable accompaniment; and the garnish may consist of lemons in slices, parsley, boiled sausages—- small ones look nicer — or sausage cakes. Bread sauce is old-fashioned, but is still first favourite with many in connection with this dish. Time, about the same, weight for weight, as fowls. The turkey will rest flatter on the dish if the backbone be broken. The necessity for breaking the breast- bone is a disputed point. (See Goose, to Truss.) Turkey, Boned.—Turkey may be boned without opening, or it can be cut down the back first, j ust according to the purpose for which it is required. If to be served in its original shape, the first mode must be followed. For actual details, see directions for Fowl, Boned. We would just add a note of warning with respect to the breast; it is easy enough to bone until the part is reached just where the breast-bone is most prominent; there the difficulty consists in removing the flesh without tearing the skin, and it is sometimes easier to leave a bit of this bone in the meat, as it can he better removed after- wards. Then, as to the wings : if the turkey be small, leave the bones, ex- cept the chief bone ; but if large, leave only the third, thin bone. As to the legs: the thigh bone and leg bone, half-way down the drumstick bone, should be sawn off; the rest may he left, and will help to keep the bird in shape after filling and trussing. Supposing the tupkey is to be filled with a tongue, that must be boiled and nicely trimmed first, then placed so that the bend of tho tongue comes under the prominent part of the br-cast. The vacant places are then filled with force- meat, and it is necessary that no hollows are left, or the skin of the turkey is more likely to burst in the cooking. Turkey, Braised.—An old bird will not be so good as a young one, but it will be better braised than roasted. Pluck the turkey, and prepare it by trussing as for boiling. Put some slices of bacon on the breast, and lay the bird in a braising pan, on a bod of