360 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them before a clear fire, the hollow side first, so that the gravy may be kept in when they are turned. Serve on a hot dish, either with or without mattre d’hotel sauce in a tureen. Time to broil, from ten to fifteen minutes. They should be well done, but not overdone. Kidneys, Stewed, in any plain stock or gravy, are very ten- der, and more digestible than when fried. They are particularly good when cooked in plain tomato juice; that from canned tomatoes answers. When nearly done, it should be thickened with brown roux, and • sea- soned with salt, pepper, and a little mustard. An onion or shalot can be added if liked, and some chopped sage or parsley. Cost, about 8d. per pound. They are sometimes sold at 3d. or 4d. each, according to size. Lard.—See chapter on Cooking Processes. Leg, Boned.—When lots of stuff- ing is liked, this will be the most satisfactory way of cooking the leg. The fillet-bone only need be taken out, the knuckle being left. The skin can be scored as usual. A nice sage and onion stuffing will do, but if it be mixed with half its bulk of pork sausage moat, the dish will be very superior, particularly when cold. After the stuffing is all in, it must be covered as well as possible, the flesh being drawn up round and over, then fastened with needle and thread, or skewers, and bound with wide tape. A well-greased paper should be fas- tened all ovor the log if for roasting or baking. If for boiling, tie it in a clean cloth, first putting a paper over the stuffed end. However cooked, extra time must be given; quite five minutes per pound longer than if the bone were left in. Serve with the usual accompaniments. Leg, Roasted.—A leg of eight pounds will take from three to three and a half hours. The skin should be scored across, a quarter of an inch apart, and brushed with a little oil; this will make the crackling crisp and brown, and prevent its blistering. Pork should not bo put so near the fire at first as beef or mutton; tho cooking has to be slower all through. If scored in cubes or diamonds, instead of straight lines, the meat will cook in rather less time, and the crackling be nicer. Fre- quent basting is needed. For sauces, sec Loin, Boasted. If stuffed, sage and onion stuffing is generally pre- ferred, but veal stuffing, with a little sage added, is very good, and liked by many. The knuckle is tho part stuffed, the skin being raised, and the stuffing passed underneath; a greased paper, or piece of thick muslin should be tied over to prevent its escape, and removed a little time before dishing. If plenty of stuffing is liked, little balls or cakes should be made, and cooked separately. (See Forcemeats.) Some- times, instead of stuffing the meat, onion sauce, flavoured with sage, is served with it. Cost, Cd. to 8d. per pound. Leg, Roasted (a superior recipe). —Instead of putting the stuffing under the skin of the knuckle, make some slits in the knuckle, by taking off some of the skin in a piece, and cutting deep into the flesh. Fill these incisions with the stuffing, then replace the skin, and sew it on. Tie some greased paper over, and roast as usual. Be- serve some of the stuffing (sage and onion), and mix a small proportion of bread-crumbs with it, to make it rather firmer than usual. Form it into little cakes, and steam these in a largo potato steamer. They should be laid in a tin and covered. When done, brown them before the fire, or in the oven, and serve them round the leg. Have ready also a tureen of onion sauce, made by mixing somo fried onions with a little brown sauce, and adding a sprinkling of sage, salt and pepper. Note.—Tho mixture for tho little cakes should be bound with beaten egg. If the onions bo first parboiled