UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 56 For another variety of dumplings, take dough made as for household bread, work into it a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered herbs; shape, and cook as above. Ox Cheek Soup.—Required : an ox cheek, a gallon of cold water or weak stock, a good assortment of herbs, vegetables, &c. (see Pot au Feu), and some thickening. Cost, about 2s. The cheek must he washed in salt and water, then soaked for some hours, and wiped dry. Fry the vegetables in a little hot dripping, add the cheek and the water, boil up and skim, then cook very gently for several hours (four or five), and strain the soup; thicken with brown flour or roux, and season to taste, and if liked, put in some of the cheek cut into squares, or some rice or other cereal, or fried bread can he served in the soup, with or without any vegetables. The meat can he served while hot with a nice sauce or gravy, or may be converted into a good break- fast dish. (See Ox Cheek, Potted, and Ox Cheek, Boned and Rolled.) A slice of ham will enrich the soup con- siderably, and a fow mushrooms or tomatoes are a good addition. Button onions, fried lightly, and finished off by boiling them in the soup, are sometimes served in it. Ox Tail Soup (Economical). —Required: one ox tail, three quarts of stock (No. 2), herbs, vegetables, &c.,as for Hare Sour, one ounce of good dripping, two ounces of ham, a table- spoonful of tomato pulp, two ounces of rice-flour or corn-flour, and a little browning. Cost, uncertain; ox tails vary much in price. First wash the tail, joint it, and divide the large joints again; put it in warm water, bring it to the boil, then drain it, and lay it in a pan with the hot fat and ham in dice; put in the vegetables, fry lightly, then pour in the cold stock; this will throw up the fat, which must be removed, and after skimming well (as sometimes tails throw up much scum), cover, and boil for three or four hours until the tail is tender, hut not “ raggy.” Take out the pieces carefully, add the thickening, and boil up ; put in the thin pieces of tail only (keep the thick end for a separate dish), and if liked, some of tho vegetables, sieved or cut into shapes; or a carrot and turnip may be cooked separately, and cut as for Julienne or Brunoise Soup. For richer soup, put in a little sherry and use a better stock (as No. 8). Palestine Puree.—(A very good vegetarian recipe.) Required: four pounds of artichokes, six small onions, or the white part of the same number of leeks, three turnips thickly peeled, one pint of milk, three pints of water, salt, sugar, and pepper, and a teaspoonful of celery salt. Cost, about Is. Id. In preparing the vegetables, keep them well under water until the last moment, in order to preserve their colour ; slice them all, and put them in an enamelled pan, with the celery salt, a pinch of white sugar, some white peppercorns, and the butter; cover and sweat for a few minutes, then add the boiling water, and cook to a complete pulp; add the boiling milk, with seasoning to taste; remove the peppercorns, and serve with fried bread cut into dice. A spoonful or two of onion or celery sauce can be used for flavouring this, and it may be thickened a little with roux or corn-flour. For a better soup, stock No. 11 is usoful, or tho water from boiled rice or macaroni. Pancake Soup. — This is a German soup. Required: two pints of clear stock (No. 8) and two good- sized pancakes, made with a plain batter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and herbs, and filed in as little fat as possible. Cost, about 4d. Have the stock ready boiling. After frying the pancakes, drain them be- tween a couple of sheets of paper, then cut them into strips, squares, diamonds, or with a small round cutter. Slip them into the soup, and boil fast for five minutes. Serve at once.