203 VISH. that it is tho fry of tho sprat, the smelt, and other fish; some contend that it is the fry of the herring; others assert that it is a distinct species of the herring- tribe. It should he obtained fresh and un- broken, and put on ice if not wanted as soon as brought in; it is served fried, phiin, or devilled, with cut lemons and brown bread and butter; it needs no sauce. It may be added that the fry of various species of fish are often treated as whitebait, and if not too large, with a fair amount of success. Whitebait is usually ex- pensive. Whitebait, Mock.—Cut up any raw white fish into strips, as nearly the size of whitebait as possible; fry and serve them in precisely the same way. Whatever the fish used, it must be very firm and fresh, carefully filleted and flattened out, that the strips maybe even. Whitebait, to Fry.—Put the fish in a sieve when required, and pick it over (to free it from any other fish which sometimes get mixed in, as shrimps, &c., together with bits of weed), then put a dozen or two at a time on a cloth, with plenty of flour ; shake it over them, then pick them up lightly, and put enough of them in a frying basket to cover the bottom; give it a gentle shake before putting it in the hot fat, then plunge it in, and fry just until crisp; when you can hear them “shake” in the pan they are done; that is to say, to be correct, when, by shaking the pan, the fish can be heard to make a rustling noise. In the matter of colour, tastes differ; some like this little fish brown ; but it should be pale and crisp. Some cooks say that it should be scarcely browned ; in fact, nearer to grey. As soon as done, dish on a hot dish covered with a serviette, and garnish with fried parsley. Another way.—In tho above method we have made no mention of another one, sometimes employed, and con- sidered by some the only correct one ; that is, to fry the fish, a small quan- tity at a time until crisp enough to turn out, and then to put the basket nearly filled with the fish, a second time into hot fat (another supply), and to hold them in for a few seconds, and again let them crisp and slightly brown. This, of course, incurs extra trouble and expense, and many good cooks contend that tho first mode is equally good. If the fish stick together in the flouring, they must bo carefully separ- ated with the fingers. Whitebait, Devilled, is fish cooked in the above way, then sprin- kled with cayenne and a little salt, and well shaken together before dishing, by turning them into a clean, hot cloth, and taking hold of the opposite comers. Sometimes, at large dinners, whitebait are served in the foregoing ways, and also dressed with pepper (black), making three dishes. To know when the fat is the right heat, sec Frying. Wlliting.—This is not a very tasty fish, but very delicate, and so digestible as to have earned the title of “ sea chicken.” It may be cooked in almost any way, and a sauce of a piquant nature improves it. Cost from 2d. to 6d. on an average, but sometimes much more. When- ever fish is'ordered for an invalid, whiting may . be given (suitably cooked) with impunity. Boiling or steaming is a method which ensures a delicate and easily digested dish, though somewhat insipid, and not recommended for ordinary faro. Whi- ting will not keep well; when stale and flabby (and sometimes burst open) it should not be eaten. Whiting Pout. —Tho whiting pout, otherwise known ns tho bib, tho brassy, and the pout, is an ex- cellent fish, which is not so highly esteemed ns it deserves to bo, possibly because it may bo purchased in tho places whore it is abundant at a trifling cost. It possesses the singular