VENISON, 349 Breast, Stewed.—Cut up the back ribs or the breast of venisou into small neat pieces. Flour these, and fry them in butter with three or four sliced onions to each pound, and a small quantity of bacon cut into dice. When the meat is lightly browned, drain away part of the fat, and pour over the meat a cupful of good stock ; add a small bunch of sweet herbs, half a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a little pepper and salt. If the flavour is not objected to, a clove of garlic may be added, or the saucepan may be rubbed once or twice with a freshly-cut clove. Place the stewpan over a gentle fire till the venison is tender. Thicken the gravy with a little brown thickening, and let it simmer until it has thrown up its grease. Put the meat on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, and pour it round the venison. Garnish with fancy shaped pieces of toast, or fried bread. A few stewed mushrooms will be a great improvement to this dish. When venison cannot be had, well- hung four-year-old mutton may be used instead. This stew may be served in a casserole of rice or pota- toes. (See later chapters.) It is an excellent way of dressing venison which is lean and dry. Time, about two hours. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain, varying with the supply. Chops.—For a plain dish, cook these in any of the ways directed for mutton, but with venison sauce or gravy. Or just dissolve some red currant or other jelly, and send it to table in a hot tureen. Broiling or gnlling should be preferred to frying. The chops may be plain or breaded. Tomato butter or conserve, heated, or good brown tomato sauce, will be liked by some. Bacon finds favour with a dish of venison chops some- times ; it can be served on the same dish, alternately with the meat. How- ever the chops are cooked, do not keop them a moment before serving. If a hot water dish is not at hand, use a well-heated dish, and set it over boiling water while carrying it from the kitchen. A well-boiled, floury potato is a favourite and suitable ac- companiment. Crusted Venison (a German recipe).—Any joint can be thus pre- pared. After washing (it must be well hung), lay it flat in a pan, with cold water to cover it; supposing two quarts of water, add half a cup of vinegar, a carrot, an onion, a bay leaf, a bunch of hei'bs, as varied as convenient— basil and marjoram are necessary—two cloves, a score each of allspice berries, black peppercorns, and juniper berries, and a teaspoonful of salt. Skim when it boils, and cook until done. When tender, take it up, wipe the surface, and spread it with beaten egg. Mix brown bread-crumbs with a teaspoonful of brown sugar, and half a teaspoonful each of ground cloves and cinnamon ; sprinkle them over the meat to the thickness of half an inch. Skim off some of the fat from the pot liquor, and baste the crumbs with it; then bake it brown; serve sweet pickles with it, in addition to gravy'. Note.—We give this as received, but advise that hot or boiling water be used instead of cold, for the purpose of keeping in the meat juices; and that the spices be reduced a little, particu- larly the cinnamon. The recipe may then be followed for good, tender mutton, as successfully as for venison. Cutlets.—Cut from the loin, and cook the same as chops. Many of tho gravies and sauces given for game may- be served with these, and in some of them the meat may be stewed. French beans are always good with venison; as enjoy-able with cutlets as with a joint. Mushrooms are liked by many-, and tomatoes cooked in a savoury- manner are excellent. If stuffed with herbs, bread-crumbs, and bacon, then baked brown, they- are most appetising. {See recipes under Vegetables.) Cutlets, Broiled.—This is a very excellent dish. The cutlots should bo thick, from well-hung meat, dipped in hot fat, and cooked in a