156 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. sharp sauce is best with it. It may also be filleted and fried. To guard against bitterness, cut the head off before cooking ; that is where the bitterness lies. The fish must then be baked fiat. Haddocks, Finnan (or Fin don),—These are held in great esteem owing to their excellent flavour ; they are favourites almost everywhere, and are generally both plentiful and cheap, except in the hottest months of the Fio. 33.—Haddock. year. The genuine are known by their odour and peculiar yellow colour. They are cured in large quantities in a villago near Aberdeen. Those of a pound and upwards in weight are the most Satisfactory, and are improved by skinning. Cost, about 4d. per pound. Haddock, Finnan, Broiled.— Wash the fish quickly in warm water ; lay it in a dish of hot water, covered, for a few minutes, then drain, and dry it. Brush it over with butter or oil, and broil or grill for ten minutes if a large fish ; five to seven minutes for a small one. Serve with a pat of butter, or M.utrk d’Hotel Butter. Haddock, Finnan, Fried.— Prepare the fish as above, and after drying it, remove the skin : cut it into even-sized pieces, and flour them, then dip into Frying Batter, and fry crisply. Serve on a hot dish ; garnish with fried paisley. The fish may be egged, and dipped in savoury crumbs before frying if pre- ferred ; it is then a delicious morsel, preferable to many more expensive kinds of fish. The soaking above ad- vised prevents dryness of the flesh. Haddock, Finnan, in Sauce. —This is a delicious dish, and suitable for luncheon or breakfast. First, soak the haddock as previously directed ; skin, and flake, or cut it up. Have ready some White Sauce, in which a shalot, minced, has been boiled until tender, add a teaspoonful of white vinegar, and cayenne and salt to taste. Put in the fish, a pound to a pint of sauce ; cover, and leave for ten minutes, just under boiling point, then pour out on a round of buttered toast without crust; or a round of fried bread. Cut a hard boiled egg into slices, and garnish, together with some prettily shaped slices of lemon or beet- root. Other recipes for cooking this fish will be found in the chapter on Sa- vouries. Haddock, Fresh.—This fish is deservedly esteemed; its flesh is firm and delicate in flavour, and is usually cheap, about 3d. to 5d. per pound. It seldom weighs more than three pounds on an average ; larger fish are to be had sometimes This is a good fish for rechauffes, and it may often be substituted for whiting in forcemeats, &c. It should be firm, with undisturbed, even scales, and be bright in gills and eyes. It requires to he gutted as soon as caught, and if stale becomes flabby and poor in flavour. Haddock, Baked. -This is much improved by stuffing; after washing and drying, brush the inside of the fish with a little warm butter, and sprinkle it with salt and pepper, then fill it with Herr Forcemeat, or Oyster Forcemeat, or use Mush- room Forcemeat if preferred; sew