140 UNIVERSAL COOKERY HOOK. parsley, the small claws of the crab, and slices of lemon with fillets of anchovy. This is a very good dish. It may be varied by adding shrimps or prawns, with which the dish should then be garnished. The same mixture, made a little thicker with rice or bread crumbs, may also be put into scallop shells, and finished off as directed for other kinds of scalloped fish in this chapter. Crab in White Sauce.—Mix the flesh of a medium sized crab in a basin, with a quarter pint of White Sauce, and a small shalot minced and scalded; season nicely with salt and pepper and a little lemon-juice. Wipe out the shell, rub it with oil, put in the mixture, and make the top level; dredge with crumbs, and brown slightly. It should just heat through, and will take but a short time if the sauce be mixed in while hot. This is a cheap dish. For a better one of the sort substitute any rich white sauce given for fish, and add a little cream. Before serving, sprinkle with lobster coral, and put a few tiny fancy-shaped croutons in a pattern on the top. {See Garnishes. ) This should take its name from the sauce, as Crab a la BEchamel, &c. Craw fish.—These, like most of their tribe, are somewhat indigestible, and are considered rather coarse eating by some; with others, they are a great favourite. They attain a largo size, and when very large are often divided, and sold at a shilling or oighteenpeneo per half, though the price is very uncertain. They aro generally sent to table plain, or in a salad, but any of the recipes under Lobster are equally suitable for craw-fish. In all the recipes for Cray-fish the small ones arc referred to; we mention this, as very often the terms Craw-fish and Cray-fish are used synonymously, and this is apt to mislead. Cray-fish.—This is a delicious fish, somewhat similar to lobster, but considered superior in flavour by many. Celebrated gourmets are loud in praise of cray-fish soup and dishes of a like kind ; and cray-fish stewed in wine is a popular dish across the Channel. The cost here is very uncertain ; out of London the fish are not, as a rule, easily obtained. To boil the fish, pro- ceed as for lobster, giving them from ten to fiftcon minutes. If required to keep them alive, there must bo a small quantity of water only, and that con- stantly renewed; if put in a bucket with an inch of water it is quite sufli- cient, if a fresh supply is added in four hours. Cray fish, Creamed.— Mincetho moat of a dozen fish, chop a truffle and a button mushroom, put a tablospoonful of white roux into a cup of cream and milk mixed ; stir to the boil, add a pat of cray-fish butter (see Garnishes), with seasoning to taste, then stir in the meat of the fish, mushroom, and truffle, and do not boil again. A small quantity can be made in the above proportions, but if the fish are large, not more than eight or nine will be wanted. The mixture should be like a rich creamy sauce. The mushroom must be cooked firBt in a little butter. This is used for small savouries, patties, &c. Cray-fish in Jelly.—Required : a pint of fish to each pint of jelly, some small salad, and a dressed salad. Line a mould with jelly, lay in the fish, backs down, with any green salad : capers, cross, cucumber, &c.; if liked, hard-boiled eggs can be added; add more jelly, then more fish, &c. Proceed in this way until the mould is full; each layer of jelly must set, or the fish will all sink to the bottom. Turn out, and garnish the base with any dressed salad, or with sprigs of parsley or cress, and cut lemons. Or for a more elaborate dish, use chopped aspic, and salad mixed with mayonnaise, coated with lobster coral, or garnish the edge of the mould with cray-fish butter from a bag and small rose pipe. Any plain mould does for this dish.