BEEF. 293 more. It may take nearly four hours in all; add the salt and chopped parsley a short time before serving. Of water, use from three to four quarts. (See remarks at foot of rccipo for Mixed Meat Stew.) Toad-in-the-Hole.—Required : a pound and a half of lean meat (mutton or beef), a pint of milk, two eggs, half a pound of flour, a little salt, pepper, baking powder and dripping. Cost, about Is. 9d. Melt the dripping in a baking tin, let it get hot, and grease it well. Make a hitter of tho milk, flour, &c., as if for Yorkshire Podding. Pour it in the tin, then pepper the meat a little ; lay it in the batter and bake. The oven should be quick at first for the batter to rise, then rather slow for the meat to cook. Time, about an hour. If the meat is cut up into four or six pieces it is more conveniently served, but if in one piece, the gravy is better preserved. Tender meat is a necessity for this dish. Kidneys and liver can be cooked as above, and sausages make a savoury dish of the kind, though somewhat rich. For other dishes of this sort, see Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery. Tongues, a Cheap Stew of. —In some towns sheeps’ tongues may bo bought very cheaply of tlio dealers in American and Australian meat. For half a dozen tongues take three quarts of water, three ounces of pearl barley, salt and pepper, and a pint, after cutting up, of the usual vegetables, thickening and colouring. Cost, vari- able. Soak the tongues in the cold water for an hour or two (first wash them well) ; then bring to tho boil, put in the barley and vegetables, and cook for about three hours. Take up the tongues and skin them; keep them hot and thicken some of the liquor (strain it off through a sieve) with browned flour, an ounce to the pint; boil it up and pour over the tongues. Then take up some of the barley and vegetable, and serve round the tongues. Some chopped parsley is a great improvement. The liquor, Ac., left can be served next day as bioth. (See remarks under the recipe for Mixed Meat Stew.) BEEF. Beef is considered the most generally useful meat for the family meals, and it is the most economical also. It can be obtained all the year, but is in perfection in the winter, because the joints can then be hung long enough to become quite tender. In summer, wipe off any moisture which may arise (if it hangs but a night the joint will be improved), but do not wash meat for roasting imless quite necessary. If the dies have touched any part, rub it with a cloth dipped in vinegar, then dry it and sprinkle with flour. The lean of good beef is bright in colour, and the fat whitish and firm ; very lean beef is always inferior, while, if too fat, it is far from economical. Ox beef is tho best of all; the ilesh is smoothly grained, and will rise when pressed with the finger in a young animal, Heifer beef is smaller and better suited for small families; tho meat is somewhat paler, and closer in tho grain. Bull beef is dark in colour, with little fat, a coarse grain, and a strong smell, and should never bo chosen. Butchers in good localities do not, however, oxposo it for salo. Very rank smelling, highly coloured, and greasy looking fat is indicative of oil-cake feeding, and although not necessarily unwholesome, it is far from economical, and tho flavour is not liked by many people.