UNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK. 590 oatmeal porridge, mado in the usual manner, but to which grated cheese is added, either while in the pot or after taking it out, and yet as hot as possible; it should be well stirred in.” All forms of porridge may be prepared in the same way. We can fully endorse Professor Williams’s recommendation to add cheese to the old-fashioned “hasty pudding,” which converts it, as he says, into a savoury and highly nutritious porridge. It is not always necessary to add milk; those who prefer it may, after mixing in the cheese, add a little gravy or sauce. Another dish, to be had by the blending of cheese with mashed potatoes that have been boiled in their skins, and thinned with milk or stock to the consistency of porridge, is worthy of consideration. Boiled potatoes will not do: that is to say, the dish is not the same thing, as only by baking potatoes in their skins are tho saline constituents pre- served, and these, as already explained, are especially demanded in combination with cheese. EGGS. Eggs contain all the necessary constituents of food, and are amongst the most useful of the ingredients that contribute to the composition of every sort of dish, both savoury aud sweet. The eggs of many birds are used for food; but we are for the moment considering the egg of the common hen, as tho most largely used for culinary purposes. Eggs contain a good doal of nourishment in a concentrated form. Weight for weight, they may be placed on a level with butchers’ meat. The yolk is the richer; it has in it more oil and fat, as well as more albumen and mineral matter than the white; there is also a lower percentage of water. It is owing to the presence of the oil that the yolk cannot be whisked to a stiff froth, as the white can ; and it is only while the egg is in a fresh condition that the white can be so treated. On an average, eggs weigh, in the shell, from an ounce and a half to two ounces; to reach tho latter weight, they must be large and fresh. They lose in weight as age increases, by reason of the porosity of the shell; therefore, apart from the fact that a stale egg is of all-round inferiority, it is not the economical purchase that some people imagine, when, this is considered, although the money cost may be but littlo more than half that of fresh eggs. Not that it is necessary, nor is it possible, to buy absolutely new-laid eggs for cooking purposes ; we only desiro to say that the lowest-priced ones are not always the cheapest; the shells may be only three-parts full, aud out of each dozen two or three may be really bad. We may, however, point out that there is such a thing as using an egg too fresh, particularly for poaching. An egg a day old will retain its shape, but when quite fresh, there is a certain milkiness in the white, aud a consequent tendency to run. No one wants telling what a bad egg is like; once seen, it is never forgotten; but various tests are employed for judging of the condition of an egg without breaking the shell. One is to apply the tip of tho tongue to the large end, which will be warm if the egg be fresh. Another is to hold the egg up to a good light or beforo a. lighted candle : if fairly clear, it is a sign of goodness; opacity is indicative of staleness, and a black spot proves