417 Game aXd poUltkV. used for stufling the bird. Haw potatoes, cut into dice, mixed with about a sixth their weight of onions, browned in butter, then mixed with the raw liver of the goose chopped and seasoned; this is described as a re- markably good stuffing. Boiled chest- nuts, mashed, and mixed with a little stock or cream, and a handful of cur- rants. Prunes, stewed a little, then stoned, and mixed with sliced apples, slightly spiced and sweetened, also find favour. At one time, in England, such a combination as the last-named, for such a purpose, would have been ridi- culed by many; but of late years prunes have come to the front in con- nection with meats and game, and there is no reason why a goose so stulfed should not prove very good eating. Pears, too, may be served in the same way as apples are; a sauce or puree being sent to table; or tho bird may be stuffed with a forcemeat, into which stewed pears enter. (See Goose Giblets with Peaks.) In many dishes popular in Germany too much spice is used to please English palates; but this can always be reduced to suit individual taste. Goose Giblets, to Stew.— Prepare one set of goose giblets in the same way as for a pie (see recipe). Cut them into small, convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with a sprig of marjoram, the same of thyme, two sprigs of parsley, a Spanish onion, stuck with three cloves, a tea- spoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful and a half of salt, a blade of mace, and a grain of cayenne. Rub the saucopan once with garlic, and add one pint and a half of stock No. 4 or 5. Simmer gently until all are tender, and as the pieces of meat become so, remove them until the rest are sufficiently cooked. Phe liver and pinions will be done first, and the gizzard last. \\ hen all the pieces of meat are taken out, thicken the gravy with a little roux or flour and butter,' heat the giblets, and serve as hot as possible. A dash of ketchup and a dessertspoonful of x lemon juice are an improvement. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours, according to the age of the goose. If old, give three hours. For a plainer stew, use stock No. 1 or 2 ; or water may be used. Goose Giblets with Fears.— Put the giblets in a pan on the fire, with a bit of pickled pork cut in dice, and cold water to cover them; when tho boiling point is reached, add salt, pepper, a pinch of ground doves, and cinnamon. Cook until nearly done, then add some good pears, peeled and quartered, with a pinch of ground all- spice, and some browning to mako them dark. Then finish the cooking, and dish the giblets with the pears on the top. Another way. — Cover the giblets with weak stock; add an onion and a root of parsley. Remove these when the giblets are done, and add a good tablespoonful of bread-crumbs to each pint of gravy. Stew separately some pears; beat them with a slice of butter, and add a teacupful of tho puree to the giblet gravy. Boil alto- gether for a few minutes, and serve hot. Goose Giblets with Mixed Vegetables.—Cook as above, and instead of pears, put in a tablespoonful each of celery, carrots, turnips, and onions, all in shreds or dice; cook until tender (the carrots should go in first), and thicken the gravy with browned flour; add a dash of claret, and garnish the dish with cut lemons and croutons. Parsley or sage may be put in if liked. Goose, Green.—This should not be stuffed, but trussed like a full- grown goose. Pepper and salt should be used to season the inside, and a couple of ounces of butter is an im- provement. It must be roasted care- fuliy for about forty or fifty minutes, and should be accompanied by a nice brown gravy, and gooseberry or tomato sauce. A puree of sorrel is liked by