UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 486 disadvantage—in some people’s estima- tion—of being old-fashioned. Equal parts of the chestnut puree and sausage meat can ho used, or a larger propor- tion of the latter, which is more usual. Curry Forcemeat.—In making this, the thing to remember is that the curry flavour should be pronounced; at the same time, it will be much more agreeable if herbs, and the usual ad- juncts to curried preparations generally, are included. As to the foundation, it may be bread, with a small propor- tion of suet, or clarified fat, or butter for those who prefer it; or it may be a good sausage meat or other forcemeat, to which curry powder may be added, or curry paste, which gives smoothness and a more agreeable flavour, the paste being mild or hot as required. To all these forcemeats a little chutney is an improvement; finely minced hot pickles serve the same purpose, viz., that of increasing the piquancy. Egg and Mushroom Force- meat.—Required: mushrooms, lemon, butter, cream, eggs, bread and season- ing as below. Cost, about 8d. to Is., according to the s ,ason. This is a good recipe; the force- meat is useful for many purposes. Take somo mushrooms, button ones arc to be preferred, as the colour should not bo at all dark. After washing, they should bo rinsed in lemon j uico and chopped, then cooked in lemon juice and butter, an ounce of the latter to half a pound of mush- rooms ; the lemon juice must bo according to taste ; from one to two teaspoonfuls will be enough as a rule. When quite soft put the mushrooms, &c., in a basin, and add two hard- boiled eggs, the yolks put through a sieve, and the whites in dice ; or all may bo in the latter form if more convenient. Then add two ounces of bread-crumbs and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Beat the whole well, and add salt, white pepper, and a suspicion of mace, with a raw egg to bind it. This is not a cheap forcemeat, comparatively speaking. If for any dish that is to be eaten cold, another ounce of butter is necessary. A small quantity of chopped ham is another useful addition. Just as detailed above, it will be found very nice for many maigre dishes. Note.—This is much better if tho mushrooms are sieved before the bread is put in ; they will go through very readily while warm. Fish Forcemeat.— Required: fish, bread, herbs, seasoning, butter, an onion, milk, and an egg. Cost varies with the kinds of fish used; about Is. on an average. Take any sort of shell-fish, or it may be mixed ; lobster with a few shrimps, or some crab, if nice, and the best parts be used. Cut it small, and add an equal bulk of bread-crumbs ; to half a pint of the mixture add a table- spoonful of thyme and parsley, three- fourths of the latter; a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a teaspoonfnl of scalded and chopped onion, two ounces of butter, and a beaten egg. Blend very thoroughly, and then put in a small quantity of milk. With this some white fish may be used to make up the quantity ; the shell-fish gives it a savoury character, and renders it useful for many purposes. It is very good for stuffing fresh haddock, or any similar fish, or can he used for fresh water fish. (See also Forcemeats under Lohster, Shiump, Tomato, and Whiting.) Forcemeat Balls for Turtle Soup.—These can bn used also for Mock Tuktle Soup. Required: broad, veal, butter, eggs, seasoning, and stock or milk as below. Cost, about 9d. Soak four ounces of bread-crumbs in veal stock or milk; wring them in a cloth, and pass through a sieve. Take four ounces of lean veal from the fillet: scrape this to a pulp, and sieve it. Then pound it with the bread, add an ounce of butter, about a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne and pepper, grated nutmeg to taste, a little parsley and powdered mixed herbs, then put in the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, that