f-istl. 103 about a dozen of them. Fry them on the skewer in plenty of hot fat, and when they aro nicely browned lift them on a hot dish covered with blotting-paper, and put them before the fire till the fat has drained from them. Fold a warm napkin; luy this on a hot dish, draw tho skewer from the sprats, put them on the dish, and garnish with parsley and lemon. Sprats may also bo fried tho same as smelts ; a frying-basket facilitates tho operation if a good supply have to be cooked. Sprats, Grilled.—Clean the sprats, dry them well, and draw them at the gills. Dip them lightly in flour, fasten them in rows on small skewers run through tho heads, and grill them on a closely-barred gridiron over a slow fire. When they are done upon one side, turn them on the other. Serve them on a very hot dish. They are generally served dry, but if liked a little lemon juice may be squeezed over them at the last moment. Time to broil the sprats, four or five minutes. Probable cost, Id. or 2d. per pound. Sturgeon.—Tho sturgeon is a large fish somewhat resembling tho shark in form. Its body is more or less covered with rows of bony spikes. In tho north of Kurope and in some of the states of North America it is o caught in abundance, but it is seldom met with in English rivers. It is said that those who have the good fortune to capture it are bound to send their prize to the reigning sovereign, as the sturgeon is regarded as a royal fish. Tho flesh of the sturgeon is agreeable and wholesome, and looks something liko veal. It was so highly esteemed in ancient days that it was crowned before being brought to table, and a band of music marched before it. Its roe is converted into caviare, a favourite Russian delicacy, and from its air- bladder fine isinglass is prepared. It is to be met with in tho London market, and is usually dressed regard- less of expense. The sterlet is tho smallest but most highly prized species of sturgeon. Its flesh is delicious, and its caviaro is reserved for tho Russian Court. The flesh of the sturgeon should bo partly white, with a few blue veins; the skin tender, and the grain even ; when the veins and gristles are brown and yellow, and tho skin dry and harsh, tho ilesh is not good ; it should cut firm, not crumble. Price very uncertain; may reach several shillings per pound. Sturgeon flesh is more like meat than any other fish is, often resembling veal. Sturgeon & la Russe.— Required: a nice piece of fresh sturgeon weighing about two pounds. Cleanse thoroughly, scale it, remove the spikes, and lay it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. An hour before it is wanted rub it well with vinegar, and let it lie with a little vinegar poured round it. Put it into a fish-kettlo with as much boiling water as will cevor it, and add two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an ounce of bay-salt. Let it boil gently till dono enough, tako it up, flour it well, put it beforo u brisk firo, and baste it with butter till it is well browned. Put it on a dish, and pour over it, or serve soparafely in a tureen, a sauce prepared as follows Bono and skin two anchovies, and put them into a saucepan with a glass of whito wino, a button onion, an inch of lemon