398 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and thyme, and a sage leaf. Lay the duck in, give twenty to thirty minutes’ cooking, basting and turning often. Then dish the duck, and glaze it well. Thicken the gravy with roux, and flavour it with a glass of port; put the chestnuts round the duck, and strain the gravy into a hot boat. Claret may be used in place of port. Be sure to make the surface crisp, but take care not to dry the breast by exposure to fierce heat, either in the oven, or before the fire. It is better to use a sala- mander, or a substitute, otherwise colour is often gained at the expense of the best part of the bird. A fruit salad goes well with this (see previous recipe); or serve a dish of oranges with it, a salad or compote (see recipes). Ducklings.—These can be cooked and served like ducks ; when stuffed the stuffing should be mild. Any of tho above-named sauces may go to table with them. Green peas, w’hole, or in a puree are excellent with them, so are other green vegetables. A good puree of green haricots (see recipes) is nice for a change; if the ducks are stuffed, the puree should be flavoured with sage, or any other herb used in the stuffing. A puree of carrots is another good accompaniment, or braised carrots may be substituted. Potatoes dressed nicely, as for game, likewise go well with ducks, and asparagus is a dainty adjunct. , Ducks’ Divers, Pat4 of.—This is made in Franco and elsewhere, and known as pate de foie do canard. It is used much in tho same way as tho pate de foie gras (goose liver pate). It is rather darker in colour, and the fat that surrounds it will be. found rich, and may be used in potted meats of game, &c., instead of some of the but- ter ; or it can take the placo of cream in making purees of some kinds. Tho liver may bo sliced, and served alone, or placed on a dish alternately with cold duck (in slices), and garnished with cress, parsley, &c. To various little dishes made from tho remnants of game and poultry, some of the pate may be added; a small quantity imparts great richness. Ducks, Sauces for.—In ad- dition to those named in the foregoing recipes, may be noted others, as Italian. Madeira, and rich tomato. A very good one (that can also be served with wild duck) is obtained by adding to a tureen of brown gravy a tablespoonful or so of Seville orange jelly. This resembles good orange marmalade in flavour, but is clear, like apple jelly. Many would prefer this to the gravy made from the juice of the Seville orange in tho usual way. When this is served, an orange salad should go to table with the ducks ; or an orange compote is equally suitable. Fieldfares, Roasted.—Truss and cook like a partridge, arid serve in the same way. Time, from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes. They should be well done, but not over-done. These birds are of the thrush tribe; they pay an annual visit to these islands, coming from the northern parts of Europe. They are seldom to be bought. From November to Feb- ruary is the time when they afford some sport for youthful sportsmen. They are very good in pies and other dishes in which birds of two or three kinds are used. Fowl.—It may be serviceable to point out tho features which should be looked for when a fowl is purchased for cooking purposes, for from the fact that a fowl may be got at any time of (ho year, and that its flesh is gener- ally agreeable to thehealthyand invalid alike, no class of animal food would be more missed, and none is more useful. The weight should be great in pro- portion to size, but an over-fatted fowl is not desirable. The skin should be soft and silky, the breast full and plump. Tho legs of a hen should be smooth, and the spurs of a cock should bo short, and the buttons loose. For though a scraped spur muy sometimes decoivo the purchaser, no amount of