528 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Another way.—Use a mixture of apple sauce and cooked rico next the potato, the pork being placed between. Onion, curry, or chutney sauce, just a little to moisten the meat, may be added for variety. The crepinetto3 may be coated with crushed vermicelli after brushing with milk, then fried; but there is less fear of breaking them when egg i3 used. Pork, A Savoury Mince of. — Required : a pound and a half of roasted meat, nearly a pound of onions, a tablespoonful each of brown vinegar and tarragon vinegar, seasoning and sauce us below. Cost, about Is. Gd. Peel and chop the onions, fry them a good brown, drain the fat from them, and add tho vinegar, a gill of nice gravy from the joint, a pinch of cayenne, a saltspoonful of chopped tarragon, and twice as much chopped sago, with a little French mustard. Cover, and let this reduce to half the quantity. Have the meat ready cut up ; it should be almost free from fat. Put about half a pint of plain stock, thickened with flour, to the onions, &c., and boil gently until tho contents of the pan are cooked; then stir the moat in, season to taste, and leave for a short time for tho moat to become well flavoured. Turn out into the centre of a Potato Bokdeb, or use some other vegetable; a lentil or haricot pur6e, or some peas puree is much liked in many cases, although the latter is more generally sent to table with boiled pork. Pork may be hashed in the same way, and any stuffing from the joint should be served with it; or some can be made and cooked purposely-, as it makes a more 6avoury dish. Rissoles. — See under Meat (page 522). See also Index. Savoury Supper Rolls.—Re- quired : a pound of potatoes, weighed after cooking and peeling, half a pound of cooked moat, two eggs, a teaspoon- ful of chopped parsley, a little thyme, cayenne, salt, popper, and grated lemon peel, and some raspings. Cost, about 10d. The potatoes must be baked in their skins, mashed whilo hot, and seasoned, then mixed with the meat chopped small. Whatever tho meat used, a little ham or bacon improves it. The whole must then be put in a sauce- pan with the yolks of the eggs, and beaten over the fire, then taken off, and set by to cool. Just a minute’s heating will suffice. When firm, take up portions of tho mixture with a tablespoon, and form them into rolls on a floured board; brush them over with beaten white of egg, and lay them on a slightly-greased baking- sheet, then bake brown in a quick oven, and dredge with raspings before serving. Tho rolls may bo flavoured with a tcaspoonful of grated cheese instead of parsley, and white sauce, flavoured similarly, served with them. Fish may- be used up instead of meat, and a fish sauce served with the rolls. If not quite brown enough by tho time they- are sufficiently cooked, make an iron skewer hot, and mark them lightly across in a slanting direction. For a cheap dish, omit the eggs. Scotch Eggs.—-Required : half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, six ounces of cold meat, salt, pepper, store sauce, herbs, flour, stock, butter, crumbs, and a raw egg. Cost, about Is. 2d. This is a favourite way of utilising scraps, and there are many varieties of the dish. Put the chopped meat in a basin (the greater the variety of sorts the better, but a little ham or bacon is always desirable), and season well. Blend an ounce of flour with a gill of any plain stock, boil up, add half an ounce of butter, then mix with the meat, stir and leave to cool. Then brush the hard eggs over with warm butter, dredge with flour, and press the mince on evenly, smoothing with a wet palette-knife. Coat with the raw egg and some crumbs, or crushed ver- micelli, and fry- brown. Serve with or without gravy. Garnish with salad,