394 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. is to betray its condition; then the wings should come off at starting. With each helping some stuffing should be served, the skin being first cut across between the logs, that it may be taken out with a spoon. Duck, Boiled.—“ A duck boiled is a duck spoiled,” is an old proverb, but had the originator lived in the north of Wales it never would have been uttered. There they boil ducks often and well, but they salt them first, and servo them smothered with onion sauce. Time to simmer gently, thirty to forty minutes. Duck, Boned and Stuffed.— Required : a duck, stuffing, a chestnut puree, and some wine. Cost, from 4s. to 5s., according to season. This must be boned carefully, or the skin will break. The breast only may be boned if preferred. The stuffing may bo one of the usual kinds given for duck, or it can be composed of veal sausage meat, with a fourth its weight of suet, the same of bread-crumbs, and well fla- voured with mixed herbs and chives, then made into a moist paste with cream and the yolk of a raw egg. It should then be braised, or very nicely roasted. Put the bones on with a quart of water, the same herbs used in the stuffing, some peppercorns, and a bit of lean ham, and stew down to half a pint. When the duck is done, put round it a rich puree of chestnuts, moistened with some of the gravy ; the rest is to bo thickened, and flavoured with half a glass of sherry, and served in a tureen. Duck, Braised, witli Green Peas.—Required : a duck, peas* onions, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 3s. fid. to 4s. Prepare and cook as for turnips (see the following recipe), using green peas instead of the small slices of turnips. Fry two onions in hutter till they are of a pale brown, and boil thorn to a thick sauce, with some of the gravy from the duck. Season with salt and pepper, and servo with the peas laid under the duck, and the gravy over. Time, one hour for duck; peas, half an hour. Use one quart of peas. Duck, Braised, with Tur- nips.—Required : a duck, a few slices of bacon, seasoning, vegetables, wine, butter, &c., as below. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. fid. Prepare a duck as if for roasting. Line a small pan just large enough for the duck, with slices of bacon. Strew over the bottom a little parsley, chives, thyme, and lemon peel. Lay in the duck, and add a carrot cut into strips, an cnion stuck with three cloves, some pepper and stock, with a glass of white wine. Baste frequently, and simmer an hour or till done. Fry some slices of turnip in butter to a light brown, drain, and add them to the stewpan, after removing the duck, which should be kept hot. When the turnips are tender remove them and strain tho gravy, thickening with a little roux or browned flour. Put the duck on a dish, with the hot gravy over, and garnish with the turnips. Duck, with Burgundy.—Roast a nice duck as usual, but do not 6tuff it. When it comes to table, cut it across in several places, breast, legs, and wings, and sprinkle a pinch of salt, white pepper, grated lemon peel, and cayenne into tho furrows. Havo ready a gill of good Burgundy, heated to prevent chilling the duck, and pour it slowly over the bird. Cover for one minute after basting a few times with the wine and gravy, then serve. Those to whom this dish is novel will find it worth trying. The gravy should be good. Stock Ko. lfi or 17 may be used for the-foundation.; see ..Gravy, for Ducks; and add the flavouring ingredients therein mentioned ; thicken, with brown roux, and when boiled up as thick as good cream, add half a gill of Burgundy to a pint of gravy. Almost needless to add, the duck must come to table piping hot, and the