609 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. before cooking, then tie the bundles with tape, and put them in plenty of boiling water, salted slightly; cook uncovered gently; when done, take up with a slice and drain on a sieve; then dish on toast, the green part inside, and the stalks outwards. The toast was formerly always dipped in the asparagus water, and sometimes buttered; but now it is as often left dry. As to sauce, if two dishes of asparagus go to table, one may be coated with it—White Sauce, or Melted Butter, or any of the richer varieties as Dutch—but if one dish only, it is better to serve the sauce in a boat, as some persons dislike it ex- tremely. Time, about twenty minutes, more or less, according to size and quality. Brown looking ends and drooping heads are signs of staleness; the fresher it is the quicker it will boil. As a further precaution against breaking, it is a good plan to tie the asparagus in muslin; or the heads to h;ilf the depth of the stalk may be thus protected, the stalk itself will not hurt, the green part easily breaks. Asparagus, Boiled, Ameri- can.—Cover the points with coarse muslin, bind the bundles in a couple of places with wide tape; then cook in boiling water with salt and a morsel of butter. When done pile on toast, and put bits of cold butter between the stalks, just as it goes to table. This i3 a very nice way of serving. Asparagus, Boiled, French. —Boil until done, but let a slight crispness remain, and whatever the kind of white sauce used, let the asparagus liquor be used in making it; send it to table separately, and serve the asparagus neatly in a hot folded napkin, in preference to dishing it on toast. Lemon juice always improves the sauce. For other methods, see next chapter. Asparagus, Steamed.—Weare indebted to Sir Henry Thompson for this recipe. He says : “ A hint about boiling asparagus is worthy of mention, since the proper method is rarely followed by English cooks. Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the giant variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled, standing heads upward in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water—the steam sufficing to cook them—as they form the tender- est part of the plant; while the hard stalky part is rendered soft and succu- lent by tho longer boiling which this plan permits. Instead of the orthodox twenty minutes allotted to average asparagus, lying horizontally in the English manner, which half cooks the stalk and over-cooks the head, diminishing its flavour and consistence, a period of thirty or forty minutes on the plan recommended, will rendci fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be properly cooked by the steam alone. One reason why it is not uncommon to hear the best produce of the fields of Argenteuil insufficiently appreciated here, and our own asparagus preferred, is that the former is rarely sufficiently cooked at English tables.” So far as the cooking alone goes, this mode leaves nothing to be desired; but the removal from the pan is not quite so easy as when cooked in the orthodox way, in a flattish stewpan. Here one cannot take hold of the bundle or bundles, and the vegetable slice is not practicable, because of the depth of the pan. The only thing is to slide the asparagus out very tenderly, on to an inverted siove, with a cloth laid in it. By steadying the heads with the left hand, covered by a cloth, while the saucepan is withdrawn— supposing the right degree of cooking has not been exceeded—there will bo little fear of breaking it. Asparagus, Tinned.—This is one ot the best of the tinned vege- tables : some is imported from America. This is large generally, and moderate in price, from Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per tin, enough for a good dish. The French asparagus is smaller and rather T