317 VEAL. hot fat, for about a quarter of an hour. Serve as in the preceding recipo. Thyme or mixed herbs can be added to the bread-crumbs. Fillet, Boiled.—Required : veal, forcemeat, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, from 9d. to Is. per pound. Take a small and white fillet of veal for this purpose. Remove the bone, till its space with good veal forcemeat, tie buttered muslin over, and bind the veal securely with tape. Rut it in a stew-pan, and pour over it as much weak stock, milk and water, or water only, as will barely cover it. Let it simmer very gently indeed until it is done enough. Care- fully remove the scum as it rises. When done enough, take it up, put it on a hot dish, garnish with lemon, and send oyster, celery, bechamel, or white sauce to table with it; or a sauce made by thickening a little of the stock in wh ich it was boiled with white roux, seasoning with salt, pepper, and mace, and flavouring with lemon juice. A boiled tongue should accompany this dish, which if Served alone is in danger of being considered insipid. Time to simmer a fiUet of veal weighing six pounds, three hours. The veal can be rubbed with lemon juice, and tied in a thin cloth. It must be kept covered with the liquid, which should be boiling when added. The white part of a small onion, and a few inner stalks of celery, together with a button mushroom or two, will add to the flavour of the veal. Fillet, Carving of.—A sharp knife is required; it should be thin, and drawn lightly across the meat, without too much pressure. It should follow tho line a, b, c, d, and when once the meat has become flat at the top, it can bo kept even by exercising a little care. A portion of stuffing should be given with each help, and as some usually falls into the dish at stalling this should be kept in reserve for the time when there is less; that is, when the lower part of the joint is reached. The outside brown slice is by many considered tho best, and the honoured guest should be asked if he prefers it. Fillet of veal has a ten- dency to crumble, therefore an ordinary knife, especially if blunt, will not answer in carving it. Fillet, Roasted. — Have the fillet cut to the size required. Re- move the bone, and fill the cavity with good veal forcemeat. Cut the flap slightly, and lay forcemeat under it. Draw the flap round, skewer the veal, bind it firmly into a round shape, skewer the skin which has been sent with the veal over the forcemeat and the fat, flour the fillet, and put it down near to the fire, then draw it gradually away until done enough, and baste frequently. Let the outside be well browned, though it must not be burnt. Remove the skin, skewers, and tape, and put the veal on a hot dish. Pour melted butter, coloured with browning or some good veal gravy, round it, and garnish with sliced lemon. A pig’s cheek, a boiled tongue, or small pieces of bacon or ham should be served with roast veal. It is always well to prepare plenty of stuffing, so that it may be used to flavour a mince if the remains of the veal are served in that form. As it is a little difficult to keep the stuffing in tho veal when it is roasted before the fire, many cooks prefer to bake it in a moderate oven. When this plan is adopted tho veal must be basted frequently. The veal should be roasted slowly or tho outside will be burnt before tho meat is done through, and underdone voal is most unwholo- some. Time, according to tho thickness of tho meat and the weather. If cold, it