87 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. herbs ; brown these well, add the stock, and boil up. Cook for a while, then strain; put the gravy in a pan, and add a little thickening of corn-flour, about a level tablespoonful; boil for a few minutes, then season to taste, and add a little ketchup or store sauce, or any kind of flavoured vinegar. For beef, browned flour can be used, or roux is better still. Gravy, Superior, for Hashes, &c.—Cse stock No. 4, and after cooking the vegetables in it as above, strain, and add enough roux to make it as thick as good cream, with a little colouring and sauce or ketchup. A spoonful of tomato pulp or conserve is an improvement to gravies of this sort, and tomato vinegar is useful; it is a good colour, and of excellent flavour ; herbal or spiced vinegar in moderation also give an appetising “ twang.” If for beef, the gravy should be darker than for mutton. Gravy, Plain, for Joints.— Pour the fat from the tin carefully; rinse out the tin with boiling water, or stock* from bones, scraping all the time with a spoon, until every' particle of the concentrated gravy has been removed; each little brown speck represents the essence of the meat. Continue to stir until dissolved and the liquid becomes uniform in colour ; then put it in a small saucepan, with a little salt, re-heat it, but it need not quite boil, and pour it through a pointed strainer, round, but not over the meat, reserving the greater portion for the tureen, which should be as hot as possible. If properly made, this will be dark enough for most people, but if a deeper colour is desired, it may he imparted by granular browning salt; it gives no unpleasant flavour, but if used, no • other salt need bo added. If a slightly thickened gravy is liked, dredge a morsel of flour on the tin, and brown it in the oven, or in front of the fire before the water is A broth from a hone is here referred to Bot stock-pot liquor. added, then just boil up; browned flour is preferable to raw flour. For a joint stuffed with sage and onions, boil the skin of a bit of onion in the gravy': it will colour and flavour it. Thus gravy' is suitable for beef, pork, and mutton; veal gravy is differently made, being generally' thickened and flavoured. (See below.) Gravy for Roast Pheasant. —Some good stock is required, as No. 16. To a pint add a bit of glazd the size of a nut, a few drops of lemon- juice, a glass of white wine, and a tablespoonful or more of Fumet of GAME(q.v.). Boil up, and serve. For a plainer gravy', use stock No. 4 or 5 ; season it, and thicken with arrowroot or brown roux. To all gravies for game, the bones, however small in quantity, of any' cooked game or poultry should be added to the stock, to give a fresh gamy flavour. Make gravy for Partridges in the same way. Gravy for Sucking Pig.—A gravy' made byr pouring some stock in the pan, and boiling it up with that from the pig, is generally liked; a deli- cately flavoured stock, preferably from veal, should be used. Various kinds of sauce are served with sucking pig (q.v.). A little lemon-juice should be put in the gravy to counteract the richness of the dish. Gravy for Roast Pork.— Make a gravy' in the dripping-pan with bone stock, or stock No. 1 or 2. If liked thickened, put a little flour in the tin first, and let it brown. Boil up, add salt and a pinch of cayenne, and strain it round the meat. Lemon- juice, tomato vinegar, chutney, or curry-sauce, maybe put in pork gravy ; a small quantity only of either kind will give the required piquancy, and render it more digestible. Gravy for Roast Rabbit.— After pouring away the fat, put in tho tin a pint or so of stock (No. 4 or 5), with a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and salt arid pepper lo taste; add a gill or thereabouts of