292 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Potato Pasty.—This is a very economical dish. To make it properly, a pasty-pan must be procured which has a well-fitting; perforated plate, and a valve-pipe to screw on. This can be had of almost any ironmonger, and will cost from 3s. to 5s. The meat, seasoning, and gravy are put into the lower part. The plate is then laid on the meat, the valve-pipe screwed on, and mashed potatoes spread equally on the top. The pasty should be baked in a moderate oven and sent to table in the same tin in which it is baked, which should have a neatly-folded napkin pinned round it. The cover should not bo removed until the meat is to be served, and an empty dish should bo placed in readiness for it. If properly baked, the potatoes will be nicely browned, and will be flavoured like the meat. The contents of this pasty may be varied indefinitely. Mut- ton or veal cutlets, pork chops, chickens or rabbits cut into neat joints, or beef cut up as for stewing, will all be found excellent. The meat should be neatly trimmed, and nicely seasoned, and a Fig. 71. -Potato Pastv Pan. small quantity of gravy poured over it. The mashed potatoes should form a crust at least three inches thick. Two pounds of meat and three pounds of potatoes will make a moderate sized pasty. Cost, from 2s. to 3s. Care should be taken that the gravy boils up before the potatoes are laid on the top, and it should not be thickened much, or it may burn, as it cannot be stirred while coolring, and a moderate heat only is required. If preferred, it can be steamed until half done, thon put in the oven to finish and brown the top. A little beaten egg "brushed over the potatoes will ensure their browning, though this is not necessary. Sea Stew.—Required : a pound of buttock steak, half a pint of com- mon stock, a large onion, a pound of potatoes, some dumplings, and season- ing as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Reel and slice the onion, brown it in a bit of hot dripping; cut the meat up in squares, brown it also; sprinkle with flour, pour in the stock and boil up, then skim well. Make the dump- lings by either of the recipes for suet crusts, either plain or savoury ; a dozen little ones are best. While the meat is cooking, parboil the potatoes, thon slice them, and add to the meat; stew until done, about two hours altogether. The dumplings should be steamed separately, and put round a hot dish, with the meat, &c., in the centre. (See also Sea Pie.) Any other kind of meat, or a mix- ture can be used for this; or some cooked beef, if underdone, can be put in to heat through. Chopped parsley improves it. Stew for Cheap Dinners.— Required: three pounds of cuttings and scrapings of bones, such as may often be had for fourpence per pound, half a pound of milt, half a pound each of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, n tablespoonful each of brown sugar, salt, and chopped parsley, four ouncos each of nice beef dripping, maize meal, barley meal, and broken rice, half a gill of vinegar, and a good teaspoonful of black peppercorns. Cost, about Is. lOd. Prepare and slice the vegetables. Brown the meat in the hot dripping, add the vinegar and two-thirds of the water, and bring to the boil. Put in the carrots, onions, and celery, the peppercorns, and a spoonful of brown- ing, and boil for an hour; then put in the rice; boil, or rather simmer, for another hour; add the potatoes, turnips, and the meal mixed with the rest of the water, and give another hour oi