UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 10 ever it may be, on a clean cloth or sheet of kitchen paper near the fire for a few seconds, turning them a few times; but as greasiness is usually due to under-heated fat, it may be prevented, or reduced to a minimum. The foregoing remarks will enable anyone to understand the leading prin- ciples of frying; and for detailed re- cipes for the treatment of the various kinds of food reference must be made to their respective headings. Frying, Dry. —For this, the or- dinary shallow frying-pan is used, and a small quantity of fat only is re- quired ; and the inexperienced cook would do well to prepare two dishes, one by each of the two frying pro- cesses, and prove by the practical ex- periment how utterly futile must be any attempt to make one do duty for the other, particularly so far as using the shallow pan in place of the deep one is concerned. The frying-pan, in spite of the fact that a recent writer ex- pressed the wish that every one cost a guinea (because of its universal abuse, we imagine), is a very handy article when properly used. Pancakes, eggs, sausages, liver and bacon, are among the many edibles that can be cooked in it; and at a pinch, chops and steaks. We say at a pinch advisedly, for several reasons. First, fried meats by this method are not usually a success, and great care is needed to avoid toughness and loss of the juices, and we regard it as nothing short of bar- barism to cook really good meat in a frying-pan* when other methods are practicable. But supposing a steak or chop td be required in a hurry, or a fiying-panto be the only handy utensil, much may be done by the application of a little simple science. First, take the common mode of procedure. What must happen if a cold chop, a cold pan, and a little dab of cold fat, are put over a fire, probably smoky as well as low, and allowed to become gradually heated together? Briefly, one of tho most * W'e are not here referring to cutlets, &c., cooked in a saute-pan. indigestible and horrible messes it is possible to produce. The juices of tho meat will run out, the liquid fat will bo absorbed, while as to flavour—this can be left to tho imagination. But the right way is very simple. A clean pan and a clear fire for a start; hot fat, however small tho quantity ; a due closing of the pores on both sides, with more gradual cooking afterwards; in short, the aim should be to imitate as far as possible a grilled or broiled chop. Glazing.—To glaze is to give a gloss or varnish to meat, game, or poultry, both hot and cold, by which a vast improvement is made in the appearance of the dish. As, how- ever, the glrtzing process, or rather the kind and strength of tho glaze, varies according to tho nature of the dish, we will first describe glaze itself before detailing tho ways of varying and using it. Ordinary “ glaze,” then, is a strong stock, which should be clear and free from salt, boiled down to a thick, syrupy mass, rather like treacle, which eventually sets into a substance not unlike glue. In old cookery books recipes for glaze direct that enormous quantities of beef and veal be boiled down for the stock, which no doubt was very good, but which would be simply ruinous in the present day. Anything of a gelatinous nature will make stock for glaze; amongst the most suitable are knuckles of veal, legs and shins of beef, shanks of mutton, and poultry trimmings. In hotels or large houses, where there is a good supply of stock from the materials above described—more, in fact, than is wanted for other purposes—it “ pays ” perhaps to make glaze. But it does not pay in private houses, for setting aside the fact that a pint of strong stock will only produce about an ounce of glaze (even supposing that nearly a pound of meat has been used for it), it is very troublesome; indeed, glaze is one of those things that aro much better when made on a large scale than