326 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. vegetable flavour by any addition other than salt and pepper. If liked, a shredded lettuce or a young cabbage may be boiled separately, and put with the rest; or some sprigs of cress can be put in. Time, about twenty minutes for the meat altogether. Cost, varying with the vegetables. Note. — The stock from meat or poultry boiled answers as well as a stronger for the cooking of the vege- tables. Or, if the chops are got ready early in the day, the cuttings of the bones may be boiled down for the purpose. Cutlets, Breaded, with Bacon.—Kequired : chops, bacon, &c. as below. Cost, about 2s. Prepare a pound and a half of chops or cutlets by brushing them over with warm but- ter, then rolling them in bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper, and a pinch of sage or sweet herbs in powder ; press the crumbs on firmly, then grill or broil the cutlets until done. Cut half a pound of bacon in two-inch lengths, fry them, and serve them on bits of fried bread round the cutlets. Another way.—Put a long crouton of fried bread in the middle of a hot dish; roll some slices of bacon up, and cook them on a skewer; withdraw the skewer, and loave the bacon in a row on the bread. Put a ring of mashed potatoes next, then rest the cutlets round the potatoes. Another way.—Cover the bread, as in the preceding recipe, with white or brown onion sauce, before the bacon is put on; then placo the cutlets round, and put a little more sauce outside them. Serve some potatoes in another dish : savoury mashed, or potato pyra- mid (for which see Vegetables), arc very suitable. Cutlets cooked in this way will agree with some better than when eggs are used as well as bread. They are much nicer if brushed over with a little extract of meat, dissolved in stock, or some thin glaze, just beforo serving. They want slow cooking, or the crumbs may burn. Cutlets, Preparation of. (See Cutlets, Loin; Cutlets, Neck; and Cutlets, Shoulder; in Made Dishes.) Cutlets, with Ham and Carrots.—Kequired : meat, vege- tables, ham, &c., as below. (See recipe for a plain puree of carrots in Vegetables.) Prepare about a pint, and broil or fry half a pound of ham ; then cut it in narrow strips. Cook about five or six cutlets in a saute pan with a little warm butter. (See recipes under Entrees and Made Dishes.) They should be a pale brown. With the puree mix a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, put it on a dish, place the cutlets round, and put the strips of ham, some on the puree, and some about the dish, with a sprig of fresh watercress in between. This is but a plain dish, so far as cost goes, hut it looks nice, and is very tasty. Cost, about 3s. 6d. In using a small number of cutlets, the dish looks better if they are placed lengthwise, slightly overlapping. For a largo number, they should overlap in an almost upright direction, very slightly slanted, and have a frill on each bone. A turnip puree can bo used as above, or some green peas, whole, or in a puree. Cutlets, with Ham and Eggs. —Cook the cutlets in the above way, and have as many small slices of 1mm as there are cutlets. Allow, also, one egg to each. Broil or fry tho ham; poach or fry the eggs. Dish Ihem by putting a cutlet on a piece of ham, an egg on the top'of the cutlet. Form a ring round some cooked spinach and servo with plain gravy or sauce. Cost, for a dish of seven, about 3s. Od. to 4s. Cutlets, with Rice Sauce.— Prepare tho cutlets by crumbing and cooking them as directed for Cutlets, Breaded, with Bacon, or they can ho fried in hot dripping, turning them every minute. They will take from ten to fifteen minutes, according to thick- ness. Servo tho cutlets in a ring,