UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 294 An ox is usually cut. up and dressed as follows :— Rump.—The silver side is salted aud boiled; the middle part cut into steaks ; the chump cud is roasted or braised. Sirloin.—Prime roasting part; the steaks cut from the fillet (or undercut) are very tender, and are preferred by many to rump steaks, but the latter are more fully flavoured. Buttock, or Round.—This is cut into steaks, or may be boiled or stewed; the upper side is sometimes roasted, but should bo well hung, or will not be tender. Mouse Round.—This may be. boiled or stewed. Flank.—This, whether thick or thin, is excellent when boiled, especially if rolled and pressed. Veiny Piece.—This is cut into steaks, but thoy are of inferior quality, and are best stowed, or used for pies aud puddings. Aitchbone.—Usually salted and boiled, or may be stewed or roasted. Leg.—Stewed or used for soups and stocks. The top part, cut thickly, is very good braised. Shin.—This has the same uses as the leg. Shoulder- or Leg-of-Mutton Piece. —This can be boiled, braised, or stewed; it makes good gravy. Neck and Clod.—These parts are mostly used for gravies, soups, &c., or may be rolled and boiled. Ribs.—The fore ribs are the prime part, aud should be roasted; the middle ribs aro also roasted; from the chuck ribs second quality steaks are cut. Brisket.— Tliis can be stewed or cooked like the Hank. Cheeks.—Very good stews and soups aro to be had from these, or they may lie made into brawn. Tail.—Excellent when stewed and makes very good soup. Tongue.—Generally salted and boiled, or may be braised or stewed while fresh, or parboiled and roasted. Heels.—Theso make good stock, or may be boiled or stewed. Liver.—Often fried ; may be baked or stewed; the latter is best. Ox. a Ilunip. u Mouse Buttock, or Round, c Leg, or Hock, i) Buttock, or Round. e Aitchbone, or Top. f Sirloin. 0 Fore Ribs. u Middle Ribs. 1 Chuck Ribs. j Neck, Clod, or Sticking Piece. k Shin. l Shoulder- or Leg-of-Mutton Piece. m Brisket. n Thin Flank, o Thick Flank, p Veiny Piece.