572 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. very cheap and substantial. In tying the cloth over the mould, leave room for swelling. Vegetarian Kedgeree.—Re- quired : half a pound of boiled split peas, half as much cooked rice, a little stock or milk, a seasoning of salt, pepper, ginger, and curry, half a pound of fried onions, and four hard-boiled eggs. Cost, about 8d. Mix the rice and peas, moisten with the milk or stock, season, and pile on a dish, and garnish with the -eggs and onions. Vermicelli.—This is a preparation of wheaten flour similar to macaroni, but very much thinner; it is in the form of long threads, and derives its name from its worm-like appearance. It is of Italian origin, and may be used either for sweet or savoury dishes, in the same way as macaroni. When required for clear soups, it should first be boiled for a minute or two in water, or it would cloud the soup ; it must then be added as soon as strained, us if left to cool it forms lumps, and cannot bo afterwards separated. This pre- caution must be observed whenever parboiling is necessary, let the liquid to which it is to be added be what it may. This is one of the most digestible of the farinaceous foods ; and is of great value in pieparing dishes for invalids. Cost, about 5d. to 7d or 8d. per pound. (■See recipes under Macaroni ; see also Index.) Vermicelli au 1 ait.—This is a simple but very nice dish; it may be served in place of porridge for break- fast, or instead of pudding for dinner ; and while good in itself, it is nicer with stewed fruit, or a sauce of any kind (see Sweet Sauces) . Spice can be added at discretion, and honey may be substituted for sugar. Blanch five ounces of vermicelli as above directed; drop it lightly into a quart of milk that is just on the point of boiling; stir until all is added, then simmer for about twenty-five minutes, a trifle more or less according to its quality, and serve in a hot dish. Use a double saucepnn if possible. Cost, about 6d. Wheat.—This is the cereal that is consumed in the largest quantities. It has been said that where wheat will grow, there it is grown; and that where people can get it, they will have it. The universal preference for wheat is attributed to the comparative ease with which it is separated from the husk, the large yield of flour from a given quantity of good wheat, and the fact of its containing all the elements necessary for the sustenance of man. The product of wheat is more abundant in countries that have a higher temper- ature than our own; it is cultivated here with difficulty. The origin of wheat is unknown. The terms red and white refer to the colour of the grain. By soft wheat, is meant the floury, tender sorts; by hard wheat, the firm horny kinds are indicated. The feeding value of the latter is much higher than the former; in the hardest sorts of all, used for Italian pastes, the nitrogenous matter is double the amount found in the softest specimens. In such, the starch is less in proportion; therefore, each has its special uses. It is estimated that there are over a hundred—some say nearer two hundred—varieties of wheat, though, in many cases, the difference is but trifling. The products of wheat in the shape of macaroni and allied substances may be dismissed here, being treated under their several headings. "We will, there- fore, confine ourselves to the con- sideration of wheat in the whole and crushed condition; and will try to simplify matters for the inexperienced, whoare sometimes, and not unnaturally, bewildered by the number of names that are bestowed upon the variou3 patent and other preparations of wheat. First, the whole grain; this has but few uses in the kitchen; we use the term whole, though, in most cases, the extreme outer coat of bran is removed. In some localities, the name of groats or grits is given to whole wheat, though strictly, we believe, such terms