PULSE 570 may be wanted in white stock to cover them, No. 9 for a rich dish, or any plainer variety for a cheaper one. The beans must be first washed and soaked (see page 575). Add a slice or two of onion, turnip, and a stalk of celery ; cover with a buttered paper, and cook until no liquid remains. Sieve the beans, and put back in the saucepan, with an ounce of butter and a table- spoonful of chopped parsley to each pint; add salt, stir, and sharpen up with lemon juice or flavoured vinegar, after taking from the fire, and add a dash of green colouring. For a cheaper dish, the butter may be reduced; for a better one. add a little cream also. Cost, from 5d. to fid. per pint inclusive. Note.—All green purges should be more delicately seasoned than red and brown ones. When for separate dishes, sauce served in a tureen should go to table; it is a great improvement; as a guide to this, so far as kind and rich- ness go, the stock used for the beans will best serve; if that is rich, the sauce may be any of the good white sorts, or Parsley, or any other; and for the plainer purees, the cheaper sauces detailed in our recipes furnish a good choice. Beans, Haricot, Red Puree of. — Required: stock No. 4 or 5, vegetables and herbs to flavour, wine, jelly, garnish, &c., as helow. Cost, about 6d. to 8cL per pint inclusive. Cook the beans in" the stock very slowly, with the vegetables and herbs, a few peppercorns, and a clove or two. Add a little claret or port near the end, with a morsel of any fruit jelly; the stock should be absorbed when the time comes for sieving the puree. Re-heat and season, and dish in a pyramid. It may be garnished with croutons or dredged with fried crumbs. A little thin brown sauce may be poured over before garnishing. This can be recommended both on account of flavour and nutrition; it may be served with game, well-hung mutton, or braised beef, fcc. Beaus, Haricot, with Succo- tash.— Required : beans, succotash, parsley sauce, and white sauce. Cost, about Is. 4d., exclusive of ham or bacon. Boil half a poimd of haricots, and dish them. Pour a gill of Parsley Sauce over. Put round them a tin of succotash (see Vegetables), heated, and mixed with a gill of any nice white sauce. The dish can be served as it is for a vegetable, or some bacon or ham will complete it for separate service. Canned com (see Vegetables) can be used in the same way. Lentils, Boiled.—Prepare the lentils as directed on page 575 ; drain, and put them in a saucepan, with an ounce of fat and a pinch of sugar for each pound. Cover with cold water or any vegetable stock ; bring to the boil, and skim well; add a bunch of herbs and a pinch of ground nutmeg, 01- other spice, and cook until done, putting in a little water now and then. Near the end, boil fast with the lid off, that the liquor may be nearly dried up, add salt to taste, and a sprinkling of black pepper. Time, according to kind and quality. Whole Egyptian may take three hours or more; split ones will probably be done in two-thirds the time. Cost, from 2d. to 4d. per pound. To make the above more piquant, a little vinegar, ketchup, or store sauce may be added; the dish, for some, is further improved by the addition of a few onions, chopped and fried; or they may be boiled with the lentils; or any cold vegetables that may happen to be available can be put in, in time to get hot through. Cost, about 2d. per pound. Lentils, Curried, — Required : half a pound of brown split lentils, a teaspoonful each of curry paste and chutney, half a lemon, an apple, a tomato, an onion, a pinch of powdered bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, an ounce of dripping, and a dessertspoonful of rice- flour. Cost, about 6d. without rice. Heat the fat, chop and brown the onion in it; skin the tomato, cut it in dice ; slice tho apple, and add both to the onion, with the herbs and curry