UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 46 heart - shaped pieces of bread, fry them a light brown, and put on each a little pile of cooked vege- tables prepared as for Julienne Sour. Boil an egg hard, and sprinkle a little of the sieved yolk over each, and then a pinch of the white of the egg, also sieved. The soup should be coloured with a little vegetable green colouring. Game Soup (Economical).—Sup- posing the remains of a pheasant, brace of partridges, or grouse, to he in the larder, break up the bones, and cover them with cold stock (No. 4 or 5), with a few vegetables in slices, and some herbs and spices, with a bit of ham in dice, if handy. Boil until the hones are dry and the meat can he rubbed through a sievo; after sieving, add some fine bread-crumbs, equal in bulk to the meat, and season with powdered herbs, salt, and pepper; then pound the whole to a paste. Add to it the soup, with more stock, until it looks as thick as cream, then boil it up with a few drops of lemon-juice, and add a dessert-spoonful or so of wine to a quart of soup ; or the soup may bo thickened and boiled up before the pounded meat is added. This makes the soup still more economical, as a little moat will then go a long way. A mixture of game, or part poultry with part game, can bo used. Claret is sometimes used for game soups in- stead of sherry. Before pounding the bread, soak it in a little stock for a while, and then squeeze it. It will be smoother if a little butter be added, but the soup must be skimmed quite clear of grease. Game Soup (Good).—Any birds too old for roasting may be used; grouse and partridges, or others, may be mixed. Break up the bones, after frying or semi-roasting the birds—this gives a richer flavour—and put them on to boil in the stock with the meat, except breast and wings. Follow the directions for Pheasant Sour, or for Game Soup (Economical), and after sieving the soup, and as much meat as will pass through, it should bo put back in the pan with the meat of the wings and breast, which may be cut into thin slices—i.e., fillets, dice, or thin shreds; the latter,' however, are more appropriate for garnishing clear game soups—or quenelles can be added, which see. Cost, very variable. Game Soup (Good Clear).—Use cooked birds, or semi-cooked, for this. To each pound of meat and bone, well broken up, allow a quart of stock (No. 5, 6, or 7), with a good seasoning of herbs, some fresh vegetables, a few mushrooms, and a little salt, mignonette pepper, and a clove or two. Boil until reduced a third, then strain, and when cold, skim and clarify, using raw rabbit or hare instead of meat for the pur- pose. (Sec p. 28.) Add wine, and some quenelles of game or beef, and savoury custard as garnish. (See Index.) Giblet Soup. — Required: two sets of goose giblets or four sets of duck giblets, two quarts of stock (No. 4), vegetables, herbs, and seasoning (seeOx-Tail Sour), a slice of lean ham, a couple of ounces of dripping, salt and pepper, and a slice of bread. Cost, uncertain. Prepare the giblets as for a pie (see Recipe) ; cut the gizzards into half-inch squares, put them in a pan with the other ingredients, and fry a little; then add the stock, and boil slowly; remove the parts as they become tender, and keep hot in the tureen. When all are done, thicken the soup with brown flour or roux, add more salt to taste, and a little browning and mushroom ketchup; serve with the bread toasted arvjl cut into squares or strips. This is for a plain family soup. For richer kinds, remove the meat from the bones, and pound or sieve it. Or the soup may be clarified and flavoured with wine, and some of the best of the meat put in in small oven-sized pieces. A soup made with giblets and an ox- tail is very savoury and good. This may be thick or clear. Both the tail and giblets should be served in it. When a goose has been boiled the