600 UNIVERSAL cookery book. Volaille) ; finish with rice, level the surface, and steam for a few minutes; sprinkle the tops with choppod tar- ragon and chervil, and the sieved liver of a fowl or a little chopped tongue. Serve hot. Cucumber or Celery sauce is equally suitable for this dish. Eggs, to Whisk. — Break the eggs by tapping the shell lightly on the edge of a basin, and drop them singly into a cup before putting them altogether. Remove the “ specks ” with a fork, and then whisk them well. A. wiro whisk, as shown, is generally Fig. 100.—Eoo Whisks. The lower pattern is useful for other pur- poses—as hatter, jellies, &c. It is slackened or tightened by moving the centre ring. preferred; those of the light kind of wire are the easiest to work. Some like a whisk made of wicker ; these are to be had of basket-makers. Eggs properly whisked are light, and will go further. When added to dishes that require vigorous beating after the blending of the ingredients, the previous beating of the eggs is of less importance; indeed, in some few instances direc- tions are given to drop them in whole. When the whites and yolks are to be separated, one is more likely to fail by being slow than quick. After the tapping on the basin, pull the shell apart, and pass the yolk rapidly from the one half to the other, letting the white drop into a basin. Whisk the yolks first, then the whites. To attain the stiff froth so often men- tioned, fresh eggs must be used (sec page 591), and a current of air will assist, so will a pinch of salt. Here a whisk is not always used. Some manage better by putting the whites on a plate or flat dish, and beating with a palette-knife. This sounds simple, but some amount of practice is necessary. It is no use to just “ tickle ” the eggs: they must be carried right over the knife; and as soon as firm, so that the plate can be turned upside down without dropping the eggs, they are ready, and must be used at once. Nest of Eggs, or Eggs in a Nest .—This may be served for an entree. Seven to nine eggs make a nice dish. Boil them hard, and when cold, take the whites and cut them in strips the length of the egg. Lay them in a tin with a little butter, anil put them in the oven, turning them about for the butter to coat them well. Then take any remnants of cooked white meat or poultry, mince, and pound it to a paste with the yolks of the eggs; a spoonful or two of any suitable sauce, or some cream or gravy, may be used to moisten the mass ; it should be nicely seasoned. Flour the hands, and make up into the size and shapo of eggs. Take a fireproof china dish, round and rather deep, put the shredded whites in to form a ring, then pile up the eggs, and pour a nice thick sauce over; any that could go to table with the meat used is suitable. Or good brown sauce or thick gravy is mostly preferred, if roast fowl be used. Set the dish over boiling water until the eggs are hot through, then serve. Cost, about Is. 4d., exclusive of the meat. Note.—The eggs can be coated with fried crumbs, if liked. Plovers’ Eggs.—These are es- teemed as a great delicacy ; they are usually boiled hard, and may be served either hot or cold. If hot, they should be sent to table in a neatly-folded serviette; if cold, in a moss-lined basket, unless more elaborate service is required. The eggs are also much used for decorating rich salads. The cost is uncertain, but they are al- ways expensive. In addition to the