INTRODUCTORY. A word should be said as to the proper use of this book, and especially to the more inexperienced reader of it. Begin at the right end. Encounter the lesser difficulties first, and so climb the culinary ladder step by step. Let study and practical work go hand in hand ; but strive always to grasp the real essence of the particular recipe, and the principles involved in preparing it. To attempt suddenly some elaborate dish, without having gone over this pre- liminary ground, is to sum up the result in failure. Make and bake a plain loaf, before attempting a rich cake. Try to send a boilod potato to table in perfect condition, before dealing with “ dressed ” vegetables* Learn to regulate the heat of the oven in cooking simple puddings, pies, and joints, before attempting puff pastry and souffles; and leave elaborate “made dishes” alone, until the sauces or gravies on which they largely depend have been mastered. In this way failures will be trivial and rare, and even these full of instruction ; while every successful dish, however simple, will lead many steps onward towards more complicated triumphs of the Culinary Art. The Author has given the approximate cost of recipes wherever such can be reasonably stated, which is in the majority of cases ; no truly practical treatise can state the cost in all. Wherever the approximate cost is not given, it is either because such is almost nil beside that of remnants used up in the dish, or because it depends upon ingredients the cost of which is highly variable. It is, however, to be borne in mind that in all recipes into which slock enters, in part or as the foundation, the cost is given exclusive of it. The reason for this is that very often the stock may cost practically nothing at all; while, if it is made from fresh meat purchased, the price of this can be easily added. Unless this is remembered, some figures may seem rather wide of the mark. The Author also desires to acknowledge her indebtedness to Messrs. Jones Brothers, of Down Street, W., for permission to reproduce in this work a selection from those Moulds, for various purposes, which they manufacture in such immense variety. The illustrations of moulds, &c., scattered through the following pages include several registered designs, and for a few of them her thanks are also due to other firms. London, September, 1894.