PISH. 177 purpose with these, additional 11 ivour must he given to the compound. A few drops of essence of shrimps or anchovies, a morsel of fish paste, or a filleted anchovy, will all serve the pur- pose. The prawns should not be opened long before they are used; if left lying about, exposed to the air, the flavour suffers, and they toughen. Prawns, to Dish,—Cover a dish with a serviette ; put a small basin or cup on, upside down, then arrange the fish round the basin, using parsley freely' as a garnish. Another way.—Cut thin slices from large lemons ; lay them on a dish with parsley to divide them; on the centre of each slice, put a small pile of prawns, leaving a margin of lemon visible. So simple a dish as this will prove that it is worth while to give some considera- tion to harmony of colours ; this costs hut little more than a jumble of fish put anyhow on a dish, while anybody' may prove the difference of the effect. Prawns, if large, can also be placed round a dish of cress, or any plain salad. Shrimps may be served in the same ways. For other dishes from prawns see the chapters referred to under Shrimps. Poach.—This fish inhabits shallow, gently flowing streams; the compact- ness of the flesh is supposed to have given rise to the proverb “ as sound as a roach;” it weighs, as a rule, under a pound and a half. Frying is the best way of cooking it, but other methods are employed. If stewed in brown gravy' or sauco, it is very palat- able ; or it can bo baked, if well basted. Poach, to Fry.—Wash and dry the fish, handle it lightly, and roll it in flour; then fry crisply', and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with any fish sauce, or with cut lemon and cay'enne only'. Pockling,—This is a genus of the cod and haddock family'; several species are found on the British coast, from the “ mackerel midge” of an inch and a quarter, to the largest, of eighteen to twenty inches. None are of great value, as they decompose quickly, hut when quite fresh may be cooked by the usual methods and sent to table, or made into soup, or rather stock for it. Pudd, or Sed-eye.—This fish is found in lakes, slow rivers, and fens in England and many other parts of Europe. It is shorter and deeper than the roach, which it resembles, but is said to be better eating. The fish is rich in colour, hence its name. Cook in the same way' as Roach. Salmon,—The salmon, according to Isaak Walton, is the king of fresh- water fish. It is called a river fish, because it is generally' caught in rivers, and the river is its birthplace; but the sea is its home and its pasture ground, and to this it must return periodically' to renew its strength, or die. In fact, it inhabits fresh and salt water alter- nately', spending its winter in the sea and its summer in the river. “ More- over, as the swallow returns to tho roof or shed that gave it shelter, so docs tho salmon to the gravelly' rivei’’s bed where it first saw the light.” This fact has been repeatedly proved, and involves important consequences. If all the salmon in a river aro caught, tho river will bo from that time salmon- loss, unless it can bo restocked with young salmon, which, after being reared in it, will at the proper ago find their' way to the sea and return to the river.