133 FISH. carp, ana it neeas a good sauce. It is a great improvement to take out the back-bone. Carp, Baked,—Clean and scale the fish, stull' it with Hekb or Oyster Forcemeat, or use bread-crumbs, well seasoned and flavoured with anchovy butter; bind with beaten egg, and add an ounce of butter to two or three ounces of crumbs. Sew up the fish, brush it with beaten egg, and dredge with crumbs. Bake and finish as directed for Fresh Haddock. If a gravy is made in the tin, add a spoonful of Worcester sauce and a little French mustard; the last named is a good addition. Another way.—After getting the fish read)-, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, or two if a large fish; turn often, and wipe the fish dry after an hour, then cover it with chopped shalots and bread-crumbs mixed, and bake as above. Carp, Baked, with Tartare Sauce.—Prepare the fish as usual, but instead of stuffing it use a lump of butter, say three or four ounces for a medium-sized fish, a chopped shalot, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of thyme, basil, and mar- joram in powder, a little salt and black pepper, and a pinch each of ground cloves and nutmeg. It must be under- stood that this is not intended to Jill the fish, but to moisten and season it. After working the ingredients together, put them in, sew the fish up, rub it over with a clove of garlic, brush with oil, and wrap in two sheets of oiled paper. Have ready a baking-tin and meat-stand, the bitter well oiled; put the fish on, and baste often with a little more oil, warmed in the tin to com- mence with ; when done, take the paper off, and serve with Tartare Sauce (cold). This is a French dish, and very good; all fish of the same class may be cooked thus. Brown Mustard Sauce is also good with it. Carp, Boiled,—After washing and scaling the fish, put it in boiling water with salt and vinegar (see Fish, Boiled), add an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, a bay-leaf, and a hit of scraped horse-radish ; this must be well skimmed, and the fish boiled very slowly. Serve hot with a good sauce, or cold; in the latter ease leave the fish in the liquor until cool, then drain, and garnish it with parsley, cut lemon, and horse-radish in little tufts, and send a nice sauce to table with it. Carp Hoes.—Put the roes in a saucepan, with a little salt, cover them with vinegar and water, equal parts, simmer a few minutes, ten or fifteen if large, then cut them up small; mix with half their hulk of bread- crumbs, season with cayenne, lemon- rind grated, mixed herbs, and salt, hind with beaten egg just enough to hold the mass together, then form into small cakes or little sausages ; pour a little. oiled butter over, and bake brown in a quick oven, or cook before the fire in a Dutch oven. Carp, Stewecl.—Wash and cut up the fish, put it in a stew-pan, with chopped onion to cover it, and some mixed sweet herbs ; pour over a glass of white wine (to each pound), cook for ten minutes, then add some sauce or gravy, and cook until tender. A piquant sauce is the most suitable. Char.—This is a delicacy of the Cumberland lakes. It must bo care- fully Dandled in the cleansing, and thoroughly dried. It is usually floured and grilled or broiled, and served with.