258 Universal COoKERV b661£. and a clove, a bay leaf, and a small to- mato ; put a sheet of buttered paper over, and cook in a moderate oven for three hours or more. During the cooking, haste and skim now and then. When tender, take up the pieces of meat with a perforated spoon or small slice; put them in a pile on a hot dish, and keep warm, whilo the sauce and vegetables are sieved and re-heated. Then season to taste, and pour over the tail. Have ready some rings of fried bread; they should be the size of a florin, the middle being removed with a small round cutter. Put these all round the meat, over- lapping, to form a border, and in each hollow place half a cherry, uncrvs- tallised, having first warmed them in a little wine or gravy to cover them. Then, round each half cherry, put a little chopped truffle. While garnishing, set the dish over boiling water. Ox Tail with Beetroot.— Make a puree of beetroot, or preparo some fancy shapes of boiled beetroot (sec Garnishes). Pile it up on a dish, and put the tail, cooked as in the above recipe, all round it. Preparo some ring croutons the size of a shilling; put them about tho puree in a pattern; and fill the centres of them with a little green vegetable pureo of any sort. Put some more croutons, rather larger, out- side the meat to form an outer border, and garnish them in the same way. Ox Tail with Oysters.— Required : an ox tail, a pint of Brown Sauce, a dozen oysters, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Blanch, joint, and fry the tail until well browned; cook it in stock just enough to cover it; by the time it is tender the liquid should he almost absorbed. Then add the brown sauce, and strained oyster liquor, with salt, cayenne, and a tcaspoonful each of lemon juice and anchovy essence. Beard the oysters, and put them in the sauce just before serving. Serve in a Border, of Potatoes, or garnish with Potato Chips. Ox Tail with Prunes and Sultanas {See Beef, Fillet, with Olives).—Cook the tail as directcdatthe end of the recipe, but instead of olives, add some French plums stewed in claret until it is absorbed, and the plums quite soft, and some sultana raisins, picked and cooked in the stewpan with tho meat. Serve with a puree of any vegetable preferred, and send sweet pickles separately to table. Cost, uncertain. Ox Tongue a la Belgravia.— Required: a collared ox tongue {see Joints), a dozen Foes a la Belgravia, and the same number of Chicken Quen - elles, some Ham Butter, and plain Curled Butter; pink and yellow aspic, parsley, and tarragon and chervil. Cost, about 8s. Cd.; more if a large tongue. Put the tongue on a flat silver or plated dish ready for serving; give it a quarter inch coating, top and sides, of pink aspic; place the eggs and quenelles round the base, after trimming it evenly, and cutting the eggs in two lengthwise. Put a border of the plain butter round the top edge of tho tongue, and a narrower row of ham butter on the top of the first border; a bag with a small rose pipe will be needed. In the middle of the tongue put more ham butter, form- ing a circle the size of a crown piece, to imitate a rose; use a large rose pipe for this : put some leaves of chervil or tarragon round it (or use Green Butter from a leaf pipe), then cover the space between the butters with chopped aspic. Form an outer border on the dish with the remainder of the eggs, some tufts of parsley, and blocks of aspic. This is a handsome and substantial dish for ball suppers, &c. In serving, a portion of egg should bo put on each plate, together with part of a quenelle; they should be moulded, and of good size. If half are coloured pink, the dish is more effective. A piece of beef may be cooked and served as above {sec Beef, Collared).