PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 047 out all lumps with a fork, then take a wooden spoon, and work them with it for a few minutes, adding a little salt and white pepper, and either a spoonful of milk ora little butter, oil, or dripping. The paste should be quite smooth, and after beating over the fire for a short time in a clean saucepan, until hot through, should be served in a hot dish. The sur face is generally roughed by drawing a fork across it a few times in contrary directions. If liked dry, add no fat; simply beat and smooth them. A potato masher is handy [see Kitchen Utensils) ; a modem form is shown on p. 646, and is very superior, as it takes the place of a sieve, and can be used in the preparation of all sorts of vegetables for purees, &.C., and is equally useful for fruit. Potatoes, Mashed and Browned, — These differ from Potatoes, Mollped, by being served in the dish they are browned in, and may be made softer in consequence, as directed below. They are light and delicate. Cook a couple of pounds of potatoes by steaming, or boiling, or baking in their skins; mash them, and the yolk of an egg, half a gill of hot milk,'seasoning to taste, and an ounce of butter. Beat hard; then beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in ; put the mixture into a greased baking dish, only three- parts fill it, mark the top across with a skewer, and bake in a sharp oven to a delicate brown* The addition of hot milk or cream to dishes of mashed potatoes is re- commended ; if cold milk be used, the flavour is not the same. Both to the above and to potatoes mashed, as in the preceding recipe, a few cooked onions may be added when their flavour is liked; or in the above, they may be put in alternate Layers in the dish— potatoes forming the top and bottom layers. Other vegetables can be simi- larly introduced. Potatoes, Moulded. — Re- quired : potatoes, butter, eggs, and seasoning, &c. Cost, about 8d. Bake some potatoes in their skins ; scoop out the interior while hot; to about a quart, add two to three ounces of butter or clarified fat, and two eggs, with salt and pepper to taste. Givo the whole a vigorous beating- for several minutes. The potatoes should be broken up with a fork, or passed through a sieve first of all. This is the foundation ; the additions that may ■ be made are well-nigh endless; a spoonful of grated cheese, with a pinch of curry powder, makes one pleasant variety; another is obtained from a few ounces of minced ham or bacon, cut up, with some herbs in powder, or herbs alone can be used; chopped parsley and a dash of thyme or mar- joram is generally agreeable. Some will like a few drops of good store sauce or ketchup. "Where strict economy is necessary, it is well to remember that a tablespoonful of cooked rice, sago, or tapioca will help to “bind” and save an egg. Then grease a dish or plain baking tin, and coat it -with bread-crumbs; fill it with the mixture, pressing it in firmly, and bake in a moderate oven until it will turn out; about twenty minutes or longer if the tin is very deep. For very dry, mealy potatoes, a little hot milk may be put inand some of the fat omitted if more agreeable. But in moulds of this description, care must be taken not lo make the mixture too moist. Potatoes, New, Boiled.—Take freshly-dug new potatoes. Wash them well, and rub off the skin with a flannel’ or. a coarse cloth. Throw them into boiling salted water, in which a sprig . of mint may be put if the flavour is not disliked, and let them simmer gently until they are quite tender. Pour off the liquid, and lot them stand by the side of the fire with a cloth oyer them until they are thoroughly dry. Put a slice of butter into a hot vegetable tureen, pile the potatoes over this, put moro on tho top, and servo very hot. Now potatoes should bo cooked before they liuvo been twenty-