MUTTON. 323 streak of wlxito will bo seen iu tbo middle of the four middle bonds, and the others will be white; and at four years old, all the breast-bones will be of a white or gristly colour. The quality of the flesh is probably most affected by that of the food upon which the flocks are fed. Those which range over the mountainous districts of Wales and Scotland, or the chalk downs of England, and feed upon the wild herbage, arc thought to bo better than those kept in rich pastures. The Welsh mutton is particularly small and lean, but of the finest flavour. In point of delicacy and flavour, Southdown wether mutton is considered equal to any that is killed; in summer it is thought preferable to some other finely- flavoured breeds. This circumstance is said to arise from the closeness of the grain; mutton that is coarser and looser-fleshed being, of course, more subject to putridity. Wether mutton is the best; although it is often easier to buy ewe mutton of a mature age, it is inferior, and sells at a lower price. Ram mutton is to be avoided when very strong and coarse, and if the fat is of a deep yellow. Mutton should be fairly fat, and the fat should bo firm. Butchers complain sometimes (and with reason) of the inconsistency of some customers in their demands for the best meat, without fat! How can they possibly get it F The small breeds will best suit such people, and it is worth everyone’s while to give the preference to small mutton generally—i.e. meat with small bones; they usually indicate a good breed; whereas, large bones are associated with coarse- ness of fibre and poorer flavour. The lean ought to be rich in colour, and not give out much moisture; flabbiness and clamminess always prove that the meat is inferior. ' 1 The length of time that mutton will hang depends upon the quality of the meat, the state of the weather, and other conditions. Given a well-ventilated cellar, and a spell of dry weather, a leg might remain for four or five weeks; but should rain set in, and the weather become mild, it might spoil in less than a quarter the time. Loins and shoulders (the kidney end of the former, and the under-part of the latter) are particularly liable to putrefaction, and need careful watching. A sprinkling of pepper and powdered charcoal are nsed. by manv cooks, and a little salt rubbed round the tail in hanging a leg, is considered a good preservative. A pinch of ginger mixod with pepper will keep the flies from any joint. Mutton is cut up as shown in the figure. 1. The leg. 2. The loin. 3. Shoulder. 4. Neck, best end. 5. Neck, scrag end. 6. Breast. Besides these, there are the head and feet, heart, liver, and other internal organs, all treated under the various headings. Fig. SI.—Side of Mutton Divided into' Joints.