404 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Fowl, Galantine.—Prepare the fowl as directed in Fowl, Boned after Opening. Draw the wings and legs inside ; the pinions should be cut off. Make the whole flat, cutting off some of the meat from the legs, and putting it in the thin parts ; press it out well. Then make a forcemeat of veal and ham, or ordinary sausage meat, or truffled sausage meat; spread a layer over half an inch thick, then put strips or slices of cooked ham and tongue, and some pistachio kernels in strips, and then a few truffles, sliced or chopped; or in place of these, hard- boiled eggs are used sometimes; a marbled appearance when cut is wanted, and truffles and pistachios go a long way, though expensive. If no pistachios are handy, use some chopped parsley. Now begin and roll up like a pudding; sew the roll up in a buttered cloth, twist the ends, and tie them like a pudding, and put it in some stock, made several hours before from the bones. Cook it gently, and when it is taken up tie the cloth tighter, after pulling it out; that is, tie it closer up to the fowl. Then put weights on, and leave to get cold. It will then be of a shape which is best described as “bolster like.” Remem- bor that the stitches must be taken out of the back, where sewn up, before serving. Another way.—Make a complete roll of the forcemeat with the strips of tongue, &c., amongst it; lay it on one edge, and roll the fowl up. This is easier, but not so pretty. A galantine is sometimes made by filling the fowl from the neck end, after boning; a good deal of filling may be used ; the ends of the fowl are then sewn up, and the whole finished as above. Now for the decoration. Dish, and wipe the bird with a cloth, and have ready some clear aspic of one or two colours, say brown and pale pink, or brown und pale yellow. Give a coating of the pale colour first, and ornament with cut pieces—to form a pattern—of the darker shade, laying them on before the first coat is set; or the top may be covered with chopped aspic of various colours, laid in rows. The base can be garnished with blocks of aspic and truffles. Or fancy designs may be made by the aid of butter, or ham butter, using a bag with a fine pipe. Then little heaps of salad may be put about the dish; many ideas may be gathered by reference to Salads. For a very elaborate galantine, moulds of aspic, decorated nicely, may be put on the top, and fastened with plated hatelet skewers; truffles, too, look well similarly placed. If proper hatelet moulds cannot be had (these are made purposely for use with the skewers), some varieties of dariole and other moulds answer the purpose. They should be high, and of small circumference only at the widest part, or they look ugly. Those who object to “ piping,” or who cannot get good results, may use savoury custard of various colours. If this is cut out into very small, pretty shapes, exceedingly nice designs may be made by anyone possessed of sufficient taste to arrange them. For a plain galantine, glaze only is used for the surface, with a little piping of white or pink, and some salad at the base. All galantines look nicer if a block of rice or fried bread be put under them in the dish, as they are then more imposing, and the garnish is better displayed. For all the adjuncts, see Index. One word respecting the pressing of the galantine. Avoid undue pressure on one part. A dish or baking sheet should be put on, and weights or flat-irons placed the whole length. A heavy weight at the middle and nothing at the ends is useless. See coloured plate, No. 4. The galantine there shown is glazed, then brushed over with liquid aspic, and dished on a block of rice. The garnish consists of parsley, aspic, lemons, and small shapes of the forcemoat, cooked separately, and cut when cold. Shapes of aspic or savoury custard could be used. Cost varies with the season, and adjuncts employed. The average is Is. 6d. to 2s. per pound. ✓ '