418 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. some, and a garnish of watercress is suitable: or, instead of this, an apple compote may he used, or fried apples. The thing to be remembered is that the seasonings must all be of a milder kind than would be used for a full- grown goose. Geese are called “green ” up to about four months old; and it has been said that the finest time for them is from the middle of J une to the end of August. “A goose,” says Dr. Kitchener, “is in highest perfection when the full growth is attained, but before it begins to harden; ” and ho adds that, while a Michaelmas goose is as famous in the mouths of the millions as the mince-pie at Christmas, yet it is too fully grown for those who eat with delicacy. Cost, variable. Goose, Grilled.—The legs, back, and rump are suitable. Dip the cooked pieces into warm butter, and score them ; season with salt, cayenne, and mustard, and a pinch of snge; coat with bread-crumbs, and again dip into butter. Then lay them on a greased gridiron, and turn them about until heated through and well-browned. Serve with or without sauce; one made by boiling up a glass of claret, with a chopped shalot, a sage leaf, a j„ijpiprspl of French mustard, and a bit of orange rind is suitable; it is then strained, and mixed with enough hot brown sauce to thicken it. A small quantity of burette sauce [sec recipe), added to goose gravy, is also excellent; and many other suitable sauces and gravies will bo found in the chapter devoted to them. Some prefer a mild grill (though, as a rule, dishes of the sort arc preferred highly seasoned) ; in such cases the seasoning must be re- duced, and a mild gravy or sauce selected. Goose, Grilled, with Onions and Potatoes.—Required : a por- tion of a goose, onions, potatoes, and sauce as below. Cost, variable. This is a savoury and inexpensive dish. The quantity of vegetables must bo in proportion to the meat. For a grill sufficient for two or three persons prepare the goose as directed above, then dish the joints on a puree of onions, flavoured with snge, or half parsley is liked by some; a dash of curry powder is a great improvement. Make about eight little potato cakes or cones, flavoured with the same herbs, and put them round the dish. About half a pint of 6auce will bo wanted. Goose, Hashed.—Cut the re- mains of a tender goose into small, convenient-sized pieces. Put some sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and let them fry until they are tender, but not burnt. Add as much stock or water as will be sauce for the hash, with a littl. pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the bones and skin of the goose, and a glass of port or claret, if liked. Boil gently until the gravy is good, then strain it, thicken it, if necessary, and put in the pieces of goose to get hot, but the gravy must not boil after the goose is added. If any goose-stuffing has been left, cover it, and heat it over boiling water, and place it in little heaps about the dish. About a pint of gravy should be allowed for a pound of goose. If no stuffing remains, a few forcemeat balls [see recipes) will be an improve- ment, and fried apples are a nice garnish. Many of the sweet pickles and spiced fruits are enjoyable and wholesome with such dishes as the foregoing. For a very plain hash, omit the wine, and use a little French vinegar, or a spoon- ful of vinegar from clear pickles. Goose, Haslied,in Digestive Sauce. — Required : some cooked goose, sauce, and vegetables as below. Cost, variable. This dish will be found both tasty and digestible. Put the remains of a cooked goose in a stewpan, with a layer of boiling digestive sauce over each layer of goose; put the lid on, and leave the pan for half an hour, then draw it near the fire, and bring the contents again to boiling point. Put a border of cooked spinach or