267 MADE DISHES AND RELEVES Puree of any vegetables that are in season—Sorrel, Spinach, Endive, As- paragus, Peas, &c. If liked, the gravy may be simply strained, skimmed, and poured over the meat, and then the dish is frieandeau with gravy. Some- times as a matter of economy the lean part of the best end of a large neck of veal is used instead of the prime part of the leg, and does nearly as well. Truffles, mushrooms, and arti- choke bottoms may all be served with this dish. Time, thirty to forty minutes per pound, according to thick- ness. Add salt as soon as the meat is tender, not before. Cost, variable. Veal, Haricot.—Required : veal, gravy, vegetables, bacon, forcemeat, Ac., as below. Cost of meat, about 9d. per pound. Take the best end of a small neck of veal. Shorten the bones, and divide the meat into cutlets. Put them into a stew- pan, pour over a pint of good brown gravy, and let it simmer gently. Boil in a separate saucepan a pint of freshly- gathered and shelled young peas, half a pint of carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, a small cauliflower, divided into sprigs, half a dozen yonng onions, a sliced cucumber, a cab- bage lettuce cut into quarters, or any other suitable vegetables. Before the haricot is served, put the vege- tables with the veal, and let all simmer gently together for ten minutes. Put the veal on a dish, arrange the vegetables round it, and garnish with Forcemeat Balls. Send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. If more convenient, some of these vegetables may be omitted, and it should be remembered that somo kinds will need to boil longer than others, according to their nature and age. The appearance of the veal will bo improved if it is brightly browned in hot fat before being stewed, and a little acid will improve its flavour for many. Time to simmer the veal alone, about an hour and a half. The liquor from the vegetables will make nice soup. Veal in Jelly.—Required: two pounds of cooked veal, four eggs, four ounces Of boiled ham, a quarter pint of freshly picked sin-imps, a pint and a half of aspic jelly, and half a dozen veal sausages; garnish as below. Cost, about 4 s. 6d. Line a plain, deep mould, round or oval, with a thin layer of aspic; set on ice, then decorate the bottom and sides with the ham in strips, some leaves of chervil, a few shrimps, and the white of one of the eggs, first boiled hard, and cut into rings or thin shreds. Set this with a little more aspic. Then fill the mould up with the rest of the shrimps, eggs in slices, veal in dice, the sausages, previously eooked, skinned, and sliced, and some chervil or parsley. The whole should bo put in in layers, and aspic added, and allowed to set after each layer. Turn out when cold, and garnish with watercress, shrimps, and cut lemons. Or some savoury eggs (for which recipes are given in a later chapter) may be cut in halves and placed round the mould, each half resting in a little bed of dressed salad. They should bo placed alternately, i.e. the white side, then the inside. Over the white a pinch of lobster coral has a pretty' effect; the savoury' insido needs no decoration. This is an excellent dish for an al fresco gathering, as it is quickly' served, and most inviting in appearanco. Veal in Jelly (German).—Re- quired : a shoulder of veal, some ham and bacon, vegetables and herbs of the usual kinds for braised meat, a gill of white wine, a pint and a half of white stock (use the bone, and make this as given in stock No. 9), the juice of half a lemon,, and seasoning to taste. Cost, about Is. per pound, inclusive. Cut the bacon in slices ; make a bed of it in a stowpan with the vegetables; lay the meat on a board and roll it up, making it into a nice oval shape, then tie and make holes in it with a skewer. Cut the ham in strips (it should bo rather fat), season these, and push them in the holes. Cover with a buttered paper, after laying the meat in tho