359 PORK. table in a tureen. Time to roast, hall an hour. This is a very rich dish. Cost, as above. Head, Scrappled (an American dish). — Required : head, seasoning, and com meal, as below. Scald and clean a pig’s head, and remove the hair, the snout, the ears, and the brain. Put it on the fire in four quarts of water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim carefully, season the liquid rather highly with salt and cayenne, and add half a dozen sage leaves, chopped small. Let the head simmer gently for two hour's, or more if large, then bone it, and mince the flesh finely, and put it hack into the liquid. Stir in as much sifted com meal as will thicken the liquid, and simmer two hours longer, until it is of the consistency of thick porridge. Pour it into deep jars, and set in a cool place. When scrapple of pig’s head is to be eaten, cut it into slices, and fry these in hot fat for breakfast. This is a very peculiar dish; the taste is decidedly an acquired one. Semolina or hominy can be used if the meal is not easily procured. We may add that while hot, after thickening, it is not to be despised, and many would prefer it in that form to the one given in the recipe. Cost, as above. Head, Stuffed (a German dish). —Required : head, forcemeat, vege- tables, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Take a fresh head, bone it, strew salt and pepper over; make a forcemeat of sage and onions, with a small proportion of minced bacon and liver; season it well, and bind it with raw eggs. Spread this on the head, then put strips of pickled pork, and tho pig’s tongue, sliced, with lean ham in strips, and some pickled gherkins. Put in more forcemeat if there is room; put the halves together, and sew them tightly, not forgetting tho snout. Cover with a bladder, or a cloth, and cook in a saucepan with the bones, and a calf's foot, plenty of spices and vege- tables, a bunch of herbs, and hot water to cover. The foot should bo put in the water when cold, then brought to tho boil before tho head goeB in. A gill of vinegar should be put with the rost, and the boiling kept up for three to four hours. When nearly cold, take up the head, draw the threads out, and glaze it well. Cut a slice from the neck end, to show its marbled contents, and garnish according to taste and requirements. It may bo made quite elaborate, and served amongst galantines, turkeys, and similar viands. It will be liked better, we think, if the onions be omitted, and some pork sausage-meat substituted. The other ingredients may be as given above. • Hearts may be cooked either stuffed or plain, as directed for the hearts of sheep and calves. Some small forcemeat balls, or sausages, may be put on the dish when they are not stuffed. Kidneys.—Pig’s kidneys maybe broiled, fried, or stewed, in the same way as mutton kidneys. Cut two lengthwise, into slices a quarter of an inch thick, season with salt and cayenne, and sprinkle over them a dessertspoonful of finely-powdered herbs, of which two-thirds should be parsley, and one-third thyme. Fry them for five or six minutes in one ounco of hot butter or dripping, and when nicely browned, stir a dessertspoonful of flour in amongst them, and add, very gradually, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a tablespoonful of ketchup. When on the point of boiling, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, let the sauce remain on tho fire for one minute, and pour it boiling over tho kidneys. Garnish with toasted sippets. Time, a quarter of an hour. Prob- able cost, Is. Kidneys, Broiled. Split the kidneys lengthwiso from the rounded part, without separating them en- tirely. Peel off tho skin, and pass a wooden or metal skewer through them to keep them flat. Sprinkle a little popper and powdered sage over them, oil them .slightly, and broil