433 GAME AXD POULTRY. croutons, and send more gravy to table, made from the stock used above and flavoured with sherry. Do not put much seasoning in the gravy ; it should be delicately flavoured. Partridges a la Verrey.— Required: a brace of partridges, shifting as below, crumbs and season- ing. Cost, from 4s. 6d. to os. Take the livers of the partridges and those of a couple of fowls; chop and pound them with a slice of butter Slice some truffles that have been cooked in a little wine; add them to the livers and stuff the birds. Roast them, after covering with a vine leaf and a buttered paper, until done. Put on a dish a layer of fried crumbs; put the birds on, and sprinkle more crumbs down the breasts; these should be mixed with chopped parsley and grated lemon peel. To the wine in which the truffles were cooked add good stock to make up half a pint; put in a little lemon juice and seasoning to taste, and send to table in a tureen. A dish very similar to the above is made by dishing the birds on a crouton, and serving the browned crumbs separately, seasoning them as above directed. Put a few hunches of watercress or endive on the dish. The stock for the above is pre- ferably made from beef and veal (see Stocks fou Clear Soups), with a fumet of game; or a game bone or two may be cooked in the stock. It may be very slightly thickened. Partridges, Baked (an Italian dish).—Required: a brace of partridges, a good forcemeat, mushroom is usually preferred (see recipes in Forcemeats), brown sauce, and a seasoning as below. Cost, from 7s. upwards, inclusive. Pluck and truss as for roasting; stuff the birds, then prepare two sheets of white paper by coating them en both sides with salad oil. Peel and chop a mushroom or two, grate a carrot, and chop a truffle; scald an onion and mince it with a few parsley leaves; season with salt and pepper and lemon juice; blend, and spread over the papers; place the birds on, cover the breasts with a slice of bacon, then secure the paper, and bake in a good oven, breasts uppermost. The pan should be deep and the birds covered ; baste often. Remove the paper and the bacon, and pour the sauce over. Brown mushroom sauce is excellent. Time, from twenty-five to forty minutes, according to size of birds. Partridges, Braised. — The breasts should be finely and evenly larded, and the birds laid in a pan (a stewpan does) on a little bed of sliced vegetables. Stock to half the depth should then be added (see recipe for Partridges a la Verrey), and the birds cooked as long as may be neces- sary ; if old they may be made tender, though young ones are preferable. A little sherry may be added shortly before serving. Finish off in the usual way, and dish on a crouton; serve the gravy in a boat. A few olives, mushrooms, or truffles may be used for garnishing. Cost, from 4s. to os. per brace. Partridges, Broiled.—Choose young birds ; cut the heads off, split them up the back, and flatten the breast bones a little. Wipe with a cloth both inside and out; season with salt and cayenne, and dip into oil or clarified butter. Put the cut side to the fire first, and turn in a minute. Give a quarter of an hour, turning often ; spread a little more butter over just before dishing. No sauce is needed; some prefer a salad; others a dish' of crisply fried potatoes; mush rooms or tomatoes will the better suit others. A nice liver puree, spread on toast or crofitons, may bo served on the same dish. Tomato butter, either hot or cold, is a nice relish with broiled birds of almost any sort; and although wo have said that no sauce is needed, many ask for it. Litllo and good should then bo tho motto, and whatever tho sauce, it ought to bo flavoured with a fumet of game. In the case of a lurgo party, when a number of birds are cooked, it is worth