445 Game and poultry. Pintail, or Sea Pheasant.— This bird, though highly esteemed where it is known, is not common. It is considered best when roasted, and is cooked like an ordinary pheasant, great care being taken to baste it constantly. It should be sent to table with good brown gravy and a piquant sauce. It will of itself yield a good gravy if it is taken down when it has been roasted for about twenty-five minutes, dished, laid in front of the fire for a few minutes, and then served immediately. Cost, uncertain, sea-pheasants being seldom offered for sale. A very good salmi may be made from this bird. Plover.—This bird is somewhat smaller than the woodcock; the golden plover is the commoner, and the grey the larger of the two. Birds that are hard at the vent will be fat and good. The feet are dry when stale. Plovers have a peculiar flavour, much liked by some ; others find them very distasteful. They are best treated like woodcocks for roasting, and will take about fifteen minutes only at a brisk fire. They want constant bast- ing. The toast on which they are served should be saturated with the bastings and traiL Instead of brown gravy, some prefer an accompaniment of lemon juice mixed with a little good melted butter : or melted butter, sherry, and lemon juice, about a gill of the first to half a gill of the latter, mixed, is often liked. The eggs of the plover are very much esteemed, and are considered a luxury; see a later chapter for their treatment. Cost, abont Is. to Is. 6d. each, but variable. Plover3 with. Truffles.—Re- quired : a brace of plovers, two ounces of butter, stock and seasoning as below, and three or four truffles. Cost, about 3s. 6d. or 3s. 9d. Truss the birds, and put them breast down in a stewpan, with the truffles cut into thin slices; add the butter, a dove, a bay leaf, and a dust of cayenne ; stir and fry for ten minutes, then pour in some stock from poultry bones or from poultry and meat mixed, with a glass of sherry. Cook slowly, and when done add brown roux to thicken, with a little seasoning, and a squeezo of orange or lemon juice. Time, about half an hour. Dish with a gar- nish of croutons and watercress, and serve with lemons. If liked, stuff tho birds and mince the trails with the stuffing (see recipes for Forcemeat foii Game, &c.). For other dishes from plovers, see recipes under Woodcock and Snipe. Plovers with truffles, as in the abovo recipe, are liked very much, generally speaking, though others think that a roasted plover is perfection. “ Assum- ing,” says one writer, “ that redness, not blueness, is visible when cut, and that plenty of lemon juice be served, then no gravy is wanted; the drippings from the bird are enough in this direc- tion.” But on this point much differ- ence of opinion exists. Poultry, Basting of.—We have called attention to the necessity of pure, sweet dripping for basting purposes generally, in an early part of this work; but we would again impress upon the inexperienced cook the fact that if it be burnt, or of bad flavour, it will completely spoil poultry. In some works lard is recommended for basting; we would strongly urge, don't use it so long as you can get anything else. Good clarified fat is far preferable, and when butter is used for the frothing at the end, let that be sweet, or it is better dispensed with. If rancid, and only half an ounce be used, by coming in contact with the heated surface, a most disagreeable taste will be im- parted ; such tastes “ repeat ” all through a meal. Margarine is better than inferior butter. Poultry, to Bone.— This oper- ation is more difficult than boning a joint. Tho first requirement is a strong knife, broad and thick, with a sharp point, and by no means flexible.