FISH. 157 the fish up; if small, put the tail in the mouth; if large, truss in the form of the letter S. Then, either brush it with milk and dredge with flour, or flour it; then brush it with a well-beaten egg (a little left from the forcemeat will do, if mixed with a spoonful of milk), and coat it with fine bread crumbs. To do this, have plenty of crumbs on a large sheet of paper; take up the corners, and shake the crumbs all over the fish, coating every part, especially the head, which is always an unsightly part. Then lay the fish in a tin, with hot clarified dripping or butter in; baste thoroughly to commence (this is important); then cook at a moderate heat, from twenty to forty minutes according to size. Drain well, put on a hot dish, and pour brown gravy, or a good brown sauce round the fish. Or the usual sauces, as An- chovy, Parsley, &c., may be served with it. If stuffed with oyster force- meat, plain Oyster Sauce is suitable. Haddock, Boiled,—Proceed as for cod-fish, reducing the time in pro- portion to the thickness of the fish. If overdone, it becomes hard; it wants careful watching. A steamed haddock i3 nicer than a boiled one. (See Pish, to Steam. ) Serve with anchovy, egg, parsley, caper, or shrimp sauce. Haddock, Fx'ied,—Fillet the fish in the way directed for whiting; dry the fillets in a cloth, then fry them in the usual way, first coating them with batter, or egg and bread crumbs. Haddock, various ways of Cooking,—For all the other methods of cooking, the reader is referred to wiiiting and cod-fish ; a large whiting and a small fresh haddock can be cooked in precisely the same way; while as to dishes from cold fish, those from the above named answer equally well for haddock. Hake.—This is a West Country fish, very- common in Devonshire, where it is to bo had in perfection at a very low price; it is often called “ white salmon.” It would probably bo more highly esteemed if sold at a high price ; it is good cooked in many ways, but perhaps best when baked. If a whole fish be bought, the thick part may be cut into slices, and the tail end salted, but it is preferably eaten while fresh. It is of a more satisfying nature than many other kinds of fish, and for that reason is well calculated to take the place of meat in a meal. Hake may be treated like cod, or fresh haddock, but we give here a separate recipe, for a very excellent dish of Hake, Baked,—Cut from two to three pounds of hake in slices an inch thick. Required, in addition, six table- spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one table- spoonful each of grated cheese, chopped parsley, onion, and flour; a saltspoonful of pepper, and twice as much salt; some dripping and vinegar. Melt some clarified dripping; pour some in a shallow baking tin; lay in the slices after coating them with the dry seasoning; pour more dripping over the top, and bake the fish about half an hour. Send to table, after draining well, with a brown piquant sauce. The slices may either lie in the vinegar, or be sprinkled with it. Halibut,—This is a very good fish, lessprized than it deserves, perhaps on account of its comparative cheap- Fio. 34.—Hauuut. ness. Tho flesh is delicate and very wholesome, not unliko that of tho turbot. This fish grows to a great sizo, twenty to forty pounds is con- sidered the best weight; larger fish nro