COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 523 the liquor by quick boiling, and rub the oysters through a sieve. Moley.—See under Meat (page 521). Mould of Meat and Maca- roni.— Required: macaroni, and a mince as below. Cost, variable. This is a very nice-looking dish, and while almost as effective as if made of macaroni used in honeycomb style {see Gaulishes), it is much more quickly prepared. Take a plain pudding basin, one of the modern shapes, rather high, and tapering at the bottom, or use a tin mould of the same style ; grease it well, and coat it with macaroni, which must be boiled until soft enough to twist, but not enough to break; it must be firm enough to handle. Start from the centre of the bottom, and go on winding, joining the ends neatly, until the macaroni reaches the top edge of the basin. Next put a lining, bottom and sides, of forcemeat or sausage meat, half an inch thick, being careful not to displace the macaroni. Then fill up with a mince of any sort —meat, poultry, game, or fish : either should be thick, and a beaten egg, one to each half pint, added. We aro referring only to minces of the usual sort, mixed with some sort of thick sauce, and reference to the various dishes of mince will show how many nice savouries may he evolved from this one recipe, by just changing the “ filling.” On the top, more sausage meat is to be put, and the mould covered and steamed in the usual way. A pint mould will take an hour. A little sauce or gravy should be poured round it. Mutton and Oyster Cakes. — Required: twelve ounces of fat and lean mutton, from the undercut of a cooked shoulder is nice ; a gill of oyster s nice, a pinch of salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and lemon peel, two eggs, and some bread-crumbs. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Make the sauce, add the meat— put through a mincer—while hot; season, beat in the yolks of the eggs off the fire, and set by to cool. Then form into little cakes {see Fish Cakes) ; brush over with the beaten whites, and roll in the crumbs ; fry in the usual way, and serve with some oyster sauce if for dinner or supper: without sauce if for breakfast. The mixture will cool more quickly if spread out on a flat dish. When making up into cakes a few bread- crumbs may be used; they should be sprinkled on the board, but the cakes will be nicer if kept as moist as they can be, to handle them conveniently. For cheaper cakes, add half the bulk of the meat, &c., in mashed potatoes ; they need not be egged before frying, but may be fried as they are, or first rolled in crushed vermicelli. Tinned oysters do for the sauce for these, all the nicer it should be re- membered, if the oysters are rubbed through a coarse wire sieve. Mutton Boulettes. — Re- quired : a pound of cold meat, half a pint of stock, No. 4, half an ounce of gelatine, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper, a teaspoon- ful of corn-flour, the same of browned flour, and a tablespoonful of cooked macaroni; eggs and bread-crumbs. Cost, about Is. 3d. Make a gravy by boiling the stock, corn-flour, browned flour, and season- ing for a few minutes; stir in the gelatine, previously soaked (unless sheet gelatine be used; that needs no soaking) ; when dissolved, add the minced meat; take from the fire, stir in the minced macaroni, then pour the mixture into little cups or patty pans to set. Either should bo round at the bottom, like an egg cup. When firm, turn out, and roll in fino flour, then coat them with beaten egg and bread-crumbs; let them stand awhile,and give a second coaling: the crumbs must bo very firm. Lay them in a frying basket,plunge into hot fat, and in a few seconds take them up ; dish on a lace paper or serviette on a hot dish, and put fried parsley in the centre. These nre very good, because