MIXED MEAT DISHES. Meat with Macaroni.—It sometimes happens that the centre of a joint is found to ho insufficiently cooked, and some way of re heating, other than mincing or hashing, &c., would he welcomed. In such a case we advise a trial of this dish. Sup- posing the meat to be mutton or veal, say the fillet, about a pound or rather more. Put it on a plate, and sprinkle it with pepper and chopped herbs; pour over a gill of stock and cover it for a short time. This will give it flavour and prevent dryness. Have for it a deep dish, grease it, dredge it bottom and sides with bread crumbs. Boil some macaroni until half cooked, quantity according to taste—about half a pound will do. Make a good supply of plain forcemeat—a little onion should be added if for mutton—and put it at the bottom and sides of the dish; then line the dish with a few slices of ham or bacon, cooked. Put in the piece of meat, place a few more slices of bacon over, then another layer of force- meat. Cover the dish, and set in a tin of hot water in a moderate oven for half an hour. Then take away the tin, and give it another quarter of an hour, or thereabouts. While this is cooking, finish the macaroni in stock or sauce. (See Brown' Macaroni ) Turn the moulded meat on a hot dish and put the macaroni all round it. It is necessary that the dish he but little larger than the meat. The latter should touch the bacon; if a space is left between it will not turn out so nicely. The forcemeat must he free from suet. Cost, variable. Meat with Spinach and Batter.—llequired : a pound of steak, a dish of spinach, and a pint of hatter made as if for Yorkshire Podding. Cost, about Is. 8d. Cook the steak in the usual way by broiling, grilling, kc., or stew it. After cooking and pressing the spinach, put it on a plate, and cut up the steak ; Lay the pieces on and pour the gravy over. Bake the pudding batter in a round tin, and cut it in four pieces; 2!)1 la)r these on the meat in their original form, and serve with more gravy. This can be varied by using various sorts of moat; and cabbage, turnip tops, or other green vegetables. The batter, if preferred savoury, should be made by one of the recipes given for Savoury Batter Puddings Meat with Vegetables and Rice.—Required: half a pound of rice, two pounds of meat, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, and a few stalks of celery, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 2s. 2d. The meat may bo any kind, and from any lean part of the animal; it should bo cut up and stewed with the sliced vegetables and some gravy (see Gravy for Stews), then thickened and seasoned with a teaspoonful of curry powder and a little pepper and chopped herbs. Boil the rice by the directions for Saffron Rice, and serve in a pile, the rice over the meat, &c. Garnish the dish with fried onions and fried parsley. This is very savoury, and generally liked. Mixed Meat Stew.—Required: half a pound each of lean pork, mutton, and beef kidney; three pounds of potatoes and a pound and a half of onions, seasoning and water. Cost, about Is. 6d. Cut the meat and kidney up, slice the vegetables, put onions at the bottom of a saucepan, then meat, then potatoes, and stf on until full, having onions at the top. Season each layer and pour half a pint of water over. Cook slowly for three hours ; or if the vegetables are parboiled first, two hours will do. Shake often to prevent burning. Herbs may ho added, or a spoonful of ketchup, or a inusluooin or two when they are plentiful. Instead of pork, lean ham or bacon, cut into strips, can bo used; and veal is nice in place of mutton. Some sheep’s feet, boiled separately until nearly done, or tho remains of cooked calf’s or ox fee);, will he a valuable addition. This may he said of any sort of gelatinous meat; it gives body to the gravy.