UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 184 chopped parsley next, then the fish mixture, with more crumbs, and brush them over with clarified butter. Put it in a moderate oven until light brown on the top. Beat up the white of the egg to a froth, add a pinch of cayenne, and a little carmine, and put it from a hag with a small rose pipe, in any desired pattern over the sur- face of the fish. Sot the dish over a vessel of boiling water for a minute or two, and hold a salamander over the top; it must not ho very hot, the egg wants cooking as well us slightly browning. Last thing, put a few small, prettily-shaped croutons about the dish, and sprinkle them with lobster coral or coralline pepper. Scallop.—This is a fish somewhat similar to an oyster in shape, but larger; it tastes rather like a crab. It may ho served in various ways, and may enter into the composition of fish pics. The deep shells should bo pre- served, as they are useful for sending “ scalloped fish ” to table; any kind may be prepared and served in them. We would add that scallops, when not in good condition, are most objection- able in flavour, and also very unwhole- some. Cost, about a penny each. Scallops, Scalloped.—Take the scallops as fresh as possible; open, and take them from the shells; trim away the black part, leaving only the yellow and white, rinse them in water and a drop of lemon juice, drain, and dry them ; then cut them up. Brush and dry the deep shells, butter the insides, and sprinkle them with grated or sieved bread-crumbs ; mix the fish with a third their hulk of bread- crumbs, some chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and (to a dozen scallops) a gill or so of melted butter, or any white sauce. This is a vast improvement on scallops prepared with dry crumbs. Fill the shells, level the surface, and squeezo a little lemon juice over each; dredge with more crumbs, and pour clarified butter over, then bake brown in a sharp oven or before the fire. Tho shells can be used again. To slew scallops, follow the recipes for other shell fish. Shacl.—This is a salt water fish, moro used in France than here. It varies in price, but when plentiful is usually cheap. It may be cooked by boiling, baking, frying, stewing, &c. Abroad, it is often stewed in the lightest wines of the country, and served covered in bechamel; a very good dish is the result. Shacl, Boiled.-Stuff a small fish with either of the usual fish force- meats (plain Kerb answers very well); sow it up, and score the flesh a few times; brush with oil, lemon juice, and cayenne, and cover with greased paper; cook before a gentle fire; or, prepare it in just the same way, and bake. Serve with sharp brown sauce, or sorrel puree. Larger fish should bo divided for boiling. Shad, Pried.—Slice and dry tho fish, also the roe; egg and crumb the slices, and fry brown ; serve the slices garnished with roe. Bitowx Sauce should go with this; a very delicious one is Bitowx Mushroom, less known perhaps as a fish concomitant than it deserves. The next best is Caver, or a nice brown sauce, flavoured with good mushroom ketchup ; and we may hero remark that while pure ketchup is a valuable sauce, some of the compounds sold bv the name, are sufficient to spoil any dish. If not homo made, the best oniy should be bought. Shrimps.—The best known aro the brown and rod; the former is tho more highly flavoured; the red, or