Entrees, made DisliEs, aj}d ReLeveS. 227 White Mushroom Puree, some sauce and vegetables as below. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Butter some cutlet moulds, a dozen or fourteen, and after preparing the foregoing (except the sauce and vege- tables) exactly as if for quenelles, fill them with the mixture, which should be seasoned with salt, pepper, a dust of cayenne, and grated nutmeg, or essence of nutmeg or mace. Smooth the surface of each with a warm, wet palette knife, then put the moulds in a stew-pan with boiling water to three- fourths of their depth; put a buttered paper over, and the lid. on the pan, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour, or until firm; then turn them out, and dish them round a Potato Border, slightly overlapping. Fill the centre with any nice suitable vegetable, as peas, asparagus points, or artichoke bottoms; if the latter, cut them in dice, pour a little rich sauce over, veloute, supreme, or bechamel, and pour some more round the base, about half a pint. A border of white meat, macaroni or rice, may be used instead of potato if liked. Veal Cutlets en Fapil- lotes.—-Take as many veal cutlets as may be required, and butter the same number of pieces of paper. Required, for each cutlet, an ounce of chopped mushroom, half an ounce of calf’s liver, scraped to a pulp, the same weight of fat bacon, salt and pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of bread crumbs, and the same of brown sauce. Cost, about 6d. or 7d. each. Mix well, and spread tho cutlets with it, put them in the papers, and fold them over (tee recipes for Mullet en Papillotes). Lay them singlyonameat stand set in a baking tin, and cook them in a moderate oven for half an hour, more or less, according to thickness. A little veal stock should be put in the baking tin. When done, •send the cutlets to table on a hot dish, .slit the papers, garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon, and add tho .gravy in the tin to a little thick brown sauce; season it, and add a table- spoonful of sherry, and pour it over tho meat. Mark tho papers with a hot skewer before serving, to imitate marks made by grilling. Another way.—Spread the cutlets on both sides with a thin layer of beef sausage meat, with a chopped truffle added to each half pound. Cook them in a Dutch oven for about forty minutes, and send a rich sauce to table. Brown Mushroom Sauce, Tomato, Brown Sauce, plain or with truffles, and many other kinds aro suitable. During the cooking, brush tho papers with warm butter a few times. Veal Cutlets with Tomatoes and Cheese.—Required : seven cut- lets, three-quarters of an inch thick, and cut into rounds about two and a half inches in diameter, tomatoes, sauco, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. 6d. Fry the cutlets in the usual way, and dish them each on a slice of tomato, previously grilled (see Toma- toes). Take a gill each of rich white sauce and tomato puree, made by pulp- ing the ripe fruit through a sieve ; mix these, colour a little, and season slightly with salt and pepper; squeeze in the juice of a quarter of a lemon, off the fire, and pour round the cutlets. Fill up the middle of the dish with plainly boiled rice or macaroni, mixed with a little hot cream and grated Parmesan. A slice from the fillet may always be employed for such dishes as the foregoing with success (it should be skinned); but when not obtainable, any lean part, from which rounds of sufficient size can bo cut, may bo used instead. Bat out carefully, as they should be smooth. Another way.—Lay the cutlets in a buttered saute pan, squeeze tho juice of a lemon over them, and pour over each a teaspoonful of veal stock; Cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven ; finish off as above directed. This is tho moro digestible method. If preferred, mix the macaroni with tomato sauco instead of cream.