536 UNIVJiKSAb COOKKHY EOOlC curry in any other form. A mixture of tongue and the meat of a cooked calf’s foot, or a portion of head, makes a good curry. Then there are fried onions, mushrooms, &c., very useful as adjuncts on account of their savour. {See recipes under Tinned Meats, from which many hints may be gathered. See also Index, as directions for re- heating large tongues apply equally here.) Tongue, with Eggs and Caper Sauce.—Required: half a pound of tongue, four or five eggs, a gill of caper sauce, half a glass of light wine, a border of rice, macaroni, or potatoes, a few spoonfuls of white sauce, some chopped capers and rod chillies, and a couple of ounces of ham. Cost, about Is. lOd. to 2s. The tongue should be in thin slices from the thick end; put it in a saucepan with the wine and a little stock, and heat through ; take the tongue up, add the sauce, and pour over the tongue; put it in the border, then garnish with the eggs, fried or poached, and pour the white sauce on them; sprinkle with the capers and chillies, and put the ham in little squares about the eggs, or any trimmings of tongue may be so used. A border of spinach, little heaps of cauliflower or sprouts, and many' othor vegetables can bo used, and other meats may be so served. Tongue, Grilled with Fruit. -—Required : a cooked tongue (calf’s, sheep’s, or pig’s), butter, bread, season- ing, apples, tomatoes, and gravy. Cost, about Is. without gravy. Skin and slice the tongue; smear both sides with butter that has been mixed with mustard, pepper, and powdered herbs; dredge with crumbs,and grill or broil until hot through and brown. Fry or grill about half a pound of sliced tomatoes, and fry the same weight of apples, or prepare a little apple sauce, as convenient. Put the tongue-slices in a row on a slice of fried bread, and garnish with the fruit, placed alter- nately'. Guavy X la Diable, or any' other to taste, should be sent to table, and a plain salad eats well with it. Tongue, Grilled with Mush- room. — Required : two tongues, calves’ or sheep’s, seasoning as above, with the addition of mushroom powder, half a pound or more of mushrooms, stuffed or plain (see recipes under Mushrooms), and a little gravy flavoured with mushroom ketchup. Cost, about Is. to Is. 4d. Cook the tongues, and servo as above, placing the mushrooms round. If liked, fried potatoes may be used alternately in little heaps. Any' plain stock, thick- ened and browned, serves for the foundation of the gravy ; or it may bo dispensed with. Mushroom sauce is very nice with tongue cooked thus. Tongue,Rolled,with Onions. —Required : some slices, cut length- wise, from a boiled or braised ox tongue, onions, and sauce as under. Cost, about Is. per pound. Cut, say, half a dozen slices evenly, by taking a portion from the top and bottom, so as to leave a long strip of meat as widens the tongue allows. Chop up the trimmings cut off, and season to taste; some herbs are an improvement; add a morsel of cold bacon, also cut up, with a few bread-crumbs just to make a paste, then lay a bit on each slice, and roll up; fasten with a bit of thread or a little skewer. Make these rolls hot through in a spoonful or two of gravy', as for plain hashes or stews, laying them flat, and pouring the gravy over from time to time with a spoon. Then fry' some onions just as for beefsteak (half a pound to a pound), and lay' part of them on a flat dish for serving; put the rolls on in a row, and the rest of the onions on the top; cover, and set in the oven or on the hot plate for a few minutes, then serve. The gravy may be poured round or served separately'; the latter is the better plan. Tongue, Rolled, witli Sweet Pickles.—Add some chopped sweet pickles to the stuffing, as above, nnd use more as garnish.