Universal cookeBy book. 64 If tomato pulp is used it may be tbe French pulp, sold in tins, or some ripe tomatoes can be used. If tinned toma- toes of the usual kind are taken for it, the pulp must be measured after any superfluous liquor has been strained off. If a thicker soup is preferred, the milk or stock can be slightly reduced, or the whole can be thickened with two ounces of corn-flour or some pounded “cracker” crumbs. Puree de Legumes en Mulli- gatawny.— Required : three pints of stock (No. 11), vegetables as under- mentioned, enough to fill a quart measure, curry-paste, two ounces of rice-flour, lemon-juice, cocoa-nut, a bunch of herbs, seasoning, two ounces of butter, and some boiled rice. Cost, about Is. 2d. Get together celery, turnip, carrot, parsnip, onion or leek, vegetable-mar- row, artichokes, in fact, as great a variety as possible ; a bunch of water- cress, a small lettuce, or some sorrel, will improve the soup. Wash and prepare the vegetables, slice them into a pan with the butter, and cook for twenty minutes; add the stock, and curry-paste, about a tablespoonful, with the same measuro of grated cocoa-nut and lemon-j uice; simmer slowly for an hour or longer, then stir in the rice- flour mixed with cold stock, and boil for twenty minutes more. Pass all through a sieve, re-boil it, and add salt to taste, with a little pepper, if not enough. It may bo too thick, so much depends upon the kind of vege- tables used ; in that case dilute with more stock. The herbs for this should consist of a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, a sprig of tarragon and chervil, and a little celery seed, all tied in muslin. This is at'egetavian recipe. For meat eaters stock No. 4 can be substituted, and clarified fat used instead of butter. The soup must be skimmed during the boiling. With the rice, servo also some lemons cut into quarters. Pur6e de Marrons.—Required: fifty chestnuts, four ounces of butter, three pints of stock (No. 9), three gills of cream, salt and peppercorns, a small piece of mace, a few drops of lemon- juice. Cost, about Is. 9d. Slit the outer skin of the nuts, and boil them in water until the inner brown skin will come off easily; then lay them in a pan with the butter, and sweat them for twenty minutes : they must not become brown; add the stock, and simmer carefully until the nuts have become pulpy, then pass through a hair sieve : the finer it is the nicer the soup; re-heat it with the cream, season to taste, and serve with croutons. Add the lemon-j uice last of all. For a cheaper soup, use half the quantity of chestnuts and butter, and milk instead of cream. Stock No. 10 can then be substituted. Thickening of flour, rice-flour, or corn-flour, must be added to make up for the deficiency of nuts. Fine sago or crushed tapioca is also a suitable thickening for this and similar soups. Pur6e of Marrow.—Required: two or three young marrows, salt and pepper, a bay-leaf, an onion or two, a stalk or two of celery—the best part— one ounce of butter, one pint of milk, stock (No. 10), one gill of cream. Cost, about Is. Peel tbe marrow thinly, cut it up, and put into a clean pan with the butter and other vegetables and a littlo stock, barely enough to cover, with a littlo salt, and some white peppercorns and a bay-leaf tied in a bit of muslin. Boil to a pulp, then take out the spices and mash or sieve the vegetables. Put back into the pan, with the milk and cream separately boiled, and add moro stock, hot, to bring the whole to the required consistency, say, of very thick cream or thin custard. When it boils up, it is ready to serve. A slight thickening of com - flour improves this. For a vegetarian soup, use water in place of stock, increase the milk, and add an egg, if liked. Servo croutons or toasted bread with it.