239 MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. grated cheese, macaroni, bread crumbs and batter, parsley and seasoning. Cost, about Is. 6d. to 2s. Boil the feet until the bones can be removed, then press them flat until cold, and cut them into nice even pieces, to look like little cutlets. Mix together a teaspoonful each of white pepper, salt, grated cheese, and pow- dered sweet herbs; add the crumbs required, and mix well. Then brush the cutlets over with beaten egg, coat with the crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. Have ready some very thin pancakes, made in the ordinary way (see Pancakes) ; out of these stamp some rounds, and lay one cutlet on each. Dish in a ring, and garnish with fried parsley; serve with a little Cheese Sauce. These may be served for breakfast without sauce. Note.—The pancakes should bo fried and stamped out ready, and kept hot while the cutlets are fried. The latter take but a few seconds after the fat is ready. The small Cheese Frit- ters given in a later chapter may be used for dishing the cutlets if pre- ferred ; or Cheese Aigrettes may be dished up with them, the combination being a very agreeable one. Calf’s Head a la Bordelaise. —Required : a pound of semi-cooked head, cut in neat pieces, a few slices of cooked tongue, a pint of Bordelaise Sauce, garnish, &e., as under. Cost, variable, according to circumstances. After cutting the meat up, put it between two plates with a little stock to moisten; set over a saucepan of boiling water, then pnt it in the sauce to finish cooking; turn on a hot dish, and fill the centre with cooked peas, asparagus, or any other vegetable; carrots and turnips, either a puree, or in fancy shapes, may be used if liked. Round the dish put some crofttons, brain cakes, and fried eggs, or hard- boiled eggs, in quarters or slices. Feet and ears may lie similarly treated, and those of the pig, sheep, or lamb can be used up in just the same manner; or the head of a lamb or sheep is very delicious cooked whole, and served with the sauce, and an accompaniment of fried carrots and turnips; or the same vegetables braised, or mushrooms or onions may be used. To all meats of an insipid kind this sauce is excellent. Calf’s Head a la Tortue.— This dish, which is elaborate and apparently difficult, will not be found to be beyond the power of anyone ■who can please the eye as well as the palate, and, after having flavoured a dish judiciously, can arrange it ele- gantly. Procure a large calf’s head, properly prepared. Remove the brains, which must be boiled and made into cakes, and fried in a little hot butter just before they are wanted. Boil the head in the usual way (sec Calf’s Head, Boiled) till it is suffi- ciently tender to allow the bones to be taken away without altering the shape of the head. Do not take away the tongue, as it will help to preserve the form. Take a large stewpan, melt three ounces of butter in it, and when it is brown, mix smoothly with it two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add just enough of the liquor in which the head was boiled to cover the meat, but before putting the head in, season the sauce with salt, cayenoe, nutmeg, four large tomatoes sieved, and two glasses of sherry. Let it boil up, then put in the calf’s head, and when this is hot it is ready to serve. Now comes the arrangement of the dish, and for this no clear directions can be given; it must be left to the taste of the cook, and depend greatly on the materials at command. The brain cakes, of course, must be used, and they may be heated in the sauce, as also may button mushrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, olives, sliced truffles, cocks’-combs, or fancy shaped slices of tongue. On and about the head may bo placedfriod eggs, cray- fish, prawns, and gherkins, the latter cut into balls and soaked in cold water a little beforo they are wanted. The cars may be scored and curled, and