CEREALS. 543 good sliop in Loudon, kept by Kalians, and devoted to the sale of the produce of their country, is a revelation in the variety of pastes exposed to view, which are not obtainable elsewhere. Some of the shapes are very pretty ; one sort is notunlike the little paper cutlet frills ; another, called • celery macaroni,” is in short lengths, ridged, and as thick as a celery stalk ; and there are hosts of others. One rule applies to all: they must not be soaked, but when they are added to any clear liquid, soup for instance, they should be parboiled to free them from any adhering flour; that woidd cloud the preparation. All are made from a hard, nourishing variety of wheat, though the colour varies. The brown kinds, though less inviting in appearance, are considered most nutritious; the yellowest are tinted by means of saffron, by way of pleasing the palate through the eye. The mode of preparing macaroni as directed under that heading will serve as a guide for ail the pastes. With ordinary care.no one need fail to concoct any number of dishes, both savoury and sweet; but first principles must be understood and carried out, otherwise the pasty messes associated with these foods by those who have never tasted them in their proper con- dition, will continue to be served up, and perhaps nothing is more calculated to create aversion. But those who are willing to take the necessary pains, and to whom Italian paste is an untried food, would do well to try it; it is one of the few articles of diet that gain weight in the cooking; and when its price and nutriment are judged by the meat standard, recommendation on the ground of economy is fully justified. For adding to clear soups, the small shapes of paste in the form of letters, stars, and various fancy devices, are much used ; and those who care to give the time may make their own by following the recipe for Home-made Macaroni on page 545. Arrowroot.—In this substance starch exists in a state of almost abso- lute purity. It is made from tho root stock of Marantn arundinacea, a native of the West Indies. It contains but the merest traces of nutriment in the form of flesh-formers and mineral matter: and no matter what may be paid for it, its value as a food remains the same. Arrowroot, has, however, this to recommend it : it can in some cases of sickness be borne by tho stomach when nothing else can; and one writer says that although in itself it is of little value, it appears to pave the way for more nutritious diet later on. For every-day uses in the kitchen, corn-flour can be substituted for arrow- root. The latter is said to be fre- quently adulterated with potato starch. The price of arrowroot varies from about 6d. to 2s. fid. per pound, fit. Vincent is the lowest; Natal comes next; and Bermuda arrowroot is the highest priced. For recipes sec Index. Barley.—There arc few more use- ful cereals than this; for while less nutritious than wheat and some others, it is so soothing and digestible as lobe particularly suited to invalids. Tot barley and pearl barley are the same thing, the rounded form of the latter being due to the process of milling-, which frees it from the fibrous coats of the grain. Barley flour, or “patent barley,” is pearl barley finely ground. It may bo bought loose for a few pence per pound; in packet form it is dearer, but, being beautifully fine, is soon cooked. This is tho kind generally used for infants and invalids. (See the chapter on Food for Invalids and