332 UNIVERSAL COOKEKY BOOK. hand, a spoonful may be put in last thing, and remnants of cooked vege- tables of various sorts can go into the stewpan. Serve very hot. See also Mutton Chops with Vege- tables. The above can be fried and finished off with the vegetables as therein given; but it must be fried well, and simmered rather longer than the chops. Mutton a la Venison.—This, if carefully cooked, will be almost equal to venison ; any joint may be used, but we give directions for a leg, or piece of the same weight. First wipe the meat thoroughly ; it must be of good quality and freshly killed, then rub it with the following mixture:—a quarter of an ounce of black popper, a saltspoonful each of ground cloves and allspice—i.c. Jamaica peppercorns or pimento—a teaspoonful each of ground ginger and bay leaves; put it into a marinade of red wine and vinegar, about a gill of each. Leave it for three days, rubbing and turning it daily, then wash it in warm water, very quickly, and dry it well, and cook it exactly like venison, sending the same sauces and adjuncts generally to table with it. Or, if preferred, it can be cooked as mutton, with no addition but the ordinary gravy, and will be found excellent in flavour, and a decided change from a plain joint. If seasonable, serve French beans, plainly boiled, with this. Neck, Boiled.—Shorten the ribs and saw off the chine-bone of a neck of mutton, or from three to four pounds of the middle, or the best end. Pare off the fat that is in excess of what may be eaten, and boil slowly, as given under the head of Leg, Boiled, which see. There is a peculiar sweet flavour from this part, and the pot- liquor is admirably adapted for broth. Some rice or barley may be served in it, and will be all the nicer if boiled with the meat, which should, how- ever, be free from either when served, Sauce should be poured over, and some vegetables put round it. The liquor (if the broth is not wanted the same day) must be emptied into an earthen vessel, and the fat removed when cold. It is a good plan to boil the extreme scrag end with a sheep’s head, or somo similar part which requires skimming very often; if this is done, the neck gives but little trouble in this direc- tion, as the parts where the blood has clotted are those which throw up the most scum. This can bo cooked with- out the shortening of the bones above referred to. Cost, from 7d. to 9d. per pound. Neck, Browned.—Boil as in preceding recipe, but not quite so long; finish by cooking the mutton before the fire, first covering it with a mixture of fino bread-crumbs, parsley, and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little mushroom powder, cemented together with the beaten yolk of ono or more eggs. When nicely browned, serve with half a pint of tho pot liquor thickened with a dessertspoonful of browned flour, and add a tablespoonful of lemon juico. Time, a quartor of an hour to the pound. Cost, as above. Neck, Bioasted. — We have already recommended that the rib- bones of this joint should be shortened to give a nice appearance to cutlets, and we also, for economy’s sake, and to give a nice squareness to tho piece of meat, advise the purchaser to get it done for a roast. The meat of the neck from a well-fed sheep is very good indeed. Take off any excess of fat, and roast precisely according to direc- tions given for roast loin (see Loin, Roasted), always remembering that the fire for cooking mutton should bo clear and brisk, but not fierce. Finish off by making gravy in the pan. (S.e remarks at the end of the recipe for Shoulder, to Roast.) Time, about fifteen minutes per pound. The best end should be roasted alone; but if the entire neck is required, it should bo cut through, the scrag end requiring less time. For a family, the