339 MUTTON. hot fat for a couple or three minutes, then add the rest; the stock should be warm ; bring to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes, then add a slight thickening of browned flour, and the salt, and cook for a minute or two more. Chopped onions or mushrooms can be used in place of pursier. Sheep’s Liver and Bacon.— Required : a pound and a half of liver, half a pound of onions, twelve ounces of fat bacon, a teaspoonful each of sage and salt, and half as much pepper, a pint of water, and two ounces of flour. Cost, about Is. Sd. Wash and slice the liver, dry it well, and roll each slice in the flour mixed with the pepper. Slice and fry the bacon, keep it hot, and fry the liver, turning it often, and then the onions ; they should be very thinly sliced. Put all on the top of the bacon, on a hot dish, and put the remainder of the flour (left from the liver) in a basin; mix it with a pint of cold water and the sage and salt; stir it into the pan, and scrape the bottom well. Give it a few minutes’ boiling, colour it a good brown, and pour it over all. Give the liver about fifteen minutes, or rather more. After the first minute, to close the pores on both sides, raise the pan, and cook slowly ; it must look pale, not red, all through. Any redness proves insufficient cooking, and it is, in that condition, very unwholesome. Any who are in the habit of indulging in pork, duck, or goose, with apple sauce, will be wise to serve a tureen of it with the above : that, together with the sage and onions, will give the dish a flavour very little inferior to goose or duck itself; at any rate, it will be found no mean substitute for either. The proportion of onions and sage may' be increased according to taste. If two pans are handy, fry the onions in one, while the liver is frying in the other. Sheep’3 Liver and Cucum- ber3. —Required : liver, cucumber, bacon, bread, See., as below. Cost, about Is. 9d. for a dish from a pound of liver. Stew down some young cucumbers [see recipes in Vege- tables), and mix with a little thick gravy, after the cucumbers have be- come a pulp. Mutton stock should be used for the gravy, a thickening of brown roux added, and a nice seasoning. Have ready ns many pieces of fried bread as there are slices of liver. The latter should be cooked as directed in the previous recipe. Cover the bread with cucum- ber, put a piece of liver on, then more cucumber ; place a little slice of bacon on the top, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Liver and Toma- toes.—Proceed as above, but use plain tomato Bauce or puree instead of the cucumber. If liked, a stuffed sheep’s heart, covered with thick brown gravy made in the pan (see Sheep’s Liver and Bacon) can be served in the centre of the dish; or three or four kidneys, broiled, and cut in halves or quarters, may be laid round, each on a bit of fried bread. Cost, variable. Sheep’s Tongues. — If the tongues are not required with the heads, and it may happen that they can be served without them, a nice dish may be had by serving them quite plainly boiled, with the brains, and a nice sauce. A bit of boiled bacon or pickled pork will eke out the meat, and improve the flavour. They are very good, too, if cooked by the recipe for Sheep’s Tongues, Broiled.— Required: a couple of tongues, some stock, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 8d. Rub each tongue with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, and a pinch of pepper, and cloves or nutmeg, in fine powder. In a few hours (or leave them all night), rinso them, and boil them in the liquor from boiled meat, or plain water will do; a bit of ham will improvo their flavour, so will a few scraps of vegetables. Cook until the skin will come off ; cut them through lengthwise, and sprinkle