484 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. be. The eggs, too, must be above suspicion, not absolutely new-laid, but good ; in nothing more than in forcemeat is a doubtful egg more object ion- able ; and they should always be most carefully freed from the germ. To season forcemeats is an art, for there is a wide difference between those that are little more tasty than bread itself, and such as may be tasted for hours after a meal. In testing a forcemeat before it is cooked, it should be borne in mind that seasoning is brought out by heat; that is, a force- meat which appeared to err on the side of mildness before cooking, might be found almost too hot when cooked. These things, as well as the tasto of those who will eat of the dish, must be considered. Herbs in the fresh state can be pretty accurately gauged with regard to quantity, but in using dried ones allowance must be made for the loss of strength by keeping. A word with regard to scraps of cooked meat; some people seem to have a notion that any bits 'of dry meat “ can go into the stuffing,” and that so long as there is bulk, there must of necessity be goodness. We are anxious not to be misunderstood, because in many forcemeats, cooked ham and other meats are used ; we mean that to stuff a joint, which perhaps needs two or three hours’ cooking, with scraps of meat which are already too dry, most likely, is manifestly absurd. The term “ forcemeat ” answers alike for the homely sorts called “ stuffing ” and for the hotter varieties to which the French name “ farce ” is usually given. Bread Forcemeat, French, —Required : bread, suet, onion, herbs, seasoning, and eggs, &c, as below. Cost, about 6d. Take four ounces of broad, and prepare it according to the direc- tions given under Panada, Bread, French . When cool, add to it two and a half ounces of veal kidney suet, a small onion, scalded and chopped, a tea- spoonful of parsley and thyme, a dust of nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, and either one whole egg, or the yolk of one and a tablespoonful of cream or milk. The suet should be as finely chopped as possible, and well mixed in the bread; the dry seasonings should be blended before they are put in. Another way.—This is plainer. Use an ounce of fat bacon, rasped, i.e. scraped with a knife, a little parsley and thyme, or for some dishes mush- room powder is nicer, a little seasoning, and part of an egg, with a spoonful of milk, to the same quantity of panada given above. If for fish, the rest of the egg comes in for brushing it over, if to be baked or roasted (see Fish). Brown Forcemeat (A Vege- tarian Recipe). — Required : half a pint of crumbs from brown broad, a dessertspoonful of fruit jelly—currant or tomato is nice, or apple jelly can be used—a large onion, fried and chopped, a little brown store sauce or ketchup, with seasoning to taste ; a pinch of cloves or allspice ■will improve it; one egg, one ounce of butter or a spoonful of oil, and two ounces of tapioca. Cost, about 6d. Mix the crumbs and dry seasonings, rub the butter in, melt the jelly, add it and the beaten egg, then put in the onions and tapioca; the latter should be cooked in a little water till soft (sec recipes under Tapioca), and mixed in while warm. It gives body to vege- tarian forcemeats, but other cereals can take its place; many are more nourish- ing, but lack the smoothness of tapioca. Sago is the next best to it. This has various uses for pies, &c. Another way.—Use equal parts of bread-crumbs and cooked sieved car- rots, or any other vegetable ; to half a pint add a raw egg, oil or butter as