U.NiVtiKSAL COOKERY BOOK. 482 poultry; some of tho raw meat of either should then ho mixed in with the rest if handy. Or some fumet of game is an improvement, when game is used; but the truffle flavour should not he destroyed. University Sausages. — Re- quired : a pound of pork, a pound of veal, half a pound of veal kidney suet, and the kidney itself, a glass of port, a gill of bread-crumbs, the yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne, a morsel of garlic, and any herb that may he preferred. Cost, about 2s. fid. to 3s. The bread and wine should soak together, and ho put with the meat, &c., after they have been minced as usual. The garlic should boas line as possible. Tho whole should be pounded and pressed in a jar, then covered, and left to blend before the skins are lillofl ; after which they should bo steamed fox- half an hour, then left to get cold and be fried, the skins being first removed, and the sausages rolled in egg and bread-crumbs. By cooking in the skins during the first part of tho pro- cess, tho flavour is better preserved. Little cakes of the above are very good for garnishing such dishes as roast rabbit or bare; or small balls may bo used in jugged bare, and all such dishes. The nicest way of cooking the cakes is to steam them until done, then let thorn get cold, and finish off as directed for the sausages; or instead of egging and crumbing they may bo brushed over with liquid fat, and browned up in tho oven or before the fire. The halls may be floured, and cooked in the gravy of the hare, &c. Veal and Ham Sausages.— Required : a pound and a half of lean veal, a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of lean ham, seasoning and lioi'bs. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Mince the meat in the usnal way; tho ham should bo of very good quality ; then add a teaspoonful of sage or mixed herbs to each pound of meat, with salt and pepper to taste. The quantity of salt depends upon tho quality of the ham and bacon, and must be added very cautiously. Fill skins, and cook in tho usual way. They are very delicious if boiled until nearly done, then finished off by frying or broiling. These also make delicate rolls [nee i-ecipcs under Pastry). Veal Sausages for Garnish- ing.—Required: half a pound of veal, four ounces each of fat bacon and lean ham, two ounces of bread, seasoning, &e., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. Prepare the meat in the usual way, and season with salt and white pepper, a dust of cayenne and grated nutmeg, and a pinch of dried thyme in lino powder. The bread should be soaked in white stock, squeezed very dry, and sieved, then mixed with the yolk of a raw egg and added to the meat. When well blended, form into little sausages on a floured board ; they should bo about an inch and a half long, and haR' as thick as an ordinary sausage. After shaping, they should be put in a cool place for an hour if convenient, then rolled in flour, next in beaten egg, and finally in fine biscuit-crumbs, made from any sort of hard unsweet- ened biscuits. Make a little butter hot in a frying pan, and cook tho sausages for about eight or ten minutes, turning them often, and letting them acquire a pale brown lint only. Drain well before serving. Theso are suit- able for garnishing many dishes, and they may be vaiied a little to suit tho dish. A thin coat of glaze improves them. White Puddings.—Required: pork, bacon, groats, milk, salt, pepper, onions, &e., as below. Cost, 4d. to 5d. per pound. Take two pounds of lean pork, and mince it small. Boil a pound of solid fat pork or bacon, and let it get cold: c ut this into squai-es. Soak some whole groats in milk for twelve hours; about half a pound will do; if groats are not available use the coarsest oatmeal in- stead. Then mix them with the lean pork. A good seasoning of salt and white peppex-, a little nutmeg, and a