225 feNTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEV^S. macaroni in white stock, season it, and mix in a gill of cream, heated. Turn the sweetbread on a hot dish, put the macaroni round it, and use the tongue and truffle to divide the two : they should be set up in a ring alternately. Cut up any trim- mings of the garnish into Julienne Shreds, and sprinkle them over the macaroni. Put the quenelles on the top of the sweetbread, with pea shapes of truffles here and there to divide them. Sweetbread Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Required: sweet- breads, ham or tongue, white sauce and tomato sauce as below, and a garnish of truffles, cocks’ combs, crous- tades, fee. Cost, on an average, from 5s. 6d. to 7s., but variable. About seven or nine cutlets will make a nice dish. Prepare them by blanching, then par- boil or braise them until nearly done, and press them until cold. They must then be sliced and cut into the proper shape by means of a cutlet cutter, and fned, the same as whole sweetbreads. For details of the above-named pro- cesses, see the recipes above, and Calf’s Sweetbreads in Made Dishes. From the trimmings of the sweetbreads, and an equal amount of cooked ham or tongue, make a mince, and mix it with a little thick white sauce, Bechamel, or any other, and colour it a pale pink. Cut some rounds of truffle, and ham or tongue, and heat them in a little clear ste -k. Prepare a sauce by mixing a gill and a half of tomato pulp with the same measure of white sauce, Bechamel for choice ; season, and add a tablespoonful of sherry ; colour with carmine. A ring of fried bread, and a high croustade are also wanted (see Garnishes). Place the ring on the dish, with the high croustade (smaller) inside it, anrange the rounds of truffle and tongue on the ring, rest the cutlets against the croustade, over which should be poured the mince, so that it shows between the cutlets. Garnish the top with whole truffles, tongue, and cocks’ combs, and pour the sauce « in tho dish. (See Coloured Platb, No. 2.) Tomato Easkets a la Har- leig'b.—Required: nine ripe tomatoes, smooth and equal in size; the same number of croutons, a little larger, cut with a round, crimped cutter; some puree and garnish as under. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Scoop out the inside of the tomatoes, leaving an even outer case; they should be first cut in halves. Put part of the pulp through a sieve, and mix with it an equal bulk of minced, cooked ham and chicken, seasoned with thyme and parsley, salt and pepper, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar; add a raw egg, yolk only, and a small quantity of good bechamel and cream, and heat the mixture in the bain- marie. Steam the tomato cases until heated through, then dish them on the croutons, and fill with the mince. Beat up the whites of two eggs with a good pinch of coralline pepper, and a grate of nutmeg; force it through a rose pipe on the top, and brown with a salamander. Form handles with semi-cooked macaroni, just soft enough to bend, and cover them -with a little of the mixture used for the filling ; it must be sieved, and mixed with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, then forced from a bag, with a small leaf or rose pipe. (See Garnishes.) Put a little parsley or chervil here and there on the handles, and serve hot. Tomato Baskets a la Peri- gneux.—Required : the remains of a cooked pheasant, some cream, season- ing and Perigueux Sauce, tomatoes, and croutons as below. Cost, from 2s. to 3s. Prepare the baskets as for Tomato Baskets a la IIarleioh, and make a minco by passing the cooked meat of the pheasant through a mincer; supposing enough to fill a quartor pint measure, add tho samo measure of sauce as above, and half as much thick cream. After steaming tho tomatoes, brush them outside with glaze, and dip them into fried bread