UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 338 crumbs : while they are browning before the fire, strain the gravy and skiin it, or pass the vegetables through a strainer or colander, and serve them in it. Then thicken with browned flour, and give a nice seasoning of salt, popper, and sauce or ketchup. Some rice can be put in the gravy if liked, sufficient to make it quite thick, but the oven must be very slow. A morsel of brown sugar will tend to improve the hearts, so will a squeeze of lemon juice, or a few drops of vinegar. Brown mushroom sauce, or a puree of mushrooms, is a nieo accompani- ment, if the heart be stuffed with plain herb forcemeat. Cost of heart, about 9d. S h eep’s Hearts with Raisins.—Mix together for the stuffing an equal bulk of grated bread-crumbs and chopped raisins; add a morsel of butter, an ounce to four ounces of the mixture, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper; fill the hearts, and then bake or roast them, and serve with brown gravy (see Gravies for Hashes, Stews, &c.) thickened and flavoured with a bit of currant jelly. This will be liked by any who are used to American dishes. (See also Partridges with Raisins.) Sheep’s Hearts, Roasted.— Rcqnired: a couple of hearts, a pint of gravy, some stuffing, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. Hearts cost from 8d. to 9d. each. Soak the hearts in cold water, or leave them under a running tap; cut away the pipes, and trim them nicely. Either leave each cavity to bo filled separately, or cut them all to form one; in this wav more stuffing can be got in. Then fill them, using plain or rich veal forcement, or one of those givon for ducks. Tie a greased paper over them, or use some muslin; it should bo drawn all over, and tied at the pointed end; or a few small skewers put in opposite directions, may be used to secure the forcemeat : again, a needle and thread can be employed. A few thin slices of fat bacon may be skewered round the heart, and will reduce the necessary basting. Cook before a clear fire from forty minutes to an hour, accord- ing to size. Serve with a plain gravy, or what is still better, a brown caper sauce. If the heart is stuffed with sage and onions, onion sauce can be served with it. Sheep’s Hearts, Stewed.— They may be stuffed or not; if plain, brown them for ten minutes in hot fat, and then add gravy (see above recipes) to cover. Cook for an hour or more, and make the gravy thick and brown. It should be also rather piquant. Pour it over the hearts, and put some vegetables on the dish ; they may be stewed in the gravy, or sepa- rately boiled. Cost, as above given. Sheep’s Kidneys, Broiled.— Cut the kidneys in two lengthwise, without quite dividing them; use a small skewer to keep them open; dip them in hot fat (butter or clarified dripping), and sprinkle with pepper; broil the cut side first, turn them every minute until done; add a pat of maitre d’hotel butter, and serve hot. Kidneys should be eaten directly they are done : they spoil by waiting ; when cut, the gravy should flow freely. For a superior dish, cut them in halves, and take the thin skin off, then skewer them as above. Sheep’s Kidneys, Grilled.— Proceed as above, using the gridiron instead of the Dutch oven, or other broiling apparatus. Time, about twelve minutes. Cost, about 2d. each. In some large towns they are sold at 3d. Sheep’s Kidneys, Stewed.— Skin anti halve the kidneys, then cut them through again. Required: for four kidneys, a gill of stock, No. 1 or 2, a teaspoonful each of lemon juice, chopped parsley, and Worcester sauce, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Cost, about Is. Brown the kidneys in a morsel of