MADE DISHES AhTD RELEVEg. 2G0 In this case, some of tho sauco, left white, should he poured over the meat; and more, coloured a pale green, is required for the artichoke bottoms. It should he thick, just to coat them. This is a very good dish, and if the meat is boned it can be served as an entree. A pint of sauce will be wanted for about two and a half pounds of meat. VealRoularde,—Required: veal, bacon, eggs, gherkins, bread, seasoning, and garnish, as below. Cost, variable, according to the garnish, &c. Bone a breast of veal without cutting the upper meat; beat it well with a roll- ing pin, then mix the following ingre- dients : half a pound each of lean veal and bacon, passed through a sausage machine, a chopped shalot, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, the samo of capers, a pinch each of winter savoury, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pep- per, the same of thyme, a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, a pickled gherkin in strips, and the yolks of three eggs. Spread this over the veal, then proceed exactly as for Polish Buck, but giving longer time, about three hours; more if a large breast. When ready to serve, the meat may be glazed, or coated with aspic, after trimming the ends of the roll. Gar- nish with fancy blocks of aspic, and little heaps of dressed salad, with some olives, capers, and pickled gherkins, cut into strips. This is a German recipe. It is a good breakfast dish, plainly served; garnished as above, it is excellent for tennis parties, &c. Directions for boning are given in the next chapiter. Veal, with Chestnuts. (Are Bp.r.r, with Chestnuts). — Substi- tute veal for beef, and cook it by braising, or lay it in a buttered sauli piaa, squeeze some lemon juice over, cover with buttered paper, and took in a moderate oven. Then lay it on a hot dish, and coat it with thick Bechamel. Boil the chestnuts until both skins will come off, then cover with white stock, and finish off as in the recipe above referred to, but add a small quantity of White Sauce or cream, or an ounce of butter, to each pound. The mixture should be coloured pink. Cream Sauce is very good with this, and if made thick it can he used for masking the veal. Veal a la Guernsey, — Re- quired : a fillet of veal, some sauco, and garnish as under. Cost, about lid. per pound, exclusive of sauco, kc. Tho meat may be braised or roasted, as preferred, but must not be cut while hot. Place it on a dish for serving, and glaze it with pale, thin glaze; then put fancy shapes of Tomato Aspic on the top, with Green Butter between, to form any pretty design ; put a rim of curled green butter all round tho edgo of tho meat, and sprinkle it with tomato aspic, chopped very small. Glaze the sides of the meat, and put a border of plainly-dressed green salad all round, with Tomatoes a la Gueuxsey hero and there amongst it, and blocks of yellow aspic in between. Make some Sauce a la Guernsey (double the quantity given in the recipe) ; freeze as directed, and serve on a separate dish. If more convenient, a shoulder of veal may bo boned, and substituted for the fillet. The latter must ho very tightly rolled and bound after boning, or it will lose its shape, and bo unsightly when cut. Veal a la Pousfoate.— Re- quired : two pounds of veal, breast cu' neck, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a dozen little onions, the same number of young carrots and turnips, a bunch of herbs, a clove of garlic, threo tomatoes, stock and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. Gd. Cut the meat in pieces of an inch and a half square, cook in the oil for a short time until browned a little, then drain; lay in a stewpan, with tho peeled onions, and scraped carrots, tho tomatoes in dice, herbs, and a pint of stock from veal or chicken bones ; cover, and cook for an hour, then put in tho