589 CIIKESK. little milk or butter to moisten it; by some persons a spoonful of ale is pre- ferred, and others add a dash of store sauce. This is served on a slice of buttered toast. "When slices of cooked bacon are laid on the top, it becomes * “ buck rabbit ” ; and if further en- liched by a poached egg, the title changes to “golden buck.” If poor cheese be used, it will not melt, and will be “ leathery ” when cooked. Digestible Cheese Dishes.— Xo. 1.—This is a simple form of pud- ding or mould. Take a deep pie-dish, butter it, and nearly fill it with alternate layers of bread and butter and grated or sliced cheese ; the bread and butter is to be soaked in a mixture of eggs and milk, two to the pint. Bi- carbonate of potash, in the proportion of a quarter of an ounce to one pound of cheese, is to be dissolved in the milk. This should stand before baking, to give time for saturation, and the oven must be gentle. If liked, the bread may be grated; and those who think the browned surface the best part of a Yorkshire pudding will use a baking- tin of the same sort for this. Cost, about 6d. or 7d. Dishes of this sort are too nutritious to supplement a joint, and should be used as a Swiss peasant uses his fondti, i.e. as the substantial part of a whole- some dinner. A dish a little less savoury than the above, but very good and more diges- tible, is the same mixture steamed ; it must be made stiffer by the addition of more bread, or an ounce of flour to each pint of milk, as well as an extra egg; any previously cooked cereal— rice, for instance—is a good addition, as it helps to bind as well as give bulk, thus making it more economical, as well as more adapted to the require- ments of some people. Note.—It may be remarked that the use of the potash is not so necessary when milk can be had and used straight from the cow, that being in itself slightly alkaline, and the softer the cheese the more easily wijl it dissolve. Xo. 2.—This is of the fondu class. Take a gill of milk, as much bicarbonate of potash as will cover a threepenny- piece, and four ounces of grated cheese; heat these carefully in a saucepan until the cheese is completely dissolved, then add three eggs, and pour the pre- paration into shallow dishes or trays of metal or earthenware that will stand the fire, and bake until nearly solidified. The advantage of using shallow uten- sils is that as less time is required for cooking, “ an air-tight leathery skin ” on the surface is absent. For a cheaper dish, use fewer eggs and add bread-crumbs; the seasoning is composed of mustard, cayenne, white pepper, and, if liked, a dash of nutmeg. This is Professor Williams’s own recipe. Cost, from 5d. to 6d. Referring to dishes of cheeso and any Italian paste, the author contrasts the usual English method with that of the Italians. The latter, he says, take care that the cheese is delicately cooked; while in England “ the top layer, being often of grated cheese, is browned and converted into a horny, caseous form of carbon, that would induce chronic dyspepsia in the stomach of a wild boar if he fed upon it for a week.” We recommend the following as a light dish of the sort, if made strictly according to instructions :— Mix an ounce of com-flour or potato- flour with a little cold milk; heat tho remainder of a pint of milk, and add it to the flour; boil for a few minutes, stirring well. Take it from tho firo and let it cool slightly; theh stir in, until quite soft and smooth, two ounces of cheese, grated or sliced, according to its condition; season to taste, then pour the mass into a dish into which about four tablespoonfuls of boiled macaroni has been laid. Stick sippets of dry toast round, and serve. A few grains bicarbonate of potash are to bo stirred in after the milk and flour have boiled; but without tho potash, this will not disagreo with anyone who cm tako cheese at all. Cost, about od. Xo. 3.—This is tho typical cheeso porridge, It is described as “ ordinary