UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 594 Fry a large oval slice of bread; it should bo cut with a crimped cutter, and just fit the inside of the dish the eggs are to bo served on. Cover this half an inch thick with rich Cucumber Puree. Boil some eggs hard, cut them through lengthwise, and form a border round the bread, laying them white and yellow side alternately. Garnish the whites with a little Ham Butter and the yolks with Green Butter, keeping the dish over hot water the while, as it must be served very hot. Put a little of the same, garnish in the centre of the sauce. Eggs, Curried.—Make a pint of curry sauce (sec Ilor Sauces); boil ten or a dozen eggs, and cut them in two across ; cut a morsel from each end so that they will stand, then put the half eggs round a hot dish and pour the sauce over; fill up the centre with half a pound or more rice, boiled as for curry (see page 660). This is substan- tial, and a good dish for any meal. Some of the yolks can bo reserved for garnishing the dish. Another loay. — Chop and fry some onions in the ordinary way; add an equal bulk of grated apple, and moisten with stock, but keep the mix- ture thick ; add curry paste to taste and a little lemon juice; stir now and then, and when done lay in some hard- boiled eggs in quarters or slices; there should bo enough of tho curry mixturo to coat thorn ; cover and let the oggs become well flavoured, then servo in a pile, with rice round ; or mako crofttons or small rounds of toast, and put little heaps of the curry on them. Chutney or hot pickles can bo added to this. Cost, from Is. Gd. to Is. 9d. when a dozen oggs are used. Eggs, Curried, Cold. — The yolks of some hard-boiled eggs should be pounded, either with cream, butter, or white sauce to moisten. A tea- spoonful of curry paste should be allowed for half a dozen eggs on an average ; this is to be mixed with stock or cream, heated, and mixed with the rest after it is cold. The half-eggs are to be filled in the usual way. (See Eggs, Stuffed.) Very useful for garnishing salads and other dishes of a piquant sort. Eggs, Devilled. —Tf to bo served hot, boil the eggs hard, and quarter or slice them, then lay them in a stewpan with enough gravy to cover them. Gravy a la Diable, see p. 85, will be found excellent r but a plainer one can be made on the same principle by using a cheapor stock. A few drops of anchovy sauco is an improvement. Serve as soon as the eggs are hot through, with strips of dry toast, or put croutons round the dish. Cost, variable. Egg Dishes for Breakfast or Luncheon. — The undermen- tioned are given more as illustrations of a few ways of preparing tasty dishes for the meals named than as recipes proper, as they may bo varied according to taste and the contents of tho larder. Cost is not given, owing to the variable nature of the dishes. No. 1.—This is a very nice dish. Break some eggs into a buttered saute- pan ; dust over with a dash of salt and pepper and a pinch of dried herbs, with a little fresh parsley scalded and chopped. Set this in the oven until the yolks are just set, then pour a little Brown Sauce on some fried or toasted bread, cut into rounds, one for each egg. Trim most of the white off, and lay an egg on each piece of bread; chop the surplus whites up, add them to a little hot tomato puree, seasoned with a dash of mustard and salt; pour this round the eggs, leaving the yolks visible, and servo hot. Seven or nine egg's make a good dish ; an odd number always dishes better than an even one. No. 2.—Chop and fry a good-sized onion, add a tablespoonful of French vinegar, a dash of French mustard, a few drops of anchovy essenco, and a little thick brown gravy. Then put in a spoonful of cold game or poultry, minced or chopped. Spread this over some bread, as in the above dish; on the top of it lay the eggs, cooked as above, or in any way