201 FISH. above, except that the truffle is omitted; a tablespoonful of cooked lobster, pounded and sieved, should tako its place. Line the shells with fried crumbs, and coat them with the same; after filling, adding somo oiled butter. Brown in a quick oven, and garnish the tops with lobster coral or chopped lax. Turbot en Darioles, k la Julienne.—Take some cooked turbot, free from bone and skin; put half a pound in a mortar, with seasoning to taste, and two tablespoonfuls of bechamel, or good white sauce; pound them, then pass through a sieve. Make a sauce by mixing a gill each of thick cream and mayonnaise, with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and rather more than the same measure of chopped lax ; colour the mixture pink. Have ready some small dariole moulds of white china; fill them with alternate layers of fish and sauce, letting the latter form both the' bottom and top layers. Prepare some julienne shreds, from cooked carrot and beetroot, and some raw shredded cucumber ; sprinkle these lightly all over the surface just before serving (the beetroot and cucumber should be lightly dressed with salad oil), then all round the edges of the darioles, put chopped aspic, using a small bag and pipe. Turbot en Darioles, fi, la Jacques.—Prepare the fish as above, but add an ounce of butter when pounding. Make the sauce with green mayonnaise, and omit the lax. Fill the moulds, and on the top, in place of the strips, put tiny dice of raw cucumber, dressed with oil; add a little chopped parsley, and garnish the edges with pink aspic. These, and the above, should be served very cold. Turbot en Mayonnaise.— Take a medium sized fish, and removo the flesh in four fillets; place them together again on a buttered tin, so that the fish may be served in its original shape; sprinkle the juico of a lemon over, and lay a sheet of whito paper, well buttered, on the top : set O* tho tin in a gentle oven, and cook the fish thoroughly; tho time must bo calculated by its thickness. Then sot it aside until quite cold. Tako it up carefully, and put it on a dish ; mask it with mayonnaise, half an inch in thickness, and let the layer be smooth. Then put in a bag some Anchovy Cream, or Lobster Cream (see Cold Sauces) ; and, with a plain pipe, ornament tho edge of the fish, leaving a little space between; fill up the spaces with green mayonnaise, also from a bag; sprinkle tho first decoration with a pinch of chopped gherkin or capers, and the second with lobster coral or chopped lax. Then, all over the top of the fish, form any pattern with tho same decorative media, viz., gherkin or capers, lobster or lax, with somo truffle, chopped finely, and chopped parsley or chervil. Next, form a border on the dish, of chopped aspic, with some prawns, shrimps, lobster claws, or slices of lobster; or cut the aspic into cubes, or other shapes, and alternate them with the foregoing ingredients, together with sliced lemon, cucumber, or little bunches of dressed green salad; and stoned olives. This is a very ornamental dish, suitable for a cold collation of any kind. It may be simplified consider- ably, and fillets of fish can bo coated with mayonnaise, and dressed moro or less elaborately according to re- quirements. (See Salads. ) Turbot Moley. (See Meat Moley.)—Follow the directions, using for tho foundation either fish stock, or a mixture of that and milk. White fish of all sorts may bo used up, but a mixture of turbot and lobster—if only a ladleful of lobster sauce to a pound of fish—will be found very delicious. In our opinion, a smaller proportion of onion, and a larger amount of potato, is nicer for a fish moloy ; and wo find, though it is a doparturo from tho original, that a fow drops of anchovy essonco are a decided improvement, both to tho fish und tho potatoes widely accompany it.