STOCKS AMD SOUPS. 59 Fot-au-Feu. — Required : three pounds of fresh beef (it may he the thick part from the shoulder or top of the leg), two pounds of fresh hones, three quarts of cold water, one or two carrots, one turnip, two leeks, one parsnip, four good-sized onions, part of a head of celery, a large hunch of herbs, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, allspice-berries, and cloves (a few only of the latter), and a small dessert- spoonful of salt, added gradually, a portion only being put in at first. Cost, about 2s. 6d. The bones are put in first, then the meat, tied neatly with tape, the herbs and spices in a muslin bag, and the cold water; and upon the gradual boil- ing and thorough skimming much of the success depends. When it boils, add the vegetables gradually, so as not to reduce the temperature of the liquor; skim it again, and then allow it to boil very slowly, but unceasingly, for four or five hours. The liquor should be clear, and of a pale golden-brown colour. When ready to serve, it may be coloured with browning salt or liquid browning, hut either should he most sparingly used. Serve the soup with croutons of bread, and, if liked, some of the vegetables in strips or dice. The meat, if served hot, is dished with the vegetables round it, and a sauce, the base being obtained from the bouillon, served with it. Some- times a cabbage is added to the pot-au- fen; it may be quartered, tied with string, and put in twenty minutes or half an hqpr before serving, but the liquid keeps better if the cabbage be omitted. Another way consists in par-boiling the cabbage in the usual manner, and draining it well before adding it, and this we think is prefer- able. For one reason, any soup left over will not keep so well if the cabbage is boiled in it without the first boiling in water. Potage a. laCeylon.—Required: two quarts of stock (No. 4), two eggs, half-a-pint of cream, an old fowl or rabbit, a tablespoonful each of grated cocoanut, sweet mango-pickle or chut- ney, curry-paste, tamai’inds, and clear hot Indian pickles, a clove of garlic, a large onion, a sour apple, a bay-leaf, a tablespoonful of lemon or lime juice, seasoning, and boiled rice. Cost, about 4s. 9d. if fowl is .used. Joint the fowl, cut it up small, ex- cept the breast, and put it to boil in the stock, a little salt and lemon-juice being added now and then, followed by skimming. When it looks clear, cover it, and boil until the breast is tender; then remove it, cut it into tiny strips, cover, and put them aside. Put the skin and bone back into the pan, boil for two hours longer, then strain through a fine hair sieve or tammy cloth, and make up the quantity to two quarts with more of the stock used at first. Then grate the apple, chop the onion, put them in the stock with the cocoa-nut, chutney, garlic, pickles, herbs, and tamarinds; boil until tender, then wring the soup through the tammy. Put it back into the pan with the curry-paste and two ounces of arrowroot mixed with cold stock; boil up well, then put in the shredded fowl, just to get hot. Beat the eggs and cream (the whites of the eggs are to be omitted), heat them in a bain-marie, put into the tureen, and add the soup gradualty, beating well. Last thing, put in the lime-juice and more sea- soning. Potage a la Chasseresse.— Required: two quarts of stock (No. 5), a hunch of herbs, an onion, two cloves, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, one ounce of glaze, a dessertspoon- ful of extract of meat, a calf’s foot, a glass of .Madeira, a dessertspoonful of curry or mulligatawny paste, and twenty quenelles {see Que- nkllbs A LA Chassbuesse, in IIol En- trees.) Cost, about 2s. Make the stock hot, put in the herbs, spices, and onion ; boil a quarter of an hour, add salt to taste, and the curry and glaze, then the moat extract; cook for a few minutes longer. In a clean pan have ready the moat of a calf’s