MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. 259 Ox Tongue a la Calcutta.— Required: an ox tongue, butter, salad, curried eggs and quenelles and sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 8s. to 9s. Boil or braise an ox tongue, nnd dish it, after skewering it to a board to preserve its shape. It should be trimmed nicely, and any excess of fat removed. Glaze it thinly, and orna- ment the tip with sieved egg yolk, and green butter, or ham butter (see Gaulishes). The tip generally looks somewhat ragged, and is preferably covered by the garnish. Then ornament the rest of the tongue in rows, with the same garnish, and fasten a frill on. Put a bed of dressed green salad at the sides to fill up the hollow, and place in it some Ccruied Eggs cut in quarters (a dozen or more may be used). Then place chopped aspic round the dish, and lay on it a border of curried quenelles, with sprigs of parsley or chervil in between. When ready to serve, put some little blocks of Iced Sauce a i.a Calcutta on a dish; or use tiny moulds, allowing one for each person; and garnish prettily with green salad, and leaf-shaped pieces of pink aspic. For the quenelles, make the mixture as given for Veal Quenelles, or chicken may be used; and to half a pound, add a teaspoonful of curry paste; it should be pounded with the meat. Ox Tongue a la Cranleigh.— Required : a fresh tongue, two ounces of bacon, a small onion, a turnip, carrot, and leek, half a dozen celery stalks, a good bunch of herbs, some peppercorns and allspice berries, a gill of shorn-, and some stock, &c., as under. Cost, about Gs. 6d. First, wash the tongue, cover it with cold water, and bring it to the boil, then take it up and dry it. Put the bacon (cut in dice) in a largo stewpan, with the vegetables and spice; lay the tongue on the top, put a bnttered paper over, cover, and cook for twenty minutes, shaking tho pan often, then add half a pint of stock, as No. 4, or clear stock (No. 7 or 8) will be still better; add the sherry, cover, and cook gently for three hours, or more, according to size, basting every twenty minutes with the liquor, over the paper. Add more stock as it reduces, to keep up the quantity. When done, take the tongue up, trim it nicely, and skin it; brush it over with glaze, and put it on a dish. Reduce and skim the gravy, and mix with it half a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 2). Boil up, and pour a portion of it round the dish. Send any nicely dressed, seasonable vegetables to table, and garnish tho dish with small cooked tomatoes, mushrooms, or artichoke bottoms (sec Dressed Vegetables), together with glazed croutons, and scraped horse- radish. Ox Tongue a la Bresde.— Coat the tongue as directed for Ox Tongue a la Belgravia, using yellow jelly in place of pink. Round the base, put some Ham Butter and Sa- voury Eggs. Garnish the top of the tongue with Green Butter to form a wheel, and put over it some chopped truffle. The butter may be passed through a forcing pipe, or Curled Butter can be used. When serving the tongue, hand round somo Iced Sauce a la Dresde. Another way.—Instead of collaring the tongue, serve it in its original shape, and ornament with the same garnish, but before putting it on the dish, lay on it a bed of plainly dressed salad ; it helps to steady tho tongue. Ox Tongue, Sour (a German dish).—Required: an ox tongue, sea- soning, thickening, wine, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, from Gs. to 7s. 6d., according to garnish, &c. After trimming a fresh tongue of good size, lay it in a pan with tho following ingredients: a gill each of vinegar and light wine, a lemon in thin slices, a large onion, and morsel of garlic cut up small, a saltspoonful of ground cloves, twico as much black pepper and powdered