POKK. 363 any kind in season: the dried green peas puree given in a later chapter is very suitable. Serve the pickles, &c., separately, and as hot as possible. The compound is an agreeable com- bination of sweet and sour, and is a gravy and sauce in one. Cost, about 6d. each, with adjuncts. Saddle, Boasted.—Havo a saddle of pork cut in the same way as a saddle of mutton. As pork is not often cut up in this way, it will be necessary to order it beforehand. Take off the skin, trim the joint neatly, and cover the fat with buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liber- ally. Half an hour before it is taken up, remove the paper, dredge the meat lightly with flour, and baste until it is brightly browned. Send brown gravy and a sharp sauce to table. If liked, the skin can be left on, and it will then require to be scored lengthwise, the same way in which the saddle is carved. This is the handsomest joint of pork that can be served. Time, without the skin, twenty to twenty-five minutes per pound. With the skin, nearly thirty minutes. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Shoulder, marinaded (a German recipe).—Lay a shoulder of pork in a deep earthen pan, pour over it half a pint of vinegar, and put with it a dessertspoonful of salt, a teaspoon- ful of bruised peppercorns, half a lemon, two onions sliced, a teaspoonful of juniper berries, half a dozen cloves, and a bay leaf. Let the pork lie in this pickle for five days, and turn and rub it every day. Take it up, drain it, cover it with oiled paper, and roast before a clear fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally with the strained pickle. For sauce, mix a quarter of a pint of the pickle with a quarter of a pint of cold water; add brown thickening, and a little.pepper and salt if required. Serve in a tureen. A piquant sauce will be very nice with the above dish, and it is nicer when basted in the usual way at tho close, and well-browned and frothed. Cost, fid. to 8d. per pound. Spare-rib, Boasted.—A spare rib of pork usually weighs about eight or nine pounds, and will take from two to three hours to roast—not according to weight, but the thickness of the meat, which varies very much Lay the thick end nearest to the fire. A bald- rib of eight pounds’ weight (so called because almost all the meat is pared off), with a steady fire, will be done in an hour and a quarter—there is so little meat on a bald-rib that if you have a large, fierce fire it will be burnt beforo it is warm through. Joint it nicely, and crack the ribs across as you do ribs of lamb. When you put it down to roast, dust on some flour, and baste with a little butter. Fifteen minutes before the meat is done baste it with butter, then dust powdered sago or sprinkle with duck-stuffing. Some people carve a spare-rib by cutting out in slices the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When this meat is cut away the bones may be easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet picking. Apple sauce, mashed potatoes, and good mustard, are indispensable. Cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Spare-rib or bald-rib is often salted for a day or two; the salt must be wiped off before roasting, and longer time given for the cooking. When very thin, this mode is not desirable. Sucking Pig.—This is con- sidered to be perfect when from three to four weeks old. It should bo cooked as soon as possible after kill- ing ; every hour it is kept it deterio- rates in quality. Scraps of stale, durk- coloured sucking-pig, sometimes seen hanging in butchers’ shops, should not be purchased. The flesh is very rich, and in many cases hard to digest. It should, therefore, be avoided by those who cannot indulge in pork of older growth. Cold weather is the time to eat sucking-pig. The price varies very much, even in the different dis- tricts of one town; whilo in rural districts, tho Beason and the demand have much to do with it. The average mny be set down at 6s., to 8s. or 9s.