325 MUTTON. a pinch of spice and pepper, with a morsel of shalot if liked, and proceed as above directed ; a pinch of mush- room powder will also improve the crumbs. Another way.—Mix a tablespoonful of cooked ham, finely minced, with herbs or mushrooms, or shalots, add- ing butter as above, and put a morsel on each chop or cutlet; on one side will suffice; then roll in crumbs. Another way.—This, perhaps, is the method that will prove the greatest novelty. Have ready some stewed sultana raisins; chop them, and mix them with a seasoning of curry-powder and herbs; stir them with dissolved butter and a little thick, hot pickles; spread this paste over the chops, and finish off as directed. In all the above recipes the exact proportions of the several ingredients must be regulated by individual taste. Cost of meat, from 9d. to lid. per pound. Chops, Toasted.—The illustra- tion below shows a very cheap and handy form of toaster, which any tin- man could make. The size and number of hooks can be easily adapted to individual requirements ; the hooks can be increased to six, if the width of the grate will take a tin of sufficient capacity; then a large steak or little Fio. 82.—Toaster. joint may easily be supported, and all the advantages of a meat-jack and stand may be enjoyed at trifling cost. When not wanted for meat, it will answer for other purposes, and in the flat tin at the bottom many little dishes, scalloped meat, fish, &c., may be browned to perfection; or choose may bo toasted; indeed, its uses are very numerous. One thing must bo borne in mind in ordering it, viz., it must be narrower than the fireplace-, the latter should bo at least four inches wider. Pass the hooks through the fat part of the chops, and give them about twenty minutes with frequent turning. Chops, with German Lentils. —Required : nine chops from small, lean mutton, and cook them in a Dutch oven, or fry them if more convenient. Have ready a good-sized onion, fried in rings, and some chopped parsley, also a dish of lentils, boiled plainly. They should be on the dish on which the chops are to bo served. Pour over them a little thick gravy, made by adding browned flour to mutton stock, and boiling it up, with seasoning to taste. On the top, sprinkle the fried onion, shake the parsley over the chops, and serve hot. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 3d. Another way.—Add a seasoning of curry paste to the lentils (about a tea- spoonful to the pound), and mix in amongst them the fried onion. Pour the gravy round the chops, instead of over the lentils, and in place of the parsley, sprinkle the chops with curry powder before cooking. Chops, with Vegetables.— Where vegetables are to be had fresh from the garden, and in plenty, this method of cooking chops will be as wholesome as it is agreeable to the palate; it is also economical. Trim the chops (or cutlets), pepper them, and fry them in hot fat until half done. By this time have in readiness the vegetables—peas, asparagus, celery, carrots, turnips, &c.—nil cut oven in size, and stewed in a little stock. Put the chops with the vegetables, and leave them, covered, at simmoring point, until done. Flour tho pan, make a little thick gravy, and add to tho vegetables, &c., with seasoning to tasto. Do not destroy the fresh