STOCKS AND SOUPS. 69 Prepare a sweetbread by blanching, boiling, trimming, and pressing until cold (see recipes for Sweetiikeads). Make the stock hot ; aftor careful skimming, add salt, a drop of celery vinegar, or a pinch of celery salt, a drop of tarragon vinegar, and a pinch of soluble cayenne pepper. Make some balls from the forcemeat the size of a marble, and cut the sweetbread into dice ; brush them over with beaten white of egg, take them up on the point of a skewer, and drop them into the soup a minute before serving. Mix the milk with half an ounce of arrowroot, add the cream, bring to the boil, and blend very thoroughly with the soup, then serve at once. Xote.—Make the forcemeat without suet, using butter instead, and before adding the balls to the soup, boil them first in stock for twenty minutes, and let them become cold. This is a very rich and delicious soup. If preferred more highly flavoured, boil a slice of carrot, a morsel of onion scalded, and sprig of parsley in the stock for a few minutes. A tiny strip of ham, half an ounce or so, may be put in with them. Tapioca Cream Soup. — Re- quirea : a quart of milk, a pint of stock N o. 9), three ounces of crushed tapioca, a gill of cream, salt, pepper, and a drop or two of essence of nutmeg, three eggs, and vegetables as under- mentioned. Cost, about Is. 4d. Put into a muslin bag a tablespoon- ful each of celery and Spanish onion, very finely chopped, the same measure of grated carrot, and a teaspoonful of grated cocoa-nut, a saltspoorfful of mignonette pepper, and a small bunch of herbs. Tie up the bag, put it in the stock, boil up, and just keep it sim- mering for half an hour, then remove the bag, giving it a good squeeze. This will colour the stock, and give it a rich appearance. Now sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring well; it will take twenty minutes to boil. Beat the yolks of the eggs up, heat the milk and cream in a bain-marie, and mix it with the eggs, then add the stock very gradu- ally, first using a spoonful below boiling point. Return the whole to the pan, stir until it is on the point of boiling, then serve. Tapioca Cream Soup (Plain). —Use stock No. 11 ; omit the eggs and half the cream. Increase the quantity of tapioca by another ounce. This is very good soup maigre. Fish soup of this kind, made from plain fish stock, is suitable for Lenten fare. The cocoa- nut may be omitted. Tinned Soups.—A great variety of soups may now be had in tins, and for the most part they are very good. Those made by the leading firms average from eightpence to a shilling for a pint tin, and some will bear an equal measure of stock, and in some cases more, though there is a tendency on the part of the makers to over-rate their strength. The majority of them will bear a little extra seasoning and flavouring, and to some a little added thickening and a spoonful of wine are undoubtedly very great improvements. Among others, we may mention cressy, hare, game, giblet, grouse, julienne, kidney, tomato, vegetable, hotch-potch, mutton broth, green pea, mock turtle, real turtle, mulligatawny, venison, vermicelli, and Palestine. There are several sorts of Aus- tralian soups also in tins, and much lower in price than the above mentioned; the quality is not so good, but they are useful in emer- gencies. As a rule, they will be more satisfactory if sieved, the meat being stringy, and for adding to a good bone stock or vegetable stock they are by no moans to be despised. Tho same caution applies to these ns to other tinned meats—as soon as opened, whether the contents of tho tin be re- quired or not, empty it into an earthen vessel at once. Never leave tho moat standing in tho tin, Tomato Curry Soup.—This is very delicious and inexpensive. Re- quired : a quart tin of tomatoes, one pint