58 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. a pint and a half of whatever vegetables are in season cut up into small pieces. In summer these will consist of peas, cauliflowers, French beans, lettuces, or spinach; and in winter of carrots, turnips, or celery. Season with cayenne and salt, if required. When the vegetables are done enough, serve the entire preparation in a tureen. In the West Indies, where this dish is a great favourite, it is so highly seasoned that it is universally known as “ pepper pot.” Time, about an hour aftor the fowl is put in. Pheasant Soup.—The remains of a cooked bird will make a small quantity of soup, but for three pints or thereabouts, tho addition of a pheasant partially roasted is essential. Required, in addition, stock (No. 5), and herbs, vegetables, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 5s. Put in a stew-pan an ounce or two of butter and some lean raw ham, in dice, about a quarter of a pound, add a carrot, sliced, some celery, a bunch of herbs, an onion, or a shalot or two, and fry brown ; then put in the remains of the cooked pheasant and the semi-roasted bird—excepting the breast and best part of the wings —add the stock, boil and skim, and cook gently for an hour or so, then rub the meat through a sieve, and strain the soup on to it, keeping back the vegetables. Cut up the meat from the breast and wings into small slices, add it, and a glass of sherry, with salt and a pinch of cayenne, re-heat, and servo. A slight thickening of roux improves. For a superior soup boil the inferior parts of the birds for a still longer time to got a fuller flavoured soup ; strain, and if desired clear, clarify it [see page 21), then put in the sliced meat as before, and rather more wine than above mentioned. Pickle Soup.—This is a popular Russian soup, for which there arc many recipes. Weak stock forms the basis, and pickled cucumbers, with their liquor, are always added ; sour cream and flour mixed are put in just before serving. A very good soup of tho kind, likely to commend itself to English palates, may be made as follows:—Into two quarts of pale clear stock put a couple of table- spoonfuls of minced cucumber pickle, some vinegar, a dessertspoonful of capers and their liquor, the same measure of mango-chutney or pickle, and seasoning to taste, the salt and popper being in moderation, that the soup may retain its piquancy. Boil until the flavours are blended, then put in a teacupful of sour cream and about two or three ounces of fine flour or rice-flour, the latter blended with a little stock. Boil up and serve. Pot au-Feu. — “ This,” says Sir Henry Thompson, “is an admirable dish ” (referring to tho national pot-au- fen of France), “ in which a small portion of meat is made to yield all its nutritive qualities, and to go far in mingling its odour and savour with those of tho fragrant vegetables, in- cluding sweot and savoury herbs, which aro largely added to the stock. The beef, which is an essential portion of the dish, is often eaten hot, after the soup, but sometimes cold, with plenty of green salad and oil—doubtless the most palatable mode of serving.” The bouillon is the broth or soup of tho pot-au-fen, and the well-known soups of a good Paris restaurant, as paymnne and croAte-au-pot, are but slight modifications of the original pot-au-fen ; indeed, the broth may serve as the basis of many excellent soups. The cleanliness of tho vessel is im- portant. A high French authority gives tinned iron or copper the palm, and nothing could bo better than the puro steel pans of our own day when copper is not to bo had. Tho division of the bones is necessary to obtain a good bouillon; in fact, somo authorities contend that nothing short of thorough smashing (when they must be tied in a bag) will suffice. And it must bo re- membered that when they have served tho pot-au-fen they are still of uso for tho stock-pot.