EGGS. 591 unfitness for use. Some persons pin their faitli to the brine test (two ounces of stilt to a pint of water). A fresh egg will fall to and remain at the bottom, while any that float, are very doubtful, and most likely quite worthless. Again, one may judge of an egg by shaking it: if uo sound is emitted, it is full and fresh ; if stale, it will “ gurgle.” When more than one ogg is wanted for any dish, they should always be broken separately into a cup, because one bad one may spoil a dozen unless this precaution be observed. The specks or germs are to be removed with a fork for every dish; to get one in the mouth is a very common but unpleasant experience. For dainty dishes, the precaution of straining after beating is well observed. The manner of beating, too, is of no small importance; this applies more especially to certain dishes: such are indicated under their headings; but we may here mention, as it applies to any dish, that in separating the whites from the yolks of eggs, if the latter should by chance becomo mingled with them, the condition described as a “ stiff froth ” cannot be attained ; it is wasto of time to try. Neither can the separation be effected if the egg be stale; for the chances are that the two portions are already mingled before the egg is broken. Again, after the firm froth—so necessary when extreme lightness is a desideratum—is obtained, the mass is only to be stirred, never beaten, to the other materials. Why? Just because air has been incorporated, and the object is to fix these bubbles by means of heat. Therefore the mixture, whatever its nature, should not stand after the amalgamation, but be cooked at once. We have referred to the nutritive properties of eggs, but they cannot be indulged in by all; some can take them cooked in certain ways, and uot in others; and although there is no fixed rule, it will generally be found that lightly-cooked ones are most likely to agree, and that boiled ones often canse trouble when poached ones do not. Where hard-boiled eggs can be digested, they are a good food, by reason of their staying powers; hence their use on long journeys. Besides the dishes in the present chapter, there are many others in various parts of the book into which eggs enter, and reference should be made to the Index. Particulars and illustrations of whisks and other utensils employed in egg cookery will be found in the present aud later chapters, i See also Kitchen Utensils, at the end of the book.) Ducks’ Eggs.—There is a great difference in the flavour of theso— sometimes they are so strong as to be almost uneatable; but when mild and the flavour is liked, they are generally an economical purchase, as they may often be had for a penny each. They are more likely to agree if cooked out of the shell; we prefer them poached. The ordinary methods are to be followed, sufficient time being allowed in proportion to their size. When done, the whites will look opaque all through. In the making of puddings and other dishes of a plain sort, one largo duck egg may take the place of two small hen eggs, so far as richness goes, but their stiffening properties are hardly equal. The albumen of the duck ogg is of a bluish cast when cooked, and although wo have used the word opaque in connection with the cooking, the same dogreo of whiteness or opaqueness found in the eggs of the hen will bo wanting. If preferred wiled, allow ns long again ns for a small lieu egg. Some are of opinion