COLD MEAT AND SCtiAP COOKICftV. A I I mould, and steam for an hour. Turn out, and serve with hot House Radish Sauce round, and dredge the top with grated horse radish, making a circle of white the size of a Borin; round this put some cooked celery, just the ends of the white stalks with their green leaves; arrange them thickly, and put more round the base of the mould. Braised beef can be used in the same way with some of its gravy. Beef Rechauffe.—Required: a pound of meat, a tablespoonful of chutney, the same of tomato vinegar, an onion, a teaspoonful of mustard, half as much pepper, half a gill of gravy from the joint, bread-crumbs, tomato butter, brown sauce .and crou- tons. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. (id. This is a good dish, and there are few better ways of re-heating meat that is too much underdone for table in the cold state. Cut thin, even slices, and season with the gravy, chutney, mus- tard, vinegar, and the onion, chopped and fried; both sides the meat must be coated. Grease a flat dish, and put in some crumbs, then meat, then brown sauce, and so on, sauce forming the top layer. Dredge with crumbs, put a little butter over, and bake brown in a sharp oven. When done, put the croutons about, and send tomato butter to table; or if preferred, spread it over the top. {See Ixdex.) Note.—This may be greatly varied by employing other adjuncts, but the crumbs should line tl.e dish to prevent the meat hardening. Mushroom sauce in place of brown, with ketchup in- stead of chutney, may be used. Celery sance is very nice, and horse radish butter i3 a good top garnish. Breakfast Cakes, Savoury. —Required: half a pound of cold pork, a potato, a quarter of a pound of cooked onions, seasoning as below, and about three or four ounces of sausage meat (beef). Cost, about lOd. The cooked pork should be chopped up, and mixed with the sausage meat in a basin: thorough blending is necessary. The potato, preferably baked in its skin, is to bo sieved, and added next, with the oniohs, as finely chopped ns possible. They may be cooked in any convenient way; but fried ones give the best result; salt and pepper with a generous saltspoonful of powdered sago and a grate of nutmeg, go in next, with, if liked, a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Very thorough mixing is necessary. Last of all, put in the white of a raw egg, beaten to a stiff froth. Put Homo fine stale bread-crumbs on a board, and mould the mixture on the board into little oval or round cakes, the size of a nut- meg, before Battening; or cork-shaped pieces may be made. Have some fly- ing fat to cover them, very hot, and drop them in ; they should brown and crisp at once; then take the pan from the fire a little, while they cook ; in a minute or so they will be done. Drain and serve very hot. They will puff out if made and cooked as directed, and mako quite a good-sized dish. Another way. ■— Required : four ounces of cold veal, the same of beef, three or four ounces of any plain herb forcemeat, and a little ketchup and seasoning. Cost, about Is. See the foregoing recipe; make these in the same way (no potato is needed), and serve with fried parsley and cut lemon. Note — Beef sausage meat may bo used, or underdone cooked meat, and many potted meats may enter into the composition with advantage. The stuffing must not contain suet. For better cakes, coat them with beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Bubble and Squeak. — Re- quired: a nice young cabbage, about ten or twelve ounces of boiled beef (from fresh or salted meat), or roast beef, some fat and seasoning. Cost, about 8d. •Season the slices of meat with pepper, and a dust of nutmeg or mustard if liked; fry them lightly in a little hot beef dripping in a frying pan. Boil and drain the cal.bign well ; dry it in a cloth, chop it, and fry it in the same fat. Serve the cabbago