179 FISH. salmon may be boiled in either of the foregoing ways; it is considered more digestible than uncrimped salmon; sometimes the slices are wrapped in buttered muslin, but where there is a drainer to the kettle this is not neces- sary ; in fact, grease should be avoided. Salmon Cutlets, Grilled.— Take slices of an inch and a hall thick; brush them with oil, and sprinkle with salt and mignonette pepper; leave them for an hour, then wrap them in white paper, oiled well. The gridiron must be rubbed with oil and heated. Lay the cutlets on, with a little space between. Put close to the fire (it must be clear), turn in a minute, then raise the gridiron, and turn every two or three minutes; they will take about twenty minutes, and must bo brushed over with oil each time of turning. They should be a nice brown when done, and quite crisp to the touch. Take about five slices for a nice dish, which should be hot, and covered with a dish paper. If a hot sauce is liked, a piquant one is best; or a pat of anchovy, Ma'ithe d’Hotel, or other kind of butter may be put on them. See also Sauce Herbace, Sauce Her- rac£ au Parmesan, and Sauce for Salmon. Salmon Cutlets, Savoury.— Cut the slices half an inch thick ; skin and bone them, then flour them, and dip them into beaten egg; next coat them with bread crumbs, made savoury by adding to half a pint the following ingredientsa saltspoonful each of white pepper, powdered thyme, and grated lemon peel; a pinch of ground nutmeg and cayenne, and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Let them lie for an hour, then give them a second coating of egg and crumbs, and broil, grill, or fry them. Serve with Taktaub, or other piquant sauce, and garnish with fried parsley. I-'or break- fast, luncheon, or dinner. Salmon, Fillets of.—Fillets of salmon differ from salmon cutlets in this : that in the latter the fish is cut into slices through the bone, but in the former the flesh is raised from the bone by means of a knife slipped along the spine. When the separation is effected, the skin is removed, and the fish is out into neat pieces of any shape and thickness that may be desired, though they are not often more than half an inch thick. Salmon, Fillets of, Fried.— Fillets are excellent if egged and crumbed, and fried in the usual way. They are nicer if the crumbs are seasoned with salt, cayenne, and herbs. Any of the fish sauces may bo served with them, a good brown piquant is perhaps best. Fillets of salmon are also very good stewed in brown sauce or Matelote Sauce. It is best to steam or parboil them, then finish them in the sauce, seasoning with lemon juice, anchovy, cayenne, and a little sherry. Salmon in Cases, a la Barri- cotte.—Take the skin and bone from a pound of salmon, the tail end; cook it by parboiling in the ordinary way, then drain it from the water, and lay it in a fiat tin, with a spoonful or two of light wine, and a buttered paper over the top. Finish it in the oven, or on the hot plate, hasting often with the wine. When done, leave until cold, then flake it, and season nicely, and mix with it some thick mayonnaise and a dozen or so of chopped shrimps. Half fill some small oval china cases with the fish, then add a layer of sauce (see Anchovy Cream or Lobster Cream, under Cold Sauces). Make the surface smooth, and put hero and there a morsel of green garnish—capers, chervil leaves, or small cross. Next cut some ovals from aspic jelly poured in a tin to sot; these should he rather smaller than the cases, so that an edging of the sauce will show. Lay these ovals, one on each case, quite flat, and in the centre of each oval put a round of tomato aspic, about the third of an inch thick, and an inch in diameter. Dish on a lnco paper, and serve as an entree, or fora cold collation.