237 Made dishes AnC i^leveS. reduce the gravy, add it to a pint of good Oyster Sauce, and pour round the meat, which should he glazed as usual. Baef S teak with Vegetables. —Required : a steak an inch and a half thick, and a pound in weight, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is 9d., exclusive of sauce. Cut the steak as above; fry a chopped mushroom with a shalot and some parsley, season well, put it in- side the meat, and sew it up, then grill or broil for twenty to thirty minutes, brushing it first with oil, seasoned with cayenne, grated nutmeg, and powdered herbs. Prepare the vegetables as for Brcxoise Soup, fry some potatoes also, in any desired shapes, and dish the meat, with the vegetables in little heaps round it. Serve with it Brown Celery, Onion or Mushroom Sauce ; brown caper or tomato is also suitable. Mutton can be used in the same way. Beef with Chestnuts.— Re- quired : two pounds of lean beef, the same weight of chestnuts, prepared as under, seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. 8d., exclusive of gravy. The meat should he in a thick slice, from any tender part, then broiled or baked. Bake and skin the chestnuts ; put them on to boil, with stock No. 6 or 7, to cover them ; lay a buttered paper over, and simmer until the stock is absorbed. Then add a pinch each of salt, sugar, white pepper, cayenne, and coriander seed ; or in place of the latter, a slight flavouring of anisette; rub through a sieve, stir in an ounce of butter, and colour with carmine to a pale pink. Serve round the meat, and send brown gravy, made from stock as above, to table in a tureen. Chestnuts as above may be served with roast beef. Besf with Ox Foot, Stewed. —Required : a pound of steak, one ox foot (or two calf’s feet), vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Od. to Is. 9d. Slice and fry a largo onion ; put it in a stew jar with the meat in square pieces, and the foot parboiled and jointed ; add a grated carrot, and half a pint of minced celery; then pour in enough plain stock, No. 1 or 2, to cover the meat, with a little flavoured vinegar, and a tablespoonful of brown vinegar; add herbs, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Cover, and stew for three hours, then pass the vegetables through a sieve, add the gravy; boil up and thicken a little. Then servo with a garnish of any vegetable separ- ately prepared. Brain Cakes (for garnishing).— Take a sheep’s or calf’s brains, and wash and blanch them (see directions in next recipe). Then boil them in a little white stock until done, and beat them up. Add a hard-boiled egg—yolk only, rubbed through a sieve—and a tablespoonful of cream, or any nice white sauce, and season to taste with salt and pepper, and a little mace or nutmeg; lemon rind, in small proportion, is an improve- ment, and fine herbs are 'sometimes liked. Some fine bread crumbs, or a little bread panada (see Force- meats), must be put in to give con- sistence, but the mixture should not he stiff. When cool, form into little balls, then flatten them into cakes about the size of a florin; flour them, then coat with egg and bread crumbs, and fry a delicate brown. For Brain Balls, follow the above recipe, but shape the mixture like marbles. Calf’s Brains.—Blanch tho brains, however they are to be cooked. This is done as follows :— Wash them in salt and water, re- newing it until they are free from any trace of discoloration. But them in cold water to soak awhile, then skin them, wrap in a bit of muslin, and cover with cold water; add a pinch of salt, a bit of onion, a few peppercorns (white) and a toaspoonful of white vinegar or lemon juice; bring this just to tho boil, remove tho brains, and if not needed at once, put them in cold water until wanted. Thoy