UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 52 each of butter and flour, a tablespoon- ful of tomato pulp and red currant jelly. Cost, about Is. Wash and soak the beans and lentils, boil them with the butter, mushrooms, and onions (the herbs and spices tied in muslin), until the whole can be sieved easily ; then add the flour, to- mato pulp, jelly, and salt; boil up, and give ten minutes more simmering. This is a most excellent soup. If liked, small savoury balls can be served with it; they are made by mixing brown bread crumbs, say a teacupful, with an ounce each of butter and boiled rice, a good seasoning of herbs, pepper and salt, two raw eggs, and a little milk; the mixture should bo quite stiff. It is then shaped the size of small wal- nuts, and boiled separately in a little stock for twenty minutes, or they can be cooked in a steamer; they would not cook so well in the thick soup. Cost, about 5d. Mock Turtle Soup.—This is the staple soup of English life, to be met with in most of the dining-rooms and hotels, not only in London, but almost everywhere in Great Britain. As its name implies, it is an imitation of turtle soup, introduced to us by our navigators about one hundred years since. The essential point in mock turtle must, therefore, be the “ lumpy delight ” furnished by calf’s head; and the "choice of the head should be a matter of some importance. It should be large, firm, and fat, full of brain, with good tongue and cheeks. The preparation of this soup will take a good deal of time, and the recipe and instructions are necessarily lengthy; but if carefully followed a soup almost equal to real turtle may be had at considerably less cost; indeed, it is often preferred to the real thing. Many cooks, however, spoil mock turtle by using water instead of Btock and by careless flavouring, that is, by insufficient flavouring; whereas, if it is in any way to resemble the prepara- tion from which it takes its name, attention in this respect is particularly necessary : for everyone knows that a calf’s head in itself is a most insipid thing ; it will only furnish body to the soup. We would also call attention to a common mistake—a serious one, for it involves waste—that is, to boil the head in water until tender, then to throw away the water, and add stock. Those of our reader’s who have fol- lowed our directions for stock making will at once see the folly of this pro- ceeding, and the fact that these direc- tions are sometimes found in cookery books furnishes ample proof that the propounders of such recipes were ignorant of the first principles of the art of cooking. Before giving any recipes for the soup we will describe the preparation of the head. It must be from a freshly-killed calf, and should be bought of the butcher unskinned: that is, the hair should be all removed, but the skin left on. It will, how- ever, be necessary to give the head an additional scrape to free it from all trace of hair. It should be put into water nearly boiling for a few minutes, then taken out and scraped with a blunt knife, the process being repeated if necessary. It must then be put into cold water and well washed, all the cavities being cleansed with the fingers (the soft part round the nose to be thrown away—i.e., the soft bony part which can be pulled away with the fingers; we do not mean that anything is to be cut); a little salt helps to re- move any offensive matter; then take out the brains, put them in a basin of cold water; lay the head in cold water and salt for twelve hours, renewing it several times, or, better still, leave it under a running tap for some hours. When ready for use, take it from the water and dry it. This treatment is needed for calf’s head cooked in any way. Mock Turtle Soup (Good).— Required: a calf’s head, a gallon of stock (No. 8), herbs, spices, vegetables, &c. Cost, about 4s. For a richer soup use stock No. 6 or 7. Put the head, prepared ns above,