Stocks and soups. 61 a pale golden-brown. Drain before adding to the soup. Potage a la Heine.— Required: a chicken, a blade of mace, a few pepper- corns, salt, one ounce of sweet almonds, half a pint of cream, two pints and a half of stock (No. 9), two ounces of bread-crumbs from a French roll, and one ounce of arrowroot. Cost, about -is. Boil the chicken in the stock until tender, then hike it out and let the stock get cold, when all the fat must be taken off. Skin the bird, and mince all the white meat of the wings and breast; then pound it with the crumbs, moistening with a little hot stock, and pass through a hair-sieve. Cut up the almonds, and soak them in cold stock to cover them for a few hours. When wanted, make the stock hot; add the arrowroot, blended with cold milk to a paste, bring to the boil, and add the stock from the almonds; put in the sieved chicken and bread and the boiling cream ; cover, and leave by the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Season with salt, but it should be a delicately-flavoured soup. The spice should be tied in muslin, and put in the stock for a short time until sufficient flavour has been extracted. For a more economical method, the cream may be reduced, milk taking the place of half of it, and the remains of a cold fowl can be used up. .Some- times rice boiled until tender is used inatea/1 of bread-crumbs, and the almonds can be dispensed with. Note.—The legs of the bird should be reserved for devilling, and the bones put into the stock-pot. Potage a la Heine (No. 2).— Required: three quarts of stock (No. 7), an old fowl, a turnip, an onion, half a head of celery, one ounce of pounded almonds, two ounces of rice, the yolks of three eggs, seasoning, milk, and cream. Cost, about 4s. Boil the fowl in the stock until the breast is tender, then cut off the meat, and put it aside. Oo on with the boiling of the rest until the meat falls from the bones ; free it from skin, and put it in a mortar, with the yolks of the eggs (boiled hard) and the rice, which should be boiled with the fowl, and a spoonful or two of milk or cream and the almonds; pound all to a smooth paste, then strain off the stock into a clean pan (the bones and vegetables can go into the stock-pot for further boiling), and make up the quantity to three quarts. Add to the pounded meat the crumb of a small French roll, about a quarter of a pint, after rubbing it through a sieve ; pour on the soup gradually, mixing well, bring it all to the point of boiling by degrees, and let it stand covered for a few minutes, but do not boil again. This will not be pale and delicate- looking, but it is a very excellent flavoured soup. An old rabbit may be used in precisely the same way. Ground almonds maybe used to save the trouble of pounding, and some boiled chestnuts, shelled and pounded, will serve instead of the rice. Potage a la Verona.— Re- quired : a pint and a half of medium white stock (No. 9), a pint of milk, four eggs, some grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of vermicelli, some heart-shaped croutons, salt, and cayenne pepper. Cost, about Is. Boil up the stock, sprinkle in the vermicelli slowly; boil gently, and stir often until tender; then beat up the yolks of two raw eggs with the milk, and thicken it over the fire as if for custard; add the boiling soup to it very gradually, and season to taste. Have the croutons ready, then coat them with the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard and sieved; sieve the whites of the eggs also, and put them in the soup. Arrange the croutons nicely on a dish, and serve grated cheese on a separate dish. Potage ft la Windham.—Put into a saucepan some canned corn, American (a quart tin), a quart cf the liquor from boilod chicken or rabbit, a pint, or theroabouts, of onion sauco, made with milk, salt and pepper to