555 CEREALS. of the double pan. (See page 550, Porridge, General Remarks on.) Another way.—Have ready a suffi- cient quantity of boiling water, salted. Mix the oatmeal (which may be coarse or medium, as preferred) with cold water to a paste; add some of the boiling water and stir well, then pour it into the boiling pot gradually, stirring ;ill the time, and cook for an hour or more. Serve with any of the usual adjuncts. Porridge so prepared has a very good flavour, and is smoother than when the meal is simply sprinkled into the boiling water. It is further improved if the meal and cold water arc blended an hour or two before cooking, and if two hours’ boiling be allowed. Oatmeal, Stewed.—Attention is called to this, as it may take the place of ordinary porridge as a break- fast dish, where sweet foods are not liked, though it is equally suited for a dinner dish. A jar or double pan should be used for making it. Allow half a pound of coarse oatmeal to two quarts of vegetable stock; soak for some hours, and cook from three to four hours. Any herbs can bo added, or a little curry powder, or a spoonful of sauce or ketchup, or a fried onion or two. Pepper and salt should be added to suit the palate, and the stew served hot. (See Digestible Cheese Dishes and Malted Cereals.) A small proportion of sago or tapioca gives smoothness to this. Pilau.—The pilau or pilaff of Die Orientals has been described as the analogue of the Italian risotto. The basis is rice boiled in some sort of broth or stock, and the dish is generally popular. The pilau of the Turks is thus described by Sir Henry Thompson :— “ Wash well six ounces of East Indian rice, and boil in a pint of water for five minutes at the most. Then throw it into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. Next place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding by degrees half a pint of good fowl broth. After fifteen or twenty minutes it should be properly done, turning out with the grains separate. It is to lie served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true pilau; but additions maybe made of the meat of the fowl, of thin slices of bacon, or grated beef or ham, of a little curry powder, of chutney, of fried onions, mushrooms, &c., &c., and it can also be made with beef and veal broth, and treated as above; but in none of these forms could it be regarded as the true Oriental dish.” Pilau, Arabian. — Required : mutton, stock, rice, butter, &c., us below. Cost, about Is. 6d., exclusive of garnish. This is a much more substantial dish than the foregoing; in fact, it is a savoury stew. About two pounds of nock of mutton, a quart of well-seasoned stock, half a pound of Patna rice, and two ounces of butter will make a good- sized dish. The meat is first freed from fat, and stewed in the stock until done. Then the rice and butter are put in the stock and cooked gently. The meat is fried brown in butter, and added at the time of serving. Sometimes forcemeat balls, rings of onion, fried very dry, and hard-boiled eggs are used to garnish the dish. Pilau, Indian.—Required : mut- ton or lamb, onions, butter, rice, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 3s. This is recommended as one of the best of all the rice dishes. Take three pounds of lamb or mutton, cut it in neat joints, and chop up three large onions; fry the onions in three ounces of butter with a chopped mango; a pickled one will do, or four ounces of sultana raisins can be used. Add a dash of garlic and the moat, with a sprinkling of curry powder, and stir for half an hour over a gentle fire. While (his is going on, llio rice is to bo cooking in another vessel. This is done by boiling it in stock until nearly done, then draining and drying it and frying it brown in butter. About half a’ pound of rice (Patna) will sorvo for the above quantity of meat. Tho stock tho rice is boiled in comes in for soup. Aftei