UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 106 This is a very nice sauce for veal, turkeys, fowls, rabbits, &c. It may be varied in several ways : by using cream instead of stock, or bechamel, or thick white sauce can be used, then no arrowroot or com-flour is needed; the wine can be reduced or omitted if a little lemon-juice be added. Tomato and Curry Sauce.— (See recipo for Curhy Sauce) ; add to half a pint a gill of tomato pulp or con- serve, with a tablespoonful of tomato vinegar and a teaspoonful of mango chutney. Servo with meat or fish, hot or cold. Tomato chutney may be added to curry sauce by way of flavour; but the above is recommended as a good mild sauce, tho curry flavour being modified by the tomatoes. Tomato Sauce, Brown.—Re- quired : one onion, one pound of ripe tomatoes, ono ounce of butter, a gill of Brown Sauce, a gill of stock (No. 4), a slice or two of carrot, a pinch of castor sugar, salt, and cayenne, .and a salt- spoonful of mignonette pepper. Cost, about Is. Melt the butter, add the sliced onion and carrot; brown well, then add the tomatoes broken up, with the stock and seasoning; boil until the whole can be sieved, then return it to the pan with the brown sauce ; give a boil up, season to taste with more salt; a squeeze of lemon-juice is an improve- ment. Add a few drops of carmine. For a cheaper sauce, use a plainer stock, omit tho brown sauce, and thicken with browned flour; add a little colouring. Tomato Sauce for White Meat. — Required: ingredients as above, substituting white stock for brown, and white sauce (bechamel or plain white sauce) for brown sauce. Melt the butter, cook the vegetables in it without browning, add the stock, and proceed as above directed. For a plain sauce, the meat liquor will do, if for serving with plainly-boiled meat; but for rabbit, fowl, &c., good white stock, as No. 9, is required. Another way.—Cook the tomatoes in butter until they can be sieved, then add an equal measure of good Melted Butter. White Sauce, Plain. — Re- quired: two ounces each of flour and butter, a pint and a quarter of milk, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Melt the butter, add the flour, and cook well, then the milk gradually; stir to the boil, cook for a few minutes, season, and serve. Suitable for arti- chokes, cauliflower, celery, vegetablo maiTOws, &c., and forms the basis of other sauces. Formasking vegetables, make it thicker by reducing the milk to a pint. A bay-leaf boiled in it is an improvement. White Sauce, Richer.—Make as above, using a gill of cream in place of a gill of the milk, and stir in an ounce more butter last thing, with a drop or two of any herbal vinegar or lemon-juice. This is useful for vege- tables, fish, &c., and furnishes a basis for other sauces, as onion, celery, or fish saucos. White Sauces, Rich, Salt in. —In the making of all good sauces for which white stock is required salt must be added with caution, because, owing to the boiling down of the stock to a third or fourth its original quan- tity, a concentration of all the materials used in making it is obtained; there- fore, when complete, the sauce will probably be quite salt enough : in any case, seasoning must be put in in minute quantities at first and at tho end of the operation. Wines for Gravies and Sauces.— (See page 84.) Yacht Sauce a la Monica - Required : half a pint of milk, a table- spoonful of grated ham, tongue, or beef (smoked), a teaspoonful each of curry- paste and rice-flour, a saltspoonful of saffron-powder, a green capsicum cut small, a large onion chopped, salt and