G19 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERV. the plain kind. It is usod freely enough at the tables of the well-to-do, in the form of high-class purees, &c.; but we are thinking for the moment of the number of people who havo eaten carrots, in hardly any other way than plainly boiled, with beef or mutton. Yet the nice dishes of carrots for separate service, at little cost, are very numerous, and deserve attention. The best part of the carrot is the red outside; therefore as little should be removed as possible, and scraping is preferable to peeling; and whenever peeling must be resorted to, great care should be taken to avoid waste. The inner parts answer for flavouring soups, stocks, &c. Of course, for very cheap dishes, and when the vegetable is scarce, or the inner parts are not likely to be of use in other ways, then the carrots in their entirety may be used for any dish. But as the exterior is not only nicer in taste, but more digestible, and cooks in less time, there are good reasons for the separation when practicable. Cold carrots are liked by many persons; they make an excellent salad; re- heated, carrots are very nice; therefore cold carrots need never be thrown away. Old carrots are always im- proved by the addition of a little sugar to the boiling water, or to the stock used in such dishes as purees, stewed carrots, and the like. Fat, too, is a necessary ingredient; when the vege- tables are boiled w.ith a piece of fat meat, it will be found that they become soft in less time than when cooked plainly; therefore, whenever boiled apart from meat, a morsel of fat should be put into the water; if a stock of a slightly greasy nature be employed, that answers the same purpose. In dishes of the strictly vegetarian class, oil or butter comes to the rescue. We specially enforce these frequently un- considered points, because we do not know of any vegetable that is more improved by careful cooking than the carrot. Cost, variable, but almost always cheap; from 2d. to 3d. per bunch. Young carrots, early in the season, may be put down at about 4d. to Od. per bunch. We can particularly recommend steamed carrots. (See Vegetables, Steamed.) When thus cooked, or when plainly boiled, they are im- proved by rubbing over with a bit of butter or dripping. Carrots, Boiled.—For old car- rots, cut a little slice from the root end, wash them well, and cleanse them by means of a vegetable brush. When the dirt is all brushed off, it is often found that the carrots need not be peeled; whereas, when only half cleaned, peeling is thought to be necessary in nine cases out of ten. Any specks or unsound parts can be removed with the point of a knife. Have some water boiling, salted, as for onions (unless they are being boiled with salt meat); add sugar and fat (see remarks above), and boil until done. The time varies considerably; from an hour and a half to almost double the time, if very large, may be set down as the average. It is best to cut the root end twice across, for the water to penetrate more easily; or some prefer to cut the carrots through the middle, and leave the thin end whole, and split the root end into pieces of equal thickness. The cooking in this way is more uniform, but there is a slight loss of flavour, which is not of so much importance if the liquor is utilised for soup or broth. The thin end, that looks like a bit of string, should be cut off. Sauce or no sauce ? If to serve with boiled meat, Melted Butter or Plain White Sauce is often poured over, and is an improve- ment, supposing the pot liquor only is to be served with the meat. But if a piquant sauce or gravy bo made to pour over tho meat, no other need be prepared for the carrots. Carrots, Young, Boiled.— Wash and scrape the carrots, then boil them in water prepared as above directed, from twenty-five minutes to three-quarters of an hour or more, according to size, and solve with sauco