FORCEMEATS. 491 milk, and seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. To pretend that this is as good as force- meat from fresh oysters would be foolish, but it is a very fair substitute for the real thing. Turn out a tin of oysters into a saucepan, and heat them gently,not quite to boiling point, then add a little white roux to the liquor, after draining off the oysters on to a coarse wire sieve ; boil it up, and add it to the oysters, and rub all through the sieve. Then flavour with the usual ingredients (see foregoing recipes), and add some bread which has been soaked in a little milk, and squeezed dry, then beaten or sieved. About half the bulk of bread to the oyster mixture is enough. An egg is an improvement, but can be left out. Another tcay.—If the sieving is ob- jected to, the oysters may be chopped up; the best part of tinned oysters is the liquor, the oysters themselves being shrivelled and flavourless, therefore they are not nice if added whole. A couple or three fresh oysters will give a superior flavour to the forcemeat; the liquor should be reduced and added (see Oystee Sauce). Panada, Bread, French.— Required: bread, and milk, stock-, or butter. Cost, about 3d. per lb. Take some crumb of bread, a day or two old; soak it inboiling water to cover for a few minutes; squeeze dry in a clean cloth ; put it in a saucepan, and break it up with a fork; add a little boiling milk or hot stock, just to make a thick paste ; stir and cook for a few minutes, then turn out on a plate to cool for use. Or use a morsel of butter to moisten the bread, instead of stock. Panada, Bread, Ordinary. —Required : materials as above, with the addition of an egg. Soak the bread as above directed, then beat it up, and add either white stock or milk to make a paste; beat over the fire with an egg, yolk only, to each half pint of panada, and when it is a smooth paste and leaves the sides of the pan clean, turn it out for use. A copper or steel pan is best for these preparations. It is important that light, delicate bread be used ; bad bread, will completely spoil the mixture. Panada, Flour, French.— Required: water, an egg, salt, flour, and butter. Cost, about 3d. Put on the fire, in a smallcopper stew- pan, half a pint of water, with a good pinch of salt and an oimce of butter ; shake in very gradually, from the left hand, some fine, dry flour, sifted; stir all the time, and after enough flour to make a paste has been used, stir and cook the panada for five minutes. As much flour as the water will absorb is to be used; the paste should be thick and free from lumps. From four to five tablespoonfuls of flour will probably be wanted, and the water should boil fast before it is put in. Great care is needed to prevent burn- ing or lumpiness, as the least suspicion of either would spoil it. As soon as it is cooked stir in the yolk of a raw- egg that has been freed from the germ. Give a few minutes’ beating off the fire, then turn out for use as required. It should be put by in a cool place. Panada, Flour, Ordinary.— Make the panada as above, but leave the egg out; use an extra half ounce of butter in the water ; and if for fish dishes, any light fish stock should be used in place of all, or part of the water; for chicken or veal, use the same stocks. Where a good quantity of panada is made at once for many dishes, this is, of course, impracticable. In all our recipes, unless otherwise stated, this is the panada intended to be used. Partridges or Pheasants, Forcemeat for.—Required : the livers of the birds, with one or two chicken livers, four ounces of raw bacon, rather fat, two ounces of raw veal, the same weight of bread-crumbs, an egg, seasoning, and cream. Cost, about 8d., exclusive of tho livers. Bring the livers to tho boil, after