risn. 1(31) tho edges moot. This makes a somi- oircle. Then bogin to fold tho edges of tho paper over ami over, until it reaches tho fish, lirush tho papors over outsido, especially tho folds, with oil or butter, then broil or grill care- fully. At tho moment of serving slit the top of tho eases, and send Caper Sauce to table, adding a tablespoonful of Madeira to half a pint. Tho abovo quantities of seasoning and butter must bo increased if tho fish ore largo. Mullet, Filleted, and Fried. —Take four mul lets; scrape themlightly, cut oil’ tin; heads, take out tho insides, and carefully preserve the livers. Dry them, and season tho insides with salt and pepper, a pinch of cayenne, nut- meg, and grated lemon rind. Divide the fish in halves, and lift the flesh from the bones; each mullet will inako two fillets. Dry and flour them, und dip them into well-beaten egg, thou into bread crumbs, seasoned. Leave for an hour before cooking if convenient. Fry in very hot fat, and servo with a sauce made by boiling the livers, then pounding and sieving them,'and mix- ing with a gill and a half of rich Melted Butter, sharpened with lemon juice or claret. In the opinion of some epicures, rich Capes Sauce, mixed with the livers as above, is the sauce par excellence for mullet in any form. Mussela.—These are a cheap fish of good flavour, and may be used in place of oysters in many stews, sauces, Ac. They mint bo well washed, arid the beard or “ weed ” removed ; also a small crab, often found inside. They are gritty, and in cleansing them the shells must be brushed, and the water renewed many times; or leave them under a running tap. Mussels, Boiled. -Take them from the water, sprinkle them with salt in a pan, and put a (doth over, then the saucepan lid ; shake over the fire briskly, and when the shells open strain the liquor, and after bearding tho fish, serve hot. If loft on tho lire a minute more than necessary they toughen. Tho term boiling is some- what of a misnomer in this and shniliu instances, ns no liquor is used. Mussels, Scalloped. &wScal- loped Scallops. Follow tho recipe, but moisten tho mussels with their strained liquor, and reduce or omit the white sauce. It is not necessary to add parsley. Mussels, Stewed. Sec recipes for oystors and clams. Another way of serving is to add tho liquor, strained, to some white sauco or melted butter; boat the mussels in it, season, and servo hot. First boil them in (he usual way. Oysters. These are universally liked, wilh rare exceptions. They are highly digestible iri the raw state ; less so when cooked, especially if subjected to great heat. “Native” oysters are tho best, hut many others, “ blue points,” &e., answer for cooking purposes; and oysters in tins are very useful, though not equal to fresh. Oysters are in prime condition when the letter It comes in tho month, though imported ones may now bo had all the year. Oysters cannot be too fresh; when eaten raw the sooner they are taken after opening the better. Their fresh- ness may bo known by tho force with which tho shell closes on tho knife; tho shells of stale ones “ gape ” very much. Lemon juice or vinegar, with whito and cayenne pepper, arc usually served with raw oystors in tho shell, but the truo lover of tho fish often prefeis them without any addition. Brown bread and butter should bo served wilh them ; and without going here into tho question of drinks with meals, we may remark that nothing is so likely to hinder their digestion ns spirits, cithc r raw or diluted. It is an exploded notion that “a nip of brandy digests an oyster supper;” on the contrary, if taken with brandy, digestion is re- tarded, simply because alcohol hardens tho oysters to u great extent. Oysters f