271 COLD ENTREES. or 17; heat the meat in it, and serve with a garnish of Glazed Mushrooms or Fried Potatoes. Put little crou- tons in between, first coating them with glaze and melted jelly ; red or black currant, or tomato will do. Venison, Jugged.—Required : venison, a marinade, stock, wine, roux, seasoning, &c. Cost, variable. Cut up the meat, and put in a marin- ade as given for Roast Hare. For each pound of the meat, allow half a pint of stock No. 5, a tablespoonful of red wine, a good teaspoonful of brown roux, sea- soning, &c., as for Jugged Hare. Boil up the stock, put the meat in, with the seasoning, &c.; cook until tender in a jar set in a pot of boiling water, or in a gentle oven. Then take the meat out, and thicken the gravy (after straining) with the roux ; add the wine (after the gravy bas boiled and been skimmed), then pour it over the meat. The marinade should be added to the stock for cooking the venison. Garnish with cut lemons and small round croutons spread with dissolved jelly; red currant or tomato can be used. A Cherry Salad can be served with this; or a dish of sweet pickles of any kind. Venison, Jugged (Plain).— Cut up any part of the meat, and sim- mer in some stock made from venison or mutton bones; or use stock No. 5 if at hand; a few vegetables, and a bunch of herbs, with a clove or two, and 6ome allspice berries should bo added. When tender, skim, thicken, and add salt to the gravy ; pour it over the meat, on a hot-water dish, if possible, and serve with French beans, or nicely-cooked floury potatoes, and currant jelly. Cost, variable. Venison Steaks, Grilled.— The steaks should be from the leg or loin, and at least an inch thick. Make the gridiron very hot, lay the meat on, and expose to fierce heat for a few seconds, to close the pores on both sides; then turn every two minutes, and cook more gradually, for twenty minutes or thereabouts. A little pepper should be put on the meat, but no salt. The gridiron must be greased, or the meat may be oiled. Have a dish ready heated, and serve with a. pat of butter only; or with a spoonful of currant j elly dissolved in port; or any sauce can be served separately (see recipes for the sauces to be served with game and dark meats). Some- times thin slices of lemon are put on the meat, towards the end of tho cooking, and served with it. We can also recommend Brown Sauce, flavoured with orange juice, and lime or lemon juice mixed; or orange juice with a dash of Madeira or sherry will be preferred by some. (See also Gravy for Venison.) Cost, variable. COLD ENTREES. Cot d entrees are now very popular, and it is likely that their popularity will increase, for the points in their favour are many. The scope which they afford for variety and decoration is great, and no dish will more readily ternpt tho appetite in warm weather than a nicely prepared cold entree, while their cost need not lie excessive. In many cases, where forethought holds sway, a very small quantity of meat or poultry, with suitable decorative media, and some good sauce, may readily be’trans- formed into a really dainty dish of this class. For, although in tho concoction of cold entrees, a number of ingredients are enumerated, the quantity of each is sometimes so minute as to be hardly worth con- sideration ; and it is just the morsel of truffle, pinch of lobster coral,