UNIVERSAL COOKERY book. 56 Apple Soup. — Required : one pound of good apples, rather tart ones, a pint and a half of stock (No. 2), salt and pepper, a pinch of ground cloves, ginger, and curry-powder, one ounce each of butter and flour. Cost, about 4d. Make the stock hot, slice the apples into it without coring or peeling, put in the whole of the seasoning, and boil gently to a pulp, then pass through a sieve. Put it back in the pan with the flour mixed with cold water and the butter; boil up again for ten minutes, and dilute with a little more stock if preferred thinner. Apple and Spinach Soup.— Boil the apples in the stock as above, then, after sieving, put it back in the saucepan with some boiled spinach, chopped finely, enough to fill a break- fast-cup ; boil up, and put in part of a small lettuce, shredded, and some mixed herbs in powder; boil for a few minutes longer, then serve with egg-balls and fried bread in strips or dice. This is very wholesome and palat- able. Turnip-tops, Brussels sprouts, young cabbage, and many other varie- ties of “ greens ” may be served in tho same way. If thickening is pre- ferred, a little sago may be used, or ri/.ine, florador, &c. For white soups or maigro soups, use milk and vege- table stock ; the latter should bo used to boil tho apples in, and the milk put in afterwards. Artichoke Puree.— Required: three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, two ounces of butter, seasoning, herbs, a couple of ounces of minced celery and onions, a gill of cream, one pint of milk, and three pints of stock (No. 9). Cost, about Is. 4d. Peel and slice tho artichokes, keep- ing them well under water while peeling, to preserve their colour; throw them into cold water with a few drops of lemon-juico in; drain them, and put them with the other vege- tables and a little mignonette pepper in a stew-pan; cook for a quarter of an hour without colouring. Add the stock, boil to a pulp, then boil the milk and cream with an ounce of arrowroot. Pass the puree through a hair sieve, add the milk, &c., re- boil, and season to taste. Add a drop or two of lemon-juice off the fire. Serve with dice-shaped croutons. Asparagus Puree.—Required: half a hundred heads of asparagus, one pint of stock (No. 9), half a pint of milk, a gill of cream, salt and pepper, two ounces of flour, two ounces of butter. Cost, about 2s. Cut off the hard ends of the asparagus, wash the rest, and slice them (reserving the tips) half an inch or so in length, keeping them in cold water until wanted. Put in a pan the stock and sliced asparagus, boil until soft, then pass through a sieve. Melt the butter, add the flour and milk, and stir until it boils, then put in the stock and tho asparagus tips well-drained from the water, simmer for ten minutes more, and serve. This should be delicately seasoned. It is a very quickly prepared soup. Tho tips may take rather longer, but caro is needed to prevent their breaking. They should bo distinct in the puree. Asparagus Pur6e (from Tinned Asparagus).— This will make good soup. It must bo taken carofully from the tin to prevent the points breaking ; they should be cut off and laid aside. The asparagus, being cooked, can bo passed through tho sieve after a boil up in the stock, the points being added a minute or two before serving. For a plain soup, only the stalks need bo used, the points can be kept for garnishing or other purposes. Both this and tho above may be coloured slightly with green vegetable colouring. Asparagus Soup, Clear. — Clear stock, made by the directions given in Nos. 6, 7, and 8, but with a very slight flavouring of vegetables and herbs, forms tho foundation of this. It should be clarified and most