tJjDVERSAL COOKERY BOOR. 154 • lid on tko pan, and cook them very gently (they must not boil) until firm enough to turn out, about twelve or fourteen minutes; larger ones would want twenty minutes. If for an entree, there aro many ways of serving. They can ho put on a border of fried bread, rice, or potatoes (sec Index), and a rich sauce in the middle; or they can bo used for garnishing a Tuiiban of Fish. Fish, White, Quenelles, Moulding of.—Take a spoon, tho desired size; fill it with the force- meat, and smooth the surface with a hot, wet knife. Dip a second spoon, tho same size, in hot water, and with it slip tho mixturo from the first spoon on to a buttered dish. Proceed until all arc ready, then poach them in fish stock. This is done as given under Salmon Quenelles, and is the method to adopt when quenelle moulds aro not used. Fish, with Herb Sauce.— Take any flat fish, of a couple of pounds or so in weight; divide it into four fillets; lay two down on a flat baking tin, greased, and spread over them a gill of sauce, made by mixing half a pint of thick white sauce with a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley, scalded onion, and chopped chervil. Lay the other fillets over, cover with a greased paper, and cook until tho fish is almost done; then take the paper off, and spread the other gill of sauce on tho top; sprinkle with a little salt, grated nutmeg, and coralline popper, and browned crumbs, rather thickly; pour some oiled butter over, and brown up in the oven or before tho fire. When dished, put round the fish some croquettes of rice or macaroni of the savoury land; or some boiled rice mixed with a little of the same sauco, or some grated cheese; sec recipes under Cereals, Pulse, and Cheese, &c. This is an excellent dish for any meal. See also Sauce Heurace au Parmesan.—Tho tail end of a small salmon is very good cooked with it, just as the fish above ; or cold salmon, heated in the sauce, is very tasty. Fish with Tomatoes (a break- fast dish).—Required : half a pound of cooked fish (if ordinary white fish, mix with it a small quantity of bloater or sardine, but if dried haddock is used, this can be omitted) ; a very small onion, and a good sized tomato, with seasoning, &c., and some cooked rice or macaroni. Skin the fish, take away any bone, and break the flesh in flakes. Chop the onion very small, put it in a pan with an ounce and a half of butter, and cook it for ten minutes; cut tho tomato in dice, add with it a pinch each of salt, sugar, pepper, aud dried herbs, and cook until all aro soft; then stir in a teaspoonful of any flavoured vinegar. Dishes of this kind assist in using up superfluous vinegar from various kinds of pickle. Have tho fish ready heated in a spoonful of white sauce or melted butter, then mix it with tho rest, off the fire. Have the rice or macaroni on a hot dish, pile up the fish on it and serve hot. , Cold rice can be used up; it may bo steamod until hot, or can bo mixed with a little thin white sauce, or a spoonful of milk to moisten, and stirred in a saucepan until hot through. Flounder.—This is a flat fish, inferior to the sole, indeed by some considered inferior to plaice; it is plen- . Fio. 29.—Flounder. tiftil in the London markets as a rule. Any of the ways of cooking small plaice and other flat fish are suited to the flounder; grilling or broiling is a