STOCKS AND SOUPS. 49 a half, then put in some lean chops from lamb or tender mutton; in an hour add a pint of young green peas. As soon as the peas are done, serve, after season- ing. The meat should he freed from superfluous fat—about two to three pounds for this quantity of liquid, it may he from the neck, breast, or loin. If the vegetables are put in whole, which is sometimes preferred, they should he taken out and beaten to pulp before the soup is served. One of the nicest forms of hotch-potch is made from lamb previously boned; and besides the vegetables used with it, some more peas are cooked separately, and put in last thing. Almost needless to add, such a dish as this takes the place both of meat and soup. Hotch-potch, Winter.—Put a pound of dried green peas into water to soak the night before it is intended to make the hotch-potch. Take two pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton and two pounds of the shin of beet Cut the mutton into neat cutlets, free from all superfluous fat, and the beef into small square pieces. Set them aside until wanted. Put four quarts of water into a stew-pan, with two sliced carrots, two sliced turnips, four onions, a teaspoonful of bruised celery-seed tied in muslin, the soaked peas, and a whole turnip and carrot. Add the beef, and cook gently for an hour; then put in the mutton, and cook for another hour and a half, or until the peas are soft. Take out the whole carrot and turnip, beat them to pulp, put them back in the pan with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. Haricot beans or lentils can be used in place of peas. Iced 3oup.—This is a modification of a soup popular in Russia and other countries. A decoction of sorrel, fennel, and young beetroot (just the green tops), is first made by boiling a handful of each in water until well flavoured. With a pint of the strained liquid mix a pint of good white stock and half a pint of cream, a delicate seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, some chopped parsley, and the points of some boiled asparagus (about a score will do). The same number of pea-shaped pieces of cooked carrot are a further improve- ment. Set this on ice or in a refrig- erator when cold, and just before serv- ing put in some hard-boiled eggs cut in dice, and a dozen cooked prawns or double the number of shrimps. In a subsequent chapter on Ices, full particulars are given of the various methods of icing soups. Julienne Soup.—This, if well made, is delicious. Required: vege- tables, some or all of the following—- carrots, turnips, leeks or onions, celery, groen peas, asparagus points, French beans, lettuce, sorrel, tarragon, chervil, butter, salt, sugar, pepper, and some clear stock. It is difficult to give any exact proportions for this, but the vegetables should be measured after they are cut up, and about six times the measure of stock will be wanted, or a larger proportion of vegetables will he preferred by some. Cut the vegetables, after cleaning, into shreds as thick as a match, and an inch or rather more in length. For half a pint allow an ounce of butter; sweat the vegetables in this, with a little sugar, for ten to twenty minutes, according to the age of the vegetables: (shake often ; they should acquire but little colour) then add the stock, and boil for an hour very gently. The French beans are preferable separately boiled, and put in near the end, with the lettuce shredded, a few sprigs of chervil, just divided into leaves; the tarragon leaves must be cut in long thin strips (a teaspoonful is enough for two quarts of soup.) Asparagus stalks, if used, may be cooked with the other vegetables ; the points will take less time. French turnips take longer cooking than English. Vegetables for Julienno are often cooked separately and put in the clear stock last thing. This mothod pro- duces loss of flavour, in fact a total lack of the delicious blended taste which