CEREALS. 5G3 egg, and some liread-crumbs. Cost, about od. The rico should bo boiled and dried as if for curry, then mixed when cool with the seasoning and fat; of the latter, a teaspoonful will be enough; if bacon, scrape it; if butter, melt it; a very little thickened stock is better liked by some, and serves the same purpose. Add the white of the egg, and mould the mass into cutlet shapes. Or spread out on a flat dish imtil cold, and cut out with a cutlet cutter. Beat the yolk of the egg with a tablespoonful of milk, flour the cut- lets, then egg them, and coat with the crumbs. Fry them brown, and serve with little dishes of meat or fish. The zest may be increased by adding herbs, a morsel of fried onion, curry powder, and various other flavourers. Rice Cutlets, Rich. (See re- cipe above.)—Use the whole of an egg in mixing the cutlets, and moisten the preparation with a little thick brown sauce. Let it stand for a few hours before shaping, then egg the cutlets, and coat them with crumbs or crushed vermicelli. Fry golden brown, and serve in a ring, with fried parsley in the centre. Cost, about 8d. If for a separate dish, add the re- mains of any cooked game, or meat of any sort; many recipes are given for minces under their respective headings, which will be found suitable. They must not be made too soft, or may break in the frying. A sauce or gravy of the brown kind should be served with these. Any of the rich prepara- tions of rice, that are stiff enough to shape when cold, can be used for cut- lets; or bread-crumbs may be stirred in to bring the mixture to the desired consistence. Rice and Egg Stew. — Re- quired : milk, stock, eggs, butter, and seasoning. Cost, about Od. This is a very good ina'ujrc dish of French origin ; it furnishes an excellent dinner for children. It is served in soup plates. Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and put it on to boil in cold milk and vegetable stock, a pint of each. Cook until the liquid is nearly dried up, then add a seasoning of salt and pepper, an ounce of butter, and a grate of nutmeg. Finish the cooking, take the pan from the fire, and beat in two raw eggs. The rice will take about an hour and a half, and should resemble rice pudding in con- sistence. A carrot or an onion can bo cooked and chopped, and added before serving. By thinning with more stock a nice soup is obtained. We are acquainted with a practical Frenchwoman who often uses bran water in the preparation of such dishes as the above. The hint may be of service to those who do not despise anything on account of its cheapness, as so many unfortunately do. Rice and Egg Stew, with Onions.—This is a light and nourish- ing dish for any meal. It is recom- mended to sufferers from insomnia, as a good “ night-cap.” Make a stew as above, and for the proportions there given allow a pound or so of boiled Spanish onions. They should be out up if large. Put them on a hot dish, and pour the stew all over them. This is varied sometimes by the addition of a dash of grated cheese. A layer of thick celery sauce or puree can be used instead of the onions. Rice Favourites.—Required: rice, white sauce, ham, tomato pulp, seasoning, vegetables, cream, and pars- ley as below. Cost, about 2s. per dozen cases. Take some rice boiled as for curry: add as much rich white sauce of any kind as will make it moist; it should be about as thick as ordinary bread sauce. Grease some small china cases, oval or round, and lay in some strips of hot boiled ham, seasoned rather highly with French mustard, cayenne, and a morsel of chutney. These are to be so placed that they stand up above the edge of the case. Fill with the rico. Over the tops pour a tea- spoonful of sauce, made by mixing cream and tomato pulp, equal parts,