275 COLD ENTREES. of tomato conserve and brown sauce, and a teaspoonful of rod currant jelly. Proceed as above directed, but coat with brown chaudfroid sauco before tho meringue mixture is put on. Dish and garnish as above, and sprinkle the tops with corallino pepper. Cannelons of Beef, with Iced Sauce.—Required : beef, stock, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, varying with the garnish. Cut some thin slices from a fillet of beef: bat them out and stuff them with any suitable forcemeat. Roll and tie them up, and braise instock; each should be in a little piece of muslin ; then leave until cool, untie, and glaze them. Set them upright round a dish, and put some Iced Sauce a la Barbe, or other kind preferred, on the top. It may be cut in a round, or some little dice shapes may be piled up. Put a border of the same sauce, also in tiny dice, round the base of each. Tho centre of the dish can be filled up with a cronstade of bread, or a block of rice ; either must be coated with chopped aspic, or with a nice vegetable salad; or some artichoke bottoms, masked with white sauce, and garnished with little blocks of the iced sauce, can be used. Cannelons of mutton can be simi- larly served; this dish will suggest others of the same kind. Cannelons of Veal, with Iced Sauce.—Prepare some small cannelons of veal as above directed, using rich mushroom, veal, or other forcemeat preferred. Roll and tie them up, and cook in white stock flavoured with vegetables. When cold, mask with veloute or supreme sauce, and sprinkle with alternate rows of sieved ,;gg yolk, grated ham or tongue, and coralline pepper. Serve with a tomato salad in the centre of the dish, with a border of Iced Sauce a i.a Baiuib round the salad. Lay the cannelons on, or round the border, and garnish with sprigs of chervil and chopped aspic. Chartreuse of Chicken and Tomatoes.—Required : aspic, toma- toes, eggs, beetroot, cucumber, salad, a chicken, puree, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. to 4s., according to garnish, &c., and the season. Line a plain Charlotte mould, round or oval, thinly, with pale aspic. Cut ripe tomatoes in thin slices, and uso them, together with shreds of hard- boiled white of eggs, fancy shapes of beetroot and cucumber, and chervil or other green salad, for decorating the bottom and sides of the mould; any pattern, according to fancy, may be formed. Set this garnish with a second layer of aspic, and when firm, fill up with a creamy puree of chicken. This is to be made with the white meat of a braised or boiled chicken, pounded after chopping, then minced with a little butter, seasoned delicately, and moistened with thick bechamel and cream ; about a gill and a half to half a pint of chicken mixture. The whole should be blended over ice before it is put in the mould, and tho cream should be beaten until stiff. The top should be made level with a palette knife, and coated with more aspic; and the mould set in an ice cave until the contents will turn out firmly. The garnish should consist of small green salad, aspic, chopped and in little blocks or leaves, and the yolks of the eggs that were boiled for the interior garnish, together with beetroot or cucumber; and by using aspic of various colours the dish is more effective. Any white of egg left over can also be used up ; lemons are a suitable addition; or olives can be employed. The dish may be varied to taste. (See Coloured Plate, No. 3.) Chicken and Ham Cutlets.— These may be simple or elaborate, economical or costly, just according to tho kind of sauce used and the garnish employed. Tho foundation is cold ham and fowl, and white sauco to hold them together. Cut thin slices of ham, lean and mild, and see that no gristle or skill is left on tho fowl. Dip tho slices in white sauco, and put a layer of each on a baking sheet: first fowl, then hum,