UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 160 Herrings. Marinaded.—These may be bought in tins, either in wine, or with tho addition of other in- gredients, as mushrooms, tomatoes, pickles, &c. For little dishes from these, see Savouries. Herrings’ Roes may be bought also in tins, and serve the same purpose of furnishing material for savoury dishes. They are often used together with the marinaded fillets above referred to. Herrings, Red or Cured.— Under this head wo will class all the cured fish, mild cured Yarmouth bloaters, red herrings, ham cured, &c., Kippers excepted. There are several varieties, and th'e mild cured are the most wholesome as well as the most liked, as a rule. When very dry or salt, the fish should be soaked for an hour or two in warm water or milk before cooking. Herrings (Cured) Broiled.— Split tho fish down; take out tho back bones, and tho roes; wipe the insides with a cloth dipped in warm water, or wash them quickly, then brush them over with butter, and dredge with mig- nonette pepper; wash the roes, and rcplaco them; brush tho outsides of the fish with butter, and “scoro” in a few places, then cook gently for ten minutes or more. Serve hot. Brush them over with butter last thing, if wanted oily looking. Another way.—Simply wash and dry them, opening as little as possible; flour them, and make an incision or two, then broil or grill. This is a plain method, but usually liked. Herrings (Cured) with Crumbs.—Wash, bone, and split some Yarmouth bloaters; lay on each fish a sprinkling of bread crumbs, with pepper to taste, and some powdered herbs; put before the fire until tho crumbs begin to brown, then brush over with butter (or rather shake a little butter over from a brush) ; finish the cooking, and serve hot. In clean- ing always take out the gut. Another way.—Drodgo tho fish with crumbs, then with cayenne and grated Parmesan cheese ; level with a knife, and add a little oiled butter; cook, as abovo until nicely browned and servo very quickly. {See Savouries.) John Dory.—This is said to take its name from the yellow tints on its surface (Jaunc bore). It is a compara- tively rare, and consequently expensive fish. The flesh is very firm and white. In fish of six pounds and upwards, the flavour is somewhat strong; four or five pounds and under arc considered best. Dory is not a good fish for broiling, but it may be baked, boiled, Fio. 35.—John Dory. or fried. It needs washing and trim- ming, and the fins should bo removed. It is unsightly, and for that reason a plentiful garnish is necessary. Dory, when re-heated, is apt to taste a little strong, and therefore it is preferably re-served in salad or mayonnaise. Or, if preferred warmed, flake and lay it in any sauce left over, just to coat it, but do not let it boil; the sauce should be boiled, and tho fish put in just to heat through. If stewed, it is advisable to parboil the fish, and finish it off in the sauce or gravy. Small fish only should bo used for frying. Follow the recipes given for Turiiot, and serve the same sauces; or mix the flesh of a boiled red mullet with a tureen of melted butter; this is thought by some tho very best sauce for dory. Lamprey.—This is a fish both rich and rare; it needs twice as much coolring as an eel, and cannot be eaten