G54 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and served with hoilcd meats, &c.; or purees and other dishes may ho made in the same way ns if using- onions. The water should be changed to make them milder; lemon rind is sometimes used with shalots for sauces, &c.; and horse-radish is thought by some to bo an improvement to a thick sauce of shalots made with milk in the ordinary way : this is served with tripe in some parts, and to further increase its piquancy, garlic is employed. The use of shalots will be seen more fully by referring to Pickles, Seasonings, and Salads. Skirret. — This is .a perennial plant, a native of China, known in this country since 1543. The root is com- posed of fleshy tubers about the size of the little finger, and joined together at the crown or head. They used to bo much estoemed in cookery. In the northern districts of Scotland the plant is cultivated under the name of “crum- inock.” The tubers, when boiled, aro served with butter. Skirrets come the nearest to parsnips of any of the es- culent roots, both for flavour and nu- tritive quality. They are rather sweeter than the parsnip, and therefore to some palates are not altogether so agreeable. Soja.—This is a new vegetable, a sort of pea imported from China; it has received favourable notice in France, and is said to be very digestible and palatable. It is similar to tho flageolet bean, and, being rich in oil and poor in starch, is recommended to diabetic patients by the modical pro- fession. So far, its high price has hindered its adoption; and attempts at cultivation have not beon marked with great success. In referring to soja as a now vegetable, wo mean simply that it has only recently been introduced as a vegetable ; it is well known as the basis of Chinese Soy. Sorrel.—This is an acid-leaved root, which is used largely on tho Continent for soups, salads, and sauces, and as an accompaniment to meat. Where the taste for it has been acquired, it is considered very plea- sant ; of its wholesomcncss there is no doubt. When sorrel alone is thought too acid, it is mixed with spinach or dandelion. Sorrel grows wild, and can be had for the plucking; but as the flavour of tho cultivated is superior to that of the wild sorrel, every garden should contain a few plants. Sorrel is just now ono of the “fashionable” vegetables, and isbeingsoldin London in tins at a shilling each. This is, no doubt, imported, and may lead to the further cultivation of the plant in England. Sorrel, to Cook.—Like spinach,, sorrel needs very careful washing; it is gritty, and must be rinsed in several waters, and left under a running tap. for a time. The small, fine leaves can. be left whole; but tho thick mid-rib. should be torn from tho large leaves. “Giant” sorrel may be torn into. shreds with advantage, after removing, the rib. Ono of the best of the many ways of dressing sorrel is to draw it down in butter; by many it is thought to be the best. After washing and draining, the sorrel is put into a stew- pan with no other moisture than that which clings about it, with an ounce, of butter to each quart. When re- duced (and it reduces a good deal), and tender, somo flour should be dredged in, the mass being stirred the while; it is then to be rubbed through a sieve, ro-heated, and seasoned slightly ; a few drops of lemon juice and a pinch of sugar are sometimes added. Serve like any other green puree of the same kind. Spinach.—This vegetable is agreeable in taste, and very whole- some, but there is not much real nourishment in it, owing to the large proportion of water. It needs thorough washing; this is best done by having two pails of water; after washing in the first it should be taken out with the hand, and put into tho second pail, tho -water being changed a time or two. It should bo drained on a sieve for a moment, not pressed in a cloth, as it