226 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, crumbs, prepared just as if to serve with game; then fill with the mince, and sprinkle with more crumbs. Make handles with semi-cooked macaroni, glazed, and rolled in crumbs. On the top of the mince put a star-shaped slice of truffle, heated in sherry, and on that place half a cherry (see Cherry Sai.ai>). Dish the tomatoes on crimped crofitons, glazed, and ornamented round the edges with chopped truffles and cherries. These are very delicious. Grouse may be used in the same way, so may partridges and other birds; and a little foie gras, or cooked puree of liver of game, or poultry, can be added with advantage. Tomatoes a la Burdette.— Required: a dozen small, ripe to- matoes, some truffled sausage-meat (see Sausages, Truffled) ; seasoning and sauce as below. Cost, about 2s. Gd. Make a small hole in the stalk end of the tomatoes, scoop out the interior with a small spoon, then mix half a pound of sausage meat, with a dessert- spoonful of sherry, and a sauco-ladleful of good White Sauce. Fill the toma- toes, using a bag with a small, plain pipe. Smooth the tops very neatly, put on the pieces that were taken out, and lay them in a buttered saute pan. Pour round them a little white stock to cover, and lay a buttered paper on the top; cook gently for twenty minutes or thereabouts (mind they do not break), then take them up and wipe them. When quite cool, dip the tomatoes in beaten egg, and roll them in bread crumbs mixed with a little pepper and mushroom powder; put them in a frying basket, and fry in plenty of hot fat until crisp and lightly browned. Have ready some round china ramakin cases (see that they arc hot), and put in each a little sauce, made from the pulp of the tomatoes by boiling it down, sieving and mix- ing with an equal measure of brown sauce. Lay a tomato in each case, and on the top of each put a star-shaped crofiton the size of a shilling; glaze them,' and sprinkle with a pinch of chopped truffle. Veal ala Marengo. — Required: some breast of veal, stock, fat, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 9d., for a dish of two pounds. Cut the meat in pieces ready for serving, flour, and fry in hot fat until brown; then cover with stock, and add a slice of lean ham in dice, a minced onion, herbs and peppercorns; , simmer until nearly done, then put in some small mushrooms with seasoning, and thicken with brown roux. Boil up, remove the fat, put in a squeeze of lemon, then dish, and garnish with crofitons and fifed eggs. This is an imitation of Chicken a la Marengo. If the tendonous part of the breast is used, it will take a long time to cook. Allow half a pint of gravy for each pound of meat. Another way.-—Fry the meat in oil (which is more correct, though less liked), and use some stewed mush- rooms, rubbed through a sieve, instead of whole ones. Veal a la Pandore.—Required r five cutlets from the loin, foie gras, sauce, and vegetables. Cost, about 2s. Gd. The cutlets must be trimmed, and an incision made in the thick part for a little foie gras to be inserted. They must then be sewn up and braised on a bed of vegetables with a little stock, and a buttered paper over. When done, glaze them, remove the threads, and dish in a row with croutons the same shape, but smaller, in between. Put a little pile of foie gras on each crofiton, and put any nice vegetable puree mixed with Velout£ or Bechamel Sauce round the dish. Veal Cutlets a la Grain- ger.—Required : six ounces of lean, raw veal, throe ounces of raw ham, the same weight of chicken (breast or other white part), four and a half ounces of panada, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of two, half a gill of thick cream, and the samo of