214 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. delicate, as the coating is then apt to ho too firm. In frying them, take care not to lift them out and Gxposo them to tho air before thoy are likely to he done, or they may hurst. Let them drain on kitchen paper while tho parsley is fried, and serve as hot as possible. Croquettes au Financiere. —Mince very finely the livers of two fowls, a sweetbread, six small mush- rooms, and two truffles. Add a shalot, scalded. Season rather highly with pepper and salt. Put one ounce of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then mix with it very smoothly and slowly a tablespoonful of flour. When it is lightly browned, add the mince, and a little truffle essence, and simmer for ton minutes, stirring all the time. Add a glass of light wine to tho mixture, and simmer it gently for a few minutes longer. When it is cold and stiff, mould it into small balls, and fry these in the usual way. The sweetbread should bo parboiled before using it. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Another way.— If no sweetbread is obtainable, use the brain of a sheep or calf, boiled, and left to cool; and calf’s livor, instead of fowl’s can be used; hut it must be very finoly minced, or pounded and sieved. Another way.—Minco four or five small oysters, and stir in the mixture made as above; reduce the oyster liquor, and add some of it instead of half the wine. Or reserve all the liquor, and mix it with bechamel, then serve it with the croquettes. Garnish with fried parsley. Croustades, Grouse, a la Danvei’3.—Required: some paste as below, grouse, ham, tongue, truffles, stock, &c. Cost, about Gd. each. Line small moulds, one for each person, with tho short paste given for Fleurs Savoury. Bake as directed, until crisp. Minco some cooked ham and tongue, an ounce and a half of each, a tablcspoonful of trufflo, and six ouncos of roasted grouse; pass through a mincer if possible. Put half a pint of stock (No. 5) on to boil with half an ounce of glaze, half a glass of sherry, salt and pepper, and a little roux; simmer until thick, then add the meat, &c. The mixture should just drop from the spoon. Lot it heat through, then fill tho cases; sprinkle fried crumbs over tbe surface, and put a star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre. Any game, with suitable seasoning, may be used in the same way. For the moulds, see recipes in Pastry. Croustades, Mutton, a la Danvers. (See the recipe for Croustades, Grouse, a la Danvers.) —Prepare the cases in tho same way, and fill up with the following mince : Put half a pint of brown stock (No. 5), in a saucepan, with half a glass of claret, a teaspoonful of extract of moat, half an ounce of glaze, and a tablespoonful of tomato puree; boil until reduced a fourth, add salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of rod currant jelly. Add a little brown roux, and boil up. Put in the meat, about a gill; it must be from under-done mutton, and finely minced. Cover, and let it remain for half an hour, below boiling- point. Then use as directed, and garnish with tiny crou- tons, covered with Tomato Butter; putting one in tho centre, and smaller ones round tho edge of each croustado. Dish on a hot dish covered with a lace paper or serviette. Cost, 3d. or id. each. In removing the croustades from the tins, be careful to avoid breaking the bottoms, as the crust is crisp, and should be thin; should this happen, brush the inside with glaze, and put in tho oven a minuto beforo putting in the mince, otherwise it would run through, and spoil tho appearance of the dish. Cutlets with Cherries. — Proparo nice cutlets of lamb or mutton, by grilling or broiling them plainly, then dish thorn round a Pur£e of Green Haricots or other vegetables, but they must be green, and a good colour. Make a sauce (for six or