PLAIN VEGETABLE COOICERV. G35 slanting direction into it until the edge touches the stone; then cut round the stone, keeping the knife close against it. The stone will come out clean, and the olive resume its shape. This should be done, whether for stewing in gravy, or for stuffing (or farcing) for salads and savoury dishes, as described in our recipes, for which see Index. Olives may be bought ready stuffed; they are called Olives Farcies. They cost from Is. 6d. per bottle upwards. Plain olives may be bought from 6d, or less for a small bottle. Olive Oil.—(-See Salads.) Onion.—This well-known vege- table may be regarded either as a condiment or as an article of real nourishment. By boiling it is de- prived of much of its pungent, volatile oil, and becomes agreeable, mild, and nutritious. It is not so wholesome either fried or roasted. There is no vegetable about which there is so much diversity of opinion. Generally speaking, a slight flavouring of onion is an improvement to the majority of made dishes, bnt it should not be too strong. The smell which arises from the esculent during cooking, and the unpleasant odour it imparts to the breath of those who partake of it, are the principal objections which are urged against it. The latter may be partially remedied by eating a little raw parsley after it. When onions are used for stuffing, the unpleasant properties belonging to them would be considerably lessened if a lemon, freed from the outer rind, but covered as thickly as possible with the white skin, were put in the midst of them, and thrown away when the dish is ready for the table. Onions may be rendered much milder if two or three waters are used in boiling them. Spanish onions are not so strong as English ones, and are generally con- sidered superior in flavour. The largest are the best. Onions, as well as garlic, ahalots, chives, and leeks, contain a principle called allyle, to which they owe their peculiar flavour. When young, the onion is eaten raw, pickled, and served in other ways. The onion contains a good deal of nourishment, and is said to act as a stimulant to the stomach when eaten raw, if it can be digested; but it is found to produce unpleasant symptoms in some instances, though it seldom gives trouble when cooked It is an excellent restorative, and in cases of restlessness a supper of cooked onions will often produce a night’s sleep. Cost, about Id. or lid. per pound on an average.* (See Index for various recipes.) Onions, Baked.—For serving with roast mutton, use medium-sized onions; peel, and boil them for a quarter of an hour, then throw them in cold water for a short time; dry them, and slice them evenly; lay them in a single layer in a greased baking- tin, and brush the top side over with butter or clarified fat; baste now and then, and cook until brown and tender. Drain, and serve hot, with a dust of cayenne over if approved; small onions may bo parboiled and baked whole. Onions, Baked in Paper.— Spanish onions, unpeeled, are best for this dish ; choose medium-sized ones, and boil them until about half done; then put each into a piece of greased paper, and bake slowly until done; they will take two hours or more altogether. Remove the skins, and serve hot, with any sauce or gravy if for a separate course; but they are delicious with roast or stewed meat; the flavour by this method being so well preserved. They may be steamed after peeling, then finished off as above. Onions, Baked in Saucers.— A very nice way of cooking onions, is to take some Spanish ones, and put them separately into tin saucers (a spit of deep patty pan, saucer shaped), with a bit of butter; the onions are to be peeled, and if cooked gently, with occasional basting, they should bo pale • Young onions amt pickling onions are sold by the bunch, and by measure.