UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 500 potted ham. People going picnicking, Ac., in largo numbers, who may be taking a supply of sandwiches, may be glad of the hint. (Sec Sandwiches.) Ham, Potted, Superior.— Use ham that has been baked and left uncut until cold; the outside fat should be removed, and enoughinnerfat and butter together used to make a rich, moist paste ; about half a pound to each pound of lean ham. Season to taste with spices, as in the recipe above. Lobster, Potted. — Required : a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, a little salt, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, three or four ounces of butter, and the meat of a small, freshly-boiled lobster. Cost, about 2s. Gd. on an average. Pick out all the soft moat, and rub that of the claws through a sieve ; mix all together, and add the seasoning, and pound thoroughly, adding the butter by degrees; in very cold weather the butter may be beaten to soften it, but it should not be made oily. When quite smooth, press firmly into small jars, and pour clarified butter over the top, after it has cooled. Sot aside in a cool place. It may bo served as soon as the butter has set. 11 is useful for sandwiches, savouries, &c. The coral may be pounded with the rest, unless any is required for other purposes, then half may be made into lobster butter, or used as required. Tinned lobster may be used as above, but the best brands should be chosen. Another way.—This is very cheap. Take half a tin of lobster, and the same bulk of any cooked white fish, free from bone and skin ; pound together with seasoning to taste, and a little butter, and add a teaspoonful of essence of shrimps; failing that use essence of anchovies. The result is very little inferior to potted lobster as above. If not to be kept, a spoonful of white sauce moistens and improves the mix- ture, and a few drops of colouring should not be omitted. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. on an average. Pheasant.Potted.ala Finch. —Required: equal weights of cooked pheasant and rabbit, and to half a pound of the two add half a glass of Madeira, salt and pepper to taste, a large tablespoonful of rich brown sauce, and two to three ounces of butter. Cost, from Is. 3d. upwards. Pound the meat and butter fust; mix the brown sauce and wine together, and add them little by little, pounding all the time. If a spoonful of Pc met op Game can bo put in, it may be sub- stituted for part of the wine, or it may be thickened to the consistence of brown sauce, and added instead of that. Fill any pretty glass moulds, or small deep dishes, and serve daintily. The dish or mould should be put on a small flat dish covered with a lace paper, or prettily-folded serviette, and a garnish of cress or other green salad used. Partridge can bo used in the samo way. For a plainer dish of either, omit the wine, and, if liked, the sauce, increasing the butter. Potted Meat Baskets.—Re- quired : potted meat, butter for piping, and other garnish, &c., ns below. Cost of meat, from Is. per pound on an average. These dishes are made at small cost, and arc very effective in ap- pearance, and therefore useful where a number of cold savouries are wanted. Those who have a variety of moulds at hand may produce all sorts of shapes, but even an ordinary round or oval cake tin, or a pudding basin will answer. Full directions for the pre- paration of the meat will be found on page 496, and in the recipes in the alphabet. For a beef or tongue basket, the meat should be coloured nicely, but not made too red. It must be put in the mould a little at a time, and well pressed, that it may tako the shape, and the mould should be slightly buttered all over. The top of the meat must be made smooth by means of a palette knife, so that when turned out it may stand evenly on the dish. It must then be put in a cold place for a few hours, when it will turn out easily