universal cookery book. 90 When required, put a pint and a half in a pan with a few button mush- rooms, a morsel of carrot and turnip, salt and whito peppercorns, a hit of mace, thyme, parsley, and bay-leaf; cover, and boil gently until reduced to a pint, then strain it, and add an equal measure of boiling cream. This makes a quart, which may he thickened in cither of three ways. First, add white roux ; or, melt threo ounces of butter in a saucepan, and mix with it three ounces of fine dry flour; let it cook without browning, add the liquid, and boil up; or, use arrowroot, about three ounces, and stir in the same weight of buttor. After the final boil up, tammy the sauce, and re-heat before serving. This is rich creamy bechamel, and in futuro recipes will be thus referred to ; when thick bechamel is mentioned, tho same sauce made thicker is intended— two ounces each of flour and butter or roux in proportion being used to each half pint. This serves for masking various dishes. Bechamel (Economical). — For a pint of sauce, take half a pint of white stock, but do not boil it down; simmer tho vegetables in half a pint of milk and water, mixed until flavoured, then strain; mix in the stock, add milk to make up a pint in all, then thicken as above, making it creamy or thick, as desired. The light part of the carrot only is used. Bechamel Maigre.—This is mado as above, but no stock is used. Take a gill of water and three gills of milk ; cook the vegetables in the water, strain, add the boiling milk, then thicken and finish as above. For this and the preceding a hair sieve will do in place of a tummy. Black Butter.—Melt in a fry- ing-pan threo ounces of butter, and let it become a rich brown ; it must not become literally black butter, or it would bo burnt butter. In another pan heat a tablespoonful each of chopped capers and their vinegar, French vinegar, and Harvey sauce. Take the buttor from tho fire, and stir in the contents of the second pan ; add a pinch of pepper, and servo in a hot sauce-boat. The capers may be omitted, and some sprigs of parsley added; they should be thrown into the hot butter; a second will crisp them. Sometimes a little ketchup is added. Serve with skate or other fish, poached eggs, or calf’s brains. Bordelaise Sauce.—Required: half a pint of stock (Nos. 6 or 7), a gill and a half of claret, seasoning, and thickening. Cost, about 6d. Rub a saucepan across the bottom with a clove of garlic; put in a bit of mace and half an inch of stick cinna- mon, a good pinch of cayenne, then add the stock; boil until a fourth re- duced, then strain, and add the claret. Mix three-quarters of an ounce of arrowroot to a smooth paste, add it very gradually, and boil up. It should look like thin treacle, and it is neces- sary that the stock bo clear of fat and sediment, as, though a thickened sauce, it should be bright. Serve with fish. (See also Entrees.) Bread Sauce.—Required: a pint * of milk, one ounce of butter, a salt- spoonful of salt, a small onion or shalot, two cloves, six crushed white peppercorns, a couple or three table- spoonfuls of cream, and half a pint of bread-crumbs. Prepare the crumbs by rubbing some whito broad of a few days old through a sieve; put them in a saucepan with the other ingredients, stir until the sauce boils, then simmer for ten minutes, stirring all tho time; then take out the onion, and serve. If a mild onion flavour is liked, parboil or scald it before adding it to the sauce. If a very thick sauce is liked, increase tho quantity of the crumbs; and if time is an object, the milk may be boiled and poured over the bread. After standing covered for half an hour, it only need bo stirred just to the boil. Bread Sauce (Vegetarian),