STOCKS AND SOUPS. 27 can be thickened and coloured as re- quired. It should set into a jelly. Stock (No. 2).—Havo a second basin in readiness, into which put all the remaining liquid from the pot, pressing the debris well. This will look thicker than No. 1, and serve for thick sauces, gravies, &c. Put aside the bones and gelatinous pieces of meat for further cooking, and throw away the rest, i.e., the vegetables. Stock (No. 3).—This is called Second Stock. It takes its name from the fact that the bones and scraps used for it are cooked a second time. To prepare it, put on the bones from the previous day, with a fresh bone or two from veal or poultry if wanted strong and good ; add a little salt, and nothing else, and cook all day. When cold, this should be very firm—firmer than stock made as above, because by the second cooking of the bones more gelatine is extracted. It is, however, comparatively flavourless and colour- less Supposing it is required for meat pies—say, by way of example, a chicken pie—all the odds and ends of the bird should go in; and to ensure its setting firmly when cold, in hot weather, a calf's foot, or part of one, will be found a good addition. The meat itself will furnish a separate dish, the bones being cooked for some hours longer. Or if the pie is a raised one, the bones of the bird, if boiled long enough, will furnish plenty of strong stock, which will set to a jelly when cold. If at any time the stock is found to be not stiff enough for any particular purpose, an ounce (or more, if required) of gelatine should be dis- solved in each quart. Sheet gelatine will dissolve quickly, but “ amber opaque gelatine ” will be better for the purpose. There is a special kind, called “ soup strengthener,” cheaper than the finer sorts, which is excellent for giving body to stocks and soups. Brown Stock (No. t).—This is a very useful stock, and handy for all sorts of purposes ; it is also very little trouble, and by no means expensive. Required, any bones from roast beef or other meat, or raw bones, or they can bo mixed; odds and ends of cooked meat, game, or poultry, or bones and trimmings from raw birds. By way of example, say, the feet, necks, gizzards, and livers of fowls, the head and neck of a rabbit, any scraps of ham cooked or raw, some bacon- rind scalded, a morsel of kidney, or a bit of milt (butchers often call it melt), and vegetables and spices; a carrot, half a turnip, a bit of parsnip, a large onion, a bunch of mixed herbs, a score of mixed peppercorns, and two cloves, for each quart of water, the quantity of water being of course regulated by the amount of material for stock. Any liquor from boiled fresh meat or poultry should be used in place of water. A bit of mushroom, or even the peelings well washed, will improve the stock, but are not essential. The skin of an onion may be added to give colour. If no beef bones are handy, a bit of fresh gravy beef must be got. First, melt a little fat in the bottom of the pot, lay in all the ingredients, fry them a good brown all over, taking care not to bum, then add a little water, boil until nearly dried up, then add the requisite quantity, with salt; bring to the boil, and strain. Cook for six hours or longer, strain, and set aside until cold, then remove the fat, and use as required. Brown Stock (No. 5).—Proceed as above, but use all bones and scraps from game and dark meats (that is, leave out white meats and poultry), about a pound to each quart of water, then add about four ounces of lean ham and the same weight of kidney, washed in vinegar and water, and the core removed. In addition to the in- gredients given above, put in a few allspice berries, a sprig of basil and lemon-thyme, and increase the quantity of mushroom. Allow about a tea- spoonful of salt to three pints of liquid. When this hus hud six to twelvo hours’ simmering, press tho