UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 40 turnips. Stocks Nos. 6, 7, and 8 are all suitable for this. Calf’s Feet Soup.—This re- sembles ox-foot soup, but is more delicate in flavour. A set of feet will make two quarts of very good soup, and then the bones will make good second stock. After cleansing and dividing the feet, put them on in cold water, with vegetables and a bunch of herbs; bring to the boil and skim, and cook until the bones will slip out if the feet are to bo served in the soup, but if for a separate dish servo tho feet as soon as they are tender. (See recipes for Calf’s Feet.) This soup is often served clear, in which case a small quantity of extract of meat should be put in, and, if liked, a spoonful of wine, with vegetables in shapes, or Italian paste, or anything which would be added to ordinary clear soups; if thickened, finish like Mock Turtle. Cost, about 1 s. per quart. This stock is also suitable for tho foundation of any good white soup. Calf’s Feet Soup, Piquant.— After cooking the feet, leave tho stock, after straining, until next day; then measure it; supposing two quarts, boil down to three pints, with a slice of lean ham and a fried onion; then strain and skim. Put in the following ingredients, and servo at once, after just bringing it to tho boil again:—a teaspoonful of French vinegar, the same of tomato vinegar and vinegar from pickled cucumbers, a few grains of cayenne pepper, a dessert-spoonful of extract of meat, half an ounce of glaze dissolved in a glass of claret, salt to taste, and a teaspoonful each of very finely-chopped parsley and chervil, with a few shreds of fresh tarragon. Have tho tureen ready heated, with threo ounces of rice, boiled as for curry and browned (see Brown Rice Soup) ; pour the soup over, and cover at once ; then serve. This is a very delicious soup, and quite inexpensive. Cost, about 4d. per pint. The feet make a separate dish, Calf’s Head Soup.—See Mock Turtle. Cauliflower and Cheese Soup.—This will furnish an illus- tration of what may be done with cold vegetables in the way of soups, and from other materials of the same nature an endless variety may bo furnished. This is very delicious and nourishing. Required : one quart of bone or vegetable stock, one pint of milk, two ounces each of butter, rice- flour, and grated Parmesan cheese, some sprigs of cooked cauliflower the size of a shilling, and enough to fill a breakfast-cup, a couple of table- spoonfuls of boiled rice, semolina, or macaroni cut small, a little celery, salt, white pepper, and cayenne, and two eggs. Cost, about lOd. May bo made in a quarter of an hour. Boil the stock, add the cauliflower, and season it nicely; melt the butter, stir in the rice-flour, add the milk gradually, and boil up; stir in the grated choose off the fire, and add the eggs singly, heating hard for a minute or two. Do not boil again : the steam will cook them. Stir in the rice or macaroni, mix well, then pour into the tureen, and add the boiling stock by degrees. When serving, hand round some more grated cheese. Carrot Puree (Superlative).— Required: six carrots, a lump of sugar, one ounce of butter, one onion, one turnip, two celery stalks, two ounces of lean ham, two leeks, salt and peppercorns, one quart of stock (No. 8), and half an ounce of glaze. Cost, about 9d. Wash and brush the carrots, take off the red part, and put it into a pan with the butter and tho rest of the vegetables sliced: add tho ham in dice, and a dozen of mixed peppercorns, a little salt, and the sugar. Sweat for fifteen minutes, pour in the stock boiling, and cook, with frequent skimming, for an hour and a half, or until tho whole can be sieved; then return it to the pan, stir in the glaze, and servo as soon as it is hot. If no glaze is handy, use a tea-