475 SAUSAGES. first-class Italian warehouses; these range in price from two to four shillings per pound; the recipes are national secrets, and nothing but imitations can be made outside their native country, in many instances. For general directions on cooking, see Sausages in the alphabetical recipes. American Sausages. — Re- quired : four pounds of lean pork, two pounds of fat pork, six teaspoonfuls of dried sage, three teaspoonfuls of black pepper, four and a half teaspoonfuls of salt (of which half should be celery salt), half a nutmeg grated, a small teaspoonful of ground mace, and half as much ground cloves. Cost, about lOd. per pound. Pass the meat through a mincer, and mix the seasoning together before adding it to the rest. If not all wanted at once, pack some away in a stone jar in the cellar, and cover the top with melted lard. Another way is to make some long bags of muslin, each to hold, say, a pound of the meat. After filling and tying, suspend them from the cellar ceiling, first dipping them in melted lard. When the meat is put into skins they should always be tested, for fear of holes; do this by tying one end up, and blowing hard through the other; the weak parts, if any, are thus discovered. To cook the above without skins, make it into cakes or sausage shapes, and fry them in a little hot fat; or if wanted crisp, their own fat will cook them. They' are ex- cellent rolled in egg and cracker- crumbs, then dipped in melted fat and baked or grilled at a sharp fire. The foregoing recipe is an excellent onefor sausage meat that is to be kept, but for quite immediate eating it would be too much seasoned for most palates. This- can be reduced to taste. Beef Sausages. — Required : beef, seasoning and bread. Allow about two pounds of lean beef to one pound of fat; the proportion of bread is a matter of taste ; very good sausages are all meat; medium quality ones con- sist of about a fourth bread; the seasoning is salt, pepper, and cayenne, with any spice that may be liked—nut- meg is most agreeable as a rule; shalots also are liked by some, but they should bo in small proportion, and very finely chopped. If passed through a fine mincer the meat need not be pounded. In filling the skins, more room must be left for swelling if bread is used in the mixture. The meat chosen should be juicy and tender; hard, gristly' meat makes very' inferior sausages. The samo mixture may be rolled into cakes or balls, but sausages in skins are more fully flavoured and more generally liked. These are more wholesome than pork. Another way. — Use suet in place of fat beef [sec remarks on the cooking of sausages containing suet, under Mutton Sausages), and although many' contend that the only' sausages worth eating are made with suet, we recommend the above as not only nicer to eat, but more digestible. This is a matter of opinion, and readers can make their ow'n choice. For eating cold—and many enjoy cold sausages—the above kind are certainly the better. Cost, about 7d. or Sd. per pound. Beef Sausages, German- Required : beef, pork, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. per pound. These are a good breakfast relish ; they should be cut in slices and served with salad. Mince together two pounds of lean beef and one pound of lean pork, an ounce of salt, half a tea- spoonful of fine saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, a pinch of ground cloves and cayenne arc then mixed in well, and a flavour of garlic is imparted by bruising a clove of garlic to a pulp, and pouring a little