490 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. add the seasoning, and then the milk, which will make the whole into a paste; or the dripping can he first melted, and put in with the milk. Now for the herbs : if this is to be used for veal, add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and about half a teaspoonful of thyme if fresh, rather more if dried. If for mutton, it may bo made as for veal, or a small tea- spoonful of sago can be added, and a small onion parboiled and chopped. Or for either kind of meat the herbs may be left out, and a chopped mush- room added, or a teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup. This is useful for cheap dishes ; it will be noticed that no egg is given, it will not therefore be firm when cooked, but rather crumbly, and as some people have to avoid eggs in all forms, to such it will be useful. It may also be used for a rabbit or fowl, and may be enriched if desired by the substitution of butter for dripping, and cream for milk. Mushroom Forcemeat, Vegetarian.—This is a very useful forcemeat for a great variety of dishes, and will probably be appre- ciated as much by meat eaters as those for whom it is more particularly intended. Required: a pound of button mushrooms, the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, a couple of ounces of oil—this may be olive or any other, but olive is the nicer— bread, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about lOd. to Is. Wash the mushrooms, then chop them up, and put them in an enamelled sauce- pan with the oil first heated, and the lemon; stir until they begin to fall, then add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketch- up, a little nutmeg and cayenne, with white pepper and salt to taste, and four ounces of bread-crumbs which have been soaked in milk and beaten well. Take flic pan from the fire, and add a tablespoonful of tapioca previously cooked either in milk or water, and give the whole a good stirring. The • finishing off of this depends entirely upon the purpose for which it is in- tended. As it is, it will do for stuffing other vegetables (see recipes in the chapters on Vegetables) ; or it can be made firm enough to form into balls, and used in pies; a little mashed potato, rice, or anything to give the right consistence, may be used for this purpose. Oyster Forcemeat, Good.— Required: oysters, bread, butter, sea- soning, eggs, anchovy essence, parsley, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d., with oysters at Id. each. Mix together a dozen medium-sized oysters, cut small, a gill and a half of bread-crumbs, a salt spoonful of grated lemon peel, a good pinch of cayenne, white pepper and salt, a hint of mace, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and two ounces of liquefied butter. Work these until a sort of paste is formed; the back of a wooden spoon should be used. Then add the yolk of an egg, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of the oyster liquor, in which the beards have been stewed (see Oyster Sauce) ; go on working the paste, and add a table- spoonful of cream, and a few drops of the essence of anchovies; put in another egg yolk, and work again for a few minutes. It is then ready for stuffing fowl, turkey, &c. If for fish, the parsley can be omitted if liked, and a little more anchovy used, but it is intended to develop the oyster flavour, not to overpower it. (See Oyster Sausages.) Oyster Forcemeat, Plain.— Required: oyster sauce, bread, egg, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. Take a gill of Oyster Sauce, made plainly; while it is warm, mix in some crumbs of bread, and stir until a paste is formed, which will leave the sides of the pan; extra seasoning will bo wanted to impart flavour to the bread. When cool, add part of an egg and use. If for baked fish, the rest of the egg will serve for brushing it over. Oyster Forcemeat, Plain, from Tinned Oysters. — Re- quired: a tin of oysters, bread, roux,