STOCKS AND SOUPS. 25 Fin. 13.—Stock-Pot with Tat. The pot should be emptied every night, and dried in the air after washing ; cleanliness in every detail is the first desideratum. Let each day’s stock be complete in itself, that is, do not put it back into the pot next day only bones aud gristly meat may go on for further cooking). In Fig. 13 is shown a stock-pot of the best kind, as by means of the inside strainer and the tap which is fitted near the bottom the stock can be readily drawn off as required, and free from sediment. If no stock-pot is at hand, a stout saucepan, kept for the purpose, with a good-fitting lid, may be substituted. The lid and rim must be scrupulously clean, or the stock will “sour”; badly-washed saucepan lids have ruined thousand^, of gallons of stock. What may go into it P Scraps of meat, fresh or cooked; bits of gristle and skin; the bones of a roast or boiled joint ; game and poultry bones and trim- mings ; a ham bone ; scalded bacon-rind; a bit of milt or kidney; in fact, anything of the Mud, if free from taint. Game, if high, should not go iu, and pork bones also are better left out. They are very greasy, aud should be kept for such soups—pea, lentil, &c.—as really are better cooked in greasy stock. Vegetables should be used in moderation ; iu hot weather they are better left out, especially turnips, being productive of fermentation; and in some houses there are not enough scraps and bones to make stock more than twice a week; then, as it has to be kept, it will not keep if made with vegetables. Iu warm weather, stock must be boiled up daily, and in winter every other day. Nothing prevents putrefaction so thoroughly as heat. Celery, leeks, onions, carrots, turnips, bay-leaves, •hyme, and parsley, may go iu in cool weather ; parsnip, even iu moderation, is sometimes objected to; otherwise, a little improves the stock. Celery- seed should take the place of the fresh vegetable when that is not to be had. Of seasoning, the less the better at starting; more can be added when the ultimate uses of the stock are determined. Just a few allspice berries and mixed peppercorns, and a clove or two stuck in the onions, with a little salt, will suffice. Fill up with cold water, that is, cover the contents, and an inch or two more ; bring slowly to the boil (this makes a great difference to the goodness or otherwise of tlio liquid), and skim very carefully, just before it boils is the time ; a pinch of salt aud a spoonful of cold water added two or three times afterwards will throw up more scum, which must always be removed just before it again boils up. After the final skimming, boil steadily but continuously all day; do not stir the contents, and only remove the lid when moro water is required; then, if by an open fire, remove the pot before taking off the lid : the steam in, and the smoke out ” is a good motto. In recipes 1 and 2 we show how useful slocks may bo got from such a foundation as the foregoing, though in no two houses will they be just alike, owing to the lack of definite proportions of tlio various