GAME AND POULTRY. 453 dessertspoonful of curry paste for eit;ht to twelve ounces of rabbit. When well blended, put in the rabbit, and stir all the timo until it is well heated through, then put in salt to taste, a teaspoonful of onion juice, tho s nne of hot mango chutney (tho liquid portion only), and a little almond- milk or cocoa-nut milk, (do on stirring until tho rabbit is coaled with the compound, no liquid remaining in tho pan Have some boiled rico on a dish, hollow the centre, and put tho rabbit in. Send mango chutney, cayenne, and lemon juice to table, and sprinkle a few chillies and sultanas over the nco. With reference to the above, it i3 hardly necessary to say that it is excellent; we wish to point out that if a very young rabbit bo used, or a young chicken is equally suitable, tho preliminary cooking is not needed; hut tho tossing process has to be pro- longed ; therefore care is wanted, or tho meat will bum. This is a good luncheon dish. Rabbit, jET-icandeau of.— Required : a rabbit, bacon, stock, and tomatoes as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. For this, take tho fleshy portion of a Large, fat rabbit—that is, the hind quarters and the loins cut off dose to the shoulder-blades. Lard the flesh evenly and closely, and lay it in a deep baking-dish. Pour upon it as much nicely-flavoured stock (No. 4 or 5) as will cover it, fasten a piece of buttered paper over the dish, and bake the rabbit in a moderate oven until it is quite tender, being careful to baste it frequently, and to add a little more stock if required. Lift the rabbit out of the gravy and keep it hot. Boil the liquor in which it was baked till well reduced. Have ready a teacupful of rich tomato puree. Spread this on a hot dish. Lay the rabbit upon it, pass a red hot shovel over the larding, to make it crisp, and pour the gravy- over all. Serve very hot. The rabbit may be cooked in a slew- pan if more convenient. Time, about an hour and a half. Serve a niuco of green vegetables in a separate dish, or put this under the rabbit, and send tho tomato puree to table in a sauco boat. Rabbit Galantine.—Required: rabbits, forcemeat, bacon, <Scc., as under. Cost, about 4s. This is a good dish for any meal, and an excellentsubstitute for Fowl Galan- tine ; it is, of course, much cheaper. Two rabbits are wanted; one should be large and the other small. Bono both ; they should be plump. Lay the largo one flat on a board; cut up the other; mix it with about half its bulk of force- meat (see recipes), and spread it over tho other ; or make a roll of it. Sew up in a roll, or the original shape may bo restored ; if tho first method be followed, draw the legs in to the body. Tie a few slices of bacon round, and sew up in a clean cloth, then follow tho directions given for galantines of Fowls, garnishing according to taste and requirements. Another way.—If only one rabbit be procurable, use veal for the filling, or yToung, tender pork ; or increase the forcemeat; unless well filled, it is not worth tho trouble. Rabbit, Hashed.—Required: cooked rabbit, sausages, bacon, vege- tables, gravy, &c., as under. Cost, variable. Take the remains of a rabbit that has been boiled, and some bacon or pickled pork, together with any sauce that may have been served with it. Slice the rabbit and bacon, a fourth of the latter will be enough, and heat them in the sauce; or if none is at hand, a little can bo made, or some white stock can be flavoured and thickened for the purpose. Sup- posing half a pound of rabbit to be used, hike tho same weight of pork sausages; twist them up to make each into two; boil them, or, better still, steam them. Serve the bash on a hot dish, with tho sausages round, together with little potato balls or cakes. Hard- boiled eggs are sometimes used. Another uuy.-—Mince tho bacon or pork, instead of slicing it, and re-