428 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. will bo found good. It is a suit- able method of cooking a hare that is rather too old for roasting or for better-class dishes of any kind. (See recipes under Rabbit.) Cut the hare up in the usual way (sec next recipe) ; slice the steak, and cut the bacon in strips. Put them in alternate layers in a jar. Pour over half a tin of tomatoes—the cheap broken kind answer very well—and plain stock to cover; put in the claret, it will help to make the hare tender; season with herbs and spices, but no salt. Cover, and cook in a water bath or a gentle oven until done. Half an hour before dishing, strain the gravy (after putting the joints on a hot dish); add salt and more seasoning if needed, thicken with browned flour, and colour with a little browning. The force- meat should have been made into little balls or cakes, and fried. They should bo put back in the gravy with the hare, to finish the cooking, and the whole served very hot. If more convenient, the forcemeat may be baked in a jar, and then turned out into the middle of the dish. (See Forcemeats.) Hare, Jugged, Rich. — Re- quired : a hare, seasoning, wine, vege- tables, stock, and adjuncts as under- mentioned. Cost, from 7s. upwards on an average for a large hare. Cut the hare in pieces not larger than an egg ; season them with pepper, and fry them brown in bacon fat or butter. Drain them, and put them in a stone jar with a quarter of a pint of port and a spice bag, made by tying up in muslin a strip of lemon rind, two bay leaves, four cloves, a dozen peppercorns, a few allspice berries, a sprig of thyme, and a couple of shalots, chopped. The spices should be bruised, and the bag tied loosely. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over, tie the jar over, and set it in a warm place for half an hour. A morsel of stick cinnamon is an im- provement to jugged hare, unless, as often happens, it is objected to. Untie the jar, and pour in a pint or more of good stock, well flavoured with vege- tables; a pinch of celery seed should go in the bag if no celery has been used in the stock. No. 1 or 5 will be found suitable, and the dish will be all the better if the neck and other inferior parts bo used for the gravy, which should then be made the day before- hand. Then tie the jar closely, and set it up to its nock in a saucepan of boiling water. Cover, and keep tho water boiling, replenishing it as it boils away, for two to three hours; the latter is enough for an old hare. Finish by straining the gravy—give the bag a good squeeze to get out the flavour; place the joints nicely on a hot dish, and brush them with a little thin glaze; add a morsel of glaze or extract of meat to the gravy, and season it to taste. The thickening may be arrowroot or brown roux; it is a matter of opinion which is the nicer. Boil the gravy until as thick as good cream, and pour it over the hare. Garnish the dish with small forcemeat balls, fried a rich brown; if a force- meat containing suet be used for them, they must be stewed for about an hour after frying; but the sausage meat, or other hare stuffing, minus suet, is pre- ferable. Extra gravy should be sent to table, and some fruit jelly, melted, should be served in a boat; currant is, perhaps, tho best known, but gooseberry or tomato jelly will be found equally good. This dish will be found of better flavour than one to which the wine is added last thing, as usually directed. If more convenient, the jar may be placed in a tin of water in the oven, but it takes longer (See recipes under Rabbet.) Hare Quenelles. (&* Quenelles of Hare under Entries.)—Should the supply of hare run short, rabbit can be used to eke it out, but it is necessary that it be well seasoned, and is all the better if moistened with a little port and strong stock, made from hare or rabbit bones, before pounding. (Sec also Game Quenelles.)