UaNIVERSAL COOKERY liOOlt. 524 moist when out; for this reason they need, care in the frying. If any bits of moat, cow heel, calf’s foot, &c., can be mixed with the mutton, less gelatine is wanted for the gravy. If time is short, instead of pouring into cups to set, use the mixture as soon as cool enough, then some cooked rice, or mashed potatoes, or bread-crumbs must be added to “bind” it, together with an egg. The boulettes are in that case stiffer, and not so nice. A mushroom chopped and fried, added, makes them much more savoury. Mutton Croquettes, Plain. Required : meat, stock, seasoning, egg, and bread. Cost, about Is. per dozen. Take a pound of cold mutton with a fair share of fat, or if it is very lean, add a little cooked ham or bacon fat; chop it or put through a mincer. Chop a couplo of shalots or a small onion, and fry brown in hot dripping ; then add rather more than half an ounce of flour ; brown it well, add by degrees a gill of plain stock, as No. 1 or 2 ; stir to the boil, season with salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg; then tako from the fire, add some chopped parsley and the meat, and turn out on a plate to cool. Then make into little balls, and brush with beaten egg; cover well with bread- crumbs. Use a frying basket, and fry in hot fat. They take but a few seconds. By using a mushroom and a little ketchup, in place of the onion and parsley, another variety is obtained. Mutton Croquettes (Sa- voury).—Required : four ounces of cookea mutton, half a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, two ounces of mutton kidney, and three ounces each of ham and tongue, cooked, panada and season- ing. Cost, about Is. Mince the meat, the kidney should first be grilled or broiled, and left to cool; if a machine is not handy it must be pounded, but if it can be assod twice through a mincer it will o fine enough. Then add salt, pepper, and anchovy, and the panada, made by frying an ounce each of flour and butter until brown, and adding a gill of brown stock. Stir the whole, and leave to cool, then form into little cones, about a dozen; brush them with beaten egg, and coat with crumbs; fry as usual, and stick bits of parsley-stalk in the thin end of each. Dish in a circle, stalk end up, and fill the centre with fried parsley. Another icay.—-Put each cone on a crouton, first spreading it with mush- room, or other nice puree; or put them on sliced, cooked tomatoes, seasoned, aud spread with a little brown sauce, seasoned with anchovy essence. Re- member to cook the panada well, by boiling it for a minute before the meat goes in, but not for a moment after. If not boiled enough, the croquettes often break in the frying, particularly when made cone-shaped. If not con- venient to add as much tongue and ham, increase the mutton : the season- ing must then be increased slightly. Mutton Cutlets A, la Game. —Required: six ounces of cooked mutton, two ounces of ham, three ounces of boiled rice, an ounce of bread-crumbs, half a glass of port, sweet herbs, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. Mince the mutton and ham (the latter may bo from boiled or baked ham); chop and fry a shalot with a good pinch of powdered herbs: add the rice, and the crumbs soaked in the wine, with half a gill of brown sauce; season with salt and pep- per, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of powdered cloves. Stir and set aside, then shape on a board into small oval cutlets. Brush them with beaten egg, and roll them in crushed vermicelli; then fry brown. Dish in a ring, and fill up with fried parsley. Or divide the mass by means of a cutlet cutter, after spreading on a flat dish until quite cold. A small quantity of brown sauce, flavoured with currant or tomato jolly, may be served with these. Venison can bo used up in the same way. If required in a hurry, these