429 game axd poultry. Hare, Ragout of.—Required : a hare, a marinade as below, gravy, jelly, wine.and garnish. Cost,from5s.6d.to 6s. The hare for this is marinaded, and a very excellent dish is the result. Put all the best parts of a hare into an earthen vessel. Put in a chopped onion, two bay leaves, a dozen bruised peppercorns, half a dozen bruised cloves, a gill of claret, and the same of vinegar—three kinds, viz., French, English, and tomato vinegar—turn the pieces about, and leave them for twelve hours. Meanwhile, make a gravy from the other portions of hare ; this should be well seasoned, and as thick as cream. When ready to cook take up the joints, dry them, and put them in the gravy. Put the marinade in a saucepan, and boil it down to less than half; add it to the rest, and cook gently. Remember in making the gravy from the bones, &c., to rub through some of the meat; the gravy will then want no other thickening (the rest will come in for other dishes, as hare toast or some patties). When nearly done, season the gravy rather highly—the vinegar flavour must not predominate, and stir in a dessert- spoonful of black currant jelly and a glass of good port. Cover again, and serve very hot. Put some croutons round the dish, or, if liked, some little quenelles; see recipe. Hare, Roasted.—An old hare should not be roasted. Take one, there- fore, not more than three-parts grown. When it is wished to hang a hare for the full time before paunehing, tie up the vent and mouth. As soon as it is paunched scald the liver and heart; wipe the inside, and pepper it well, and hang the hare head down, until ready to cook it. Should it be- come limp, cook it at once. Skin, and wash the hare well inside ; dry it, and if there are any parts where the blood has settled, pierce tho skin with a sharp knife, and hold the parts in warm water to draw out tho blood. Fill with good forcemeat, and sew it up. Brush it over with warm dripping or butter, and wrap thin slices of fat bacon about it. The back and thighs are most important, but it is well to cover it entirely. Baste often, almost incessantly, with dripping until nearly done, then flour it, and baste with butter: sometimes cream is used, a bit of butter being dissolved in it; either will produce a good froth. Tho hare should be a nice brown. If tho bacon is not to be sent to tablo, take it off before the final basting and frothing. If to be sent to table, leavo on the back portion only; it should bo cut rather thicker at first than the rest, and some slits made in a slanting direction across the middle. Send gravy or sauce to table, and some red currant or other fruit jelly, both hot and cold. A batter for basting hare was at one time much used, and is still liked by some people. It is made by mixing a pint of milk with half a gill of salad oil, two or three ounces of flour, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. This dries on the hare, and be- comes stiff, and care is needed to pre- vent burning ; it is only used towards the end of the roasting, after the dripping. Remove all the skewers and trussing strings, and garnish the hare with plain salad, or with small forcemeat balls, if the hare be un- stuffed. Little rolls of bacon may bo used if it is known that bacon is liked. Time, about an hour and a quarter to an hour and three-quarters for a medium-sized hare, two hours for a fine one, may be given as the average ; but there is a very wide difference of opinion on this point. Some authori- ties, who favour the under-cooking of winged gamo to tho fullest extent, consider that hare ought to bo well done; while others go so far as to say that thirty or forty minutos is ample timo for a well-grown hare. Tastes differ, but wo think that few people, comparatively, will care for haro cooked much loss than tho time above stated; and tho cooking must always be gradual from tho very stnrt; tho fierce heat generally necossai y to close