UNIVERSAL COOKERV BOOK. 194 rind, and a cupful of stock, Boil all gently together for a minute or two. Strain the sauce, thicken it with roux, then, aftor boiling up and skimming, put in a glass of Madeira. Sturgeon, Cutlets of.—Re- quired : some shoes of sturgeon, three- fourths of an inch thick ; a seasoning, as much as may he required in the following proportions: an ounce each of fat bacon, minced onion, and parsley, all cut into the smallest pieces, then chopped all together, and seasoned rather highly. Skin the fish, trim the cutlets neatly to the same size and shape ; oil them, and cover the upper side with the mixture. Cover them with buttered paper, and bake in a tin ; when done, servo with a sauce made by boiling the trimmings down in water for stock; to a gill, add white wine, same quantity, and a little roux to make it as thick as good cream after it has boiled up. The fish should be got ready some timo beforehand, to give the stock the required time to become strong. Sturgeon, Roasted.—This can be cooked plainly, but is better if larded. The skin should be taken off, and a nice, thick piece, of several pounds, chosen ; after larding, tie up in shape, and roast it, basting often with the following, prepared before- hand :—Supposing four pounds of fish, put in a saucepan a gill of good fish stock, the same of good brown stock, half a gill of sherry, a bunch of herbs, and some bits of carrot and onion; leave for a time to blend, then bring to the boil, strain, and use. When the fish is done, put it near the fire to brown, and add a morsel of roux and glaze to the gravy; boil it up, and servo. Sturgeon, Stewed.—Prepare the fish as above. Have in a stew-pan a “ bod ” of vegetables ; carrot, onion, and a morsel of celery ; some odds and onds of ham trimmings or scalded bacon rinds; cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, and a little wine and fish stock to moisten ; lay the fish on, cover with a buttered paper, and when the moisture is almost dried up, add, to three or four pounds, half a pint of fish stock or veal stock, and a glass of wine. Draw to the side of the stove, and simmer only, basting often, over the paper, with the stock. It will take from one to two hours according to thickness. When done, take the fish up, and brown it before the fire, then strain the gravy, and remove the fat from the surface, add .an ounce of glaze, a tcaspoonful of arrowroot, and a few drops of French vinegar; give it a boil up, and pour round the fish. This is a very de- licious dish, and when timo and expense are not grudged, other fish may be cooked similarly with a cer- tainty of success. Tench.—This resembles the carp in its fondness for muddy situations; the flesh is consequently rather un- pleasant in taste, and to free it from this, the fish is sometimes turned for a few days into clear water; it weighs not more than four to five pounds as a rule, and when well cleansed, and properly prepared, is very good eating. Cost, very uncertain. Tench, Baked.— Clean, scale, and remove the gills of the fish—they are always muddy. Rub the fish all over with lemon j uiee, and leave it for an hour; cover with an oiled paper, and bako in a greased tin. Serve with a piquant gravy, made in the tin, or with piquant sauce. (See Sauces.) Tench, Boiled.—In cleaning the fish, raise the backbone, and rub salt under it; wash it thoroughly in salted water. Boil in the usual way, and serve with parsley sauce, or a nice White Sauce; or send Maitke d’IIotel Butter to table in addition to a hot sauce. Tench, Broiled.—The following is one of the best ways of cooking tonch. After cleaning and drawing the fish, lay it in boiling water for