Universal cookery book. G78 and a few white peppercorns and a little salt should be added. Now return it to the pan, thicken with a few spoonfuls of good white sauce, or with cream and a little arrowroot. It should ho delicate both in colour and flavour. [Sec Celeuy and Celery Sauce; the latter, made thicker, serves as a puree.) Celery with Iced Sauces.— {See the recipes for asparagus and other vegetables in this chapter.) Celery with Rich Hot Sauces.—The sauces suitable for this are the same as for asparagus, or sea- lcale. The more delicate the sauce, the better will the flavour of the celery predominate. Chartreuse of Vegetables.— Dishes of this sort are very artistic in appearance, and may be made in a number of ways. Wo give directions for a cold and a hot one. The principal thing to remember is that whatever is used for the filling must bo of a stiff nature, that there may be no super- fluous liquid to run, and spoil the appearance of the dish ; for although called a chartreuse of vegetables, the interior is composed of moat, or game, or poultry. First a hot one, which is the more troublesome of the two. Take a plain mould, and line it with buttered paper; do not spare the butter, and see that every part is covered with it. Now take some cooked vegetables of two colours; they must be rather under- than overdone; carrots and tur- nips, or artichoke bottoms and carrots, or the stems of a cabbago or lettuce can be used with some carrot. Then measure the depth of the tin, and cut the vegetables either into long strips to fit it, or make square blocks, which are prettier; about an inch square is the size for a mould of three to four inches in depth ; arrange so that the pieces shall just lit the mould. Then place them in close together, alter- nately, the closer the better, so that they do not break ; go on the same way until the mould is full, the colours alternating each row, so that the whole looks like a chessboard. The filling may be any meat that has been nicely cooked and seasoned—poultry or game, or sweetbread with veal, &c.; but let it bo noatly cut up in rather small pieces, and dip each into a little thick gravy, or, better still, into glaze, as this will hold the whole together, and if the meat has been braised it will not be dry. Before putting in the meat the top of the mould is to be coated, and for this a green puree is often used; one of spinach looks nice, or cabhage does, or the appearance is improved, if the mould be a round one, by using a green pur6e with one of carrots, hoth very thick, and putting them in in four quarters. Brush over with glaze before the meat goes in, then, after the meat, put another layer of the puree. The tin is now set in the oven until hot through, the contents turned out, and the paper carefully removed. The process is really much simpler than it appears on paper; hut it requires patience. The base of the mould can be garnished with some little heaps of vegetables in blocks, or they may he in shreds or fancy shapes, and gravy can be served in a tureen. We may add that a very elegant but costly dish is made from a combination of truffles and carrots, or truffles and turnips. For a cold dish, proceed as follows:— Line a mould with aspic as pale as possible, and arrange the vegetables in the same way; or, if strips are pre- ferred, there can he three colours— say, carrots, turnips, and either of the green vegetables above mentioned; instead of turnips, hard whites of egg can be used, and these need not be so thick as for the hot dish. Set these with another layer of aspic. For the filling, we suggest cither of tho following, and there are dozens more : A mixture of macedoines and minced chicken, moistened with a little good white sauce and enough aspic to set it. Or, mayonnaise aspic in place of tho sauce and aspic. Or game with the same mixture, or sweetbread, or veal— the poultry of course being omitted. A glanceat thesection on Cold Entrees will suggest other fillings. The top of