VEAL. 315 one containing a pound of veal will inquire an hour and a half. This is much liked generally. It is often preferred plain, but gravy am bo served with it if liked ; or brown sauce; with a flavouring of lemon juice or mushroom catsup is very good. Breast of Veal.—This rightly consists of two parts, the best end, and the brisket end ; it may be bought whole, or in parts ; the brisket end being a little cheaper. In carving it, much dopends upon the method of jointing adopted' by the butcher. If the ribs have been broken across, long slices may be cut as shown in the Fic. 7S. -Breast of Veal, to Carve. diagram from a to n ; or the rib can bo cut right through from c to d, then divided at the broken bone a n. If the rib bones have not been broken, the ribs have to be served whole ; tho pieces are then somewliat awkward- looking on the plate. Tho gristly portion may lie cut as shown in h h, and in a well-cooked breast this is very inviting and tender. Cost, about Sd. [per pound. Breast of Veal, Boiled.—If the sweetbread is to be boiled with tho veal, let it soak in water for a couple of hours, then skewer it to the veal. Put this into a saucepan, with boiling water to cover it, let it boil once inoro, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Add a handful of parsley, a lea- spoonful of peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a slice or two of tho white part of celory. Servo on a hot dish, and pour a little good onion sauce or parsley sauce over it. Send boiled bacon to table on a separate dish. The swcotbread may, of course, be dressed separately. Time to simmer the veal, about one hour and a half. The scrag end of the neck may be boiled, and served as above, or with any other suitable sauce. Cost, about 8d. per pound, without sweetbread. Broiled.—The breast or neck may be used for this. It should be cooked in the oven, or before tho Are until throe parts done, then scored in evon lines, and seasoned with salt, pepper and herbs, with a pinch of cayenne, and broiled at a clear fire until dono. Or it can bo grilled after the preliminary cooking. Just before serving, tho juice of a lemon should be squeezed over it. Hot pickles, or sweet pickles, can be handed with it; or a little brown gravy in which pickles have been heated may be served. (See also recipes for piquant sauces of various kinds.) Prepared as above, and served with grilled mushrooms, and bacon or ham, the dish will be acceptable at any meal. Cost, as above given. Cake of Veal.—See Cold Meat CooKEitY for the method. For superior dishes use raw veal, increasing the time for cooking, and use a good stock that will be a firm jolly when cold. Bake it in a tin half full of boiling- water, as, should the gravy dry up, the cake will be quite spoiled. The water must be replenished as required, and the dish containing the meat, &c., be tightly covered, either with a flour- and-water paste, or an old tin or plate tied on with greased paper. Chops. —These are taken from tho loin. if the under part is removed and divided, the pieces become fillets, although the form cutlets is frequently applied to them. Chops may bo dressed in any of tho ways given for cutlets. Cost, about lOd. to Is. per pound.