651 PLA1X VEGETABLE COOKERY. with bread and cheese or butter, or may bo used in salads, sandwiches, and other dishes, as well as in hot sauces, such as plain molted butter, or in vegetable purees, being especially use- ful for giving piquancy to such as may be termed insipid. A fow minutes suffice for the cooking. Radishes, Steamed or Boiled.—Cook these like turnips, giving them about twenty minutes for average-sized turnip radishes. They should be served with white sauce or melted butter, and are nice with boiled meat, or may bo served separately. .Many persons who cannot digest raw radishes (even grated) will experience no inconvenience from this dish. Rosemary. -— This is a pretty garden shrub, more used abroad than here, but frequently employed for flavouring bird. Country-made pigs’ puddings are often seasoned with it. Saffron. -Saffron is wholesome, and lias medicinal as well as culinary uses. It is useful as a colouring agent, and enters into most of the vegetable yellow colourings sold by grocers and chemists. In the west of England cakes are coloured with saffron. There is a spurious saffron which should bo avoided; and it is largely adulterated. Various uses are detailed in recipes; tee Rice and Macaiioxi. Sage. — T his is much used in cookery, especially of a homely kind; and for vegetarian savouries it is of especial value; green sage is best known, but there are other varieties. In addition to its pleasant flavour, sage has the merit of wholesomeness. For strong kinds of fish, a little added to the gravy, or boiling liquor, will help to destroy any unpleasant flavour due to muddy water and other causes. (See recipes for the various kinds of fresh-water fish.) Sage is used in several dishes in the present chapter; tee also Ixdex. Salsify.—This is the root of a plant called also the oyster plant and purple goat’s beard. It is excellent when cooked, and less known than it deserves to bo ; it is said to possess stimulating properties, and nmy bo cooked in various ways. It must always bo well done to make it tender, and to remove a certain bitter flavour which otherwise lingers about it; this is very pronounced in the raw state. The leaves should be fresh, and the roots firm and black. To prepare the roots, cut off the ends, and scrape off the outer rind until the flesh is reached; this resembles a parsnip somewhat in colour and general appearance. Rub them with lemon juice or vinegar, and leavo them in cold water until ready to cook them; or put a tablespoonful of lemon juice in each pint of water. They are better if left in the water for an hour, and will impart to it a tinge of reddish brown. Exposure to the air in scraping, or after cooking, turns them brown. Salsify roots, if left in the ground, will send up stout, green shoots in the spring; these can be cooked like asparagus; they are very good eating, and a trial is recom- mended with confidence. Cost, un- certain ; about 6d. to 8d. per bundle. Salsify, Boiled.—Cut the roots into even-sized pieces, after preparing them as directed above; they may bo from three to four inches long, or smaller or larger, as preferred. Put them into boiling water with a littlo salt and a morsel of butter; a few drops of lemon juice are an improve- ment. Give them about an hour; if large, they may want an hour and a half; a skewer will penetrate them easily when done. Then drain, and dish on toast, and send molted butter or white sauce to table with them. Salsifies are very good re-drossed ; the remains of boiled ones mny bo served in many ways. Sauer Kraut.—This preparation is largely used throughout the northern parts of Europe, and especially in Germany, as an accompaniment to smoked meats, beef, &c. Tho taste for this delicacy is certainly an ac- quired ono, but it is a very general