152 Universal cookery book. selection ami after-treatment. We have elsewhere urged the necessity of buying only good brands of such goods, bear- ing the name of the importer or ex- porter, or a trade mark, such as many firms—whose aim is to supply good value for money—adopt. By taking this precaution, coupled with that of looking out for any bulges in the tins {see remarks under Tinned Meats in the chapter on Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery), the purchaser is fairly safe, and it only remains to empty the con- tents of the tin as soon as opened. To this rule, the only exceptions are fish in oil, as sardines, or potted fish in which there is much salt, of which anchovy paste is a type. Here, pro- viding they are quickly consumed, there is no harm in leaving them in the tins ; at the same time, it is better to empty those in oil into a china dish, and to add fresh oil; while potted fish in stone jars is greatly to bo preferred to that in tins. The fish in liquor of any sort, fresh herrings, eels, and the like, are those which most require at- tention ; they should never bo left in the tins; the same may be said of salmon and lobster. The latter are now to be had in lined tins; the lining is a patent article, a thick, white, paper-like substance, and as it protects the contents from contact with the tins, it is to be hoped that its use will soou become almost universal; it adds but a trifle to the cost, and is a guarantee of excellence and purity. Recipes for cooking and. serving various kinds of tinned fish will be found under their respective headings, somo in the present chapter, and. others in the chapters on Savouries, Pastry, and Salads. Fish, To Keep.—Any of tho kinds that will keep may bo treated as follows: — 1. If a whole fish, wrap it in a cloth that has been wrung out of vinegar; popper the fish first, tie or pin tho cloth to keep it on, and hang in a cool cellar. 2. Lay the fish on a dish, put a little salt on, and a very small quan- tity of vinegar; or if to be left for a short time only, salt does alone. This method also helps to “firm” and whiten fish. The dish containing tho fish may be set on ice, biit do not lay pieces of ice on the fish; it makes some sorts flabby. Always take the inside from fish to be kept, and after cleansing well, by wiping with a wet cloth dipped in salt, season it inside, after careful drying- In the case of a cod-fish, sprinkle salt over tho backbone; it improves it much; tho same may bo said of fresh haddock. See also Pickle for Fish.—By pre- paring some of the pickle (quantity in proportion to the size of the fish), and giving tho fish a boil of a minute or two only, it will ensure its keeping, and it may afterwards be cooked in any desired way, and served hot. The only difference will bo that tho usual flavour is made more piquant: an improvement rather than other- wise. Fresh water fish can always be treated thus. Fish, To Scale,—Scrape the fish with a rather blunt knife, for fear of cutting tho flesh, and as the scales aro removed let water from a tap run on the fish. Fish which are scaled with difficulty may be dipped for a minute in nearly boiling water; or the fish can be cooked unsealed, the latter being lifted off with the skin, beforo tho fish is served. Fish, To Skill.—Flat fish of all sorts arc skinned in the same way as soles {see Solf,, Fried) ; whiting and other fish of the round shape are skinned in the opposite direction. •Skinned fish take rather less time to cook, and greater care is neoded, as tho skin is a protection to the flesh. Fish, To Steam.—In the recipe for Cod a la MaItre d’Hotel wo give the method for steaming when an ordinary potato steamer, or any similar kind is used, that is, tho fish should always be placed in a vessel to retain tho liquor from it, when steamers with