UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 426 when Seville oranges cannot be had, use lemon or lime juice—the latter in moderation. A fruit salad or sweet pickle may be served with it. Hare Collops.—Collops are pre- pared by mincing the meat of a portion of hare, either cooked or raw. For the preparation, see Beef Collops. After frying the hare a good brown, add the gravy {see Hare, Escalopes), and if the hare be raw, simmer it until done; if old, although the pieces are small, it will take some time; let it be as tender as possible without getting raggy. If the meat is cooked, simply heat it through; boil the gravy up first, then let the hare remain in it for half an hour to become well flavoured, but do not boil the gravy a second time. This may be served as it is, or used for patties, little vol-au-vents, and other dishes. If cold hare bo usod, some of the forcemeat can be added. Hare Cutlets.—Required: hare, seasoning, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, variablo. Braiso the back of a hare until nearly done, and let it get cold. Then cut it in nice slices, and dip them in beaten egg, then into bread-crumbs, to a quarter-pint of which a little salt and white pepper, a saltspoonful each of grated lemon pool, mushroom powder, chopped bay loaf, thyme, and parsloy should be added. Fry in hot fat to cover, and serve in a ring with a puree of vege- tables in the centre; and send jelly to table; gravy also if liked. The hare for this is best larded; if that is not done, it must be quite covered with bacon; or, after slicing the hare, a mixture of chopped bacon and herbs may be spread between two slices, which must then be fried to- gether, sandwich fashion; but this is not so good as larding in the first instance. Another way.—This is very superior. Cut the meat from a raw hare, and lard .the cutlets in the same way as fillets of beef. Cook them in a saute pan for a few minutes in a little butter, then finish them off by stewing in gravy or sauce for half an hour, or until tender. Drain and lay them on a hot dish ; brush over with glaze, and crisp the surface; pour the gravy round. For the gravy, see Hare, Braised, Hare, Civet of, and other dishes. Rabbit can be similarly cooked. The meat may bo seasonod with mixed herbs before larding. Hare Escalopes, or ScaUops. —Required : hare, gravy, or sauce, wine, garnish, &c., as below. Cost varies with the season and the adjuncts. These must be cut according to the purpose for which they are required, as they have various uses. In any case, they should be thin and round; but for little dishes they must be made small. Supposing they are to be served sepa- rately, as an entree, cut them as large as possible from the back, make them even, and fry them in a saute pan in hot butter to a light brown. Pour the butter off, wipe the pan out, and put the hare back, with brown sauce to cover; or use Madeira sauce; if the former, flavour it with port or olaret, and stew until tender. Gravy can bo used instead; either of those given for game, or one made from stock No. 16 or 17, well flavoured with herbs, wine, &c., and thickened slightly. Or tomato pulp, with an equal measure of gravy may bo used; a little glaze and wine being added towards the end. Serve in a eroustade of bread or rice, and, if convenient, garnish with quenelles, un- less the latter method is followed, then small braised tomatoes answer equally well. If mushrooms are liked, the gravy may be flavoured with mushroom essence, and little braised mushrooms used for garnishing ; or tiny croutons, spread with a brown mushroom puree, can be put on the top in a pattern. Supposing though that the hare is to be served in shells—of china, or the plated ones—then the meat must be cut in very small slices. The shells must be prepared by greasing, and coating with fried crumbs, then filled with the hare and gravy, coated with