137 FISH. Cod, Moulded, with Maca- roni.—Prepare a mould exactly as detailed in the preceding recipes, then put in a layer of cooked macaroni, pressing it firmly to the bread crumbs. Prepare the fish in the same way, but use a gill of thick tomato sauce, in place of white sauce, to moisten the fish, and add to the mixture an ounce or two of cooked macaroni, cut in short lengths, as well as the crumbs, eggs, and seasoning above named. Then cook as above detailed, and serve with tomato sauce poured over, and boiled macaroni, and hard boiled eggs, quar- tered, placed round the mould. In this, and all similar dishes, the mould must be very evenly coated. If the crumbs are thick in one place, and thin in another, not only is an unsightly dish the result, but the mould is very liable to break in turning out. For plainer dishes, the fish can bo cut up or flaked, instead of sieved. The mould may be steamed if preferred. It should be set in a potato steamer, or saucepan with boiling water to half its depth, as directed for puddings in a later chapter, and cooked for thirty to forty minutes; as soon as firm on the top it is done. Cod, Salt, with Parsnips (a dish for Ash Wednesday).—Salt cod is usually accompanied by parsnips, pro- bably because that wholesome root is at its best and sweetest during the course of lent, and it is very generally served with them and egg sauce on Ash Wednesday. Wash the fish tho- roughly, and lay it in cold water to draw out the salt. It must lie for at hast twelve hours, and longer if it is very salt, and the water ought to bo changed every four or five hours. W hen thoroughly soaked, put it in a saucepan with tepid water, and let it heat very gradually. It must not lie allowed to boil, or it will harden. \\ hen nearly boiling, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until done. Drain it, and serve it on a hot napkin, accompanied by parsnips. (See V sort a m. as.) Cod Sound as Chicken.—Soak and wash three large sounds (see recipo below), and boil them in milk and water for half an hour. Scrape off tho dark skin, and let them cool. Make a forcemeat with a dozen chopped oysters, three oimces of finely grated bread- crumbs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of white pepper, a blade of mace pounded, two chopped anchovies, and three ounces of butter. Work all well together with the yolks of two eggs, spread the forcemeat thinly over the sounds, and truss each one to re- semble a rolled fowl. Dredge flour over them, and cook them in a Dutch oven, basting them well with butter or lard. Serve with Oyster Sauce poured over them. Cod Soxmd, Boiled,—Cod sounds are much liked by many persons, and may he procured salted. Put them into plenty of cold water all night, then scrape and mb off the dark skin with a cloth, wash them thoroughly, and put them in a stew-pan with equal parts of milk and water, and boil them very gently until tender. Be careful to remove the scum as it rises. Serve them on a hot napkin, with Ego Sauce. Time to boil, forty minutes to an hour. Cod, with Mashed Potatoes, —Take the remains of cold cod and its weight in mashed potatoes, remove the skin and bones, and to every pound of fish allow one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, and one or two grains of cayenne; pound all together to a smooth paste with a liltlo buttes-, oil, or cream. Place the mixture in a well-buttered dish, roughen the top with a fork, and bake it in a moderate oven. As soon as brown it is ready. A little plain sauce of any sort im- proves it. Conger Eel.—This is less used than it might bo; the flesh is whole- some, nourishing, and palatable. There are many ways of cooking it. Tho head and tail can bo used for soup, while tho middle serves for pies or. K