517 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. Balls, and a few croutons. Cost, about Is. 3d. Follow the foregoing recipe in pre- paring the ham, using tomato sauce in place of the digestive. Dish the slices each on a crouton, a little larger than the ham, overlapping down a dish. Glaze the potato balls, and put them down the sides, and send the rest of the sauce to table. Or, at the ends of the dish put a puree of any green vegetable, and pour the sauce round it. Ham with. Vermicelli and Pickles.—Required : three quarters of a pound of ham, cut as above, brown sauce, an oblong slice of bread, fried or toasted, hot mixed pickles and vermi- celli. Cost, about Is. 8J. Heat the ham in brown sauce to cover {see last recipe but one), dish on the bread, and put the vermicelli (or macaroni) round; it should be cooked in brown stock. Garnish with little heaps of hot, clear pickles, minced, and heated in sauce or stock. These are tasty snacks for any meal. Hash, American, Corned Beef.—Required: a pint of chopped corned beef, a pint and a quarter or rather less of mashed potatoes, a couple of ounces of butter or dripping, salt and pepper, some toast or fried bread, stock, and parsley. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. The meat and potatoes are to be mixed and moistened with stock, about half a gill being added at first; more will be wanted if the potatoes are very dry, but avoid making the mix- ture sloppy. Heat the fat in a shallow stewpan and put in the rest, then set it where it will allow the contents to become brown and set. When done, turn out on a hot dish, with the parsley and bread round it. Another way.—The fat should be melted and mixed with the rest. The pan is to be greased to keep the mixture from sticking. The layer should be thin, as it is intended to cook in a shorter time than the above. All sorts of additions in the way of seasoning may be added, and other kinds of meat may be so prepared. With care in the cooking, these hashes are very nice ; but a fierce heat hardens the meat, and a very indigestible dish is the result. {See also l)itv on Scal- loped Hash.) Another it-ay.—Put two parts of beef and one of potatoes, both chopped, in a pan with a little milk, and stir until hot; then season, and stir in a lump of butter-, and serve in a mound, on toast, with sippets round it. A morsel of fried onion or parsley may bo added. Hash, American, Koast Beef.—Required: some cold beef, chopped, half as much cold chopped potato, and seasoning as below. The meat and potato should be seasoned with salt and pepper, and a little fried onion if approved, then moisten with a little gravy or butter, and put in the frying-pan until hot through, when it may be served at once, or left until the underside has become brown and crisp, then turned out on a hot dish. This admits of great variety in the shape of cooked celery, or mushroom, or other vegetable ; care must be taken to avoid any raw vegetable, even onion, as the hash takes so short a time to heat through. Hash with Eggs.—Required : half a pint of Bbown Sauce, a pound of cold meat (or meat with game), five eggs, some croutons, seasoning as under. Cost, about 2s. Boil the sauce, add pepper, and a little store sauce or ketchup, with a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, or a little mushroom powder if the flavour is preferred ; put in the sliced meat, pre- pared in the usual way, and leave to become well flavoured. Fry some- round croutons, and trim the edges of the eggs (fried or poached); put one on each crouton. Dish the meat, lay an egg on the top, and one at each end and each side ; put a pinch of coralline pepper on each egg yolk, and servo hot. This looks very tempting, and tastes us well as it looks. Hash, the Nabob's. — Re- quired: two pounds of cold mutton,