game and poultry. 447 at all, for the simple reason that to make it eatable, cold water would have to be used. In such eases other methods are preferable, as will bo shown. Stock, in place of water, is to bo recommended — suitable stock, of course; for instance, if a bit of veal were boiled one day, and the next a boiled rabbit were on the bill of fare, the veal stock would come in nicely for the rabbit. A chirk, strong stock, on the other hand, would spoil a spring chicken, as in all dishes of this sort colour is a desideratum. Skimming is necessary, and very frequent skimming, too; and the cleanest of clean pots must go hand in hand with this. The water, if water only be used, should be flavoured a little by the ad- dition of a bit of celery and the inside of an onion. To assist in keeping the meat white, a rub over with a piece of lemon should not be forgotten, and by wrapping a sheet of buttered paper or muslin round the bird or rabbit, mois- ture and good colour are ensured. Some recommend that a cloth be used also : others condemn it; and our own opinion is that a cloth is not calculated to improve the flavour of the pot liquor, to say the very least; and with re- ference to some cloths, it is not too much to say that they would spoil it entirely. Where thin, delicately- clean cloths are kept for the purpose, there is nothing to be said against their use. Perhaps the best thing is a buttered paper and a piece of muslin tied over that; the kind known as -■ butter muslin ” does very well, and is cheap enough to discard after a few times using; it will then come in for making bags to hold herbs and spices. if the poultry is intended for a cold dish, leave it in the liquor until cool, and enable it to re-absorb moisture and flavour. If bones have been cooked with it (as in the case of a boned bird), it must not be left until quite cold, or it would become a jelly. Poultry, Minced and Rolled. —This dish is excellent, and par- ticularly recommended as a good way to use an old fowl or part of a turkey. Required : the flesh of tho legs, wings, and breast, two or three ounces of bacon for each pound, or fat pork will answer, an egg, a couple or three tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs, stock and seasoning as below. Cost, variable. Some hours beforehand, put tho bones on for stock, with the gib- lets and some herbs and vege- tables to flavour, and a little spice: add a couplo of quarts of water, and boil until reduced to rather less than a quart. Chop the meat, and mix with the crumbs, eggs, salt, and pepper, and some herbs, grated lemon peel, and the juice of half a lemon, as tho latter helps to make it tender ; use pepper freely and salt sparingly. Form a bolster-shaped roll,, and brush it with the white of the egg, then coat with crumbs. Brown it for a few minutes in a little hot fat, then drain and put it in the stock, and Btew for three hours or thereabouts. When done, flavour and thicken some of the stock for gravy and pour round the roll. Add more water to tho bones and cook for some hours; with the stock from the roll, the basis of a tureen of good soup will be at hand, or it will make good gravies, &c. Note.-'—The above is a very good way of cooking an old rabbit. A little thick onion or cfelery sauce may be used in the roll, then fewer crumbs will be needed. Parsley and other herbs are to be added to taste. Flavoured vinegar may replace the lemon juice. Poultry, Minced, with Eggs. —Required : poultry', eggs, hum, seasoning, milk, slock, cream, &c., as below. Cost, variable. This is a first-rato dish for breakfast or luncheon. Tho recipe hails from Chicago. To every pound of cooked fowl, rabbit, or turkey, allow a pint of sauce made as follows, and two or three ounces of cooked ham. First mince tho meat; let no skin or gristly bits remain, then the meat may bo white or brown ;