GAME AND POULTRY. 471 the juice of half a Seville orange, a glass of wine, which may be good sherry or Madeira, a little salt and pepper, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Put this with the meat into a dish, over a spirit lamp, and stir imtil the moisture is nearly absorbed. Then put in a dessertspoonful of the purest salad oil, or oiled butter if preferred. Shake the dish fora minute, then serve as hot and as quickly as possible, or it will be spoilt. Supposing no spirit lamp to be handy, the meat, &c., may be put into a small stewpan with a cover, and treated as above described by heating over a gas ring, or on a hot plate. The thing is quick service; a hot dish and a hot cover must be in readiness as soon as the stewpan is removed, and the pan must be delicately clean; any “ foreign” flavour would spoil this dish. Woodcock, Potted.—Required: woodcocks, butter, bacon, seasoning and paste as below. Take any num- ber of fresh woodcocks. Pluck them carefully, and cut off their legs and wings Split the birds in halves, and lay them on a dish. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, and, with this exception, leave the inside or trail undisturbed. Line the inside of an ordinary potting - pan with thin slices of fat bacon. Fill it with the woodcocks placed neatly and closely in layers upon the bacon, and season each layer with salt and black pepper. When the pan is full, pour as much clarified butter over the woodcocks as will cover them, and cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water. Make a hole in the top of the lid, and bake the woodcocks in a moderate oven. They must not be eaten till they are quite cold. When a skewer can be pushed easily to the bottom of the pan, the woodcocks are sufficiently baked. This dish will be quite spoilt if inferior butter be used. Woodcock, Roasted.—Pluck, but do not draw the birds ; put them down to a brisk fire; flour them a little, and baste well. Put toast under for the trail, and dish like snipe. Sliced bacon, with vine leaves under, is an improvement. From fifteen to twenty minutes will cook them. it is suid that there is more art in roasting woodcocks than any other birds of the same size. The cooking takes but little time, and they want attention the whole time. If basting be neglected, or if they become over- done, they are spoilt. As the legs ought to be a little better done than the breast to be eatable, there is an in- equality in their roasting, unless this be obviated by stopping the spit when the back is to the fire, in order that the legs may get the greatest amount of heat. Melted butter is said by some to be the only sauce which does not de- tract from the flavour of a woodcock ; but orange gravy, and good brown gravy, of the usual kind for game, are liked by others. It is certain, though, that a gravy for these birds, however good, ought not to be highly flavoured ; and perhaps none is better than one made from good stock slightly thickened, and flavoured with fumet of the same birds, or those most resembling them. Woodcock en Surprise.—Re- quired: a cooked woodcock, fowls’ livers, mushrooms, seasoning, bread, salmi sauce, truffles, olives and croutons as under. Make a salmi from a cold bird. Fry the trail with the livers of a couple of fowls; fry also a few small mush- rooms, a shalot, and bit of parsley. Pound these in a mortar, and season with salt and pepper, and a suspicion of grated nutmeg or other spice. Fry some bread, six or eight pieces, any fancy shapes, and spread them with the above puree. Pour some of the salmi sauco over them, and then lay on the joints with the rest of th sauce over all. Make a pattern on the top with moro small croutons, covered with finely chopped truffles and olives, warmed in thick brown sauco. Serve as hot as possible. Note.—Tho trail is to be taken out before cooking the bird.