655 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. is delicate, and requires careful hand- ling. It is usually boiled and served as a puree; the general additions being cream, butter, or gravy. For the sake of its intenso green colour, spinach is very useful for garnishing purposes When scarce and dear-, turnip tops, beetroot tops, nettles, and dandelion leaves are often served as substitutes, or can bo mixed with the spinach. Cost, on an average, 2d. or 3d. per pound, but may reach 4d. or 6d. (See Dressed Yegi-taiii.ks for Purees.) Spinach, Boiled. — This is a common Euglish method. Take a good pailful (for a dish) of young, freshly gathered spinach; take away the stalks, and after washing as above described, give a minute for the grit to settle at the bottom of the pail, drain, and put the spinach in a sauce- pan, with no other moisture than that which clings about it; add a sprinkling of salt, and boil until tender, from ten to fifteen minutes; then drain, and press well in a colander, chop it up, and put it in a clean, dry saucepan, with an ounce of butter, and a little salt and pepper; stir for a few minutes, then press it in a hot dish, and garnish with croutons. Another way.—Add half a pint of boiling water and a teaspoonful of salt to a good-sized saucepanful of spinach; say one of a gallon capacity ; boil and finish off as directed above. Or, for quite a plain dish, nothing need be added; the spinach may be dished as soon as pressed. ■ Another way.—Use plenty of boiling water, just as if boiling cabbage; when done, strain and press, and finish off by either of the foregoing I methods. As to the best way of cook- ing spinach, there is a great difference of opinion. Some cooks assert that the first method is the only correct one; others declare that the flavour is too strong unless plenty of water be used, as in the last method; again, many very good judges are of opinion that there is practically no difference in the flavour of the spinach, whether water is added or not; and that very few could detect any difference. Where so many disagree, it is, perhaps, better not to attempt to decide; the various methods are easily tried, and our readers can form their own opinion as to their relative merits. (See next chapter.) Spinach and Rice. — Almost any aish of rice eats well with spinach. For a maiyre dish, a selection can be made from those dishes given under Rice, made from vegetable stock, &c.; while those who desire rice, plus animal j uices, may make trial of such dishes as most commend themselves to their notice, either by virtue of their flavour or their cost. We may remark that most people will like any into which tomatoes enter; these with slight flavourings of ham, choose, or curry, are also suitable for combination with spinach. Rice Sauce is also very nice with a dish of spinach and hard-boiled eggs. Spinach with Eggs (American method).—Required ; spinach, eggs, seasoning, &c., as below7. Cost, about lOd. to Is. After boiling and pressing the spinach, put it back w7ith a little butter, pepper and sugar; beat until hot, then turn it into the dish, and cover with an egg dressing, made by mixing the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, an ounce of dissolved butter, a dessertspoonful of cream, and ono of lemon juice. Spread this smoothly over the vegetable, and garnish with the whites of tho eggs cut into rings. These quantities are enough for a good-sized dish of spinach. This is a nice dish for serving separately. Squash.—Tho squash is of the gourd family ; there are two sorts, tho summer squash, or cymbling, and tho winter squash ; the last named takes longer to cook. When very tender, squash need not bo pared; and when necessary to pure it, care should bo taken to remove nothing but the hard, outer rind. The seeds should be