UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 500 removing the fat, which being soft and dripping-like, is not done very easily without disfiguring the moat, and a little mote (rouble in garnishing to hide any broken places, are also essential ; and if the meat bo of three or four pounds weight, and likely to last for a few days as a breakfast dish, a ring dish is useful, as shown below. These are made in sections or rings, which are removed one by one as the meat is sliced down. They keep the meat together, and prevent dryness. In warm weather it is also a good plan to put the can into cold water with salt in, or into iced water an hour before opening. For superior sorts of tinned meats which may become broken in turning out, a little aspic jelly is a help ; it must be poured over, and when cold will not only have “ bound ” the meat, but will have improved its appearance considerably. Then, when dealing with beef or mutton of the ordinary types, for hot dishes, it is necessary to avoid breaking it up into a stringy condition; the pieces may be taken from the tiu in good-sized lumps, for such dishes as Irish Stew. For minces, the fibres should be cut right through with a sharp knife. Re- member, too, that it is comparatively tasteless and insipid ; it therefore requires a sauce or gravy of good flavour, and that being already overdone, it wants heating through only. It will also bear a higher seasoning of salt and pepper than ordinary meat; indeed, a little care in the seasoning is well bestowed. Finally, we recommend that tho store cupboard always has in it a few tins of preserved meat and fish, if only for emergencies; residents in the country are often inconvenienced wlton the butcher’s stock runs out; or from other causes; and to all they are useful iu furnishing an impromptu meal at small cost. As to tho thousands who camp out yearly, or spend a week on tho river, it is not easy to say how (hey would manage without their tinned provisions, which may now be obtained in variety to suit every requirement. Tho word Tinned is prefixed to some of the following recipes, as a means of ready reference. Unless otherwise specified, it is understood that American, Australian, or New Zealand meat may be used, and that roast or boiled is intended. Corned meat (including pressed) may, for the purpose of convenience, be used in small proportion in some of the dishes; but, generally speaking, it is better served cold—preferably, as it is lean and rather dry, with a little fat meat or bacon—and meat which is loosely packed, and has a good deal of jelly clinging to it, is the most suitable for re-heating. The various forms of meat and vegetables, and meat with some sort of sauce, must not be overlooked, as they are to be had in great I’m. 104.—Case fob Tinned Meat.