321 VEAL. Shoulder.—Owing, no doubt, to the fact that the meat on this joint is rather coarse, the shoulder of veal is not so highly valued as other portions, and is seldom served, excepting as a family dish. It is occasionally plainly boiled, but is more frequently stuffed and roasted or braised. The knuckle should always be cut off and used to enrich the stew or to make gravy. Probable cost, if bought whole, 81d. per pound; if cut, 9d. Shoulder, Boiled.—Cut off the knuckle, and take out the bones. Hub the under-part with a cut lemon, and sprinkle over it pepper, salt, and chopped thyme and parsley. Roll the meat, and skewer it neatly. Put it into a stew- pan, cover with stock, water, or milk and water, and let ii simmer gently till done enough. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. Send good onion sauce to table with it, and serve boiled bacon or pickled pork on a separate dish. This dish is by most people considered insipid. Time, twenty-five minutes to the pound. (See also Mutton’, Boxed and Rolled.) Shoulder, Boned. — Lay the joint upon the table, skin downwards. With a sharp knife detach the flesh from the blade-bone, first on one side, then on the other, and be especi- ally careful not to pierce the outer skin. When the bone is quite free, loosen it from the socket, and draw it out. The bone of the knuckle is sometimes left in, but when it is necessary to remove it the same rules need to be observed: the knife must be worked close to the bone, and the outer skin must not be pierced. An excellent grill may be made of the blade-bone if a little of the meat is left on it. Shoulder, Stuffed and 2»oa>s^6d,.—Cut the knuckle from h shoulder of veal, draw out the blade- bone, and fill the cavity thus made with good veal forcemeat. Tie a piece of oiled or greased paper over the joint, hang it tolerably near a clear fire, and at the end of twenty minutes draw it back and roast it gently until done enough. Baste every quarter of an hour. Twenty minutes before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge the joint with flour, and baste till it is nicely browned. Place it on a dish, pour good brown sauce round it, and serve with a cut lemon on a plate. Send ham or bacon to table with it. Time to roast a shoulder of veal, three hours to three hours and a half. The joint may be baked if well basted. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Shoulder, Stuffed and Stewed. — Remove the blade-bone from a shoulder of veal. Season the inside with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, sprinkle over it minced savoury herbs, such as parsley and chives, together with a few mush- rooms, and spread over these thin slices of ham or bacon. Roll the veal, and bind it tightly with tape. Put it in a saucepan which will just hold it, over a clear fire with a slice of butter or a piece of dripping, and brown it; or if more convenient, roast or bake it for half an hour. Then drain it, and put it in a deep stewpan or baking dish, with warm stock (this should be made previously from the blade- bone). Add vegetables, herbs, and spices, and a piece of lemon peel, and cook gently, giving it altogether twenty-five or thirty minutes per pound. When done, thicken the gravy with brown roux, add salt to taste, and a squeeze of lemon juice, then strain it round the meat. If thick gravy is liked, pass the vegetables through a sieve with the gravy, re- heat, and serve on the same dish. Cost, as above. Spinach, peas, cauliflower, and various othor vegetables are suitable accompaniments ; or in cool weather, a puree of green haricots or lentils. Tendons,—The tendons of veal are tho gristly portions found at the extremity of tho bones towards tho thick end of a breast of veal. They K