UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 570 The addition of a hint of garlic is common in Italy. Sparghetti with Eggs.—Re- quired : sparghetti, eggs, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. id. Roil tho sparghetti as above, and allow six hard-boiled eggs to half a pound. Turn tho sparghetti into tho dish, and pour over it half a pint of sauce; this may be plain white, parsley, onion, celery, caper, or tomato. The eggs may bo sliced, and put over the sauce, or tho whites can bo cut up and put in the sauce, and the yolks cut through and used for garnishing. This is a substantial dish, calculated to reduce tho butcher’s bill, and is almost sure of a welcome by reason of its novelty. Sparghetti with Tomato Rolls.—Required : stock, sparghetti, cream, cheese, butter, and rolls as below. Cost, about lOd. to Is., exclusive of the rolls. This dish is particularly recom- mended to those in search of a delicious and novel dish of tho kind. Boil half a pound of sparghetti in any white stock from poultry or meat. When done, lay it in a stewpan and pour half a gill of cream and the same measure of the stock it was boiled in over it. Cover, and let it absorb this; mean- while get ready the rolls, about half a dozen (see the recipe for Tomato Rolls, Italian, in Dressed Vegetables). Take a second pan, slice into it two ounces of any rich English cheese, and the same weight of grated Parmesan, and butter; pour in a gill of tho stock from the sparghetti, and shake the pan —do not stir the contents—until all the ingredients are well blended. Pour this over the sparghetti in a dish as hot as possible, and servo at once. The rolls are to be placed round the sparghetti. Note.—For savouries of this sort, a hot-water dish is an almost indispens- able adjunct. Steam-cooked Cereals. — There are a large number of foods to bo had, which are said by the makers to require very little further cooking; and as the number is likely to increase, a few words on their uses and treat- ment may be acceptable. First we would say that, as a rule, they are im- proved by longer cooking than the makers direct; especially so far as various preparations of wheat, maize, barley, and oatmeal are concerned; but it should be understood that we are for the moment referring to the whole or coarsely-ground cere;ds, not any in the fine state. By the longer cooking here advised, the grain has a better flavour, and is more digestible. Such foods arc very useful when required in a hurry, and the time needed for tho cooking of the ordinary cereals cannot bo given. Some of the American articles of this kind aro excellent. Then there arc fancy or manufactured foods of tho same kind in an endless variety; some of these are very nourishing; others are more starchy, and less valuable for nutrition, but aro easily and quickly converted into various tasty dishe3, both savoury and sweet. (Sec Index.) Tapioca.—This is of the same nature as sago, and our remarks with respect to the uses and nutriment of that food apply equally here. The cost is about the same, and the best kinds are the cheapest in use, as they are much more satisfactory, however cooked. For invalids’ cookery, or any dish of a very delicate nature, the French tapioca is recommended (see French Cereals, page 545). The store jar containing tapioca must be well covered, as it is liable to the attacks of insects. In washing it, throw away all floating grains. (See Index for other dishes from tapioca.) Tapioca, Baked. — Put three pints of cold water in a greased jar, add a little salt and six ounces of tapioca, and leave to soak for a few hours. Then bake it in the oven, which can hardly be too slow, for at least three hours. It should be of a thick jelly-like consistence. Prepared in this way, many uses will be found for it, as it will keep for several days and