ENTREES, MADE DISnES, AND RELEVES. 209 Potato Border, dish the fillets en couronne; fill up the centre with Potato Ribbons, sprinkled with coral- line pepper. Make half a pint of Brown Sauce ; heat a gill of picked shrimps in half of it, and put some in the middle of each fillet. Then add to the remainder a glass of sherry, and a little pepper; boil it up, and pour it round the dish. This may be served for dinner in place of a joint; or in a meal of a few courses, it could follow the soup, and be followed by game or poultry. A largo steak, nicely grilled, is excellent served in the same way. The sauce should bo coloured with a little carmine, and prawns can be used in place of shrimps. A pat of Anchovy Butter should be put under the steak. Seef Olives d la Game- Required : two pounds of lean steak, bacon, seasoning, gravy, &c., as below. Prepare the steak as directed for Beef Olives. {See Joints.) After beating it out, sprinkle the top side with a little salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, parsley and thyme; lay on some strips of bacon, roll up, tie with tape, and put in a saute pan with a couple of ounces of clarified dripping or butter, heated to the point indicated as correct for instantaneous browning. (See p. 8.) After turning for a few minutes, remove them, pour the fat off, and wipe out the pan. Then return them, and pour over any gravy or sauce such as would do for liashing, or with game, but a very thick sauce is not desirable; the meat will cook better in a thin one; more thickening can be added towards the end. Any of the adjuncts for hare, &c., can also be served with the olives. Time to stew, from one to two hours; good quality taking the minimum time. If the meat is freshly killed, sprinkle with lemon juice or vinegar before rolling it. Cost varies with sauce and adjuncts. Another way.—Chop a scalded olive for each pieco of meat, and mix it with bacon and seasoning; then add a few olives, whole, to the gravy, a short time before serving ; or cook the meat in a thin Olive Sauce. Boudins a la Seine.—Lino some small buttered moulds with chicken or veal mixture, prepared as for quenelles. (See Veal Quenelles in this chapter.) To do this first cover the bottom of the moulds. Then put in more meat, and press it to the sides; make a hollow by means of tho handlo of a wooden spoon, first dipping it in warm water, then fill up the hollow with a small quantity of cooked sweet- bread—it should be boiled or braised, not fried—cut in tiny dice, and mixed with an equal quantity of thick bechamel. Cover with more quenelle mixture, and smooth the tops. Then poach for twenty to thirty minutes. Have ready some artichoke bottoms, cooked, and masked with thick bechamel. Dish the boudins one on each, and in the centre of the dish put a pile of the same vegetable cut in dice, and some asparagus points, mixed with sauce as above. Or a Puree of Asparagus may bo used; tho points being separately cooked, and sprinkled over tho top. Boudins, Beef and Tomato. —Required : some Tomato Butter, Tomato Sauce, a Vermicelli Border, Beef Sausage Meat, croutons, and seasoning. Cost, about Gd. each. Prepare a mould as in Chicken in Vermicelli, p. 212. Butter somo boudin moulds (Fig 61), and dredge Fio. 01.—Boudin Mould. them with bread-crumbs; shako out all tho loose ones, then fill them with beef sausago meat from a bag and pipe; knock them on tho table; they must bo well filled; then make a hollow with tho finger, or a spoon handle, dipped in hot water; fill it up