22 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. egg, sieved; some with lobster butter; and the fourth part with cray-fish butter. Sprinkle small cress or chervil, shredded, over the pink ; and over the yolk and white of egg put a little lobster coral. Arrange four of these, one of each sort, on small plates, placing them two and two cross-wise. Bouc-hdes de Harengs (see Bouchees de Sakdines).—-Make a paste in the same way, using mari- naded herrings in place of the sardines. After coating with the aspic, sprinkle with chopped capers* or olives, in addi- tion to the whites of eggs. Bouchees de Harengs (No. 2). —Take a fillet of herring, lay on it an olive stuffed with anchovies or capers (these may be bought ready prepared), roll it up, and set it on a small plate on which has been laid a stamped-out slice of beetroot and one of cucumber (they should be cut with a crimped round cutter, and the cucumber should bo rather smaller), seasoned with oil and vinegar. Put a little heap of mayonnaise on the top of the herring, and sprinkle it with lobster coral. Bouchees de Saumon-Cut sonic slices of brown bread-and-butter, divide them into strips three inches by one ; spread them with crayfish butter, then cover with flakes of spiced or smoked salmon; garnish the tops with sieved egg-yolk, lobster coral, and chopped parsley, a row of each colour. Bouchees de Sardines.—Mix two ounces each of boneless sardines, butter, hard-boiled yolk of egg, and chopped lax, a saltspoonful each of French mustard, lemon-juice, choppod parsley, and chopped gherkin. Pound all to a smooth paste, and rub through a hair sieve. Have ready some anchovy biscuit paste that has been baked in tiny round tins, fill with the mixture, and coat with chopped aspic jelly. Put each on a little plate, sprinkle the aspic with white of egg, boiled hard and chopped ; and garnish with strips of beetroot and cucumber, and mustard and cress. Bouchdes de Sardines (No. 2). —Make some diamond-shaped crou- tons ; spread them with sardine butter, made by mixing sardine paste with an equal weight of fresh butter. Next put a coating of green mayonnaise. Down the centre, long-wise, place some smoked salmon, finely chopped, and garnish each side with whito mayonnaise, sprinkled with chopped capers and parsley; the mayonnaise should be put on from a bag and pipe, and if liked, half of it can be coloured pink. Caviare, Devilled.—Put some small pieces of Russian caviare on round croutons, and sprinkle with lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. Serve the croutons on small plates, and gar- nish with small salad, mixed, if liked, with chopped lax. Serve with cut lemons. Canapes a la Premier.—Lay some rounds of aspic on little plates, and on each round put a little pile of cooked prawns cut into small pieces, leaving a hollow in the centre of the pile. Fill up the centre with green butter, and on the top put some cray-fish butter, using a bag and small pipe. Garnish round the canapes with anchovy biscuit paste cut into tiny diamonds or strips, rings, &c. This paste is useful for garnishing small sardines, and a dish of it may be left on through the dinner, as it is often liked in the cheese course. Canapes d'Olives.—Cut some rounds of bread the size of a half- crown ; fry them a golden brown, and when cold spread them with green butter, then with chopped aspic, next with chopped beetroot and cucumber, putting it on lightly. Sprinkle with oil and tarragon vinegar, then put on a stoned olive, and with a forcing-bag and plain pipe fill it with mayonnaise, seasoned rather highly. Cut some rounds of aspic jelly a quarter of an inch thick, and place each crouton on a separate plate on which a round of the (1011)' has been laid.