86 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. of tho fowl (the neck, &c., and, if not eaten with the hird, the liver and gizzard) in a saucepan, with a fow hits of vegetable, the ordinary sorts (see Stocks and Soups), and a sprig of thyme and parsley; add a pint or more of stock No. 1 or 2, or for a better gravy No. 4, a few black peppercorns, and a clove or two, and an ounce of lean ham, with a small piece of milt and a very lit'tle salt. Boil for two to three hours; strain, and add more stock to make up the required quantity. Thicken with corn-flour, a dessertspoonful to the pint, or brown roux or browned flour; add a few drops of browning or a pinch of “ granular salt,” and a tea- spoonful, or less, of store sauce or ketchup. For a richer gravy fry the ham and vegetables before adding tho stock ; a tomato makes it much nicer, or some liquor from tinned tomatoes in place’ of some of tho stock. Gravy for Roast Fowl, Rich.—Use stock No. 6 or 7; it need not be clarified. Boil the neck, &e., in a small quantity for several hours, strain, and add as much more as is required. Thicken and flavour as above directed. Make gravy for turkey in the same way. Gravy for Roast Goose.— Fry tho giblets with an onion, sliced, a bunch of herbs, a couple of sage- leaves, and some black peppercorns, in hot fat until brown; add a quart of common brown stock, and boil for two or three hours; then strain, add more stock to make up the quantity re- quired,- season, and thicken with a teaspopnful of roux to tho pint; add, if liked, a glass of claret or port; re- heat, but do not boil after this is put in. The giblets will make a separate dish (see recipes under Goose). For a. richer gravy, use stock No. 6, 7, 8, or one of the stocks for Gravies. (See also Gravy a la Diable.) Gravy for Goslings.—Boil a pint of stock (No. 6 or 7) with a fried onion and a sage-leaf or two, for ten minutes; season, and strain. This is preferably served unthickened, but a little arrowroot can be put in. It should not be so dark or so fully flavoured as gravy for geese that aro full grown. Gravy for Hare (see Gravy for Roast Rabbit) that will answer for a plain dish. For clear gravy, see Gravy, Clear, for Roast Rabbit, but use port (the dregs should be kept for thick gravies) ; add a little tomato vinegar, and season with salt, cayonno, and lemon-juice. For a thick gravy, add the liver, and if liked, some of the blood. (See Hare.) Gravy, German, for Hare and game generally.—Required : a large onion, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of pai'sley and basil, browned in butter, a tablespoonful each of vinegar, black currant jam, and port, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg', and some stock. Put a pint of stock (No. 16) in a stew-nan with all the above, wine excepted, boil and skim, and thicken with a bit of roux the size of a nut, and a teaspoonful of arrowroot; boil up, add the wine, cover for five minutes, then serve in a hot sauce-boat. Gravy, German, for Kidney, Liver, &c.—-Use any brown stock for this; to each pint put a minced tomato, a teaspoonful of caper vinegar, and the same of pickled shalot or onion, minced; season well, boil for twenty minutes, then pour through a strainer round the meat. Gravy, Plain, for Hashes, Minces, &c.—We will suppose that the remains of a “ cold shoulder ” are to be hashed, and that a pound of meat is handy. For the gravy, take a pint of stock from the stock-pot, or made from the bone of the joint. Put an ounce of clarified fat in a pan; when hot, add a minced onion and any vegetable trimmings, and a bunch of