GAME AND POULTRY. 451 the use of wild rabbits; they may be followed for tame ones—but wo advise that if any difference be made, the seasoning may with advantage be in- creased ; for to disguise, rather than bring out. the flavour, will the better suit the majority. Cost, from Is. to Is. 9d. (See Rahiiit, Liveit or.) Rabbit, Baked.— Required : a rabbit, bacon, forcemeat, gravy, thick- ening, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. (id., exclusive of jelly. The rabbit should be plump and young. .Skin, empty, and wash it, and line the inside with a thin slice or two of fat bacon, then fill with any plain herb or veal stuffing. Sew it up and truss firmly (seepage 456),andlay a slice or two of bacon on the back. Lay it in a deep baking tin, to prevent dry- ness, and cook in a moderate oven. Baste often with a little bacon fat or dripping, and when almost done, flour and baste the rabbit, and brown it nicely. Take out the thread and skewers, and put it on a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy or sauce over, and send more to table in a tureen. Red currant or other fruit jelly is a great improvement, and the dish may be garnished with sliced bacon. A large, old rabbit is not good this way ; only a tender one will give satisfaction. Another way.—Instead of stuffing the rabbit, bake it plainly, and serve some sausages with it. Time, if stuffed, from three-quarters to an hour; for an unstuffed one, a trifle less. Note.—Many vegetable purees and sauces are very nice with the rabbit; celery, onion, and carrot may be in- stanced ; bread sauce with brown gravy also affords a pleasant change. If no bacon, use plenty of dripping. Rabbit, Barbecued —Required: a very; young rabbit (if old this dish is a positive failure), seasoning, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Open the rabbit all down, cut its head off, and wash it again and again until clean, then lay it, back down, in cold water, with a bit of salt, for an hour. Dry it thoroughly, and leave it for on hour or two ; then cut it several times across the back, and once in the thick part of each leg. Then dip it entirely in hot fat, and cook it before flic fire, or on a gridiron. It must be turned frequently, and well brushed with fat during the cooking, and will take from twenty' to thirty minutes. It should be peppered before cooking. When brown and tender, put it on a hot dish with plenty' of seasoning, and some clarified butter ; put a cover over, and set it in a hot oven for a few minutes. Mix together a teaspoonful of French mus- tard, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a small quantity' of gravy, made from the head, put on early in the day'. Heat this, and pour it over the rabbit. Put it on a clean hot dish, with slices of lemon, sprigs of fried parsley and little croutons round it. Send fruit jelly' to table in a dish. Any'one tired of ordinary dishes of rabbit may' try this with confidence. Rabbit, Boiled.—Wash the rab- bit, taking care to get any blood from the head and neck; plenty of water and long soaking are wanted. The head and neck should be left in the water longer than the rest of the body'; it is easy' to effect this by suspending the rabbit. Put it in boiling water, and flavour it in the usual way. (See Poultry, to Boil.) If the rabbit be soaked in warm milk for a short time, after washing, its flesh is improved. This is not wasteful—the milk can be used for the sauce ; mushroom, parsley, celery, onion, liver, or plain white sauce are suitable ; tomato is less common, but equally good. Boiled bacon or pickled pork should be served with the rabbit. Time, for a very young one, thirty minutes ; fora medium-sized one, forty to fifty minutes; an hour or more for a fully-grown rabbit. To carve a boiled rabbit, the logs and shoulders should bo separated from the body, which is then cut through the back into two or three pieces. Thu head and neck should bo served only to those to whom it is first ascertained that they will be acceptable; for while many