POPLITEAL SPACE. 456 the clearest point of view, let us suppose we are standing upon one leg : the bones of the lower extremity represent a pillar which sup- ports the weight of the trunk on a ball-and-socket-joint; the weight is nicely balanced on all sides, and prevented from falling by four groups of muscles. In front, there are the rectus and sartorius; on the inner side, the adductors; on the outer side, the glutsei; and behind, the ham-strings. The ham-string muscles are supplied with blood by the branches of the profunda, which we observe coming through the tendon of the adductor magnus close to the femur. Their nerves are derived from the great ischiatic. 65. Popliteal space.—Since the ham-string muscles diverge from each other to reach their respective insertions, they leave be- tween them a space, commonly called the popliteal. Now this space is bounded below by the converging origins of the gastroc- nemius; its shape may, therefore, be compared to that of a lozepge. It is filled up by a large quantity of fat, which permits the easy flexion of the thigh, and in this fat we find imbedded the popliteal vessels and nerves in the following order: nearest to the surface are the nerves, while the vessels lie close to the bone, the vein being superficial to the artery. 66. Popliteal nerves.—If the ischiatic nerve be traced from the buttock, we find that it descends upon the adductor magnus, and that, after being crossed by the long origin of the biceps, it then runs along the outer border of the semi-membranosus. Having given branches to the three great flexor muscles, it divides, about the lower third of the thigh (higher or lower in different subjects), into two large nerves—the peroneal and the proper popliteal. a. The peroneal runs close by the inner side of the tendon of the biceps* towards the head of the fibula, below which we have already traced it (§ 41), dividing into branches for the extensor muscles of the foot and the toes. b. The proper popliteal accompanies the popliteal artery, and is destined to supply the flexor muscles on the back of the leg and the sole of the foot. * The nerve is therefore very liable to be injured in the operation of dividing the outer ham-string.