413 ANATOMY OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. bvane. This observation applies not only to the mucous mem- brane of the stomach, but to that of the alimentary canal generally. c. We come next to examine that which is the essential cha- racteristic of the mucous membrane of the stomach,—namely, the apparatus for the secretion of the gastric fluid. If a portion of well- injected mucous membrane be taken from the stomach of any mammalian animal, and examined with one of the low powers of a microscope, we observe that the capillary blood-vessels present an hexagonal arrangement, and that they map the surface into so many little pits, giving it rather a honeycomb appearance. The pits are, on an average, -jA^th part of an inch in diameter. At the bottom of them we see a number of minute pores. These are the orifices of the gastric tubes. On a perpendicular section, we find that the tubes are arranged in parallel bundles at right angles to the surface, and that they terminate in blind and rather sacculated ends, which are set in the submucous tissue. In point of fact, the entire thickness of the mucous membrane is made up of these tubular glands. It is presumed that, during digestion, they gene- rate a number of cells containing the digestive fluid. As fast as they are formed the cells pass into the stomach, discharge their contents among the food, and disappear, d. At the same time that we examine the arrangement of the tubes of the stomach, we ought to observe how richly they are supplied with blood. The arteries form a stratum of minute inos- culations in the submucous tissue, in which the bottoms of the tubes are set; from this stratum the vessels run up between the tubes to the surface of the stomach, where they again inosculate, so as to form the hexagonal spaces mentioned in the preceding para- graph. Lastly, the mucous membrane of the stomach, and also of the interior of the lubes, is lined by a columnar epithelium. But it is exceedingly thin and delicate, and can only be seen in the stomach of an animal recently killed. 106. Small intestines.—The small intestines, consisting of the duodenum, jejunum, and ilium, form a tube about twenty feet long. So far as concerns their external character, we need only remark that the duodenum and jejunum are much more vascular than the