DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. 389 blood-vessels, which freely communicate with those of the labia minora, for one cannot be injected without the other. 82. Urethra.— A smooth channel, called the vestibule, about three-quarters of an inch in length, leads from the clitoris down to the orifice of the urethra. This orifice is not a perpendicular fissure like that of the penis, but rounded and puckered, and during life it has a peculiar dimple-like feel, which assists us in finding it when we have occasion to pass a catheter. The learner should practise the introduction of the catheter in the dead subject, for the operation is not so easy as might at first be imagined, pro- vided of course the parts are not exposed. The point of the fore- finger of the left hand should be placed at the entrance of the vagina; and then the catheter, guided by the finger, slips, after a little manoeuvring, into the urethra. The canal is rather more than an inch in length, and runs along the upper wall of the vagina ; indeed, the two canals adhere so closely that we can feel the urethra through the vagina like a thick fleshy cord. Strictly speaking, the urethra is slightly curved with the concavity up- wards, but for all practical purposes it may be considered straight. It is necessary, however, to be aware that its direction is not hori- zontal. In the unimpregnated state of the parts it runs nearly in the direction of the axis of the outlet of the pelvis ; so that a probe pushed on in the course of the urethra would strike against the promontory of the sacrum. But after impregnation, when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis, the bladder is more or less raised also in consequence of their mutual connection ; and there- fore the urethra, in the latter months of utero-gestation, acquires a much moi'e perpendicular course. The female urethra is provided with a constrictor muscle, essen- tially similar, both in origin and arrangement, to that which sur- rounds the urethra in the male : indeed, we cannot convey a better idea of it than by saying that it is just like the male would be if cut short immediately behind the bulb. Though the prostate gland is wanting, yet there are minute glands scattered all round it, especially near the neck of the bladder. At the same time, it should be observed, that, in consequence of the wider span of the pubic arch, and the more yielding nature of the surrounding struc-