PALM OF THE HAND. 52 with the broad diameter transversely, and somewhat expanded at either end. Its internal surface is lined by a synovial membrane which is reflected loosely over the tendons. The canal transmits the superficial and deep flexor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the median nerve. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is contained in a distinct sheath, lined by synovia] membrane, formed partly by the annular ligament and partly by the groove in the trapezium. 77. Branches of the median nerve in the 'palm.—In its passage under the annular ligament, the median nerve is enveloped in a fold of synovial membrane; it becomes considerably wider and flatter, and might be mistaken for one of the tendons. It lies be- tween the tendons of the flexor digitorum sublimis and the flexor longus pollicis, and upon those of the flexor profundus ; and it is rather nearer to the radial than the ulnar side of the wrist. As soon as it appears in the palm, the nerve lies superficial to all the ten- dons, gives a branch to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and then divides into five branches, two for the thumb, the rest for the fore and middle fingers and the radial side of the ring finger : these three last are crossed by the superficial arterial arch. The muscular branch is given off immediately below the annular ligament, curves upwards, and divides into filaments which supply the muscles of the ball of the thumb. The two nerves of the thumb proceed, one on each side of the long flexor tendon, to the last phalanx. The first digital nerve passes down the outer edge of the first lumbricalis muscle, and runs along the radial side of the index finger. The second digital nerve crosses the tendon of the index finger, descends vertically towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and subdivides into two branches, which supply their opposite sides. The third crosses obliquely over the tendon of the middle finger, is joined by a filament from one of the ulnar digital nerves, and then subdivides above the cleft between the middle and ring fingers, to supply their opposite sides. In the palm of the hand, the digital nerves are situated on a