473 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. on either side are the tendons of the vasti; and at the back of the joint no less than four tendons contribute to form the capsule,— namely, the tendons of the gastrocnemius, the tendon of the semi- membranosus, and of the popliteus.* It deserves to be noticed that the weakest part of the capsule is near the tendon of the popliteus: here, therefore, matter formed in the popliteal space may possibly make its way into the joint, or vice versA. Exclusive of the capsule, the proper ligaments of the joint are— 1st, the lateral; and 2, the crucial in the interior. The internal lateral ligament is a broad flat band, which ex- tends from the inner condyle to the inner side of the tibia, a little distance below its head. A few of the deeper fibres are attached to the inner semilunar cartilage, and serve to keep it in place. In the performance of the several motions of the joint, there is a certain amount of friction between the ligament and the head of the tibia, and consequently we find a small bursa interposed. The external lateral ligament is a strong round band which extends from the outer condyle to the head of the fibula. In some instances there is a smaller band a little deeper, called the short external lateral ligament. If the fibrous capsule be removed from the sides of the joint, we observe that a quantity of loose cellular tissue intervenes between it and the proper synovial capsule. In this tissue, more particularly on the inner side of the knee, are often found one or more bursae of considerable size. But they very rarely communi- cate with the interior of the joint. In the next place, the joint should be opened above the patella. We then observe the great extent of the fold which the synovial membrane forms above this bone.f The object of it is to allow the free play of the bone over the lower part of the femur. The fold extends a little higher above the inner than the outer condyle, and this accounts for the form of the swelling produced by effusion into the joint. * This ligamentous expansion over the back of the joinf is commonly- called the “ ligamentum posticum Winslosvii.” I In performing operations near the knee, the joint should always be bent in order to draw the synovial fold as much as possible out of the way.