TEMPORAL VESSELS ANT) NERVES. 173 aponeurosis of the scalp, and below with the fascia covering the masseter muscle and the parotid gland. In this tissue are contained the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. 76. Temporal artery.—This is one of the terminal branches of the external carotid. Arising in the substance of the parotid gland near the neck of the jaw, it passes over the root of the zygoma close to the meatus auditorius, ascends for an inch and a half, more or less, upon the temporal fascia, and then divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. Above the zygoma it is super- ficial. being only covered by the little attrahens aurem muscle. It gives off the following branches :— a. Several small branches to the parotid gland and the articu- lation of the jaw. b. Commonly the transversalis faciei (see § 71). c. The middle temporal, arising a little above the zygoma, per- forates the temporal fascia, and inosculates in the substance of the temporal muscle with the deep temporal branches of the internal m axillary., d. The anterior auricular ramify upon the front of the pinna and lobe of the ear, inosculating with the posterior auricular artery. e. Of the two branches into which the temporal divides, the anterior is usually chosen for arteriotomy. It ascends tortuously towards the external angle of the frontal bone, from which it is . distant generally about an inch. Its ramifications extend over the forehead, supplying the orbicularis and frontal muscles, and inosculate with the other arteries of the scalp. The posterior proceeds towards the back of the head, and inosculates freely with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. 77. Temporo-auricular nerve.—This nerve, a branch of the third division of the fifth, supplies the temples and side of the head with common sensibility. After leaving the parotid gland it w’ill be found close to the posterior border of the temporal artery. Its several ramifications correspond with those of the temporal artery, upon which they are placed superficially. a. Near the condyle of the jaw the temporo-auricular nerve sends two or more branches to the upper division of the facial