499 COMMISSURES.—PINEAL GLAND. fundibulum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea. In front it is hounded by the anterior crura of the fornix, and behind it communicates with the fourth ventricle through a long canal beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Commissures.—If we gently separate the optic thalami in a very fresh brain, we find that they are connected by a transverse layer of grey matter of rather more than half an inch in breadth. This is the middle commissure : it is sometimes called the soft, on account of its delicate consistence; and in most brains it is generally torn before we have the opportunity of examining it.* The optic thalami are, besides this, connected by a round white cord, called the poste- rior commissure. It is situated immediately in front of, and rather below tbe pineal gland. The corpora striata are connected by another round white cord, called the anterior commissure: it lies imme- diately in front of the anterior crura of the fornix. If this commis- sure were properly traced, we should find that it extends transversely quite through the corpus striatum of each side, and then arching backwards, its fibres are lost near the surface of the middle cerebral lobe. The pineal gland is a very vascular heart-shaped body, with the broad part forwards, situated immediately in front of the corpora quadrigemina. It has two white peduncles or crura, which extend forwards, one on the inner side of each optic thalamus, and termi- nate by joining the crura of the fornix. Its interior contains some calcareous particles, consisting chiefly of phosphate of lime. Although the pineal gland is found in all mammalia, birds, and reptiles, in the same typical position, yet its functions are entirely unknown. Tubercula quadrigemina.—These are four rounded eminences, situated, two on either side, behind the pineal gland. They are * The soft commissure does not appear to be a very essential constituent part of the brain. It is not found before the ninth month of foetal life ; and in some instances, according to our observation, is never developed. The brothers Wenzel state that it is absent about once in seven subjects (De penitiori Struct. Cerebri Horn, ec Brut. Tubingen, 1812).