12 THE AXILLA. origin and insertion, and both ends reflected. After the reflection of the muscle, the peculiar arrangement of its fibres, and the structure of its tendon, should he more fully examined. (See ยง 4.) On its under surface will be seen the branches of the thoracic arteries and nerves, which have been already described, ยง 7. The smaller arterial ramifications may be divided, but the main branches from which they arise should be preserved. 16. The pectoralis minor muscle, now exposed, arises by im- perfect digitations from the osseous part of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs (not infrequently from the second), and sometimes from the glistening fascia covering the intercostal muscles. The fleshy fibres proceed upwards and outwards, and converge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. This tendon is generally connected by a strong fascia to the upper part of the coraco-brachialis muscle; forming as it were a protection to the subjacent axillary vessels and nerves. A few of the lower fibres of the muscle are inserted into this fascia. The action of this muscle is to draw the scapula downwards and forwards. In some instances a small bursa is found between the tendon of the pectoralis minor and the coracoid process. The great muscle which forms the posterior margin of the axilla is the latissimus dorsi. Its extensive origin from the back cannot be seen. For present purposes, it is sufficient to notice its broad flat tendon, which passes behind the axillary vessels and nerves, and is inserted into the bicipital groove of the humerus. Immediately behind the latissimus dorsi, and closely connected with it, is a muscle called the teres major, which also assists in forming the posterior boundary of the axilla. Its fleshy fibres arise from the lower angle of the dorsum of the scapula, pass nearly parallel to the latissimus dorsi, and terminate in a very broad tendon, which is inserted into the posterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The muscle which occupies the internal surface of the scapula is called the subscapular is. It arises from the internal surface of the scapula, and terminates in a strong flat tendon, which passes under the axillary vessels and nerves, over the inner side of the