POSITION OP THE VISCERA. 322 WHAT IS SEEN ON OPENING THE ABDOMEN. 19. Let us now fairly expose the contents of the abdomen by a crucial incision, andjust take a general survey of the viscera before they are disturbed from their relative position. In the right hypochondrium the liver is seen projecting more or less below the cartilages of the ribs, and the fundus of the gall- bladder below the edge of the liver, near the end of the ninth costal cartilage. In the left hypochondrium is seen more or less of the stomach. Across the umbilical region there is seen a por- tion of the large intestine called the transverse colon ; from this there descends a broad fold of peritoneum, called the great omen- tum, looking like a curtain of fat over the convolutions of the small intestines; but the breadth of this fold varies in different instances, and sometimes it is quite contracted and crumpled. The lower part of the belly and part of the pelvis is occupied by the small intestines. The urinary bladder is not apparent, unless it be dis- tended sufficiently to rise out of the pelvis. In the right iliac fossa we probably see the caput coli, or the commencement of the large intestine ; but the ascending part of the large intestine in the right lumbar region, and the descending part of it in the left, are not visible unless when distended : they lie contracted at the back of the abdomen. Such and so much of the viscera are usually seen on opening the abdomen ; but, of course, a certain latitude must be allowed to this statement. Sometimes more of one organ appears and less of another, according as this or that is distended or hypertrophied. Much depends also upon the amount of pressure which the ribs have undergone during life; so that, all things considered, we seldom see the parts in any two bodies precisely in the same position. 20. Particular position of each viscus.—We should now exa- mine the position of each viscus separately ; and, first, that of the liver. a. The liver occupies the whole of the right hypochondrium, and extends over the epigastric region more or less into the left.