DISSECTION OP THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 441 far as the thigh is concerned. After passing through the foramen it generally divides into two branches, which form a circle round the obturator membrane. These supply the external obturator muscle, hut rarely any other muscle of the thigh. Sometimes it gives off the little artery to the ligament urn teres of the h'p-joint. DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 31. Let the incision be continued from the knee down the front of the leg, over the ankle, and along the top of the foot to the great toe. Another incision must then he made at right angles to the first, on either side of the ankle, so that the skin may be fairly reflected from the front and sides of the leg and foot. 32. Cutaneous veins and nerves.—Having already traced the internal saphena vein (§ 5) to the inner side of the knee, we have now to follow it down the inner side of the leg, and over the inner ankle* to the top of the foot. On the top of the foot we notice that the principal veins form a kind of arch, with the con- vexity forwards, just as on the back of the hand. This arch receives the veins from the toes. From the inner side of the arch the internal saphena originates ; and from the outer side the external saphena. The latter vein runs behind the external ankle, and then up the calf of the leg to join the popliteal vein ; so that we cannot follow it for the present. With regard to the cutaneous nerves, we have to observe that the skin on the inner side of the leg is supplied by the long saphe- nous nerve. In the dissection of the thigh, we found that this nerve became subcutaneous on the inner side of the knee, between the gracilis and sartorius. Here it meets the saphena vein, and subsequently accompanies it down the leg, distributing its branches on either side, till it is finally lost on the inner side of the foot. But the largest branch curves round the inner side of the knee, just below the patella, to supply the skin in this situation. * The French commonly bleed from the internal saphena as it runs over the inner ankle, this being a convenient and safe place for venesection.