258 MUSCULAR FIBRES OF THE TONGUE. maxillary region (see § 17). We have now only to examine its proper or intrinsic ones. For this purpose the mucous membrane must be removed from the surface of the tongue. It will then be obvious that the great hulk of the organ consists of a mass of fibres which proceed in a longitudinal direction from base to apex, con- stituting the “ linguales" muscles. These fibres are not all of equal length; the more superficial are implanted into the skin covering the tongue, those deeply seated run all the way from base to apex; and these are readily exposed by dissecting on the under surface of the tongue immediately on the outer side of the genio- hyo-glossus muscle. By the action of this mass of longitudinal fibres the tongue can be curved in various directions, so as to reach any part of the mouth, according as this or that portion of the muscle contracts. But besides the linguales, there are mus- cular fibres intermingled variously in the tongue of which it is hard to give a description; and one cannot be surprised at this, considering the various and rapid motions of the organ. If, now, we trace the genio-hyo-glossi of opposite sides into the tongue, we shall find that some of their fibres ascend directly to the surface ; others cross each other in the middle line, and then turning outwards, intersect the longitudinal fibres, and finally terminate upon various points of the sides of the tongue. Lastly, the fibres of the stylo-glossus may be traced along the side of the tongue to the apex. In the mesial line near the base of the tongue there may be found a vertical plane of fibrous tissue, which is connected behind to the body of the hyoid bone, and is lost in front between the muscles. This so-called “ nucleus Jibrosus linguae” is but a feeble representative of the lingual bone which exists in some of the lower animals. 177. The several nerves supplying the tongue should be followed into its substance. The subdivisions of the hypoglossal nerve supply all the muscles with motor power. The ramifications of the gustatory or lingual branch of the fifth pair are distributed to the mucous membrane about the apex and sides of the tongue, and endow it with a most acute sensibility. Upon this nerve depends the sensation of all ordinary impressions, such as that of hardness.