146 SUBCLAVIAN AETEKY. between the scalene muscles; the third comprises the remainder of the vessel, which rests upon the surface of the first rib, external to the scalenus anticus. Each of these portions we shall now sepa- rately describe. The first portion of the artery lies deeply seated in front of the apex of the lung, and therefore in close contact with the pleura. It is covered by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and thyroid muscles, and a strong layer of fascia. Immediately in front of the artery we observe the confluence of the internal jugular and the sub- clavian veins. On the inner side of the internal jugular the artery is crossed by the pneumogastric nerve and some cardiac filaments of the sympathetic; behind the artery there is the recurrent laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric and the sympathetic nerve. In the second part of its course, where the artery lies between the scalene muscles, it is covered by the platysma, the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus, which separates it from the subclavian vein, and the phrenic nerve. In the third part of its course the artery lies upon the surface of the first rib- It is here comparatively superficial, being covered only by the platysma, and two layers of cervical fascia. The subclavian vein is situated in front of and a little below the artery, nothing but a delicate septum of fascia intervening. The external jugular, and probably one or more tributary veins, will also be observed crossing over the artery. Above the artery, and nearly on the same plane, are the great trunk nerves of the brachial plexus. Of these nerves the lowest runs so nearly parallel and in such close contact with the artery, that even an accomplished surgeon has mistaken the nerve for the vessel in an attempt to place a ligature round the subclavian for the cure of an aneurism in the axilla. Indeed, the nerve and artery are so close together that they have even both been included in the same ligature. b. Left subclavian artery.—This is the last of the three great branches which arise from the arch of the aorta. It ascends out of the chest nearly parallel with the left carotid, and then forms an arch in front of the apex of the lung, so as to reach the inner border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it runs over the