ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 310 in like manner ■with the origin of the latissimus dorsi, but they cannot be distinctly seen unless the body be turned on the side. By far the greater part of the muscle descends obliquely forwards, and terminates on the aponeurosis of the abdomen; the remainder proceeds almost perpendicularly from the last ribs, and is inserted into the anterior two-thirds, more or less, of the crest of the ilium.* The aponeurosis of the external oblique increases in strength, breadth, and thickness, as it approaches the lower margin of the belly, this being the situation where the greater pressure of the viscera requires the most effective support. The tendinous fibres of which it is composed take the same direction as those of the muscle ; they do not, however, stop at the middle line, or linea alba, but cross to a considerable distance over those of the opposite side; a structure which, of course, makes the aponeurosis all the stronger. Along the line of junction of the abdomen and thigh, we have to observe that the aponeurosis extends from the anterior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms an arch over the intermediate bony excavation. This, which is appro- priately termed the crural arch,\ transmits the great vessels of the thigh, with certain muscles and nerves, which will be examined hereafter. Near the pubes there is an opening in the aponeurosis, of considerable size, for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. It is called the external abdominal ring. But of this, as well as of the crural arch, we may postpone more particular examination till we come to the description of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. The external oblique should be carefully detached from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and then turned forwards as far as this * From its position and the direction of its fibres, it is manifest that the external oblique represents, in the abdomen, the external intercostal muscles of the chest. + This was first described by Fallopius, an Italian anatomist, in his “ Observations Anatomies,” published in 1561. It was subsequently described by Poupart in 1705, in the “ Mem. de l’Acad. de Paris,” and is now commonly called in the schools “ Poupart’s ligament.”