THE AXILLA. 8 front of the subclavian artery, and enters the centre of the muscle. A small bursa mucosa is in some subjects found between the tendon of the subclavius and the first rib. From the view which has been obtained of the relations of the axillary artery in the first part of its course, some idea may be formed of the difficulty of passing a ligature round the vessel in this situation. In addition to the ordinary obstacles, varieties sometimes occur in the position of the nerves and veins, which would render the operation still more embarrassing. For instance, the anterior thoracic nerves may be more numerous than usual, and form by their mutual communications a kind of plexus round the artery. It sometimes happens that a large nerve crosses obliquely in front of the arteiy immediately below the clavicle, and subse- quently forms one of the roots of the median nerve. The cephalic vein may ascend higher than usual, and open into the subclavian ; and, since it frequently receives large veins cor- responding to the thoracic arterial axis, a concourse of veins would in such cases be met with in front of the axillary artery. Again, it is by no means uncommon to find one or more deeper- seated veins, which cross directly over the artery to join the axillary vein. DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Prolong the incision down the upper third of the arm, and reflect the skin from the axilla and from the side of the chest, taking care not to remove with it the dense subjacent membrane. In close contact with the skin, near the roots of the hair in the axilla, will be observed numerous sebaceous glands. They are of a reddish-brown colour, and rather larger than a pin’s head. 11. The tough unyielding membrane which lies immediately beneath the skin of the axilla, is nothing more than a continuation of the general investment of the muscles. On account of its com- pactness, it has received the name of the axillary fascia. This fascia closes in and forms, as it were, the floor of the cavity of the axilla. Externally it is intimately connected with the