282 FACIAL NERVE IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. 222. Pneumo-gastric nerve.—This nerve leaves the cranium in company with the nervus accessorius, through a canal in the dura mater behind that for the glosso-pharyngeal. At its entrance into the canal it is composed of a number of separate filaments ; but the filaments very soon become closely aggregated and imbedded in a small ganglion. This ganglion, first described by Arnold,* is rather round in form, and about of an inch in diameter. It is connected by filaments to the sympathetic and to the petrous gan- glion of the glosso-pharyngeal. But its most singular branch is one named by Arnold “ the auricularbecause it is distributed to the pinna of the ear. This branch enters a minute foramen in the jugular fossa, near the styloid process, and then proceeds through the substance of the bone to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it divides into two branches; one joins the facial nerve, the other passes to the outside of the head through a canal between the front of the mastoid processs and the meatus auditorius, and is distri- buted to the back of the cartilage of the ear. Immediately below this its first ganglion the pneumo-gastric nerve is joined by two branches from the nervus accessorius, and consequently becomes after this junction a compound nerve.f The great ganglion of this nerve at the base of the skull has been already examined ( § 91, A.) DISSTCTION OF THE FACIAL NERVE THROUGH THE TEMPORAL BONE. 223. It is more convenient to trace this nerve in a retrograde direction, beginning at the stylo-mastoid foramen. A transverse section should be made through the temporal bone between the external meatus and the mastoid process. The nerve may then be followed through the interior wall of the tympanum till it makes a sudden bend inwards to the meatus auditorius interims. * Der Kopftheil, des veget. Nerven Systems. Heidelberg, 1831. + Physiologists have not yet agreed as to the precise nature of the pneumo- gastric nerve at its origin.