200 PHRENIC NERVES. nerves have different relations ; that is to say, the right proceeds successively along the outer side of the brachio-cephalic vein and the extra-pericardiac portion of the superior vena cava; whereas the left crosses in front of the transverse part of the aortic arch, a little to the right of the pneumo-gastric nerve. It should he noticed also that the left phrenic is the longer of the two, because it is rather diverted in its course by the oblique position of the heart. In the upper part of the chest the phrenic is sometimes joined by a branch from the brachial plexus, and less frequently by a branch from the descendens noni (see § 16). In one instance we observed that this branch proceeded separately to the diaphragm. On the upper surface of the diaphragm the phrenic divides into a number of diverging branches, which are distributed, some to the greater, others to the lesser crus of the muscle. A careful dissector may now and then trace a communication between some of its fila- ments and those proceeding from the semilunar ganglion, but we have never been able to discover those filaments which have been described as passing on to the liver.* As to the question whether the phrenic ever supplies the peri- cardium, we have observed that in some rare instances one or more slender filaments may be traced to it from this nerve. 106. Having now finished the dry anatomical details of the great vessels at the upper part of the chest, it may be w'ell to consider for a moment what kind of symptoms may be produced by an aneurism of the arch of the aorta, or any of the primary branches. A cursory glance at the important parts in the neigh- bourhood is sufficient to answer such a question. Of course the effects will vary according to the part of the artery which is the seat of the aneurism, and likewise according to the volume, the form, and the position of the tumor. One can easily understand that compression of the vena cava superior, or either of the brachio- cephalic veins, would occasion swelling and congestion of the parts from which it returns the blood ; that compression of the trachea or one of the bronchi might occasion dyspnoea, and thus simulate * Blandin, Nouv. Elem. d’Anatomie descript. Paris.