PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 321 vessels and the vas deferens in the same way as the growth of the rupture. For this reason we ought always, in large herniae, to be cautious in cutting down upon the sac that we do not divide any of the displaced components of the cord. Mr. Hey mentions, as a warning, that he once divided the vas deferens.* Of course there is scarcely any danger of the kind so long as the hernia con- tinues of moderate size. 16. Seat of stricture.—The stricture may be seated either at the upper opening of the inguinal canal, or at the lower opening, or in the intermediate muscular part. Sometimes there is a sort of double stricture, one at the upper and another at the lower opening. The stricture, however, may be caused by the mouth of the sac itself, independently of the parts outside it; for it occasionally happens that the peritoneum becomes thickened and indurated, and sufficiently unyielding to strangulate the protruded parts. Such changes are liable to be produced by the pressure of a truss. 17. Direction in which the stricture should be divided.—We cannot do better than adhere to the golden rule laid down by Sir A. Cooper, namely, to divide the stricture, in all cases, directly upwards. 18. Changes 'produced by an old and large hernia.—Whoever has the opportunity of dissecting an old hernia of some size, may observe that the obliquity of the inguinal canal is destroyed. The constant dragging of the protruded viscera gradually brings the upper opening nearer to the lower, so that at last the one gets quite behind the other, and there is a direct opening into the abdo* men. But the position of the epigastric artery with regard to the mouth of the sac remains unaltered. The effect of this continual dragging is such that we seldom meet with an oblique hernia of any standing, where the natural distance between the two openings is preserved. It is observable too in herniae of long standing that all its cover- ings undergo a change. They become thickened and hypertro- phied to such an extent, and so altered from what they once were, that they scarcely look like the same parts. * Practical Observations, p. 146.