DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 233 of loose cellular tissue in which we never observe any fat, for the obvious reason that such a substance would impede its functions. Parallel with its sides run the great vessels of the neck. The dimensions of the channel are not equal throughout. Its breadth at the upper part is just equal to the space left between the inner pterygoid plates of the sphenoid bone, for here it is only required to transmit the air inspired through the nose; but it becomes much wider in the situation where it transmits the food—that is, immediately below the back of the mouth : and from this it gradually contracts to the oesophagus. The pharynx, therefore, may be rudely compared to a funnel communicating in front by wide apertures with the nose, the mouth, and the larynx ; while the oesophagus represents the tube leading lrom its lower end. The upper part of the funnel forms a cul-de-sac at the basilar process of the occipital bone; there is here, however, a narrow orifice on either side, kept permanently open by the cartilaginous nature of its walls: it leads to a passage called the Eustachian tube, through which air is conveyed to the tympanum of the ear. It may be observed that the pharynx conducts to the oesophagus by a gradual, not a sudden, contraction of its channel. This transition, however, is in some cases sufficiently abrupt to detain a foreign body, such as a morsel of food more bulky than usual, at the top of the oesophagus. If such an extraneous substance become firmly impacted in this situation, one can readily understand that it will not only prevent the descent of food into the stomach, but that it may occasion, by its pressure on the trachea, alarming symptoms of suffocation. Supposing that the obstacle can neither be removed by the forceps, nor pushed onwards into the stomach by the probang, it may then become necessary to extract it bv making an incision into the oesophagus on the left side of the neck. 145. Pharyngeal fascia.—Before we can examine the stratum of muscular fibres which constitutes the posterior wall of the pharynx we must remove from its surface a tolerably compact layer of condensed cellular membrane, which has been called, by some anatomists, th e pharyngeal fascia. There can be no objection to this specific name provided, we understand that it is only a layer