PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 316 the opening, are indeed so conspicuous that anatomists have called them the inlercolumnar bands. Their purpose plainly is to pre- vent the ring from enlarging. It is only necessary to add, that the spermatic cord rests upon the outer pillar, and that it receives from the margin of the open- ing a covering, commonly called the spermatic fascia. 9. Muscular stratum.—To examine the muscular stratum we must reflect the aponeurosis of the external oblique. This is best done by making a transverse incision through it from the spine of the ilium to the linea alba, and another at right angles to the first, down to the pubes. We can thus turn down a triangular flap of the aponeurosis without injuring either the external ring or the crural arch. This done, the muscular stratum is fairly exposed. Now this stratum consists of the combined fibres of the internal oblique and transverse muscles : these, so far as our present sub- ject is concerned, may be considered as one, having the same origin, direction, and insertion. Their origin is from the outer half more or less of the crural arch ; their direction is transversely towards the mesial line, and they terminate upon a thin aponeurosis which is inserted into the upper part of the pubes and the linea alba. It is important to observe that this aponeurosis is situated immediately behind the external ring, plainly for the purpose of strengthening the abdominal wall just at a part where, without such provision, the liability to hernia would have been very great. The spermatic cord passes through this muscular stratum, and derives from it a covering, called the cremaster, or suspensory muscle of the testicle. The fibres of the cremaster are thin and pale, or the reverse, according to the condition of the subject. Its component bundles, arising from the crural arch, descend most of them in front of the cord, and then arch up again towards the pubes. Thus they form a series of loops of different lengths; some reaching only as low as the external ring, others lower still, while the lowest cover the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. In very muscular subjects we may sometimes succeed in tracing some of the returning fibres up to the pubes, or even the sheath of the rectus; but this is quite the exception. 10. Fascial stratum.—This third and last stratum, let it be un-