DISSECTION OF THE SCROTUM AND TESTIS. 542 The nipple projects a little below the centre; it is surrounded by a coloured circle termed the areola: this circle is of a rose-pink colour in virgins, but, in those who have borne children, of a dark brown. It invariably begins to enlarge and grow darker about the second or third month of pregnancy, and these changes continue till parturition. The areola is also abundantly provided with papillae, and with a number of subcutaneous sebaceous glands, for the purpose oflubricating the surface during the sucking of the child. The gland itself consists of distinct lobes held together by a firm cellular tissue, and provided with separate excretory or lactiferous ducts. Each lobe divides and subdivides into lobules, and the duct branches out accordingly.* If the ducts be traced to their origin, we find that they commence in clusters of minute cells, and that the blood-vessels ramify upon these cells in rich profusion : altogether, then, a single lobe might be rudely compared to a bunch of grapes, of which the stalk represents the main duct. The main ducts from the several lobes, from fifteen to twenty in number, converge towards the nipple, and, just before they reach it, become dilated into small sacs or reservoirs two or three lines wide ; after this they run up to the apex of the nipple, and terminate in separate orifices. The arteries of the gland are derived from the long thoracic and internal mammary : the nerves come from the cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. DISSECTION OF THE SCROTUM AND TESTIS. Immediately beneath the skin of the scrotum is a thin layer ol contractile tissue, containing simple muscular fibres of the non- striped kind, like those of the bladder and intestines. It is termed the tunica dartos scroti, and may be regarded as a cutaneous mits- * It is observed, in some cases, that one or more lobules run off to a con- siderable distance from the main body of the gland, and lie imbedded in the subcutaneous tissue. One should remember this when it is necessary to remove the entire gland.