241 EUSTACHIAN TUBE. ill inflammatory affections of the tonsils, and occasionally accu- mulates in these superficial cells, giving rise to the deceptive appearance of a small ulcer, or even a slough in the part. In respect to the position of the tonsil, it is very essential to bear in mind that it lies in front and to the inner side of the in- ternal carotid artery. It is only separated from this great vessel by the superior constrictor and the dense membrane of the pharynx. Therefore, in removing a portion of the tonsil when enlarged, or in making an opening for the discharge of matter in cases of “ cynanche tonsillaris,” the point of the instrument should never be directed outwards, but rather inwards and backwards towards the mesial line. Cases are related by Portal and Beclard in which the carotid artery was punctured in opening an abscess in the tonsil. The result was immediately fatal haemorrhage. 157. Eustachian tube.—This is a canal which conveys air from the pharynx to the tympanum of the ear. The orifice of it is situated opposite the posterior part of the inferior spongy bone, and is kept permanently open by a piece of elastic fibro-cartilage. The direction of the tube from the pharynx is upwards, backwards, and outwards, and it is about an inch and a half in length. Near the tympanum its walls are osseous, but towards the pharynx they are composed of fibro-cartilage and a dense fibrous membrane. At present we cannot see more than the cartilaginous orifice of the tube. It projects between the origins of the levator and the tensor palati, and gives attachment to some of the fibres of each, so that we must remove them in order to obtain a good view of the carti- lage. This is situated at the base of the skull, in the furrow between the petrous portion of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid bone. It adheres closely to this bony furrow, as well as to the fibro-cartilage filling up the foramen lacerum medium in basi cranii, and to the inner margin of the scaphoid fossa. The orifice is not trumpet-shaped, as usually described, but of a com- pressed oval form, with the long axis nearly perpendicular. The fibro-cartilage bounds it only on the inner and the upper part of the circumference; the integrity of the canal externally is main- tained by a tough fibrous membrane. The tube is lined throughout bv a continuation from the mucous