FRAMEWORK OF THE CHEST. 191 conical shape, and a little broader in the lateral than in the antero- posterior direction. The lower aperture or base of the cavity is closed by a large muscle called the diaphragm, because it forms a partition between the chest and the abdomen, permitting only the passage of certain canals between them. The partition is not flat, hut arched upwards, so that it constitutes a vaulted floor for the chest, and moreover by its capability of alternately contracting and dilating can thus increase or diminish the capaciousness of this cavity. The spaces between the ribs are filled by the intercostal muscles. In each intercostal space there are two layers of these muscles, arranged so as to cross each like the branches of the letter X. The fibres of the outer layer run obliquely from above down- wards, and from behind forwards ; those of the inner layer in just the reverse direction. The upper aperture of the chest gives passage to the trachea, the oesophagus, the great vessels of the neck and the arms, and also to certain muscles and nerves ; the interspaces between these parts being occupied by a dense fibro-cellular tissue. Such, in outline, is the frame-work of the cavity, closed on all sides, which contains the heart and lungs. We may observe that its walls are made up of different structures, bone, cartilage, and muscle, so admirably disposed as to fulfil two important conditions. By their solidity and elasticity they protect the important organs contained in them, and by their alternate dilatation and contraction they act as mechanical powers of respiration. For they can increase the cavity of the chest in three directions: in height, by the descent of the diaphragm ; in width, by the turning out- wards of the ribs ; and in depth, by the elevation of the sternum. Generally speaking, the right side of the chest is a little larger than the left. Out of ninety-two individuals, of the same sex and good constitution, seventy-one had the right side larger than the left; eleven, the left larger than the right; and ten had both sides of equal dimensions. The maximum of the difference in favour of the right side was fifteen lines. The measurements were made from the spine round the circumference of the side of the chest, on a plane with the nipple, to the middle of the sternum. The chest of the female differs from that of the male in the follow-