526 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. eighth of an inch broad, situated just beneath the union of the sclerotica and the cornea. It serves as a connecting medium between several structures—namely, the choroid, iris, ciliary pro- cesses, and sclerotica.* Iris.—This is a moveable curtain suspended freely in a clear fluid, which is situated in the space between the cornea and crystal- line lens. The iris divides this space into two unequal parts, called the anterior and posterior chambers; and these communi- cate with each other through a circular aperture in the centre, called the pupil.f Its use is to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted into the eye : for this purpose its inner circumference is capable of enlarging and contracting according to circumstances, while its outer circumference is immoveably con- nected to the ciliary ligament. The colour of the iris varies in different individuals, and gives the peculiar tint and brilliancy to tbe eye. The colouring matter or pigment itself is contained in minute cells. The posterior surface of the iris, called the uvea,\ is in all cases covered by a layer of black pigment. When the iris is laid under water, and viewed with a low magni- fying power, its front surface looks shaggy; a number of fine fibres are seen converging from all sides towards the pupil: many * Some anatomists describe a ciliary muscle. They say its point of attach- ment is at the line of junction of the sclerotic and cornea ; from thence it radiates backwards over the outer surface of the ciliary ligament, where its fibres are lost. Its action would be to approximate the ciliary processes and lens towards the cornea. Sir Philip Crumpton has noticed that this muscle is well developed in birds. In them its fibres are of the striped kind, just as the circular fibres of the iris are. f The size and shape of the pupil vary in different animsls. In the bullock, sheep, horse, &c., it is oblong; in carnivorous quadrupeds it is often a mere vertical slit during the day, but dilates into a large circle at night. J Strictly speaking, the term uvea was applied by the old anatomists to the choroid and iris collectively, which they very properly considered as one coat, and called the “ xnuv payoeiSys,” because its dark colour made it like the berry of the grape.