275 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. the orbit, then curving upwards between the globe and the external rectus, is inserted by a broad thin tendon into the outer and hack part of the sclerotic coat of the eye, close to the tendon of the superior oblique, but rather nearer to the optic nerve. 212. Action of the oblique muscles of the eye.—The use of the oblique muscles is to move or rotate the eye upon its antero- posterior axis, so that, however much the head be moved obliquely to one side or the other, the image of the object may be always kept stationary upon one and the same point of the retina. This was first explained by Hunter. He says,—“When the head is moved towards the right shoulder, the superior oblique muscle of the right side acts and keeps the right eye fixed on the object, and a similar effect is produced upon the left eye by the action of its inferior oblique muscle. When the head moves in a contrary direction, the other oblique muscles produce the same effect.* 213. Orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve.—This is at all times of small size, and sometimes absent. It comes from the trunk of the superior maxillary in the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the orbit through the corresponding fissure, and divides into two branches. Of these, one communicates with the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic, supplies very delicate filaments to the lachrymal gland, and finally terminates in the skin of the upper eyelid; the other, sometimes called the “ temporo-malar,”f usually divides into two branches, both of which pass through foramina in the malar bone, one to join the temporal branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, the other to supply the skin of the cheek. 214. Superior maxillary nerve and spheno-palatine ganglion.—In order to trace this nerve and its branches, we must remove with the saw or the bone forceps the outer wall of the orbit, and nearly all the greater wing of the sphenoid bone, so as to make a free exposure of the spheno-maxillary fossa. This requires to be done with care, else the nerve is sure to be injured. * Observations on Certain Parts of the Animal Economy. f “ Subcutaneus mala” of Soemmerring and Meckel. o