COURSE OP THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 436 beneath the crural arch at a point about midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, it descends nearly perpen- dicularly along the front and inner side of the thigh. At the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, it goes through an opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and, entering the ham, takes the name of popliteal. Thus a line drawn from the point specified of the crural arch, to the inner border of the patella, would pretty nearly indicate the course of the artery, although its distance from the surface increases as it de- scends. Next, as to the muscles over which it lies. Immediately under, and for a short distance below the crural arch, it is sup- ported by the inner border of the psoas; lower down it runs in front of the pectineus, and, still lower, upon the adductor longus. In about the upper third of the thigh the artery is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the muscular fascia. About the middle third it is more deeply seated, and is covered by the sar- torius: here, being situated among powerful muscles, it is protected from pressure by a sort of tendinous canal, which we shall pre- sently describe. At the crural arch the femoral vein is on the inner side of the artery, but as the vein descends it gradually passes behind the artery. Both lie close together, and are enclosed in a common sheath. a. The anterior crural nerve passes beneath the crural arch about half an inch on the outer side of the artery, and soon divides into a lash of branches, some of which are cutaneous, but the greater number supply the extensor muscles. Those branches which more directly concern the artery, and are liable to be injured in the operation of tying it, are as follows :—1. The long saphe- nous. This descends close to the outer side of the artery, and enters the tendinous sheath with it, in the middle third of the thigh. Here the nerve crosses over to the inner side of the artery, and leaves it just before it becomes popliteal. The nerve then runs in company with the anastomotica magna artery to the inner side of the knee, where we find it nearly superficial between the gracilis and the sartorius. Finally, joining the saphena vein, it descends with it to the inner side of the foot. 2. Besides the long saphenous.