u THE AXILLA. the artery, and to its sternal side : in the lower two-thirds of the axilla the vein still lies to the sternal side of the artery, but is sepa- rated from it by the nerves. The axillary plexus, consisting of two or three large nerves, is at first situated above the artery, and on a plane posterior to it; but the nerves, as they descend, come into closer connexion with the artery, and subdivide in such a way, that, upon the tendon of the sub- scapular muscle the vessel is surrounded on every side by the inter- lacement of the nerves. 18. The axillary or brachial plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the four lower cervical nerves and the first dorsal. The plexus is broad at the lower part of the neck, where it appears between the scaleni muscles; but it gradually contracts as it descends beneath the clavicle, and across the apex of the axilla. The arrangement of the nerves in the formation of the plexus is by no means constant, and often dissimilar on both sides of the body. Most frequently the fifth and sixth cervical descend obliquely outwards, and unite to form a single large cord: the eighth cervical and the first dorsal also unite to form another ; the seventh cervical runs for some distance alone, and then divides, so as to unite with the two other cords. Thus, the plexus, which at its commence- ment presents three large nerves, consists at the lower border of the first rib of only two ; the one being situated behind the axillary artery, the other above it, and on its acromial side. These two large nerves, by their subdivisions, form a plexus round the axillary artery, where it lies upon the tendon of the subscapularis, and give off the nerves to the arm in the following manner:— The median nerve arises by two roots, which lie in front of the artery, and converge like the branches of the letter V. On the outer side of the artery is the external root of the median, and the external cutaneous nerve ; on its inner side is the internal root of the median, the ulnar, and the internal cutaneous: behind the artery is the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral or radial nerve. From this arrangement there are occasional deviations. For instance, the two roots of the median may embrace the artery, higher up in its course, or lower down than usual : or both its roots may lie behind the artery.