182 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. and that it retains its power of contraction when the muscles of mastication are paralysed. It may be observed that the buccal nerve, in its passage through the external pterygoid muscle, occasionally sends a branch to it, or perhaps one to the temporal muscle. Careful examination makes it probable that the filaments constituting these branches are derived from the motor root of the fifth nerve. B. The branches, purely sensitive, of the fifth nerve are the temporo-auricular, the gustatory, and the dental. a. The temporo-auricular branch has usually two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery just before it enters the skull (see § 82, A, b). The nerve passes outwards behind the neck of the jaw, covered by the parotid gland, then ascends over the foot of the zygoma with the superficial temporal artery, and finally ramifies in company with this artery upon the temple and side of the head, supplying the integument (see § 76). While passing behind the condyle it sends one or two delicate filaments to the articulation of the jaw, and also some which pierce the cartilage of the ear, and supply the skin lining the meatus auditorius. It has already been stated more than once that branches proceed fnnn this nerve to the upper division of the facial, and thus endow it with the power of common sensibility. b. The inferior dental branch descends between the ramus of the jaw and the so-called internal lateral ligament of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters in company with the dental artery. It then runs in the canal prepared for it in the cancellous texture of the jaw immediately below the fangs of all the teeth. It fur- nishes a series of filaments which ascend through the canals in the fangs of the teeth to the vascular and sensitive pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale the mental branch is given off (see § 75). It is interesting to observe that the same nerve which supplies the teeth supplies the corresponding gums; hence the sympathy existing between these parts. c. Mylo-hyoid branch.—This nerve, though apparently origi- nating from the dental, and commonly so described, is in point of fact derived from the motor root of the fifth, and may with careful dissection be traced to it. It is true that for a short distance it