FRONT OF THE CHEST. 6 is seen a branch of the axillary artery, called the thoracic axis. It is a short thick trunk, which divides into several branches. One of these, called the superior or short thoracic, runs along the upper border of the pectoralis minor, between the two pectoral muscles, supplying ramifications to both, to the mammary gland, and inosculating with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. A second branch, called the thoracica Immeraria, descends by the side of the cephalic vein, in the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and ramifies in both. A third, the thoracica acromialis, passes over the coracoid process to the under surface of the deltoid, where it divides into several ramifications, some of which supply the deltoid muscle, communicating with the circumflex branches of the axillary artery; others, piercing the deltoid, maintain upon the upper surface of the acromion process an intricate anastomosis with corresponding branches of the supra- scapular and circumflex arteries. A fourth small branch occa- sionally proceeds inwards to the clavicle and subclavius muscle. All these arteries are accompanied by veins, which most frequently empty themselves into the cephalic previous to its termination in the axillary, but occasionally into the axillary vein itself. 8. The cephalic vein is one of the principal trunks formed by the cutaneous veins of the arm, the shoulder, and the chest. Com- mencing by roots from the dorsal surface of the thumb and fore- finger, it passes superficially along the radial side of the fore-arm over the front of the elbow-joint; thence ascending along the outer edge of the biceps muscle, it runs up the interval between the pec- toralis major and deltoid muscles to reach the upper border of the pectoralis minor, where it crosses the axillary artery, and terminates in the axillary vein. In the space now before us we observe the great vessels and nerves of the axilla in the first part of their course. Their depth from the surface will mainly depend upon the extent to which the clavicle projects. They are closely surrounded by a sheath of fascia, which descends with them beneath the clavicle, and are situated with regard to each other in the following manner. The axillary vein is the very large venous trunk in front of the artery, and rather to its sternal side; the vein, if distended, will partially con-