118 DEPRESSORS OF THE OS-HYOIDES AND LARYNX. hyoides about the junction of the body with the greater cornu. Thus it is observed that the muscle does not proceed straight from origin to insertion, but that it forms a very obtuse angle, or rather a curve beneath the sterno-mastoid. The intermediate tendon, before alluded to, is situated at the curve, and is connected by a strong layer or loop of fascia to the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib; it is this connexion which chiefly maintains the muscle in its proper position. In some subjects the omo-hyoid presents peculiarities; for instance, it may arise from the clavicle and ascend directly to the os-hyoides. Very rarely it is trigastric; that is, a third muscular slip ascends from the clavicle, or from the first rib to the inter- mediate tendon. Again, instead of being tendinous, it may be partly or entirely muscular at the curve. Sometimes it has a distinct insertion into the thyroid cartilage. Lastly, we have seen instances in which there was no trace of the muscle whatever. b. Sterno-hyoid.—This is the most superficial of the muscles in front of the neck. It arises from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum, from the cartilage of the first rib, and sometimes from the clavicle. The fibres form a broad flat band, which ascends, gradually decreasing in breadth, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os-hyoides. Opposite the cricoid cartilage and the upper rings of the trachea, the sterno- hyoid muscles of opposite sides are in contact in the mesial line ; below this situation they diverge from each other, leaving between them an interval, in which the sterno-thyroid muscles are exposed. A bursa mucosa of considerable size is commonly found in the loose cellular tissue between this muscle and the thyro-hyoid membrane. c. Sterno-thyroid.—This muscle is situated immediately be- neath the sterno-hyoid. It has a broad origin from the pos- terior surface of the sternum, nearly opposite to the cartilage of the second rib. The muscle ascends, covering the front of the trachea and the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, and gradually conti'acting, is inserted into the oblique ridge observable on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. It should be noticed that for some distance above the sternum the sterno-hyoid muscles of opposite