414 ANATOMY OT THE SMALL INTESTINE. ilium, and that they may feel much thicker in consequence of the peculiar arrangement of their mucous membrane. The reason of this difference is, that the upper part of the small intestine is more concerned in digestion than the lower. Their peritoneal and mus- cular coats are essentially the same throughout; but the mucous coat requires especial notice. a. When the small intestines are cut open, beginning at the upper end, the first thing that attracts notice is that the mucous membrane is arranged in a number of close folds, or plaits, techni- cally called the valvulce conniventes. Now these differ from other folds in the alimentary canal, e. g. in the oesophagus and stomach, in that they are not obliterated when the tube is distended. Each fold extends about one-half or two-thirds round the intestine ; but they are not all of equal size. It will be observed that they do not commence at the pylorus, but immediately below the openings of the biliary and pancreatic ducts, and that they are the most largely developed in the duodenum and the upper part of the jejunum. Below this part of the tube they gradually decrease in size, and become less closely packed, till they finally disappear near the middle of the ilium. The use of the valvulm conniventes is to increase the extent of surface for the absorption of the chyle, and also for secretion. b. Let us next examine what are called the villi of the small in- testine, and afterwards the different kinds of glands with which it is provided. If a portion of the small intestine be carefully washed and placed in water, we observe that the surface of the mucous membrane is just like the soft fur or pile upon velvet. This appearance is produced by the villi. Now these are nothing more than extremely vascular projections of the mucous membrane, about a fourth of a line in length, and so close to each other that a square line contains from forty to fifty of them. Their size, however, and their number bear a direct ratio to that of the valvulte conniventes. Their structure is exceedingly simple. In a well-injected specimen we find that each is furnished with an artery which forms a beautiful network of inosculations all over it, and then returns its blood by a single vein. Each, too, contains in its interior a lacteal or absorb-