206 PLEURA. Commencing, then, from above, we find that the apex of the lung projects into the root of the neck for a short distance above the sternal end of the clavicle. This part of the lung deserves especial attention, because it is, more than any other, obnoxious to tubercular disease. From the end of the clavicles the lungs converge on either side towards the mesial line, where their thin edges almost meet opposite the junction of the second rib ; therefore there is no lung behind the first hone of the sternum. From the level of the second costal cartilage to the level of the fourth, the inner margins of each lung run parallel and almost close behind the middle of the sternum ; consequently they over- lap the great vessels at the root of the heart. Below the level of the fourth costal cartilage the margins of the lungs diverge from each other, but not in an equal degree. That of the left curves pretty nearly in the course of the fourth costal cartilage, and at the lower part of its curve projects more or less over the apex of the heart. That of fte right descends almost perpendicularly behind the sternum as low as the attachment of the ensiform cartilage, and then, turning outwards, corresponds with the direction of the seventh costal cartilage. It must be obvious that hypertrophy of the heart, or effusion into the peri- cardium, will not only raise above the ordinary level the point where the lungs diverge, but also increase their divergence : hence the greater dulness on percussion. Posteriorly, the thin margin of the lung does not, under ordinary circumstances, descend lower than the tenth intercostal space. 110. Pleura.—This is the serous membrane which we have already in great measure described in connexion with the lung. It now remains only to say that it forms a completely closed sac, one on either side of the chest; and that its several parts have received different names, according to the surface to which they are attached : such, for instance, as the pleura costalis, pleura pulmo- nalis, diaphragmatica, mediastinalis, &c. From the lower part of the root of each lung a triangular fold of the pleura, more or less apparent in different subjects, extends to the diaphragm. This is called the “ ligamentum latum pulmonis.” In corpulent indi- viduals we often find considerable deposits of fat near the medias-