400 STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. attempt, for they are comparatively atrophied. But in pregnancy, when all the component structures of the organ undergo simulta- neous development, it may be observed that the fibres run either longitudinally or in concentric circles. The longitudinal fibres form a thick outside stratum, of which the direction is from the fundus to the neck of the uterus. The concentric circles form the deeper strata, and surround the orifices of the oviducts. Again, there are others which take a more oblique course, so that, upon the whole, their collective disposition is such as to exert equal pres- sure on all sides when called into operation. At the same time, however, that they expel the foetus, the mus- cular fibres perform another very important, function; they close the large venous sinuses developed for its nutrition. Therefore, very little hemorrhage accompanies the expulsion of the placenta, provided always it have been attached to the fundus or the side of the uterus. But every one, on the other hand, knows the danger of what is called a placenta pice via. Here the placenta, planted as it were over the orifice of the uterus, is attached to a part of the organ which must of necessity expand during labour, and thus the reverse of what is common takes place, and every pain increases, instead of checking, the flooding. For the same reason it is plain that paralysis of the muscular fibres in immediate connexion with the placenta, be it where it may, is likely to he a source of serious hemorrhage in parturition. 99. The Fallopian tubes or oviducts are situated, one on each side, along the upper border of the broad ligament of the uterus. They are about four or five inches long. One end leads into the uterus, the other terminates in a wide funnel-shaped mouth, sur- rounded by a kind of fringe, like the opening in a pink flower. This is seen to the best advantage by floating it in water; and one or two of the fringes are generally found connected with the outer end of the ovary. If the subject he well injected, it is observed that they are richly supplied with blood-vessels from the spermatic artery. Now if we open the oviduct from the expanded end, and introduce a probe into it, we find that the tube runs very tortuously at first, and then straight into the uterus, gradually contracting in size all the way, so that the uterine orifice will scarcely admit a