259 DISSECTION OF THE SCALP. softness, heat, cold, and the like; it is probably also a nerve of taste. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve supplies the mucous mem- brane at the back and sides of the tongue, but we have frequently succeeded in tracing one of its filaments to the apex. It is espe- cially a nerve of taste. DISSECTION OF THE SCALP. An incision should be made from the root of the nose along the mesial line to the occiput; and another at right angles to the first from one side of the head to the other. These incisions must not divide more than the skin, in order that the subcutaneous vessels and nerves may not be injured. 178. To give a general outline of the subject, it may be well to state at once that the several strata of soft parts covering the skull- cap, are—1, the skin; 2, a thin substratum of tough adipose and cellular tissue in which the cutaneous vessels and nerves ramify, and by which the skin is very closely connected to, 3, the broad thin tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle, called the aponeurosis of the scalp; 4, an abundance of loose cellular tissue, which permits the free motion of the scalp upon, 5, the pericranum, or periosteal membrane of the skull-cap. 179. Immediately beneath the skin, then, we expose the thin stra- tum of adipose and cellular tissue which connects it to the aponeu- rosis of the scalp. It forms a sort of bed for the bulbs of the hair. We notice that it cuts remarkably tough, and that, on this account, it is no easy matter to dissect out the subcutaneous vessels. This toughness and unyielding nature of the structure in which the arteries ramify does not readily permit them to retract when divided; hence the considerable haemorrhage which commonly follows incised wounds of the scalp : hence, also, the difficulty of drawing them out with the forceps in order to tie them. The blood-vessels of the scalp are derived from several sources. In front, from the supra-orbital arteries; on the sides, from the tem- poral ; behind, from the occipital and posterior auricular. It is n 2