88 BACK. OK THE FOBE-ABM. of the triceps muscle. It furnishes several branches to the muscles, and others which penetrate the capsule of the joint, and ramify upon the synovial membrane. In the lower part of the back of the fore-arm, a branch of the anterior interosseous artery is seen passing through the interosseous membrane to reach the hack of the wrist (see § 67). 147. The nerve which supplies the muscles on the back of the fore-arm is the posterior muscular (posterior interosseous of authors), a branch of the musculo-spiral (see § 39). It passes obliquely through the supinator radii brevis, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles on the back of the fore- arm, sending to each a filament, generally in company with a branch of the posterior interosseous artery. It sends a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and supplies the supinator brevis in passing through its substance. The supinator radii longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by distinct branches from the musculo-spiral (see § 39, d). The continuation of the posterior muscular nerve sends a branch to the extensor secundi internodii pollicis and to the indicator, and then descends beneath the tendons of the extensor digitorum com- munis to the back of the wrist. In this situation the nerve forms a kind of gangliform enlargement, from which filaments are sent to the carpal and metacarpal joints. On reviewing the distribution of the musculo-spiral nerve, we find that its branches supply the extensor and supinator muscles of the fore-arm, and the extensors of the hand, thumb, and fingers. Its cutaneous branches supply the lower part of the outer side of the upper-arm, the back of the fore-arm (see § 39, c), and the outer half of the back of the hand, as well as the back of the thumb and the two next fingers (see § 59). 148. Course and branches of the radial artery on the back of the hand.—Trace the continuation of the radial artery over the external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, to the upper part of the interval between the first and second metacarpal bones, where it sinks betweeen the origin of the abductor indicis muscle, and, entering the palm, forms the deep palmar arch (see § 98). In this part of its course it is