97 ELBOW-JOINT. otherwise its rotatory movement would be impeded. It is simply surrounded by a ligamentous collar, called the annular ligament, within which it freely rolls. Internal lateral ligament.—This is somewhat fan-shaped, and is made more conspicuous by bending the joint. Its apex is attached to the lower part of the internal condyle of the humerus : from this point the fibres radiate, and are inserted into the inner border of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna. A transverse band of ligamentous fibres extends from the olecranon to the coronoid process, across a notch observable on the inner side of the sigmoid cavity: through this notch vessels pass into the joint. External lateral ligament.—This is attached to the external condyle of the humerus; the fibres spread out as they descend, and are interwoven with the annular ligament, surrounding the head of the radius. Some of them are implanted into the anterior and the posterior borders of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The anterior ligament consists of a thin fibrous membrane, situ- ated over the front of the joint. It is attached, superiorly, to the front of the lower end of the humerus; inferiorly to the annular liga- ment of the radius, and the border of the coronoid process of the ulna. Some of its fibres take an oblique, others a vertical di- rection. The posterior ligament consists of a few thin ligamentous fibres, which extend across the fossa at the lower end of the back of the humerus. These ligaments, collectively, form a continuous capsule round the elbow-joint. The orbicular or annular ligament of the radius is attached to the anterior and the posterior border of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. With this cavity, it forms a complete collar, which encircles the head and upper part of the neck of the radiu^, without impeding its capability of rotation. The lower part of the collar is narrower than the upper, in order to fit the neck of the radius, and maintain it more accurately in its position. Its outer surface receives the attachment of the external lateral ligament. F