PALM OP THE HAND. 58 thumb. The action of this muscle is to oppose the thumb to the fingers. 88. Reflect the flexor ossis metacarpi from its insertion, and be careful not to remove with it a muscle situated beneath it, and to its inner side, called the flexor brevis pollicis. This muscle has two distinct origins; one from the lower edge of the annular liga- ment and the os trapezium, the other from the os trapezoides, os magnum, and the upper end of the third metacarpal bone. The two portions of the muscle unite behind the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and again separate near the lower end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb into an external and internal part, the latter being the larger. The external division, closely connected with the opponens pollicis, ends in a tendon which is inserted into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb; the internal division, intimately united to a muscle in the palm called the adductor pollicis, is inserted by a tendon into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. A large sesa- moid bone is found in each of the tendons. The lower portions of the muscle are separated by the long flexor tendon of the thumb and the arteria magna pollicis. Its action is to bend the first phalanx of the thumb. Cut through the flexor tendons and the median nerve about three inches above the annular ligament of the wrist, and turn them out of the carpal groove and from the palm. A good view is thus obtained of the synovial bursa of the carpus. Observe the extent of the bursa above and below the ligament, and the loose manner in which it is reflected over the bundle of tendons (see ยง 84.) Observe also the loose and abundant cellular tissue which lies under the tendons in the palm, allowing them to play freely over the deep palmar fascia. 89. The deep palmar fascia covers the interosseous muscles and the deep palmar arch of arteries. It is comparatively thin towards the carpus, but very strong lower down, where it is con- nected with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the me- tacarpal bones. On either side it is connected with the central portion of the superficial palmar fascia, so as to form a large com-