STRUCTURE OE THE BLADDER. 377 b. The bladder should be laid open by a perpendicular incision along its front surface, for the purpose of examining its interior. In a recently contracted bladder, the mucous membrane would be disposed in irregular plaits or folds; these, however, disappear when the bladder is distended. Under ordinary circumstances the membrane is perfectly pale, but when either inflamed or suc- cessfully injected it becomes of a bright red colour. If a piece of the injected membrane, especially when selected from near the neck of the bladder, be placed under the field of a microscope, its sur- face is seen to be studded with follicles, and protected by a layer of scaly epithelium. c. The orifice of the urethra is situated at the lower and anterior part of the bladder, not at the most dependent part which forms the well behind the orifice, and in which urine, as before mentioned, is apt to accumulate in old persons. Though it appears small and contracted in the fresh bladder, yet if the little finger be intro- duced into it, we shall find that it will gradually dilate to a very considerable size. Immediately behind the orifice there is ob- served in some bladders a slight elevation, commonly called the uvula vesica. It is nothing more than a portion of the mucous membrane raised up bv an accumulation of the submucous tissue, and is rarely of sufficient size to interfere with the passage of the urine. This is quite a different thing from enlargement of the third or middle lobe of the prostate, which we shall have occasion to notice presently. d. The orifices of the ureters are about an inch and a half behind the urethra, and rather more than that distance apart. We see how obliquely these tubes perforate the coats of the bladder, slanting towards each other, and standing out in relief under the mucous membrane is protruded through one of the muscular interstices, so as to form a little sac. This is small at first, but gradually increases in size, because, having no muscular coat, it has no power of emptying itself; generally speaking, several such sacs are met with in the same bladder, and they often contain calculi. Now, if a calculus, originally loose in the bladder, happen to become lodged in a pouch by the side of it, a sudden remission of the symptoms may ensue. Occurrences of this kind readily explain the boasted and apparent efficacy of lithontriptic medicines.