MUSCLES OE THE ORBIT. 269 short course, perforate the conjunctiva about a quarter of an inch above the edge of the tarsal cartilage. These ducts are not easily discovered in the human eye, hut in that of the horse or bullock they are of sufficient size to admit a small probe. The secretion of the lachrymal gland keeps the surface of the cornea constantly moist and polished. But if dust, or any foreign substance, irritate the eye, the tears flow in abundance, and wash it off. We may now examine the muscles of the orbit. All of these, with the exception of the inferior oblique, arise from the back of the orbit near the foramen opticum, and pass forwards, like ribands, to their insertions. 199. Levator palpebra superioris.—This muscle arises from the roof of the orbit, immediately in front of the optic foramen. It pro- ceeds forwards, gradually increasing in breadth, and terminates in a broad and thin aponeurosis, which is chiefly inserted into the upper edge of the tarsal cartilage beneath the palpebral ligament; but a few tendinous fibres pass down to the ciliary edge of the tarsus. Action.—It draws the upper lid beneath the edge of the orbit. It is constantly in action when the eyes are open, in order to counteract the tendency of the lids to fall. As sleep approaches, the muscle relaxes, the eyes, in common language, feel heavy, and the lids close. 200. Obliquus superior.—This muscle arises from the inner side of the foramen opticum. It proceeds along the inner side of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a cartilaginous pulley attached to the inner part of the roof of the orbit, near the margin. From this pulley the tendon is reflected at an acute angle outwards and backwards between the rectus superior and the globe of the eye. It gradually expands, and is inserted into the sclerotica, rather behind the middle of the globe, between the external and superior recti muscles. The pulley is lined by a synovial membrane which is continued for a short distauce upon the tendon. The action of this muscle will be con- sidered with that of the inferior oblique. The frontal nerve, and elevator muscle of the lid, should now be divided and turned aside in order to expose the superior rectus muscle.