ANATOMY OF THE STOMACH. 412 tion, tend to shorten and straighten the tube, so that the circular fibres contract upon and propel the contents of it to greater advantage. Lastly, there is the internal or mucous lining. This, we shall find, is the most complicated of the three, for it presents different cha- racters in different parts, according to the functions which it has to perform. 105. Stomach.—The stomach should be distended with air, that we may form some idea of its size and shape. Its size will naturally vary in different instances, according to the habits of the individual; and its shape, for want of a better comparison, is likened to the bag of a bag-pipe. Respecting the nomenclature of its different parts, we may just mention that the larger part of the organ, near which the food enters, is called indifferently the oesophageal or the cardiac end ; while the smaller part, at which the food passes out, is termed the pyloric end. Again, we speak of the upper margin, or the lesser curve; of the lower margin, or the greater curve; of the anterior and the posterior surface, &c. a. Of the muscular coat of the stomach nothing need be said, except that its fibres take a longitudinal and a circular direction ; but they are not so precisely regular as those of the rest of the alimentary canal. The longitudinal fibres are most marked at the curves, and the circular fibres at the pylorus, where they form a powerful sphincter. Here and there, however, especially at the sides, a number of fibres run very obliquely, not unlike those of the bladder. If any of these muscular fibres he examined with the high powers of a microscope, we find that they belong to the involuntary or non-striped variety. The same observation applies to the muscular coat of the intestines generally. b. When the stomach is laid open for the purpose of examining its interior, we observe that the mucous membrane is of a jrale colour, and gathered into longitudinal folds ; but these disappear when the stomach is full. If a piece of the membrane be cut away, there is seen beneath it a very distinct stratum of fibro-cellular tissue, which is sometimes called the submucous coat. The object of it is to permit the muscular and mucous coats to move freely on each other, and it also serves as a kind of bed, in which the blood- vessels ramify very minutely before they enter the mucous mem-