478 LIGAMENTS CONNECTING THE BONES OF THE FOOT. anterior is slightly convex, and the posterior slightly concave. This adaptation of itself contributes much to prevent the separation of the bones. But their principal bond of union is a very strong interosseous ligament which occupies the interval between them. In the skeleton we observe that the head of the astragalus articu- lates in front with the os scaphoides, but that a part of the head is unsupported below. What, then, supports it here in the perfect foot? An enormously strong and elastic ligament (calcaneo- scaphoid), which extends from the os calcis to the os scaphoides. These bones, together with the ligament, form a complete socket for the reception of the head of the astragalus; and it is this joint, and not the ankle, which permits the abduction and adduction of the foot. But the chief peculiarity about the ligament just alluded to is its elasticity. It acts in all respects like a spring, and allows to the key-stone of the arch a certain amount of play, which is obviously of great service in preventing concussion of the body. Whenever this ligament loses its elastic property, as is often the case with those who are in the habit of carrying heavy burdens, the arch of the foot gradually yields, and the individual becomes flat-footed. The os calcis articulates with the os cuboides pretty nearly on a line with the articulation between the astragalus and the os scaphoides. The bones are most firmly connected by means of a powerful ligament in the sole, called the calcaneo-cuboid, or liga- mentum longum plantae. Some of its fibres extend forwards as far as the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It would be only tedious repetition to enumerate individually the several ligaments which connect the remaining bones of the tarsus and metatarsus. Let it, then, suffice to say that they are firmly braced together by very strong ligaments, both on their dorsal and their plantar surfaces, and by interosseous ligaments which extend between their contiguous surfaces, like so many rivets. Though there is very little motion between any two bones, the collective amount is such that the foot is enabled to adapt itself the more accurately to the ground, pressure is more equally distributed, and consequently there is a firmer basis for the support of the body.