525 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. perforate tlie sclerotica near the optic nerve, and then divide and subdivide into a very minute network.* Posteriorly there is a circular aperture in the choroid for the passage of the optic nerve. In front the choroid is united to the ciliary ligament: it appears to stop short here ; but this is not the case; for, under this ligament, it extends forwards round the circumference of the crystalline lens in a series of plaited folds, called the ciliary processes. Pigmentum nigrum.—This colouring matter is merely adventi- tious ; for, if the choroid be washed for some time in water or spirit, the colour is entirely removed, leaving the membrane unin- jured, and of a greyish tint. In man this pigment is dark brown, but in most animals it is jet black. Under the microscope, it is found to consist of coloured granules contained in minute hexago- nal cells. It exists on both surfaces of the choroid, but chiefly on the inner, where it forms a continuous stratum.')' The use of the pigment is to absorb the rays of light which pass through the retina, and prevent their being reflected. It serves the same purpose as the black paint with which the inside of optical instru- ments—e. g., telescopes, cameras obscurse, &e.—is darkened. Albinos, in whom the choroid has little or no pigment, are conse- quently dazzled by daylight, and see better in the dttsk.j; Ciliary ligament.—This is a whitish grey ring, about one- * This arterial network is sometimes called the “ tunica Ruyschiana,” after Ruysch, who first injected it. The veins of the choroid are often called the “ vasa vorticosa.” f Dalrymple speaks of a very delicate membrane as lining the inner surface of the choroid, for the purpose of keeping the dark pigment in its place. A similar membrane may be detected on the posterior surface of the iris ; other- wise the pigment there would be apt to be washed away by the aqueous humour. J In many of the nocturnal carnivorous quadrupeds, the inner surface of the choroid at the bottom of the eye presents a brilliant colour and metallic lustre. It is called the tapetum. By reflecting the rays of light a second time through the retina, it probably causes the animal to see better in the dusk. It is the cause of the well-known glare of the eyes of cats and other animals; and the great breadth of the luminous appearance arises from the dilatation of the pupil.