STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 231 air. The blood, having been thus circulated in steady streams through this capillary plexus, returns through the pulmonary veins. These, at first extremely minute, gradually coalesce into larger and larger branches, which accompany those of the artery, and finally emerge from the root of the lung by two large trunks which carry the pure florid blood to the left auricle of the heart. From this outline of the anatomy of the lung, we see that the organ is so constructed as, in a given space, to allow the largest possible quantity of impure blood to be brought in communication with the largest possible quantity of atmospheric air. Physiologists have attempted to calculate the extent of surface afforded by the air-cells collectively; and it has been estimated that in one lung only it would represent a superficial area of one thousand square feet. Without attaching much faith to the accuracy of such calculation, it is certain that the extent of surface must be very great, and it is difficult to conceive how any apparatus could be more admirably adapted to the object in view. A stratum of blood of great superficial extent is exposed to an equal stratum of air, and these strata of contiguous fluids are contained in the interior of an organ so small as to lie within the compass of the chest. 143. Bronchial vessels.—These are small arteries, two or more in number for each lung. They arise from the aorta (see § 121), and enter the lung in company with the divisions of the bronchi. They are the proper nutritive vessels of the organ. On this account the old anatomists called them the “ vasa privata pul- monum,” to distinguish them from the “ vasa publica pulmonum” —namely, the pulmonary arteries. The former provide “ pro existentia privata pulmonum the latter “pro bono publico totius organismi.” The bronchial vessels are distributed in various ways; some of their branches supply the coats of the air-passages and the large blood-vessels, others the interlobular cellular tissue, and a few reach the surface of the lung, and ramify beneath the pleura. Nerves.—The nerves of the lung are derived from the pneumo- gastric and the sympathetic. They enter the organ in company