443 MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG. b. The external extends between the outer malleolus and the os calcis, and confines the tendons of the peronei muscles, which draw the foot outwards. c. The internal extends between the inner malleolus and the os calcis, and binds down the flexor tendons of the foot and toes. Further, it is to be observed that the tendon or tendons, as the case may be, proceeding from any given muscle, is contained in a sheath or pulley of its own, separate from the rest, and that this sheath is lined by a synovial membrane, which is reflected over the tendon, so that it plays without friction. On the top of the foot the fascia is attached to the margin of the bones on either side, and the direction of its fibres just below the ankle is such that they cross like the letter X. We must next remove the fascia, leaving enough of the annular ligaments to retain the tendons in their proper place. Muscles on the front of the leg.—We have to examine—1, the tibialis anticus; 2, the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; 3, the extensor proprius pollicis. 34. The tibialis anticus arises from the upper two-tliirds of the outer side of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, and from the fascia which covers it. About the lower third of the leg the fibres terminate on a strong flat tendon, which descends rather obliquely over the front of the ankle to the inner side of the foot: here it becomes a little broader, and is inserted into the internal cuneiform bone and the adjoining end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The synovial membrane, which lines the sheath of the tendon beneath the annular ligament, generally accompanies it to within an inch of its insertion; consequently it is necessarily opened when the tendon is divided for club-foot. The action of this muscle is to draw the foot inwards.* This movement, among many others, assists us in balancing the body,—as, e. g., in stand- ing upon one leg. 35. The extensor longus digitorum lies along the fibular side of * It is generally necessary to divide this tendon in distortion of the foot inwards, called “talipes varus.”