536 DISSECTION OI< THE ORGAN OE HEARING.; named, alter their fancied resemblance to certain implements, the malleus, incus, os orbiculare, and stapes. They are articulated to each other with perfect joints, and are so placed that the chain somewhat resembles the letter Z.* Their use is to transmit the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and, through it, to the fluid contained in the inter- nal ear. But they have another use, which would be incompatible with a single bone—namely, to permit the lightening and relaxa- tion of the membrana tympani, and thus adapt it either to resist the impulse of a very loud sound, or to favour a more gentle one. Muscles of the tympanum.—These little muscles, by moving the tympanic bones, tighten or relax the membrane of the tympa- num. The tensor tympani runs above and parallel to the Eusta- chian tube, from the cartilaginous part of which it arises. It passes backwards, and terminates in a round tendon, which enters the fore part of the tympanum through a special bony canal, and is inserted into the short process of the malleus. Its action is to draw the membrana tympani inwards, and thus render it tense. The laxator tympani arises from the borders of the fissura Glesseri and is inserted into the long process of the malleus. The stapedius muscle arises from a tube in the pyramid, and its tendon is in- serted into the neck of the stapes. Its precise use is not thoroughly understood. The chorda tympani branch of the portio dura crosses the * The handle of the malleus is nearly vertical, and attached along its whole length to the upper half of the membrana tympani. The long process (processus gracilis) projects at right angles from the body of the bone, runs into the Glasserian fissure, and receives the insertion of the laxator tympani. The short process receives the insertion of the tensor tympani. The incus, or anvil bone, is shaped like a bicuspid molar tooth with unequal fangs. Its broad part articulates with the malleus ; its long process articulates with the stapes, or stirrup bone, through the os orbiculare ; its short process is directed backwards, and its point is fixed in a small hollow at the commencement of the mastoid cells. The stapes is horizontal, and its base is attached to the membrane covering the fenestra ovalis.