LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 474 Below the patella, we observe that a slender band of the synovial membrane proceeds backwards to the space between the condyles. It is commonly called the ligamentum mucosum, and the edges of it on either side are called the ligamenta alaria. These, in point of fact, are not true ligaments, but merely the remnants of the partition, which, in the early stage of the joint’s growth, divided it into two lateral halves. Immediately outside the synovial membrane there is always more or less fat, and this is especially accumulated under the liga- mentum patellae. Its use is obviously to fill up vacuities, and to mould itself according to the several movements of the joint. The crucial ligaments, so named because they cross like the letter X, extend from an appropriate excavation on the mesial side of each condyle to the head of the tibia. The anterior passes from the outer condyle forwards to the front interval between the articular surfaces of the tibia. The posterior is best seen from behind, after the fibrous capsule is removed. It passes from the inner condyle backwards to the hinder interval between the articular surfaces of the tibia. Inter-articular jibro-carlilages.—Between each condyle and the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, we observe that there is an incomplete ring of fibro-cartilage. They answer many im- poitant purposes. They deepen the articular surfaces of the tibia ; their mobility and elasticity enables them to adapt themselves so as to correspond with the condyles in the several movements of the joint; they distribute pressure over a greater surface, upon the principle that a porter places a knot on his shoulder to carry his load with greater ease; and lastly, they deaden the jarring of the bones. To these several uses they are admirably adapted by their shape, the mode in which they are fixed, and their general con- struction. Their surfaces are covered by synovial membrane to prevent friction. They are the thickest at the circumference, and gradually shelve off to a thin margin. Their form is suited to that of the respective condyles, the inner being oval, and the outer circular.* The ends of each are firmly attached in appropriate * Their form may be compared to the letter C, but the ends of the outer cartilage are nearer together than these of the inner.