VENA CAVA SUPERIOR. 196 arteria innominata ; its right side is separated by the pleura from the upper lobe of the luug. It commonly receives the vertebral, deep cervical, and occa- sionally the interna] mammary veins. 100. Vena cava superior.—This is the great channel through which the blood, returning from the upper part of the body, is conveyed into the right auricle of the heart. The right and left brachio-cephalic trunks unite at nearly a right angle opposite the first intercostal space on the right border of the sternum ; that is, about the level of the highest point of the arch of the aorta. Com- mencing from this junction, the vena cava descends nearly vertically with a slight inclination backwards, and after a course of from three to four inches opens into the upper part of the right auricle. In something less than the lower half of its course it is covered by the pericardium, and it will therefore be necessary to open this bag in order to observe that the serous layer of it is reflected over the front and the sides of the vein. In respect to its relations, we have to notice that the vein lies in front of the right bronchus and the right pulmonary vessels, and that it is partially overlapped on its left side by the great bulge of the ascending aorta. In the upper half of its course, namely that external to the pericardium, it is covered on its right side by the mediastinal layer of the pleura, and on this side, in close contact with it, descends the phrenic nerve. Before it is covered by the pericardium the vena cava receives the vena azygos, and sometimes the right internal mammary vein. 101. Course and relations of the arch of the aorta.— The aorta is the great trunk from which all the arteries of the body carrying red blood are derived. It arises from the upper and back part of the left ventricle of the heart. Its origin is nearly opposite the upper border of the fourth costal cartilage of the left side, at its junction with the sternum. The vessel ascends forwards and to the right as high as the upper border of the second costal cartilage on the right side; it then curves backwards towards the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and turning