MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 515 2. The dimensions of the spinal cord opposite the second cervical vertebra, exclusive of the interior grey matter, may be estimated at about fourteen square lines. The aggregate dimensions of the roots of all the spinal nerves amounts to forty-five square lines ; but after due allowance is made for the great reduction in size which the nerve-fibres undergo as soon as they enter the cord, these lovty-five are brought down to twelve. If, then, this estimate be correct, it follows that the upper part of the spinal cord is large enough to comprise all the roots of the spinal nerves.* Minute structure oe the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii.—These are among the most complicate parts of the central nervous system. They contain white and grey matter,f in- termixed in a very curious manner. The white matter consists in part of a continuation of the longitudinal fibres of the cord, in part of a new system of horizontal fibres. We will endeavour to trace the longitudinal fibres first, and then the horizontal ones. The anterior columns of the cord, having reached the lower part of the medulla oblongata, are not continued straight up through it, but diverge from each other, so as to allow a part of the lateral columns to come forward, and, after decussation, to form the pyra- mids. In their further progress the fibres of the anterior columns are disposed of thus : a small number of them run up and contri- bute to form the outer portion of their own pyramid; all the rest, after embracing the olive, pass up through the deep strata of the pons, and then divide into two bundles; one of these, called the fillet of Reil, mounts over the superior crus of the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina, beneath which it meets with the corre- * Those who desire to follow up the subject will find the argument fully described in Volkmann’s article “ Nervenphysiologie,” in Wagner’s Hand- buch der Phys. ; in Kolliker’s Mikroscopische Anatomie—Leipzig, 1850; and in Stilling and Wallach, Untersuchungen fiber die Textur des Rficken- marks—Leipzig, 1842. f The grey matter in the medulla oblongata is collected in three situations —1. In the olives ; 2. In the restiform tracts ; 3. On the floor of the fourth ventricle.