102 LIGAMENTS BETWEEN THE CARPUS AND METACARPUS. The lateral ligaments connect, externally, the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally, the cuneiform and unciform bones. Divide the ligaments, in order to see the manner in which the carpal bones articulate with each other. Their surfaces are crusted with cartilage, and provided with a common synovial membrane. This membrane extends, superiorly, between the three bones of the upper row, so as to form two culs-de-sac ; inferiorly, it is prolonged into the joint between the carpal and the second and third meta- carpal bones. In some cases it is continuous with the synovial membrane of the radio-carpal joint. The joint between the upper and lower row of carpal bones admits of flexion and extension only ; but flexion is less limited than extension. The reverse is the case with regard to the radio- carpal joint. 161. Joint between the trapezium and the metac.arpai, bone of the thumb.—The trapezium presents a cartilaginous surface, convex in the transverse, and concave in the antero-poste- rior direction, (i. e. somewhat saddle-shaped,) which articulates with a cartilaginous surface on the metacarpal bone of the thumb, concave and convex in just the opposite directions. This peculiar adaptation of the two surfaces permits the several movements of the thumb, viz., flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction ; conse- quently circumduction. Thus we are enabled to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. The joint is surrounded by a fibrous capsule suffi- ciently loose to admit free motion, and stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. The security of the joint is also increased by the muscles. which surround it, and by the insertion of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. It has a separate synovial membrane. 162. Connexion between the carpus and the meta- carpal bones of the fingers.—The metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected to the second row of the carpal bones by ligaments upon their 'palmar and their dorsal surfaces. The dorsal ligaments are the stronger. The metacarpal bone of the fore-finger has two : one from the trapezium, another from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has also two, pro- ceeding from the os magnum, and the os trapezoides. That of