SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 127 covered by the stemo-mastoid muscle. In subjects, however, where the clavicular origin of the muscle is narrow, the vein may project beyond its outer edge. We can easily understand how manifest a venous pulsation might be under such circumstances, if there should be any imperfection in the auriculo-ventricular valve. 16. Nervus descendens noni.—The nerve which descends in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery is the descending branch of the hypoglossal or ninth cerebral nerve. By tracing this branch upwards, we shall find that it leaves the hypoglossal immediately before this nerve makes its curve forwards round the occipital, or perhaps the mastoid artery. At first the descendens noni lies within the sheath between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein ; opposite the os-hyoides, or nearly so, it per- forates the sheath and crosses obliquely over the common carotid from the outer towards the inner side. About two or three inches above the clavicle the descendens noni is joined by one or more branches (communicantes noni) which come from the second and third cervical nerves. These communicating branches descend on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and form by their junction with the descendens noni two or more loops in front of the sheath of the carotid. From these loops nerves pass off to supply the depressors of the os-hyoides and larynx ; that is to say, the sterno- hyoid, sterno-lhyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles : to each of the two portions of the latter there is a separate filament. In some subjects the descendens noni lies completely concealed within the carotid sheath ; the loop-like communications with the cervical plexus will then be found behind the internal jugular vein. One of its filaments may sometimes be traced into the chest, where it joins either the cardiac plexus, or the phrenic, nerve. Instances have been observed in which the descendens noni is joined by a large branch from the pneumogastric. ANATOMY OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 17. Remove the fascia from its attachment to the ramus of the jaw in order to examine the subjacent parts. The first most con-