I ANATOMY OP THE LIVER. 403 its back, we observe that the under surface is irregular, and that there are several fissures or channels in it for the passage of vessels. First, then, there is the longitudinal Jissure, dividing the right from the left lobe; it contains the round ligament or the obliterated umbilical vein of the foetus. The continuation of the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border of the liver contains the remains of what was in the foetus the ductus venosus, and it is therefore called the fissure of the ductus venosus. Secondly, there is the transverse fissure, where the great vessels enter the liver. Thirdly, there is the hollow for the gall-bladder. And lastly, in the same line with this, there is the channel for the vena cava. Now the relative posi- tion of these parts may, perhaps, be best impressed on the memory by comparing them collectively to the letter H. The transverse fissure represents the cross-bar of the letter, the longitudinal fissure represents the left bar, while the gall-bladder and vena cava toge- ther make the right bar. But this comparison to the letter H serves also to remind us of certain other parts or lobes of the liver, to which particular names have been given. For instance, in the upper square of the letter there is a tongue-like lobe, called the lobulus Spigelii, and this is connected to the right lobe by a shelving ridge or tail, called the lobulus caudatus. Again, the area of the lower square is called the I lobulus quadratus. Lastly, the right lobe presents, generally speaking, a shallow depression, adapted to the right kidney. The liver has a thin fibro-cellular coat or capsule, which can be best seen on those parts of it not covered by peritoneum. So far it is like all other glandular organs. But it does not appear that the capsule sends down partitions so as to form anything like a framework for the interior of the organ. At any rate, nothing of the kind is observed with the naked eye when a portion of the cap- sule is stripped from the surface. Whether there be a cellular framework or not between the lobules, it is certain that it must be exceedingly delicate, and this is the reason why the liver is so liable to be lacerated by external violence, or even by the action of the abdominal muscles. Minute structure of the liver.—All that we can hope to do here n