284 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. all that is known respecting the distribution of the olfactory nerves. The skin of the nose is abundantly supplied with sebaceous glands ; of which the ducts become very apparent when the cuticle is removed. 226. Cartilages of the nose.—Two pieces of fibro-cartilage on either side assist in forming the framework of the external nose; and one in the centre completes the septum between the nasal fossae. 227. The cartilage of the septum is commonly placed perpen- dicularly in the middle line; it may lean a little, however, to one side or the other, and in some rare instances it is perforated, so that the two nasal cavities communicate with each other. Its out- line is nearly triangular. The posterior border is received into a groove in the perpendicular plate of the aethmoid bone and the vomer ; the anterior border, that namely beneath the skin, is much thicker than the rest of the septum, and is connected, superiorly, with the nasal bones, and on either side with the lateral cartilages. 228. Of the lateral cartilages there are two, an upper and a lower. The upper is connected, superiorly, to the margin of the nasal and maxillary bones, anteriorly to the cartilage of the septum, and interiorly to the lower cartilage by means of a tough fibrous membrane. The lower is sometimes called the cartilage of the pinna. It is curved upon itself in such a way as to form the boundary of the external opening of the nose. Superiorly, it is connected by fibrous membrane to the upper lateral cartilage ; in- ternally it is in contact with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the upper part of the “ columiia nasiposteriorly it is attached by fibrous tissue to the superior maxillary bone : in this tissue, at the base of the ala, are usually found two or three nodules of carti- lage, called “ carlilagines sesamoidea.” We cannot but admire how well these cartilages are adapted to their office. By their elasticity they keep the nostrils continually open, and restore them to their ordinary size whenever they have been expanded by muscular action. The little muscles moving the nasal cartilages have been de- scribed with the dissection of the face (see § 68). 229. Interior of the nose.—By making a vertical section