POSITION OP THE VISCERA. 323 Unless the individual he very corpulent, we can ascertain during life the extent to which the liver projects below the costal carti- lages, and the general dimensions of ihe organ may be tolerably well told by percussion. Its under surface overlays part of the stomach, of the duodenum, and of the transverse colon : its upper surface is convex, and accurately adapted to the arch of the dia- phragm. To this muscle we find that the liver is connected by folds of peritoneum, commonly called its ligaments. One of these, nearly longitudinal in direction, and called the suspensory, or, from its shape, the falciform ligament,* is situated a little to the right of the mesial line. The free edge of it in front contains the impervious remains of the umbilical vein, now called the round ligament. The suspensory ligament, if traced backwards, leads to another broad fold extending horizontally from the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver: this constitutes the lateral liga- ment, right or left, according as we trace it on one or other side of the falciform ligament.f b. Respecting the gall-bladder, all we need notice at present is, that it is closely confined by the peritoneum in a slight depression on the under surface of the liver, and that its lower end or fundus projects more or less beneath the cartilage of the ninth rib. This is not altogether unimportant in a practical point of view : it some- times happens that the gall-bladder, in consequence of some ob- struction to its duct, becomes unusually distended, and, under such circumstances, occasions a swelling below the margin of the ribs, which might possibly be mistaken for an hepatic abscess, j The close proximity of the gall-bladder to the duodenum and the trans- verse colon explains the occasional evacuation of gall-stones into one or other of these intestines. * Between the layers of the suspensory ligament, in a well-injected sub- ject, numerous branches pass from the phrenic artery to the liver. Along this fold, too, the absorbents from the upper surface of the liver proceed to join the glands in the anterior mediastinum. f The junction of the lateral and the falciform ligaments is described by authors as the coronary ligament. t See cases in point recorded by Andral, Clin. Med. tom. iv.; and Graves, Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv.