PAROTID GLAND. ]68 coronary and the nasal arteries; the facial itself not being larger than a sewing thread. We must now direct our attention to the parotid salivary gland. 72. Parotid gland.—This, the largest of the salivary glands, fills up the space between the ascending ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Its boundaries may, with tolerable precision, be defined thus:—above, it reaches nearly to the root of the zygoma ; below, it is in contact with the sterno- mastoid and digastric muscles; behind, it is1 limited by the meatus auditorius and the mastoid process; and in front, it lies along the ascending ramus of the jaw, and is prolonged for some distance over the masseter muscle. In the majority of subjects it is sepa- rated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament; but we should be aware that now and then the two glands are directly continuous with each other. The superficial surface of the gland is flat, and covered by a strong layer of fascia, called by some anatomists the parotid apo- neurosis ; but this is merely a continuation of the cervical fascia. It requires, however, special notice, in so far as it not only envelopes the whole gland in a common sheath, but also sends down numerous partitions into its substance, forming, as it were, a frame-work for each individual lobe. The density of this sheath explains the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, the tardiness with which pus makes its way from the interior of the gland to the surface, and consequently the propriety of an early opening. The deep surface of the gland is very irregular, and moulded upon all the subjacent parts, intruding itself into the interstices between them. Thus, it extends inwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, surrounds the greater part of the styloid process and the muscles attached to it, and sometimes penetrates still deeper, so as to be in immediate contact with the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. That portion of the glandular substance which is prolonged over the masseter muscle is called the glandula socia parotidis. It is variable in size in different cases, and may sometimes be absent.