FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. 42 the brachialis anticus. beneath the pronator teres, and inosculates with the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna arteries. The 'posterior ulnar recurrent ascends beneath the flexor sub- liniis digitorum, to the space between the internal condyle and the olecranon, where it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris in company with the ulnar nerve. The artery lies close to the internal lateral ligament, through which many small branches pass, to supply the synovial membrane of the elbow-joint. This artery, like the former, supplies the surrounding muscles, and com- municates freely with the anastomotica magna and inferior pro- funda, and the other articular arteries. Both the ulnar recurrent arteries send off descending branches, which supply the muscles on the inner side of the fore-arm. The next branch of the ulnar is the common interosseous artery, which arises about an inch and a half below the division of the brachial, near the point where the ulnar artery is crossed by the second head of the pronator teres. The further examination of the interosseous artery must be for the present postponed. (See ยง 67.) Numerous muscular branches arise from the ulnar artery in its course down the fore-arm. A branch (arteria comes nervi mediant) almost always ac- companies the median nerve. It lies in close contact with the nerve, and sometimes in its very centre : though usually of small size, it may be as large as the ulnar artery itself; and in such a case it passes under the annular ligament with the nerve, to join the arterial arch in the palm. Immediately above the styloid process of the ulna, the ulnar artery sends off anterior and posterior carpal branches, similar in their course and distribution to the corresponding branches from the radial, with which they freely communicate, supplying the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus. A little below the pisiform bone the ulnar artery divides into a deep and superficial palmar branch, which will be described with the anatomy of the palm of the hand. 62. The ulnar nerve descends behind the internal condyle between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In its course down the upper part of the fore-arm, the nerve is still covered by