THALAMUS OPTICUS.—THIRD VENTRICLE. 498 4. Immediately behind the pineal gland are four elevations, two on each side, called the corpora quadrigemina or nates and testes. 5. These bodies are connected to the cerebellum by two flat bands, one on each side, termed the processus a cerebello ad testes. Be- tween the bands extends a thin translucent layer of grey substance, called the valve of Vieussens. Beneath this valve lies the fourth ventricle. Lastly, there are three commissures connecting the opposite sides of the brain.—Let us now examine these objects in detail. Thalamus opticus.—This is the somewhat square elevation seen on the floor of the lateral ventricle immediately behind the corpus striatum. Though covered with white matter on the surface, yet, if we cut into its interior, we find that it consists of alternate layers of white and grey matter, just like the corpus striatum.* The under surface of the thalamus forms the roof of the descending or middle horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath the posterior part of the thalamus are two small rounded eminences, termed respectively the “ corpus genicu'atum internum, and externum.’f Third ventricle.—This is the narrow fissure which exists between the optic thalami, and reaches down to the base of the brain. Its boundaries are rather complicated and indefinite, but may be stated as follows:—The roof is formed by the velum interpositum; the floor by certain parts at the base of the brain—namely, the locus per- foratus posticus, corpora mammillaria, tuber cinereum, with the in- * The elevation called the optic thalamus is occasioned by the interposition of a quantity of grey matter among the fibres of the crus cerebri. Gall termed it the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum, in opposition to the corpus striatum, which he termed the superior ganglion (Anat. et Phys. du Systeme Nerv., Paris, 1810.) The epithet “optic” applied to the thalamus might lead us to suppose that it presides over vision ; but that it exercises very little influence over sight is rendered probable by comparative anatomy, by experi- mental physiology, and by pathology. f The slight eminences, termed “ corpora geniculata,” are produced by small accumulations of grey matter beneath the surface. A narrow band of white matter connects the external one with the nates, and a similar band connects the internal one with the testes. These bands are faintly marked in man, but more apparent in the lower animals. « ■■■ —— ■»» »*n ■p,"*sr * . ... i ** ■ . — -'