432 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. into the upper half of the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. 21. Adductor brevis.—This muscle may be exposed by reflecting the adductor longus. It arises from the front surface of the pubes near the symphysis, widens as it descends, and is inserted all down the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. By reflecting this muscle from its origin we expose the fol- lowing:*— 22. Adductor magnus.—This muscle arises from the lower two- tliirds of the pubic arch and from the tuberosity of the ischium. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted, behind the other adductors, into the whole length of the linea aspera, and also into the ridge leading from it to the inner condyle. It should be observed that all the adductor muscles are inserted into the femur by flat tendons which are more or less connected with each other. About the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artery passes through an oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. 23. Tensor fasciec femoris.—This muscle is situated at the upper and outer part of the thigh. It arises from the crest of the ilium, close to the anterior spine, descends with a slight inclina- tion backwards, and is inserted between two layers of the strong aponeurosis which is generally described as part of the fascia lata. Its chief use is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh, and also to rotate the thigh inwards: in this last respect it co-operates with the anterior fibres of the glutaeus medius, with which it is almost insepa- rably connected. Any one may convince himself of this by placing the hand on the hip and rotating the thigh inwards. There are no other muscles to do it, and both are supplied by the same nerve,—namely the superior glut seal. a. In order to form an adequate idea of the strength, extent, and connections of the aponeurosis on the outer side of the thigh, * Beneath the adductor brevis, and just above the upper border of the adductor magnus, is seen the obturator externus. But we think it better to reserve the description of this muscle till the dissection of the other external rotators of the thigh.