STRUCTURE OP THE URETHRA. 381 single and very minute duct into the bulbous part of the urethra. The use of these glands would appear to be like that of the vesiculae seminales and the prostate, namely, to pour into the urethra a fluid accessory in some way, which is not yet understood, to the function of generation. They are found more or less developed in all mammalia, and in some, as e.g. in the mole, they increase in size periodically with the testicle. 77. Urethra.—The urethra is the tube which leads from the bladder to the end of the penis, and serves not only as the excretory duct of the bladder, but transmits also the secretion of the testicles and the several glands accessory to generation. It is surrounded by different structures in different parts of its course, with most of which we are already familiar. The first inch, or thereabouts, is surrounded by the prostate gland; the second inch, which passes under the pubic arch, is surrounded by muscular fibre; the re- mainder of its course along the penis is surrounded by spongy, erectile tissue. Hence anatomists divide it into the prostatic, the muscular or membranous, and the spongy. The length of the whole is about seven or eight inches,* but, of course, this will vary according to the condition of the penis. In its contracted state, the sides of the urethra are in close appo- sition. Since all that concerns this canal is important, we ought, when opportunity offers, to make transverse sections of it, in order to see how it looks in the different parts of its course. Through the glans it is flattened vertically, its two sides being in contact; through the prostate, too, it is nearly flat, except at the lower part, where its sides are kept asunder by the verumontanum, which projects upwards, leaving a furrow on each side. But throughout all the rest of its course the lining membrane is disposed in numerous longitudinal folds, which project into and accurately close the canal, precisely on the same plan as that by which nature closes the oesophagus. These longitudinal folds are plainly seen even when the urethra is slit open; indeed, they do not disappear * In cases of extreme distension of the bladder, it is interesting to know that the urethra may become considerably lengthened by the ascent of the bladder. Of this examples are related by M. Deschampg, Traite de l’Opera- tion de la Taille, tom. i. p. 221.