533 DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OP HEARING. The minute structure of the lens is very remarkable. It is rather gelatinous in consistence at the outside, hut grows gradually more dense towards the centre. After immersion in nitric acid, alcohol, or boiling water, it becomes hard and opaque. One may then see that it is imperfectly divided into three equal parts, by three lines which radiate from the centre to within one-third of the circum- ference. Each of these portions is composed of hundreds of con- centric layers, arranged one within the other, something like the coats of an onion. But this is not all : if we examine any singl’e layer with the microscope, we find that it is made up of fibres about l-5000ih of an inch in thickness, and connected together by finely serrated edges. This beautiful dovetailing of the fibres of the lens was first pointed out by Sir David Brewster ; and, to see it in perfection, one ought to take the lens of the common cod-fish. DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. The parts constituting the organ of hearing should be examined in the following order:—1. The outer cartilage; 2. The external meatus ; which leads to 3. The tympanum; and lastly, the laby- rinth, or internal ear, comprising the vestibule, cochlea, and semi- circular canals. Pinna.—Every one is familiar with the general form of the pinna, or fibro-cartilage of the ear; but anatomists have given names to its different parts. The outer folded border is called the helix; the ridge within it, the ante-helix. This bifurcates towards the front, and bounds the fossa of the ante-helix. The conical eminence in front of the meatus is termed the tragus: from this, hair generally grows. Behind the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch, is the anti-tragus. The lobule is that part from which ear-rings are suspended; and the deep hollow which collects the sonorous vibrations, and directs them into the meatus, is termed the concha. The groundwork of the pinna is a fibro-carti- lage, which is attached by an anterior ligament to the zygoma, and by a posterior one to the mastoid process.