LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. 302 layer without making a section of it, we find that the fibro-cartila- ginous plates, above alluded to, consist of fibres which extend more or less obliquely between the vertebrae, crossing each other in their direction like the branches of the letter X. Make a vertical section through an intervertebral substance, in order to see the precise direction of its fibro-cartilaginous plates. Observe that they are not exactly vertical. Those nearest to the circumference are slightly curved forwards, while those more deeply placed curve in the opposite direction. These curves are respectively increased whenever the spine is bent forwards or backwards. The thickness of the intervertebral cartilages is not the same in front and behind. It is this difference in their thickness, more than that in the fore and back part of the bodies of the vertebrae, which produces the several curves of the spine.* In the lumbar and cervical regions they are thicker in front; in the dorsal region, behind, f 278. Ligaments connecting the articular processes of the ver- * The curve of the spine in the dorsal region must be excepted from this statement: here it depends, in a greater degree, upon the form of the bodies of the vertebrae. f The structure of the intervertebral cartilages explains the well-known fact, that a man becomes to a certain extent shorter after continuing a long time erect; and that he regains his usual height after resting some time on his back. The difference between the morning and evening stature amounts in some instances to more than half an inch. It also explains the fact that a permanent unnatural curvature of the spine may be produced (especially in the young) by the habitual practice of leaning' forwards, or to this or that side. Experience proves that the cause of spinal curvature depends more frequently upon some alteration in the structure of the fibro-cartilages than upon the bones. From an examination of the bodies of 134 individuals with crooked spines, it was concluded that in two-thirds the bones were perfectly healthy; that the most frequent cause of curvature resided in the intervertebral substances ; these being, on the concave side of the curve, almost absorbed, and on the convex side preternaturally developed. As might be expected in these cases, the muscles on the convex side become lengthened, and degenerate in structure.—On this subject see Hildebrandt’s Anatomie, B. ii. s. 155.