MEMBRANES OF TEE SPINAL CORD. 509 cellous texture of the bones. 3. There are the proper veins of the spinal cord which lie within the dura mater. One and all discharge themselves through the intervertebral foramina in the several regions of the spine, as follows: - in the cervical, into the vertebral veins ; in the dorsal,into the intercostal veins; and in the lumbar, into the lum- bar veins. It deserves to be remarked that this complicate system of veins is wholly unprovided with valves ; and hence it is that they are so liable to become congested in diseases of the spine. The several membranes of the spinal cord, though continuous with those of the brain, yet differ from them in certain respects, so as to require a separate notice. The dura mater of the cord is a tough fibrous membrane like that of the brain, but, as already observed, does not adhere to the bones of the spine, because such adhesion would obviously have impeded the free movement of the vertebrae upon each other. It forms a complete canal, which loosely surrounds the spinal cord, and sends off prolongations over each of the spinal nerves. These prolongations accompany the nerves only as fur as the interverte- bral foramina, and are then blended with the periosteum. Cut through the several nerves which proceed from the spinal cord on either side, and remove it with its dura mater entire. The next proceeding is to slit up the dura mater along the middle line, in order to examine the arachnoid membrane. The arachnoid membrane of the cord is a continuation from that of the brain. It is not in immediate contact with the pia mater under- neath, but is separated from it by a transparent watery fluid con- tained in the meshes,of the subarachnoid tissue ; therefore the cord may truly be said to float in a fluid. This cerebro-spinal fluid cannot be demonstrated unless the spinal cord be examined very soon after death, and before the removal of the brain.* The nerves pro- * The existence and situation of the cerebro-spinal fluid was first disco- vered by Haller (Element. Phys. vol. iv. p. 87), and subsequently mo:e minutely investigated by Magendie (Recherches Phys. et Cliniques sur le Liquide Cephalo-rachidien, in 4to. avec atlas: Paris, 1842). This physiolo- gist has shown that if, during life, the arches of the vertebra are removed in a horse, dog, or other animal, and the dura mater of the cord punctured.