399 STRUCTURE Of THE UTERUS. The interior of the uterus is perfectly smooth at the fundus, but just the reverse at the cervix. Here we remark that there is a cen- tral longitudinal ridge, both in front and behind, (just as we saw in the vagina,) and from these other closely set ridges curve off laterally, like the branches of a palm-tree. The old anatomists called it the arbor vita. The roughness produced by these ridges j occasions an impression as though we were touching cartilage whenever a metallic sound is introduced into the uterus. The neck of the uterus is provided with a number of small glands, of which the minute ducts open in the furrows between the ridges just now referred to. The secretion of these glands is glairy-looking, albuminous, and slightly alkaline, and sometimes ; comes away in such abundance as to be exceedingly troublesome. Soon after conception the secretion dries up so as to plug the mouth of the uterus, but shortly before and during parturition it is i poured out in great quantity, in order to facilitate the passage of the child. It happens occasionally that one or more of the ducts I of these glands become obstructed, and then dilate into small trans- : parent vesicles, which gradually rise to the surface and burst. '! These were first described by Naboth,* and supposed to be true lii ova, and therefore they are commonly called ovula Nabothi. The mucous membrane of the uterus is very much more delicate E than that of the vagina, and is indeed scarcely separable from the I subjacent tissue. The greater part of it is lined by a ciliated epi- [ thelium, but the epithelium of the cervix is tessellated like that of | the vagina. The chief peculiarity, however, about the membrane i is that every part of it is covered with minute follicles or tubes i arranged at right angles to its surface. These tubes become 1 greatly developed shortly after impregnation, and are presumed to ij take an active part, in the formation of the membrana decidua. The greater portion of the walls of the uterus consists of muscular Ij fibres of the unstriped or involuntary kind, like that of the bladder ij or the alimentary canal. The texture of the fibres is so close, that ! it is exceedingly difficult to ascertain their precise arrangement • i indeed, in the unimpregnated uterus it is useless to make the De sterilitate mulierum. Lips., 1707.