MUSCLES OF THE CALF. 4-5S 68. Muscular fascia.—Respecting this there is nothing par- ticular to be observed, except that it is attached to the edge of the tibia. We may therefore at once remove it. 69. Muscles of the calf.—The great flexor muscle of the foot consists of two portions; the more superficial, called the gastrocnemius, arises from the lower end of the femur, while the deeper, called the soleits, arises from the tibia and fibula. The force of both is concentrated on one thick tendon, commonly called the tendo A chillis, which is inserted into the heel. 70. Gastrocnemius.—This muscle arises by two strong tendi- nous heads, one from the upper and back part of each condyle of the femur. The inner head is the larger, and is, moreover, inti- mately connected with the tendon of the adductor magnus. The two parts of the muscle descend, distinct from each other, and form the two bellies of the calf, of which the inner is rather the lower. Both terminate, rather below the middle of the leg, on the broad commencement of the tendo Achillis. We recommend that the gastrocnemius be divided transversely near to its insertion, and reflected upwards from the subjacent soleus, as high as its origin. By this proceeding we observe that the contiguous surfaces of the muscles are covered by a beautiful glistening tendinous expansion, which receives the insertion of llieir fibres, and transmits their collective force to the tendo Achillis. We observe also the large sural vessels and nerves which supply each head of the muscle. Moreover, to facilitate the play of the inner tendon over the condyle, there is a bursa, which generally communicates with the knee-joint; and in the substance of the outer tendon is commonly found a small piece of fibro-cartilage. Lastly, between the gastrocnemius and soleus there is the long tendon of the plantaris. 71. Plantaris.*—This little muscle arises from the rough line just above the outer condyle of the femur. It descends close to the inner side of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and terminates, * This is the representative of the palmaris longus of the fore-arm. In man it is lost on the calcaneum, but in monkeys, who have prehensile feet, it is the proper tensor muscle of the plantar fascia. t