227 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. laginous rings, from sixteen to twenty in number, which extend round two-thirds of its circumference. At the posterior part of the tube the rings are deficient. This peculiarity at the back of the trachea has been ascribed to the situation and motions of the (Esophagus; but this explanation cannot be admitted, since the same peculiarity exists in the bronchi. It is probably for the purpose of allowing a certain amount of variation in the diameter of the trachea ; and this is the more likely, because the membra- nous part of the tube is provided with muscular fibres which can approximate the ends of the cartilages. 140. Bronchi.—The two bronchi differ in their length, direc- tion, and diameter. The right is much shorter than the left, and passes more horizontally outwards to the root of its lung. In ac- cordance with the larger dimensions of the right lung, the right bronchus is larger, in all its diameters, than the left; and this is the reason why foreign bodies which have accidentally dropped into the trachea are more likely to be carried into the right bronchus by the stream of the air. The same reason also accounts for the fact that at birth the right lung is inflated before the left. The left bronchus is about two inches in length, and descends more obliquely to its lung than the right. At the root of the lung each bronchus divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, corresponding to each of the lobes of the lung; and on the right side the lower branch sends off a small division to the third lobe. The tubes diverge in all directions through the lung, and divide into branches, successively smaller and smaller, until they ultimately lead to the air-cells. These ramifications do not communicate with each other, and so far they are like the branches of a tree; hence it is that when any bronchial tube is closed or obstructed, all supply of air is cut off from the tubes and cells to which it leads. The several tissues, i. e. cartilaginous, fibrous, muscular, mucous, and glandular, which collectively compose the air-passages, are not present in equal proportions throughout all their ramifications, but each is placed in greater or less amount in particular parts, accord- ing to the function which they have to perform. The cartila- ginous rings, for instance, so obviously necessary to keep the larger M