STRUCTURE OP THE VAGINA. 396 internal iliac towards the neck of the uterus, and then ascends very tortuously by the side of the uterus, giving off numerous branches to it. But the fundus of the uterus is chiefly supplied by branches from the ovarian arteries. b. The vaginal artery ramifies along the side of the vagina, and sends branches to the lower part of the bladder and the rectum. 94. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the sacral nerves, and from the hypogastric plexus (§ 38, a). They accompany the blood-vessels to the neck of the uterus; and ascend with them along the sides of the organ. The greater part of the nerves soon leave the vessels, and, sub- dividing, sink into the substance of the uterus, chiefly about its neck and the lower part of its body. But some very small filaments continue with the vessels, and form around them plexuses, upon which, according to the dissections of Mr. Beck*, minute ganglia are found. 95. The absorbent vessels of the uterus are very small in its unimpregnated state, but greatly increase in size when it is gravid. Those from the fundus and the ovaries proceed with the spermatic vessels to the lumbar glands; and this is the reason why the lumbar glands are sometimes affected in ovarian disease. Those from the body and the lower part of the uterus accompany the uterine artery, and join the glands in the pelvis; some, however, run along with the round ligament to the groin, and this is the reason why, in certain conditions of the uterus, the inguinal glands are apt to be affected. 96. Structure of the vagina, uterus, ovaries, and oviducts.— The uterus, vagina, ovaries, and oviducts, should now be collectively removed from the pelvis for the purpose of examining their internal structure. And first of the vagina. 97. Supposing the vagina to be laid open, we observe that it is lined by a mucous membrane of a pale rose colour. We observe, too, that the membrane is rough and furrowed especially near the orifice. A more or less prominent ridge runs along its anterior, and another along its posterior wall. From either side of these, * Philosophical Transactions for 1846.