MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 158 and the margin of the orbit. The fixed point of the muscle is on the inner side of the orbit. For the sake of perspicuity we shall consider, first, the attachment of the fibres of the upper curve, and secondly, the attachment of the fibres of the lower. The fibres, then, of the upper curve are attached to the internal angular process of the frontal bone, and to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone; those of the lower curve are attached to all the orbital margin of the superior maxillary bone below the tendo oculi, and also to the fibrous covering of the lacrymal sac. The external fibres, those namely which form the circumference of the muscle, completely encircle the orbit; and a few stray ones extend in a scattered manner for some distance beyond its margin over the brow, temple, and cheek, in which latter direction they mingle with the zygomaticus minor and the levator labii superioris. Those fibres of the muscle which belong to the eyelids, (orbicu- laris palpebrarum) are thin and pale. They arise almost exclu- sively from the upper and lower surface of the tendo oculi, and form over each eyelid a series of elliptical curves which meet at the external canthus of the lids. The degree of their curvature becomes less as they approach the margin of the lids, so that a thin stratum of fibres proceeds nearly straight close to the eyelashes. This was first pointed out bv Riolanus,* and described as “ musculus ciliaris.” On the eyebrow the orbicularis is intimately connected to the subcutaneous tissue and the skin, as well as the occipito-frontalis muscle. On the cheek it is separated from the skin by a greater or less quantity of fat. But on the lids no fat is ever found; nothing intervenes between the skin and the muscle but a quantity of loose cellular tissue, in order that there may be no impediment to the free play of the lids. Action.—This muscle, according to the extent and force of its contraction, acts in a variety of ways in protecting the eye. For instance, supposing the eye to be threatened by a blow, the muscle suddenly and violently contracts, presses the eye back into the orbit, and draws in the skin of the brow and the cheek so as to Anthropologia, lib. v. cap. 10.