84 BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. the supinator radii brevis beneath them. In reflecting the super- ficial muscles, preserve the vessels and nerves which enter their under surface. The deeper seated muscles now exposed are— The supinator radii brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor proprius indicis or indicator. 139. The supinator radii brevis muscle is situated over the upper third of the radius. It arises by tendinous fibres from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from the annular liga- ment surrounding the head of the radius, from an oblique ridge situated on the upper fourth of the outer surface of the ulna, below the insertion of the anconeus, and by fleshy fibres from a triangular excavation below the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna. The mus- cular fibres turn over the neck and upper part of the shaft of the radius, and are inserted fleshy into the upper third of the outer surface of this hone, as far forwards as the ridge leading from the tubercle obliquely downwards and outwards to the insertion of the pronator teres. Some of the upper fibres embracing the neck of the radius are inserted above the tubercle. The muscle is perforated obliquely by the deep branch of the musculo-spiral nerve (see § 39), and its upper part is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. Action.—It is the most powerful supinator of the fore-arm, some of its fibres acting at nearly a right angle to the axis of the radius. 140. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is the strongest of the extensor muscles of the thumb. It arises by a pointed extre- mity from the posterior surface of the ulna below the supinator brevis, with which it is generally more or less united ; also by short aponeurotic fibres from a ridge on the middle third of the bone, and from the posterior surface of the radius, a little above its middle, as well as from the interosseous ligament. The muscle descends obliquely over the radius, crosses the radial extensors of the wrist about three inches above the carpus, and terminates in a tendon, which passes along a groove, lined by synovial membrane, on the