MUSCLES OF THE SCALE. 260 unnecessary to describe each of these in detail. Trace the leading trunks, and observe that they subdivide into branches, which inosculate freely, and finally form a vascular network among the bulbs of the hair. A few small branches here and there pass into the pericranium.' The veins accompany the arteries. 180. Occipito-frontalis muscle.—This is a broad thin cutaneous muscle situated immediately beneath and closely connected to the scalp. It consists of two fleshy portions, one on the occiput, the other on the forehead, and the two are connected by a broad inter- mediate aponeurosis which extends over the roof of the skull. The origin or fixed point of the muscle takes place from the outer two-thirds, more or less, of the upper curve on the occipital bone, and the adjoining part of the mastoid process of the temporal. The fibres ascend over the back of the head, and terminate in the common aponeurosis. The anterior or frontal portion, com- mencing in an arched form from the common aponeurosis near the frontal suture, descends over the forehead, and terminates partly in the integument of the eyebrow, and partly in the orbi- cularis muscle. Those fibres near the mesial line descend along the root of the nose under the name of the “ pyramidalis nasi” (see § 61). The aponeurosis of the scalp is continued over the temples and side of the head, gradually changing from tendinous into fibro-cellular tissue. Action.—This muscle enables us to move the scalp in a slight degree backwards and forwards. But its chief action is as a muscle of expression. It elevates the brows, and occasions those transverse wrinkles observed in the expression of surprise. Like the other muscles of expression it is supplied by the facial nerve. 181. Muscles of the ear.—There are several little muscles in- tended to move the cartilage of the ear. In the human subject these muscles are thin and pale, since the ear is very little moveable: but in animals who possess a more delicate sense of hearing they are much more developed, for the purpose of quickly directing the cartilage of the ear towards the pulse of the air. a. M. attrahens aurem and attollens aurem.—These little muscles are both triangular in form, and are attached by their