BRANCHES OE THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 138 The superior thyroid vein generally empties itself into the internal jugular ; and it should be remembered that it crosses in some cases over the common carotid, in others over both external and internal carotid arteries. 32. Superior laryngeal nerve.—This nerve will be found a little above the superior laryngeal artery. Arising from the gan- glion of the nervus vagus, it descends behind both carotid arteries, and comes forwards between the os-hyoides and the thyroid cartilage. It perforates the thyro-hvoid membrane in company with its corresponding artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. It communicates with the recurrent laryngeal by one or more filaments. a. Before it enters the larynx the superior laryngeal nerve gives off a slender branch called the external laryngeal, which supplies the crico-thyroid muscle, and may sometimes be traced into the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. It usually accompanies either the trunk, or one of the chief branches of the superior thyroid artery. 33. Lingual artery.—This is commonly the second branch of the external carotid. Curving slightly upwards from its origin, it soon proceeds horizontally forwards beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, parallel to the upper edge of the cornu of the os-hyoides; near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus the artery ascends nearly perpen- dicularly to the under surface of the tongue, beneath which it runs tortuously forwards to the apex under the nerve of the ranine. The curves made by the artery, and its tortuosity under the tongue, are obviously for the purpose of allowing the unrestricted elongation of this organ. In the first part of its course it is comparatively superficial; in the middle it is deeply placed between the hyo- glossus and the middle constrictor of the pharynx ; in the last part—that is, beneath the tongue—it is situated between the lin- gualis and the genio-liyo-glossus. The relative position of the lingual artery and nerve is as follows. Near the apex of the cornu of the os-hyoides the nerve lies nearty parallel to and above the artery; subsequently they are separated by the hyoglossus muscle, the nerve being the more superficial;