BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 86 then proceeds over the back of the hand to the first phalanx of the index finger, where it is united to the ulnar border of the common extensor tendon. By the action of this muscle, the index finger can be extended independently of the others. 144. Relative position of the tendons over the back of the radius and ulna. Proceeding from the ulnar towards the radial side of the wrist, the tendons are situated in the following order, beneath the posterior annular ligament:— The tendon of the— Extensor carpi ulnaris, in a groove on the lower end of the ulna ; Extensor minimi digiti, over the articulation between the radius and ulna; Extensor digitorum communis, with the indicator, in the first broad groove on the radius ; Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, in a narrow groove on the radius on the ulnar side of the middle tubercle. Extensor carpi radialis brevior,|in the second broad groove on the Extensor radialis carpi longior, J radius. Extensor primi internodii pollicis, tin a groove on the outer side Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis,) of the radius. 145. Synovial sheaths of the extensor tendons.—The tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris is contained in a separate tendinous sheath in its passage along the groove of the ulna and the back of the wrist. Make a longitudinal opening in the sheath, to see the synovial lining, and the fold which is reflected over the tendon. This synovial sheath is nearly two inches long, beginning about half an inch above the styloid process of the ulna, and terminating at the insertion of the tendon. a. The tendon of the extensor minimi digiti has a separate ten- dinous sheath, formed entirely by the posterior annular ligament, and is situated immediately behind the articulation, between the radius and ulna. Its synovial sheath is from two to three inches long, and extends for some distance along the back of the hand. b. The tendons of the extensor digitorum communis with the indicator are contained in the same groove on the back of the radius. The groove is lined by a synovial membrane, which is