491 CORPUS CALLOSUM. stance.* We should notice the depth of the furrows between the convolutions: they penetrate generally to about one inch; but their depth varies in different individuals: hence it follows that two brains of apparently equal size may yet be very unequal in point of ex- tent of surface of the grey matter, and therefore in amount of power. To the unassisted eye the cortical layer appears to be made up entirely of grey substance; but with the aid of a microscope it may be seen to consist of six layers,—three of grey alternating with three of white.f Corpus callosum.%■—This is a transverse portion of white sub- * There are two kinds of nervous matter—the grey or vesicular, and the white or fibrous. The grey is exceedingly vascular, and contains the nerve- vesicles, which are generally allowed to be the source of power. The white consists of extremely delicate nerve fibres, is very scantily provided with blood-vessels, and is probably the mere conductor of power. The intense vascularity of the grey matter has been demonstrated by Mr. Quekett and Mr. Smee, who have had the kindness to allow the author to inspect their beautiful preparations. Mr. Smee’s injections were made by using a solution of carmine in ammonia mixed with size. The minute arteries enter the surface of the grey matter, and break up in it into a network of fine capillaries. These capillaries are peculiar in being quite naked, and not supported, as in other parts, by cellular tissue. Hence it is they are so liable to give way, and allow their contents to escape : hence it is they are fenced round by so many provisions calculated to break the force of the current of the blood—namely, the tortuosities of the arteries at the base of the brain, their subdivisions in the pia mater, and the peculiar arrangement of the sinuses. + These six layers cannot always be demonstrated. Sometimes there are only four, and they are commonly more manifest in the posterior lobes. The external layer is always white. For an account of them, and the best mode of examining them, see Baillarget, Recherches sur la Structure de la Couche Corticale des Circonvolutions du Cerveau, inserees dans les Memoires de l’Academie de Medecine, 1840. X In a brain properly hardened by spirit the fibres may be traced congre- gating towards the corpus callosum from both hemispheres : hence they were called by Gall the converging fibres of the brain. This anatomist applied the above name to all commissural fibres. Those fibres, on the other hand, which ascended from the medulla oblongata into the hemispheres, he named the diverging. Anat. et Physiol, du Syst^me Nerv. : Paris, 1810.