360 DEEP STRATUM OP THE PERINEUM. The origin of the levator ani cannot be seen, but we observe the insertion of its anterior fibres into the central line of the perineum for a short distance in front of the anus. 52. The transversus perinei profundus is generally thin and delicate, but it varies in its degree of development in different sub- jects. It arises from the bone on either side about half way up the arch, and then its fibres spread out towards the central line, and block up the perineum behind the bulb. The meeting of the fibres of opposite sides in the centre is not apparent unless the bulb be raised : this, however, requires careful dissection, since there is a close connection between them. 53. Constrictor urethra.—This muscle surrounds and supports the urethra in its passage beneath the pubic arch.* Its principal attachment is to the ramus of the pubes on either side; from thence its fibres pass, some above, some below the urethra, and a few of them completely encircle it. To obtain the best perineal view of the muscle, we should ciit through the spongy part of the urethra about three inches above the end of the bulb, and dissect it from the corpus cavernosum penis. Thus, the upper fibres of the constrictor will be exposed; to see the lower, it is only neces- sary to raise the bulb. This view of the muscle, however, gives us, after all, but a very inadequate idea of its extent and importance. In the examination of it on the pelvic side, we shall find that it forms a complete muscular covering for the urethra between the prostate and the bulb. It is chiefly through its agency that we are enabled to retain the urine. 54. Cowper’s glands.—These glands are embedded, one on either side, immediately behind the bulb, in the substance of the * The resistance which is sometimes met with to the passage of the catheter beneath the pubic arch is caused by the spasmodic contraction of the con- strictor urethra ; therefore, it need hardly be said that anything like violence is more likely to increase than remove the obstacle. The bulbous part of the urethra, not being fixed like the muscular, allows the point of the instrument a certain latitude of motion, and it is consequently very apt to be pushed forward on one or other side, in the form of a pouch, before the muscular part has had time to relax. This is the reason why many surgeons draw the penis forwards in the introduction of the catheter.