COURSE OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 445 synovial membrane, which accompanies it as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. 37. Extensor brevis digitorum.—This muscle is situated on the top of the foot, beneath the long extensor tendons of the toes. It arises from the front part of the os calcis, and from the ligaments uniting this bone to the astragalus. The fibres run rather obliquely over the foot, and terminate on four tendons, which join the fibular side of the long extensor tendons of the four inner toes. We should now examine the course, relations, and branches of the anterior tibial artery. Since it lies deep between the muscles, it is necessary to separate them from each other ; and this is easily done by proceeding from the ankle towards the knee. It is also advisable to dissect the tibialis anticus out of the bed in which it lies. 38. Course and relations of the anterior tibial ar- tery.—The anterior tibial artery is one of the two branches into which the popliteal divides at the lower border of the popliteus muscle. It comes forwards immediately below the head of the fibula, and descends with a slight inclination inwards along the interosseous membrane. It then runs beneath the annular ligament over the front of the ankle, and along the top of the foot to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, where it sinks into the sole and joins the deep plantar arch, Thus, a line drawn from the junction of the heads of the tibia and fibula to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones would nearly coincide with its course. In the upper third of the leg it lies deep between the tibialis anticus, and the extensor longus digitorum; in the j lower two-thirds, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor pro- prus pollicis. But in front of the ankle the artery is crossed by the extensor proprius pollicis, so that on the top of the foot it runs along the outer side of this tendon. Again, just before it sinks into the sole, it is crossed by the short extensor tendon of the great toe. The artery is closely accompanied by a nerve (a branch of the peroneal), which runs for some distance on its fibular side, and, after crossing it once, is generally found on its fibular side, on the ,