MUCOUS MEMBRANE 01' THE LARYNX. 248 We now pass on to examine the larynx in its perfect con- dition. 164. The mucous membrane lining the larynx presents a loose and wrinkled appearance, excepting in particular situations in the inte- rior, and is connected to the subjacent structures by an abundance of fine cellular tissue, which admits of its being pinched up into large folds. This tissue is deserving of notice chiefly on account of the rapidity with which it is apt to become the seat of a serous or purulent effusion in acute inflammation of the larynx, and thus produce sudden and alarming symptoms of suffocation. From the root of the tongue to the epiglottis the membrane forms three folds already described. It covers and adheres closely to this cartilage, and is continued from it backwards on either side to the apices of the arytenoid cartilages, forming the aryteno-epiglotti- dean folds, by which the entrance into the larynx is hounded. Tracing it into the larynx we observe that the membrane becomes finer in texture and more adherent to the subjacent parts, especially over the vocal cords. In the natural state it is of a pale rose colour, and covered by an epithelium of the ciliated kind. The mucous membrane of the larynx is remarkable for its acute sensibility. This is requisite to guard the glottis during the passage of the food, since all aliment must necessarily pass over the larynx. Under ordinary circumstances the glottis is closed during the act of deglutition ; but if, during this process, any one attempt to speak or laugh, the glottis opens, and may allow the food to go, as it is termed, the wrong way. So soon, however, as the foreign body touches the mucous membrane of the larynx, a spasmodic fit of coughing ensues in order to expel it. Mucous glands.—If a portion of the mucous membrane be re- moved, it will* be observed that the tissue beneath is studded with a profusion of mucous glands. An oblong mass of them may readily be felt in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and they are particularly numerous about the ventricles. That surface of the epiglottis which looks towards the tongue is abundantly provided with them, and some of them are imbedded in its substance. Their ducts pass through the epiglottis, and may be recognized as minute openings on its laryngeal aspect.