BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 141 hypo-glossEil nerve. Its branches with which we are now concerned are— a. Muscular.—One especially to the sterno-mastoid, which it usually enters in company with the nervus accessorius. b. The meningeal.—This small artery, often absent, ascends along the internal jugular vein, with which it enters the cranium and supplies the dura mater. The occipital vein terminates in the internal jugular, or some- times in the external. 36. Posterior auricular.—This, the fifth branch of the external carotid, is an artery of small size, which arises immediately above the digastric muscle. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, to the space between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid pro- cess. Here it divides, and finally ramifies upon the back of the scalp and the cartilage of the ear. Of its branches we may notice the following: — a. Small arteries to the parotid gland. b. Stylo-mastoid.—This very constant little artery passes through the stylo-mastoid foramen to the tympanum of the ear. 37. Posterior auricular nerve.—We find this nerve close to the artery of the same name, between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process. It is derived from the facial nerve immediately after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascending back- wards behind the ear, divides into branches which are distributed to the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle and certain little muscles which move the ear, namely the retrahens and attol- lensaurem. It is commonly joined by one or two filaments from the auriculo-parotidean nerve (a branch of the cervical plexus). 38. Turning now our attention to the posterior triangle of the neck, we notice a muscle, the levator anguli scapula, which arises from the transverse process of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae, and descending backwards is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula between its spine and superior angle (see Arm, § 108). A little higher than this we observe a portion of another muscle, inserted into the outer surface of the mastoid process, and adjoining part of the occiput; this is the splenius capitis. It will be more fully exposed in the dissection of the back. 39. Cervical plexus of nerves.—We can now prepare a view of