MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 505 The anterior surface of the medulla oblongata presents, when the pia mater is removed, a deep median fissure continuous with that of the cord. Just below the pons Varolii this fissure terminates in a kind of cul-de-sac, named the “foramen caecumit is occupied by a fold of pia mater. On each side of the fissure there stand out in relief three longitudinal eminences or columns. The middle ones are called the anterior pyramids. External to these are the olivary bodies. Still more external, and towards the posterior part of the medulla, are the restiform bodies; so called from their rope-like appearance. Let us examine each of these eminences in succession. The anterior pyramids, so called from their shape, are narrow below, but gradually increase in breadth as they ascend towards the pons. The fibres of which they are composed are continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal cord, and consist, therefore, of motor fibres. They are a little constricted before they enter the pons, through which they may be traced into the lower part of the crura cerebri. By gently separating the pyramids from each other, about one inch below the pons, we observe that their fibres on each side decussate,—some passing above, others below those of the other side, so that they present an interwoven appearance. This decussation takes place only between the inner fibres of the pyramid; the outer fibres run straight on without decussating. Moreover, w'e shall presently find that these decussating fibres are prolonga- tions of the deep fibres of the lateral columns of the cord which here come forward to the surface, pushing aside the proper anterior columns.* The olivary bodies or olives are two oval eminences situated on the outer side of the pyramids, but not quite co-extensive with them. They consist externally of white substance ; but when cut into, their interior presents an undulating line of grev matter, called, from its zig-zag shape, the corpus dentatum. This grey line forms a * The decussation in question explains how it happens that, when an injury is done to one side of the brain, the disturbance of function is mani- fested on the opposite side of the body. B B