LINGUAL GLANDS. 257 those of the skin, hut that each is composed of a multitude of secondary papillae arranged in various ways : for instance, let a single “ papilla circumvallata” be analysed, as it were, and we shall see that it consists of an aggregation of smaller papillae ar- ranged parallel to each other ; again, a filiform papilla consists of a central stem or axis, from which minute secondary papillae shoot off. This elaborate structure commonly escapes observation because it is buried beneath the epithelium.* Each secondary papilla receives a blood-vessel, which passes nearly to its apex and then returns in a loop-like manner. But the filaments of the gustatory nerve have not, hitherto, been traced beyond the base of the papilla. 174. Lingual glands.—Numerous small glands are found in the submucous tissue at the root of the tongue. They are similar in structure and secretion to the tonsillar and palatine glands, so that there may be said to be a complete ring of glands round the isthmus faucium. Small round orifices upon their surface indicate the termination of their ducts : many of these open into the foramen coecum. Other mucous glands, with ducts from one quarter to half an inch long, are situated in the muscular substance of the tongue. 175. Glands beneath the apex of the tongue.—On the under surface of the apex of the tongue is placed on either side a group of glands which are presumed to be salivary. Considering each group as one gland, we observe that it is oblong, with the long diameter from seven to ten lines in length, and parallel with the long axis of the tongue. It lies about two lines from the mesial line, a little below the ranine artery, on the outer side of the branches of the gustatory nerve, and under some of the longitudinal fibres of the stylo- glossus. Four or five ducts proceed from each group, and ter- minate by separate orifices on the under surface of the tongue. 176. Muscular fibres of the tongue.—The interior of the tongue is composed of muscular fibre and of a small quantity of fat and cellular tissue. What may be called the extrinsic muscles of the tongue have been already described in the dissection of the sub- * See Bowman and Todd’s Physiological Anatomy.