3 ERONT OP THE CHEST. mammary gland. The branches destined for the latter are larger than the rest, and, during lactation, increase in size, ramifying tortuously over the surface of the gland : in some instances they have been seen nearly as large as the radial at the wrist. The cutaneous nerves which run forwards over the outer border of the pectoralis major, are derived from the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves, which escape between the digitations of the serratus magnus on the side of the chest. They will be more fully described at a future stage of the dissec- tion. (See ยง 12.) The superficial fascia must now he removed with the mammary gland from the surface of the pectoralis major, which will be most easily cleaned by dissecting parallel to the course of its fibres. The muscle, like all others, is covered by a thin layer of condensed cellular membrane, which forms its proper fibrous investment, and sends down partitions between the larger bundles of muscular fibres. When the whole surface of the muscle has been fully ex- posed, observe its shape, the course of its fibres, their origin, and insertion. 4. The pectoralis major muscle, somewhat triangular in form, constitutes the prominence on the front of the chest of the male, and the anterior border of the axilla. It is divided into two distinct, but unequal portions, which are separated by a cellular interval. The upper and smaller portion, called clavicular, arises from the anterior surface of the sternal half of the clavicle. The lower and larger por- tion is attached to the front of the sternum, and to the cartilages of all the true ribs, except the first and the last: in some subjects,also,by a distinct slip to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. Its sternal attachment consists, more especially at its lower part, of aponeurotic fibres, which, interlacing with those of the opposite side, form a fibrous layer in front of the sternum. The several bundles of muscular fibres converge towards the arm, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Their arrangement, as well as the structure of their tendon, is peculiar. The lower fibres, which are longer than the rest, ascend outwards, and are folded beneath the upper and