SAPHENOUS OPENING. 421 clearly make out all that relates to the opening in question. We have to observe that the opening is situated just below the crural arch, not far from the pubes ; and that it is of a somewhat oval form, with the long axis vertical, and about one and a half or two inches long. In respect to its borders, we find that on the inner or pubic side it is not at all defined, for here the muscular fascia ascends uninter- ruptedly under the femoral vessels, and is continuous with the iliac fascia of the pelvis.* But the outer or iliac border is defined clearly enough. This lies in front of the femoral vessels, and is crescent-shaped, with the concavity towards the pubes. Now, if we trace the lower horn of the crescent, we find that it curves up below the saphena vein, and is lost in the fascia on the inner side of the opening. On the other hand, if we follow the upper horn,f we see that it arches over the femoral vein, and is continued unin- terruptedly into Gimbernat’s ligament, or into that part of the crural arch which is inserted into the crest of the pubes. The upper horn deserves especial attention, because it forms the upper boundary of the aperture through which a femoral hernia takes place ; and, having a great deal to do with the constriction of the rupture, is often divided for its relief. This may be easily ascer- tained by gently introducing the little finger under the crural arch, on the inner side of the femoral vein,—in other words, into the femoral ring. We then perceive how much the upper horn of the crescent would girt the neck of a hernia, and likewise that its tension is greatly influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the thigh be bent and brought over to the other side, the tension of all the parts concerned is materially lessened. This explains the position in which a surgeon places the leg before he attempts to reduce a rupture. j * On the inner side of the femoral vessels, the pubic portion of the fascia is attached to the crest of the pubes. f This upper horn is sometimes called “ Hey’s ligament,” after the surgeon who first drew attention to it: Observations in Surgery, by W. Hey, F.R.S. London, 1810. J We must always bear in mind, that though the crural arch and the adja- cent fasciae have received particular names, they are not, on that account, dis-