SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 147 surface of the first rib. It is manifest, therefore, that it differs from the right subclavian in beiug longer and more vertical in the first part of its course. As it turns outwards in front of the apex of the lung to the scalenus muscle, the artery is covered by the confluence of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The pneumo-gastric nerve runs parallel with and rather in front of the artery. The phrenic nerve also descends in front of the artery near the inner margin of the scalenus. The thoracic duct bears an important relation to the left sub- clavian artery. It ascends out of the chest between the oesophagus and the vessel in question, and after forming an arch with the convexity directed upwards behind the internal jugular vein, it most commonly terminates in the subclavian vein near its junction with the jugular. The duct is so thin and transparent that it easily escapes observation *. we shall most readily find it by drawing the internal jugular vein towards the trachea, and by searching with the handle of the scalpel in the loose tissue on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, sometimes in front of, some- times behind the vertebral vein. Before we proceed to trace the branches of the subclavian artery it is advisable briefly to consider some of the more important points relating to the operation of placing a ligature around this vessel. It will at once suggest itself that to tie the artery in the first part of its course, namely on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, is an operation of very great difficulty and danger, even supposing the parts to be in a normal position. The great depth at which the artery is placed, the number *md size of its branches, the large veins by which it is covered, its connexion with the pneumo-gastric, recurrent laryngeal, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and above all its close contiguity with the pleura, form a combination of circumstances so formidable that one cannot be surprised the operation has never been performed with success. In the second part of its course, namely between the scalene muscles, the artery is more accessible. It would be necessary to divide the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus muscle, in order to reach the vessel;