130 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. out of the narrow orifice, in consequence of the sudden contraction of the neighbouring muscles. The facial artery is seen passing either through the substance of the gland, or along a groove on its under surface ; and it supplies the gland very freely with small branches. The facial vein usually runs over the cutaneous surface of the gland and joins the internal jugular. 21. Sub-mental artery.—The name of this artery implies where it will be found. It comes from the facial immediately below the jaw, and runs horizontally forwards, under cover of the basis of the jaw, to the symphysis, where it turns upwards over the chin, and inosculates with the terminal branches of the inferior dental artery. The sub-mental supplies the submaxillary absorbent glands, the mvlo-hyoid, and the anterior portion of the digastricus. This artery, commonly of small size, is in some subjects very much larger than usual, and after pursuing its ordinary course for some distance, perforates the mylo-hyoid near the symphysis of the jaw, to supply the sublingual gland and the tongue. We have seen serious haemorrhage from such an artery, wounded in opening an abscess. a. Myln-hyoidean nerve.—Near the sub-mental artery we find a small nerve which supplies the mylo-hyoideus muscle and the anterior portion of the digastricus. It proceeds from the inferior dental nerve, just before its entrance into the dental foramen, runs in a groove observable on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw, and then comes forward between the bone and the internal pterygoid muscle to the outer surface of the mylo-hyoid, where it is now seen. Though apparently arising from the inferior dental, this nerve is, properly speaking, derived from the motor root of the fifth pair. In some instances it sends a branch which perforates the mylo- hyoid muscle, and joins the gustatory nerve. We have now an opportunity of observing what is called the stylo-maxillary ligament. It is commonly described as a reflection of the cervical fascia, from the angle of the jaw to the styloid