305 ARTICULATIONS OR THE RIBS. will first examine their connexion with the bodies of the vertebrae, and afterwards their connexion with the transverse processes. The head of each rib presents two articular surfaces, which correspond to the little depressions observable on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae. There are, therefore, two distinct articula- tions, each provided with a separate synovial membrane. The ligaments are:—1. An anterior, which connects the head of the rib with the vertebrae, and also with the intervening fibro-cartilage: this, on account of the divergence of its fibres, is often called the stellate ligament. 2. An inter-articular, which proceeds from the head of the rib to the intervertebral cartilage. The tubercle of the rib presents a smooth surface which arti- culates with the transverse process of the lower of the two ver- tebrae, to which the head is connected. This articulation has a capsular and synovial membrane. The following ligaments fasten the rib to the transverse process :—1. The posterior costo-transverse passes from the apex of the transverse process to the rougher sur- face of the tubercle of the rib. 2. The middle costo-transverse connects the neck of the rib to the front surface of the transverse process. This may be seen by making a horizontal section through the rib and the transverse process. 3. The anterior costo-trans- verse ascends from the neck of the rib to the lower border of the transverse process above it. This ligament is absent in the first and last ribs. The head of the first rib differs from the rest in that it arti- culates with a single vertebra, the first dorsal. The interarti- cular ligament is consequently absent. The eleventh and twelfth ribs articulate each with a single vertebra, and are not connected to the transverse processes. 286. Connection between the cartilages of the ribs and the sternum.—The cartilages of all the true ribs are received into slight concavities on the side of the sternum. In young subjects we find that the cartilages of the six lower true ribs have distinct articula- tions provided with synovial membranes. They are secured in front and behind by strong ligamentous fibres, which proceed from the cartilages and radiate upon the sternum, crossing those of the opposite side.