71 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. angle than 50°. The elevation of the arm beyond this angle, is effected through the elevation of the shoulder by means of the trapezius. Its anterior fibres draw the arm forwards; the posterior, backwards. Reflect the deltoid from its origin ; observe the aponeurotic septa between its bundles of fibres; also the broad tendon of inser- tion into the humerus, and the pointed processes which ascend from it into the muscle. It is now seen how the muscle forms a com- plete protection to the shoulder-joint; how it covers the coraco- acromial ligament, the head, neck, and upper part of the humerus, as well as the tendons inserted into the greater tuberosity. 116. A bursa of very considerable size is situated between the deltoid, and the head of the humerus. It extends for some distance beneath the acromion and the coraco-acromial ligament, and covers the greater tuberosity of the humerus. In some instances it com- municates by a wide opening with the shoulder-joint. Its use is to facilitate the movements of the head of the bone under the pro- jecting arch, formed by the acromion and the coraco-acromial ligament. There may be two or more distinct bursal sacs over the head of the bone. 117. After the removal of the thin fascia from the under surface of the deltoid muscle, a complete view is obtained of the course of the circumflex artery and nerve. The posterior circumflex artery (see § 22) is given off from the axillary above the tendon of the latissimus dorsi: it passes backwards behind the surgical neck of the humerus, through a quadrilateral opening, bounded above by the subscapularis, below by the teres major, externally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long head of the triceps. The artery then winds round the neck of the bone to the under surface of the deltoid, in which its larger branches terminate, anastomosing with the ramifications of the anterior circumflex and acromial thoracic arteries. From the posterior circumflex artery, a branch commonly descends in the substance of the long head of the triceps, to inos- culate with tbe superior profunda; other small arteries ascend to supply the shoulder-joint and the head of the humerus, and some