511 FISSURES OF THE CORD. upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a pointed manner, after having given off the great bundle of nerves termed the “ cauda equina,? for the supply of the lower limbs.* The general form of the cord is cylindrical, slightly flattened in front and behind. It is not of uniform dimensions throughout, but presents a slight enlargement in the lower part of the cervical region, and another in the lower part of the dorsal, just where the great nerves of the upper and lower limbs are given off. The cord is divided into two symmetrical halves by a fissure in front and behind. The anterior fissure is the most distinct, and penetrates about one-third of the substance of the cord ; it contains a fold of pia mater full of blood-vessels for the supply of the in- terior. At the bottom of this fissure there is a transverse layer of white substance, named the anterior commissure, connecting the two anterior halves of the cord. The posterior fissure is so much less apparent than the anterior, that some anatomists altogether deny its existence; but it can be demonstrated by a careful preparation, and, indeed, penetrates to a greater depth than the anterior, so that it reaches quite down to the grey matter in the centre of the cord. Besides the anterior and posterior fissures, there run down each half of the cord two very superficial grooves, from which the ante- rior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves respectively emerge. These constitute the anterior and posterior lateral grooves. The posterior leads down to the posterior horn of the grey matter in the interior of the cord; the anterior is less distinct than the other, and does not reach down to the anterior horn of grey matter. By these lateral grooves each half of the cord is divided into three longi- tudinal columns—an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral. The ante- * Although the nerve-substance of the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, yet the pia mater is continued as a slender filament, called the filum terminate, down to the base of the coccyx. The explanation of this is, that, at an early period of foetal life, the length of the cord corresponds with that of the vertebral canal; but, after the 3d month, the lumbar and sacral vertebras grow away, so to speak, from the cord, in accordance with the more active development of the lower limbs. See Tiedemann, Anatomie und Bildungsgeschichte des Gehirns im Foetus des Menschen, ic ., mit sieben tafeln ; Nuremberg, 1816.