MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. 176 the sphenoid hone, and also from a certain part of the temporal aponeurosis. The fibres converging from this wide extent of origin pass under the zygomatic arch, and terminate upon a tendon which is inserted into the anterior border and the inner surface of the coronoid process of the jaw. The outer surface of the tendon is partially concealed by the insertion of those fibres which come from the temporal aponeurosis; but if these be removed it will then be apparent how admirably this tendon is adapted to the muscle, radiating into its substance, as it were, like the ribs of a fan, in order to receive the insertion of its converging bundles. Thus the whole force of the muscle is collected into one focus. The power possessed by the muscles which close the jaw is quite astonishing. Haller* mentions several instances of it. One Thomas Topham lifted with his lower jaw a table six feet in length with 501bs. attached to its lower end. It is not uncommon to see individuals who can balance on their chins a ladder so heavy that they can hardly lift it. 80. Pursuing, now, the dissection with a view to expose the internal maxillary artery, we must first remove with Hey’s saw the zygomatic arch ; this will expose the coronoid process of the jaw, the insertion of the temporal muscle, and a considerable quantity of loose fat and cellular tissue which surround it. Next saw through the coronoid process in a direction downwards and for- wards, so as to include nearly the whole insertion of the temporal muscle; and then turn it upwards with the muscle without injuring the subjacent vessels and nerves. The next step is to saw through the neck of the jaw about five-eighths of an inch below the condyle. Lastly, remove the remaining part of the neck close to the ramus of the jaw. By this mode of proceeding the region called pterygo-maxillary will be fairly exposed; but a careful dissection is required to display the following important parts contained in it:— a. The greater part of the space is occupied by two thick and strong muscles of mastication—the pterygoid, so named on account of their attachment to the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. * Elem. Phys. lib. xi. sect. 2, § 26.