452 GREATER AND LESSER ISCHIATIC NERVES. abouts, of the obturator foramen, and also from the adjoining part of the obturator membrane. The fibres converge to a tendon which runs nearly horizontally outwards over a groove in the ischium, and is inserted into the pit of the great trochanter. 55. Great Ischiatic nerve.—This large nerve is formed by the union of the sacral nerves, and is destined to supply the powerful flexor muscles of the lower extremity. Emerging from the pelvis through the ischiatic notch, below the pyriformis, it descends over the external rotator muscles of the thigh, along the interval between the tuber ischii and the trochanter major, but rather nearer to the former, so that, in the sitting position, the nerve is protected from pressure by this bony prominence. The nerve does not descend quite perpendicularly, but rather obliquely forwards, parallel with the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. It does not give off any branches in this early part of its course, except to the quadratus, the gemelli, and the hip-joint; but it is generally accom- panied by a branch of the ischiatic artery, called the comes nervi ischiatici.* a. Lesser Ischiatic nerve.—This is derived from the lower part of the sacral plexus. It leaves the pelvis with the greater ischiatic nerve, but on the inner side of it, and in company with the ischiatic artery. The only muscular branches which it gives off are, two or more, which enter the lower border of the gluteeus maxim us. All its other branches are cutaneous. One turns round the lower border of the glutaeus maximus, and supplies the skin of the but- tock (see § 43). Another, called the long pudendal, turns inwards towards the perineum, to supply the skin of that region and the scrotum (see Abdomen, § 45). The continued trunk runs down the back of the thigh, as low as the upper part of the call, supply- ing the skin all the way down. 56. Ischiatic artery.—This branch of the internal iliac leaves the pelvis below the pyriformis, and then descends between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, along the inner side of the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off,— 1. Two or more considerable * The arteria comes nervi ischiatici runs generally by the side of the nerve, but sometimes in the centre of it.