306 ARTICULATION OF THE LOWER JAW. The costal cartilages from, the sixth to the tenth are con- nected by ligamentous fibres, and we frequently find that their contiguous surfaces are lined by a synovial membrane. The pieces of the sternum are, as it were," glued together by fibro-cartilage, and they are connected by strong ligamentous fibres which spread over their anterior and posterior surfaces. 287. Articulation of the lower jaw.—The condyle of the lower jaw articulates with the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone. The joint is provided with an interarticular fibro-cartilage and with external and internal lateral ligaments. a. The external lateral ligament extends from the tubercle of the zygoma downwards and backwards to the neck of the condyle of the jaw. b. The internal lateral ligament is a very long one. It con- sists of a broad flat band which extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the border of the dental foramen on the inner side of the jaw (see § 84). c. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is of an oval form, and thicker at the margin than at the centre. It is connected on the outer side to the external lateral ligament, and in front some of the fibres of the external pterygoid muscle are inserted into it (see § 81). There are two synovial membranes in the joint. The larger and looser of the two is situated between the glenoid cavity and the fibro-cartilage. The other is interposed between the fibro- cartilage and the condyle of the jaw. They sometimes communi- cate through a small aperture in the centre of the fibro-cartilage. The form of the articulation of the lower jaw admits of motion in several directions,—upwards and downwards, forwards and backwards, and from side to side. A rapid succession of these movements takes place during mastication ; so that it may be said that during this act the condyles of the jaw describe circular move- ments upon the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone ; and the in- tervening fibro-cartilage enables them to do so with much greater facility. END OF PART II.