DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 524 lissue. The third stratum consists of a kind of fibrous tissue, and upon this the thickness and strength of the cornea mainly depend. The fourth* stratum is again elastic. The fifth and last stratum consists of epithelium. Such is the beautiful structure of the cornea. In its healthy state it contains no blood-vessels ; they run back in loops as soon as they reach its circumference.-j- Choroid coat.\—After the removal of the sclerotic and cornea, we expose the choroid coat,—a white ring, called the ciliary liga- ment, which hounds its anterior part, and also the iris, of which the outer circumference is attached to this ring. The choroid is the soft and flocculent tunic of the eye, remark- able for its dark colour and great vascularity. When properly in- jected, and examined with the microscope, it is found to consist almost wholly of arterial and venous ramifications ; the arteries being chiefly arranged on the inner, the veins on the outer surface. The dark colour is quite adventitious, and is owing to a deposit in its texture of colouring matter termed pigmentum nigrum. The veins of the choroid, as already observed, are placed on the outside of the membrane. When successfully injected with mer- cury, one finds that they are arranged with great regularity in drooping branches, like a weeping willow, and that they converge to four nearly equidistant trunks, which, after running backwards for a short distance, perforate the sclerotica not far from the entrance of the optic nerve, and empty themselves into the opthal- mic vein. The arteries ramify on the inner surface of the choroid : they * The great peculiarity of this layer is, that it is perfectly structureless ; and when peeled off, it has a remarkable tendency to curl up. Maceration or boiling, or the action of acids, do not render it opaque, like they do the other layers of the cornea. Dr. Jacob calls it the “ elastic cornea.”—Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 503. f For a very elaborate investigation of the structure of the cornea, see Todd and Bowman’s Physiological Anatomy, Part iii. p. 17. I So called because its outer flocculent surface somewhat resembles the chorion or external investment of the ovum.