16 THE AXILLA. scapular muscle. The infra-scapular vein lies in front of its corre- sponding artery, and empties itself into the axillary vein. 21. Three nerves, called the subscapular, are found on the sur- face of the suhscapularis muscle. They come from the posterior part of the axillary plexus, and supply respectively the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularis. The nerve for the latis- simus dorsi, commonly called the long subscapular, is seen in company with the anterior branch of the infra-scapular artery. It runs behind the axillary vessels, and crosses obliquely the infra- scapular artery to reach the internal surface of the latissimus dorsi, which it enters by two or three branches. The long subscapular very rarely sends filaments to the serratus magnus. The nerve for the teres major muscle is either a branch of the preceding, or a distinct one from the plexus. It lies nearer to the humerus than the long subscapular, and enters the upper sur- face of the muscle. The proper nerve for the subscapular muscle arises from the plexus higher than the others, and enters the upper and posterior part of the muscle. Sometimes two or even more separate nerves are distributed to this muscle, especially in those instances in which it is divided by well-marked tendinous septa. The origin of the subscapular nerves is apt to vary. The nerve for the teres major may be a branch of the long subscapular, or both may be derived from the circumflex nerve. 22. There are two circumflex arteries—an anterior and a pos- terior, so called from the manner in which they encircle the neck of the humerus. The posterior circumflex artery is nearly as large as the infra-scapular, close to which it is given off; or they may both arise by a common trunk from the axillary. It passes back- wards through a quadrilateral opening, bounded above by the sub- scapularis muscle, below by the teres major, externally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long head of the triceps. It then winds round the back of the neck of the humerus, and reaches the under surface of the deltoid muscle, to which it is principally distributed. This artery, in its course, supplies the long head of the triceps, the head of the humerus, and the capsule of the shoulder-joint. It