199 GREAT BRANCHES OF THE ARCH. nearly equal size—the right carotid, and the right subclavian. Concerning its relations we have to observe that it is situated more or less obliquely in front of the trachea. The right vena inno- minata descends on its right side ; the left crosses in front of it. Parallel and close to the artery are the slender cardiac nerves. In some cases this artery ascends for a short distance above the clavicle before it divides, lying close to the right of the trachea. We have already alluded to the fact that it occasionally gives off a middle thyroid artery which ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and is therefore directly exposed to injury in the operation of tracheotomy. 103. The left carotid artery arises from the upper part of the arch of the aorta close to the arteria innominata. 11 ascends rather obliquely outwards behind the first bone of the sternum to the neck. In the first part of its course it lies, more or less in different subjects, upon the trachea, but it soon passes to the left side of the trachea, and then lies for a short distance upon the (Esophagus. 104. The left subclavian artery is the third branch of the transverse portion of the arch. It ascends almost perpendicularly out of the chest to the inner border of the first rib, and then curves outwards towards the scalenus anticus muscle. In the first part of its course it is very deeply seated, and is partially covered on its left side by the mediastinal layer of the pleura. Close to its inner side, and rather on a posterior plane, is situated the oesophagus; and between it and the oesophagus we find the thoracic duct. Like the other primary branches of the arch it is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. The pneumo-gastric nerve descends parallel with it, but to its inner side; that is, between it and the left carotid. The upper part of its course, where the vessel gradually passes in front of the apex of the lung, has been described with the anatomy of the neck (§ 43, b). 105. The course of the phrenic nerves (already alluded to at § 42) may now be traced through the chest. On either side, the phrenic nerve enters the chest between the corresponding sub- clavian vein and artery. It then descends in front of the root of the lung between the mediastinal layer of the pleura and the peri- cardium to the diaphragm. Above the root of the lung the two