FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. 38 the humerus, commencing a little below the insertion of the deltoid, and extending down two-thirds of the ridge leading to the outer condyle; also from the intermuscular septum, which separates it from the triceps. The muscular fibres descend, and terminate about the middle of the fore-arm in a flat tendon, which gradually becomes narrower, and is inserted into the base of the styloid pro- cess of the radius. The inner border of the muscle is a guide to the radial artery. It supinates the hand, and also acts as a flexor of the fore-arm. The examination of the deeper-seated muscles should be post- poned till we have traced the vessels and nerves of the fore-arm. 55. The brachial artery usually divides opposite the coronoid process of the ulna into the radial and ulnar arteries. The radial artery passes down the radial side of the fore-arm to the wrist, where it turns over the external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, appears for a short distance upon the back of the hand, and sinks into the space between the first and second metacarpal bones to form the deep palmar arch. Thus, a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the metacarpal bone of the thumb, would nearly indi- cate its course. In tbe upper third of the fore-arm, the artery is situated between the pronator teres on the inner, and the supinator longus muscle on the outer side; the fleshy border of the latter overlaps it in muscular subjects. In the lower two-thirds of the fore-arm the artery is more superficial, and is placed between the tendons of the supinator longus on the outer, and the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side. In its course, it lies successively on the following muscles and tendons : first, upon the tendon of the biceps; secondly, upon the supinator radii brevis, separated from it by more or less fat and cellular membrane; thirdly, upon the tendon of the pronator teres; fourthly, upon the radial origin of the flexor sublimis ; fifthly, upon the flexor longus pollicis; and, lastly, upon the pronator quadratus, and the extremity of the radius. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which commu- nicate at frequent intervals by transverse branches, and join the venae comites of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. In the middle third of its course the artery is accompanied by