SEMISPIN ALTS MUSCLE. 294 dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, and also from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. From this origin it ascends, and is inserted between the two curved lines of the occipital bone, near the vertical crest. In the centre of the muscle there is generally more or less tendinous tissue.* We may observe, also, that the muscle is perforated by the posterior branches of the second (the great occipital), third, and fourth cervical nerves. The action of the muscle is to keep the head erect. Reflect the complexus from the spine, in order to see on its under surface the arteria cervicalis profunda (see § 49), and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves. The tendon of the erector spinae must be divided longitudinally near the spines of the lumbar vertebrae, and the entire length of the muscle should be reflected outwardly towards the ribs. 249. M. semi-spinalis.—This is the next mass of muscle which is exposed in the vertebral groove after the reflection of the com- plexus and the erector spinae. It consists of a series of muscles which extend between the transverse and spinous processes of the dorsal and cervical vertebrae, and is usually divided into the semi- spinalis colli, and the semispinalis dorsi. a. The semispinalis colli is much stronger than the corre- sponding muscle in the dorsal region, as one might expect from the greater mobility of the cervical vertebrae. It arises by ten- dinous slips from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spines of the axis and the three or four succeeding vertebrae. b. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spines of the upper dorsal and the two or three lower cervical vertebrae. 250. We must now reflect the semispinalis muscle from the spine, in order to expose what is called the “ multifidus spines." This, however, may fairly be considered a part of the preceding * The inner border of the complexus is described by some anatomists as a separate muscle, under the name of "biventer cervicis,” simply because there is much tendinous tissue in the centre of it.