DEPRESSORS OF THE OS-HYOIDES AND LARYNX. 117 the muscle, and crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the trajjezius, in which it terminates. The ijcrvus accessorius, in passing through the sterno-mastoid, gives filaments to it, some of which communicate with nerves derived from the cervical plexus; after leaving the muscle it is commonly joined by a branch from the second or the third cervical nerve. A small artery, called the mastoid, arising from the external carotid, ot from the occipital, accompanies the nervus accessorius into the mastoid muscle. Having reflected the sterno-mastoid, a good view is obtained of the strong layer of fascia which lies beneath it, forming the under part of its sheath. This fascia is attached above to the angle of the jaw and the styloid process: thence it descends, expanding over and protecting the great vessels of the neck, and is firmly connected below to the clavicle and the first rib. It is this fascia which prevents matter from coming to the surface when suppuration takes place by the side of the pharynx. The fascia should be carefully detached from the muscles in front of the larynx and trachea, without disturbing their relative position. II. Depressor muscles of the os-hyoides and larynx.—We must now examine a set of broad, ribband-like muscles, situated on the front of the neck, of which the office is to depress the os-hyoides and the larynx. They are well named, according to their respective attachments,—sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid. It is more convenient to take the omo-hyoid first. a. Omo-hyoideus.—This narrow slender muscle extends from the os-hyoides to the scapula, and crosses obliquely over the sheath of the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. It is digastric, that is to say, it consists of two fleshy portions, con- nected by an intermediate tendon. Its origin (not at present visible) takes place from the upper border of the scapula, close to the notch observable in that part of the bone, and also from a liga- ment which extends over the notch. The muscle comes forward across the lower part of the neck, passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, and then, changing its direction, ascends nearly vertically close to the outer border of the sterno-hyoid, and is inserted into the os-