453 DISSECTION OE THE BACK OE THE THIGH. branches to the glutseus maximus. 2. A coccygeal branch, which runs through the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, and then ramifies in the glutteus maximus, and on the back of the coccyx. 3. The comes nervi ischiatici. 4. Branches to the several external rotator muscles. Lastly, branches which supply the upper part of the flexor muscles, and others which inosculate with those of the internal circumflex artery of the thigh. 57. Pudic artery and nerve.—The course of this artery and nerve has been fully described in another place (see Abdomen, § 70, f). All that we have to observe about them in this dis~ section is, that they pass over the spine of the ischium, and that in a thin subject it is possible to compress the artery against the spine. The rule for finding it is this: rotate the foot inwards, and draw a line from the top of the great trochanter to the base of the coccyx ; the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds gives the situa- tion of the artery.* DISSECTION OE THE BACK OF THE THIGH. 58. The incision should be continued down the back of the thigh, the ham, and the upper six inches or thereabouts of the calf; and the skin should be reflected on either side. 59. Cutaneous nerves.—The skin at the hack of the thigh is supplied by the lesser ischiatic nerve, which runs down beneath the fascia, as low as the upper third of the calf, distributing branches on either side. These, therefore, should be carefully traced. There are no subcutaneous veins of any size at the back of the thigh, because they would here be liable to pressure. But near the ham we find a subcutaneous vein, called the external saphena. It ascends from the calf, and joins the popliteal vein. 60. Muscular fascia.—Respecting this, there is nothing to be said, more than that its fibres run chiefly in a transverse direction, * Mr. Travers succeeded in arresting haemorrhage from a sloughing ulcer of theglans penis by pressing the pudic artery with a cork against the spine of the ischium.