HARD PALATE. 242 membrane of the pharynx, and is covered by a ciliated epithelium. For this reason, inflammatory affections of the throat or tonsils are very liable to be attended with more or less deafness, in conse- quence of the temporary obstruction they create in the Eustachian tube. A number of mucous glands are sometimes aggregated into a mass like a second tonsil around the orifice of the tube. They are similar in their nature and function to the glands which lie in such profusion beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, the palate, and the pharynx. 158. The hard palate, formed by the horizontal plates of the supe- rior maxillary and palate hones, serves as a fulcrum for the tongue in the act of tasting, in mastication, in deglutition, and in the articu- lation of sounds. The tissue covering the hones is thick and close in its texture, and firmly united to the asperities on the bones themselves. But it is not everywhere of equal thickness. Along the raphe, observable in the mesial line, it is very much thinner than elsewhere, and more immediately connected to the periosteum; and this is probably the reason why the hard palate is in this situation more prone to he perforated by syphilitic disease. By dissecting away the mucous membrane we shall discover a thick layer of glands (glandules palatines), arranged in regular rows on either side of the hard palate. These glands become more numerous and larger as we approach the soft palate. Their orifices are generally visible to the naked eye; but two of them, more dis- tinctly marked than the rest, are situated near the back of the palate, one on either side of the mesial line. The mucous mem- brane has a very thick epithelial coat, to which the white colour of the palate may be ascribed. The descending palatine artery, a branch of the internal maxil- lary, and the corresponding palatine nerves from the spheno-pala- tine ganglion, may he traced from their bony canals along either side of the roof of the mouth towards the incisor teeth, behind which a delicate inosculation takes place between the arteries of opposite sides. The numerous ramifications of these arteries and nerves are destined to supply the soft as well as the hard palate. 159. We cannot conclude this part of our subject without making