516 MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. sponding fillet of the opposite side ; the other proceeds along the upper part of the crus cerehri to the cerebrum. The lateral columns of the cord on reaching the medulla oblon- gata are disposed of in three ways, as follows :—Some of its fibres come forward between the diverging anterior columns, decussate in the middle line, and then form the pyramid of the opposite side; others ascend with the restiform tract into the cerebellum; a third set ascend along the floor of the fourth ventricle* (concealed by its superficial grey matter), and then along the upper part of the crus cerebri into the cerebrum. The posterior columns of the spinal cord, ascending under the name of the restiform tracts at the back of the medulla oblongata, diverge from each other, and are, for the most part, continued into the cerebellum, forming its inferior crura; hut some of their fibres run on along the floor of the fourth ventricle (external to the fibres from the lateral columns), and then along the upper part of the crura cerehri into the cerebrum. The horizontal fibres in the medulla oblongata and the pons were first accurately described and delineated by Stilling, f Some of them form a sort of raphe, and divide the medulla oblongata and pons into symmetrical halves ; others, arising apparently from the raphe, pass outwards in an arched manner through the lateral halves of the medulla; so that, when seen in a transverse section by trans- mitted light, they describe a series of curves, with the convexity forwards, throughout the entire thickness of the medulla. Some of these transverse fibres appear on the surface over the pyramid and the olive; these have received the name of arciform fibres (pro- pons or ponticulus). It is difficult to determine the object of this system of transverse fibres, or what parts they connect. Stilling and Kolliker,J who have deeply studied the subject, are both of opinion that they originate in the restiform tracts, and thence arch * These fibres constitute what are sometimes called the “ round cords” of the fourth ventricle. f Ueber die Medulla Oblongata. Erlangen, 1843. J Mikroscopische Anatomie, p. 454.