FRONT OF THE CHEST. 7 ceal the artery. The vessels are not in absolute contact, but separated by a thin membranous septum, derived from the costo- coracoid fascia. The plexus of nerves is situated above the vessel, and on a plane posterior to it. The plexus consists of two or sometimes three large cords, which result from the union of the anterior branches of the four last cervical nerves and the first dorsal. 9. The small nerves which cross more or less obliquely over the axillary artery immediately below the clavicle are called the anterior thoracic nerves. They arise from the front of the axillary plexus, beneath the clavicle, and supply the pectoral muscles. Two of them, branches of the fifth and sixth cervical, generally cross in front of the axillary artery and vein, and distri- bute their filaments along the under surface of the pectoralis major, in company with the branches of the thoracic axis which supply the muscle. A third, most commonly a branch of the eighth cervical, runs underneath the artery, and then coming forwards between it and the vein, communicates with one of the nerves in front, so as to form a kind of loop round the vessel. Its filaments enter the under surface of the pectoralis minor in company with an artery: one or two of them pass through the muscle to supply the pectoralis major. A slender filament from the anterior thoracic nerves may some- times be traced to the sternal joint of the clavicle, and another to the acromial joint. 10. The muscle which lies beneath the clavicle enclosed in a strong sheath is the subclavius. Open the sheath by an incision parallel to the clavicle, in order to expose the muscle. It arises from the junction of the cartilage with the osseous portion of the first rib by a round tendon, which extends for some distance along the inferior surface of the muscle. The fleshy fibres ascend over the subclavian vessels, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle as far outwards as the coraco-clavicular ligament. The action of this muscle is to depress the clavicle, and prevent its too great elevation. The nerve to the subclavius is a small branch of the brachial plexus. It usually comes from the fifth cervical nerve, runs in