434 EXTENSOR MUSCLES. cruraus arises from the upper three-fourths of the front surface of the shaft. The vastus interims arises from the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the shaft, and also from the linea aspera. a. Common extensor tendon. The tendon of the rectus, gra- dually expanding, receives on its under surface the insertion of the cruraeu?,* and on either side that of the vasti, and is firmly fixed into the upper part and sides of the patella. From this bone the strong ligamentum patellae descends over the front of the knee joint, and is implanted into the tubercle of the tibia. But besides this, the lower fibres of the vasti terminate on a sheet-like tendon, which runs wide of the patella on either side, and is directly in- serted into the sides of the head of the tibia, so that the knee is completely protected all round. The patella is a great sesamoid hone, interposed like a pulley to facilitate the play of the tendon over the condyles of the femur j it not only materially protects the joint, but adds to the power of the extensor muscles, by increasing the angle at which the tendon is inserted into the tibia. The action of the extensor muscles is too obvious to require explanation. Their all importance is manifested by what happens in cases of fracture of the patella. We will merely observe that the rectus, by arising from the pelvis, gains a double advantage. 1. It contributes to balance the pelvis on the thigh. 2. It can act upon two joints simultaneously, bending the one while it extends the other; as e.g. when the leg is advanced in walking. To facili- tate the play of the extensor tendon there are two bursae, which we must not omit to examine at a future stage of the dissection. One is placed between the ligamentum patellae and the tubercle of the tibia, the other between the cruraeus and the lower part of the femur. This last is of very considerable size. In early life it is, # A few of the deeper fibres of the crurseus are inserted into the fold of the synovial membrane of the knee joint which rises above the patella. These are described as a distinct muscle, under the name of the sub-cruraus. Their use is to raise the synovial membrane, so that it may not be injured by the play of the patella. Since the triceps is connected to the lower part of the shaft of the femur only by loose cellular tissue, there is nothing to prevent the distension of the synovial membrane, in cases of inflammation, to the extent of several inches above the patella.