504; PONS VAROLII.—MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Pons Varolii or tuber annulare.—This is a convex eminence, situated at the base of the brain, immediately above the medulla oblongata, and supported by the basilar groove of the occipital bone. In its antero-posterior diameter it measures rather more than one inch. Down the middle of it runs a furrow which lodges the basilar artery. If the pia mater be carefully removed from its surface, we see clearly that its fibres proceed transversely from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other: hence it is called the commissure of the cerebellar lobes. Throughout the mammalia its size bears a direct ratio to the degree of development of these lobes ; therefore it is larger in man than in any other animal.* But it should be understood that only the superficial fibres are transverse : if these be turned off, we then see that the anterior fibres of the medulla oblongata run under them at right angles into the crura cerebri, like a river under the arch of a bridge. Besides the transverse and longitudinal fibres just described, the pious, when cut through, is seen to contain in its interior a large quantity of grey matter, which probably gives origin to fresh nerve- fibres : so that it would appear reasonable to consider the pons as a source of power, as well as a mere conductor of it. Medulla Oblongata.—The term medulla oblongata is applied to that part of the cerebro-spinal axis which follows immediately below the pons Varolii, and is directly continuous with the upper end of the spinal cord. It is one of the most important divisions of the nervous system, since it gives origin to the nerves which preside over speech, respiration, and digestion. It is about an inch and a quarter long, and is supported upon the basilar groove of the occi- pital bone, so that it descends from the brain obliquely backwards to the foramen magnum. We remember that its posterior surface is received into the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebel- lum. Its form is somewhat pyramidal with the base superiorly; from thence it gradually tapers into the spinal cord. # Birds, reptiles, and fishes, have no pons, because there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum.