517 MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE PONS VAROLII. forwards,—some on the surface, others through the substance of the medulla, and that they eventually join the fibres of the raphe. Internal structure of the pons Varolii.—The pons consists of transverse and longitudinal white fibres, with a considerable quan- tity of grey matter in its interior. The superficial layer of fibres is obviously transverse, and connects the two wings of the cerebellum. After removing this first, layer, we come upon the longitudinal fibres of the pyramids in their course to the crura cerebri: these longi- tudinal fibres, however, are intersected by the deep transverse fibres of the pons, which, like the superficial ones, are continued into the cerebellum. The third and deepest layer of the pons consists entirely of longitudinal fibres, derived partly from the olivary or motor, partly from the restiform or sensitive tracts of the medulla oblongata. The septal fibres of the pons have been already alluded to in the preceding paragraph. Crura Cerebri.—These are composed of longitudinal fibres, derived from the pyramids, from part of the lateral and restiform columns of the cord, and from the grey matter in the pons Varolii. If one of the crura be divided longitudinally, we find in the middle of it a layer of dark-coloured nervous matter, called the locus niger; it separates the crus into an upper and a lower stratum of fibres. The lower stratum is tough and coarse, and consists of the continuation of the fibres proceeding from the pyramid and the pons. The upper stratum is much softer and finer in texture, and has received the name of the tegmentum: it is composed of the fibres proceeding from the lateral and the restiform columns, and also from the superior commissure of the cerebellum. Tracing the fibres of the crus cerebri onwards into the cerebral hemisphere, we find that they diverge fiom each other, that its lower fibres ascend chiefly through the corpora striata, its upper fibres through the thalami optici. In passing through these great gan- glia, the crus receives a very large addition to its fibres: these then branch out wide’y towards all parts of the hemisphere, in order to reach the cortical substance on the surface. From what has been said, it appears that the crura or roots of