344 COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. The lumbar veins empty themselves into the vena cava. 36. Common iliac arteries.—The two common iliac arte- ries diverge from each other at an acute angle, towards the sacro- iliac symphysis, and after a course of about two inches, more or less, divide into the external and internal iliac. They lie close to the vertebrae, and each, at or near its point of division, is crossed by the ureter : the left one is also crossed by the colon. But the most important relation of these arteries, in a practical point of view, respects their position with regard to their great veins. In consequence of the vena cava lying on the right of the aorta, we see, at a single glance, that the right common iliac artery crosses over both the common iliac veins previous to their con- fluence. It is also very closely connected to them. For these reasons it is much easier to pass a ligature round the left artery than the right; for though its vein lie on its inner side, yet it is sufficiently far off to be out of the way of danger. With the parts now before him the learner would do well to consider what would be the easiest way of performing such an operation, of course without wounding the peritoneum. Several modes have been re- commended. Upon the whole, the best authorities* agree that the artery is most accessible from behind. An incision should be mode perpendicularly from about the free end of the last rib to the ilium, and another transversely along the margin of this bone nearly to its spine. We then cut, layer after layer, through the abdominal muscles till the peritoneum is exposed; this is easily raised from the iliac fascia, and with it the ureter is raised too. The applica- tion of the ligature is, after all, the most delicate part of the ope- ration. It ought to be placed, as near as possible, midway between the origin and the division of the artery, so that there may be room enough for the formation of a clot on either side.f mammary, form a vascular ring round the chest, so do the lumbar, by com- municating with the epigastric, form a vascular ring, though a less perfect one, round the walls of the abdomen. * Consult some observations in point by Sir P. Crampton, in Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. * It is important to be aware that the length of the common iliac artery