312 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. therefore, we must slit up its sheath from end to end. It arises by a flat tendon from the symphysis, and from more or less of the upper part of the pubes. The fibres ascend, gradually expanding, and are inserted into the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. We have to notice across the muscle certain tendinous intersections called linecd transverse, which are, in point of fact, nothing but incomplete repetitions of the ribs in the wall of the abdomen.* Their number varies in different instances from three to five, but there are always more above than below the umbilicus. There is something to be said respecting the manner in which the sheath of the rectus is formed. The front of the sheath com- prises the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and half the thick- ness of that of the internal oblique ;f while the back of the sheath comprises the aponeurosis of the transversal is, and the other half of the internal oblique. This, however, applies only to the upper three-fourths of the muscle •, the lower fourth has no sheath behind, for all the aponeuroses pass in front of it. e. Linea alba.—Along the middle line of the belly the several aponeuroses of the muscles meet and decussate so as to form a tendinous structure, extending from the sternum to the pubes. This is the linea alba : it is obviously hut a continuation of the sternum deprived of its earthy matter, in adaptation to the func- tions of this part of the body. A little below the middle of it is situated what was in the foetus the opening for the passage of the umbilical vessels. After birth, the vessels being no longer re- quired, the opening gradually closes, and becomes plugged by their fibrous remains. ‘ Since the linea alba is the thinnest part of the abdomen, and is free from blood-vessels of any size, it is chosen as a safe line for tapping in dropsy, and for puncturing the bladder in retention of urine. f. Pyramidalis.—This little muscle is situated near the pubes, close to the linea alba, and has a little sheath of its own. It arises * Some animals—v. g. the crocodile—have abdominal ribs. + The line where the internal oblique splits—namely, along the outer border of the rectus—is called the linea semilunaris.