LACHRYMAL GLAND. 268 b. Palpebral filaments.—These are given off at the margin of the orbit, and supply the component structures of the upper lid. 196. Lachrymal nerve.—This is the smallest of the three divi- sions of the ophthalmic. It proceeds along the outer side of the orbit, either through, or beneath, the lachrymal gland, and is finally distributed to the upper eyelid. Its branches within the orbit are —1, several filaments to the lachrymal gland ; 2, a malar nerve, which traverses a minute canal in the malar bone, and supplies the skin of the cheek; 3, one or two nerves, which pass down to com- municate with the superior maxillary division of the fifth ; 4, a temporal nerve, which traverses the outer wall of the orbit, and joins one of the temporal branches of the inferior maxillary nerve.* This is often absent. 197. The fourth, or nervus patheticus.—This nerve enters the orbit above the other nerves which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. It proceeds forwards and inwards over the origin of the levator palpebrse, and, after a short course, enters the orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle, to which it is exclusively distributed. 198. Lachrymal gland.—This is situated within the slight exca- vation of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper surface is convex, in adaptation to the roof of the orbit; its lower is concave, in adaptation to the eyeball. The anterior part of the gland, some- times partially detached from the rest, and by some anatomists described as a separate lobe, lies close to the outer and back part of the upper eyelid, and is covered by the conjunctiva. The whole gland is maintained in its proper situation by a capsule f formed by the fascia of the orbit. The structure of this gland resembles that of the salivary. It consists of an aggregation of small lobes, themselves composed of smaller lobules, connected by cellular tissue. The excretory ducts, from eight to twelve in number, pro- ceed from the anterior part of the gland, run parallel, and, after a * Meckel: De Quinto pare Nervor Cerebri. f This capsule, being a little stronger on the under surface of the gland, is described and figured by Soemmerring as a distinct ligament: leones Oculi Humani, tab. vii.