170 NEKVES OP THE PACE. branches to nourish the gland, and opposite the neck of the jaw divides into the temporal and inxternal maxillary arteries. 3. The corresponding veins, which unite to form the external jugular, lie superficial, but close to their arteries. 4. The temporo-auricular branch of the inferior maxillary nerve passes through the upper part of the gland near the meatus auditorius, and ascends over the root of the zygoma. 5. The two or three absorbent glands before alluded to; most commonly they are not far from the surface. The easiest way of displaying the so-called “ pes anserinus” is to find one of the larger branches of the portio dura, say one of the malar, on the face, and then by tracing this into the substance of the gland it will serve as a clue to the other branches. By remov- ing, with the saw, a portion of the mastoid process, a good view may be obtained of the portio dura at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. We now purpose to examine the several nerves of the face :— first, the portio dura and its branches ; and secondly, the branches of the fifth pair. 73. Portio dura ox facial nerve.—This is the motor nerve of the face. It arises immediately below the “pons Varolii,” from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata. The nerve enters the meatus auditorius internus, traverses a canal called the “ aqueductus Fallopii” in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and finally emerges from the skull through the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its course and connexions in the temporal bone are somewhat compli- cated, and will be more properly investigated hereafter : at present we are only interested in what lies immediately before us. Having, then, emerged from the styloid-mastoid foramen, the nerve enters the parotid gland, and soon divides into two primary branches, named, from their respective distribution, the temporo- facial and the cervico-facial. These, by their subsequent subdivi- sions and communications, form a network of nerves over the side of the face, temple, and upper part of the neck. We would espe- cially direct attention to the general direction of these nerves; because, in removing tumors and performing other operations about the face, it is desirable to make the incisions parallel with the nerves, so as to spare as many of the larger branches as possible.