INFERIOR RADIO-ULNAR JOINT. 99 and semilunar bones of the carpus : the lower end of the ulna is excluded from the joint hy a triangular fibro-cartilage, which arti- culates with a small portion of the cuneiform bone. The joint is secured by an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral ligaments, forming, together, an uninterrupted capsule around it. The external lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the radius, to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. Some of its fibres are prolonged to the trapezium and the anterior annular ligament. The internal lateral ligament proceeds from the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna, to the inner side of the cuneiform bone. Some of its fibres are attached to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament consists of tw?o or more broad bands of ligamentous fibres, which arise from the front of the lower end of the radius, pass obliquely inwards, and are inserted into the front surfaces of the first row of carpal bones. The posterior ligament, weaker than the preceding, arises from the posterior surface of the lower end of the radius, descends ob- liquely inwards, and is inserted into the posterior surfaces of the first row of the carpal bones. Open the joint by a transverse incision across its posterior part. Observe that the lower surface of the radius, crusted with cartilage, forms, together with the fibro-cartilage at the end of the ulna, an arched excavation, with the broad diameter transverse, which re- ceives the convex cartilaginous surfaces of the three first bones of the carpus. The cartilage of the radius presents a slight pro- minence from before backwards, dividing it into two surfaces, one of which corresponds to the scaphoid, the other to the semilunar bone. The fibro-cartilage at the lower end of the ulna corresponds to a small articular surface on the cuneiform bone. The synovial membrane lines the triangular fibro-cartilage at the end of the ulna, is reflected over the several ligaments of the joint, and thence upon the first row of the carpal bones. 158. Joint between the lower ends of the radius and ulna.—The inner surface of the lower end of the radius presents a slight concavity, which rotates upon the convex circumference of