492 LATERAL VENTRICLES. stance which connects the two hemispheres, and is the principal commissure of the cerebrum. We observe that it is about four inches long, and rather nearer to the front than to the back part of the brain. Its surface is not fiat, but slightly arched from before backwards. One or more longitudinal ridges, called by the old anatomists the “ raphe,” run along the middle of it. In a fresh brain we can evidently see the transverse fibres of which the com- missure is composed extending between the hemispheres; these are the “ Unea transversal” of the old anatomists. The anterior part of the corpus callosum turns downwards and backwards, forming a bend called its knee, towards the base of the brain. Becoming gradually narrower, it is connected, by means of the lamina cinerea, with the tuber cinereum, with which parts we are already familiar. The posterior part of the corpus callosum terminates in a thick round border, under which the pia mater enters into the interior of the ventricles. We cannot obtain a satisfactory view of the arch formed by the corpus callosum, of its terminations in front and behind, and of the relative thickness of its different parts, without making a perpendicular section through a fresh brain. * Lateral Ventricles.—Let us proceed in the next place to exa- mine two cavities called the lateral ventricles, and situated, one in each hemisphere of the brain, beneath the corpus callosum. For this purpose a longitudinal incision should be made on each side, about half an inch from the raphe of the corpus callosum. We should be careful not to cut too near the middle line, in order to preserve the delicate partition which descends from the under sur- face of the corpus callosum, and separates the ventricles from each other. We soon come into these cavities, and, by means of a director, they should be fully laid open. We shall first describe * The corpus callosum is more or less developed in all mammalia, but is absent in birds, reptiles, and fish. It is not absolutely essential to the exer- cise of the intellect, for it has been found absent in the human subject without any particular intellectual deficiency. See cases recorded by Reil, Archiv. fur die Phys. t. xi.; and Wenzel, de Penitior Struct. Cereb. p. 302.