419 CUTANEOUS VESSELS. ordinary cases these vessels escape observation, unless specially sought after; but in dropsical bodies they become distended, and look like transparent tubes. They all ascend through the femoral ring into the abdomen, and after traversing other glands there, eventually empty themselves into the thoracic duct. The glands mentioned in the preceding paragraph are all super- ficial. There are others more deeply seated close to the great vessels of the thigh: these, however, are much smaller, rarely ex- ceed three or four in number, and sometimes cannot be found. 4. Respecting the superficial epigastric, pudic,* and circum- flexa ilii arteries, we have only to observe that their particular ramifications vary in each case, though their general distribution is nearly the same in all. In a surgical point of view they are of importance, since they are exposed to injury in opening abscesses in these parts; and the pudic, more especially, in the operation for femoral hernia. Arising, as they do, directly from so large an artery as the femoral, we cannot wonder if they sometimes bleed profusely; for it is an admitted fact, that when even a small branch, coming directly from a principal artery, is divided near its origin, it will sometimes pour out as much blood as if an opening were punched out of the trunk as large as the area of its divided branch.*!' 5. Saphena vein.—This is the chief subcutaneous vein of the lower limb. Its roots, arising on the inner side of the foot, unite into a single trunk, which ascends over the inner ankle, along the inner side of the leg and knee, and then along the inner and front part of the thigh, where we now see it joining the femoral vein immediately below the crural arch. In this remarkably long * The pudic branch referred to in the text is quite superficial. There is generally another, which runs for some distance beneath the muscular fascia covering the pectineus, and is also distributed to the scrotum or the labium pudendi, as the case may be. f Mr. Liston had occasion to tie the external iliac artery for a supposed injury (by a pistol-ball) to the femoral. Tt was discovered, after the death of the patient, that the ball had injured only one of the superficial branches of the femoral, about an inch from its origin.—See his paper in the Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxix., 1846.