183 DEEP CONNEXIONS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. would seem a part of the dental, and indeed in most cases receives a filament from it, but this does not make it the less an inde- pendent nerve, and we find it leaving the dental near the foramen in the jaw, and running in a groove on the inner side of the ramus to the lower surface of-the mylo-hyoid, which muscle, together with the anterior portion of the digastricus, it supplies (see § 21, a). d. The gustatory or lingual branch descends forwards first between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, and then for a short distance between the jaw and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. In this latter situation it lies close to the mucous membrane of the mouth nearly behind the last molar tooth of the lower jaw. The subsequent course of the nerve between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscle, as well as its branches, have been described, § 28. The upper part of the gustatory nerve is joined by the corda tympani, (a branch of the portio dura) which emerges from the fissura Glasseri, and eventually runs to the submaxillary ganglion. 84. Internal lateral ligament of the jaw.—We have now a good opportunity of examining this so-called ligament. By some anatomists it is not recognised as a ligament, and with some reason, seeing that it is placed at such a distance from the joint. But this is a matter of no consequence. Our concern is to know that it is attached on the one hand to the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, that it expands considerably, and is attached on the other to the ramus of the jaw on the inner side of the foramen dentale. Interposed between it and the neck of the jaw we find the internal maxillary artery and vein, the temporo-auricular nerve, the middle meningeal artery, the dental nerve and artery, and a portion of the parotid gland. Divide the internal maxillary artery, and dissect out carefully the parotid gland to see its deep connexions. Observe how it almost surrounds the styloid process and the muscles therefrom arising ; notice also that portion which, in most subjects at least, penetrates between the styloid process and the internal lateral liga- ment of the jaw towards the internal carotid artery. After thus reviewing the deep and intricate connexions of this gland one can-