523 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. covers about four-fifths of the globe, the remaining one-fifth being completed by the cornea. The thickest part of the sclerotic coat is at the back of the globe : here it is perforated by the optic nerve a little on the nasal side of the axis of vision;* and around the optic nerve it is also perforated by the ciliary arteries, veins, and nerves, for the supply of the choroid coat and the iris. Towards the front the sclerotic becomes much thinner, and about a quarter of an inch from the cornea it receives the insertion of the recti muscles; and here again it is perforated by the anterior ciliary arteries which creep along the tendons of these muscles. In order to examine the cornea, it should be removed with the sclerotic coat. This is best done under water, by making a circu- lar cut with scissors about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea. With a little care, it is easy to take off the outer covering of the eye without injuring the dark choroid coat under- neath it, or the ciliary ligament, or the iris. In the loose watery cellular tissue between the sclerotic and the choroid we observe the ciliary nerves coming forwards towards the iris : their white colour makes them very conspicuous on the dark ground. Cornea.—This is the brilliant and transparent coat which occu- pies about one-fifth of the front part of the globe, and is, as it were, the window of the eye. However delicate it appears at first sight, yet it is quite as tough and thick as any part of the sclerotica. It is connected to this coat in the firmest possible manner: the mar- gin of the sclerotica is bevelled off on the inside; that of the cornea on the outside; so that the one overlaps the other. As to the structure of the cornea, it consists of concentric layers of transparent tissue, and, by squeezing it between the finger and thumb, we can make the layers glide on each other. But these layers are not all made up of the same kind of tissue. The first stratum is conjunctival; and of this sufficient mention has already been made. The second stratum consists of a remarkably elastic * The optic nerve does not pass through a single large hole in the sclerotic, but through a kind of net-work of fibrous tissue. It is also very much con- stricted just at its entrance.