NERVES OF THE PELVIS. 375 cord through the corresponding sacral foramina. The upper four, from their large size, at once attiact observation; but the fifth, that, namely, which perforates the coccygeus muscle, is small, and not easily found. Now, the four upper nerves, together with a branch from the last lumbar (lumbosacral) unite to form the great sacral plexus. The great formative nerves of the p’exus lie on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the branches of the internal iliac artery, and they gradually coalesce to form the ischiatic nerve, which passes out at the back of the pelvis for the supply of the flexor muscles of the inferior extremity. The other branches of the plexus are in a general way as follows. a. The superior glutaal nerve proceeds from the lumbo-sacral, leaves the pelvis with the glutaeal artery, and supplies the glutceus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae femoris. b. The pvdic nerve runs with the pudic artery, and, like it, supplies the rectum, perineum, and penis. The pudic commonly gives off the branch for the obturator interims muscle, but this is often a distinct branch from the plexus. Under any circumstances the branch in question leaves the pelvis with the artery, and re- enters with it to reach the muscle. c. The branches for the pelvic viscera are very small, and re- quire a special dissection. They proceed chiefly from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and form an intricate plexus about the bladder, prostate, and rectum. d. Lastly, the sacral plexus supplies the pyriformis, the levator ani, the coccygeus, and the cutaneous sphincter of the anus. 72. Sympathetic nerve.—From the lumbar region we trace the sympathetic nerve into the pelvis, along the front of the sacrum. In this part of its course its characteristic ganglia vary in number from three to five. The nerves of opposite sides unite in front of the coccyx, and form a loop in the middle line; and here we find a “ ganglion impar.’’ The general plan upon which the sympathetic nerves are distri- buted in the pelvis is precisely similar to that in the abdomen. That is to say, each ganglion receives one or two filaments from a spinal nerve, and then gives off its branches to the viscera. The visceral branches are exceedingly fine and delicate, and cannot be