FASCIA OF THE OT.BIT. 266 tinuous with the periosteum of the forehead, the other with the broad tarsal ligament which fixes the tarsal cartilages (see § 62, d.) 193. Fascia of the orbit.—Having divided and turned aside the periosteum, we discover a thin layer of condensed cellular mem- brane which invests the contents of the orbit, enclosing them col- lectively in a sort of capsule ; this membrane may fairly be called the fascia of the orbit. It provides the lachrymal gland, and each of the muscles, with a loose sheath, which is thin and delicate near their origin at the back of the cavity, but gradually increases in strength as the muscles approach the eye. In this situation espe- cially it passes laterally from one rectus muscle to the other, so that their insertions into the globe are, in a measure, connected by the membrane. From the insertion of the muscles it is reflected backwards over the globe of the eye, and for a short distance over the optic nerve, so that it separates the eye from the fat at the bottom of the orbit. It should be observed, however, that it is connected to the sclerotica by the intervention of fine and loose cel- lular tissue, which never contains fat, and serves to facilitate the free movements of the globe. 194. In order to give a general idea of the contents of the orbit, it may be as well to state that there are six muscles intended to move the eye ; four of which, running in a straight direction, are called “recti," and they are arranged respectively, one above,another below, and one on each side of the globe. The remaining two are called from their direction, “ obliqui,” one superior, the other inferior, in respect to the globe. There is also a muscle to raise the eyelid. The several nerves are: the optic or proper nerve of vision, which passes through the optic foramen; the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth, all of which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. The third supplies all the muscles with motor power, excepting the superior oblique, which is exclusively supplied by the fourth, and the external rectus which is exclusively supplied by the sixth. The ophthalmic division of the fifth is the sensitive nerve common to all parts in the orbit. It divides into a frontal, lachrymal,and nasal branch. The orbit contains, also, a considerable