ILIACUS INTERNUS. 340 tendinous arch thrown over the lumbar vessels. The muscle descends beneath the crural arch into the thigh, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the lesser trochanter of the femur. • As it passes under the crural arch, the tendon of the psoas lies immediately over the capsule of the hip joint, and there is a large bursa between them to facilitate the play of the tendon. We ought to be aware that every now and then, even in young sub- jects, but more frequently in old ones, as a consequence of wear and tear, this bursa communicates with the capsule of the hip joint. The fact is interesting for many reasons: to mention one only, it explains how it happens that a psoas abscess sometimes makes its way into the hip joint. a. Once in about eight or ten subjects we meet with a little muscle called the psoas parvus. It arises from the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra, and the intervening cartilage; then descending in front of the great psoas, it soon ends in a long flat tendon, which gradually spreads out, and is inserted into the brim of the pelvis. 33. Iliacus interims.—This muscle occupies the iliac fossa, and is covered by a fascia, which first claims attention. This iliac fascia, as it is called, is attached to the crest of the ilium, and in- directly to the brim of the pelvis through its connection with the sheath of the psoas. But its most important attachment is to the outer half of the crural arch; here it is directly continuous with the fascia transversalis, so that together they present an effectual barrier to the escape of intestine beneath this part of the arch.* To return to the muscle. It arises from the iliac fossa, from the ilio-lumbar ligament,-)' and also from the capsule of the hip * The iliac fossae are very liable to be the seat of suppuration, and the course which the matter takes depends upon its position with regard to the iliac fascia. If the matter be seated in the loose cellular tissue between the peritoneum and the fascia, it usually advances towards the groin through the inguinal canal; but, if seated beneath the fascia, the chances are much in favour of the matter making its way under the crural arch, towards the upper and outer part of the thigh. f This ligament extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the ilium.