EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 345 37. External iliac artery.—This artery passes along the brim of the pelvis, on the inner side of the psoas, and then running under the crural arch about midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, takes the name of femoral. The corre- sponding vein lies close to its inner side. After the removal of the peritoneum, we ought to notice that these vessels are not quite bare, but that they are covered by a thin layer of fascia which binds them down to the psoas. There are only two other circumstances of practical interest respecting this artery; 1st. a slender nerve, called the. genito-crural, runs close and nearly parallel to its outer side; 2dly. just before it leaves the pelvis it is crossed by the cir- cumflexa ilii vein, one of tolerably large size. The branches given off by this artery are— a. The epigastric, already described (§ 12). b. The circumflexa ilii,—This artery arises just above the crural arch, and then runs towards the spine of the ilium in a sheath formed for it by the fascia iliaca.* In tbe dissection of the abdo- minal muscles, we saw the continuation of it skirting the crest of the ilium between the internal oblique and the transversalis, and sending a branch upwards between these muscles for their supply. The main trunk, much reduced in size, inosculates with the ilio- lumbar derived from the internal iliac. The easiest way of tying the external iliac would be to make an incision at tbe lower part of the belly, beginning a little above the middle of the crural arch, and ending a little beyond the spine of the ilium. The strata of the abdominal muscles, with the fascia is very apt to vary in different persons. We have seen it from three-fourths of an inch to three and half inches long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta, or a low division of the common iliac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain, beforehand, what will be its length in a given instance, for there is no necessary relation between its length and the height of the adult individual. It is often very short in men of tall stature, and vice versa. Anatomists generally describe the left as rather longer than the right: but, from the examination of 100 bodies, we conclude that their average length is the same. * The course of this artery should be borne in mind in opening iliac abscesses.