GLUTEAL MUSCLES. 448 DISSECTION OF THE GLUTA3AL REGION. 42. The incision through the skin should commence at the coccyx, and be continued in a semicircular manner along the crest # of the ilium. Another incision should be made from the coccyx downwards and outwards for about six inches below the great tro- chanter. In reflecting the skin, we notice the elastic cushion which the subcutaneous tissue forms over the tuberosity of the ischium, and it occasionally happens that we find a large bursa between the cushion and the bone. Unless the learner desire to trace the cutaneous nerves, which, by the way, is no easy task, he should at once lay bare the great glutreal muscle, beginning at its front border, and dissecting in the course of its fibres. 43. The cutaneous nerves are derived from several sources. Some descend over the crest of the ilium, near the origin of the erector spinae ; these are the posterior divisions of the first and second lumbar nerves, the latter being by far the larger. About the middle of the crest we find the lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve, and often a smaller one from the first lumbar. Other cutaneous nerves come up from below: these are branches of the lesser ischiatic, and proceed from beneath the lower border of the g-'utaeus muscle. Lastly, the skin of- the sacrum and coccyx is supplied by the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. 44. Glutasai, muscles.—These are three powerful muscles on the buttock, placed one above the other, and named, according to their relative size, the glutaeus maximus, medius, and minimus. The first is entirely subcutaneous, so is, likewise, a portion of the second ; but we observe that the latter is covered by a very strong layer of fascia, while the former is not. 45. Glutceus maximus.—This great muscle is remarkably thick and coarse in its texture, so that it is perhaps the most difficult in the body to dissect neatly. It arises from the rough surface of bone just below the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, from the lower part of the sacrum, from the coccyx, and lastly, from the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. The fibres descend obliquely for-