386 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. And now let us examine the construction of the erectile, spongy looking tissue inside. The interior of the cylinder is occupied by a number of delicate elastic thread-like septa, which intersect each other in all directions, so as to form a multitude of minute cells. These communicate most freely with each other, as one may readily ascertain by blowing air into the penis. But they are not of equal size throughout the penis, for they are much smaller, and their component septa altogether thicker, at the root than they are towards the glans. All the cells communicate freely with the arteries. Under ordinary circumstances, that is when the penis is flaccid, they are comparatively empty ; but when, through appro- priate stimulus, they become distended with blood, erection of the penis is produced. Here two questions arise,— 1. how does the blood get from the arteries into the cells P 2. how does it return from the cells? With regard to the first question. If the arteries of the penis be well injected, we find that the artery of each corpus c-avernosum enters the inner side of the crus, and proceeds forwards near the septum, distributing numerous ramifications. These are supported in the middle of the fibrous threads, and after making several spiral turns, as it were for the purpose of being able to accommodate themselves to the varying size of the penis, discharge their blood at once into the cells. Besides the ramifications which feed the cells, there is a proper capillary system for the nutrition of all the parts concerned. With regard to the second question. If a coloured fluid be in- jected into the corpus cavernosum, near the glans, it instantly fills all the cells, and returns partly through veins which pass out at the upper surface of the penis, and join the great dorsal vein, and partly through the deep veins of the penis, which leave the inner side of each crus. d. The corpus spongiosum is the erectile tissue which surrounds the urethra as it runs along the penis. It commences in the middle of the perineum, in a hulb-like form, and at the end of the penis it is continuous with the glans. This is proved by the fact, that if we inject the spongy body, we fill the glans also, but not so if we inject the cavernous body. We observe that the urethra does