ARTERIES OF THE VISCERA. 333 2. Branches which descend to supply the great omentum. c. The cystic, a branch to the gall-bladder. C. The splenic, the largest of the three, proceeds tortuously along the upper border of the pancreas to the spleen, which it enters by numerous branches. It gives off— a. Several small branches to the pancreas, pancreatica parva. One, rather larger than the rest, is called pancreatica magna. b. The gastro-epiploica sinistra.—This runs along the great curve of the stomach, and inosculates with the gastro-epiploica dexlra. c. Vasa brevia.—These proceed between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum to the great end of the stomach. Thus we perceive that the stomach is supplied with blood by four channels, which by their inosculations form a main artery along its lesser curve, and another along its greater; from these, numerous branches are furnished to both sides of the stomach. The artery of the greater curve also sends down numerous branches to the omentum, which form a beautiful network between its layers. The advantage resulting from this free inosculation of the arteries about the stomach must be at once apparent. It has been already mentioned that in the lesser omentum we find three vessels packed up close to each other in the following relative position. The hepatic duct is on the right, the hepatic artery on the left, and the vena portae is behind and between them. We will now give some account of the vena portae and the duct. 25. Vena porta.—The veins which return the blood from the abdominal portion of the alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the spleen, have this singular peculiarity, that they do not empty themselves into the vena cava, but all unite into one great vein, called the vena portae, which ramifies throughout the liver, and secretes the bile. The trunk of the vena portae itself is from three to four inches long; if we trace it downwards we find that it is formed, behind the pancreas, by the confluence of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. On the other hand, supposing that we trace it upwards, which, however, cannot be conveniently done now, we should find that at the transverse fissure of the liver it divides into branches corresponding to the several lobes of the organ.