PALM OF THE HAND. 54 80. Flexor tendons and their sheaths.—Observe the arrangement of the flexor tendons beneath the annular ligament, and trace them to the ends of the fingers. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are ar- ranged in two layers, the one above the other. Those of the flexor profundus lie on the same plane, and are sometimes connected by thin tendinous slips; but the tendon of the index finger is always distinct. Immediately below the annular ligament the tendons separate from each other; those of the superficial flexors are placed in front of the deep flexors, and near the metacar- pal joints of the fingers they pass in pairs through strong fibrous sheaths, resulting from the divisions of the palmar fascia (see § 71). Below the metacarpal joint the two tendons for each finger enter the sheath which confines them in their course along the phalanges. It is formed by a strong fibrous membrane, which is attached to the projecting ridges on either side of the first and second phalanges, and thus converts the groove in front of these bones into a complete canal, exactly large enough to contain the tendons. The density of the sheath necessarily varies in particular situations, otherwise there would be an obstacle to the easy flexion of the fingers. To ascertain this, let one of the sheaths be opened along its entire extent; it will then be obvious that it is much stronger over the phalanges, that is, between the joints, than over the joints them- selves, where it is always very thin, and is sometimes deficient; through these sheaths, inflammation commencing in the integu- ments of the finger may readily extend to the synovial membrane of the tendon. On closer inspection it will be observed that the sheath is com- posed of bands of fibres, which take different directions, and have therefore received distinct names. The strongest of these are called the ligamenta vaginalia. They constitute that part of the sheath which corresponds to the body of the phalanx, and extend trans- versely from one side of the bone to the other; they are much stronger over the first than the second phalanges. The ligamenta cruciata are two cross tendinous slips, situated at the lower part of the first and the second phalanges. They are attached to either side of the upper end of the phalanges, and cross obliquely over the tendons to the opposite border of the body of the bone; one