405 ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. the portal vein penetrate into its area, minutely inosculating with each other, and then freely communicate towards the middle of the lobule with the radicles of the hepatic vein. The second question maybe answered thus:—The radicles of the hepatic vein commence within the lobule by free inosculations with those of the portal vein, and converge towards a single vein which runs down the centre of the lobule. This central vein* opens at once into an hepatic vein,f larger or smaller as the case may be, upon which the lobule is, so to speak, sessile. Thus, then, on a perpendicular section, we should see the hepatic veins running into the central vein, like the side veins of an oak leaf do into the midrib; while, on a transverse section, they would present a starred appearance. And now a word or two respecting the ultimate ramifications ol the hepatic artery and the hepatic duct. The hepatic artery, entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides and subdivides, as we have already said, with the portal vein, and ultimately ramifies with it between the lobules. A few only of the arterial capillaries enter the lobules. The chief office of the artery would appear to be, to supply the coats of the other vessels of the liver,—in other words, the machinery of the organ. The hepatic ducts commence within the lobules by numerous ramifications, which form a close network near the circumference- of each lobule. From this network branches proceed on all sides, and accompany the portal veins. Great doubt still exists as to how the ducts begin. Some say they commence by blind extremities; others by simple channels between the hepatic cells. Be this as it may, their radicles are surrounded by minute cells, which are in point of fact the essential organs which secrete the bile. Hepatic cells.—The interior of each lobule, that is, all the space left between the several vessels, is filled by the hepatic cells. These are nucleated, and have a mean diameter of about ToSoth of an inch. In some cases they contain fat'globules, and when these accumulate * The central vein is commonly called intra-lobular. f The hepatic vein which receives the central vein is called sub-lobular.