SUPERFICIAL VEINS OE THE NECK. 109 blood from several veins which correspond to branches of the external carotid artery, viz. the temporal, the internal maxillary, the transverse facial, the posterior auricular, and sometimes the occipital. All these veins unite in the substance of the parotid gland, and form a single trunk, which then crosses obliquely over the sterno-mastoid muscle, and descends near its posterior border towards the middle of the clavicle, where it perforates the cervical fascia and joins the subclavian. In the neighbourhood of the angle of the jaw, the external jugular vein commonly communicates by a large branch with the internal jugular: and this is the anatomical reason of the practice of opening the former to relieve congestion of the brain. In its course down the neck it receives numerous small cutaneous veins, and previously to its termination is often joined by the supra- scapular and posterior scapular veins. It is provided with a valve near its middle, and another near its termination. In opening the external jugular vein, the puncture should be made in the direction of the fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle, because the fibres of the Platysma, being thus divided obliquely, will be less likely to contract over the orifice. 3. Anterior jugular vein.—This vein is situated more in the middle of the neck, and is much smaller than the external jugular. It commences by small ramifications below the chin, and descends along the front of the neck, nearly down to the sternum : it then curves outwards, beneath, but sometimes above, the stemo-mastoid muscle, and opens into the internal jugular, or perhaps the sub- clavian vein. We commonly meet with two anterior jugular veins, not always of equal size, one on either side, near the mesial line; immediately above the sternum they often communicate by a transverse branch. The size of the anterior jugular vein is generally inversely pro- portionate to that of the external jugular. In cases where the latter is small, or where it terminates high up in the internal jugular, then the anterior jugular becomes an important sup- plemental cutaneous vein, and may attain very considerable size. It is not uncommon to find it a quarter of an inch in diameter, and in some instances we have seen it nearly half an inch. These