186 COURSE AND RELATIONS OE THE INTERNAL CAROTID. branch), the spinal accessory, and the sympathetic. Consequently it possesses nerves of three different kinds—ganglionic, sensitive, and motor. Its minute ramifications supply the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and tonsils. 89. Course and relations of the internal carotid artery.—The internal carotid artery, proceeding from the division of the common carotid, ascends nearly perpendicularly to the base of the skull, by the side of the pharynx and close to the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae. It then enters the skull through the tortuous canal in the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, takes a winding course by the side of the “ sella tursica,” and terminates in branches which supply the orbit and a part of the brain. In the first part of its course, where it is situated immediately outside the external carotid, that is, near the inner border of the stemo-mastoid muscle, the artery is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the platysma and the cervical fascia. But it very soon becomes deeply seated beneath the parotid gland, and therefore beneath the external carotid. In its upward course it is crossed successively by the hypoglossal nerve and the occipital artery ; still higher, and under cover of the parotid gland, it is crossed obliquely by the styloid process, by the stylo-glossus and pharyngeus muscle, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament, all of which intervene between it and the external carotid artery. Along the outer side of the artery lies the internal jugular vein ; and behind the artery we find the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The rectus capitis anticus major muscle separates it from the cervical vertebrae. But after all, the most important relation of the artery in a surgical point of view is this ; that it ascends close to the side of the pharynx and tonsils. In opening an abscess, therefore, formed in the ton- sils, or at the back of the pharynx, the surgeon should be careful to introduce the instrument with its point directed rather inwards towards the mesial line; and this caution should be the more scrupulously observed, because, in some subjects, elderly ones especially, more rarely in the young, the internal carotid makes a