81 BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. radialis longior, beneath the first two extensors of the thumb. Near the wrist, the tendon becomes more superficial, and traverses a groove on the back of the radius, on the same plane with that of the long radial extensor, hut lined by a separate synovial mem- brane. The tendon then passes over the wrist-joint, where it is crossed by the third extensor of the thumb, and is inserted into the carpal end of the metacaipal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is generally found between the tendon and the bone. Near its origin, the extensor carpi radialis brevior is in contact with the outer part of the capsule of the elbow-joint. In the upper third of the fore-arm, it lies upon the supinator radii brevis, a small bursa intervening near the head of the radius; in the lower two-thirds of the fore-arm it covers the insertion of the pronator teres, and the back of the radius. The action of the radial exten- sors of the wrist is implied by their name. 134. The extensor digitorum communis muscle arises from the common tendon attached to the external condyle, from the septa between it and the contiguous muscles, and from its strong fascial covering. About the middle of the fore-arm the muscle divides into three or four fleshy slips, terminating in as many flat tendons, which pass beneath the posterior annular ligament, through a groove on the back of the radius lined by synovial membrane. On the back of the hand they become broader and flatter, and diverge from each other towards the metacaipal joints of the fingers, where they become thicker and narrower, and give off on each side a fibrous expansion, which covers the sides of the joint. Over the first phalanx of the finger, each tendon again spreads out, receives the expanded tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles, and divides at the second phalanx into three portions, of which the middle is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx; the two lateral, reuniting over the lower end of the second phalanx, are inserted into the upper end of the third. A small bursa is generally found between the tendons and the metacarpal joints; and a patella-like piece of cartilage, or even bone, is in some few instances developed in the central portion of the tendon as it passes over the second joint of the finger. Observe the oblique aponeurotic slips which connect the tendons e 2