SHOULDER-JOINT. 94 coracoid process, and ascends obliquely outwards to the lower surface of the clavicle near its outer end. The conoid ligament is fixed at its apex to the inner side of the root of the coracoid process, ascends vertically, and is attached by its base to the under surface of the clavicle, near the posterior border. There is com- monly a bursa between the two ligaments when the clavicle and the coracoid process are in contact. 153. Ligaments proper to the scapula.—There are only two : the coracoid ligament, which is attached to the opposite margins of the supra-scapular notch, and the coraco-acromial or triangular ligament, which is attached by its apex to the acromion, and by its base to the outer border of the coracoid process. It is sepa- rated from the upper part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large bursa, and an aponeurosis descends from its front border over the head of the humerus. In a few rare instances the acromion is connected to the spine of the scapula by an intervening fibro-cartilage; or there may be a distinct articulating surface, provided with a capsular ligament and a synovial membrane. 154. Shoulder-joint.—The articular surface of the head of the humerus, forming rather more than one-third of a sphere, moves upon the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, which is of an oval form, with the broader end downwards, and the long diameter nearly vertical. It is obvious that the security of the joint does not depend upon any mechanical contrivance of the bones, but rather upon the great strength and number of the ten- dons which surround it. To admit the free motion of the head of the humerus upon the glenoid cavity, it is requisite that the capsular ligament of the joint be very loose and capacious. Accordingly we find that the head of the bone, when detached from its muscular connections, may be separated from the glenoid cavity to the extent of an inch, or even more, without laceration of the capsule. This explains the elongation of the arm observed in some cases in which effusion has taken place into the cavity of the joint; also in some cases of paralysis of the deltoid muscle. The capsular ligament is attached, on the one hand, round the