464 PLANTAR PASCIA. at the heel, and at the hall of the great and the little toe, these being the points which form the tripod supporting the arch of the foot. In removing the subcutaneous tissue from the ball of the great and the little toe, we often meet with bursae, simple or multilocular. They are generally placed between the skin and the sesamoid bones, and have remarkably thick walls. Very frequently we trace an artery and nerve running directly through one of these sacs, and this explains the acute pain produced by their inflammation. 83. Cutaneous nerves.—The skin of the heel is supplied by a considerable branch of the posterior tibial nerve, and the remainder of the sole by small branches of the plantar nerves which come through the fascia, just as they do in the palm of the hand. 84. Plantar fascia.—This, as one might expect, is remarkably dense and strong. In a general way it may be said that it extends from the under and back part of the os calcis to the distal ends of the metatarsal bones; and that it forms for the arch of the foot, as it were, a floor, which not only protects the plantar vessels and nerves, but is also one among the many structures which support the arch itself. It acts like the string of a bow. We see this exemplified in some cases of distortion, where an unnatural contraction of the plantar fascia makes the arch of the foot too convex, and it is necessary to divide the fascia in order to relieve the deformity. The particular arrangement of the fascia is just like that in the palm. The central part, where there is the greatest strain, is beyond all comparison stronger than the lateral parts, which merely serve as sheaths for the respective muscles of the great and little toe. Near the distal ends of the metatarsal bones it divides into five portions; each of these subdivides into two slips, which em- brace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are then finally attached to the metatarsal bones and their connecting ligaments. Between the primary divisions of the fascia,—that is, in a line between the toes, we trace the digital vessels and nerves. In the interdigital folds of the skin, there are also ligamentous fibres, which run from one side of the foot to the other, and answer the same purpose as the analogous ones in the hand.