502 CEREBELLUM. like that of the cerebrum, but that it is laid out upon a plan beau* tifully adapted to produce a much greater superficial extent of grey matter. It consists, in fact, of a multitude of thin plates or layers, disposed in a series of concentric curves, with the concavity for- wards. By a little careful dissection it is easy to separate some of the plates from each other, and it will then be seen that the inter- vening fissures increase in depth from the centre towards the cir- cumference of the cerebellum. The fissure at the circumference itself is the deepest of all, and nearly horizontal, so that it seems to divide the cerebellum into an upper and a lower segment. The upper surface of the cerebellum is elevated into a ridge along the middle line, called the superior vermiform eminence. Com- parative anatomy proves that this is really the fundamental part of the cerebellum. The sides, commonly called the hemispheres, are merely offsets or wings, superadded for special purposes, and in- crease in size as we ascend in the vertebrate series, till in man they form by far the largest part of the organ. They are separated posteriorly by a perpendicular fissure, which receives the falx cerebelli. On the under surface of the cerebellum its division into the two hemispheres is clearly perceptible. The deep furrow between them is called “ the valley,” the front part of which is conveniently occu- pied b^i the medulla oblongata. In order, therefore, to examine the 'surface of the valley, we must raise and turn forwards the me- dulla oblongata, and then widely separate the hemispheres from each other, so as fairly to expose all the objects they overlap. Along the middle line of the valley, then, we observe the inferior vermiform eminence, which is, in point of fact, the under surface of the fundamental part of the cerebellum. Traced forwards, this emi- nence terminates in a tongue-like body, called the “ uvula traced * From either side of the uvula may be traced a thin valve-like fold of white substance, which proceeds in a semicircular direction to the little pneu- mogastric lobes. These folds are called the semicircular valves, or 11 valves of Tarini,” by whom they were first pointed out. (Advers. Anat. prima, Paris, 1750.)