DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 528 identical with the anterior layer of the capsule of the crystalline lens. * * * § Retina.—To obtain a view of this membrane, the choroid coat must he removed while the eye is under water: this is readily done with the forceps and scissors. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic and the choroid membrane, expands into the delicate nervous tunic called the retina. In passing through the coats of the eye, the nerve becomes suddenly constricted, and reduced to one-third of its diameter: just at this point, too, it projects slightly into the interior of the globe, forming a little prominence to which the term “ papilla conica” has been applied.f Anteriorly the retina terminates in a thin serrated border (ora serrata), which fits into corresponding dentations in the posterior margin of the ciliary body. Precisely opposite the pupil there is a bright yellow spot in the retina, about l-24lh of an inch in diameter, fading off gradually at the edges, and having a black spot in the centre. This central spot was believed by its discoverer, the celebrated Soemmering, J to be a perforation ; hut it is now ascertained to depend upon the absence of the yellow colour in the centre ; so that the dark pigment of the choroid becomes conspicuous. These appearances are lost soon after death, and are replaced by a minute fold, into which the retina gathers itself, reaching from the centre of the spot to the prominence of the optic nerve. The use of this yellow spot is not understood.§ Although to the naked eye the retina appears nothing more than a soft, semi-transparent, mucilaginous membrane, yet, when * See a paper by John Quekett, in the Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London, vol. iii. p. 9. f This prominence is remarkable, in that it is insensible to the rays of light. t De foramine centrali, &c., retinae humanae ; in Comment. Soc. Gotting. t. 13. § In birds the retina has throughout the yellowish colour seen only at one part in the human eye.