DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 332 zone of Zinn and the margin of the lens he carefully punctured, and the point of a small blow-pipe gently introduced, we may succeed in inflating a canal which encircles the lens, and, when inflated, resembles a circle of small glass beads : this is the canal of Petit, or “ canal yodronne." How this canal is formed, whether by the separation of the hyaloid membrane into two layers or not, and what is its use, are questions not easily answered. Crystalline lens.—This is a perfectly transparent solid body, situated immediately behind the pupil, and partly imbedded in the vitreous humour. It is convex on both surfaces, but more so be- hind. Its shape and consistence vary at different periods of life. In early life it is nearly spherical and soft, but it becomes more flattened and firmer with advancing age. In the adult, its transverse diameter is about three-eighths of an inch ; its autero- posterior, one-sixth of an inch. The lens is kept in place by a capsule equally transparent as itself. The capsule is composed of tissue exactly similar to the elastic layer of the cornea. It is at least four times thicker in front than behind, as one might expect, for the sake of more effective support. No vascular connection whatever exists between the lens and its capsule.* The lens protrudes directly the capsule is suffi- ciently opened. How, then, is the lens nourished ? By means of an extremely delicate layer of nucleated cells on its surface, which absorb nourishment from the capsule. Some anatomists speak of a layer of fluid (liquor Morgagni) as existing between the lens and its capsule ; but no such fluid can be detected during life, and, if there be any after death, it is, in all probability, imbibed by the capsule from the aqueous humour. * The vessels of the capsule of the lens are derived from the arteria centralis retinae, and, in mammalia, can only be injected in the foetal state. In the reptilia, however, the posterior layer of the capsule is permanently vascular. According to Quekett, the membrana pupillaris of authors is nothing more than the anterior layer of the capsule. In taking the eye to pieces, it is quite a matter of accident whether the membrane adhere to the iris, or remain in its proper place in front of the lens. See Quekett’s paper in the “ Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London,” vol. iii.