23 THE TIPPER ARM. in proportion to the degree in which the humerus is rotated out- wards. On the other hand, when the humerus is rotated inwards, the short head rather overlaps the long one. The action of the biceps is to bend the forearm. The insertion of its tendon into the posterior part of the radius gives it the power of supinating the hand,—a power which is greatly increased when the arm is bent. 30. The coraco-brachialis is a thin muscle, situated at the upper part of the arm, and runs parallel to the inner border of the short head of the biceps. It arises by fleshy fibres from the point of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the biceps, and from a fibrous septum which lies between them. The muscle descends on the outer side of the brachial vessels and nerves, and terminates in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner side of the humerus, about its middle, between the brachialis anticus and the inner head of the triceps. This tendon is intimately con- nected with the internal intermuscular septum. The coraco-brachialis is usually perforated from above down- wards by the external cutaneous nerve. This muscle and the biceps are covered at their upper part by the deltoid and great pectoral muscles. The head of the humerus rolls beneath the coraco-brachialis and short origin of the biceps, and a large bursa mucosa is usually interposed between these muscles and the tendon of the subscapularis, which covers the head of the bone. From the outer side of the coraco-brachialis a strong aponeurosis is prolonged beneath the deltoid over the shoulder-joint. Not infrequently some of the muscular fibres of the coraco-brachialis are inserted into the fascia, which covers the brachial artery in the centre of the arm. The action of the muscle is to draw the arm forwards and inwards towards the chest. 31. The brachialis anticus, partly concealed by the biceps, is situated along the front of the lower half of the humerus in close contact with the bone. To see the muscle the biceps must be raised by dissecting along its outer border. Between the two muscles will be found a layer of fascia and the external cutaneous nerve, of which the muscular branches must be preserved. It arises about the middle of the humerus by a fleshy digitation