546 SPERMATIC CORE.—DESCENT OF THE TESTICLES. the prostatic part of the urethra. The length of the vas deferens was estimated by Monro at upwards of thirty feet. The same anato- mist calculated that the semen, before it arrived at the vas deferens, had to traverse a tube forty-two feet in length. Spermatic cord.—This is composed of the spermatic vessels, nerves, and absorbents, of the vas deferens, with the little deferen- tial artery (a branch of the superior vesical), of the cremaster muscle, with the cremasteric artery, and of the spermatic fascia. 1 he course of the spermatic arteries and veins has been de- scribed in the dissection of the Abdomen, § 35, d. We will only observe further that the artery is remarkably tortuous as it descends along the cord, that it enters the back part of the testicle, and breaks up into a multitude of fine ramifications, which spread out on the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. The spermatic veins leave the testicle at its back part, and, as they ascend along the cord, become extremely tortuous, and form a plexus termed “ pam- piniform.” It is usually stated that these veins are destitute of valves ; and this fact is adduced as one of the reasons for the occur- rence of varicocele. But it is certain that the larger veins do con- tain valves. The absorbents of the testicle terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves of the testicle are derived chiefly from the renal plexus. Descent of the testicles.—The testicle is originally situated and developed in the lumbar region, immediately below the kidneys; and it is loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum, termed the mesorchium, along which its vessels and nerves run up to it, as to any other abdominal viscus. From the lower end of the gland there proceeds to the bottom of the scrotum a contractile cord termed the gubernaculum testis.* By the gra- dual contraction of this, the organ is brought into the scrotum. It begins to move about the fifth month, reaches the ring about the * Mr. Curling considers the gubernaculum testis to be a muscular cord. See his Observations on the Structure of the Gubernaculum, and on the De- scent of the Testis in the Foetus: Medical Gazette, April 10, 1841.