SPLENIUS. ERECTOR SPIN.®. 290 (see Arm, § 106), ascends outwards, and is inserted by broad fleshy slips into the four lower ribs external to their angles. The tendency of its action is to pull down these ribs, and therefore to assist in expiration. 240. Vertebral aponeurosis.—This is a strong shining uninter- rupted sheet of fascia which extends from the spines of the vertebrae to the angles of the ribs, and serves to confine the “ erector spinse” muscle in the vertebral groove. We observe that this fascia proceeds from the lower serrate muscle, and that it is continued beneath the upper serrate muscle, so as to bind down the splenius. 241. Splenius.—To expose the whole of this muscle, the superior serratus and the vertebral aponeurosis must be turned aside. It arises from the spines of the four or five upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebra, and from more or less of the liga- mentum nuchse. The fibres ascend and divide into two portions, named, according to their respective insertions, splenius capitis and splenius colli. a. The splenius capitis, the stronger of the two portions, is inserted into the ajrex and back part of the mastoid process, and into more or less of the surface between the curved ridges of the occipital bones. This insertion is covered by that of the stemo- mastoid. b. The splenius colli is inserted by tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae. The action of the splenius, taken as a whole, is to draw the head and the upper cervical vertebrae towards its own side : so far it co-operates with the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle. When the splenii of opposite sides contract, they extend the cervical por- tion of the spine, and keep the head erect. The permanent con- traction of a single splenius may occasion a “wry neck.” It is necessary to be aware of this, otherwise one might suppose the opposite sterno-mastoid to be affected, considering that the appear- ance of the distortion is alike in either case (see § 8). 242. Erector spines.—The mass of muscle which occupies the vertebral groove on either side of the spine, is, collectively, called “ erector spinse,” since it counteracts the perpetual tendency of the head and the trunk to fall forwards. We observe that it is