431 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. close to the symphysis, and from the border of the pubic arch nearly as low as the tuber ischii. The muscle descends perpendicu- larly on the inner side of the thigh, and terminates on a tendon which spreads out and is inserted into the inner side of the tibia below the tubercle; in fact, just like the sartorius, only below it, so that the one overlaps the other. Both tendons play over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and there is a bursa common to both. This muscle assists in fixing the pelvis, and in adducting the thigh. 18. Adductor muscles. —A strong group of muscles ex- tends, along the inner side of the thigh, from the pelvis to the femur. Their chief action is to co-operate in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh,—as, for instance, in standing on one leg ; or, if the fixed point be reversed, they can draw the thighs together,— as, for example, in riding. Physiologically, therefore, they might be considered as one, for they are supplied by the same nerve,—- namely, the obturator; but anatomically they are divided into three—the adductor longus, brevis, and magnus. Since they lie in strata, we should reflect them from their origin and examine each in succession, taking care not to divide the branches of the obturator nerve which supply them. 19. Adductor longus.—This muscle arises by a tendon from the front of the pubes just below its spine, and, gradually becoming broader, is inserted into about the middle third of the linea aspera of the femur. It forms with the sartorius a V-shaped space, in which are contained the several muscles, vessels, and nerves, which descend beneath the crural arch,—namely, (beginning from the iliac side), the iliacus and psoas muscles, with the anterior crural nerve in a groove between them, the femoral artery and vein, and the pectineus muscle. The psoas and iliacus having been described in the dissection of abdomen, § 32, we have now to describe only the pectineus, which is, in point of fact, an adductor. 20. Pectineus.—This muscle lies close to, and on the same plane with, the adductor longus. It arises from the smooth tri- angular surface of the pubes in front of the crest, and is inserted