MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 61 with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, which thus completes the deep palmar arch. From the curve of the arch small branches ascend to supply the bones and joints of the carpus, inosculating with the other carpal arteries. From the convexity of the arch three or four small branches, called palmar interosseous, descend to supply the interosseous muscles, and near the clefts of the fin- gers communicate with the digital arteries. These palmar inter- osseous branches are sometimes of considerable size, and take the place of one or more of the digital arteries, ordinarily derived from the superficial palmar arch. a. Other branches, called the perforating arteries, are derived from the deep palmar arch. They pass between the upper ends of the metacarpal bones to the back of the hand, and there com- municate with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries, 99. The deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve sinks into the palm with the ulnaris profunda artery, between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles. It then crosses obliquely over the deep palmar arch towards the radial side of the palm, and disappears beneath the adductor pollicis. Between the pisiform and unciform bones, the nerve gives a branch to each of the muscles of the little finger. Subsequently, filaments are sent to each interosseous muscle, and generally to the two internal lumbricales. Small filaments also accompany the perforating arteries to the back of the hand, and join the dorsal cutaneous branches of the ulnar and radial nerves. But the largest branches supply the adductor pollicis and abductor indicis muscles, and in some cases also the flexor brevis pollicis. The dissection of the remaining muscles of the palm, called, from their position, interossei, must be for the present postponed (see ยง 150.) DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 100. Make an incision through the skin over the spine from the occiput to the sacrum ; another from the last dorsal vertebra.