346 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. transversalis, should then be divided to the same extent; after w hich, the peritoneum can be readily raised by the finger from the iliac fossa. It would be necessary to make a small incision through the sheath of the vessel, in order to facilitate the passage of the needle. We remember that the vein is closely connected to its inner side,* and that the genito-crural nerve is not far off. We have now briefly to direct attention to the sympathetic nerve and the lumbar plexus of nerves. 38. Sympathetic nerve.—Respecting the general plan upon which the sympathetic nerve is arranged, we must refer to what has already been said of it in the dissection of the neck (§ 92). Our present business is with the lumbar portion of it. The abdominal part of the sympathetic nerve descends, on either side, in front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebra;, along the inner border of the psoas. The nerve has a ganglion opposite each lumbar vertebra, so that there are five on each side. Each of these ganglia receives two branches from the corresponding spinal nerve, just as in the chest; and, on the other hand, gives off fila- ments, of which some twine round the aorta, and accompany tht inferior mesenteric and spermatic vessels to the large intestine and * This relative position of the vessels must not always be taken for granted. In old subjects, less frequently in adults, it is sometimes found that the ex. ternal iliac artery runs very tortuously instead of nearly straight along the brim of the pelvis. But the vein does not follow the artery in its windings, and may possibly lie outside the artery just where we propose to place the ligature. The mode of performing the operation described in the text is recommended by Sir A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy, however, who first set the example of tying this artery in 1796, adopted a somewhat different proceeding. He says : “I first made an incision about three inches in length through the integuments of the abdomen, in the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which I next divided from its connection with Poupart’s ligament, in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the protection of the peritoneum, and then divided them. Next, with my hand, I pushed the peritoneum and its contents upwards and inwards, and took hold of the artery.”