DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 442 a. External cutaneous nerve.—About the lower third of the outer side of the leg we find that a nerve of considerable size comes through the muscular fascia, and then descending over the front of the ankle, divides and subdivides over the top of the foot. This, it will subsequently appear, is a branch of the peroneal nerve. By tracing its subdivisions we observe that one runs along the inner side of the foot to the inner side of the great toe ; the others supply ihe outside of the second toe, both sides of the third and fourth, and inside of the little toe. b. The outside of the foot and little toe is supplied by the ex- ternal saphenous nerve, which runs behind the outer ankle with the corresponding vein. c. The contiguous sides of the great toe, and the toe next to it, are supplied by the termination of the anterior tibial nerve, which is seen in the first interosseous space.* 33. Muscular fascia.—This is remarkably thick and strong. Over and above its general purpose of forming sheaths for the muscles, and straps for the tendons, it gives origin, just as in the forearm, to some of the subjacent muscular fibres; so that it cannot he removed from the surface of the muscles, near the knee, without leaving them ragged. We observe that the fascia is attached to the head of the tihia and the fibula, and that it is identified on the inner side with the expanded tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus ; and on the outer side with that of the biceps; consequently, when these muscles respectively act, the fascia is rendered tense. Following it down the leg, we find that it is at- tached to the edge of the tibia, and that it gradually becomes stronger as it approaches the ankle, because it has to form liga- ments for the purpose of confining the tendons in this situation. Of these ligaments, which are called annular, there are three, as follows :— a. The anterior extends obliquely across the front of the joint between the malleoli, and confines the extensor tendons of the ankle and toes. * Such is the most common distribution of the several nerves to the upper surface of the toes. But it should be understood that deviations from this arrangement are frequent.