120 THYROID BODY. of the upper part of the trachea, and extends more or less upwards over the sides of the larynx. It consists of two lateral nearly symmetrical lobes, connected a little below the cricoid cartilage by a cross slip called the isthmus. Each lateral lobe is more or less conical in form, with the base opposite the sixth or seventh ring of the trachea, and the apex by the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its anterior convex surface is covered by the sterno-liyoid and thyroid muscles; its deep surface is concave, so as to be adapted to the sides of the trachea and larynx, and it usually extends so far backwards as to be in contact with the lower part of the pharynx. Its external border overlaps, in most cases only partially, but some- times completely, the common carotid artery, particularly on the right side; and there are instances in which the lobe is deeply grooved by the vessel. The isthmus or transverse portion connecting the two lateral halves is commonly situated over the 2d, 3d, and 4th rings of the trachea. This portion of the organ varies so much in its shape and dimensions that we rarely find it alike in two successive sub- jects. In some instances we have seen it entirely absent, so that there were two distinct thyroid bodies, one on either side of the trachea. This corresponds with the usual disposition in most of the lower orders of mammalia; but in man it is to be regarded as a failure in the union of the two halves by which the organ is origi- nally developed. Generally speaking, the vertical measurement of the isthmus is about one inch. Between its upper border and the cricoid cartilage there is a space about four or five lines in extent, where the trachea is not covered by this vascular organ ; and we would especially direct attention to this space as the more prefer- able situation for tracheotomy. But the vertical measurement of the transverse portion of the thyroid body is sometimes of very considerable length. We have seen it lying in front of the trachea almost down to the sternum. This circumstance deserves to be remembered, because, if the substance of the gland be injured in tracheotomy, a serious hemorrhage might be the result. From the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent border of either lobe, most commonly the left, a conical prolongation of