68 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. thyroid axis, but often separately from the subclavian either on the inner or the outer border of the scalenus anticus muscle, and runs backwards across the lower part of the neck, above, or between the trunk nerves of the hi'achial plexus, towards the poste- rior superior angle of the scapula. In this situation it takes the name of posterior scapular, and is seen pursuing its course beneath the levator anguli scapulae and the rhomboid muscles under cover of the posterior border of the scapula. Divide the rhomboid muscles near their insertion and trace the artery to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it terminates in ramifications which supply the rhomboid and serratus magnus muscles. Numerous muscular branches arise from this artery. One, called the superficial^ colli, is given off near the upper angle of the scapula, and supplies chiefly the trapezius, in the substance of which it communicates with small branches which descend from the occipital artery. The posterior scapular vein generally terminates in the subclavian or in the external jugular. Divide the latissimus dorsi below the inferior angle of the scapula, and examine the serratus magnus. To see the full extent of this muscle, draw the posterior border of the scapula forcibly outwards, and divide the loose cellular tissue which intervenes between it and the ribs. The great abundance of cellular tissue in this situation is necessary for the free play of the scapula on the side of the chest. 113. The serratus magnus is a broad flat muscle which inter- venes between the scapula and the ribs. It arises by distinct fleshy digitations from the external surfaces of the eight or nine upper ribs, about three inches, more or less, from their cartilages : a well-marked rib has generally an oblique ridge which indicates the attachment of the digitation. The digitations vary in size, and exceed by one the number of ribs from which thejr arise—since the second rib usually gives origin to two. The upper digitations also arise from aponeurotic arches over the two first intercostal spaces. The four lower ones, increasing in length and obliquity, correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres pass backwards, converging to the posterior border of the