COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 125 It is manifest that, at the lower part of the neck, the carotid artery is deeply seated, that it must be covered by the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the sterno-hyoid arid thyroid muscles, the inferior thyroid veins, and of course by a strong layer of fascia: about three inches, more or less, above the sternum it is crossed by the slender omo-hyoid muscle. But in consequence of the divergence of the sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoid muscles, the artery in the upper part of its course becomes more superficial, and is covered only by the platysma, the cervical fascia, and some large veins which cross it to join the internal jugular. It is clear that a ligature can be more easily placed round the artery in this situation than elsewhere, and that an incision along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid is the surest way of exposing it. Here also the vessel might be compressed for a short time against the vertebrae. Along the vertebral column the artery lies successively upon the longus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles. Near the lower border of the sixth cervical vertebra, the inferior thyroid artery crosses behind the carotid, on its course to the base of the thyroid gland. Towards the mesial line, the carotid artery is in relation with the oesophagus and recurrent nerve, the trachea, and the larynx. The lateral lobe of the thyroid gland overlaps the artery, more or less in different instances, particularly on the right side. If, now, we compare the carotid arteries at the lower part of the neck, it will he observed that the right is situated more in front of the trachea than the left, which is placed in more immediate con- tact with the oesophagus, in consequence of the inclination of the oesophagus towards the left side. This difference is especially marked in cases where the arteria innominata ascends higher and more in front of the trachea than usual. We have seen repeated instances in which the right carotid was situated so directly in front of the trachea that unless great care were taken it would inevitably have been wounded in the performance of the lower operation of tracheotomy. The common carotid, at its point of division, generally dilates so as to form a small bulb. This dilatation is in some instances so