INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 274 ternal rectus muscle, close to the ophthalmic artery. It receives a branch (sensitive root) from the nasal nerve, another (motor root) from the lower division of the third nerve, and it also receives (sympa- thetic) filaments from the plexus round the internal carotid artery. The ganglion thus furnished with motor, sensitive, and sympathetic roots, gives off the ciliary nerves. These, from ten to twelve in number, run forward very tortuously with the optic nerve, pass through the back of the sclerotica, and are distributed to the iris. Since the ciliary nerves derive their motor influence from the third nerve, we see at once that the iris must lose its power of motion when this nerve is paralysed. The optic nerve and ophthalmic artery should now be divided near the back of the orbit. With a little dissection we shall find the inferior rectus muscle, the lower division of the third nerve, and the sixth nerve. 209. Third nerve, or motor oculi.—Just before it enters the sphenoidal fissure, the third nerve divides into two branches, both of which commonly pass between the origins of the external rectus. The upper division has been already traced into the superior rectus and levator palpebrae (see § 203, a). The lower division supplies a branch to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and then runs along the floor of the orbit to the inferior oblique muscle. 210. Sixth nerve, or motor externus.—This nerve enters the orbit between the origins of the external rectus, and terminates in numerous fine filaments, which are exclusively distributed to this muscle. Respecting the motor nerves in the orbit, it may be observed that they all enter the ocular surface of the muscles, with the single exception of the fourth. This arrangement is just what might have been expected from the position which the muscles and nerves respectively hold to each other at the back of the orbit. 211. Inferior oblique muscle.—To see this muscle an incision must be made along the lower border of the orbit. It arises by a flat tendon from the superior maxillary bone, within the margin of the orbit, near the lower part of the lacrymal groove. It passes obliquely outwards and backwards between the rectus inferior and