153 BRACHIAL PLEXUS OP NERVES. the fifth cervical, and crosses the subclavian artery in the third part of its course. It frequently sends a filament which passes either in front of or behind the subclavian vein and joins the phrenic. The fact of this filament being in some few instances very much larger than usual has been already alluded to (see § 42 a). b. Nerves to the scalene and the longus colli muscles. c. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles.—This generally arises from the fifth cervical nerve, and accompanies the posterior scapular artery beneath the levator anguli scapulae, which, as well as the rhomboid muscles, it supplies. See Arm, § 109. d. The suprascapular nerve commonly arises from the sixth cervical, and proceeds outwards to the notch in the upper margin of the scapula, where it meets with the corresponding artery, and terminates partly in the supra-spinatus and partly in the infra- spinatus muscle. See Arm, § 124. e. The nerve (commonly called external respiratory) to the serratus magnus.—This arises from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, appears first between the middle and posterior scalene muscles, and then descends longitudinally behind the plexus and the subclavian vessels to the outer surface of the serratus magnus, to which it is exclusively distributed. See Arm, § 15. f. Nerves (commonly called anterior thoracic) to the pectoral muscles.—Generally two in number; they pass beneath the clavicle, one in front of and the other behind the artery. See Arm § 9. g. A branch forming one of the roots of the phrenic nerve. It arises from the fifth cervical nerve. It only remains to be observed that the upper cord of the brachial plexus receives a branch from the lower cord of the cervical plexus, and that each of its several component nerves com- municate by slender filaments in front of the spine with the sympathetic system. Alter the examination of the lower part of the neck it is quite optional whether we proceed to the dissection of the face or that of the chest. Those who consider the anatomy of the chest the