.ARTERIES OF THE VISCERA. 332 tough tissue about all the visceral branches of the aorta. This tissue consists almost entirely of plexuses of nerves, derived from the sympathetic system. Of all these plexuses, the largest sur- rounds the coeliac axis like a ring. It is called the solar plexus,* or, more appropriately, the brain of the abdomen, for it contains a large quantity of ganglionic matter. From this, as from a root, other secondary plexuses branch off, and twine round the arteries; thus forming the phrenic plexus, the coronary, hepatic, splenic, superior mesenteric, renal, &c. It requires a very lean subject and great anatomical dexterity to trace them. 24. The coeliac axis arises from the front of the aorta, between the pillars of the diaphragm, just above the upper border of the pancreas. It is a very thick trunk, which, after a course of about half an inch, divides into three branches,—the coronaria ventriculi, the splenic, and the hepatic. A. The coronaria ventriculi, the smallest of the three, ascends a little to the left towards the oesophageal end of the stomach, and then curves along the upper border of the stomach towards the pylorus, where it inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. It gives branches to the oesophagus as well as to the stomach. B. The hepatic artery ascends between the layers of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into branches for its several lobes. In its course to the liver, we find that it is situated on the left of the bile duct, and in front of the portal vein : all three are contained in the right border of the lesser omentum. The hepatic gives off the following:— a. The pyloric, which runs along the upper curve of the stomach and inosculates with the coronaria ventriculi. b. The gastro-epiploica dextra.—This runs behind the pan- creas, and then along the great curve of the stomach, and inoscu- lates directly with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, a branch of the splenic. It gives off— 1. Branches to the pancreas and duodenum (pancreatico-duo- denales). * This plexus is formed by the junction of the two semilunar ganglia de- scribed in the Dissection of the Thorax, § 117, c.