SEPTUM LUCIDUM. 495 a portion of it projects into the ventricle, cropping out, as it were, on the surface. What we do see of it looks pear-shaped, with the large end forwards : it tapers gradually to a point as we trace it backwards on the outside of the optic thalamus. The under part of the corpus striatum corresponds with the convolution at the base of the brain known as the island of Reil, and also with the locus perforatus anticus,—a spot, we remember, at the root of the fissure of Silvius, so called on account of the number and size of the blood- vessels which pass in there to supply the mass of grey matter in question. The tccnia semicircular is is a narrow semi-transparent band of white fibres, which skirts the posterior border of the corpus striatum. In front it is connected with the anterior crus of the fornix, and behind it is lost in the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. Its precise connections, however, are often indistinct, and are still un- settled by anatomists. Septum lucidum.—This is a thin and almost transparent par- tition, which descends vertically from the under surface of the cor- pus callosum, and separates the lateral ventricles from each other. The better way to obtain a perfect view of the attachments and the extent of the septum would be to make a vertical section on one side of it; but we can see it tolerably well by lifting up what re- mains of the corpus callosum. It is attached below to an arch of white nervous matter, called the fornix. It is not of equal depth throughout. The broadest part is in front, and corresponds with the downward bend or knee of the corpus callosum. It grows gra- dually narrower behind, and altogether disappears at the back part of the ventricles, where the corpus callosum or upper arch, and the fornix or lower arch, become continuous. This variation, then, in the depth of the septum lucidum arises from the arching downwards of the anterior part of the fornix. However thin and delicate it appears, yet the septum consists of two layers which inclose a space called the fifth ventricle. Each layer is made up of white sub- stance inside, and of grey outside; the little ventricle between them is closed in the adult, and lined by a delicate serous membrane, which secretes in it a minute quantity of fluid ; but in foetal life it