BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 85 outer part of the lower end of the radius, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the os trapezium. It also sends off a fascia, which covers the ab- ductor pollicis. Between the tendon and the os trapezium there is often a small bursa, which in some instances communicates with the joint beneath. 141. The extensor primi internodii pollicis lies on the ulnar side of the preceding muscle, and takes the same direction. It arises from the posterior surface of the radius, below the extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis, from the interosseous ligament, and from the ulna. The thin muscle turns over the radial exten- sors of the wrist, and terminates upon a tendon which passes beneath the annular ligament, through the groove on the outer part of the radius, and is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the thumb. 142. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis arises from the middle third of the posterior surface of the ulna, and from the in- terosseous ligament. The tendon upon which the muscle termi- nates receives fleshy fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the annular ligament in a distinct groove on the back of the radius, proceeds over the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the three extensors of the thumb may be easily distinguished in one’s own hand. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, cross obliquely over the radial artery, in the situation where it lies on the external lateral ligament of the carpus; the extensor secundi internodii pollicis crosses the artery just before it sinks into the palm, between the first and second metacarpal bones, and is a good guide to the vessel. The action of the three extensors of the thumb is implied by their names. 143. The extensor indicis, or indicator muscle, arises from the posterior surface of the ulna, and from the inter-osseous ligament. The tendon upon which the muscle terminates re- ceives fleshy fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the poste- rior annular ligament, in the same groove on the back of the radius, with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis. It