MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 250 167. Muscles of the larynx.—The several muscles should next be examined, which, by moving the cartilages of the larynx upon each other, indirectly influence the width of the glottis and the ten- sion of the vocal cords. They are aptly named after their respec- tive attachments. a. M. crico-thyroideus.—This musclei s situated on the front of the larynx. It arises from the front and side of the cricoid car- tilage, ascends obliquely outwards, and is inserted into the inferior border of the ala of the thyroid, and frequently also into its inferior horn. Action.—When both the muscles of opposite sides contract, they directly approximate the adjacent edges of the cartilages. The anterior part of the cricoid being drawn upwards rotates, as it were, round an imaginary horizontal axis drawn through its articulation with the lower cornua of the thyroid; consequently its posterior part moves downwards and backwards to a greater distance from the thyroid. Now this movement cannot take place without increasing in a corresponding degree the tension of the vocal cords, because the arytenoid cartilages into which they are inserted necessarily follow the cricoid in its movement. That this approximation of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages does take place, any one who can sing may easily satisfy himself by placing his finger on the cricoid thyroid membrane whilst he runs through the gamut. b. M. crico-arytenoideus posticus.—To see thismuscle it is merely necessary to remove the mucous membrane from the back of the cricoid cartilage. It is of very considerable size, and of a trian- gular form. It arises from the excavation observable on the poste- rior part of the cricoid cartilage, from which the fibres, converging, are inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid. Action. —The muscles of opposite sides, contracting together, dilate the glottis. Of this it is very easy to be satisfied by pulling the muscle in the direction of its fibres, and at the same time looking at the glottis. c. M. arytenoideus.—This single muscle fill sup the interval between the back of the arytenoid cartilages. The fibres pass across from the concave surface of one cartilage to that of the other. Most of them are transverse, but some of the more superficial decus- sate like the letter X, running from the base of the one to the apex