TONSILS. 240 palate. To facilitate tlie play of the tendon round the hamular process, there is provided a synovial membrane. The action of this muscle is to draw down the soft palate and extend it laterally. c. Ayzgos or levator uvula.—This consists of one or sometimes two thin bundles of muscular fibre, which arise from the aponeu- rosis of the palate, and descend along the posterior surface of the uvula nearly down to its extremity. d. Palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus.—These muscles con- sist of thin strata of fibres, contained within the membranous folds or arches which are continued from the soft palate to the tongue and pharynx. The palato-glossus, situated within the anterior arch, proceeds from the anterior surface of the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and is lost in the stylo-glossus muscle. The palato-pharyngeus, contained within the posterior arch, proceeds from the posterior border of the palate to the side of the pharynx, where it mixes with the fibres of the constrictor and the stylo- pharyngeus muscles. In favourable subjects we may sometimes succeed in tracing the fibres of the palato-pharyngeus along the upper surface of the soft palate; some above, and others below the levator palati as far as the bone. 156. Tonsils.—The tonsils consist ofan aggregation of muciparous glands, and they are situated on either side of the entrance of the fauces, in the interval between the anterior and posterior half arches of the palate. Their purpose here is to lubricate the isthmus during the passage of the food, and it is probable that the muscles between which they are situated squeeze out the fluid from their excretory ducts in the act of deglutition. The orifices of these ducts, visible on the surface, give the tonsil a perforated appearance not unlike the shell of an almond. From this circumstance, as well as from their general oval figure, they are called the “ amyg- dalae.” These openings sometimes lead into small cells excavated in the substance of the tonsil,® and lined by mucous membrane; and into these, numerous smaller ducts pour their secretion, for which the cell would seem to be a reservoir. The fluid, viscid and transparent in the healthy state, is apt to become white and opaque