PELVIC FASCIA. 363 the several peritoneal connections of the bladder are called its false ligaments; false in contradistinction to the true, which are formed by the proper fascia of the pelvis, and really do fasten the neck of the bladder in its proper position. The false ligaments, then, are— l, the posterior—two peritoneal folds produced, one on either side the recto-vesical pouch by the fibrous remains of the umbilical arteries; 2, the anterior, produced by the passage of the perito- neum from the bladder to the abdominal wall; and, lastly, the lateral, produced by its reflexion from the side of the bladder to the side of the pelvis. 59. Pelvic fascia.—The pelvic fascia comes next under con- sideration. This constitutes the true ligaments of the pelvic viscera, supporting and maintaining them in their proper position. In order to expose it, we need only remove the peritoneum on that side of the pelvis which has not been disturbed. In doing so, we cannot but notice the abundance of soft and loose cellular tissue which is interposed between the peritoneum and the fascia, evi- dently for the purpose of allowing the bladder to distend with fa- cility. Whenever urine gains access to this cellular tissue, it is almost sure to produce the most disastrous consequences; there- fore, in all operations on the perineum, it is of the utmost import- ance not to injure the fascia in question. We naturally consider, 1, to what parts of the pelvis the fascia is attached ; and, 2, the manner in which it is reflected on the organs. Beginning, then, in front, we find that the fascia is attached to the body of the pubes; from thence we trace its attachment along the side of the pelvis, just above the obturator foramen, to the greater iscliiatic notch; here it becomes gradually thinner, covers the pyriformis muscle, and is lost on the sacrum. Such is an outline of its pelvic attachment, so far only as it is at present visible. Now let us follow it on to the viscera. From the pubes the fascia is reflected over the prostate and the neck of the bladder, so as to form on either side of the symphysis a well-marked prominent band, called the anterior true ligament of the bladder. From the side of the pelvis it descends over the levator ani, and is reflected on to the side of the bladder; here it forms what is called the lateral ligament of the bladder. s 2