407 ANATOMY OP THE SPLEEN. other, as to form a complete spiral valve. The use of this probably is to prevent the too rapid flow of the bile. 100. Pancreas.—This gland is situated at the hack of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and nearly opposite the first lumbar vertebra. Its form and connections have been described at § 29. Its minute structure resembles that of the other salivary glands— that is, it consists of lobes; and these are subdivided into lobules, all being connected together by cellular tissue. Each lobule con- sists of the ramifications of a duct. These, when examined by the microscope, are found to terminate in closed vesicles, which are completely covered by the capillary arteries. The main duct* of the pancreas runs transversely through the centre of the gland, rather nearer to the front than the back, and to the lower than the upper surface, and, as it receives tributary ducts from the several lobes, gradually increases in size. Its walls are remarkably thin. By introducing a probe into it, we find that it opens very obliquely into the inner and back part of the descending portion of the duodenum, not far from the orifice of the bile duct. 101. Spleen.—The spleen is a very vascular spongy organ, varying in size according to the quantity of blood in it, and fluctu- ating in weight, consistently with health, between 5 and 12 oz. Under ordinary circumstances it is of a reddish blue colour, owing to the large amount of blood in it. But the proper colour of the substance of the spleen is a yellowish grey. This is well seen in cases of cholera, where the organ is bloodless and collapsed; it is also proved by injecting the splenic artery with water, which returns freely by the veins, and washes out all the blood. Its shape is elliptical, and in its natural position it is so placed that the long axis is nearly vertical. The outer side, adapted to the diaphragm and ribs, is convex, while the inner side, adapted to the great end of the stomach, is concave. We observe that the blood-vessels enter the concave side by several ramifications, cor- responding to the primordial lobes of the organ. In addition to its peritoneal coat, the spleen has a proper fibrous * Called the canal of Wirsung, after a Bavarian anatomist, who discovered it in the human subject in 1643.