VESSELS OF THE BACK. 298 and internal branches. The external pass obliquely over the leva- tores costarum,between the sacro-lumbalisand the longissimus dorsi; and they successively increase in size from above downwards. The six upper ones, more or less, terminate in the erector spin® and the levatores costarum, but the remaining lower ones, after supply- ing these muscles, pass through the latissimus dorsi, and become the cutaneous nerves of the back. The internal successively decrease in size from above downwards. They run towards the spine be- tween the semispinalis and the multifidus spinse. The upper six, after giving branches to the muscles, perforate the trapezius and become cutaneous nerves. The lower ones terminate in the muscles of the vertebral groove. 263. Lumbar region.—The general arrangement of the nerves in this region resembles that of the dorsal. Their external branches supply the multifidus spin® ; their internal, after supplying the erector spin®, become cutaneous. 264. Sacral region.—The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this region are but small. They come out of the spinal canal through the foramina in the back of the sacrum. The upper two or three divide into external and internal branches. The internal terminate in the muscles; the external are generally connected together on the back of the sacrum, and then become cutaneous. The two last sacral nerves proceed, without dividing, to the in- tegument. 265. The coccygeal nerves are exceedingly small, and terminate in the skin.* The genet al arrangement of the cutaneous nerves of the back is described in the dissection of the Arm (§ 101). 266. Vessels of the back.—The vessels which supply the back are:—1. Small branches from the occipital; 2. Small branches from the vertebral; 3. The deep cervical from the subclavian ; 4. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. a. The occipital artery (described § 35) furnishes several * The branching of the posterior divisions of the several spinal nerves has been accurately described by Mr. Ellis, Med. Gazette, Feb. 10th, 1843.