193 INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. are nearly horizontal, the rest successively increase in obliquity. Its action is to depress the costal cartilages; it is therefore a muscle of expiration. 96. Internal mammary artery.—Trace the further course and branches of this artery, partially described at § 47. It runs per- pendicularly about half an inch from the sternum, behind the carti- lages of the ribs, and entering the wall of the abdomen as a small artery, continues its descent behind the rectus abdominis muscle, and finally inosculates with the epigastric (a branch of the external iliac). Its branches are as follows: — a. The arteria comes nervi phrenici.—A very slender artery, sometimes absent, accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm. b. Mediastinal and thymic.—These branches supply the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, the pericardium, and the trian- gularis sterni muscle. The thymic are only visible in early child- hood, gradually disappearing with the gland they supply. c. Intercostal.—One at least, and often two, for each intercostal space. If there be one only, it runs along the lower border of the corresponding rib ; if there be a second, it proceeds along the upper border of the rib : they inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. d. Perforating arteries, which pass through the intercostal spaces, and supply the pectoral muscle and integument of the chest. In the female they are often of large size, for the supply of the mammary gland (see Arm, § 3). e. The intercosto-phrenic branch, turning outwards behind the cartilages of the false ribs, passes through the diaphragm commonly about the ninth rib, and terminates near the last intercostal space. It sends ofiT small arteries to the diaphragm, and to the sixth, seventh, and sometimes the eighth intercostal spaces. 97. Absorbent glands.—There are several of these in the neigh- bourhood of the internal mammary artery. They receive the absorbent vessels from the inner portion of the mammary gland, from the upper part of the diaphragm, and the wall of the abdomen. In scirrhus disease of the inner portion of the mamma, it happens sometimes that these glands become enlarged, without any enlarge- ment of those in the axilla.