235 CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES OE THE PHARYNX. by the preceding muscle; the upper angle ascends nearly, if not quite, to the basilar process of the occiput, and terminates upon the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the muscle is covered at its origin by the hyo-glossus, nothing intervening but the lingual artery. c. Superior constrictor.—The origin of this muscle is rather complicated, and almost requires an express dissection for the purpose of displaying it. It arises from the lower half of the internal pterygoid plate, and from the liamular process of the sphenoid bone; from the so-called pterygo-m axil! ary ligament, by means of which it is connected with the buccinator; from the ex- tremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the side of the base of the tongue. The fibres pass inwards, running nearly parallel, to the mesial line, in which situation some of them are inserted through the pharyngeal aponeurosis into the basilar process of the occiput. The upper border of the superior constrictor is thin and pale, and presents on either side of the mesial line a semilunar curve with its concavity upwards, so that between it and the base of the skull a space is left in which the muscular stratum is deficient. But here the pharynx is strengthened and walled in, as it were, by its own proper aponeurosis. The space is sometimes called the “ sinus of Morgagniand in it, with a little dissection, may be exposed the muscles which raise and tighten the soft palate. We may observe that the fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus (see § 86) pass between the superior and middle constrictors, and expand upon the side of the pharynx; some of them mingle with those of the constrictors, but the majority are inserted into the posterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. 148. Pharyngeal membrane or aponeurosis.—Reflect the superior constrictor from the mesial line in order to obtain a view of the dense membrane, sometimes called the pharyngeal aponeurosis, which intervenes between the muscles and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Notice the large number of mucous glands which are situated upon the surface of the membrane, especially near the base of the skull, and the orifice of the Eustachian tube. This membrane is the medium through which the pharynx is attached m 2