501 CEREBELLUM. widely separating the cut. surfaces, the cavity of the fourth ventricle will be laid open. In a vertical section it appears triangular, and its boundaries are as follows :—The front or base is formed by the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii; the upper wall by the valve of Vieussens and superior crura of the cerebellum ; the posterior wall by the cerebellum itself, and the continuation of the arachnoid mem- brane on to the back of the spinal cord. The pia mater is prolonged for a short distance into the interior of the cavity, and forms what is called the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle.* On the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle,—that is, on the back of the medulla oblongata and the pons,—-.there are several objects to be noticed. 1. A median furrow, the remains of the primitive axis canal. 2. From the lower part of the furrow two white cords (the restiform columns or inferior crura cerebelli) pass oflf from the medulla oblongata, diverging from each like the branches of the letter V, and enter the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The divergence of these cords with the median furrow was called by the old anatomists the “calamus scriptorius.” 3. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by grey matter, which is nothing more than the grey substance of the spinal cord exposed by the diver- gence of its posterior or restiform columns. On its surface we remark a variable number of transverse white lines, some of which form part of the origin of the auditory nerves. Cerebellum.—This portion of the brain is situated in the occipital fossa of the skull, beneath the posterior lobes of the cere- brum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. In man it is more completely overlapped by the cerebrum than in any other animal. Its form is somewhat elliptical, with the broad diameter transverse. When the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater are removed, we observe that its surface is not arranged in convolutions * Tiedemann proposes to call the fourth ventricle the first; because, in the foetus, it is formed sooner than any of the others ; because it exists in all vertebrated animals, whereas the lateral ventricles are absent in all osseous fishes ; and because the ventricle of the septum lucidum is absent in all fishes, in reptiles, and in birds.