CORD;E vocales. 247 joint of the thumb. In front of the base there is a projection which gives attachment to the vocal cord, and itself contributes to form a part of the boundary of the rim a glottidis. At the outer and back part of the base there is another projection or a tubercle, into which certain muscles moving the cartilage are inserted; namely, the c-rico-arytenoideus posticus, and crico-arytenoideus lateralis. The apex of the cartilage is sometimes surmounted by one or more small cartilaginous nodules, called “ cornicula laryngis.” 162. Corda vocales.—These are two elastic cords, extending hori- zontally from the angle of the thyroid cartilage to the base of each of the arytenoid. From their anterior point of attachment they diverge as they pass backwards ; and the space left between them is called the rima glottidis. We shall presently see that through the muscles which act upon the arytenoid cartilages these cords can either he approximated or removed from each other ; in other words, the glottis can either be closed or dilated. When suffi- ciently tightened, and brought parallel to each other by means of certain muscles, the cords are made to vibrate by the stream of the expired air, and thus is produced the voice. 163. Epiglotlis.—This is a piece of elastic fibro-cartilage, which projects over the upper part of the larynx like the flap of a valve. Its ordinary position is perpendicular, leaving the glottis free for the purposes of respiration; but during the elevation of the larynx in deglutition it becomes horizontal, falling so as to cover the glottis, and thus tends to prevent the entrance of food into the cavity. Its apex or lower part is attached by means of the tliyro-epiglottidean ligament to the angle of the thyroid cartilage; it is also connected by another ligament (hyo-epiglottidean) to the os-hyoides. The cartilages of the larynx resemble those of the ribs in struc- ture. In the joung they are dense and elastic, but they have a tendency to ossify as age advances. In very old subjects, the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are often completely ossified, and their interior presents an areolar tissue, containing oily matter, analogous to the spongy texture of the bones. The epiglottis is never ossi- fied on account of its peculiar organization, resembling the carti- lages of the ear and the nose.