ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 402 they gradually approach the surface, increasing at the same time in size. They contain a transparent albuminous fluid. If after punc- turing one of the larger vesicles we receive its contents on a bit of glass, and then examine it under a microscope, we shall find sus- pended in it ihe true ovum or germ.* It is this minute body which, escaping from the Graafian vesicle on the surface of the ovary, is grasped by the Fallopian tube and conveyed into the uterus. The ruptured vesicle is converted soon afterwards into a yellowish-looking mass called a corpus luteurn, which persists for a while, and eventually degenerates into a small fibrous cicatrix. The minute structure of the ovisac and the ovum belong to the province of physiology ; the learner is therefore referred to special treatises on this subject. The ramifications of the ovarian artery through the ovary are remarkable for their convolutions, and they run in parallel lines, just as they do in the testicle. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. Having already described the position and relations of the several abdominal viscera, we have now to examine their particular configuration and structure. Let us take first the liver. 101. Liver.—The liver is the largest gland in the body, and in an adult male generally weighs between four and five pounds. In shape we hardly know what to compare it to. All that can be said is, that it is thick and round towards the back, and that towards the front it gradually slopes to a thin border. Its surface is entirely covered by peritoneum, except a small part behind, which is con- nected to the diaphragm by cellular membrane, and just in the hollow for the gall bladder. On the upper surface of the liver, which we observe is convex, in adaptation to the arch of the dia- phragm, there is nothing deserving of notice beyond the indication of the division of the organ into a right and a left lobe, the right being by far the larger. But if the liver be turned, so to speak, on * This was first distinctly pointed out by Von Baer in 1827.