ANATOMY OP THE LIVER. 404 without the aid of injected specimens and correct diagrams is to give a genera] outline of the plan upon which the organ is con- structed, according to the accepted doctrine of the present day. The liver is composed of the ramifications of the portal vein and the hepatic artery which carry the blood to it, and secrete the bile, of the ramifications of the excretory or hepatic duct, of the rami- fications of the hepatic veins, which return the blood from it, and of course of nerves and absorbents. Now, it will greatly facilitate the understanding of the subject, if we bear in mind,—1, that the three first sets of vessels (namely, the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct) ramify together from first to last. They are enclosed, too, in a kind of sheath of loose fibro-cellular tissue, commonly called Glisson’s capsule, which enters with them at the transverse fissure ; and this explains why, when cut transversely, the portal vein does not gape, but partially collapses ; 2, that the hepatic veins run from first to last by themselves, and eventually terminate by several wide orifices in the vena cava as it passes through the liver. These, having no cellular sheath, always appear, on transverse section, with open mouths. Now come the questions. What is the distribution of the minute branches of the portal vein, and what that of the hepatic vein P These questions are determined by injecting each set of vessels simultaneously with a fluid of a different colour,—say a blue fluid lor the portal vein, and a yellow for the hepatic. Afterwards, sections in different directions must be made, and examined under the microscope. In answer to the first question, it may be stated that the minute ramifications of the portal veins map out the substance of the liver into small spaces, which are called the lobules.* These can be seen plainly enough, even with the naked eye, and they have a different shape according to the direction in which they are cut; lor instance, on the surface of the liver, or which comes to the same thing, in a transverse section, they look like mosaic'pavement; but in the perpendicular section they somewhat resemble a club or an oak leaf. From the circumference of the lobule, the capillaries of * The current name for these veins is “ inter-lobular.”