145 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. times also from the third, cervical nerves. It descends almost perpendicularly, enters the chest between the subclavian artery and vein, close to the inner border of the scalene muscle, and then con- tinues its course between the pericardium and the pleura, in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm." a. The phrenic nerve is frequently joined by a filament from that branch of the brachial plexus which supplies the subclavius muscle. It is important to he aware that cases sometimes, though rarely, occur in which this comparatively insignificant filament is a branch of considerable size, and forms the greater portion of the phrenic itself. We have met with two instances in which this supplementary branch was larger than the normal trunk ; in both it crossed over the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, and would probably have been injured in the operation of tying this vessel. 43. Course and relations of the subclavian arteries. —Since the subclavian artery on the left side differs from that on the right, not only in the origin but also in its relations of the first part of its course, it becomes necessary to speak of each separately : we shall therefore describe the right subclavian first, and then mention the differences which exist between it and the left. a. Right subclavian.—The right subclavian artery is one of the two great branches into which the arteria innominata divides near the sterno-clavicular joint. It passes upwards and outwards behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and then inclines downwards over the first rib, at the lower border of which it takes the name of axil- lary. Thus the artery describes a slight curve, of which the greatest convexity is between the scalene muscles. The height to which the arch ascends varies in different cases. Generally speak- ing, it rises higher in women than in men, on the right side than on the left, and in individuals with long necks than those with short ones. The arch also ascends higher in those persons in whom the first rib is more oblique than usual. For the more accurate examination of its several relations, it is convenient to divide the course of the artery into three parts: the first comprises that portion between the trachea and the inner border of the scalenus anticus; the second includes as much as lies