CUTANEOUS NERVES. 4*28 13. Proceeding now with the general dissection, the incision should be prolonged down the thigh, over the knee, to the tubercle of the tibia. The skin should be reflected, so that the subcutaneous tissue over the whole front of the thigh be fairly exposed ; our present object being to examine the cutaneous veins and nerves. 14. Cutaneous veins and, nerves.—The course of the saphena vein, its tributary branches, and the confluence of veins observed at the saphenous opening, have been sufficiently described at § 5. We would merely observe here, that all the larger cutaneous veins of the thigh, and the same obtains of the leg generally, are so situated as to he out of the way of harm. Respecting the cutaneous nerves a very general account is sufficient, since they are not exactly alike in any two subjects. They are usually divided, according to their situation, into external, middle, and internal. All, directly or indirectly, proceed from the lumbar plexus, and may be seen coming through the muscular fascia. a. The external cutaneous nerve is a distinct branch of the lumbar plexus (see Dissection of the Abdomen, §39, b). It enters the thigh beneath the crural arch, near the anterior spine of the ilium, and can be traced down the outer side of the thigh to the knee, giving off numerous branches, which again divide and sub- divide to supply the skin. b. The middle cutaneous nerves, two or more in number, are derived from the anterior crural (which itself is a large branch of the lumbar plexus.) They come through the fascia about four or five inches below the crural arch, notall, however,at the same spot, and then descend along the front of the thigh to the knee, distri- buting branches on either side. c. The internal cutaneous nerves, two or more, also branches of the anterior crural, perforate the fascia, one about the middle, ano- ther about the lower third of the thigh, and supply the skin on the inner side.* By careful dissection we find that these several nerves communi- * Besides these, there is the small crural branch of the genito-crural nerve (see Dissection of Abdomen, § 39, c), which perforates the fascia about two inches below the crural arch. This is seldom found except by an expe- rienced dissector.