36 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. times also into the third. The tendon lies deep in the palm, and will be seen with the dissection of that part. This muscle bends the hand, and also assists in pronating it. The outer border of its tendon is the guide to the radial artery in the lower half of the fore-arm. 51. The palmaris longus muscle is situated on the inner side of the flexor carpi radialis. It arises from the common tendon attached to the internal condyle, and from the intermuscular septa. This slender muscle, contained in a groove between the flexor carpi radialis and the flexor sublimis digitorum, terminates about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which descends vertically down the middle of the forearm to the wrist, where it passes over the annular ligament, and is continued into the palmar fascia. This muscle is a tensor of the fascia in the palm, and may also assist in bending the hand. The palmaris longus is sometimes absent. The situation of its muscular portion is subject to variety ; sometimes occupying the middle, and sometimes the lower third of the fore-arm. The tendon is in some instances wholly inserted into the anterior annular ligament. A small bursa is in some cases found between the tendon and the ligament. 52. The flexor sublimis digitorum perforatus, situated partly beneath and on the inner side of the preceding, is a muscle of considerable size. It has two distinct origins. The longer and more internal origin takes place from the lower border of the internal condyle, from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint, from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, and from the inter- muscular septa. The shorter origin, separated from the preceding by the median nerve, takes place by tendinous and fleshy fibres from an oblique ridge, which commences on the front surface of the radius near the tuberosity, and terminates near the middle of the outer border of the bone. This, which is called its radial origin, is partly concealed by the insertion of the pronator teres. A broad thick muscle is thus formed, which passes down the mid- dle of the fore-arm, and divides into four distinct muscular slips: from these, four tendons arise, which pass beneath the annular liga-