370 VESICULdE SEMINALES. PltOSTATE. it down to the bottom of the bladder we shall find that it enters it about one inch and a half behind the prostate, and about two inches from its fellow of the opposite side. By and by it will be seen that the tube perforates the bladder very obliquely, so that the aperture, being valvular, allows the urine to flow into, but not out of the organ. 66. The vas deferens is the tube which conveys the seminal fluid from the testicle into the prostatic part of the urethra. It ascends at the back part of the spermatic cord through the inguinal canal into the abdomen ; then, leaving the cord, it curves downwards- over the side of the bladder, gradually approaching nearer to the middle line. Before it reaches the prostate it becomes very tortu- ous, and is joined by the duct of the seminal vesicle. The com- mon duct thus formed (ductus communis ejaculatorius) terminates in the lower part of the prostatic portion of the urethra. In point of size and hardness the vas deferens has very much the feel of whip-cord. 67. Vesiculce seminales.—These are situated, one on either side, between the bladder and the rectum. Strictly speaking each is a tube, but this is so convoluted that it looks more like a little saccu- lated bladder. When rolled up, the tube is not more than two and a half inches long, but when unravelled it is more than twice that length, and about the size of a small writing quill. We mav observe that several blind tubes, or cmcal prolongations, proceed from the main one, after the manner of a stag’s horn. The vesi- culse seminales do not run parallel, but they diverge from each other posteriorly like the branches of the letter V, and each lies immediately on the outer side of the vas deferens into which it leads. If one of these vesicles be opened we find that a brownish- coloured fluid escapes from it. This is presumed to be in some way or other accessory to the function of generation.* 68. Prostate gland.—This glandular organ is situated at the * The vesiculae seminales are but imperfectly developed till the age of puberty. In a child of three years of age they can hardly be inflated with the blowpipe.