411 ANATOMY OF THE STOMACH. Lastly, the minute urinary tubes are lined by a ciliated epi- thelium : the epithelium of the pelvis of the kidney, and of the ureter, is tesselated. 103. Supra-renal capsule.—This body is situated at the top of the kidney, and in shape resembles a cocked hat. It is sur- rounded by a thin covering, which sends down partitions into the interior through furrows observed on the surface. If a perpendicular section be made through it, we find that it consists of a pretty firm exterior or cortical part, and of an interior soft pulpy substance. The cortical portion is of a yellow colour, and forms the principal part of the organ. When examined with the high powers of the microscope, it is found to be composed of independent closed tubes, about yLgth of an inch in diameter, arranged perpendicular to the surface, and covered by the minute ramifications of the arteries. The tubes contain a few nucleated cells, but chiefly minute granules. The central part is of a very dark brown colour, and so soft in texture that one might mistake it for a cavity. It appears to consist almost entirely of a plexus of minute veins.* In early fetal life the supra-renal capsules are comparatively of large size, surpassing the true kidneys in dimensions. They after- wards diminish in size, and become subordinate organs. But their precise function is unknown. 104. Stomach and intestine^.—The alimentary canal is composed of three coats, differing in structure, and connected together by cellular tissue. First, there is a serous or peritoneal coat, which has been sufficiently described at § 22. Secondly, under the serous is a muscular coat, upon which the chief strength of the bowel depends. It consists of two distinct strata of fibres; the outer stratum is longitudinal, the inner circular. This arrange- ment not only makes the bowel all the stronger, but also regulates its peristaltic action ; for the longitudinal fibres, by their contrac- reasons : 1, from the analogous case of the vena portae, out of which the bile is elaborated in the liver j 2, from the fact that in reptiles the urine is secreted from venous blood. * Consult “ A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland,” by Simon. London, 1845. u 2