DEEP STRATUM OF THE PERINEUM. 359 to the plane, but also affords surface for the origin of its muscular fibres. About one inch below the symphysis pubis the plane is traversed by the urethra ; in the substance of it there runs on either side the large artery which supplies the bulb ; and there are also, on either side of the bulb, Cowper’s glands. Now, this muscular plane, though apparently consisting of a single muscle, is, in point of fact, made up of three : herein lies the difficulty, a difficulty not inherent in the subject itself, but because we have not a view of the parts from their pelvic side. What, then, are the three muscles P As follows :—a little above the anus there are the anterior fibres of the levator ani ; higher up, that is behind the bulb, there is the transversus perinei pro- fundus ; still higher, namely on the level of the urethra, there is the constrictor urethrae. But the urethra is an inch below the point of the arch ; what, therefore, blocks up the remainder of the arch above it ? A strong aponeurotic septum, which we may call, if we please, the triangular ligament. This does not appear now, but we shall see it presently. 51. Deep perineal fascia.—Proceeding, in the next place, to examine the truth of what has been said, we should first remove from the stratum its layer of fascia. This, we know, is called the deep perineal fascia.* Though the chief points concerning it have been already alluded to, it may be well again to mention that it is attached to the pubic arch, that it not only strengthens the muscular stratum, but gives origin to some of its fibres, and that, a little above the level of the anus, it, is closely connected with the more superficial fascia of these parts. Thus, then, to use a coarse illustration, the superficial and deep fasciae of the perineum form a kind of sac, of which the bottom is just above the level of the anus, while the sides are represented by the bones. The only out- let from the sac is towards the penis and scrotum; and this is pre- cisely the course which urine takes when, from ulceration or rup- ture of the urethra, it is effused into the perineum. * Some anatomists call this fascia the triangular ligament. But this term should be restricted to the strong aponeurosis which blocks up the pubic arch above the urethra.