GENERAL POSITION OE PELVIC VISCERA. 365 The use of this capsule is, obviously, to fasten down the neck of the bladder and the prostate, and to maintain them in their proper position with regard to the pubic arch. But for this, the prostate would rise with the distending bladder, elongate the urethra, and thereby materially obstruct the free passage of the urine.* Proceeding with the dissection, we should now make ourselves familiar with the general position of the pelvic viscera, and the plexus of veins about them. 60. General position of the pelvic viscera in the male.—In making a side view of the pelvic viscera, they will be found so surrounded by veins and loose cellular tissue, that he who dissects them for the first time will meet with considerable difficulty in dis- covering their definite boundaries. It is easy enough to trace the rectum along the back of the pelvis. The position of the bladder, too, in front of the rectum, and immediately behind the symphysis pubis, is sufficiently obvious. At the lower and front part of the bladder,—in other words, at its neck, there is a gland called the prostate, through which the urethra passes. In the cellular tissue, between the bladder and the rectum, there is, on either side, a con- voluted tube called the vesicula seminalis ; and directly on the inner side of each vesicula there is the seminal duct or vas deferens. Before we describe these several parts in detail, it is necessary to say a few words about the large tortuous veins by which they are surrounded. 61. Plexus of veins.—Beneath the pelvic fascia about the prostate and the neck of the bladder, there are a number of large and tortuous veins, which form, by their mutual communications, the prostatic and the vesical plexuses. They empty themselves, on either side, into the internal iliac. In early life they are not have, then, to do, is to reflect on either side the pubic origin of the levator ani, and to raise the prostate from the rectum. * In cases of extreme distension of the bladder, the urethra does in some rare instances become elongated to a very considerable extent; so that a very long catheter is required to reach the bladder.—Consult M. Deschamps, Traite de l’Operation de la Taille, tom. i. p. 221.