80 THE UPPER ARM. of the arm it perforates the fascia, and divides into filaments some of which will he traced down the back of the forearm to the wrist. d. Before its division the musculo-spiral nerve sends branches to the supinator longus, the extensor carpi radialis longior, and, in some few instances, to the brachialis anticus muscles. A filament of the musculo-spiral nerve has been traced into one of the foramina in the humerus near the external condyle. 40. The branches of the brachial artery should now be exa- mined: there are only three of importance, and all arise from its inner side; they are called the profunda superior, the profunda inferior, and the anastomotica magna. The prof unda superior arises from the inner and posterior part of the brachial artery, immediately below the tendon of the teres major muscle. It winds obliquely round the posterior part of the hume- rus, between the outer and inner heads of the triceps, in company with the muSculo-spiral nerve, and a little above the middle of the arm divides into two branches, which run for some distance on either side of the nerve. One of these descends in the substance of the triceps to the olecranon, supplies the muscle and the elbow-joint, and anastomoses with the ulnar and interosseous recurrent arteries. The other branch accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve to the outer side of the arm, descends deep in the fissure between the brachialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and terminates in numerous ramifications, some of which pass in front of the external condyle, and others behind it, to inosculate with the radial and interosseous recurrent arteries. Previously to its division the superior profunda sends off several branches to the coraco-brachialis and triceps muscles, some of which inosculate minutely with the circumflex and acromial thoracic arteries. These would assist in establishing a collateral circulation if the brachial artery were tied above the origin of its profunda branch. 41. The profunda inferior artery arises from the brachial, oppo- site to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or sometimes by a com- mon trunk with the superior profunda. It pierces the intermuscular septum, in company with the ulnar nerve, and descends along the inner border of the triceps to the space between the internal condyle