PELVIC FASCIA. 364 So far there can be no difficulty. But that part of the fascia which is in every point of view the most important still remains to he examined. The fact is, that it forms a complete capsule for the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. Now we will endeavour to give a simple idea how this capsule is constructed. In front, the fascia is attached round the margin of the pubic arch; from thence it passes backwards, and is gradually lost round the neck of the bladder. Taking it as a whole, it forms a kind of case, which encloses not only the prostate and neck of the bladder, but also the prostatic plexus of veins, and the beginning of the muscular part of the urethra. Towai'ds the perineum, the case is closed by the stratum of muscle and fascia which blocks up the pubic arch, and constitutes what we have called the floor of the peri- neum. This stratum must of necessity be divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy ; hut in passing the knife through the prostate into the bladder, the greatest care should be taken not to injure the capsule alluded to, and for reasons already as- signed. If, with other anatomists, we were to describe this capsule piece- meal, then we should say that it consists of so many ligaments : its upper part would he formed by the anterior ligaments of the blad- der, its sides by the lateral ligaments* of the prostate, and its lower part by a horizontal layer of fascia interposed between the prostate and the rectum.f * These ligaments extend from the ramus of the ischium to the side of the prostate, and sometimes go by the name of ischio-prostatic. f Denonvilliers is the only anatomist who puts these several portions of the fascia together, and describes them as a whole. He says : “La prostate et la portion membraneuse de l’uretre sont placees au centre, comprises entre des plans fibreux superieurs, inferieurs et lateraux, enveloppees de toutes parts, et engainees a la maniere des muscles. On con<;oit done comment la portion membraneuse de l’uretre se trouve contenue dans une sorte de caisse irregulierement quadrilatere.” — Propositions d’Anat. et de Phys., Paris, 1837. If the natural question be asked, How is all this to be demonstrated ? we answer, that an express dissection must be made. The pubic arch must be removed en masse with the prostate, bladder, rectum, and penis. All that we