236 OPENINGS INTO THE PHARYNX. to the basilar process of the occiput, to the point of the petrous portion of the temporal hone, and to the internal pterygoid piate of the sphenoid. It maintains the strength and integrity of the sac at its upper part, where the muscular fibres are deficient; but it gradually diminishes in thickness as it descends, and is finally lost near the oesophagus. One can easily understand why the pharynx should be deprived of its muscular coat opposite the pos- terior openings of the nose. The sac in this situation is never required as a passage for food, but only for air into and out of the lungs, and therefore must its channel be ever wide and open. 149. The pharynx must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision extending along the whole length of its posterior surface; we shall then observe the several openings which lead into its cavity:— 1. The posterior openings of the nares. 2. On either side of them, near the posterior extremity of the lower turbinated bones, are the openings of the Eustachian tubes : below the nares is the soft palate, from the centre of which descends the uvula. 3. Below the soft palate is the communication with the mouth, commonly called the isthmus faucium. 4. On either side of this are two pro- minent folds of mucous membrane, constituting the anterior and posterior half-arches of the palate; and between them are placed the tonsils. 5. Below the isthmus faucium is the epiglottis, which is connected to the base of the tongue by three folds of mucous membrane. 6. Below the epiglottis is the wide aperture leading into the larynx. The parts we are now about to examine are lined by the same mucous membrane which is common to the entire tract of the respiratory passages and the alimentary canal. This membrane presents more or less characteristic differences in the different parts of these channels, according as they are intended as passages for air or for food. For instance, the mucous membrane lining that part of the pharynx which is situated above the velum palati, being intended to transmit air only, is very delicate in its texture, and lined by a ciliated epithelium like the rest of the air-passages. But in that part opposite the fauces, the mucous membrane in every respect resembles that of the mouth, and is provided with squamous epithelium. At the back of the larynx we observe that