44 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. In the upper three-fourths of the fore-arm the median nerve lies deep between the muscles ; but in the lower fourth it is more superficial, and runs very nearly down the centre of the wrist. Its exact position is between the fleshy border of the outer tendon of the flexor sublimis and the inner border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, from which in an arm of ordinary size the nerve is about a quarter of an inch distant. If the tendon of the palmaris longus happen to be broader than usual, it may partially cover the median nerve near the wrist: but most frequently the nerve is immediately beneath the fascia,—the tendon lying to its ulnar side. Immediately below the elbow, the median nerve sends off branches to supply the pronator and all the flexor muscles of the fore- arm, with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve. The branch to the pronator teres and the radial flexor is sometimes given off above the elbow, and one of these muscular nerves some- times sends a filament which penetrates the front of the elbow joint. The interosseous branch of the median will be described with the corresponding artery. (See § 68.) Before the median nerve passes beneath the annular ligament of the wrist it sends off its superficial palmar branch. This branch lies close to the radial side of the median nerve, perforates the fascia at the wrist, and, passing over the anterior annular ligament, divides into small filaments, which communicate with a corre- sponding branch from the radial nerve, and supply the skin of the palm and ball of the thumb. Divide the superficial layer ol muscles across the centre of the forearm, and reflect them, in order to obtain a full view of those more deeply seated. Observe the intervening fascia. The prin- cipal vessels and nerves should be preserved. The deep-seated muscles consist of the flexor digitorum pro- fundus, and the flexor longus pollicis ; beneath both, in the lower fourth of the fore-arm, lies the pronator quadratus. On the inter- osseous membrane will be seen the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. 64. The Jlexor profundus digitorum, is the largest and thickest