PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 424 10. Femoral aperture.—We hare explained that the hollow under the crural arch is completely occupied, except for a small space on the inner side of the vein. This weak part is called the femoral aperture, and through this a hernia may protrude. Now in order to form a correct idea of the size and other matters con- cerning this opening, we should remove the peritoneum, and intro- duce the end of the little finger into it from the abdomen. This can he done without much force. We then find that the finger is girt pretty tightly on all sides : in front, there is the crural arch; behind, there is the bone ; on the outer side there is the femoral vein ; and on the inner side there is the thin wiry edge of Gim- bernat’s ligament. Such are the boundaries of the gap which the finger makes. At the same time we are to remember that, in the undisturbed condition of the parts, there is no gap at all; there is only a weak place here, which, when a hernia escapes through it, feels very much like a ring : hence it is commonly described under the name of the femoral ring.* Let us now push the finger (and this generally requires some force) a little further, say for an inch or so, down the thigh. Where does the finger pass ? Into what is called the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels. This, therefore, we must now en- deavour to describe. 1 1. Sheath of the femoral vessels.—The femoral vessels do not descend naked, as it were, beneath the crural arch, but bring down with them from the pelvis a proper investing sheath, just such as other large vessels have. In addition to this, however, in their passage beneath the arch they receive another covering, which, though at first distinct from the proper sheath, is very soon lost upon it. This additional covering appears to be derived imme- diately from the arch itself, but it is not so : it is, in point of fact, a continuation of the fascia transversalis of the abdomen, and is completed on the inner side by a tough membrane proceeding from Gimbernat’s ligament. Upon the whole, we can imagine that this * The femoral ring is naturally occupied by a little fat and cellular mem- brane, by absorbent vessels, and often by a small absorbent gland. But we have never met with anything deserving the name of a “ diaphragm” or membranous septum, such as is described by Cloquet as the “ septum crurale.”