185 GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. It extends from the apex of the styloid process downwards and inwards to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. It is often more or less ossified. b. The ascending palatine artery, a branch of the external maxillary, (see § 34, a) will probably be seen running up between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, and subsequently dividing into numerous irregular branches which supply these muscles, the palate, the side of the pharynx, and the tonsils. 87. Glosso-pliaryngeal nerve.—The best guide to this nerve is the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It is classed as one of the divisions of the eighth pair. It arises by four or five fila- ments from the restiform tract of the medulla oblongata, near the pons Varolii, and is therefore at its origin purely a sensitive or afferent nerve. Leaving the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, it descends very obliquely over the internal carotid artery, and then proceeds along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. But now it curves forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus, and disappears beneath the hyo-glossus, where it divides into its ter- minal branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and the tonsils. a. It was stated that at its origin the glosso-pharyngeal is purely a sensitive nerve. But soon after its exit from the skull it receives communications from the facial and the nervus accessorius, so that it soon becomes a compound nerve, i. e. composed of both sensitive and motor filaments. Moreover, at the base of the skull it is pro- vided with a ganglion, called, from its discoverer, the ganglion of Andersch. The minute branches given off by this ganglion will be noticed in their proper place; at present we are more concerned with what is called the pharyngeal plexus of nerves. 88. Pharyngeal plexus.—By the side of the pharynx, near its middle constrictor muscle, we find an intricate interlacement of nerves, constituting the plexus which presides over the act of deglu- tition. Its dissection requires much time and care, and a pharynx exclusively prepared for the purpose. The nerves which enter into its composition are derived from many sources, namely, the glosso- pharyngeal, the pneumogastric (especially its superior laryngeal