LIGAMENTS CONNECTING THE BONES OE THE FOOT. 477 and the scaphoid bone. In consequence of their being inserted wide of the axis of the hinge, its component fibres are not equally tight in all the motions of the joint. By moving the foot back- wards and forwards, we see that the anterior fibres limit extension, and the posterior flexion of the ankle. The external lateral ligament consists of three entirely distinct parts,—an anterior, a posterior, and a middle. All three arise from an excavation near the summit of the external malleolus; the two first are inserted, respectively, into the front and the back of the astragalus; while the middle one is inserted into the os calcis. The closure of the joint is completed, in front and behind, b) a thin capsular membrane attached to the bones near their respec- tive articular surfaces, and sufficiently loose to permit the necessary range of motion. We have said that, besides flexion and extension, the construc- tion of the ankle-joint admits of a very slight rotatory movement in a horizontal direction, the centre being on the fibular side. In adaptation to this movement the internal malleolus is made much shorter than the outer; it is not so tightly confined by its liga- ments, and its articular surface is part of a cylinder. By laying open the joint, we have an opportunity of observing that the breadth of the corresponding articular surfaces of the bones is greater in front than behind: the object of this is to render the tibia less liable to be dislocated forwards over the astra- galus. Whenever this happens, the astragalus must of necessity become firmly locked between the malleoli. 108. Ligaments connecting the bones cf the foot.— The astragalus is the key-stone of the arch of the foot, and sup- ports the whole weight of the body. It articulates with the os calcis and the os scaphoides in such a manner as to permit the ab- duction and adduction of the foot, so useful in the direction of our steps. We must carefully examine this for ourselves, since no mere verbal description can do the subject justice. The astragalus articulates with the os calcis by two distinct sur- faces, respecting which it is necessary to remark, that the