195 BItAOHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. very distinctly descends from the neck over the front of the trachea to the pericardium. After the removal of this fascia a little dissec- tion will bring into view the great veins which return the blood from the head and upper limbs, viz. the right and left brachio- cephalic or innominate veins. On either side they are formed respectively by the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular near the sternal end of the clavicle ; but since they differ in their course and relations we must describe each separately, and the left first, being the more conspicuous. a. The left brachio-cephalic vein passes behind the first bone of the sternum from the left towards the right side, in order to join the vena cava superior. It is about three inches in length, and its direction inclines a little downwards, deviating more or less in different subjects from the horizontal line. In any case it neces- sarily crosses over the trachea and three primary branches of the arch of the aorta. We are reminded of this relation in some instances of aneurism of these great vessels: the vein becomes partially compressed between the aneurismal tumour and the sternum, and hence arise the great swelling and venous congestion of the parts from which it returns the blood. Another point of interest to observe is, that the upper border of the vein lies nearly on a level with the upper border of the sternum; in some instances it rises even higher, and we have seen it on several occasions crossing in front of the trachea a full inch above the sternum. The possibility of such an occurrence should be remembered in the performance of tracheotomy. The veins tenninating in the left brachio-cephalic are the middle thyroid, which descend in front of the trachea, the deep cervical, vertebral, and internal mammary ; also small veins from the peri- cardium, mediastinum, thymus gland (in childhood), and occa- sionally the left superior intercostal vein. But all this is subject to variety. b. The right brachio-cephalic vein descends nearly vertically to join the superior vena cava. It is about one and a half inch in length, and is situated about one inch from the mesial line of the sternum. Parallel with it on its left side runs the corresponding