STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. 384 Lastly, the urethra is provided with a closely-set network of absorbent vessels,—a fact which has been demonstrated by the beautiful quicksilver injections of Panizza. * 78. Anatomy of the penis.—The skin of the penis is re- markably thin and extensible, and is connected to the body of the organ by an abundance of loose cellular tissue, in which fat is never found. At the end of the penis the skin forms an ample fold, called the prepuce, or foreskin, for the protection of the glans ;j- and the thin fold which passes from the under surface of the glans to the prepuce is called the frenum preputii. If the glans be habitually covered by the prepuce, its surface partakes more of the appearance of mucous membrane than of common skin; but if the reverse, then the cuticular covering of the glans thickens and dries. a. In a well-injected glans, we observe that the surface is covered by minute papillae, just like the end of the finger, which are endowed with keen sensibility by the great dorsal nerves of the penis. Round its margin—in other words, round the corona glandis—there are a number of minute sebaceous glands which secrete an unctuous matter called smegma preputii. In cases of congenital phimosis, this is apt to collect in considerable quantity, and becoming rancid, irritates and excoriates the glans and prepuce, particularly in summer and in hot countries. b. The chief bulk of the penis consists of erectile structures, named, from the appearance of their interior, the corpora cavernosa. * Osservazioni antropo-zootom. Sec., Pavia, 1830. This anatomist has also displayed by injections an extremely fine network of absorbents which cover the glans penis. The interstices of this network are smaller than the diameter of the tubes. f When the foreskin is, from the time of birth, so tight that the glans cannot be uncovered, such a state is called a “ congenital phimosis.” This condition occasions no inconvenience in childhood, but is apt, after puberty, to become troublesome and painful, so that it is necessary to slit up the prepuce and set the glans at liberty. In persons who have a tight foreskin, it some- times happens that, when the glans has been uncovered, the prepuce cannot be again drawn over it : this is called a “ paraphymosis.” The neck of the glans becomes tightly girt, great distension and inflammation are the conse- quences, and very serious results may ensue, unless the foreskin be reduced.