DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 223 as thick as that of the right, and that this thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex. The interior of the left ventricle is so much like that of the right that it would be superfluous to describe it in detail. We need merely observe that the auriculo- ventricular valve consists of only two principal flaps: hence its name “ mitral” or “ bicuspid.” The larger of these flaps is placed between the aortic and auricular orifices. There are only two “musculi papillaresone attached to the anterior, the other to the posterior surface of the ventricle. They are naturally thicker, and their “ cordce tendinecs” stronger than those of the heart, but the plan upon which they are arranged is precisely similar. From the upper and back part of the ventricle a smooth passage leads to the orifice of the aorta. It is placed rather in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening; but the two are close together, and only separated by the larger flap of the mitral valve. Its orifice is guarded by three semilunar valves, of which the arrangement, structure, and mode of action, are precisely like those of the pulmonary artery. Of course their framework is propor- tionately stronger, consistently with the greater strength of the left ventricle and the greater impulse of the blood. In the “sinuses of Valsalva” are observed the orifices of the coronary arteries. At the openings between the auricles and the ventricles, and also at the commencement of the aorta and pulmonary artery, we find rings or zones of fibrous tissue, which serve as fixed points for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the heart. 132. Mode in which the great arteries are attached to the ventricles.—The upper edge of the fibrous ring at the arterial orifice of the ventricle is excavated into three concavities, into which the middle or elastic coat of the artery accurately fits, and is very firmly attached. To the line of union are fixed the semi- lunar valves. The vessels are also connected to the heart by the serous layer of the pericardium, and by a continuation of the lining membrane of the ventricle (endocardium). 133. Arrangement of the muscular fibres of the heart.—Most of the fibres are attached by both extremities to the fibrous rings of the heart, either directly or through the medium of the cordse tendinese. The fibres of the auricles are cjuite distinct from those of the