39 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. the radial nerve, (a branch of the musculo-spiral) which lies to its outer side. Below this point, the nerve leaves the artery, and passes under the tendon of the supinator longus to the back of the hand: in some instances, however, the nerve sends a filament with the artery as low as the wrist. Thus, in the situation where the pulse is usually felt, the radial nerve no longer accompanies the artery, but here the vessel is ac- companied by a branch of the external cutaneous nerve, which runs superficial to it; some of its filaments perforate the fascia, twine round the artery, and accompany it to the back of the hand. Near the wrist the artery is covered by a strong layer of fascia, and is placed about one-third of an inch from the outer edge of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. 56. The following are the branches of the radial artery in the forearm:— The radial recurrent artery is given off just below the elbow ; it makes a slight curve downwards, and then runs upwards and out- wards in front of the external condyle of the humerus, between the extensor carpi radialis longior and the brachialis anticus muscles, and terminates in a direct anastomosis with the superior profunda, a branch of the brachial. The radial recurrent sends numerous branches, which ascend and descend to the muscles in the neigh- bourhood, and is one of the chief arteries which supply the elbow- joint, anastomosing freely with the other articular arteries. Numerous unnamed muscular branches are given off by the ra- dial in its course. 57. The arteria superficialis voice generally arises from the radial, about half an inch, or more, above the lower end of the radius; it runs superficially over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, above or perhaps through the origin of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, into the palm of the hand, where it inosculates with the superficial branch of the ulnar, thus completing the superficial palmar arch. There is great variety in the size and origin of the superficialis volae; sometimes it is very large, arises higher than usual, and runs to the wrist parallel with the radial ; sometimes it is very small, terminating in the muscles of the thumb; or it may be absent.