RECTUM. 367 greater part, terminate some beneath, and some on the side of the rectum. If this insertion be rightly understood, we see how it is that the levatores ani together form a kind of sling for the support of the rectum. Their name implies their power of raising the rectum and the floor of the pelvis, after the viscera have been pushed down by the combined action of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm. a. Coccygeus.—This muscle is but a continuation of the levator ani. It arises from the spine of the ischium, gradually expands, and is inserted into the side of the coccyx, which it obviously supports. 63. Rectum.—We have already directed attention to the general course of the rectum,—namely, that it enters the pelvis on the left of the sacrum, and that it describes a curve corresponding to the axis of the pelvis. Nothing further on this subject need be added, except that, just before its termination, the bowel curves down- wards so that the anal aperture is dependent. The rectum is not throughout of equal calibre. Its capacity becomes greater as it descends into the pelvis; and, immediately above the sphincter, it presents a considerable dilatation. This dilatation is not material in early life, but it increases as age advances. An adequate idea of it cannot be formed unless the bowel be fully distended. Under such circumstances the rectum loses altogether its cylindrical form, and bulges up on either side of the prostate and the base of the bladder. For this reason it is essential that the rectum be always emptied before the operation of lithotomy. The relations of the lower part of the rectum—that, namely, in- cluded between the recto-vesical pouch and the anus—deserve the most attentive consideration. To put this matter in the most practical light, we will suppose the forefinger to be introduced into the anus, and a catheter in the urethra. The first thing felt through the front wall of the bowel is the muscular part of the urethra. It lies just within the sphincter, and is about ten lines in front of the gut. About one and a half or two inches from the anus the finger comes upon the prostate gland; this is in close contact with the gut, and is readily felt on account of its hardness;