440 ANTERIOR CRURAL AND OBTURATOR NERVES. sively over the capsule, and communicates with the other articular arteries.* 30. Anterior crural and obturator nerves.—The anterior crural nerve is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus. (See Diss. of Abdomen, §39 d). We have aleady said that it passes under the crural arch, in a groove between the iliacus and the psoas muscles, and generally about half an inch from the outer side of the femoral artery. It soon divides into a number of branches, some of which supply the skin,—others, the extensor muscles of the thigh. The cutaneous branches,—namely, the long saphenous, the middle and internal cutaneous, have been already described at § 14, 27 a. Of its muscular branches we trace one to each of the several muscles which extend the leg. These need not be specified. But it cannot be said that it supplies them only, for it sends a small branch, beneath the femoral vessels, to the pectineus, and one also to the sartorius. a. The obturator nerve, also a branch of the lumbar plexus (see Diss. of Abdomen, § 39 c,) is intended for the supply of the ad- ductor muscles. It enters the thigh through the upper part of the obturator foramen with the corresponding artery, and soon divides into two branches, of which one passes in front of, the other behind the adductor brevis. The front branchf subdivides for the supply of the gracilis, the adductor longus and brevis; the hind one, by far the larger, supplies the obturator externus and the adductor magnus. We mav, in some bodies, succeed in tracing a filament of the obturator nerve through the notch of the acetabulum into the hip-joint, and another, which runs near the popliteal artery, into the hack part of the knee-joint. There is hut little to be said respecting the obturator artery so * While in its tendinous canal the femoral artery often gives off unnamed muscular branches of considerable size, and more especially one for the supply of the vastus internus. We may trace this branch thiough the substance of the vastus down to the patella, where it joins the beautiful network of vessels on the surface of that bone. f Near the lower border of the adductor longus: a filament from this branch gene-rally communicates with one of the internal cutaneous branches of the anterior crural nerve.