19 THE UPPER ARM. The nerves, one or more, which perforate the fascia near the middle of the outer part of the arm, are the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral. They are generally accompanied by a small artery from the superior profunda. They divide into numerous filaments, one or more of which will be traced down the outer and back part of the forearm to the wrist. In some instances this nerve sends cutaneous filaments up- wards and downwards in company with the cephalic vein. On the outer side of the tendon of the biceps, immediately above the elbow-joint, the external cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia, and divides into many branches, which supply the skin of the outer part of the forearm. 26. The next object of attention should be the disposition of the veins in front of the elbow, where venesection is usually performed. In cleaning these veins, great care should be taken not to divide the branches of the internal and external cutaneous nerves which pass both above and below them. The following is the ordinary arrangement of the superficial venous plexus at the bend of the elbow,but it is subject to frequent varieties:—On the outer side of the fore-arm is the radial, and on the inner side is the ulnar vein ; in the centre is a third, called the median, which divides into two branches 3 the external one, which unites with the radial to form the cephalic vein, is called the median cephalic ; the internal one, which unites with the ulnar to form the basilic, is named the median basilic vein. Near the point of its bifurcation, the median vein communicates by one or more branches with the deep veins which accompany the arteries of the forearm. Trace the cephalic vein up the arm. It runs superficially along the outer border of the biceps to the groove between the pectoralis major and the deltoid muscles, where it terminates in the axillary. The basilic vein ascends along the inner side of the arm in company with the internal cutaneous nerve, which usually lies close to its outer side. Near the middle or the upper third of the arm, it perforates the fascia, and empties itself either into the internal vena comes of the brachial artery or into the axillary vein. In their course along the upper arm, the basilic and cephalic, receive nume-