151 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. in front of the spine, others enter the inter-vertebral foramina, and are distributed to the spinal cord. c. The suprascapular artery (transversalis humeri) passes out- wards over the scalenus anticus muscle, and then runs behind and nearly parallel to the clavicle towards the superior border of the scapula, where it divides into branches some of which ramify above, others below, the spine of this bone. (See Arm, § 3.) d. The transversalis colli artery, though commonly a branch of the thyroid axis, frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It runs tortuously over the scalene muscle and the great nerves of the brachial plexns, passing sometimes between them, and disappears beneath the levator anguli scapulae. Its further progress is dissected with the arm (see Arm, § 112). Beneath the anterior border of the trapezius muscle it gives off the superficial cervical artery, which distributes branches to the levator anguli scapulae and trapezius, as well as the adjacent cervical glands. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and transversalis colli arteries commonly terminate in the external jugular, but sometimes in the subclavian. The inferior thyroid vein, when present, crosses in front of the common carotid artery, and ter- minates in the internal jugular. 47. Internal mammary.—This artery arises from the subclavian opposite to the thyroid axis. It enters the chest behind the sub- clavian vein, and descends longitudinally between the cartilages of the ribs and the pleura, about half an inch more or less from the sternum. Its further progress will be examined in the dissection of the chest. The corresponding vein most frequently terminates in the vena innominata; occasionally, on the right side, in the superior cava. 48. Superior intercostal.—This artery is given off by the sub- clavian rather behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and is not at present easily discovered. It descends into the chest, passing over the neck of the first and generally the second rib, and furnishes the arteries proper to the two upper intercostal spaces. It usually inosculates with the first intercostal branch of the aorta. The corresponding vein terminates on the right side in the vena-azvgos;