163 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. order to see the origin of the elevators of the upper lip and the nose. 63. Levator labii superioris alceque nasi.—This muscle arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone near the tendo oculi, and from the surface of this bone near the lower margin of the orbit. The fibres proceed downwards, and divide into two portions; of which the outer, comprising two-thirds of the muscle, terminates in the skin of the upper lip, mingling with the orbicularis oris and the levator labii proprius; the inner covers the posterior third of the ala of the nose, and terminates in the skin and cartilage of this organ. It acts chiefly in expressing the smile of derision, and the scornful affections of the mind. The habitual use of this muscle especially, and also of the muscles of the face generally, occasions corresponding permanent folds in the skin, which are, to a certain extent, indicative of the feelings and passions of the individual. 64. Levator labiisu perioris.—This muscle has a broad origin immediately above the infra-orbital foramen, partly from the supe- rior maxillary and partly from the malar bone. The fibres descend, inclining inwards, to the upper lip, and mingle with those of the orbicularis oris. This muscle is nearly an inch in breadth at its origin, and it covers the vessels and nerves which emerge from the infra-orbital foramen. 65. Levator anguli oris.—This muscle lies immediately beneath and is partially covered by the preceding. It has a broad origin from the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, immediately below the infra-orbital foramen. The fibres descend, inclining out- wards, and converge towards the angle of the mouth, where they intermingle with the lower fibres of the orbicularis oris and the depressor anguli oris. We have now to examine two muscles belonging to the nose— the triangularis or compressor nasi, and the depressor alae nasi. 66. Triangularis nasi.—This muscle arises from the superior maxillary bone near the ala of the nose. Its origin is concealed by the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. The fibres, diverging, spread over the side of the nose; the lower ones mingle with those of the depressor alae nasi; the upper are continuous with those of i 2