535 blSSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. over the membrana tympani. Only the outer portion is furnished with ceruminous glands, of which the peculiar bitter secretion is for the purpose of keeping the passage moist, and preventing- insects from lodging in it. The tympanum, or middle ear, is an irregular cavity scooped out of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and lined by mucous membrane. It is filled with air, which is freely admitted through the Eustachian tube; so that the atmospheric pressure is equi- poised on both sides of the membrana tympani. It contains a chain of small bones, of which the use is to communicate the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the internal parts of the ear. For this purpose one end of the chain is attached to the membrana tympani, the other to the fenestra ovalis. At the back part of it is an opening for the passage of air into the mastoid cells. Lastly, a nerve, called the chorda tympani (a branch of the portio dura) runs across it. Membrana tympani.—We have already said that this mem- brane completely closes the bottom of the meatus auditorius. It is nearly circular, and its circumference is set in a bony groove, so that it is stretched somewhat like the parchment of a drum on the outer wall of the tympanum. Its plane is not vertical, but slants from above downwards, forming, with the lower part of the meatus, an angle of 45° : nor is it quite flat, but slightly conical, the apex being directed inwards towards the tympanum, and firmly united to the handle of the little bone called the malleus. The structure of the membrane is essentially fibrous; some of the fibres radiate from the centre, others are circular. Its inner sur- face is lined by mucous membrane; its outer surface is covered by an extremely thin layer of the true skin. This sufficiently accounts for the great sensibility of the membrane, and its vascu- larity when inflamed. Eustachian tube.—For a complete account of this, see the dis section of the Head and Neck, § 157. We need only say here that it proceeds from the anterior part of the tympanum downwards and forwards to the pharynx. Tympanic bones.—The four little bones in the tympanum are