ACROMIO-CLAVICULAR JOINT. 93 The probable purpose served by the fibro-cartilage is to adapt the articular surface of the sternum more accurately to the different movements of the clavicle. It also acts as a ligament, preventing the clavicle from being driven inwards towards the mesial line. The two synovial membranes greatly facilitate the motions of the joint. Observe the relative form of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones: that of the sternum is slightly concave in the transverse, and convex in the antero-posterior direction ; that of the clavicle is the reverse. The form of the articular surfaces and the ligaments of a joint being known, it is easy to understand the movements of which it is capable. The clavicle can move upon the sternum in a direction either vertical or horizontal: thus it admits of circumduction. These movements, though very limited at the sternum, become very considerable at the apex of the shoulder. 152. Connexion of the Clavicle with the Scapula.— The outer end of the clavicle articulates with the acromion, and is connected by strong ligaments to the coracoid process of the scapula. Joint between the acromion and the clavicle.—The clavicle and the acromion articulate with each other by means of two flat oval cartilaginous surfaces, of which the planes are nearly vertical, and the greater diameters in the antero-posterior direction. The superior ligament, a broad band of ligamentous fibres, strengthened by the aponeurosis of the trapezius, extends from the upper surface of the acromion to the upper surface of the clavicle. The inferior ligament, of lesser strength, extends along the under surface of the joint from bone to bone. An inter-articular fibro-cartilage is often found in this joint: it is incomplete, and seldom extends lower than the upper half. There is only one synovial membrane. Coraco-clavicular ligament.—The clavicle is connected to the coracoid process of the scapula by two strong ligaments—the conoid and trapezoid, which, being continuous with each other, might fairly be considered as one. The trapezoid ligament is the more anterior. It arises from the back part of the upper surface of the