37 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. ment into the palm, and so on to the fingers, where they split to allow the passage of the deep flexor tendons, and are inserted into the base of the second phalanges. Its action is, therefore, to bend the second joint of the fingers, and afterwards the first. In some instances there are only three tendons at the wrist; in such cases the tendon of the ring-finger gives off in the palm that of the little finger. The four tendons at the wrist are not all situated on the same plane. Those of the middle and ring-fingers lie immediately above those of the fore and little fingers. All the tendons, excepting sometimes that of the ring-finger, receive fleshy fibres on their outer borders as low as the annular ligament. 53. The flexor carpi ulnaris muscle is situated on the inner side of the flexor sublimis digitorum. It arises from the lower part of the internal condyle, and from the inner edge of the olecranon, these two origins forming a kind of arch, under which the ulnar nerve passes. It is also attached to the upper two-thirds of the posterior edge of the ulna, through the medium of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. To obtain a good view of this aponeurosis, the muscle must be separated from the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies beneath it. The tendon makes its appearance on the radial side of the muscle, about the lower third of the fore-arm, and receives fleshy fibres on its ulnar side as low as the wrist. It is inserted into the os pisiforme, and thence by a strong tendon into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone and the os unciforme. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is the guide to the ulnar artery, which lies close to its radial border, and is in some instances partially overlapped by it. As it passes over the annular ligament, the tendon gives off externally a fibrous expansion to protect the ulnar vessels. A small bursa is sometimes found beneath its tendon just before its insertion into the os pisiforme. The action of this muscle is to bend the hand and incline it to the ulnar side. 54. The supinator radii longus muscle is situated on the outer side of the fore-arm, and forms the external boundary of the triangu- lar space at the bend of the elbow. It arises from the outer side of