MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 156 It is necessary to observe that its fibres do not surround the mouth in one unbroken series, so as to form a complete muscular ellipse, but that those of the upper and lower lip respectively decussate at the angles of the mouth, and intermingle with the fibres of the buccinator and other muscles which converge from different parts of the face. The superficial surface of the muscle is intimately connected with the lips and the surrounding integument; the deep surface is separated from the mucous membrane of the mouth by the labial glands and the coronary vessels. Action.—This is the antagonist of all the muscles which move the lips. Upon a nice balance of their opposite actions depends the varied play of the mouth with which every one is familiar. In strong muscular lips the upper part of the orbicularis sends a small subcutaneous slip of muscle from each side along the septum nasi nearly to the apex. The interval between the two slips cor- responds to the furrow below the nose. This is the “naso-labialis” or “depressor septi narium” of some anatomists.* 54. Depressor anguli oris.—This muscle is triangular in form. It has a broad origin from the outer surface of the base of the lower jaw, below the “ foramen mentale” along a line corresponding to the two bicuspid and the two anterior molar teeth. The fibres ascending converge towards the angle of the mouth, where they intermingle with the zygomatici and the upper part of the orbicu- laris oris. Action.—This is an important muscle in a physiognomical point of view, as it acts in all sorrowful emotions. We see its effects remarkably well in crying. 55. Depressor labii inferioris, or quadratus menti.—We must reflect the preceding in order to obtain a complete view of this muscle. It arises from that part of the outer surface of the ramus of the jaw which corresponds to the canine and the two or three teeth next in succession. The fibres ascend and terminate partly in the skin of the lower lip and partly in the orbicularis oris. It covers the vessels and neive which emerge from the “foramen mentale.” 56. Levator menti.—To display this muscle we must evert the * Haller, Albinus.