148 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. the phrenic nerve and the subclavian vein would be the chief objects exposed to injury. This operation is said to have been successfully performed by Dupuytren in the year 1819.* More recently it has been performed by Dr. Warren, of Boston. The patient recovered, though the pleura was wounded during the operation, f But in the last part of its course, that is, on the outer side of the scalenus, the artery may be tied with comparative facility. Besides its more superficial position the arteiy offers here this favourable advantage, that no branches, in the generality of subjects at least, arise from it. The external incision should be made from three to four inches in length parallel with the upper border of the clavicle. We should have to divide the platysma, some of the supra-clavicular nerves, and the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein must be drawn aside, or divided and tied at both ends. With the finger and the handle of the scalpel we must then make way through the cellular tissue down to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, behind which the artery will be found lying upon the first rib. In a well-marked rib there may be felt at the insertion of the scalenus a tubercle which is a very good guide to the artery. It will be necessary to divide a layer of fascia which immediately covers the vessel before the aneurismal needle can be introduced around it. The needle should be passed between the artery and the vein so that the point of it in rising may be less likely to injure the thin coats of the vein. In the hands of a surgeon possessed of a practical knowledge of anatomy the operation above described would appear to be conn paratively easy, and indeed is so, provided all circumstances be favourable; but this is by no means always the case. It often happens that the aneurismal or other tumour, on account of which the operation is performed, elevates the clavicle beyond its natural level, and so disturbs the relative situation of the parts that to expose the artery and place a ligature around it becomes exceed- ingly difficult. Under such circumstances one cannot be surprised * Hyrtl. Handbuch der tcpographiscen anatomie, vol. i. p. 344. •j- Med. Chirurg. Trans., vol. xxix. p. 25.