DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 22a refluent blood, bag, as it were, and fall together so as to close the calibre of the tube. The greater the pressure, the more accurate is the closure. In the production of this result it should be remem- bered that the coats of the artery are very elastic and yielding, while the whole structure of the valve, as well as the circumference to which it is attached, is quite unyielding; consequently, when the artery is distended by the impulse of the blood, its wall is removed from the contact of the free margin of the valves, and these are the more readily caught by the least retrograde motion of the blood. The force of the reflux is sustained by the tendinous part of the valves; and, according to Haller, they are capable of sustaining a weight of 631bs. before they give way. But the thinner portions, or the lunulse, become placed so as to lie side by side, each one with that of the adjacent valve. All this may be at once seen by filling the artery with water. 130. Left auricle.—This is situated at the left side and posterior part of the base of the heart. In shape it is somewhat quadri- lateral, and it receives the pulmonary veins, two on either side, which return the purified blood from the lungs. From its upper and left side the auricular appendage projects towards the right, advancing over the root of the pulmonary artery. The cavity of the auricle should be opened by a horizontal incision proceeding from one pulmonary vein to another: from this a second should be made into the appendix. Its interior is smooth and flat, except- ing in the appendix, where the “ musculi pectinati’’ are observed. We should notice the openings of the four pulmonary veins. Upon the septum between the auricles is seen a depression indi- cating the remains of the foramen ovale; and this is limited below by a crescent-shaped edge, which is part of the remains of that valvular apparatus. At the lower and front part of the auricle is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is of an oval form, with its long axis nearly transverse, and in the adult commonly admits the passage of about two fingers. 131. Left ventricle.—This occupies the left border, and forms the apex of the heart. One-third of it only is seen on the upper surface. To examine the interior, raise a triangular portion from its front wall. It will then be observed that it is about three times