75 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 124. Trace the continuation of the suprascapular artery (see § 111). It passes above, or, less frequently, through the notch of the scapula, into the supra-spinal fossa; sends a branch to the supra-spinatus, and another to .the shoulder-joint; and then descends over the neck of the scapula into the fossa below the spine, where it inosculates directly with the dorsalis scapulae. Its nume- rous branches ramify upon the bone, and supply the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles. The supra-scapular nerve passes most frequently through the notch of the scapula, accompanies the corresponding artery, and supplies the supra and infra-spinatus muscles. 125. The dorsal branch of the infra-scapular artery (dorsalis scapulae, see § 20) passes backwards through a triangular interval, bounded superiorly by the subscapularis, inferiorly by the teres major, and in front by the long head of the triceps. Having reached the dorsum of the scapula, it ascends, close to the bone.- and anastomoses with the supra-scapular artery. It sends a branch, which runs between the origins of the teres major and minor, to the inferior angle of the scapula, and another which ramifies in the subscapular fossa. The frequent communications about the scapula between the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries, would furnish a free current of blood to the arm if the subclavian were tied above the clavicle. 126. Triceps extensor cubiti.— The origins of this muscle, which were only partially seen in the dissection of the upper arm (see § 38), should now be more fully examined. The long head is attached to a rough surface about an inch long, immediately below the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a strong tendon which is thickest at its upper part, where it is connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The tendon divides into two layers, of which the internal is prolonged for some distance, to afford increased surface for the origin of muscular fibres. The long head then descends, between the teres major and minor, along the posterior part of the humerus. The second or external head arises, by aponeurotic fibres, from