PANCREAS. KIDNEYS. 336 so that there is a chain of arterial communications from one end to the other of the intestinal canal. The inferior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pan- . creas. In order to complete our knowledge of the position of the duo- denum and the pancreas, a ligature should now be placed on the upper end of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the intermediate portions of the small and large intestine should be removed. By simply turning up the stomach we expose at once the horse-shoe course of the duodenum round the great end of the pancreas, and the several relations of this portion of the alimentary canal described at § 21, a. 29. The pancreas is the great salivary gland of the abdomen, and is situated immediately behind the stomach. It is of a some- what elongated form. The larger portion, or the head, is em- braced by the duodenum, and from this the gland extends across the spine to the spleen. Like all other salivary glands, it is most abundantly supplied with blood: it receives numerous branches from the splenic artery, which runs along its upper border; some from the superior mesenteric, which lies beneath it, and others, too, from the gastro-epiploica dextra. Its duct runs through it from end to end, and opens into the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum. Thg liver, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen, should now be collectively removed. For this purpose it is necessary to cut through the ligaments of the liver, the venae cavae hepatic®, and the branches of the coeliac axis. These viscera, as well as the remainder of the intestinal canal, should be macerated in water, while we proceed to examine all that is to be seen at the back of the abdomen ; namely, the deep-seated muscles, the aorta and vena cava, the kidneys, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the sympathe- tic nerve. 30. Kidneys.—After the removal of what remains of the peri- toneum from the back of the abdomen, we discover the kidneys in 'the lumbar region, one on each side of the spine. They lie im- bedded in more or less fat, on the quadratus lumborum and the psoas muscles, pretty nearly opposite the two lower dorsal and the