HAMSTRING MUSCLES. 455 !by a thick tendon into the posterior part of the head of the tibia.* One or two other immediate connections of the -tendon will be more conveniently seen hereafter. But we must now observe a large bursa which is almost invariably found between it and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, where they rub one against the other. This bursa is generally from one and a half to two inches long; and the chief point of interest concerning it is, that it occa- sionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee- joint, not directly, but through the medium of another bursa be- neath the inner head of the gastrocnemius. From an examina- tion of 150 bodies, we infer that this communication exists about once in five instances; and it need scarcely be said that the pro- portion is large enough to make us cautious in interfering too roughly with this bursa when it becomes enlarged.! Action of the ham-string muscles.—These muscles produce two different effects, according as their fixed point is at the pelvis or the knee. With the fixed point at the pelvis, it is obvious enough that they can bend the knee; with the fixed point at the knee, they form a very important part of the machinery which keeps the body erect. For instance, if, when standing, we bend the body at the hip, and feel the muscles in question, we find that they are in strong action, in order to prevent the trunk from falling forwards; they, too, are the chief agents concerned in bringing the body again to the erect position. In doing this, they act as levers of the first order; the acetabulum being the fulcrum, the trunk the weight to be moved, and the power at the tuber ischii. To put the bearing of the muscles of the thigh on the pelvis in * We shall subsequently find that part of the tendon of the semi-mem- branosus is covered by the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and that there is a small bursa between them to prevent friction. f When the bursa in question becomes enlarged, it occasions a fluctuating swelling of greater or less dimensions on the inner side of the popliteal space. The swelling bulges out, and becomes tense and elastic when the knee is ex- tended, and vice versa. As to its shape, it is generally oblong ; but this is subject to variety, for we know that the bursae, when enlarged, are apt to become multilocular, and to burrow between the muscles where there is the least resistance.