ItECTO-VESICAL POUCH. 351 therefore there is a part of the under surface of the bladder not covered by peritoneum ; and since this part is in immediate contact with the rectum, it is quite practicable to tap the distended bladder through the front of the bowel. The operation is occasionally performed by some surgeons of good repute, and with great success. It is easily done, and not attended with much risk, pro- vided all the parts be in their regular position. But this is not always the case. It sometimes happens that the peritoneal pouch comes down lower—that is, nearer to the prostate than usual—or it may actually touch the gland; so that in such a case it would be next to impossible to tap the bladder from the rectum without going through the peritoneum. Here it may be as well to mention, that in young children the peritoneum comes down as low as what little prostate there is at this period of life ; and this, for the reason that the bladder is in great part in the abdomen. c. The recto-vesical pouch is permanent. But there is another peritoneal pouch on the front part of the bladder, which is only produced when the organ is distended. Let us, therefore, blow up the bladder through one of the ureters. It soon fills the pelvis, and then, rising into the abdomen, occasions the pouch in question between it and the abdominal wall. At first the pouch is shallow, but it gradually7 deepens as the bladder rises. Now, supposing that the bladder be distended half way up to the umbilicus, which is commonly the case when it has to be tapped, we should find that the bottom of the pouch would be about two inches from the symphysis pubis. Within this distance from the symphysis the bladder may be tapped in the linea alba, without risk of wounding the peritoneum; so that, when such an operation becomes neces- sary, the surgeon has the choice of two situations in which it may be performed,—above the pubes, or from the rectum. Which of the two be the more appropriate must be decided by the circum- stances of the case. from the anus. Being the lowest part of the peritoneal sac, it might be chosen as a fitting place for tapping in ascites.