508 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. blood from all quarters, in case any accidental circumstance should stop the flow of blood in any one of the more direct channels.* DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. The proper mode of taking out the spinal cord is to saw through the arches of the vertebrae. When these are removed, the spinal cord, covered by its membranes, is exposed. The first thing we notice is, that the cord is far from occupying the whole area of the bony canal provided for its protection. The dura mater, here, does not adhere to the vertebrae, and is not their internal periosteum as it is in the skull. There intervenes between the bones and this membrane a space filled by a soft, reddish-looking, fat, and watery cellular tissue, and by the ramifications of a plexus of veins. A few words about these veins before we proceed. Spinal system of veins, j-—The spine is remarkable for the number of large and tortuous veins which ramify about it, both inside and outside the vertebral canal. One cannot form an ade- quate idea of them unless when properly injected. 1. There is a plexus of tortuous veins, both outside and inside the arches of the vertebra. 2. Two large veins extend all down the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrae ; they communicate by cross branches, and receive the large veins which emerge from the can- * In many of the long-necked herbivorous quadrupeds a beautiful provi- sion has been made, in the disposition of the internal carotid arteries, for the purpose of equalising the force of the blood supplied to the brain. The arteries, as they enter the skull, divide into several branches, which again unite, so as to form a remarkable net-work of arteries, called by Galen, who first described it, the “ rete mirabite.” The object of this evidently is to moderate the rapidity with which the blood would otherwise enter the cranium, in the different positions of the head, and thus preserve the brain from those sudden influxions to which it would under other circumstances be continually exposed. t A very accurate description and representation of these veins has been given by Breschet, Essai sur les Veines du Rachis, 4to.; Traite Anatomique sur le Systeme Veineux, fol. avec planches.