DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 540 intended to support the ultimate ramifications of’ the auditory nerve, and to expose them to the undulations of the fluid in the internal ear. The membranous labyrinth, then, is nothing more than a sac, situated in the vestibule,* and from this there pass off three mem- branous semicircular canals within the bony ones. What was said of the bony canals applies equally to the membranous. They pre- sent the same dilatations or ampullae at one end, and just at this part they nearly fill their bony cases; but in the rest of their extent the diameter of the membranous canal is not more than one-third that of the bony one. The membranous labyrinth is protected inside and out by fluid. There is the proper fluid in the interior, termed the “ endo-lymph,” and the thin layer of fluid, the “ peri-lymph,” between it and the bone. Distribution of the auditory nerve.—The auditory nerve, or porlio mollis of the seventh pair, passes down the meatus audito- rius interims, and, at the bottom of it, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch : in other words, a branch for the cochlea and a branch for the vestibule. These nerves then break up into nume- rous fasciculi, which pass through the foramina at the bottom of the meatus into the osseous labyrinth. Here the filaments are grouped into six bundles, corresponding to the parts which they supply—namely, two for the vestibular sac, one for each of the ampullae of the semicircular canals, and one for the cochlea. * Strictly speaking, the sac in the vestibu’e is constricted, so as to appear like two sacs of unequal size. The larger of the two is generally called the common sinus, is nearer to the semicircularcanals.and communicates with them. The smaller, called the saccule, is nearer to the cochlea, and communicates with its vestibular scale. Both sacs are filled with the endo-lymph besides which, each contains a minute quantity of calcareous matter, called by Breschet the otoli hes. These masses of cretaceous substance seem to be suspended in the fluid contained in the sacs by the intermedium of a number of nerve-fila- ments proceeding from the auditory nerve. From the universal presence of these chalky bodies in the labyrinth of all the mammalia, and from their much greater hardness and size in aquatic animals, there is little reason to doubt that they perform some office of great importance in the physiology of hearing.