262 NERVES AT THE BACK OF THE SKULL. tion, constituting what is called phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp. As a consequence of this, it soon becomes infiltrated with pus, and rapidly sloughs. Now we see at once the necessity of making- incisions under these circumstances ; the scalp will not lose its vitality and libei-ate the slough, like the skin does under similar conditions in other parts, because its subcutaneous nutrient vessels ramify above the diseased tissue, and are therefore altogether inde- pendent of it. 184. The absorbent vessels of the scalp run, most of them at least, backwards towards the occiput, where they enter the absorbent glands in that situation. Here, therefore, one commonly finds a glandular enlargement when the scalp is diseased. 185. The brain should now be removed in the usual manner. This organ, with its membranes, will be described in a subsequent part of this work. At present we propose to take a general survey of the nerves as they pass out of the base of the skull, and then to dissect the cavernous sinus and the orbit. Exit of the nerves through the foramina at the base of the skull.—The cranial nerves proceed in pairs ; that is, one on either side through the foramina at the base of the skull, and they are named—first, second, third, fourth pair, &c. &c., according to their order of succession from before backwards. The first pair are the olfactory nerves. These cannot be seen, because the olfactory lobes are usually removed with the brain, and consequently torn away from the delicate olfactory nerves which pass through the cribriform plate of the sethmoid bone. The second, or optic nerve, passes through the foramen opticum into the orbit. The third, or motor oculi, is seen passing through the dura mater, close behind the anterior clinoid process. The fourth, or patheticus, a very small nerve, passes through the dura mater a little behind the posterior clinoid process. The fifth, or trigeminal nerve, passes through an aperture in the dura mater beneath the tentorium cerebelli, just above the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone.