ARTICULATIONS OP THE RIBS. 304 tosus) may be regarded as a continuation of the posterior common ligament of the vertebrae. It is very thick and strong. It is at- tached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, descends per- pendicularly over the odontoid process and its transverse ligament, with which it is intimately connected, and becoming gradually narrower is lost in the posterior common ligament. The preceding ligament should be turned upwards, in order to expose the odontoid and transverse ligaments. 283. The odontoid or check ligaments (ligamenta alaria) are two very strong ligaments which proceed, one on either side, from near the summit of the odontoid process to the rough surface on the inner side of the condyle of the occiput. Their use is to pre- vent the rotation of the head beyond a certain distance. The per- pendicular ligament ascends from the apex of the odontoid process to the margin of the foramen magnum. 284. Articulation between the atlas and the axis.— The odontoid process of the axis articulates in such a way with the front of the atlas that it constitutes a kind of pivot upon which the head and atlas rotate. The most important ligament is the trans- verse. It is a strong flat band which passes behind the odontoid process, and is attached on either side to the inner surface of the atlas, just above the lower articular processes. Thus it forms, together with the atlas, a kind of ring into which the odontoid process is received. If this transverse ligament be divided longitudinally, we observe that the odontoid process has a cartilaginous surface in front, and another behind, and that there are two distinct synovial membranes, one between the process and the atlas, the other between the process and the transverse ligament, for the purpose of facilitating the rota- tory movement. The atlas and axis are connected in front and behind by thin loose ligaments, called, respectively, anterior and posterior. Their articular surfaces are nearly horizontal, in adap- tation to the rotatory movement of the atlas. 285. Articulations of the ribs.—All the ribs, with the exception of the first and the two last, are articulated with the bodies of two vertebrae, and with the transverse processes. We