510 MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD. ceeding from the cord are loosely surrounded by a sheath of the arachnoid ; but this only accompanies them as far as the dura mater, and is then reflected upon that membrane. The pia mater of the cord is the membrane which immediately invests it. It is quite different from that of the brain, since it is not so much intended to nourish the nervous matter as to support it; consequently it is much less vascular, more fibrous in its struc- ture, and more adherent to the subjacent proper substance of the cord. The longitudinal fibres of which it is composed are rendered very evident by immersion for a time in water. It is prolonged upon the spinal nerves, and forms their investing membrane or neurilemma. The pia mater sends off from either side of the cord, along its whole length, a series of ligaments, in order to steady it. They are of a triangular shape, their bases being attached to the cord, and their sharp points to the inside of the dura mater. Thus they look something like a series of teeth down the side of the cord, and hence the name, ligamentum dentatum, given by anatomists to the entire apparatus. There are from eighteen to twenty-two of them on either side, and they generally lie between the anterior and pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves. The spinal cord is that part of the cerebro-spinal axis con- tained in the vertebral canal. It is the continuation of the medulla oblongata, and extends from the foramen magnum to about the there issue jets of a fluid which had previously made the sheath tense. The fluid communicates, through the fourth ventricle, with that in the general ventricular cavity. The collective amount of the fluid varies from 1 to 2 oz. or more. There is little doubt that it can be made to move from the brain into the cord, or vice versa. This is proved by experiments on animals, and by that pathological condition of the spine in children termed spina bifida. In the latter instance, coughing and crying make the tumour swell; showing that fluid is forced into it from the ventricles. Again, if pressure be made on the tumour with one hand, and the fontanelles of the child examined with the other, in proportion as the spinal swelling decreases so is the brain felt to swell up, accompanied by symptoms resulting from pressure on the ner- vous axis generally. See some remarks very much to the point, by Dr. Burrows, On Diseases of the Cerebral Circulation, p. 50, 1846.