444 MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG. the preceding. T t arises from the outside of the head of the tibia, from the upper two-thirds of the front surface of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane and the fascia. Its fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a long tendon which descends over the ankle and then divides into four. These diverge from each other, and are inserted into the toes in the following manner :—On the first phalanx, each tendon (except that of the little toe) is joined on its outer side by the corresponding tendon of the extensor brevis. The united tendons then expand, and are inserted just as on the fingers; that is, the middle part is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, while the sides run on to the base of the third. Immediately below the ankle the fascia forms a beautiful pulley through which the tendon of this muscle plays. It may be com- pared to a sling, of which the two ends are attached to the upper part of the os calcis, while the loop serves to confine the tendon. The play of the tendon is facilitated by a synovial membrane, which is prolonged for a short distance along each of its four divisions. Besides its ordinary action, this muscle can also extend the ankle-joint. a. The peroneus tertius appears like a portion of the preceding. Its fibres arise from the inner and front, surface of the lower part of the shaft of the fibula, and terminate on their tendon like barbs on a quill. The tendon passes through the same pulley with the long extensor of the toes, and, expanding considerably, is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Its action is to extend the foot and turn it slightly outwards. 36. Extensor proprius pollicis.—This muscle lies partly con- cealed between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digi- torum. It arises from rather more than the middle third of the inner side of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner on the tendon, which we trace over the front of the ankle, and along the top of the foot, to the great toe, where it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It has a special pulley beneath the angular ligament, lined by a