66 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE AKM. connected with the scapula, namely, the levator anguli scapulae, the omo-hyoideus, and the rhomboideus major and minor. In order to clean these muscles, the scapula must be adjusted so as to stretch their muscular fibres. 108. The levator anguli scapulae is situated at the posterior and lateral part of the neck. It arises by three or four tendons from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. The tendons are situated between those of the scalenus posticus in front, and the splenius colli behind. That portion of the muscle which comes from the atlas is always the largest, and is frequently attached to the bone by fleshy fibres. The muscular slips to which the tendons give rise, unite and form a single muscle, which descends backwards down the side of the neck, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula between its spine and superior angle. Its action is to raise the pos- terior angle of the scapula; as, for instance, in shrugging the shoulders. One or two branches of the cervical plexus of nerves enter the upper part of the levator anguli scapulae ; sometimes there is a dis- tinct nerve for each slip of the muscle. Its scapular end is also supplied by a filament from a nerve of considerable size which lies beneath it, and passes on to supply the rhomboid muscles. 109. The rhomboideus major and minor are two flat muscles which extend rather obliquely from the spinous processes of the vertebrae to the base of the scapula. They often appear like a single muscle, but, commonly, there is a division between them. The rhomboideus minor, situated the higher of the two, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebra, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite its spine. The rhomboideus major arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the interspinous ligaments, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the base of the scapula between its spine and inferior angle. In some cases the middle fibres are not inserted immediately into the bone, but into a thin tendon which runs parallel with the base of the scapula, adhering to it only at both ends. The action of these muscles is to draw the scapula upwards and backwards, and fix it upon the chest.