180 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. fissure, and then proceeds forwards along a groove or canal in the floor of the orbit in company with the superior maxillary nerve, and emerges upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen (see § 74 a). While contained in the canal this artery sends branches down- wards to supply the front teeth; and others which ascend to the muscles of the orbit. c. The descending palatine, a branch of considerable size, runs perpendicularly through the posterior palatine canal with the palatine nerve, and then passes forwards along the hard palate, in which it is ultimately lost. It supplies the gums, the glands, and mucous membrane of this part, and also furnishes branches to the soft palate. d. The vidian, an insignificant branch, runs backwards through the canal at the root of the pterygoid processes with the vidian nerve, and is lost upon the Eustachian tube. e. The nasal branch enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen in company with the nasal nerve from Meckel’s (spheno- palatine) ganglion, and ramifies extensively upon the spongy hones and the septum narium, supplying the mucous membrane. f. The internal maxillary vein is formed by the several veins corresponding to the branches of the artery. It joins the temporal vein in the substance of the parotid gland. Having now completed ihe anatomy of the muscles concerned in mastication, and the blood-vessels which nourish them, we proceed next to examine the nerves by which they are supplied. 83. Inferior maxillary nerve and branches.—This great nerve is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth cerebral nerve. It differs from the other two divisions, i. e. the ophthalmic and the superior maxillary, in that it contains motor as well as sensitive filaments ; the motor being furnished by the small non-ganglionic root of the fifth nerve. Thus much of its physiology it is necessary to know, in order to understand the extensive distribution of the nerve, for we shall presently find that the motor portion supplies all the muscles concerned in the movements of the lower jaw;* * Excepting the genio-hyoidei muscles, which are supplied by the hypo- glossal nerve.