149 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. that even distinguished anatomists have committed unfortunate mistakes. Sir Astley Cooper* completely failed in one instance. In another, Dupuytren perforated the artery with the point of the aneurismal needle, and included one of the nerves of the brachial plexus in the ligature: fatal haemorrhage was the result.f We know, too, an instance in which the large nerve which runs parallel with the artery was mistaken for it and tied; the surgeon being deceived by the pulsation communicated from the artery to the nerve. 44. Branches of the subclavian artery.—These extend so far and wide in all directions that in the present dissection we can trace them but for a very short distance. They are five in number—the vertebral, the thyroid axis, the internal mammary, the superior intercostal, and the deep cervical. Once for all let it be remembered that most commonly they arise from the subclavian about the first part of its course, but in this respect we often meet with irregularity; the most frequent is, that one of the branches usually derived from the thyroid axis (/. e. the transversalis colli or the transversalis humeri) arises from the subclavian in the third part of its course. 45. The vertebral artery, the first and the largest branch, arises from the upper part of the subclavian. For a short distance after its origin it lies behind the internal jugular vein in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli muscles. Here it enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth or some- times the fifth cervical vertebra, and ascends vertically through the series of foramina in the transverse process of the succeeding vertebrae. After passing through the foramen of the atlas the vessel alters its direction, curves backwards behind the articular process of this bone along a shallow groove observable upon its posterior arch, and again ascending, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and unites near the lower border of the “pons Varolii” with its fellow of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. * London Medical Review, vol. ii. p. 300. f Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xvi. 1820.