288 OLFACTORY NERVES. the nose are, the eethmoidal and nasal branches of the ophthal- mic, the nasal branch of the internal maxillary, and others derived from variable sources. The external nose is supplied y the arteria lateralis nasi, described § 70, c. The veins of the nose correspond to the arteries. They com- municate with the veins within the cranium through foramina in the cribriform plate of the sethmoid bone, also through the oph- thalmic vein and the cavernous sinus. These communications explain the natural relief afforded by hemorrhage from the nose in cases of cerebral congestion. 237. Olfactory nerves.—The olfactory ganglia, being seated within the cranium and forming a part of the brain, will be de- scribed with the anatomy of that organ. The olfactory filaments, proceeding from each ganglion, are in number about twenty on either side. They pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the aethmoid bone, and in its passage each is invested with a firm fibrous coat derived from the dura mater; so that these filaments, although extremely soft and easily tom within the skull, are, outside it, as firm as any other nerves. In order to make them more conspicuous the bones should be steeped some time in dilute nitric acid. For the convenience of description we divide them into an inner, a middle, and an outer set. The inner ones are rather larger and flatter than the rest. They traverse the canals or grooves observable on the upper part of the septum, and, sub- dividing, terminate in lashes of minute filaments between the perios- teum and the mucous membrane. They cannot be traced below the upper half of the septum. The middle ones supply the roof of the nose. The outer ones pass through canals or grooves in the upper and middle turbinated bones, and communicating freely with each other, are lost in the mucous membrane on the convex surfaces of these bones.* None of them can be traced to the inferior turbinated bone, or into any of the air cavities in the adjoining bones. The precise manner in which the olfactory filaments terminate * See the beautiful plates of Scarpa and Scemmerring.