MUSCLES OF THE CALF. 459 a little below the knee, in a long tendon, which we trace down the inner side of the tendo Achillis to the calcaneum. 72. Soleus.—This muscle arises from the head and the upper third of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the oblique ridge on the back of the tibia,* and also from about the middle third of the inner border of this bone. Descending from this great extent of origin, the fibres swell out beneath the gastrocnemius, and termi- nate on a broad tendon, which, after gradually contracting, forms a constituent part of the tendo Achillis. The tendo Achillis begins about the middle of the leg, and is at first of very considerable breadth, but it gradually contracts and becomes thicker as it descends. The narrowest part of it is about one inch and a half above the heel; here, therefore, it can be most conveniently and safely divided for the relief of club-foot. There is no risk of injuring the deeper-seated parts, because they are separated from the tendon by a quantity of fat. Its precise inser- tion is into the under and back part of the os calcis. We observe that the tendon previously expands a little, and that between it and the bone there is a bursa of considerable size. The obvious action of the gastrocnemius and soleus is to raise the body on the toes. But since the gastrocnemius passes over two joints, it has the power (like the rectus) of extending the one while it bends the other, and it is, therefore, admirably adapted to the purpose of walking. For instance, by first extending the foot it raises the body, and then, by bending the knee, it transmits the weight from one leg to the other-. Again, supposing the fixed point to be at the heel, the gastrocnemius is also concerned in keeping the body erect, for it keeps the tibia and fibula perpendicular on the foot, and thus counteracts the tendency of the body to fall forwards. We now pass on to examine the course and relations of the popliteal vessels and nerves. * The tibial and fibular origins of the soleus constitute whit some anato- mists describe as the two heads of the muscle. Between them descend the popliteal vessels, protected by a sort of tendinous arch. Y 2