Ill SUPERFICIAL NERVES OF THE NECK. The occipitalis minor is derived from the second cervical nerve. It ascends near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, where it perforates the fascia and divides into fila- ments which supply the back of the scalp. Beneath the sterno- mastoid, this nerve commonly forms a loop which embraces the nervus accessorius, and sends a branch to it. In some subjects we find a third ascending branch which runs close to the external jugular vein, and is distributed to the cartilage of the ear and the back of the scalp. b. The transverse branch, sometimes called the nervus superfi- cialis colli, passes forwards over the middle of the sterno-mastoid muscle towards the front of the neck, where it subdivides into several filaments which perforate the platysma and supply the skin. Some of the filaments ascend towards the ramus of the jaw, and communicate with the cervical division of the facial nerve ; one or more turn downwards and accompany the anterior jugular vein. c. The descending, sometimes called the supra-clavicular, branches, three or more in number, pass down the side of the neck, cross over the clavicle, and subdivide into numerous fila- ments which supply the integument of the front of the chest and the shoulder. One of these, called the sternal branch, crosses the lower part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and supplies the integu- ments of the upper part of the sternum : some, called clavicular, pass over the middle of the clavicle, and are distributed to the integument of the pectoral muscle, the mammary gland, and the nipple; others, named acromial, cross over the outer end of the clavicle and supply the integument of the shoulder. On reviewing the distribution of the cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, we find that they supply the cartilage of the ear, the back of the scalp, the skin covering the parotid gland, also the skin on the front and side of the neck, the upper and front part of the chest and shoulder. 6. The cervical branch of the facial nerve will be found beneath the fascia near the angle of the jaw. It leaves the lower part of the parotid gland, perforates the cervical fascia, and divides into filaments which pass forwards forming arches a little below