PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 422 ANATOMF OF TH PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 7. The anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral hernia cannot be thoroughly understood without the assistance of special dissec- tions ; indeed, one cannot reasonably expect to make oneself master of the subject, if it be taken in hand merely as something to be investigated by the way in the dissection of the thigh. The follow- ing demonstration, therefore, takes for granted that we have the opportunity of seeing the parts, not only on their femoral aspect, but also on their abdominal side. We propose to treat the different parts of our subject in the fol- lowing order:— a. The formation of the crural arch. b. The arrangement of the parts which pass under the arch. c. The femoral aperture or ring. d. The so-called sheath of the vessels. e. The practical application of the subject. 8. Crural arch.—The lower border of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle extends from the spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms, over the bony excavation beneath, what is appropriately called the “ crural arch.” A glance at the relative position of its attachments is sufficient to show that the direction of the arch is oblique ; besides which, in consequence of its intimate connection with the muscular fascia of the thigh, the line of the arch describes a gentle curve with the convexity down- wards. The pubic insertion of the arch is a point which we must thoroughly understand. Not only is the arch attached to the spine of the pubes, but also for some distance along the ridge ot this bone, which forms the brim of the pelvis. This additional attach- ment,called after its discoverer Gimbernat's ligament,* is of material importance, for it is generally the seat of the stricture in hernia. tinct and separate, but all are intimately connected, and portions merely of one continuous expansion. Thus all the parts are kept in a condition of mutual tension, which depends very much on the position of the thigh. * Don Antonio de Gimbernat was a Spanish surgeon, who published, in 1793. “ A New Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia,” Madrid.