STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 228 bronchi permanently open, become in the smaller tubes fewer and less regular in their form: as the subdivisions of the tubes multiply, the cartilages consist merely of small pieces placed here and there at intervals,—they become less and less firm, and finally disappear altogether; so that the air-passages, when so small as to he no longer traceable by the naked eye, are entirely membranous. The cartilages of the trachea vary in number from sixteen to twenty; those of the right bronchus from six to eight; those of the left from nine to twelve. They form about two-thirds of a circle, and are somewhat compressed laterally, resembling a horse- shoe in form. Of the tracheal cartilages, some present pecu- liarities ; those at the upper, and less frequently at the lower part of the tube, often divide near their extremities into two fork-like branches; and whenever this happens the opposite end of the next cartilage divides in a similar manner, so that there may be no interruption to the parallel arrangement of the successive series of rings. The lowest cartilage, situated at the bifurcation of the trachea, is shaped somewhat like the letter V; its angle projects into the centre of the main tube, and its sides belong one to each bronchus. The cartilages are connected together, and to a certain extent covered both on the outer and inner surfaces by a tough membrane, consisting of fibrous and yellow elastic tissue. This membrane is attached to the circumference of the cricoid cartilage, and is continued through the whole extent of the trachea and the bron- chial tubes. Posteriorly, where the cartilages are deficient, it alone maintains the integrity of the tube; in this situation, more especially, it consists of parallel and closely arranged longitudinal fibres, which are seated immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and raise it into more or less prominent folds. The elasticity of this structure admits of a certain degree of elongation of the trachea during the act of deglutition, and subsequently enables it to recover its ordinary length. Glands.—On the outer surface of the membranous part of the trachea and bronchi are observed a number of small roundish glands of a light brown colour, of which the minute excretory ducts open into the tube. These little glands gradually diminish