308 BLADDER. moreover, by moving the finger from side to side we recognize its lateral lobes. Still higher up, the finger goes beyond the prostate, and reaches the “ trigone'5 of the bladder: the facility with which this can be examined depends of course upon the length of the finger and the amount of fat in the perineum. These several relations are practically important. They explain why, with the finger in the rectum, we may sometimes facilitate the passage of a catheter along the urethra, obtain valuable information respecting the condition of the prostate, and, in some instances, even raise a stone from the bottom of the bladder so as to bring it in contact with the forceps. They explain, too, how the bladder may be punctured from the rectum ; hut this has been already alluded to elsewhere. Below the meso-rectum the posterior part of the gut is connected to the sacrum and coccyx by an abundance of loose cellular tissue, which allows its easy distension. This is the reason why fistulous passages are so apt to burrow in this direction. 64. Bladder.—This viscus, being a receptacle for the urine, must necessarily vary in size, and accordingly we find that the nature of its connections and coats are such as to permit this varia- tion. When contracted the bladder sinks into the pelvis behind the pubic arch, and is completely protected from injury. But, as it gradually distends, it rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen, and, in cases of extreme distension, may reach nearly up to the umbilicus.* Its outline can then be easily felt through the walls of the abdomen. The formf of the distended bladder is more or * When the bladder is completely paralyzed it becomes like an inorganic sac, and there seems to be no limit to its distension. Haller found, in a drunkard, the bladder so dilated that it would hold twenty pints of water. (Elem. Phys. art. Vesica.) Frank saw a bladder 60 distended as to re- semble ascites, and evacuated from it twelve pounds of urine. (Oratio de Signis morborum, &c. &c. Ticini, 1788.) W. Hunter, in his Anatomy of the Gravid Uterus, has given the representa- tion of a bladder distended nearly as high as the ensiform cartilage. f In all animals with a bladder, the younger the animal the more elongated is the bladder. This is indicative of its original derivation from a tube, i. e. the