460 COURSE OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 73. Course and relations of the popliteal artery.— After passing through the appropriate opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, the great artery of the lower limb takes the name of popliteal. It then descends nearly perpendicularly behind the knee-joint, and between the origins of the gastrocnemius, as far as the lower border of the popliteus, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. In its descent it lies, first, upon the lower part of the femur, and here it is slightly overlapped by the semimembranosus ; next, it lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and lastly upon the popliteus. The vein closely accom- panies the artery, and is situated superficially with regard to it, and rather to its outer side in the first part of its course. The popliteal nerve runs also in a similar direction with the vein, hut is still more superficial. The vessels and the nerve are surrounded by fat, and we generally find one or more absorbent glands in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery, just above the joint. 74. The branches of the popliteal artery are the articular and the sural. a. Articular arteries.—There are five of these, specially intended for the supply of the knee-joint, and the articular ends of the bones. The two superior run, one above each condyle, close to the bone ; the two inferior run one beneath each lateral ligament of the joint; and all four proceed towards the front of the capsule. The fifth, called the “ azygos,” enters the joint through the posterior ligament. These several articular arteries form, over the front and sides of the joint, a beautiful network of vessels, which communicate superiorly with the descending branch of the external circumflex and the anastomotica magna, and inferiorly with the anterior tibial recurrent. It is mainly through these channels that the collateral circulation is established in the leg after a ligature of the femoral artery. b. The sural arteries proceed one to each head of the gastroc- nemius, and are proportionate in size to the muscle. One or more branches are distributed to the soleus. These arteries are severally accompanied by branches of the popliteal nerve for the supply of the muscles.