308 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AND NERVES. observed, except that it contains the fat. The deeper layer is connected along the line where the abdomen joins the thigh, to the muscular fascia,—or, in other words, to the crural arch ; but it is loosely continued over the spennatic cord, and the scrotum, into the perineum. These points deserve attention, because they explain how it happens that the urine, when extravasated into the scrotum, readily makes its way over the spermatic, cord on to the surface of the abdomen ; but from this it cannot travel down the thigh, on account of the connexions of the fascia above alluded to. 3. Superficial blood-vessels and glands.—Between the layers of the superficial fascia on the groin and the upper part of the thigh, there are several absorbent glands, and small blood-vessels. The glands are named, according to their situation, inguinal and femoral. With the latter we are not at present concerned. The inguinal are often so small as to escape observation. They are about four or five in number, and of an oval form, with their long axis corresponding to the line of the crural arch. They receive the absorbents from the wall of the abdomen, from the scrotum and penis, and are therefore liable to be affected in diseases of these parts. The superficial arteries in the neighbourhood arise from the femoral. One, called the epigastric, ramifies over the lower part of the abdomen; another, called the pudic, crosses the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the skin of the penis and scrotum, while a third, the circumflexa ilii, ramifies towards the spine of the ilium. These subcutaneous arteries, the pudic especially, are in some subjects much larger than usual, and often occasion a free hemorrhage after the first incision in the operation for strangulated hernia. The veins, corresponding to these arteries, join the saphena vein of the thigh. Under ordinary circumstances they do not appear in the living subject; but, when any obstruction takes place in the infei'ior vena cava, they then become enormously enlarged and tortuous, and constitute the chief channels through which the blood would be returned from the lower limbs*. * A cast, in illustration of this, is preserved in the museum of St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital.