ORIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 518 the cerebellum and the cerebrum contain part of the motor and part of die sensitive tracts of the spinal cord. Origin of the cerebral nerves.—The cerebral nerves are given offin pairs, named the first, second, third, &c., according to the order in which they appear, beginning from the front. There are nine pair. Anatomists, however, differ as to their classification. Some are nerves of special sense,—as the olfactory, the optic, the auditory; others are nerves of common sensation,—as the large root of the fifth, the glossopharyngeal, and the pneumogastric; others, again, are nerves of motion,—as the third, the fourth, the small root of the fifth, the sixth, the facial division of the seventh, the spinal accessory, and the ninth. First pair, or olfactory nerve.—This nerve arises by three roots, —an outer and an inner, composed of white matter, and a central, composed of grey. The outer white root proceeds from the bottom of the fissure of Silvius, and describes a curve with the concavity outwards. The inner white root is shorter than the other, and arises from the posterior extremity of the internal convolution of the anterior cerebral lobe. The middle or grey root arises from the posterior extremity of the furrow in which the olfactory nerve is lodged : to see it, there- fore, we should turn the nerve backwards. The olfactory nerve is triangular, that it may more conveniently fit into a furrow between the convolutions, and therefore be less ex- posed to the pressure of the brain. It proceeds nearly straight- forward under the anterior lobe, and terminates in the olfactory ganglion, which lies on the cribriform plate of the osthmoid bone. The olfactory ganglion is of an olive-like shape, of a reddish grey colour, and very soft consistence. It gives off from its under sur- face the true olfactory nerves.* For the description of these, see Head and Neck, § 237. * Strictly speaking, the olfactory nerve and its ganglion are integrant parts (the prosencephalic lobe) of the brain. What in human anatomy is