COMPLEXUS. 293 247. The spinalis dorsi is a long narrow muscle, situated close to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, and apparently a part of the longissimus dorsi. It arises by thin tendons from the spines of the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted also by little tendons into the spines of the six or eight upper dorsal vertebrae. The muscles of the spine hitherto examined are all longitudinal in their direction. We have now to notice a series which run obliquely from the transverse to the spinous processes of the ver- tebrae. And first the complexus. 248. Complexus.—In order to obtain a full view of the com- plexus, the cervical continuation of the erector spinae must be reflected outwardly. This thick strong muscle arises by a series of tendons from the transverse processes of the four or five upper gated together, below, to form one mass at their point of origin, from the spines and posterior surface of the sacrum, from the sacro-iliac ligament, and from the posterior third of the iliac crest. It divides into two portions, the sacro-lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi. “ The former, arising from the iliac crest, or from the pleurapophysis (rib) of the first sacral vertebra, is inserted by short flat tendons into (1.) the apices of the stunted lumbar ribs, close to the tendinous origins of the transversalis abdominis ; (2.) the angles of the eight or nine inferior dorsal ribs ; (3.) it is inserted, through the medium of the musculus accessorius, into the angles of the remaining superior ribs, and into the long and occasionally distinct pleura- pophysial element of the seventh cervical vertebra ; and (4.) through the medium of the cervicalis ascendens, into the pleurapophysial elements of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. In other words, the mus- cular fibres extend from rib to rib, from the sacrum to the third cervical vertebra. “ The longissimus dorsi, situated nearer the spine than the sacro-lumbalis, is inserted (1.) into the metapophysial spine of the lumbar diapophyses ; (2.) into the diapophyses of all the dorsal vertebrae, near the origin of the levatores costarum ; (3.) through the medium of the transversalis colli into the diapo- physes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae ; and (4.) through the medium of the trachelo-mastoid into the mastoid process, or the only element of a transverse process possessed by the parietal vertebra. In other words, its fibres extend from diapophysis to diapophysis, from the sacrum, upwards, to the parietal vertebra.”—Homologies of the Human Skeleton, by H. Coote, p. 75.