MUSCLES OE THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 67 The nerve of the rhomboid muscles is a branch of the fifth cer- vical nerve. It passes outwards beneath the lower part of the leva- tor anguli scapulae, to which it sends a filament, and is lost in the under surface of the rhomboid muscles. 110. The omo-hyoid muscle extends from the scapula to the os- hyoides, and consists of two narrow muscular portions, connected by an intermediate tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. The posterior portion only can be seen in the present dissection. It arises from the superior costa of the scapula, close behind the notch, and from the ligament above the notch. From thence the slender muscle, concealed at first by the trapezius, passes forwards across the lower part of the neck, as far as the under surface of the sterno- mastoid muscle, where it changes its direction and ascends nearly vertically, to be attached to the os-liyoides at the junction of the body with the greater cornu. Thus the two portions of the muscle form beneath the sterno-mastoid an obtuse angle of which the apex is tendinous, and of which the angular direction is maintained by a strong layer of fascia, proceeding from the tendon to the first rib and the clavicle. Its action is to depress the os-hyoides. A more complete description of this muscle is given in the dissection of the neck. 111. The supra-scapular artery, (transversalis humeri,) a branch of the thyroid axis, will be found nearly parallel with, but rather below the posterior division of the omo-hyoid muscle. It runs near the under surface of the clavicle to the supra-scapular notch» through which it passes to supply the supra-spinatus and infra-spina- tus muscles. It sends off in its course the supra-acromial branch, which perforates the trapezius, and ramifies upon the acromion, anastomosing with the other acromial arteries derived from branches of the axillary. The supra-scapular vein terminates either in the •subclavian or in the external jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve, a branch of the fifth or sixth cervical nerve, takes the same course as the corresponding artery, and is distributed to the supra-spinatus and inda-spinatus muscles. 112. The posterior scapular, a large tortuous artery, is seen near the upper angle of the scapula. It is a continuation of the artery called the transversalis colli, which commonly arises from ihe