I 244 DISSECTION OE THE LARYNX. over it, and that the closure thus produces a temporary interrup- tion to respiration. The progress of the food through the oesopha- gus is slow and gradual. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Before he commences the dissection of the larynx, the learner should make himself familiar with the several cartilages which compose it, and with the ligaments by which they are connected. In other words, the frame-work of the larynx should be examined as it is usually seen in the dry preparation. We propose, there- fore, to give an outline of this, including the os-hyoides. 160. The os-liyoides, so called from its resemblance to the Greek letter Upsilon, is situated between the larynx and the root of the tongue, and serves as a fixed point for the attachment of many of the muscles of the tongue. In the living subject it may be felt immediately below the symphysis of the jaw. Anatomists divide it into a body, two greater and two lesser cornua. The body is the thick strong central portion which we feel in front of the neck. Its anterior surface is convex, and marked by depres- sions for the attachment of muscles ; its posterior concave surface corresponds to the epiglottis. The two greater cornua (right and left) project backwards for about an inch and a half, not quite horizontally but with a slight curve upwards, and they terminate in blunt extremities tipped with cartilage. In young subjects they are connected to the central part of the bone by fibro-cartilage; but this in process of years becomes ossified. The lesser cornua are connected, one on either side, to the point of junction between the body and the greater cornua, by means of a little fibrous capsule, lined by synovial membrane, so that it admits of a certain degree of motion. It is not much larger than a barley-corn, and the stylo-hyoid ligament is attached to its free extremity. The os-hyoides is connected to the thyroid cartilage by means of several ligaments, all of which contain a large quantity of elastic tissue, There is:—1. The anterior thyro-hyoid: this proceeds from the notch of the thyroid cartilage to the upper and posterior