COURSE OF THE INTESTINES. 325 obliquely as high as the neck or narrow end of the gall-bladder ; then, making a sudden bend, it descends in front of the right kidney; and, lastly, making another bend, it crosses the spine rather obliquely towards the left side of the second lumbar vertebra; here the canal takes the name of jejunum, and the commencement of this part of the intestine is at once seen by raising the transverse colon. Thus, then, it appears that the duodenum describes a sort of horse-shoe curve. The concavity of this curve is towards the left, and embraces the head or larger end of the pancreas. For convenience of description, it is usual to divide the duodenum into an ascending, a descending, and a transverse portion. The first is completely covered by the peritoneum, and is comparatively loose, that the motions of the stomach may not be restricted; the second and third are only covered by peritoneum in front, and are im- moveably fixed, for very good reasons, to the back of the abdo- men.* b. Pursuing its course from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, the intestinal canal next forms a number of convolutions, which are loosely connected to the spine by a broad peritoneal fold termed the mesentery. Of these convolutions, the upper two- fifths constitute the intestinurn jejunum j the lower two-fifths the intestinurn ileum. This is merely an arbitrary division ; for there is no definite limit between them : but the character of the bowel gradually changes—that is, it becomes less vascular, has fewer folds of the lining membrane, and its coats are therefore less substantial to the feel. c. In the right iliac fossa, the small intestine opens into the left side of the colon ; here the large intestine begins. Imme- diately below the junction we observe that the large intestine is expanded into a kind of blind pouch, called the caecum or the * There are two reasons why the second and third parts of the duodenum should be fixed and have no mesentery : first, if the duodenum had been loose, it would have fallen down like the other intestines, and so have dis- ordered the stomach by dragging it down with it; secondly, had it been loose, it would have been apt to have stretched the bile and pancreatic ducts, and the flow of bile through them would every now and then have been obstructed.