249 RIM A GLOTTIDIS. 16o. Superior opening of the larynx.—This is the opening by which the larynx communicates with the pharynx. It is rather trian- gular in outline; the front part, or base, is bounded by the epiglottis; the sides by the thyro-arytenoid folds; the apex presents the pecu- liar funnel-shape appearance from which the arytenoid cartilages derive their name. 166. Inferior opening of the larynx, or rima glottidis.—By look- ing down into the larynx another opening is observed, like a horizon- tal slit, in the middle line; this is the rima glottidis. 11 is bounded on either side by the true vocal cords, of which we have already spoken in the description of the dried larynx, and they are not inaptly called the lips of the glottis. On each side of the glottis we remark an elliptical hollow', like a little pocket; this is called the ventricle of the larynx, or “ sacculus laryngis.” By passing the handle of the scalpel up into these cavities, we find that they lead into a sort of cul-de-sac, which ascends for a short distance by the side of the thyroid cartilage. These cavities are obviously intended to allow free space for the vibration of the vocal cords. Lastly, we have to observe what are called the superior vocal cords. These are merely the prominent folds, one on either side, which form the upper crescent-shaped boundaries of the ventricles; and they are often spoken of as the false vocal cords, because they' have little or nothing to do with the production of the voice. They are com- posed of a certain quantity of elastic tissue, like the true vocal cords, but less in quantity ; and they contain besides more or less fatty tissue, which the true ones do not. A more complete view of all these important parts will be presently exposed. We would now again direct attention to the circumstance that only about the ante- rior two-thirds of the boundary of the glottis is formed by the vocal cords, the posterior third being completed by the smooth, side of the base of the arytenoid cartilages. A slight prominence in the outline of the glottis indicates the relative share taken by the liga- ment and the cartilage in its formation. When the glottis is at rest—that is, during tranquil respiration—its shape may be rudely compared to the head of a spear; but in speaking or singing it assumes what is called the vocalizing position—that is, the opening becomes narrower and its edges nearly parallel.