255 PAPILLAE OF THE TONGUE. By means of muscles, it is connected to the symphysis of the jaw, to the os-hyoides, and to the styloid process of the temporal bone. To the soft palate it is connected by the anterior palatine arch (see § 154), and to the epiglottis by folds of mucous membrane; in the middle fold, there is enclosed a well-marked layer of elastic tissue, which may be called the “ glosso-epiglottidean” ligament. This necessarily pulls up the epiglottis when the tongue is pro- truded from the mouth : hence the rule of never attempting to pass a tube into the oesophagus without having previously pushed back the tongue; otherwise the end of the tube would be very liable to pass into the larynx. We should first direct our attention to the structure of the upper surface of the tongue—that is, its most sensitive apparatus ; and next, to the structure of its interior muscular apparatus. The upper surface of the tongue is composed of structures more or less similar to those of the skin generally; that is to say, it consists of a “ cutis,” or true skin, with numerous projections, called “ papilla,’' and of a thick layer of epithelium. The cutis is much thinner than that of the skin ; it affords insertion to some of the more superficial muscular fibres of the tongue, and the blood- vessels form a close network in it before they pass into the papillae. 173. The several papillae on the tongue are distinguished, accord- ing to their size and form, into three kinds, viz. “papillcE maxima, or circumvallata,” “ papilla fungiforma,” “ papilla Jiliforma.” a. The papilla circumvallata vary in number from seven to twelve. They are arranged at the back of the longue in two rows, which converge like the branches of the letter V, only with the apex backwards, towards the so-called foramen caecum,—a blind pouch in the middle line of the tongue. Each of these papillae is of a circular form, with a central depression, and is surrounded by a fossa, from which its name is derived: the fossa itself is also cir- cumscribed by an elevated ring. b. The papilla fungiforma, much smaller and more numerous than the preceding, are scattered irregularly over the whole of the upper surface and sides of the tongue. They vary in shape, some being cylindrical, others having heads to them, like mushrooms j whence their name. Near the apex of the tongue they may readily