306 LEVATOR ANT. much developed, but as puberty approaches they gradually increase in size ; and any one not familiar with the anatomy of these parts would hardly credit the volume which they sometimes attain in aged individuals.* They communicate freely with the inferior hemorrhoidal plexus, or veins about the anus, and they receive the blood returning from the penis through the large veins which pass under the pubic arch. This is one of the reasons why the prostatic plexus is so capacious. It will suggest itself, that if, in lithotomy, the incision be carried beyond the limits of the prostate, the great veins around it must necessarily he divided: these, independently of any artery, are quite sufficient to occasion very serious hemorrhage. 62. Levator ani.—This most important muscle in the fabric of the lower outlet of the pelvis forms a kind of moveable floor for the support of the rectum. In order to see it, the pelvic fascia must be reflected from its inner surface ; but it requires a good deal of dissection before the whole length and breadth of the muscle -can be thoroughly exposed. We observe that it arises from the pubes near the symphysis, also from the spine of the ischium, and from a white line')' extending pretty nearly straight between these points of bone. But besides this, we find that a certain portion of the muscle arises from the anterior ligaments of the bladder. From this extensive origin the fibres descend, and are inserted thus:— The anterior meet their fellow in the middle line of the perineum in front of the anus; and we may remember to have seen them contributing to form the floor of this region ; the next are lost on the outside of the sphincter ani; while the posterior, and by far the * In old subjects they often contain pblebolites, or vein-stones. These are hard round bodies about the size of a small pea, and consist of concretions of earthy matter. f This line, in the erect position of the body, is nearly horizontal. It is generally said that the pelvic fascia splits here into two layers, one of which lines the inner surface of the levator ani, the other covers the obturator internus. Since this description tends rather to complicate the matter than otherwise, and besides, does not exactly tally with nature, we think it better omitted.