SUPRA-CLAVICULAR REGION. 143 vical plexus (see § 5 c.), and a layer of cervical fascia which binds down the omo-hyoid muscle to the clavicle (see § 7). Beneath this there is a deeper layer of fascia, which immediately covers the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves, and descends with them beneath the clavicle into the axilla. Between these two layers of fascia we meet with more or less fat and cellular tissue, as well as several absorbent glands varying in number and size, which are continuous with those in the axilla. It will be easily under- stood how a collection of matter, originating in the axilla, may ascend in front of the vessels and project in the fossa above the clavicle. Near the border of the stemo-mastoid muscle the external jugular vein passes through both layers of the fascia, and terminates in the subclavian: but before its termination it is commonly joined by the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins proceeding from the surrounding muscles ; so that we have in this particular situation a confluence of veins, which are under any circumstances troublesome, and, when large or distended, exceed- ingly embarrassing. The fascia and the glands should be carefully removed without disturbing the relative anatomy of the following objects contained in the space before us :— Behind and nearly parallel with the clavicle is the supra-scapular or transversalis humeri artery, a branch of the thyroid axis. A little higher we may observe another artery, the transversalis colli, or posterior scapular (commonly a branch of the thyroid axis) which crosses rather tortuously the lower part of the neck towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. But both these arteries, the last particularly, are subject to much irregularity in respect to their oiigin, and consequently to the first part of their course. The scalene muscles descend from the transverse processes of the cer- vical vertebrae to the first and the second ribs. Tlie phrenic nerve is observed upon the surface of the scalenus anticus. The subcla- vian artery comes into view from behind the outer border of the scalenus anticus, and continues its course over the surface of the first rib. The subclavian vein also lies upon the rib, but in front of the scalenus anticus. The several large nerves constituting the