243 DEGLUTITION. a few observations on the act of deglutition. This process would appear at first sight to be rather a difficult and complicated study, since it requires the concurrence of numerous pai’ts and the co- operation of several rapid motions. But this difficulty vanishes if the anatomy of the parts concerned be properly understood. In the consideration of this subject the two main points to be noted are—-1st, that the food is prevented from passing into the posterior orifices of the nose by the complete approximation of the posterior arches of the palate; 2dly, that it is prevented from passing into the glottis by the elevation of the larynx and the flapping down of the epiglottis, as well as by the simultaneous contraction of the proper muscles of the rima glottidis. All this takes place without our being able to prevent it. Having premised thus much we will describe the process more in detail. The food, having been duly masticated, is collected into a mass upon the back of the tongue; the lower jaw is closed in order to give a fixed point for the action of the muscles which elevate the os-hyoides and larynx; the food is then carried back through the fauces by the pressure of the tongue against the palate, at the same time that the pharynx is elevated and expanded to receive it.* Having passed the fauces, the food is prevented from ascending into the nasal passages by the complete approximation of the posterior palatine arches, which thus form a kind of temporary roof to the pharynx; it is prevented from returning into the mouth by the pressure of the retracted tongue ; it cannot enter the larynx, because the glottis is elevated and protected under the root of the tongue ; consequently, being forcibly compressed by the constrictors of the pharynx, the food will pass onwards into the oesophagus, where there is the least resistance. On observing these successive actions, we find that the food passes with different degrees of rapidity through the different parts of its course, but most rapidly of all through the pharynx. The neces- sity of this is obvious, when we consider that the air-tube opening into the pharynx must necessarily be closed while the food passes * The larynx being also elevated and drawn forward, a greater space is thus left between it and the vertebrae for the distension of the pharynx.