POSITION AND FORM OF THE HE AFT. 201 disease of the larynx* ; and that compression of the oesophagus would give rise to the symptoms of stricture. Nor must we forget the immediate vicinity of the thoracic duct and the recurrent nerve, j- and the effects which would be produced hy their com- pression. One cannot, then, be surprised that a disease which may give rise to so many different symptoms should he a fertile source of fallacy in diagnosis. It is well known that aneurisms of the aorta frequently prove suddenly fatal by bursting into the contiguous tubes or cavities; as, for instance, into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pleura, or the pericardium. Upon this subject it would be beside the purpose to dwell more than simply to direct attention to the anatomical reason why an aneurism of the first part of the arch of the aorta com- monly bursts into the pericardium before it has attained any con- siderable size. It may be observed that in this part of its course the aorta is covered only by a thin layer of serous membrane : now if an aneurism takes place here, the several investing coats of the vessel soon become distended to their utmost, give way, and allow the blood to escape into the pericardium. This case is very different from what is observed during the progress of aneurisms in general; in which, in proportion as the sac enlarges, the surround- ing parts, namely muscles, various other structures, and even bones, become involved in its composition, and in fact contribute to form part of the wall of the cavity. 107. Position and form of the heart.—The heart is situated obliquely in the chest, in the space between the lungs commonly called the mediastinum. It is supported by the ten- dinous centre of the diaphragm. It is maintained in its position by a membranous bag, termed the pericardium, which encloses it on all sides, yet so loosely that it does not confine its movements. If the pericardium be laid open it will be observed that the heart * In the Museum of Guy’s Hospital there is a preparation, No. 1487, in which laryngotomy was performed under the circumstances described in the text. t See Med. Gaz. Dec. 22d, 1843. A case in which loss of voice was pro- duced by the pressure of an aneurismal tumour upon the left recurrent nerve.