188 CERVICAL GANGLIA OF TIIE SYMPATHETIC. behind the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. Finally it enters the chest, on the right side crossing the subclavian artery nearly at a right angle ; on the left running nearly parallel with it. A. The anatomy of the ganglion formed upon the pneumo- gastric nerve in the foramen jugulare will be described hereafter. Our present concern is with the cervical portion of the nerve only. The first thing to be observed is, that the nerve after leaving the skull swells out considerably, and becomes more of a reddish-grey colour; so that apparently another ganglion is formed in its sub- stance. The ganglionic enlargement occupies more or less of the nerve in different instances, generally about an inch. It is very intimately united to the hypoglossal nerve, from which it receives two or more filaments. It also receives filaments from the first and second spinal nerves, and from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. There proceed from it the following branches :— a. Pharyngeal.—Two or more descend either in front of or behind the internal carotid to the pharyngeal plexus (see § 88). b. Superior laryngeal.—This descends behind the external carotid to the interval between the os-hyoides and the thyroid car- tilage, where it enters the larynx (see § 32). c. Cardiac.—These long nerves, two or more, descend in the loose cellular tissue behind the sheath of the cai’otid to the cardiac plexus. They vary much as to the situation of their origin,—pro- ceeding from the main trunk, sometimes higher, sometimes lower, in the neck. Hence some anatomists describe upper and lower cardiac filaments. But this is hardly necessary. On their passage to the heart they cross the arteria innominata on the right, and the arch of the aorta on the left side. 92. Sympathetic nerve.—We now pass on to examine the cer- vical ganglia of the sympathetic system of nerves. Speaking in general terms of this system, it may be staled that it consists of a series of ganglia arranged on either side of the spine, from the first cervical to the last sacral vertebra. The ganglia of the same side are connected, each with the other, by intermediate nerves, so as to form a continuous cord : this constitutes what is commonly called the trunk of the sympathetic system. On the one hand it is con-