53 PALM OF THE HAND. plane beneath the arteries, but most of them communicate with each other by slender filaments which cross in front of the vessels. They send small filaments to supply the first, second, and some- times the third lumbricalis muscle, and others which pass through the fascia to the skin of the palm. About an inch and a quarter above the clefts between the fingers, each digital nerve subdivides into two branches, between which the digital artery passes and bifurcates rather lower down; therefore a vertical incision down the cleft would divide the artery before the nerve. 78. In their course along the fingers and thumb, the nerves lie superficial to the arteries, and rather nearer to the flexor tendons. Near the middle of the first phalanx each nerve sends a con- siderable branch, which runs along the back of the finger nearly to the extremity, communicating with the dorsal branches derived from the radial and ulnar nerves- N ear the ungual phalanx another branch is distributed to the skin around and beneath the root of the nail. Small 'branches of the digital nerves encircle the trunks of the digital arteries, giving filaments to the skin of the finger and the external surface of the sheaths of the tendons ; other filaments, accompanied by small arteries, enter the tendons themselves through the slender synovial bands attached to their posterior sur- face. Each nerve terminates near the end of the finger in a brush of filaments, accompanied by minute arteries, with their points directed to the papillae of the skin. A communication may some- times be traced between the two nerves. 79. Corpuscles of Pacini.—These are little semitransparent elliptical bodies, which are observed chiefly upon the cutaneous nerves of the hands and feet. Some of them will be readily found by carefully examining the trunk of a nerve, or one of its smaller branches, in the subcutaneous tissue at the root of a finger. Each corpuscle is attached by a slender fibro-cellular pedicle to the nerve upon which it is situated; through the pedicle a single primitive nerve-fibril passes into the corpuscle. The corpuscle itself is composed of a series of concentric capsules, separated by intervals containing fluid; and the nerve-fibril termi- nates in a central cavity which exists in the axis of the corpuscle.