289 DEEP-SEATED MUSCLES OF THE BACK. upon the mucous membrane is not yet ascertained. The most minute microscopic observations cannot detect any definite arrange- ment. The ultimate filaments appear to be lost in the mucous tissue. The olfactory are nerves of special sense only. The common sensibility of the mucous membrane of the nose is supplied by branches from the fifth pair of nerves; namely, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic (see § 204), and the nasal branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion (see § 216, c). That the sense of smell is independent of the common sensibility of the nose is proved by experiment and by pathology. For instance, any disease affecting the olfactory nerve, even the inflammation in a common cold, more or less impairs the sense of smell, whereas the common sensation of the part continues equally acute, and becomes even more so, as one may readily ascertain by introducing a foreign body into the nostril. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 238. The muscles of the back which are concerned in the move- ments of the upper extremity are described in the dissection of the arm (see Arm, § 100). These, therefore, having been removed, we proceed to examine two thin flat muscles, named from their appearance “ serrati,” which extend from the spine to the ribs. 239. Serrafus posticus superior.—This muscle is situated beneath the rhomboidei (see Arm, § 109). It arises from the ligamentum nuchae (see Arm, § 102), and the spines of the last cervical, and the two or three upper dorsal vertebrae, by a sheet- like aponeurosis which makes up nearly half the muscle: the fibres run outwards and downwards, and are inserted by fleshy slips into the second, third, fourth, and sometimes the fifth, ribs beyond their angles. Its action is to raise these ribs, and therefore more or less to assist in forcible inspiration. a. Serratus posticus inferior.—This muscle is situated lower down than the preceding, beneath the latissimus dorsi. It takes origin from the strong aponeurosis called “fascia lumborum”