237 SOFT PALATE. the membrane is corrugated into folds, evidently for the purpose of allowing the free expansion of the pharynx during the passage of the food. The surface of the membrane is always lubricated by a plentiful secretion from the numerous mucous glands which are situated in the submucous tissue throughout the whole extent of the pharynx. These, we have already had occasion to notice, are particularly numerous and large in the neighbourhood of the Eustachian tubes. 150. Posterior openings of the nose.—These are two large and somewhat oval apertures leading into extensive and irregularly de- fined cavities, increased by many excavations in the neighbouring bones. They are divided into two lateral halves by a per- pendicular septum. They are bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, externally by its pterygoid plate, below by the horizontal portion of the palate bone, and they are sepa- rated from each other by the vomer. Through these apertures the atmospheric air is constantly streaming in and out of the pharynx in its passage to and from the lungs. 151. Isthmus faucium.—This name is given to the opening by which the mouth communicates with the pharynx. If we look into the throat of a living person, we may observe that this aperture is bounded by the soft palate and uvula above, below by the root of the tongue, and on either side by the arches of the palate, enclosing the tonsils between them. The size and shape of this aperture admits of great variation, and we shall presently find that it may- be completely closed by the contraction of its lateral boundaries. 152. Soft palate—This is a moveable prolongation of the roof of the mouth, attached to the posterior border of the hard palate. It constitutes an imperfect diaphragm or septum, interposed between the mouth and the posterior openings of the nose. Its upper or nasal surface is convex, and continuous with the floor of the nose; its lower surface is concave, in adaptation to the back of the tongue, and is marked in the mesial line by a prominent white ridge, indi- cating its original formation by two lateral halves. The general shape and direction of the soft palate may be easily seen by looking into the mouth : we may then observe that, anteriorly, it has