343 ABDOMINAL AORTA. b. The capsular arteries proceed to the renal capsules. c. The renal arteries come from the aorta at right angles, and run transversely to the kidneys. Both are covered by their cor- responding veins. The right is necessarily longer than the left, and crosses beneath the vena cava. Each enters its kidney, not as one trunk, hut by several branches, corresponding to the original lobes of the organ. The renal veins, as before said, lie in front of tht arteries, and join the vena cava at right angles. The left is longer than the right, and has to cross over the aorta; it receives the spermatic vein of its own side, which the right does not. These trifling differences, it will at once be perceived, are neces- sarily owing to the respective position of the aorta and vena cava. d. The spermatic arteries arise from the front of the aorta a little below the renal. They descend along the psoas muscle, and then through the inguinal canal to the testicle. In the foetus, of course, they are much shorter, but they gradually lengthen as the testicles leave the abdomen. In the female, the corresponding arteries proceed between the layers of the broad ligament to the ovaries. Each artery is accompanied by two very tortuous veins, which unite and then empty themselves, on the right side, into the vena cava; on the left, into the renal vein. e. Lumbar arteries.—These arise from the back of the aorta, and are five in number on either side. They are strictly repeti- tions of the intercostal arteries on a small scale, so that “ lumbar intercostals” would be an appropriate name for them. They pro- ceed outwards over the centres of the vertebrae towards the inter- vertebral foramina, and then, like the thoracic intercostals, divide into dorsal and abdominal branches. 1. The dorsal branches pass between the transverse processes to the muscles of the back, and are of a size proportionate to the large development of these muscles. They also send arteries into the spinal canal. 2. The abdominal branches run outwards behind the quadratus lumborum, all except the first and the last, which commonly run in front. After supplying the quadratus and psoas, they are lost in the wall of the abdomen.* * Just as the thoracic intercostals, by communicating with the internal