216 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. of the arch of the aorta, and form what is called the “ superficial cardiac plexushut this is very small compared to the other. From this plexus the greater number of nerves proceed, in com- pany with the coronary arteries, to the heart; but some are distri- buted to the pericardium and the lungs. Those nerves which accompany the anterior coronary artery form what is called the “ anterior coronary plexus.” It is best seen by dissecting between the aorta and the pulmonary artery. The posterior coronary plexus proceeds with its corresponding artery to the posterior part of the base of the heart. But it is not an easy matter to trace the nerves into the substance of the heart. For this purpose a horse’s heart is the best, and some previous maceration in water is desirable. 124. Draw aside the margin of the right lung ; divide the supe- rior vena cava above the vena azygos, and turn down the lower part. Remove the layer of pericardium which covers the pulmo- nary veins, and the constituent parts of the root of the right lung will be exposed. They lie from before backwards in the following order :—In front are the two pulmonary veins ; behind the veins are the subdivisions of the pulmonary artery ; and behind the artery are the divisions of the bronchus. From above downwards they are disposed thus :—The bronchus is the highest; then comes the pulmonary artery; while the vein is the lowest. The parts are arranged just the same in the root of the left lung, except that the artery is placed higher than the bronchus. DISSECTION OF THE HEART. For this purpose, the heart, together with the lungs, should be re- moved from the chest. The reader is presumed to be familiar with the general form of the heart, described at § 107. He should notice the longitudinal groove both on the upper and lower surface, indicating the divisions of the ventricles ; and the circular groove near the base, indicating the separation between the ventricles and auricles. These grooves are occupied by the coronary vessels, and