INTERSP1N ALES. INTERTRANSVERSALES. 295 muscle, since the fixed points and the direction of its fibres are nearly the same. It consists of a series of little muscles which lie in the groove between the spines and the transverse processes of the vertebrae from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra. Those in the lumbar region are larger than the others. They arise by tendinous slips from the transverse processes in the sacral and dorsal region, and from the articular processes in the lumbar and cervical region. They all ascend obliquely inwards, and are inserted into the spines and lantime of all the vertebrae excepting the atlas. It should be observed that their fibres are not of uniform length ; some extend only from vertebra to vertebra, while others extend between one, two, or even three vertebrae. 251. Beneath the multifidus spinae we find in the dorsal region of the spine only, eleven little flat muscles, called by Theile,* who first described them, “ rotatores spinaThey arise from the upper part of the transverse process, and are inserted into the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra above. These muscles form but a part of the multifidus spinae. Action.—All these oblique muscles not only assist in main- taining the trunk erect, but they can also bend the spine to one or the other side. 252. Levatores costarum. — These little muscles, twelve in number on each side, arise from the apices of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, descend outwardly, and are inserted into the upper and back part of the rib below. The direction of their fibres corresponds to that of the outer layer of the intercostal muscles. 253. Interspinales.—These muscles, as their name implies, extend between the spines of the vertebrae. They only exist in those parts of the vertebral column which are the most moveable, namely the cervical and lumbar regions ; but even here they are not always found. In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs. There are none, however, between the two first ver- tebrae, for obvious reasons. In the lumbar region they are arranged singly. 254. Intertransversales.—These muscles extend between the * Muller’s Archives f. Anat. &c. 1839.