256 PAPILLA OF THE TONGUE. be distinguished during life from the other papillae by their redder colour; especially if the tongue be touched with any strongly tasting fluid, such as vinegar. They appear to shoot out under the action of the stimulus, and it is probable that the same effect always accompanies the sensation of taste. In scarlatina, and some exanthematous fevers, it is observed that these papillae become reiharkably elongated, and of a bright red colour; as the fever subsides, their points collapse, and acquire a brownish tint, giving rise to the appearance commonly known as “ the strawberry tongue.” c. The papilla1. Jilifornue are the smallest and most numerous of all; they are so closely aggregated that they give the tongue a velvet-like appearance. The points are directed backwards, so that the tongue feels smooth, if the finger be passed over it from apex to base ; but rough, if in the opposite direction. All the papillae are covered with a layer of tesselated epithelium. That which covers the filiform is very thick and dense in propor- tion to the rest, and with the aid of a microscope may be seen to project from their sides in a hair-like form. Some of these pro- jections even resemble hair in structure. Respecting the use of the papillae, it may be stated that they enable the tongue to detect impressions with greater delicacy; and it would appear probable that they are severally instrumental in detecting different kinds of sensation, whether of taste or touch. In consequence of the peculiar density and arrangement of then- epithelial coat, the filiform papillae give the surface of the tongue a degree of roughness which is useful in its action upon the food. An apparatus of this kind, proportionately stronger and more developed, makes the tongue of ruminant animals an instrument of prehension by which they lay hold of their food. In the feline tribe, the lion and tiger for instance, these papillae are so sharp and strong that they act like rasps, and enable the animal to lick the periosteum from the bones by a single stroke of his tongue. In some mammaba, too, they act like combs for cleaning the skin and the hair. If the papillae be well injected, and then examined under the microscope, it is found that they are none of them simple, like