329 PERITONEUM. end of the stomach to the spleen, and is continuous below with the great omentum. f. Course of the peritoneum.—We come next to trace the peri- toneum, as a continuous membrane. To say the truth, this is not a very easy matter,—in fact, it has always been considered a sort of anatomical puzzle. Since the peritoneum is a perfect sac, it matters not where we commence our description, for after all we must come back to the point from which we started. Supposing, then, a longitudinal section were made through the viscera in the middle line of the body, one might trace the peritoneum thus— beginning at the diaphragm, and taking, for brevity’s sake, two layers at a time. From the diaphragm there proceed two layers of peritoneum to the liver, forming its lateral ligaments; they separate to enclose the liver, meet again on its under surface, and pass on, under the name of gastro-hepatic omentum, to the smaller curve of the stomach. Separating, they embrace the stomach, and meeting again at its greater curve, pass down over the small intestines to form the great omentum. At the lower margin of the great omen- tum they are reflected upwards (so that the omentum consists of four layers) to the spine near the pancreas, and here the layers diverge from each other. The upper layer ascends in front of the pancreas to the diaphragm ; the lower layer proceeds over the arch of the colon and then back to the spine, thus forming the trans- verse meso-colon.* From thence it is reflected over the small in- testines, forming the mesentery. From the root of the mesentery it descends into the pelvis, and invests a part of the rectum (and the uterus in the female). From the rectum it is reflected on to the posterior part of the bladder, and from thence to the wall of the abdomen, along which We trace it back to the diaphragm. Such would be the course of the peritoneum as seen by a longi- tudinal section. But there are certain lateral reflections which would not be seen except by a transverse section, e. g. from the great end of the stomach two layers proceed to the spleen, forming * This particular arrangement is demonstrable only in early life. As the child grows the great omentum becomes adherent to the arch of the colon.