DISSECTION OF THE HEAET. 217 by more or less fat, according to the general condition of the body. 125. The human heart is a double organ ; that is to say, it is composed of two hearts, a right and a left, separated by a septum. Each consists of an auricle and a ventricle, which communicate by a wide orifice: the right propels the blood through the lungs, and is therefore called the pulmonic ; the left propels the blood through the body generally, and is therefore called the systemic. These two hearts, it is true, are not placed apart, because important ad- vantages result from their union. By being enclosed in a single membranous bag they occupy less room in the chest; and the action of their corresponding cavities being precisely synchronous, their fibres, mutually intermixing, contribute to their mutual support. We shall describe the several cavities of the heart in the order in which the blood circulates through them. 126. Right auricle.—This is situated at the right side of the base of the heart, and it forms a quadrangular cavity between the two venae cavse, from which it directly receives the blood. From its front a small pouch or cul-de-sac projects towards the left, more or less overlapping the root of the aorta : this appendage to the general cavity is the “ auricula,” so called from its landed resem- blance to the ear of a dog. To see the interior of the auricle, make a horizontal incision through the anterior wall, and from this make another at right angles into the superior cava. We observe that its interior is lined by a thin polished membrane, and that it is everywhere flat, except in the appendix, where the muscular fibres are collected into bundles, called, from their fancied resemblance to the teeth of a comb, “ musculi pectinati.” They appear to radiate from the auricles to the edges of the aurieulo-ventricular opening. In the intervals between them the wall of the auricle is so thin that it is composed only of the outer and inner membranes of the heart. Observe the openings of the two venae cavse : they are not directly opposite to each other, the superior being situated on a plane rather in front of the inferior, in order that the two streams of blood may not meet. The orifice of each is nearly circular, and surrounded