FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. 40 58. The anterior and posterior carpal arteries are small branches of the radial, which run beneath the tendons, and supply the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus, anastomosing with the branches of the interosseous arteries and carpal branches of the ulna. The remaining branches of the radial will be described with the palm. 59. The radial nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral, is given off above the bend of the elbow, deep between the extensor carpi radialis longior and brachialis anticus muscles; it descends along the fore-arm, on the outer side of the radial artery, in close contact with the inner edge of the extensor carpi radialis lon- gior, and covered by the supinator radii longus. In the upper third of the fore-arm the nerve is at some distance from the artery ; in the middle third it approaches much nearer to it; but in the lower third, the nerve, leaving the artery, passes obliquely under- neath the tendon of the supinator longus, perforates the fascia on the outer side of the forearm, and generally divides into two branches, an external and an internal, which supply the skin on the back of the hand, thumb, and two next fingers. a. The external branch, the smaller of the two, passes along the outer border of the supinator longus, and extends to the radial side of the thumb ; it sends a branch to the external cutaneous nerve and the palmar filament of the median. b. The internal division of the nerve passes over the extensor tendons of the thumb to the back of the hand, where it gives off the dorsal digital nerves. One ramifies on the ulnar side of the thumb, the second on the radial side of the index finger, the third divides so as to supply the opposite sides of the index and middle fingers, and is connected on the back of the hand with a branch of the ulnar nerve. 60. Examine the course and relations of the ulnar artery. This artery, larger than the radial, arises from the brachial at the middle of the elbow, runs obliquely downwards and inwards along the ulnar side of the fore-arm to the wrist, where it passes over the anterior annular ligament near the pisiform bone, and entering the palm, forms the superficial palmar arch, by inosculating with the. superficialis volae, or some other branch of the radial.