301 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. generally called, on account of their colour, ligamenta vertebrarurn subflava.—To obtain a good view of them, we ought to remove the arches of the vertebrae with a saw. We may then observe that they extend from the arch of one vertebra to that of the next, filling up the intervals between them. Their strength increases with the size of the vertebrae. But the chief peculiarity about these ligaments is, that they are composed of yellow elastic tissue, so that they lengthen when the spine is bent forwards. 274. Intertransverse ligaments.—These are delicate ligamen- tous bands which extend between the transverse processes of the lumbar and lower dorsal vertebrae. But they serve rather as in- sertions for muscles, than as ligaments to connect the bones. 275. Posterior common ligament.—In order to see this the arches of the vertebrae must be removed. It extends longitudinally after the manner of the anterior common ligament (see § 271), along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the occiput to the sacrum. But we remark that it gradually decreases in strength and breadth from the upper towards the lower part of the spine. 276. Intervertebral jibro-cartilage.—This substance is by far the strongest bond of connexion between the several vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum, and it fulfils most important purposes in the mechanism of the spine. The best way to see the general structure of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage is to make a horizontal section through one of them : say in the lumbar region. We may then observe that its structure is very firm and resisting about the circumference, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The cir- cumferential portion is composed of a number of circular and concentric fibro-cartilaginous plates, placed vertically or nearly so. These plates are firmly attached by their edges to the vertebrae; they gradually decrease in number from the circumference towards the centre, and the interstices between them are occupied by the soft pulpy tissue. The central portion is composed almost en- tirely of this pulpy tissue; and the pressure which confines it being removed when a transverse section is made, we see it bulging above the level of the firmer structure. 277. If an intervertebral substance he dissected layer after