353 DISSECTION OE THE MALE PERINEUM. margin of the anus is richly provided with minute glands,* which secrete an unctuous substance to facilitate the passage of the fceces. When this secretion becomes defective or vitiated, the anal cuta- neous folds are apt at the same time to become excoriated, chapped, or fissured; and then defsecation becomes exceedingly painful. 43. Superficial fascia.—It matters little how we reflect the in- tegument. A convenient way is to make an incision down the raphe, around the anus, and so back to the coccyx. Two others may then be made on each side at right angles to the first, the one at the upper, the other at the lower end of it. Thus the skin of the perineum may be turned back like folding doors. In reflect- ing the skin, we have to notice the common subcutaneous adipose and cellular structure. It need scarcely be alluded to here, since it has been so frequently mentioned elsewhere that this tissue varies in thickness according to the general condition of the body.f It is observable, however, that its characters alter in exact adapta • tion to the exigencies of each particular part. For instance, on and near the scrotum the fat constituent of the tissue is entirely and for obvious reasons absent, while the fibro-cellular element is most abundant, and during life elastic and contractile. But, as we recede from the scrotum and approach the anus, the fat accumu- lates more and more, and on either side of ihe rectum it is found in the shape of large pellets, filling up what would otherwise be two deep hollows in this situation, namely the ischio-rectal fossae. The purpose of this accumulation of fat on each side of the anus must be apparent; it permits the easy distension and contraction of the lower end of the bowel during and after the passage of the * These glands are the analogues of the anal glands in some animals, e. g. the dog and the beaver. They are found not only about the anus, but also in the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum—a fact for the demonstration of which we are indebted to Mr. Quekett. They are large enough to be seen with the naked eye. f The probable thickness of this subcutaneous tissue is a point which ought to be determined by the lithotomist in making his first incision. Its 'great thickness in some cases explains the depth to which the surgeon has to cut in letting out matter from the perineum.