EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 135 ganglion gives off numerous slender filaments which supply the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and their ducts. Two or three small absorbent glands may in some subjects be observed near the sublingual gland, not far from the mucous membrane of the mouth. They receive some of the absorbents from the tongue. Having advanced thus far in the dissection, the next object of attention should be the course and relations of the external carotid artery and its branches in the neck. In preparing a view of these vessels more or less difficulty will be experienced on account of the veins, nearly all of which are situated superficially with regard to their corresponding arteries. 29. Course and relations of the external carotid artery.—The external carotid artery arises from the inner side of the common carotid, most frequently about the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It ascends with a slight inclination backwards to the interval between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw, where it enters the parotid gland, and finally terminates near the neck of the jaw, by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. In the first part of its course it is situated between the front border of the sterno-mastoid and the side of the pharynx; here it is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the platysma, the cervical fascia, and some large veins, probably the facial, the lingual, and perhaps the superior thyroid. A little above the cornu of the os-hyoides it is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and still higher up by the posterior portion of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoideus muscle. In the remainder of its course it is deeply embedded in the substance of the parotid gland. It is important to notice the relative position which the external and internal carotid arteries hold with regard to each other. For a short distance after their origin they lie nearly on the same plane, the external being neai’er to the mesial line; but as it ascends backwards towards the angle of the jaw the external carotid must necessarily cross obliquely in front of the internal, which runs almost perpendicularly by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, and we shall subsequently find that certain parts intervene