318 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. surface of the abdominal wall. The opening in the fascia through which the spermatic cord passes is called the internal abdominal ring.* This must be accurately examined. First, it is important to be familiar with its precise situation. It corresponds with a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and about two-thirds of an inch above the crural arch. As to its shape, it is like anything but a ring, in the strict sense of the word. We had better introduce the little finger or the handle of the scalpel into it, and judge for ourselves. We shall find that it has a defined margin on the pubic side, but none on the iliac, and that on the whole it has rather a funnel- shaped aspect. In its passage through this opening the spermatic cord receives from the margin of it its first covering, thin and delicate it is true, but still a covering.-)- The chief point of interest concerning the internal ring is that the epigastric artery ascends close by its inner border. This very important vessel we shall presently describe in detail. 11. Having thus investigated analytically the several strata through which the spermatic cord passes, the learner will do well to replace them in their natural position, and build them up as it were, so as to examine the inguinal canal as a whole. He will perceive that its direction is not exactly horizontal, but rather obliquely downwards and inwards. Its lengfh in a well-formed adult male is from one and a half to two inches, or three inches if we include the openings. It is necessary to be aware, however, that in young subjects the outer and inner apertures nearly corre- spond, so that the cord escapes through a ring rather than a canal. 12. Course and relations of the epigastric artery.—In a prac- tical point of view this is one of the most important arteries in the body. It arises from the external iliac, just before this vessel passes under the crural arch. It ascends inwards, forms a gentle * Or the inner aperture of the inguinal canal. f Sometimes called the infundibuliform fascia, from its peculiar appear- ance when viewed from the abdominal side. But after all it is nothing but condensed cellular membrane, and under healthy conditions so thin and transparent as scarcely to deserve a name.