162 STRUCTURE OF THE ETELIDS. the lower, and rather curved with the convexity downwards : the cilia of the lower lid take just the opposite direction. Each lash is thickest at the root, and gradually tapers to a fine point. f. The Meibomian glands, so called after the anatomist* who first described them, are a series of sebaceous glands situated on the under surface of each of the tarsal cartilages. In the upper lid there may be from thirty to forty of them, but there are not quite so many in the lower. They become immediately apparent on everting the lid, and are seen running in parallel longitudinal rows in grooves of the cartilage. When examined with the micro- scope they are found to consist of a central tube, round the sides of which there are a number of openings leading to short csecal dilatations.f The orifices of these glands are situated on the free margin of the lid behind the lashes. Their use is to secrete an unctuous substance which prevents the lids from sticking together. g. Caruncula lacrymalis.—This name is given to a small reddish body situated at the inner corner of the eye. It is com- posed of an aggregation of small glands covered by the mucous membrane. In some instances minute hairs grow upon it. h. The conjunctival coat of the eyelid will be described with the anatomy of the eye. We would merely observe here, that it is more vascular than the conjunctival coat of the eye, and that it presents a number of minute papillae. When these papillae become enlarged and aggregated by inflammation, they give rise to the disease called “ granular lids.” Such, in outline, is the structure of the eyelid. Its use must be apparent to every one. It shuts out the light during sleep, pro- tects the eye from accidental violence, and by its winking motion spreads a clear fluid over the cornea, removing at the same time from its polished surface any particle of dust which might irritate the eye and impede the transmission of light. Proceeding with the dissection of the muscles of the face, we must now raise the lower circumference of the orbicularis oculi, in * H. Meibom, de Vasis palpebrarum novis, Helmstedt, 1666. j- Arnold, Tab. anat. fasc. 2, Tab. 1.