378 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. membrane.* Moreover, a little ridge proceeds from the orifice of each ureter down to the neck of the bladder, looking like a con* tinuation of the ureter itself. If the mucous membrane be removed from these ridges, we find that they are produced by muscular fibres. Sir Charles Bell,f who first drew attention to them, be- lieved them to be of use in regulating the orifices of the ureters, and named them “ the muscles of the ureters.” e. The ridges, converging from the ureters, together with an imaginary horizontal line drawn between their orifices, include a triangular area called by the French anatomists the trigone vesi- cate. The mucous membrane of this area is always firmly adherent to the subjacent tissue, and is therefore perfectly smooth, and free from wrinkles. It is more richly provided with blood- vessels and nerves than the rest of the bladder, and is in conse- quence endowed with more delicate sensibility. This is the reason why a stone gives more pain when the bladder is empty, and why it is more painful in ihe erect than in any other position of the body. 74.—Prostate. Having already (§ 68) examined the form, size, relations, and other circumstances connected with this gland, we need only mention here that it is commonly described as consisting of two lateral and symmetrical lobes; but in the healthy state of parts the learner will hardly distinguish anything like a division between them. There is, however, sometimes a third or middle lobe.t It is, generally speaking, quite rudimentary, and is situ- * This slanting of the ureters serves all the uses of a valve. The urine enters the bladder, drop by drop, but cannot return, because the internal coat is pressed against the other side of the orifice, so as to stop it. When the bladder becomes thickened, in consequence of difficulty in passing the water, it sometimes happens that the ureters lose their valvular direction, so that the urine, when the bladder contracts, is partly forced back up the ureters; the result is, that they become dilated, and so does the pelvis of the kidney. f Med. Chir. Trans., vol. iii. He says, “These muscles guard the orifices of the ureters by preserving the obliquity of the passage, and pulling down the extremities of the ureters according to the degree of the contraction of the bladder generally.’’ 7 Attention was first attracted to this middle lobe, in England, by Sir Everard Home, whose account of it is published in the Philos. Trans, for