THE UPPER ARM. 22 the prominence on the front of the arm : as its name implies, it has two distinct origins or heads—a long and a short. The short head of the biceps, the most internal of the two, is attached to the point of the coracoid process of the scapula, by means of a flat tendon, from the posterior surface of which the fleshy fibres arise. This tendon is common to a slender muscle on its inner side, called the coraco-bracliialis. The origin of the long head of the biceps cannot at present be seen; it takes place from the upper border of the glenoid cavity of the scapula by a long flat tendon, which traverses the shoulder-joint and passes over the head of the humerus, and between the two tuberosities. The tendon is retained in the groove by a strong fibrous expansion, derived from the capsule of the joint, and connected with the tendon of the pectoralis major. By dividing this expansion, it will be found that the synovial membrane of the joint is reflected round the tendon, and accompa- nies it for about two inches down the groove, thus forming a sort of synovial fold, between the layers of which small ramifications of the anterior circumflex artery run up to supply the tendon. The long tendinous head expands as it descends, and gives origin to the mus- cular fibres from its under surface. The two heads unite about the middle of the arm, or, perhaps, its inferior third, and form a single muscle, which terminates a little above the elbow-joint in a strong flat tendon of considerable length, which sinks deep into the trian- gular space at the bend of the elbow, and, after a slight twist upon itself, is inserted by a broad expansion into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. The anterior part of the tubercle, over which the tendon plays, is crusted with fibro-cartilage, and a large bursa mucosa intervenes to facilitate its motion. The most internal fibres of the muscle are connected with a very strong broad aponeu- rosis, of a semilunar form, which is prolonged from the inner border of the tendon obliquely downwards and inwards to the fascia of the forearm. This aponeurosis, commonly called the semilunar fascia of the biceps, protects the brachial vessels and the median nerve at the bend of the elbow. At the upper part of the arm the two heads of the muscle are separated from each other by an interval, which will vary in extent