NERVES OF THE PELVIS. 374 In its passage over the obturator muscle it is enclosed in a strong tube of fascia, and is situated about one inch and a quarter above the tuberosity of the ischium. Here it might for a time be effec- tually compressed. The branches of the pudic artery were de- scribed in the dissection of the perineum (§ 55). Unfortunately, however, for operative surgery, the pudic artery sometimes takes a very different course. Instead of passing out of the pelvis, it may run by the side of the prostate gland to its destination ; or, which comes to nearly the same thing, one of the large branches of the pudic may take this unusual course, while the pudic itself is regular, but proportionably small. All practical anatomists are familiar with these varieties, and we seldom pass a winter session without meeting with one or two examples of them. It need hardly be said, that lithotomy, under such conditions, might be followed by fatal haemorrhage. (j. The vesical*and middle hemorrhoidal arteries are variable as to their number and origin. They come from the pudic or the ischiatic, and ramify irregularly on the side of the rectum, the bladder, the vesiculae seminales, and the prostate. h. The middle sacral artery is a very diminutive prolongation of the aorta down to the coccyx. It becomes gradually smaller as it descends, and finally inosculates with the lateral sacral artery. Respecting the veins in the pelvis, we have little to say more than that they correspond with the arteries. The remarkable plexus of veins about the prostate, neck of the bladder, and rectum, has been already described (§ 61.) 71. Nerves of the pelvis.—We should examine, first, those nerves which proceed from the spinal cord, and then those derived from the sympathetic system. Sacral plexus.—Fivef sacral nerves proceed from the spinal * While on the subject of arteries supplying the bladder, it shouid be men- tioned that the upper part of this organ is generally supplied by what is called the superior vesical. This is a small artery proceeding from the all but obliterated umbilical; and from it a still smaller is given off, which accom- panies the vas deferens along the spermatic cord. + Some anatomists describe a sixth, or “ coccygeal” nerve, but this is only a division of the fifth sacral, and supplies nearly the same parts.