PSOAS MAGNUS. 339 nected to its margin, so that it may be kept permanently open.1 Lastly, there pass through the crus, on each side, the sympathetic, and the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves. Function of the diaphragm.—The diaphragm is the chief mus- cle concerned in respiration. Next to the heart, therefore, it is the most important muscle in the body: “ musculus post cor nobilissimus.”* During inspiration, the diaphragm contracts and becomes less arched; the floor of the chest sinks in consequence, and more room is made for the expansion of the lungs. During expiration the diaphragm relaxes, and is forced up to its former position by the pressure of the abdominal muscles on the viscera. This alternate sinking and raising of the diaphragm constitutes the mechanical part of the breathing. But the diaphragm conduces to the production of many other functions. Acting in concert with the abdominal muscles, it compresses the viscera and assists in the expulsion of the faeces and the urine, also in parturition and in vomiting. Moreover, it is one of the chief agents concerned in laughing, sneezing, coughing, hiccough, &e. 32. Psoas magnus.—We must now raise one of the kidneys from its bed, in order to examine a long muscle, called the psoas, which extends from the sides of the lumbar vertebrae into the thigh. In dissecting this muscle we are to take care, 1st. of the sheath in which it is contained; 2dly. of the branches of the lumbar plexus, which emerge from it; and 3dly. of the sympathetic nerve, which runs down the spine close and nearly parallel to its inner border. Respecting the sheath of the psoas, we have to notice its attach-, ment to the sides of the vertebrae and the brim of the pelvis. It is this which determines the ordinary course of a psoas abscess, namely, beneath the crural arch into the upper part of the thigh ; for it is a rare exception when the matter travels into the pelvis. The psoas arises from the bodies and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and their intervening fibro-cartilages; but, ob- serve, only from the projecting borders of the vertebrae, not from the central grooved part: here the fibres arise from a kind of * Haller. R 2 j