BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 87 reflected over each of the tendons, and accompanies them for a short distance on the back of the hand. The extent of the synovial sheath is about two inches. c. The tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis is con- tained in a narrow well-marked groove on the back of the radius. Its synovial sheath varies from two to three inches in length, and extends, in some instances, from the radius down to the first phalanx of the thumb. In the situation where this tendon crosses the extensor tendons of the carpus, a narrow communication is frequently formed between their respective synovial sheaths. d. The tendons of the extensor carpi radialis brevior and longior are contained in the same groove on the back of the radius. Generally, there is a distinct synovial sheath for each tendon: that of the extensor brevior is about two inches in length, extending from the groove nearly to the insertion of the tendon; that of the extensor longior is commonly not more than one inch in extent. e. The tendons of the extensor primi internodii pollicis and ossis metacarpi pollicis are contained in a groove on the outer part of the radius. Each has most commonly a separate synovial sheath, varying from two to two and a half inches in extent. In some rare instances it is observed that one or more of the synovial sheaths of the extensor tendons communicate with the cavity of the wrist-joint. 146. The 'posterior interosseous artery is derived from the ulnar by a common trunk with the anterior interosseous (see ยง 67), and supplies the muscles on the back of the fore-arm. It passes between the radius and ulna above the interosseous membrane, and appears between the supinator radii brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. After supplying branches to all the muscles in this situation, the artery descends, much diminished in size, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles to the wrist, where it inosculates with the carpal branches of the anterior interosseous and those of the radial and ulnar arteries. a. But the largest branch of this artery is the recurrent. It ascends beneath the anconeus muscle to the space between the external condyle and the olceranon, where it inosculates with the branch of the superior profunda, which descends in the substance