MUSCLES OE THE LARYNX. 251 of the other cartilage. Action.—By approximating the arytenoid cartilages, they assist in narrowing the glottis. d. M. crico-arytenoideus lateralis.—Toexpose this muscle re- quires careful dissection. We must remove the crico-thyroid muscle, and cut away the lower part of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. It arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, proceeds upwards and backwards, and is inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid. Action.—By drawing the arytenoid cartilages inwards, the muscles of opposite sides assist in narrowing the glottis. e. M. thyro-arytenoideus.—To expose this muscle requires the same dissection as the preceding. It arises from the lower third,more or less, of the angle of the thyroid cartilage : from thence its fibres take different directions. The greater part of them pass horizon- tally backwards, and are inserted into the front surface of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. This is the most important part of the muscle, so far as vocalization is concerned: its fibres run parallel with the vocal cord, and some of them are directly inserted into it. Another, hut thinner, portion of the muscle ascends, spreading out over the ventricle of the larynx, and is inserted into the whole of the outer border of the arytenoid cartilage. We sometimes find an additional bundle of muscular fibres proceeding from the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near its notch, to the arytenoid near the base. Action.—Those fibres which run parallel with, and below, the vocal cords will place them in the vocalizing position, i. e. parallel to each other. Other fibres, by approximating the angles of the arytenoid cartilages, will tend to narrow the glottis. f. M. thyro-epiglottideus.—Under this name, some anatomists have described a few slender muscular fibres which proceed, on either side, from the angle of the thyroid cartilage to the corre- sponding margin of the epiglottis. They are said to act as depres- sors of the epiglottis. Haller describes them as part of the thyro- arytenoideus. They are by no means generally found. The motions of the epiglottis are of a mechanical nature, and not per- formed by muscular action. g. M. aryteno-epiglottideus.—This consists of a few pale muscular fibres, which are enclosed in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of N