263 CAVERNOUS SINUS. The sixth passes through the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone. The seventh, consisting of the facial and auditory nerves, passes through the meatus auditorius interims. The eighth, consisting of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, passes through the foramen lacerum jugulare. But these three divisions do not all pass through the same tube of dura mater; for the glosso-pharyngeal has a separate tube anterior to the other two, which have a common one. The ninth, or hypo-glossal nerve, passes through the anterior condyloid foramen. 186. At the base of the skull, between the dura mater and the bone, are observed the ramifications of the arteria meningea media, with its two veins. This artery, a branch of the internal maxillary, (see § 82, A b) enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, and then divides into two principal branches; one of which runs in a groove, or perhaps a distinct canal, along the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; the other curves backwards over the temporal bone, and subsequently ramifies on the parietal. It sup- plies the dura mater and the hones. The position of these arteries obviously renders them very liable to be injured in fractures of the skull. As a result of their injury a more or less considerable extravasation of blood may take place between the dura mater and the bones, and occasion symptoms of compression of the brain. Some notice must now be taken of the cavernous sinus, and of the nerves which course through its walls to the orbit; namely, of the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth. 187. Cavernous sinus.—One among the many peculiarities of the cerebral circulation is, that the returning blood flows through fibrous canals formed by the dura mater, and called “sinuses." The general anatomy, the course, as it is called, and the names of these several canals, will be considered with the anatomy of the brain. But the cavernous sinus, for reasons which will appear presently, should be examined immediately before the dissection of the orbit.