245 THYROID CARTILAGE. part of the body of the os-hyoides. In front of this ligament there is, in the perfect larynx, a bursa of considerable size, of which the use is to facilitate the play of the upper part of the thyroid cartilage behind the os-hyoides. 2. The right and left lateral tJujro-liyoid ligaments extend between the extremities of the greater comua of the os-hyoides and the ascending cornua of the thyroid cartilage. They often contain a little nodule of cartilage. The vacant space left in the dried preparation between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage is closed in the recent state by the thyro-hyoid membrane. 161. Cartilages of the larynx.—The framework of the larynx is composed of five cartilages connected by elastic ligaments, and capable of being moved upon each other in different directions by appropriate muscles ; the object of this motion being to act upon two elastic cords, called the vocal ligaments, upon which the voice essentially depends. a. Thyroid cartilage.—This is so called* because it is a protection to the fine apparatus behind it. It consists of two lateral and per- fectly symmetrical halves called the alae, and united at a more or less acute angle in the mesial line, where they form a conspicuous prominence in the neck of the ma’e, known as the “ Pomum Adami.” This angular prominence presents a notch at its upper part, as if a portion had been sliced off from below upwards, in order that it might rise up with greater facility behind the os- hyoides in the act of deglutition. The outer surface of each ala is marked by an oblique line, which gives attachment to the sterno- thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The inferior border is slightly arched in the middle, and on either side presents a convex pro- minence, which gives attachment to the crico-thyroid muscle. The superior border is nearly horizontal. The posterior border, directed towards the spine, is nearly vertical, inclining slightly towards the mesial line from above downwards. This border terminates above and below in a rounded projection called respectively the upper and the lower cornu. The upper is the longer, and directed obliquely backwards; the lower is articulated at its extremity to the side of the cricoid cartilage. Qvpebs, a shield.