DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. 388 anus, is called the commissure, or “ frenulum labiorum it is generally torn in the first labour. The inner layer of the skin of the labium is thinner, softer, and more like mucous membrane than the outer : for this reason, whenever matter forms in the labium, the abscess is almost sure to burst on the inner side. Where the labia are in contact, we find that they are provided with a number of small sebaceous glands, of which the minute ducts are observa- ble on the surface. a. Labia minora.—By separating the external labia, we expose two smaller and thinner folds of skin, one on either side, termed the labia minora, or, by the old anatomists, the nymphos. These folds converge anteriorly, and form a sort of hood for the clitoris, called the preputium clitoridis; posteriorly they are gradually lost on the inside of the labia majora. They never contain fat, like the labia majora, but are composed of a minute plexus of veins. Between the nymphce and about the clitoris there are a number of glands which secrete the same kind of unctuous matter as about the corona glandis in the male. In young persons, in whom the nymphce are protected from the air and from friction by the external labia, they are soft, moist, and of a rose-red colour: but when hypertrophied, so as to project without the labia, they become like the common integument, and acquire a bluish colour from the distension of their veins. Between the labia minora, and about a thumb’s breadth below the clitoris, is the orifice of the urethra, or “ meatus urinarius." Immediately below this is the vagina, of which the orifice is par- tially closed in the virgin state, by a thin fold of skin called the “ hymen.” 81. The clitoris resembles in form and structure the penis, but on a very diminutive scale. Like the penis, it is attached to the sides of the pubic arch by two crura, each of which is grasped by its own little erector muscle. The crura unite to form the body of the organ, which is tipped by a small glans. The glans is pro- vided with extremely sensitive papillae, and covered by a little pre- puce. Its dorsal arteries and nerves are exceedingly large in pro- portion to its size, and have precisely the same course and distribu- tion as in the penis. Its internal structure consists of a plexus of >i