539 DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. partition is altogether absent, so that here the tubes communicate freely with each other. These tubes are called the scales of the cochlea, and are filled with fluid. The one opens freely into the vestibule, and is therefore called the vestibular scale; the other leads to the membrane which closes the foramen rotundum oi the tympanum, and is termed the tympanic scale. If unwound, they would be about 1| inch long. Each makes two turns and a half round a central pillar, from left to right in the right ear, and vice versa in the left. The central pillar of the cochlea is called the modiolus. It is of considerable thickness at the base, but gradually tapers towards the apex. Its interior is traversed by numerous canals, for the purpose of transmitting the filaments of the auditory nerve. One of these canals, larger than the others, runs down the centre of the modiolus nearly to the apex. The lamina spiralis—which, as already observed, is nothing more than the partition between the two tubes or scales of the cochlea—is made up, on the inner half, of bone, on the outer half, of membrane. The bony part has a number of minute canals in it, which come off at right angles from the modiolus. They are for the special lodgement of the fine filaments of the auditory nerve in their course to the membranous part, which one can easily understand to be the most important element of the cochlea, since it receives the undulations of the fluid in the interior.* The osseous labyrinth is lined throughout by a delicate fibro- serous membrane, which secretes the fluid called the “ peri- lymph.” Membranous labyrinth.—If the bony labyrinth just now de- scribed be properly understood, we can have no difficulty in com- prehending the membranous labyrinth in its interior—a structure * There is an extremely delicate little muscle, termed the “ cochlearis,” for the purpose of tightening or relaxing, according to circumstances, the mem- branous part of the lamina spiralis. It is placed along the outer circum- ference of the membrane, and, in fact, forms an integrant part of it. Its fibres are of the non-striped kind, like the ciliary muscle of the eye. See Todd and Bowman, Phys. Anat. Part iii. p. 79.