26 THE UPPER ARM. The median nerve does not supply any of the muscles in the upper arm, but it usually receives a branch from the external cuta- neous about the middle of its course. There are certain varieties relating to the roots of the median nerve, and its course in regard to the artery, with which it is neces- sary to be acquainted. a. The roots may he increased in number by one on either side of the artery : or the internal root may be deficient. b. They may vary in their position with regard to the artery; both may be situated behind the vessel, or one behind, and the other in front of it. c. The nerve, formed in the usual manner, may be joined lower down by a large branch from the external cutaneous; such a case presents a junction of two large nerves in front of the brachial artery, in the middle of the arm. d. The nerve in many cases crosses under, instead of over the artery. e. The nerve sometimes runs parallel and external to the artery ; or it may run parallel to, and in front of the artery. In one hundred arms, the relative position of the nerve to the artery in its course down the arm was as follows:— In 72, the nerve took the ordinary course. „ 20, the nerve crossed obliquely under the artery. ,, 5, the nerve ran parallel and superficial to the artery. „ 3, the nerve ran parallel and external to the artery. 34. The external mtaneous nerve (musculo-cutaneus, or per- forans Casserii,) arises from the plexus by a common trunk with the external root of the median, on the outer side of the axillary artery. After passing for a short distance along the inner border of the coraco-bracliialis, it perforates this muscle obliquely outwards, and then descends between the biceps and the brachialis anticus. A little above the elbow-joint, between the outer border of the tendon of the biceps and the supinator radii longus muscle, the nerve perforates the fascia, becomes subcutaneous, and passing under the median cephalic vein, divides into two principal branches, for the supply of the integuments of the forearm. The external cutaneous nerve, in the upper part of its course.