ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY. 409 do not communicate with each other, for, if injection be thrown separately into one branch, it fills part only of the spleen. The smallest ramifications spread out in a brush-like manner through the pulp, and then lead into the veins. Lastly, the veins them- selves form in the pulp a minute network. But this part of the circulation is not yet thoroughly made out. Thus, then, it appears that the spleen is essentially a great blood gland, and that it consists of chambers filled with secreting gland cells of various size, between which there ramify minute arteries and veins. It is presumed that the cells in some way or other purify or elaborate the blood ; but the precise function of the organ is unknown. 102. Kidney.—With the form and colour of the kidney every one is familiar. Its weight is, on an average, about five ounces in the male, rather less in the female, and in the great majority of cases the left is heavier than the right. It is surrounded by a thin but firm capsule, which adheres by minute vessels to its surface, but does not penetrate into its interior. For this reason the capsule can, under ordinary circumstances, be readily stripped off; if not, the presumption is, that its preter- natural adhesion is the result of disease. The best way to display the anatomy of the kidney is to make a longitudinal section through it. We then observe two seemingly distinct structures. The more superficial structure, called the corti- cal, is of a uniform red colour, because the blood-vessels are most copiously distributed in it; it is, in fact, the secreting part of the organ. The deeper structure, called the medullary, consists of the minute tubes which carry off the urine. We observe that these tubes, converging from the cortical part, are collected into from ten to sixteen pyramidal bundles; their nipple-like points, (termed papilla) consisting of the terminations of a great number of coa- lesced tubes, project into the pelvis of the kidney, or the common receptacle of the secretion, from all parts of the organ.* * Each pyramid represents what was, in the early stage of the kidney’s growth, a distinct and independent lobe. In the human subject the lobes gradually coalesce, and no trace of their primordial state remains, except the