328 PERITONEUM. a sort of partition, dividing the abdomen into an tipper compart- ment, containing the stomach, liver, and spleen; and a lower, containing the convolutions of the small intestines. As regards the caecum, the ascending and descending portions of the colon, they, as a general rule, are bound down by the peritoneum in their respective situations. It covers only two-thirds, or thereabouts, of their anterior surface ; the rest is connected by loose cellular tissue to the back of the abdomen.* c. Great omentum.—This broad peritoneal fold proceeds from the lower border of the stomach, like a curtain over the convolu- tions of the small intestines. From this resemblance its name is probably derived. In corpulent persons it is enormously loaded with fat, and contributes very much to the size of the bell}7. In thin subjects, on the other hand, it is often quite transparent. Its length, loo, varies considerably. In some bodies we find it ex- tending down into the pelvis; in others, quite contracted and crumpled. Now and then it is found riddled, as it were, with holes. This last state of parts is attended with some risk, for it may happen that a knuckle of intestine becomes strangulated in one of the holes; and of this, death is the almost certain result. d. Small omentum. — This fold of peritoneum connects the stomach to the liver, and is on that account called the gastro- hepatic omentum. Its right border contains the vessels and nerves going to, and the duct coming from, the liver. If the finger be introduced beneath this border, it passes through what is called the foramen of Winslow* into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum. e. Gastro-splenic omentum.—This fold proceeds from the great * It is practicable, therefore, to make an artificial anus by an incision, through the loins, into this portion of the canal. It should be remembered, however, that there are very frequent exceptions to the statement in the text. Indeed, it is by no means uncommon to find both the ascending and the de- scending colon completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected in the lumbar regions, respectively, by a right and left lumbar meso-colon. There is also sometimes a meso-caecum. * Fatal strangulation of a portion of intestine has been known to take place in this foramen.