178 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. of surface for their attachment, and therefore giving the muscle greater power. Action.—The use of the pterygoid muscles is to produce that rotatory movement of the lower jaw so essential to the proper masti- cation of the food. Consequently we find them enormously developed in all ruminants, and comparatively feeble in carnivorous animals. We must now carefully disarticulate the condyle of the jaw with its fibro-cartilage from the glenoid fossa, and turn it forwards along with the external pterygoid muscle, so that the condyle can be replaced if desirable. A very little dissection will bring into view the internal maxillary artery. 82. Internal maxillary artery.—This is one of the terminal branches of the external carotid. It arises in the substance of the parotid gland, and proceeds horizoutally forwards between the neck of the jaw and the so-called internal lateral ligament; it then continues its course, in some cases above, in others beneath the external pterygoid muscle towards the back part (tuberosity) of the superior maxillary bone, and lastly, curving upwards between the two origins of the external pterygoid muscle, it sinks into the spheno-maxillary, fossa and terminates by dividing into several branches. To facilitate the understanding of the course of this artery we divide it into three stages, each of which gives off appropriate branches. The first stage comprises the extent of the artery behind the neck of the jaw ; the second includes the middle portion in connexion with the pterygoid muscles; and the third, the remainder in the spheno-maxillary fossa. a. In the first part of its course the internal maxillary gives off:— A. The tympanic artery, which passes through the “ fissura glaseri” to the tympanum. This branch is apt to vary as to its origin, and is often absent. b. The middle meninyeal artery ascends between the two roots of the temporo-auricular nerve through the foramen in the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and thus enters the cranium, where