DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 220 by a fold of the lining membrane of the heart, strengthened by a certain amount of fibrous tissue. The base of the valve is attached to the tendinous ring round the opening. Its free or floating border is very irregular, and presents three principal triangular flaps; and besides these, intermediate ones of smaller size. Of the principal flaps, the largest is so placed that when not in action it partially covers the orifice of the pulmonary artery. It is interesting to observe the arrangement of the tendinous cords through which the proper action of the valve is regulated. In the first place they are all attached to the outer or ventricular surface of the valve. Secondly, all the tendinous cords proceeding from one papillary muscle are attached to the adjacent halves of two of the larger flaps, and to a smaller intermediate one; con- sequently, when the ventricle contracts, and with it the papillary muscle, the adjacent borders of the flaps will be approximated. Thirdly, in order to ensure the strength of every part of the valve, the tendinous cords are inserted at three different points of it in straight lines; accordingly, they are divisible into three sets. Those of the first are attached to the base of the valve and the auriculo-ventricular ring; those of the second are attached at intervals to the back of the valve ; those of the third are attached to its loose border. The best mode of showing the action of the valve is to introduce a glass tube into the pulmonary artery, and then to pour water through it into the ventricle until the cavity is quite distended. By gently squeezing the ventricle in the hand, so as artificially to imitate its natural contraction, the tricuspid valve will flap back like a flood-gate, and so close the auriculo-ventricular opening. In this way one can readily understand, how, when the ventricle contracts, the blood catches the margin of the valve, and by its very pressure gives it the proper distension and figure requisite to block up the aperture into the auricle. It is also obvious that the tendinous cords will prevent the valve from being pushed too far back into the auricle; and this purpose is assisted by the papillary muscles, which nicely adjust the degree of tension of the cords at a time when they would otherwise be too much slackened by the con- traction of the ventricle.