296 ttECTI AND OBLIQUI MUSCLES. transverse processes in the cervical and the lumbar regions of the spine. In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs, like the interspinales, and the corresponding cervical nerve separates one from the other. In the lumbar region they are arranged singly. We have next to examine a set of muscles concerned in the movement of the first upon the second vertebra, and of the occiput upon the atlas. Of course it is necessary that the complexus be previously reflected. 255. Rectus capitis posticus major.—This is but a largely developed interspinal muscle. It arises from the well marked spine of the second vertebra, and, expanding considerably, is in- serted below the inferior curved ridge of the occipital bone ; in other words, into the spine of the occipital vertebra. 256. Rectus capitis posticus minor.—This is also an interspinal muscle, but smaller than the preceding. Arising from the feebly developed spine of the first vertebra, it expands as it ascends, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the inferior curved ridge and the foramen magnum. The action of the two preceding muscles is to draw the occiput towards the spine. 257. Obliquus inferior.—This arises Horn the spine of the second vertebra, and is inserted into the transverse process of the first. I ts action is to rotate the first upon the second vertebra. 258. Obliquus superior.—This muscle arises from the trans- verse process of the first vertebra, ascends inwards, and is inserted behind the mastoid process in the interval between the curved ridges of the occiput. Its action is to draw the occiput towards the spine. It may be observed that the oblique and the recti muscles of one side form the sides of a triangle, in which we discover the branches of the suboccipital nerve and the vertebral artery, in its horizontal course along the arch of the first vertebra. 259. Rectus capitis lateralis.—This is a small thin muscle, which extends between the transverse process of the first vertebra, and the eminentia jugular is,” so called, of the occiput; but since this eminence is, properly speaking, the transverse process of the occipital vertebra, the muscle must be considered as an intertrans- verse one.