95 SHOULDER-JOINT. circumference of the glenoid cavity; and, on the other, round the surgical neck of the humerus. It is strengthened on its upper and posterior surface by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles; its internal surface is inseparably connected with the broad tendon of the subscapularis, and inferiorly it is in contact with the long head of the triceps. Thus the circumference of the capsule is surrounded by tendons on every side, excepting a small space towards the axilla. If the humerus be raised, it will be found that the head of the bone rests upon this unprotected portion of the capsule ; that is, between the tendons of the sub- scapularis and the long head of the triceps; and through this part of the capsule the head of the bone usually protrudes in dislocations into the axilla. At the upper and inner side of the joint, a small opening, some- times called the foramen ovale, is observable in the capsular liga- ment, through which the tendon of the subscapularis passes, and comes in contact with the synovial membrane. The upper surface of the capsule is, moreover, strengthened by a strong band of ligamentous fibres, commonly called the coraco- humeral or accessory ligament. It is attached to the outer border of the root of the coracoid process, expands over the upper and outer surface of the capsule, with which it is inseparably united, and is fixed with it into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Open the capsule by a transverse incision through its axillary surface. By raising the hpad of the humerus, the tendon of the long head of the biceps will be seen at the upper part of the joint. It enter’s the joint through the groove between the two tuberosities, becomes slightly flattened, and passes over the head of the bone to be attached to the upper border of the glenoid cavity. It is loose and moveable within the joint; and it is said to act like a strap, supporting the head of the bone, and keeping it in accurate appo- sition with the glenoid cavity. In some cases, the tendon, having been ruptured by violence, has contracted an adhesion to the bicipital groove. The tendon of the biceps does not perforate the synovial mem- brane of the joint. It is enclosed in a kind of tubular sheath.