PERONEAL NERVE. 447 sole. We shall presently find that it crosses the sole obliquely, and is inserted into the tai’sal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In its course through these several bony grooves the tendon is confined by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial mem- brane. b. Peroneus brevis.—This muscle lies beneath the preceding. It arises from the lower half of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula. It terminates on a tendon which runs behind the outer ankle, through the same sheath with the peroneus longus, and then proceeds along the outside of the foot, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. The action of the peronei is to raise the outer side of the foot.* This movement regulates the bearing of the foot in progression, so as to throw the principal part of the weight on the ball of the great toe. Its action is particularly well exemplified in skating. Again, supposing the fixed point to be at the foot, they tend to prevent the body from falling on the opposite side, as e.g., when we balance ourselves on one leg. Our next object should be to trace the nerves which supply the muscles we have been examining. 41. Peroneal nerve.—Near the inner side of the tendon of the j biceps flexor of the leg there is a large nerve called the peroneal, a branch of the great ischiatic. By carefully reflecting just the upper part of the peroneus longus, we find this nerve coming for- wards close to the fibula, immediately below its head. Here the nerve divides into several branches, with most of which we are already familiar. To enumerate them collectively, there is, 1. a small articular branch, which accompanies the recurrent artery to the knee-joint. 2. The anterior tibial, which accompanies the corresponding artery. 3. The external cutaneous, which comes through the fascia between the peroneus longus and the extensor longus digitorum. With a little dissection we shall find that these nerves supply all the muscles of this part of the leg, namely, the extensors of the foot and the toes and the peronei. * In distortion of the foot outwards, called “ talipes valgus,” it is generally necessary to divide the tendons of the peronei.