THE AXILLA. 11 and side of the external parts of the chest, and from the outer half of the mammary gland. The absorbent vessels which enter the glands, (vasa inferential are more numerous, but smaller than those which leave them (vasa efferentia). After forming a plexus around the subclavian vein, the latter vessels unite into a single trunk, which empties its con- tents on the left side into the thoracic duct, and on the right into the subclavian or internal jugular vein. The glands may be removed in order to expose other important objects. The great axillary vessels and nerves occupy the upper part of the axilla, the axillary vein being the most conspicuous. A large artery is usually found on the side of the chest along the lower border of the pectoralis minor; it is the inferior or long thoracic branch of the axillary. Along the posterior border of the axilla will be seen another large artery, accompanied by a nerve, both called the infra-scapular, from their position. Thus an artery of considerable size runs parallel with, and close to the anterior and posterior border of the axillary space ; a point to be remembered in opening abscesses, or performing other operations in the axilla. The broad flat muscle which covers the side of the chest between the ribs and the scapula, is called the serratus magnus, from the tooth-like appearance of its attachment to the eight superior ribs. Its fibres, converging, are inserted into the whole length of the pos- terior border of the scapula. This muscle, as well as others con- nected with the scapula, will be more fully examined hereafter. 15. On the external surface of the serratus magnus, observe a large nerve called the posterior thoracic (external respiratory of Bell). This nerve, remarkable for the length of its course, is derived by two roots from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, close to the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. Descending almost vertically behind the axillary vessels and nerves, it reaches the upper border of the serratus magnus, and runs down the external surface of this muscle to which its filaments are exclusively distri- buted,—each digitation usually receiving a separate filament. The pectoralis major must now be divided midway between its