484 MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. pass through the wall of the sinus very obliquely, not unlike the ureter does into the bladder. The probable object of this oblique entrance is to prevent regurgitation of blood from the sinus into the veins of the brain. If we cut open the superior longitudinal sinus, we observe that it is triangular, and that its cavity is intersected in many places by slender fibrous cords, termed “ cordce Willissii.”* Their precise use is not understood. In the neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal sinus we gene- rally meet with small whitish granulations, sometimes lying singly, sometimes in clusters. These are termed “ glandules Pac- chioni. ’’j* They are found in three distinct situations :—1, on the outside of the dura mater, and often so large as to occasion depres- sions in the bones; 2, on the surface of the pia mater; 3, in the interior of the longitudinal sinus, covered by its lining membrane. Their size, number, and appearance differ in different subjects. Nothing is determined concerning their precise nature; but it is presumed that they are morbid products, since they are never ob- served in very young subjects. The lateral sinuses are the two great sinuses through which all the blood from the brain is returned into the internal jugular veins. Their course is well marked in the dry skull. The right is com- monly the larger. Each proceeds at first horizontally outwards, inclosed between the layers of the tentorium, along a groove on the occipital bone and the inferior angle of the parietal; it then de- scends along the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and again indenting the occipital, turns forwards to the foramen lacerum posterius, and terminates in the internal jugular vein.j; # So called after our countryman Willis, who first described them in his work De Cerebri Anatome, 1664. f After the Italian anatomist, who first described them in 1705. These bodies would appear to originate in the subarachnoid cellular tissue, whence they, in their growth, either perforate the dura mater and hollow out the bones, or make their way into the longitudinal sinus. X It has in some subjects another outlet, through the foramen mastoideum, or else the posterior condylo.d foramen.