372 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. of the urethra. To understand it thoroughly the whole framework of the pubic arch should be removed from a fresh subject, so that the parts may be examined undisturbed, both on the pelvic and the perineal side. With such a preparation before us, we should reflect the levator ani from the arch, and make out the capsule of the prostate as described at § 59. Then, by cutting away the upper part of this capsule, in other words the anterior ligament of the bladder, we observe the great veins coming down from the dor- sum of the penis. Beneath these veins, with a little careful dissec- tion, we discover a stratum of muscular fibres over the upper part of the urethra ; a similar stratum runs below it, and a few fibres completely encircle it. The fibres, collectively, constitute the constrictor urethra;*, or Santorini’s muscle, and they are attached on either side to the descending rami of the pubes, and the lateral ligaments of the prostate. 70. Internal iliac artery and branches.—From the division of the common iliac, this artery descends into the pelvis, and, after a course of about an inch and a half, divides nearly oppo- site the great sacro-ischiatic notch into two large branches. Of these, the posterior gives off the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and glutceal arteries ; while the anterior gives off the obturator, vesical, iscbiatic, and pudic, also the uterine and vaginal in the female. Such is their usual order : at the same time, these several branches, though constant in their general distribution, are very apt to vary in different subjects as to their place of origin. a. The ilio-lumbar is analogous to the lumbar branches of the aorta. It ascends outwards beneath the psoas, sends branches to this muscle and the quadratus lumboruin, and then, running near the crest of the ilium, supplies the iliacus muscle, and finally inos- culates with the circumflexa ilii (§ 37, b.) b. The lateral sacral descends perpendicularly in front of the sacral foramina, and near the coccyx inosculates with the middle * This muscle was first accurately described and delineated by Santorini (septemdec. tabulae), and afterwards by Muller in his monograph (Ueber die organ. Nerv. der miinnlich. Geschlechtsorgane), and by Guthrie in his work on the anatomy and diseases of the neck of the bladder. These authors agree in essentials respecting the muscle, though they differ in minor points.