TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 115 it occupies the sternal half of the clavicle, nearly meeting the insertion of the trapezius; in such cases it would be necessary to divide this origin in the operation of tying the subclavian artery. The tendon inserted into the mastoid process may be seen by dis- secting between the anterior border of the muscle and the parotid gland. Over its occipital insertion are commonly found one or two small absorbent glands which receive the absorbent vessels of the scalp. The whole muscle is confined by its sheath in such a manner that it forms a slight curve with the convexity forwards. Its front border lies over the common carotid artery, and is the best guide to the vessel in the situation in which it is usually tied. Action.—The sterno-mastoid, by drawing the mastoid process forwards, rotates the head and the axis on the atlas, so as to turn the face obliquely towards the opposite side, giving a slight elevation to the chin. In this effect it co-operates with the opposite splenius. When the two sterno-mastoidei act together the head is bent for- wards. This action is more particularly manifest in rising from the recumbent position. The single action of the sterno-mastoid is well exemplified when it grows permanently rigid, and occasions what is called the wry-neck. When other means fail, the division of this muscle is sometimes recommended. In coming to a decision upon this question we should always be careful to inform ourselves of every circumstance—such, for instance, as the state of the other muscles— lest, after having cut through the sterno-mastoid, we should be disappointed in removing the deformity. 9. Triangles of the neck.—Anatomists avail themselves of the marked prominence which the sterno-mastoid muscle forms down the whole length of the neck, in order to divide this region into two great triangles, an anterior and a posterior. The base of the anterior triangle is formed by the ramus of the jaw, and its sides by the mesial line and the front border of the sterno-mastoid. The posterior has the clavicle for the base, while the sides are defined by the hind border of the sterno-mastoid, and the free border of the trapezius muscle. g 2