62 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. upwards and outwards to the spine of the scapula, and thence along its spine to the acromion ; and a third from the middle of the sacrum upwards and outwards for a short distance over the crest of the ilium. Reflect the shin from the dense subjacent superficial fascia. 101. The cutaneous nerves of the back are derived from the posterior branches of the spinal nerves; these branches, after sup- plying the muscles contained in the vertebral groove, pass through them and become subcutaneous in nearly a regular series, on either side of the spine, but not all at an equal distance from it. Thus in the cervical and upper dorsal region, the cutaneous nerves per- forate the trapezius close to the spine : in the lower dorsal and the lumbar region, they perforate the latissimus dorsi in a line nearly corresponding to the angles of the ribs. Each cutaneous nerve then divides into internal and external branches, which supply the integument of the respective regions of the back to which they belong. Most of them are accompanied by small arteries. As might be expected, the external branches are by far the larger, especially in the loins, where some of them descend over the crest of the ilium, and terminate in the skin of the buttock. Of these cutaneous nerves we need notice only the following:— 102. The posterior branch of the second cervical nerve is called from its distribution the great occipital. It perforates the corn- plexus, ascends over the occiput, and ramifies upon the under surface of the scalp, in company with the branches of the occipital artery. The cutaneous branch of the third cervical nerve also sends a branch of considerable size to the back of the scalp. The cutaneous branch of the second dorsal nerve is generally the largest of all the dorsal cutaneous nerves. 11 may be traced outwards towards the spine of the scapula. The posterior branch of the second lumbar nerve perforates the fascia lumborum near the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and descends over the crest of the ilium to supply the skin over the glut seal region. Clean the superficial layer of the muscles of the back. Those with which we are now more immediately concerned ate, the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi.