506 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. circuit, interrupted only on the inner side, so that it nearly isolates the white matter in its centre. The restiform bodies are situated to the outer side of and behind the olives ; therefore, to see them properly, we ought to look at the back ol the medulla. There we observe that the restiform bodies diverge from each other, and pass into the cerebellum, constituting its inferior crura. In consequence of this divergence the grey mat- ter in the interior of the medulla oblongata becomes exposed ; there- fore it is that the floor of the fourth ventricle is grey. The resti- form bodies contain in their interior a considerable portion of grey matter, which is continuous with that in the posterior part of the spinal cord. The fibres of which they are composed are conductors of sensation.* When a longitudinal section is carefully made through the mid- dle of the pons and the medulla oblongata, a number of white fibres are seen passing in an horizontal direction, constituting a kind of septum between the two halves. Some of these septal fibres issuing from the anterior fissure wind round the sides of the medulla, and constitute what are termed the arciform fibres of the medulla : others, again, issuing from the posterior fissure, and winding round in a similar manner, form the transverse fibres seen on the floor of the fourth ventricle. Arteries of the Brain.—The brain is supplied with blood by the two internal carotid and the two vertebral arteries. The internal carotid enters the skull through a canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, mounts up very tortuously in a groove by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and, after giving off the ophthalmic, divides into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, for the supply of the anterior and middle cerebral lobes. The anterior cerebral artery sinks into the longitudinal fissure * There are two slenfier columns marked off from the back part of the restiform bodies, one on either side the median fissure. These are the posterior pyramids of some anatomists. They proceed with the restiform bodies to the cerebellum.