450 GLUTiEAL vessels anb nerves. We must reflect the glutaeus medius to see the third glutaeal muscle beneath it. The line of separation between them is marked by a large branch of the glutaeal artery. 47. Glutceus minimus.— This muscle arises from the greater part of the surface of the ilium below the upper curved line. Its fibres pass over the capsule of the hip-joint, and converge to a tendon which is inserted into a depression on the front part of the great trochanter. The chief action of this and the preceding muscle is to assist in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as, e. g., when we are standing on one leg; with the fixed point at the ilium, it is also an abductor of the thigh. But the anterior fibres of the glutaeus medius co-operate with the tensor fasciae in rotating the thigh inwards. 48. Glutaeal vessels and nerves.— The gluiaeal artery is the largest branch of the internal iliac. Emerging from the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch above the pyriformis muscle, it at once divides into large branches for the supply of the glutaeal muscles. Of these, some proceed forwards between the glutaeus maximus and medius; others run in curves between the glutaeus medius and minimus, towards the anterior part of the ilium. Many cf them inosculate with branches of the external circumflex artery of the thigh. The nerve which accompanies the glutaeal artery is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve (see Abdomen, § 71, a). It subdivides to supply the glutaeus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae; in some subjects it also sends a branch to the glutaeus maximus, but this muscle is chiefly supplied by the lesser ischiatic nerve. A practical surgeon ought, in case of need, to be able to cut down and tie the glutaeal artery as it emerges from the pelvis. The following is the best rule for finding it:—The toes are sup- posed to be turned inwards. A line is drawn from the posterior- superior spine of the ilium to the midspace between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter: now the artery emerges from the pelvis at a point where the superior third joins the two inferior thirds of such a line.* * The operation of tying the glutseal artery was first performed by John Bell.—See his “ Principles of Surgery,” vol. i. p. 421.