213 INTERCOSTAL VESSELS. Action.—They raise the ribs. But the ribs, in consequence of their obliquity, cannot rise without moving outwards, and thus in- creasing the capacity of the chest in the lateral direction. In rising, too, they necessarily increase the distance between the sternum and the spine, and thus enlarge the capacity of the chest in the antero- posterior direction. Of course it is understood that the upper ribs are fixed by the action of the scalene muscles, in order that each succeeding rib may become a fixed point for the rib below. We cannot but admire the simplicity of the contrivance by which this double expansion of the chest is produced—namely, the oblique direction of the ribs; for if they had been articulated at right angles with the spine, the capacity of the chest must have been dimi nished whether they rose or fell. 119. Intercostal arteries.—To see these, the inner layer of muscles should be removed from a few of the intercostal spaces. Each space has its own artery. The two upper are supplied by the intercostal branch of the subclavian (see § 48) ; the rest are supplied by the aorta : and since this vessel lies rather on the left side of the spine, the right intercostal arteries will be longer than the left. The upper intercostal arteries from the aorta necessarily ascend more or less obliquely to reach their intercostal spaces ; the lower run more transversely. At the commencement of the space each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. a. The anterior, both in point of direction and size, appears the continuation of the common trunk. At first it runs along the middle of the intercostal space, and is separated from the cavity of the chest only by the pleura and intercostal fascia. In this situa- tion, therefore, it is liable to be injured by a punctured wound in the back. But near the angle of the rib it passes between the layers of intercostal muscles, and occupies the groove prepared for its protection in the lower border of the rib. Here, too, it is necessary to observe that it gives off a tolerably constant branch, which runs for some distance along the upper border of the rib below and is lost in the muscles. In some cases we have seen this branch as large as the intercostal itself, and so situated as to be directly ex- posed to injury in the operation of tapping the chest. In its course along the intercostal space, each artery sends a