STRUCTURE OF THE VAGINA. 397 which are called the columns: rugarum, there proceed a series of transverse ridges with rough jagged margins directed forwards. They are well marked in young females who are still virgins, but repeated parturition and increasing age gradually smooths them down. The use of the vaginal rugae is to excite the sensibility of the glans in coition. They themselves also possess keen sensibility, for they are richly provided with papillae. The mucous membrane has a thick epithelial lining, and in the submucous tissue there is an abundant supply of muciparous glands. They increase in number and size towards the uterus, for the pur- pose, probably, of facilitating, by their secretion, the passage of the child. This secretion is thick, creamy, and slightly acid, and differs altogether from the secretion of the uterine glands, which is glairy, albuminous, and slightly alkaline. When poured out in excess, and somewhat altered in its character, it constitutes what is called leucorrhcea. The chief strength of the vagina depends upon a fibro-cellular coat, which is about one-twelfth of an inch in thickness. If this coat be minutely injected, we find that it is made up almost entirely of the inosculations of blood-vessels. So much so that some ana- tomists regard it as erectile tissue. 98. Before the uterus is laid open, we should examine a little more fully the shape of that portion of the neck which projects into the vagina. First, then, it appears that the back part of the cervix projects into the vagina more than the front; but this merely arises from the vagina being attached higher up behind it. Supposing that the vagina were entirely cut away from the cervix, then the anterior lip of the uterus would appear to project a trifle more than the posterior. For this reason, as well as on account of the natural slope forwards of the uterus, the front lip is always felt first in an examination per vaginam.* The length, however, and the general appearance of the vaginal part of the cervix, varies according to the age of the individual, and it is also considerably altered by partu- * This is the only way to reconcile the discrepancies one meets with in anatomical works, respecting the comparative length of the lips of the uterus. Kraus, Weber, Busch, and others, say the anterior is the longer. Mayer, Meckel, Quain, and others, the posterior.