COURSE OP THE PEMORAL ARTERY. 437 there are two cutaneous branches, which cross over the sheath of the artery just where the sartorius begins to overlap it, and therefore in the situation where it is usually tied. They lie so close to the sheath that they would run great risk of being injured unless spe- cially looked after. Both* eventually supply the skin on the inner side of the thigh. We have already mentioned that in the middle third of the thigh the femoral artery is contained in a tendinous canalf under the sartorius. This canal is at its upper part rather indistinct; but it gradually becomes stronger towards the opening in the tendon of the triceps. Its boundaries are formed chiefly by the tendons of the muscles between which the artery runs. On the inner side there are the tendons of the adductor longus and mag- nus; on the outer side there is the tendon of the vastus interims, while in front the canal is completed by an aponeurotic expansion thrown across from one side to the other. In a horizontal section the canal would appear triangular. The adaptation of this shape to the exigencies of the case is manifest when we reflect that the muscles keep the sides of the triangle always tight, and thereby prevent any compression on the vessels. After an examination of the course and relations of the femoral artery, it naturally suggests itself that a ligature can be placed around it, in the upper third of the thigh, with comparative facility, but not so easily in the middle third. The usual situation in which the artery is tied for an aneurism of the plopliteal, is where the sartorius begins to overlap it. An incision, beginning about three inches below the crural arch, should be made about three inches over the line of the artery. The muscular fascia should next be divided over a director to the same extent. Then, by gently drawing aside the inner border of the sartorius, we discover the * It is one of these nerves which generally joins a branch of the obturator, near the lower border of the tendon of the adductor magnus. f Sometimes called “ Hunter’s canal,” because it was in this part of its course that John Hunter first tied the femoral artery for aneurism of the popliteal, in St. George’s Hospital, a. d. 1785. The particulars of this interesting case are published in the Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge.