238 ARCHES OF THE PALATE. nearly the same horizontal direction as the hard palate to which it is attached; but it gradually becomes more curved as it passes backwards, decreasing at the same time in thickness, so that the free posterior border hangs loosely into the pharynx. Hence the name velum pendulum palati. 153. Uvula.—The soft palate presents posteriorly an elongated pendulous body projecting exactly from the middle line, and named the uvula. It causes the appearance of a double arch in the palate. Its length varies in different individuals and in the same person at different times, according to the state of its little elevator muscle. It occasionally becomes permanently elongated, and may then be the cause of considerable irritation, sufficient to occasion a sensation of tickling in the throat, and excite a harassing cough. This elongation of the uvula is sometimes so considerable that it is necessary to remove a portion. An instance is recorded* in which the uvula attained such an unusual length that it was bitten off by the patient in a fit of coughing. 154. Arches of the palate.—The soft palate is continued on either side into the tongue and pharynx by two folds of mucous mem- brane enclosing muscular fibres. These are called respectively the anterior and posterior half-arches or pillars of the palate. The anterior arch describes a curve from the base of the uvula, out- wards and downwards to the side of the tongue. It is best seen by protruding the tongue. The posterior arch, commencing at the side of the uvula, curves outwards and backwards along the free margin of the velum, and terminates on the side of the pharynx. The posterior are the smaller, and when the tongue is depressed can be readily seen through the span of the anterior. The tonsils are situated on each side between these arches. We would especially direct attention to the plan upon which the soft palate and its arches are arranged, because a correct knowledge of them is essential to a right understanding of the respective function which each performs in the act of deglutition. We shall presently find that the posterior arches can approximate so as to close the * Handbucli der topog. Anat. von Prof. Hyrtl. Bd. i. S. 283.