DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 537 tympanum between the handle of the malleus and the long pro- cess of the incus. See Head and Neck, § 224, c. On the inner wall of the tympanum that is, opposite to the membrana tympani—there are to be observed in the dry bone the following objects:—Beginning from above, there is an opening, called the foramen ovale: it leads into the vestibule of the inter- nal ear, but is closed in the recent state by a membrane to which is attached the base of the stapes. Below the foramen ovale is a bony prominence called the promontory.* Still lower is another opening, called the foramen rolundum ; it leads into the tympanic scale of the cochlea, but is closed in the recent state by mem- brane. Immediately behind the foramen ovale is a small conical eminence, named the pyramid: there is a minute aperture in the summit of it, from which the tendon of the stapedius emerges. Lastly, at the back part of the tympanum is the opening which leads into the air-cells of the mastoid process. The tympanum is supplied with blood by a branch of the inter- nal maxillary, which runs in through the fissura Glasseri; 2. by the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular; 3. by small blanches which enter with the Eustachian tube. Internal Ear.—This, in consequence of its complexity, is very appropriately termed “ the labyrinth.” In a general way we may say that it consists of cavities excavated in the most com- pact part of the temporal bone. These cavities may be divided into three—a middle one, called “the vestibule,” as being a centre in which all communicate with each other; an anterior, named, from its resemblance to a snail’s shell, the cochlea ; and a poste- rior, consisting of three semicircular canals. These cavities are filled with a clear fluid, called the endo-lymph, and contain a membranous expansion (the membranous labyrinth), upon which the filaments of the auditory nerve are expanded. The vestibule, or central chamber, communicates in front with * This promontory is occasioned by the first turn of the cochlea. Upon it ramifies the tympanic plexus of nerves formed by the sympathetic and the glosso pharyngeal. c C 2