91 STERNOCLAVICULAR JOINT. The second dorsal interosseous muscle occupies the second meta- carpal space. It is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the middle finger and its extensor tendon. The third and fourth, occupying the corresponding metacarpal spaces, are inserted, the one into the ulnar side of the middle, the other into the ulnar side of the ring finger. Action.—If an imaginary line he drawn longitudinally through the middle finger, we shall find that all the dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors from that line; consequently, they separate the fingers from each other. The palmar interosseous muscles.—It requires a careful exami- nation to distinguish this set of muscles, because the dorsal muscles protrude with them into the palm. They are smaller than the dorsal, and each arises from the lateral surface of only one meta- carpal bone, that, namely, connected with the finger into which the muscle is inserted. They terminate in small tendons, which pass between the metacarpal joints of the fingers, and are inserted, like the dorsal muscles, into the sides of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons on the back of the fingers. The first palmar interosseous muscle arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the index finger. The second and third arise, the one from the radial side of the fourth, the other from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and are inserted into the same sides of the ring and little fingers. Action.—The palmar interosseous muscles are all adductors to an imaginary line drawn through the middle finger. They are, therefore, the opponents of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and move the fingers towards each other. Both palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles act with greater advantage when the fingers are extended. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. 151. Joint between the Clavicle and the Sternum.— The inner end of the clavicle articulates with a shallow excavation on the upper and outer part of the sternum. From the form of