150 ft-RANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The vertebral artery is accompanied by delicate nervous fila- ments which proceed from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and form a plexus around the vessel traceable in some cases as high as the third or fourth cervical vertebra. These filaments communicate with the spinal nerves forming part of the brachial plexus. Being intended chiefly for the supply of the brain, it gives off no branches of any consequence in the neck, excepting a few small ones to the deeply-seated muscles; it furnishes, however, to the spinal cord and its membranes a series of small arteries which pass through the several inter-vertebral foramina. The vertebral vein is formed by small branches near the foramen magnum, descends in front of the artery through the series of foramina in the transverse process, and joins the brachio-ceplialic vein. It receives veins from the cervical portion of the spinal cord, and sometimes the vein corresponding to the ascending cervical artery. The vertebral vein, in the generality of subjects, takes no share in returning the blood from the brain ; but in some cases it com- municates with the great lateral sinus by a large branch which traverses the posterior condyloid foramen. 46. The thyroid axis arises from the fore part of the subclavian near the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, and after a course of about one quarter of an inch divides into several branches which pursue different directions. They are the inferior thyroid, the transversalis colli, the supra-scapular, and the ascending cervical. a. The inferior thyroid artery ascends for a short distance upon the longus colli muscle, and then curves downwards, behind the sheath of the large vessels of the neck and the sympathetic nerve, to the under surface of the thyroid body, in which it communicates freely with the other thyroid arteries. It gives small branches to the trachea, the oesophagus, and the larynx. b. The ascending cervical, an artery of variable size, often arises from the inferior thyroid. It ascends in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles, and terminates in small branches some of which supply the muscles