SPHENO -PALATINE GANGLION. 277 dissect with greater facility the splieno-palatine ganglion and its branches. 216. Spheno-palatine ganglion.—This little body, com- monly called, after its discoverer, “ Meckel’s ganglion," is situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the outer side of the spheno- palatine foramen, and immediately below the superior maxillary nerve. It is oval in form, with the long axis about one line in length ; but in this respect there is considerable variety. Its sensitive roots proceed from the superior maxillary; its motor from the vidian branch of the facial; and its sympathetic from the carotid plexus. Thus supplied, it furnishes branches to the mucous membrane and glands of the hard and soft palate, and to the back part of the nose. These several branches proceeding to and from the gan- glion may be traced according to the convenience of the dissector. But it is necessary to have a bone forceps and a chisel, because many of them run in bony canals. a. Branches connecting the ganglion to the superior maxillary nerve.—There are commonly two ; one appears to proceed from the nerve to the ganglion, the other from the ganglion to the nerve. h. Branches to the palate.—In order to see these the mucous membrane must be removed from the back part of the nose ; we shall then be able to trace and dissect out the palatine nerves through the transparent walls of the bony canals in which they descend. Their course is indicated by corresponding arteries. There are generally three of these nerves, called by names ori- ginally given to them by Meckel, anterior, middle, and posterior palatine. The anterior, often described as the large palatine nerve, descends through the large palatine canal to the roof of the mouth, and then runs forwards along the hard palate nearly to the gums of the incisor teeth ; but one or two branches proceed backwards to supply the soft palate. Before it emerges from its canal, it gives off a filament which passes through the perpendicular plate of the palate bone to the mucous membrane of the nose. The middle palatine descends either in the same canal with the preceding, or in