PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 819 curve round the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and consequently on the inner side of the spermatic cord, and then entering the rectus muscle is gradually lost in it. In the more important part of its course it lies between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis; afterwards it enters the sheath of the rectus. The artery is accompanied by two veins, of which the larger is constantly found on the inner side of it. They terminate gene- rally by a single trunk in the iliac vein. a. Of the branches of the epigastric artery the most important is the pubic. It runs inwards, just behind the crural arch, to the pubes, and it derives its chief practical interest from the fact that it is liable to be wounded in dividing the stricture in femoral hernia.* But its size varies in different subjects, and is some- times so small as to escape observation. The second branch is the cremasteric. It supplies the coverings of the cord, and chiefly the cremaster muscle. After giving off other unnamed muscular branches, the main trunk terminates in the rectus by minute inos- culations with the internal mammary. Such is a brief outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. This description applies equally to the female, provided the round ligament be substituted for the spermatic cord. Of course the inguinal canal is proportionably smaller, and there is no cremaster. We shall close the subject by a few practical re- marks. 13. Nomenclature of the several kinds of inguinal hernia.— If a piece of intestine escape along the inguinal canal with the cord, and protrude through the outer ring, it is called an oblique in- guinal hernia. Supposing the intestine to stop in the inguinal canal, it is called an internal or incomplete inguinal hernia; such a one is generally of small size, and often difficult of detection. Lastly, if a portion of intestine escape at once through the external ring, then it is called a direct inguinal hernia. * There is a preparation (No. 83. Ser. 17) in the museum of St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital, quite to the point. The patient had profuse hemorrhage, which commenced five hours after the operation, and he died with perito- nitis.