417 OF THE HUMAN EAR. to the aftion of the membrane of the tympanum, from being confulted in a cafe where the membrane was loft with little injury to the function of the organ *. He found, that, inftead of the total annihilation of the powers of the organ, the gentleman was capable of hearing whatever was faid in company, although the membrane of both ears was deftroyed. He could even hear better in the ear in which no traces of the * Cafe. This gentleman had been attacked at the age of ten years, with an inflammation and fuppuration in his left ear, which continued difcharging matter for feveral weeks: in the fpace of about twelve months after the firft attack, fymptoms of a fimilar kind took place in the right ear, from which matter iflued for a confiderable time. The difcharge, in each inftance, was thin, and extremely ofFenfive to the fmell; and in the matter, bones, or pieces of bones, were obfervable. The immediate confequence of thefe at- tacks was a total deafnefs, which continued for three months; the hearing then began to return ; and, in about ten months from the laft attack, was reftored to the ftate in which it at prefent remains. Having filled his mouth with air, he clofed the notlrils, and con- traded the cheeks; the air thus compreffed, was heard to ruth through the meatus auditorius with a whiftling noife, and the hair hanging from the temples became agitated by the current of air which ifliied from the ear. When a candle was applied, the flame was agitated in a fimilar manner. Mr. Cooper than palfed a probe into each ear, and he thought the membrane on the left fide was entirely deftroyed, fince the probe jftruck againft the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The fpace ufually occupied by the membrana tympani, was found to be an aperture without one trace of membrane remaining. On the right fide, alfo, a probe could be pafled into the cavity of the tympanum ; but here, by conducting it along the fides of the meatus, fome remains of the circumference of the membrane could be difcovered, with a circular opening in the centre, about the fourth of an inch in diameter. SeeTranf. Roy. Soc. for 1800, Part I. p. 151. membrane