OF THE VEINS OE THE BRAIN. 49 This opinion, however, is nothing new *. Another pre- vailing idea was, that the blood accumulated in thefe convoluted vefiels occafioned fuch a gentle continued heat as favoured the circulation of the fpirits through the cavities of the brain, and preferred the fluidity of the water of the ventricle f. Great variety of opinions have prevailed regarding the ftru&ure of thofe bodies. We fee them confifting of knots of convoluted vefiels *, chiefly veins; or thefe at leaft are moil evident from their fize, and the colour of their blood- Thefe convolutions of vefiels are by many good anatomifts defcribed as glands. Varolius, Sylvius, Wharthon, Willis, Santo- rini, and Lieutaud, confider them as fuch |. Three * The fuppofed glands of the plexus choroides were conceived to fecrete the fluid of the ventricles. Where the plexus lies upon the pofterior crura of the fornix, it is often difeafed, having knots like glands, or, being raifed into veficies, like hydatids. “ Eas bullas “ humorem ventriculorum fecernere olim conje&ura fuit. Verum “ vitio cum nafcantur vix perpetuum habitum generare idoneae erunt.’' Haller, tom iv. 48. f See Duverney, tom i. p. 55. “ Ut enim fanguis intr& finuum “ cavitates aggeftus, Balnei calidioris vicem preftat, quo fpiritus ani- “ males in. extima & corticali cerebri parte uberiu3 diftillentur: ita “ fanguis intra plexus hujus vafa exilia contentus, quo iidem fpiri* * tus in penitiori ac medullari fubftantia idonee circulentUr, Balnei, “ minoris, & magis temperati loco efle videtur.” Willis Cetebri Anat. p. 47. f Galen gives a good defcription of the choroid plexus ; he de- fcribes the innumerable veins of which it i3 compofed, and their join- ing the fourth finus by the vein which retains his name. Some have confufed themfelves with a pafiage of Ruyfch, Thef. iii. No. lxv, &c. in which he is fpeaking of the choroid plexus, where it appears in the bafe of the fcull, from the bottom of the fourth ventricle. They have underftood him to fay, that the plexus was covered not with the pia mater, but with the tunica arachinjides. VoL, III, £ jfcts