OF THE MEMBRANES 0? THE BRAIN. 29 It has been afferted by M. Ludwig *, that the maffss and ftrise of the cineritious fubftance, difperfed through the internal parts of the brain, have a communication with each other. This, however, is denied by Vicq d’Azyrf. He conceives, that the cineritious fub- ftances of the pons varolii, or of the corpora olivaria, have no communication with the cineritious fubftance in any other part of the brain; and that in feveral parts of the brain the cineritious fubftance is furrounded and ifolated by the medullary matter. Its great im- portance (which lhould never have been doubted) has been deduced from its being fo generally found towards the origin of the nerves J. The cineritious fubftance feems to have a much greater quantity of blood circulating in it than the me- dullary fubftance. Its vefiels come by two diftinft routs, partly from the extremities of thofe arteries which appear in large branches upon the fui face of the brain, and partly by veflels which penetrate through the me- * De cinerea cerebri fubftantia, Lepfoe. Hill, de l’Acad. Roy. an 1781. p. 507. J II faut que les ufages de la fubftance grife foient tres-importatis ; Car independamment de la portion de cette fubftance que les circonvo- lutions contiennent, et qui femble appartenir a la maffe blanche du cerveau, ou en obferve des amas plus ou moins confiderables pres des diverfes origines des nerfs: ainfi pres de la premiere et la deuxieme paire, font les corps ftries et les couches optiaues ; la troifieme paire eft pres d’un efpece noiratre que je decrirai ailleurs; la quatrieme paire fort au deffous des tubercules quadrijumcanx, dont le noyau ell compose de fubftance grife, la cinquieme, la fixieme, la feptieme, fe trouvent aux environs dc le portuberance annulaire, ou la fubftance grife eft melee avec la blanche; la huitieme et la neuvieme font placees pres de 1’eminence olivarie, ou j’ai obferve un melange parti- calier de fubftance grife. . Mem. de l’Acad. Scien. an 1781. p. 507. dullary A