THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. I 2 “5 heres firmly to the lower furface of the anterior lobe of the brain, but it does not take its origin here. It is of a triangular fhape, as if moulded to the fulcus in which it lies ; by being fometimes funk into the fulcus more or lefs on one fide than the other, it has the appearance of being larger on one fide than the other. It takes its ori- gin by three medullary trafts * ; iff, From the corpus ftriatum ; 2d, From the medullary matter of the ante- rior lobe ; 3d, From the fore and under part of the corpus callofum f. When a feflion is made of it, we obferve in it a cineritious portion. Towards the fore-part, this nerve expands into a bul- bous oval lobe, which confifls of a femi-tranfparent cine- ritious fubfiance. This lies upon the crebriform plate, and from it are fent down the nerves which expand upon the membrane of the nofe, and compofe the organ of knelling j. from this ftrained through the crebriform plate into the nofe. Ve- falius proved the abfurdity of this opinion ; it Was, however, revived by Dulaurens, who was perhaps more of a courtier than an auatomilt. But Willis is not much better, when he defcribes the proper ufe of thefe nerves. He fuppofed the crebriform plate of the cethmoid bone to prevent bodies from palling up into the brain (“ ne quid afperi “ aut molefti cum illis una ad cerebrum feratur”) ; while the lymph in thofe nerves corrected the two pungent odours; “ odorum fpccies “ demulcere eafque fenforio quadantenus prasparare.” * Or we fay that the external root generally fplits, having two fafi- culi. See Prochaflca, tab. x. f Vicq d’Azyr, M. de 1’Acad. Roy. 1781.—“ Breviores fibrae “ medullorce cum longioribus exterioribus connexae nonunquam cine- “ ream particulam excipiunt.” Soemmerring. f Duverney has Ihown us, that thofe nerves palling through the crebriform plate become firm nerves, like thofe in the other parts of the body. They are to be fe en by tearing the membrane of the nofe from the bone. SECOND