124 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. cerebelli * ; and upon a more careful examination we find it riling diftin&ly from the crus cerebelli. The origin of the portio mollis, of the feventh pair, is to be traced from the fore-part of the fourth ventri- cle f. We obferve palling obliquely upwards from the calamus fcriptorius feveral medullary llriae ; thofe vary in number from two to feven, and are fometimes not to be difcerned |. To thefe are added certain fibres arifing from the pons varolii, and as thefe fibres pro- ceed from their origin, they become Hill more dif- tin&ly formed into fafciculi. The whole of this portio mollis is larger than the third nerve, firmer than the firlt, but lefs fo than the fecond pair: it forms a kind of groove which receives the portio ifiura. The portio mollis and portio dura entering the meatus auditorius internus of the petrous bone, the former is divided into * “ Fofle de l’eminence olivare,” of Vicq d’Azyr. 4 Prochafka, fpeaking of the fourth ventricle, continues thus :— “ Super has ultimas eminentias folent medullares candicantes quafi “ fibras decurrere, a quibus proprie originem portionis mollis ner- “ vorum auditoriorum faltem pro parte deducunt.” (Ridley, Hal- ler, Lobftein, cum per antiquo au&ore Piccolhomini et etiam re- centiffimus Soemmerring.—“ Ego poilquam multoties in lineas illas “ medullares in quarto ventriculo inquifiviffem, dicere poffum, non “ femper illas in originem nervi acuftici mollis terminare ; nonun- quam enim paulo fupra nonunquam paulo infra defmunt, ali- « quando in uno latere, & baud raro utrinque defiderantur, ita ut 11 ex his obfervationibus perfuadear illas medullares quarti ventriculi « ftrias ad originem portionis mollis nervi acuftici minime effen- « tiales efle.” Prochaflca, tab. iii. f. f. f; It is a curious circumftance, {hould future obfervation confirm it, which has been mentioned by Santorini, that thofe origines of the auditory nerve have been obferved particularly ftrong in a blind man, whofe hearing had been very acute. 7 four