OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I5S and broncheal arteries, and the branches of the tra- chea*. The trunks of the nerve, continuing their courfe upon each fide of the tefophagus, unite and fplit info branches, and again unite fo as to form a netting upon the aefophagus; thefe are the anterior and poste- rior PLEXUS GULjE, or OESOPHAGEAL PLEXUS. The par vagum, thus attached to the aefophagus, pierces the diaphragm with it, the anterior plexus unites again into a confiderable trunk, is attached to the lelfer arch of the ftomach. It ftretches even to the pylorus, and fends its branches to the upper fide of the ftomach and * Nerves of the Lungs. Galen, Vefalius, and others, conceived that there were very few nerves fent to the lungs, and that thofe which were, went only to the membranes, and not to the fubftance of the lungs. They be- lieved alfo that the difcharge of blood from the lungs and the ex- igence of vomicae without pain, while there was great pain in peri- pneumony, was a confirmation of this opinion. Fallopius corredled this idea, and fhowed that the bronchix were alfo attended through their courfe with nerves. There often exifts' vomicae and effufions of blood in the lungs ; and Haller fays, the lungs can be lanced without the animal feeling pain, but ftill the bronchia; are extremely fenfible.—Water accumulated in the interlobular cellular membrane, or the infar&ion of blood into it, gives no acute pain, but only a fenfe of weight and difficulty of breathing. It is an cppreffion in a great meafure depending upon the return of the blood from the lungs, unchanged in confequence c-f the compreffioh of the cells.— The fenfibility of the branchiae, and the exigence of their nerves, appear in afthma ; and alfo from the pain excited by calculi, and from their irritability excited by recent ulceration, or when vomicae are difcharged into them. The connexion betwixt the ftomach and bronchia;, through the medium of the par vagum and pulmonic plexus, is evident from thofe afthmatic attacks which depend upon foulnefs in the ftomach. to