CF THE PARTICULAR NERVES, l8$ chiefly from the third cervical nerve, deriving alfo fome twigs from the fourth and fecond, But fometimes it takes an origine very high in the neck, from the par vagum or ninth nerve ; and even the fuperior cervical ganglion of the fympathetic is defcribed by fome as furnilhing a root.—-Lower in the neck it will be found in fome fubjefts to derive very frnall additional twigs from the fifth or fixth cervical nerves, or lower gang- lion of the fympathetic. The phrenic nerve, thus formed, defcends 'into the thorax betwixt the fubclavian artery and vein. In the eheft it proceeds downward and forward, attached to the mediaftinum, and before the root of the lungs It takes its Courfe upon the outfide of the pericardium, and from the pericardium flips off to the furface of the diaphragm. From the pofition of the heart, the left phrenic nerve differs a little in its courfe from the right 5 and it paffes over the pericardium, covering the apex of the heart. The phrenic nerve of the right fide, * Ludwig. Martin, in the Edinburgh Effays, and others, explain the aftion of the diaphragm upon the fuppofition of the mecha- nical prelfure of the lungs upon the phrenic nerve. It is a piece of doftrine irlconftftent with knowledge of the general laws of the oeconomy. It is repugnant to comparative anatomy, and it is evident that the foft and elaftic diltention of the lungs could not eomprefs the firm nerve. Moreover, the lungs when diftended do not prefs upon the mediaftinum, for it is the dilation of the thorax which caufes the lungs to inhale the atmofpheric air. See IVriJberg de Ner-vo Phrenico. Sandift. Thef. vol. ii. p. 260. It is betwixt the heart and mufcles of refpiration that the ft rift relation and fym- pathy exifts. When in turning the child in utero, and when the cord has been prefted, I have felt the ftrong convulfive fetches of the mufcles of refpiration endeavouring, by the play of the lungs, to .compenfate for the lofs of the placenta. 4 befides