9 STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF THE SINUSES. gans by the inferior cava, (Plate I. Fig. 5th, x). While, there- fore, the venous blood of the body (now unfit for the purposes of life) is entering the right sinus (Plate I. Fig„ 2d, g), the two right and two left pulmonary veins (Plate I. Fig. 5th, a) are effus- ing their contents (after being corrected in the lungs) into the left sinus (Plate I. Fig. 5th, b'). We observe the muscles of the right sinus large, distinct, and covered by a pellucid tendinous film; on the contrary, the muscles of the left (or posterior) are not at all discoverable, the membrane is so dense; the muscles of the auricle (I) are more perceptible. This seems to be the consequence of the contents during the progress of life, for in chanalian in the paroxysm of intoxication, who, in a few hours, returns to the posses- sion of reason, and to penitence ;—proving to us the difference of the exciting causes, as well as the agents employed in these complicated j)heiiomana; and our practice of depletion, or applications of stimuli, seem to illustrate the physical principles of the muscular economy, the healthy and morbid actions of which continually arrest the attention of the medical practitioner. The intellectual operations connected with these states of body, have univer- sally alarmed the philosopher, and give rise to infidelity and folly, under the mask of phi- losophy. * We often find five veins, three on the one side of the sinus, and two on the other. The term musculi pectenati (as anatomists denominate them) of the sinus, seems not applicable to the human subject. This name was given by the older anatomists, when brutes were principally the objects of dissection, and there the name applies to the structure ; but in the human subject the sinus is composed of powerful swelling arborescent muscles, as Plate I. Fig. 3d exhibits. This figure supposes the sinus of Fig. 1st Plate I. opened, where the superior cava (a), unites with the inferior cava (k), and the membrana ovalis (or foramen ovale, f). By this section we discover a carneous segment (c) which was cut off from (a, f, k), the septum of the sinuses, sending off numerous branches, which intermingle witha similar carneous root (d), adjoining the ventricular orifice (Plate I. Fig. 1st and 2d, y); a very powerful root of muscular matter is seen (Plate I. Fig. 3d, a) proceeding from the orifice of the cava superior, which expands into numerous arborescent branches, uniting with those of the sinus. This tree is the auricular appendage of the right sinus inverted, to exhibit its structure, seen m situ (Plate I. Fig. 2d h). The Eustachian valve (Plate I. Fig. 3d, g), is a carneous semilunar body, bending along the anterior margin of the oval membrane, and terminating at the cava inferior (k) j (h) is the orifice of the coronary veins, (Plate I. Fig. 4th and 5th, x) : another vein is usually conspicuous anteriorly, (Fig. 1st, y): minute inspection may often detect veins likewise in the septum of the sinuses, (i) Is the orifice of the right ventricle, with the origin of the ventricular valves represented in action, (Fig. 2d, m). B