NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 61 tern of the ear*. The portiodura, which lies before it (Plate XV. Fig. 2d, 7), passes into the foramen commune of the pars pe- trosa, (Plate III. Fig. 2d, x). It is continued through the crook- ed canal or aqueductus falloppii. Here it joins the 6th nerve, and forms the chorda tympani; escapes by the foramen stylo- mastoideum (Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, s), expands into the pes anse- rinus, which lies within the root of the styloid process, (Plate III. Fig. 2d, y), as the root of the nerves which supply the cheek, and unite with those of the face and occiput (Plate II. Fig. 4th, 7). The Eighth The nervi vagi arise from the corpora olivaria, in small surculi. Pair of ^Nerves, almost immediately form fasciculi, which may be consider- ed their proper origin ; from this the glosso-pharyngeus is sent off. The last, the nervus accessorius (11) and par vagum, escape by the foramen jugulare (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st and 2d, 8). It passes to its various distributions between the carotid artery (Plate III. Fig. 3d,2),and the internal jugular vein(l) of this same figure. Itunites with the fifth, the sympathetic, and supplies the larynx, pharynx, thyroid gland, and adjacent parts, the heart, lungs, &c. The The nervi lingualis arise from between the corpora olivaria and (9) ’pyramidalia by various origins, as the last. These nerves unite and pass by the condyloid foramen of the os occipitis to the tongue (Plate III. Fig. 2d, w) ^ Herves peculiarly appropriated to their single functions. The sensations of the integuments are very much diversified, as we experience in the palm, tips of the fingers, &c. While the most common plebeian enjoys all the finer senses, as seeing, hearing, smelling, and tasting, his touch of hand is blunted by the same causes which gave pain to the tender palm in the early periods, or to the delicate person, which by repetition augments the cuticular lamin®. Thus offending causes excite the processes which obviate injury. Not only are the parts of the foot, on which we rest, composed of numerous laminae of insensible impervious layers of cuticle, in consequence of compression, but a cushion of fat is the physical consequence of these exciting causes. The same observations apply to the hand of the labourer; not, however, from a vis medicatrix naiurce, for nature does not think (as the language of some of the ancients would insinuate), but merely acts from fixed laws, interwoven in the system by a wise Creator, who has so formed organs, that their structure has a natural ten- dency to obviate injurious causes where they occur, and these tendencies continue inactive when not excited. See Note, page 22. ’Theportio dura is situate in an anterior groove of the portio mollis, or nervus accousticus. * We find three large nerves contributing to the complicated functions of the tongue;