63 SECTION OF THE BRAIN. SECTION OF THE BRAIN, PLATE II. Fig. 3d & 4th. This forms an attempt at viewing the various parts of the brain as through a transparent medium, respecting its containing bones. It seems not sufficient to the inquisitive mind, that we are acquainted with the bones which contain the brain, as well as the parts and nerves of that complicated organ ; their relations to each other ought to help us to detect, by external and familiar marks, those objects hidden from our view, that we may be prepared to fortell the event of injuries. From an accurate knowledge in this respect, the correct anatomist, in the day of battle, or other unfor- tunate occurrences, may ascertain the influence of wounds, and place physiology on a more stable footing than it hitherto has been. Wounds of the cerebrum affect the powers of the mind, while the living functions occasionally to a certain extent continue unim- paired. Sudden wounds of the cerebellum, on the contrary, are supposed fatal; yet we find insidious disease often destroying this - last organ with impunity to life and intellectual exertion. A little attention to (Plate II. Fig. 3d and 4th) may lead at least to direct practitioners to minutiae. In Fig. 4th, the outline of the skeleton is represented on the left side, that the student may the more aptly transfer his notions from the bones to the muscles represented on the right, which co- ver the orbit and face. In Fig. 3d, the relations of the bones and parts of the brain contained, I hope may he easily comprehended. Description of (a) Falx, (b) Superior longitudinal sinus, (c) inferior longitudinal Fig. 4th. sinus, (d) torcular, (e) tentorium, (f) lateral sinus, (g) pituitary gland, (ii) ossa cuneifbrmia of the os sphenoides and occipitis, {*) lower portions of the vertical walls of the hemispheres, (i) corpus corporeal agent has relinquished its power—when every organ, according to our appre- . hension, must retard and eclipse mental operation : A proof of the inso utable and immor- tal nature of the human mind, operating independent of every physical law, so far as life, organs, actions, or those sensations and reflections are concerned, on which we so fondly place our delusive hopes and expectations in the heedless moment of energy. Do these facts entitle us to distinguish between intellectual ideas, dependent on sensation, ttnd hence subject to change, and ideas purely intellectual, and of an immutable character? Preliminary Notion.