NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 52 jected, is a coQipIete congeries of vessels; an artery insinuates it- self at different distances into its internal substance, which anasto- moses with the external vessels; these former vessels contract they are both drawing inductions, corresponding to the state of their organs.—Does this throw light on the structure and phenomena of the lower animals ? We do not observe what may be named fatuity, delirium, or madness, in brutes : (hydrophobia or rabid affections cannot rank among mental disorders). Objects which every moment charm or disgust human beings, are unknown, unheeded by the brute, who accepts of Nature's gifts as they are presented to hiip, and has no imagination to lead him to transgress her rules. Man, on the contrary, from the state of his ideas, depending on his peculiar organic structure, is liable to the most deleterious affections, from excitement of mind, which ope- rates as the most powerful stimulus on the corporeal system. To be convinced of this, we have only to advert to the sudden convulsion which any passion occasions in the human frame. In proportion as affluence and freedom become the lot of man, we discover derangements of mind extending themselves. When we attend to man under diflerent situations in various countries, we can clearly trace maladies, not necessarily flowing from human nature as a machine, but human nature altered in her physical structure by moral turpitude. Mania is by no means so frequent in arbitrary governments, where the mind is cramp- ed, as in free states where it is unhampered. Maladies of an acute, chronic, and even of a mortal type, affecting the organs of sense, rarely induce discomposure of the brain. This notion may, in many cases, be extended to even the vital organs, which, though highly vascular, have small nerves, no voluntary action, and comparatively little muscular matter con- nected with their apparatus. On the contrary, the functions of the brain suffer great derange- ment where disease or injuries of the trunk or limbs take place; where large masses of volun- tary irritable muscle are affected, numerous membranes and vessels are concerned, and their actions are communicated through the medium of the medulla spinalis. The nerves are agents, intervening between the material world and the soul. Wherever we view the animal machine, the action communicated to the heart or arteries seem ultimately impressed on the nerve, and thence to the sensorium commune. The office of muscular fibre seems action. We discover the heart pulsating, though torn from its cavity and nervous appendages; and the whole mass of muscles of an animal, after the head is separated, shall tremble for a time by the stimulus of the atmospheric fluid, or the application of a pointed instrument. The office of the nerves seems that of reception of actions. All sensations seem modifications of touch. When you apply the tip of your finger to an object, that object affects the living vessels, the action of which is impressed on the nerve, and thus communicated to the brain. Since arteries are formed of a congeries of muscular annuli, and muscles contract on application of stimuli, (nerves being composed of medullary and cineritious matter, interwoven with living vessels) these communicate the action to the nerves, which correspond to the impin- gence received by arteries, from material or intellectual influence. The shock of a thought becomes occasionally as fatal as the flash of lightning. The same observation applies to the other senses, which are touched by their appropriate objects, as the eye, &c. These convey or do not convey sensation, as bodies adapted to excite them are applied. The same applications and actions, however, yvhich occasion sensation, may have being, and no