38 . FOURTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the torcular herophili, or middle sinus of the tentorium, (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, e s). The falx is composed of a duplicature of the dura mater, as we have mentioned, having the superior sinus as the convex margin, which is a triangular cavity, having the bones mentioned Plate III. Fig. 2d, Plate XIII. Fig. 2d as the base of the cavity, and the falx as the apex. The lower conca- vity (i), or inferior sinus, is its lower boundary. The falx, as well as the rest of the dura mater, has tendinous portions stretched over its surface, which keep the parts tense. This septum, as well as the other parts of the dura mater, is very liable to have osseous matter deposited in its substance by its vasa propria, to which some have ascribed epilepsy ; and I have seen masses upon the point of being disengaged from the membrane, which must have pricked the vertical walls of the cerebrum. All the portions of the dura mater are obnoxious to this occurrence. In the case of an idiot I shall mention, the falx was absorbed, and the vertical walls of the hemisphere completely grown together as one solid mass. In this subject the cerebrum was denuded by local disease, and the cerebral arteries partially attached to the dura mater by the process of inflammation. These rami were depositing osseous spi- culse in that membrane, while the other branches deposited the materials of the cerebrum, a seeming proof that vessels are actuat- ed by the appropriate organs with which they are connected, clearly illustrated in this instance’. The vessels of the comb of ries, veins, bowels, urinary bladder, &c.; but the members of the body require opponent muscles. The absence of valves in the vital organs must have wise intentions, though I wave at present my opinions on this topic : the absence of valves, however, predisposes them seemingly to disease, though sleep is a function intimately connected with whatever excites disease. > Not only do we find vessels which are spread on the membranes of bone deposit this osseous matter, but the vessels of all membranes, which are not connected with muscles of volition, are liable to take on this process ; such as the valves of the heart, the inner mem- branes of the aorta and its ramifications, the pleura, even the lungs, so very membranous, I have seen partly in a state of ossification, the peritonaeum, &c. In subjects predisposed to anchylosis and exostosis, even, the cellular membrane of muscles has been discovered con- nected with Qsseotts deposition.