62 NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. SNerve.""' sub-occipitales (Plate XII. Fig. 2d, 10) arise by two or three origins, from the superior portion of the medulla spinalis, and are transmitted between the occiput and atlas, to supply the muscles of the neck, and unite with the nervous ramifications of the frontal nerves, and those of the portio dura, diffused on the temples. Recapitulation Eightbones compose the cranium. Thesedefend and sustain the connected with . , , . , the Plates brain, admit its arteries, and transmit its nerves and veins by b^en^deswibed.^^^i*’ appropriate foramina. Its internal membrane, named dura mater, becomes the internal periosteum of these bones, and the septa of the brain, as well as the envelope of the brain and nerves. The cerebrum is composed of the two superior hemispheres, corpus callosum, and the inferior lobes. The four ventricles and their appendages, the cone and lobes of the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, the crura of the cerebrum and cerebellum, medulla spi- nalis, their arachnoid coat, and pia mater ; the arteries, veins, si- nuses, and nerves of the brain have been enumerated*. while the simple, involuntary, and unceasing actions of the heart are sustained by the aid of one small nerve. Does the muscular and nervous appendages of the heart entitle us to suppose, that incessant action of such powerful muscles, in immediate contact with the blood, required only so much nervous matter as would convey cognizance, when deleterious re- laxation takes place ; and that the greatest vital action is realized, where there is least ner- vous matter ?—demonstrating the independent line of distinction between action and sensa- tion.: the heart being the most active, simple, involuntary agent supplied by small nerves ; the tongue the most acute, voluntary, complicated agent, in consequence of its nerves. ’ The reader will now recollect, that I have endeavoured to distinguish the various agents entering into the composition of the animal economy, so far as life and sensation is concern- ed, that we may the more decidedly assign to each their appropriate office, so necessary to unravel the equivocal system of animal being, viewed as a united whole. We discover life to depend on agents more or less continuing the same, while the vital organs, from concep- tion to old age, undergo incessant change. Anatomy assures us, that the heart aud arteries are| the agents primarily undergoing these changes; that these are the organs on which the varied modifications of action depend ; that, so far as intellectual operation is dependent on sensation, through the medium of the nerves and brain (where ultimate material operation is effected), the heart and arteries promote the fundamental basis of animal phenomena. While, however, during the animal existence of human nature, we are convinced of the in- fluence of body on soul, yet when this mortal task of animal existence has been accomplish- ed, a miraculous independence of soul is often evinced in the dying moments of pious indi- viduals, where the most sublime ideas, purely intellectual, are exhibited, although every • »