33 THIRD STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Tunica Arach- noidea. The Pia Mater, The Hemis- pheres, FalXj and Corpus Callosum. the dura mater are sometimes double, one placed on each side of the artery, though I meet with them single (s) and larger. They sometimes escape, partly by the spinal foramen, but more common- ly communicate with the adjacent sinuses mentioned. The inter- nal lamina of the dura mater thrown up (Plate VI. o), not only has a different office, but a different structure and aspect from the external; it is smooth and of a splendid silvery tint, becoming the investing membrane of the brain and nerves. Beneath the dura mater another investing membrane is dis- covered, named tunica arachnoidea’(Plate VI. p). It is transparent, and no vessels have hitherto been traced on its surface. This membrane, on the superior surface of the brain, is detected by means of inflation only; but it is commonly conspicuous between * the pons varolii and the medulla spinalis, (Plate XV.) without any art being used; and here it assumes a loose appearance, and a more dense texture. The pia mater * is the membrane immediately in contact with every surface of the brain, (Plate IV. q), and seems destined to form the nidus of the arteries and veins of every part of that organ, as will be afterwards noticed, in speaking of the convolutions and ven- tricles. The pia mater being raised from the convolutions, it as- sumes the appearance of a villous web, transmitting its vascular branches into the substance of the brain, and has on this account received the name of tomentum cerebri. i _ PLATE VII. The dura mater has been removed by the margin of the bones on the left, and is inverted on the right. This brings into view the convexity of the hemisphere (a), and its vertical region (e) : the falx, (h), is seen covering the vertical region of the right lobe, ex- cept the lower portion of it, (d e). The dissector ought to re- ’ Membrana arachnoidea. * Localis membrana—-meninx tenuis. E