NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 53 1 when experiments are performed on these organs (of which we cannot bereave a nerve), and deceives the experimentalist, who supposes a nerve contracts. Indeed, the most powerful vessels are sensation take place ; which seems to afford a clear demonstration between mere life and action, and intellectual operation ; and proves that, however material organs may render us acquainted with a material world, these organs, as well as the objects impressed on them through the medium of their structure and offices, are known to us only through the medi- um of the soul. When we investigate correctly these physical and intellectual phenomena, their true and distinguishing characters seem so unequivocal, that we must be surprised that so many great men should, by listening to preconceived opinions, embrace contrary and ab- surd extremes, by neglecting to look at nature, and failing to revere religion. Motion and ideas are both realities ; they are each distinct consequences of matter and intellect. Pain and pleasure of body areas much intellectual operations, dependent on connection with ma- terial organs, as compunction or self-approbation are purely intellectual results, flowing from the laws of our Maker, written on our mind. Whatever is discovered by human na. ture, physically or intellectually, becomes so from the presence and attention of sonl. If I agitate the point of your finger, you complain of titillation ; but when you are sound asleep, though the same irritation may be applied, and yet be unfelt, the same exciting cause, as well as its corresponding physical arterial action, has taken place. Does this lead us to a key, by which may be opened the mysterious fact, of the distinction between body and mind ? The person who reads this is all’over alive; his wonderful fabric is a thrilling being,suspended between life and death ; of this fabric, however, at this moment, he has no cognizance, if in health. The mind has no cognizance of absolute healthy action, till excitement takes place. Deep and mortal wounds communicate little or no sensation, though inflicted even on the hemispheres of the brain, till morbid action occasions cognizance: a proof of sen- sation having being where nerves are not concerned. If you read this subject with attention, yoiir right hand, as well as every other part of your corporeal system, is unknown to you, till I brought you to- recognize this circumstance, that you are possessed of or- gans of which you are not conscious: But you had complete cognizance of the subject before us, and that alone. The actions therefore necessary to sensation seem to depend on a certain state of motion in the vessels, without which there is no cognizance. Mere life and health is a consequence of arterial action, unconnected with cognizance. Sensation of pleasure seems a gentle agitation of the vessels and nerves, and pain an inordinate convul- sion of the same organs, both of which are taken notice of by the soul. Disease, there- fore, is a continual cognizance of morbid action; and even excess of lawful action predisposes to disease. Physiologists have long observed that bones, membranes, ligaments, &c. communicate no sensation ; but, in fact, there is no sensation in any organ where' the vessels are putely carriers of lymph, which is the case in all those parts named insensible, and which you perceive by your own system is the case even respecting the muscles you use every moment. The weariness of the evening, therefore, seems the dawning of muscular debility. Continue to shake ofl'sleep : you may, perhaps, to usher in that febrile debility, which may for ever debar the slumbers of health. Numerous diseases are founded on an inattention to natural indications; but all the animal organs communicate the most acute anguish when their