22 SANGUINEOUS SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. 4thly, The In. ferior Petrous Sinuses, 5thly, The Ca. vernous Si- nuses. (Plate III. Fig. 2d, w,—Plate XIV. Fig. 2d r), are embedded in the fossae of the pars petrosa and occipitis, and communicate with the foramen lacerum in basi cranii behind (Plate XIII Fig. 5d y) and the sphenoidal sinus before. These sinuses (Plate XIII. Fig. 1st. r, c, u), are contained in the lateral fossae of the sella turcica, of the os sphenoides, and the foramen lacerum of that bone, formed by the separation of the great and small wings of Ingrasius (Plate XII I. and XIV. Fig. 2d, u) :* this equally facilitates the exit of the blood from the neck to the heart, as from the heart to the brain. We notice that athletic subjects are usually short-necked, of an eager disposition in the early periods of life. The ardour of their actions seems to occasion premature imbecility in the muscles of the heart and arteries ; hence a disposition to venous congestion and a deposi- tion of fat in the neck, as well as torpor in the veins of the brain. Some ingenious authors have denied the principle on which I have supposed this deposition to lake place; viz. a defect in the perspiring power from debility in the arteries. Chemistry seems very ill adapted for establishing such delicate facts. The reader will forgive my directing his attention to Plate III. Fig. 4th, where a diagram of the integuments of the foot is given; (a) is the heel, (b) the hollow of the foot, (c) the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones, (d) the last digital phalanges of the toes, (e) the metatarsal region of the foot. While very little fat is deposited in the hollow (b), where perspiration goes on freely, and where vesication never takes place, even in cases of the most violent walking—on the contrary, great deposition of fat is observed in all the other parts (a, c, d, e), where perspiration is prevented, from the impervious laminae of the cuticula. Why the serum in the heel and other parts is taken up by the lymphatics, and the oil retained, is a topic which it is not my intention at present to agitate. I leave the fact to be considered by the liberal; and by them like- wise I leave it to be decided, how far the practice of recommending exertion, tonics, &c, in cases of obesity, corroborates my suppositious of the causes of fat in the neck of a- poplectic subjects,-;r-fat being deposited by whatever means perspiration is defective, in such subjects as generate fat, for some do not in excess. This diagram was taken from a pre- paration in my museum, where the parent vessel (f) sent ofiF the perspiring rami (h), and the arteries (g), which secrete the fat; these anastomose with each other freely as at (i). Where perspiration is checked at (h), the vessels send back their contents to the adipose ra- mi (g), or vice versa. Partial vesication seems a local anasarca. Long-necked subjects are likewise liable to apoplexy. Still debility in them and old age becomes seemingly the proxi- mate cause of apoplexy ; and sudden passion, inducing languor, intoxication, or any stimulus inducing debility, predisposes to apoplexy. Even in languid paroxysm of fever, apoplexy is often indicated; and the conscientious physician, when watching the phenomena of the brain in fever, and other cases connected with debility, must occasionally be at a loss when sleep commences, to know whether it is the prelude to convalescence or morbid congestion. * In languid states of the system, not only in the female subject afllicted with ame-