49 arteries of the base of the brain. Particular De- scription of the Arteries within the Ca- vity of the Cranium. anterius (r), and posterius (s), situate before and behind the pons, seem to become the anastomosing nidi of the external ves- sels and those of the ventricles. The medulla spinalis is com- posed of four pillars, which are medullary externally, and cineri- tious internally, viz. two columns (v) named eminentia, or cor- pora pyramidalia; and two lateral bodies, the eminentia, or cor- pora olivaria (w). Two other bodies have been described by authors, on the outside of the last, to which they have given the appellation of corpora pyramidalia lateralia; but they are often indistinct, as well as the vermiform appendages of the cerebel- lum, which are placed on the anterior and posterior portions of its lobesi. The arteries which supply the eye, the nostril, the ear, and the brain, are derived from the carotids and vertebrals. The internal carotids, (Plate III. Fig. 1st), ^ which form the anterior vessels of the brain, enter the syphon-shaped canal of the pars petrosa^ * The Cerebrum is that organ where ultimate material operations take place, and which are taken notice of by the soul. The cerebrum seems passive in this respect, as well as its nerves. We seem to trace the various phenomena, named ideas, connected with sensation, as secondary consequences of arterial action, so far as sensation is connected with reflection. The cerebellum seems principally appropriated to animal purposes ; and while this organ is exaggerated in the brute, the cerebrum is proportionally small. Brutes possess large exter- nal organs, as the eye, &c. a small cerebrum, and a large cerebellum. Man, on the contrary, has a large cerebrum, small external organs, and a proportionably small cerebellum. The explanation of mental and corporal phenomena, where the brain and nerves are concerned, seem still connected with great difficulty. We often detect great heat and pain in a paraly- tic member : we discover a power of motion occasionally, without any cognizance of sen- sation. But may not muscular matter retain a power of contraction, when the power of the arteries connected with the nerves fail to promote cognizance ? ® I have not added a diagram of the vertebral in Plate III. Fig. 3d, as it would occasion confusion, but its course is seen internally. 3 Plate III. Fig. 3d (2 a) represents this syphon as viewed through a transparent me- dium : (a b) its ascent from the syphon to tha posterior clinoid process ; (b) its horizontal situation in the carotic sinus of the sella; at (c),it is embedded in the hollow of the anterior clinoid process, and sends off (d), the ophthalmic artery ; (f) is the anterior cerebral, (e) the anterior communicans, (g) middle cerebral, (1) basilary, (k) inferior cerebellic, (m) an- terior or superior cerebellic artery. The relative situation of the other arteries are under- stood, having the same references as Fig. 1st; (1) is the jugular vein in both flgsires ; in G