SANGUINEOUS SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. 21 men magnum occipitale transmits the spinal marrow. The cra- nium therefore contains the brain, admits the arteries of the brain ' from the heart, transmits the venous blood from the brain to the heart, and the nerves to the system of the body. SANGUINEOUS SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The Dura Mater becomes the conductor of the blood from the brain, by three single channels, and four pair, which are embedded in the canals of the bones, and two single sinuses are formed en- tirely in the membrane. The sinuses connected with the bones are, 1st, The Supe- (Plate VI. 11 e c,—Plate XIII. k 1 m). It has the os frontis, ossa parietalia, and the superior fossa of the os occipitis, as the basis of its triangular cavity, the apex terminating in the falx, as seen (Plate XIII. k 1 m s). The veins of the brain (Plate VII. d,—Plate IX. d,) are inserted into this cavity, passing oblique- ly forward nearly an inch in its duplicature, as represented (Plate XIII. d); the anterior veins seem to enter at nearly right angles. 2d, The Trans- (Plate III. Fig. 2d, s t—Plate XIV. Fig. 1st, s t u), receive the siruses*^ longitudinal sinus by their apex, and are occupied by the occipital, parietal, and temporal fossae of (Plate III. Fig. 2d s t u.) sdiy, The Su- (Plate III. Fig. 2d, V—Plate XIII. Fig. 2d g—Plate XIV. Fig. sSusesr^*'^”'^^ Isth—Fig. 2d s)—This communicates with the transverse sinus at the parietal angle (t), and opens anteriorly into the sphenoidal sinus (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d c, r) to be enumerated * Here the lateral sinus leaves the superior petrous, and is concealed from view, when the tentorium is era ; itis continued in thesegment (Plate III.Fig. 2d, u) of the pars petrosa, and mingles its contents with that of the inferior petrous to be mentioned, where they unite in the foramen lacerum in basi cranii, (Plate III. Fig. 2d, y.) This foramen is so small in some subjects, as seemingly to account for apoplexy, on principles distinct from those taken notice of by authors in general. Short neck likewise is a conformation liable to apoplexy. This cannot become a cause of apoplexy from the simple principle of its shortness alone, as