23 SANGUINEOUS SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. these communicate with the anterior orifices of the superior and inferior petrous sinuses. ChlSiaJsLus, (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st and 2d, k), surrounds the body of the sella turcica or pituitary gland (Plate XIV. i), and communicates with the cavernous sinuses. (Plate XI V. Fig. 1st, g), occupies the inferior occipital region or spine of the os occipitis, (Plate III. Fig. 1st, g), and is sometimes bifurcated. (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d §,—Plate VII. i) is formed in the in- gitudinai Sinusferior concavity of the falx, and communicates with the next to be mentioned; it receives the blood of the adjacent hemispheres, and corpus callosum (Plate VIII. fg), by the veins (i). (Plate XI. c,—Plate XII, c,—Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, e s) is fornied by aduplicature of the falx, (Plate XIII, a), and the tentorium (b). This sinus composes the apex of this conical septum, receiving the inferior longitudinal sinus, (Plate XIII. §), and the vena mag- nagaleni (i). These convey the blood ofthe ventricles anteriorly; the torcular unites posteriorly with the longitudinal sinus (k 1 m), at (s), and the lateral sinuses at (f), communicating beneath with the occipital sinus (Plate XIV. g). Recapitulation, Three single sinuses are received in osseous channels, viz. the superior longitudinal, the circular, and occipital. Four pairs are likewise received into osseous canals, viz. the lateral, superior, and inferior petrous and cavernous sinuses. Two are formed entirely in the membrane, viz. the inferior longitudinal, and the torcular. In all, there are 13 regular sinuses. Others occur, as the communicating sinuses in the great wings of Ingrasius, stretch- 7thly, The Occipital Si< nus Sthly, The Inferior Lon 9thly, The Torcular He- rophili norrhcea, but in the sanguine and feeble male likewise, the reins of the face and eyes which enter this process, meet so much resistance, as to occasion the discoloration around the lower eye.lid. In old age these veins become so varicose as seemingly to promise great relief by venesection. When a clear and exaggerated view of the sinuses and veins of the brain is required for demonstration, old subjects ought to be selected. In the fcetus, how- ever, the anastomoses of the arteries and veins seem more easily accomplished by the art of injection occasionally, than in any after period.