15 OFFICES OF THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. Preliminary Notion. 1st, The O Sphenoides. six pair and a single bone. But as the lower moveable jaw, (Fig. 1st, 14, 18, 10, m,) completes the face, we may enumerate fourteen bones, i. e. six pair and two single bones. Only nine bones appear in the external aspect of the face, which I shall first men- tion. These are, 1st, The ossa maxillaria superiora *, (Plate III. Fig. 1st, ghik. Fig. “2d, caghil,— Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, ak 1). To these bones all those of the face are attached, viz. 2dly, The ossa nasi, (Plate III. Fig. 1st and 2d, b) : 3dly, The ossa unguis, (c): 4thly, The ossa malarum, (t^) : and, 5thly, The lower jaw, its parts being marked, (14, 13, 10, m). These compose the nine bones appearing externally in the face ; the five bones, or two pairs and a single bone, observed internally, are,—1st, The ossa turbinata inferiora, (Fig. 2d,jf^) :—2dly, The ossa palati (gk): —3dly, The vomer (h g), represented in dotted lines. A general notion of the connections and complicated offices of the bones of the cranium and face seems of the utmost consequence, in cases of wounds, caries, ulcers, &c. I shall endeavour to ar- range these in as few words as possible CONNECTION AND OFFICES OF THE EIGHT BONES OF THE CRANIUM. This irregular bone is composed of its body, its foramina on each side of the body, and its processes, which are sent off from the body. It is connected with all the bones of the cranium, of which it composes the transverse basis, (Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, a i w X p). It is connected with the brain, orbits, nostrils, and tem- * (g) The nasal process, (h) atrium, (i) malar process, (16) foramen infra orbitrium, (k) alyeolar process, which is completed posteriorly by the tuber. ® The name ossa infundibula seems more applicable, as they present a large opening ante- riorly, which converges posteriorly in shape of a funnel. 3 Thus the os frontis not only defends and sustains the brain, but forms the ceiling of the orbit, and part of the temples. While the os frontis, ossa parietalia, and cerebral re- gion of the os occipitis, merely defend, and contain the brain'; the os ethmoides, sphenoides, ossa temporum, and os occipitis inferiorly, become the exits of the nerves.