OSTEOLOGY OF THE NOSTRILS. 26 sms. Frmitis^^ . (Plate II. Fig. 3d, o,—Plate III. Fig. 1st, o), which composes the ’ arched ceiling of the orbit, the superior segment of the hollow cone, or orbitar vault. j ,-() , sS and treat 3d,) ,These form the external divaricating root of wings of Ingram the hollow.coiie of the orbit the small wing.(n) finishes the pos- terior ,terminatioia of the ceiling, joins the os froptis {posteriorly, and is perforated by jthe foramen ppticum (n). The oblique open- ing between the small wing and orbitar process (m), is the fora- men lacerum prbitarium superius*. Plate II. Fig. 3d, composes the external canthus and external anterior region of the orbital cone. (Plate II. and III. p). Only this orbitar plate enters into the composition of the floor of the orbit. (Plate III. Fig. 2, gF), The orbitar, or superior, process of this 5thly, The Os Malse, 6thly, The Os Maxillare. 7thly, The Os- sa Palati, bone is a small triangle, the lower part of which forms the fora- men spheno-palatinum (Plate III. Fig. 2d, gj. It is situate at the posterior angle of the maxillary plate. , , , ’ v . . ; ^ By attending to the direction of the orbits, we discover that the eyes embrace a general horizontal hemisphere, without any exer- tion of these organs. At the same time, only one single object can be distinctly discerned by the eye in one fixed position. General notion This complicated organ is composed of three single bones, and of the Nostrils. five pair, of which the ossa maxillaria superiora form the basis and largest share. The five pair are, (Plate III. Fig. 1st and 2d, a.) The letter a, (Plate III. Fig. 2d), is placed at the antrum maxillare, which communicates with the nostril. They are connected vrith'the following bones. ^(Plate III. Fig. 1st and 2d, «) compose the side-walls and floor of the nostrils, and sustain (in conjunction with the ossa palati) the ossa infundibula and the vomer, to be mentioned. (Plate II. Fig. 3d,—Plate III. Fig.'1st,qnd'2d, ^),. which de- ist, The Ossa Maxillaria Su- periora. 2dly, The Ossa Nasi, pend from the os frontis, and form the arch of the nostrils. ;,ci '.,11. * Or foramen lacerum of the os sphenoides. This varies very much in its size in different subjects.