8 SYNCHRONOUS ACTIONS OF THE HEART. Synchronous j shall enumerate the sinuses and ventricles in the order in Actions of the VeinsjCaTities, which they act; tor two cavities only are full at one period, ihellearT^* the Other two being empty to receive and propel their contents. Since the sinuses and ventricles are synchronous, so must their ap- propriate veins and arteries. The sinuses are filled at the same pe- riod by their appropriate corporeal and pulmonary veins; the si- nuses propel their contents, at the same time, into their adjacent ven- tricles; the ventricles being filled at the same time, propel their con- tents into their corporeal and pulmonary arteries at the same mo- ment : these arteries, finally terminating in the corporeal and pul- monary veins, the blood is again returned to the sinuses, and thus the incessant circulation is sustained. This action is named synchro- nous. Thus the venous blood from the head, arms, and thorax, is conveyed to the heart by the cava superior, (Plate I. Fig. 2d and 5th, f,) and from the inferior extremities and abdominal or- whelmed the powers of nature, the levator palpebrae, which has been continually in an in- duced state of contraction by mental influence, is overpowered by the superior contractile physical power of the sphincter oculi,—the eye continues shut till nature has been re- stored to energy by the suspension of mental influence during sleep. When organic energy is consummated, mental cognizance again occasions the contraction of the levator palpebrae, and the sphincter returns to a relaxed state. May we hope that the reverential attention due to the phenomena of the animal economy may yet explain, on physical principles, those laws, wherein we read as anatomists, in legible characters,—the state and structure of muscles demonstrating that tone and veracity of action, on which health, pleasure, and perspicacity depend, by an adherence to God’s laws ; and that imbecility, delusion, and anguish, are inseparable from adeviation from these sacred princi- ples, so far as corporeal agency is wisely instrumental, as cause of mental operation. We cannot be surprised at the influence of body on mind, so far as reflection depends on sensa- tion, since this fabric is continually communicating informations depending on the state of its organs, which are taken notice of by the mind. Irritate gently with a pointed instrument the palm of your hand, this induces titillation ; increase it, laceration of the same vessels and nerves takes place, and the pain attendant on it. The highest species of titillation or pleasure, verges on the confines of that convulsion denominated pain. Disease, pain, or delirium, seem only diversified species of those same wise and simple modifications of mus- cular economy, which promote health, pleasure, and a sound understanding ; disease being an illegitimate couvulsion, health a legitimate agitation of the same system, both of which are taken notice of by the soul. This is evident by attending to the men- tal incoherence flowing from any morbid afliection of the organs of the body, as we see instanced in the momentary victim of delirium, furor-uterinus, priapism; or the Bac-