42 SIXTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. The Fornix. PLATE X. This plate represents the fornix, which separates the ventricles. The relics of the septum appear connected with its middle. The extremities of the fornix may be traced as connected with the corpus callosum. The fornix forms the lower and middle por- tions of the vault, which is diffused over the middle of the ventri- cles. It is a double body, and may be divided into its anterior cru- ra (w), its body (h), and its posterior crura {w), which divaricate from each other. The posterior appendage (z), is named hippo- campus minor; the anterior and larger (d) hippocampus major *. The lower termination of the hippocampus is covered by the plex- us, which answers as a guide for tracing its place and extent *. The posterior or digital sfnus (*) is often much enlarged, so as nearly to meet its fellow in some cases. This seems the conse- quence of disease, and is frequently empty, notwithstanding its enlargement. This distention posteriorly is often attended by the appearance of a second pes, which seems occasioned by the pro- longation of the digital sinus by contained water; it is placed by the outside of the great hippocampus, when present, and has no regular plexus as the former. Previous to exposing the body be- neath the foi nix, this last may be cut transversely, near the ante- rior cornua, to exhibit its inferior surface, as represented Plate XI. d. ■white, and is occasionally the seat of dropsy, and has on this accountiby some been named the 5th-ventricle, or fossa sylvii. When this view is taken, the other half of the hemi- sphere may be removed, as in the next plate. . i . i .. ' Pedes hippocampi—cornu ammonis. This descends to nearly the bottom of the middle cerebral lobe. This may be named the inferior region ofithe lateral ventricles, * As the outline of the last plate exhibits. The hippocampus major has an inverted fim- briated margin (w), deriving its name from its structure, and indeed the pes may be raised considerably from its flioor without violence. This body penetrates obliquely to nearly the lower margin of the middle cerebral lobe (Plate Xlllj z). < The band described by the in- genious Vicq d’Azyr, connected with the fornix, seems not always present. 1 have in every respect avoided minutiasj which, not being regular, seem not connected with phenomena.