50 ARTERIES OF THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. After they escape from this situation, they pass obliquely upward, along the posterior clinoid process of the os sphenoides, (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, r); they emerge into the cavernous sinus, (r c); and, upon their leaving this to enter into the cavity of the cra- nium, they send off the ophthalmic artery, (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, b,—Plate XIV. Fig. 2d, b,—Plate XV. Fig. 2d, b.) This artery passes from the anterior portion of the carotid, enters the fora- men opticum of the sphenoidal bone (Plate XIII. Plate XV. Fig. 2d, b,) with the optic nerve (2). After entering the orbit, it supplies the lachrymal gland, the eye, its muscles and the nostril, by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, (Plate II. Fig. 3d, q), the palpebrse and forehead, (Plate III. Fig. 1st, 17). The lateral communicating artery, (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st and 2d, e,* Plate XV. Fig. 2d, e,) passes backward to join the posterior cerebral artery (Plate XIV. p) ; the anterior cere- bral artery (Plate XIV. and Plate XV. c) is inclined forward : at (c) there is found an anterior transverse communicating por- tion which unites them, as the lateral branches do the carotids and vertebrals*. The middle cerebral artery (Plate XIV. Plate XV. d) seems the continuation of the common trunk of the in- ternal carotid; it enters the middle lobe of the brain (Plate XV. d,) supplying its substance. This vessel, and the posterior cerebral artery (p), send off the arteries of the choroid plexus (|j), where they are discovered to anastomose with each other, and the ex- ternal vessels of the foramina caeca, (r s.) The vertebral arte- ries, (Plate XIV. Plate XV. Fig. 2d, i,) after leaving their indivi- dual connection with the atlas, incline toward each other, meet in an angle at the pons Varolii, and form one trunk, resting on the ossa cuneiformia, (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st and 2d, m o,) named Fig. 3d, (m) is the contortion of the foramen laccrum, as it bends to be continued as (n o) the segment of the pars squamosa (Fig. 2d, u)j ^ I have met with a case where this artery was wanting. * These pass by the anterior fissure (c) of the cerebral lobes, on each side of the falx, (Plate XI. dih), and become the arteries of the corpus callosum, (Plate VIII. the posterior spinal arteries arise from the anterior cerebral.