FOURTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 35 wards described),the operator ought to be cautious in the manner of separating the hemispheres, as the corpus callosum is apt to be la- cerated ; and where fissures take place in such cases, water is usually found in the cavities below ; and when attention is not paid, the fluid is apt to be awkwardly spilt, and the quantity not duly ascertained. PLATE VIII. TheHemisphye This plate exhibits the removal of the left hemisphere in the Centrum Ovaiestep toward examination of the ventricle. The hemisphere may be exhibited. removed in a horizontal direction, half an inch above the level of the corpus callosum, as the ceiling (r r g f) of the ventricle below is often elevated a considerable way by disease In this section we become acquainted with the two substances which always en- ter into the composition of every distinct body composing the ' ' brain, viz. the cineritious matter (a) which composes the external surface of the convolutions, and the centrum ovale (ss), or medul- , lary matter (b), which is continued into the convolutions as their inner substance. The name cortical substance cannot apply in general to the cineritious, as this matter is found internally in some bodies. This substance varies much in different subjects and diseases; in young and vigorous bodies, it seems more florid than in the aged or feeble ; in apoplexy it is often chocolate-coloured We shall find every body composed of these two substances in one direction or another. I cannot, in our present state of igno- rance, ascribe the intention of either of these substances, as they are always present in, every organ connected with the brain and nerves; and phenomena do not furnish us, seemingly, with data ' This frequently is the case from hydrocephalus internus during youth, which had been got the better of; in such cases an empty cavity is discovered. * The hemisphere of the brain (Plate VI. r) from which the pia mater (q) is removed, conveys a notion of the healthy appearance of the cineritious substance.