Corpus Callosum. The Superior and Inferior Longitudinal Sinus, Falx, &c. in situ. FOURTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 37 ca!losiim (fg), here exhibited. When this border is cut off, the corpus callosum is seen uniting by its transverse striae with the medulla of the brain. The corpus callosum, as well as other distinct portions of the brain, is very varied in its shape and dimension in different sub- jects. This represents the medium appearance and size. It is sometimes formed of a regular arch, and in other cases waved, broadest posteriorly, and hollowed where the falx is reflected to- ward its anterior and posterior attachments. Two medullary lines run on each side of (g) the raphe, from which the medul- lary striae (f) are directed toward the medulla of the hemisphere. Previous to removal of the falx, or hemisphere, on the right, the connections of. the falx ought to be examined in its various re- lations with the crista galli, the cranium, and brain. The smooth internal surface ofthe dura mater (p) is thrown up as continuous with (k), the superior longitudinal sinus, into which the great veins of the brain enter, (Plate VIII. d, Plate IX. d). The anterior veins seem to be inserted at right angles, but those behind penetrate nearly an inch in the laminae of the dura mater, observing a direction obliquely forward, as represent- ed (Plate VIII. h, Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, d)The sinus is kept tense by tendinous bridles, (Plate VIII. o). The inferior longi- tudinal sinus (i), receives the blood from the adjacent parts, by numerous veins which enter its cavity, and transmits the blood to ^ Theveins of the brain have no valves in their cavities. This unsupported state of the co- lumn of the venous blood seems aggravated in the veins of the brain, by the anterior direction of their contents meeting resistance from the blood in the longitudinal sinus, which observes a retrograde course towards the. lateral sinuses, (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d f). Numerous cases have come under my observation, where great quantities of blood had escaped into the sub- stance of the hemispheres, as well as the ventricles, from rupture of the extremities of the veins, while their trunks continued unaffected. All the organs over which the mind has not immediate control (or vital organs), except the hearty are void of valves in their veins ; on the contrary, every organ has valves where the mind operates. All the vital organs possess only one species of muscles, which contract on the application of their contents,—such are not liable to paralysis ; but organs over which mind has control have opponent muscles, and are obnoxious to paralysis, 'i'he reasons for these contri- vances are evident : the contents extend the muscles of the vital organs, as the heart, arte-