NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. The Seventh Pair of Nerves. ‘7. trunk has entered the orbit, by passing through the foramen lace- rum (Plate XIV. Fig. 2d, u t) of the os sphenoides, twigs of this nerve, the first and second branches of the fifth nerve, and the fourth and third nerves, form the lenticular or ophthalmic ganglion, which supplies the iris^ This ganglion is situate on the outside of the optic nerve. The trunk is continued to become the nerve of the abductor muscle of the eye-ball. The nervi auditorii. This name belongs properly only to the posterior portion, which is a soft large nerve. It arises from the crina of the stylus scriptorius, and emerges from the crura ce- rebelli and pons Varolii. It enters the meatus auditorus internus of the pars petrosa (Plate III. Fig. 2d, x). This becomes the pro- per nerve of hearing", being bestowed entirely on the internal sys- similar nerves. We may observe the same phenomena in the progress towards proficiency which performers on the piano-forte display, in crossing hands as it is termed. In the eye, therefore, we find muscles of a similar nature, which act in unison, supplied with similar nerves ; as the levators and depressors. Both are furnished with the third nerve ; but when dissimilar muscles are intended to act in unison, as the abductor of the one eye, and the ad. ductor of the other (that both eyes may bear upon the same object), we discover dissimilar nerves, or the 3d and 6th ; so the superior oblique, which acts in unison with the inferior oblique, the 4th and 3d nerves are employed. Similar nerves therefore are employed in the case of similar muscles. Dissimilar nerves seem necessary to occasion instant similarity of action in dissimilar muscles, directed by an agent so indivisible in its operations as the mind. We were convinced, that our very persons were unknown to us, when we attended toother objects, &c. The wise simplicity of nature is discovered (where the fewest pos- sible agents are employed) in the 3d nerve being supplied in conjunction with the 4th and 6th ; dissimilarity in one nerve being sufficient, which less distracts the mind than if another nerve had been furnished. This plan of nervous distribution not being observed as the promoting causes of the actions of other dissimilar muscles, does not seem to afiect the above suppositions, as the limbs and other organs require dissimilar, as well as united ac- tions, which practice easily promotes. Such a distribution as we observe in the eye, must, up- on the same principles, have destroyed the power of variety of action in the limbs; as this distribution seems to produce the effect of unison alone in the eye, and seems the means of unerring vision. In strabismus, both adductors are apt to act in unison from a failure in the abductor ; and this fact seems to illustrate the suppositions I have offered respecting the intentions of dissimilar nerves supplying dissimilar muscles intended to act in unison. The observation more rarely applies to the failure of the 5th nerve. Does the origin of the 6th nerve make it more liable to compression from collections of water in the ventricles ? i Thus we discover the organs of smell, seeing, hearing, and tasting, are supplied by distinct