NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 51 the basilary artery*. The anterior or superior artery of the cere- bellum, (o) surrounds the tuber in its route to the cerebellic cone, (Plate XII. h.) The last vessel of the basilary is the posterior cerebral (p.) The circle of Willis is formed by the anastomoses of the anterior cerebral arteries with each other; by the commu- nication of the transverse artery (c); and by the anastomosis of the lateral communicating (e) with the middle cerebral (d), and the posterior cerebral (p). S^nSvLTeco- "The nerves are sent off from the basilary appendages of the nomy. brain. They are white cord-like bodies in general, medullary externally, cineritious internally A nerve, when properly in- I ' . ’ The anterior spinal arteries (k) are seen passing from the vertebrals; they unitp with- in the skull, and are continued to the lumbar region, where the lumbar arteries take up their office. The inferior artery of the cerebellum (1) comes off from the vertebral, as seen here, or the beginning of the basilary artery. The auditory artery (n) is often very large, and enters the foramen auditorum internum, with its nerve. * The brain is a double organ in its parts, though the cerebellum and pons Varolii seem more of a connected texture than the other parts of this organ we have been describ- ing ; hence perhaps the deleterious effects, when these parts are injured, from an absence of analogous agency. I would be understood by this term to mean, that these organs have single offices, and no organ which assumes their function, in case of their failure. We find the heart, skin, stomach, intestines, and urinary bladder, mutually relieving, and occa- sionally injuring each other. Except the heart, spine, chylopoetic viscera, urinary blad- der, urethra, &c. most of the organs are in pairs, and the nerves are sent off in pairs; even the spinal marrow may be considered as double. I shall, however, in describing the nerves, use the singular number, as the idea of complexity attached to the word first, and second, and third branch of the fifth pair of nerves, seems to embarrass the student. The dissector will observe, that the nine nerves issuing from the base of the brain, are by no means very vascular ; on the contrary, the medulla spinalis and its arbprescence are high- ly vascular. The nerves of the finer senses, however, are accompanied by large vessels, which are profusely distributed on their external organs, as the media of the actions taking ^ place in these organs; these actions being communicated by the living vessels to the brain, ^ through the medium of their nerves. We observe that, in many cases, the nostril, eye, ear, and tongue, perform their common animal functions in man, when intoxication, delirium, &c. have suspended their cognizance by the mental functions ; Thus animal informations continue unimpaired (and animal preservation is secured), and are no farther taken notice of than they serve animal purposes, where the mind is occupied in the dream, connected with morbid action in the organ immediately connected with reflection. The hurry and mono- tony of the madman, is therefore as full a proof of the wise and unerring laws of nature, connected with sensation and reflection, as the arranged ideas of the profound philosopher; I