36 FOURTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. of distinction respecting the operations of the one more' than the other. I therefore at present wave tracing those parts, as well as the nerves, in their internal connections of the brain, till leisure and numerous dissections enable me to recognize these ob- jects, and furnish plates of their connections, and compare these with the late opinions of ingenious anatomists, who have laboured so laudably in this important and hitherto mysterious topic. At (t) we observe the tomentum and its vessels, continued on each adjacent convolution; and here an inner reflection of the convolution is represented as turning within the external. Vessels emerge from the pia mater, and ramify solitarily in the substance of the medulla of the brain ; and, in apoplexy, the veins corre- sponding to them are often in a state of rupture, when no injury is evinced in the large trunks of the veins, which are continued into the dura mater, to be more particularly described *. Some anatomists recommend dissecting off the surrounding cineritious convolutions of the brain in all directions, as repre- sented by (s s), to exhibit the arched nucleus of medullary matter, named by Vieussens centrum ovale; but this seems less, pro- per than the horizontal section, which displays the oval medulla continued into each convolution. The convolutions being re- moved, the whole cerebrum corresponds to this idea, exhibiting a uniform medullary nucleus connected with the centre of the brain. The attentive observer may often detect a middle me- dullary line, continued in the course of the cinerea throughout the whole convolutions. The cineritious border (r r) represents the lower margin of the hemisphere, half an inch above the level of the corpus callosum ; from this portion, the continuous or in- cumbent vertical wall of the hemisphere has been removed, which was reflected from this, and rested on the left half of the corpus ’ Does this indicate the appropriate functions of the trunks and extremities of arteries, the former being mere carriers, the latter agents, on -which ultimate phenomena of action de- pend ? The elastic coat seems strongest in the trunks, and the muscular annuli most pow- erful in the extremities of the vessels ; hence aneurism occurs most commonly in trunks. We observe large vessels presenting open mouths, while small vessels contract.