NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 57 The Third Pair The nervi motores oculorum, are seen passino: from the crura ef Nerves (3). .. . ■ cerebri near the pons Varolii, between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellic arteries. They enter the cavernous sinus, (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st and 2d, 3). Here they are surrounded by the dura mater, which forms its sheath, around which the blood in the si- nus is circulated. These vaginalae are kept tense by tendinous bridles, which occasions this cav'^ernous appearance ’. The nerves, after escaping by the foramina lacera of the os sphenoides to the orbit, are distributed to the levator, depressor, adductor, the ob- liquus inferior of the eye, and the levator palpebrae superior. The Fourth The ncrvi pathetici, or trochleares, arise from the testes. They Pair of Neives,^^ not exceed the diameter of a sewing thread. T1 e\ are trans- mitted through the receptaculum or cavernous sinus as the last: (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st and 2d, 2d, 4) They are principally distribut- ed to the superior obliquus of the eye. Jf^N^ves* nervi trigemini, so named from its being composed of ’ three principal branches. The trunk is large and rather flat. It shall here offer a few directions (though not duly in their place) for the developement of this complicated organ. I have annexed a figure (Plate XIII. Fig. 4th) to illustrate the parts. After extracting the eye-ball (a), from the orbit, open the vagina (b) of the optic nerve (c) ; form a triangular incision in the sclerotic tunic (d), extended to the lucid cornea (e); cut off the sclerotica along the circumference of the lucid cornea. This brings the choroid tunic (f) . into view. Immerse the eye into a solution of alum, into alcohol, or common spirits, suffi- ciently strong; in a few minutes the choroid coat becomes so corrugated, as to be cut by the scissars. Open the middle of the choroid coat, the retina (g) is discovered. Again immerse the eye. This retina may be opened to exhibit (h) the capsule of the vitreous humour. Thus., in one preparation, all the component parts appear in their relations to each other, as they float in the spirits when put up for demonstration. If you wish to convey a notion of the aqueous chambers, cut off the one half of the cornea, leaving the other, as represent- ed here; (i) is the pupil of the iris (k). ’ The fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves have similar apparatus. The sixth nerve was formerly supposed to possess no vagina, and was thought to lie bare in the blood of the sinus. What then prevents the blood from passing thence to the cavity of the cranium by its sides ? I demonstrated the vagina of this nerve many years since ; but this cannot be convincingly done without injecting the sinus with soft wax, which absorbs the blood, and may be removed to exhibit the sheath. ' * This nerve seems a prominent instance of sensations deriving their character more from their external organs, than their peculiar structure or connection with the brain. Its H