I OSTEOLOGY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. 27 3dly, The Ossa Unguis. 4thly, The Ossa Palati. 5thly, The Ossa Spongiosa Inferiora. 1st, The Os Sphenoides. Ethmoides, (Plate II. Fig. 3d, c). This bone forms the ductus ad nasum an- teriorly (Plate III. Fig. 1st, c); internally, it communicates with the frontal sinus (Fig. 2d, m), and the os spongiosum inferius (f)*. (Plate III. Fig. 2d, g). • This is received on the pterygoid pro- cess (i) of the os sphenoides, and forms the posterior region of the nostril. (Plate II. Fig. 3d, /,—Plate III. Fig. 2d, /), Or ossa turbi- nata or infundibula, which anteriorly form the inferior termination of the ductus ad nasum, being joined to the semi-hollow of the maxillary bone (Plate III. Fig. 2d, §), points out the extent of the duct. The (a) above this bone exhibits the site of the antrum maxillare, where it opens into the nostril. The three single bones are. The pterygoid processes compose the posterior nares, (Plate III. Fig. 2d, i,—Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, i). 2diy, The Os (Plate III. Fig. 2d. e), the ossa infundibula superiora (or spon- giosa). Although the os ethmoides is a single bone respecting its crista septum, and its cribriform plate, it is a double bone, when we comtemplate its ossa turbinata and the inferior surface of the cribriform plate. This last forms the superior region of the nostril, and the ossa turbinata are suspended in middle of these cavities, hence admirably adapted to the reception of effluvia*, (Plate II. Fig. 3d, e, Plate III. Fig. 2d, e.) (Plate III. Fig. 2d, It,—Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, h) is attached to the sphenoidal azygos process above, the cartilaginous septum superiorly, the crista maxillaria (§) anteriorly, and the ossa maxil- laria and palati inferiorly. llecapituiation. The nostrils are composed of three single bones, the os eth- moides, vomer, and os sphenoides; and five pair, viz. the ossa nasi, * The course of the duct is represented by the marks (§ §). This conveys a notion of the drain of the tears, which escape at (c Fig. 2d). The mucus of the nostril and the contents of the nasal duct are distinct fluids. * Its septum has been described, and is sent down from the crista galli, traverses the cri- briform plate, and hangs between the ossa turbinata, receiving the cartilaginous septum up- on its margin. 3dly, The Vomer,