45 > EIGHTH stage OF; the, WSSECTION OF THE BRADT. ternally, and internally cineritious. An anterior eminence (p),. and a posterior (o), are very conspicuous these are covered by the fornix, and have, the name of corpus geniculatum externum et: internum.' The junction of the thalami (q) has received the name of cornmissura mollis, though with no seeming propriety, as there is little continuity, if any. The crura fbrnicis anterior (w) are bent Anterior Com-forward to exhibit the anterior commissure of the cerebrum (t), which has; the. appearance of a dense transverse white cord, which unites the hemispheres. Directly behind this the vulva * (s) is discovered. This opening is the communication leading from the ventricles to the infundibulum, a cineritious conical or Infundibulum, infundibuliform body (Plate-XXV. q), inserted into,the pituitary. gland, (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st and 2d, i). At the posterior portion Anus. of the ventricle, a similar opening may be observed, named anus, Figi 2d, (r)*,i which-is shut up by the velum, behind, which a pos- Posterior Com-terior transverse* cord (v) is situate, named posterior commissure of inissure. ;cerebrum.o - The* pineal gland, (c), is sustained partly by this last body, and is partially attached to the nates (e) by a slender pe- Pineal Gland, duncle ; but the anterior peduncle (d), represented in the plate, is rium, where a tumefaction of the cerebellum appeared. The optic nerres were unusually slender. The spine of this -H^oman was much distorted, the constitution puny, the mind imbecile, the temper Tery peevish and jealous. Her appetite for food, (as often may be observed in.patients labouring under diseases or injuries of the brain) was very voracious. Another Jdiot had similar small bodies composing the ventricles. This morbid hunger seems a very universal state of feeble subjects, and would appear to depend on the action of the gastric flnid on the languid state of the stomach, of which healthful hunger would appear a species, though more easily allayed. Does death-hunger, as it is vulgarly termed, support this opinion ? In the fevers of America, wherever a patient expressed sudden and violent de- sire for food they never lived ; they often died with the bread in their mouth, mingled with the blood which flowed from their gums and nostrils. On the contrary, while active fever is assumed, the irritable state of the stomach rejects food. I observed the most salutary efiects take place frequently (when the stomach and brain exhibited the most morbid symp- toms), from, applying to the forehead a number of layers of a towel, wrung out of cold water, and this cold kept up. In such cases, cold affusion was inadmissible ; the stomach re- volted at every application ; the gentle stimulus of the cold was diffused, and the stomach was allayed in its irritability. Vapour-bath had a similar effect. ? Foramen commune anterius; iter ad infundibulum ; iter ad tertium ventriculum. * Foramen commune posterius. missure. V ulva.