48 ANATOMY 0F:THEIBASE OFITHE mAIN.iJ i i ' Base of the Brain. PLATE XV. ^ ■ Fig. 1st is meant to represent not only* the base of the iBrain, but a little of the rotundity of its hemispheres. Fig. 2d is iti out- line, with references to its various parts, arteries, and nerves the nerves are distinguished by the figures 1, 2, 3, &c. as-in the mar- ginal notes. The anterior lobes (x) are- concave, corresponding to the convex bones’ on which*they rest. The fissura magna anterior (v), corresponding to the little wings of Ingrasius, and the fissura posterior (|:), correspond to the angle of the pars petrosa (Plate III. Fig. 2d, v), the middle cerebral lobe, (r u t q z), the posterior lobe (f), the lobes of the cerebellum (§), the pons varolii (m n o) its connections with the crura cerebri (u), the crura cerebelli (w), and medulla spinalis (k). Their arterial appen- dages, it is presumed, will be sufficiently evident by an attention to the. plate and references already enumerated. The infundi- bulum (q) is the cineritious termination of the third ventricle, which conducted to the pituitary gland, (Plate XIV, Fig. 1st and 2d, i.) The corpora albicantia, or eminentia mammillaris, (t,) are lentiform bodies, medullary externally, and striated with cineri- tious matter internally». Behind these bodies, and between them, the cineritious substance, which unites them and the crura ce- rebri, has the name of pons Tarini. The crura cerebri (u) are composed of distinct medullary bundles externally, uniting the cerebrum and pons. Their internal substance, appearing darker in some instances than the rest of the cineritions, has received the appellation of locus niger crurum cerebri. The same is ob- served of the crura cerebelli (u). The pons has numerous striat- ed portions internally, Plate II. Fig. 4th. ^ The foramen caecum - ' * I find them occasionally of a pear shape and very large. ' These bodies escape from the pons varolii (which rests in the cavity, Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, c), and, passing over the foramen ovale durae matris (e), unite with the cerebral lobes. 3 See Section, Plate II. Fig. 4th. 1