7 VENTRICLES OF THE HEART. Ven- The Ventricles are those cavities which receive the blood from the corporeal and pulmonary sinuses, and transmit their contents by their appropriate arteries to the lungs and the body. poreal function in the collected mind, as well as the unhinged understanding, both of which exhibit that intellectual phenomena which correspond with corporeal health or disease of this fabric, which composes the material instrument of the soul. We may therefore denominate muscular economy the physical basis of sensation, and such reflections of intellect as flow from such material operation. Hence the laws of Religion are the rules of health and correct ideas. The healthful and sober man, sees and feels things as they are, because the muscles of his heart and arteries are only excited when objects are present to excite them. But disease and intemperance induce a state of system, when the legitimate operations of muscles are suspended^ and of their own accord they assume those actions (on which sensations depend) in the absence of exciting causes. On such occasions, the phantoms of clouds and darkness often occur in clear sunshine—light and flashes of fire are ap. parent when we are enveloped in the real gloom of night—various colours float before the eye of the valetudinary—nauseous tastes, ungrateful odours, confused sounds, and teazing feelings, distract and mislead the victim of morbid action, which have no existence but in the convulsions of imbecile muscular matter, which often fails, on the other hand, to be actuated by natural appropriate stimuli. Pleasant sensations are rarely experienced by a morbid state; pleasure is that .action, depending on a state of system prepared for and dependent on the re- ception of physical stimuli. The notion of morbid strength, therefore, in the paroxysms of febrile and other maladies, seems very erroneous; as these actions are really the convulsive and involuntary struggles of unhinged nature, which never take place in health or strength. We discover in articulo mortis^ that the indiYidtial has no pow’er to effectuate voluntary exertions ; but the muscles of the limbs of their own accord, contrary to will, contract with violence— the penis is often suddenly erected—the muscles of the abdomen, rectum, and vesiculae semi- nales expel their contents, &c. These seem not the consequences of strength, but the results of expiring muscularity, which never takes place in a state of strength, but in debility. The same observation holds respecting the morbid action of the heart and arteries. The heart and arteries of a healthy man contract gently on the application of their contents. Sup- pose this man exposed to excessive fatigue, endemic miasmata, or any debilitating cause ; the imbecility induced, occasions the same blood to promote the convulsive throb ot fever. The discreet application of cold affusion shall in a short time restore lost energy, equipoise takes place, and convalescence of thesystenr is assumed. Do these circumstances denote mor- bid strength—or morbid action from induced debility ? Phlebotomy is only another means of attempting the same end. Contraction is the physical action of muscle, while relaxation is its forced state. When the transverse fracture of the patella occurs, tlie rectus contracts, but never is relaxed of its own accord. On this simple law would I be induced to explain the va- ried phenomena of the animal economy. Without any exertion on our part, the sphincter ani observes its physical contractility, till forced by air or feces to yield to superior power ; and we can demonstrate the difference between physical and induced contraction, by the stimulus of the mind, or any foreign body affecting the anus, as by these applications it is thrown into a violent and convulsive state of contraction. In the levator palpebrje too, we dis- cover the distinction betw'een physical and induced contraction. When fatigue has over-