NINTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 46 large and conspicuous, uniting itself to the thalamus and anterior crura fbrnicis. The appearance of this body, as all the cineri- tious parts of the Brain, varies very much in different .subjects ^ when healthy, it is cineritious externally, and medullary internal- ly, and is rarely found free from gritty matter in the adult Brain. I meet with it much enlarged, and occasionally in a cartilaginous state. Des Cartes has supposed this body peculiarly connected with mind, but there seems no solid ground for this hypothesis. Nates. The nates, (e)’, are two bodies deriving their name from their re- semblance to those bodies in the human subject; they are me- dullary externally, and cineritious internally. Beneath, and a little more posterior, are found two transverse bodies (f), like- Testes. wise deriving their name from a resemblance to the testes *. The depending region of the ventricles (*) have received the name of anterior sinus, and the posterior triangular cavity (b) posterior or digital sinus. A section of the commissura mollis (q) and the corpora quadrigemina being formed, the third ventricle, repre- sented Plate XIII. Fig. 1st, is brought into view. PLATE XIII. Fig. 1st. Section of the The anterior crura fornicis (*) are laid back, to exhibit the TwS^anr’ sections of (a) the anterior commissure of the cerebrum. The frides^&c°' iter ad infuiidibulum (-f), the third ventricle (x), section of the posterior commissure (b), the pineal gland (c), and its peduncle turn Ve^ricu nates (e), and testes (f), (§) the iter ad quartum ventricu- lum. lum, which is formed by the cavity of the corpora quadrigemina, the valvulaVieussenii (g), fourth ventricle (h), or stylus scriptorius^ ’ Anterior eminences, anterior tubercles, larger in brutes than man; they seem more cineritious externally in some animals than man. * Posterior eminences—posterior tubercles. These four bodies have been named like- wise quadrigemina. The observations connected with the nates seem to apply to these bodies. 5 This cavity is continued to the termination of the medulla spinalis in many of the mammalia, but in the human subject it is shut up here by the pia mater. The third and