14 THE HEAD AND ITS APPENDAGES. 5th. The zyphoid cartilage (z), shows, that part of the right ven- tricle and the whole sinus is contained in the right thoracic cavity. GENERAL NOTION OF THE HEAD AND BRAIN. The complete Head may be arranged into the Cranium, which - contains the Brain, and the Face, which is annexed to the Crani- um, and becomes the seat of several organs of sense. These bones vary in their shape in different regions of the world, and in dif- The Cranium, ferent individuals in the same region. In Europe, the cranium generally assumes more or less an oviform shape'. This organ is composed of eight bones. Plate III. Fig. 1st is the external; Fig. 2d the internal parietes of this cavity. They may be arranged into four single bones and two pairs. The four single bones are, 1st, theossphenoides(Plate III.Fig. 1st a. Fig. 2drcp^,—PlateXIII. Fig.2d, X p o b c c w. Fig. 3d, a i w x p,—Plate XIV. Fig. 2d, x v w y). To this all the cranial bones, the ossa maxillaria superiora, vo- mer, and malse are attached.—2dly, The os ethmoides (Plate III. Fig. 1st, b,—Fig. 2d, e) :—3dly, The os ffontis, (Plate HE Fig. 1st and 2d, t) -—4thly, The os occipitis, (Fig. 1st and 2d, h). These four single bones are situate in the longitudinal direction of the - cranium. The two pair are,—1st, The ossa parietalia, (Plate HI. Fig. 1st and 2d, def):—2dly, The ossa temporum, (Plate III. Fig. 1st, 18,19, 20,21,—Fig. 2d, de u v y xtr,—PlateXIII. Fig. 3d, u r y 1 m). These two pair are arranged in the trans- TheFace. verse direction of the cranium. From the three anterior cra- nial bones, viz. the ossa frontis, ethmoides, and sphenoides, de- pend the 13 bones composing the upper organs of the face, viz, * By an attention to different countries, and the influence of local causes of climate, civi- lization, government, laws, morals, and religion, we observe the various organs of men liable, not only to varieties of shape, but likewise maladies peculiar to each organ, deducible from these simple principles. When, therefore, anatomical structure, and those leading causes which influence living matter, are more minutely investigated, it is probable that the solitary and delusive reasons, hitherto too frequently assigned for the variety in human fl. gure, genius, and maladies, shall cease to ojperate, and their true causes respecting disease being recognized, their effects may be palliated or eradicated with the more certainty.