3 INTRODUCTION. Apology. * thumb the left hemisphere (a), and by the fingers the right is pressed backward, exhibiting the falx (h), the right hemisphere and the corpus callosum of the left side being thus brought into view. By lifting Plate VII. an imitation of real dissection is attempted. The hemisphere being thus removed, and Plate VIII. brought into view, the same corpus callosum appears in continuity v/ith the centrum ovale; the right hemisphere and falx retaining their place. Upon lifting Plate VIII. we remove the ceiling of the left lateral ventricle, the bodies of which appear as one plate, (on view- ing Plate IX.) but this really comprises four plates; each of which contains the bodies which are separated from each other in the course of dissection. All the figures are represented half the dia- meter of the human adult, which seems to answer the purposes of larger figures, without incurring the expence and bulk of such works. I may observe that the objects are taken from human sub- jects of the larger dimension, as I found that a rigid adherence to the common size failed in being sufficiently expressive. Side-notes point out the leading subjects of this Essay, and notes at the bot- tom of the page contain such notions as are not immediately con- nected with the descriptions. In an undertaking, embracing so extensive a range of objects, and their relative connections, so necessary to practice—so likely to form a taste for investigation and accuracy in the Student,—I may have occasionally erred ; but no pains has been wanting on my part, to render these plates a basis of practical inference. I am convinced, that the mode adopted, in the manner of de- scription, may often appear tedious and uninteresting ; but this, as nearly as possible, assumes the style of demonstration, which my pu- pils have approved, every thing mentioned being subjected to the test of the senses. When describing any figure, the reader may continue to consult the one immediately mentioned, as the object of his attention; as I have endeavoured, wherever a figure is changed, to mention the one referred to. No representations can fully compensate for the absence of objects represented ; but r