64 SECTION OF THE BRAIN. callosum, (k) relative situation of the corpus striatum in dots, (1) septum luciduin, (m) fornix, (n) hippocampus minor, (o) hippo- campus major, (p) thalamus nervioptici, (q) pons Varolii, (r) nates, above which is the glandula pinealis, and beneath is the testes, (s) the iter ad infundibulum, (p) third ventricle, (r) the iter ad quartum ventriculum, (a e) anterior lobes of the cerebrum in their highest portion, (q e g h q) middle lobe, (r e d e f e) posterior lobe, (e e f t f) cerebellum, (x) site of the medulla spinalis. Description of (a) Sphincter oris, (b) levator labii superioris alseque nasi, (c) levator anguli oris, (d) zogomaticus, (e) buccinator, (f) depressor anguli oris, (g) depressor labii inferioris, (h) masseter, (i) sphincter occuli, (rn) temporalis, (k) frontal muscle. By attending to Fig. 4th, not only are the contained parts of the brain easily transferred to the containing bones, in a practical sense; but this can be extended to the front view. Fig. 3d, which is exactly on the same plane. A wound inflicted on the forehead, (p) is nearly in a line with the corpus callosum: above it is the hemis- pheres, (r) the ventricles, (s) the hemispheres, (t) the middle lobe of the brain, (u) the ponsVaroiii and cerebellum, (v) the spinal marrow. By attending to the finished cranial bones (Plate III. Fig, 1st, Plate II. Fig. 3d) where the oviform cavity is distinguished from the facial outline, a very near approach may be made in forming an idea of the vessels, nerves, muscles, and that line which sepa- rates between the brain and face. The posterior curved margin of the os malae and the zygoma, (Plate II. Fig. 4th, a), nearly forms a definition of the middle lobe of the brain ; and if the student attentively surveys a skull, he will find that the optic nerve is placed nearly opposite to g. Fig. 4th. A ball w'ould here wound the temporal muscle, its vessels and nerves, the os squamosum, the middle lobe of the cerebrum, before it touches the optic nerve. A ball penetrating the meatus auditorius externus (Plate II. Fig. 4th. e), wounds the pons Varolii, &ck * When we contemplate the laws of bodies in motion, connected with parts so Tariously modified as the cranium and its contents, we cannot presume to say precisely what exact