THE DURA MATER AND ITS ELONGATIONS. 19 is connected with the os sphenoidesby its cuneiform process (Plate XIII, Fig. 3d, p); to the pars petrosa (r), and by tlie mastoid pro- cess to the ossa parietalia (Platelll. Fig. 1st and2d, h). Internally (Plate III. Fig. 2d, s) it is divided transversely by the fossfe (s)^ which contains the lateral sinus (Plate XIV. s); and vertically by the superior fossa (Fig. 2d, k), which receives the termination of the occipital region of the longitudinal sinus (Plate VI. e) and the inferior spine or sinus (1), which lodges the occipital sinus (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st, g, i). The superior fbssce (h) receive the posterior or occipital regions of the hemispheres of the brain (Plate VI. e) and the inferior fossae (1) sustain the lobes of the cerebel- lum (Plate XV. §) L The Dura Ma- Is a membrane easily separated into its external and internal lami- nae (Plate VI. a, d, e, f), the former of which forms the internal pe- riosteum of the bones, and toward which the vessels (Plate VI. i k 1 m) bend their course. This surface assumes a villous aspect, in consequence of the numerous vessels passing from the membrane into the inner tables of the calvaria (Plate V. c). In young subjects the adhesion formed by these vessels is so great, as'to render the elevation of the bones very difficult; the bleeding points on the bones demonstrate the vascular orifices. In aged subjects, where the arteries are feeble, the bones are raised with ease. From this periosteum are sent off the three following septa ^ or duplicatures of the dura mater, viz. 1st, The Falx.' (PlatesVIII.h, andXIII, Fig. 2d, a). Itcommences at the crista galli (Plate III. Fig. 2d, d) : its convexity traverses the frontal, pa- rietal, and superior occipital regions (Plate III. Fig, 2d, t f k— Plate VI. n e f—Plate XIII. k 1 m) ^ of the pars petrosa to the posterior clinoid process of the os sphenoides ('r), of this figure, as delineated Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, s, f, g, r. ' These hones are lined internally by a dense membrane, named by the ancients dura mater. ^ * Dura meninx, meninges. 3 Septas durse matris ; these are strengthened by tendinous appendages stretched over them. Septum superior falx dura matris. Phis vertical septum is divided into its superior convexity (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, k 1 m,) and its inferior concavity (a), it is insinuated between