INTRODUCTION. 2 Plan of the 'Plates, The design of the work may be understood by the following observations : When we contemplate the Brain, we cannot well avoid speak- ing of its arteries and the heart; these again lead us to the laws of muscles, and their phenomena connected with Intellect. These circumstances have led me to add to this edition, plates and descriptions of the general structure of the heart and ar- teries, with such remarks as rise out of their phenomena. Plate I. affords views of the Heart, as it appears in situ in the cavity of the thorax. I trust, too, that the action of the valves of that organ, the means by which jmung men may demonstrate this action to their own conviction, as well as the intentions of the synchronous motions of the cavities of that viscus, may be easily understood by the help of this plate. Plate II. not only leads to a knowledge of the entire head, but in Fig. 4th of the same plate, an attempt is made to view the various parts of the Brain, and its containing parts, as through a transparent medium, that we may, from external and familiar objects, transfer our notions to those internal, which are more rarely recognized. Thus, in Plate HI, Fig. 1st and 3d, a notion of the muscles, external vessels of the Head, its bones, and the vessels of the Brain, may be understood in their relative situations; and in Plate II. Fig. 4th, the out- line of the bones is preserved, while the internal parts are supposed to be seen on one vertical plane, so as to show their relative situa- tion to each other, and to the containing parts, while the correspond- ing external objects are given in Plate HI. Fig. 1st and 3d. By means of these plates, the effect of injuries may be easily understood. Thus, a ball penetrating the centre of the Eye, will pass through the middle lobe of the Brain, as represented, (Plate II. Fig. 3d, t), while the effect of lateral injuries is seen at one view, by Fig. 4th of the same plate. From Plate IV. to the end of the re- presentations, the figures afford regular views of the series of appearances which occur in dissecting the Brain. In Plate VII. the dissected plates commence ; where the hand separates by the 1