SUTURES OF THE CRANIUM. 24 1st, The Co- ronal Suture, 2dly, The Sa- gittal Suture, Sdly, The Lambdoidal Suture, 1st, The Sphe- noidal Tempo- ral Suture 2dly,The Tem- poral Suture, Sdly, The Ad- ditamentum Suturae Squa- mosae Preliminary no tion. ing between the cavernous and superior petrous sinus; and the anterior occipital sinus, which pass from the cavernous to the inferior petrous ; but these are not always demonstrable. SUTURES OF THE CRANIAL BONES. The connections of the bones are named Sutures. Their num- ber and exact situation ought to be remembered, as- fractures of- ten assume similar appearances. Those most liable to external violence, and becoming the object of attention with the operator, are three in number ; viz. (Plate III. Fig. 1st, c—Plate IV. d), which unites the frontal and parietal bones. (Plate IV. g), which unites the parietal bones with each other. (Plate III. Fig. 1st, h—Plate IV. f), or the junction of the occi- pital bone with the parietal and mastoid process (8) of the tem- poral bone *. There are three lateral sutures, viz. (Plate III. Fig. 1st, a), or the junction of the temporal process of the os sphenoides, with the os frontis and temporis. (Plate III. Fig. 1st, d e), or the squamose, the junction of the os parietale with the os temporis. (Plate ill. Fig. 1st, e,—Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, e), or the junc- tion of the posterior angle of the os parietale (in which is contained part of the lateral sinus) with the mastoid process superiorly. In cases of wounds of the brain, it is of the utmost importance to determine, by familiar external marks, what parts are injured. * The os frontis is always composed of two equal portions in the foetus, formed of the half of the forehead, to each of which is annexed the orbitar vault. This sometimes conti- nues through life, especially in feeble subjects, composing what is named the frontal suture, and is continued from the sagittal to the ossa nasi. The student ought likewise to recollect, that, in the early periods of ossification, the vasa propria of the bones often deposit partial defined rudiments of osseous matter, not only in the course of thelambdoid suture, as repre-