Laminas of the Dura Mater. 32 SECOND STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. The dura mater is composed of two lamina;. The external la- mina is the nidus of the arteries (or periosteum) of the internal system of the bones of the head. The arterial rami have their chief determination toward these bones. The most material branches are derived from the internal maxillary artery already mentioned ; the root of which lies nearly an inch within the an- terior portion of the hinge of the lower jaw, (Plate II. Fig. 1st, 18). This great or middle meningeal artery, having entered the spinal foramen of the os sphenoides, spreads into the anterior or superior arteiy, (Plate III. Fig, 2d, d), and lower or posterior ar- tery (Plate III. Fig. 2d, r) and their ramij (Plate VI. and XIV. k 1 m). The superior or anterior branch and its rami (Plate III. Fig. 2d, d—-Plate VI.—Plate XIV. k), after reaching the spinous process, or anterior inferior angle of the os parietale, (Plate III. Figs. 1 st and 2d, d), often passes an inch in an osseous groove", and commonly is here inclined obliquely backward, after which it usually observes a direction more or less parallel to the coronal suture, as represented (Plate VI. k,) from which ano- ther (Plates III. VI. and XIV. 1) is usually sent off. The anterior artery (i) is commonly from the external carotid, the trunk enter- ing by the external opening of the foramen lacerum, (Plate III. Fig. 2d, i—Plate VI. i—Plate XIV. Fig. 1st, i). The posterior ar- teries of the dura mater, which enter by the orifices of the various venous foramina of the ossa parietalia, the foramen lacerum poste- rius, and other auxiliary openings, are very small. The veins of serviceable ? The local distress in this region is often tragically tormenting. In fever and apoplectic cases, patients are liable to distressed sensations when lying on the' back. * Does this arise from the blood in the veins of the brain receiving an increased resistance by meeting the column in the longitudinal sinus ? IMay night-mare, &c. de- pend on this ? In all critical cases of derivation toward the brain, the patient’s head ought to be kept high, and great care paid to raise him to a sitting posture, when coughing takes place (which is often an attendant), as the patient frequently expires from the want of gravitation of the blood in the jugular vein. * When this portion of bone is present, and is removed by operation, in such instances a fair section of the artery must be made, and will require two ligatures to check the hae- ipoirh^ge.. 1