55 NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. The first Pair of Nerves (1), the muscles of the vesiculae seminales and some fish tribes are in- stances ; and in our preparations injected with wax, although the small vessels are as much distended in proportion as the larger trunks, yet, while the larger trunks rupture by expansion of the wax in warm weather, the small vessels continue to retain their contents. ^ The nervi olfactorii, are observed emerging from the brain at the posterior portions of the anterior cerebral lobes. They are continued forward, and appear somewhat cineritious where they become bulbous. This bulb (i) rests on the cribriform plate of the os ethmoides, (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st i.), where they split into Lucid intervals often occur in a moment, like the electric spark. Healthy action is as. sumed. What must be the feeling of a tender female, or a high-spirited man on this occa- sion ? Do things around him promise to sooth dawning health ? or rather to render him a jiatient for life ? These animadversions are drawn from conversations of the afflicted individuals after return to a sound mind. In all such cases, the mind ought to be roused by gentle and amiable means if possible; they should be decoyed from the theme which entangles and unhinges them. David played on the harp before his per- secutor Saul, who became convalescent by this means. I could adduce instances of the influence of misconduct in fever as well as madness, so far as mind operates on the body. An important secret in the healing art, seems to consist in that active and correct practice, which cuts short the deleterious process of morbid action which terminates in chronic ma- lady. When the brain is immediately concerned, the senses ought to be attracted by pleas- ing objects, or lulled by some means. The removal of a madman, or person in the delirium of fever, from his room or habitation, often becomes the exciting cause of the caprice of an oppressed brain. I have witnessed the sudden and continued presence of a tender friend, light, sounds, effluvia, &c. for ever banish convalescence. The senses, when they do not renovate, seldom fail’to irritate the system in such cases. In the lungs and other viscera, where we easily trace and compare, healthy and morbid states evidently depend on new arrangements and structure of the vessels ; the bronchial, intercostal, and internal mammary vessels, which in health discharge distinct appropriate, functions, and have no connection with each other, in disease anastomose ; form dense matter in the substance of the lungs ; lubrication and motion of the viscera are relinquished, and adhesions, with the other morbid attendants take place. Similar derangements probably take place in the brain by inert practice, though not so easily detected by us, which for ever renders this organ an imperfect instrument of the mind. Epilepsy, and other organic affections, I have been fortunate enough to divert, anticipating the paroxysm by rousing the system by cold af. fusion, or operating upon the feelings of the patient; and in such cases the improvement of the system, and such mental phenomena as immediately depend on it, seemed to war- rant the inductions I have offered on this difiicult subject.