« 16 OFFICES OF THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. pies; viz. externall}^ its temporal fossa joins the temporal fossa of the os frontis (Plate III. Fig. 1st, p), the anterior angle of the os parietale (d), the anterior segment (19) of the pars squa- mosa and of the pars petrosa (Plate XIII. r), os occipitis (p) ; the vomer is received on its inferior azygos process (/z); the pterygoid processes (Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, i) compose the posterior nares; the hook (h) of the internal plate, on each side of the vomer (^/z),is seen distinctly; anteriorly its small wing (Plate II. Fig. 3d, n) joins the orbitar process (o) of the os frontis; the great wings (m) join this process and the os malae (d) ; the anterior azygos process receives on its surface the posterior portions of the os eth- moides (b). The small wings (Plate XIV. x) receive the posterior portions of the anterior'cerebral lobes (Plate XV. x) ; the great wings (Plate XIV. k) receive the anterior portions ofithe mid- dle cerebral lobes (Plate XV. z). The foramina will be mention- ed in enumerating the nerves. i. 9diy, The Os This bone (Plate II. Fig. 3d, b, on the left side—Plate III. Fig. Ethmoides, ^ -g composed ofits oblohg square cribriform plate, its cubical body, crista galli, septum, and ossa turbinata ; it is connected with the brain, orbits, and nostrils. Its crista galli (Plate III. Fig. 2d, d) and its cribriform plate, seen passing backward from it, is received between the orbitar processes of the os frontis (Plate XIV. 1 x). The crista sends off the septum narium (§). This body- traverses the whole length of the cribriform plate (Plate XIV. i, Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, h), and joins the anterior azygos process of the os sphenoides (Plate III. Fig. 2d, *), reaches the ossa nasi (b), and descends between the ossa turbinata (e). The ossa plana, (Plate II. Fig. 3d, b), form the parallel inner walls of the osseous orbit; the cribriform plate (Plate XIV. i.) receives the bulbous root of the olfactory nerves, (Plate XV. i.) l^yj^The Os ^one forms the sincipital region of the skull, (Plate III.^ Fig. 1st and 2d, 0). It is composed of a large smooth superior portion, (t), convex externally; it is concave internally, and is impressed by the convolutions of the brain and the arteries of its