SIXTH JSTA.GE, OF/THE mS$EClION W THEiBRLAIIN. .41 Foramen of Monro. Arteries of the Corpus Callo- sum and Hemi- spheres. rection, being higher in the middle than at the anterior and posterior portions ; the g/edter bulbous end is anterior, and the small posterior extremity diverges. ' Below the anterior margin (q) of.the foruix, there is. an aperture iwhich communi- cates with the lateral ventricles, (Plate XII,) and;the infundibu- lum (Plate XV. y). This was first described as present in j the human species, by) the justly celebrated ‘anatomist Dr-^Monro, under whomT had the honour and advantage;of studying. -r In this stage! of the dissection, the operator may satisfy himself respecting the inferior artery (d) of the hemispheres, and the .su- perior artery (e), which^are the extremities of the anterior cere- braljarteries,, (Plate-XV.jc). These pass upward by the anterior cerebral jfissure on each side of the falx, and are diffused on each side of the> corpus callosum, and the vertical walls or region, as represented in this view. When the lower margin of the wall is elevated, where it joins the great vessel (d), the corpus callosum on the right side will be discovered >as a distinct surface, connect- ed with the hemisphere on which the reflected margin of the wall rests The outline (z) points out the site of the hippocam- pus.minor, (f) the hippocampus major, {*) the digital cavity, to be shewn in the next plate, of which this forms the ceiling, and which is to be dissected out as the next; plate exhibits This body has its'name from the structure of its parts; it is cineritious externally. When a vertical section is made, as in Plate XII. Fig. 2d (y), an arborescent arrangement of medullary and cineritious matter seems observable, the root inferior, and the branches directed upward. The same observation may be applied to the portion on the outside of the hippocampus major. ® The hemispheres are-connected to the corpus, callosum, therefore, the whole length of the lower margin of the falx (Plate VIII. i), supposing the line drawn about a quarter of an inch beneath the inferior longitudinal-sinus,' as pointed out Plate XIII. Fig, 2d. 3 The right hemisphere may be removed in the.following manner, viz. Form a transverse section in the middle of the hemisphere, about (d), and continue this down to the fornis (1); next carry a horizontal incision from the posterior or anterior portions, thus raising the anterior or posterior half of tjie ceiling of the ventricle. This affords an instructive view not only of the component parts of the hemisphere, but likewise the connections of the he- misphere, corpus callosum, and septum, which last appears a double lamina. It assumes a pear shape, the bulb anterior, and is sometimes bluish in its tint; in other cases it appears F