OFFICES OF the BONES OF THE CRANIUM. 17 internal membraneA ridge or spine is usually found in the mid- dle, which receives the frontal region of the falx, (Plate XIII. k). This portion of the os frontis defends the frontal region of the hemisphere, (Plate VI. n). From the lower segment of the large superior portion (or superciiium) is sent off the orbitar vault or processes at nearly right angles (Plate II. Fig. 1st and 3d, o, Plate^ III. Fig. 1st, o,—Fig. 2d, o); these receive the anterior portions of the anterior cerebral lobes (Plate XV. x). 4thiy,The Ossa These bones compose the vertex, and laterally the temples (Plate Parietaiia. jjj ^ Fig. 1st and 3d, d, e,f,—Plate XI11. Fig. 3d, d, e, f). Internally they compose a concave square, which defends the parietal region of the hemispheres (Plate VI. f, h). They are particularized by the superior margins where they unite, and receive in their mu- tual hollows (Plate III. Fig. 2d, f,—Plate IV. and V. e g.), where foramina are often present in the parietal region of the sanguineous sinus (Plate VI. e, n). Their anterior margins join the os frontis ; their inferior segment the os temporis ; their posterior the occipitis; their anterior inferior angle (d) transmits the trunk of the great meningeal artery (Plate III, Fig. 1st, 2d, d—PlateVI. k 1 m); the posterior angle (e) forms the receptacle of the lateral sanguineous sinus (Plate III. Fig. 2d, t,—Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, f—Plate XIV. * (m) Is the frontal sinus which communicates with the nostril. This and the other bones are marked internally by the convolutions of the contained brain, and the vessels of the dura mater. It may appear mysterious how hard bone becomes impressed by soft sub- stances, as the brain and pulsating arteries ; but this seems to arise from the vessels of the brain carrying on that viscus in an uninterrupted manner ; the vessels of the duva mater likewise continually carry on their regular functions. The vasa propria of the bones are incessantly depositing their osseous materials in a perfectly fluid state, which occasions the bones to take on the mould of their contained organs. These observations apply to all the cranial bones. In the growth of the adult brain (for the young brain seems more regular) inequalities occur, which occasion some portions of bone to be as thin as paper, while the circumference is very thick (as seen Plate VI. h), while the bone observes its external con- vexity, and internally follows the irregular contents. This occasions a circumstance very teazing in the moment of trepanning. These seem more frequently iietr the longitudinal sinus than in other parts, and would appear to take place from inequalities in the brain after puberty. C