SINUSES OF THE HEART. 6 of^hlHearT*^* The Sinuses are cavities which receive the blood of the body and the veins of the lungs, and which contents to the Ventricles. from the presence of vigour and sexual organs, in the absence of experience. I must be un. derstood to consider these objects as an anatomist, so far as mortal and changing organs have an influence in promoting the phenomena connected with an immortal essence. The Heart and its vessels seem to derive their powers as acting organs from their muscu- lar economy. From the vitality of these, on which the varied modifications of action de- pend, all physical phenomena seem to derive their origin, whether we contemplate life, growth, health, disease, the varied talents of men, or the phenomena of decrepitude and dissolution. The vitality of muscles would seem dependent on some superadded principle, which is con- tinually applied to an inherent state of organization, which presents a capability or capacity, admitting of excitement by the various appropriate stimuli connected with animal being; for the vital organs, although continuing the same, instantly expire in the absence of the atmospheric and other fundamental agents ; on the other hand, when the organs have accomplished their various stages, stimuli are applied in vain. Mortality seems to be a ne- ^ cessary termination of living organized bodies ; the inherent capability or capacity for being excited, seems to suffer diminution by every pulsation the heart and vessels perform. The same aliment, atmosphere, solar and other influences, therefore, which excite living action, likewise promote the process of death ; and those active external powers which administer to the living, precipitate the valetudinary and the dead to decomposition, again to form new and endless compounds. Life itself may really be deemed a living decomposition, of which the various stages of existence are periods, and death its termination, as an organized whole. Muscular matter, from its influence on the nervous system, appears the acting agent on which the result of sensations depend. If heat, cold, light, or darkness, communicate certain actions to the vessels, which arc taken notice of by the soul, through the medium of the nerves and brain, as objects of reflection—by whatever means these actions take place, must not the same mental conclusion follow ? Mankind are naturally apt to confound ideas connected with sensation, which are operations of soul^ with soul itself. Nothing seems a stronger illustration of the immutable nature of soul, than the mutability of ideasy or operations of mindy so far as they are connected with sensation. In this transitory state of existence, the immortal soul is informed through the medium of mortal organsy so far as sensation is con- cerned;—a single rash action, or inordinate thought, may, in an instant, subvert the economy of these organs, and then the profound mind shall exhibit the distraction and incoherence of the maniac. We startle at these awful results of morbid states of the heart and arteries, for- getting that the possession of understanding is only a consequence of another modification of the same organic operation. Would we expect, where a wise God is concerned, that one spe- cies of action should occasion its appropriate intellectual effect, and that another should fail in its corresponding consequence ? We look with calmness and expectation at that state of organs, the action of which induces pleasure and a sane mind j but we startle when inordinate > action induces its corresponding ideas. But both states prove to us the influence of corpo- real organs (continually obnoxious to change) on the unchangeable intellectual principle which takes cognizance of these changes \ and these phenomena are the true results of cor- from the veins transmit their