58 NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. arises from the pons Varolii, near the crura cerebelli. After pene- trating the dura mater, as represented Plate XV. Fig. 1st and 2d, (5), the flatted ganglion gasseri sends off the three principal branches. The first branch, or ophthalmic, affords filaments to the great sympathetic nerve, to be mentioned hereafter. After passing through the foramen laeerum of the os sphenoides, (Plate XIIT, Fig. 2d, c), it follows the same course as the ophthalmic artery, viz. entering by the foramen orbitarium anterius (Plate II, Fig. 3d, q), it supplies the Schneiderian membrane; it is like- wise distributed to the lachrymal gland, the tunica sclerotica, choroidea, and iris of the eye, the periosteum of the orbit, the pericranium, (Plate II. Fig. 4th, i) muscles, and the integuments of the forehead, uniting with the portio dura (Plate II. Fig. 4th 7), and sub-occipital nerves, to be mentioned. The second branch of the fifth nerve, or superior maxillary, passes through the foramen rotundum of the os sphenoides, (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, v); in its route it sends off the spheno-palatine nerve, the reflected branch of which enters the vidian foramen. This foramen perforates the root of the interior pterygoid plate, (Plate XIV. Fig. 3d, *), and unites with the great sympathetic, where this last passes by the foramen caroticum (Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, r) to the neck. A twig enters the foramen superius, or innominatum of the pars petrosa, (Plate XIV. Fig. 2d, y). This is bestowed on the membrane of branches are distributed to the eye, nostril, ear, tongue, the bones, muscles, and integu- ments of the face. In all these distributions it is connected with the other nerres, viz. the olfactory, optic, auditory, gustatory, and portia dura. To the teeth and palate alone it goes singly, and these perform single and simple functions. A similar instance is evident in the radial and ulnar nerves, the trunks of which receive different impressions, as objects are applied to the posterior.or anterior surfaces of the wrist, the hand, and phalanges of the fingers, where the integuments convey varied sensation, corresponding to the varied structure of these parts. The tongue, not the palate, is the acute organ of taste; and the fifth nerves seem, in all their distributions to the organs of sense, merely agents of common sensation. Their ramifications are annexed to the membranes of the various organs, while the peculiar organic nerve, a^ the optic, auditory, &c. is diffused on the organs tliemselves, n that profuse and peculiar manner, so different from the fifth nerve, as to indicate the difference of office.