13 RECAPITULATION. Induction. The scynchronous actions do not merely circulate the blood; this wise contrivance answers the following purposes likewise: they keep up the continual balance of the arterial blood which becomes venous in the body, and the venous blood which be- comes arterial in the lungs. Thus, the anterior ventricle (Fig. 2d, 11) propels the venous blood by its artery (o p), to become correct- ed in the pulmonary veins (q), at the same moment that the left ventricle, (Plate I. Fig. 5th, d. Fig. 2d, v), propels its arterial blood by the aorta, (Fig. 2d, h i k) to the point of the finger (Plate I. Fig. 8th, a), where its arterial blood (a) becomes venous at (b) \ Recapitulation. The posterior sinus. Fig. 5th, a, is situate before the spine; the left ventricle (d), a triangular cavity, observes an oblique direc- tion from it; its margin only (as well as the posterior auricle), is seen when viewed anteriorly, (Fig. 1st and 2d, v); its orifice bends to the right between the posterior sinus, (Plate I. Fig. 5th, b), and the anterior ventricle, (Fig. 2d, 1) ; it sends off the curved aorta, which ascends to the opening of the thorax, and, observing an oblique direction, it reaches the spine. The right sinus has its auricle apparent anteriorly; its ventricle or triangular cavity sends off the pulmonic artery under the aortal arch to the right lung, and the left directly before the aorta to the left, (p). The trachea on the con- trary, transmits its right branch directly to the lung, and its left passes under the arch of the aorta to reach its lung. Fig. 4th and The connections of the aorta, and the other appendages, are the following, viz. Plate I. - Fig. 1st and 2d, the arch of the aorta is seen bending from behind the anterior ventricle, to become the arch, which sends off the right carotid and subclavian trui|k (h), the left carotid i, and subclavian (k); it bends toward the spine, receiving under its arch the right branch of the pulmonary artery, which goes to the right lung, (viewed as if transparent, Fig. 2d, o) ; on the contrary, the left pulmonary artery (p), passes directly to its lung. The left branch of the trachea (a) Fig. 1st and 2d, is transmitted under the arch, to reach its left lung • this is seen, (Plate I. Fig. 4th, p). The aorta covered this body, and is cut off to exhibit the trachea and posterior sinus, the dotted line (n), pointing out the course the aorta held. In Fig. 5th, we find the outline of the vena azygos (m), entering (f), the cava superior under which the right pulmonary arteries, veins, and trachea, pass to their lung. Fig. 4;th, (o), is the oesophagus, situated behind the trachea, between the cava and aorta (n). The thoracic duct is discovered entering the subclavian angle posteriorly (Plate I. Fig. 2d, d e).