DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES. THE HEART AND ITS APPENDAGES. H^rtI°°TilE Heart of man is composed of four cavities. These may- be enumerated in two pairs; one pair is named Sinuses (Plate !• Fig. 2d, g—Fig. 5th a), and these compose the roots of the organs named veins. The other pair is denominated Ventricles, (Plate I. Fig. 2d, 11,—-Fig. 5th, f, c, d) ; these form the roots of the organs named arteries *. ’ Fig. 2d is the outline of Fig. 1st. Fig. 5th is the outline of Fig. 4th ; the oesophagus, trachea, and thoracic duct, represented in Fig. 4th, being removed in Fig. 5th. The si- nuses or bags have auricular appendages ; (h) Fig. 2d, is the auricle of the right sinus (g) ; (1) Fig. 1st and 4th, is the auricle of the left sinus (a) Fig. 5th. In whatever period we view an animal being, we discover active agents, as a heart and arteries ; or organs analogous to them. In the critical moment of conception, before other viscera are perceptible, a punctum saliens appears to us as a pulsating object, which directs and regulates the present state of the embryo, and gives being to its progressive and varying powers and faculties. Not only in the evolution during gestation do these organs which already have being give rise to succeeding existences of organization ; but from the moment of parturition, to the latest period of human life, each period may be viewed as the basis of future stages. If I may be allowed the expression, every series of animal existence is a perfect whole; still, however, that which remains unfinished by one period, forms the rudiment, security, or platform of that which follows. From the state of these wonderful agents, and their vascular arborescence, we seem to trace all the varied phenomena connected with human nature. Even the mind of man, in a material state of existence, is actuated through the medium of corporeal organs, as the material instruments of the soul. We discover these promoting the growth and attachments of the child. They build up or- gans which give being to the functions and feelings of puberty. The genius and varied stages of maturity succeed. These same organs decay. New and corresponding modifica- tions fill their place. Man is intended to advance from one period of perfection to another, as an intelligent and moral agent; and when the heart and arteries fail to actuate him as an animal, their physical offices, after mid-life, leave him at leisure to contemplate, more minutely, the nature and intention of his immortal being, through the ^ame progressive me- dium of natural organs which afiected the previous periods of life. The brain seems con- tinually actuated through the medium of these primary agents ; the state of which as phy- sically induces solid and exalted ideas in old age, unexcited by vigour, sexual organs, and in possession of wisdom ; as in youth we discover lively fancy, or ambitious froth, flowing I