25 OSTEOLOGY OF THE ORBITS. To accomplish this with precision, we not only require a know- ledge of the bones of the cranium, but those of the face connect- ed with them, so nearly do they approach each other. The suicide, by directing the fatal pistol toward the roof of the mouth, is likely to penetrate the pons varolii and cerebellum. We shall find that a ball, passing horizontally through the nostril, wounds the same bodies more directly It would seem that the mortali- ty of such injuries depends on the connection of those parts with the root of the nerves. I shall arrange the fourteen bones which hang from the cranium, into their facial, orbital, nasal, and oral regions, or offices. DESCRIPTION OF THE ORBITS, NOSTRILS, MOUTH, AND FACE. General notion The orbit, or socket of the eye, is composed of seven bones, of the Orbit. jj pjg ^nd 3d) two of which form the internal parallel walls of the orbits *; the others are arranged into a hol- low cone, the foramen opticum (Plate II. Fig. 3d n) of the little wings of Ingrasius being the posterior apex ^ 1st, The Ossa (Plate II. Fig. 3d, Plate III. Fig. 2d c), compose the inner can- Unguis, anterior region of the parallel walls of the orbits. 2diy, The Ossa orbitar plate of the os ethmoides, is arranged behind the Plana, ynguis. These two form the parallel walls of the orbits ; the other following bones assume a diverging aspect, viz. sented in Plate II. Eig. 4th, but in all those regions where extensive membranes are present in the foetus. ^ These are named ossa triquetra, from their shape, or wormiana. They are distinguished from their connection with sutures, and have their own proper su- tures, and ought to be recollected in the moment of operation, as they assume the appear- ance of fracture. , See Plate II. Fig. 3d and 4th, u. * The inner walls of the orbit are parallel to each other, as they are formed by the ossa plana and unguis, which last are in a manner the continuation of the os planum. 3 The reader will attend to Plate II. Fig. 3d, (which is the outline of Fig. Ist) and Pla te HI. Fig. 1st, where the same references are observed. D