10 STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF THE SINUSES. the foetus the muscles are nearly the same as those of the right sinus. economy oTthe right ‘ and left sinuses, being filled by the contents of their Sinuses. appropriate veins, they are excited to contract; but since the veins present open orifices, this blood would necessarily be thrown back, by this contraction, upon their cavities. This is, however, coun- teracted, by the powerful muscles diffused from the sinuses upon their veins, (as represented Plate I. Fig. 2d, f), which act as sphincters, when the regurgitation excites them. The fluid is there- fore propelled forward from the right sinus (Plate I, Fig. 2d, h,) into the right ventricle * (k, 11); the valves (m), are thrown forward by the blood, (as represented Plate I. Fig. 2d, m), into the cavity of the ventricle; these are tied by (1) the chordae tendi- neae,to (k) the columnae carneae, which last spring from the parietes of the ventricle. These valves, from their number, are named val- vulae tricuspides, the two anterior being here seen. Numerous pil- lars (11) are discovered, in the form of net-work, composing the in- ternal structure of both ventricles; in the right, particularly, one very large tranverse column (sometimes two or three), knit the op- posite walls together, which seem to occasion the heart to become thus the more readily excited by the stimulus of distention. This causes the impression to take place in well-injected hearts, as - represented in the ventricle of Fig. 1st*. The external surface of * The right sinus, from its site, contents, and offices, maybe named the ri^ht venous cor- poreal sinus, as it is situate on the right, and receives the venous blood from the body. * From its site, contents, and offices, I would be disposed to denominate it the anterior venous pulmonary ventricle, as it is anterior respecting the other cavities, and it propels the venous blood of the body to the lungs. The anterior ventricle is commonly loose, and an- nexed apparently to the left, which is a dense powerful cavity, the parietes of which com- pose the septum cordis (Fig, 2d, 1), and less capacious in its extent than the right. But I have now for many years demonstrated, that feeble subjects have frequently the left more ex- tended than the anterior, nay, often double the dimension of capacity j and in warm climates this is so very often met with, that the left may really be denominated aneurismal in such cases. I shall, when we speak of the chest, mention several peculiarities of the heart. * (Plate I. Fig. 2d and 5th, g,) is named the ascending aorta ; (h, i,k,) the arch; (1, Fig. 5th) the descending aorta; of which (t) forms the intercostal branches. The distortions of the heart are such, as to render its parts very difficult to be described. The aortal orifice is situate between the posterior sinus (Plate I. Fig. 5th, b), and the pulmonary artery (Fig. 2d, n, o,