12 STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF THE ARTERIES, &C. Structure and • The aorta and pulmonary artery are each guarded by three semi- SrASestud^^*^^^ valves; (r s. Fig. 2d, 6th, and 7 th) represent those of the aorta nirt corporeal artery ; (r) is the right,' (s) the left, (t) the posterior valve ; (Fig. 1st, 2d, and 7th, u) is the orifice of the right coronary artery, (v)the orifice of the left coronary artery ,s^een r s. Fig. 1st and 2d), in situ ; (n n. Fig. 2d) exhibit the two anterior valves of the pulmonary artery, which hide the posterior valve. These valves are formed by a semilunar reflection or duplicature of the internal membrane of the arteries, which Fig. 7th exhibits, the straight margin being loose, while the semilunation is fixed. This simple structure occasions the valves of the arteries to be applied to their cavity, when the blood rushes from the ventricle into the vessel, as represented (Fig. 7th, t); but when the arteries are excited to contract by the impetus of their contents, the retrograde blood. carrying back the valves (as represented Fig. 7th, r, s), they meet, as seen (Fig. 6th), forming a triple cup, sustaining the co- lumn of blood in the aorta and pulmonic artery. ^ The sinus or bulging of the arterial walls opposite to the valves (Plate I. Fig. 1st and 2d, n, n), is here distinctly and naturally expressed *, from which those of the aorta, though in shade, may be under- stood *. The relative sites of the four cavities of the heart are. The corpo- real sinus and ventricle are situate right and left—the pulmonary sinus and ventricle posterior and anterior ^ * In the heart from which this is taken, the aorta does not seem anuerismal, but this ves- sel and the pulmonary artery are both very large. * The orifices (v) of the coronary arteries are sometimes above, sometimes beneath the margin of the valves, as seen (Plate I. Fig. 7th, t u v). s All these definitions are mere memoranda, by which the Student may with attention con- vince himself by the means of the heart of any animal. Fig. 6th, Plate I. exhibits a wire (a), suspending a ring surrounding the section of an aorta (b); (r s t) are the valves, represented half meeting each other ; by plunging them in water they open ; by raising them in the wa- ter they shut, and become three sustaining cups, from which the water cannot escape. The valves of the human heart meet more perfectly than those of the brute in the dead subject. By cutting off the apex of the ventricle and the posterior sinus, and affixing a wire around the apex, the same convincing demonstration takes place in the ventricles as in the arteries.