DESCRIPTION OF THE HEAD EXTERNALLY. 28 unguis, spongiosa inferiora (or infundibula) palati, and maxillaria superiora; in all, the nostrils are composed of 13 bones; but as the os ethmoides and sphenoides have their processes in pairs, and that the ethmoides has a septum, we should arrange not only the singleness of these bones in our notions of the nostrils, blit their multiform structure likewise. The Face. . This department of the head is composed of the ossa maxilla- ria superiora, nasi, malarum, and lower jaw. o The Mouth. The osteology of the mouth consists of the superior maxillary bones in their palate processes (Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, /) ; the palate processes of the ossa palati (Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, k) ' ; and the lower jaw (Plate III. Fig. 1st, 14, 18, m.) MUSCLES, VESSELS, AND NERVES ON THE EXTERNAL PARIETES OF THE CRANIUM. rotion!”^*^^ external marks we may recognize, not only what parts of the brain are injured, but likewise such parts as are exterior to the brain. The following references lead to these objects. Plate HI. Fig, 1st, 0, points out by dots the extent and situation of the frontal muscle; (i) the site of the occipital muscle; the white ridge (c) of the os frontis and os parietale, com pose the origin of the temporal muscle, the fibres of which converge toward (14) the coro- noid process of the lower jaw, where it is inserted. Vessels and nerves are diffused beneath and on the surface of these muscles, viz. the rami of the internal maxillary artery (Plate HI. Fig. 1st, 9), and External Arte. temporal arteries (19, 20, 21,). They may be arranged as Ties of theHead. ^ m, i r i . ... follows, viz. The common trunk oi the carotis communis having ^ ascended to nearly the angle of the lower jaw, sends off two * There are cominonly 14 teeth in each jaw, often 16, (Plate II. Fig. 3d,.--Plate III. Fig. 1st) ; (1) is the central incisores, (2) the lateral incisores, (3) cuspidatus, (4, 5) bicuspides, (6) anterior molares, (7) middle molares, (8) posterior molares, or dens sapi- entise, often wanting. I frequently find the lateral incisores wanting.