NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 59 the internal ear, unites with the portio dura, and forms the chorda tympani. The trunk enters the canal of the orbitar plate of the superior maxillary bone (Plate II. Fig. 3d), p, supplies the teeth of that bone, is transmitted to the face by the infra orbitar fora- men, (Plate II. Fig. 4th, 2), where it supplies the adjacent bones of the face, the nose, lower muscles of the palpebrse, and those of the face and lips. The third branch passes to its destination by the foramen ovale, (Plate XIV. Fig. 2d, w). It supplies the tongue, is continued to the internal foramen of the lower jaw (Plate III. Fig. 2d, m), by its internal groove, where it is distributed to the lower teeth and the substance of the lower jaw, and is transmitted by the foramen of the chin, (Plate II. Fig. 4th, 3), to supply the sub- stance of the lower jaw, the muscles of the chin and lower lip. All these branches unite with the portio dura, (Plate II. Fig. 4th, 7). The 6th Pair of Neryesj ‘ 6. The nervi abducentes, or motores externi, arise between the pons Varolii and the corpora pyramidalia. They enter the caver- nous sinus beneath the 4th nerve, (Plate XV. Fig. 1st and 2d, 6). This nerve, previous to its ocular destination, unites with the first and second branches of the 5th nerve, composing thus the nervus sympatheticus maximus. It descends in the carotic foramen men- tioned, to be distributed to its various destinationsWhen its * It escapes by the carotic syphon, (PlateXIV. Fig. 2d, k—,Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, r). Its course may be understood as through a transparency, (Plate III. Fig. 3d, (a2); at*, its gan- glion lies between the internal carotid and jugular vein. The yessels are here and Fig. 1st separated. They -will appear in situ on the plates of the head and neck of next number. The distribution of the 4th and 6th nerves to these ocular muscles, seem to support the supposition I have hinted at, respecting the indivisibility of mental cognizance. The motions performed by the eye, when the superior oblique or abductor are used, diflFer from all other re- gular actions of the system, as they continually act in unison with dissimilar muscles, sup- plied by dissimilar nerves ; as this seems to facilitate the actions of the dissimilar muscles. Dis- similar muscles of the limbs, &c. are no doubt used occasionally at the same moment, but this requires practice when rapid motions are required. We observe little children striving with each other, respecting their alacrity in beating rapidly with one hand on a fixed point of their breast, while the other hand moves in a vertical direction from the neck to the belly. When the child attends to either hand, immediately the other hand discontinues the contrasted motion, and assumes the action of the one attended to. In this case, similar nerves are em- ployed ; practice brings them to perform dissimilar rapid motions with organs supplied by