fifth stage of the dissection of the brain. - 39 a cock, when brought into living contact with his talon, will depo- sit horny matter where this body is inserted The Ceiling of The ceilings of the lateral ventricles are composed of equal the Ventiicies. centrum ovale and the corpus callosum. The dots (Plate VIII. r r,) denote a distance in the centrum ovale, equal in breadth to the left half of the corpus callosum, and parallel with it. When the brain has been in health, the external mar- gin of the ventricle, which is formed by the outer edge of the corpus striatum, (Plate IX. p), is nearly on a level with the corpus callosum, and sometimes even beneath this level The operator is to scratch with the edge of his scalpel, in the course of (r r) till he discover a bluish, appearance, which is the pia mater of the ceiling ; and to exhibit this, without rupturing it, is always ipte- resting, but peculiarly so when water is in the cavity, the fluc- tuation of which will be communicated to the pia mater. PLATE IX. Celling of the This plate exhibits the left ventricle. When the incision is Ventricles re- made as directed, the corpus striatum (p), in its external mar- moTed, . . . . gin, is brought into view. The ceiling being gently elevated by the flat edge of the scalpel, the external margin of this body will appear higher than the internal. It inclines obliquely downward where it approaches its fellow ; this may be understood by Plate XII. By elevating the ceiling of the ventricle, the dissector may discover it composed of the lower surface of the centrum ovale, (Plate VIII. r r), the corpus callosum (fg), the septum luci- dum, (Plate IX. k), and the fornix, (Plate XI. 1, X. r). All these bodies are in a state of continuity. * See Hunter. * In disease the Tcntricle is frequently extended laterally beyond the boundary of the outec margin of the corpus striatum. It should be recollected, that the corpus striatum, in its ex- ternal margin, is higher in the middle than anteriorly or posteriorly.