20 THE DURA MATER AND ITS ELONGATIONS. tolfumXIII. Fig. 2d b). ’ This conical septum is reflected from the inferior termination of the falx, and the lower parietes of the cranial bones beneath the tentorium. Its base occupies the fossae of the os occipitis, and the triangular fossa of the os parietale (Plate XIV. St), from which it is continued along the petrous fossa (v) of the os petrosum, to the posterior clihoid process of the os sphenoides (h). This septum sustains the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, (Plate XV. -f), and covers the cone of the cerebellum, (Plate XII. g), from which the tentorium (y) is removed. The foramen ovale durae matris (Plate XIII. Fig. 2d, c) admits of the connection of the cerebellum, by its crura, with the cerebrum, sdiy, TheOc. (Plate XIV. Fig. 1st, g), occupies the lower region of the os cipitaiFaix, (Plate III. Fig. 2d, 1). It divides the lobes of the cere- bellum, and becomes the conduit of the occipital sinus to be mentioned ; this is sometimes bifurcated. It terminates in the foramen magnum occipitale, (Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, b), the foramen jugulare, or the vertebral veins, Plate XIII. Fig. 3d, v Recapitulation. The external surfaces of the Brain correspond to the eight bones enumerated, and the septa of the dura mater, viz.—the convexi- ties of the hemispheres (Plate VII. and IX), correspond to the concavities of the os frontis, ossa parietalia, and the cerebral re- gion of the os occipitis; the vertical regions of the hemispheres correspond to the falx ; the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes, correspond to the os frontis, sphenoides, superior region of the ossa temporum, the posterior lobe resting on the tentorium. The cone of the cerebellum is covered by the tentorium, and its lobes are sustained by the lower region of the os occipitis. The pons varolii rests on the cuneiform processes of the os sphenoides and occipitis, and the inferior portions of the pars petrosa. The fora- the vertical regions of the cerebral hemispheres, as delineated (PlateVIlI. h), where the left hemisphere (a s b) is dissected off. The falx still hides the superior portion of the right vertical region of the right hemisphere ; the lower part (e d) being uncovered by the falx. By lifting the falx, the vertical region of the right hemisphere appears. > Septum medium, tentorium cerebello super extensum, septum occipitale majus. * Septum inferior, septum cerebelli, septum occipitale minus.