ed Plate IV. Fig. 1st, 17. Commence- ment of the Dissected Plates. 30 FIRST STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. minates in a crooked direction (white, 13, 14) on the tempo- ral fossa of the os sphenoides, supplying the muscles by its upper rami, and sending a trunk into the gutter of the orbitar plate of the os maxillare superius (Plate II. Fig. 3d, p), where it escapes by the foramen infra orbitarium of the os maxillare su- perius (Plate II. Fig. 3d and 4th, 2, Plate III. Fig. 1st. 16). Its lower ramus, being remarkably crooked, is diffused downward on the tuber maxillare, supplying the teeth of the upper jaw (Plate III. Fig. 1st, 15). (18) Is the site of the artery named transversalis faciei; (19) the middle temporal artery; (21) the anterior superficial tem- poral artery; and (22) the posterior superficial temporal artery.* PLATE IV. # In every step, the dissecting student ought to proceed as a practitioner. The mode adopted in removing the integuments should be similar to that we observe when called in to examine the brain in morbid cases, viz.—a section of the integuments is to be made across the middle of the head, from the one ear to the other, and the integuments carried forward to the eyebrow and backward to the occiput, which admits of the replacement of the brain and the calvaria after examination of the brain. The management of the saw requires more dexterity than some may imagine. This operation consists in a laceration of the bones by the teeth of the instrument. The elegance and dexterity of this step depends on rather supporting the saw than pressing upon it, and passing it swiftly in a straight line over the bone, till a cut line is established. This is best executed by directing the saw along the thumb of the left hand, the nail of which ought to be placed above the teeth, thus serving as a fixed point to the ' instrument, * The nerves are, 1st, the ophthalmic (Plate III. Fig. 4th, 1); 2dly, the infra.orbitarjr (2) ; 3dly, the mental (m) ; 4thly, the pes anserinus (7). The frontal artery is represent-