Corpus Callo- sum. Septum Luci- dum. F ornix. Plexus. Thalamus. Taenia. Corpus Stria- tum. 40 ' FIFTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN, # The fornix is discovered as the lower triangular septum of the ceiling; and, in a state of health, this department of the brain exhibits no character of ventricular appearances, but really composes a series of various bodies in contact with each other, the lower bodies sustaining the superior, and a limpid fluid lubri- cating their surfaces». This plate delineates the appearances tak- ing place when the operator has made a vertical section of the corpus callosum* (1), leaving the septum (k) entire. The parts I hope require little definition \ The septum (k) is continuous with the corpus callosum (i), and this last is continued into the substance of the fornix (1). Along the outer margin of the fornix, the plexus choroides (m) ^ has its course. The white portion (n) discovered on the external margin of the plexus, is part of the thalamus nervi optici; the rest of this body is covered by the fornix. The curvature (o) is the taenia striata The corpus striatum (p), is a body similar in shape to the quarter of a pear, curved in its internal margin, which is lower than the superior mar- gin. Its external margin is likewise curved in its vertical di- * In disease they become cavities containing water, blood, &c. I have met with them likewise in the state of large cavities perfectly dry, and in other cases dry, but not dilated ; the pia mater of the floor and ceiling occasionally in a state of accretion j and sometimes the speck appearing in the inner membrane of the aorta and arteries, previous to ossific deposition, may be observed. Cartilaginous bodies likewise are found generated in the ven- tricles. This may be named the.superior region of the lateral ventricle. * The vertical striated appearance of the corpus callosum is here represented. 3 The student ought to aid his knowledge, and acquire the dexterous use of his instru- ments, by dissecting the brain of animals, which will assist in leading him to a recognizance of the human brain. ‘ The plexus is usually of a dark colour, approaching to black, and seems a congeries of arteries and veins; but, occasionally, this is seen of a perfect white appearance, the vessels empty, assuming the appearance of a congeries of empty thread-like bodies. Vesicles, analogous to hydatids, arc very frequently met with here. Named likewise centrum semicirculare geminum—taenia semicircularis. These are not always medullary lines, but in disease are bluish, and of a gelatinous consistence. This circumstance seems to have been little noticed by anatomists, though 1 have regularly de- monstrated the fact to my pupils since the year 1795. The ingenious Mr Charles Bell of London, to whose labours the world is so much indebted, seems to take notice of the same appearance. In vigorous and young subjects they often assume the appearance of two de- licate white lines, as mentioned by authors. 1