EIGHTH 3TAG'ErOF TKK DISSECTION OF THE TfEAIN/ 44 PLATE XII. ConeoftheCe- In Fig. Ist, the tentorium (y) is thrown up to expose (g h i) Inferior Bodies the con^ Gr Superior portiomof the cerebellum*. The velum is ®jeg*'® likewise throvim up,-which may be traced as a continuation .of thei' pi a mater, frdih the inferior surfaceiofthe posterior cerebral lobel (z),j and the%pia;mater of the;cerebellic cone (g). ' The tense and! large receptacles) of f the; venous blood are conspicuous, viz. The longitudinal sinusf (a), inferior longitudinal sinus (b), toreularj(c)," and lateral:sinus; (*), which have been particularly.described;! The superior arteries of the, cerebellum (h) are here represented, which are the extremities of the superior cerebeUic arteries (Plate. XV. Figi 2d, o), ,and their corresponding; veinsv(i) are discovered entermg(the lateraFsinus<(f:). i i. • •--.['1 i) ■ Corpora Stri- 'pjjg velum-being relnpvedj the hodies Composing the loweF re- /-V gion of the ventricles appear, and are referred to by the outline; Fig.:2d, viz.'(t m n), is the corpora striata,; forming.somewhat of ajpear shape, cineritious externally) internally Tofmiecl ofan< arbor-' escenee of medullary; and cineritiovisimaitA^, in the vertical sec- tion (y) I recommended in cuttingfidown-to the .hippocampus ; (Plate XI. d) but the careful observer;will discover the same ar- borescence. on .the-outer side((z) of the pes. . ThaiamiNervo- Xlie thalami uervorum opticoi'um, .(o.d piq), have their bulbs nimOpticorum. ^ though.I have met .with cases where the hulbs were an-' terior. They fill up the space between the corpora striata ^ and corn- pose invertions of the corpora striata. They are medullary ex- * The substance of the cerebellum is divided into numerous sulci, as represented in this, and its lobes, Plate XV. The cerebellum consists of its superior cone and inferior lobes. The vermiform appendages mentioned by authors seem not’always present. ® See Plate XI. ■,» ' J These four bodies composing the floor of the ventricles, as well as the corpus callosum and septum, are very various in their dimensions in different subjects. And as the Brain is a premature organ in man, they soon acquire their full size. In an idiot I discovered them to be very small. She had strabismus from infancy, and had laboured under hydrocephalus internus,as the cavity of the ventricles originally contained half a pint of fluid, half an ounce only remaining. The falx was completely absorbed, and the adjacent portion of the tento. \