NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 54 those which no human art can discover, and which imagination alone can conceive. White muscles are even the most powerful, 2. e. those supplied immediately by coagulable lymph, of which lymphatic arteries carry red blood, which seems synonymous with relaxation,dilatation, and consequent increased action. This observation respecting insensibility applies to all parts of the system in health, as experience demonstrates; and the sensibility of the organs of visionj &c. seems to arise from their vessels being laid bare to their appropriate stimuli. Hence the cu- ticular organ has an insensible dead film (the scarf-skin or cuticle) thrown over its living vessels, to prevent these delicate agents from receiving too much agitation. Thus a healthful being is an agent void of involuntary feeling (i. e.) it is a system of organs, in a legitimate state of tone, which feels, or does nOt feel, as objects are or are not applied to it, or as the soul does or does not attend to these physical actions j a healthful body therefore is a being active and void of feelings, but such as the soul attends to ; and disease, as we have observed, seems no more than a relaxed modification of the muscular economy, which compels mental cognizance. We proceed in the busy scenes of life, during a whole day, not con- scious of the organs we are using, except when we direct the mind to them, till the evening, when the pain of weariness commences; and even this is banished from our sight by the balmy function of sleep, connected with that state of the brain which precludes cognizance. Slumber,' on the other hand, seeMs some wise catenation, by which muscular power is preserved, by-the suspension of mental cognizance, whichileaving the living organs to their own physical process of action, the loss of tone induced by men- tal influence is restored. Whatever threatens the legitimate power on which life and vi- gour depends, induces sleep ; if not so violent as to promote that debility which termi- nates in fever. Thus, intense thought, passions, intoxication, applications of wet, cold, heat, violent exertion, even a full meal acting as a stimulus, fatigues the muscular system ; the arteries fail to propel the blood through the veins of the brain; congestion takes place, and sleep commences; that function, of which apoplexy, water in the ventricles, or any compression of the cranium, seem the morbid excess, as fever is the morbid ex- cess of healthy action. During healthy sleep the system' acquires tone ; it is merely alive, the mental principle in its powers of cognizance being suspended, that this mortal frame may recover the shock of mental influence, which cheers and invigorates the system, when regulated by the laws of nature (synonymous with those of Migion), but which, by any violence, is subverted and changed, warning the physician in many cases how to cure! by mental influence.' Madness, we must hope, may yet be more successfully treated than it has hitherto been. All mental derangements seem to depend on that state of the brain, which continually attracts mental cognizance to the waking dream, induced by the stateof the vessels. The operations of the soul may be considerably extended and diversified when connected with a healthful body ; but in disease, this is relinquished, especially when the instrument (the brain) more immediately taken notice of by the soul is in a morbid state. The harsh measures, too generally used in such cases, are calculated to put a wise man mad ; though some practitioners, on this account, suppose such modes adapted to bring madmen to their senses. We see the victim of delirium too often dragged from the abodes they recognize, and the domestics they, love, to a cell, the solitary horror of which is increased by a cruel keeper.