DESCRIPTION OF THE HEAD EXTERNALLY. 29 branches, viz. the internal carotid (2),' from which the external ca- rotid (3) has its origin. From this last the following arteries pro- ceed ; 4, The Thyroid ; 5, Lingual ; 6, Facial ; 7, Occipital; 8, Posterior auris*. About the middle of the ascending ramus of the inferior maxilla, or sometimes a little higher, the internal maxil- lary artery has its root. All its branches lie within the zygoma, and are tinted variously to prevent confusion. They are supposed to be viewed through a transparent medium ^ The external maxillary sends off, 1st, the artery of the lower jaw and teeth, (10,"yellow), which enters the internal foramen (Plate III. Fig. 2d, m) and after supplying the teeth in its passage through the groove of the lower jaw, escapes by the foramen mentale (Plate III. Fig. 1st, m); 2dly, The posterior deep temporal (11, green) which lies between the bones and the muscle ; 3dly, The trunk is continued along the root of the spinous process of the sphenoidal bone, giving off the middle meningeal artery (18, blue). This vessel, after entering the foramen spinale (Plate XIII. Fig. 1st—Plate XIV. Fig. 1st, x), is diffused into its anterior and posterior meningeal branches, as represented in Plate III. Fig. 2d, d r—Plate VI. and Plate XIV. k, 1, m. The course of this artery within the scull as if viewed through a transparent medium, is represented by the blue dotted vessel, along the anterior and posterior parie- tes of the parietal bone, Plate III. Fig. 1st. The vessel ter- * The blue vessel (1) behind, is the internal jugular vein. I find considerable varieties in the site of the bifurcation of the external and internal carotids, as well as the commence- ment of the ramifications sent off from the external: they are occasionally considerably be- low the angle of the jaw. * The lingual and facial often come off from one root; in other cases they are so separat- ed, that a wound by a ball might be inflicted between them with impunity. The posterior auris often comes off from the occipital. 5 The internal maxillary branches are covered by the lower jaw, its muscles, and the os malse. The reader is supposed to be viewing these vessels through the parts as if transparent. This relative idea is the object of importance to the practitioner. Paintings of the ves- sels, freed from their connected objects, lead to no practical use. The dissector therefore ought ever to have it in view, that every step in dissection should impress the mind, not merely with parts or organs singly, but their connections with other parts, as in the living body. /,