34 THIRD STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. mark the adhesions which are observed at the upper margin of the hemisphere, where the glandulse pacchione, (c), bodies of a cine- ritious appearance, not understood in their office, approach the longitudinal sinus, (Plate VIII. h), which lie between the hemi- spheres when in situ. The whole of the cerebrum is composed of convolutions (b) externally as represented in this and the other plates; these possess distinct surfaces, penetrating more than half an inch in the substance of the brain. On these surfaces the pia mater is diffused, as the tomentum cerebri. This conformation seems to present the greatest given diffusion of vascularity, in the smallest given space. On the action of these vessels the phenomena of the sensorium commune perhaps depends. The hemispheres assume the shape of half an egg, the small end anterior; and we form to ourselves a tolerable correct idea of their vertical regions, (which terminate in the corpus callosum), by supposing a longitudinal section of this egg shape, which will re- present the vertical region, (Plate VII. IX. c e). These correspond to the falx, (Plate VIII. h), the falx being insinuated between the hemispheres. The falx of Plate VIII. however is evidently uncon- nected with the hemispheres at (d e), about a quarter of an inch above the corpus callosum ’; hence the pia mater is apt to co- alesce, and when the -operator separates the hemispheres, to look down on the corpus callosum, (Plate VIII.), he is apt to mistake the laceration of the hemispheres for the corpus callosum ; but he must continue till he discovers a purely defined white body. The veins of this (Plate VII. d), previous to separation, entered the lon- gitudinal sinus of the Plate VIII. below, seen at (h). The hand is introduced in this plate to exhibit the left half of the corpus cal- losum, on which the left hemisphere rested, the other hemisphere in situ covering the right side of the corpus callosum; the little finger presses back the falx and right lobe, while the thumb dis- places the left. Where water is suspected in the ventricles (which shall be after- ’ Commissura magna cerebri.