STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF THE VENTRICLES, &C. 11 the heart is smooth ; in feeble and aged subjects it is usually load- ed with fat; the walls may be observed to possess longitudinal transverse and spiral fibres in their composition. From what we have said respecting the structure of the sinuses, auricles, and ven- tricles, their obliteration of cavity, when excited to contract, is ob- vious. The valvulse mitrales (deriving their name from their shape) are two in number, one of which is seen (Plate I. Fig. 5tb, f) placed between the left sinus' and the left ventricle*; their offices and actions are understood, from what has been said respec- Structure and ting the right siiius. The right ventricle having received the the^ratrides. venous blood of the body in its route to the lungs, while the left receives the arterial blood from its sinus in its progress to the body, they contract at the same time. This contraction of the parietes upon their stimulating contents,would force back the blood to the sinuses, from whence it was propelled ; but this retrograde motion carries back the valves toward the sinuses; the valves are retained in this firm situation, by their attachment to the co- lumnse, this forming a fixed basis on which the compressed blood is impinged, confirming the momentary septum composed of the valves; the arterial blood must necessarily be forced from the left ventricle (Plate I. Fig. 5th, d) into the current of the aorta (g), while the venous blood is propelled at the same moment from the right ventrical (Fig. 2d, 1 1), into the pulmonary artery (Fig. 2d, nop). p) ; (r, s) being the anterior aortal valves in situ^ as if viewed through a transparent medi. um. This will be better comprehended when I give a full description of the parts in relation to each other : (t, Fig. 2d and 6th), represent the serrated muscles of arteries, which are in- sinuated into each other, and seem more connected with the elastic coat (Plate I. Fig. 6th, f), than with the internal membrane of the vessels. The serrae are not always so distinct in the aorta as in the extreme arteries, as the arm, &c. In feeble subjects they are scarcely seen in the limbs, though in a strong man they are as large in the extremities as here repre- sented in the aorta. The failure of these seems the cause of aneurism, when the elastic coat has to present merely the passive principle of elasticity, unaided by active muscle ;-hence dilata- tion. Ossification seems a disease more or less connected with vessels in a state of debility. * Or posterior arterial pulmonary sinus, denoting its site, contents, and offices. * Or left arterial corporeal ventricle, denoting its site, contents, and offices.