TENTH STAGE OF THE DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 4V arbor vitae (k),* springing from the pedunculi cerebelli (1), corpus striatum (m), thalamus norvi optici (n). Recapitulation. The Ceiling of the ventricle is composed of the centrum ovale, corpus callosum, septum lucidum, and fornix. In the lower re- gion of the ventricles are found the velum interpositum, pineal gland, the vulva and anus, anterior and posterior commissures of the cerebrum, thalami nervorum opticorum, taenia, corpora stria- ta ; behind are the nates and testes. Beneath the commissura mollis is the third ventricle ; its anterior cavity bends downward as the iter ad infundibulum, and posteriorly it terminates in the iter ad quartum ventriculum. PLATE XIV. In this plate. Fig. 1st conveys a notion of the internal base of Cranium^t^the cranium, which receives the corresponding portions of the Neryes, Ves- j^^se of the brain, which is represented Plate XV. Fig. 1st. Fig. sels, and Sinus. . ' mi i , es retained m 2d IS an outline oi the vessels and nerves. Ihe vessels and iSt’side^tL serves have the same references annexed to them in this figure bones repre- those of the brail), Plate XV. Fig. 2d. The nerves are easi- sented bare on - i iir» c the right. ly understood, from being pointed out by the figures 1, 2, 3, as they lie in order. On the left side of Fig. 1st, the dura mater is supposed to be retained with the nerves entering their sheaths, and the sanguineous sinuses are represented in their place ; on the right, the bones are represented as stripped of the dura mater, that their site, parts, foramina, and osseous fossae or sinuses, may be the more clearly discriminated. Fig. 1st, The receptacles of the cerebral and cerebellic lobes have the same references as those in Plate XV. fourth ventricles seem real cavities even in health, and probably answer such purposes as Tve find in the brute tribes, where other bodies in their brain have ventricles. It is very re- markable, that, in the human species, these seem little affected in hydrocephalus internus, and other diseases of the brain ; they still assume nearly their usual and healthy capacity. I Here the pia mater (o) is seen covering the sulci of the cerebellum, and following their course.