56 NERVES SENT OFF FROM THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. The Second Pair of Nerves. (2). numerous more dense nervous filaments, that escape by the fora- mina of this plate, to be diffused over the Schneiderian membrane of the septum narium, and the os turbinatum superius of the os ethmoides (Plate III. Fig. 2d, e). This bone, though composed of convoluted surfaces in the human subject, admitting an exten- sive surface in a small given space, yet, compared with other ani- mals, the nostril distinguishes man as possessing very limited ani- mal powers * ; the olfactory nerves seem not extended to the in- ferior region of the nostril, composed of the os turbinatum in^erius^ These nerves are so tender in man, that they are torn from the cribriform branches in raising the anterior lobe, unless great care is observed by the operator. The nervi optici, are observed proceeding from the brain, unit- ’ing with each other, and again divaricating toward the foramina optica of the os sphenoides (Plate XIV. Fig.2d, a), where they are accompanied by the ophthalmic artery (b), to become the organ of vision, in consequence of the hollow sphere of nervous matter, which receives impression in all directions, through the medium of the lenticular apparatus placed before it. This nerve can be distinctly traced to the ciliary circle of the iris ’ The olfactory nerves are very large in some brutes; and the bones of the graminivori and carnivori, which receive these membranes and nerves, are not only so extended, but likewise j diversified in their shape, as to suit them for their different offices. In the gra- minivori they form extensive scrolls ; in the carnivori they are infinitely folded. Their funnel shape seems to admit a large quantity of effluvia at the external extremity, which becomes concentrated in its course toward the brain ; mucus continually lubricates this membrane, which predisposes the vessels to be accurately affected by effluvia. Does a che. mical property in this fluid occasion its more immediately uniting with substances?—we per- ceive how inert a dry nostril is. The same observation applies to the saliva. * The membrane of this bone in all animals seems the guardian organ of the olfactory system; in the brute it is comparatively small. We shall find it principally supplied by the fifth nerve, which is distributed as the nerve of common sensation to the eye, nostril, ear, tongue, and face; we therefore discover pain, a sense of heat, cold, dryness, sore- ness, &c. distinct from the sense of effluvia, seeing, hearing, or tasting. 3 As 1 introduced an easy manner of tracing the various parts of the eye by dissection, a great number of years since, and which seems not hitherto well explained by others, 1 1