Rivnt-\ *Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 - https://archive.org/details/b21688825_0001; .A: •M-*THE A N A • T 0 M T OF T H £ ^ HUMAN BOD Y. f7 / c4 VOL. I. CONTAINING THE A N A T'O M T O F T H E BONES, MUSCLES, AND JOINTS., Br JOHN BELL, Surgeon. \ TttS FOURTH EDITION. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, AND Or.ME, PATERNOSTER- ROW } AND T. CADELL AND W. DAVIES, STRAND. l8o8.Strahan and Prefton, Primers-Street, JLondpa.T 0 ALEXANDER WOOD SURGEON, WHOSE ABILITIES, AND SKILL, AND DISINTERESTED CONDUCT, HAVE RAISED HIM, BY COMMON CONSENT, TO THE FIRST RANK, IN A MOST USEFUL PROFESSION, CONDUCTING HIM, IN HONOUR, TO THAT PERIOD OF LIFE IN WHICH HE MUST FEEL, WITH PLEASURE, HOW COMPLETELY HE ENJOYS THE CONFIDENCE OF THE PUBLIC AND THE ESTEEM OF ALL GOOD MEN, THIS BOOK OF ANATOMY JS PRESENTED BY HIS PUPIL JOHN BELL.PREFACE. To thofe who are at all acquainted with books on anatomy, the appearance of a new one on the fub- je£t will not be furprifing : To thofe who are not yet acquainted with fuch writings, I have only to fay that I have written this book, becaufe I believed that fuch a one was needed, and mull be ufeful. I have en- deavoured to make it fo plain and fimple as to be ea» lily und^rftood ; I have avoided the tedious interlard- ing of technical terms (which has been too long the pride of anatomifts and the difgrace of their fcience), fo that it may read fmoothly, compared with the ftu- died harflmefs, and, I may fay, obfcurity, of anatomi- cal defcription. If an author may ever be allowed to compare his book with others, it mull be in the me- chanical part; and I may venture to fay, that this book is full and correct in the anatomy, free and ge- neral in the explanations, not redundant, I hope, and yet not too brief. b 3 If,■ VI * PREFACE. If3 in the courfe of this volume, I fhall appear to have given to theories a place and importance far higher than they really deferve, my reader will na- turally feel how ufeful they are in preferving the due balance between what is amufing and what is ufeful ; between the loofer doctrines of functions and the clofe demondration of parts. He will be fen- iible how much more eafily thefe things can be read in the clofet than taught in any public courfe; he will, I think, be ready to acknowledge, that I intro- duce fuch theories only as fhould connedt the whole, and may be fairly diftinguilhed as the phyfiology of fafts ; and he will perceive, that in this, too, I feel a deference for the public opinion, and that refpect for the eftablilhed courfe of education which it is natural to feel and to comply with. Thus, perhaps, it is lefs immodeft for an author to put down what he thinks he may honeftly fay con- cerning his own book, than to omit thofe apologies which cuftom requires; which give afluranee that he has not entered upon his talk ralhly, nor performed it without fome labour and thought; which are the trued figns of his refpedl for the Public, and of his care for that fcience to which he has devoted his life. With thefe intentions and hopes I offer this book to the Public ; and more particularly to thofe in whofe education I have a chief concern; not without a de- gree rPREFACE. Vll b 4 undecided. gree of fatisfaCtion at having accompliffied what, I think, cannot fail to be ufeful ; and furely not without an apprehenfion of not having done (in this wide and difficult fubjeCt) all that may be expected or wiffied for. Every book of this kind ffiould form a part of fome greater fyftem of education : it ffiould not only be en- tire in its own plan, but ffiould be as a part of fome greater whole ; without which fupport and connection a book of fcience is infulated and loft. This relation and fubferviency of his own particular talk to fome greater whole, is firft in an author’s mind : he ventures to look forward to its connection with the general fcience and common courfe of education ; or he turns it to a correfpondence and harmony with his own notions of ftudy: and if thefe notions are to give the complexion and character to any book, it ffiould be when it is de- figned for thofe who are entering upon their ftudies, as yet uncertain where to begin, or how to proceed. Hardly any one has been fo fortunate as to purfue the ftudy of his own fcience under any regular and perfeCt plan; and there are very few with whom a confcioufnefs of this does not make a deep and fe- rious impreffion at fome future period, accompanied with fevere regret for the lofs of time never to be retrieved. In medicine, perhaps, more than in any other fcience, we begin our ftudies thoughtlefs andPREFACE. VU1 undecided, following whatever is delightful (as much is delightful), and negledting the more fevere and, ufeful parts; But as 'we advance towards that period in which we are to enter upon a moll difficult profef- fion, and to fake our place and flation in life; and when we think of the hefitation, anxiety, and appre- hetifion, with which we mull move through the firft years of practice — we begin to look back with regret on every moment that is paft; with a confcioufnefs of fome idle hours; and (what is more afflicting ftill) with an unavailing fenfe of much ill-diredted, unprofitable labour: — for there is no ftudy upon which a young man enters with a more eager curiofity; but not in- ftrudted in what is really ufeful, nor ferioufly impreffed with the importance of his future profeffion, he thinks of his ftudies rather as the amufement, than as the bufmefs, of life ; fl umbers through his more laborious and ufeful talks, and foon falls off to the vain purfuit of theories and doctrines. If I were not perfuaded of the important confe- quences, of the infinite gain or lofs which muff attend the firfl fteps in every profeffion, I fhould not feel, but, above all, I fhould not venture to exprefs, an anxiety, which may be thought affedted by thofe who cannot know how fincere it muff be ; for, in our profeffion, this is the courfe of things, that a young man, who, by his limited fortune, or the will of his friends.PREFACE. IX friends, by abfence from his native country, or by the deftination of his future life, is reftri&ed to a few years of irregular, capricious, ill directed ftudy, throws himfelf at once into the pra&ice of a profeflion, in which, according to his ignorance or Ikill, he mud do much good or much harm. Here there is no time for his excurfions into that region of airy and fleeting vifions, and for his returning again to fedate and ufe- ful labour: There is no time for his difcovering, by the natural force of his own reafon, how vain all fpe- culations are : — In but a few years, at mod, his edu- cation is determined ; the limited term is completed ere he have learnt that mod ufeful of all leflons, the true plan of ftudy; and his opportunities come to be valued (like every other happinefs), only when they are loft and gone. Of all the leflons which a young man entering up- on our profeflion needs to learn, this is, perhaps, the firft, — that he fhould refill the fafcinations of doctrines* and hypothefes, till he have won the privilege of fuch ftudies by honeft labour, and a faithful purfuit of real and ufeful knowledge. Of this knowledge, anato- my furely forms the greateft {hare. — Anatomy, even while it is negletted, is univerfally acknowledged to be the very bafts of all medical {kill. — It is by ana- tomy that the phyftcian guefles at the feat, or caufes, or confequences, of any internal difeafe : —- Without 2 anatomv. " j *PREFACE. X anatomy, the furgeon could not move one Hep in his great operations; and thofe theories could not even be conceived, which fo often ufurp the place of that very fcience, from which they Ihould flow as proba- bilities and conjectures only, drawn from its ftore of fads. A confcioufnefs of the high value of anatomical knowledge never entirely leaves the mind of the ftu- dent. He begins with a ftrong conviction that this is the great ftudy, and with an ardent defire to mailer all its difficulties: if he relaxes in the purfuit, it is from the difficulties of the talk, and the feduction of theories too little dependent on anatomy, and too eafily ac- ceffible without its help. His defire for real know- ledge revives only when the opportunity is loft ; when he is to leave the fchools of medicine ; when he is to cive an account of his ftudies with an anxious and O oppreifed mind, confcious of his ignorance in that branch which is to be received as the chief teft of his profeffional (kill; or when, perhaps, he feels a more ferious and manly impreffion, the difficulty and im- portance of that art which he is called to practife. Yet, in fpite of feeling and reafon, the ftudent en- courages in himfelf a tafte for fpeculations and theories, the idle amufements of the day, which, even in his own ffiort courfe of ftudy he may obferve finking in quick fucceffion into negleft and oblivion, never to re- vivexi preface. vive; he afpires to the character of a phyfiologift, to which want of experience and a youthful fancy, have affigned a rank and importance which it does not hold in the edimation of thofe who Ihould bell know its weak- nefs or drength. The rawed dudent, proud of his phy- fiological knowledge, boads of a fcience and a name which is modedly difclaimed by the firft anatomid, and the trued phydologid of this or any age. Dr. Hunter fpeaks thus of his phyfiology, and of his anatomical de* mondration : 44 Phyfiology, as far as it is known, or has 44 been explained by Plaller, and the bed of the mo- 44 derns, may be eafily acquired by a dudent without 44 a mader, provided the dudent is acquainted with 44 philofophy and chemidry, and is an expert and rea- 44 dy anatomid ; for with thefe qualifications he can 44 read any phyfiological book, and underdand it as 44 fad as he reads. 44 In this age, when fo much has been printed upon 44 the fubjeft, there is almod as little inducement to 44 attend le&ures upon phyfiology, as there would be <c for gentlemen to attend le&ures upon government, or upon the hidory of England. Le&ures upon “ fubjefts which are perfectly intelligible in print, can- 44 not be of much ufe, except when given by fome man <c of great abilities, who has laboured the fubjeft, and 44 who has made confiderable improvements either in 44 matter or in arrangement. 44 InPREFACE* XU ££ In our branch, thofe teachers who take but little ££ pains to demoftrate the parts of the body with pre- ££ cifion and clearnefs, but ftudy to captivate young ££ minds with ingenious fpeculation, will not leave a ££ reputation that will outlive them half a century. ££ I always have ftudied, and fhall continue my en- ££ deavours, to employ the time that is given up to ana- ££ tomical ftudies as ufefully to the ftudents as I can ££ poffibly make it—and therefore fhall never aim at ££ fhowing what I know, but labour to (how and de- £C fcribe, as clearly as poflible, what they ought to ££ know. This plan rejeds all declamation, all parade, ££ all wrangling, all fubtility: to make a lhow, and to ££ appear learned and ingenious in natural knowledge, ££ may flatter vanity; to know fads, to feparate them ££ from fuppofitions, to range and conned them, to ££ make them plain to ordinary capacities, and above ££ all to point out the ufeful applications— is, in my ££ opinion, much more laudable, and fhall be the ob- t£ jed of my ambition * Introdu&ory Le&ure publifhed by Dr. llunter, ♦ Edinburgh, Sept.1793.CONTENTS. 6. The BOOK I. OF THE BONES. CHAP. I OF THE FORMATION AND GROWTH OF BONES, i. Page History of the Do&rines of Oflification, - - 2 Phenomena of Oflification, - - „ 6 Blood Veflels and Abforbents of Bones, and Proofs of the Depofition and Reabforption of the Boney Matter, 16 Nerves of Bones, and Proofs of the Senfibility of Bones, 17 The Procefs of Oflification defcribed, - . 19 1. The various Forms and numerous Points of Oflifica- tion, - 20 2. The Heads and Procefles-of Long Bones, - 21 3. The Cavity of Long Bones. - - 22 4. The Cancelli, - « - ib. 5 The Marrow, ™ - . 23xiy CONTENTS. Page 6. The Lamellae, or Boney Plates, - - 24. 7 The Holes of Bones, - - 25 8 The Veflels, - - - 26 9. The Internal Periofteum, - - 27 10. The External Periofteum, - - ib. 11. The Cartilages, 29 The Callus and Regeneration of Broken Bones, - 31 CHAP. III.—OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. 35. Importance of the Anatomy of the Skull, - 35 The Tables and Dipioe of the Bones of the Skull, - 36 Enumeration and fhort Defcription of the 'Bones of the Cranium, 39 The Sutures, - - - - 40 Remarks on the Formation, Nature, and Uie of Sutures, 41 CHAP. III. —DESCRIPTION OF THE INDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 52. Os Frontis, - r 52 1. Superciliary Ridge, - - 53 2. Artery and Nerve, - ib. 3. Angular Precedes, 54 4. Nafal Procefs, - - - • ib. 5. Frontal Sinufes, - - 5$ 6. Frontal Ridge or Spine, - 58 7. Orbitary Procefs, - - 59 Os Parietale, - ib. Os Occipitis, - 62 i. External Surface, - - ib. 1. Tranfverfe Spines, - - ib. 2. Crucial Spines, 63 3. Pofterior Tuberofity, - - ib. ii. Internal Surface, - ib. 1. Great Internal Ridge and Tentorium Cere- bello Superextenfum, - ib. 2. Hollows of the Occipital Bone, - ib. Procefle*XV CONTENTS. Page Proceffes of the Occipital Bone, — 64 1. Cuneiform, — — ib. 2. Condyles, - - ib. Holes, - - - ib. 1. Foramen Magnum, - - ib. 2. Hole for the ninth Pair of Nerves, 65 3. for the Cervical Vein of the Neck, ib. 4. Common Hole, - - ib. Os Temporis, - - Squamous part. Petrous part, Proceffes' 1. Zygomatic, 2. Styloid, 3. Vaginal, 4. Maftoid or Mamillary, 5. Auditory, Holes, For the Ear, 1. Meatus Auditorius Externus, 2. — Internus, 3. Small Hole receiving* a Branch from the fifth Pair of Nerves, 4 Stylo-Maftoid Hole, 5. Hole for the Euftachian Tube, For Blood Veffels, 1. For the Carotid Artery, 2. For the Great Lateral Sinus, called the Common Hole, as formed partly by the Tempo- ral, partly by the Occipital Bone, - - 3. Small Hole on the outfide of the Temporal Bone, 65 66 ib. ib. 67 ib. 68 ib. ib. 70 ib. ib. 71 72 73 O*CONTENTS. XVI Os ALthmoides, Page I • Cribriform Plate, 2. Crifta Galli, 3. Nafal Plate, or Azygous Procefs, 4. Spongy Bones f. Orbitary Plate, or Os Planum, 6. Os Unguis, 7. Cells, Os Sphenoides, - - Procefles, - • 1. Alx, 2. Orbitary procefs, 3. Spinous procefs, 4. Styloid procefs, 5. Pterygoid procefles, 6. Azygous procefs, 7. Clynoid procefles, Anterior, Pofterior, Sella Turcica, and its Cells, Holes, 1. Foramen Opticum 2. Lacerum, 3. Rotuiidum, 4. — — Ovale, 5. Spinale, 6. Pterygoid, or Vidian Hole, 74 ib. ib. 7 S 76 ib. ib. 77 78 ib. ib. ib. 79 ib. 80 ib. ib. 81 ib. 82 ib. 83 84 ib. 85 CHAP. IV.—BONES OF THE FACE AND JAWS. 85. Ossa Nasi, * - - « 86. Os Unguis, - - - - ib* Ossa Maxillaria Superior, - - 87 Procefles, 1. Nafal, - - 88 2. Orbitary, - * * ib* 3. Malar, - - ib. 4. AlveolarPage 4. Alveolar, - 89 5. Palate Procefs, - ib. Antrum Maxillare, or Highmorianum, * 90 Holes, t. Infra Orbitary, - 92 2. Foramen Incifivum, or Anterior Palatine Hole, • 93 3. Pofterior Palatine Hole, - « ib. Ossa Palati, 94 Procefles, 1. Palatal Plate or Procefs, » ib. Middle Palatal Suture, ♦ 91 Tranfverfe Palatal Suture, • ib. 2. Pterygoid Procefs, • ib. 3. Nafal Plate or Procefs, - 96 4. Orbitary Procefs, - ib. Palatine Cells, - ib. Ossa Spongiosa, or Turbinata Inferiora, - ib. Vomer, - - 98 Os Mal.e, - - 99 Procefles, I. Upper Orbitary, * ib. 2. Inferior Orbitary, - ib. 3. Maxillary, - ib. 4. Zygomatic, - 10a 5. Internal Orbitary, to ib. Os Maxillje Inferioris, . . ib. Procefles, - - IOI 1. Coronoid, to ib. 2. Condyloid, - 102 3. Alveolar, . ib. Holes, i. Large Hole on the inner-fide for the entry of the lower Maxillary Nerve and Artery, - 104 2. Mental Hole, a ib. urox.. s, c CHAP,CONTENTS. SVIM ' CHAP. V.—OF THE TRUNK. VI*. OF THE SPINE, THORAX, AND PELVIS. Page I. Or the Spine——General View of the Spine—its motions—and the Divfion of the Vertebrae, 105 General Defcription of a Vertebra, . 107 1. Body of the Vertebra, - ib. 2. Articulating, or Oblique Proceffes, - 108 3. Spinous Proceffes, - - ib. 4. Tranfverfe Proceffes, - - 109 Vertebrae of the Loins, - . ib. Vertebrae of the Back, - - no Vertebrae of the Neck, - - ns Atlas, - - - 113 Dentatus, - - . 116 Medullary Tube and the Paffage of the Nerves, 117 Intervertebral Subftance, . . ng Motions of the Vertebra, - - 12a II. Or the Thorax, i. Of the Ribs. General Defcription of a Rib Divifion of the Ribs into true and falfe—Form of a Rib, and place of the Intercoftal Artery, 12I The Parts of the Rib the Head, Neck— Surface for articulating with the Tranfverfe Procefs—Nature of the Joint and Motion of the Rib—Angle of the Rib, - 123, 124 Size and Length of the Ribs—The Cartilages of the Ribs, - - 125 ii. Of the Sternum, and its three Parts, - 126 III. O?CONTENTS. SI3* c % XII. Fibvla, Page III. Of the Pelvis, • 129 i. Os Sacrum, - • 130 ii. Os Coxygis, - - 133 iii. Ossa Innominata, - 134 I i. Os Ilium, or Haunch Bone r. Ala—Spine—Spinous Procef- fes, anterior and pofterior 2. Dorfum—3. Cofta—4. Linea Innominata, - - 135, 136 ii. Os Ischium, or Hip-Bone 1. Body 2. Tuber 3. Ra- mus, - - , 137, 138 iii. Os Pubis, or Share-Bone Body -Creft Ramus, - ib. Recapitulation of the chief Points of the Ana- tomy of the Pelvis, - - 139 Size of the Pelvis in Man and Woman, - 140 Remarks on the feparation of the Bone3 of the pubis during labour, » - 145 CHAP. VI.—BONES OF THE THIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. I. Femur, - . 1. Body, 2. Head, 3. Neck, 4. Trochanter major, 5. Trochanter minor, - 6. Linea afpera, 7. Condyles, - II. Tibia, 1. Upper head, - 2. Body, 3. Lower Head—Inner Ankle, 3 47 148 149 ib. 150. ib. *5* ib. IS3 ib. ISSCONTENTS, XX III. Fibula, 1. Upper Head, 2. Lower Head—Outer Ankle, IV. Rotula, Patella, or Knee-pan, V. Tarsus, or Instep, 1. Altragalus, 2. Os Calcis, 3. Os Naviculare, 4 ? 5. r CuneiForm Bones, 6. * 7. Os Cuboides, VI. Metatarsus and its five Bones, VII. Toes.—Sefamoid Bones,. Page 15$ ib. *57 158 159 161 ib. 162 163 ib. 164 165 CHAP. VII.—BONES OF THE SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. Shoulder. i. Scapula, or Shoulder-blade, - 166 1. The flat fide of the Scapula, - 167 2. The upper flat Surface, - t68 3. The Triangular Form of the Sca- pula—Cofta—Bafis, - ib. 4. The Glenoid, or Articulating Ca- vity, - - 169 5. The Neck, - - 170 6. The Spine, - - ib. 7. The Acromion Procefs, - 171 8. The Coracoid Procefs, - ib. ii. Claticle, or Collar Bone, - 172 1. The Thoracic End and Joint, 173 2. The Outer End, and its union with the Scapula, - ib. II. Arm,CONTENTS. XXI II. Arm, Os Humeri, 1. Head, - 2. Neck, 3. Tuberofities, - • 4. Groove for the Tendon of the Biceps Mufcle, 5. Ridges leading to the Condyles, 6- Condyles, 7. Articulating Surface for the Elbow, joint, and general explanation of the joint, 8. Hollows for the Olecranon and Coronoid Procefs of the Ulna, \ III. Ulna and Radius, Page *73 174- lb. ib. 175 ib. 176 *77 ib. ib. I. Ulna, - * 178 1. Greater Sigmoid Cavity, formed by 1. Olecranon, - - ib. 2. Coronoid Procefs, - ib. 2. Leffer Sigmoid Cavity for receiving the Head of the Radius, - 179 3. Ridges, - - ib. 4. Lower Head of the Ulna, - ib. 5. Styloid Procefs of the Ulna, * 180 II. Radius, - - ib. 1. Body, - - ib. 2. Upper Head, * - j8| 3. Neck, - - ib. 4 Point for the Implantation of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti, - - ib. 5. Lower Head, - - ib. IV. Hand and Fingers, - - ib. General Explanation of the Hand and Wrift, Carpus, Metacarpus, and Fingers, - 182 « 2 I. Cari>u$sCONTENTS. 2X11 Page I. Carpus, or Wrist, 183 I. Row forming the Wrift, • 184 1. Os Scaphoides, - ib. 2. Os Lunare, - - 18; 3. Os Cuneiforme, ib. 4. Os Pififorme, * ib. 2. Row fupporting the Metacarpal Bones, 186 1. Trapezium, - ib. 2. Trapezoides, ib. 3. Os Magnum, - ib. 4. Os Unciforme, 187 II. Metacarpus, 188 III. Fingers, * 189 BOOK II. OF THE MUSCLES. CHAP. I —MUSCLES OF THE FACE, EAR, AND EYE. I. Muscles of the Face, - - 191 1. Occipito Frontalis, - - ib. 2. Corrugator Supercilii, - 193 3. Orbicularis Oculi, or Palpebrarum, 194 4. Levator Palpebras Superioris, - 195 II. Muscles of the Nose and Mouth, - 196 5. Levator Labii Superioris et Alae Nafi, ib. 6. ' - proprius, 197 7. Levator Anguli Oris, or Levator Communis Labiorum, - ib. 8. ZygomaticusCONTENTS, xxiii Page S. Zygomaticus Major, - ^ 197 9, ■ Minor, - 198 I. o. Buccinator, - « ib. II. Depreffor Anguli Oris, - 199 j 2. Depreffor Labii Inferioris, or Quadratus Genas, » - 200 13. Orbicularis Oris, - - ib. 14. Depreffor Labii Superioris, c-t Al<e Nafi, 202 15. Conftri&or Nafi, - - ib. 16. Levator Menti, - - 203 III. Muscles of the External Ear, - ib. 17. Superior Auris, - - 204 18. Anterior Auris, - - ib. 19. Pofterior Auris, - « ib. 20. Helicis Major, - - 205 21. Helicis Minor - - ib. 22. Tragicus, - - ib. 23. Antitragicus, - - ib. 24. Tranfverfus Auris, - - ib. IV. Muscles of the Eye-Ball, 1 - General Explanation of thefe Mufcles, 23. Redlus Superior, 26. Reftus Inferior, 27. Redlus lnternus, 28. Reffcus Externus, 29. Obliquus Superior, - 30. Obliquus Inferior, CHAP, II—MUSCLES of THE LOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. J. Muscles of the Lower Jaw, - - 210 31. Temporalis, r - ib. 32. Maffeter, - - 211 33. Pteregoideus Internus, or Major, - 212 ^4. Pteregoideus Externus, or Minor, >- ib. £ 4 II. Muscles, 205 ib. 207 ib. ib. ib. 208 ib.CONTENTS. atxtT 4. Mufcles Page II. Muscles or the Throat and Tongue, - zit Explanation of certain Bones and Cartilages forming the bafis of the Thr.oat and Tongue, and the centre of their motions, - - 213 I. Os Hyoides,—Its Cornua,—Its Appendices, or perpendicular Procefies, - ib. 3. Larynx, Trachea, or Windpipe, - 214 1. Scutiform, or Thyroid Cartilage, - ib. 2. Cricoid Cartilage, - - 215 3. Arytenoid Cartilages, and Rima Glottidis formed by them, - ib. 4. Epiglottis, - - ib. Recapitulation and view of the conftitution of the Larynx, - - 216 i. Muscles of the Throat, - - 2 ■'7 1. Mufcles which pull the Throat down, - 218 34. Sterno-hyoideus, - - ib. 35. Stcrno-thyroideus, - - ib- 36. Omo-hyoideus, - - ib. Aftion of thefe Mufcles, - 219 2. Mufcles which move the Throat upwards, ib. 37. Mylo-hyoideus, - - ib. 38. Genio-hyoideus, ~ - ib. 39. Stylo-hyoideus, - - 220 40. Digaftricns, or Biventer Maxillae Inferi- oris, - - 221 3. Mufcles moving the parts and cartilages of the Larynx upon each other, - - ib. 41. Hyo-tbyroideus - - ib. 42. Crico-thyroideus, r 222 43. Mufculus Arytenoideus Tranfverfus, - ib. 44. Mufculus Arytenoideus Obliquus - 223 43. Crico Arytenoideus Pofticus, - ib. 4/5. Crico Arytenoideus Obliquus, - ib. 47. Thyreo Arytenoideus, - * ib.XXV CONTENTS. Page 4. Mufcles of the Palate and Pharynx, - 224 48. Azygus Uvula;, - - ib. 49. Levator Palati Mollis, - - ib. 50. Circumflexis Palati, or Tenfor Palati Mol- lis, - - 223 ci. Conflriftor Ifthini Faufchium, - 226 52. Palato Pharyngeus, Pharynx explained, 53. Stylo-pharyngeus, 54. Conftri&or Superior, 35. Conftriftor Meditis, 56. Conftri&or Infetior, 57. Vaginalis Gulae, ii. Muscles of the Tongue, 58. Stylo-Glossus, 59. Hyo-gloffus, 60. Genio-gloffus, 61. Lingualis, Motions of the Tongi Mufcles, ib. ib. 227 228 ib. - - 22 9 ib. ib. ib. ib, 230 ib. performed by thefe ib. CHAP. IIT.—OF THE MUSCLES OF THE ARM, INC -UDING THE MUSCLES OF THE SCAPULA, ARM, FORE-ARM, AND HAND. I. Muscles of the Scapula, - - 2 1. Mufcles moving the Scapula upwards and back- wards, - - 233 62. Trapezius, - - ib. 63. Levator Scapulae, or Levator Proprius An- gularis, - - 235 64 & 65. Rhomboides, - - ib. 1. Minor, - - ib. 2. Major, - - ib. ii. Mufcles which move the Scapula downwards and forwards, - - ib. 66. SerratusCONTENTS. XXVI Page 66. Serratiis Major Anticus, - - 236 67. Peftoralis Minor, - - 237 68. Subclavianus, - - ib. Motions of the Scapula, - - 238 II. Muscles moting the Os Humeri, or Arm Bone, ib. 69. Pe&oralis Major, - - ib. 70. Latifiimus Dorfi, - - 239 71. Deltoides, - . 241 72. Coraco-brachialis, - - 242 73 Supra Spinatus, • - 243 74 Infra Spinatus, - - 244 75. Teres Minor, - - ib. 76. Teres Major, - - 245 77. Subfcapularis, - - 246 Motions of the Humerus, and Ufe and EfFeft of each of thefe Mufcles in forming and lengthening the Joint, - - 247 III. Muscles moving the Fore-arm, i. Mufcles bending the Fore-arm, 78. Biceps Brachii Flexor, 79. Braehialis Interims, ii. Mufcles extending the Fore-arm, 80. Triceps Extenfor, 81. Anconeus, 249 ib. ib. 250 ib. ib. 2J2 IV. Muscles situated on the Fore-arm, moving the Radius, Carpus, and Fingers, - 253 Fafcia of the Arm, - - ib. Arrangement of thefe Mufcles, the points of ori- gin and infertion, and the motions of prona- tion and fupination, flexion, and extenfion ex« plained, 254 Flexors arifing from the Inner Condyle, - 256 82. Pronator Teres Radii, 257 83. Palmaris Longus, - ib. 84. Palmaris Brevis, or Cutaneus* - 259 85. Flexor Carpi Radialis, - - ib. 86, Flexorxxvn contents. CHAP. 86. Flexor Carpi' Ulnaris, 87. Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, 88. Flexor Digitorum Profundus, vel Perfo- rans ... 89. Lumbricales, 90. Flexor Longus Pollicis, 91. Pronator Quadratus, ii. Extensors ariling from tbe Outer Condyle, 92. Supinator Radii Longus, 93. Extenfor Carpi Radialis Longior, 94. Extenfor Carpi Radialis Brevior, 95. Extenfor Carpi Ulnaris, 96. Extenfor Digitorum Communis, 97. Extenfor Minimi Digit!, or Auricularis, 98. Extenfor Primus Pollicis, 99. Extenfor Secundus Pollicis, loo. Extenfor Tertius Pollicis, toi. Indicator, 102. Supinator Brevis, Page 260 261 263 264 265 2 66 267 268 269 ib. 270 271 273 274 275 276 ib. 277 V. Muscles seated on the Hand, Table of thefe Mufcles, 103. Abdudtor Pollicis, 104. Opponens Pollicis, 105. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, 106. Addudfor Pollicis, 107. Abduftor Minor Digiti, 108. Flexor Parvus Minimi Digiti, 109. Adduftor Minimi Digiti, 110. Abdu&or Indicis, Hi. Interoffei Interni, 112, Interoffei Externi, 278 ib. 279 2 80 281 282 ib. 283 ib. ib. 284 ib.xxviii CONTENTS. / CHAP. IV—MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION* OR. OF THE RIBS. Page General Explanation and Table of thefe Mufcles, 285 ' 113. Serratus Superior Pofticus, - 287 114. Serratus Inferior Pofticus, - ib. 115. Levatores Coftarum, - - 288 116. Intercoftales, - - 289 117. Triangularis Stern!, or Sterno-Coftah's, 29? CHAP. V.—MUSCLES OF THE HEAD, NECK, AND TRUNK. I. Muscles of the Head and Neck, i 18. Splenius, - 201 119. Compiexus, - 292 120 Trachelo maftoideus. - 294 T21• Redtus Minor, • 2.95 122. Re&us Major, - ib. 123. Obliquus Superior, - 296 124. Obliquus Inferior, - ib. IL1S OF THE TrUNIL, ,25 Quadratus Lumborum, - 297 126. Longiflimu8 Dorfi, 297» 298 127. Sacro Lumbalis, 298, 299 iz8. Ctrvicalis Defcendens, - 300 129. Tranfverfalis Colli, - 301 Arrangement of the intricate fet of Mufcles filling up the hollows and interftices among the Spines and Procefies of the Vertebra, - 3°2 130. Spinalis Cervicis, - 3°3 131. Spinalis Dorfi, - ib. 132. Semi-fpinalis Dorfi, 3°4 133. Multifidus Spinse, - ib. 134. Inter-fpinales Colli, Dorfi, et Lumborum, 305 135. Inter.tranfverfales. - 306 III. MusclesCONTENTS. XXIX III. Muscles gn the fore part of the Heap andNeck, completing the Catalogue of thofe belonging to the Page Spine, ... 306 136. Platyfma Myoides, - - ib„ 137. Maftoideus, - - 307 138. Reflus Internus Capitis Major, - ib. 139. Refills Internus Capitis Minor, - 308 140. Reflus Capitis Lateralis, - ib. 141. Longus Colli, - - ib. 142. Scalenus, - • 309 CHAP. VI.—OF THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN1, AND OF THE DIAPHRAGM. I. Muscles of the Abdomen, - - 311 Importance of the Anatomy of the Abdominal Muf- cles,— General Explanation of thefe Mufcles, — their Ufes,—Arrangement, - ib. 143. Gbliquus Externus, - - 313 144. Obliquus Internus, - 314 145. Tranfverfalis Abdominis, - ib 146. Refli, - 1 315 147 Pyramidalis, - - 316 Explanation of the Lines, Rings, Sec. of the Ab- dominal Mufcles, - _ 3 j7 1. Linea Alba, - - ib. 2. Linea Semilunaris, - - ib, 3. Sheath for the Reflus, - ib. 4. Umbilicus, - - 318 5. Ring of the Abdominal Mufcles, 319 148. Cremafter Mufcles of the Teflicle, 320 6. Ligament of the Thigh, • 321 Explanation of the different kinds of Her- nia, and the points at which the bowels are protruded, - - ib. Ufes of the Abdominal Mufcles, - 323 II. Diaphragm,. J XXX CONTENTS. CHAP. II. Diaphragm, » _ 149, The Diaphragm, j. The Greater, or Upper Mufcle of the Diaphragm, 2. The Lefler Mufcle of the Diaphragm, 3. The Tendon in the centre of the Dia- . * phragm, - - Veffels perforating the Diaphragm, 1. Aorta, - 2. Oefophagus, 3. The Great Vena CaVa The Tendon of the Diaphragm, Ufes of the Diaphragm, Page 3 23 ib. 324 325 ib. 326 ib. ib. 327 ib. ib. CHAP. VII.—THE MUSCLES OF THE PARTS OF GENERATION, AND OF THE ANUS AND PERINEUM. General idea of thefe Mufcles, - - 329 Stru&ure of the Penis, - 330 150. Ere&or Penis, - - - ib. 151. Tranfverfalis Perinaei, - ( - 33* 152. Accelerator, - - - ib. 153. Sphin&er Ani, - - 332 154. Levator Ani, - « - ib. 155. Mufculus Coccygseus, - - 334 Perineum, the point where all thefe Mufcles are united, ib. Courfe of the Incifion in Lithotomy, = - ib.XXXI CONTENTS. CHAP. VIII.—MUSCLES OF THE THIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. I. Muscles moving the thigh-bone. General Defcription of thefe Mufcles, —Claflifica- tion and Arrangement of them,—and Table of their Implantations, and of the Motions which they perform, Fafcia of the Thigh, 136. Mufculus Fafcialis, or Tenfor Vaginae Femoris, 157. Pfoas Magnus, 158. Pfoas Parvus, 159. Iliacus lntermjs, 160. Pedtineus, or Pedtinalis, - 161. Triceps Femoris, 1. Addudtor Longus, 2. Addudtor Brevis, 3. Addudtor Magnus, 162. Obturator Externus, 163. Glutaeus Maximus, 164. Glutaeus Medius, or Minor, 165. Glutaeus Minimus, 166. 167 |68. Pyriformis, 169. Obturator Internus, 170. Quadratus Femoris, Motions of the Thigh, and Adtion of thefe Mufcles, Page 336 Gei ib. 338 339 340 341 ib. 342 ib. 343 ib. 344 345 346 347 ib. 348 ib. 349 350 ib. II. Muscles of the Leg, Arrangement of thefe Mufcles, - 352 i. Extensors of the Leg, - =. g-a 171. Redtus Femoris, or Redtus Cruris, - ib. 172. Cruraeus, - ^54 Sub-crursei, being flips only of the Cru- raeus, - - ib. 173. Vaftus Externus, * » ib, * 374. Vaftusxxxn CONTENTS. Page 174. Vaftus Internus, - - 359 Ufes of thefe Mufcles, - 356 ii. Flexors of the Leg, - - 357 175. Sartorius, - - ib. 176. Gracilis, or Re&us Internus Fcmoris, 358 177. Semitendinofus, - - 359 X78. Semimembranofus, - - 360 179. Poplitaeus, - * 361 t8o. Biceps Cruris, - . ib. III. Muscles of the Foot, Arrangement, ... 362 i. Extensors, ... 363 )8i. Gaftrocnemius, - . ib. 182. Soleus, * - ib. 183 Plantaris, - - 364 184. Peronaeus Longus, - - 365 185. Peronaeus Brevis, - - 367 186. Tibialis Pofticus, - - 368 ii. Flexor, - * ib. 187. Tibialis Anticus, - - 369 IV. Muscles of the Toes, - - 370 188. Flexor Longus Pollicis, 189. Flexor Longus Digitorum Pedis, Perforans, 190. Mafia Carnea J. Sylvii, or Plants Pedis, 191. Flexor Brevis Digitorum, 192. Lumbricales, 193. Extenfor Longus Digitorum Pedis, 194. Peronaeus Tertius, 195. Extenfor Digitorum Brevis, 196. Extenfor Pollicis Proprius, Crucial Ligament, 197. Abduftor Pollicis, 198. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, 199. Addudtor Pollicis, 300. Tranfverfalis Pedis, ib. 37* 37* 373 374 37 S 37*5 ib. 377 378 379 ib. 380 ib. 201. Abdu&orCONTENTS. xxxiii Page 201. AbduXor Minimi Digiti, - 381 202. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, - ib. 203. Interofiei Interni, - » 382 204. Interoflei Externi, - - ib. Plantaris Aponeurofis, - - ib. CHAP. IX.—OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. CHAP. X.—OF THE TENDONS, LIGAMENTS, BURSTS, AND ALL THE PARTS WHICH BELONG TO THE BONES OR MUSCLES, OR WHICH ENTER INTO THE CONSTITUTION OF A JOINT. General Explanation of the Tendons, Ligaments, &c. ® 403 Of the Forms of the Cellular Subftance, - - 40^ 1. Its Cells, and their ufe, - » ib. 2. Burfse Mucofae, «... 406 3. Vaginae or Fafciae, - ib. 4. Tendons, ... . 407 5. Periofteum, ... 408 6. Vagina, or Sheaths of Tendons, - . 409 7. Capfules of the Joints, - . ib. 8. Ligaments of Joints, - - 410 Recapitulation and Review of the connexions of thefe parts, 411 Conftitution and Nature of thofe lefs feeling parts,—almoit infenfible in health,—How to inflame,-—their inflammation very violent, though flow,—difeafes to which they are liable, - «. . . 412 • a BOOKCONTENTS. XXXIV BOOt III. OF THE JOINTS. CHAP. I.—JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND TRUNK- Page I. Joints of the Head and Spine, » « 417 The Motions of the Head and Spine, - ib. The Provifiops for thefe Motions, - 418 j. Joint of the Head with the Neck, - ib. 1. Articulation of the Occiput and Atlas, - ib. Form of the Joint and Caplules for the Con- dyles, - - - ib. Flat membranous Ligament from the Ring , of the Atlas to the Ring of the Occipital Hole, - - - ib. 2. Articulation of the Atlas with the Dentatus, 41^ Capfules betwixt the Condyles of the Verte- brae, - • - ib. Tranfverfe Ligament embracing the Neck of the Tooth-like Procefs Capfular Liga- ment, ... ib. Ligament betwixt the Tooth-like Procefs and Occipital Hole, - * - ib. ii. Joints of the Common Vertebrae with each other, 420 Intervertebral Subilance, and Intervertebral Liga- ments, - " ib. External or Anterior Vagina, or Ligament of the Spine, - - " - 421 Internal Ligaments, » tb. Ligamenta Subflava Crurum ProcefTuum Spi- noforum—Membranse Interfpinales—Liga- menta ProcefTuum Tranfverforum, - 422 PofteriorXXX CONTENTS. II. I'kNEE Page Poflerior or Internal Ligament of the Spine, * - - 422 Aparatus Ligamentofus Colli, - 423 II. Joint of the Lower Jaw, - - 424 III. Joints of the Ribs, - - 425 Ligamenta Capitelli Coftarum, - if „ Ligamentum Tranfverfarium Externum, 426 Internum, ib. Capfule and Ligaments belonging to the Cartilages, jb. CHAP. II.—JOINTS OF THE SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. I. Joints of the Clavicle, ... 427 With the Sternum, - - ib. With the Scapula, - - 428 II. Joint of the Shoulder, ... 429 III. Joint of the Elbow, - - 431 The General Capfule of the whole Joint, 432 The Lateral Ligaments, External and In- ternal, - ib. The Coronary Ligament of the Ulna, - 4^3 Acceffory Ligaments, - ib, IV. Wrist, - ... 434 Articulation of the Scaphpid and Lunated Bones with the Scaphoid Cavity of the Radius, - ib. Articulation of the Radius with the Ulna for the turning Motions of the Hand, - - 433 Articulation of the Bones of the Carpus with each other, ... - - 435 Articulations of the Metacarpus, - - ib. V. Joints of the Fingers, - . - ib. - & „ / %• CHAP. III.—JOINTS OF THE THIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. I. The Hip-Joint, ... - 439 The Ligamentum Labri Cart.laginei Tranfverfale, ib. The Capfule of the Joint, - - 440 The Internal Ligaments, » - ib.xxxvi CONTENTS, Page II. Knee-joint, ... 443 1. The External Ligaments, - - ib. Capfule—and Ligamentum Pofticum Winflowii, ib. Lateral Ligaments, - - 444 Ligamentum Laterale Internum, - 44^ Externum Longior, ib. • Brevior, - ib. 2. The Internal or Crucial Ligaments of the Knee, ib. Pofterior Crucial Ligament, - - ib. Anterior , - - 446 Semilunar, or moveable Cartilages, - - ib. Ligamentum Mucofum —-- and Ligamentum Alare Majus et Minus, - 447 Burfae Mucofse of the Knee-Joint, - - 448 Recapitulation, explaining the Conftitution of this Joint, and ufes of its various parts, - - 450 III. Articulation of the Fibula with the Tibia, - 452 IV. Ankle-joint, - ib. Ligamentum Superius Anticum, - 453 ; Pofticum, - ib. Inferius Pofticum, - ib Capfule, - - ib. Ligamentum Deltoides, - - 454 Fibuke Anterius, - - ib. — —-- Perpendiculare, - ib. Inter Fibulam et Aftragalum Pof- terius, - - ib. V. Joints of the Foot, - - - ib. Articulation of the Bones of the Tarfus with each other, - - - 4 55 Joints of the Metatarfus and Toes, - - ib. Aponeurofis Plantaris Pedis, - - 456 Burfae Mucofas of the Angle and Foot, - 457 Conclusion and Enumeration of the Joints, 45S THETHE ANATOMY OF THE BONES, MUSCLES, AND JOINTS. BOOK I. OF THE BONES. CHAP. I. OF THE FORMATION AND GROWTH OF BONES. It is not eafy to explain, in their natural order, the various parts of which the human body is compofed; for they have that mutual dependence upon each other, that continued circle of aCtion and re-aCtion in their va- rious functions, and that intricacy of connection, and clofe dependence, in refpect of the individual parts, that, as in a circle there is no point* of preference from which we ihould begin to trace its courfe, fo in the human body there is no function fo infuiated from the dther functions, no part fo independent of other parts, ,as to determine our choice. We cannot begin with- out hefitation, nor hope to proceed in any perfeCt courfe; yet, from whatever point we begin, we may vol. j, b foOF THE FORMATION 2 fo return to that point, as to reprefent truly this con- fent of fun&ions, and connexion of parts, by which it is compofed into one perfect whole. The bones are framed as a bafis for the whole fyf- tem; fitted to fupport, defend, and contain the more delicate and noble organs. They are the moft perma- nent and unchangeable of all parts of the body. We fee them expofed to the feafons, without fullering the fmalleft change ; remaining for ages the memorials of the dead; the evidence of a former race of men ex- ceeding ours in firength and ftature ; the only remains of creatures which no longer exift; the proofs of fuch changes on our globe, as we cannot trace but by thefe uncertain marks. Thus we are apt to conceive, that even in the living body, bones are hardly organized; fcarcely partaking of life; not liable, like the foft parts, to difeafe and death. But minute anatomy, the moll pleafing part of our fcience, unfolds and explains to us the internal ftructure of the bones; {hows their myriads of veflels; and proves them to be as full of blood as the moft fucculent and flelhy parts; having, like them, their periods of growth and decay; being as liable to accidents, and as fubjeft to internal difeafe. The phenomena of fractured bones firft fuggefted fome indiftindt notions of the way in which bone might be formed. It was obferved, that in very aged men, a hard cruft was often formed upon the furface of the bones; that the fluid exuding into the joints of gouty people, fometimes coagulated into a chalky mafs; Le Dran had feen in a cafe of fpina ventofa, or fcrophulous bone, an exudation which flowed out like wax, and hardened into perfect bone; Daventer had3 AND GROWTH OF RONES. had feen the juice that exuded from a fplit in a bone, co- agulate into a bony cruft; and it was thought to be par- ticularly well afcertained, that callus was but a coagu- lable juice, which might be feen exuding directly from the broken ends of a bone, and which gradually coagu- lated into hard bone. The beft phyftologifts did not fcruple to believe, that bones, and the callus of bro- ken bones, were formed of a bony juice, which was de- pofited by the veffels of the part, and which paifmg through all the fucceflive conditions of a thin unco- agulated juice, of a tranfparent cartilage, and of foft and flexible bone, became at laft, by a flow coagula- tion, a firm, hard, and perfeft bone ; depending but little upop veffels or membranes, either for its genera- tion or growth, or for nourifliment in its perfect ftate. But this coagulation is a property of dead matter, which has no place in the living fyftem; or if blood or mucus do ever coagulate within the body, it is only after they are feparated from the fyftem. Coagulation is a fort of accident in the living body; and it is not to be believed that the accidental concourfe of parts fhould form the perfect fyftem of a living bone ; nor that coa- gulation, an irregular uncertain procefs, fhould keep pace with the growth of the living parts; that a bone which is completely organized, and a regular part of the living fyftem, fhould, in all its progrefs towards this perfect ftate, be merely inanimate, inorganized matter: Yet this opinion once prevailed ; and if other theories were at that time propofed, they did not vary in any very effential point from this firft notion. De Heide, a furgpon of Amfterdam, believed that bene or callus were not formed from a coagulable juice, but from the b 2 blood4 OF THE FORMATION blood itfelf. He broke the bones of animals, and, examining them at various points of time, he never failed (like other fpeculators) to find exadly what he defined to find. In “ every experiment,” he found a great elfufion of blood among the mufcles, and round the broken bone: and he as eafily traced this blood through all the llages of its progrefs; on the firft day red and fluid; by and by coagulated; then gradually becoming white, then cartilaginous, and at laft (by the exhalation of its thinner parts) hardening into perfect bone. It is very Angular, that often thofe who abjure theory, and appeal to experiments, who profefs only to deliver fads, are leafl of all to be trufted; for it is theory which brings them to try experiments, and then the form and order; and even the refult of fuch experi- ments, mull: bend to meet the theories which they were defigned to prove. It is by this deception that the au- thors of two rival doctrines arrive at oppofite conclu- fions by fads diredly oppofed to each other. Du Hamel believed, that as the bark formed the wood of a tree, adding, by a fort of fecretion, fucceflive layers to its growth; fo the periofteum formed the bone at the firft, renewed it when fpoiled or cut away, and, when broken, alfumed the nature of bone, and repaired the breach. He broke the bones of pigeons, and, allow- ing them to heal, he found the periofteum to be the chief organ for producing bone. He found that the callus had no adhefion to the broken bone, and was ea- fily feparated from the broken ends which remained rough and bare. And, in purfuing thefe difledions, he found the periofteum fairly glued to the external fur- 7 face5 AND GROWTH OF BONES. face of the new bone; or he found rather the callus or regenerated bone to be but a mere thickening of the periofteum, its layers being feparated, and its fub- ftance fwelled. On the firft days he found the peri- ofteum thickened, inflamed, and eaftly divided into many lamellae, or plates ; but while the periofteum was fuffering thefe changes, the bone was in no degree changed. On the following days, he found the tu- mor of the periofteum increafed at the place of the fradture, and extending further along the bone; its in- ternal furface already cartilaginous, and always tinged with a little blood, which came to it through the vef- fels of the marrow. He found the tumor of the peri- ofteum fpongy, and divifible into regular layers, while {till the ends of the bone were unchanged, or only a little roughened by the firft layer of the periofteum be- ing already converted into earth and depofited upon the furface of the bone: and in the next ftage of its progrefs, he found the periofteum firmly attached to the furface of the callous mafs. By wounding, not breaking, the bones, he had ftill a more flattering ap- pearance of a proof; for having pierced them with holes, he found the holes filled up with a fort of tom- pion, proceeding from the periofteum, which was thickened all round them. In an early ftage, this plug could, by drawing the periofteum, be pulled out from its hole :* In a more advanced ftage, it was infe- parably united to the bone, fo as to fupply the lofs. Haller, doubting whether the periofteum, a thin and delicate membrane, could form fo large a mafs of bone or callus, repeated the proofs; and he again found cpiite the reverfe of all this : That the callus, or the orb £ 3 gina^OF THE FORMATION 6 ginal bone, were in no degree dependent on the peri- ofteum, but were generated from the internal veffels of the bone itfelf: That the periofteum did indeed ap- pear as early as the cartilage which is to produce the bone, feeming to bound the cartilage, and give it form ; but that the periofteum was at firfl but a loofe tiffue of cellular fubftance, without the appearance of veffels, or any mark of blood, adhering chiefly to the heads or proceffes, while it hardly touched the body of the bone. He alfo found that the bone grew, became vafcular, had a free circulation of red blood, and that then only the veffel of the periofteum began to carry red blood, or to adhere to the bone. We know that the bones begin to form in fmall nuclei, in the very centre of their cartilage, or in the very centre of the yet fluid callus, far from the furface, where they might be affifted by the periofteum; and that oflification begins firft in the middle of the long bones, where the periofteum does not adhere, and is formed much later in the heads and proceffes, whofe connexion with the periofteum is very clofe. Thus has the formation of bone been falfely attri- buted to a gelatinous effufion, gradually hardened; or to that blood which muft be poured out from the rup- tured veffels round a fractured bone ; or to the indura- tion and change of the periofteum, depoftting layer after layer, till it completed the form of the bone. But when, neglecting theory, we fet ourfelves to ex- amine, with an unbiaffed judgment, the procefs of na- ture in forming the bones, as in the chick, or in reftor- ing them, as in broken limbs, a fucceflion of pheno- mena prefent themfelves, the moft orderly, beautiful, andAND GROWTH OF BONES. 7 and Ample, of any that are recorded in the philo- fophy of the animal body: for if bones were but ■condenfed gluten, coagulated blood, or a mere depofition from the periofteum, they were then in- organized, and out of the fyftem, not fubjedt to change, nor open to difeafe ; liable, indeed, to be broken, but without any means of being healed again: while they are, in truth, as fully organized, as per- meable to the blood, as eafdy hurt, and as eafily healed, as fenfible to pain, and as regularly changed as the fofter parts are. We are not to refer the generation and growth of bone to any one part. It is not formed by that gelly in which the bone is layed; nor by the blood which is circulating in it; nor by the periofteum which covers it; nor by the medullary membrane with which it is lined: but the whole fyftem of the bone, of which thefe are parts on- ly, is deftgned and planned, is laid out in the very ele- ments of the body, and advances to ripenefs by the con- curring adlion of all its parts. The arteries, by a de- termined adlion, depofite the bone; which is formed commonly in a bed of cartilage, as the bones of ther leg or arm are ; fometimes betwixt two layers of mem- brane, like the bones of thelkull, where true cartilage is never feen. Often the fecretion of the bony mat- ter is performed in a diftindt bag, and there it grows into form, as in the teeth; for each tooth is formed in its little bag, which, by injedtion, can be filled and covered with veffels. Any artery of the body may affume this adlion, and depofite bone, which is fome- times alfo formed where it fhould not be ; in the ten- dons and in the joints., in the great arteries, and in J3 4 theirOF THE FORMATION their valves, in the flefh of the heart itfelf, or even in the foft and pulpy fubftance of the brain. All the bones of the body, both in the human foe- tus, and in other animals, are merely cartilage before the time of birth. The whole foetus is gelatinous; the bones are a pure, almofl tranfparent and tremulous gelly; they are flexible, fo that a long bone can be bent into a complete ring ; and no opacity, nor fpot of oflification is feen. This cartilage is never hardened into bone; but, from the firfl, it is in itfelf an organized mafs. It has its veflels; which are at firfl tranfparent, but which foon dilate, and whenever the red colour of the blood begins to appear in them, oflification very quickly fol- lows, the arteries being fo far enlarged as to carry the coarfer parts of the blood. The firfl mark of oflifi- cation is an artery, which is feen running into the cen-_ tre of the gelly in which the bone is to be formed. Other arteries foon appear; overtake the firfl; mix with it, and form a net-work of veflels; then a centre of oflification begins, firetching its rays according to the length of the bone, and then the cartilage begins to grow opaque, yellow, brittle ; it will no longer bend, and the fmall nucleus of oflification is felt in the cen- tre of the bone, and when touched with a fharp point, is eafily known by its gritty feeh Other points of of- fification are fucceflively formed ; the oflification being always foretold by the fpreading of the artery, and by the arrival of red blood. Every point of oflification ha§ its little arteries, and each oflifying nucleus has fo little dependance on the cartilage in which it is form- ed, that it is held to it by thefe arteries only; and whenAND GROWTH OF BONES. 9 when the offifying cartilage is cut into thin flices, and fteeped in water till its arteries rot, the nucleus of of- fification drops fpontaneoufly from the cartilage, leav- ing the cartilage like a ring, with a fmooth and regular hole where the bone lay. The colour of each part of a bone is proportioned exa&ly to the degree in which its offification has advan- ced. When offification begins in the centre of the bone, rednefs alfo appears ; indicating the prefence of thofe veffels by which the bony matter is to be poured out. When the bony matter begins to accumulate, the red colour of thofe arteries is obfcured, the centre of the bone becomes yellow or white, and the colour feems to be removed towards the ends of the bone. In the centre, the firfl: colouring of the bone is a cloudy, diffufed and general red, becaufe the veffels are pro- fufe. Beyond that, at the edges of the firfl: circle, the veffels are more fcattered, and diftindl trunks are ea- fily feen, forming a circle of radiating arteries, which point towards the heads of the bone. Beyond that, again, the cartilage is tranfparent and pure, being yet untouched with blood; the arteries have not reached it, and its offification is not begun. Thus, a long bone, while forming, feems to be divided into feven 'varioufly coloured zones. The central point of moll perfect offification is yellow and'opaque. On either fide of that, there is a zone of red. On either fide of that again, the veffels being more fcattered, form a vafcular zone*, and the zone at either end is tranfpa- rent ^ It is curious to obferve how completely vafcular the bone of 3 chicken is before the offification have fairly begun j how the of- fificationIO OF fHE FORMATION' rent or white. The offification follows the veffels, bu« rying and hiding thofe veffels by which it is formed : The yellow and opaque part expands and fpreads along the bone : The veffels advance towards the heads of the bones: The whole body of the bone becomes opaque, and there is left only a fmall vafcular circle at either end : the heads are feparated from the body of the bone by a thin cartilage ; and the veffels of the centre, extending ftill towards the extremities of the bone, perforate that cartilage, pafs into the head of the bone, and then its offification alfo begins, and a ftnall nucleus of" offification is formed in its centre. Thus the heads and the body are, at the firft, diflinft bones formed apart and joined by a cartilage; and they are not united till the age of fifteen or twenty- years. The veffels are feen entering in one large trunk (the nutritious artery) into the middle of the bone: fiiication having begun, overtakes the arteries, and hides them, chang- ing the tranfparent and vafcular part of the bone into an opaque white; how, by peeling off the periofteum, bloody dots are feen, which fhows a living connexion and commerce of veffels betwixt the periofteum and the bone; hew,by tearing up the outer layers of the tender bone, the vafcularity of the inner layers is again expofed. But of all the proofs of the vafcularity of bones and depofition of the bony matter, the moft beautiful is that of our common preparations; where, after filling with injection the arteries of an adult bone, by its nutritious veffels, we, by corroding the bone with mineral acids, diffolve the earth, leaving nothing but the tranfparent gelly,and thus reftore the bone to its original cartilaginous ftate ; then the veffels appear in fuch profufion, that the bone may be compared in vafcula- rity with the foft parts, and it is feen that its arteries were not anni- hilated, but its high vafcularity only concealed by the depofttioa of the bony parts. FromAND GROWTH OF BONES. II From that centre they extend in a radiated form to- wards either end, and the fibres of the bone are radiated in the fame direction; there are furrows betwixt the rays, and the arteries run along in the furrows of the bone, as if the arteries were forming thefe ridges, fe- creting and pouring out the bony matter, each artery- piling it up on either fide to form its ridge. The bo- dy of the bone is fupplied by its own veffels; the heads of the bone are fupplied by the extremities of the fame trunks which perforate the dividing cartilage like a fieve; the periofteum adhering more firmly to the heads of the bone, it brings affiftant arteries from without, which meet the internal trunks, and affifl th e ofilfication; but with every help, the ofilfication js not accomplifhed in many years. It is by the adtion of the veffels that all the parts of the human body are formed; fluids and folids, each for its refpedtive ufe. The blood is formed by the addon of the veffels, and all the fluids are in their turn formed from the blood. We fee in the chick, where there is no external fource from which its red blood can be derived, that red blood is formed within its own fyf- tem. Every animal fyflem, as it grows, aflimilates its food, and converts it to the animal nature, and fo increafes the quantity of its red blood : And as the red blood is thus prepared by the addons of the greater fyftem, the adtions of particular veffels prepare various parts: fome to be added to the mafs of folids, for the natural growth; others to fupply the continual wafle; others to be difcharged from the body as effete, and hurtful, or to allow new matter to be received ; others again to perform certain offices within the body, as the12 OF THE FORMATION the feeretion of femen, of faliva, of bile, or of urine. Thus the body is furnifhed with various apparatus for performing various offices, and for repairing the wafte, Thefe are the fecretions, and the formation of bone is one of thefe. The plan of the whole body lies in the embryo, in perfect order, with all its forms and parts. Cartilage is laid in the place of bone, and preferves its form for the future bone, with all its apparatus of furrounding membranes, its heads, its proceffes, and its conneftion with the foft parts. The colourlefs ar- teries of this pellucid, but organized mafs of cartilage keep up its growth ; extend, and yet preferve its form; and gradually enlarging in their own diameter, at laft receive the entire blood. Then the depofition of earthy matter begins. The bone is depofited in fpecks, which fpread and meet, and form themfelves into per- fect bone. While the bone is laid by arteries, the cartilage is Conveyed away by the abforbing velfels ; and while they convey away the fuperfluous cartilage, they model the bone into its due form; ffiape out its cavities, cancelli, and holes ; remove the thinner parts of the cartilage, and harden it into due confidence. If fuch organization of arteries to depofite bone, and of abforbents to take up the cartilage and make room for the offeous matter, be neceffary in the formation and growth, it is no lefs neceffary for the life and health of the full formed bone. Its health depends on the regular depofition and reabforption, moulding and forming the parts; and by various degrees of adtion, bone is liable to inflame, to ulcerate, to rot and fpoil, to become brittle by too much fecreted earth, or to become foft by a gree^ dy difeafed abforption of its earthy parts. The earth, - whichand growth of bones. 13 the which conditutes the hardnefs, and all the ufeful pro- perties of bone, is dead, inorganized, and lies in the interfaces, of the bone; where it is united with mucus, to giye it confidence and drength; furnifhed with abforbents to keep it in health, and carry off its waff- ed parts; and pervaded by veffels to fupply it with new matter. The cartilage is itfelf a fecretion, to which the full fecretion of bone fucceeds, as the arte- ries grow dronger in their fecreting office: for in a broken limb there is fird a thin effudon, then a tremu- lous gelly, then radiated veffels, then offifying fpots, and thefe running together form perfect: bone. If the broken limb be too much moved during the cure, then the fecreting arteries are interrupted in their office; perfect bone is never formed; it remains a cartilage ; and an unnatural joint is produced : but we cut the furface of thefe cartilages, and then the veffels are opened again, the procefs is renewed, and the bones unite : or even by rubbing, by dimulat- ing, by merely cutting the furrounding parts, the veffels are made a&ive, and their fecretion is renewed. During all the procefs of offification, the abforbents proportion their adtion to the dimulus which is applied to thern they carry away the ferous fluid, when gelly is to take its place; they remove the gelly, as the bone is laid; they continue removing the bony particles alfo, which (as in a circle) the arteries continually renew. Nothing can be more curious than this continual renovation and change of parts, even in the hard- eft bones. We are accudomed to fay cf the whole body, that it is daily changed ; that the old particles are removed ; and new ones fupply their place ; that14 OF THE FORMATION the body is not now the fame individual body that it was ; but it could not be eafily believed that we fpeak only by guefs concerning the fofter parts, what we know for certain of the bones. It was difcovered by chance, that animals fed upon the refufe of the dyerV vats, received fo much of the colouring matter into the fyftem, that the bones were tinged by the madder to a deep red, while the fofter parts were unchanged; no tint remaining in the ligaments nor cartilages ; in the mem- branes, velfels, nor nerves; not even in the delicate vef- fels of the eye. It was eafy to diftinguifh by the micro- fcope, that fuch colour was mixed with the bony matter, and refided in the interfaces only, but did not remain in the velfels of the bone, which like thofe of all the bo- dy had no tinge of red ; while our injections again fill the velfels of the bone, make all their branches red, but do not affect the colours of the bony part. When madder is given to animals, withheld for fome time, and then given again, the colour appears in their bones; is removed; and appears again, with fuch a fudden change as proves a rapidity of depofition and abforption ex- ceeding all likelihood or belief. All the bones are tinged in twenty-four hours : in two or three days their colour is very deep : and if the madder be left olf but for a few days, the red colour is entirely removed. This tinging of the bones with madder, was the great inltrument employed by Du Hamel, for prov- ing by demonftration, that it was by layers from the periofteum that the bone was formed ; and how very far the mind is vitiated by this vanity of ellablifhing a do&rine on fads, is too eafily feen here. As Du Ha- mel believed that the periofteum depofited fuccelfive layers.AND GROWTti OF BONES. 15 layers, layers, which were added to the bone, it was his bufmefs to prove that the fucceffive layers would be depofited alternately red, white, and red again, by giv- ing a young animal madder, withholding it for a little while, and then beginning again to give it. Now, it is eafy to forefee that this tinging of the laipells Ihould correfpond with the fucceffive times in which the periodeum is able to depofite the layers of its fub- dance ; but Du Hamel very thoughtlefsly makes his layers correfpond only with the weeks or months in which his madder was given or withheld. It is eafy to forefee alfo, that if madder be removed from the bones in a few days (which he himfelf has often told us), then his fil'd layer, viz. of red bone, could not have waited for his layer of white to be laid above it, nor for a layer of red above that again, fo as to enable him to lhew fucceffive layers : And if madder can fo penetrate, as to tinge all the bones that are already- formed, then, though there might be fird a tinged bone, then a white and colourlefs layer, whenever he proceeded to give madder for tinging a third layer, it would pervade all the bone, tinge the layer below, and reduce the whole to one tint. If a bone were thus to increafe by layers, thick enough to be vifible, and of a didinft tint 5 and if fuch layers were to be con- tinually accumulated upon each other every week, what kind of a bone fhould this grow to ? Yet fuch is the fafcinating nature of a theory, that Du Hamel, un- mindful of any interruptions like thefe, defcribes bold- ly his fucceffive layers 5 carrying us through regular details, experiment after experiment, till at lad he brings up his report to the amount of five fucceffivet6 OF THE FORMATION layers, viz. two red layers, and three white ones : Nay, in one experiment he makes the tinge of the madder continue in the bones for fix months, forming fucceflive layers of red and white; although, in an earlier expe- riment (which he mull have forgotten in his hurry), he tells us, that by looking through the tranfparent part of a cock’s wing he had feen the tinge of the mad- der gradually leave the bones in a few days. Thefe experiments are as grofs and palpable as the occafion of them; and fhould Hand as a warning to us, fhowing how feverely and honellly we ought to quef- tion our own judgment, when we aim at confirming our preconceived theories by experiments and fadls. Yet by thefe experiments with madder, one moll important fadt is proved to us; that the arteries and abforbents, adting in concert, alternately depofite and reabforb the earthy particles, as faff as can be con- ceived of the foft parts, or even of the molt moveable and fludluating humours of the body. The abforp- tion of the hardefl bones is proved by daily obferva- tion. When a carious bone difappears before the in- teguments are opened ; when a tumor, prefling upon a bone, deflroys it; when an aneurifm of the tem- poral artery deflroys the fkulT; when an aneurifm of the heart beats open the thorax, deflroying the fler- num and ribs; when an aneurifm of the ham deflroys the thigh-bone, tibia, and joint of the knee ; when a tumour coming from within the head, forces its way through the bones of the fkull;—in all thefe cafes, fince the bone cannot be annihilated, what can hap- pen, but that it muff be abforbed and conveyed away? If we fhould need any ftronger proofs than thefe.AND GROWTH OF BONES. if thefe, we have molities oflium; a difeafe by which, in a few months, the bony fyftem is entirely broken up, and conveyed away, by a high action of the abfor* bents, with continual and deep-feated pain, a difi charge of the earthy matter by the urine, and a gradual foftening of the bones,, fo that they bend under the weight of the body ; the heels are turned up behind the head ; the fpine becomes crooked ; the pelvis dis- torted ; the breaft is crulhed and bent in: and the functions beginning to fall low, the patient, after a flow hectic fever, long and much fuffering of pain and mifery,, expires; with all the bones diflorted in a Ihocking degree ; gelatinous, or nearly fo, -robbed of all their earthy parts ; and fo thoroughly foftened that they may be cut with the knife* Thus every bone has, like the foft parts, its arte* ries, veins, and abforbent vefiels. And every bone has its nerves too : We fee them entering into its fub* fiance in fmall threads, as on the furfaces of the fron- tal and parietal bones: We fee them entering for particular purpofes, by a large and peculiar hole, as the nerves which go into the jaws to reach the teeth : We find delicate nerves going into each bone along with its nutritious veffels; and yet we dare hardly believe the demonftration, fince bones feem quite infenfible and dead. We have no pain when the periofteum is rafped and feraped from a bone : We have no feeling when bones are cut in amputation; or when, in a broken limb, we cut off with pincers the protruding end of a bone : We feel no pain when a bone is trepan- ed, or when cauftics are applied to it ; and it has been always known, that the heated irons which the old fur- vol. I. c geonsOF THE FORMATION 18 the geons ufed fo much, made no other impreflion upon the bone than to excite a particular titillation and heat, rather pleafant than painful, running along the courfe of the bone. But there is a deception in all this. A bone may be exquifitely fenfitde, and yet give no pain; a paradox which is very eafily explained. A bone may feel acutely, and yet not fend its fenfation to the brain. It is not fit that parts Ihould in this fenfe feel, which are fo continually expofed to {hocks and blows, and all the accidents of life ; which have to fuffer all the motions which the other parts require. In this fenfe, the bones, the cartilages, ligaments, burfse, and all the parts that relate to joints, are quite infenfible and dead. A bone does not feel, or its feel- ings are not conveyed to the brain; but with this fingle exception, it fhows every mark of life. Scrape a bone, and its veflels bleed ; cut or bore a bone, and its granulations fprout up ; break a bone, and it heals; or cut a piece of it away, and more bone will be rea- dily produced; hurt it in any way, and it inflames ; burn it, and it dies: take any proof of fenfibility, but the mere feeling of pain, and it will anfwer to the proof. In fhort, thefe parts have a fenfibility which belongs to themfelves, but have no feelings in corre- fpondence with the general fyftem. A bone feels (limuli, and is excited to read; in- juries produce inflammation in the bones, as in the foft parts; and then fwelling and fpongy loofenefs, and a fulnefs of blood, fuppuration, ulcer, and the death and difcharge of the difeafed bone enfue. When the texture of a bone is thus loofened by inflammation, its feeling is roufed j and the hidden fenfibility ofAND GROWTH OF BONES. 19 the bone rifes up like a new property of its nature : and as the eye, the fltin, and all feeling parts, have their fenfibility increafed by difeafe, the bones, liga- ments, burfe, and all the parts whofe feeling, during health, is obfcure and hardly known, are roufed to a degree of fenfibility far furpafling the foft parts. The wound of a joint is indeed lefs painful at firft, but when the inflammation comes, its fenfibility is raifed to a dreadful degree: the patient cries out with an- guifli. No pains are equal to thofe which belong to the bones and joints. Thus oflification is a procefs of a truly animal na- ture : no coagulation will harden cartilage into bone ; no change of confiftency will convert the blood into it ; no condenfation of the periofteum can aflimilate it to the nature of a bone: Bone is not the inorganic con- crete which it was once fuppofed ; but it is a regularly organifed part, whofe form fubfifts from the firft; and which is perfected by its fecreting arteries, balanced, as in every fecretion, by the abforbents of the part; it lives, grows and feels; is liable to accidents, and fubjeft to difeafe. It is a procefs which, at firft, ap- pears fo rapid, that we Ihould expeft it to be foon complete; but it becomes in the end a flow and diffi- cult procefs. It is rapid at firft ; it advances flowly after birth ; it is not completed in the human body till the twentieth year; it is forwarded by health and ftrength, retarded by weaknefs and difeafe. In fcrofula it is imperfect; and fo children become rick- ety, the bones foftening and fvvelling at their heads, and bending under the weight of the body. And why fhould we be furprifed, that careleflnefs of food or c 2 clothing,and / SO OF THE FORMATION clothing, bad air, • or languid health, fhould caufe that dreadful difeafe; when more or lefs heat, during the incubation of a chick, affe&s the growth of its bones; when the ficknefs of a creature during our experi- ments, protracts the growth of callus ; when, in the accidents of pregnancy, of profufe fuppuration, or of languid health, the knitting of broken bones is delay- ed, or wholly prevented. This procefs, fo difficult and flow, is affifted by every provifion of nature. The progrefs of the whole is flow, that as long as the body •increafes in ftature, the bones alfo may grow ; but it is affifted in the in- dividual parts, where fome are flow ; fome rapid in their growth ; fome delayed, as the heads of joints, that their bones may be allowed to extend ; and others haftened, as the pelvis, that they may acquire their perfedt fize early in life. Offification is affifted by the foftnefs of the cartilaginous bed in which the bone is formed; by thofe large and permeable vefiels which carry eaftly the grofler parts of the blood; by a quick and powerful abforption, which all along is modelling the bone ; and, moft of all, by being formed in de- tached points, multiplied and crowded together, wherever much bone is required. There is one central ring firft offified in a long bone, as of the leg or arm; the heads or ends of the bone are at firft mere cartilage, but they alfo foon begin to offify; the body ftretches in a radiated form towards either head; the heads offifying each in its centre, alfo ftretch towards the bone; the heads meet the body, and join to it; a thin cartilage only is interpofed, which grows gradually thinner till the twentieth year,AND GROWTH QF BONES. 21 and then difappears; the body, heads, and procefles, becoming one bone. In flat bones, as in the fkull, oflification goes from one or more central points, and the radiated fibres meet the radii of other oflifying points, or the edges of the next bone. The thick round bones which form the wrift and foot, have one oflification in their centre, which is bounded by car- tilage all round. The procefles are often diftindt ofli- fications joined to the bones, like their heads, and fiowly confolidated with them into firm bones *. While the bone is forming, various parts, efiential to its fyftem, gradually rife into view. At firft, we can- not in the long bone perceive any heads, procefles, cavities, or cells; thefe parts are very flowly formed, and are perfefted only in the adult bone. At firft, the whole length of a long bone is repre- fented by a tranfparent gelly ; where there is no diftinc- tion of heads nor procefles, it is all of one mafs. After the red blood has begun to tinge this cartilage, the oflification begins, and one ring is formed in the mid- dle of the bone: from this ring, the fibres ftretch to- wards either end, and flop there; then it begins to appear that the heads and body are diftindt parts ; the fibres of the growing bone have extended till the car- tilage is annihilated, and only a fmall plate remains, feparating the knobs of the heads from the long body of the bone. Thus, there is no diftindtion betwixt the heads and the body, while the bone is cartilaginous ; they begin to appear, as diftindt parts, at that ftage in which the body of the bone is oflified, and each of the * The procefles and heads are named the epiphyfis and apophyfis of bones. c 3 headsOF THE FORMATION 22 and heads is beginning to form; they continue three dif- tinct bones, during all the early part of life, and are eafily feparated, by foaking the bone in water ; when they are feparated, there is feen a rough hollow on the furface of the epiphyfis, or feparated head, and a rough convexity on the end of the body: they are finally united into one bone, about the twentieth year. In the original cartilage, there is no hollow, nor ca- vity ; it is all one folid mafs. When the offification firft appears, the cavity of the bone alfo begins, and ex- tends with the offification. At firft, the cavity is con- fined chiefly to the middle of the bone, and extends very flowly towards the ends. This cavity, in the centre of the bone, is at firft fmooth, covered by an inter- nal membrane, containing the trunks and branchings of the nutritious veffels, which enter by a great hole, in the middle of the bone; and the cavity is traverfed, with divifions of its lining membrane, which, like a net-work of partitions, conduct its branches to all parts of the internal furface of the bone; and its nets, or mefhes, are filled with a reddifh and ferous fluid, in the young bone, but fecrete and contain a perfedt marrow in the adult bone. The whole fubftance of a bone is not only fibrous, as appears outwardly, but is truly lamellated, con* filling of many diftindt and delicate plates of bone ; which lie over each other in regular order, and might fuggeft the notion that fucceffive offifica- tions of the periofteum form the bone. Thefe la- mellae, or plates, are more condenfed and firmer to- wards the outer furface ; and are more loofe, feparate, and fpongy, towards the internal furface of the bone :23 AND GROWTH OF BONES. the C 4 and it is eafily feen, during the growth of a young bone, that the inner and more delicate plates are fe- parating from the walls of the bone, and receding to- wards its cavity; and thefe plates, being again crofied by fmall bony partitions, form a net-work, or fpongy mafs, which fills the whole cavity of the bone. In the middle of the bone, the cavity is fmall, the walls are thick, and have all their bony plates ; the cells of net- work are few, and large: but towards the ends, the bone fwells out; the cavity alfo is large, but it is not like that in the middle, a large tubular cavity; it is fo crolfed with lattice-work, with fmall interfaces and cells, that it feems all one fpongy mafs of bone ; and fo many of the inner layers are feparated, to form this profufion of cells, that the whole fubftance of the bone has degenerated into this lattice-work, leaving only a thin outward Ihell *. This reticular form is what ana- tomifts call the cancelli, lattice-work, net-work, or alveolar part of the bone ; it is lined throughout with one delicate membrane ; and inward partitions of the fame lining membrane cover each divifion of the lat- tice-work, forming each ceil into a diftinft cavity. In thefe cavities or cells the marrow is fecreted. The fecretion is thin and bloody in children ; it thickens as we advance in years; it is a folid oil, or marrow, in the adult. The marrow is firmer, and more perfect in * That it is merely an expanfion of the layers that forms the cancelli, and a mere fwelling and fponginefs of the fame quantity of bony fubftance, that makes the ends fo much thicker than the middle, is proved by this, that an inch of the fmaller bony tube, cut from the middle, weighs equally with an inch of the large fpongy tube, cut out from the ends.24 OP THE FORMATION the middle of the bone; more thin and ferous for- wards the fpongy ends. The whole mafs, when fha- ken out of the bone, is like a bunch of grapes, each hanging by its (talk. The globules, when feen with the microfcope, are neat, round, and white, feeming like fmall pearls, and each ftalk is feen to be a fmall artery, which comes along the membrane of the can- celli, fpreads its branches beautifully on the furface of the bag, and ferves to fecrete the marrow, each fmall twig of artery filling its peculiar cell. To this, an old anatomift added, that they had their contractile power, like the urinary bladder, for expelling their contents ; that they fqueezed their marrow, by channels of com- munication, through and among the bony layers; and that their oil exuded into the joint, by nearly the fame mechanifm by which it got into the fubftance of the bone. a" While the conftitution of a bone was not at all un- derflood, anatomifls noted with particular care,^every trifling peculiarity, in the forms or connections of its parts, and thefe lamellae attracted particular notice. That a bone is formed in fuccefiive plates, is eafily feen, as in whalebone; or in the horns and bones of the larger animals; in church-yard bones, which have been long buried, or long expofed to the air. It is demonftrated by a careful picking, and repa- ration of the fcales, in a young bone, or by burn- ing a bone, which melts and confumes its gelly, and leaves the bony parts entire. It is feen in the com- mon difeafes of bones; for they call off by fucceffive plates, or leaves, whence the procefs is named ex- foliation ; and one plate is thoroughly fpoiled and caftAND GROWTH OF BONES. 25 and off, whilft another is entire, and found. Malpighi had firft obferved the lamellated ftru&ure of bones, likening them to the leaves of a book. Gagliardi, who, like Hippocrates, went among the burial places of the city, to obferve the bones there, found in a tomb, where the bones had been long expofed, a fkull, the os frontis of which he could difledt into many layers, with the point of a pin. He afterwards found various bones, from all parts of the body, thus decompofed j and he added to the do&rine of plates, that they were held to- gether by minute procefles, which going from plate to plate, performed the offices of nails : Thefe appeared to his imagination to be of four kinds, ftraight and inclined nails, crooked or hook-like, and fome with fmall round heads, of the form of bolts or pins *. Another notable difcovery, was the ufe of the holes which are very eafily feen through the fubftance of bones, and among their plates. They are, indeed, no more than the channels by which the veffels pafs into the bones ; but the older anatomifts imagined them to be Hill more important, allowing the marrow to tranfude through all the fubftance of the bone, and keep it foft. Now this notion, of lubricating the earthy parts of a bone, like the common talk about fomentations to the internal parts of the body, is very mechanical, and very ignorant; for the internal parts of the body, are both hot and moift of themfelves, and neither heat nor moif- ture can reach them from without: the bone is al- ready fully watered with arteries ; it is moift in itfelf, * Thefe nails, which Gagliardi imagined, were no more than the little irregularities, rilings, and hollows of the adjoining plates, by which they are connedled,2 6 OF THE FORMATION and cannot be further moiftened nor lubricated, unlefs by a fuller and quicker circulation of its blood. It mud be preferved by that moidure alone which exifts in its fubltance, and muft depend for its confidence upon its own conftitution j upon the due mixing up of its gluten and earth. Every part is preferved in its due confidence by the vefiels which form its fubfift- ence; and I fhould no more fuppofe fat neceffary for preferving the moidnefs of a bone, than for prevent- ing brittlenefs in the eye. This marrow is, perhaps, more an accidental depofition, than we at fird fight believe. We indeed find in it fuch a regularity of dructure, as feems to indicate fome very particular ufe ; but we find exactly the fame dru&ure in the common fat of the body. When, as we advance in years, more fat is depofited in the omentum, or round the heart, we cannot entertain the abfurd notion of fat being needed in our old age, to lubricate the bowels or the heart; no more is the marrow (which is not found in the child), accumulating in old age for preventing brit- tlenefs of the bones. The blood veffels of a bone are large, in proportion to the mafs of the bone : For fird one great trunk en- ters commonly about the middle of the bone, as in the thigh-bone, leg or arm, and is called the nutritious or medullary artery ; it penetrates into the central cavity of the bone, fpreads upwards and downwards, fupplying all the fubdance of the bone itfelf, and giving thofe delicate arteries which fecrete the marrow. Other arteries enter from without, at the fpongy ends of the bones, where the holes are not 'vifible only, but very large in the adult j particularly large arteries enter in- toAND GROWTH OF BONES. 2 7 The to the heads of the bones, as of the fhoulder, or of the thigh-bones; and there the periofteum adheres very ftrongly: and every where on its furface the bone is fupplied by numerous veffels from the periofteum (and this feems, indeed, to be the chief ufe of that mem- brane) ; fo that in tearing off the periofteum, the fur- face of the membrane, and of the bone, are feen co- vered with bloody points; all the veffels are conduc- ed to the fubftance of the bone by its two membranes : the internal veffels by the membrane which lines the cavity, and which is known by the abfurd name of in- ternal periofteum ; the external one by the outer membrane, the proper or external periofteum. The internal periofteum is that membrane which furrounds the marrow, and in the bags of which the marrow is formed and contained. It is more connect- ed with the fat than with the bone; and in animals, can be drawn out entire from the cavity of the bone : but its chief ufe is to conduCt the veffels which are to enter into the fubftance of the bone ; and this con- nection and office is fo effential to the life and health of the bone, that the fpina ventofa, or fcrophulous bone, is merely a failure of the internal circulation, a total corruption of the marrow, and a confequent lofs of the medullary veffels ; by which the whole bone dies, is thrown out by nature, or more frequently the limb muft be cut off. The fame effeCt is produced in our experiments, where by piercing into the medul- lary cavity, and deftroying the marrow, the ffiaft of the bone dies, while the heads and proceffes live, merely becaufe they are fupplied more fully by their external veffels.28 OF THE FORMATION The periofteum, which was once referred to the dura mater, is merely condenfed cellular fubftance; of which kind of matter we now trace many varied forms and ufes; for, fo clofe is the connexion of the peri- ofteum, tendons, ligaments, fafcite, and burfas, and fo much are thefe parts alike in their nature and proper- ties, that we reckon them but as varied forms of one common fubftance, ferving for various ufes in different parts. The periofteum confifts of many layers, accu- mulated and condenfed one above another : it adheres to the body of the bone by fmall points or proceffes, which dive into the fubftance of the outer layer, giving a firm adhefion to it, fo that it may bear the pulling of the great tendons, which are fixed rather into the peri- ofteum, than into the bone *. It is alfo connected with the bone, by innumerable veffels. It is not in itfelf vafcular; but it is the medium by which veffels are tranfmitted to the bone ; and our injections do not eafily colour the periofteum itfelf, while they make the bone which belongs to it thoroughly red. The layers of the periofteum neareft to the bone, are condenfed and ftrong, and take a ftrong adhefion to the bone, that the veffels may be tranfmitted fafely, and the fibres of this inner layer follow the longitudinal directions of the bony fibres. The periofteum is loofer in its tex- ture outwardly, where it is reticulated and lax, chan- ging imperceptibly into the common cellular fubftance. There the fibres of the periofteum affume the direc- * It would appear that the arteries are convertible through time into thefe tooth-like proceffes, by which the periofteum is fixed into the bone ; for in youth, the veffels are numerous, the adhefion flight, and the reparation bloody ; but in the older fubjeft, the feparation is more difficult, and lefs blood is feen. tionsAND GROWTH OF BONES. 29 tions of the mufcles, tendons, or other parts which run over it. The office of the periofleum is not to generate bone ; and therefore it adheres but flightly to the grow- ing bone: it is to nourifh the external plates ; and therefore as the bone grows, and as the external plates are further removed from the medullary veffels, the adhefion of the periofleum becomes clofer, its arteries are enlarged, and the dependence of the outer layers on the periofleum is as well proved as the dependence of the body T>f the bone upon its medullary artery 5 for as piercing the medulla kills the whole bone, hurting the periofleum kills the outer layers of the bone. Any accident which robs the bone of its pe- riofleum has this effeft; accidental wounds of the periofleum, deep ulcers of the foft parts, as on the fhin, the beating of aneurifms, the growth of tumors, the preffure even of any external body, will, by hurting the periofleum, caufe exfoliation, which is, in plain terms, the death of the external layer, by the injury of the outward veffels; and an active inflammation of the deeper layers, which being fully nourifhed by the in- ternal arteries, inflame, fwell, become porous and fpon- gy, form granulations, and thefe granulations pufh off the mortified plate, and form themfelves into new bone, which fupplies its place. The cartilages are alfo part of the living fyflem of the bone : and we fee too well, in the queflion of the bones themfelves, how unphilofophical it mull be, to deny organization and feeling to any part of the living body, however dead or infulated it may appear; for every part has its degree of life : the eye, the fkin, the fleffi, the tendons, and the bones, have fucceffive de- greesOF THE FORMATION 3° grees of feeling and circulation. We fee, that where even the lowefl of thefe, the bone, is deprived of its fmall portion of life, it becomes a foreign body, and is thrown off from the healthy parts, as a gangrened limb is feparated from the found body ; and we fpeak as familiarly of the death of a bone, as of the gangrene of foft parts. How, then, fhould we deny organization and life to the cartilages, though furely, in refpect of feeling they mull Hand in the very laft degree ? The periofteum goes from the bone over the furface of the cartilage alfo, where it is named perichondrium : It ftill preferves its own vafcular nature; the veffels can be inje&ed ; and it is not to be believed that the perichondrium has thefe velfels, without communica- ting them to the cartilage to which it belongs. We fee red arteries in the centre of an offifying cartilage j and therefore we know that the trunk of the artery may be red, as in the offifying part of the cartilage, and yet the extremity of the fame artery be pellucid, as in the unoffified part. Since veffels run through the cartilage to generate bone, We cannot in reafon, fuppofe that thefe veffels are produced in the inftant in which they appear : They had exifted before ; they are but dilated now ; the increafmg a&ion dilates them, and the dilatation makes them red : this enables them to fecrete bone, and, in many cafes, as in the acciden- tal joint formed by a fra&ure ill cared for, we can, by paring the cartilage, fet the veffels free again, and make them begin to fecrete. Wherever we find a vafcular membrane furround- ing and nourifhing any part, as the vitreous or cry- fhlline humours in the eye, we muff not fuppofe - 4 • that31 AND GROWTH OF BONES. that fuch are infulated parts, maintained there by mere adhefion; but mufl confider them as parts re- gularly organized, their vafcular membrane being part of their living fyflem ; and though the tranfparent humours of the eye, the cartilages and ligaments over all the body, and all the fyflem of the bones, have been confidered as mere concretes, and infulated parts, they are now known to be regular parts of the living whole. The cartilages have no very active circulation ; it is fuch as to keep them in life, but not fo active as to en- danger inflammation; in the continual fhocks which they mufl endure, their feeling mufl be very obfcure, for feeling alfo would have been inconfiflent with their offices, which is to cover and defend the bones j to yield to the weight of the body, and to reftore them- felves when that weight is removed ; to bear all the fhocks of leaps or falls ; to perform all the motions of the body, and the continual workings of the joints where they rub, and even grate upon each other, with- out danger or pain. We now underftand the conflitution of a bone, and can compare it fairly with the foft parts in vafcularity, and in feeling j in quicknefs of abforption; in the regular fupply of blood neceflary to the life of the bony fyflem ; in the certain death of a bone, when deprived of blood by any injury of its marrow, or of its periofleum, as a limb dies of gangrene, when its arteries are cut or tied ; in the continual a£tion of its abforbents, forming its cavity, fhaping its proceffes and heads, keeping it found and in good health, and regulating the degree of bony matter, that the compo- fition may neither be too brittle nor too foft. From this32 of The formation1 this conftitution of a bone, we can eafily forefee how the callus for uniting broken bones mull be formed ; ndt by a mere coagulation of extravafated juice, but by a new organization refembling the original bone. The primordium of all the parts of the body is a thin gelatinous mucus, in which the forms of the parts are laid; and the preparation for healing wounds, and for every new part that needs to be formed, is a fecretion of mucus which is foon animated by veffels coming into it from every point. In every external wound, in every internal inflammation, wherever ex- ternal parts are to be healed, or internal vifcera are about to adhere, a mucous matter is fecreted, which ferves as a bed or nidus, in which the veflfels fpread from point to point, till the mucus is animalized and converted into a membrane : And thus the heart, the inteftines, the tefticle, and other parts, adhere by in- flammation to the coats which furround them, and which are naturally loofe. - It is a mucus of the fame form which unites the ends of a broken bone ; and, by breaking the bones of animals, and attending to the progrefs of the callus, we find firfl: a thin mucus ; then that thickened into a tranfparent gelly ; that gelly growing vafcular, and thefe veffels gradually depofiting nuclei of oflification in the centre of the mafs ; and by madder, or by fine injections, we can make the gelly appear vafcular, and the nuclei of oflification quite red. The colours of our injections begin to tinge the carti- lage as it begins to oflify, and as foon as the oflification is general, it receives a general tinge. Now when we find the fubftance of the oldefl: bone thus full of veffels, why fhould we doubt of its being able33 AND GROWTH OF BONES. able, from its own peculiar veffels, to heal a breach, or to repair any lofs ? We have no reafon to refer the generation of callus to the marrow, to the peri- ofleum, nor to the fubflance of the bone itfelf; for they are but parts of the common fyflem of a bone ; and each part of this fyflem is of itfelf capable of re- generating the whole. How little the conflitution of a bone has been underflood, we may know from the (Irange debates which have fubfifled fo long about the proper organ for generating callus. Some have pronounced it to be the periofleum; others the me- dullary veffel, and internal membrane; others the fub- flance of the bone itfelf: but \ have been employed in explaining, that not only any part of the bone, periofleum, or marrow, but even any artery in all the fyflem, may affume that action which generates bone. In the heat of this difpute, one of the mofl eminent anatomifls produced a difeafed bone, where a new bone had been formed furrounding a carious one, and the fpoiled bone rattled within the cavity of the found one. Here we fhould have been ready to pro- nounce, that bone could be formed by the periofleum alone. But prefently another anatomifl produced the very reverfe, viz. a found young bone, forming in the hollow cylinder of a bone which had been long dead ; where, of courfe, the callous matter mull have been poured into the empty cavity of the fpoiled bone, from the ends which flill remained found, or mufl have been fecreted by the medullary veffels. But the truth is, that callus may be thus produced from any part of the fyflem of a bone; from its periofleum, • from its medulla, or from the fubftance of the bone vol. I. d itfelf*34 of tKe formation, &c. itfelf. If we pierce the bone of any animal, and de- ftroy the marrow, the old bone dies, and a new one is formed from the periofteum : if we kill the creature foon, we find the new bone to be a mere fecretion from the inner furface to the periofteum ; and if we wait the completion of the procefs, we find the new bone beautiful, white, eafily injected, and thick, loofe in its texture, and vafcular and bloody, but ftill firm enough for the animal to walk upon ; and in the heart of it, we find the old bone dead and black. If we reverfe this operation, and deftroy the periofteum only, leaving the nutritious veffels entire, then the new bone is formed frelh and vafcular by the medul- lary veffels, and the old one furrounds it quite black and dead; and in fraftures of the patella, or knee-pan, where there are no medullary veffels, the pieces are united by a callus, which is fecreted from the veffels of the bone itfelf. The difeafes of the bones are the moft frequent in furgery ; and it is impoffible to exprefs how much the furgeon is concerned in obtaining true ideas of the ftrucfcure, conftitution, and difeafes of bones ; how te- dious, how painful, and how Ioathfome thefe difeafes are ; how often the patient muft lofe his limb, or en- danger his life; how very ufeful art is; but, above all, what wonders nature daily performs in recovering bones from their difeafed ftate. CHAP.CHAP. II. OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL THE BONES OF WHICH IT IS COMPOSED THEIR TABLES DIPLOE SUTURES THEIR ORIGINAL CONDITION, AND THEIR PER- FECT FORM, REPRESENTED AND EXPLAINED. "While the bones in general ferve as a balls for the foft parts, and for fupporting and directing the mo- tions of the body, certain bones have a higher ufe in. containing thofe organs whofe offices are the moll ef- fential to life. The lkull defends the brain; the ribs and llernum defend! the heart and lungs; the fpine contains that prolongation of the brain which gives out nerves to all the body : and the injuries of each of thefe are important in proportion to the value of thofe parts which they contain. How much the lludent is interelled in obtaining a correct and perfedt knowledge of the lkull, he mull learn by flow degrees. For the anatomy of the lkull is not important in itfelf only ; it provides for a more accurate knowledge of the brain; explains, in fome degree, the organs of fenfe; inftructs us in all thofe accidents of the head which are fo often fatal, and fo often require the boldell of all our operations. The d 2 marks$6 OF TfiE SKULL IN GENERAL, marks which we take of the fkull, record the en- trance of arteries; the exit of veins and nerves ; the places and ufes of thofe mufcles which move the jaws, the throat, the fpine. Indeed, in all the human body, there is not found fo complicated and difficult a ftudy, as this anatomy of the head ; and if this fatiguing ftu- dy can be at all relieved, it mud be by firft edablifh- ing a very regular and orderly demonflration of the fkull. For this end, we diftinguiffi the face, where the ir- regular furface is compofed of many fmall bones, from the cranium or Ikull cap, where a few broad and flat fhaped bones form the covering of the brain. It is thefe chiefly which enclofe and defend the brain, which are expofed to injuries, and are the fubject of operation. It is thefe alfo that tranfmit the nerves. So that the cranium is* equally the object of attention with the anatcmid and with the furgeon. All the bones of the cranium are of a flattened form, confiding of two tables, and an intermediate di- ploe, which anfwers to the cancelli of other bones. The tables of the fkull are two flat and even plates of bone: the external is thought to be thicker, more fpongy, lefs eadly broken ; the thinner table, again, is denfe, thin and brittle, very eadly broken, and is fome- times fractured, while the external table remains en- tire : Thence it is named tabula vitrea, or the glaffy ta- ble. Thefe tables are parted from each other by the didance of a few lines* ; and this fpape is filed up with the * In anatomy there is occafion in alfnoft every defcription, for a fcale of fmaller parts. The French divide their inch inter twelve parts,OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. 37 tlie diploe, or cancelli. The cancelli, or lattice work, is a net of membranes, covered with Veffels, partly for fecreting marrow, and partly for nourilhing the bone ; and by the dura mater adhering to the internal fur- face, and fending in arteries, which enter into the can- celli by palling through the fubltance of the bone, and by the pericranium covering the external plate, and giving veifels from without, which alfo enter into the bone, the whole is conne&ed into one fyftem of veifels. The pericranium, dura mater, and Ikull, de- pend fo entirely, one upon the other, and are fo fairly parts of the fame fyllem of veifels, that an injury of the pericranium fpoils the bone ; feparates the dura mater, and caufes effufion upon the brain ; a repara- tion of the dura mater is, in like manner, followed by reparation of the pericranium, which had been found and unhurt ; and every difeafe of the cancelli, or fub- ftance of the bone, is communicated both ways ; in- ward to the brain, fo as to occalion very imminent dan- ger ; outwards towards the integuments, fo as to warn us that there is difeafe. The general thicknefs of the fkull, and the natural order of two tables, and an in- termediate diploe, is very regular, in all the upper parts of the head. In perforating with the trepan, we fir ft cut with more labour, through the external table j when we arrive at the cancelli, there is lefs refiftance, the inftrument moves with eafe ; there is a change of found, and blood comes from the tearing of thefe vef- fels, which run in the cancelli, betwixt the tables of the fkull. Surgeons thought themfelves fo well allured of parts, each of which is a line. The French line, or twelfth of an inch, is a meafure which I {hall often have occalion to ufe. E) 3 thefe3^ OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. the thefe marks, that it became a rule, to cut freely, and quickly, through the outer table ; to expedt the change of found, and the flow of blood, as marks of having reached the cancelli ; and then to cut more deliberate- ly, and flowly, through the inner table of the ikull. But this ihows an indifcreet hurry, and unpardonable rafhnefs in operation. The patient, during this faw- ing of the ikull, is fuffering neither danger nor pain j and many additional reafons lead us to refufe, altoge- ther, this rule of practice. For the Ikull of a child confiils properly of one table only ; or tables are not yet diftinguiihed, nor the cancelli formed : In youth, the ikull has its proper arrangement of cancelli and tables ; but dill, with fuch irregularities, and excep- tions, as make a hurried operation unfafe : In old age, the Ikull declines towards its original condition; the cancelli are obliterated ; the tables approach each other, or are clofed and condenfed into one; the ikull be- comes irregularly thick, at fome points, and at others thin, or almoil tranfparent •: fo that there can hardly be named any period of life, in which this operation may be performed quickly and fafely at once. But, befides this gradual progrefs of a bone, increafing in thicknefs and regularity as life advances, and grow- ing irregular and thinner in the decline of life, we find dangerous irregularities, even in younger ikulls. There are often at uncertain diftances, upon the internal fur- face of the ikull, hollows and defeats of the internal table, deep pits, or foveas, as they are called, produced perhaps by the impreflion of contorted veins. Thefe foveas increafe in fize and in number as we decline in life j they are more frequent on the inner furfaces of39 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL.. the parietal and frontal bones ; fo that in thofe places where the Ikull Ihould be moll regular, we are never fure, and muft, even in the fafeft places, perforate gra- dually and flowly. BONES.—-The bones of which the cranium, or Ikull- cap, is formed, are eight in number, i. The frontal- bone, or bone of the forehead, forms the upper and fore part of the head,—extends a little towards the temples, and forms alfo the upper part of the focket for the eye. 2. The parietal bones, are the two large and flat bones which form all the fldes, and upper part of the head, and are named parietalia, as they are the walls or fldes of the cranium. 3. The os occipitis, is na- med from its forming all the occiput or back of the head ; though much of this bone lies in the neck, and is hidden in the bafis of the Ikull. 4. The ossa tem- po rum form the lower parts of the fldes of the crani- um : they are called temporal, from the hair that co- vers them being the firfl: to turn grey, marking the time of life. 5. The os ^ethmoides, and, 6. the os sphenoides, are quite hidden in the bafls of the fkull: they are very irregular and very difficultly defcribed, or explained. The os ^ethmoides, is a fmall fquare bone, hollow, and with many cells in it; it hangs over the nofe, and conffitutes a great and important part of that organ, and at the fame time fupports the brain. The oifa&ory nerves, by palling through it at many points, perforate it like a fieve ; and it takes its name from this perforated or aethmoid plate. The os sphe- noides, is larger and more irregular ftill; placed fur- ther back ; locked in betwixt the occipital and seth- Ptoidal bones 5 lies over the top of the throat, fo that P its40 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL, its proceffes form the back of the noftrils and roof of the mouth ; and it is fo placed ; as to fupport the very centre of the brain, and tranfmit almoft all its nerves, SUTURES.—All thefe bones are joined together by feams, which, from their indented, or dove-tailed ap- pearance, are named futures. 1. The coronal suture, is that which joins the frontal to the parietal bones; extends almoft directly acrofs the head, from ear to ear ; defcends behind the eye, into the deep part of the temple ; and there lo- fing its ferrated appearance, becomes like the fquamous or fcaly future, which joins the temporal bones. It is , named coronal, becaufe the ancients wore their gar- lands on this part of the head. But the future had been better entitled to this name, had it furrounded the head, than as it croffes it. 2. The lambdoidal suture, is that which joins the parietals, to the occipital bone. It begins behind the one ear, afcends, and arches over the occiput, and defcends behind the other ear. It thus ftrides over the occiput, in a form fomewhat refembling the letter lambda (A) of the Greeks ; whence its name. 3. The sagittal suture, joins the parietal bones to each other j runs on the very top of the head ; extends forwards from the lambdoidal future, till it touches, or fometimes paffes, the coronal future ; and from lying betwixt thefe two futures, like an arrow betwixt the firing and the bow, it has been named fagittal. 4. The temporal sutures, join the temporal bones to the parietal, occipital, and frontal bones ; the fphe- noid bone alfo enters into the temporal future, juft behind the eye. The temporal future makes an arch correfpond-41 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. correfponding almoft with the arch of the external ear; it meets the coronal future, an inch before the ear, and the lambdoidal an inch behind it. This back part belongs as much to the occipital as to the temporal bone ; and fo has been named fometimes additamen- turn futuras lambdoidalis ; fometimes addimentatum fu- ture fquamofas : for this temporal future is, on account of the edge of the temporal and occipital bones being thin, and like fcales of armour laid over each other, often named the fquamous, or fcaly future. 5. The sphenoidal and ^ethmoidal sutures, are thofe which furround the many irregular proceffes of thefe two bones, and join them to each other, and to the reft, 6. The transverse suture, is one which, running acrofs the face, and finking down into the orbits, joins the bones of the fkull to the bones of the face: but with fo many irregularities and interruptions, that the ftudent will hardly recognize this as a future. 7. The zygomatic suture, is one which joins a branch of the temporal bone to a procefs of the cheek-bone ; forming an arch, zygoma, or yoke ; but this future has little extent ; it is a ferrated appearance at one fingle point only. To mark and know thefe futures, and to be able to trace them in imagination, upon the naked head, to forefee where a future will prefent, and how far it runs, may be a matter of great importance to the furgeon. Hippocrates, who has had more to praife his honefty than to follow his example, acknowledges his having miftaken a future for a fraaure of the fkull; and fince this warning, various contrivances and marks have been thoughtOF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. 42 the thought of, for preventing the like miftake. It may be ufeful to remember that the future has its ferrse or indentations ; is firmly covered by the pericranium; is clofe, and does not bleed : but that a fiffure, or frao« ture of the Ikull, runs in one direft line ; is larger and broader at the place of the injury ; grows fmaller, as you recede from that, till it vanifiies by its lmallnefs; and that it always bleeds, Indeed the older furgeons, obferving this, poured ink upon the fufpected part, which, if the fkull was hurt, funk into the fiffure, and made it black and vifible ; but left the future un- touched. They alfo dire&ed to make the patient take a wire betwixt his teeth, which being ftruck, like the firing of an inftrument, he would feel the twang pro- duce a painful and peculiar fenfation in the fractured part of the head. But after all thefe obfervations, in place of any true and certain marks, we find a number of accidents which may lead us into a miftake. Sutures cannot be diflinguifhed by their ferrse or teeth, for the temporal futures want this common chara&er, and rather referable capillary fraftures of the Ikull * ; nor even by their places, for we know that there are often infulated bones (offa Wormiana) furrounded with peculiar joinings, which fo derange the courfe of the common futures, that the joinings may be miflaken for fraftures of the fkull, and the offa Wor- miana for broken parts. Sometimes the fquamous fu- ture is double, with a large arch of bone intercepted betwixt the true and the falfe future ; or the fagittal future, descending beyond its ufual extent, and quite to * Viz. Fractures as fmall as a hair, thence named capillary.43 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. the nofe, has been miftaken for a fra&ure, and trepan- ned ; and often in older fkulls, the futures are en- tirely obliterated, all over the head. If the furgeon fhould pour ink upon the Ikull, he would have reafon to be alhamed of an experiment fo awkward and un- fuccefsful; and for the old contrivance of a wire or cord held in the mouth, it cannot be done, fince the patient is commonly infenfible ; and even, though lefs hurt, his feelings, after fuch an accident, mull be very confufed; he mull be too liable to be deceived ; and we cannot, on fuch flender evidence as this, perform fo cruel an operation as cutting up the fcalp, or fo dan- gerous a one as the trepan. For various reafons we are careful to trace the bones from their original foft and griflly Hate, to their perfect condition of hai d bone ; and mod of all, we are con- cerned to do fo in the head, where, in childhood, the appearances are not fmgular and curious only, but have always been fuppofed to indicate fome wife and ufeful purpofe. It is in this original condition of the foft and growing bones, that anatomifls have fought to find a theory of the futures, how they are formed, and for what ufes. It has been remarked, that the number of pieces in the Ikull, is infinitely greater in the child than in the man, Thefe bones pilifying from their centre towards their circumference, it happens, of courfe, that the fibres are clofe at the centre of offifica- tion, and are more fcattered at the extremities of the bone: when thefe fcattered fibres of oppofite bones meet, the growing fibres of one bone fhoot into the interftices of that which is oppofed : The fibres (tillOF THE SKULL IN GENERAL* 44 the pufh onwards, till they are flopped at Iafl, and the perfed future, or ferrated line of union is formed. In dilating this proportion, we fhould obferve, that in the boy, all the bones in the head are membranous and imperfect. The membranous interfiices begin to be obliterated ; the futures are beginning to clofe ; the diflindion of two tables is not yet pftablifhed ; the cancelli are not yet interpofed betwixt the plates ; the finufes, or caverns of the bones, as in the forehead, the nofe, and the jaw are not formed ; and each bone is not only incomplete towards its edges and futures, but confifts often of many parts. The os frontis is formed of two pieces, which meet by a membranous union in the middle of the bone.. The ossa pa- rxetalia have one great and prominent point of odb hcation in the very centre of each, from which di- verging rays of edification extend towards the edges of the bone. The osoccipitis is formed in four diflind pieces ; and the temporal bones are fo fairly divided into two, that their parts retain in the adult the diftind names of petrous and fquamous bones. Although thefe are all the regular points of .edification, yet fometimes there occur fmall and dif- tind points, which form irregular bones, uncertain in number or fize, found chiefly in the lambdoid future, fometimes numerous and fmall, more commonly they are few in number, and fometimes of the full fize of a crown, always diflorting more or lefs the courfe of the future, and being thus a fubjed of caution to the furr geon : Thefe are named ossa triquetra, or trian- gularia, from their angular fh.ape, pr, Wormiana, /from Olaus Wormius, who obferved them firft. Now<5F THE SKULL IN GENERAL. 45 V the cs frontis being formed in two larger pieces, their edges meet early in life, and they form a future ; but the bones continuing to grow, their oppofite points force deeper and deeper into each other, till at lafl the future is entirely obliterated, and the bones unite ; and fo this future is found always in the child, feldom in the adult, almod never in old age. The occipital bone having four points, they are clofer upon each other, they meet early, are foon united ; and although very didindt in the child, no middle future has ever been found in the adult, but always the four pieces are uni- ted into one firm and perfect bone. The parietal bones have their rays mod of ail fcattered ; the rays of offi- fication run out to a great diftanee, and diverge from one fingle point, fo that at their edges they are extreme- ly loofe, and they never fail to form futures, by admit- ting into their interftices the points and edges of the adjoining bones. The furell and mod condant fu- tures are thofe formed by the edges of the parietal bones ; the fagittal in the middle, the coronal over the forehead, the lambdoidal behind, and the fquamous fu- ture formed by the lower edges. But another phe- nomenon refults at the fame time, from this meeting and oppofition of the fibres and interdices of the grow- ing bones : that when the oppofite fibres meet too ear- ly, they are not fairly admitted into the open fpaces of the oppofite bone : but the fibres of each bone be- ing diredtly oppofed point to point, they both turn in- wards, and form a ridge or fpine, fuch as is feen on the inner furfaces of the frontal and occipital bones. Such is the common theory, which I fufpecl is imperfedt, and which fhould be received with fome referve, for all46 OE THE SKULL IN GENERAL.. the all the phenomena are not yet explained ; we find each future always in its appointed place : we find no- thing like a future formed betwixt the head and body of a long bone, though they are formed in diltindt points, and are not united till after the years of man- hood ; we find no futures when bones are broken and reunited ; when they have been fpoiled, and are repla- ced ; when a piece of fpoiled bone has been cut away ; or when a new fhaft of a bone is formed by the fe- creting veffels, and is united to the heads of the old bone. Thefe are accidents which hold us at lead; in doubt. It has been fuppofed, and with much appearance of truth, that the futures limit the extent of fractures ; leave a free communication of the internal with the external parts ;" that they muft ferve as drains from the brain ; that they are even capable of opening at times, fo as to give relief and eafe in the moft dreadful dif- eafes of the head. But I fear we are not yet able to fee the meaning of this peculiarity of flrudture; for the futures are regular and uniform to a wonderful degree, while thefe ufes of them are far from being proved. The futures furely were not intended by nature for limiting the extent of fradtures : for fradtures tra- verfe the fkull in all directions ; crofs the futures with eafe; and very often palling all the futures, defcend quite to the bafis of the Ikull, where we dare not fol- low them with the knife, nor apply the trepan. In- deed we do not even know that limiting the extent of fradtures could be a gracious provifion of nature, fince it would rather appear by the common accidents, that the more eafily the bone yields, the lefs is the injury to47 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. the brain; and that where the fracture is wide and large, the fymptoms are milder, and the danger lefs. Neither were they intended as drains ; for furely it is a bold pofition to affume, that nature has carefully provided for our making iffues upon the futures. When the original opennefs of the head and the membrane- ous condition of the futures were iirft obferved, it was thought to be an obfervation of no final 1 importance. The ancients believed that the membranes of the brain came out by the futures, to form the pericrani- um, and going from that over the feveral joints, formed the periodeum for all the bones. Theyfaw a clofe connection betwixt the external and internal mem- branes of the fkull ; and they thought that nature had intended there a freer communication, and an occa- fional drain. They found the futifres particularly wide and membranous in a child, which they attri- buted to the watery date of its brain, requiring a freer outlet than in the adult; and accordingly they named the opening of the child’s head the bregma, fons, fonta- nelle, the fountain, by which they believed there was a continual exudation of moidure from the brain. We might have expeded thefe notions to have va- nilhed with the dodrines of humours and revulfion which gave rife to them ; but both the dodrines, and the pradice, have been revived of late years ; and a furgeon of fome eminence has been at pains to exa- mine various fkulls, trying to find which of ail the fu- tures remains longed open, and which fhould form the readied and fured drain ; and after a curious exa- mination of each, he decidedly condemns the fonta- Jielle 5 finds the additamentum of the fquamous future 9 always48 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL, always open, and experts this fuperior advantage from placing his iffues there, that he will command at once a drain both from the cerebellum, and from the brain. But thefe notions, fo much cherilhed by the ancients, of derivation and revulfion, of ferous humours falling upon the brain, of drains of pituita by the nofe and through the futures, have been long forgotten, and have not been effectually revived by this attempt. It cannot be denied, that, in fome inftances, the fu- tures have continued quite open in perfons grown in years, or have opened after a mod wonderful manner, in fome difeafes of the head. A young man having been brought into an hofpital ill of a fever, the phyfxcians obferving with furprife a very ftrong pulfation behind the ear : Upon applying the finger, a ftrong beating was felt ; the part was foft and yielding ; and upon opening his head, after death, there was found a large membraneous fpace. Diemor- brock found the fontanelle open in a woman of forty years of age. Bauhin fays, that in his own wife, twenty-fix years of age, the futures were not yet do- fed. This fontanelle, or opening at the meeting of the co- ronal and fagittal futures, was once thought to be a fure mark for the accoucheur to judge by, both of the life of the child, and of the dire&ion in which its head prefented. It is large and foft in a child ; and the good women lay a piece of firm cloth upon it, and defend it with particular care. It begins to contrad from the time of birth ; and in the fecond and third year, it is entirely clofed. Its clofing is delayed by weaknefs, fcrofulous complaints, and indeed by any lingering difeafe ;49 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. E VOL. 1. The difeafe ; it clofes very late in rickets ; and in hydroce- phalic children the bones never clofe, but continue foft, yield to the watery fvvelling of the brain, and fe- parate in a wonderful degree, fo as to hold ten or twelve pounds. As the futures continue open in a hydrocephalic child, they are faid to open again in the few inftances where adults are feized with the fame difeafe. We are told that it opens in thofe dreadful headaches which are fometimes fatal, and that the celebrated Pafchal having died after terrible torments, was found to have the futures opened again. It is even faid that they open during difeafe, and clofe after the cure : “ That a *c man of forty years of age being in the dog-days feiz- “ ed with a raging fever, delirium, watching, and dread- “ ful pains of the head, his futures opened on the fe- “ venth day, were as wide as in a child ; not only fo as <c to be diftinguilhed by the finger, but that the at- “ tendants could fee the pulfations of the brain: the “ fever, after fome time, abated ; the pains ceafed ; the “ futures clofed, and this man lived many years in per- “ feft health.” So Hildanus reports the cafe ; and he alfo fays, in another inftance, that the futures had part- ed in a violent hemicrania, with an audible node. Yet, if this were a regular defign of nature, the re- lief Ihould be perfect ; perhaps the opening of the fu- tures fhould be more eafy, and the accident almolf as common as difeafes of the head: or perhaps it had been the more merciful order, to have determined a quick and fudden period for fuch dreadful and incu- rable difeafes as thefe.50 OF THE SKULL IN GENERAL» The futures of the cranium are accidental merely, and of little ufe. The refult, perhaps, of this-well- known law, that nature feeks to facilitate edification, by beginning the procefs in many points; and Ihe eftablilhes as many diftindt points, in healing a broken limb as in forming the Ikull. But however they may be formed, their ufes cannot be of that importance which has been fuppofed ; for there are twenty fepa- rate bones, and twenty futures in the face, where they can neither flop fradlures, nor ferve as drains, nor open fo as to give relief. But if the futures of the cranium have any thing peculiar and different from thofe of the face, in that, perhaps, their peculiar ufes may be found. We can- not pafs unnoticed their loofenefs and flexibility in the new born child; how wonderfully the head of the child is increafed in length, and reduced in breadth in the time of delivery, and how much this conduces to an eafy and happy labour. The moll eminent anatomifts have condefcended to remark, that in the various nations of Europe the head has various forms; which they aferibe to fo flight a prefiure as that which drefs, or even the poflure of the head, might produce. But how very far Vefalius was deceived in calculating thus, is eafily proved. The Turks, fays he, have their heads flattened by wearing the turban. But the turban is an Eaflern drefs : The Turks or Tartars are a northern people, who affume this drefs only when conqueffc brings them into a warm- er climate; and the prominent cheek-bones, parted eyes, and flat heads, continue in the Tartars, who have but newly affumed the turban, while the conquered nationsOF THE SKULL IN GENERAL. 5! nat’ors who have worn it long, are diftinguiftied by their regular and beautiful features. Perhaps by con- trivance and force, we may diflort the head of a child; and we may almoft believe what is told of the negroes of the Caribbee iflands, who had contrived, by pref- fure, to flatten their children’s heads, that their race might be in future diftinguifhed from thofe who had fubmitted to the Spanifn yoke ; or of what is told fo often of eaftern nations, that they fometimes mould the heads of children into monftrous and uncouth forms, to extort charity, or as an adt of religion. Were I to aflign a reafon for the flexible bones, and wide futures, and the yielding condition of the head of the child, I fhould fay that it were meant by nature to fland in the place of that feparation of the bones of the pelvis which has been fuppofed, but which cannot exift:; for the child’s head is moulded with little injury, is evolved again without help ; and it feems a proviflon of nature, fince the child fcarcely feels the change: but no wo- man has been known to have the joinings of the pel- vis relaxed or diflolved without pain and danger, con- finement for many months, a temporary iamehefs ; and fometimes fhe is rendered unable for life. £ 2, CHAP,CHAP. III. DESCRIPTION OF THE INDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. Os FRONTIS. This bone is compared with a clam- fhell. It is of a femicircular fhape, hollowed like a fliell, and very equal in its thicknefs. It is marked on the infide by a fpine, or prominent line, which di- vides the hollow of the bone into two equal parts, and gives rife to a membraneous partition, which di- vides and fupports the hemifpheres of the brain. It is marked on its external furface by thofe high ridges on which the eyebrows are placed; and by two pro- minences, under which are hollow caverns, named the sinuses (or cavities) of the frontal bone. It is irregular only in its orbitary plates, which are the two thin and delicate lamella that depart from the gene- ral direction of the bone, and hand out horizontally fo as to form a part of the focket for the eye, or, as it were, a roof defending the upper part of the eye and a floor for fupporting the lower part of the brain ; and thefe two orbitary plates leave an open fpace, in which is incafed the chief part of the sethmoid bone. The firfl point to be remarked;, is the superciliary RIDGE,DESCRIPTION OF THE, &C. 53 judge, on which the eyebrows are placed: It is a prominent arched line, correfponding in fize and length with the eyebrow which it fupports. It is the origin of the frontal mufcles. In this line, the integuments adhere very ftrongly, by many arteries which perforate the bone, and which are properly the nutricious arteries of this part of the bone; and we find all over the fuperciliary ridge many fmall holes through which thefe arteries had paffed. Among thefe, there is one hole which is larger, and which is diftinguifhed from the reft ; for its ufe is not like the others to tranfmit arteries to the bone, but to give paffage to a fmall artery which comes out from the or- bit, to mount over the forehead. Sometimes this artery turns freely over the border of the orbit, and makes no mark, or but a flight one : often lying clofer upon the bone, it forms a notch ; but moft commonly, in place of turning fairly over the edge of the orbit, it pafles obliquely through the fuperciliary ridge, and, by perforating the bone, makes a hole, This - hole is named the superciliary hole. The artery which comes from the eye to go out upon the forehead is named, where it paffes the ridge, the fuperciliary ar- tery ; and higher up upon the forehead, the frontal artery. It eftablifhes a communication betwixt the internal arteries of the eye, and the external arteries of the forehead and temple ; and it carries along with it a fmall nerve from the eye, which, going alfo out upon the forehead, is named the fuperciliary or frontal nerve. We are always warned of the danger of wounding arteries where they pafs through bones ; and ftrange ftories are told of the terrible bleedings e 3 which54 DESCRIPTION OF THE The which have arifen from this artery when wounded near its hole; and of the convulfions, jialfies, and lofs of fight, which have arifen from the accidents, wounds, or lacerations of this frontal nerve : Thefe ftories are delivered on authorities which we dare not refufe, and yet they are fuch as we cannot eafily believe. This orbitary, or fuperciliary ridge, ends by two procefles, which, forming the angles of the eye, are named the angular processes. The frontal bone has therefore four angular procefles : i. The two internal angular procefles, forming the internal angles of the eyes ; and, 2. The two external angular pro- cefles which form the external angles of each eye. Behind each external angular procefs, the bone lies flat, and funk into a hollow which lodges the tem- poral mufcles; and betwixt the two internal angular proceffes there is the nasal point or process. This nafal procefs is a fmall fharp projecting point, which is exaCtly in the middle of the bone, occupying that fpace which is betwixt the two internal angular pro- cefles. It is very irregular and rough all round its root, for fupporting the two fmall nafal bones ; and this gives them a firm feat, and fuch a hold upon the. root of the forehead, that they will be fooner broken than difplaced. At the inner end of the fuperciliary ridge, is that bump which marks the place of the frontal finufes : it alfo in fome degree indicates their fize; for where this rifing is not found, the finufes are awanting, or are very fmall, but this is no fure, nor abfolute mark of the prefence of thefe finufes, which often, in the; flattefl; foreheads, are not entirely awanting.INDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 55 The finufes * of the os frontis are two in number, ■one on either fide above the root of the nofe : They are formed by a receding of the two tables of the fkull from each other: they are formed at firft with the common cancelli, and at firft: they refemble the common cancelli, as if they were only larger cells: gradually they enlarge into two diftindt cavities, often of very confiderable fize; goii g down into the orbi- tary plate, or fidewife into the orbit, ry ridge, or up- wards through one half of the frontal bone; and Ruifch had, in a giantefs (puella gigantica), feen them pafs the coronal future, and extend fome way into the parietal bones. The finufes of either fide are feparated by a par- tition ; but ftill they communicate by a fmall hole: fometimes the partition is almoft awanting, and there are only erodings of the common lamellated fub- ftance ; and though the communication with one an- other is not always found, they never fail to communi- cate with the nofe. This indeed feems to be their chief ufe; for the frontal finufes are the beginning of a great train of cells, which, commencing thus in the frontal bone, extend through the aethmoidal, fphenoidal, and maxillary bones, fo as to form an organ of great extent * The word Sinus is ufed in two fenfes : we call the cavities' or cells within the fubftance of the bone, the finufes of that bone ; as the finufes of the forehead, of the fphenoid, asthmoid, or maxil- lary bones: we call alfo certain great veins by the fame name of finufes: Thus the great veins being enlarged where they ap- proach the heart, and the Ww being particularly large in the brajn and the womb, we call them the finufes of the heart, of the brain, and of the womb. E 4 and56 DESCRIPTION OF THE and ufe belonging to the nofe ; but perhaps not fo much for extending the organ of fmelling, as for making a more fonorous voice. For we have no proof that the fmufes are part of the organ of fmell; unlefs we fnouid accept of this as a proof, that by the fmelling of ftrong -volatiles, pain fhoots upwards into the forehead; though, by this rule, the eyes fhould be alfo a part of the fame organ, fince, from the fame caufe, they are pained, and tears begin to flow: but we do know that the fmufes belong to the voice, and raife its tone, for we feel the trembling note refound through all thefe cells j fo that the voice is fonorous while they are free ; is damped when the fmufes are opprefted by their membranes being thickened by cold; or is almofl fup- preffed when the fmufes are entirely clofed; or when, by venereal ulcers, the curtain of the palate is confum- ed, no part of the voice paffing upwards into the nofe, it is almofl loft. This has given rife to a very common miftake: that as thefe finufes are awanting in the child whofe fore* head is flat, as they enlarge gradually, and are fully formed about the fifteenth year, the vox rauca, the breaking of the voice, which is obferved about that time, rauft be owing to the evolution of thefe cells. But the female voice does not undergo the fame change by the evolution of thefe cells; and caftra- tion, which furely can have no effect on thefe cavi- ties, keeps down the eunuch’s to the treble key of the female voice. The miftake lies in fuppofing thefe cavities to raife the tone or note in which we fpeak, while they only add clearnefs and ftrength ;INDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 57 The membrane which lines thefe cavities is thin, and exquintely fenfible, and is a continuation of the common membrane of the throat and nofe. A thin humour is poured out upon its furface to moiften it and keep it right. This the ancients did not confider as merely a lubricating fluid, but as a purgation of the brain, drawn from the pituitary gland; which could not be diminifhed without danger, and which it was often of confequence to promote. Thefe finufes are fubject to one accident chiefly, viz. infedts, which neftle there, and produce inconceivable diftrefs ; and it is particular, that infects more frequent- ly lodge in the frontal finufes, than in the cavities of any of the other bones. In (keep and dogs, fuch in- fers are very frequent, as, in feeking their food, they carry their nofe upon the ground; and it has been proved, or almoft proved, that in man they arife from a like caufe. Indeed what can we fuppofe, but that they get there by chance ? Thus, a man having fleptin barns, was afflicted with dreadful diforders in the forehead, which were relieved upon difcharging from the nofe a worm of that kind which is peculiar to fpoil- ing corn; while others have had the complaint, by fleeping upon the grafs. But there is fomething very particular in this, that by far the greater number of thefe worms have been of the centipede kind ; gene- rally long, an inch in length, with one hundred, or, according to Linnaeus, one hundred and twelve feet, and not unfrequently covered with hair. There are reports which feem to prove, that fome have died of this complaint, and in a very miferable way. In many cafes it has been attended with delirium ; anemia almoft58 DESCRIPTION OF THE almoft every inftance it has continued for years. No wonder, then, that the trepanning of thefe finufes has been often propofed ; but I have never read of a well marked cafe, fo that we could be affured beforehand of finding worms : They have, in molt cafes, been difcovered rather by chance. The patient might be relieved on eafier terms, by the injection of aloes, affa- fcetida, myrrh, the ufe of fnuff or imoaking, and pref- fmg the fumes upwards into the nofe. Much fhould be tried, before undertaking a dangerous operation on fuch flender proofs. It may be right, in cafes of fraftures, to decline ap- plying the trepan above the finufes, unlefs a fracture cannot be raifed in any eafier way ; and we muft be, efpecially, careful to diftinguifh a fracture of the outer table only, from entire fraftures of this bone. For Palfin fays, that the outer table being broken, and the natural mucus of the finus being corrupted and flow- ing out, has been miftaken for the fubftance of the brain itfelf. And Paree, who firfl gives this caution, affirms, “ that he had feen furgeons guilty of this mif- 44 take, applying the trepan, and fo killing their un- 44 happy patients.” The spine or ridge which runs upon the internal furface of the frontal bone, is to be obferved, as it gives a firm hold to the falx, or that perpendicular membrane, which, running in the middle of the head, divides and fupports the brain. This is more or lefs prominent in different lkulls, and according to the age. The fpine is more prominent at its root ; but as it ad- vances up the forehead, it decreafes, and often ends in a groove. The fpine gives firm hold for the falx, and theINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 59 f the groove lodges the great longitudinal finus, or, in other words, the great vein of the brain, which runs along the head, in the courfe of the perpendicular par- tition or falx. At the root of this fpine, there is a fmall blind hole, which will juft admit a pin ; it is named blind, becaufe it does not pafs quite through the bone, and the beginning of the falx, dipping down into this hold, gets a firmer hold. The ancients thinking that this hole defcended through both tables into the nofe, believed, that the dangerous and ungovernable bleed- ings at the nofe, muft be through this hole, and from the fore end, or beginning of the longitudinal finus. The orbitary process is the laid remarkable point of the frontal bone* The orbitary proceffes are two thin plates, departing from the general direction of the bone, and ftanding inwards at right angles : They cover the eye, and fupport the brain. By the continual rolling of the eye, and the preffiire of the brain, they are ex- tremely thin and tranfparent; the rolling of the eye makes them exquifitely fmooth below, and on their upper furfaces they are imprefled with the frequent convolutions of the brain: fo that a wound through the eye endangers more than the eye ; for it paffes eafily forward into the brain, and is inftantly fatal: it is the aim of a fencer; and we have known, in this country, a young man killed by the pufh of a foil which had loft its guard. Upon tjie orbitary plate, and juft under the fuper- ciliary ridge, there are two depreffions in the focket of each eye : the one is very fmall, and deeper at the inner corner of the eye, under the orbitary hole, which is the mark of the fmall cartilaginous pulley, . ill6o DESCRIPTION 0? THE in which the tendon of one of the mufcles of the eye plays; the other, a more gentle and diffufed hollow, lies under the external angular procefs, is not deep, but is wide enough- to receive the point of a fin- ger, and is the place where the lachrymal gland lies ; that gland which fecretes the tears, and keeps the eye moi ft. OSSA PARIETALIA.—The parietal bones form by much the greater fhare of the cranium: they are more expofed than any others; they are the rnoft fre- quently broken, and the mod eafily trepanned ; for the parietal bones are more uniform in their thicknefs, and more regular in their two tables and diploe, than any others. But the accidental varieties of pits and de- preflions are very frequent in them ; and the fmus or great vein, and the artery which belongs to the mem- branes cf the brain, both make their chief impreffions upon this bone. Each parietal bone is very nearly of a fquare form, furrounded by deeply ferrated edges, which unite them with each other, and with the occipital and frontal bones. All the corners of this bone are obtufe, except that one which lies in the temple, and which, running out to a greater length than the other corners, is fometimes named the spinous process of the parietal bone ; though there can be no true procefs in a bone fo regu- lar and flat. The lower edge of the bone is a neat concave femicircle, which joins the parietal to the tem- poral bone; and the edge of each is fp flaunted off, that the edge of the temporal overlaps the edge of the parietal, with a thin fcale, forming the fquamous future. AboutINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 6s About an inch above the fquamous future, there is a" femicircular ridge, where the bone is particularly white and hard ; and rays extend downwards from this, con- verging towards the jugum, or arch of the temple. The white femicircular line reprefents the origin of the temporal mufcle ; and the converging lines exprefs the manner in which the fibres of the mufcle are gathered into a fmaller compafs, to pafs under the jugum. The fagittal future, or meeting of the two parietals, is marked on the infide with a groove as big as the fin- ger, which holds the longitudinal finus, or great vein of the brain: but the groove is not fo diflindly feen, unlefs the two bones be put together ; for one half of this flat groove belongs to each bone. The great artery of the dura mater touches this bone at that angle of it which lies in the temple. It traverfes the bone from comer to corner, fpreading from the firfl point, like the branches of a tree, it beats deep into the bone where it firft touches it; but where it expands into branches, its impreffions are very flight; commonly it makes a groove only, but fome- times it is entirely buried in the bone; fo that at the lower corner of the parietal bone we cannot efcape cut- ting thisveffel, if we are forced to operate with the trepan. There- is but one hole in the parietal bone; it is fmall and round, is within one inch of the meeting of the lambdoida! and faggital futures, and gives paffage to a fmall external- vein, which goes inwards to the firms; and to a fmall artery which goes alfo inwards to the dura mater, or rather to the mix. The meeting of the frontal and oan ta! bones, being imperfeft in the child, leaves that membraneous in- terface,62 DESCRIPTION OF THE terflice, which by fome is named folium or folliolum, from its refembling a trefoil leaf ; and was named by the ancients hypothetically, bregma, fons *, or foun- tain ; they thinking it a drain of moiflure from the brain ; and fo the parietal bones are named offa breg-a matis. OS OCCIPITIS.-—This bone has alfo the names of os memoriae, and os nervofum. It is the thickell of the cranial bones, but is the lead regular in its thicknefs, being tranfparent in fome places, and in others fweiling into ridges of very firm bone. It gives origin or infer- tion to many of the greatefl mufcles, which move the head and neck ; it fupports the back part of the brain 5 contains the cerebellum or leffer brain ; tranfmits the fpinal marrow, and is marked with the conflux of the chief fmufes, or great veins of the brain. The external surface is exceedingly irregular, by the impreffions of the great mufcles of the neck : For firfl the trepezius and complexus, two great'ex- ternal mufcles of the neck and head, have their chief hold upon the occipital bone, by which there is formed one great transverse spine. Belov/thefe again, the refti mufcles, two fmall and deep mufcles of the head and neck, make another tranfverfe fpine below the firfl: fo that there is a double tranfverfe fpine; and the in- terflice betwixt the mufcles of the oppofite Tides leaves, of courfe, a prominent ridge or fpine, which, running * The word pulfatilis, or fons pulfatilis, or beating fountain, was added, becaufe we feel the beating of the arteries of the brain there. fromINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. from above downwards, erodes the firft ridges, and makes a crofs called the crucial spine ; and in a ftrong man advanced in years, where the ridges and hollows are ftrongly marked, the point where thefe ridges crofs, is fo very prominent, as to be named the posterior tuberosity of the occipital bone. The internal surface. Oppofite to thefe ridges, there are fimilar crucial ridges within; but more regu- lar, fmooth, and equal, and making only one tranfverfe line. The tentorium cerebello-super-extensum, is a diaphragm or tranfverfe partition, which erodes the ikull at its back part; cuts oft from the reft; of the cranium the hollow of the occipital bone ; appropriates that cavity for the cerebellum, and defends the cere- bellum from the weight and predure of the brain. This tentorium, or tranfverfe membrane, is attached to the great internal ridge of the occipital bone. In the angle where this membrane is fixed to the ridge, lies the great fimus or vein ; which is called lon- gitudinal finus, while it is running along the head; but the fame finus, dividing in the back of the head, into two great branches, changes its name with its direction ; and the forkings of the vedel are named the right and left lateral finufes, which go down through the bafis of the Ikull; and being continued down the neck, are there named the great or internal jugular veins. This forking of the longitudinal, into the lateral finufes, makes a triangular or tripod-like groove, which follows the internal ridges of the occipital bone : and above and below the tranfverfe ridge, there are formed four plain and fmooth hollows. The two upper ones are above the tentorium, and contain the back- mod64 DESCRIPTION OF THE mofi lobes of the brain ; the two lower ones are under the tentorium, and hold the lobes of the cerebellum or little brain. Processes. The proceffes or projections of the oc- cipital bone are few and Ample. 1. There is a part of the bone which runs forward from the place of the foramen magnum; lies in the very centre of the bafe of the Ikull; and joins the occipital to the fphenoidal bone ; and which, both on account of its place (wed- ged in the bafis of the Ikull), and of its fhape, which is rather fmall, and fomewhat of the form of awvedge, is named the cuneiform, or wedge-like process of the occipital bone. And, 2. There are two fmall oval proceffes, or button-like projections, which (land off from the fide, or rather from the forepart of the fora- men magnum, or great hole, and which, being lodged in joints belonging to the upper bone of the neck, form the hinge on which the head moves. Thefe two pro- ceffes are named the condyles of the occipital bone- They are not very prominent, but rather flattened j are of an oval form, and have their fore-ends turned a little towards each other; fo that by this joint the head moves directlv backwards or forwards, but can- not turn or roll. The turning motions are performed chiefly by the firfl bones of the neck. Round the root of each condyle, there is a roughnefs, which fhows where the ligament ties this fmall point to the corre- fponding bone of the neck. Holes.—1. Thefe condyles ftand juft on the edge of the foramen magnum, or great hole of the head, which tranfmits the fpinal marrow, or continuation of the brain ; and the edges of this hole (which is almoft 5 a regu-INDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 65 h regular circle) are turned and fmoothed; a little thicker at the lip, and having a roughnefs behind that, giving a firm hold to a ligament, which, departing from this hole, goes down through the whole cavity of the fpine, forming at once a fheath for the fpina! marrow, and a ligament for each individual bone. There pafles down through this great hole the fpinal marrow, and the vertebral vein. There come up through it the vertebral arteries, which are of great importance and fize ; and a fmall nerve, which, from its coming backwards from the fpine to affifl certain nerves of the brain, is named the fpinal acceffary nerve. 2. The fecond hole is placed a little behind the ring of the foramen magnum, and juft at the root of either condyle, is round, and large, eafily found, and fome- times it is double ; it tfanfmits the ninth pair, or great lingual nerve. 3. There is another hole fmaller, and lefs regular than this laft. It is exactly behind the condyle, while the lingual hole is before it. It is for permitting a fmall vein, the cervical vein of the neck, to enter and drop its blood into the great lateral finus ; but often it is not formed, and this trifling vein gets in by the great occipital hole. 4. We fhall defcribe with the temporal bone that wide hole which is common to the temporal and oc- cipital bones, and which tranfmits the great lateral fmus. OS TEMPORIS.—The temporal bone is, in the child, two bones $ which retain their original names VOL. i, f of66 DESCRIPTION OF fHTE ©f pars petrofa and pars fquamofa. The whole bone is very irregular in its thicknefs, and hollows, and proceffes. The Pars squamosa is a thin or fcaly part; rifes like a fhell over the lower part of the pa- rietal bone, and is fmoothed and flattened by the rub- ing of the temporal mufcle. The pars petrosa? often named os lapidosum, or ftony bone, is hard, ir- regular, rocky 5 juts inward towards the bafis of the fkull ; contains the organ of hearing, and, of courfe^ receives and tranfmits all the nerves which are con- nected with the ear. There is a third portion of this bone, viz. the occipital angle, which is thick and hard; is divided into cells, and forms thofe caverns which are fuppofed to be chiefly ufeful in reverbe- rating the found. The fquamous part is grooved, to make the fqua-- mous future ; is fco! loped or fringed ; and exceeding- ly thin on its edge ; it is radiated, in confequence of its original edification fhooting out in rays. The petrous part again is triangular, unequal by the ca- vities of the ear ; it has a very hard, fhining, polifhed- like furface 5 exceeded in hardnefs by nothing but the enamel of the teeth. Where it projects into the bife, it has feveral open points, which are filled up with cartilaginous or ligamentous fubflance ; and its occi- .pital angle is connected with the other bones by the additamentum futurae fquamofae. Processes, i. The zygomatic process riles broad and flat before the ear; grows gradually fmaller as it flretches forward to reach the cheek bone : forms with a procefs of that bone the zygoma, yoke, or arch of the te.mple, under which the temporal mufcle plays. TheINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 6j The temporal mufcle is flrengthened by a firm co- vering of tendon, which flretches from the upper edge of this zygoma to the white line on the parietal bone ; and feveral mufcles of the face arife from the lower edge of the zygoma, particularly one named maffiter, which moves the jaw 5 and one named zygomaticus, or diflortor oris, becaufe it draws the angle of the mouth. The zygomatic procefs is united by a fhort future to the cheek-bone. 2. The styloid process, is fo named from a flight refemblance to the fly 1 us, or point with which the ancients engraved their writings on tables of wax. It is cartilaginous long after birth ; even in the adult, it is not completely formed ; it is exceedingly delicate and fmall; and when its cartilaginous point is fairly oflified, as in old men, it is fometimes two inches long. It Hands obliquely out from the bafis of the head, and is behind the jaw ; fo that it gives con- venient origin to a ligament which goes downwards to fupport the os hyoides, or bone of the tongue j and it is the origin of many curious mufcles, chiefly of the throat and jaws. One flender mufcle going down- wards from the flyloid procefs, and expanding over the pharynx, is called flylo-pharingeus ; one going to the os hyoides, is the flylo-hyoideus ; one going to the tongue, is the flylo-gloffus ; and fince the procefs is above and behind thefe parts, the mufcles mufl all pull backwards and upwards, raifing according to their infertions, one the pharynx, another the os hyoides, another the tongue. 3. The vaginal process will not be eafily founds nor acknowledged as a procefs ; for it is only a fmall riling of a ridge of the bone, with a rough and bro- F 2 ken-description of th£ &. ken-like edge, on the middle of which the ftylekl procefs Hands : it is, in fhort, the root of the ftyloid procefs ; and anatomifts have chofen to obferve it, though it gives origin to no particular part \ and they have named it vaginalis, as if it refembled a Iheath for the ftyloid procefs. 4. The MASTOID or MAMMILLARY PROCESS, is a CO- nical nipple-like bump, like the point of the thumb ; it projefts from under the ear, and is eafily felt with the finger without; it is hollow, with many cells which enlarge the tympanum, or firft cavity of the ear, and are thought to reverberate and ftrengthen the found. Under its root, there is a deep and rough rut which gives a firm hold to the firft belly of the digaftric mufcle ; and the point or nipple of this procefs is the point into which the maftoid mufcle is inferted from before, and the complexus, obliquus, and trachelo- maftoidaeus mufcles from behind. It has been pro- pofed of late years, that, in certain cafes of deafnefs, we fhould open this part with the trepan. 5. The auditory process is juft the outer margin of the hole of the ear. It is in a child a diftindl ring\ which is laid upon the reft of the bone. The mem- brane of the ear is extended upon this ring, like the head of a tambour upon its hoop, whence this is named the circle of the tambour by the French, and by us the drum of the ear. In the adult this ring is fairly united to the bone, and is named the proceffus audi- torius; and may be defined a circle, or ring of bone, tvith a rough irregular edge ; the drum or membrane of the ear is extended upon it, and the cartilaginous tube of the ear is fixed to it; and this ring occupies 8 the rINDIVIDUAL BONES OF TI^E SKULL* 69 the fpace from the, root of the mammillary to the root of the zygomatic procefs. Holes. The temporal bone is perforated with many holes, each of which relates to the organ of hearing ; fome for permitting nerves to enter ; others for letting th'em out; and others for the free palfage of air to the internal ear. 1. The meatus auditorius externus (the circle •of which has been defcribed,) is covered with the membrane of the drum, and communicates the vibra- tory motion of the air for moving and exciting the internal organs. 2. The meatus auditorius internus, is that hole by which the auditory nerves have accefs to the ear. It is a very large hole, feated upon the back of the pars petrofa, which is of a triangular form. The hole is at firft large, fmooth, almoft a regular circle, with a fort of round lip. Within this there are feen many fmall holes, the meaning of which is this : The audi- tory nerve is double from its very origin in the brain : it confifts, in fail, of two diftinit nerves, the portio dura, and the portio mollis. The portio mollis is a large foft and delicate nerve, which conflitutes the true organ of hearing ; and when it is admitted into the ear, it is expanded into a thin web which fpreads over all the cavities of the ear, as the cochlaea, femi* circular canals, &c. The portio dura, the fmaller part of the nerve, paffes indeed through the ear, but it is quite a foreign nerve; it not diftributed within the ear ; it keeps the form of a diftinfl cord, and paf* fing through the temporal bone, it comes out upon the cheek, where it is expanded; fo that the portio f 370 DESCRIPTION OF THE dura is a nerve of the face, palling through the ear, but forming no part of that organ. Thus the two nerves, the portio dura and the portio mollis, enter to- gether ; they fill the greater hole, and then they part j the portio dura, entering by one difiinft hole, takes its courfe along a diftinft canal, the aqueduft of Fallo- pius, from which it comes out upon the cheek ; while the portio mollis, entering by many fmaller holes in- to the cochlsea, femicircular canals, and other internal parts of the ear, is expanded in thefe cavities to form the proper organ of hearing. 3. There is upon the fore part of the petrous bone: a fmall hole which will admit the point of a pin. This hole receives a fmall twig reflected from the fifth pair of nerves : the nerve is as fmall as a fewing thread; it can be traced along the petrous bone by a fmall groove which conducts it to the hole \ and when it enters the ear, it goes into the fame canal with the portio dura, and joins itfelf to it. 4. The hole by which the portio dura paffes out upon the cheek, is found juft before the mafloid, and behind the ftyloid procefs j and being betwixt the two, it is named the stylo-mastoid hole, and is fo fmall, as juft to admit a pin. 5. The hole for the Euftachian tube is very irregular. No air can pafs through the membrane of the drum ; and as air is neceffary within the ear, it is conveyed upwards from the palate by the iter a palato ad aurem, or as it commonly called, the Eustachian tube. This tube is long, and of a trumpet fofm ; its mouth, by which it opens behind the noftril, is wide enough to receive the point of the finger; it grows graduallyINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL, jrj gradually fmaller as it advances towards the ear; it is cartilaginous in almofl its whole length; very little of it confifts of firm bone ; fo that the lludent, in ex- amining the fkull, will hardly find the Euflachian tube; for the cartilage being rotten away, nothing is left but that end of the canal that is nexc the ear, and which is open both above and below, ragged, ir- regular and broken. When we have a fore throat, the pain extends up along this tube- into the ear; when we have a cold, both our voice and our hearing is hurt; the one by the fluffing of the finufes, the other by the fluffing of the Euflachian tube. When we ffiut the nofe and mouth, and blow ftrongly we feel a crackling in the ear, as in the place of the Euflachian tube ; when we dive, we feel the fame, by the condenfation of the air; and fometimes by forcing the air ftrongly up- wards through the ear, or by vomits, obftrudlion of the Euflachian tube, and the deafnefs which attends that accident, are very fuddenly, and we may fay, violently removed $ or fometimes the cure is attempt- ed by fyringing, or by cleaning the mouth of this tube with a probe, juft as we do the external ear. The other holes do not relate to the ear, and are chiefly for tranfmitting the great blood-veffels of the brain. 1. The carotid artery, the chief artery of the brain, enters into the fkull near the point of the pe- trous bone, and juft before the root of the ftyloid prc- cefs. The artery goes firft diredlly upwards, then ob- liquely forwards through the bone, and then again upwards, to emerge upon the infide of the fkull; fo f 4 thatDESCRIPTION OF THE 73 that the carotid makes the form of an Italic S, when it is palling through the fubflance of the bone ; and in place of a mere hole, we find a fort of Ihort canal,, wide, a little crooked, and very fmooth within. There feems to be a particular defign in this angle, which the artery is forced to make : perhaps it is defigned to abate the violence with which the blood would drive forwards into the brain ; for in many of the lower ani- mals, there are ftill more particular provifions than this, the artery being prevented from entering the brain in one great trunk, by a curious divifion, into many branches, which meet again. It is at this par- ticular point that we are fenfible in our own body of the beating of thefe two great arteries; and Haller is at pains to inform us, that, during a fever, he felt this beating in a very diftrefling degree. 2. The great lateral sinus comes out through the temporal bone, to 'brm the internal jugular vein. The courfe of the finus may be eafily traced by the groove of the occipital bone downwards, behind the pars petrofa: there alfo it makes a deep groove, and ends with a large inteftine-like turn, which makes a large cavity in the temporal bone, big enough to re- ceive the point of the finger. The finus palfes out, not by any particular hole in the temporal bone, but by what is called a common hole, viz. formed one half by the temporal, and one half by the occipital bone. This hole is very large; is lacerated or ragged like. It; * is fometimes divided into two openings, by a fmall point, or fpine of bone. The larger opening on one fide of that point tranfmits the great finus, where it begins to form the jugular vein ; and the fmaller open- ingindividual bones of the skull. 73 ing tranfmits the eighth nerve of the Ikull, or par va- gum which goes down towards the ftomach, along with the jugular vein. There is a fmall furrow upon the very angle or ridge of the petrous bone, which is made by a fmall vein of the brain going towards the end of the lateral 'linus. 3. There is a fmall hole on the outfide of this bone, in the occipital angle; or rather the hole is oftener found in the line of the future (the additamentum fu- ture fquamofse). Sometimes it is in the occipital bone; or fometimes it is awanting: it tranfmits a trifling vein from without, into the great finus, or a fmall artery going to the dura mater. That hollow under the root of the zygomatic pro- cefs, which lodges the hinge of the jaw-bone, mull be defcribed along with the lower jaw. The iETHMOID BONE.—This is perhaps one of the moll curious bones of the human body. It appears almoll a cube, not of folid bone, but exceedingly light, fpongy, and confilling of many convulated plates, which form a net-work like honey comb, It is curioufly in- clofed in the os frontis, betwixt the orbitary procefles of that bone. One horizontal plate receives the olfaftory nerves, which perforate that plate with fuch a number of fmall holes, that it refembles a fieve; whence the • bone is named cribriform, or asthmoid bone. Other , plates dropping perpendicularly from this one, receive the divided nerves, and give them an opportunity of expanding into the organ of fmelling; and thefe bones, upon which the olfaflory nerves are fpread out, are fo much convoluted, as to extend the furface of this74 DESCRIPTION OF THE this fenfe very greatly, and are named fpongy bones. Another fiat plate lies in the orbit of the eye; and being very fmooth by the rolling of the eye, it is named the os planum, or fmooth bone. So that the sethmoid bone fupports the fore part of the brain, receives the olfactory nerves, forms the organ of fuelling, and makes a chief part of the orbit of the eye ; and the fpongy bones, and the os planum, are neither of them diftindt bones, but parts of this eethmoid bone. The cribriform plate is exceedingly delicate and thin ; lies horizontally over the root of the nofe; and fills up neatly the fpace betwixt the two orbitary plates of the frontal bone. The olfadtory nerves, like two fmall flat lobes, lie out upon this plate, and adhering to it, Ihoot down like many roots through this bone, fo as to perforate it with numerous fmall holes, as if it had been dotted with the point of a pin, or like a nut- meg grater. This plate is horizontal; but its procefles are per- pendicular, one above, and three below. 1. The firfl: perpendicular procefs is what is called c rista galli ; a fmall perpendicular projection, fome- what like a cock’s comb, but exceedingly fmall, Hand- ing directly upwards from the middle of the cribriform plate, and dividing that plate into two; fo that one ol- fadtory nerve lies upon each fide of the crilta galli; and the root of the falx or fepteyn betwixt the two hemi- fpheres of the brain, begins from this procefs. The fora- men csecum, or blind hole of the frontal bone, is form- ed partly by the root of the crifta galli, which is very fmooth, and fometimes, it is faid, hollow or cellular. 2. Exadtly oppofite to this', and in the fame dire&ion with it, i. e. perpendicular to the ssthmoid plate. HandsINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL, J5 Hands out the nasal plate of the sethmcld'bone. It is fometimes called the azygous, or fmgle procefs of the sethmoid, and forms the beginning of that feptum or partition which divides the two noftrils. This prc- cefs is thin, but firm, and compofed of folid bone ; it is commonly inclined a little to one fide, fo as to make the noftrils of unequal ftze. The azygous procefs is united with the vomer, which forms the chief part of the partition ; fo that the feptum, or partition of the nofe, conftfts of this azygous procefs of the sethmoid bone above, of the vomer below, and of the cartilage in the fore or projecting part of the nofe; but the cartilage rots away, fo that whatever is feen of this feptum in the fkull, muft be either of the sethmoid bone or the vomer. 3. Upon either fide of the feptum, there hangs down a spongnY bone, one hanging in each noftril. They are each rolled up like a fcroll of parchment: they are very fpongy ; are covered with a delicate and fen- fible membrane; and when the olfadtory nerves depart from the cribriform plate of the sethmoid bone, they attach themfelves to the feptum, and to thefe upper fpongy bones, and expand upon them fo, that the con- volutions of thefe bones are of material ufe in expand- ing the organ of fmelling, and detaining the odorous eftluvim till the impreffion be perfect. Their convolu- tions are more numerous in the lower animals, in pro- portion as they need a more acute fenfe. They are named fpongy, or turbinated bones, from their convo- lutions, refembling the many folds of a turban. The fpongy bones have a great many honey comb- like cells connected with them, which belong alfo to the organ of fmell, and which are ufeful perhaps by detaining75 DESCRIPTION OF THE detaining the effluvise of odorous bodies, and alfo by reverberating the voice. Thus, in a common cold, while the voice is hurt by an affedtion of thefe cells, the fenfe of fuelling is almoft loft. 4. The orbitary plate of the aethmoid bone is a large furface; confifting of a very firm plate of bone, of a regular fquare form ; exceedingly fmooth and po- Mfhed : it forms a great part of the focket for the eye, lying on its inner fide. When we fee it in the detach- ed bone, we know it to be juft the flat fide of the ssth- moid bone; but while it is incafed in the focket of the eye, we fhould believe it to be a fmall fquare bone; and from this, and from its fmoothnefs, it has got the diftindt name of os planum. 5. The os unguis fhould alfo, perhaps, be counted as a part of this bone; for though the os unguis, when obferved in the orbit, feems to be a fmall detached bone, thin like a fcale, and of the fize of the finger nail (whence it has its name), yet in the adult, the os unguis is firmly attached to the sethmoid bone; comes along with it when we feparate the pieces of the fkulT; and when the os unguis is pared off from the sethmoid bone, the cells are ejcpofed. This os unguis, then, is a fmall fcaly-like plate, in the inner corner of the orbit juft over the nofe. We find in it that groove which holds the lachrymal fac, and conducts it to the nofe, and it is this thin bone that we perforate in making the new paffage into the nofe, when there is an obftruction in the natural dudt. 6. The cells of the sethmoid bone, which form fo important a fhare of the organ of fmell, are arranged in great numbers, al6ng the fpongy bone. They are fmallIndividual bones of the skull. 77 fmall neat cells^ much like a honey comb, and regu- larly arranged in two rows, parted from each other by a thin partition ; fo that the os planum feems to have one fet of cells attached to it, while another regular fet of cells belongs in like manner to the fpongy bones. The cells are thus twelve in number *, opening into each other, and into the nofe. Thefe cells are frequently the feat of venereal ulcers, and the fpungy bones are the furface where polypi often fprout up. And from the general connexions and forms of the bone, we can eafily underhand how the venereal ulcer, when deep in the nofe, having got to thefe cells, cannot be cured, but undermines all the face ; how the venereal difeafe, having affected the nofe, foon fpreads to the eye, and how even the brain itfelf is not fafe. We fee the danger of a blow upon, the nofe, which, by a force upon the feptum, or middle partition, may aeprefs the delicate cribriform plate, fo as to opprefs the brain with all the effeXs of a frac- tured lkull, and without any operation v/hich can give relief. And we alfo fee much danger in pulling away polypi, which are firmly attached to the upper fpongy bone. SPHENOIDAL BONE.— The fphenoidal bone completes the cranium, and clofes it below. It is named sphenoid, cuneiform, or wedge-like bone, from its being incafed in the very bafis of the fkull; or it is named os multiform e, from its irregular lhape. Lis' much of the lhape of a bat, whence it is often named the. pterygoid bone, its temporal proceffes being like extended wings ; its pterygoid proceffes like feet; its * The number is commonly twelve, but not regularly fo. middle7$ DESCRIPTION OF THE middle like the body and head of a bat. Its wing-like precedes are in the hollow of the temple, forming a part of the fquamous future, and alfo compofing a part of the orbit of the eye : Its pterygoid procelfes hang over the roof of the mouth, forming the back of the noftrils. The body is in the very centre of the fkull and tranfmits almoft all the nerves of the brain ; but flill the body bears fo fmall a proportion to the bone, that we have not a regular centre to which all the procTTes can be referred ; fo that we are always, in deferibing this bone, moving forwards from point to point, from one procefs or hole to the next. PROCESSES.—i. The alje, or wings, often named temporal proceffes, rife up in the temple, to form part of the hollow of the temple ; and thefe wings of the fphenoid bone meeting the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones, by a thin fcaly edge, they make part of the fquamous future, and give a fmooth furface for the temporal mufcle to play upon. 2. The other fide of this fame procefs looks towards the focket of the eye, and has a very regular and fmooth furface ; it is exaftly oppofite to the os pla- num. As the aethmoid bone forms part of the infide of the orbit, the wing of the fphenoid bone forms part of the outnde of the orbit; and fo the furface turned towards the eye is named the qp*bitary process of the fphasnoid bone. 3. The lower, or back part of this bone runs out into a narrow point, -which fmks in under the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and being lharp pointed, it is named the spinous process. It is very remarkable forINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 79 for a fmall hole which permits the great artery of the dura mater to enter. 4. The point of this fpinous procefs projects in the form of a very fmall peak, which will hardly be found by the Undent. It projects from the bafis of the fkull juft within the condyle of the lower jaw ; and being a fmall point, like the point of the flilus, or iron pen, it alfo is named styloid process, and gives rife to a curious mufcle of the palate. 5. The pterygoid process* are four in number, two on either fide. They are thofe procefles, upon which (with the fpinous procefs) the bone naturally Hands, and which, when we compare it with a bat, reprefent the legs ; one of each fide is named external pterygoid 5 the other is named the internal pterygoid procefs. 1. Each external pteygoid process, is thin, flat, and broad, and extends further backwards. Each in- ternal pterygoid procefs is taller and more flender, not fo flat nor broad. It has its end rifing higher than the other, and tipped with a fmall neat hook, named the hook of the pterygoid procefs. The inner pterygoid procefles form the back of the noftrils. The Euftachian tube comes downwards in a wide groove betwixt the two procefles, and then turning its wide mouth towards the noftril, it opens juft behind the internal procefs, viz. behind the noftril, and over the back of the pa- late. The hook of the pterygoid procefs is called the hook of the palate, of which it forms the backmoft point. The mufculus circumflexus vel tenfor palati, * There is foine confuiion in this name, fince pterygoid fignifies aliform, or wing-like proceffes.DESCRIPTION OF THE to Fifing from the mouth of the Euftachian tube, turns ■wltfi a fmall tendon round this hook, like a rope over its pub ley ; and the great mufcles of the lower jaw, the only ones for moving its fidewife, or for its grinding mo-> tions, arife from the pterygoid proceffes, fo as to be named the external and internal pterygoid mufcles, accord ng to the proceffes from which they arife. 6. The azygous process*, is fo named, from its be- ing Angle, becaufe it is feated in the centre of the bone, fo that it can have no fellow. It Hands perpen- dicularly downwards and forwards, over the centre of the nofe, and its chief ufe is to give a firm feat or infertion for the vomer, or bone, which forms the fep- tum. This, with the azygous procefs of the asthmoid bone united, forms the upper and back parts of the feptum; and the vomer, or proper bone of the par- tition, Hands, with a fplit edge, aftride over thefe two proceffes, fo as to have a very firm feat. 7. The clynoid processes, have, like many partsof the human body, a very whimfical name, very ill fuit- ed to exprefs their form; for it is not eafy, in this in- flance, to acknowledge the likenefs of four little knobs to bed-pofls; yet the clynoid proceffes are very remark- able. The two anterior clynoid processes are fmall bumps, rather {harp, projecting backwards, and ter- minating in two flat projecting points. The poste- * Azygous is a term, which is applied to fuch parts as have no fellow ; becaufe almolt always the parts on one fide of the body are balanced by fimilar and correfponding parts on the other fide. When they Hand in the centre of the body, or are otherwife Angle, we call them azygous ; and fo the axygous procefs of the sethmoid and fphenoid, and other bones; or the azygous vein, which runs in the centre of the thorax, and in Angle. RJ.QRINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. e'ior clynoid processes, rife about an inch further backwards, and are, as it were, oppofed to the others* They rife in one broad and flat procefs, which divides above into two points, fmall and round, or knobby at their points ; and they look forwards towards the an- terior clynoid procefles.. TheCELLATURCiCA EPHiPPiuM,or Turkifh faddle, is the fpace inclofed by thefe four procefles., and is well named. The cella turcica fupports the pituitary gland, an appendage of the brain, the ufe of which is unknown. The carotid arteries rife up by the Tides of the cella turcica, and mark its Tides with a broad groove. The optic nerves lie upon a groove at the fore part of the cella turcica, betwixt the two anterior clynoid procefles 5 and fometimes the two anterior pro- cedes ft retch backwards, till they meet the pofterior ones, and form an arch, under which the carotid ar- tery paffes. Often the pofterior clynoid knobs cannot be fairly diftinguifned; fmce, in many lkulls, they form but one broad procefs. This bone has alfo its cells, for all that part which we call the body of the bone, all the cella turcica, that fpace which is betwixt the clynoid procefles within and the azygous procefs without, is hollowed into one large cell, divided with a middle partition* It is indeed lefs regular than the other cells ; it is fome- times very large, fometimes it is not to be found 5 it has other trifling varieties, which it were idle to de«* fcribe. As it communicates with the sethmoid cells, it probably performs one office with them ; is almoft a continuation of them, fo that when any one is lefs or awanting, the others are proportionally larger* VQij. If <3 HOLESDESCRIPTION OF THE $2 HOLES.—The fphenoid bone is fo placed in the very centre of the Ikull, that its holes tranfmit the principal nerves of the Ikull, and it bears the marks of the chief arteries. 1. The optic holes,are large, round holes, juft un- der each anterior clynoid procefs. We trace the optic nerves, by a large groove into each optic hole; and an artery goes along with them, named the ophthalmic artery, about the fize of a crow-quill, twilling round the optic nerve, and giving arteries to the eyelids, mufcles, and lachrymal gland, but moft efpecially to the ball and humours of the eye itfeif. This ocular • or ophthalmic artery comes off from the great carotid, while it lies by the fide of the cella turcica ; and it is a branch again of this ocular artery, which goes out upon the forehead, forming the fuperciliary notch, or hole. 2. The foramen lacerum is next in order, and is fo named, becaufe it is a wide flit. The foramen la- cerum is wide near the cella turcica, grows gradually narrower as it goes out towards the temple, till it ter- minates almoft in a flit. The upper line of the fora- men lacerum is formed by the anterior clynoid pro- cefs, extending outwards, lharp and flat: And this is what fome have chofen to diftinguilh by the name of transverse spinous process, or the little wing of Ingrafias, who had obferved it. The nerves of the Ikull are counted from- before backwards. There are nine nerves proper to the Ikull; the firft, or olfactory nerve, perforates the cribri- form bone; the 2d, or optic nerve, paffes through the optic hole; the 3d, the 4th, part of the 5th, and theINDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE SKULL. 83 the whole of the 6th pairs of the nerves, pafs through this foramen lacerum, or wide hole, to go alfo into the eye. The optic nerve forms the proper organ of vifion. The fmaller nerves of the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th pairs, go to animate its mufcles, with the trifling exception of fome fmall twigs, which, pafling through the orbit, mount upon the forehead, or go downwards into the nofe. 3. The foramen rotundum, is named from its round fliape. The foramen opticum is indeed round, but it has already got an appropriated name. Now to give the young anatomifl: a regular notion of this, and of the next hole, we muft enumerate the branches of the 5th pair. The fifth nerve of the brain is as broad as the little finger, and lies by the fide of the cella turcica, where it divides into three Iefler nerves, which are called branches of the 5th pair. The firfl: branch of the 5th pair is deftined for the eye; the fecond branch of the 5th pair for the upper jaw; the third branch of this 5th pair for the lower jaw % fo the firfl; branch of the 5th pair pafles through the foramen lacerum to the eye j the fecond branch of the 5th pair pafles through the foramen rotundum to the upper jaw; the third branch of this great nerve pafles through the foramen ovale to the lower jaw j and if we had any faith in the dottrines of nervous fympathy, we ihould fay, here is a wide fympathy provided among the nerves of the eye, the face, and the lower jaw. The foramen rotundum, then, is a hole exa&ly* round, pretty large, opening immediately under the inner end of the foramen lacerum, and tranfmitting the g i fecpftdDEsCRtETtoN OF THE %4 fecond branch of the 5th pair of nerves to the upped jaw. 4* The for.amen ovale, is an oval hole, larger thart the foramen rotundum; about half an inch behind it; and transmitting the third branch of the 5 th pair to the lower jaw. 5. The foramen spinaLe, or spinous hole * is a very fmall round hole, as if made with a large pin; is in the very point of the fpinous procefs ; is one third of an inch behind the oval hole, and tranfmits the fmall artery, lefs than a crow-quill, which conflitutes the chief afte?y of the dura mater, viz. that artery which makes its impreffion upon the parietal bone. 6. There is Hill another hole, which tranfmits a nerve, curious in this refped, that it is not going out from the fkull, but returning into it; for the fecond branch of the 5th pair, or the fuperior maxillary nerve, fends a fmall branch backwards, which having come with- in the fkuD,, enters the temporal bone, and goes to join itfelf to the portio dura of the 7 th pair, and in its way gives a fmall branch, to help cut the fender begin- ning of the great fympathetic nerve. This retrogade branch of the maxillary nerve gets back again into the Ikull, by a hole-which is found, juft under the root of each pterygoid procefs, whence it is named ptery- goid hole *5 or by many, is named aft?r its difcover- er, the Vidian hole|. This hole is almoft hidden * This retrogade twig, is the little nerve which perforates the os petrofum on its fore part.’ Vide page 70. f Vidus Vidius, a profeffor of Paris, and phyfician to Francis the firft. under85 Individual bones of the skull. binder the point of the petrous bone, is not to be feen, but in the feparated bones, and is nearly of the fize of the fpinous hole. If there are found fome minute holes about the cel- la turcica, they are only the marks of foine blood- veffels, entering the bone to nourifh it. CHAP, iy, OF THE BONES OF THE FACE AND JAWS. I he face is compofed of a great number of final! bones, which are grouped together, under the com- mon name of upper jaw. There are fix bones on ei- ther fide of the face ; but as their names could convey no diftindl notion of the ufes, forms, or places of thefe bones, to enumerate them were but wafte of time; they have indeed futures, and their futures have been very regularly enumerated; but thefe bones meet each, other by fuch thin edges, that no indentation nor proper future is formed. None of thefe futures run for any length, or are of any note; therefore I have only this to fay concerning the futures of the face, that they ape acknowledged to be purely a confe- g % quencaOF THE BONES 85 quence of the oflification having begun in many points: no particular defign of nature has been fup- pofed. The futures, if they require names, are to be named after the bones which they unite. OSSA NASI.—The offanafi arefmall bones, rather thin, having no cancelli, being merely firm and condenfed plates. They are convex outwardly, fo that the two together form nearly an arch. They are oppofed to each other by a pretty broad furface, fo that their thin arch is firm. They have a flat rough furface, by'which they are laid upon the rough fur- face of the frontal bone; fo that there alfo their con-, nedtion is flrong. They are inclofed by a branch of the upper jaw-bone, which ftretching upwards, is na- med its nafal proofs: and they lie with their edges under it in one part, and above it in another, in fuch a way, that they cannot eafily be forced in. Laftly, their lower edge is rough, for the firm attachment of the cartilages of the nofe; and their loweft point, or that where the bones of the nofe and the griftles of the nofe are joined, is the moft prominent point (or as it is vulgarly called the bridge) of the nofe j from which connection, notwithftanding its firmnefs, the cartila- ges are fometimes luxated. Os unguis, fo named from its being of the fizeand lhape of a nail; or fometimes named the os lachry- mal E, from its holding the duft which conveys the tears, is that thin fcale of bone which I have defcribed as belonging to the os sethmoides. It is commonly de- fcribed as a diftinCt bone; it is a thin flat bone, a fingle fcale, without any cancelli; it is found in the inner angleOF THE FACE AND JAWS. 37 angle of the eye, at its forepart, and juft touching the top of the nofe ; it has a large groove in it for holding the lachrymal fac and du£t. One half of this bone is behind the groove, and there the eye rolls upon it. One half of it is occupied by the groove for the nafal duft ; and the other fide of the groove is formed by the riling branch, or nafal procefs, as it is called, of the up- per jaw-bone. The os unguis is delicate, and eafily broken, being as thin as a fheet of paper. It is this bone which is pierced in the operation for the fiftula lachrymalis 3 which is eafily done, almoft with a blunt fteel or probe; and the chief caution is to keep for- wards, fo as to perforate in the place of the groove, as that will lead into the nofe, and not behind it, which would carry the perforating inftrument into the seth- moidal linufes, and perhaps wound the fpongy bone. This bone feems peculiarly liable to caries, which is perhaps the nature of all thefe thin bones j for as they have no marrow, they muft depend entirely on their periofteum, which they are no fo'oner robbed of than they die. Ossa maxillaria superiora.—The upper jaw- bones are particularly worthy of notice ; for here we find all that is curious in the face, even to its fize and lhape. The upper jaw-bones are of very great fize, forming as it were the foundation or bafis of the face. They fend a large branch upwards, which forms the fides of the nofe; a broad plate goes backwards, which forms the roof of the palate 5 there is a circular projec- tion below, which forms the alveoli, or fockets of the teeth. The upper jaw-bones are quite hollow within, forming a very large cavity, which is capable of com 4 p 4 iainingOP THE BONES taining an ounce of fluid or more. The fize of this ca- vity feems to determine the height of the cheek-bone* and the form of the face; and the difeafed enlarge? ment of this cavity raifes the cheek-bone, lefiens the eye, and deforms the face in a very extraordinary de- gree. Thefe procefies, and this cavity of the bone, are what deforve moil particular notice. i. The firfl is the nasal process, which extends upwards, to form the fide of the nofe. It is arched outwards, to give the noftrils fhape. Its Tides fupport the nafal bones; and the cartilages of the alae nafi, or wings ofthe nofe, are fixed to the edges of this pro- cefs. i. A plate of this bone is called the orbitary pro- cefs. This thin plate is the roof of the great cavity, which occupies this bone entirely. It is at once as a roof to the antrum rnaxillare and as a floor for the eye to roll upon. There is a wide groove along the upper lurface of this plate, in which the chief branch of the upper maxillary nerve lies : And this branch, named infra orbitary nerve from its lying thus under the eye, comes out by a hole of the jaw-bone under the eye, which is named infra orbitary hole. And thus the nerve appearing upon the cheek, is the chief perve of the face. 3. This great bone is the bafis upon which the cheek-bone Hands; and that it may have a firm place, there is a rough and (a6 anatcmifts call it) fcabrous furface, which makes a very firm future with the cheek? bone; and as this furface rifes a little, it is named the jnalar procefs, ^ FromOF THE FACE AND JAWS, 89 4. From the lower circle of this bone, there projects a femicircle of bone, which is for lodging the teeth of the upper jaw. This circle of bone is as deep as the fangs of the teeth are long. And it may be very truly named a procefs (processus alveolaris) fmce it does not exiff in the foetus, nor till the teeth be-c gin to be formed j fmce it grows along with the teeth and is abforbed and carried clean away when in old age the teeth fall out. The Tides of the fockets in which the teeth are lodged are extremely thin, and furround them clofely. The teeth are fo clofely em- braced by their fockets, and we are fo far from being poffefled of any inftrument by which they can be pulled perpendicularly out, that the fockets can fek dom efcape ; they are broken or lplintered in perhaps one of four extractions, even by the moll dexterous artifts in that line. 5. The palate process is a plate of bone which divides the nofe from the mouth, conftituting the roof of the palate, and the floor or bottom of the noftrils. This plate is thinner in its middle, and thicker at ei- ther edge: thus, it is thick where it firft comes off from the alveolar procefs ; it is thin in its middle ; and it is again thick where it meets its fellow of the oppo- fite fide. For at the place where the two upper jaw- bones meet, the palate plate is turned upwards, fo that the two bones are oppofed to each other in the middle of the palate, by a broad flat furface, which cannot be feen but by feparating the bones. This fur- face is fo very rough, that the middle palate future almoft refembles the futures of the fkull; and the max- illary bones are neither eaflly feparated, nor eafily joined90 OF THE BONES joined again. This meeting of the palate plates by a broad furface, makes a rifing fpine, or fliarp ridge to- wards the noftrils ; fo that the broadnefs of the furface by which thefe bones meet, ferves a double purpofe j it joins the bones fecurely, and it forms a fmall ridge upon which the fplit edge of the vomer, or partition of the nofe, is planted. Thus we find the palate plate of the maxillary bones conjoined ; forming almofl the whole of the palate, while what are properly called the palate bones form a very fmall fhare of the back part only. As thefe thinner bones of the face have no marrow, they are nourifhed by their periofteum only; they are of courfe perforated with many fmall holes. A great many minute holes are found along the palate plate, about the place of the fockets, and indeed all over the maxillary bones, And this is par- ticular in the palate, that the hard membrane or co- vering of it, is fixed to the bony plate by many rough tubercles, and even by fmall hooks, which are eafily feen in the dried bone. 6. The antrum maxillare, or cavity of the jaw- bone, is commonly named antrum highmorianum, after its difcoverer Highmore, We have gone round the antrum, on all its fides, in defcribing thefe prccefles of the bone. The palate plate makes the floor of the antrum; the orbitary procefs makes its roof; the cheek, quite up from the fockets of the teeth to the lower part of the eye, forms it walls, or fides; fo that when the antrum enlarges, it is the cheek that becomes de- formed ; and when we defign to open the antrum, we either perforate the cheek, or pull one of the teeth. The antrum is concave towards the cheek, but itOF THE FACE AND JAWS. 9l it has a flat fide towards the nofe•, it is divided from, the cavity of the noflril by a flat and very thin plate of bone; it feems in the naked fkull to have a very wide opening, and the lower fpongy bone is hung by a fmall hook upon the edge of this thin feptum, which divides the antrum from the nofe; but in the fkull, covered with its foft parts, we find the antrum almofl clofed by a membrane which ftretches over the opening, and leaves but one or two very fmall holes of the fize of the fmallefl pea, by which, perhaps, the reverberation of found in the antrum is more effectual in raifing the voice, and by which final! hole, the mucus, which is fecreted in the antrum, drops out into the nofe. The cavity of the antrum, like the inner furfaces of the nofirils, is covered with a membrane, and is bedewed with mucus; and the mucus drops more or lefs freely in various pofitions of the head. Sometimes by cold or other accidents, in* flammations and fwellings of the membrane come on ; the holes are clofed ; the drain of matter is fup- prefled and confined within, and the cheek fwells. Perhaps there may be feme particular difeafe of the membrane with which the cavity is lined, or of the bone itfelf; in one way or other, difeafes of this ca- vity, and collections of matter, dreadful pain and caries of the bone are very frequent; then the cheek rifes; the face is irrecoverably deformed ; fometimes the matter makes its way by the fides of the teeth, or at laft, it burfts through the bones, makes an ulcer in the cheek; and then there is a natural cure, but flow and uncertain. There is no very fure mark of this difeafe j it may be known by an attentive retro-OF THE BONES 93 fpect of all the circumflances. The difeafe is not to be eafily nor certainly difcovered ; but a very long con- tinued toothach, an uncommon degree of pain, or greater affection of the eye, with a fwelling and red- nefs, and gradual rifing of the cheek, are very fufpi- cious figns. The pulling of the fecond or third of the grinding teeth, often brings a fplinter away with N it, which opens a road for the matter to flow; or ■ though there be no breach of the focket, often the confined matter follows the teeth, 'becaufe not unfre- quently the longer fangs of the grinders naturally penetrate quite into this cavity of the jaw : if the mat- ter fhould not flow, the floor of the antrum is eafily perforated, by introducing a fharp ftillet by the focket of the tooth that is pulled. The flow of the matter gives relief, and injections of various medicines com- plete the cure. But as this opening is fometimes 9, cure, it is fometimes alfo a difeafe; for the breaking of a focket, fometimes opening a way into this an- trum, there follows inflammation of its internal furface, a running of matter, and fometimes caries of the bone. Holes.—The holes of the jaw-bone are two only : x. The infR.A-ORbitary hole, for tranfmitting the infra-orbitary nerve from the bottom of the eye, comes along under the eye in a bony groove, and makes generally one large round hole on the cheek, juft under the margin of the orbit, or fometimes the nerve divides and makes two fmaller holes in its paflage upon the cheek ; and, 2. A hole in the palate plate, which belongs equally to each of the palate bones; fdr it is betwixt the two bones in the forepart, or beginning of the palate future behind the.93 OF THE FACE AND JAWS, the two firft cutting teetth. This hole is named fo- ramen incisivum, as opening juft behind the incifive or cutting teeth ; or it is named anterior palatine hole, to diftinguifh it from one in the back of the palate: This hole is large enough to receive the point of a quill; it is fingle towards the mouth 5 but to- wards the nofe, it has two large openings, one open- ing diftinftly into each noftrih 3. But it will be well to explain here a third hole, which is common to 'the maxillary with the proper- palate bones. It is formed on the back part of. the palate (one on either fide), in the future which joins the palate-bones to the jaw-bones ; It is named pos^ terior palatine hole : It is as large as the interior palatine hole, but it ferves a much more important purpofe ; for the upper maxillary nerve fends a large branch to the palate, which branch comes down be- hind the back of the noftrii, perforates the back of the palate, by the pofterior palatine hole, and then goes forward in two great branches along the palate. Thus the chief, or, we might fay, the only nerves of the palate come down to it through thefe pofterior palatine holes; but the ufe of the anterior palatine hole is a problem ftill; for we cannot believe that fo great a hole, fo very regular, and fo curioufly divided, fo as to open into the two noftrils, can be quite ufe- lefs ; yet the meaning of this hole has never been ex*, plained. It looks almoft as if it were merely defigned for giving the foft palate a furer hold upon the bene j for no dmfts have been found opening into the palate from the nofe ; nor any glands with their dudts feated here; nor any nerves palling either from the nofe to ; theof The bones 94 the palate, or from the palate to the nofe; nor atiy ar* tery, except one of the moft trifling fize. In fhort* anatomifts having fought with care for any thing that might explain its ufe, have ffcill found nothing but the hard membrane filling up the interior hole. The whole furface of the bone which forms the an- trum, is perforated with frequent fmall holes, efpecially towards its back part, tranfmitting fmall arteries and nerves to the teeth; and the back of the antrum forms with the orbitary part of the fphenoid bone a fecond foramen lacerum for the eye; an irregular opening towards the bottom of the focket, which is for the accumulation of fat, not for the tranfmiflion of nerves; and it is from the wafting of this fat, taken back into the fyftem, that the eye finks fo remarkably in fevers, confumptions, and fuch other difeafes as wafte the body. The OSSA PALATI, or PALATE BONES—are very fmall, but have fuch a number of parts, and fuch curious connections as are not eafily explained. They feem to eke out the fuperior maxillary bones, fo aS to lengthen the palate, and complete the noftrils behind: they even extend upwards into the focket, fo as to form a part of its circle; although, in looking for them upon the entire fkull, all thefe parts are fo hidden, that we fnould fuppofe the palate bones to be of no greater ufe nor extent than to lengthen the palate a little backwards. The parts of the palate bone are thefe : i. The palatal plate, or procefs of the palate bone, whence it has its name, lies horizontal in the i fameOE THE f ACE AND JAWS. 95 3. The fame level with the palatal procefs of the jaw-bone, which it refembles in its rough and fpinous furface ; in its thinnefs ; in its being thinner in the middle, and thicker at either end; in its being oppofed to its fel- low by a broad furface, which completes the middle palate suture ; and it is connected with the palate procefs of the jaw, by a future refembling that by which the oppofite bones are joined; but this future going acrofs the back part of the palate, is named the transverse palate suture. Where the two palate bones are joined, they run backwards into an acute point; on either fide of that middle point, they make a femicircular line, and again run out into two points behind the grinding teeth of each fide. By this figure of the bones, the back line of the palate has a fcclloped or waved form. The velum palati, or cur- tain of the palate, is a little arched, following the ge- neral line of the bones *, the uvula or pap hangs ex- aftly from the middle of the velum, taking its origin from the middle proje&ing point of the two bones; and a fmall mufcle, the azygus uvulae, runs down in the middle of the velum, taking its origin from this middle point. 2. The fmall projecting point of the palate bone, juft behind the laft grinding tooth, touches the ptery- goid procefs of the fphenoid bone; it is therefore named the pterygoid process of the palate bone ; but it is fo joined with the pterygoid procefs of the fphenoidal bone, that they are not to be diftinguifhed in'the en- tire Ikull. The pcfterior pterygoid hole, or third hole of the palate, is juft before this point,,OF THE BONES 96 3. The nasal PLATEor process,is a thin andfmglA plate ; rifes perpendicularly upwards from the palate ; lies upon the fide and back part of the noltrils, fo as to form their opening backwards into the throat; it is fo joined to the upper jaw-bone, that it lies there like a founding-board upon the fide of the antrum Highmo- rianum, and completes that cavity forming the thin partition betwixt it and the nofe. 4« This nafal procefs extends thus up from the back arch of the palate to the back part of the orbit; and though the nafal plate is very thin and delicate in its whole le'ngth, yet, where it enters into the orbit, it is enlarged into an irregular kind of knob of a trian* gular form. This knob is named its orbit ary pro- cess ; or, as the knob has two faces looking two ways in the orbit, it is divided fometimes (as by Monro the father) into two orbitary procelfes, the anterior and poflerior; the anterior one is the chief. This orbitary procefs, or point of the palate bone, being triangular, very fmall, and very deep in the focket, is not eafdy difcovered in the entire fkull. 5. This orbitary procefs is molt commonly hollow or cellular, and its cells are fo joined to thofe of the fphenoid bone, that it is the palate bone that (huts the fphenoid cells, and the fphenoid and palatine cells of each fide conftitute but one general cavity. The OSSA SPONGIOSA, or TURBINATA, IN- FERIOR A, are fo named, to diftinguilh them from the upper fpongy bones, which belong to the bs aeth- moides) but thefe lower fpongy bones are quite dif- tin&,OF THE FACE AND JAWS. 9JT vol. i. h tril, tindt, formed a part, and connected in a very flight way with the upper jaw-bones. The ossa spongiosa inferiora, are two bones, much rolled or convoluted; very fpongy; of a light and fcaly appearance, with holes and an appearance of net-work refembling the fponginefs of puffed pafle, fo that they are exceedingly light. They lie rolled up in the lower part of the nofe; are particularly large in fheep; are eafily feen either in the entire fubjedi, or in the naked fkull. Their point forms that projection, which is touched with the finger in picking the nofe ; and from that indecent pradtice, very often ferious con- fequences arife, for in many inflances, polypi of the lower fpongy bones, which can be fairly traced to hurts of this kind, grow fo, as to extend down the throat, caufing fuffocation and death. One membrane conftitutes the univerfal lining of the cavities of the nofe, and the coverings of all the fpongy bones. This continuity of the membrane, pre- vents our feeing in the fubjedt, how flightly the fpongy bones are hung; but in the bare and diffedted fkull, we find a neat fmall hook upon the fpongy bone, by which it is hung upon the edge of the antrum maxillare; for this lower fpongy bone is laid upon the fide of the antrum fo as to help the palate bone, in clofing or covering that cavity from within. One end of the fpongy bone, rather more acute, is turned towards the opening of the noflril, and covers the end of the lachrymal dudt: the other end of the fame bone, points backwards towards the threat. The curling plate, hangs down into the cavity of the nof-OF THE BONES ,98 tril, with its arched fide towards the nofe. This fpongy bone differs from the fpongy procefs of the aethmoid bone, in being lefs turbinated or complex ; in having no cells connected with it ; and perhaps it is lefs diredtly related to the organ of fmell. If polypi arife from the upper fpongy bone, we can ufe lefs freedom, and dare hardly pull them away, for fear of injuring the cribriform plate of the aethmoid bone : we are in- deed not abfolutely prohibited from pulling the polypi from the upper fpongy bone : but we are more at eafe, in pulling them from the lower one, fince it is quite an infulated bond. When peafe, or any fuch foreign bodies, are detained in the nofe, it mull be from their fwelling, and being detained, among the fpongy bones. The fpongy bones are not abfolutely limited in their number: there is fometimes found betwixt thefe two, a third fet of fmall turbinated bones, commonly belonging to the aethmoid bone. VOMER.—The nofe is completed by the vomer, which is pamed from its refemblance to a plough- fhare, and which divides the two nofirils from each other. It is a thin and tlender bone, confifting evi- dently of two plates much comprefled together ; very denfe and ftrong, but (bill fo thin, as to be tranfparent. The two plates of which the vomer is compofed, fplit or part from each other at every edge of it, fo as to form a groove on every fide. 1. On its upper part, or as we may call it, its bafe, by which it Hands upon the fkull, the vomer has a wide groove, receiving the pro- jecting point of the.sethmoid and fphaenoid bones : thus it Hands very firm and fecure, and capable of refifiing very99 OF THE FACE AND JAWS, very violent blows. 2. Upon its lower part, its groove is narrower, and receives the riling line in the middle of the palate plate, where the bones meet, to form the palate future. At its fore-part, it is united by a rag- ged furface, and by fomething like a groove, to the middle cartilage of the nofe; and as the vomer re- ceives the other bones into its grooves, it is, in a man- ner, locked in on all lides: it receives fupport and ftrength from each ; and if the vomer and its cartilage Ihould feem too llender a fupport for the fabric of the nofe, let it be remembered, that they are all firmly connected, and covered by one continuous membrane, which is thick and llrong, and that this is as a perio- fteum, or rather like a continued ligament, which in- creafes greatly the thicknefs and the ftrength of every one of thefe thin plates. The vomer, in almoft every fubjed, bends much towards one or other noftril, fo as fometimes to occalion no fmall apprehenfion, when it happens to be firft obferved. OS MALiE, or the bone of the cheek, is eafil) known, and is a very unimportant one. It is that large fquare bone which forms the cheek : it has four diftind points, which anatomifts have chofen to demonftrate, with a very fuperfluous accuracy. 1. The upper or- bitary procefs ftands higheft, running upwards to form part of the focket, the outer corner of the eye, and the lharp edge of the temple. 2. The inferior, orbitary process, which is juft oppolite to this,form' ing the lower part of the orbit, and the edge of the cheek. 3. The maxillary process, is that broad and rough furface, by which it is joined to the upper jaw- h 2 bone.I0O OF THE BONES bone. 4. There is another procefs, the bell entitled to the name of procefs, becaufe it Hands out quite infulat- ed, and goes outwards and backwards to unite with the temporal bone, in forming the zygoma or temporal arch ; it is named the zygomatic process. 5. That plate, which goes backwards to form the floor of the or- bit, is named the internal orbit ary process. This bone has no holes, except fuch minute ones as tranfmit arteries, merely for the nourilhment of the bone itfelf. OS MAXILLiE INFERIORIS.—The lower jaw- bone, is likened to a horfe-lhoe, or to a crefcent, or to the letter U, though we need be under no anxiety about refemblances for a form fo generally known. There is fuch an infinite complication of parts fur- rounding the jaw, of glands, mufcjes, blood-veflels, and nerves, that it were endlefs to give even the flight- ell account of thefe. They lhall be referved each for its proper place, while I explain the form of the lower jaw, in the moll Ample and eafy way. 1. The fore part, or chin, is, in a handfome and manly face, very fquare; and this portion is marked out by this fquarenefs, and by two fmall holes, one on either fide, by which the nerves of the lower jaw come out upon the face. 2. The bafe of the jaw, is a llraight and even line, terminating the outline of the face. It is dillinftly traced all along, from the firll point of the chin, backwards to the angle of the jaw. Fra&ures of this bone are always more or lefs tranfverfe, and are eafily known by the falling down of one part of this even line, and by feeling the cralhing bones when the fal- lenIOI OF THE FACE AND JAWS. H 3 5. The len part is raifed. Such fractures happen from blows or falls ; but not by pulling teeth, for the fockets of the teeth bear but a fmall proportion to the reft of the jaw ; even in children this cannot happen, for in them the teeth have no roots, and have no hold nor dangerous power over the jaw. Though (as I have faid) the fockets often fuffer, the jaw itfelf never yields. 3. The angle of the jaw, is that corner where the bafe of the jaw ends, where the bone rifes upwards, at right angles, to be articulated with the head. This part alfo is eaftly felt, and by it we judge well of the fttuation of veins, arteries, and glands, which might be in danger of being cut, in wounds, or in operations. There are two proceffes of the jaw, of particular im- portance, the coronoid or horn like procefs, for the in- fertion of its ftrong mufcles, efpecially of the temporal mufcle, and the condyloid or hinge procefs, by which it is jointed with the temporal bone. 4. The coronoid process, named from its refem- blance to a horn, is, like the reft of the jaw-bone, flat on its Tides, and turned up with an acute angle, very fharp at its point, and lying exactly under the zygoma, or temporal arch. The temporal mufcle runs under this arch, and lays hold on the coronoid procefs ; not touching it on one point only, but grafping it on every fide, and all round. And the procefs is fet fo far before the articulation of the jaw, that it gives the mufcle great power. This procefs is fo defended by the temporal arch, and fo covered by mufcles, that it cannot be felt without.102 OF THE BONES 5. The condyloid process, or the articulating pro- cefs of the jaw, is behind this, and is formed by the body of the bone turned up at its angle. This alfo is of the fame flat form with the reft of the jaw. The condyle, or joint of the jaw-bone, is placed upon the top of this rifing branch. The condyle, or articulating head, is not round, but flat, of a long form, and fet acrofs the branch of the jaw. This articulating pro- cefs is received into a long hollow of the temporal bone, juft under the root of the zygomatic procefs; fo that by the long form of the condyles, and of the ca- vity into which it is received, this joint is a mere hinge, not admitting of lateral nor rotatory motions, at leaft of no wider lateral motions than thofe which are ne- ceflary in grinding the food ; but the hinge of the jaw is a complex and very curious one, which {hall be ex- plained in its proper place. 6. The alveolar process, or the long range of fockets for the teeth, refembles that of the upper jaw. The javr, as the body grovrs, is flowly increafmg in length, and the teeth are added in proportion to the growth of the jaws. When the jaws have acquired their full fize, the fockets are completely filled ; the lips are extended, and the mouth is truly formed. In the decline of life, the teeth fall out, and the fockets are reabforbed, and carried clean away, as if they had never been ; fo that the chin projects, the cheeks become hollow, and the lips fall in, the fureft marks of old age. The fucceflive changes of the form of the jaw are worthy of being mentioned once more ; firft, That in the child, the jaw confifts of two bones, which are join- edOF THE FACE AND JAWS. I03 H 4 ed flightly together in the chin. This joining, or fym- phyfis, as it is called, is eafily hurt, fo that in preterna- tural labours it is, according to the common method of pulling by the chin, always in danger, and often bro- ken. During childhood the procefles are blunt, and fhort, do not turn upwards with a bold and acute angle, but go off obliquely from the body of the bone. The teeth are not rooted, but flicking fuperficially in the alveolar procefs; and another let lies under them, ready to pufh them from the jaws. Secondly, That in youth, the alveolar procefs is ex- tending, the teeth are increafmg in number. The coronoid and articulating proceffcs are growing acute and large, and are fet off at right angles frc m the bone. The teeth are now firmly rooted ; for the fecond fet has come up from the fubflance of the jaw. Thirdly, In manhood, the alveolar procefs is flill more elongated. The dentes fapientise are added to the number of the teeth ; but often, by this, the jaw * is too full, and this laft tooth coming up from the backmofl part of the alveolar procefs in either jaw, it fometimes happens, that the jaw cannot eafily clofe; the new tooth gives pain; it either corrupts, or it needs to be drawn. Fourthly, In old age, the jaw once more falls flat; it fhrinks according to the judgment by the eye, to half its fize ; the fockets are abforbed, and conveyed away ; and in old age the coronoid procefs rifes at a more acute angle from the fkull, and by the falling down of the alveolar procefs, the coronoid procefs feems in- creased in length. HOLES*104 OF THE bones, &c. HOLES.—The holes of the lower jaw-bone are chiefly two. 1. A large hole on the inner fide, and above the angle of the jaw, juft; at the point where thefe two branches, the cpndyloid and the coronoid procefles part. A wide groove from above downwards, leads to the hole ; and the hole is, as it were, defended by a fmall point, or pike of bone, rifing up from its margin. This is the great hole for admitting the lower maxillary nerve into the hollow of the jaw, where it goes round within the circle of the jaw, diftributing its nerves to all the teeth. But at the point where this chief branch of the nerve goes down into the jaw, an- other branch of the nerve goes forward to the tongue. And as nerves make an impreflion as deep as that of arteries in a bone, we find here two grooves, firil, One marking the place of the great nerve, as it advances to- wards its hole ; and, fecondly, A fmaller groove, mark- ing the courfe of the leflfer branch, as it leaves the trunk, and paffes this hole to go forward to the tongue* Along with this nerve, the lower maxillary artery, a large branch, enters alfo by the hole ; and both the nerve and the artery, after having gone round the canal of the jaw, emerge again upon the chin. 2. The fecond hole of the lower jaw is that on the fide of the chin, about an inch from the point vfiich permits the remains of the great nerve and artery (almoft: expended upon the teeth) to come out upon the chin ; it is named the mental hole. CHARCHAP. V. OF. THE TRUNK, OR, THE SPINE, THORAX, AND PELVIS. THE SPINE. The fpine is fo named from certain projedling points of each bone, which {landing outwards in the back, form a continued ridge ; and the appearance of con- tinuity is fo complete, that the whole ridge is named fpine, which in common language, is fpoken of as a Angle bone. This long line confifts of twenty-four diltindt bones, named vertebrae, from the Latin vertere, to turn. They conduct the fpinal marrow, fecure from harm the whole length of the fpine; and fup- port the whole weight of the trunk, head and arms ; they perform at certain points, the chief turnings and bendings of the body; and do not fuffer under the longefl fatigue, or the greateft weight which the limbs can bear. Hardly can any thing be more beau- tiful or furprifmg than this mechanifm of the fpine, where nature has eflablifhed the moll oppofite and in- confiftent fundtions in one fet of bones ; for thefe bones are fo free in motion, as to turn continually, yet fo ftrong as to fupport the whole weight of the body; and 4 foOF THE TRUNK. 10 6 fo flexible as to turn quickly in all directions, yet fo Heady within, as to contain and defend the molt material and the moll delicate part of the nervous The vertebrae are arranged according to the neck, back, and loins, and the number of pieces correfponds with the length of thefe divifions. The vertebrae of the loins are five in number, very large and ftrong, and bearing the whole weight of the body. Their precedes ftand out very wide and free, not entangled with each other ; and perform, the chief motions of the trunk. The vertebrae of the back are twelve in number. They alfo are big and ftrong, yet fmaller than thofe of the loins ; their proceffes are laid over each other ; each bone is locked in with the next, and embarraffed by its connection with the ribs ; this is therefore the fteadieft part of the fpine, a very limited motion only is allowed. The vertebrae of the neck are feven in number ; they are more fimple, and like rings; their proceffes hardly proje<ft; they are very ioofe and free; and their motions are the wideft and eafieft of all the fpine. The feven vertebrse of the neck, twelve of the back, and five of the loins, make twentyffour in all, which is the regular proportion of the fpine. But the number fometimes varies according to the proportions of the body ; for where the loins are long, there are fix vertebrse of the loins, and but eleven in the back; or the number of the pieces in the back is fometimes in- creafed to thirteen ; or the neck, according as it is long or fhort, fometimes has eight pieces, o± fometimes only fix. General fyftem. /OF THE TRUNK. 107 1. The General description of a vertebra.—The general form, proceffes, and parts of the vertebra, are beft exemplified in a vertebra of the loins; for in it the body is large, the proceffes are right lined, large, and ftrong ; the joint is complete, and all its parts, are very ftrongly marked. Every vertebra confifts of a body, which is firm for fupporting the weight of the body, and hollow behind, for tranfmitting the fpinal marrow; of two articulating precedes above, and two below, by which it is jointed with the bones which are above and below it; of two tranfverfe pro- celfes, which hand out from either fide of the bone, to give hold and purchafe to thofe mufcles which turn the fpine ; and of one procefs, the fpinous procefs, which Hands dire&ly backwards from the middle of the bone ; and thefe proceffes being felt in diffindl points all the way down the back; give the whole the ap- pearance of a ridge; whence it has the name of fpine. 1. The body of the vertebra is a large rnafs of foft and fpongy bone; it is circular before, and flat upon the fides. It is hollowed into the form of a cref- cent behind, to give the fhape of that tube in which the fpinal marrow is contained. The body has but a very thin fcaly covering for its thick and fpongy fub-. ftance. It is tipped with a harder and prominent ring above and below, as a fort of defence, and within the ring the body of the vertebra is hollowed out into a fort of fuperficial cup, which receives the ligamentous fubftance by which the two next vertebrae are joined to it; fo that each vertebra goes upon a pivot, refem- bles the ball and focket-joints ; and in many animals it is diftinftly a joint of this kind.OF THE TRUNK. . 108 1. The body is the main part of the vertebra to which all the other procefles are to be referred; it is the centre of the fpine, and bears chiefly the weight of the body: It is large in the loins, where the weight of the whole refts upon it, and where the movements are rather free : It is fmaller in the vertebras of the back, where there is almofl: no motion and lefs weight; and in the vertebras of the neck, there is hardly any body; the vertebras being joined to each other chiefly by the articulating procefles. 2. The articulating process is a fmall projec- tion, Handing out obliquely from the body of the ver- tebra, with a fmooth furface, by which it is joined to the articulating procefs of the next bone ; for each vertebra has a double articulation; with that above and with that below. The bodies of the vertebrae are united to each other by a kind of ligament, which forms a more fixed, and rather an elaftic joining ; and they are united again by the articulating procefles ; which makes a very moveable joint of the common form. The articulating procefles are fometimes named ob- lique procefles, becaufe they (land rather obliquely. The upper ones are named the afcending oblique pro- cefles, and the two lower ones are named the inferior or defcending oblique procefles. 3. The spinous processes are thofe which project dire&ly backwards, whofe points form the ridge of the back, and whofe fharpnefs gives the name to the whole column. The body of each vertebra fends out two arms, which, meeting behind, form an arch or canal for the fpinal marrow; and from the middle of that arch, and oppofite to the body, the fpinous procefs projects.OF THE TRUNK. I09 projedts. Now thefe fpinous, and the tranfverfe pro- cefles, are fo many handles and levers by which the fpine is to be moved ; which, by their bignefs, give a firm hold to the mufcles; and, by their length, give them a powerful lever to work their effedts by. The fpinous procefles, then, are for the infertion of thefe mufcles which extend and raife the fpine. 4. The transverse processes Hand out from the fides of the arms or branches which form this arch. They Hand out at right angles, or tranfverfely from the body of the bone; and they alfo are as levers, and long and powerful ones for moving and turning the fpine. Perhaps their chief ufe is not for turning the vertebra; for there is no provifion for much of a lateral motion in the lower part of the fpine, but the mufcles which are implanted into thefe are more commonly ufed in aflifting thofe which extend and raife the fpine. Thefe, and all the procefles, are more diftindt, pro- minent, and ftrong, more diredt, and larger in the loins, and more eafily underflood, than in the vertebra of any other clafs. But this prepares only for the de- fer ip tion of the individual vertebra, where we find a variety proportioned to the various offices, and to the degrees of motion which each clafs has to perform. Of the vertebra of the loins.—I have chofen to reprefent the general form of a vertebra, by de- feribing one from the loins, becaufe of the diftindlnefs with which all its parts are marked. In the lumbar vertebra, the perpendicular height of the body is fhort; the intervertebral fubftance is thicker than in the other parts of the fpine; and the feveral procefles HandOF THE TRUNK. no ftand off from each other diftinft and clear ; all which are provifions for a freer motion in the loins. The body of a lumbar vertebra is particularly large, thick, and fpongy ; and its thin outer plate is perforated by many arteries going inwards to nourilh this fpongy fubftance of the bone. The length of the body is an inch, and the interfticial cartilage is nearly as long: fo that the vertebrae of the loins prefent to the eye, looking from within the body, a large thick and maffy column, fit for fupporting fo great a weight. The spinous process is fhort, big, and ftrong. It runs horizontally and directly backwards from the arch of the fpinal marrow. It is flattened, and about an inch in breadth; and it is commonly terminated by a lump or knob, indicating the great ftrength of the mufcles which belong to it, and the fecure hold which they have. The transverse process is alfo fhort, direft, and very ftrong; going off horizontally from the fide of the bone; terminated like the fpinous, by a knotty point, where large mufcles are implanted. The articulating processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae ftand fo directly upwards and downwards, that the name of oblique proceffes cannot be applied here. Of the vertebrae of the back.—The character of the vertebrae of the back is directly oppofite to that of the loins. The bodies of the vertebrae are ftill large to fupport the great weight of the trunk ; but they are much longer than in the loins, and their intervertebral fubftance is thin, for there is little motion here. The spinous processes in the vertebrae of the back, are veryOF THE TRUNK. 111 \ very long and aquiline. They are broad at their bafts, and very fmall or fpinous at their further end ; and in place of (landing perpendicularly out from the body, they are fo bent down, that they do not form a promi- nent nor unfightly fpine, but are ranged almoft in a perpendicular line ; that is, laid over each other, like the fcales of armour, the one above touching the one below, by which the motions of thefe vertebra are dill further abridged. And, laftly, the transverse pro- cesses, which are (hort and knobby, in place of (land- ing free and clear out, like thofe of the loins, are tra- melled and reflridled from motion, by their connexion, with the ribs; for the ribs are not merely implanted upon the bodies of the dorfal vertebra, but they are further attached firmly by ligaments, and by a regular joint to the tranfverfe procefs of each vertebra. Now the rib being fixdd to the body of one vertebra, and to the tranfverfe procefs of the vertebra below, the mo- tions of the vertebra are much curbed. And we alfo get another mark by which the dorfal vertebra may be known, viz. that each vertebra bears two impreflions of the rib that was joined to it, one on the flat fide of its body, and the other on the forepart of its tranfverfe procefs. Of the vertebras of the neck.-—The vertebra of the neck depart (till farther from the common form. Their bodies are flattened on their fore parts, fo as to make a flat furface on which the windpipe and gullet lie fmooth. The body is very fmall in all the vertebra of the neck. In the upper mo ft of the neck there is abfolutely no body 5 and the next to that has not a body of the regular and common form. There is not inOF THE TRUNK. 11 2 in the vertebrae of the neck, as in thofe of the loins, g cup or hollow for receiving the intervertebral fubftance* but the furfaces of the body are flat or plain, and the articulating procefles are oblique, and make as it were one articulation with the body; for the lower furface of the body being not hollow but plain, and inclined forwards, and the articulating procefles being alfo plain, and inclined backwards, the two furfaces are oppofed to each other, and the one prevents the vertebra from Aiding forwards, and the other prevents it from Aiding backwards, while a pretty free and general motion is allowed. The spinous processes of the neck are for the infertion of many mufcles, and therefore they are fplit. This bifurcation of the fpinous procefs is not abfolutely peculiar to the cervical vertebras ; for fome- times, though rarely, the others are fo: and it is only in the middle of the neck that even they are forked ; for the firft vertebra is a plain ring, without any tranf- verfe procefs, becaufe there are few mufcles attached to it; and the laft vertebra of the neck is fcarcely bifurcated, approaching to the nature of the dorfal vertebrae; for it is long and aquiline; is deprefled towards the back, and is fo much longer than the others, as to be diftinguifhed by the name of verte- bra prominens. The transverse processes of the neck are alfo bifurcated, becaufe there are a great many fmall mufcles inferted into them alfo. But the molt curious pecu- liarity of the tranfverfe procefles is, that each of them is perforated for the. tranfmiflion of the great artery, which is named vertebral artery, becaufe it pafles through thefe b.oles in the vertebrae which form altoge- ther a bony c^nal for the artery. T,his artery, which is defended113 OF THE TRUNK. defended with fo much care, is one of the chief ar- teries of the brain, for there are two only; and often when the other, the carotid, has been obfcru&ed, this continues to perform its office. So that the character of thefe cervical vertebrae is, that they are calculated for much free motion: and the marks by which they are diftinguilhed are, that the bodies are particularly fmall; the articulating pre- cedes bblique, with regard to their pofition, and almoft plain on their furface; the fpinous procefs, which is awanting in the uppermoft vertebra, is fhort and fork- ed in all the lower ones ; the tranfverfe procefs alfo is forked; and the tranfverfe proceffes of all the verte- bras, except perhaps the firft, are perforated near their extremities w'ith the large hole of the vertebral artery. ATLAS AND DENTATUS.—-But among thefe vertebrae of the neck, two are to be particularly dif- tinguifhed, as of greater importance than all the reft; for though the five lower vertebrae of the neck be of- fified and fixed, if but the two uppermoft remain free, the head, and even the neck, feems to move with per- fect eafe. The firft vertebra is named atlas, perhaps, be- caufe the globe of the head is immediately placed up- on it; the fecond is named dentatus or axis, becaufe it has an axis or tooth-like procefs upon which the firft turns. The atlas has not the complete form of the other vertebrae of the neck, for its proceffes are fcarcely dif- tinguifhable: It has no body, unlefs its two articulat- ing proceffes are to be reckoned as a body : It is no vol. 1. 1 moreSI4 OF THE fRUN&. more than a fimple ring; it has no fpinous procefs j and its tranfverfe procefs is not forked. The body is entirely awanting : in its place, the vertebra has a fiat furface looking backwards, which is fmooth and po- Iifhed by the rolling of the tooth-like procefs -y there is alfo a fharp point rifing perpendicularly upwards towards the occipital bone, and this point is held to the edge of the occipital hole by a ftrong ligament. The fmooth mark of the tooth-like procefs is eafily found y and upon either fide of it there proje&s a fmall point from the inner circle of the ring. Thefe two points have a ligament extended betwixt them, called the tranfverfe ligament; which like a bridge, divides the ring into two openings ; one, the fmaller, for lodging the tooth-like procefs, embracing it clofely ; the greater opening is for the fpinal marrow : The ligament con- fines the tooth-like procefs; and when the ligament is burft by violence (as has happened), the tooth-like procefs, broken loofe, preffes upon the fpinal marrow; the head, no longer fupported by it, falls forward, and the patient dies. The articulating process may be confidered as the body of this vertebra; for it is at once the only thick part, and the only articulating furface. This broad articulating fubftance is in the middle of each fide of the ring : it has two fmooth .furfaces on each fide, one look- ing upwards, by which it is joined to the occiput; and one looking dire&ly downwards, by which is is joined to the fecond vertebra of the neck. The two upper articulating furfaces are oval, and flightly hollow to re* ceive the occipital condyles *. they are alfo oblique, for the inner margin of each dips downwards: the outerOF THE TRUNK. I!5 i 2 and outer margin rifes upwards; and the fore end of each oval is turned a little towards its fellow. Now, by the obliquity of the condyles, and this obliquity of the fockets which receive them, all rotatory motion is prevented ; and the head performs, by its articula- tions with the firft vertebra or atlas, only the nodding motions; and when it rolls, it carries the firft vertebra along with it, moving round the tooth-like procefs of the dentatus. The articulation with the head is a hinge joint in the ftridtefl fenfe : it allows of no other motion than that backwards and forwards. The nod- ding motions are performed by the head upon the atlas; the rotatory motions are performed by the at- las moving along with the head, turning upon the took-like procefs of the dentatus. Now the upper articulating furface of the atlas is hollowed to fecure the articulation with the head; but the lower articulation, that with the dentatus, be- ing fecured already by the tooth-like procefs of that bone, no other property is required in the lower ar- ticulating furface of the atlas, than that it Ihould glide with perfedl eafe: for which purpofe it is plain and fmooth; it neither receives, nor is received into the dentatus by any hollow, but lies flat upon the furface of that bone. It is alfo evident, that fmce the office of the atlas is to turn along with the head, it could not be fixed to the dentatus, in the common way, by a body and by intervertebral fubflance : and fmce the atlas attached to the head moves along with it, turning as upon an axis, it mull have no spi- nous process ; for the projedlion of a fpinous procefs muff have prevented its turning upon the dentatus,HO OF THE TRUNK. and would even have hindered, in fome degree, the nodding of the head ; therefore the atlas has a fimple ring behind, and has only a fmall knob or button where the fpinous procefs fhould be. The trans- verse process is not forked, but it is perforated with a large hole for the vertebral artery; and the artery to get into the fkuil makes a wide turn, lying flat upon the bone, by which there is a flight hollow or impreffion of the artery., which makes the ring of the vertebra exceedingly thin. But the form of the dentatus bell explains thefe pe- culiarities of the atlas, and this turning of the head. The dentatus or axis, is fo named from its projedting point, which is the chief charadteriftic of this bone. When the dentatus is placed upright before us, we obferve, i. That it is moft remarkably coni- cal ; rifmg all the way upwards, by a gradual flopey to the point of its tooth-like procefs.. 2. That the ring of the vertebra is very deep, that is, very thick, in its fob fiance ; and that the opening of the ring for tranfmitting the fpinal marrow is of a triangular form,. 3. That its fpinous procefs is fhort, thick, and forked ; and that it is turned much downwards, fo as not to- interfere, in any degree, with the rotation of the at- las. 4. That its tooth-like procefs, from which the- bone is named, is very large, about an inch in length ; very thick, like the little Anger; that it is pointed y and that from this rough point a flrong ligament goes /upwards, by which the tooth is tied to the great hole of the occipital bone. We alfo obferve a neck or collar, or fmaller part, near the root of the tooth-like procefs.ii 7 OF THE TRUNK. procefs, where it is grafped by the ring of the atlas ; while the point fwells out a little above ; fo that with- out the help of ligaments it is almoPc locked in its place: we find this neck particularly fmooth, for it is indeed upon this collar that the head continually turns. And, 5. We fee on either fide of this tooth- like procefs a broad and flat articulating furface, one on either fide. Thefe articulating'furfaces are placed like fhoulders; and the atlas being threaded by the tooth-like procefs of the dentatus, is fet flat down upon the high fhoulders of this bone, and there it turns and performs all the rotatory motions of the head. OF THE MEDULLARY TUBE, AND THE PASSAGE OF THE NERVES.-—All the vertebra; conjoined make a large canal of a triangular or round- ifh form, in which the fpinal marrow lies, giving off and diftribliting its nerves to the neck, arms, and legs : And the whole courfe of the canal is rendered fafe for the marrow, and very fmooth by lining membranes 5 the outermofi: of which is of a leather-like flrength and thicknefs, and ferves this double purpofe, that it is at once a hollow ligament, the whole length of the fpine upon which the bones are threaded, and by which each individual bone is tied and fixed to the next; and it is alfo a vagina or {heath which contains the fpinal mar- row, and which is bedewed on its internal furface with a thin exudation, keeping the fheath moifl and foft, and making the enclofed marrow lie eafy and fafe. All down the fpine this fpinal medulla is giving off its nerves. One nerve paffes from it at the inter- ftice of each vertebra $ fo that there are twenty-four 1 3 nervesJlS OF THE TRUNK. we nerves of the fpine; or rather forty-eight nerves, twenty-four being given towards each fide, Thefe • nerves pafs each through an opening or fmail hole in the general fheath, and then they pafs through the interflice of each vertebra; fo that there is no hole in the bone required, but the nerve efcapes by going under the articulating procefs. This, indeed, is con- verted into fomething like a hole when the two con- tiguous vertebrae are joined to each other. THE INTERVERTEBRAL SUBSTANCE— The intervertebral fubftance is that which is interpofed betwixt the bodies of two adjoining vertebrae, and' which is (at lead; in the loins) nearly equal in thick- nefs to the body of the vertebra to which it belongs. We give it this undefined name, becaufe there is no- thing in the human fyftem to which it is. entirely fi- milar; for it is not ligament, nor is it cartilage, but if is commonly defined to be fomething of an intermediate nature. It is a foft and pliant fubftance, which is cu- rioully folded and returned upon itfelf, like a rolled bandage with folds, gradually fofter towards the cen- tre, and with the rolled edges as if cut obliquely into a fort of convex. The cut edges are thus turned to- wards the furfaoe of the vertebra, to which the in- tervertebral fubftance belongs : It adheres to the face of each vertebra, and it is confined by a ftrong liga- ment all round. And this fubftance, though it ftill keeps its hold on each of the two vertebras to which it belongs; though it permits no true motion of one bone on another, but only by a twilling of its fub- ftance j yields, neverthelefs, eafily to which ever fideOF THE TRUNK. I ig We 14 we incline, and returns in a moment to its place by a very powerful refilition. This perfect elafticity is the chief charafteriftic and virtue of this intervertebral fubftance; whofe properties indeed are bed explained byitsufes; for in the bendings of the body, it yields in a very confiderable degree, and rifes on the mo- ment that the weight or the force of the mufcles is removed. In leaping, in (hocks, or in falls, its elas- ticity prevents any harm to the fpine, while other lefs important joints are luxated and deftroyed, Du- ring the day, it is continually yielding under preffure ; fo that we are an inch taller in the morning than at night; we are (horter in old age than in youth ; and the aged fpine is bended forwards by the yielding of this part. Thefe curious fads were firft obferved by a ibrt of chance, and have fince been afcertained with particular care. Since preffure, in length of years, (hortens the fore part of the column of the fpine, and makes the body ftoop, any undue inclination to either fide will caufe diftortion: the fubftance yields on one fide, and rifes on the other; and at laft the fame change happens in the bones alfo, and the diftortion is fixed, and not to be changed. This is peculiarly apt to happen with chil- dren whofe bones are growing, and whofe griftles and intervertebral fubftances are peculialy foft; fo that a tumour on the head or jaw, which makes a boy carry his head on one fide, or conftant (looping, fuch as is ufed by a girl in working at the tambour, or the car- rying of a weakly child always on one arm by a negli- gent or awkward nurfe, will caufe in time a fixed in- curable diftortion.120 OF THE TRUNK, We are now qualified to underftand the motions of the vertebrae, and to trace the degree of motion in, each individual clafs. The degrees of motion vary with the forms of the vertebra in each part of the fpine: the motion is freeft in the neck; more limited in the loins; and in the back (the middle part of the fpine) fcarcely any motion is allowed. The head per- forms all the nodding motions upon the firft vertebra of the neck: the firfl; vertebra of the neck performs again all the quick and Ihort turnings of the head; by moving upon the dentatus: all the lower vertebras of the neck are alfo tolerably free, and favour thefe mo- tions by a degree of turning ; and all the bendings of the neck are performed by them. The dorfal vertebrae are the moil limited in their movements; bending chiefly forwards by the yielding of their intervertebral fubllance. The vertebrae of the loins again move largely, for their intervertebral fubllance is deep, and their proceffes quite unentangled and free. To per- form thefe motions, each vertebra has two dillinct joints, as different in office as in form: firll, each vertebra is fixed to thofe above and below by the in- tervertebral fubllance, which adheres fo to each that there is no true motion: there is no turning of any one vertebra upon the next; but the elallicity of the intervertebral fubllance allows the bones to move a little, fo that there is a general twilling and gentle bending of the whole fpine. The fecond joint is of the common nature with the other joints of the body, for the articulating proceffes are faced with cartilage, furrounded with a capfule, and lubricated with a mucus. And I conceive this to be the intention of theI 21 OF THE TRUNK. the articulating proceffes being produced to fuch a length, that they may lap over each other to prevent luxations of the fpine; and they mud, of courfe, have thefe fmall joints, that they may yield to this general bending of the fpine. THORAX. Of the ribs.—The ribs, whofe office it is to give form to the thorax, and to cover and defend the lungs, alfo affift in breathing; for they are joined to the ver- tebras by regular hinges, which allow of ffiort mo- tions, and to the dernum by cartilages, which yield to the motion of the ribs, and return again when the jnufcles ceafe to a£h Each rib, then, is charafterifed by thefe material parts: a great length of bone; at one end of which there is a head for articulation with the vertebrae, and a ffioulder or knob for articulation with its tranfverfe procefs; at the other end there is a point, with a focket for re- ceiving its cartilage, and a cartilage joined to it, which is implanted into a fimilar focket in the fide of the der- num, fo as to complete the form of the ched. The ribs are twelve in number, according to the . number of the vertebrae in the back. Of thefe feven are named true ribs, becaufe their cartilages join di- rectly with the dernum; and five are named falfe ribs, becaufe their cartilages are not feparately nor dire&lv implanted into the dernum, but are joined one with another; the cartilage of the lower rib being joined, and lod in that of the rib above, fo that all the lower ribs run into one greater cartilage. But there is dill another didindlion, viz. that the lad rib, and commonly alfo the rib above, is not at all implanted in the der- ntim,OF THE TRUNK. 122 num, but is loofely conne&ed only with the mufcles of the abdomen, whence it is named the loofe or floating rib. The ribs are, in general, of a flattened form, their flat Tides being turned fmooth towards the lungs. But this flatnefs of the rib is not regular; it is contorted, as if the foft rib had been feized by either end, and twill- ed betwixt the hands: the meaning of which is, to ac- commodate the flatnefs of the rib to the form which the thorax aflumes in all its degrees of elevation ; for when the rib rifes, and during its riling through all the degrees of elevation, it Hill keeps its flat fide towards the lungs. Though of a' flattened form, the rib is a little rounded at its upper edge; is Iharp and cutting at Its lower edge; and its lower edge feems double, for there is a groove made there by the intercollal artery and nerve. They are named intercollal, from lying betwixt the ribs. The artery being rather within the rib, is defended in fome degree by its groove; the lip of which forms the lower edge of the rib: but llill this ar- tery is not without reach of the knife, in fome furgica! operations. We are careful, therefore, to mark, that it runs on the lower edge of the rib, and is of the fize of a crow-quill; and that, if it be wounded, it will bleed largely, from its nearnefs to the greatell artery of the body; that it is eafily Ihunned, by keeping the knife nearer to the rib below. On each rib we find the following parts: i. The head, or round knob by which it is joined to the fpine. The head of each rib has indeed but a fmall articulat- ing furface; but that fmooth furface is double, or looks two ways. For the head of the rib is not im- planted into the fide of one vertebra; it is rather im- planted123 ©E THE TRUNK. planted into the interface betwixt two vertebae; the head touching both vertebrae; and each vertebra bear- ing the mark of two ribs, one above, and one beiow. The mark of the rib is on the edge of either vertebra, and the focket may be faid to lie in the intervertebral fubftance betwixt them. 2. The neck of the rib is a fmaller part, immediate- ly before the head. Here the rib is particularly fmall and round. 3. About an inch from the head, there is a fecond rifing, or bump, the articulating furface, by which it touches and turns upon the tranfverfe procefs. Thefe two articulations have each a diftinft capfule or bag ; each is a very regular Joint; and the degree of motion of the rib, and direction in which it moves, may be eafily calculated, from the manner in which it is joint- ed with the fpine. For the two articulating furfaces of the rib ar® on its back part; the back of the rib is lim- ply laid upon the fide of the fpine ; the joints, with the body of the vertebrae, and with its tranfverfe procefs, are in one line, and form as if but one joint; fo that the rib being fixed obliquely, and at one end only, that end continues firm, except in turning upon its axis; the two heads roll upon the body of the vertebrae, and up- on the tranfverfe procefs; and fo its upper end con- tinues fixed, while its lower end rifes or falls ; and as the motion is in a circle, the head being the central point, moves but little, while the lower end of the rib has the wildeft range. 4. Juft above the fecond articulating furface, there is a third tubercle, which has nothing to do with the joints, but is intended merely for the attachment of the 6 ligaments224' OF THE TRUNK, ligaments and mufeles from the fpine, which fufpend and move the rib. 5. The angle of the rib is often mentioned, being a common mark for the place of furgical operations. There is a flatnefs of the thorax behind, forming the breadth of the back ; the ftiarpnefs where this flatnefs begins to turn into the roundnefs of the cheft, is form- ed by the angl es of the ribs. Each rib is round in the place of its head, neck, and tubercles; it grows flat- ter a little, as it approaches the angle; but it is not completely flattened till it has turned the angle which is the proper boundary betwixt the round and the flat parts of the rib. It is very evident that this anatomy of the ribs is neither diiiicuk nor important. It is in foine degree ufeful, in the more advanced parts of anatomy, to re-, member the names; and it is neceffary, even in fpeak- ing the common language of furgeons, to know thefe parts, viz. the head of the rib; the tubercle, or fe- cond articulating furface; the angle, or turning for- ward of the rib ; the upper round, and the lower flat edge; and efpecially to remember the place and the dangers of the intercoftal artery. But there are fome peculiarities in individual ribs ; the chief of which are thefe: The fize or length of the ribs gradually de- creafes from the firft to the laft, the firft being exceed- ingly fliort and circular, the lower ones longer, and al- moft right-lined; fo that the thorax is altogether of a conical fliape, the upper opening fo fmall, as juft to per- mit the trachea, oefophagus, and great veflels, to pafs ; the lower opening fo large, that it equals the diameter of the abdomen: The firft rib is confequently very Ihortj125 OF THE TRUNK. fhort; it is thick, ftrong, and of a flattened form ; of which flatnefs one face looks upwards, and another downwards : and tire great axillary artery and vein he upon its flat upper furface. It is alfo particularly cir- cular, making more than half a circle from its head to the extremity, where it joins the fternum ; it has, of courfe, no angle, and wants the difeorted twilling of the other ribs. The feeond rib is alfo round, like the firft rib. The eleventh and twelfth, or the floating ribs, are exceedingly fmall and delicate ; and their car- tilage terminates in an acute point, unconnected with 'the fternum. And, laftly, the heads of the flrft, and of the eleventh and twelfth ribs, are rounder than any of the others; for thefe three have their heads im- planted into the flat fide of one vertebra only; while all the others have theirs implanted betwixt the bo- dies of two vertebrae. The cartilages of the ribs complete the form of the thorax, and form all the lunated edge of that cavity; and it is from this cartilaginous circle that the great muf- ele of the diaphragm has its chief origin, forming the partition betwixt the thorax and the abdomen. The farther end of each rib fwells out thick and fpongy, and has a fmall focket for lodging the cartilage ; for thefe cartilages are not joined like the intervertebral fub- flances with their bones ; but there is a fort of joint very little moveable indeed, but fall having a rude focket, and a ftrong capfular ligament, and being ca- pable of luxation by falls and blows ; arid the implan- tations into the fternum are evidently by fair round fockets, which are eafily diftinguifhed upon the two edges of that bone. Thefe cartilages may be enume- rated17,6 OF THE TRUNK. rated thus. The cartilages of the firft and fecond ribs defcend to touch the fternum. The cartilage of the third rib is direct. The cartilages of the fourth, fifth, and fixth ribs rife upwards, in proportion to their diftance from this central one. The firJft five ribs have independent cartilages; the eight, ninth, and tenth ribs run their cartilages into the cartilage of the feventh rib; and the eleventh and twelfth ribs have their cartilages finall, unconnected, and floating loofe. The sternum.—The fternum is that long and fquared bone, which lies on the fore part of the bread over the heart, and which being joined by the carti- lages of the ribs, completes the cavity of the cheft; it is for completing the thorax, and defending the heart; for a medium of attachment to the ribs ; and for a ful- crum or point, on which the clavicles may roll. We find the fternum confiding in the child of eight diftinft pieces ; which run together in the progrefs of life; and which in old age are firmly united into one : but in all the middle ftage of life, we find three pieces in the fternum, two of which are properly bone, the third remains a cartilage, till very late in life, and is named the enfiform cartilage, from its fword-like point. It is found to have eight pieces, even in the child of fix years old; forne years after, it has but five or fix ; at iaft but two only ; and the falient white lines, which traverfe the bone, mark where the intermedi- ate cartilages have once been. i. The upper piece of the fternum is very large, roundifh, or rather triangular, refembling the form of the heart on playing cards. It is about two inches in length, and an inch and a half in breadth ; and thefe - marksOF THE TS-UNS.' . *127 marks are eafily obferved ; the appex, or point of the triangle, is pointed downwards, to meet the fecond bone of the fternum : The base of the triangle, which is uppermoft, towards the root of the throat feems a little hollowed, for the trachea paffing behind it: On each upper corner, it has a large articulating hollow, into which the ends of the collar bones are re- ceived ; (for this bone is the fteady fulcrum upon which they roll). A little lower than this, and upon its fide, is the focket for receiving the fhort cartilage of the firft rib; and the fecond rib is implanted in the interface between the firft and fecond bone of the fternum ; fo that one half of the focket for its cartilage is found in the lower part of this bone, and the other half in the upper end of the next. 2. The fecond piece of the fternum is of a fquare form ; very long and flat; and compofmg the chief length of the fternum: for the firft piece receives only the cartilage of the firft rib, and one half of the fecond; but this long piece receives, on each fide cr edge of it, the cartilages of eight ribs; but as three of the lower cartilages are run into one, there are but five fockets or marks. The fockets for re- ceiving the cartilages of the ribs are on the edges of the fternum 5 they are very deep in the firm fubftance of the bone, and large enough to receive the point of the finger with eafe : And whoever compares the fize and deepnefs of thefe fockets, with the round heads of the cartilages 'which enter into them, will no more doubt of diftlnd joints here, than of the diftinct arti- culation of the vertebras with each other. 3. This is in truth the whole of the bony fternum ; and wrhat is reckoned the third piece, is a carti- lage128 OF THE TRUNK. then large merely, and continues fo down to extreme old age. This cartilage, which ekes out and lengthens the fter- num, and which is pointed like a fword, is' thence named cartilago MUCRONATA,the pointed cartilage; or cartilago ENSiFORMis,or ixphoides, the fword- like cartilage. This cartilaginous point extending down- wards over the belly, gives a fure origin, and greater power to the mufcles of the abdomen; and that without embarrafiing the motions of the body. But this cartilage, which is commonly Ihort and fmgle pointed, is fometimes forked; fometimes bent inwards, fo (it has been thought) as to occafion ficknefs and pain; and in one cafe was found of fuch a length, as to reach the navel, and offified at the fame time, fo as to hinder the bending of the body, and occafion much diltrefs. The fternum, and the ribs, and-all the cheft, Hand fo much expofed, that did we not naturally guard them with the hands, fractures mull be very frequent; but in- deed when they are broken and beaten in, they hurt the heart or lungs, and not unfrequently the moil dread- ful confequences enfue. I have already explained, that this clafs of bones, defending the moll noble vif- cera (next to the brain '-, the injuries are almoft as fa- tal as injuries of the brain. Often by a wheel palling over the body, the fternum is broken; its pieces prefs inwards upon the heart, which is fometimes burlt; but more commonly the patient dies a flow and mifer- able death ; for the inflammation which begins in the place of the wound, is extended to the lungs ; is pro- pagated hill onwards to the heart; and the heart be- ing once inflamed, there comes anxiety, opprefiion, faintings, and palpitations ; anxious breathmg ; quick and interrupted pulfe j ft 11 more frequent faintings, and129 OF THE TRUNK. then death. The ribs cover more properly the lungs ; where the wound or inflammation is not always fatal: for the wound by the point of the rib is no deeper than juft to pun&ure the lungs ; yet through this fmall wound on their furface, the lungs breathe out their air into the cavity of the cheft, and at laft it efcapes under the cellular fubftance of the {kin ; the man is blown up to a prodigious degree, with continually increaftng anxiety ; his breathing becomes more and more inter- rupted ; and if not aflifted, he muft die. PELVIS. To give a fteady bearing to the trunk, and to con* neft it with the lower extremities, by a fure and firm, joining, the pelvis is interpofed. It is a cirde of large and firm bones, {landing as an arch betwixt tha lower extremities and the trunk. Its arch is wide and ftrong, fo as to give a firm bearing to the body ; its individual bones are large, fo as to give a deep and fure focket for the implantation of the thigh-bone ; its motions are free and large, bearing the trunk above, and rolling upon the thigh-bones below ; and it is fo truly the centre of all the great motions of the body, that when we believe the motion to be in the higher parts of the fpine, it is either the laft vertebra of the loins bending upon the top of the pelvis, or the pelvis itfelf rolling upon the head of the thigh-bones. The pelvis is named partly, perhaps, from its refem* filing a bafon in its form ; or perhaps, from its office of ' containing the urinary bladder, redum, vagina, and womb. It confifts, in the child, of many pieces; but in the adult, it is formed of four large bones, of the VOL. I, K csOF THE TRUNK, 130 the os facrum behind, the offa innominata oht either fide,. and the os coccygis below. Os sacrum. The names os facrum, os bafilare, &c. feem to relate rather to the greater fize of this bone, than to its ever having been offered in facrifice. This bone, with its appendix the os coccygis, is called the falfe fpine, or the column of the falfe vertebras, authors making this diftinction, that the true vertebrae are thofe of the back, neck, and loins, a column which grows gra- dually fmall^r upwards ; the falfe vertebrae are thofe of the facrum and coccyx, which are conical, with the apex or point downwards, and the bafe, viz. the top of the facrum, turned upwards to meet the true fpine. The bones of which the facrum is compofed, have originally the form of diftinct fmall vertebras. Thefe diftinttions are loft in the adult, or are recognized only by the marks of former lines 5- for the original* vertebras are now united into one large and firm bone, whicli is named the column of falfe vertebrae j becaufe ha- ving no motion, it wants the chief character and ufe of the true ones. We can recognize the original vertebrae even in the adult bone, for we find it regularly perforated with holes for the tranfmiffion of the fpinal nerves ; we find thefe holes regularly difpofed in pairs ; we fee a diftincf white and riling line which erodes the bone, in the interface of each of the original vertebras, and marks the place where the cartilage once was ; and by thefe lines being five in number, with five pairs of holes, we know this bone to have confided once of five pieces, which are now joined into one. The re- mains of former procelfes can alfo be diftinguilhed; andI K 2 The of The trunk. 13x the back of the bone is rough and irregular from the old fpines. The os facrum, thus compofed, is among the lighted bones of the human body ; with the mod fpongy fub« dance; the thinned tables; the mod eadly broken; and its injuries of the mod formidable nature : but then it is a bone the bed cemented ; and confirmed by drong ligaments ; and the bed covered by thick and cufhion- like mufcles. The os facrum is of a triangular fhape ; the bafe of the triangle turned upwards to receive the fpine 5 its inner furface is fmooth, to permit the head of the child in labour to glide eafily along ; and its outer furface is irregular and rough, with the fpines of former vertebra, giving rife to the great glutaei muf- cles (which form the contour of the hip), and to all the dronged mufcles of the back and loins. It has in it a triangular cavity under the arch of its fpinous procefies ; which cavity is continued from the canal in the vertebras of the fpine j and this cavity of the facrum contains the continuation and the end of the fpinal marrow ; which being in this place divided into a great many thread-like nerves, has altogether the form of a horfe’s tail, and is therefore named cauda equina. From this triangular cavity, the nerves of the cauda equina go out by the five-great holes on the fore part, of the facrum ; holes large enough to receive the point of the finger. The three fird nerves of the facrum, join- ing with the lad' nerve of the loins, form the facro- fciatic nerve; the larged in the body; which goes down- ward to the leg : while the two lower nerves of the fa- crum fupplv the contents of the pelvis alone.OP THE TRUNK. *3* The back of the facrum is alfo perforated with holes, whofe fize is nearly equal to thofe on its fore part, but whofe ufes are not fo diftinftly known ; for the final! nerves which pafs outwards by them to the mufcles of the loins or hips, are in no degree propor- tioned to the fize of the holes. All the edges of this triangle form articulating points, by which it is joined to other bones. The bafe, or upper part of the facrum, receives the laft vertebra of the loins on a large broad furface, which makes a very moveable joint j and indeed, the joining of the laft true vertebra, with the top of the facrum, is a point where there is more motion than in the higher parts of the fpine. The apex, or point of the facrum, has the os coccygis joined to it ; and this joining is moveable till the age of twenty in men, and till the age of forty-five in women:—the meaning of its continuing longer move- able in women is very plain, fince we diftinftly feel the lower point of the coccyx in women, yielding in the time of labour, fo as to enlarge greatly the lower opening of the pelvis. The fides of the os facrum form a broad, rough, and deeply indented furface, which receives the like rough furface of the haunch bones y and here the furfaees are fo rough, and the cartilage fo thin, that it refembles more nearly a future ; and by the help of the ftrong ligaments, and of the large mufcles which arife in common from either bone, makes a joining abfolutely immoveable, except by fuch violent force as is in the end fatal. Thus the original ftate of this bone is eafily recog- nifed and traced by many marks, it ftands in a confpi- cuous-*33 OF THE TRUNK. Th© K 3 euous place of the pelvis, and its chief office is to fup- port the trunk ; to which we may add, that it defends the cauda equina ; tranfmits its great nerves; forms chiefly the cavity of the pelvis; and that it is along the hollow of this bone that the accoucher calculates the progrefs of the child’s head in labour. The os coccygis, fo named from its refemblance to the beak of cuckow, is a fmall appendage to the point of the facrum ; terminating this inverted column with an acute point, and found in very different con” ditions in the feveral ftages of life. In the child it is merely cartilage, and we can find no point of bone ; during youth it is offifying into diftindt bones, which continue moveable upon each other till manhood ; then the feparate bones gradually unite with each other, fo as to form one conical bone, with bulgings and marks of the pieces of which it was originally compo- fed ; but flill the laft bone continues to move upon the joint of the facrum, till in advanced years it is at laft firmly united ; later in women than in men, with whom it is often fixed at twenty or twenty-five. It is not like the os facrum, flat, but of a roundifh form, con- vex without and concave inwards ; forming with the facrum the lowed: part of the pelvis behind. It has no holes like the facrum ; has no communication with the fpinal canal; and tranfmits no nerves ; but points for- wards to fupport the lower parts of the redtum : thus, it contradts the lower opening of the pelvis, fo as to fupport effedtually the redium, bladder, and womb, and yet continues fo moveable in women, as to recede in time of labour, allowing the head to pafs.OF THE TRUNK. the 234 The ossa innominata, are the tv/o great irregu- lar bones, forming the Tides of the pelvis ; and they , have a form fo difficult to explain by one name, that they are called offa innominata, the namelefs bones. But thefe bones having been in the child formed in didindt and feparate pieces, thefe pieces retain their original names, though united into one great bone ; we continue to explain them as didindt bones by the names of os ilium, os ifchium, and os pubis. The os ilium, the haunch-bone, is that broad and expanded bone on which lie the ftrong mufcles of the thigh> and which forms the rounding of the haunch. The os jschium, the hip-bone, is the lowed: point of the pelvis, that on which we red in fitting. The os pubis, or fhare-bone, on which the private parts are placed. All thefe bones are divided in the child ; they are united In the very centre of the focket for the thigh-bone; and we find in the child a thick cartilage in the centre of the focket, and a prominent ridge of bone in the adult, ; which ridge, far from incommoding the arti- culation with the thigh-bone, gives a firmer hold to the cartilage which lines that cavity, and is the point into which a drong ligament from the head of the thigh-bone is implanted. The os ilium, or haunch-bone, is named from its forming the flank. It is the larged part of the os in- nominatum. It rifes upwards from the pelvis in the broad expanded wing, which forms the lower part of the cavity of the abdomen, and fupports the chief ■weight of the impregnated womb (for the womb com- monly inclines to one fide). The qs ilium is covered with*35 OF THE TRUNK. the great mufcles that move the thighs, and to its edge are fixed thofe broad fiat mufcles which form the walls of the abdomen. This flat upper part is named the ala, or winc, while the lower, or rounder partf is named the body of the bone, where it enters into the focket, and meets the other bones. The ala, or flat expanded wing, has many parts, which muff be well remembered, to underhand the mufcles which arife from them. i. The whole circle of this wing is tipt with a ridge of firmer bone, which encircles the whole. This is a circular cartilage in the child, diflindl from the bone, and is ofiified and fixed only at riper years. All this ridgy circle is called the fpine, and is the origin for the lower oblique and tranf- verfe mufcles of the abdomen. 2. The two ends of this fpine are abrupt, and the points formed upon it areconfe- quently named fpinous procefles; of which there are two at its fore, and two at its back end. The two posterior spinous processes are clofe by each other, and are merely two rough projecting points near the rough fur- face, by which the os ilium is joined to the os facrumj they jut out behind the articulation, to make it firm and fare ; and their chief ufes feem to be the giving a firm hold to the ftrong ligaments which bind this joint, 3. The two anterior fpinous procefles are more diftindt and more important marks ; for the anterior supe- rior spinous PROCESsis the abrupt ending of the fpine or circle of the ilium, with a fwelling out; from which jutting point the fartorious mufcle, the longefl and amongfl the mold beautiful in the human body, goes obliquely acrofs the thigh, like a ftrap, down to the knee; another, which is called the tenfor vaginae fe- lt 4^ moris.l3$ or THE TRUNK. moris, alfo arifes here: and from this point departs the ligament, which paffing from the os ilium to the pubis, or fore point of the pelvis, is called the ligament of the thigh. How necefiary it is to mark this point, may be eafxly deduced, from knowing that it is under the arch of this femoral ligament that the great artery paf- fes down to the thigh, and that the femoral hernia is formed. The lower anterior fpinous procefs is a fmall bump, or little fwelling, about an inch under the firft one, which gives rife to the rectus femoris mufcle, or ftraight mufcle of the thigh, which lies along ics fore part. The back, or dorsum of the os ilium, is covered with the two great glutssi mufcles ; and the costa, as it is abfurdly called, or the inner concave furface, gives rife to the internal iliac mufcle. This bone (the os ilium) has a broad rough furface, by which it is connected with the os facrum at its fide ; the very form of which declares the nature of this join- ing, and is fufficient argument and proof that the joinings of the pelvis do not move. The acute line which is named linea innomi- nata, is feen upon the internal furface of the bone, dividing the ala, or wing, from that part which is in the focket for the thigh. This line compofes part of the brim of the pelvis ; diftinguifhes the cavity of the pelvis from the cavity of the abdomen ; and marks the circle into which the head of the child defcends at the commencement of labour. The os ischium, or hip-bone, is placed perpendicu- larly under the os ilium, and is the lowefl point of the pelvis, upon which we fit. It forms the largeft fhare of*37 OF THE TRUNK. of the focket; whence the focket is named Acetabulum Ifchii, as peculiarly belonging to this bone. The bump or round fwelling upon, which we reft, is named the Tuber Ifchii 5 and the fmaller part, which extends up- wards to meet the os pubis, is named the Ramus, or branch, which meets a ftmilar branch of that bone, to form the thyroid hole. The body is the uppermoft, and thicker part of the bone, which helps in forming the focket; and among the three bones this one forms the largeft fliare of it; nearly one half. From the body, a ftiarp pointed pro- cefs, named spinous process of the ifchium, is project- ed backwards; and this fpinous procefs pointing towards the lower end of the facrum, receives the uppermoft of two long ligaments, which, from their paffmg betwixt the ifchium and facrum, are named facro-fciatic. By this ligament a femicircle of the os ilium, juft below the joining of the ilium with the facrum, is completed into a large round hole ; which is in like manner named the facro-fciatic hole, and gives paffage to the great nerve of the lower extremity, named the great facro- fciatic nerve. The tuber, or round knob, being the point upon which we reft, this bone has been often named os se- Denxarium. The bump is a little flattened when we fit upon it. It is the mark by which the iithotomift directs his incifion ; cutting exaftly in the middle be- twixt the anus and this point of bone. It is remark- able as the point towards which the pofterior or lower facro-fciatic ligament extends; and as a point which gives rife to feveral of the ftrong mufcles on the back of the thigh, and efpecially to thofe which form the jhamftrings. ' /138 OF THE TRUNK. The ramus, or branch, rifes obliquely upwards and forwards to join a like branch of the pubis. This branch, or arm as it is called, is flat, and its edges are turned a little forwards and backwards, fo that one edge forms the arch of the pubis, while the other edge forms the margin of the thyroid hole. The os pubis, or share-bone, is the lafl and fmallefl: piece of the os innominatum ; and is named from the mons veneris being placed upon it, and its hair being a mark of puberty. It forms the upper or fore part of the pelvis, and completes the brim ; and, like the if- chium, it alfo is divided into three parts, viz. the body, ANGLE, and RAMUS. The body of the pubis is thick and ftrong, and forms about one-fifth of the focket for the thigh bone. It is not only the fmallefl;, but the fhalloweft part of the focket. The bone grows fmaller as it advances to- wards its angle, the joining of the ofla pubis. There it grows again broad and flat, and the two bones meet with rough furfaces, but with two cartilages interpo- fed. Over the middle of this bone, two great mufcles, the iliac and pfoas mufcles, pafs out of the pelvis to the thigh ; and where they run under the ligament of the thigh, they make the pubis very fmooth. Along this bone there is a little edge, or fharp ridge, which marks the brim of the pelvis; and the part which is over the fymphifis, or joining of the bones, rifing high- er than the reft of the ridge, is named the creft of the pubis ; and from this point the fmall pyramidal muf- cles of the abdomen rife. The ramus, or branch, is that more {lender part of the pubis, which, joining 4 withOF THE TRUNK, 139 •with the branch of the ifchium, forms with it the arch of the pubis, and the edge of the thyroid hole. This completes the drift anatomy of the pelvis ; But when we confider the whole, it is further ne- celfary to repeat, in fhort definitions, certain points which are oftener mentioned as marks of other parts. The promontory of the facrum is the projection formed by the lowed vertebra of the loins and the upper point of that bone. The hollow of the fa- crum is all that fmooth inner furface which gives out the great nerves for the legs and pelvis. The lesser angle, in diftinftion from the greater angle or promon- tory of the facrum, is a fhort turn in the bone near where it is joined with the coccyx. The crest of the pubis is a fharper ridge or edge of the bone over the joining or fymphyfis pubis. The posterior sym- physis of the pelvis is the joining of the facrum with the ilium, while the fymphyfis pubis is didinguifhed by the name of anterior-symphysis of the pelvis. The spine, the tuber, and the ramus of the ifchium are fufficiently explained. The ala, or wing, the spine, the spinous processes, and the linea inno- minate of the ilium, are alfo diffidently explained. The acetabulum, fo named from its refemblance to a meafure which the ancients ufed for vinegar, is the hollow or focket for the thigh-bone, compofed of the ilium, ifchium, and pubis ; the ridge in its centre fhows the place of its original cartilage, and points out what proportion belongs to each bone; that it is made, two-fifths by the os ilium, two-fifths by the os ifchium, and one fifth only by the os pubis : but the140 OF THE TRUNK. the ifchium has the greateft {hare; the ifchium form- ing more than two-fifths, and the ilium lefs. The brim of the pelvis is that oval ring which parts the cavity of the pelvis from the cavity of the abdomen : it is formed by a continued and prominent line along the upper part of the facrum, the middle of the ilium, and the upper part or creft of the pubis. This circle of the brim fupports the impregnated womb; keeps it up againfi: the preflure of the labour pains ; and fometimes this line has been “ as {harp as a paper- “ folder, and has cut acrofs the lower fegment of the “ womb and fo by feparating the womb from the vagina, has rendered the delivery impoflible ; and the child efcaping into the abdomen among the inteftines, the woman has died. The o utlet of the pelvis is the lower circle again, compofed by the arch of the pubis, and by the fciatic ligaments, which is wide and dilatable, to permit the delivery of the child ; but which, being fometimes too wide, permits the child’s head to prefs fo fuddenly, and with fuch violence, up- on the foft parts, that the perineum is torn. The thyroid hole is that remarkable vacancy in the bone which perhaps lightens the pelvis, or perhaps allows the foft parts to efcape from the preflure during the paflage of the head of the child. The marks of the female ficeleton have been fought for in the {kull, as in the continuation of the fagittal future; but the truefl: marks are thofe which relate to that great function by which chiefly the fexes are diftinguiflied : for while the male pelvis is large and ftrong, with a fmall cavity, narrow openings, and bones of greater flrength ; the female pelvis is very {hallow and wide, with a large cavity and {lender bones.142 OF THE TRUNK. bones, and with every peculiarity which may con« duce to the eafy paffage of the child. And this occa- fions that peculiar form of the body which the pain- ter is at greater pains to mark, and which is indeed very eaSily perceived : for the characteristic of the manly form is firmnefs and Strength ; the Shoulders broad, the haunches Small, the thighs in a diredt line with the body, which gives a firm and graceful Step. The female form again is delicate, foft, and bending ; the Shoulders are narrow ; the haunches broad ; the thighs round and large ; the knees, of courfe, approach each other, and the Step is unfure : The woman, even of the moft beautiful form, walks with a delicacy and feeblenefs, which we come to acknowledge as a beauty in the weaker fex. The bones of the pelvis compofe a cavity which cannot be fairly understood in Separate pieces, but which Should be explained as a whole. Though per- haps its chief office is to fupport the fpine, Still its relation to labour deferves to be obferved ; for this forms at leaft a curious inquiry, though it Should not be allowed a higher place in the order of ufeful Studies. We know, from much experience, that where the pelvis is of the true Size, we have an eafy and natural labour : that where the pelvis is too large, there is pain and delay ; but not that kind of difficulty which endangers life: that where, by distortion, the pelvis is reduced below the Standard fize, there comes fuch difficulty as endangers the mother, and deftroys the child, and renders the art of midwifery Still worthy of ferious Study, and a$ object of public care. There142 OF THE TRUNK. There was a time when it was univerfally believed* that the joinings of the pelvis diffolved in every la« bour ; that the bones parted, and the openings were enlarged ; that the child pafled with greater eafe; and “ that this opening of the bafm was no lefs natu- £C ral than the opening of the womb.” By many ac* cidents, this opinion has been often ftrengthened and revived; and if authority could determine our opinion, we Ihould acknowledge, that the joinings of the pelvis were always dilfolved, as a wife provifion of nature for facilitating natural, and preventing lingering, labour, compenfating for the frequent deviations, both in the head and pelvis, from their true and natural fize. This unlucky opinion has introduced, at one time, a practice the moll reprehenfibly fimple ; as fomentations to foften thefe joinings of the pelvis in circumftanCes which require very fpeedy help; while, at another time, it has been the apology for the moil cruel un- natural operations of inftruments, not merely intended for dilating and opening the foft parts, but for burft- ing up thefe joinings of the bones. And thofe alfoy of late years, who have invented and performed (too often no doubt) this operation of cutting the fymphy- fis pubis to haften the labour, fay, that they do not perform an unneceffary cruel operation, but merely imitate a common procefs of nature. How very far nature is from intending this, may be eafily known from the very forms of thefe joinings, but much more from the other offices which thefe bones have to perform ; for if the pelvis be, as I have defined it, an arch handing betwixt the trunk and the lower extremities on which the body rBils, its join- ingsH3 OF THE TRUNK mgs could not part without pain and lamenefs, per* haps inability for life. One chief reafon drawn from anatomy is this : that in women dying after labour, the griftles of the pelvis are manifeftly foftened ; the bones loofen ; and though they cannot be pulled afunder, they can be Ihuffled or moved upon each other in a flight degree : all which is eafily accounted for. The griftle that forms the fymphyfis pubis is not one griftle only, as was once fuppofed, but a peculiar griftle covers the end of each bone, and thefe are joined by a membranous or ligamentous fubftance : This ligamentous fubftance is the part which corrupts the fooneft ; it is often fpoil- ed, and in the place of it a hollow only is found j that hollow of the corrupted ligament may be called a feparation of the bones ; but it is fuch a feparation as 44 equals only the back of a common knife in breadth, 44 and will not allow the bones to depart from each 44 other the joining is ftill ftrong, for it is furrounded by a capfular ligament, not like the loofe ligament of a moveable joint, but adhering to every point of each bone : and this ligament does perform its office fo completely, that while it remains entire, though the bones ffiuffle fidewife upon each other, no force can pull them afunder: 44 Even when the fore-part of 44 the pelvis is cut out, and turned and twifted betwixt 44 the hands, ftill though the bones can be bent 44 backwards and forwards, they cannot be pulled 44 from each other the tenth part of an inch.” Thefe inquiries were made by one, who, though partial to the other fide of this queftion, could not allow himfelf to difggife the truth, whofe authority is the higheft,OF THE TRUNK* 144 higheft, and by whofe fads I ffiould moll willingly abide. Now, it is plain, that fince a reparation, amount- mg only to the 12th of an inch, occafions death, this cannot be a provifion of nature ; and fince the repa- ration in fuch degree could not enlarge the openings of the bafm, there again it cannot be a provifion of nature. I know that tales are not awanting of wo- men whofe bones were feparated during labour; but what is there fo abfurd, that we {hall not find a pre- cedent or parallel cafe in our annals of monftrous and incredible fads ? Or rather, where is there a fad of this defcription which is not balanced and oppofed by oppofite authorities and fads ? I have diffeded fe- veral women who had died in lingering labour, where I found no difunion of the bones. I have feen wo- men opened, after the greatefl violence with inftru- ments, and yet found no feparation of the bones. We have cafes of women having the mollities offium, a univerfal foftnefs and bending of the bones, who have lived in this condition for many years, with the pelvis alfo affeded ; its openings gradually more and more abridged ; the miferable woman fullering linger- ing labour, and undergoing the delivery by hooks, with all the violence that mull; be ufed in fuch defpe- rate cafes, and (till no feparation of the bones happen- ing. How, indeed, lhould there be fuch difficult la- bours as thefe, if the feparation of the bones could al- low the child to pafs ? If it be faid, “ the joinings of the pelvis are fome- times dilfolved,” I acknowledge that they are, juft as the joint of the thigh is dilfolved ; tfrat is, fometimes byOf THE TRUNK. 145 by violence, and fometimes by internal difeafe; but if it be affirmed, that “ the joinings of the pelvis are “ diffolved to facilitate labour/’ I would obferve, that wherever reparation of the bones has happened, it has both increafed the difficulties of the labour, and been in itfelf a very tenable difeafe ; for proofs of which, I mull refer to Hunter, Denman;, and others, to whofe peculiar province fuch cafes belong. But furely thefe principles will be univerfally acknowledged : That the pelvis fupporting the trunk is the centre of its larged motions : that if the bones of the pelvis were loofened, fuch motions could no longer be performed: that when, by violence or by internal difeafe, or in the time of fevere labour, thefe joinings have actually been diffolved' or burft, the woman has become in- ftantly lame, unable to fit, Hand, or lie, or fupport herfelf in any degree; fhe is rendered incapable of turning, or even of being turned in bed ; her attend- ants cannot even move her legs, without intolerable anguifh, as if torn afunder There fometimes follows a collection of matter within the joint (the matter ex- tending quite down to the tuber ifehii), high fever, delirium, and death f ; or in cafe of recovery (which is indeed more frequent), the recovery is flow and partial only ; a degree of lamenefs remains, with pain, weaknefs, and languid health; they can ftand on one leg more eafily than on both ; they can walk more eafily than they can ftand; but it is many months before they can walk without crutches ; and long after they come to walk upon even ground, * Denman. f Hunter. vol. i. l climb- I146 OF THE TRUNK. climbing a flair Continues to be very difficult and painful. In order to obtain even this flow re-union of the bones, the pelvis muff be bound up with a cir- cular bandage very tight; and they muft fubmit to be confined long: by negleft of which precautions, fometimes, by the rubbing of the bones, a preterna- tural joint is formed, and they continue lame for years, or for life *; or fometimes the bones are united by oflification; the callus or new bone proje&s towards the centre of the pelvis, and makes it im- poflible for the woman to be delivered again of a living child f. Now this hiftory of the difeafe leads to reafons in- dependent of anatomy, and furer than it; which prove, that this feparation of the bones (an accident the exiflence of which cannot be queflioned) is not a provifion of nature, but a moll ferious difeafe. For if thefe be the dreadful confequences of feparation of the bones, how can we believe that it happens, when we fee women walking during all their labour, and in place of being pained, rather relieved by a variety of poftures, and by walking about their room ? when, we fee them often walk to bed after being delivered on chairs or couches ? rife up on the third day; and of- ten refume the care and fatigues of a family in a few days more ? or can we believe, that there is a ten- dency to feparation of the bones in thofe who, follow- ing the camp, are delivered on one day, and walk on the following ? or in thofe women who, to conceal * Denman fays twenty-five or thirty years., f Spence’s cafes. theirOF THE TRUNK. H7 their Ihame, have not indulged in bed a fmgle hour ? or can we believe, that there is even the flighted; ten- dency to the reparation of the bones in thofe women whofe pelvis refills the force of a lingering and fevere labour ; who fuffer Hill further all the violence of in- ftruments; who yet recover as from a natural deli- very, and who alfo rife from bed on the third or fourth day ? CHAP. VL BONES OF THE THIGH, LEG, AND FOOTr rn 1 he Thigh-bone is the greateft bone of the body, and needs to be fo, fupporting alone, and in the moll unfavourable direction, the whole weight of the trunk; for though the body of this bone is in a line with the. trunk, in the axis of the body, its neck Hands off al- moll at right angles with the body of the bone; and in this unfavourable direftion mull it carry the whole weight of the trunk ; for the body is feldom fo placed l 2 as! 48 Bones of the as to reft its weight equally upon either thigh-bone; commonly it is fo inclined from fide to fide alter- nately, that the neck of one thigh-bone bears alone the whole weight of the body and limbs, or is ftill loaded with greater burdens than the mere weight of the body itfelf. The thigh-bone is one of the Inoft regular of the cylindrical bones. 1. Its body is very thick and ftrongj of a rounded form ; fwelling out at either end into two heads. In its middle it bends a little outwards, with its circle or convex fide turned towards the fore part of the thigh. This bending of the thigh-bone has been a fubject of fpeculation abundantly ridiculous, viz. whether this be an accidental or a natural arch. There are authors who have afcribed it to the nurfe carrying the child by the thighs, and its foft bones bending under the weight. There is another author, very juftly celebrated, who imputes it to the weight of the body and the ftronger aftion of the flexor muf- cles; affirming, that it is ftraight in the child, and grows convex by age. This could Hot be, elfe we fhould find this curve lefs in fome, and greateft in thofe who had walked moft, or whofe mufcles had the greateft ftrength ; and if the mufcles did produce this curve, a little accident giving the balance to the flexor mufcles fhould put the thigh-bone in their power to bend it in any degree, and to caufe diftortion. But the end of all fuch (peculations is this, that we find it bended in the foetus not yet delivered from the mo- ther’s womb, or in a chicken while ftill enclofed in the fhell; it is a uniform and regular bending, de- figned149 THIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. figned and marked in the very fird formation of the bone, and intended, perhaps, for the advantage of the ftrong mufcles in the back of the thigh, to give them greater power, or more room. 2. The head of the thigh-bone is likewife the mod perfedt of any in the human body ; for its circumfe- rence is a very regular circle, of which the head con, tains nearly two-thirds: It is fmall, neat, and com- pletely received into its focket, which is not only deep jn itfelf, and very fecure, but is further deepened by the cartilage which borders it; fo that this is naturally, and without the help of ligaments, the ficronged joint in all the body ; but among other fecurities which are fuperadded, is the round ligament, the mark of which is eafily feen, being a broad dimple in the centre of its head. 3. The neck of this bone is the trued in the Ikele- ton ; and indeed, it is from this neck of the thigh-bone that we transfer the name to other bones, which have hardly any other murk of neck than that which is made by their purfe-like ligament being fixed behind the head of the bone, and leaving a roughnefs there. But the neck of the thigh-bone is an inch and a half in length, thick and ftrong, yet hardly proportioned to the great weights which it has to bear; long, that it may allow the head to be fet deeper in its focket ^ and danding wide up from the fhoulder of the bone, to keep its motions wide and free, and unembarraffed by the pelvis ; for without this great length of the neck, its motions had been checked even by the edges of its own focket. L 3 TheBONES QF THE f5® The trochanter are the jongeft proceffes in the Jiuman body for the attachment of mufcles, and they are named trochanter (or proceffes for turning the thigh) from their office, which is the receiving of thofe great mufcles which not only bend and extend the thigh but turn it upon its axis; for thefe proceffes are oblique, fo as to bend and to turn the thigh at once. 4. The trochanter major, the outermoll and longer pf the two, is that great bump which reprefents the direct end of the thigh-bone, while the neck (lands off from it at one fide ; therefore the great trochanter Hands above the neck, and is eafily diftinguiffied out- wardly, being that great bump which we feel fo plainly in laying the hand upon the haunch. This procefs receives the glutaei mufcles, and all the great mufcles which move the thigh outwards. 5. The trochanter minor, or leffer trochanter, is fmaller and more pointed ; riling on the inner fide of the bone ; lower than the trochanter major, and placed under the root of the neck, as the greater one is placed above it. It is deeper in the thigh, and never to be felt, not even in luxations. Its mufcles alfo, by the obliquity of their infertion into it, turn the thigh, and bend it towards the body ; fuch as the pfoas and iliacus internus, which palling out from the pelvis, link deep into the groin, and are implanted into this point. From the one trochanter to the other, there is a very confpi- cuous roughnefs, which marks the place of the capfule or ligamentary bag of the joint; for it enclofes the whole length of the neck and of the thigh-bone. This roughnefsTH-IGH, LEG, AND FOOT. 15 I roughnefs begins the great rough line, and is what is regularly named the linea afpera. 6. The linea ASPERAis a riling or prominent line, very ragged and unequal, which runs all down the back part of the thigh : It begins at the roots of the two trochanters, and the rough lines'from each troch- anter meet about four inches down the bone; thence tire linea afpera runs down the back of the bone a fmgle line, and forks again into two lines, one going towards each condyle, and ending in the tubercles at the lower end of the bone ; fo that the linea afpera is fmgle in the middle, and forked at either end. 7. The condyles are the two tubers into which the thigh-bone fwells out at its lower part. There is fird a gentle and gradual fwelling of the bone ; then an en- largement into two broad and flat furfaces, which are to unite with the next bone in forming the great joint of the knee. The two tuberqfities, which, by their flat faces, form the joint, fwell out above the joint, and are called the condyles. The inner condyle is larger, to compensate for the oblique pofition of thq thigh-bone ; for the bones are feparated at their heads by the whole width of the pelvis, but are drawn to- wards a point below, fo as to touch each other at the knees. On the fore part of the bone, betwixt the condyles, there is a broad Smooth furface, upon which the rotula, or pulley-like bone glides ; and on the back part of the thigh-bone, in the middle betwixt the condyles, there is a deep notch, which contains the great artery, vein, and nerve of the leg. The great nutritious artery enters below the mid- dle of this bone, and fmaller arteries enter through its l 4 porous152 bones of the porpus extremities : as may be known by many fmall holes near the head of the bone. The head of the thigh-bone is round, and fet down deeply in its focket, to give greater fecurity to a joint fo important, and fo much expofed as the hip is. The neck Hands off from the reft of the bone, fo that by its length, it allows a free play to the joint, but is itfelf much expofed by its tranfverfe petition, as if nature had not formed in the human body any joint at once free, moving and ftrong. The neck is not formed in the boy, becaufe the focket is not yet deep, nor fuch as to hinder the motions of the thigh ; and the head is formed apart from the bone, and is not firmly united with it till adult years, fo that falls luxate or feparate the head in young people, but they break the neck of the bone in thofe that are advanced in years. The trochanters, or fhoulders, are large to receive the great muffles which are implanted in them, and oblique, that they may at once bend and turn the thigh. The shaft or body is very ftrong, that it may bear our whole weight, and the action of fuch powerful muffles ; and it is marked with the rough line, behind from which a mafs of flefh takes its rife, which wraps completely round the lower part of the thigh-bone, and forms what are called the vafti muffles, the greateft muffles for extending the leg. The condyles fwell out to give a broad furface, and a firm joining for the knee, But of all its parts, the great trochanter fhould be moft particularly obferved, as it is the chief mark in luxations or fractures of this bone. For when the greater trochanter is pufhed downwards, we find the thigh luxated downwards; whet;THIGH, LEG, AND FOOT, I 53 when the trochanter is higher than its true place, and fo fixed that it cannot roll, we are allured that it is luxated upwards ; but when the trochanter is higher than its true place, with the thigh rolling freely, we are aflured its neck is broken, the trochanter being difplaced, and the broken head remaining in its focket; but when the trochanter remains in its place, we fhould conclude that the joint is but little injured, or that it is only a bruife of thofe glands or mucous fol- licles which are lodged within the focket for lubricat- ing the joint. The tibia is named from it refemblance to a pipe; the upper part of the tibia, representing the expanded or trumpet-likc end, the lower part reprefenting the flute end of the pipe. The tibia, on its upper end, is flat and broad, making a moll Angular articulation with the thigh-bone; for it is not a ball and focket like the flioulder or hip, nor a hinge joint guarded on either fide with projecting points like the ankle. There is jio fecurity for the knee joint by the form of its bores, for they have plain flat heads : they are broad indeed, but they are merely laid upon each other. It is only by its ligaments that this joint is firong ; and by the number of its ligaments it is a complex and delicate joint peculiarly liable to difeafe. I. The upper head of the tibia is thick and fpongy, and we find there two broad and fuperficial hollows, as if imprefled while foft, with the marks of the condyles of the thigh-bone; and thefe flight hollows are all the cavity that it has for receiving the thigh- bone. A pretty high ridge rifes betwixt thefe two hollows,BONFS OF THE 15* hollows, fo as to be received into the interftice be* twixt the condyles ; and at the back part, which is the higheft point of the ridge, an internal ligament ties the tibia to the thigh-bone. This fpongy head has aifo a rough margin, to which the capfular ligament is tied ; on the fore part of this bone, juft below the knee, there is a bump for receiving the great ligament of the patella, or, in other words, the great tendon of all the extenfor mufcles of the leg; and laftiy, there is upon the outer fide of this fpongy head, juft under the margin of the joint, a fmooth articulating furface, (like a dimple impreffed with the finger), for receiving the head of the fibula. It is under the margin of the joint, for the fibula does not enter at all into the knee joint; it is only laid upon the fide of the tibia, fixed to it by ligaments, but not received into any thing like a cavity. 2. The body of the bone is of a prifmatic or trian- gular form, and its three edges or acute angles are very high lines running along its whole length ; one line a little waved, and turned directly forwards, is what is called the fliin. At the top of this ridge is that bump into which the ligament of the rotula or patella is implanted; and the whole length of this acute line is fo eafily traced through the lkin, that we can never be miftaken about fradtures of this bone. Another line lefs acute than this is turned diredtly backwards; and the third acute line, which completes the triangular form, is turned towards the fibula, to receive a broad ligament, or interofieous membrane, which ties the two bones together. 3. The lower head of the tibia compofes the chief parts of the ankle-joint. The lower head of the tibia kTHIGH, leg, and foot. *55 Is fmallsiL than the upper, in the fame proportion that the ankle is fmaller than the knee. The pointed part of this head of the tibia reprefents the mouth piece, or flute part of the pipe, and conftitutes the bump of the inner ankle. The lower end of the fibula lies fo upon the lower end of the tibia, as to form the outer ankle ; and there is on the fide of the tibia a deep hollow, like an imprefiion made with the point of the . thumb, which receives the lower end of the fibula. The acute point of the tibia, named the procefs of the inner ankle, palfes beyond the bone of the foot, and, by lying upon the fide of the joint, guards the ankle, fo that it cannot be luxated inwards, without this pointed procefs of the maleolus internus, or inner ankle, being broken. The tibia is a bone of great fize, and needs to be fo, for it fupports the whole weight of the body. It is not at all aflilled by the fibula in bearing the weight, the fibula, or flender bone, being merely laid upon the fide of the tibia, for ufes which fhall be explained prefently. The tibia is thick, with much cancelli or fpongy fubflance within; has pretty firm plates with- out ; is much ftrengthened by its ridges, and by it$ triangular form : its ridges are regular with regard to each other, but the whole bone is twilled as if it had been turned betwixt the hands when foft: This dif- tortion makes the procefs of the inner ankle lie not re- gularly uporl the fide of that joint, but a little obliquely forwards, determining the obliquity of the foot; which mull be of much confequence, fince there are many provifions for fecuring this turning of the foot, viz. the oblique pofition of the trochanters ; the oblique infertionBONES OF THE 356 infertion of all the mufcles, and this obliquity of the ankles; the inner ankle advancing a little before the joint, and the outer ankle receding in the fame degree behind it. The fibula, which is named fo from its refemblance to the Roman clafp, is a long, flender bone, which is ufe- ful partly in ftrengthening the leg, but chiefly in form- ing the ankle joint; for the tibia only is connected with the knee, while the fibula, which has no place in the knee joint, goes down below the lower end of the tibia, forming the long procefs of the outer ankle. The fibula is a long and flender bone, the longeft and flenderefl in the body. It lies by the fide of the tibia like a fplint j fo that when at any time the tibia is broken without the fibula, or when the tibia having fpoiled, becomes carious, and a piece of it is loft, the fibula maintains the form of the limb till the laft piece be replaced, or till the fracture be firmly reunited. It is, like the tibia, triangular, and has two heads, which are knots, very large, and difproportioned to fo flender a bone. The fharpeft line of the fibula is turned to one fharp line of the tibia, and the interoffeous mem- brane paffes betwixt them. The bone lies in a line with the tibia, on the outer fide of it, and a little behind it. The upper head of the fibula is laid upon a plain fmooth furface, on the fide of the tibia, a little below the knee ; and thpugh the fibula is not received deep into the ti- bia, this want is compenfated for by the ftrong liga- ments by which this little joint is tied by the knee, being completely wrapped round with the expanded tendons of thofe great mufcles which make up the thigh, by the knee being ftill farther embraced clofelyTHICH, LEG, AND FOOT. 157 by the fafcia, or tendinous expanfion of the thigh ; but above all, by the tendons of the outer hamftrings be- ing fixed into this knot of the fibula, and expanding from that over the fore part of the tibia. The lower head of the fibula is let pretty deep into a focket on the fide of the tibia ; together, they form the ankle joint for receiving the bones of the foot. The ankle joint is one of the pureft hinge joints, and is very fecure; for there is the tibia, at the procefs of the inner ankle, guarding the joint within; there is the fibula palling the joint ftill further, and making the outer ankle ftill a ftronger guard without. Thefe two points, projecting fo as to enclofe the bones of the foot, make a pure hinge; prevent all lateral mo* tion ; make the joint firm and ftrong ; and will not al- low of luxations till one or both ankles be broken. We know that there is little motion betwixt the tibia and fibula; none that is fenfible outwardly, and no more in truth than juft to give a fort of elafticity, yielding to flighter drains. But we are well allured, that this motion, though flighted and imperceptible, is very conftant; for thefe jointings of the fibula with the tibia are always found fmooth and lubricated ; and there are no two bones in the body fo clofely connected as the tibia and fibula are, which are fo feldom anchylofed, i. e. joined into one by difeafe. The fibula may be thus defined : It is a long {len- der bone, which anfwers to the double bone of the /ore arm, completes the form, and adds fomewhat to the ftrength of the leg; it gives a broader ori- gin for its ftrong mufcles; lies by the fide of the tibiaBones of the tibia like a fplint; and, being a little arched to- wards the tibia, fupports it againfl thofe accidents which would break it acrofs, and maintains the form of the leg when the tibia is carious or broken ; the fi- bula, though it has little connection with the knee, pafles beyond the ankle joint, and is its chief guard and ftrength in that direction in which the joint fhould be mod apt to yield; and in this office of guarding the ankle, it is fo true, that the ankle cannot yield till this guard of the fibula be broken. Rotula or patella, or knee-fan, is a fmall thick bone, of an oval, or rather triangular form# The ba- fis of this rounded triangle is turned upwards to re- ceive the four great mufcles which extend the leg, the pointed part of this triangle is turned downwards, and is tied by a very flrong ligament to the bump or tubercle of the tibia, juft under the knee. This liga- ment is called the ligament of the patella, or of the tibia, connecting the patella fo clofely, that fome ana- tomifts of the firfl: name choofe to fpeak of the patella as a mere procefs of the tibia, (as the olecranon is a procefs of the ulna), only flexible and loofe; an ar- rangement which I think fo far right and ufeful, as the fraCtures of the olecranon and of the patella are fo much alike, efpecially in the method of cure, that they may be fpoken of as one cafe ; for thefe two are the only" exceptions to the common rules and methods of fetting broken bones* The patella is manifeflly ufeful, chiefly as a lever; for it is a pulley, which is a fpecies of lever, gliding txpon the forepart of the thigh-bone upon the fniooth furface which is betwixt the condyles. The projec- tionTHIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. 15jgp * tion of this bone upon the knee removes the acting force from the centre of motion, fo as to increafe the power ; and it is beautifully contrived, that while the knee is bent, and the mufcles at reft, as in fitting, the patella finks down concealed into a hollow of the knee. When the mufcles begin to ad, the patella be- gins to rife from this hollow; in proportion as they contrad, they lofe of their ftrength, but the patella gradually riftng, increafes the power; and when the contraction is nearly perfed, the patella has rifen to the fummit of the knee, fo that the riling of the pa- tella raifes the mechanical power of the joint in exad proportion as the contradion expands the living con- tradible power of the mufcles. What is curious beyond almoft any other fad concerning the fradures of bones, the patella is feldom broken by a fall or blow; in nine of ten cafes, it is rather torn, if we may ufe the expreffion, by the force of its own muf- cles, while it Hands upon the top of the knee, fo as to reft upon one fmgle point; for while the knee is half-bended, and the patella in this dangerous fitua- tion, the leg fixed, and the mufcles contrafhng ftrong- ly to fupport the weight of the body, or to raife it as in mounting the fteps of a flair, the force of the muf- cles is equivalent at leaft to the weight of the man’s body; and often, by a hidden violent exertion, their power is fo much increafed, that they fnap the patella acrofs, as we would break a flick acrofs the knee. The tarsus, or instep, is compofed of feven large bones, which form a firm and elaftic arch for fup- porting the body; which arch has its ftrength from the ftrong ligaments with which thefe bones are joined.BONES OF TH^ joined, and its elafticity from the fmall movements of thefe bones with each other; for each bone and each joint has its cartilage, its capfule or bag, its lubricating fluid, and all the apparatus of a regular joint; each moves, flnce the cartilages are always lubricated, and tire bones are never joined by anchylofis with each other; but the effect is rather a diffufed elafticity, than a marked and perceptible motion in any one joint. The feven bones of which the tarfus is compofed are, i. The astragalus, which, united with the tibia and fibula, forms the ankle joint: 3, The os calcis, or heel bone, which forms the end or back point of that arch upon which the body ftands: 3. The os naviculare, or boat-like bone, which joins three fmaller bones of the fore part of the tarfus to the aft tralagus : 4. The os cuboides, which joins the fmaller bones of the fore part to the os calcis: The 5th, 6th* and 7th, are the fmaller bones making the forepart of the tarfus ; they lie immediately under the place of the (hoe-buckle, and are named the three cuneiform bones, from their wedge-like fliape; and it is upon thefe that the metatarfal bones, forming the next dft vifion of the foot are implanted. Thefe bones of the tarfus form, along with the next rank or metatarfal bones, a double arch ; firft from the loweft point of the heel to the ball of the great toe, is one arch ; the arch of the foie of the foot which fup« ports the body: and again* there is another arch with- in this, formed among the tarfal bones themfelves, one within another, i. e. betwixt the aftralagus, calcis, and naviculare; through which hole, in my drawing, there 14 isTHIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. l6i vol. 1, M tarfal is paired a pencil. It is this fecond arch which gives a perfect elafticity to the foot, and muil prevent the bad effefts of leaping, falls, and other ihocks, which would have broken a part lefs curioufly adapted to its office. 1. The astragalus is the greateil and moil re- markable bone of the tarfus ; and which the fur- geon is moil concerned in knowing. The femicir- cular head of this bone forms a curious and perfedt pulley. The circle of this pulley is large; its cartilage is fmooth and lubricated; it is received deep betwixt the tibia and fibula ; and rolls under the fmooth ar- ticular furface of the latter, which being fuited to this pulley of the aftragalus, with fomething of a boat-like ffiape, is often named the fcaphoid cavity of the tibia, i. We remark in the aftragalus its ar- ticulating furface, which is arched, high, fmooth, co- vered with cartilage, lubricated, and in ail refpeds a complete joint. Its form is that of a pulley, which, of courfe, admits of but one'diredt motion, viz. forwards and backwards, i. We obferve its fides, which are plain, fmooth, and flat, covered with the fame cartilage, forming a part of the joint, and clofely locked in by the inner and outer angles, fo as to prevent luxations or aukward motions to either fide. 3, We obferve two large irregular articulating furfaces backwards, by which it is joined to the os calcis. 4. There is on the fore part, or rather the fore end of the aftragalus, a large round head, as regular as the head of the fhoulder bone, by which it is articulated with the fcaphoid bone* 2. The os calcis is the large irregular bone of the heel j it is the tip or end of the arch formed by theBONES OF THE i.6i V tarfa! and metatarfal bones. There is a large fcabrottS point on which we (land ; which is rough, for the in- fertion of the great Achillis tendon, the rope by which the mufcles of the bran act. The roughnefs of the heel-bone gives the tendon a firm hold, and its projec- tion backwards gives it the power of a very long lever. The points to be obferved are, i . The great backward projection, which is properly called the heel; fcabrous and rough, for the infertion of the great back tendon ; the point upon which we walk and Hand. 2. An irre- gular articular furface, or rather two furfaces covered with cartilage, by which it is joined with the aftraga- lus. 3. Another articulating furface by which it is joined with the os cuboides. And, 4. A fort of arch downwards, under which the veffels and nerves and the tendons alfo pafs on fafely into the foie of the foot. 5. Naviculare is named os naviculare, or os scaphoides, from a fanciful refembiance to a boat. But this is a name of which anatomifts have been pe- culiarly fond, and which they have ufed with very little difcretion or referve : the ftudent will hardly find any fuch refembiance: it is rather like the dies with which we play at drafts 5 that It; a flattened cir- cular body, with its borders rifing up a little ; and each flat fide forms an articulating furface. That concave fide which looks backwards, is pretty deep, and receives the head of the aflragalus : that flat fide which looks forwards, has not fo deep a focket, but receives the three cuneiform bones upon a furface ra- ther plain and irregular. TheTHIGH, LEG, AND FOOT,' 153 M 1 ■very The cuneiform eones are fo named, bt’caufe they refemble wedges, being laid to each other like the Hones of an arch. The moil fimple and proper ar- rangement is, i. 2. and 3.; counting from the fide of the great toe towards the middle of the foot; but they are commonly named thus : The firfi cuneiform bone on which the great toe Hands, has its cutting edge turned upwards ; it is much larger than the others, andfo is called os cuneiforme magnum. The fecond cuneiform bone, or that which Hands the middle of the three cuneiform bones, is much fmaller, and is therefore named os cuneiforme minimum. The third in order of the cuneiform bodies is named os cuneiforme medium *. Thefe cuneiform bones receive the great toe, and the two next to it. The fourth and fifth toes are implanted upon the lafi bone in the row, the os cuboides. Os cuboides.-—The os cuboides is named from its cubical figure ; and is next to the afiragaiuS in fize ; Greater than the fcaphoid bone. The three cunei- form bones are laid regularly by the fide of each other; and this os cuboides is again laid on the outer fide of the third cuneiform bone, and joins it to the os calcis. The place and effect of the cuboid bone is * The confufion in thefe names arifes: from fometimes counting them by their place, and fometimes reckoning according to their fize. It is only in relation to its fize that we call one of thefe bones os cuneiforme medium ; for the os cuneiforme medium is not in the middle of the three ; it is the middle bone with refpecl to fize ; it is the fmalleil of the cuneiform bones that Hands in the middle be- twixt the other two.BONES OF THE 164 very curious; for as it is wedged in betwixt the third cuneiform bone and the os calcis, it forms a complete arch within an arch, which gives at once a degree of eladicity and of drength which no human contrivance could have equalled. There is fird a great arch on which the body reds, and the heel and the great toe are the horns of that bow : And, fecondly, there is a complete circle among the metatarfal bones, leaving an opening betwixt the adragalus and the os calcis. THE TOES.—’The lad divifion of the foot condds of three didindl bones; and as thefe bones are difpo- fed in rows, tfyey are named the fird, fecond, and third phalanges or ranks of the toes. The great toe has but two phalanges; the other toes have three ranks of bones, which have nothing particular, only the joints are round and free; formed by a round head on one bone, and by a pretty deep hollow, for receiving it, in the one above it; they are a little flattened on their lower fide, or rather they have a flattened groove which lodges the tendons of the lad joint of the toes. The sesamoid bones are more regularly found about the toes than any where elfe. They are frnall bones, like peafe, found in the hearts of tendons, at any point where they differ much friction; or Tat her they are like the feeds of the fefamum, whence their name. They are found chiefly at the roots of the great toe, and of the thumb ; at each of thefe places we find two frnall fefa- moid bones, one on each fide of the ball of the great toe, and one on each fide of the ball of the thumb ; but thefe bones do not enter into the joint$ they are with- inTHIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. 165 in the fubftance of the tendons ; perhaps, like the pa- tella, they remove the adting force from the centre of motion ; and fo, by adting like pulleys, increafe the power; perhaps alfo by lying at the fides of the joint in the tendons of theThorter mufcles of the toes, they make a fafe gutter for the long tendons to pafs in. They are not reftridted to the balls of the great toe and thumb, but fometimes are alfo found under the other toes and fingers, and fometimes behind the con- dyles of the knee; or in the peronaei tendons, which run under the foie of the foot. In Ihort, they are fo far from being regular bones, that they are found only in adults, and are fo often found in irregular places, that they ahnoft feem to be produced by chance, or by the effedt of fridtion. Metatarsus.—The metatarfus, fo named from its being placed upon the tarfus, confifts of five bones, which differ fo little from the firft bones of the fingers, that they need not be minutely demonftrated. It is fufficient to mark, that they are five in number, hav- ing a general refemblance to the joints of the finger ; that they are rather flattened, efpecially on their lower Tides, where the tendons of the toes lie; that they are very large at their ends next the tarfus, where they have broad flat heads, that they may be implanted with great fecurity j that they grow frnal- ler towards the toes, where again they terminate, in. neat fmall round heads, which receive the firft bones of the toes, and permit of a very free and eafy mo- tion, and a greater degree of rotation than our drefs allows us to avail ourfelves of; the toes being cramp- ed together, in a degree that fixes them all in their M 3 places.BONES OF THE 166 places, huddles one above another, and Is quite the reverfe of that free and ftrong-like fpreading of the toes, which the painter always reprefents. Laftly, it fhould be remarked, that the metatarfal bone of the little toe makes a falient angle, projecting over the tarfus, in a point which is eafily felt outwardly, at the place where the fide feam of the ihoe croifes : for this and all the other marks of the metatarfal bones are chiefly ufeful, as directing us where to cut in amputa- ting thefe bones; and the furgeon will fave the/ patient much pain, and himfelf the fliame of a flow and confufed operation, by marking the places of the joints. CHAP. VII. BONES OF THE SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND.. OF THE SCAPULA, OR SHOULDER-BLADE, 3. his is the great peculiarity of the fuperior extremity, that it is connected not diredtly with the trunk, like the thigh-bone with the haunch, but is hung by a moveable intermediate bone ; which not only is not immediately joined to the trunk by ligaments, or any bther form of connection, but is parted from it by fe- veralSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND, l6? m 4 by Vera! layers of mufcular flefh, fo that it lies flat, and glides upon the trunk. The scapula is a thin bone ; which has originally, like the Ikull, two tables ; and an intermediate diploe ; but by preflure, and the action of its own mufcles, it grows gradually thinner ; its tables are more and more condenfed; till in old age it has become perfectly tranf- parent, and is fupported only by its procefles, and by its thicker edges. For its spine is a ridge of firm and ftrong bone, which rifes very high, and gives a broad origin and fupport for its mufcles : The acromion in which the fpine terminates, is a broad and flat procefs, a fure guard for the joint of the fhoulder : The cora- coid procefs is a ftrong but fhorter procefs, which Hands out from the neck of the bone ; and the costa, or bor- ders of the bone are alfo rounded, hrm, and ftrong: So that the procefles and borders fupport the flat part of the bone, which is as thin as a fheet of paper, and quite tranfparent. There is no part nor procefs of the fcapula which does not require to be very carefully marked; for no accidents are more frequent than luxations of the fhoulder ; and the various luxations are explained belt by fludying in the fkeleton, and being able to recog- nize on the living body all the procefles and projecting points. i. The flat side of the fcapula is fmooth, fomewhat concave, and fuited to the convexity of the ribs. The fcapula is connected with no bone of the trunk ; tied by no ligaments j is merely laid upon the chefl, with a large mafs of mufcular flefh under it, upon which it glides j fo? there are below it two layers of mufcles,i6B BONES OF THE by one of which the fhoulder bone is moved upon the fcapula, while by the other the fcapula itfelf is moved upon the ribs. The mufcle lying in the hollow of the fcapula marks it v/ith many fmooth hollows and wave- like rifings, which are merely the marks of the origin of its mufcles, but which were miflaken even by the great Vefalius for the impreflions of the ribs. 2. The outer flat furface is like the inner one, but that it is traverfed by the spine, which is a very acute and high ridge of bone. Now the fpine, thus travers- ing the bone from behind forwards, divides its outer furface into two unequal parts, of which the part above the fpine is fmaller, and that below the fpine is larger. Each of thefe fpaces has its name, one fupra fpinatus, and the other infra fpinatus; and each of them lodges a mufcle, named, the one the mufculus fupra-fpinatus fcapulae, as being above the fpine; the other, muf- culus infra-fpinatus fcapulae, as being below the fpine. A third mufcle is named fubfcapularis, as lying urn der the fhoulder blade, upon that concave furface which is towards the ribs ; fo that the whole fcapula is covered with broad flat mufcles, whofe offices are to move the fhoulder bone in various directions, and which imprefs the fcapula with gentle rifings and hollows on its outer as well as on its inner furface. 3. The triangular form of the fcapula muff be next obferved. The upper line of the triangle is the fhorteft; it is named the costa or border. This fupe- rior cofta of the fcapula receives thofe ftrong and flat mufcles that raife the fhoulder upwards. The lower border, which i§ named the costa inferior, or the . . lowes?SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 16p 5. This lower border of the fcapula, receives no mufcles, be- caufe humuft be quite free, to move and glide as the fcapula turns upon its axis, which is indeed its ordinary movement. But it gives rife to two fmaller mufcles, which, from being a little rounded, are named the mufculi teres; which round mufcles being implanted into the arm bone, pull it downwards. The long fide of the fcapula, which bounds its tri- angular form backwards, is named the basis of the scapula, as it reprefents the bafe of the triangle. This line is alfo like the two borders, a little thicker, or fwelled out; and this edge receives many powerful mufcles, which lie flat upon the back, and coming to the fcapula in a variety of directions, can turn it upon its axis, fometimes railing fometimes deprefling the fcapula ; fometimes drawing it backwards ; and fome- times fixing it in its place, according to the various fets of fibres which are put into action, 4. The GLENOID, or ARTICULATING CAVITY of the fcapula, is on the point or apex of this triangle. The fcapula is more Unfitly triangular in a child, for it ter- minates almoft in a point or apex ; and this articulating furface is a feoarate offification, and is ioined to it in the adult. The fcapula towards this point terminates in a flat furface, not more than an inch in diameter, very little hollowed, and fcarcely receiving the head of the fhoulder bone, <?which is rather laid upon it than funk into it 1 It is indeed deepened a little by a circular griflle, which tips the edges or lips of this ar- ticulating furface, but fo little, that it is (till very (hal- low and plain, and luxations of the fhoulder are in- finitely more frequent than of any other bone.i;0 BONES OF THE 7. This 5. This head, or glenoid cavity of the fcapuia, is planted upon a narrower part, which tends towards a point, but is finiihed by this flat head; this narrower part is what is named the neck of the scapula, which no doubt fometimes gives way, and breaks. A rough line bordering the glenoid cavity receives the capfular ligament, or rather the capfule arifes from that border- ing griille, which I have faid tips the circle. 6. The spine of the scapula, is that high ridge of bone, which runs the whole length of its upper fur- face, and divides it into two fpaces for the origin of fupra and infra fpinatus mufcles. It is high, and very fharp. Handing up at one place to the height of two inches. It is flattened upon the top, and with edges, which turning a little towards either fide, give rife to two ftrong fafcise, i. e. tendinous membranes; which go from the fpine, the one upwards to the upper bor- der of the fcapuia, the other downwards to the lower border; fo that by thefe ftrong membranes the fca- puia is formed into two triangular cavities, and the fuora and infra fpinatus mufcles rife not only from the back of the fcapuia, and from the Tides of its fpine, but alfo from the inner furface of this tenfe membrane. The fpine traverfes the whole dorfum, or back of the fcapuia; it receives the trapezius mufcle, that beauti- ful triangular mufcle which covers the neck like a tip- pet, whence it has its name ; and*the fpine beginning low at the bafts of the fcapuia, gradually rifes as it ad- vances forwards, till it terminates in that high point or promontory which forms the tip of the fhoulder, and overhangs and defends the joint.SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 1J1 the 7. This high point is named the acromion pro- cess. It is the continuation and ending of the fpine, which at hrPc rifes perpendicularly from the bone, but by a fort of turn or diftortion it lays its flat fide to- wards the head of the fhoulder-bone. At this place, it is thickened, flat and ftrong ; overhangs and defends the joint; and is not merely a defence, but almoU makes a part of the joint itfelf ; for without this pro- cefs, the lhoulder-bone could not remain a moment in Its focket; every flight accident would difplace it. The acromion prevents luxation upwards, and is fo far a part of the joint, that when it is full under the acromion, the joint is fafe ; but when we feel a hollow, fo that we can pulh the points of the fingers under the acromion procefs, the fnoulder is luxated, and the focket empty. The point of the acromion, forming the apex of the fhoulder, a greater projection of this point, and a fulnefs of the deltoid mufcle which arifes from it, is a chief caufe, and of courfe a chief mark, of fupe- rior llrength. 8. But there is flill another fecurity for the joint; for there arifes from the neck of the fcapula, almofl from the border of the focket, and its inner fide, a thick, fhort, and crooked procefs, which Hands direct- ly forwards, and is yery confpicuous ; and which turn- ing forwards v/ith a crooked and fharp point, fome- what like the be|k of a crow, is thence named the coracoid process. This alfo guards and flrengthens the joint; though it cannot altogether prevent luxa- tions, it makes them lefs frequent; and mod probably When the arm is luxated inwards, it is by karting overBONES OF THE 172 the point of this defending procefs. A mufcle named coracoid, comes down from the joint of this procefs, and is inferted into the middle of the Aioulder-bone, to draw the arm towards the fide. Now the glenoid furface, and thefe two precedes, form the cavity for receiving the fhoulder-bone. But {till as if nature could not form a joint at once flrong and free, this joint, which performs quick, free, and eafy motions, is too fuperficial to be drong. Yet there is this compenfation, that the fhoulder-joint, which could not refill, if fairly expofed to {hocks and falls, belongs to the fcapula, which, Aiding eafily upon the ribs, yields, and fo eludes the force. Falls upon the fhoulder do not diAocate the fhoulder; that accident almoft always happens to us in putting out the hand to fave ourfelves from falls ; and the fhoulder is luxa- ted by a twiding of the arm, not by the force of a di- rect blow. The clavicle.—-The clavicle, or collar bone, named clavicle from its refemblance to an old falhion- ed key, is to the fcapula a kind of hinge or axis on which it moves and rolls; fo that the free motion of the fhoulder is made (till freer by the manner of its connection with the bread. The clavicle is placed at the root of the neck, and at the upper part of the bread. It extends acrofs from the tip of the Aioulder to the upper part of the der- num; it is a round bone, a little Aattened towards the end which joins the fcapula ; it is curved like an Italic f > having one curve turned out towards the bread 5 it is ufeful as an arch fupporting the Aioul-SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. ders, preventing them from falling forwards upon the breaft, and making the hands ftrong antagonifts to each other ; which, without this fteadying, they could not have been. 1. The thoracic end, that next the fternum, or what may be called the inner head of the clavicle, is round and flat, or button-like ; and it is received into a fuit- able hollow on the upper piece of the fternum. It is not only like other joints furrounded by a capfule or purfe; it is further provided with a fmall moveable cartilage, which (like a fridlion-wheel in machinery) faves the parts, and facilitates the motion, and moves continually as the clavicle rolls. 2. But the outer end of the clavicle is flattened as it approaches the fcapula, and the edge of that flat- nefs is turned to the edge of the flattened acromion, fo that they touch but in one Angle point. This outer end of the clavicle, and the correfponding point of the acromion, are flattened and covered with a cruft of cartilage: but the motion here is very flight and quite infenftble ; they are tied firmly by ftrong ligaments ; and we may confider this as almoft a fixed point; for there is little motion of the fcapula upon the clavicle j but there is much motion of the clavicle upon the breaft: for the clavicle ferves as a fiiaft or axis, firm- ly tied to the fcapula, upon which the fcapula moves and turns, being connected with the trunk only by this Angle point, viz. the articulation of the clavicle with the breaft-hone. The os humeri is one of the trueft of the cylindrical bones 5 it is round in the middle j but it appears twilled andbones op the r74■ and flattened towards the lower end ; and this flatnefs makes the elbow-joint a mere hinge, moving only in one direction. It is again regular and round towards the upper end ; dilating into a large round head, where the roundnefs forms a very free and moveable joint, turning eafily in all directions. 1. The head of this bone is very large ; it is neat and regularly circular ; but it is a very fmall portion of a large circle, fo that it is flat: and this flatnefs of the head, with the fhallownefs of its glenoid cavity, makes it a very weak joint, eafily difplaced, and nothing equal to the hip-joint for fecurity and ftrength. 2. The neck of this bone cannot fairly be reckoned fuch ; for, as I have explained in fpeaking of the neck of the thigh-bone, this neck of the humerus and the necks of mofl bones (the thigh-bone Hill excepted), are merely a rough line ciofe upon the head of the bone, without any ftraitening or intermediate narrow- nefs, which we can properly call a neck. The roughs nefs round the head of the fnoulder-bone is the line in- to which the capfular ligament is implanted. The tuberosities of the os humeri are two fmall bumps of unequal flze (the one called the greater, the other the fmaller, tuberofity of the os humeri), which (land up at the upper end of the bone, juft behind the head: they are not very remarkable. Though much fmaller than the trochanter of the thigh-bones, they ferve fimilar ufes, viz. receiving the great mufcles which move the limb. The greater, tuberosity is higher towards the outer fide of the arm, and receives the fupra fpinatus mufcle; while the infra fpinatus and teres minor mufcles, which comeSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. *75 the come from the lower part of the fcapula, are Implant, ed into the bone a little lower. The lesser tube- rosity has alfo a great mufcle fixed into it, viz. the fub-fcapularis mufcle. 4. The two tuberofities form betwixt them a groove, which is pretty deep ; and in it the long tendon of the biceps mufcle of the arm runs; and as it runs conti- nually, like a rope in the groove of a pulley, this groove is covered, in the frefii bones, with a thin carti- lage, fmooth, and like the cartilages of joints. The os humeri, at its lower part, changes its form, is flattened and compreifed below, and is fpread out into a great breadth of two inches or more; where there is formed, on each fide, a fharp projecting point (named condyle), for the origin of great mufcles; and in the middle, betwixt the two condyles, there is a grooved articulating furface, which forms the hinge of the elbow. 1. At the lower end of the bone, there are two ridges, one leading to either condyle, which it is of fome confequence to obferve; for the elbow-joint is a mere hinge, the moil flrictly fo of any joint in the body ; it has, of courfe, but two motions, viz. flexion and extenfion; and it has two mufcles chief- ly, one for extending, the other for bending, the arm. The flexor mufcle lies on the fore part, and the ex- tenfor on the back part of the arm; and fo the whole thicknefs of the arm is compofed, at this place, of thefe turn mufcles and of the bone: but that the fore and back parts of the arm might be thoroughly divided, the bone is flattened betwixt them ; and that the divifion might extend beyond the mere edges ofbones of The the bone, there are two fafciae or tendinous webs which go off from, either edge of the humerus, and which continue to divide the fore from the back mufcles, giving thefe mufcles a broader origin ; they are named, from their office, intermufcular membranes; and this is the meaning of the two ridges which lead to the two condyles. 2. The two projections in which thefe edges end are named condyles. The condyles of the thigh-bone are the broad articulating furfaces by which that bone is joined with the tibia ; while the condyles of the fhoul- der-bone are merely two iharp projecting points for the origin of mufcles, which hand out from either fide of the joint, but which have no connection with the joint. The chief ufe of the condyles of the fhoulder-bone is to give a favourable origin, and longer fulcrum, for the, mufcles of the fore arm, which arile from thefe points. The outer tubercle being the fmailer one, gives origin to the extenfor mufcles, where lefs ilrength is required. But the inner tubercle is much longer, to give origin to the flexor mufcles with which we grafp ; which require a bolder and more prominent procefs to arife from; for greater power is needed to perform fuch ftrong aCtions as grafping, bending, pulling ; while the muf- cles which extend the fingers need no more power than juft to antagonife or oppofe the flexors; their only bu- finefs begin to unfold or open the hand when we are to renew the grafp. It is further curious to obferve, that the inner tu- bercle is alfo lower than the other, fo that the articu- lating furface of the elbow-joint is oblique, which makes the hand fail naturally towards the face and breafl,SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND, 177 The VOL. 1. n Ibreaft, fo that by being folded merely without any turning of the os humeri, the hands are laid acrofs. 3. The articulating furface which Hands betwixt thefe condyles, forms a more ftri£t and limited hinge than can be eafily conceived, before we explain the other parts of the joint. The joint confifts of two fur- faces ; firft, a fmooth furface, upon which the ulna moves only backwards and forwards; and, fecondly, of a fmall knob upon the inner tubercle, which has a neat round furface, upon which the face or focket be- longing to the button-like end of the radius rolls. Thefe two furfaces are called the fmall head, and the cartilaginous pulley of the humerus. 4. Belonging to the joint, and within its capfular ligament, there are two deep hollows, which receive certain proceffes of the bones of the fore arm. One deep hollow on the fore part of the humerus, and juft above its ardculating pulley, receives the horn-like or coronoid procefs of the ulna, the other receives the olecranon or that procefs of the ulna which forms the point of the elbow. RADIUS and ULNA. The radius and ulna are the two bones of the fore arm. The radius, named from its refemblance to the ray or fpoke of a wheel; the ulna, from its being often ufed as a meafure. The radius belongs more pe- culiarly to the wrift, being the bone which is chiefly connected with the hand, and which turns along with it in all its rotatory motions: the ulna, again, belongs more ftridtly to the elbow-joint; for by it we perform all the actions of bending or extending the arm.I7S EONES OF T*HE the The uliia is in general of a triangular or prifmatid form, like the tibia, and the elbow is formed by the ulna alone; for there is a very deep notch or hinge- like furface, which feems as if it had been moulded upon the lower end of the humerus, embraces it very clofely; and takes fo fure a hold upon the hu- merus, that it allows not the fmalleft degree of late- ral motion, and almoft keeps its place in the dry fke- leton without the help of ligaments or mufcles ; it prefents, in profile, fomewhat of the fhape of the let- ter S, and therefore is named the sigmoid cavity of the ulna. 2. But this figmoid cavity were a very imperfefl hinge without the two proceffes by which it is guarded before and behind ; the chief of thefe is the olecranon or large bump, which forms the ex* treme point upon which we reft the elbow. It is a big and ftrong procefs, which, checking into a deep hollow in the back of the humerus, ferves two curi- ous purpofes \ it ferves as a long lever for the mufcles which extend or make ftraight the fore arm; and when by the arm being extended, it checks into its place, it takes fo firm a hold upon the hinge or joint of the os humeri, as to fecure the joint in pulling, and fuch other actions as might caufe a luxation fore- wards. '3, The other procefs which guards the el- bow-joint is named the coronoid process, from its horn or pointed form; it ftands up perpendicularly from the upper or fore part of the bone ; it forms the fore part of the figmoid cavity, and completes the hinge. It is ufeful, like the olecranon, in giving a fair hold and larger lever to the mufcles, and in fecuring the joint j for the arm being extended, as in pulling,SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 179 N 2 5. The the olecranon checks into its place, and prevents luxa- tion forwards; and the arm again being bent, as in ftriking, pufhing, or faving ourfelves from falls, the coronoid procefs prevents luxation backwards. So the joint confills of the olecranon and the coronoid procefs as the two guards; and of the figmoid cavi- ty or hollow of articulation betwixt them: but the fmaller or upper head of the radius alfo enters into the joint, and lying upon the inner fide of the coronoid procefs, it makes a fmall hollow there, in v/hich it rolls; and this fecond hollow, touching the edge of the figmoid cavity, forms a double figmoid cavity; of which the firftjor greater sigmoid cavity,is for receiving the lower end of the humerus; and the fecond, or lesser sigmoid cavity, for receiving the upper head of the radius. 4. The form of the bone being prif- matic or triangular, it has, like the tibia, three ridges ; one of which is turned towards a correfponding ridge in the radius, and betwixt them the interolfeous liga- ment is ftretched; and this interolfeous ligament fills all the arch or open fpace betwixt the radius and ulna, and faves the necelfity of much bone; gives as firm an origin to the mufcles as bone could have done, and binds the bones of the fore arm together fo ftrongly, that though the ulna belongs entirely to the elbow-joint, and the radius as entirely to the wrift, they have never been known to depart from each other, nor to yield to any force, however great*. * Sometimes the radius is luxated from the lower head of the ulna ; but this dialiafis, as it is called, is quite of another kind.18 b BONES OF THE 5. The ulna, bigger at the elbow, grows gradually fmaller downwards, till it terminates a 1 mo ft in a point. It ends below in a fmall round head, which, is named the tower head of the ulna, which fcarce- ly enters into the joint of the wrift; but being re- ceived into a hollow on the fide of the radius, the ra- dius turns upon the lower head of the ulna like an- axis or fpoke. 6. Below this little head, the bone ends towards the fide of the little finger in a fmall rounded point, which is named the styloid process of the ulna, and which is chiefly ufeful in giving a ftrong adhefion to the ligament which fecures the wrift there. And as the fty- loid proeefs and the olecranon, the two extremities of the ulna, are eafily and diftinctly felt, the length of this bone has been ufed as a meafure; and fo it was named cubitus by the ancients, and is named ulna by us. Radius. The radius is the fecond bone of the ford arm, has its pofition exactly reverfed with that of the ulna: for the ulna belonging to the elbow has its great- er end upwards ; the radius belonging to the wrift has its greater end downwards; and while the ulna only bends the arm, the radius carries the wrift with a ro- tatory motion; and fo entirely belongs to the wrift, that it is called the manubrium manus, as if the handle of the hand. 1. The body of the radius is larger than that of the ulna. The tranfverfe ftrength of the arm depends more upon the radius, which has more body and thicknefs; is more fquared; and is arched, in fome degree, fo as to ftand off from the ulna, without ap- proaching it, or compreffing the other parts. The ra- diusSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. l8l dius lies along the upper edge of the fore arm, next to the thumb, and being, like the ulna, of a prifinatic or triangular form, it has one of its angles or edges turned towards the ulna to receive the interofifeous ligament. 2. The upper head of the radius is fmaller; of a round, flattifh, and button-like fliape, and lies fo upon the lower end of the fhoulder-bpne, and upon the co* ronoid procefs of the ulna, that it is articulated with either bone ; for, i ft, The hollow of its head is di- rectly oppofed to the little head of the os humeri; and, 2dly, The fiat fide of its button-like head rubs and turns upon the fide of the coronoid procefs of the ulna, making a focket there, which is called the leffer fig- mold cavity of the ulna. 3. Immediately behind the round fiat head, is a narrownefs or ftraitening, called the neck of the ra- dius. Round this neck there is a collar or circular ligament (named the coronary ligament of the ra- dius), which keeps the bone fecurely in its place, turning in this ligamentous band like a fpindle in its bulh or focket: for the radius has two motions, one accompanying the ulna in its movements of flexion and extenfion; and,fecondly, its own peculiar rotation | in which it is not accompanied in return by the ulna, but the ulna continuing fleady, the radius moves, and turns the wrift, 4. Immediately under this neck, and juft below the' collar of the bone, there is a prominent bump, like a flat button, foldered upon the fide of the bonej which is the point into which the biceps flexor cubiti, or bending mufcle of the fore arm, is inferted, n 3 5. The182 BONES OF THE 5. The upper head is exceedingly fmall and round, while the lower head fwells out, broad and flat, to receive the bones of the wrifl:. There are two great- er bones in the wrifl:, which form a large ball, and this ball is received into the lower end of the radius : the impreflion which thefe two bones make there is pretty deep, and fomewhat of a boat-like fhape; whence it is called (like the articulating furface of the tibia) the fcaphoid cavity of the radius; and on the edge of the radius, next to the thumb, the bone ends in a fort of peak or Iharper point, which is named (though with very little meaning) the styloid pro- cess of the radius. So the fcaphoid cavity of the radius forms the joint with the wrifl:; but there is another fmall cavity, ori the fide of the radius, near to the little head of the ulna, into which this leflfer head of the ulna is receiv- ed ; and this is inclofed in a proper and diftinct cap- fule. The little head of the ulna does not defcend fo low as to have any fhare in forming the wrifl. There are properly two diftin&r joints ; the great joint of the wrifl, moving upon the radius, the other a little joint within this of the radius, rolling upon the ulna, and- carrying the wrifl along with it. OF THE HAND AND FINGERS. The wrifl is the mofl complex part of all the bony fyftem, and is beft explained in a general way, by mark- ing the three divifions of the hand, into the carpus or wrifl bones ; the metacarpus, or bones that ftand up- on the wrifl; and the fingers, confiding each of its three joints. 1. The carpus or wrifl is a congeries of eightSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 183 eight frnall bones; grouped together into a very nar- row fpace; very firmly tied together by crofs liga- ments ; making a fort of ball or nucleus, a folid foun- dation or centre for the reft of the hand. 2. ^he me- tacarpus is formed of five long bones, founded upon the carpal bones; and which, departing from that centre, in fomewhat of a radiated form, give, by their fize and ftrength, a firm fupport to each individual finger, and, by their radiated or fpoke-like form, al- low the fingers freer play. 3. The fingers, confiding each of three very moveable joints, are fet free upon the metacarpus; fo as to Ihow a curious gradation of moving in all thefe parts ; for the carpal bones are grouped together into a frnall nucleus, firm, almoft immoveable, and like the nave of a wheel; then the metacarpal bones, founded upon this, are placed like the fpokes or fellies of the wheel, and have a freer mo- tion ; and laftly, the fingers by the advantage of this radiated form in the bones upon which they are pla- ced, move very nimbly, and have a rotatory as well as a hinge-like motion. So that the motion is gra- duated and proportioned in each divifion of the hand ; and even where there is no motion, as in the carpus, there is an elafticity, which, by gentle bendings, ac- commodates itfelf to the more moveable parts. The carpus, or wrist.—-Looking upon the exter- nal furface of the carpus, we count eight frnall bones difpofed in two rows, with one bone only a little remov- ed from its rank; and we obferve that the whole is arched outwards, to refill injuries, and to give ftrength; and that the bones lie like a pavement, or like the (tones of an arch, with their broader ends turned out- n 4 wards.2 84 BONES OF THE wards. On the internal furfaee again, we find the number of bones not fo eafily counted ; for their fmal- ler ends are turned towards the palm of the hand, which bring a concave furfaee, the narrow ends of the wedges are feen huddled together in a lefs regular form, crowded, and lapped over each other -x but in this hol- low, the four corner bones are more remarkable, pro- jecting towards the palm of the hand, fo as to be named procelfes : and they do indeed perform the office of procelfes; for there arifes from the four corner points a ftrong crofs ligament, which binds the tendons down, and makes under it a finooth floor or gutter for them to run in. The individual bones of the carpus are fmall, corner- ed, and very irregular bones ; fo that their names do but very poorly reprefent their form. To deferibe them without feme help of drawing, or of demonflra- tion, is fo very abfurd, that a defeription of each of them feems more like a riddle than like a ferious lef- fon: it cannot be underflood, and indeed it need hardly be remembered; for all that is ufeful is but to remem- ber the connexion and place, and the particular ufes, of each bone ; in reading of which the fludent fhould continually return to the plates, or he mufl have the bones always in his hand. I. ROW FORMING THE WRIST. i. Os scaphoides—The boat-like bone. This name of boat-line bone, or boat-like cavity, has been always a favourite name, though a very unmeaning one. The fcaphoid bone is not worthy of notice merely from its beingSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 185 4. The being the Iargeft, but alfo as it forms a chief part of the joint of the wrift ; for it is this bone which is re- ceived into the fcaphoid cavity of the radius. It is a very irregular bone ; in which we need remember only thefe two points ; the large round furface covered with cartilage, fmooth, and anfwering to the cavity in the head of the radius; and the hook-like, or projedt- ing procefs, which forms one of the corner points of the carpus, and gives a hold to one corner of the liga- ment which binds down the tendons of the wrift. 2. The os lunare is named from one of its ftdes being fomewhat of the fhape of a half moon ; it is next in fize to the fcaphoid bone, and is equal to it in importance ; for they are joined together, to be articulated with the radius. This bone takes an equal lhare in the joint with the fcaphoid bone; and together they form a great ball, fitting the focket of the radius, and of a long form, fo that the wrift is a proper hinge. The lunated edge of the os lunare is turned towards the fecond row of bones, and therefore is not feen. And the chief marks of this bone are its greater fize; its lunated edge, turned towards the fe- cond row ; and its round head forming the ball of the wrift-joint. 3. The os cuNEiFORME,or wedge-like bone,is named rather perhaps from its fituation, locked in among the other bones, than ftriftly from its form. Its fide form- ing the convex of the hand, is broader; its point to- wards the palm of the hand is narrower ; and fo far, we may fay, it is a wedge-like bone : but it is chiefly fo from its fituation, clofely wedged in betwixt the un- ciform and pifiform bones,BONES OF THE 186 7. The 4. The os pisiforme is a fmall neat and round bone,named fometimes orbicular,or round bone, but oftener pifiform, from its refemblance to a pea. It is placed upon the cuneiform bone, and ftands off from the reft into the palm of the hand, fo as to be the moft prominent of all the corner bones ; of courfe it forms one of the corner points or pillars of that arch, under which the tendons pafs. The pifiform bone is a little out of its ranks ; is very moveable; and projects fo into the palm, as to be felt outwardly, juft at the end of the ftyloid procefs of the ulna; it can be eaftly moved and rolled about; and is the point into which is implanted one of the ftrong mufcles for bending the wrift. 2. ROW SUPPORTING THE METACARPAL BONES, 5. Thefecond row begins with the trapezium ; a pretty large bone, which, from its name, we fhculd expedt to find of a regular fquared form ; while it has, in fadt, the moft irregular form of all, efpecially when detached from the other bones. The chief parts to be remarked in the bone, are the great focket for the thumb ; and as the thumb ftands off from one fide of the hand, this focket is rather on one fide. There is alfo a little procefs which makes one of the corner points. 6. The trapezoides is next to the trapezium; is fomewhat like the trapezium; from which it has its name. It alfo refembles the cuneiform bone of the firft row in its fhape and fize, and in its being wedged in betwixt the two adjoining bones.SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. l8/ 7. The os magnum is named from its great fize; not that it is the larged of all, nor even the larged bone of the fecond row, for the cuneiform bone is as big ; but there is no other circumdance by which it is well didinguifhed. It is placed in the centre of the upper row, has a long round head, which is jointed chiefly with the lunated hollow of the os lunare ; and this big head, and lunated hollow, make together a fort of focket, by which the fecond row moves upon the fird. 8. The os unciforme, or hook-like bone,is named from a flat hook-like procefs, which projects towards the palm of the hand. This is one of the corner bones, and danding in the end of the row, it is wedg- ed betwixt the os magnum of its own row, and the os cuneiforme of the fird row. It is large and fquared ; but the thing chiefly remarkable is that procefs from which it takes its name; a long and flat procefs of firm bone, fairly unciform, or hook-like, and projecting far into the palm of the hand, which being the lad and highed of the corner points, gives a very firm origin to the great ligament by which the tendons of the wrid are bound down. All thefe bones of the carpus, when they are joined to each other, are covered with a fmooth articulating cartilage; are bound to each other by all forms of crofs ligaments ; and are confolidated, as it were, into one great joint. They are, in general, fo firm as to be fcarcely liable to luxation; and although one only is called cuneiform, they are all fomewhat of the wedge- like form, with their broader ends outwards, and their fmaller ends turned towards the palpi of the hand; they188 BONES OF THE they are like flones in an arch, fo that no weight nor force can beat them in ; if any force do prevail, it can beat others in only by forcing one out. A bone flart» ing outwards, and projefling upon the back of the hand, is the only form of luxation among thefe bones, and is extremely rare, METACARPUS.—The metacarpus is compofed of five bones, upon which the fingers are founded. They are big ftrong bones; brought clofe together at the root, but wider above ; for the lower heads are fmall and fiat, and grouped very clofely together, to meet the carpal bones ; but they fvvell out at their upper ends into big round heads, which keep the bones much apart from each other. Nothing of importance can be faid concerning the individual bones. To fpeak of them individually is a mere wafte of time. We may ob- ferve of the metacarpal bones in general, i. That their lower heads being fiat and fquared, gives them a firm implantation upon their centre or nucleus, the carpus; and that they have fcarcely any freer motion upon the carpal bones, than the carpal bones have upon each other. 2. That their lower heads being larger, keeps the bones apart from each other; and in the interfti- ces between them lie the interoflTeous mufcles. 3. That their divergence regulates the radiated or fpreading form of the fingers, and gives them free play. And, 4. That they ftill preferve the arched form of the car- pal bones, being, with the carpal bones, convex out- wardly, and concave inwardly, to form the hollow of the hand; and though they have little motion of flexion or extenfion, they bend towards a centre, fo as to ap-SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. I 89 proach each other, increafmg the hollownefs cf the hand, to form what is called Diogenes’s cup. It is far- ther neceffary to obferve, into how fmall a fpace the carpal bones are comprefled; how great a fhare of the hand the metacarpal bones form; and how far down they go into the hollow of the hand. For I have feen a furgeon, who, not having the finalleft fuf- picion that their lower ends were fo near the wrift as they really are, has, in place of cutting the bone neat- ly in its articulation with the carpus, broken it, or tried to cut it acrofs in the middle. FINGERS.—We commonly fay, that there are five metacarpal bones; in which reckoning we count the thumb with the reft: but what is called the metacarpal of the thumb is properly the firft phalanx, or the firft proper bone of the thumb ; fo that the thumb, regular- ly defcribed, has, like the other fingers, three joints. Thumb.'—The firft bone of the thumb refembles the metacarpal bones in fize and ftrength, but it differs widely in being fet upon the carpus with a large and round head ; in being fet off from the line of the other fingers, Handing out on one fide, and direflly oppofed to them. It rolls widely and freely, like other ball and focket joints : it is oppofed to the other fingers in grafping, and, from its very fuperior ftrength, the thumb is named Polex, from polere. The fingers have each of them three bones, i. The firft bone is articulated with the metacarpal bones by a ball and focket; the focket, or hollow on the lower part of the firft finger bone, being fet down upon the large round head of the metacarpal bone. 2. The fecondBONES OF THE, &C. 190 fecond and third joints of the fingers are gradually fmaller, and though their forms do a good deal re- ferable the firfl joint, they are quite limited in their motions; have no rolling ; are as ftridtly hinge-joints as the knee or ankle are. 3. Here, as in other hinge- joints, the capfule is fo particularly ftrong at the Tides, as to be named lateral ligaments. When thefe lateral ligaments are burft or cut, the finger turns in any di- rection ; fo that the motions of the fingers are limited rather by their lateral ligaments, than by any thing peculiar in the forms of the bones. 4. The face of each finger bone is grooved, fo that the tendons, paf- fing in the palm of the hand, run upwards along this groove or flatnefs of the fingers; and from either edge of this flatnefs, there rifes a ligament of a bridge-like form, which covers the tendons like a Iheath, and con- verts the groove into a complete canal. 5. The laft joint or phalanx of each finger is flattened, rough, and drawn fmaller gradually towards the point of the fin- ger j and it is to this roughnefs that the Ikin and nail adhere at the point. BOOKBOOK II. OF THE MUSCLES. CHAP. I. MUSCLES OF THE FACE, EYE, AND EAR. I. MUSCLES OF THE FACE. he occipito frontalis is a broad and thin muf- cular expanfion, which covers ail the upper part of the craneum. It confifts of two bellies, with an inter- mediate Iheet of flat tendon. The one belly covers the occiput; the other covers the forehead; and the tendinous expanfion covers all the upper part of the head: by which it has happened that the mod eminent anatomifts, as Cowper (p. 29.) have mifnamed its tendon, pericraneum: many have reckoned it two di- ftinft mufcleSjviz. the occipital and frontal; while others (becaufe of a fort of rapha, or line of divifion in the middle of each belly) have defcribed four muf- cles, viz. two frontal, and two occipital mufcles. But it is truly a double bellied mufcle; and the broad thinMUSCLES OF THE thin tendon, which belongs equally to both bellies, lies above the true pericraneum, and Aides upon it. The mufcle is therefore named, with drift propriety, occi- pito-frontalis, fometimes epicraneus, fometimes BIVENTER, or DIGASTRICUS CAPITIS. Origin.—The occipital portion is the fixed point of th's mufcle; arifing from the upper ridge of the oc- cipital bone, and covering the back part of the head, from the maftoid procefs of one fide, round to that on the oppofite fide of the head. And by the perpendi- cular ridge of the occiput, it is marked with a fiight divifion in the middle. Insertion.—The fore belly of the mufcle which covers the forehead, is fixed more into the fidn and eye brows than into the bone: it is Aightly attached to the bone, near the inner end of the orbitary ridge, and efpecially about the inner corner of the eye, and the root of the nofe, by a fmaller and acute pointed procefs; but dill its chief attachment is to the eye-lids and fidn. TheTENDONor thin membraneousexpanfionwhich joins the two bellies, is exceedingly thin : it has on its inner fide much loofe cellular fubdance, by which, though attached to the true pericraneum, it Aides ea- fily and fmoothly upon it; but its outer furface is fo firmly attached to the fidn, and its fore belly adheres fo firmly to the eye-brows, that it is yery difficult to diffeft it clean and fair. I confider the occipital belly as the fixed point, having a firm origin from the ridge of the bone; its frontal belly has the loofe end attached, not to the os frontis, but to the eye-brow and fkinj and its office is to193 FACE, EYE, AND EAR. to raife the eyebrows, wrinkle the forehead', and cor- rugate the whole of the hairy fcalp, like that mufcle under the Ikins of animals, which lhrinks when they are cold or rudely touched, and by which they fhake off flies or infects. But it is a mufcle employed more in exprefling paflions than in performing ufe- ful motions; and it is often fo thin as hardly to be perceived. In fome it is entirely awanting ; and many who have the mufcle, have no command nor power over it. There is a final), neat, and pointed flip of the oc- cipito-frontalis, which goes down with a peak towards the nofe, and is inferted into the fmall nafal bone. This procefs, being much below the end of the eye- brow, muff pull it downwards ; fo that while the great mufcle raifes the eyebrow and fldn of the forehead, this fmall nafal flip pulls the eyebrow downwards again, reftoring it to its place, and fmoothing the fldn. It may be confidered as the antagonifl: of the great occipital and frontal bellies, and might almoft be defcribed as a diflinck mufcle. II. The corrugator super-CIlii is another flip which might be fairly enough referred, like this, to the occipital mufcle; but being in many fubjects parti- cularly ftrong, it is belt defcribed as diftinct. The lower end of the nafal flip of the occipito-frontalis is fixed to the nafal bone ; the lower end of the little flip, the corrugator fupercilii, is fixed into the internal an- gular procefs; and from the inner angle of the eye, the fibres fweep round the edge of the orbit, and going obliquely upwards and outwards, are fo mixed with the fibres of the frontal mufcle, and of the orbicularis vol, i. o oculi,194 MUSCLES OF THE oculi, where thefe two touch each other, that it is doubtful to which of thofe greater mufcles this little one might be moll properly referred. So this flip of oblique fibres, rifing from the inner angle of the eye, and being fixed into the eyebrow, alfo antagonizes the occipito-frontalis ; and drawing the eyebrows together, and wrinkling the fpace betwixt them, is very rightly named corrugator supercilii. III. Orbicularis oculi, or palpebrarum, is a neat and regular mufcle, furrounding the eye, and co- vering the eyelids in a circular form. It is exceedingly flat and thin ; is about an inch in breadth j lies imme- diately under the lkin of the eyelids; and is imme- diately attached to them, and but little connected with the bone. It has one fmall tendon in the inner corner of the eye, which is both its origin and infertion j for it begins and ends in it. This fmall tendon is eafily felt through the lkin in the inner corner of the eye. It arifes by a little white knot from the nafal procefs of the upper jaw-bone. Its fibres immediately become muf- cular, and fpread out thin over the upper eyelid. They pafs over it to the outer corner of the eye, where they crols a little, and having covered juft the edge of the temple with their thin expanded fibres, they return in a circular form round by the lower eyelid to the point from whence they had fet out. This is, in all its courfe, a very thin mufcular expanfion, with regular orbicular fibres. It is rather a little broader over the lower eyelid ; extends itfelf a little upon the face be- yond the brim of the focket, both at the temple and upon the cheek; and its fibres crofs each other a lit- tle at the outer angle j fo that fome, underftanding this195 FACE, EYE, AND EAR. this eroding as a meeting of fibres from the upper and from the lower mufcle, have defcribed it as two femi- circular mufcles. And thofe fibres w'hich are next to the tarfus or cartilaginous circle of the eyelids, were diltinguilhed by Rioland under the title of musculus ciliaris. Our name exprefles the common opinion, that it is a circular mufcle, whofe chief point or ful- crum is in the inner corner of the eye, and which fierves as a fphinder for doling the eye. It fqueezes with fpafmodic violence when the eye is injured, as by dull. And by its drawing down the eyelids fo firmly, it prefles the ball of the eye down into the focket, and forces the lachrymal gland that is within the focket, fo as to procure a How of tears. Perhaps the corru- gator fupercilii belongs ftri&ly to this mufcle, fmce its fibres follow the fame courfe. IV. Levator palpebr.® superioris.—This fmall mufcle arifes deep within the focket, from the margin of that hole which gives palfage to the optic nerve. It begins by a fmall flat tendon in the bottom of the optic cavity; becomes gradually broader as it goes over the eyeball; it ends in the eyelid by a broad expanfion of mufcular fibres, which finally terminate in a Ihort flat tendon. It lies under the orbicularis palpebrse ; is inferted into the whole length of Lhe car- tilage of the tarfus; and raifes and opens the upper eyelid. And the divifion of the orbicularis oculi into two, by the older anatomifts, was a confequence of their not knowing of the true levator palpebres, and their not being able to defcribe any mufcle by which the upper eyelid could be raifed, except the upper half of the orbicularis. O 2MUSCLES OF THE I96 The occipito-frontalis, but efpecially its occipital belly, raifes the eyebrows; the pointed flip of the fame mufcle pulls them downwards; the corrugator pulls them diredtly inwards, and knits the brows; the levator palpebras opens the eyelid ; and the orbicularis oculi clofes the eye. Whether certain fibres from the platifma-myoides (a thin flat mufcle which mounts from the neck over the cheek) may not pull down the lower eyelid; or whether fome ftraggling fibres, arifmg from the zygoma, may not have the appearance of a depreflbr of the lower eyelid, it is not neceflary to determine, fince there is no regularly appointed mufcle; and the lower eyelid, is almolt immoveable, at leaft in man. MUSCLES OF THE NOSE AND MOUTH. V. Levator labii superioris et alje nasi. Cowper defcribes the levator labii fuperioris as an ir- regular production of the frontalis, extending along the noftrils. But it is a neat and delicate mufcle, which arifes, by a fmall double tendon, from the nafal procefs of the upper jaw-bone, clofe by the tendon of the orbicularis oculi. It is one little fafciculus of mufcular fibres above; but as it approaches the nofe, it fpreads out broader, dividing into two fmall fafci- culi; one of which is implanted into the wing or cartilage of the nofe, and the other, palling the angle of the nofe, goes to the upper lip. Thus it is pyra- midal with its bafe downwards, arid was named pyra- midalis by Caferius, Winflow, and others. It is called by Cowper dilator alas nafi. It raifes the upper lip, andFACE, EYE, AND EAR. I97 and fpreads the noftrils wide, as is obferved in a pa- roxyfm of rage, or in afthmatics. VI. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS PROPRIUS, 1*S diftinguifhed by the name of levator proprius, becaufe there are two others ; one belonging to the angle of the mouth, and confequently to both lips; and one com* mon to the lip and nollril. The levator proprius is often named mufculus inci- fivus, becaufe it arifes from the upper jaw, juft above the incifores or cutting teeth, and confequently juft under the edge of the orbit: it is broad at its origin ; it lies flat, and runs downwards, and obliquely inwards, to the middle of the lip, till it meets its fellow juft in the filtrum*. It pulls the upper lip and the feptum of the nofe diredtly upwards. VII. The levator anguli oris, is called alfo levator communis labiorum, becaufe it operates equally on both lips. It is named caninus ; for as the laft named mufcle rifes from the upper jaw-bone above the incifores or cutting teeth, this arifes above the canini or dog teeth, or above the firft grinder, by a very fhort double tendon. The exadt place of its origin is half-way betwixt the firft grinder and the infra orbitary hole : it is mixed with the orbicularis oris, at the corner of the mouth, fo that it raifes the angle of the mouth upwards. VIII. The zygomaticus major has nearly the fame direction and ufe with this one ; for it arifes from the cheek-bone near the zygomatic future ; runs down- * The filtrum is the fuperficial gutter along the upper lip from the partition of the nofe to the tip of the lip. 0 3 wardsMUSCLES OF THE 198 wards and inwards to the corner of the month; is a long and (lender mufcle, which ends by mixing its fibres with the orbicularis oris and the depreffor of the lip. IX. The zygomaticus minor arifes a little higher upon the cheek-bone, but nearer the nofe ; it is much flenderer than the laft, and is often awanting. It is the zygomatic mufcle that marks the face with that line which extends from the cheek-bone to the comer of the mouth, and which is fo ftrong in many. The zygomatic mufcles pull the angles of the mouth upwards as in laughter ; or diftort the mouth ; whence the zygomatic mufcle has gotten the name of diftortor oris ; and the ftrong adion of the mufcle is particu- larly feen in laughter, rage, grinning. X. Buccinato r. The buccinator was long thought to be a mufcle of the lower jaw, arifing from the upper alveoli, and inferted into the lower alveoli to pull the jaw upwards; but its origin and infertion, and the diredion of its fibres, are quite the reverfe of this. For this large flat mufcle, which forms in a manner, the walls of the cheek, arifes chiefly from the coronoid procefs of the lower jaw-bone, and partly alfo from the end of the alveoli or focket procefs of the upper jaw, clofe by the pterygoid procefs of the fphe- noid bone: it goes forwards with dired fibres to be implanted into the corner of the mouth : it is thin and flat, covers in the mouth, and forms the walls of the cheek, and is perforated in the middle of the cheek by the dud of the parotid gland. Thefe are its prin- cipal ufes: That it flattens the cheek, and fo aflifts in fwallowing liquids y that it turns, or helps to turn, the morfelI99 FACE, EYE, AND EAR. morfel in the mouth while chewing, and prevents it from getting without the line of the teeth : in blowing wind inftruments, it both receives and expels the wind: it dilates like a bag, fo as to receive the wind in the cheeks; and it contra&s upon the wind, fo as to expel the wind, and to fwell the note. In blowing the ftrong wind inftruments, we cannot blow from the lungs, for it ftreffes the breathing, but referve the air in the mouth, which we keep continually full; and from this it is named, from blowing the trumpet, the BUCCINATOR. XI. Depressor angulioris.—The depreffor angu- lioris is a neat fmall triangular mufcle, and is indeed very commonly named musculus triangularis la. biorum, from its fhape, the bafe of the triangle is at the line of the lower jaw, where the mufcle rifes with a flat flelhy head about an inch in breadth. It grows fmaller gradually as it rifes towards the corner of the mouth, where it is implanted, fmall, almoft in a point, and directly oppofite to the zygomatic and levator mufcles; and as the zygomatic mufcle makes a line from the cheek down to the angle of the mouth, this makes a line from the chin up to the corner of the mouth. It is chiefly adive in expref- fing the paflions, and gives form to the chin and mouth. In cheerful motions, as laughter, fmiling, &c. the zygomatics and levators pull the angles of the mouth upwards. In fear, hatred, revenge, con- tempt, and the angry paflions, the triangulares pull the corners of the mouth downwards. And, at the ' place where thefe meet, there is formed a fort of ri- fing at the angle of the mouth : for a great many o 4 tendons200 MUSCLES OF THE. tendons are crowded into this one point; the zygo-- matic, levator, depreffor, and orbicularis oris mufcles meeting and croffing each other at this place. XII. The depressor labii inferioris is a fmall mufcle, the difcovery of which Cowper claims for him- felf. It is a fmall mufcle, lying on each fide of the chin, which, with its fellow, refembles very much the levators of the upper lip. The depreffor labii infe- rioris arifes on each fide of the chin, from the lower jaw-bone, under the line of the triangular mufcle. It goes obliquely upwards and inwards, till it meets its fellow in the middle of the lip ; and where the muf- cles of the oppofite fide meet, there is a little filtrum or furrow on the lower lip, as on the upper one. It mixes its fibres with the orbicularis, and its ufe is to pull the lip downwards. Each mufcle is of a fquare form, and thence has been often named quadratus genjE, the fquare mufcle of the chin. XIII. The orbicularis oris, or mufcle round the mouth,isoftennamed constrictor oris, sphincter., or osculator. It is very regular; it is an inch in breadth, and conflitutes the thicknefs of the lips; it lies in the red part of the lips, and is of a circular form, furrounding the mouth after the fame manner that the orbicularis oculi encircles the eye. We, fee a degree of croffing in the fibres at the angles of the mouth, whence it has been confidered by many, not as a circular mufcle, but as one confifling of two femi- C f cular mufcles, the semi-orbicularis superior, and semi-orbicularis inferior. Its fixed points are the two angles of the mouth ; at that fwelling which is formed by the union of the zygomatic, triangular, and other201 PACE, EYE, AND EAR. other mufcles: And its chief life is to contrail the mouth, and to antagonize the other mufcles which I have juft defcribed. Often a fmall flip runs up from the middle of the upper lip to the tip of the nofe; it is the nasalis labii superioris of Albinus; it lies exactly in the furrow of the filtrum, and is occafion- ally a levator of the upper lip, or a depreffor of the tip of the nofe. Thefe -mufcles of the nofe and lips are not ufeful merely in exprefling the paflions; that is but a fe- condary and accidental ufe, while their great office is to perform thofe continual movements which breath- ing, fpeaking, chewing, fwallowing, require. There are mufcles for opening the mouth in various direc- tions, which are all antagonized by this one, the or- bicularis oris. The levator labii fuperioris, and the depreffor labii inferioris, feparate the lips, and open the mouth. The levator anguli oris, along with the zygomatic mufcles, raifes the cheek, and dilates the corners of the mouth. The buccinator pulls the cor- ner of the mouth direftly backwards, opening the mouth. The angularis oris alfo dilates the mouth, pulls the angles of the mouth downwards and back- wards, and forms it into a circle, if the others aft at the fame time; but the orbicularis oris is the largeft and ftrongeft (formed, as it were, by the fibres of all thefe taking a new direftion, and turning round the lips), fhuts the mouth, and antagonizes them all: and from an opening as wide as the mouth can require, fhuts the mouth at pleafure, fo clofely as to retain the very breath againft all the force of the lungs. It is the true antagonift of all the other mufcles j and they and202 MUSCLES OF THE and the orbicularis mutually re-ad on each other, in alternately opening and doling the mouth. This phenomenon of the orbicularis mufcle dilating to fuch a widenefs, and in an inftant doling the mouth again with fuch perfect accuracy as to retain the breath, puts to nought all the vain calculations about the contraction of mufcles; as that they can con- trad no more than one third of their length ; for here is an infinite contraction, fuch as no procefs can meafure. It is a paralyfis of thefe mufcles, that fo of- ten occafions a hideous diftortion of the face ; for when the one fide of the body falls into palfy, the mufcles of one cheek ceafe to ad; the mufcles of the other cheek continue to ad with their ufual degree of power. This contradion of the mufcles of one cheek excites alfo the orbicularis oris to ad, and fo the mouth is purfed up, and the lips and angles of the mouth are drawn towards one fide. There are fome fmaller mufcles which, lying under thefe, could not be defcribed without danger of con- fufion; as— XIV. The DEPRESSOR LABIISUPERIORISet ALJE NASI, which is very fmall, and lies concealed under the other mufcles. It rifes from the gum or focket of the fore teeth, and thence is named by Winllow incifivus me- dius. It goes into the rifing of the nofe, and pulls it, and of courfe the upper lip, down ; and is named by Albinus and Cowper conltridor vel comprelfor alas • nafi. XV. The constrictor nasi, or comprelfor of the nofe, is a fmall fcattered bundle of mufcular fibres, which crolfes the wings, and goes to the very point of the nofe 5203 FACE, EYE, AND EAR. Jiofe; for one arifes from the wing of the nofe on each fide, and meets its fellow in the middle ridge, where both are fixed into the middle cartilage, or into the lower point of the nasal bones; meeting with the peak of the frontal mufcle, or its fcattered fibres. But thi^ mufcle is fo difficultly found, that when Cow- per faw it diftindly marked in Bidloe’s 12th table, he confidered it as a fidion, having fought for it very carefully, but in vain. And XVI. The levator menti, which arifes from the lower jaw, at the root of the cutting teeth, has been named incisivus inferior. It is inferted into the fkin, on the very centre of the chin : by its contrac- tion it draws the centre of the chin into a dimple; and from its moving the under' lip at the fame time, it is named levator labii inferioris. MUSCLES OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Though perhaps not one of ten thoufand has the power of moving the outward ear, yet there are many thin and fcattered fibres of mufcles about the root of the cartilage of the ear, to which we cannot refufe the name and diftindion of mufcles; and which ferve, indeed, to indicate, that nature had intended a degree ©f motion, which perhaps by the manner of covering the heads of children, we may have loft. But in a tew thefe fafciculi of fibres have not the form only, but the ufes alfo, of mufcles. The celebrated Mr. Mery was wont, when leduring on this fubjed, to amufe his pupils, faying, pleafantly, 44 that in one thing, he furely 44 belonged to the long-eared tribe/’ upon which he movedt .504 MUSCLES OF THE moved his ears very rapidly backwards and for- wards *. XVII. Superior auris is named attollens, be- caufe it lifts the ear upwards: it is a very thin, flat, expahfion, which can hardly be diftinguifhed from the fafcia of the temporal mufcles, upon which it lies; it arifes broad and circular from the expanded tendon of the occipito-frontalis, and is inferted narrow into the root of the cartilaginous tube of the ear. XVIII. Anterior auris is a very delicate, thin, and narrow expanflon ; ariflng about the zygoma, or rather from the fafcia with which the zygoma is co- vered ; it is implanted round the cartilaginous tube, at its root f. XIX. The posterior auris isalfo a fmall mufcle, very delicate and thin; but the anterior rifes in one fmall and narrow flip only, while this, the poflerior, rifes commonly in three narrow and diftinft flips, from about the place of the maflioid procefs J ; whence it is often named triceps auris. It goes direftly for- wards to be implanted into the concha. It is named retrahens auris from its office. But there are Hill other mufcles enumerated, which are not for moving the outward ear upon the head, but for moving or rather bending, the individual parts of the ear upon each other. Thofe fibres, which are mifnamed mufcles, are merely mufcular membranes, * Vide Palfin, who was his pupil. The celebrated Albinus could move his ears. -f- We feldom find an anterior auris, or any thing different from the anterior fibres of the attollens. f Fibras earns tranfverfee, a nobis deferiptse Valsalva. whichFACE, EYE, AND EAR. 205 which have none of the marks nor offices of true muf- cles; they have feldom flefhy fibres, and the parts up- on which they lie are fixed. Heifter denies them the title of mufcles, and calls them mufcular membranes only. The ring and other bendings of the outward ear are called helix and antihelix, tragus and antitragus; and this determines the names of thefe ambiguous fibres, which are fometimes found lying upon thefe cir- cles of the outward cartilage, juft under the fkin. XX. The musculus helicis major lies upon the upper or fharp point of the helix, or outward ring. XXI. Helicis minor rifes lower than the former upon the part of the helix. XXII. The TRAGicus lying upon the concha, and firetching to the tragus. XXIII. The antitragicus lies in the antitragus. XXIV. And, laflly, There is the transversus auris of Albinus. MUSCLES OF THE EYEBALL. The eyeball is entirely furrounded by mufcles, which turn it in all directions. There is one mufcle on either fide ; one above, and one below; thefe arife, from the very bottom of the focket, fpread out up- on the ball of the eye, and are implanted into its fore- part, where the expanfions of their colourlefs tendons form what is called the white of the eye. Now, thefe four mufcles being direflly above, below, and on either fide of the eye, are called the redti, or ftraight mufcles; for their pulling is from the bottom of the focket.20 S MUSCLES OF THE focket. But there are other two mufcles which are named the oblique mufcles, becaufe they pull from the edges of the focket, and turn the eye obliquely; for they go in a direction exa£Uy oppofite to the re£ti. The re£ti come diredtly forwards from the bottom of the orbit; thefe go obliquely backwards from the edge of the orbit; one rifesfrom the lower edge of the focket, and goes backwards under eyeball; the other rifes indeed, along with the redti, in the bottom of the focket, but it has a cartilaginous pulley on the very edge of the focket, at its upper part; and its fmall round tendon firft runs through this pulley, and then turns down upon the eye, and goes backwards; fo that the flraight mufcles prefs down the eyeball deep into the focket, while the oblique mufcles bring the eyeball forwards, pulling it outwards from the focket. The trueft defcription of the redti is as of one muf- cle, fmce their only variety is that difference of place, which is expreffed by the name of each. They all agree in thefe chief circumftances, that they arife by flat, but fmall tendons, round the margin of the optic hole, ariflng from the circle of that hole, or rather from the periofteum there; and there being one above, one below, and one on either fide, they completely furround the optic n'erve, and adhere to it. They are neat and delicate mufcles, gradually expanding each into a flefliy belly, which furrounds and covers the middle of the ball of the eye. They ftill go on expanding, till they at lafb terminate, each in a broad, flat, and very white tendon, which covers all the fore part of the eye, up to the circle of the lucid cornea or window; and their white and ftiining ten- 8 dons> FACE, EYE, AND EAR. 20j dons form that enamelled-like part which lies behind the coloured circle, and which is, from its colour, named the white of the eye, or the tunica albugi- nea, as if it were abfolutely a diftind coat. Now the only difference in thefe ftraight mufcles is in refped of length ; for the optic nerve enters the eye, not regularly in the centre, but a little towards the inner fide, fo that the redus internus, or mufcle neareft the nofe, is a little fhorter. The redus exter- nus, or mufcle neareft to the temple, is a little longer : while the redus fuperior and the rectus inferior are nearly of equal length. The ufes of thefe mufcles are exceedingly plain. XXV. The rectus superior, lifting the eye dired- ly upwards, is named the musculus attollens ; the levator oculi, or superbus, as expreflive of haugh- tinefs and pride. XXVI. And the rectus inferior, which is diredly oppoftte to it, is named deprimens oculi, or humi- lis, as exprefling modefty and fubmiflion. XXVII. TheRECTUS internus is called add ucens, as carrying the eye towards the nofe; or bibitorius, becaufe it directs the eye to the cup. And (XXVIII.) The rectus externus, the outer ftraight mufcle, as it turns the eye away, is named ab- ductor oculi, or indignabundus, exprefling anger or fcorn. Such is the effed of thefe mufcles, that when they ad in fucceflion, they roll the eye ; but if they ad: all at once, the power of each is balanced by the adion of its oppoftte mufcle, and the eye is immo- vably fixed. So that fometimes in our operations, when' the couching needle approaches the eye, fear comes upon the patient, and the eye is fixed by a convulfiveMUSCLES OF THE So8 convulfive a&ion, more firmly than it it could be by the inflruments, or by the finger; fo that the fpeculum oculi is after fuch an accident of no ufe : The eye com tinues fixed during all the operation, but it is fixed in a moft dangerous way, by a power which we cannot controul, and which fometimes, when our operation is for extracting one of the humours only, fqueezes out the whole. XXIX. The oBLiouus superior arifes along with the reCti in the bottom of the eye, above and towards the inner fide ; directing its long tendon towards the inner angle of the eye ; and there it paffes its tendon through that pulley, whofe hollow I have marked in defcribing the os frontis, as under the fuperciliary ridge, and near to the inner corner of the eye. It arifes by a fmall tendon, like one of the reCti; it goes over the upper part of the eyeball, a long and flender mufcle, whence it is often named longissimus oculi, the long- eft mufcle of the eye. It forms a fmall fmooth round tendon, which paffes through the ring of the cartilagi- nous pulley, which is in the margin of the focket. The pulley is above the eye, and projects farther than the moft prominent part of the eyeball, fo that the tendon returns at an acute angle, and bends downwards before it can touch the eye ball. And it not only re- turns backwards in a direction oppofite to the recti mufcles, but it flips flat under the body of the reCtus fuperior, and is fpread out under it upon the middle, or behind the middle of the eye, viz. about half way betwixt the infertion of the rectus and the entrance of the opiic nerves. XXX. The obliquus inferior is, with equal pro- priety, named the musculus brevissimus oculi. It isFACE, EYE, AND EAR. 209 is direftly oppofite to the obliquus fuperior, in form, place, office, &c. ; for it arifes from the nafal procefs of the jaw-bone, in the lower edge of the orbit, at the inner corner of the eye : it is ffiort, flat, and broad, with a ftrong fleffiy belly ; it goes obliquely backwards and outwards, lying under the ball of the eye ; and it is inferted broad and flat into the ball, exactly oppofite to the infertion of the obliquus fuperior mufcle. Thefe two mufcles roll the eye, whence they are na- med musculi CIRCUMAGENTES, Or AMATORII. But they have dill another important office, viz. fupporting the eyeball, for the operation of its ftraight mufcles; for when thefe (the obliqui) aft, they pull the eye for- wards ; the ftraight mufcles refill; and the infertion of the oblique mufcles at the middle of the eyeball -be- comes, as it were, a fixed point, a centre or axis round which the eyeball turns under the operation of the refti mufcles. The conjoined effeft of the oblique muf- cles is to bring the eyeball forwards from the fccket, as in draining the eye to fee fame diftant point. The particular effeft of the upper oblique mufcle is not to bring the eye forward, but to roll the eye fo as to turn the pupil downwards, and towards the nofe. And the particular effeft of the lower oblique mufcle is to re- verie this aftion, to turn the eye again upon its axis, and to direft the pupil upwards and outwards; but the fucceflive actions of all thefe mufcles move the eye in circles, with gradations fo exquifitely final 1, and with fuch curious combinations as cannot be explained by words. p VOL. 1, CHAP.CHAP. II. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW. • The lower jaw requires mufcles of great power to grind the food; and accordingly it is pulled upwards by the flrong temporal, maffeter, and pterygoid muf- cles. But in moving downwards, the jaw almoft falls by its own weight; and having little refinance to over- come, any regular appointment of mufcles for pulling down the jaw is fo little needed, that it is pulled down- wards by mufcles of fuch ambiguous office, that they are equally employed in raifing the throat, or pulling down the jaw, fo that we hardly can determine to which they belong ; for the chief mufcles of the throat, coming from the lower jaw, muft, when the jaw is fixed, pull up the throat; or, when the throat is fixed, deprefs the jaw. XXX. The temporal muscle is the great mufcleof the jaw. It arifes from all the flat fide of the parietal bone, and from the fphenoid, temporal, and frontal bones, in that hollow behind the eye where they meet to form the fquamous future. It arifes alfo from the innerMUSCLES OF THE, &C. 21 I inner furface of that ftrong tendinous membrane which is extended from the jugum to the femicircular ridge of the parietal bone. The fibres are bundled together and prelfed into a fmall compafs, fo that they may pafs under the jugum; there they take a new hold upon the inner furface of the jugum, and the mufcle is of courfe pyramidal, its rays converging towards the ju- gum. Its mufcular fibres are intermixed with ftrong tendinous ones; it is particularly tendinous where it paffes under the jugum ; and it has both flrength and protection from that tendinous plate which covers it in the temple. Its^infertion is into the horn of the lower jaw-bone ; not merely into the tip of the horn, but embracing it all round, and down the whole length of the procefs, fo as to take the firmeft hold. XXXI. The masseter is a fhort, thick, and flefliy mufcle, which gives the rounding of the cheek at its back part. It arifes from the upper jaw-bpne, at the back of the antrum, and under the cheek-bone, and from the lower edge of the zygoma. It lies upon the outfide of the coronoid procefs, covering the branch of the jaw quite down to its angle. It is particularly ftrong ; has many maflfy bundles of flefh interfperfed with tendinous firings ; the parotid gland lies on its upper part,.and the duft of the gland fas it croffes the cheek) lies over this mufcle. The jaw is very firmly pulled up by thefe two, which are its mofl powerful mufcles ; and when we bite, we can feel the temporal mufcle fweliing on the flat part of the temple, and this the mafleter upon the back part of the cheek, XXXII. XXXIII. The two pterygoid muscles (of 'which there are four inall, two on either fide) are named p % fromMUSCLES OF THE -M2 from their origin in the pterygoid precedes of the fphu- hoid bone. The pterygoideus internets is that one which rifes from the internal or flatter pterygoid procefs, and which goes downwards and outwards to the angle of the jawon its infide. ThePTERYGOiDEUsEXTERNUs arifes from the external pterygoid procefs; and goes not downwards, but almoft diredtly outwards, and is im- planted high in the jaw-bone, juft under its neck, and connected with its capfular ligament. Now the pte- rygoideus internus defcending to be fixed to the angle of the jaw, is longer and bigger, and is named ptery- goideus major. The internal one going diredtly *■ acrofs, and rather backwards, has lefs fpace to traverfe, is fhorter, and is named pterygoideus minor. The jaw is moved chiefly by thefe mufcles ; the tem- poralis acting upon the coronoid procefs like a lever ; the maflfeter adting upon the angle, and before it; and the pterygoideus internus balancing it within, like ah internal mafleter fixed to the infide of the angle. All thefe pull ftrongly upwards for biting, holding, and tearing with the teeth. And the external or lcflfer pte- rygoid mufcle going from within outwards, pulls the jaw from fide to fide, and performs all the motions of chewing and grinding, i. e. of rotation, fo far as tha lower jaw poflfeffes that kind of motion. MUSCLES OF THE THROAT AND TONGUE. The muscles of the throat and tongue cannot be underflood without a previous acquaintance with certain cartilages and bones, which form the bafis of the throat and tongue, and the centre of thofe motions which we haA e next to defcribe. TheLOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. 2IJ p 3 the The os hyoides is a fmall bone refembling, in fnape at lead,- the jaw-bone. It has a middle thicker part, named its bahs, which is eafily felt outwardly ; it cor- refponds in placAwith the chin, and is diftinguifhed about an inch below the chin ; the uppermoft of the hard points which are felt in the forepart of the throat. Next, it has two long horn-like proceifes, which go backwards along the fides of the throat, called the cornua, or horns of the os hyoides ; and which are tied by a long ligament, which comes down from the ftyloid procefs of the temporal bone. And, laflly. It has fmall cartilaginous pieces or joinings, by which, the horns are united to the bans ; and often m the adult this joining is converted into bone.-At this point where the two horns go backwards, like the legs of the letter V, there- are commonly at the griftly part of the os hyoides two fmall perpendicular proceifes which Hand up from the joining of the horns to the body; and thefe are named the appendices of the os hyoides or the lefl'er cornua. Now this os hyoides forms by its bafis the root of the tongue ; thence it is often named the bone of the tongue. It forms at the fame time the upper part of the trachea, or windpipe ; and it carries upon it that cartilage named epiglottis, which, like a valve, pre- vents any thing getting down into the windpipe. Its horns extend along the fjdes of the throat, 'keeping the openings of the windpipe and gullet extended as we would keep a bag extended by two fingers. The chief mufcles of the tongue and of the windpipe arife from its body ; the chief mufcles of the gullet arife from its horns, and efpecialiy from their points ; it receivesMUSCLES GF THE d! 4 the chief mufcles which either raife or deprefs the throat> and it is the point d’appui, or fulcrum for all the mufcles of the throat and tongue, and the centre of all their motions. It is the centre of the motions of the tongue ; for it is the origin of thefe mufcles which compofe chiefly the bulk of the tongue ; of the motions of the trachea or windpipe, for it forms at once the top of the windpipe, and the root of the tongue, and joins them together ; of the motions of the pharynx or gullet, for its horns furround the upper part of the gullet, and join it to the windpipe ; and it forms the centre for all the motions of the throat in general, for mufcles come down from the chin to the os hy- oides, to move the whole throat upwards, others come up from the flernum, to move the throat down- wards ; others come obliquely from the coracoid pro- cefs of the fhoulder-blade, to move the throat back- wards, while the os hyoides (till continues the centre of all thefe motions. The trachea, or windpipe, is that tube which conveys the air to the lungs ; and the larynx is the head, or figured part of that tube which is formed like a flute for the modulation of the voice, and con- fifls of cartilages, that it may Hand firm and uncom- preffed, either by the paflage of the food, or by the weight of the outward air ; and that it may refill; the contraction of the furrounding parts, ferving as a ful- crum for them in the motions of the jaw, tongue, and gullet. Its cartilages are, firft, the scutiform, or thy- roid cartilage, which is named from its refemblance to a Ihield, or rather it is like the flood-gates or folding doors of a canal, the meeting of the two Tides being in tl?e %LOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. 2I| p 4 name* the middle line of the throat. This prominent line of the thyroid cartilage is eafily felt in the middle of the throat, is about an inch in length, and makes that tumour which is called the pomum Adami. The flat fides of the thyroid cartilage form the fides of the flute part of the trachea. And there are two long horns at its two upper corners, which rife like hooks above the line of the cartilage, and are joined to the horns of the os hyoides ; and two fimilar, but fhorter- hooks below, by which it embraces the cricoid cartilage. The cricoid cartilage is next to the thyroid, and below it; it is named from its refemblance to a ring : It is indeed like a ring or hoop, but it is not a hoop equally deep in all its parts, it is fhallow before, where it ekes out the length of the thyroid cartilage, and is, deeper behind, where it forms the back of this flute- like top of the trachea ; it is the top ring of the tra- chea, and the lower ring of the larynx or flute part of the windpipe. And upon its back, or deeper part, are feated thofe two fmall cartilages, which form the opening for the breath. The arytenoid cartilages are two fmall bodies, of the fize of peafe. They are foolifhly defcribed with cornua, ridges, and furfaces, when they are fo fmall that nothing further can be obferved of their forms than that they are fomewhat triangular ; that the bafe or broad part of each flts down upon the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage at its back; that the point of each Hands dire£Uy upwards, and is a very little crooked or hook-like, that (landing, as they do, a little apart from each other, they form together ah opening fomethipg like the fpout of a ewer, or ftrouped bafon, whence thejrMUSCLES OF THE «J\6 name. And thefe cartilages being covered with the common membrane of the throat, which is thick, and full of mucous glands, the opening gets a regular ap- pearance with rounded lips ; and this opening, or flit between them, which is fomething like the flit for the hill in the top of a counter, and which flaunts oblique- ly downwards is named the rima glottidis, or chink of the glottis ; and thefe cartilages being fixed on the cricoid cartilage by a regular hinge, they form the voice by their nearnefs and the narrownefs of the flit; and modify it by their motions, which are fo exquifite- ly minute, that for every changing of the note (and there are fome thoufand gradations in the compafs of the voice), they move in a proportioned degree. The epiglottis is a fifth cartilage of the trachea, belonging to it both by connexion and by office. It is a broad triangular cartilage, not fo hard as the others, very elaflic, and fo exactly like an artichoke leaf, that no other figure can reprefent it fo well. Its office is to defend the opening of the glottis. It is fixed at once to the os hyoides, to the thyroid cartilage, and to the root of the tongue, and it hangs obliquely backwards over the opening of the rima, or chink, of the glottis j it is fufpended by little peaks of the membrane, which we call ligaments of the glotds, and it is faid to be raifed or deprefled by mufcles which yet are not very fairly defcribed. But the rolling of the morfel which is fwallowed, and the motion of the tongue, are fuffin cient to lay it flat over the rima, fo that it is a perfedt guard. Then this is the conftitution of the larynx. It is of hard cartilages to refill compreffion, and of a flute' formLOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. 21 f the Form at its opening, to regulate the voice. The thy* rcid cartilage is the great one, the chief defence be- fore, and which has edges flanting far backwards, to defend the opening of the larynx. The cricoid cartilage, which forms the upper ring of the trachea, fupports the arytenoid cartilages, and by its deepnefs behind, raifes them fo that the opening of the glottis is behind the middle of the great thyroid cartilage, and in the deepell part of it, well defended by its pro- jecting wings. The arytenoid cartilages form the rima glottidis, the chink by which we breathe (which, as it is narrower or wider, modulates and tunes the voice), the opening which is fo exquifitely moved by its mufcles in fmging; widening or contracting in molt delicate degrees; and which is fo fpafmodically fhut by the fame mufcles when it is touched by a drop of water, or by a crumb of bread : but the valve of the glottis, the epiglottis Handing over it, flaps down like the key of a wind inftrument, fo that the rarenefs of fuch accidents is wonderful, when we con- fider that the lead attempt to draw the breath, while we are fvvallowing, will produce the accident. The mufcles which move the tongue and throat mull be far too complicated to be explained at all, without fome previous fjlowledge of thefe parts; and Hill, I fear, not eafily to be explained with every help of re- gularity and order. MUSCLES OF THE THROAT. By this arrangement, I mean to include under one ciafs all thofe mufcles which move the os-hyoides, or the larynx; and through thefe, as centrical points,MUSCLES OF THE 2l8 the jaws, gullet, and tongue ; and which, though they are inferted into the larynx, have more relation to fwallowing, or the motions of the gullet, than to breathing, or to the motions of the windpipe. The mufcles which pull the throat down are thefe : XXXIV. The sterno-hyoideus, which paffes from the fternum to the os hyoides; a fiat broad riband- like mufcle, which arifes from the upper piece of the flernum, rather within the breaft; and partly alfo from the clavicle and cartilage of the firfl rib; goes flat and fmooth along the forepart of the throat; mounts,‘nearly of the fame breadth, to the os hyoides ; and is implanted into its bafis, or that part (which in refembling the os hyoides to the jaw) we fhould com-* pare with the chin. XXXV. The sterno-thyroideus, which paffes in like manner from the fternum to the thyroid cartilage, is like the laft, a flat fmooth riband-like mufcle ; ra- ther thicker and more flefhy, but very uniform in its thicknefs. As the thyroid cartilage is below the os hyoides, the fterno-thyroid mufcle muff lie under the fterno-hyoideus mufcle. It arifes under the fterno-hy- oideus mufcle from the fternum and cartilage of the rib; and is implanted Tffo the rough line of the lower edge of the thyroid cartilage, ana t0 one hde, but not fo much as is reprefented in Cowper?s draw- ings. It immediately covers the thyroid gland; and the way to the trachea for piercing it in performing bronchotomy is in the middle betwixt thefe mufcles. XXXVI. The omo-hyoideus, which was once named coraco-hyoideus being thought to arife from the co- racoid procefs. It is a mufcle of great length, and veryLOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. 21$ very {lender, reaching from the ihoulder to the os hyoides; it is like thefe laft mentioned, a long flat, ftrap-like mufcle; as flat and as flefhy, but not fo broad, as either of the former. It lies along the fide of the neck ; is pinched in a little in the middle, where it is divided by a tendinous crofs line, which feparates the flefhy belly into two heads. It arifes from the upper edge of the fcapula, near its notch, and is im- planted into the fide of the os hyoides, where the horn goes off from the body of the bone. Thefe three mufcles pull the throat down. The flerno-hyoideus and fterno-thyroideus pull it diredtly downwards : one of the omo-hyoidei adting, pulls it to one fide ; but if both act, they aflifl in pulling directly down, and they brace the trachea at the fame time a little down to the back. The mufcles which move the throat upward are; XXXVII.The mylo-hyoideus, a flat and broadmuf- cle, which arifes from the whole femicircle of the lower jaw, i. e. from the backmoft grinders to the point of the chin. It rifes from the inner furface of the jaw- bone ; goes down to the bafis of the os hyoides; pro- ceeds with very regular, ftraight, clear, and orderly fibres, from the jaw to the os hyoides; is plainly divid- ed in the middle from the fymphyfis of the jaw to the middle of the os hyoides, by a middle tendinous and white line. And though Cowper denies the authority of Vefalius, -who divides it thus, it is plainly two di- ilind mufcles, one belonging to either fide. XXXVIII. The genio-hyoideus is afmall neat pair of mufcles arifing from the chin at a rough point, which is eafily diftinguilhed within the circle of the jaw. The mylo-2 20 MUSCLES OF'THE mylo-hyoideus is named from the whole jawr. The g-enio-hyoideus is named from the chfn, arifmg from a fmali tubercle behind the chin; its beginning is ex- ceedingly narrow: as it proceeds downwards, it grows flat and broad ; it is implanted into the bafis of the os hyoides by a broad edge, and is a beautiful and ra~ diated mufcle. The fublingual gland lies flat betwixt this mufcle and the laft; and in the middle the fub- iingual dudt pierces the membrane of the mouth, to open under the root of the tongue. The two mufcles move the os hyoides forwards and upwards, when the jaw is fixed; but when the os hyoides is fixed by the mufcles coming from the fternum, thefe mufcles of the os hyoides pull the jaw down. XXXIX. The stylo-hyoideus is one of three beau- tiful and flender mufcles, which come from round the Ilyloid procefs; which all begin and end with flender tendons, and with finall fleihy bellies ; and one going to the pharynx or gullet, another to the os hyoides, and a third to the tongue, they coincide in one com- mon adtion of drawing back the tongue, and pulling the throat upwards. This one, the ftylo-hyoideus, arifes from about the middle of the ftyloid procefs, and going obliquely downwards and forwards, is fixed into the fide of the os hyoides, where the bafis and horn are joined. Above its infertion, its fibres are fplit, fo as to make a neat fmali loop, through which the tendon of the digaftric mufcle runs. This ftylo-hyoideus is fome- times accompanied with another finall flefhy mufcle like it, and of the fame name ; which was firfl perhaps obfervedLOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. 221 The obferved by Cowper, and has been named by Innes stylo-hyoideus alter ; but it is not regular, nor has it ever been acknowledged as a diftindt mufcle. XL.The digastricus, or biventer maxillae in- feriors, is named from its having two bellies. One belly arifes from a rugged notch along the root of the maftoid procefs, where the flefh is thick and ftrong s going obliquely forwards and downwards, it forms a long tendon, round, thick, and very ftrong, which paf- fes by the fide of the os hyoides; and as it pafTes, it firft flips through the loop or noofe of the ftylo-hyoi- deus, and then is fixed by a tendinous bridle to the fide of the os hyoides; and then turning upwards to* wards the chin, it ends in a fecond flefhy belly, which, like the firft, is flat, and of a pyramidal fhape, lying above the mylo-hyoldeus. Though this mufcle is often called biventer maxillse inferioris, as belonging to the lower jaw, perhaps it does more regularly belong to the throat. No doubt, when the os hyoides is fixed by its own mufcles from the fhoulder and fternum, the digaftricus muft act on the jaw; an office which we cannot doubt, fince we often feel it taking a hidden fpafin, pulling down the chin with fevere pain and diftortion of the neck. But its chief office is to raife the os hyoides ; for when the jaw is fixed, as in fvvallowing, the railing of the os hy- oides pulls up the throat j and this is the true mean- ing of its pafling through the noofe of the ftylo-hyoi- - deus, and of its connexion with the fide of the os hy- oides. Then the digaftric and ftylo-hyoideus mufcles pull the throat upwards and backwards.MUSCLES OF THE 222 The raufcles which move the parts of the larynx upon each other are much finaller, and many of them very minute. XLL The hyo-thyroideus goes down, flelhy and Ihort, from the os hyoides, to the thyroid cartilage. It arifes from the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, where the fterno-thyroideus terminates, and goes up along the fide of the thyroid cartilage, like a continua- tion of the fterno-thyroideus mufcles. It paftes the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and is fixed to the lower edge of the os hyoides, along both its bafe and part of its horn. XLII. The crico-thyroideus isaveryfhort muf- cle, palling from the upper edge of the cricoid to the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, chiefly at its fide, and partly attached to its lower horn; which comes down clafpingthe fide of the cricoid ring, fo that it is broader above, and a little pointed below. Thefe two finall mufcles mull; have their ufe, and they bring the thyroid cartilage nearer to the os hyoi- des, and the cricoid nearer to the thyroid cartilage; and by thus fhortening the trachea, or comprefling it flightly, they may perhaps affeft the voice. But the mufcles on which the voice chiefly depends, are thofe of the rim a glottidis ; for there is a double fet of mul- cles for the little arytenoid cartilages; one fet which brings the cartilages together, and another fet which draws them apart, and fpreads the opening of the larynx.. XLIII. The musculus arytenoideus transver- sus is that delicate mufcle which contrafts the glottis, by drawing the arytenoid cartilages towards each other. It lies acrofs, betwixt them, at their back part j it arifes 5 fromLOWER JAW9 THROAT, AND TONGUE. 22^ the from the whole length of one arytenoid cartilage to go acrofs, and be inferred into the whole length of the oppofite one. XLIV. Arytenoideus obliquus, is one which crofles in a more oblique dire&ion, arifmg at the root of each arytenoid cartilage, and going obliquely up- wards to the point of the oppofite one. Thefe two muf- cles draw the arytenoid cartilages together, and clofe the rima. XLV. The crico arytenoideus posticus, is a fmall pyramidal mufcle, which arifes broader from the back part of the cricoid cartilage, where the ring is broad and deep ; and going direftiy upwards, is im- planted with a narrow point into the back of the ary- tenoid cartilage. This pair of mufcles pulls the ary- tenoid cartilages direffly backwards, and lengthens the flit of the glottis. XLVI.The crico arytenoideus obliquus, is one which comes from the fides of the cricoid cartilage, where it lies under the wing of the thyroid, and being implanted into the fides of the arytenoid cartilages, near their roots, mull pull thefe cartilages afurder, and (as the origin in the cricoid lies rather before their infertion in the arytenoid cartilages) it muff alfo flacken the lips of the flit; for the lips of the flit are formed by two cords, which go within the covering membrane, from the tip of each cartilage to the back of the thy- roid cartilage; and the crico arytenoideus poflicus mull flrengthen thefe cords, and the crico arytenoideus lateralis mull relax them. XLVII. The teiyreo arytenoideus, is a mufcle very like the lad one^ and affifts it* It arifes not fromMUSCLES OF The 224 the cricoid cartilage, but from the back furface of the wing of the thyroid; from t’ne hollow of its wing, or where it covers the cricoidis implanted into the fore part of the arytenoid cartilage, and by pulling the car- , ^1 age forward and fid'awife, directly flackens the liga- ments and widens thfj glottis. Thefe are all the mufcles which belong to the larynx j and in our arrangement the mufcles of the palate and pharynx come next in order. When a morfel is to be thrown down into the oefo- phagus, e;r tube which leads to the ftomach, the velum palatP, or curtain of the palate, is drawn upwards; the opening of the throat is dilated ; the morfel is re- ceived ; then the curtain of the palate falls down again. Tiie arch of the throat is contracted, the bag of the pharynx is comprelfed by its own mufcles; and the food is forced downwards into the flomach. XLVIII. The azygos uvulj:.—1The velum pen- dulum palati, is that pendulous curtain which we fee hanging in the back part of the mouth, in a line with the fide circles of the throat; and the uvula is a fmall pap, or point of flefh, in the centre of that cur- tain. The azygos uvulze, or fingle mufcle of the uvula, is a fmall flip of flraight fibres, which goes di- re&ly down to the uvula in the centre of the curtain* It arifes from the peak, or backmofl fharp point of the palate bones, and pulls the uvula, or pap of the throat, direCtly upwards, removing it out of the way of the morfel which is to pafs. XLIX. Levator palati mollis arifes from the point of the os petrofum, and from the eustachian tube.LOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. 22$ tube, and alfo from the fphenoid bone Thefe parts hang over the roof of the velum, and are much higher than it; fo this rnufcle defcends to the velum, and fpreads out in it; and its office is to pull up the velum, to remove it from being in the way of the morfel, which is about to pafs, and to lay the curtain back at the fame time fo as to be a valve for the noftrils, and for the mouth of the euftachian tube, hindering the food or drink from entering into thefe paffages. L.TheCIRCUMFLEXUSPALATlf, andthecoNSTRic- tor isthmi fauscium, have a very different ufe. The circumflexus palati is named from its fibres paffmg over, or rather under, the hook of the pterygoid procefs ; the rnufcle arifes along with the levator palati (i. e.) from the fphenoid bone at its fpinous procefs; and from the beginning of the euftachian tube, it runs down along the tube, in the hollow betwixt the pterygoid proceffes ; it then becomes tendinous, turns under the hook of the internal pterygoid procefs, and mounts again to the fide of the velum. Now, the levator and circumflexus arife from the fame points j * From the euftachian tube, it was named salpingo staphili- nus ; from the fphenoid bone, spheno-staphilinus ; from the pterygoid procefs, pterygo-staphilinus ; from the petrous pro- cef?, is was named petro-salpingo-staphilinus ; as if there were no fcience but where there were hard names, and as if the chief mark of genius were enriching the hardeft names, with all pofiible combinations and contortions of them. •f- This alfo has got a tolerable affortment of hard names; as cir- CL'MFLF-XUS palati, tensor palati, palato-salpingus, STAPH I LINUS EXTERN US, SPHENO S ALP IN GO-STAPH I LINOS, MUS- CULUS TUB1, viz. EVSTATIANX NONETS. 1?TERYGO-STAPHSU- Nus of Cowper, &c. VOL. I, q butMUSCLES OF THE 22 6 but the levator goes directly downwards into the velum, and fo is ufeful in lifting it up. The circumflexus goes round the hook ; runs on it as on a pully ; turns up- wards again ; and fo it pulls down the palate, and dretches it: and thence is very commonly named, the tensor palati mollis, or ftretcher of the palate. LI. The constrictor isthmi fauscium, arifes from the very root of the tongue on each fide; goes round to the middle of the velum, and ends near the uvula *. This femicircle forms that firft arch which prefents itfelf upon looking into the mouth. LII. The palato-pharyngeus f, again, forms a lecond arch behind the firh ; for it begins in the mid- dle of the foft palate; goes round the entry of the fauces, ends in the wing or edge of the thyroid car- tilage ; and as the firft arched line (that formed by the conftricfor).belonged to the root of the tongue, this fecond arched line belongs to the pharynx or gul- let. The circumflexus palati makes, the curtain of the palate tenfe, and pulls it downwards : The conftri&or faufeium helps to pull down the curtain, and raifes the root of the tongue to meet it: The palato-pha- ryngeus farther contradls the arch of the fauces, which is almoft fhut upon the morfel now ready to be forced down into the ftomach, by thofe mufcles which com- prefs the pharynx itfelf. * Named glorso-staphilinus, from its origin in the tongue, and infertion into the uvula. -j* The salpingo-p haryngeus of Albinus, is no more than that part of the palato-pharyngeus which arifes froih the mouth of the euilachian tube. ' The 10LOWER. JAW, THROAT, ARD TONGUE. 22y The pharynx, which is the opening of the gullet, that it may receive freely the morfel of food, is ex- panded into a large and capacious bag, which hangs from the bafis of the fkull, is chiefly attached to the occipital bone, the pterygoid procefles, and the back parts of either jaw-bone. TLhe oefophagus, again, is the tube which conveys the food down into the fto- mach; and this bag of the pharynx is the expanded or trumpet-like end of it; or it may be compared with the mouth of a funnel. Towards the mouth, the pha- rynx is bounded by the root of the tongue and by the arches of the throat; behind, it lies flat and fmooth along the bodies of the vertebrae ; before, it is protected, and in fome degree furrounded, by the great carti- lages of the larynx ; the horns of the os hyoides em- brace its fides, and it is covered with flat mufcular fibres, which, arifmg from the os hyoides and cartilages of the throat, go round the pharynx, in fair and regu-i lar orders, and are named its conftrictors, beeaufe they embrace it clofely, and their contractions force down the food. LIII. The stylo-pharyngeus, arifes from the root of the ftyloid procefs. It is a long, Render, and beau- tiful mufcle ; it expands fleflry upon the fide of the pha- rynx ; extends fo far as to take a hold upon the edge of the thyroid cartilage ; it lifts the pharynx up to re- ceive the morfel, and then firaitens and comprefles the bag, to pulh the morfel down, and by its hold upon the thyroid cartilage it commands the larynx alfo, and the whole throati The pharynx being furrounded by many irregular points of bone, its circular fibres or conftri&ors have q 2 manyMuscles of the 228 many irregular origins. The conflridor might-fairly enough be explained as one mufcle, but the irregular origins fplit the fibres of the mufcle, and give occafion of dividing the conftri&or into diftinft pr rts ; for one bundle arifing from the occipital bone and os petro- fum from the tongue, the pterygoid procefs, and the two jaw bones, is diftinguifhed as one mufcle, the con- ftri£tor fuperior Another bundle arifing from the os hyoides, is named the conftri&or medius f. A third bundle, the lowed; of the three, arifing, from the thy- roid and cricoid cartilages, is named the conftri&or inferior J. LIV. The constrictor superior, arifing from the bafis of the fkull, from the jaws, from the palate, and from the root of the tongue, furrounds the upper part of the pharynx ; and it is not one circular mufcle, but two mufcles- divided in the middle line behind, by a diftinct rapha, feam, or meeting of the oppofite fibres. x LV. The constrictor medius rifes chiefly from the round point in which the os hyoides terminates; it alfo arifes from the cartilage of the os hyoides (i. e.) where the horns are joined to the body. The tip of the horn being the moll prominent point, and the cen- tre of this mufcle, it goes upwards and downwards, fo as to have fomething of a lozenge-like fhape y it lies * Thefe good opportunities of names have not been difregarded : tliis mufcle has been named cephalo-pharyngeus, pterig/O- PHARYNGEUS, MYLG-PHARYNGEUS, GLOSSO-PHARYNGEUS. -j- This one is ramed hyo-pharyngeus, or syndesmo-pharyh- geus, from its origin in the cartilage alfo of the os hyoides. J This, of courfe, is named tuyro-pharyngeus, and crico- pharyngeus. overLOWER JAW, THROAT, AKD TONGUE. 2 29 LVIII. The over the upper conftridtor like a fecond layer ; its uppermoft peak or pointed part touches the occipital bone, and its lower point is hidden by the next rnufcle. LVI. The constrictor inferior arifes partly from the thyroid, and partly from the cricoid cartilage ; and it again goes alio obliquely, fo as to overlap or cove^ the lower part of the conftritlor medius. This, like the other two conftrictors, meets its fellow in a tendi- nous middle line ; and fo the morfel admitted into the pharynx by the dilatation of its arches, is puflied down into the cefophagus by the forces of thefe conftriclorcs pharyngis, addled by its ftyloid mufcles. LVII. The oesophagus is merely the continuation of the fame tube. It lies flat upon the back-bone, and it is covered in its whole length by a nmfcular coat, which is formed, not like this of the pharynx, of cir- cular fibres, but of fibres running according to its length chiefly. And this rnufcle furrounding the mem- braneous tube of the oefophagus like a Iheath, is named VAGINALIS GUL^E, MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE, The mufcles of the tongue are large bundles of flefli which come from the os hyoides, the chin, and the ftyloid procefs. Their thicknefs conftitutes the chief bulk of the tongue. Their actions perform all its motions. The mufcles, which I am now to defcribe, form the whole flefh of the tongue, excepting merely the thin membranes which cover the tongue, and give it form, and conduct its nerves to the papillae or feel- ing points, Q 3230 MUSCLES OF THE LXI. The LVIII. The firft mufcle of the tongue is the stylo* glossus, which arifes from the ftyloid procefs, goes obliquely downwards and forwards; it touches the tongue a little before the angle of the tongue ; it makes part of the fleih at the fide of the tongue, ex- panding into its fubftance in fomewhat of a radiated f&rm; its office is to pull the tongue backwards into the mouth. LIX. The hyo-glossus is a comprehenfive name for all thofe mufcles which arife from the os hyoides. The mufcles from the os hyoides go off in three faf- piculi, and were once reckoned as diftinct mufcles. That the portion which arifes from the bafis of the os hyoides, wras called basio-glossus ; that which arifes from the cartilaginous joining of the body and horn, was called chondro-glossus ; and that which arifes from the horn itfelf, was named cerato-glossus ; or the terms were all bundled together into the perplexed names of basio-chondro-cerato-glossus. , The hyo-gloffus, then, is all that mufcular flefh which arifes from the whole length of the os hyoides ; and which, by the changing form of the bone in its bafis, cartilage, and horn, has flight marks of divifion, but which lies all in one plain, and need not have diftinct names. LX. The genio-glossus arifes from the rough tun bercle behind the fymphyfis of the chin. It has a very- narrow or pointed origin; it fpreads out fan-like, as it goes towards the tongue; and it fpreads with ra- dii, both forwards and backwards, making the chief part of the fubftance of the tongue.LOWER JAW, THROAT, AND TONGUE. 2%l Q 4 LXI, The lingualis is an irregular bundle of fibres which runs according to the length of the tongue: it lies betwixt the ftylo-gloffus and the genio-glolfus ; and as it is in the centre, and unconnected with any _bone, it is named lingualis, as arifing in the tongue itfelf. The genio-gloffi inufcles form by far the larger part of the tongue, and lie in the very centre. They go through the whole length (i. e.), from the root to the tip of the tongue ; and from the radiated form of their fibres, they perform every polfible motion; whence this was named by Window, Musculus folychres- tus, for its rays proceed from one point or centre, and thofe which go to the point of the tongue pull the tongue backwards into the mouth; thofe which go backwards, thruft the tongue out of the mouth ; the middle fibres afting, make the back of the tongue hollow, while the tip and the root of the tongue both rife. The hyo-glofii mufcles lie on either fide of the genio- hyoidaei, and make up the fides of the tongue; and their chief adtion would feem to be this, that the hyo- gloflus mufcle of either fide adting, the edges of the tongue would be pulled downwards, and the back rounded ; the oppofite of which motion is the genio- hyoidsei adting, by which the middle of the tongue is made into a groove ; the edges rifing, and the centre being deprefled. Laftly, The ftylo-gloffus is plainly- intended for drawing the tongue deep into the mouth, particularly affecting the point of the tongue. CHAP.CHAP. III. OF THE MUSCLES OF THE ARM. INCLUDING THE MUSCLES OF THE SCAPULA, ARM, FORE-ARM, AND HAND. MUSCLES OF THE SCAPULA. The great peculiarity of the arm is the manner of its connection with the breaft ; to which it is fixed by no ligaments, nor joined to no bone, but is at once both fixed and moved by its ftrong and numerous mufcles, which are indeed its only ligaments. Though it were perhaps more regular to defcribe firft the mufcles of the trunk, it will be more eafy and natural to de- fcribe firft the broad mufcles belonging to the fca- pula, which cover almoft the whole trunk, and hide its proper mufcles, viz. thofe which move the ribs and fpine. For the mufcles which move the fcapu-. la lie upon the trunk; thofe which move the arm lie upon the fcapula; thofe which move the fore-arm lie upon the arm; and thofe for moving the hand and fin- gers lie upon the fore-arm. The leg requires but one chiefMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 233 chief motion, viz. backwards and forwards, flexion and extenfion : It has no other motions than thofe of the thigh and of the knee. But the arm requires an eafy and circular motion ; and its joints are multiplied; for it has the wrift turning round; it has the elbow for hinge-like motions ; it has the Ihoulder-joint upon which the arm rolls; and to affid all thefe, the fcapu- la, which is the centre of all thefe motions, is itfelf moveable ; ■ after a certain point of elevation all the motion in railing the arm is performed, not by the mo- tions of the Ihoulder-bone upon the fcapula, but by the fcapula upon the trunk. For whenever the Ihoulder- bone rifes to the horizontal diredlion, it is checked by the acromion, which hangs over it; and if the arm is to be raifed higher dill, the fcapula mull roll; for it turns as if upon an axis palfed through it, and in turn- ing it glides upon thofe mufcles, which are like a culhion betwixt it and the trunk. The mufcles which move the fcapula come from the bread to move it forwards; from the neck, to move it upwards; from the fpines of the vertebra:, to move it backwards; and from the fide, that is, from the ribs, to move it downwards. LXII. The trapezius is named from its lozenge form ; or is often named cucularis, from its refem- bling the Monk’s cowl; hanging back upon the neck. It is one of the mod beautiful mufcles in the body; and the two mufcles together cover all the Ihoulders and neck, with a lozenge-like form, with neat and lharp points, extending from the tip of one Ihoulder to the tip of the other, and from the nape of the neck qujte down to the loins. It arifes fird by a drong tendon234 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. tendon from the moil pointed part of the occipital bone, and along the tranfverfe fpine quite to the maf- toid procefs; from this point all down the neck it has no hold of the vertebrae, but arifes from its fellow in a flrong tendon, which, extending like a bow-firing down the neck, over the arch of the neck, and not touching the vertebrae till it comes down to the top of the back, is named ligamentum nuch^e. The tendon begins again to take hold of the fpines of the two lafl vertebrae of the neck, and arifes from all the fpinous proceffes of the back downwards ; from this long origin, its fibres converge, as it were into one point, the tip of the Ihoulder: it alfo comes a little forward over the fide of the neck. It is implanted into one third of the clavicle neareft the Ihoulder ; into the tip of the acromion ; into the whole length of the fpine, from which the acromion rifes. And its fibres, arifing from along the neck and back, and converging almofl into a point, mull have various effects, according to the different fibres which act: for thofe which come downwards mull raife the fcapula; thofe which come from the middle of the back mull carry it diredly backwards ; thofe which come from the lower part of the back mull deprefs it; and thofe different fibres ading in fucceffion, mufl make the fcapula roll. The trapezius is chiefly a mufcle cf the fcapula, but it mufl be alfo occafionally a mufcle of the head, pulling the head backwards, and bending the neck. Three other mufcles which raife the fcapula, or carry it backwards, lie fo much in the fame plane, and are fo little divided from each other, that they mightMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C» 235 almoft be reckoned different portions of the fame. LXIII. Levator scapula, named alfo levator proprius angular is, is a fmalLthin flip of flefh, which arifes from the four or five uppermoff vertebrae of the neck, at their tranfverfe procefles, by three or four, and fometimes five, diftmfl heads. The heads join to form a thin and fiat ffripe of mufcle, about three inches in breadth, which is fixed by a flat thin tendon to the upper corner of the fcapula, to pull it upwards, as in fhrugging the fiioulders *, whence it is named musculus patientije. LXIV. and LXV. The rhomboid muscle ftretches flat, neat, and of a fquare form, betwixt the fpine and the whole line of the bafe of the fcapula. One part arifes from the three lower fpinous procefles of the neck, and is implanted into the bafe of the fcapula at its upper part: then another portion arifes from the fpinous procefles of the firft four vertebrae of the back; runs exa&ly in the fame plane with the other into the bafe of the fcapula at its lower part: the part arifing from the three vertebrae of the neck is flightly divided from that which arifes from the four vertebras of the back, though not diftinctly, and often not at all. I would reckon this but one mufcle,/ but it has been commonly diftinguifhed into (LXIV.) the rhomboides minor, the uppermoft portion, and (LXV.) the rhomboides major, the lower portion. Thefe are feen after raifing the trapezius ; and the ufes of the trapezius, levator fcapulas, and rhomboides, are to raife the fcapula, or to carry it backwards. The mufcles which move the fcapula downwards and for- wards,236 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. wards, viz. the pectoralis minor and the ferratus ma- jor anticus, lie upon the fore-part of the bread. LXVI. The serratus major anticus lies upon the fide of the chefl arifmg from the ribs ; and as the ribs have interfaces betwixt them, every mufcle ari- fmg from the ribs arifes by diflinfl portions from each rib. All fuch diftindt and pointed flips are named digitations, tongues, or ferrae, from their refembling the teeth of a faw ; and. every mufcle arifmg from the ribs mufl be a ferrated mufcle. The ferratus major anticus is that great and broad mufcle, the chief part of which lies under the fcapula; and nothing of which is feen but the flefhy tongues, by which it arifes from the fides of the ribs. It is all flefhy, and is of a confider- able breadth and fcrength : it arifes from all the true ribs, except the firft, and from three of the falfe ribs : its indigitations, of courfe, fpread all over the fide of the thorax like a fan : its upper indigitations lie under the pedtoralis major, and its lower indigitations are mixed with the beginning of the abdominal mufcles : its mid- dle indigitations are feen fpreading upon the fides of the thorax : it lies thick and flefhy under the fcapula, and is a part of that cufh'ion on which the fcapula glides : its fibres converge towards a narrower infer- tion ; and the mufcle ends thick and flefhy in the whole length of that line which we call the bafis of the fcapula, and is, as it were, folded round it; fo that this mufcle, which comes from before, is im- planted along with the rhomboides, which comes from behind. Perhaps, in difficult breathing, the fhoulder blade being raifed and fixed by its own mufcles, the ferratus majorI MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 237 major may aflifl in heaving up the ribs: but its chief operation is upon the fcapula ; for when the whole acts, it pulls the fcapula downwards and forwards: when only the lower portions adt, it pulls the lower angle of the fcapula forwards, by which the fcapu- la rolls, and the tip of the Ihoulder is raifed : when the upper part adts in conjundtion with the little pedtoral mufcle, the tip of the Ihoulder is fixed and pulled downwards towards the chefl, and the lower corner of the fcapula rolls backwards. LXVII. The pectoralis minor lies under the pedtoralis major, clofe upon the ribs ; and as it arifes from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, it alfo is aferrated mufcle, and was named ferratus minor anticus : its three digitations are very thick and flefhy; they foon con- verge fo as to form a fmall, but thick and flefhy, muf- cle, which terminating in a point, is inferted into the very apex of the coracoid procefs : by pulling the coracoid procefs forwards and downwards, it will roll the fcapula. LXVIII. The subclavian muscle is another con. cealed mufcle of the fcapula; for the clavicle is juft the hinge upon which the fcapula moves, and the fubclavian mufcle arifes by a flat tendon from the cartilage of the firft rib : it becomes flat and flefhy, and lies along betwixt the clavicle and the firft rib ; it arifes at a fingle point of the rib, flat and tendinous ; but it is inferted into a great length of the clavicle, beginning about one inch from the flernum, and be- ing inferted all along the clavicle, quite out to where it is joined to the acromion procefs. Its chief ufe (fince the rib is immoveable) mull furely be to pull the cla- vicle.238 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C, vicle, and confequently the fhoulder, downwards, and? fo to fix them. Many have afFe&ed to find other mufcles of refpb ration than thofe which diredtly belong to the ribs. Among thefe are reckoned the ferratus major, the pectoralis minor, &c.; but there is much reafon to* doubt whether any mufcles can have much effedt which do not belong properly to the ribs : and it is manifeft, that the fubclavian can have none, fmce the firft rib is quite rigid, has fo little length of car- tilage that it cannot bend nor move. The fcapula is thus moved in every poffible direc= tion ; upwards, by the levator and the trapezius ; back- wards, by the rhomboides, affifled by other orders of the trapezius; downwards and backwards, by the loweft order of fibres in the trapezius ; downwards and forwards, by the ferratus major anticus ; dirediiy downwards, by the ferratus, balanced by the trapezius, and aflifted by the fubclavius ; and directly forwards, by the peftoralis minor. MUSCLES OF THE ARM. VIZ. THOSE MOVING THE OS HUMERI, OR ARM BONE, LXIX. The pectoralis major is a large thick and flefliy mufcle which covers all the breaft. It arifes from two-thirds of the clavicle next, the fternum ; from all the edges of the fternum ; the cartilaginous endings of the fifth and fixth ribs. Where it arifes from the fternum, it is tendinous, and the fibres from the oppofite mufcle j crofs and mix, fo as to make a fort of fafcia covering the bone. It is flelhy where it arifes from the ribs, and there it mixes with the external.MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 239 external abdominal mufcle. The fibres approach each other till they form a flat tendon about an inch in j , breadth; and as the fibres approach each other, they crofs in fuch a way, that the lower edge of the mufcle forms the upper edge, of the tendon, which is ftill flat, but twilled: its implantation is into the edge, if I may call it fo, of the groove or rut which is in the flioulder bone for receiving the biceps tendon. That part which arifes from the clavicle is a little feparated from that which arifes from the flernum; a fatty line makes the diflindtion; and they are fometimes described as two parts: it is thofe two bundles chiefly which crofs each other to make the plaited appearance. The pec- toralis, among others, has been made a mufcle of re- fpiration *. LXX. the latissimus dorsi is the broadefl, not only of the back, but perhaps of the whole body. It is a beautiful mufcle, covering all the lower part of the back and loins, and reaching to the arm, to be the antagonist to the pectoral mufcle. It arifes by a broad, flat, and gliftening tendon, which covers all the loins, and which is in fome degree the root of other mufcles, especially of the longifflmus dorfi. This broad filvery tendon, begins exactly in the middle of the back; it arifes from the lowrer vertebra of the loins, * Haller tells us, that when at any time, he had rheumatism in this mufcle, his breathing was checked; and when he had difficult breathing, he found great relief by fixing the hands, raifing thq {boulders, and a&ing with the pedtoral mufcles. It feems confirmed by thefe fafts, that afthmatics take this pofture; "women in labour fix their arms by refting upon the arms of their chair; thofe who play on wind-inilruments raifethe fficulders in {training, &c. from240 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. from the fpines and knobs of the back of the facrum, and from the back part of the circle of the os ilium : this laft is the only part that is flefhy. The fiat ten- don gradually pafies into a fiat and regular mufcle, which wraps round the fide of the body ; and as it lies over the corner of the fcapula, it receives a fmall flefhy bundle from it; and as it pafies over the lower ribs, it has fome tendinous flips fent into it, by which it is attached to the ribs. Its fibres converge : for the lower ones afcend ; the upper ones go direftly acrofs. And thefe different orders, not only meet to form its flat tendon, but they crofs each other, like thofe of the peftoral mufcle. Here alfo the tendon is twilled, and the upper edge of the mufcle forms the lower edge of the fiat tendon; which pafling into the axilla, turns under the arm-bone, and is implanted into it, on the inner edge of the bicipital groove. So the tendons of the peftoralis and latiflimus meet each other ; they in fad join face to face, as if the one tendon ended direclly in the other j and both united make a fort of lining for the groove, or a tendinous fheath for the long tendon of the biceps to run in. Thefe two mufcles form the axilla or arm-pit; and although each has its peculiar offices, their chief operation is when they coincide in one aflion; and that aftion is exceedingly powerful, both by the great ftrength of either mufcle, and by their being implant- ed into the arm b°ne four inches below the head. The peftoralis major is for pulling the arm forwards, as in laying the arms acrofs the br£afl, or in carrying loads in the arms: and it forms the border of the axillaMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 24I axilla before. The latiflimus dorfi has a wider range: when the arm is raifed, it brings it downwards, as in. ftriking with a hammer; or downwards and back- wards, as in ftriking with the elbow; or in rolling the arm inwards and backwards, as in turning the palm of the hand behind the back; whence it has the obfcene name of musculus scalptor ANi,ortersor ani ; and it forms the back edge of the axilla. The edges of thefe two mufcles receive the preffure of crutches, and defend the veffels and nerves: when both mufcles a£t, the arm is prelfed directly down- wards, as in riling from our feat, or in holding a bundle under the arm; or when the arm is fixed, thefe mufcles raife the body, as in the example juft mentioned of rifmg from our feat, or in walking with a fhort ftick, or in railing ourfelves by our hands over a high beam. LXXI. The deltoides is the firft of thofe muf- cles which arife from the fcapula to be inferted into the Ihoulder-bone. It is named deltoid mufcle, from its refembling the letter A of the Greeks ; it is thick and flefhy, and covers the top of the lhoulder, filling up the fpace betwixt the acromion procefs and the lhoulder-bone. It arifes from all that part of the cla- vicle which is not occupied by the pe&oralis mufcle, and is feparated from it only by a fatty line: it arifes again in another bundle, from the point of the acro- mion procefs; and this middle bundle is alfo infulated by a fatty line on either lide of it: the third bundle arifes fromlhe fpine of the fcapula, behind the acro- mion procefs. And thus the mufcle has three converg- ing heads, viz. a head from the outer end of the cla- vol. 1. p. viclej242 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. vide; a head from the acromion or tip of the ihouider j a head from the ridge of the fpine ; each divided from the other by a fatty line #. Thefe heads or bundles of fibres, meeting about one-third down the humerus, form a Ihort flat, and ftrong tendon, which grafps or almoft furrounds the fhoulder-bone. Thefe three diftinft heads muft be obferved in fpeaking of the ufe of the mufcle; for though the chief ufe of the mufcle be to raife the arm, this is not the ufe of it in all circumftances. For the outer and inner heads, lying by the fide of the lhoulder- bone, and below the joint, do, when the arm is lying flat by the fide, aflift the pe&oral and Iatiflimus dorfi mufcles in drawing it clofe to the fide; but when the middle bundle raifes the arm, in proportion as it raifes the arm it lofes of its power; and in proportion as it lofes of its power, the fide portions, having come into a new direction, begin to help : Nay, when the arm is raifed to a certain point, more power Hill is required, and the clavicular part of the peftoral mufcle alfo comes to aflift. It is in this fucceflion that the feveral bun- dles of fibres aft; for if they began all at once to a<ft, the arm Ihould rather be bound down by the lateral portions than raifed by the middle one. LXXII. Coraco brachialis.—The coraco bra- chialis, fo named from its origin and infertion, is a long and rather flender mufcle. It arifes from the coracoid procefs of the fcapula, along with the Ihort head of the biceps mufcle j and # * Albinus has diftinguifhed it into feven fafciculi or bundles ; a very fuperfluous accuracy. itMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 243 it is clofely connected with this head almofi in its whole length: it is fmall at its beginning ; it grows gradually thicker as it defcends; it is all flefhy, and is inferted by a very Ihort tendon into the os humeri, nearly about its middle, betwixt the brachialis and the third head of the triceps. It is perforated by the mufculo-cuta- neous nerve. This was obferved by Cafferius, an Italian anatomift; and the mufcle is often named, MUSCULUS PERFORATUS CASSERII. Its action is very fimple, to raife the arm obliquely forwards and upwards, and confequently to give a de- gree of rotation. It will alfo have a chief effect in pulling the arm towards the fide. LXXIII. The supra spinatus, is fo named from its occupying the hollow of the fcapula above the fpine. It arffes from the back of the fcapula, from the fpine, and from the edge or cofta; it is exceedingly thick and flelhy, filling up all the hollow; and it is firmly inclofed in this triangular hollow by a ftrong tendinous expanfion, which paffes from the edge of the fcapula to the ridge of the fpine. It is confequently a mufcle of a triangular figure, thick and ftrong; it paffes under the acromion, and degenerates into a ten- don there; and going under the acromion, as under an arch, and over the ball of the humerus, it adheres to the capfule of the lhoulder-joint, and is at laft implanted by a broad ftrong tendon into the great tuberofity on the head of the bone. It is evidently defigned for railing the humerus di- rectly upwards; and by its attachment to the capfule, the capfule is drawn up when the arm is raffed ; fo that, though lax, it cannot be catched in the joint. It r 2 performs244 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. ♦ performs exactly the fame motion with the middle part of the deltoides, lies in the fame diredtion with it, and aflifts it. LXXIV. Infra spinatus, is like the former, in all refpedfs, of the fame ufe, and aflifts it. . This alfo is of a triangular fhape, and is fully one half larger than the fupra fpinatus; and as the fupra fpinatus arifes from all the triangular cavity above the fpine, this arifes from all the triangular cavity below it. It arifes flelhy from all the back of the fcapula be- low the fpine itfelf, and from all the bafe of the fca- pula below the beginning of the fpine, and alfo from the lower margin of the fcapula. It is very thick and ftrong, filling up the triangular cavity entirely; and it is clofed in like the former by a ftrong tendinous ex- panfion; it begins to grow)( tendinous about its middle, but it continues alfo flelhy till it pafles over the focket of the fhoulder-joint. It alfo is connedted with the capfular ligament; is inferted into the fame tuberofity with the former; and has exactly the fame ufes, viz. preventing the capfule from being catched in the joint, and raifing the arm upwards, and inclining it a little outwards by a flight degree of rotation. And I do believe that one great ufe of thefe two mufcles is, when the arm is much extended backwards, to pre- vent the head of the humerus from ftarting out of its fuperficial focket. LXXV. The teres minor is a third mufcle which co-operates with thefe. This and another are named teres from their appearance, not from their fhape; for they feem round when fuperficially diffedted, becaufe thenMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 24$ then their edges only are feen; but when fully differed from the other mufcles, they are quite flat. The teres minor is a long, fmall flefliy mufcle; it arifes from the angle, and all the lower edge of the fcapula: it is like the infra fpinatus; it becomes early tendinous, but the tendon is accompanied with flefliy fibres from below; its flat tendon, in palling over the joint, is attached to the capfuie, and is finally inferted into the great tuberofity of the Ihoulder-bone, fo that it mull have exaftly the fame ufes as the two former mufcles. It is feparated from the infra fpinatus by that tendinous expansion with which the latter is covered; it looks like a part of the fame mufcle in its origin, where it lies upon the fcapula; but is very diftindt in its tendon. The fupra fpinatus, infra fpinatus, and teres minor, raife the arm. LXXVI. The teres major, is in lhape like the former, lies lower upon the edge of the fcapula than the teres minor, and is thicker and longer than it. It arifes chiefly from the angle of the fcapula; partly from the lower edge of the fcapula at its back part; it is oonneftedwith the teres minor and infra spinatus. It is a large thick and flat mufcle, and forms a flat Itrong tendon, which paflfes under the long head of the triceps. It paflfes under the os humeri; turns round it, and is inferted into the ridge, on the inner fide of the groove, and gives fome tendinous fibres to line the groove. In Ihort, it accompanies the tendon of the latiflimus dorfi, is inferted along with it, and may be confidered as the congener of the latiflimus dorfi ; and the two tendons are inclofed in one common cap- fuie or Ibeath of cellular fubftance. R 3 Its24^ MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C.- Its ufe, then, is evidently to draw the humerus downwards and backwards, and to perform the fame rotation of the arms which the latiffimus dorfi does. LXXVII. The subscapularis lines all the con- cavity of the fcapula like a culhion. It is like the furface of the fcapula on which it lies, of a triangular fhape; and from the convergence of all the fibres, it is completely radiated or fan-like; it is very flefhy, thick, and ftrong. The radii are each minutely defcribed by Albinus; but Sabbattier fays, with good fenfe, that he cannot diftinguifh them fo as to defcribe them accu- rately; and he might have added, that there was not the fhadow of a motive for wafting time in fo trivial an employment as counting the bundles. It arifes from the two edges, the bafe, and all the internal furface of the fcapula. And indeed it is to favour this origin that the inner furface of the fcapula is full of little rifmgs and hollows, to every one of which the mufcle adheres clofely. Juft under the coracoid procefs is the only part from whence it does not arife. That little fpace is filled up with cellular fubftance. Its alternately tendinous and flefhy fibres are fo rooted in the fcapula, and fo attached to its rifmgs and depreflions, that it is difficultly cleaned away from the bone. 1 The tendon and upper edge of the mufcle is almoft continuous with the fupra fpinatus : but from the man- ner of its infertion, its effedt is very oppofite from that of the fupra fpinatus; for it goes round the os humeri to its infertion, and it is fixed to the leffer tuberofity; therefore it both pulls the arm backwards and down- wards, and performs the rotation like the teres major andMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 247 and Iatiflimus dorfi. It is alfo like all the other ten- dons, attached to the capfule, fo as to prevent its being catched; and it is particularly ufeful by ftrengthening the Ihoulder-joint. OF THE MOTIONS OF THE HUMERUS. Having thus defcribed all the mufcles which move this bone, I lhall review the order in which they are arranged, and mark their places and effe&s. To diftinguifh clearly the function of each mufcle, we have but to mark the point to which it is attached. 1. Thofe implanted above the head of the bone mull raife the arm. Now the fupra fpinatus, infra fpi- natus, and teres minor, are implanted into the great tubercle, and raife the arm; and the deltoides is im- planted in the fame diredlion, and Hill lower, fo that it performs the fame action with a Hill greater degree of power. 2. There is implanted into the oppolite, or lower part of the head, the fubfcapularis, which, of courfe, draws the arm directly downwards and backwards. 3. There is implanted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove the pedtoralis major, and alfo the co- raco-brachialis, which comes in the fame direction; and thefe two pull the arm inwards towards the fide, or rather upwards. 4. There are inferted into the infide, or lower fide of the groove, the Iatiflimus dorfi and teres major; both of which pull the arm directly backwards. As they bend under the arm, to reach their infertion, they alfo roll the palm inwards and backwards. And it is eafy to obferve in what fuccefiion thofe mufcles R 4. muft248 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. muft act, to defcribe the circular and rotatory motions of the arm. Joints are more ftrengthened by the origin and in- fertion of mufcles around them, than by elaftic liga- ments : for thefe yield or tear; whereas the mufcles, having a living power, re-aft againft any feparating force; they contract, or, in other words, they are ftrong in proportion to the violence that the joint fuffers. Thus, in the fhoulder, the capfule is fo lax, that there is a mechanical contrivance to prevent its being checked in the joint; and it is moreover fo weak, that inde- pendent of its yielding eafily, it is alfo very eafily torn ; " but thefe 'mufcles furround the joint fo fairly, that their ftrength and their tendinous infertions into the head of the bone are more than a compenfation for the loofenefs of its capfular ligament. Were not the muf- cles thus clofely attached, the fhoulders would be very often difplaced, the glenoid cavity is fo fuperficial, and the burfa fo lax : and furely it is for fome fuch purpofe that the mufcles are planted fo clofely round the head of the bone ; for when they are implanted at a diftance from the centre, as one mufcle, the deltoid, is, or as the biceps and triceps of the arm, or as the hamftrings, or tendo Achillis are, the power is much increafed. Here, in the humerus, power is facrificed to the firm- nefs of the joint, and they are all implanted clofely round the head of the bone. The joint is in a manner formed by thefe mufcles ; for the fupra fpinatus, infra fpinatus, teres major and minor, and the fubfcapularis, furround the joint very clofely; cover the joint with their flat tendons; and fo thicken the capfule, and increafe its ftrength. MUSCLESMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 249 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. The mufcles of the fore-arm are only four; the bi- ceps and brachialis for bending, and the triceps and anconal us for extending. LXXVIII. Biceps brachii flexor is univerfally named biceps, from its having two very diftind heads. It is an exceedingly thick and ftrong mufcle; for when it contrafts, we feel it almoft like a hard firm ball upon the fore part of the arm; and at the upper and moft confpicuous part of this ball is the union of the two heads. The larger and thicker head arifes from the cora- coid procefs, by a tendon which extends three inches along the fore part of the mufcle, in the form of an aponeurofis ; but at the back part the tendon is fhort, and the mufcle is ftefhy, and is attached there to the flelhy belly of the coraco-brachialis. The fecond, or long head, arifes from the edge of the glenoid cavity, at its upper part; it is exceedingly fmall and tendinous, and this long tendon runs down in its proper cavity, till, about one-third down the arm, the two heads meet. And though below that it is but one flelhy belly, yet there, as in other mufcles, the common divifion betwixt its two origins may be ftill obferved. It is earlier tendinous at the fore part and outer fide; the tendon there fends off that aponeurotic ex- panfion which covers all the fore-arm below, and en- clofes its mufcles as in a Iheath. The tendon, at firft flat and large, becomes gradually fmaller and rounder ^ it turns a little in its defcent, fo as to lay one flat edge to2$0 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. to the radius, and another to the ulna; and it is at laft implanted into that round tubercle which is on the fore part of the radius, a little below its neck. The great ufe of the biceps is to bend the fore-arm; which it does with great ftrength. But as it is in- ferted into the tubercle of the radius, when the arm and hand are turned downwards, the biceps, by act- ing, will pull them upwards, i. e. it will aflift the fupinators. Since both its heads are from the fcapula, it will alfo occaftonally move the humerus, as well as the fore-arm. LXXIX. The brachialis i'ntErnus lies imme- diately under the biceps, and is a very ftrong flelhy mufcle for aflifting the biceps in bending the arm. It is called brachialis from its origin in the fore-arm ; and internus from its being within the biceps, or rather from its being on the inner fide of the arm. It arifes from two thirds of the os humeri at its fore part, by a fort of forked head; for it comes down from each fide of the deltoid. It continues its at- tachment all the way down the fore part of the hume- rus to within an inch of the joint. It is very thick, flelhy, and ftrong ; it is tendinous for about two inches in its fore part; and is inferted by a flat ftrong tendon into the coronoid procefs of the ulna. Other ufes are afcribed to it, as the lifting up the capfule to prevent its being pinched ; but the chief ufe of it is to bend the fore-arm. In a ftrong man, it is exceedingly thick, and its edge proje&s from under the edge of the biceps, and is feen in the lateral view. LXXX. Triceps extensor.—Upon the back part of the arm three mufcles are defcribed : the extenfor longus,\ MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 251 longus, the extenfor brevis, and the brachialis exter- nus; but it is, in faCt, one three-headed mufcle. The longeft head of this mufcle is in the middle. It arifes by a flat tendon of one inch in thicknefs, from the edge of the fcapula under the neck, and a little way from the origin of the long head of the biceps ; and it is under this head that the tendon of the teres major pafles to its infertion. The fecond head is on the outfide of the arm, next in length to this. It arifes from the arm-bone under the great tuber, and juft below the infertion of the te- res minor. Thefe two meet about the middle of the humerus. The third, or internal head, is the Ihorteft of all. It begins at the inner fide of the humerus, juft under the infertion of the teres major ; and it arifes from the in- ner part of the humerus, all the way down, and joins juft where the fecond head joins (i. e. about the mid- dle.) All thefe heads ftill continue adhering to the humerus (as the brachialis does on the fore fide), quite down to within an inch of the joint; and then a ftrong thick tendon is formed, by which it is implanted ftrongly in the projecting heel of the ulna, named ole- cranon ; by which projection it has great power, and the power is increafed by an increafed length in dogs, and other animals which run or bound. The whole forms a very thick and powerful mufcle, which covers and embraces all the back part of the arm ; and its ufe is too Ample to admit of any farther explanation, than juft to fay that it extends the hinge- joint of the elbow with great power ; and that by its long252 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. long head it may aflift alfo to bend the fhoulder out- wards and backwards. Befides bones, there is alfo another fource of attach- ment for mufcles, that is, the tendinous expanfions: for the expanfions, which go on the furface like {heaths, alfo dive betwixt the mufcles, and form fepta or partitions, from which their fibres arife. One tendinous expanfion begins from the clavicle and acromion procefs, or rather comes down from the neck ; it is then ftrengthened by the tendon of the deltoid mufcle ; it defcends, covering all the arm ; and before it goes down over the fore-arm, it is again re- inforced chiefly by the biceps, but alfo by the tendon of the extenfor triceps. One remarkable procefs or partition of this general fafcia is fent in from the fh'eath to be fixed to the outfide of the humerus, all the way down to the ridge of the outer condyle. Another partition goes down, in like manner, to the inner con- dyle, along the ridge which leads to it; then the faf- cia, taking a firm hold on the condyles, is greatly ftrengthened about the elbow, and goes over the fore- arm, inclofing its mufcles in a very firm and ciofe fheath ; and it fends partitions down among the feve- ral layers of mufcles in the fore-arm, which gives each of them a firm hold. LXXXI. The anconeus is a frnall triangular muf- cle, placed on the back part of the elbow. It arifes from the ridge and from the external condyle of the hume- rus, by a thick, ftrong, and fhort tendon. From this it becomes flefhy ; and after running about three inches obliquely backwards, it is inferted by its oblique flefhy fibres into the back part or ridge of the ulna. ItMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 253 It is manifeftly defigned for the extenfion of the fore- arm, and has only that one fimple adtion. MUSCLES OF THE RADIUS, CARPUS, AND FINGERS. The whole fore-arm is covered with a mafs of muf- cles of great ftrength, and fo numerous and intricate, with a catalogue of names fo difficult, and fo diftradt- ing, that they fhould be arranged and clafTed with much care, explaining to the ftudent the reafon and value of their names, and the place and effedt of each clafs. The fore-arm is covered with a fafcia or ftrong ten- dinous web, which, like that which covers the tempo- ral mufcle, gives both origin and ftrength to the muf- cles which lie under it; which divides the feveral layers one from another ; and helps them in their ftrong ac- tions, with that kind of fupport which workmen feel in binding their arms with thongs. This fafcia is faid to proceed from the fmall tendon of the biceps mufcle, though that were but a flender origin for fo great a web of tendon, which not only covers the furface of the mufcles but enters among their layers. This fafcia really begins in the fhoulder, and has an addition and an increafe of ftrength from every point of bone ; it is affifted by each tendon, becaufe the tendons and fafcia are of one nature over all the body, and its con- nection with the tendon of the biceps is quite of an- other kind from that which has been fuppofed. I would not allow that the biceps tendoQ. expands into the fafcia, but rather that the web receives the biceps tendon, which is implanted into it; and for this wife purpofe,254 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. purpofe, that when the fore-arm is to ftrike, or the hand to grafp, the biceps firft moves, and by making the fafcia tenfe, prepares the fore-arm for thofe vio- lent actions which are to enfue. Thus, it may be defined a web of thin but ftrong tendon, which covers all the mufcles of the fore-arm; makes the furface before difle&ion firm and fmooth; fends down par- titions, which are fixed into the ridges of the radius and ulna, enabling thofe bones to give a broader origin to the mufcles, eftablifihing a ftrong connexion among the feveral layers, and making the difle&ion always difficult, and never fair nor clean. The motions to be performed by the mufcles which iie upon the fore arm are thefe three ; to roll the hand ; to bend the wrift ; to bend the fingers. i. The turning of the hand, which is performed by rolling the radius on the ulna, is named pronation and fupination. When we turn the palm down, it is faid to be prone; when we turn the palm upwards, it is fupine. This is pronation and fupination. The muf- cles which perform thefe motions are the pronators and the supinators ; and the motion itfelfis beft ex- * emplified in the turning of a key in a lock, or in the guards of fencing, which are formed by a continual play of the radius upon the ulna, carrying the wrift round in circles. 2. The wrift is called the carpus, and therefore thofe mufcles which ferve for bending or extending the wrift are the flexors and extensors of the carpus. 3. The bending and extending of the fingers cannot be miftaken j and therefore the flexors and extenfors of the fingers need not be explained. 14 ThefeMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 2 55 Thefe mufcles are denominated from their ufes chiefly 9 but if two mufcles perform one motion, they may be dillinguiflied by fome accident of their fituation or form. And thus, if there be two benders of the fingers, one above the other, they are named flexor sublimis, and flexor profundus, i. e. the deep and the fuperficial flexors. If there be two flexors of the carpus, one is named flexor, radialis carpi, by its running along the radius; the other flexor ulnaris carpi, from pafiing along in the courfe of the ulna. And if there be two pronators, one may be dillinguiflied as the pronator teres, from its round Ihape, the other as the pronator quadratus,, from its fquare form. And this, I trull, will ferve as a key to what is found to be a fource of inextricable confufion. It will be eafy to make the origins ami infertions of thefe mufcles ftill more fimple than their names ; for all the mufcles arife from two points, and have but two ufes. This aflertion fhall be afterward.s qualified, with a few exceptions; but at prefent it lfiall Hand for the rule of our demonftration; for all the mufcles arife from two points, the external and the internal condyle. The internal condyle is the longer one, and giveA.mofl power; more power is required for bending, grafting, and turning the hand 9 therefore all the mufcles w.hich bend the hand, all the mufcles which bend the fingt^rs, and the pronator, or that which turns the palm dov. T&- wards, arife from the the internal condyle. 1 he external condyle is Ihorter ; it gives lefs power % there is little refiftance to the opening of the hand, and little power is required in extending the fingers 9 and2^6 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. fo all the mufcles which extend the wrifl: or the fingers, or roll the hand outwards to turn it fupine, arife from the external condyle. So that when we hear a pronator or a flexor named, we know that the origin mufl be the internal condyle, and the infertion is exprefled by the name : thus a pro- nator radii is a turner of the radius, and goes to the radius ; a flexor carpa goes to the wrifl; a flexor digi- torum goes to the fingers ; and a flexor pollicis goes to the thumb : All the flexors, and all the pronators, iflue from that point as from a centre. And, again, when a fupinator or an extenfor is named, we know where to look for it; for they alfo go out from one common point., the external condyle; and the fupi- nator radii go es to the radius; the extenfor carpi goes to the wriflthe extenfor pollicis goes to the thumb; and the extenfor indicis to the fore-finger. flexors. The muscles clofing and bending the hand arife from tlae internal condyle. They are, Th e pronator teres radii, turning fhe radius. Palmaris longus, -n Flexor carpi radialis, C bending the wrifl. ULNARIS, ) digitorum sublimis, a bending the profundusj > fingers and - longus pollicis, J thumb. And laftly, there is the pronator quadratus, which is the Tingle mufcle out of that fcheme which I have propofed; lying flat upon the interoffeous mem- brane near the wrifl. LXXXII.MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 257 LXXXII. The pronator teres radii is of the outermoft layer of mufcles, is fmall and round; named pronator from its office of turning the radius, and teres from its ffiape, or rather to diftinguifh it from the pronator quadratus, which is a ffiort fquare muf- cle which lies deep again, being laid flat upon the naked bones. The pronator teres arifes chiefly from the internal tubercle of the humerus, at its lower and fore part: it has a fecond origin from the coronoid procefs of the ulna. Thefe form two portions, betwixt which paffes the radial nerve. The mufcle thus formed is conical; is gradually fmaller from above down- wards ; is chiefly flefhy, but is alfo a little tendinous, both at its origin and at its infertion; and ft retches obliquely acrofs the fore-arm, palling over the other mufcles to be inferted in the outer ridge of the radius, about the middle of its length. Its ufe is to turn the hand downwards, by turning the radius; and it will alfo, in ftrong adtions, be brought to bend the fore-arm on the arm ; or the re- verfe, when the fore-arm is fixed, and we are to raife the trunk by holding with the hands. LXXXIII. The palmarjs lonc-us is a long thin mufcle, which although it feems to have another ufe in its expanfion into the aponeurofis ; yet is truly, by its infertion into the annular ligament of the wrift, a flexor of the wrift, and in fome degree, a pronator of the radius. It arifes from the internal condyle of the os humeri, and is the firft of five mufcles which have one common tendon, and which go out, like radii, from one com- voi.. i» s mon258 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. mon centre; viz. the palmaris, the flexor radialis, the flexor ulnaris, the flexor digitorum fublimis, the flexor digitorum profundus. The palmarisr' longus arifes from the inner condyle of the os humeri, and alfo from the intermufcular tendon, which joins it with the flexor radialis and flexor digitorum fublimis, and from the internal fur- face of the common fheath. Its flefhy belly is but two inches and a half or three inches in length ; and its long flender tendon defcends along the middle of the fore-arm to be inferted into the fore-part of the annular ligament of the wrift, juft: under the root of the thumb. This tendon feems to give rife to the very ftrong thick aponeurofis of the palm of the hind (under which all the mufcles of the hand run, and which conceals the arch of blood veflels, and prote&s them), thence the mufcle has its name. But it is a very common miftake to think, that becaufe tendons are fixed to the fheaths, the fheaths are only produc- tions of the tendons; whereas the fheaths do truly arife from bones. The fafcia, which the deltoides is thought to form, arifes from the acromion and cla- vicle ; and the fafcia, which the biceps is thought to produce, arifes from the condyles of the humerus ; and that great fheath of tendon which is made tenfe by the mufculus fafcialis of the thigh, does not arife from that mufcle, but comes down from the fpine of the ilium, ftrengthened by expanfions from the ob- lique mufcles of the abdomen. In the prefent in- ftance, we have the cleared: proof of fafcia being de- rived from fome other fource than the tendons; for fometimes the palmaris mufcle is awanting, when ftill theMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C„ 259 the tendinous expanfion is found* and fome pretend to fay that the expanfion is awanting when the mufcle is found. The aponeurofis, which covers the palm, is like the palm itfelf, of a triangular figure ; it begins from the fmall tendon of the palmaris longus, and gradually expands, covering the palm down-to the fmall ends of the metacarpal bones. Its fibres expand in form of rays j and towards the end there are crofs bands which hold them together and make them, ftronger; but it does not cover the two outer meta- carpal bones (the metacarpal of the fore-finger or of the little finger), or it only covers them with a very- thin expanfion. Now this palmar expanfion alfo fends down perpen- dicular divifions, which take hold on the edges of the metacarpal bones: and thus there being a perpendi- cular divifion to each edge of each metacarpal bone, there are eight in all, which form canals for the tendons of the fingers, and for the lumbricales mufcles. LXXXIV. The palmaris brevis is a thin flat cutaneous mufcle, which arifes properly from the edge of the palmar aponeurofis, near to the ligament of the wrifl:; whence it ftretches acrofs the hand in thin faf- ciculi of fibres, which are at laft: inferted into the meta- carpal bone, on which the little finger Hands, and into the lkin and fat on the edge of the palm. This is the palmaris cutaneus of fome authors, for which we can find no ufe except it were that of draw- ing in the lkin of the hand, and perhaps making the palmar expanfion tenfe. LXXXV. The flexor carpi radialis is a long thin mufcle arifing from the inner condyle, ftretching s 2 alongl6o MUJ3CLES OP THE ARM, &C. along the middle of the fore-arm fomewhat in the courfe of the radius, and is one of the five mufcles which rife by one common tendon, and which are, for fome length, tied together. It arifes tendinous from the inner condyle; the ten- don very fhort and thick. This tendon, at its origin, is fplit into many (feven) heads, which are interlaced with the heads of the fublimis, profundus, palmaris, &c.; confequently this mufcle not only arifes from the internal condyle, but alfo from the intermufcular par- titions (as from that betwixt it and the fublimis): it forms a long tendon, which, becoming at lafl very fmall and round, runs under the annular ligament: it runs in a gutter peculiar to itfelf; but in this canal it is moveable, not fixed : it then expands a very little, and is inferted into the metacarpal bone of the fore- finger, alfo touching that which fupports the thumb. Its ufe is chiefly to bend the wrift upon the radius. But when we confider its oblique dire&ion, it will alfo be very evident that it mull have fome effect in pronation ; and this, like many of the mufcles of the fore-arm, although defigned for a different purpofe, will alfo have fome effect in bending the fore-arm at the elbow-joint. LXXXVI. The flexor carpi ulnaris is a long mufcle, much like the former; but as its courfe is along the radius or upper edge of the fore-arm, this runs along the ulna or lower edge. It comes off tendinous from the inner condyle of the os humeri, by the common tendon of all the muf- cles: It has alfo, like the pronator teres, a feccnd head (viz. from the olecranon procefs of the ulna), 12 whichMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. S6l which arifes flefliy; and as the radial nerve paffes betwixt the heads of the pronator teres, the ulnar nerve perforates this mufcle betwixt its heads. The flexor ulnaris paffes all along the flat fide of the ulna, betwixt the edge of the fublimis and the ridge of the bone: and here it has a third origin of oblique fibres, which come from the edge of the ulna two-thirds of its length. Its tendon begins early on its upper part, by which it has fomewhat the form of a penniform mufcle. It has flill a fourth origin from the inter- mufcular partition, which (lands betwixt it and the fublimis flexor; and is alfo attached to the internal furface of the common fafcia of the arm. Its long tendon is at lad inferted into the os pififorme at its fore-part, where it fends off a thin tendinous expan- fion to cover and ftrengthen the annular ligament; and alfo a thin expanfion towards the fide of the little finger to cover its mufcles. This,is to balance the flexor radialis: acting together, they bend the wrift with great ftrength; and when this afts alone, it pulls the edge of the hand fidewife. LXXXVII. The flexor digitorum sublimis, is named sublimis from being the more fuperficial of the two mufcles; perforatus, from its tendon being per- forated by the tendon of that which lies immediately below. It lies betwixt the palmaris longus and flexor ulnaris. It is a large flefhy mufcle; and not only its tendons, but its belly alfo, is divided into four fafciculi, correfponding with the fingers which it is to ferve. It arifes from the internal condyle, along with the other four mufcles; from the ligament of the elbow joint j from the coronoid procefs of the ulna; and s 3 from26l MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. from the upper part of the radius, at the lharp ridge. By thefe origins it becomes very flelhy and thick; and a little above the middle of the fore-arm divides into four flelhy portions, each of which ends in a fiender tendon. The tendons begin at the middle of the fore-arm or near the divifion; but they continue to be joined to each other by flelhy fibres fome way down: and indeed the flelhy fibres ceafe only when it is about to pafs under the annular ligament of the wrift. At this place a cellular ftringy tiflue connedls the tendons with each other, and with the tendons of the profundus; but after they have pafled under the ligament, they expand towards the fingers which they are to ferve. They each begin to be extended and flattened, and to become thinner; they begin to ap- pear cleft; they pafs by the edge of the metacarpal bones, and efcape from under the palmar aponeurofis: and where it ends, viz. at the root of the fingers, a tendinous Iheath or burfa begins, in which thefe ten- dons continue to be inclofed. The tendons are fairly fplit juft oppofite to the top of the firfl: phalanx: and it is at this point that the tendons of the deeper mufcle pafs through this fplit- ting. The flattened tendon parts into two, and its oppofite edges diverge; the back edges meet behind the tendons of the profundus, and form a kind of Iheath for them to pafs in ; and then they proceed forward along the fecond phalanx, into the fore-part of which they are implanted. This mufcle is exceedingly ftrong. Its chief office is to bend the fecond joint of the fingers upon the firfl:, and the firfl; upon the metacarpal bone. And inMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 263 in proportion to the number of joints that a mufcle pafles over, its offices rauft be more numerous; for this one not only moves the fingers on the metacarpus, but the hand upon the wrift, and even the fore-arm upon the arm. LXXXVIII. The flexor digitorum profundus vel perforans, has the fame origin, infertion, and ufe, infomuch that the defcription of the laft is applicable to this mufcle in almoft every point. This is of a low- er ftratum of mufcles; it lies deeper, and under the for- mer, whence its name: and by this deeper fituation it is excluded from any hold upon the tubercle of the humerus, It arifes from the ulna, along its internal furface; from the whole furface of the interofieous ligament; and alfo in fome degree from the intermufcular mem- brane, which feparates this from the fublimis. This mufcle is fmall, we may fay compreffed, above \ but it grows pretty ftrong and fleffiy near the middle of the arm; it divides above the middle of the arm into four portions, correfponding with the four fingers ; and it is about the middle of the arm that the tendons begin, and continue to receive mufcular fibres from behind, all down to the ligament of the wrift. At the wrift thefe tendons are tied to each other, and to the tendons of the fublimis, by loofe tendinous and cellular fibres. They diverge from each other, after palling under the annular ligament; and going along in the hollow of the bones, under the tendons of the fublimis, they nrft pafs through the bridges formed by the palmar aponeurofis, then enter the fheaths of the fingers, and finally pafs through the perforations of s 4 ' tfie264 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. the fublimis, a little belong the fecond joint of the fin- gers. At this place the perforating tendons are fmaller and rounder for their eafy pafiage; and after palling they again expand and become fiat. They alfo above this appear themfelves fplit in the middle, without any evident purpofe; they pafs the fecond phalanx, and are fixed into the root of the third. And every thing that is faid of the ufe of the fublimis may be applied to this, only that its tendons go to the furtheft joint. LXXXIX. Lumbricales.—I fhall here defcribe, as a natural appendage of the profundus, the lumbri- cales mufcles, which are four fmall and round muf- cles, refembling the earth-worm in form and fize; whence they have their name. They arife in the palm of the hand, from the tendons of the profundus, and are therefore under the fublimis, and under the palmar aponeurofis. They are fmall mufcles, with long and very delicate tendons. Their flefhy bellies are about the length of the metacarpal bones, and their fmall tendons ftretch over two joints, to reach the middle of the fecond phalanx. The firfi lumbricalis is larger than the fecond, and'the two firfi: larger than the two laft. The firfi arifes from the fide of the tendon of the fore-fingers, which is next to the radius; the others arife in the forks of the tendons; and though they rife more from that tendon which is next the ulna, yet they have attachments to both. Their tendons begin below the firfi; joint of each finger; they run very flender along the firfi phalanx, and they gradual- ly wind around the bone; fo that though the mufcles are in the palm of the hand, the tendons are implant- ed/ MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 265 ed in the back parts of the fingers; and their final connection is not with the bending tendons of the fublimis and profundus, but with tendons of the ex- tenfor digitorum, and with the tendons of the exter- nal interoflei mufcles, and with which they are united by tendinous threads. Hence their ufe is very evident: they bend the firft joint, and extend the fecond; they perform alter- nately either office: when the extenfors aft, they af- fift them by extending the fecond phalanx or joint: when the flexors aft, and keep the firft and fecond joint bended, the extending effeft of thefe fmaller mufcles is prevented, and all their contraction mult be direfted fo as to affeft the firft joint only, which they then bend. They are chiefly ufeful in performing the quick fhort motions, and fo they are named by Cowper the mufculi fidicinales, as chiefly ufeful in playing upon mufical inftruments. XC. The flexor longus pollicis is placed by the fide of the fublimis or perforatus, and lies under the extenfor, or rather extenfores carpi. It runs along the inner fide of the radius, whence chiefly it arifes. Its origin is from all the internal face of the radius downwards; from the place where the biceps is in- ferted, and from the interofleous ligament, all the length down to the origin of the pronator quadratus, nor does it even flop here; for the tendon continues to receive flefhy flips all the way down to the entry, under the ligament of the wrifl. It has often alfo another head which arifes from the condyle of the humerus and the fore-part of the ulna j which head is266 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. is tendinous, and joins near the top of that origin which comes from the radius. It becomes tendinous very high, i. e. above the middle of the arm; and its" fmall tendon paifes under the annular ligament, glides in the hollow of the os metacarpi pollicis, and feparates the ftiort flexor into two heads; paffes betwixt the two fefamoid bones in the firfl joint of the thumb, and running in the tendi- nous {heath, it reaches at laft the end of the fartheft bone, to be inferted into the very point of it. There is fometimes fent off from the lower part of the mufcle a fmall fieihy flip, which joins its tendon to the indicator tendon of the fublimis. Its ufes, we conje&ure, are exactly as of thofe of the other flexors, to bend the laft phalanx on the firfl, the firfl on the metacarpal bones, and occafionally the wrift upon the radius and ulna, XCI. The pronator quadratus, fo named from its Ihape and form, is one of the moft Ample in its ac- tion, fince it ferves but one dired purpofe, viz. turning the radius upon the ulna. It lies flat upon the interoffeous ligament, upon the fore-part of the arm, about two inches above the wrift ; it is nearly fquare, and is about three inches in length and breadth. Its fibres go obliquely acrofs, betwixt 1 the radius and ulna. It arifes from the edge of the ulna, adheres to the interofleous ligament, and goes to be implanted into the edge of the radius. It turns the radius upon the ulna; and this mufcle, and in fome degree alfo the flexor pollicis, are the only mufcles whicfl do not come fairly under that arrangement by yhichMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 267 which I have endeavoured to explain the mufcles of the fore-arm. EXTENSORS. The mufcles which lie upon the outer fide of the fore-arm, the fupinatcrs and the extenfors of the fin- gers and wrift, all arife from one point, the external condyle of the humerus, and are all delivered in this lift: The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR,! ^ p,yf ^ The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR, > ^ The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS, 3 The supinator longus,—turns the palm upwards. The extensor communis digitorum,—extends all the fingers, and unfolds the hand. The EXTENSOR PRIMI INTERNODI I' pollicis, extend The extensor secundi INTERNODH the feveral pollicis, j joints of the The extensor tertii internobii thumb. pollicis, The extensor primi digiti, vel indicator,—ex- tends the fore-finger. The extensor minimi digiti, vel auriculAris,-—■ extends the little finger. All thefe mufcles arife from one point, the external condyle. They all roll the radius outwards, or extend the wrift, or extend the fingers. As the mufcles which bend need more fibres and greater ftrength, they arife from the internal condyle, which is the larger $ they lie in a deep hollow, for the bones of the fore- arm bend to conceal them, and they form a very thick2.68 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. flefhy cufhion; but the extenfors requiring lefs power, arife from the fhorter procefs of the outer condyle, are on the convex fide of the arm, and are thin, hav- ing few fibres: for though there is a large mafs of flefli on the inner fide of the arm, forming two big flexors, there is only a thin layer on the outer fide of the arm, forming one flat and weak extenfor. XCII. Supinator radii longus. This mufcle forms the very edge of the fore-arm: It arifes by many fhort tendinous fibres from the ridge of the hu- merus, above the external condyle, which origin is fully two inches in length above the condyle. It alfo arifes from the inter-mufcular membrane; and, as it Hands on the very edge of the fore-arm, it runs be- twixt the flexor and extenfor radialis. It becomes thicker as it paflfes the elbow-joint, and there gives a very peculiar form to the arm : It then becomes fmal- ler, and forms a flat tendon, which is quite naked of flefh from the middle of the radius, or a little below, down to the wrift. This tendon becomes gradually fmaller till it reaches the wrifl;, where, expanding a little, it is inferted into the radius, juft in the tuber of its lower head. Its ufe is perhaps chiefly as a fupinator, but it is placed juft upon the edge of the arm : it Hands as a fort of intermedium betwixt the two fets of mufcles; it is fixed indeed rather upon the internal furface of the radius; but yet when the fupination is complete, when the hand is rolled very much outward, it will become a pronator. It is all at once fupinator and pronator, and, for a molt evident reafon, a flexor alfo of the fore-arm j fince itsMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C# 269 The its origin is at leaft two inches up the humerus, above the joint of the elbow. XCIII. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR. has the additional name of longior or primus, to diftin- guilh it from the next. It is almoft entirely covered with the laft mufcle, the fupinator. It arifes from the ridge of the humerus above the external condyle, and juft under the origin of the fu- pinator ; it defcends all along the back of the radius, and after having become a thick flefhy belly, it dege- nerates a little lower than the middle of the radius into a thin flat tendon, which becomes flender and fmail as it defcends; and turning a little more towards the back of the radius, it then pafles over the wrift ; and goes along with the tendon of the extenfor brevior, under the annular ligament, palling in a groove of the radius; at laft it is inferted into the root of the me- tacarpal bone of the fore-finger, in that edge next the thumb. It is chiefly an extenfor of the wrift: in pronation, it pulls the wrift directly backwards; in fupination, it moves the hand fidewife. It is alfo a pronator when the hand is turned back to the greateft degree ; and from its origin, high upon the Ihoulder-bone, it is alfo a flexor of the fcre-arm. XCIV. Extensor carpi radialis brevior, This mufcle is almoft the fame in defcription, name, and ufe, with the former. It arifes from the external con- dyle; and here a common tendon for many mufcles ip formed, juft as in the internal condyle; for from this point arife the extenfor brevis, extenfor digitorum? extenfor minimi digiti, extenfor carpi ulnaris.27® MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. The extenfor carpi radialis brevior arifes from the outer condyle of the humerus, by the common ten- don ; it alfo arifes from the aponeurofis, which lies be- twixt the ext.nfor digitorum and this; it grows a pretty large flefhy belly, and begins like the laft to be tendinous below the middle of the radius ; fo that this mufcle continues fleftry, lower than the laft one* Its tendon is alfo much larger and thicker; it runs under the annular ligament, in the fame channel with the extenfor longior ; it expands a little before its in- fertion, which is into the fore-part of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, a little towards that edge, which is next to the radius: Some little fibres pafs from this tendon to the metacarpal bone of the fore- finger. ' All that was faid concerning the extenfor Iongus may be faid of this; for all the three laft mufcles lie fo ambiguoufly on the edge of the arm, that though they are regularly fupinators and extenfors, they become pronators and flexors in certain pofitions of the hand. XCV. Extensor carpi ulnaris.—By the name merely of this mufcle we know its extent and courfe, its origin, infertion, and ufe. It is one of the mufcles which belong to the com-, mon tendon, arifing from the external tubercle of the os humeri: It lies along the ulnar edge of the arm ; it arifes alfo from the intermufcular membrane, which feparates this from the extenfor digitorum and the extenfor digiti minimi; and chiefly it is attached to the internal furface of the common fheath. It arifes alfo from the face and edge of the ulna the whole way down; its tendon begins in the middle of its length, andMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 2^1 and is accompanied all down to the wrift with feather- like flefhy fibres. It is fixed into the outfide of the lower head of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Its ufe is to extend the carpus. And it may be now obferved, that when the two extenfors of the wrift, the radialis and ulnaris, ad, the hand is bent diredly back- wards ; that when the flexor radialis and extenfor ra- dialis ad together, they bend the thumb towards the radius ; and that when the flexor ulnaris and extenfor ulnaris ad, they bend the little finger towards the ulna, as in cutting with the edge of the hand: thus a circle may be defcribed by ading with thofe in fuc- cefiion. XCVI. Extensor digitorum communis.—This mufcle correfponds with the fublimis and prqfundus, and antagonifes them, and refembles them in fhape as in ufe. It covers the middle of the fore-arm at its back, and lies betwixt the extenfor radialis fecundus and the extenfor minimi digiti. Its origin is chiefly from the outer condyle, by a ten- don common to it, with the extenfor carpi brevior, and alfo from the intermufcular membrane, which fe- parates it on one fide from the extenfor minimi digiti, and on the other from the extenfor carpi brevis, and alfo from the back part of the common fheath. It grows very flefhy and thick as it defcends, and about the middle of the fore-arm it divides itfelf into three flips of very equal fize. But though the tendons be-/ gin fo high, they continue, like thofe of the flexors, to receive flefhy penniforni fibres all down, almofl to the annular272 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. The annular ligament. Thefe tendons are tied together by a loofe web of fibres; and being gathered together, they pafs under the ligament in one common and ap- propriated channel. Having pafled this ligament, they diverge and grow flat and large; and they all have the appearance of being fplit by a perpendicular line. They are quite different from the flexor tendons in this, that they are all tied to each other by crofs bands; for a little above the knuckles, or firfl: joint of the fin- gers, all the tendons are joined on the back of the hand by flips from the little-finger to the ring, from the ring to the mid-finger, and from that to the fore-finger. So that it feems to be one ligament running quite acrofs the back of the hand. Tt would be foolifh to defcribe them more minutely; for the crofs bands change their places, and vary in every fubjed, and in fome they are not found. After this the tendons pafs over the heads of the metacarpal bones, along the firfl phalanx of the fin- gers } and being there joined by the tendons of the interoflei and lumbricales, they altogether form a flrong tendinous fheath, which furrounds the back of the fingers. Now, it is to be remembered, that this mufcle ferves only for the fore, middle, and ring fingers: That if it moves the little finger, it is only by a fmall flip of ten- dinous fibres, which it often gives off at the general divergence, but fometimes not; fometimes it gives one flip, fometimes two, often none at all. And fo the little-finger has its proper extenfor quite diflind from this.■ MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 273 The ufe of this mufcle is to extend all the fingers ; and when they are fixed, it will aflift the extenfors of the wrift, as in ftriking backwards with the knuckles. And fince there is but one extenfor mufcle, the crofs tendons are a provifion againft the bad confequences of any fingle tendon being cut acrofs. XCVII. The extensor minimi digiti, named alfo auricularis from its turning up the little finger, as in picking the ear, fhould really be defcribed with the laft mufcle. If we fee the origin, courfe, and ufe of this mufcle exadly the fame with the common exten- for, why fhould we not reckon it as a flip of the com- mon extenfor, appropriated to the little finger ? Its origin is from the outer condyle, along with the other tendons. It alfo adheres fo clofely both to the tendinous partitions, and to the internal furface of the common fafcia, that it is not eafily feparated in diffec- tion. It begins fmall, with a conical kind of head; it gradually increafes in fize, it is pretty thick near the wrift; it adheres all along to the common exten- fors of the fingers 5 it begins to be tendinous about an inch above the head of the ulna; it continues to re- ceive flefhy fibres down to the annular ligament; and it pafles under the annular ligament in a channel pe- culiar to itfelf, which is indeed the beft reafon for making this a diftind mufcle. This channel has a very oblique diredion; and the tendon, like all the others, expands greatly in efcaping from the ligament of the wrift. It is conneded with the other tendons in the manner I have defcribed. Clofe to the wrift, it is conneded with the tendon of the. ring-finger, by a flip which comes from it j and at VOL, u T the274 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C» the knuckle, and below it, it is again conne&ed with the t :ndons both of the ring-finger and of all the others by the crofs bands or expanfions. Whatever has been faid of the ufe of the laft mufcle is to be underftood of this ; as its extending its proper finger, aflifting the others by its communicating band, and in its extending the wrift when the fill is clenched. Its infertion is into the back of the fecond joint of the little-finger, along with the interoffsei and lumbricales. Its tendon has alfo a fmall flit; for the head of the proper extenfor of the little finger, and the heads of the common extenfors of the others, are inferted into the top of the fecond phalanx, juft under the firft joint. They fend off at the fides tendinous flips, which, paf- fing along the edges of the bones, do, in conjunction with the tendons of the interoffasi and lumbricales, form a fplit tendon, which meets by two curves at the foot of the laft bone of the fingers to move the laft joint. XCVIII. The extensor primus pollicis, is the fhorteft of the three extenfors of the thumb. It is named by Albinus and others abductor longus ; but fince every mufcle that extends the thumb muft pull it away from the hand, every one of them might* be with equal propriety named abduCtors. The extenfor primus lies juft on the fore edge of the radius, crofting it obliquely. It arifes about the middle of the fore-arm, from th$ edge of the ulna, which gives rife to the interroffeous membrane itfelf, and alfo from the convex furface of the radius. Th«MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 275 The flelhy belly commonly divides itfelf into two or three, fometimes four flelhy flips, with diftinft tendons ; which crofling the radius obliquely, flip under the ex- ternal ligament of the carpus, and are implanted into the root of the firft metacarpal bone, or rather of the firft phalanx of the thumb, towards the radial edge ; fo that its chief ufe is to extend the thumb, and to in- cline it a little outwards towards the radius. It mull alfo, like the extenfors of the fingers, be an extenfor of the wrift: and it evidently muft, from its oblique direction, afiift in fupination. XCIX. The extensor secundus pollicis is long- er than the firft. It is named by Douglas the extenfor fecundi internodii pollicis; by Albinus the extenfor minor pollicis. This mufcle lies clofe by the former. It arifes juft below it, from the fame edge of the radius, and from the fame furface of the interofleous membrane; it runs along with it in the fame bending courfe; and, in Ihort, it refembles it fo much, that Winflow has reck- oned it as part of the fame mufcle. Its origin is from the edge of the ulna, the interof- feous ligament, and the radius. Its fmall round ten- don paffes fometimes in a peculiar channel, fometimes with the extenfor primus. It goes over the metacar- pal bone of the thumb ; it expands upon the bone of the firft phalanx ; and it is inferted j\ift under the fe- cond joint. It extends the fecond bone of the thumb upon the firft j it extends the firft bone alfo ; and it extends the wrift, and by its oblique direction, contributes to fu- pination. v T 2 G. Ex-276 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. C. Extensor tertius pollicis.—This which bends the third joint is called in common the exten- for longus pollicis. And here is a third mufcle, which, in form, and place, and fun&ion, correfponds with the two former ones. Its origin is from the ridge of the ulna, and from the upper face of the interoffeous membrane : and it is a longer mufcle than the others ; for it begins high, near the top of the ulna, and continues the whole way down that bone, and is very fleflry and thick. It is penniform all the way down to the ligament of the wrift; and its fmall tendon paifes the ligament in a peculiar ring. This tendon appears fplit, like thofe of the fingers ; it goes along the ulnar fide of the firft bone of the thumb, reaches the fecond, and is im- planted there by a fmall flip of tendon y and being ex- panded, it ftill goes forward, to be inlerted once more into the third bone of the thumb at its root. Its, ufe is evident after defcribing the others; for we have only to add another joint for motion. It moves the laft joint of the thumb, then the fecond, then its metacarpal bone upon the carpus; and if that be held firm, it will extend the carpus; and it will, in its turn, contribute to fupination, though in a lefs degree than the others. CI.Indicator.—The extensor indicisproprius has very nearly the fame origin, and exadtly the fame courfe with the laft, and lies by the fide of it. Its origin is from the ulna, by the fide of the exten- for longus pollicis. It has alfo fome little attachments to the interoffeous membrane. It, like the others, is featheredMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 2^/ feathered with fibres in an oblique direction down to the ligament of the wrift. This mufcle lies under the extenfor communis digi- torum ; its tendon paffes along with the common ten- don, through the annular ligament; and near the top of the metacarpal bone, or about the place of the com- mon jundions of all thefe tendons, this one joins with the indicator tendon of the common extenfor. Its ufe is to extend all the three joints of the fore- finger, affi fling the common extenfor to point with that finger, to ad independently of the common ex- tenfor, and to help to extend the wrift when the fin- gers are clofed. CII. The supinator brevis is an internal mufcle, which forms, with the mufcles of the thumb, of the fore-finger, and mid-finger, a kind of fecond layer j and this one lies concealed, much as the pronator quadratus does, on the inner fide of the fore-arm. It is a fhort mufcle, but very thick and flefhy, and of great power. It arifes from the outer tubercle of the os humeri, and from the edge of the ulna, and from the interof- feous ligament: it is then lapped over the radius, and is inferted into its ridge; fo that this fupinator brevis is very diredly oppofed to the pronator teres, the in- fertion of the two mufcles almoft meeting on the edge of the radius, it is almoft circumfcribed to one ufe, that of performing the rotation of the radius outwards; but perhaps it may alfo have fome little effect in ex- tending the ulna and in affifting the anconeus. T 3 MUSCLES278 MUSCLES OP THE ARM, &C. MUSCLES SEATED ON THE HAND. Besides thofe mufcles which bend and extend the fingers, there are other fmaller ones feated on the hand i'tfelf, which are chiefly for a {lifting the former, and for quicker motions; but mofl efpecially for the lateral motions of the thumb and little-finger; and which are therefore named adductors, abductors, and flexors, of the little-finger and thumb. That they are chiefly ufeful in aflifting and ftrengthening the larger mufcles, is evident from this, that much power being required for flexion, we find many of thefe fmaller mufcles added in the palm of the hand: but as there is little power of extenfion needed, little more than what will merely balance the power of the flexors, there are no fmall mufcles on the back of the hand, the interoflfaei externi excepted, which are chiefly ufeful in fpreading the fingers. The fhort mufcles in the palm of the hand are for bending the thumb, the fore-finger, and the little- finger : and the little finger and the thumb have each of them three diftinft mufcles ; one to pull the thumb away from the hand, one to bend it, and one to pull it towards the hand, oppofing it to the reft of the fingers, and fo of the little finger, which has alfo three muf- ■ cles. ARRANGEMENT OF THESE MUSCLES. 1. Lumbricales, which bend all the fingers. • aeductor pollicis, I bending the thumb and flexor and opponens I carrying it away from the pollicis, I other fingers,or towards adductor pollicis, Jthe palm of the hand. 3. abductorMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 279 ABDUCTOR INDICIS which carries the fore fin- ger towards the thumb. 'ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGI- 4- TI, ADDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI, FLEXOR MINIMI DIGITI, which bend the little finger, and carry it like the thumb out- wards or inwards. 5- f J INTEROSSAZI, 1 which are fmall mufcles, lying be- twixt the metacarpal bones, and aflifling the lumbricales in bend- Jing the fingers. All the mufcles of the thumb are feated on the in- fide, to form the great ball of the thumb ; and it is not eafy at firfl: to conceive how mufcles, having fo much the fame place, fhould perform fuch oppofite motions ; yet it is eafily explained by the flight variation of their places ; for the abductor arifes from the annu- lar ligament near the radius, and goes towards the back of the thumb. The flexor arifes deeper from bones of the carpus, and from the infide of the liga- ment, and goes to the infide of the thumb. The abductor arifes from the metacarpal of the mid- finger, and goes to the inner edge of the thumb. CIII. The abductor pollicis is covered only by the common integuments. It begins a little tendi- nous from the outfide of the annular ligament, juft under the thumb, and by fome little fibres from the os fcaphoides ; and from the tendon of the long ab- duftor or extenfor primus, it bends gradually round the thumb, and is at lafl inferted in the back of the firfl joint, juft above the head of the metacarpal bone. t 4 But.28o MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. But it does not (lop here ; for this flat tendon is new- expanded into the form of a fafeia, which, furround- ing the firfl bone of the thumb, goes forward upon its back part, quite to the end, along with the com" mon tendon of the extenfor. This mufcle, like the others, is covered by a thin expanfion from the ten- don of the palmaris, as well as by the common inte- guments. Its only ufe is to pull the thumb from the lingers, and to extend the fecond bone upon the firfl. Albinus deferibes a fecond mufcle of the fame name, having the fame courfe, origin, infertion, and ufe : It alfo arifes from the outer fide of the ligament of the wrifl, and is fixed into the fide of the thumb, and lies upon the infide of the former mufcle. Thefe two are inferted into the firfl bone of the thumb; but the next is inferted into the metacarpal bone. CIV. The opponei^s pqllicis, is often called the metacarpal of the thumb. It is placed on the infide, and implanted into the fide of the thumb : Its office is to draw the thumb acrofs the other fingers, as in clenching the fill; and from its thus oppofing the fingers, it has its name of opponens. It lies immediately under the laft deferibed mufcle, and is like it in all but its infertion. It arifes from the os fcaphoides, and from the liga- ment of the wrifl. It is inferted into the edge and fore part of the metacarpal bone of the thumb: and its ufe is to turn the metacarpal bone upon its axis, and to oppofe the fingers ; or, in other words, to bend the thumb : for I can make no diflindion. There- foreMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C- 201 fore this mufcie and the next, which lies clofe upon it, may be fazrly confidered as but two different heads of one thick fhort mufcie. CV. The flexor brevis pollicis is a two-headed mufcie, placed quite on the infide of the thumb, be- twixt the fore-finger and the thumb, and extends ob- liquely acrofs the two firfl metacarpal bones. It is divided into two heads by the long flexor of the thumb. The edge of this mufcie lies in clofe contact with the edge of the laft, or opponens; and indeed they may fairly be confidered as one large mufcie furround- ing the bafis of the thumb. One head arifes from the os trapezium or bafe of the thumb, and from the ligament of the wrift. The other head comes from the os magnum, from many of the other bones of the carpus, and from the liga- ments which unite them. The firfl head is the fmaller one ; it terminates by a pretty confiderable tendon in the firfl fefamoid bone. The fecond head runs the fame courfe : it is implant- ed chiefly in the fecond fefamoid bone, and alfo into the edge of the firfl bone of the thumb clofe by it. The fecond head is exceedingly mufcular and ftrong : the heads are completely feparated from each other by the tendon of the flexor longus palling betwixt them. The office of this mufcie is to bend the firfl joint upon the fecond, and the metacarpal bone upon the carpus: and indeed the office of this, and of the op- ponens, is the fame. It is in the tendons of this double-headed mufcie that the fefamoid bones are /buntj. CVI. The282 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. CVI. The adductor pollicis arifes from the me- tacarpal bone of the middle finger, where it has a flat extended bafe. It goes from this dire&ly acrofs the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger to meet the thumb. It is of a triangular fhape, and flat: Its bafe is at the metacarpal bone; its apex is at the thumb: It is in- ferted into the lower part or root of the firft phalanx * Its edge ranges with the edge of the flexor brevis: It concurs with it in office ; and its more peculiar ufe is to draw the thumb towards the fore-finger, as in pinching. Thus do thefe mufcles, covering the root of the thumb, form that large and convex ball of flefh which ads fo ftrongly in almoft every thing we do with the hand. The ball of the thumb is fairly furrounded : it is almofl one mafs, having one office: but as the del- toides will, in fome circumflances, pull the arm down- wards, fome portions of this fleffiy mafs pull the thumb outwards obliquely; fome directly inwards: but the great mafs of mufcle bends the thumb, and oppofes it to the hand; and as this one mufcle is to oppofe the whole hand, the ball of flefh is very power- ful and thick. The fhort mufcles of the little-finger furround its root, juft as thofe of the thumb furround its ball. CVII. The abductor minimi digiti is a thin flefhy mufcle, which forms the cufhion on the lower edge of the hand, juft under the little-finger. It is an ex- ternal mufcle: It arifes from the os pififorme, and from the outer end of the annular ligament. It is inferted laterally into the firft bone of the little-finger; butMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 283 but a produdtion of it flill goes forward to the fecond bone of the little-finger. Its ufe is to fpread the little-finger fidewife, and perhaps to aflifl the flexors. CVIII. The flexor parvus minimi digiti is a fmall thin mufcle which rifes by the fide of the lafl, and runs the fame courfe, with nearly the fame infertion. Its origin is from the ligament of the wrift, and in part from the crooked procefs of the cuneiform bone. Its ufe is to bend the little-finger. And indeed the office and place of both is fo much the fame, that I have marked the laft as a flexor; and the little differ- ence there is, is only that this performs a more direct flexion. CIX. The adductor minimi digiti is fometimes called the metacarpal of the little-finger. It lies im- mediately under the former mufcle. Its origin is from the hook of the cuneiform bone and the adjoin- ing part of the carpal ligament. It is inferted into the outfide of the metacarpal bone, which it reaches by turning round it. Its ufe is to put the little-finger antagonifl to the others: it is to this finger what the opponents is to the thumb. It alfo, by thus bending one bone of the metacarpus, affe&s the whole, increafes the hollow and external convexity of the carpus, and forms what is called Diogenes’s cup. CX. The abductor indicis is a flat mufcle of con- fiderable breadth, lying behind the addu&or pollicis, and exactly refembling it, being like the fecond layer. It arifes from the os trapezium, and from the firfl bone of the thumb; and it is inferted into the back part of the firfl bone of the finger, and pulls the fore- finger towards the thumb. The284 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. The interroflei are fituated betwixt the metacarpal bones. They are fmall, round, and neat, fomething like the lumbricales in lhape and fize. Three are found in the palm, which hend the fingers, and draw their edges a little towards the thumb ; four are found on the back of the hand, for extending the fingers. CXI. The interossei interni arife from betwixt the metacarpal bones. They are alfo attached to the fides of thefe bones. They fend their tendons twilling round the fides to the backs of thefe bones; and they are inferted along with the tendons of the lum- bricales and extenfors into the back of the finger. They are thus flexors of the firfl: joint, and extenfors, of the fecond joint, as the lumbricales are. CXII. The interossei externi are four in num, ber. They arife, like the interni, from the metacarpal bones and their interftices, and from the ligaments of the carpal bones. They are peculiar in having each two heads, therefore named interoflei bicipites. They join their tendons to thofe of the extenfor and lumbri- cales : they have therefore one common office with them ; that is, extending all the joints of the fingers. Many have chofen to defcribe the origin and infertion with mod particular care, marking the degree of obli- quity, and ascertaining precifely their office, and giv- ing particular names to each, as prior indices for the firft external: all which I forbear mentioning, becaufe they mull be more liable to perplex than likely to aflift the ftudent: if we but remember their common place and office, it is enough. The tendons of the flexor mufcles bend round the finger, along with the interofiei and lumbricales, for a furer hold; confequent- 14 tyMUSCLES OF THE ARM, &C. 285 ly the tendons of the long flexors, of the lumbricales, of the interoffei intemi, of the extenfors, and of the interoffei externi, meet upon the backs of the fingers; which are by them covered with a very ftrong web of tendinous fibres. CHAP. IVc MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION; OR, OF THE RIBS. rhe whole back is clothed with ftrong mufcles; and all its holes, irregularities, and fpines, are croffed with many fmaller ones. Thefe mufcles are related either to the arm, to the ribs, or to the fpine, i. e. the verte- brae, whofe motions they perform; and from this we obtain an arrangement not inconfiftent with the regu- lar order of their office, and yet correfponding with the belt order of diffe&ion. The firft or uppermoft layer of mufcles, viz. the tra- pezius, the mufculus patientise, the rhomboides, the la- tiflimus dorfi, belong to the arm. The ferrated muf- cles, which lie next under thefe, are the mufcles of refpiration, and belong to the ribs : while the fplenius and complexus, the mufcles of the neck, the iongiffi- m,us dorfi, facro lumbalis,and the quadratus lumborum, whichMUSCLES OF RESPIRATION, 256 which are mufcles of the back, and the innumerable fmaller mufcles which lie betwixt the vertebras, belong entirely to the fpine. Refpiration is indeed performed chiefly by the muf- cles of the belly, that is, in ordinary and eafy breath- ing. In high breathing, the difficulty is relieved by the co-operation of almofl: all the mufcles of the trunk; of which there is fcarcely one that may not aflift in fome flight degree. But yet the mufcles of the abdo- men have many other offices. And the mufcles of the fpine, and of the fcapula, again, belong properly to the arm and trunk; and therefore I call thofe the mufcles of refpiration by which the ribs are moved in breathing, and which have no direct relation to almofl: any other motion but merely that of the ribs. The mufcles which are appropriated to the ribs, per- forming no other motion, are, which comes from the and lies flefhy ribs, to pull (_them upwards, f which comes from the I lumbar vertebras, and 2.TheSERRATUSmFERX0R<j ^ fet on ^ ,ower part of the back, to pull the ribs downwards, f which are twelve flat muf- cles, arifing from the tranf* verfe procefs of each ver- tebra, and going down to the rib below, they raife The ribs. f: i.Theserratusposticus • neck, superior, ,> over the POSTICUS, 3. TheLEVATORES COSTA- RUM, 4. Tk©OR, OF THE RIBS. 287 f which He betwixt the 4.The intercostal Mus-J ribs, and fill up all the cles, j fpace betwixt rib and rib; b they alfo raife the ribs. And there may be added to thefe, that mufcle which, lying under the fternum and within the tho- rax, is called triangularis fterni, and pulls the ribs downwards. CXIII. The serratus superior posticus lies flat upon the fide of the neck, under the trapezius and •rhomboides, and over the fplenius and complexus mufcles. It arifes by a flat and Aiming tendon from the fpines of the three lower vertebras of the neck and the two uppermoft of the back. It goes obliquely downwards under the upper corner of the fcapula, and is inferted into the fecond, third, and fourth ribs, by three neat flefliy tongues. The ligamentum nuchae is chiefly formed by the meeting of the trapezii mufcles; and the flat tendons pf thefe upper ferrated mufcles help to form it. They are purely levators of the ribs: their effect upon the vertebra, if they have any, muft be very flight. CXIV. The serratus inferior posticus is a very broad, thin, mufcle, fituated at the lower part of the back, under the latiflimus dorfi, but above the longif- fimus dorfi mufcle. It arifes in common with the latiflimus dorfi, from the fpines of the two or three lower vertebras of the back, and the three or four uppermoft vertebrae of the loins. Their origin, like that of the latiflimus, is by a thin tendinous expanfion: it foon becomes flefliy, and, dividing into three, fometixnes four, flefliy ftraps or2&S MUSCLES OF RESPIRATfoSTj, or tdjjgUes, each of them is fnferted feparately into the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth lower ribs, rrear their cartilages. So that this mufcle, fpreading fo wide out from the centre of motion, has vaft power ; for it has the whole length of the rib as a lever. Its office is to pull the ribs downwards and back- wards ; the effect of which mull be to comprefs tbs cheft, and in certain circumftances to turn the fpine. CXV. The levatores costarum are twelve muk cles on each fide, for the direft purpofe of lifting the ribs; they lie above or upon the ribs, at their angles, and are thence named byfome supra costales. They are almoft a portion of the external intercof- tal mufcles. The firft of the levators arifes from the tranfverfe procefs of the laft vertebra of the neck, and goes down to be inferted into the firft rib, near its tuberofity; and fo all that follow arife from a tranfverfe procefs, and go to the rib below, being very fmall and tendinous at either end. But the three laft levators arife from the fecond procefs above the rib to which they belong. They pafs one rib to go into the one below it: they are confequendy twice as long as the nine firft are; and are therefore named levatores costarum longiores from the ninth dowmwards. Thus the levatores coftarum are a fucceffion of fmall mufcles, arifing from the tranfverfe procefies of the vertebrae, and going to the angles of the ribs; be- ginning from the laft vertebra of the neck, and end- ing with the laft but one of the back. They lie un- der the longiffimus dorfi and facro-lumbalis; and often they have connexions with thefe mufcles, fome- tlmes very clofe. ' CXVI. TheOR, OF THE RIBS. 289 ' CXVI. The intercostales are two rows of muf- cles which lie betwixt the ribs: one row is external, the other internal. The external intercostals run from the fpine towards the fternum, having their fibres directed from behind forwards, and flopping at the cartilages of the ribs. The internal, again, begin from the fternum, and go towards the fpine; they have their fibres direfted backwards, and they flop at the angle of the ribs ; the reafon for which might be given, were it worth our while to flop for an explana- tion. Thefe two rows were thought to antagonize each other; the one to pull the ribs downwards, the other to raife them. But I fhall not flop to explain this, nor to refute it; it is fufficient to declare their true ufe, which is (both external and internal) to raife the ribs and aflift infpiration #. The ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, have a freer motion ; and it appears to me that this is the true ufe of the levatores longiores ; and for the fame rea- fon we find, that from the fixth rib and downwards there are certain flips of the internal intercoftals, which pafs over one rib and go to the fecond below ; and as the levatores longiores were called fupra-coftales, thefe have been named infra-costales, and costarum depressores proprii. They were difcovered by Verhein, and bear his name: they were explained as depreffors of the ribs by Haller; but they are little different from the intercoftals in form, and not at all * I remember, many years ago, to have heard Dr. Monro explain the office of the intercoftal mufcles by a diagram, deducing from that argument, the more powerful effeft of allinufcleshavingoblique fibres, VOL. I. u in2^0 MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION, &C. in office, for they raife the ribs along with the inter- coftal mufcles. CXVII. THe TRIANGULARIS STERNI, or STERNO costal is, is a depreflor of the ribs ; an internal muf- cle lying chiefly on the inner face of the fternum, and on the cartilages of the ribs. It is very generally con- fidered as a triangular mufcle on each fide, but fome confider it as three or four mufcles under the title of ftemo-coftales. • There are four flips lying on the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and fixth ribs. The lower portion of the triangularis arifes from the enfiform cartilage, and is inferted into the third or fourth rib ; the third arifes from the middle of the fternum, and goes off from the edges of that bone to be inferted into the third rib. The fourth or uppermoft portion is often awanting ; it goes off in part alfo from the inner furface of the fternum, but more commonly from the third rib, and goes to the fecond rib. In a dog they are much larger than in a man. Their office is to deprefs the ribs. And thefe portions are all conjoined at their roots, which gives the whole mufcle the triangular fhape. The true ufes of the intercoftales, fubcoftales, and triangularis fterni, have been difputed ; but if the firft rib be more fixed than the other ribs, then the inter- coftals proceeding downwards from the firft rib muft raife all the thorax; and if the fternum be more fixed than the ribs, then the fterno-coftales mufcles going upwards from the fternum muft pull down the ribs. CHAP.CHAP. V. This u 2 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD, NECK, AND TRUNK. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The ferratus fuperior pofticus being raifed, the fplenii come into view ; and the fplenii being alfo lifted, the complexus is fully expofed. CXVIII. Splenius.—The two fplenii are fo named from their lying like furgical fplints along the fide of the neck; both together they have the appearance of the letter Y ; the complexus being feen betwixt them in the upper part of the angle. They lie immediately under the trapezii, and above the complexi. Each fplenius is a flat and broad mufcle, which arifes from the fpinous proceflfes of the neck and back, and is implanted into the back part of the head. It arifes from the four fpines of the back and the fiv e lower of the neck ; it parts from its fellow at the fifth vertebra of the neck, fo as to Ihow in the interface two or three of the uppermoft fpines of the neck, with the upper part of the complexus mufcle ; each fplenius goes obliquely outwards, to be inferted into the oc- cipital ridge, and all along to the root of the maftoid procefs. At the third vetebra of the neck, where the two fplenii mufcles part from each other, the tendons of the oppofite fplenii are clofely connected both with each other, and with the common tendon, which is called ligamentum nuchae.292 OF THE HEAD AND NECK. This is the splenius capitis ; but there is a por- tion of this fame mufcle which lies under this, and which has the fame common origin, but which ter- minates by four or five didind tendons in the tranf- verfe procefies of the upper vertebra of the neck. This portion may be dififeded apart; and has been con- fidered by many as a mufcle, the splenius colli of Albinus ; who has diftinguifhed as' fplenius capitis all that part arifing from the fpines of the neck, and im- planted into the head, and as the fplenius colli, all that part which arifes from the vertebras of the back, and is implanted into the tranfverfe procefies of the. neck. Thefe fplenii are the proper antagonifts of the maf- toid mufcles. Both the fplenii ading, pull the head diredly backwards; one ading turns the head and neck obliquely to one fide ; one ading along with the correfponding mafloid mufcle, lays the ear down upon the fhoulder. CXIX. The complexus is named from the intri- cacy of its mufcular and tendinous parts, which are mixed ; from the irregularity of its origins, which are very wide, it has the names of complexus-implica- tus-trigeminus, by which the fiudent is warned of the difficulty of underflanding this mufcle. It lies immediately under the fplenius ; arifes by dif- tind tendons, with ten or more tendinous feet, from the tranfverfe proceffes of the neck and back, from the four lower vertebrae of the neck, and from the feven upper- moll: of the back ; having alfo fome lefs regular origins, as from two fpines of the back, and from four oblique procefies in the neck. It grows into a large mufcle, which is not like the fplenius, flat and regular, but thick, flefhy.293 OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The u 3 flefhy, compofed of tendon and flefli mixed ; filling up the hollow by the Tides of the fpines of the neck, and terminating in a broad flefhy head, which is fixed un- der the ridge of the occipital bone ; and this is the part which is feen in the angle or forking of the fplenii. This may hand as the general defcription of the mufcle confidered as one; but Albinus has chofen to defcribe it as two mufcles, under two different names, with a minutenefs, which, far from clearing the de- monftration of any difficulties, makes it lefs diftinft j and, if any thing could complete the confufion, it was his humour of calling that eiventer which had been, hitherto named complexus, and naming the lower part of the mufcle complexus, though it never had been diflinguifhed from the reft. The biventer of Albinus is the upper layer of the mufcle, that part which appears in the fork of the fplenii: And if we have hitherto named it complexus, from its mixture of tendons and flefh, it is particularly improper to transfer that name to another part of the mufcle which is lefs complicated. This upper layer, the biventer cervicis, arifes by a large broad head from the occipital bone. In the centre of this belly there i§ a confufion of tendon ; then there is a middle tendon, about the middle of the arch of the neck ; and the lower part; of the biventer arifes from two parts ; firft by one flip of flefli from the two uppermoft fpines of the back ; and, fecondly, by a larger flefhy portion which comes from the fourth, fifth, fixth, and feventh tranfverfe proceffes of the back. And it is from the upper and lower flefhy heads, and the confufed middle tendon, that it is called biventer.294 OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The complexus of Albinus lies below this one, It arifes by three tendinous and flelhy flips from the three upper tranfverfe procefles of the back ; then it has four other flips from four oblique or articulating procefles of the neck ; which various origins are ga- thered into one thick irregular flelhy belly, which is Implanted into the occiput under the great head of the biventer, and mixed with it. This I have chofen to explain, left the ftudent ftiould be embarrafled by falfe names ; referring him to the firft paragraph for the true and Ample defcription of this mufcle. CXX. trachelo-mastoideus *.—The laft muf- cle is often named complexus major, and this com- plexus minor : but a fitter name is the trachelo- mastoideus, from its origin in the neck and its in- fertion in the maftoid procefs. It has - exactly, or nearly the fame origin and the fame infertion with the fplenius; for it arifes, not from the fpines indeed, but from the tranfverfe pre- cedes of the back and neck, and is implanted into the maftoid procefs. Its origin is from the three firft vertebrae of the back, and from the five loweft of the neck at their tranfverfe procefles. Its origins are by diftindt tendons, .and its belly is in fome degree mixed of tendon and fle/h; whence its name of complexus minor. It is inferted into the maftoid procefs, juft under the infertion of the occipital part of the fplenius ; and indeed' its long and flat belly lies all along under that mufcle, fo that the * It is the trachelo-mastoideus, the mastoideus late, ralis, the capitis partertius, the complexus minor: by fome it is coniidered as a part of the complexus. orderOF THE HEAD AND NECK. 295 The u 4 order is this: i. The trapezius ; 2. The splenius capitis; 3. The splenius cervicjs; 4. The Tra- chelo-mastoideus. It is needlefs to fpeak of its ufe, fmce the life of all thefe mufcles is to draw the head backwards direddly, when both add; obliquely, when one adds alone. The recti muscles are two deep-feated mufcles, which go immediately from the vertebra to the occiput to be inferted into its lower ridge. They are called major and minor. CXXI. The rect.us minor is the fhorter of the two, arifing from the firft vertebra of the neck. Its place of origin is a fmall tuber which Hands in the place of the tranfverfe procefs of the firft vertebra ; and from that point where it is tendinous, it goes up to the occipital ridge, and is inferted flelhy. CXXII. The rectus major is larger. It rifes, in like manner, tendinous, from the fecond vertebra of the neck at its tranfverfe procefs, and mounting from that, is inferted flelhy into the lower ridge of the oc- ciput without the former. Thefe are fo placed, that the reddi minores appear in the interface of the recti majores. And though we call them both reddi, yet they cannot truly be fo; for the recti minores muft be, in fome degree, oblique, and the redti majores (till more fo: and confequently, although their chief ufe be conjointly to draw the head direddly backwards, yet one adding muft turn the head to its fide, And indeed the fame may be faid of all the mufcles of the neck ; for they are all divided by the fpine, and confequently they are all oblique,296 OF THE HEAD'AND HECK. The obliquus superior and obliquus inferior correfpond very clofely in all things with the recti; but in their oblique direction the uppermoft, as being much fhorter, has been named obliquus minor, the lower one obliquus major. CXXIII. The obliquus superior arifes from the tranfverfe procefs of the atlas, and is inferted into the end of the lower occipital ridge. Its ufe, notwith- ftandings its oblique pofition, is not to turn, but to bend, the head backwards ; for the occipital condyles are not concentric circles. Its infertion into the occiput is un- der the fplenius and complexus ; but one edge of it is above the infertion of the redtus major. CXXIV. The obliquus inferior rifes from one vertebra and goes to another. It arifes from the fpine of the fecond vertebra : it goes to the tranfverfe pro- cefs of the firll; and it meets the fuperior oblique mufcle; and, by the long lever or arm of the firll vertebra, obtaiqs great power. The firll vertebra or atlas rolls on the tooth-like procefs of the dentatus ; and while the great and flow motions of the neck in general are performed by other mufcles, the fhort and quick turnings of the head are performed entirely by thefe oblique mufcles. MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. The great mufcles which move the back and loins are the quadratus lumborum, sacro lumbalis, and longissimus dorsi. The facro lumbalis and longiflimus dorfi lie imme- diately under the latifiimus dorfi, which is the outer layer;MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 297 The layer; the quadratus lumborum lies again under thefe, and next to the abdominal mufcles; and, laftly, the abdominal mufcles are the innermoft layer, and make the back part of the walls of the abdomen. Although the quadratus lumborum lies deep under the longiffimus dorfi mufcle, I fhall defcribe it firfl for the fake of a connection which will be prefently un~ derftood, CXXV. The quadratus lumborum is a fat fquared mufcle, named quadratus from its fquare o.r rather oblong form. It arifes flefhy from three or four inches of the back part of the os ilium, and from the ligaments of the pelvis, which tie the back part of the ilium to the fide of the facrurn and to the tranfverfe precedes of the loins. As it goes upwards along the fide of the lumbar vertebras, it takes hold of the points of the tranfverfe proceffes of each by fmall tendinous flips ; fo that we are almoft at a lofs whether to con- fider thefe as new origins or as infertions : but its chief infertion is into the lower edge of the laft rib, and a fmall production of it flips under the arch of the diaphragm, to be implanted into the body or fore part of the laft vertebra of the back. The longissimus dorsi and sacro lumbalis have their origin in one common and broad tendon, com- ing from the facrurn, ilium, and loins; the two muf- cles lie along fide of each other ; the longifliinus dorfi is nearer the fpine, and keeps its tendons clofer by the fpine. The facro lumbalis is farther- from the fpine, and fpreads its tendinous feet broader upon the fides of the thorax ; and if one be a little under the other, it is the outer edge of the longiffimus dorfi, which is a little under the edge cf the iumbar mufcle.298 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. The common tendon and mufcle (for there is for fome way but one mufcle) begins thus: It may be faid to have two kinds of adhefion; for, firft, exter- nally it appears a broad, flat, and Aiming tendon, which arifes tendinous from all the fpines of the lum- bar vertebras, from the fpines of the facrum, and from the back part of the os ilium. But the inner furface of this broad tendon is ftrongly flefhy ; for it arifes fleihy from the back part of the ilium, from the deep hollow betwixt the ilium and facrum, from the fides of the long fpines of the lumbar vetebrae, and from their articulating procefles and the roots of their tranf- verfe procefles. In fhort, its origin is all tendinous without, and all flefhy within ; and its flefli arifes from all that irregular furface which is on either fide of the fpine, betwixt the os ilium and the vertebrae of file loins: and thus it continues one ftrong tendinous and flefhy mufcle, filling up all the hollow of the loins. There is an appearance of feparation, fomething like a fplit in the tendon, v/hich fhows in the loins what part of the tendon belongs to each mufcle; but it is only in the back that they are fairly divided. Juft oppoftte to the loweft rib, the longiflimus dorfi and facro lumbalis break of from the common ten- don ; and the longiflimus goes to be implanted into the vertebrae, and the facro lumbalis to be implanted into the ribs. CXXVI. The longissimus dorsi is a mufcle of the fpine. It is not a flat mufcle, but round, thick, and firm, filling up all the hollow betwixt the fpine and the angle of the ribs. It is of a long form, as its name implies, terminating towards its top almoft in a point. It has two diftind fets of feet by which it is in- ferted ;MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 299 ferted ; one fet of feet more flefhy, but fmall and neat, go outwards from the fide as it were of the mufcle, to be implanted near the heads of the ribs ; the lower ones farther out than the heads of the ribs ; the upper ones clofe to the head, and confequently clofer to the fpine. Thefe heads are nine or ten in number, cor- refponding with the nine or ten uppermofl ribs. An- other fet of heads, which are not fo well feen as this fet, becaufe they lie more under the mufcle, are fmall, neat, and tendinous; they go in an oppofite direftion, viz. inwards and upwards; keep clofer by the fpine and are inferted into the tranfverfe precedes of the ver- tebrae of the back. This fet of heads is thirteen in number, implanted into the tranfverfe proceffes of all the back, and of one vertebra of the neck. CXXVII. The sacro lumbalis feparates from the Iongiffimus dorfi at the laft rib, and is a flatter and lefs flefhy mufcle : its twelve tendons are flatter than thofe of the Iongiffimus dorfi, and go out wider from the fpine. The tendons next to the Iongiffimus dorfi run highefl up, and are the longeft ; thofe farthefl: from the fpine, i. e. farthefl out upon the cheft, are the fhortefl. It has a flat tendon for each rib, which takes hold upon the lower edge of the rib. But it has an- other order of fmall mufcles which mix with it: for as the Iongiffimus dorfi has a double row of infertion, this has another fet of attachments ; for there arifes from the furface of each rib, at leafl of the fix or feven lowed: ribs, a fmall flip of flefh, which runs into the fubflance of the facro lumbalis, and mixes with it; and thefe flefhy flips go by the name of the additamen- TUM AD SACRO-LUMBALEM, Or MUSCULI ACCES50RII. Both300 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK* the Both thefe mufcles, viz. the longiflimus and facro- lumbalis, terminate in points which reach towards the neck ; and under the point of each there lie the roots of two fmall mufcles, which go up to move the neck. Many have referred thefe flips going up into the neck entirely to the mufcles I am now defcribing j calling one an afcending flip of the longiflimus dorfi, and the other a flip of the facro-lumbalis ; while others have defcribed them as didinCt mufcles, having but flight conned oils with the longiflimus and facro lumbalis. Their proper names are cervicalis descendens, and TRANSVERSAL IS COLLI. CXXVIII. The cervicalis descendens is connect- ed with the facro-lumbalis mufcle; it cannot be en- tirely referred to it, for the cervicalis defcendens arifes as a didinCt mufcle from the five lower vertebrae of the neck at their tranfverfe precedes; goes downwards very fmall and (lender to be inferted into the fix upper- mod ribs, to get at which it flips under the longed ten- dons of the facro lumbalis : but that the cervicalis de- fcendens does not belong to the facro-lumbalis, may be inferred from its having didinCt tendons from fix ribs, and from fix tranfverfe precedes of the neck, and from thefe tendons being in a direction which does not at all correfpond with the heads of the facro-lumbalis. Indeed the longiflimus dorfi has a better claim to this mufcle ; for a long flip, partly tendinous and partly fleflry, runs upwards from the longed tendon of the longiflimus dorfi, to join itfelf to the cervicalis defcendens *. CXXIX. The * Hence it is plain that the facro lumbalis and longiflimus dorfi have nearly an equal claim to the cervicalis defcendens, for, firft,301 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. the CXXIX. The transversal is colli is that which Sabbatier refers to the longiffimus dorfi; but it is a diftinft mufcle, arifulg partly tendinous and partly flefhy from the five upper tranfverfe procelfes of the back; lies betwixt the trachelo maftoideus and the cer- vicalis defcendens ; goes from the tranfverfe procelfes of the back to the tranfverfe procelfes of the neck, and has no more than a confufed and irregular connexion with any other mufcle. TheguADRATus lumborum keeps the trunk ere£t by the aftion of both mufcles at once ; inclines it to one fide, or turns it upon its axis, when one only a£ts ; and by its infertion into the ribs mult afiifl in high breathing, by pulling down the ribs. The longissi- mus dorsi has no power but over the fpine, which it bends backwards, acting continually in keeping the trunk eredt. This is alfo the chief ufe of the facro- lumbalis ; but the sacro-lumbalis going out further upon the ribs, takes fuch hold upon them, that befides its common aflrion of railing the trunk, it may, on oc- cafions, pull them down, allifting the quadratus and the lower ferrated mufcle. And it will have greater power in turning the trunk of the body upon its axis than the longiffimus dorfi, which pull almoft diredlly backwards. The cervicalis descendens co-operates with the trachelo maftoideus and others, which turn the longiffimus dorfi fends its longeft tendon fairly up into the cervi- calis defcendens fo far, that the flip is implanted into the tranfverfe procelfes of the neck. And, fecondly, the feet of the cervicalis de- fcendens begin under the laft tendons of the facro-lumbalis, fo as to have the appearance of arifing from its fupplementary mufcle, the ad- ditamentum, and being part of it; and indeed Sabbatier has de- ferred it according to this view.302 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. the head to one fide; and the cervicalis defcendens bends the neck to one fide ; both the one and the other being independent mufcles, and having no further con- nection with each other than what arifes from the con- fufion of the parts. Thefe two mufcles bring us to mention that intri- cate fet of mufcles which fills up all the hollows and interftices among the fpines and irregular procefles of the vertebrae, which might be fairly reckoned as one mufcle, fmee they are one in place and in office ; but which the anatomifl may feparate into an infinite num- ber, with various and perplexing names ; an opportu- nity which anatomifls have been careful not to lofe. The furface of the back, from the bulge of the ribs on one fide to the bulge of the ribs on the oppofite fide of the thorax, is one confufed furface ; confifling of innumerable hollows, procefles, and points of bone; and it is tied from point to point with innumerable fmall mufcles, or unequal bundles of mixed tendon and flefh. There are many points; as the fpinous, tranf- verfe, and oblique procefles of the vertebras, and the bulging heads and angles of the ribs ; and each pro- cefs, or at leafl: each fet of procefles, has its diflindt fets of mufcles and tendons. 1. There is one long continuity of mufcular and tendinous fibres going from fpine to fpine, along the whole length of the back and neck. This is divided into the spinalis CERVicisand the spinalis dorsi. 2. There is a fimilar continuation of fibres, with lefs tendon and more flefh, belonging one half to the fpine and the other half to the tranfverfe procefles, where it is named semi-spinalis dorsi. 5 3. ThereMUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 3°3 3. There i^ a great mafs lying all along the hollow of the back, on each fide of the fpinous procefles, which paffing alternately from the tranfverfe procefs of one vertebra to the fpinous procefs of the next above, is of courfe fplit into many heads, but yet hav- ing fuch connexion as to give it the form and name of a fmgle mufcle, the multifidus spin^e. 4. and 5. There are yet fmaller mufcular fafciculi, which hand perpendicularly betwixt every two trani- verfe and every two fpinous procefles ; thence they are named intertransversarii and inter-spinales. CXXX. The spinalis cervicis is that which is implanted into the fpines of the cervical vertebrae ; but becaufe it does not go from fpine to fpine, like the fpinalis dorfi, but from tranverfe procefles to fpines, it has been named by Winflow semi-spinalis, or transverso-spinalis colli. It arifes from the tranfverfe procefles of the fix upper vertebrae of the back, and is inferted into all the fpinous procefles of the vertebrae of the neck except the firlt and laft ; and it extends the neck, or by its obliquity, may contri- bute to the turnings of the neck, or to bending it to one fide CXXXI. The spinalis dorsi arifes from two fpi- nous procefles of the loins, and from the three lower fpines of the back; and pafling two fpines untouch- ed, it is implanted into all the fpines of the back ex- * The transversalis cervicis (vide p. 301.) is that which goes from the tranfverfe procefles of the back to the tranfverfe pro- cefles of the neck ; while this, the spinalis cervicis, goes from the tranfverfe procefles of the back to the fpines of the neck. cept304 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. cept the uppeftnofl. This mufcle is very llender and long, and confifls fully more of tendon than of flefh : it has five feet below, rifing from the lower fpines of the back and loins; and. nine feet above, implanted into the upper fpines of the back. Its aftion mufl raife the fpine; but perhaps it may be equally ufeful ,as a mufcular and tendinous ligament. CXXXII. The semi-spinal is dorsi arifes from the tranfverfe proceffes of the lower vertebrae of the back all but two ; and is implanted into the upper fpinous proCeffes of the back, and into the firft fpine of the neck *. CXXXIII. The multifidus spin^e runs from the facrum along all the fpine to the vertebrae of the neck; and is a comprehenfive and true way of de- fcribing many irregular portions of flefh, which authors have divided into cliftinft mufcles f. It is a continued flefhy indentation, from tranfverfe procefs to fpine, through all the vertebras of the back, neck, and loins. It begins both tendinous and flefhy from the upper convex furface of the os facrum, which is rough with fpines from the adjoining part of the ilium; and in the loins it arifes from oblique proceffes; in the back, from tranfverfe proceffes; and again from oblique proceffes among the cervical vertebras. Its origin in the loins is clofe to the fpine; being * This is of courfe the transverso-spinalis dorsi ofWinflow. f Transverso-spinalis lilmborum veterib. sacer ; SEMI- SPINANIS INTERNETS, five TRANSVERSO-SPINALIS DORSI; SEMI- spinalis, five transverso-spinalis colli, pars interna.— Window. Transversalis lumborum, vulgo sacer ; trans- versalis dorsi ; transversalis colli.—Douglas. fromMUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 305 from the upper oblique proceffes, and from the root of the tranfverfe proceffes. In the back it arifes from the tranfverfe proceffes, and therefore arifes there by- more diflindd heads. In the neck, again, it arifes from the lower oblique proceffes more confufedly. Its bundles or fafciculi are inferted into the fpinous proceffes ; fometimes into the fecond, or even into the third or fourth fpine, above that from which the bundle arifes ; for the tendons do not flop at that fpinous pro- cefs which they firfl touch, but go upwards, taking at- tachments to other two or three, and mixing their ten- dons with thofe of the fafciculi above and below ; and thefe tendons reach from the firfl of the loins to all the vertebra;, up to the atlas, which is the only one not included. The ufe of the multifidus fpinae is to retain the fpine from being too much bent forwards; for thefe mufcles ferve (as I have obferved) the purpofe of a ligament, and the belt of all ligaments, having a de- gree of flrength exaddly proportioned to the neceffity for flrength. It alfo moves the fpine backwards, though perhaps it is lefs ufeful in this than as a liga- ment 5 for we find it as flrong in the vertebra of the back, which have little motion, and that, little Very flow and general. It feems rather intended to mode- rate the lateral motions of the vertebrae than to pro- duce them: When it adds, its chief ufe is either to refill the fpine being bent forward by a weight, or to eredd the fpine. CXXXIV. The inTerspiNal.es colli, dorsi, and lumborum, have varieties fo little interefling that they need hardly be defcribed. The interspinales vol. n x COLL*306 muscles oE the trunk. colli are ftronger, becaufe the neck has many and quick motions, and the bifurcated fpines of the neck give broader furfaces for thefe mufcles. The inter- spinales dorsi are almoft entirely awanting, becaufe the fpines of the back are clofe upon each other, and the vertebrae are almoft ftxed. The interspinales in the loins are rather tendons or ligaments than proper mufcles. CXXXV. The intertransversales are again ftronger and fuller in the neck, becaufe of the lateral motions cf the neck being free, and its tranfverfe pre- cedes forked. They are in more numerous bundles where the motion is greateft, viz. betwixt the atlas and dentatus ; and it is there that Albinus counts his intertransversales cervicis, priores-late- rales, &c. The inter-tranfverfarii are awanting in the back, giving place to the ligaments, by which they are tied to each other and to the ribs; but in the loins, the inter-tranfverfarii are again ftrong, for the lateral or twilling motions of the loins. The mufcles on the fore part of the head and neck will complete the catalogue of thofe belonging to the fpine, and they are the chief antagonifts to the_ mufcles which I have been defcribing. CXXXVI. The platisma-myoidEs* is a very thin mufcular expanfion, like the cutaneous mufcle in ani- mals. It is fpread over the other mufcles immediately under the fkin, and covers the whole neck and lower part of the face. It arifes from the cellular fubftance and aponeurofis, * ThePLATisMA-MYOiDEs is alfo named musculus cvta* NEUS LATISSIMUS CQELI, and QUADK.ATUS CEH/E. whichMU SOLES OF THE TRUNK. 3 °7 x 2 ce fo- which cover the pectoral mufcle, the deltoid mufcle, and the clavicle. Its origin is by long feparate flefhy Hips ; it goes like a thin integument over the neck, and is find inferted about the depreffor anguli oris j and then going over the mafleter, is loft betwixt the mufcles and the integuments of the cheek. Perhaps it ferves alfo to pull down the fkin of the cheek and the angle of the mouth ; but its chief in- fertion is into the lower jaw, and its ufe to pull it downwards. CXXXVIL Mastoideus.—This mufcle arifes part- ly from the clavicle, partly from the fternnm. Albinus reckons ittwro mufcles, the sternq^-mastoideus, and cleido-mastoideus : a more common name is the sterno-cleido mastoideus : but here, as in other things, I adhere to what is plaineft. And the mofi fa- miliar and eafy name is mufculus mastoideus, confi- dering the clavicular portion as an addition only. Its origin from the upper part of the fternum is pretty round. It arifes again flat from the fore part of the clavicle ; and this feeond origin is broad and flefhy, while the firft one is tendinous and pointed: Thefe two heads form together a very big, ftrong, bellied, flefhy mufcle, which is inferted into the maftoid pro- cefs by a broad tendon, which indeed furrounds the maftoid procefs, and from that extends ftill backwards towards the lamdoida! future. When one of the maftoid mufcles ads, it turns the head to one fide $ when both ad, they pull the head diredly forwards. CXXXVill. Rectus internus cafitis major. There are three mufcles on each fide, lying under th i308 muscles of the trunk. * cefophagus, trachea, and great veflfels, flat upon the fore part of the vertebra ; and this is the firft and longeft. Although this be called rectus, it is oblique, and runs rather on one fide ; for it arifes from the tranfverfe procefles of the five lower vertebrae of the neck, and is inferted into the cuneiform procefles of the occipital bone, juft before the foramen magnum. CXXXIX. Rectus internus minor. This is an exceedingly fmall mufcle ; refembles the obliquus pof- terior of the head. It lies immediately under the rec- tus major : It arifes from the fore part of the body of the firft vertebra, the atlas ; and going (like the other reflus) obliquely inwards, it is inferted into the occi- pital bone near the condyle. CXL. And the recus capitis lateralis is an- other fmall mufcle like the former ; which arifes from the tranfverfe procefles of the firft vertebra, and is in- ferted into the fide of the cuneiform procefs of the oc- cipital bone. It lies immediately under the exit of the great jugular vein. CXLI. Longus colli. This is the chief of thofe mufcles which lie upon the fore part of the neck; it is very long, arifing from the flat internal furface of the vertebra of the back to go up along thofe of the neck. Its origin is firft within the thorax, from the three uppermoft vertebra of the back, from the flat part of their bodies, and then from all the tranfverfe pro- cefles of the neck except the three upper ones. It is inferted tendinous into the fore part of the fecond vertebra 7MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 309 vertebra of the neck, where the oppofite large mufcles meet in one point almoft *. All thefe mufcles, which lie thus flat upon the plain furface of the vertebrae of the neck, pull the head and neck diredly forwards ; or when the mufcles of one fide aft, they are of ufe in pulling it towards that fide ; though I rather fuppofe that that motion is performed by the external mufcles. CXLII. The scalenus I confider as one mufcle ; for it is one in origin, infertion, and office. Its origin is from the whole upper furface of the firft rib from its cartilage backwards, and alfo from the fecond rib ; and its infertion is into the tranfverfe procefles of the vertebrae of the neck. But by its broad origin, and its very long infertion, is gives opportunity for dividing it into feveral fafciculi; and accordingly it has been fo divided : but thefe divifions are entirely modern, artificial, and unnatural. The ancients confidered it as one triangular mufcle: Window divided it into two, the primus and fecundus ; Cowper into three ; Douglas into four; and Albinus divides it into five mufcles. The ancients called it fealenus from its re- femblance to the fcalen triangle ; and the true anatomy is to confider it as one great triangular mufcle, flat, and firetching from the ribs to the neck, doling the thorax above, and giving paflfage to the nerves and veflels of the arm. If it were to be defcribed in diflind portions, it would be in three parts. The anterior portion arifes from the tranfverfe procefles of the fix lower verte- * Thelongus colli mufcle is in part covered by the reft us major. x 3 bra:.I 310 MUSCLES. OF THE TRUNK, brae of the neck, and is inferted into the fiat part of the nr ft rib hard by its cartilage. The middle portion from the four lower vertebrae goes to the outer edge of the rib, and extends along all its length. The pof- terior portion is the thinned; and' longed ; for it arifes from the tranfverfe proceffes of the fecond, third, and fourth vertebrae. It is inferted into the upper edge of the rib, about an inch or more from its articulation with the fpine. The firfi head is tendinous and fielhy at its infertion into the rib ; but the fecond and third heads are ten- dinous both in their origins and infertions. The artery goes through the flefh of the firft por- tion, about an inch above the axilla. The nerves pafs in the interface betwixt the firft and; fecond portions. The office of the fcalenus mufcle is to pull the neck to one fide, or to bend the head and neck forward when both aft ; and when the neck is fixed backwards, they may perhaps raife the ribs ; for afthmatics are obferved to throw the head backwards, in order to raife the chefl with greater power. \ CHAP.CHAP. VI, OF THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, AND OF THE DIAPHRAGM. The abdominal mufcles cover in the belly, contain the bowels, and take a firm hold upon the pelvis and the trunk; the diaphragm, again, is a moving parti- tion betwixt the thorax and the abdomen ; and the dia- phragm prefling down the bowels upon the abdominal mufcles, enlarges the thorax, and the abdominal muf- cles re-adling, pufh the bowels back upon the dia- phragm, and comprefs the thorax. Thus the alter- nate yielding and re-action of the abdominal mufcles and diaphragm performs breathings agitates the bowels; promotes the circulation ; expels the faeces and urine ; affifls the womb in the delivery of the child. And, with all thefe important ufes, the abdominal mufcles bend and turn the trunk, and fix it for the flronger aftions of the limbs. They fteady the body in lifting weights, in bearing loads, in all our more violent ex- ertions : They often give way under this double office of breathing and of draining along with the reft of the body ; and the bowels coming out through their x 4 natural ,312 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, natural openings, or by burfling through the inter* flices of their fibres, form hernias of various kinds.. Whence the anatomy of thefe mufcles is moft inter- efling to the furgeon. The mufcles of the abdomen are five on either fide, i. The outer oblique mufcle, to which the names of descendens, declivis, and major, are added, be- caufe it is the outermofl of all the abdominal mufcles ; becaufe it is the largefi, covering all the fide of the ab- domen with its flefhy belly, and all the fore part of the abdomen with its broad expanded tendon ; and it is called declivis, or defcendens, becaufe its flefhy belly begins above upon the borders of the thorax ; and becaufe both its mufcular and tendinous fibres, which lie parallel to each other, run obliquely from above downwards and inwards. 2. The obliquus internus is named from its. being within the firfl; and has the names of ascendens vel minor fuperadded, becaufe its flefhy belly is fmaller than that of the firfl, arifes below, chiefly in the haunch-bone, and ah its fibres go from below upwards. 3. The transversal is lies under all the others, and next to the cavity of the abdomen, and has but one name, which alfo is derived from the diredlion of its fibres running acrofs or round the abdomen. 4. The PsECtus, fo named becaufe of its running on the fore part of the abdomen in one flraight line from the pubis to the flernum. 5. The pyramidal mufcle is the only one named from its fhape. It is a final!, neat, conical mufcle, which arifes from the os pubis by a broad bafis, and has its apex turned upwards; but it is not always found, for3*3 AND OF THE DIAPHRAGM. for it is only as a fupplement to the re£ti mufcles and a part of them ; whence it has been named musculus SU-ccenturiatus, or fupplementary mufcle. CXLIII. The external oblique mufcle arifesfrom the ribs, and, like all the others which arife from ribs, is a ferrated mufcle. It comes from the eight lower ribs by diftinft flefliy tongues, one from each rib. Thefe feme are mixed with the indentations of the ferratus major anticus mufcle, which goes off in an oppolite direction. The origin of the mufcle lies out broad upon the border of the cheft; it is its thickefl and moil flefhy part, whence its fibres go down all in one direction parallel with each other, but oblique with refpeft to the abdomen. Its flefhy belly ceafes about the middle of the fide. Its flat fheet of tendon goes over the fore part of the belly till it meets its fek low exactly in the middle ; fo that one half, or the back part of the abdomen, is covered by its flefhy belly, and the fore part by its tendinous expanfion. 1 The mufcle meets its fellow in the middle of the belly ; and this meeting forms (along with the other tendons) a white line from the pubis to the flernum, which is named linea alba. It alfo, before it reaches the middle, adheres to the flat tendon of the inner ob- lique mufcle. This meeting is about four inches on ei- ther fide of the linea alba, and is a little inclined to the circular, whence it is named linea femilunaris. And, finally, this mufcle is implanted into the fpine of the ilium ; flefhy about the middle of the ilium ; ten- dinous at the fore part or fpinous procefs of the ilium ; and Hill tendinous into the whole length of that liga- ment, which extends from the fpine of the ilium tq the crefl: of the pubis. This Cjr4 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, nous 5 This is the whole of its infertion, viz. all the length of the linea alba, from the pubis to the fternum, the fore part of the fpine of the ilium, and the ligament of Paupart; which, though it is commonly thought to be but the tendon of the external oblique firetching from point to point, is in truth a diftindt ligament, in- dependent of the tendon, and ftronger than it. CXLIV. Obliouus internus abdominis.—The chief part of this mufcle arifes thick and flefhy from all the circle of the fpine of the ilium, with its fibres directed upwards. But, to be accurate, we muff de- fcribe it as arifmg from the whole length of the fpine of the ilium ; from the joining of the ilium and facrum ; from the fpines of the facrum itfelf; and from the three lower fpinous precedes of the loins * ; and, laflly, it arifes from the ligament of the thigh, as its end next to the ilium ; but ftill the chief belly is at the iliac fpine. From that it fpreads upwards in a radiated form ; the central fibres only are direft, going acrofs the abdo- men to the linea alba; the higher fibres afeend and go towards the fternum, and the lower ones go oblique- ly downwards to the pubis. Its hat tendon is like that of the external oblique ; and it is inferted into the car- tilages of all the falfe ribs, into the fternum, and into the linea alba through its whole length. CXLV. The tr ansversalis abdominis runsdireft- Iy acrofs the belly. It arifes fiefny from the inner fur- face cf the fix lower ribs, where its digitations mix with thofe by which the diaphragm arifes tendi- * This origin from the fpinous proceiTes cf the loins is a thin ten- don common with the ferratus and latiffimus dorfi mufcles.3,5 AND.OF THE DIAPHRAGM. nous; from the tranfverfe precedes of the four lower lumbar vertebras; from the whole fpine of the os ilium ; and from a part of the femoral ligament. Upon the whole, its origin is like that of the inner oblique mufcle ; its fibres go aerofs the abdomen, and its tendon is in- ferted into the whole length of the linea alba. The fucceflion in winch thefe three mufcles arife from the cheft is this: The external oblique mufcle lies broad upon the outftde of the chefl, and fo its tongues mix with the tongues of the ferratus anticus major. The internal oblique mufcle again rifes lower down the thorax, from its edge, from the cartilages of the ribs, The tranfverfe mufcle arifes within the tho- rax, from the internal furface of tire ribs, oppofite to where the tongues of the external oblique lie ; and the diaphragm arifing from the fame ribs, mixes its indigk tations with the tranfverfalis ; fo that Cafpar Bartho- lin obferving this indigitation to be very curious in 4he larger animals, believed the diaphragm and tranfverfe mufcles to be but one great trigaftric or three bellied mufcle furrounding all the abdomen. CXLVI. The recti mufcles cover the abdomen on its fore part, in a line from the pubis to the fternum; ' and they belong fo equally to the fternum and to the pubis, that it is indifferent which we call their origin, and which their infertion. The origin (as I fhould call it) of each rectus mufcle is in the fternum; is broad and flelhy ; lies upon the out-fide of the fternum, co- vering part of the fternum, and all the xiphoid carti- lage, and touching and mixing its fibres with the great pedtoral mufcle. It is about four inches broad all down the abdomen, and' terminates at the fide of the fymphyfis$l6 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, fymphyfis pubis with a flat and pointed tendon about an inch in length and about an inch broad. This mufcle is eroded at intervals by four tendinous inter- fedions, which divide it into five diflind bellies. Com- monly there are three bellies above the umbilicus and two below ; but the redi mufcles are the lead: regular of all the mufcles of the abdomen. Vefalius, Albinus, and Sabbatier, were thought to have found the redi abdominis extending up to the throat; but it is now found that Vefalius had only reprefented the mufcles of a monkey or of a dog (which are very long) upon the thorax of a human fubjed * ; Sabbatier, upon re- vifiting his notes, retrads what he had faid ; and Albi- nos alfo is fuppofed to have feen only a produdion of the mafloid mufcle, extending down the bread:; for irregularities of this kind are very often found. CXLVII. the pyramidal mufcles are as a fupple- ment to the redi. There is a fmall neat pyramidal muf- cle on each fide, or rather a triangular mufcle, flefhy through its whole extent and length, with its bafe turn- ed towards the pubis and its apex towards the umbili- cus ; fo that its origin is in the creff of the pubis and its pointed infertion in the linea alba : and though the pyramidal mufcles have been fuppofed by Mada to re- * “ Porro (r) linea infignitur, quae carneam redti mufeuli par- w tem finit, quasque ultima ipfius infertionis in homine eft portio* “ uti in qugrta tabula ad chara&erem n. eft cernere. Intercapedine “ igitur ab r. ad s. pertinente, fe offert redti sim;e abdominis muf- “ culi tendo, feu membrana, excarnifve mufeuli pars ; t. autem in- “ dicat carneam mufeuli fedem, prime coftae et fecundx thoracis m- << fertam, eftque latus ille tendo hominibus haudquaquam, ut in ♦' cawdatis fimiis, et caoibus confpicuu&.” Vesalius, p. 156. lateAND OF THE DIAPHRAGM. 3T7 late to the penis, or by Fallopius to belong to the uri- nary bladder, their true ufe is only to aflift the reftus to draw down the fternum, and tighten the linea alba? and fo to give greater power to the oblique and tranf- verfe mufcles. The pyramidalis is fo irregular a mufcle, that fometimes two are found on one fide and none at all on the other. Sometimes two on each fide, fome- times there is but one, and very often they are awanting., the belly of the reftus coming quite down to the pubis. 1. The linea alba is the common meeting of all the thin flat tendons ; and therefore we call it their in- fertion, being the common point towards which they all aft : it is white, by the gathering of ail the colour- lefs tendons. 2. The linea semilunaris is a line of the fame white appearance, of a circular form, and produced by the meeting of all the tendons, on the edge of the rec- tus mufcle, to form a fheath for it. 3. The sheath for the rectus muscle does not admit of fo brief a definition as thefe : It has been com- monly fuppofed to be formed in a very curious manner, chiefly by the broad tendon of the obliquus internus, which being the central mufcle betwixt the two other layers, is fuppofed to have its tendon fplit into two thin fheets; that the outermofl flieet adheres to the outer oblique mufcle, forming the outer part of the fheath, while its inner fheet adheres to the tendon of the tranfverfe mufcle, forming the inner part of the fheath: but this is too intricate, and can hard- ly be proved by diflfeftion. Cowper expreffes his doubts about the doftrine of the tendon of the in- ner oblique mufcle being fplit into two layers; and I think^lS MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, think the trued defcription is this, that all the tendons meet and adhere in the femilunar line; that they im- mediately part to form this (heath ; that the fiat ten- dons of both the oblique mufcles go upon the outer furface of the redbus to form that fide of the (heath ; that the tendon of the tranfverfe mufele only lies under the rectus, forming the lower part of the (heath, and that it is unaffifted by any lamella of the inner oblique mufele ; that the (heath is complete at the fore part, or over the mufele ; but that under the muf- cle the (heath (tops about five or fix inches above the pubis, and that there the redti mufcles {or in their place the pyramidal mufcles) lie bare upon the bladder and other abdominal vifeera, lined only by the thin peritonaeum *. And that this back layer of the (heath is thinner and more delicate, and but lit- tle attached to the back part of the redlus mufele* which is eafily raifed in difledtion ; while the fore part of the (heath adheres firmly to the fore part of the mufele forming thofe crofs bands or tendinous inter- fedfions which divide the redtus into bellies; and the (heath where it lies over the mufele cannot be diffec- ted without a degree of violence either to the (heath or to thefe tendinous interfedtions. 4. The umbilicus is that opening in the centre of the abdomen, in the middle of the linea alba, through which the nutritious veifels of the foetus pafs. The * Cowper had never obferved this, but once that the lower part of the reftus was not lined by the tendon of the tranfverfalis. He concluded that, in this inftance, it was a fporting of nature ; “ fa “ much a lufus natures, that accidents like this might be the caufe “ of certain ruptures.” veffelsand op the DIAPHRAGM. • 31© veffels have degenerated into ligaments in the adult, and the umbilicus is clofed in the form of a ring ; but fometimes it is forced by violent action, and the vifcera come out by it, forming umbilical hernia. 5. The ring of the abdominal muscles is that opening near the lower part of the abdomen, juft over the pubis, through which the fpermatic cord paffes in man, and the round ligament of the womb in women. Cowper (p. 5.) fays, that the fpermatic cord paffes through feparate rings, in each of the three abdominal mufcles; and, like older authors, he makes nature exceedingly wife, in placing the rings, not oppofite to each other, but one high, and another lower, and a third lower ftiil, fo as to prevent the bowels failing out. But the truth is, that neither the internal ob- lique, nor the tranfverfe mufcles, have any fhare at all in the ring, which belongs entirely to the external ob- lique mufcle, and is formed in this way. All the ten- dinous fibres of the external oblique are, like the muf- cle itfelf, oblique, running from above downwards; and the tendinous fafciculi are in fome places wider, a little disjoined from each other, and refembling ftripes crofted by fmall threads of tendon, as if the long fibres were in danger of parting from each other, fo as to leave a gap, and were held together by thefe crofs threads ; and it is in fad a wider and perfect re- paration of two fibres that forms the ring, and a ftronger interlacement of crofs fibres that fecures it from fplitting farther up. But the chief fecurity of • the ring is by the form of the openingfor it is not a ring, as we call it, but a mere fplit in the tendon, which begins about an inch and an half above the pubis, is320 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, Is oblique, and looking towards the pubis, like thd fibres which form it, and confifts of two legs or pillars of the ring, as they are called; for the upper flip, which forms the upper part of the opening, goes dire&ly to- wards the crell or higheft point of the pubis ; the lower pillar, or the flip which forms the lower line of the flit* turns it behind, gets under the upper one, and is im- planted into the pubis, within and behind the upper pillar: this lower flip forms at once the lowrer pillar of the ring and the edge of the femoral ligaments Now this eroding of the pillars of the ring fecures it; for the more the mufcle pulls in prefling upon the ab- dominal vifeera, the tighter is the flit drawn ; and the obliquity of the opening gives the direction to hernias of the groin, which always point towards the pubis, fo as to fall into the ferotum in men, or into the labia pU- dendi in women, keeping clofe by the groin* The fpermatic cord, formed of the veflels belongs ing to the tefbicle, pafles through this ring of the ex- ternal oblique mufcle ; but as the internal, oblique,- and tranfverfe mufcles, form no fhare in the ring, the cord pafles by their lower edge, but not through it. At the place where the cord pafles the edge of the in- ternal oblique mufcle, it fends a bundle of flefliy fibres down along the cord, which go all along the cord, gra- dually extend towards the tefticle, expanding and grow- ing thin upon the upper end of the tefticle, and gra- dually difappearing on its body. This is CXLVIII. The cremaster muscle of the tes- ticle, which is a thin flip of fibres from the internal oblique mufcle of the abdomen; which is defigned for fufpending the tefticle, and for drawing it up ; is veryAND OF THE DIAPHRAGM, 321 very thick and flrong in the lower animals, as in bulls, dogs, &c.; is eafily found in man, but not always, being fometiines thin and pale, and hardly to be known from the coats upon which it lies. It appears to grow more lie iky in old age, and to be thickened in enlargements of the tefticle, the better to fupport the weight. 6. The ligament of the thigh * is a diflinct liga- ment, and not merely the tendon of the external ob- lique, rounded and turned in. It arifes from the fpi- nous procefs of the ilium, and is inferted into the crefl: of the pubis. It receives the external oblique mufcle, for the tendon is implanted into it. Part of the flefli of the internal oblique mufcle arifes from the outer end of the ligament. It forms an arch under' which the pfoas and iliacus mternus mufcles, and the great artery of the thigh, and its anterior nerve, pafs out. The great vein, and the lymphatics of the limb, re- turn under it to get into the abdomen; the lympha- tic glands of the groin lie there. The whole interfiles is furrounded and filled up by cellular fubflance and fat; but it is not firm; the playing of the mufcles, and the fat, and inguinal glands, keep it open, and lax ; and'at that point the bowels are apt to fall down, efpecially in women, where the fpine of the ilium is high and the arch wide. So little are femoral hernias or the form of this opening underftood, that no particu- lar cufhion is adapted to this part; for it is fupported by the common bandage for the hernia of the groin: * This ligament of the thigh is named alfo the inguinal liga- ment ; the crural arch; the ligament of Paupart; the ligament of Fallopius, &c. VOL. I. And, Y322 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, And, a few years ago, hernia of the groin was not even known by anatomifts of the higheft name. For Cowper fays (explaining Paupart’s ligament), “ It is “ not impoffible but that ruptures may fometimes “ happen in this part; and I am apt to imagine this “ to be the cafe when a rupture is very large, and not “ to be retained by a trufs.” It often happens, that in vomiting, in violent cough- ing, in draining at ftool, or in lifting heavy weights, thefe natural openings are forced, and the bowels de- fcend. The umbilicus is very feldom forced by fud- den exertion, for it is a very firm ring ; but often it is flowly dilated in pregnancy; and hernia of the navel is infinitely more frequent with women than with men. »—The opening of the ring is often kept, dilated by the bowels following the teflicle when it defcends; fo that though the accident be almod: forgotten, the hernia often appears again in the adult: molt fre- quently the ring is forced in ftrong young men by hard and continued labour, or by fudden draining; but women are fafer from this kind of hernia, becaufe the round ligament of the womb is fmaller than the fpermatic cord, and the ring in them is very clofe. —Abdominal hernia are thofe which cofhe, not through any natural opening, but through the inter- flices of the mufcles, by the parting of the mufcular fibres on an accidental wound in the abdomen, or by the operation of the Cefarean fedlion; for a wound of the abdominal mufcles feldom heals fo neatly as not to leave fome final 1 interflice, through which the bowels protrude. Thus any point may be forced by violence, any of the openings, or all of them, may be relaxed323 AND OF THE DIAPHRAGM. relaxed by weaknefs, as in dropfical or other lingering difeafes ; for it is from this caufe that hernias are more frequent in childhood and in old age ; by the laxity which is natural to childhood, or by the weaknefs na- tural to the decline of life. Often there feems to be a hereditary difpofition to hernias in certain houfes ; the form of the openings of the abdomen being wider in a whole family, juft as the features of the face are pe- culiar. And I have feen a child with all thefe openings fo particularly wide, that upon the flighted: coughing or crying, hernias came down at every poflible point, at the navel, the fcrotum, the thigh, and in the fides of the abdomen, all at once; or, as one tumour was reduced, another arofe. The effeds of the abdominal mufcles in moving the trunk cannot be miftaken. The recti pull the ribs downwards in breathing, flattening the belly, and bend- ing the body forwards.' The two oblique muscles of one fide ading, turn the trunk upon its axis ; but the oblique mufcles of the oppofite fide acting, co- operate with the redus in flattening the belly and bend- ing the body: and the transverse muscles tighten the linea alba, fo as to give effed to all the others; and particularly they brace the lheath of the redi mufcles, fo as to give them their true effed. CXLIX. The diaphragma is a Greek word, trans- lated inter feptum; the tranfverfe partition betwixt the abdomen and the thorax; the midriff: but it is not merely a tranfverfe partition, it is a vaulted divifion betwixt the thorax and abdomen ; and not only is the middle raifed into a vaulted form, but its obliquity is fuch, that though its fore part be as high as the fter- y 2 num? /324 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, num, its lower and back part arifes near the pelvis from the lowed vertebrae of the loins. It is a circular mufcle, which is flefhy towards its borders, and tendinous in the centre ; which is convex towards the thorax, and concave towards the abdo- men ; becoming plain, or almoft fo, when it preffes againft the abdominal mufcles in drawing the breath ; and returning to its convex form when the abdominal mufcles re-a£t in pufhing it back into the thorax. The diaphragm arifes, by one broad flefhy attach- ment, from all the borders of the cheft, forming the upper or greater mufcle of the diaphragm; and it arifes below, by many fmall tendinous feet, from the fore part of the loins, which, meeting, form what is called the lefler mufcle of the diaphragm, tft, The great or upper mufcle arifes, firft, from under the xiphoid cartilage, and from the lower furface of the fternum. 2dly, From all the falfe ribs; from the car- tilage of the feventh, eighth, and ninth ribs; and from the bony parts of the tenth and eleventh ribs ; and from the tip of the Kvelfth rib. All tbefe origins are, of courfe, flefhy digitations or tongues, which inter- mix with thofe of the tranfverfe mufcle of the abdo- men. 3dly, From the tip of the twelfth rib to the lumber vertebrae there is a ligament extended, which, going like an arch over the pfoas and quadratus lum- borum mufcles, is named ligamentum arcuatum; and from this another part ftill of the great mufcle of the diaphragm arifes. Thus the upper mufcle of the diaphragm has four chief origins, viz. from under the fternum and xiphoid cartilage; from all the falfe ribs; fromI y 3 ' line AND OF THE DIAPHRAGM. 325 from the ligamentum arcuatum: and, in fhort, from all the borders of the cheft, from the xiphoid carti- lage quite round to the vertebrae of the loins. 2. The LESSER muscle of the DIAPHRAGM, which arifes from the fpine, begins by four fmall flender ten- dinous feet on each fide. The firft of thefe, the long- eft one, arifes from the fecond vertebra above the pel- vis : it goes from the flat fore part of its body, and ad- heres to the fore part of all the lumbar vertebras as it mounts upwards. The fecond rifes from the third vertebra, but farther out towards the fide of the ver- tebra. The third arifes from the fide of the fourth vertebra. And the fourth tendon of the diaphragm arifes from the tranfverfe procefs of the fame fourth vertebra of the loins. But indeed we ought, in place of this minute demonftration, to fay, that it arifes from the four uppermoft lumbar vertebra by four tendinous feet, flat and gliftening, and adhering clofely to the fliining ligament with which the bodies of the vertebra are ftrengthened; that thefe tendons foon join to form a ftrong round flelhy leg, which is called the crus diaphragmatis ; of which crura the left is the fmaller one; and that thefe crura, joining, mixing, and crofting their fibres, form a flelhy belly, the leflfer mufcle of the diaphragm. 3. The tendon in the centre of the diaphragm is determined in its lhape by the extent of thefe flelhy bellies; for the great mufcle above almoft furrounds the central tendon, The fmaller mufcle below meet ing it, the two divifions give it a pointed form be- hind ; the tendon has the figure of a trefoil leaf, or of the heart painted upon playing cards. The middleMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN, 326 line of this tendinous centre is fixed by the mem- brane which divides the thorax into two ; the two fides go upwards into the two fides of the cheft, each with a form like the bottom of an inverted bafm ; their con- vexity reaching within the thorax, quite up to the level of the fourth true rib: the proper centre of the dia- phragm is fixed by this connexion with the mediaf- tinum, that its motion might not diforder the action of the heart, which refts upon this point, and whofe pericardium is fixed to the tendon : but the convexity of either fide defcends and afcends alternately as the diaphragm contracts or is relaxed ; fo that it is chiefly thefe convexities on either fide which are moved in breathing. Thus is the diaphragm compofed of one great and circular mufcle before; of one fmaller circular muf- cle behind ; and of the triangular tendon, as the cen- tre betwixt them: and both in its flefhy and tendi- nous parts, it is perforated by feveral veffels palling reciprocally betwixt the thorax and the abdomen. Fir ft, The aorta or great artery of the trunk pafles betwixt the crura or legs of the diaphragm, which like an arch ftride over it to defend it from prefliire. * Secondly, The oesophagus pafles through the dia- phragm a little above this, and to the left fide: its paflage is through the lower flefhy belly, and through the mod flefhy part of the diaphragm: and the muf- cular fibres of the crura diaphragmatis firft crofs un- der the hole for the oefophagus, then furround it, then crofs again above the hole; fo that they form the figure of 8 : and the oefophagus is fo apparently comprefied by thefe furrounding fibres, that fome anatomiftsAND OF THE DIAPHRAGM. n>27 anatomifls have reckoned this a fort of fphindter for the upper orifice of the flomach. Thirdly, The great vena cava goes up from the abdomen to the heart, through the right fide of the diaphragm; and this hole being of a triangular form, being in the hard tendon, and larger than the vein requires, there is no danger of ftrangulation in the vein. The tendon is compofed of fibres which come from the various fafciculi of this mufcle, meet and crofs each other with a confufed interlacement, which Al- bums has been at much pains to trace, but which Haller reports much more fenfibly : “ Intricationes <{ varias et vix dicendteirregular and confufed, eroding chi fly at the openings, and efpecially at the vena cava, the triangular form of which feems to be guarded in a moll particular way. The lower furface of the diaphragm is lined with the peritonaeum or membrane of the abdomen; and the upper furface is covered with the pleura or mem- brane of the cheft. The hole for the vena cava is fo large that the peritonaeum and plura meet, and touch each other through this opening all round the vein. The chief ufe of the diaphragm is in breathing ; and in this office it is fo perfect, that though there be a complete anchylofis of the ribs (as has often happen- ed), the perfon lives and breathes, and never feels the lofs. The diaphragm is, in its natural flate, convex towards the thorax; when it afts, it becomes plain, the thorax is enlarged, and by the mere weight of the air the lungs are unfolded and follow the diaphragm. No vacuum is ever found betwixt the diaphragm and y 4 the328 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. the lungs; but the lungs follow the ribs and diaphragm as clofely as if they adhered to them ; and indeed when they do adhere, it is not known by any diftrefs ; fo we draw in the breath : and when the abdominal mufcles re-ad, the diaphragm yields, goes back into the thorax, and grows convex again, by which we blow out the breath ; and while the diaphragm is ading, the abdo- minal mufcles are relaxed, yield, and are pufhed out, and leave the ribs free to be raifed by their levator muf- cles. And again, when the abdominal mufcles re-ad, the diaphragm in its turn yields fo that they at once force up the diaphragm, and pull down the borders of the thorax, affifting the ferrated mufcles which deprefs the ribs. There is alfo in every great fundion fuch a won- derful combination of adions confpiring to one end, as cannot be even enumerated here. But the alternate adion and re-adion of the abdominal mufcles draws in and expels the breath, promotes the circulation, and gently agitates the bowels, while their more violent adions difcharge the feces and urine, and affift the womb; and vomiting, yawning, coughing, laughing, crying, hiccup, and the r-ft, are its flronger and irre- gular adions. The diaphragm might well be named by Haller, c< Nobiliffimus, poll cor, mufculus.” And Buffon, who affeded the charader of anatomiff with but little knowledge of the human body, might miftake its central tendon for a nervous centre, the place of all m aons, and almoll the feat of the foul. For the an- cients confounded the names and ideas of tendon and nerve. And in feknefs and oppreflion, lownefs and fighing, in weeping or laughing, in joy or in fear, all our feelings feem to concentrate in this part. CHAP.CHAP. VII. THE MUSCLES OF THE PARTS OF GENERATION, AND OF THE ANUS AND PERINEUM* The mufcles of the parts of generation follow this di- vifion of the abdominal mufcles more naturally than any other. The erector penis is a fmall and {lender mufcle,, which goes over the crus penis, and braces it back to the pubis. ' The erectores are fuppofed (by prefling the penis againft the pubis) to comprefs the great vein, and fo caufe erection. The accelerator urinje is a mufcle which furrounds all the bulb of the urethra, and a els by a fort of fubfultus in difeharging the lafl drops of the urine, and in throwing out the femem And the transversalis perin^ei, which goesacrofs the perinseum, belongs rather to the anus than to the penis. The sphincter ani is a circular bundle of fibres which furrounds the orifice of the anus, and contrails it; and the levator ani is a flat thin mufcle, which lines the pelvis, furrounds the rectum like a funnel, andMUSCLES OF THE PARTS OF 33° and being fixed round the margin of the anus, raifes it up ; and the coccygjEus is but a part of it. The detrusor urinje is the mufcular coat of the bladder and the sphincter vesicle is not eafily diftinguifhed from the detrufor urinae, being but the fibres of it, only thicker and ftronger at the lower and narrower part of the bladder. The penis is compofed of two crura or cavernous bodies, which arife from the branch of each os ifchium, which foon meet to form the body of the penis ; and of the corpus cavernofum urethrae, which furrounds the urethra, is attached to no bone, but begins juft be- fore the circle of the anus, by a bulging which is call- ed the bulb of the urethra; and the eredtor penis lies along the crura, to draw them back to the pubis ; and the* accelerator furrounds all the bulb, and adfs in ex- pelling the femen or the laft drops of urine. CL. The erector penis is a delicate and flender mufcle, about two inches in length. It lies along the face of the crus penis of each fide. And when the crura penis are inflated, the eredtors are feen of their proper length and form. The eredtor of each fide rifes by a flender tendon from the tuberofity of the os ifchium. It goes flelhy, thin, and flat, over the crus penis, like a thin covering. It ends in a delicate and flat tendon upon the crus penis, about two inches up ; and the tendon is fo thin and delicate, that it is hardly to be diftinguifhed from the membrane of the caver- nous body. The eredlors lying thus on the fides of the penis, havebeencalledcoLATE rales penis,oriscHio-CAVER- NOSI,GENERATION, ANUS, AND PERINJEUM. 331 nosi, from their origin in the ifchium, ajid their infer- tion into the cavernous bodies. CLI. The transversal is perin^ei is often named tranfverfalis penis; but its origin being in the tubero- fity of the os ifchium, by a delicate tendon, and its in- fertion into the very backmoft point of the bulb of the urethra, where it touches the anus, its courfe is di- rectly acrofs the perinsemn ; and its relation to the pe- rinseum and anus is very direct and evident, while its relation to the penis is rather doubtful. Often there is a fecond mufcle of the fame origin and infertion running like this acrofs the perinaeum, named trans- VERSALIS PERIN^EI ALTER. This tranfverfe mufcle may, by bracing up the bulb to the arch of the pubis, have fome effedt in {topping the vein on the back of the penis, and fo producing ere£tion ; but its chief ufe muft be in preventing the anus from being too much protruded in difcharging the faeces, and in retracing it when it is already pro- truded. CLII. The accelerator mufcle is not a fingle muf- cle, as it is often defcribed : it is manifestly a pair of mufcles furrounding the whole of the bulb of the ure- thra. For there is along the lower face of the bulb a white and tendinous line, correfponding with the out- ward line or feam of the perinseum. This line diftin- guilhes the bellies of the two mufcles : the fibres of each fide furround their proper half of the bulb with circular fibres, winding obliquely round the bulb ; and each mufcle ends in its feparate tendon, which is de- licate and fmall, and which, leaving the bulb of the ure- thra, turns off obliquely to the fide ; fo that the tendon , of332 MUSCLES OF THE PARTS OF of each fide goes out flat and thin upon the crus penis of its own fide, a little higher than the infertion of the eredtor penis; and thus it embraces the bulb itfelf with its two crura. We know and feel its convulfive % involuntary action in throwing out the feed; and we are confcious that we ufe it as a voluntary mufcle in emptying the urethra of the laft drops of urine. CLIII. The sphincter ani mufcle is a broad circu- lar band of fibres which furrounds the anus. It arifes from the point of the os coccygis behind. It fends a neat fmall flip forwards, by which it is attached to the back part of the accelerator mufcle. It is of a regular oval form, and is two inches broad, and is for a very obvious reafon ftronger in man than in animals. Some choofe to enumerate two fphindter mufcles, of which tUs is the external or cutaneous; and what they de- fcribe as the internal one, is merely the circular fibres, or mufcular coat of the inteftine, ftrengthened a little towards the anus, but not a diftindt mufcle. Its effedt is to fliut the anus. CLIV. The levator ani mufcle is defcribed as a pair of mufcles, one from each fide : but it is properly one broad and thin mufcle, which arifes from the inter- nal furface of all the fore part of the pelvis; and from its breadth it has been named musculus ani latus. It continues its origin from the internal furface of the pubis, all the way round to the facrum. It grows gra- dually fmaller as it goes downwards to furround the anus. So it is inferted into the circle of the anus, into the point of the os coccygis, and is mixed with the fphindter ani mufcle. The whole pelvis is lined with it like a funnel or inverted cone; the wider part re- prefentingGENERATION, ANUS, AND PERINEUM. 333 prefenting its origin from the pelvis, the narrower part its infertion into the anus. The whole bladder is fur- rounded and covered by this mufcle; the urethra paffes through a fplit in its fibres ; and no operation of lithotomy can reach the bladder from below without cutting through this mufcle. It raifes the anus, and at the fame time dilates it; opening the anus for the paflage of the feces, and fupporting it, fo as to pre- vent its being protruded. Thus it is not for (hutting the anus, as fome have fuppofed, but is the direct an- tagonifl of the fphinbter ani mufcle. By enclofing the bladder, the levator ani adds upon it alfo ; for the neck of the bladder palling through a Hit in its fibres, while the levator ani is afting, this flit is drawn, as it were, round the neck of the bladder, and fo the urine is for the time prevented from flowing. It is as a fphinctey to the bladder, which prevents our palling the urine and feces at the fame moment. By furrounding the lower part of the bladder, and enclofing the proflaie gland, and the veficufe feminales, which lie upon the back of the bladder, this mufcle affects thefe parts alfo; and is perhaps the only mufcle which may be fuppofed to empty the veficufe, or to ccmprefs the gland, pul- ling upwards at the fame time, fo as to prefs the back of the penis againft the pubis, to maintain the erection, and to aflift the accelerator mufcles. By enclofing the bladder, veficufe, proflate, and a-nus, this mufcle produces that fympathy among the parts which is of- ten very diftrefling ; as in gonorrhoea, the (tone in the bladder, conflipation, piles, and other difeafes of thefe parts : for piles, conflipation, or any caufe which may excite the ablion of the levator mufcles, will caufe ere&ions,MUSCLES OF THE PARTS OF 334 ere&ions, a defire to pafs the urine, and an ob ft ruction in the difcharge of it. CLV.The musculus cocc ygjeus is a thin, flat, muf- cle, which arifes by a narrow point from the infide of the pelvis at the fpine of the os ifchium ; is implanted, expanded, and flefhy, into the whole length of the os coccygis; can be ufeful only by pulling up the point of the os coccygis, which is juft equivalent to railing the circle of the anus; fo that from every circum- ftance of its form and ufe, it might be fairly enough defcribed as being merely the back part of the levator ani mufcle. The perinasum, where the bulb begins, is the point into which all the mufcles are united ; for the accelera- tor mufcle, and the fphincter ani mufcle, touch at the beginning or point of the bulb; and a fmall pointed flip of the fphincter ani, going upon the bulb, con- nects them firmly together. The tranfverfalis perinasi come acrofs the perinasum from either fide ; and the le- vator ani mufcle comes down to meet the fphinCter; fo that the fphinCter ani, the levator ani, the tranfverfalis perinasi, and the accelerator urinae mufcles, all meet in one point, viz. the back of the bulb. They fecure the perinaeum, and lupport the heavy vifcera of the abdo- men : if they be unlkilfully cut in performing litho- tomy, it will be difficult to extract the ftone. In that operation the incifion paffes by the fide of the anus, and on the infide of the tuber ifchii; and our knife accordingly cuts clean acrofs the tranfverfe mufcles, which ftand as a bar acrofs the perinaeum; it paffes by the fide of the ereCtor mufcle, need not touch it, or touches it flightly, and by a fort of chance : It muft r notGENERATION, ANUS, AND PERINEUM. 335 not touch the accelerator mufcle; for whoever fays he cuts the accelerator, cuts too low, and performs his operation ill. After the firft incifion we get deep into the pelvis, and cut the levator ani. The fur- geon does not obferve thefe mufcles, on account of any danger which may attend wounds of them, but takes them as marks for the true place of his inci- fion ; and a good operator will be careful to have them fairly cut, that they may be no hinderance to the ex- tradfion of the done *. * The detrufor urins is but the mufcular coat of the bladder j the fphin&er veficse, or mufcle of the predates, is but a denfer fafciculus of this common coat of the bladder. I fhould no more think of deferibing them here than of deferibing the coats of the inteftines or ftomach. Thefe mufcles of internal parts, with the mufcles of the internal ear, See. I referve for thofe books which deferibe the organs and vifeera. CHAP.MUSCLES OF THE THIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. The mufcles belonging to the thigh-bone arife all from the pelvis or trunk. The psoas magnus and ili- acus internus come from within the pelvis,at its fore part, and, palling under the femoral ligament, go down to be implanted into the trochanter minor ; and by this obliquity of their infertion, they turn the toes out- wards, and bend the thigh. Other mufcles come from the lower and fore part of the pelvis; as the pe c t i n al i s, triceps,and obturator EXTERNus,which arife from the arch of the pubis, and go down to be implanted into the linea afpera, and lelfer trochanter; and they, pul- ling the thigh towards the body, are called the adduc- tors. Others arife from the facrum and back part of the pelvis, as the gluthli, which, coming direftly for- wards to be implanted into the greater trochanter, pull back the thigh ; and a fourth fet coming alfo from the internal furface of the pelvis, viz. the obdurator Internus,and thePYRAMiDALis,comeout through the back openings, turn round the pelvis as round a pul- ly, and roll the thigh, and draw it back. This com- pletesMUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. 337 pletes the catalogue of thofe mufcles which move the thigh. 1. The PSOAS MAGNUS, ILIACUS INTERNUS, PEC- TINEUS, TRICEPS, OBTURATOR EXTERNUS, which, coming from before, are inferted into the leffer tro- chanter, and bend the thigh. 2. The GLUTiEI, GEMINI, PYRIFORM IS, OBTURATOR Internus,and quadp„atus, which come from behind, are implanted into the great trochanter, and extend the thigh; and it hardly need be remembered, that as, when the arms being fixed, their mufcles raife the weight of the body, as in climbing or in turning over a bar, by grafping with the hands ; fo the muf- cles of the thigh move that thigh only which is loofe and free from the weight of the body, while the mufcles of the other thigh, which is fixed by the weight of the body, move not the thigh, but the trunk upon the thigh ; fo that our walking is performed not fo much by the mufcles of the thigh moving the limb, as by their moving the pelvis, i. e. rolling the trunk upon the limb. MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH, I.THE THIGH IS MOVED BACKWARDS AND OUTWARDS By the Glutseus maximus, *) which is im- r Linea afpera, ■ medius, V planted into ^ Trochanter major, minimus, J the / Top of trochanter. 2. THE THIGH IS MOVED BACK WARDS, AND ROLLED UPON ITS AXIS By the Pyriformis, which is implant- ■ Root of the trochanter. Gemini, Obdurator externus; ed into internusj Quadratus, VOL. I. X »"betwixt the trochanters, 3. THE338 MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. 3. THE THIGH IS MOVED FORWARDS AND INWARDS By the Pfoas magnus Iliacus Internus, Peftinales, Triceps, which is im- planted in- to the Trochanter minor, Linea afpera, Fascialis. I begin with this mufcle, as it is necef- fary in the difle&ion. The thigh is inclofed in a very ftrong fheath, which, like that of the arm, fends down among the mufcles ftrong tendinous fepta or partitions ; and the mufcles areinclofed in thefe fepta; and the great mufcles of the leg are fupported by it in their ftrong and continual actions. The tendinous fafcia of the thigh arifes chiefly from the fpine of the ilium, partly (over the groin) from the external oblique mufcle of the abdomen. Every fafcia has fomething added by each mufcle, and takes a new increafe and adhefion at each bone which it pafles. It is always ftrengthened by adhefions to joints, and comes down from them thicker upon the mufcles below ; and fo this fafcia of the thigh, which arifes chiefly from the fpine of the ilium, de- fcends, covering all the mufcles of the thigh : it fends partitions down to the linea afpera and trochanters ; it has a new adhefton and a new fource of tendinous fibres at the knee ; it adheres moft remarkably at the inner fide of the tibia, and then defcends to the bran; It covers all the leg, and is again reinforced at the ankle : and this I believe to be a jufter hiftory than the common idea of making it an expanfion of the fmall tendon of the fmall mufcle,which I am now to defcribe; for the fafcialis is too eflential to the ftrength of the leg to depend upon fo inconfiderable an origin, and wouldMtTSCLES MOVING THE THIGHBONE* 339 would be found there though this mufcle were away, as in the palmaris of the hand. This fafcia confifts properly of two plates; one is that which comes down from the creft of the ilium, and from the mufcles of the belly 5 the other, that which arifes purely from the tendon of the mufculus fafcialis, and which is, at the fame time conne&ed with the cap- fular ligament of the femur and with the trochanter; and fo the mufcle lies betwixt the two plates of the fafcia; and as the fafcia at this part takes at leaft a reinforcement from the capfular ligament, and from about the trochanter major, the fafcialis mufcle may be faid to be inferted into the trochanter. So this great tendinous fafcia has thefe connections : the creft of the ilium ; the ligament of Paupart at the rim of the belly j the creft and arch of the pubis ; the tuber ifchii, and fo back along the coccyx to the ridge and proceffes of the facrum j the ligament of the joint, the great trochanter, and the linea afpera, all the way down to the knee, where its laft adhefion is very ftrong, and from whence it comes off again much ftrengthened. It is thicker on the outer fide and back part, and very thin on the inner fide of the thigh ; and it dives with perpendicular divifions among the mufcles of the thigh. CLVI. The fascialis muscle. The mufcle is rightly named tenfor vaginas femoris 5 for hardly any other ufe can be afiigned. It arifes from the upper fpinous procefs of the ilium, i. e. from the fore part, or very point of its fpine, by a tendon of about an inch in length. It is very fmall at its origin and at its ter- z 2 ruination.j40 MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE* mination. It is thick and flefhy in the middle, fwelling out. It extends downwards, and obliquely back* ■Wards, almoft to the middle of the thigh; and there it terminates obliquely, betwixt the two lamellae of the membrane to which it belongs. Its ufe is chiefly to make the fafcia tenfe, to prepare the mufcles for ftrong action 5 and perhaps, by its ad- hefions about the trochanter, it may have fome little effect in rolling the thigh, fo as to turn the toes in- wards, and oppofe the Gemini. CLVII. Psoas magnus.—This and the following mufcle come from within the body to move the thigh forwards. This is a very long and flelhy mufcle; of confiderable flrength ; of conflant ufe; perpetually employed in moving the thigh forwards, or in fupport- ing the pelvis upon the thigh-bone, fo as to preferve the equilibrium of the body. It is named from psoa lumbus ; is a large round mufcle, very ftrong, of great length, filling up all the fpace upon either fide of the fpine, and bounding the pelvis at its fide. It comes from under the ligamentum arcuatum of the diaphragm; for it arifes firfl by its up* permoft head from the lafl vertebra of the back, then fucceffively from each of the vertebrae of the loins. It flicks clofe to the lumber vertebras; for it arifes, not only from the tranfverfe proceffes, but from the fides of the bodies. Thefe heads do not appear; for they are covered by the body of the mufcle, which goes down thick and round till it reaches the facro-iliac fymphi- fis, and then, being united to the internal iliac mufcle, they defcend through Paupart’s ligament. CL VIII. TheMUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. 34I CLVIIL The psoas parvus does not, like this, be- long to the thigh, but is a mufcle of the loins which arifes along with this one from the laft vertebra of the back and the firft of the loins. It is a fmall and deli- cate mufcle; ends in a (lender tendon,which goes down by tfie innffr fide of the great pfoas, but does not go out of the pelvis along with it: it flops fliort. and is implanted into the brim of the pelvis, into the os ilium, near the place of the acetabulum; it bends the fpine upon the pelvis. This mufcle is more regular in the monkey: in the dog it is feldom awanting. It is faid to be more frequently found in women than in men: in both it often is not to be found; but fome- times in flrong and big men three pfoas mufcles have been found. CLIX. The iliacus internus is a thick, very flefhy, and fan-like mufcle, which occupies the whole concavity of the os ilium. Its origin is from the internal lip of the crifla ilii ? ft adheres to all the concave furface of that bone down to the brim of the pelvis; to the fore part of the bone under the fpinous procefs; and to a part alfo of the capfular ligament of the joint: all its ra- diated fibres are gathered together into a tendon at the ligament of Paupart, This tendon is longer on the lower than on the upper furface; for below it Hides on the pubis as upon a pulley, and continues tendi- nous, that it may bear the friction; but above it is unconnected, or it is connected only by loofe cellular fubftance ; and there it is quite flefhy. Juft under the ligament the two tendons are joined; whence they z 3 bendMUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. bend obliquely round to be implanted into the leffer trochanter. The ploas magnus and iliacus internus are two very powerful mufcles. Their chief ufe is to bend the thigh, and more peculiarly of the lumbar one to fupport the body. The great blood-veflfels come down along with thefe two mufcles : The mufcles and veflels are both furrounded with loofe cellular fubftance. Matter often forming behind the abdomen, round the pfoas mufcle, is named the pfoas abfcefs; and penetrating under Paupart’s ligament, burfts in the thigh at laft, and is commonly fatal. CLX, The pectineus, or pectinalis, is fo named from its arifing at the peften or pubis; is a broad flat fquare mufcle j lies along fide of the laft defcribed mufcles; and is inferted with their common tendon. It arifes flat and flefliy from that line of the pubis which forms the brim of the pelvis, and is implanted into the linea afpera by a tendon flat and long, pretty nearly of the fame extent and fhape with its origin. This mufcle lies immediately under the Ikin and fafcia lata; and by its bending round under the thigh- bone it has three actions: to clofe the knees together; to pull the thigh forward 5 to perform rotation, turn- ing out the toe ; and in certain pofitions of the limb it will pull the thigh back, affifting the extenfor mufcles. CLXI. The triceps femoris is a broad flat mufcle, with three heads, arifing from the pubis, and inferted into the whole length of the linea afpera down to the condyle, and ferving for prefling the knees together or bringing the thigh forwards* TheMUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. 343 The triceps confifts of three heads, which lie in dif- ferent layers, one above the other; and have fo little connexion among themfelves, that they have been more commonly, and I think properly, defcribed as three mufcles. Thefe three parts of the mufcle are indeed for one common ufe: but they are of very different forms ; for they do not even lie on the fame plane : one is long: another fhorter by one half; a third longer than both the other two; fo that they have been commonly defcribed under the names of adductor PRIMUSOrLONGUS; ADDUCTORSECUNDUS orBREVIS J ADDUCTOR TERTIUS Or MAGNUS. 1. The adductor longus is the uppermoft layer ; its border (for it, like the pe&inalis, is a flat mufcle) ranges with the border of the pe&inalis. It arifes from the upper and fore part of the pubis by a Ihort roundifh tendon, very ftrong : it fwells into a thick fiefhy belly, not round, but flattened ; the belly grows flatter as it goes down towards the thigh-bone; it ends in a flat and fhort tendon, which is inferted web-like into the linea afpera in all its middle part, viz. about four inches. Thus the mufcle is of a triangular form, with its bafe in the linea afpera, and its apex on the pubis. Its head or origin lies betwixt the pe&inalis and the gracilis : its upper edge ranges with the pec- tinalis; its lower edge lies,upon the triceps magnus. It is called longus, becaufe it is longer than the next head. 2. The adductor brevis lies under the adduflor longus, and is of another layer of mufcles ; for as the firft layer confifts of the pe&inalis, triceps longus, and gracilis, this layer confifts of the obturator externus, z 4 triceps344 MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. triceps brevis, and triceps longus. The triceps brevis is exceedingly like the former, in rifing near the fym, phifis pubis, by a thick and flattened tendon, fwelling like it into a ftrong fleftty belly; like it, it grows flat, and is inferted by a fliort flat tendon into the inner trochanter and linea afpera. But it differs in thefe points: that it is lefs oblique; for this mufcle being fhorter, goes more diredtly acrofs betwixt the pelvis and the thigh : that it is placed higher than the laft; fo that whereas the addudtor longus is inferted into the middle of the thigh bone, this one is inferted into the lelfer trochanter, and only the upper part of the linea afpera; and the triceps longus is a fuperficial mufcle, while this is hidden under it and behind it. The longus takes its rife from the very creft of the pubis; this takes its origin front the fore part of the pubis, from the limb juft under the creft, fo as to be. immediately under the head of the longus. 3. The adductor magnus, the third head of the triceps, is a very long and flat mufcle, lying behind the other heads. It arifes by a fliort tendon, juft under the tendon of the adductor brevis: it continues to have a flelhy origin all down the ramus and the tu- ber ifchii (i. e.), from the flat edge of the thyroid hole. From this broad origin it goes to be implanted into the thigh-bone the whole length of the linea af- pera, its fibres having various degrees of obliquity ac- cording to their infertion ; for the uppermoft fafciculi go almoft directly acrofs, to be inferted flat into 1 he upper part of the linea afpera; the fucceeding fafci- culi go more and more obliquely as they defcend, the lower part of the mufcle following that rough line whichMUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-EONE. 345 which leads to the condyle; and the laft fibres of all are Implanted by a tendon of confiderable length into the .condyle itfelf. This addudtor magnus makes, as it were, a flat partition betwixt the fore and the back parts of the thigh ; and it is about three inches above the condyle that the great artery paffes betwixt this tendon and the bone, perforating the triceps, to get from the fore to the back part of the thigh, and down into the ham. The ufe of all thefe mufcles is entirely the fame, making allowance for their various degrees of oblique infertion; and they muft be very powerful, by the great diftance of their origins from the centre of that bone which they move: fo that while other mufcles pull in a direction very oblique, thefe three heads of the triceps mull pull almofi at right angles, the mod favourable direction of all. CLXII. The obturator esternus is named after the obturator ligament, from which it arifes. The li- gament and the mufcles {hutting up the foramen thy- roideumare named obturators; and it is fometimes named rotator femoris EXTRQRSuM,from its turn- ing the thigh outwards. It arifes from the ramus of rhe ifchipm and pubis where they form the margins of the thyroid hole; and from the outer furface of the li- gament, which it occupies entirely, leaving only room for the obturator vefiels and nerves. It is a fhort muf- cle; its origin is broad, and its infertion narrow, fo that it is of a conical form; for the flefli of this mufcle is gathered very foon into a round Ihort tendon, which iwifts under the thigh-bone betwixt it and the pelvis > fo that it is in a manner rolled round the thigh-bone, be-MUSCK'ES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. ing inferted into the root of the great trochanter. It pulls the thigh forwards, but is more peculiarly a ro- tator of the thigh. This mufcle is of the fecond lay- er ; and the fucceffion of all the mufcles is this: the upper layer confifts of the pfoas and iliacus, where they come out from the abdomen; of the pedtinalis; and of the long head of the triceps : the fecond layer confifts of the lhort head of the triceps: and the third layej confifts of the obturator externus at the upper part, and of the triceps magnus, or third head of the triceps, all down to the condyle. Glutei.—-There are three glutasi mufcles, each under the ether, and each fmaller than the mufcle which covers it. The first, arifing from the back part of the ilium, the back of the facrum, and the fa- cro-fciatic ligament, forms the whole hip, and defeends fo low as to be inferted into one third of the length of the linea afpera, and into the root of the great tro« chanter. The second arifes from all that portion of the ilium which is before this one, and from the back of the bone, and goes down to be inferted into the very top of the great trochanter. The third arifes from the back of the bone below the laft, down to the acetabulum and facro-fciatic finus; and it is inferted into the root betwixt the apex of the great trochanter and the neck of the bone. CLXIII. The GLUTiEus maximus arifes from the back of the ilium one half its length ; from the join- ing of the ilium and facrum; from all the fpines and irregularities of the facrum; and from the facro-fcia- tic ligament. Its thick fleihy fafciculae come in a wind- ingMUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. 347 ing and oblique dire&ion down to the thigh-bone; and, being gathered into a flat and pretty broad tendon, it is inferted into the root of the trochanter major, and down three inches of the linea afpera. This is one of the largeft and moft flefhy mufcles of the body; covers all the other mufcles of the hip; forms the contour of the hip; pulls the thigh backwards, or the body forwards upon the thigh when the thigh is fixed: and being a wide fpreading mufcle, which in a manner furrounds its joint, its different portions ad with different effects; not only according to their na- tural direction, but according to the accidental pofi- tions of the pelvis with regard to the thigh-bone. CLXIV. TheGLUTiEUs medius or minor is fmaller than the former, but like it. It arifes from all the outfide of the ilium not occupied by the glutasus ma- jor. It, like the other, is a fan-formed mufcle; for its fibres converge from its broad origin in all the back of the ilium, to form a fhort flat tendon, which is inferted into the back or into the very top of the great trochanter. It lies in part under the glutaeus maximus; but its- chief part lies before the glutaeus maximus: and as certain portions of the mufcle are before the thigh-bone, there are pofitions of the pelvis and thigh-bone in which it will pull the thigh for- wards, although its proper office is to affift the glu- taeus magnus in pulling the thigh backwards, and moving it outwards from the body. CLXV. The gluteus Minimus is a fmall radiated mufcle, which lies deep, and quite under the former. It has, compared with the former, a very narrow origin ; for it arifes chiefly from the lowed part of the back of the348 MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE* the ilium, viz. that part which forms the focket for the thigh-bone, and a little higher up; and from the border of the fciatic notch. It forms a fhort, flat, and ftrong tendon, which is fixed under the root of the trochanter major, betwixt the trochanter and the neck of the bone : fo that thefe mufcles are inferted in this fucceflion ; firfl, the great glutaeus, below the root of the trochanter, and into the linea afpera; the middle glutaeus into the back and top of the trochanter ; and the fmalleft of the glutasi is implanted into the rough- nefs under the root of the trochanter. Gemini.—The gemini are two mufcles, or rather one biceps mufcle; but the heads are fo diflinCt that they are reckoned two, and fo much alike that they are named gemini. CLXVI. The uppeymoft, the larger and flronger mufcle, arifes from the fpinous procefs of the os ifchium. CLXVII. The fecond, or fmaller head, arifes in like manner from the tuber ifchii, upon its ball or outer end. They are flefhy in their whole length. They meet and unite their tendons at the great trochanter. They are inferted firmly, along with the following ten- don, at the root of that procefs. CLXVIIX. The pyriformis, fometimes called ili- acus internus or pyramidalis, comes from the hollow of the facrum, runs in the fame line with the lefler glutaeus, and is inferted with the two Iafl named mufr cles in the root of the great trochanter. Its origin is from the hollow of the facrum, riling from the vertebrae of that bone by three or four fmall flefhy digits, and from the facro-fciatic notch j it runs 3 betwixtMUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. 349 betwixt the glutseus minor and the gemini, and its round tendon is inferted betwixt them, fomewhat con- nected with each. The pyriformis, gemini, obturator internus, and quadratus, form what fome anatomifls have called musculi quadragemini; and they are fo much alike in infertion and ufe, that it would be wafte of time to repeat what has been faid of the gemini and obturator. This mufcle, the pyriformis, like the others, rolls the thigh outwards. Its name is from its Ihape. CLXIX. The obturator internus, once named marsupialis or bursalis, arifes from all the internal furface of the obturator ligament, and from all the edges of the thyroid hole, from the ilium, ifchium, and pubis : So it arifes within the pelvis; comes out by turning round the ifchium in the notch betwixt its tuber and its fpine. Its origin is therefore circular and flelhy. It runs along the inflde of the os ifchium, turns round that bone betwixt the fpinous procefs and the tuber. The hollow there is guarded with cartilage ; and this tendon runs in the hollow, like a pulley round a rope; palling this, it runs betwixt the two legs of the gemini, and its tendon is united to theirs ; and the three, appearing almoft like one tendon, are inferted together into the root of the trochanter major. Thefe, then, might with fome propriety be named one mufcle: all the three, viz. the two gemini mufcles and the obturator mufcle, palling between them, were once ac- counted as one mufcle, and then it feemed to be a mufcle with two bellies and an intermediate tendon; and this intermediate tendon, with two flelhy ends, give it the appearance of a purfe, and thence it was named musculus marsupialis, or bursalis. CLXX. The350 MUSCLES MOVING THE THIGH-BONE. CLXX. The quadratus femoris, is a thin flat mufcle, pafling in a tranfverfe direction betwixt the tuber ifchii and the thigh-bone. It arifes from the lower and flattened furface of the tuber ischii by a Ihort tendinous beginning. It goes a little obliquely upwards and outwards, and is in- ferted into the back of the great trochanter, in that roughnefs which is found juft where the trochanter is joined to the bone, and goes obliquely betwixt the trochanter major and the trochanter minor. It rolls the thigh-bone, fo as to turn the toe out- wards, and pulls it almoft diredtly backwards. The motions of the thigh muft be performed by many very ftrong mufcles, as it moves under the ■weight of the whole body; and it feems to be curi- oufly contrived, that the mufcles fit for moving the thigh forward Ihould, in certain pofitions of the thigh, move it backwards; alfo giving an increafe of ftrength to that motion of the thigh in which moft ftrength is required. There are but two, or chiefly two, points for infer- tion; the trochanter major and the trochanter minor. Thefe two points are fo oblique, that no one mufcle, nor fet of mufcles, performs any diredt motions; for they all twift round the bone’s axis, to get at their in- fertion. The glutsei, the pyriformis, the gemini, the quadratus, the obturator internus, and obturator ex- ternus, all bend round the axis of the thigh-bone, to reach the trochanter major. Thefe now may be called the abduftors of the thigh, to pull it outwards; but Wo Ihould conclude from this direction, that they couldMUSCLES MOVING THE -THIGH-BONE. 35! could not pull the thigh backwards, for the thigh- bone would turn on its axis and elude their adion. The pfoas magnus, the iliacus internus, the pedina- lis, and the triceps, do in the fame manner go round the inner fide of the bone : the two firll to be im- planted into the trochanter minor, the two latter into the iinea afpera, juft below it. Thefe are juftly named addudors of the thigh: their chief ufe is to. draw the thighs together: And this is the combined effed of thefe two fets of mufcles. When the addudors ad by themfelves, they pull the thigh forwards, moving the leg, rolling the thigh-bone, and turning the toe out in a graceful flep; which is molt peculiarly the effed of the pedinalis and triceps. But when we are to finifh the motion, by pulling forward the body, which is the fame with pulling back the thigh, it is not merely the antagonifls of thefe mufcles, as the glutasi, the ge- mini, &c. which muft ad. Were the glutaci to ad alone, they would rather turn the thigh upon its axis outwards than pull it back; but the triceps, &c. ad again in conjundion with the glutsei, &c. and by the adion of the triceps, the inner trochanter is fixed j the further rolling of the thigh is prevented; the full effed is given to the glutgei mufcles. .When the glutsei ad, they pull the thigh diredly backwards, affifled by the triceps, pedinalis, and others : for now the thigh- bone is fo far advanced before the body, that thofe mufcles, as the triceps, which were benders of the thigh in its fir ft pofition, are extenfors when it is ad- vanced a flep before the body; or, perhaps, it will be more explicit to fay, that when the thigh is moved one flep before the bodv, the iliacus internus, pfoas magnus,352 MUSCLES MOVING T£E thigh-bone* magnus, and triceps mufcles, co-operate, agree with the glutaei mufcles in bringing the trunk forwards to fol- low the limb, and then in fixing and ftiffening the trunk upon that limb, till the other thigh is advanced a fecond Hep before the body. The muscles of the leg are the moll fimple of all: for the knee is a mere hinge, at leaf!; it is fo in all our ordinary motions; fo that there is no action to be per- formed but thofe of mere flexion and extenfion ; and there are only two clafies of mufcles to be defended, the extenfors and the flexors of the leg. 1. The extensors of the leg. The only mufcles which extend the leg are thofe four, which may be very fairly reckoned a quadriceps extenfor cruris. Indeed the French anatomifts arrange them fo. Sab- batier calls them the triceps femoris. Thefe mufcles, which all converge to the patella, and are inferted ill it, are: Reftus Femoris, Vaftus Externus, Cruraeus vel Femoraeus, Vaftus Interims* And thefe are all implanted by one tendon; becaufe the joint being a hinge, bending only in one direction, its mufcles could have given but one motion, however oblique their origin and courfe had been. 2. The flexors of the leg are one on the outfide and four on the infide of the leg ; the tendons of the outfide being implanted into the upper knob of the fibula, and thofe in the infide into the rough head of the tibia, forming the hamftrings, and extending their . tendons or aponeurotic expanfion downwards upon the leg. INSIDE353 MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. INSIDE FLEXORS. Sartorius, Ssrartendinofus, Gracilis, S emimembranofus. OUTSIDE FLEXOR. Biceps. flexor lying in the ham. Mufculus Poplitseus. extensors of the leg. CLXXI. The rectus femoris, fometimes rectus cruris, is fo named from its direction : it is a thin fiat mufcle, and arifes by two heads. The firit or greater head arifes from the lower fpinous procefs of the ili- um by a fiiort round tendon ; its fecond head is in -a different and in fomewhat of a curved direction : for it comes from the head of the acetabulum and from the capfular ligament. Thefe join together, and form a flat tendon of four inches in length, which becomes gradually flefhy and larger down to its middle, and then agains contra£ts towards the patella in the fame gradual manner. There is a middle tendinous line running the whole length of the mufcle, efpecially confpicuous on its back part: and towards that cen- tral line all the mufcular fibres converge. The re&us is united at the fides to the vafti; at the back part to the crurseus; and its tendon, along with that of the crurseus, goes to be direftly implanted into the jrotula of the knee. The redtus cruris is the firfl of thofe mufcles which Sabbatier calls the triceps femoris ; and furely they may be as properly named thus as the triceps cubiti EXTENSOR. VOL. I. A A ThisMUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. 35 4 This large mafs of mufcle or flefli enwraps the whole of the thigh-bone behind as well as before : for, firft, the crur^us arifes flelhy from all the fore part of he bone; the vastus externus from the great tro- chanter, and all the back part and outer fide of the bone; and the vastus internus arifes, in like man- ner, from the lelfer trochanter, and all the inner fide of the bone, from the trochanter major all round to the origin of the crurseus. CLXXII. The crur^us arifes from the fore part of the trochanter minor ; and it continues its origin from the fore part of the femur, the whole way down to within two inches or little more of" the patella. About three inches from its origin it is joined by the vastus externus, which unites with it at the outer edge and fore part; and the vastus internus comes into it about five inches below its origin, and joins it at the inner edge and fore part. At its lower part it is joined to the tendon of the reflus, to form but one large tendon, which is inferted into the rotula. Under the crurseus are fometimes found two little mufcles, or rather two little flips of this mufcle, which are quite diftinft. They arife on the fore part of the thigh-bone, two or three inches above the capfule of the joint; and they are inferted into the capfule on each fide of the patella, evidently for the purpofe of pulling it up,, to prevent its being catched ; and when thefe two (subcrur^i) are not found as diftinft muf- fles, fome fibres of the crurseus fupply their place. CLXXIII. The vastus externus is thedargefl of thefe three mufcles. ItsMUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. 2SS a a 2 flelhy Its origin is by a pretty thick and ftrong tendon from the lower and fore part of the trochanter major ; and it continues its origin from the root of the trochanter all down the linea afpera to that rough line which goes to the inner tuberofity of the thigh-bone. It touches the end of the cruraeus about four inches below its origin, and continues attached to it the whole way down; and then it forms a flat tendon which connects itfelf with the tendon of the rectus femoris, and then embraces in a femicircular manner the outfide of the patella. And feveral of the fibres of this aponeurofis not only crofs over the rotula, but go down over its oppofite fide to glide along the head of the tibia, and to be inferted into the inner fide of the knee. CLXXIV. The vastus internus is neither fo large nor fo flelhy as the vastus externus ; but it is ex- ceedingly like it in all other refpefts. It arifes from the fore part of the trochanter minor juft under the infertion of the pfoas magnus j and it continues its origin from the linea afpera tht^whole way down to the inner condyle, exactly oppofite to the origin of the vaftus externus, fo that their origins meet; they leave juft a channel betwixt them. The vaftus internus, very foon after its origin, joins itfelf to the cruraeus, or middle portion, and accompanies it in all its length : and at the diftance of two inches from the rotula it unites itfelf with the tendon of the cruraeus at its in- ternal edge ; and this tendon completes that junction which unites the four mufcles into a quadriceps cruris. This vaftus internus defcends much lower, in a flelhy form, than the external vaftus does j and forms that356 MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. The flefhy cufhion which covers the inner fide of the knee joint. Its tendon embraces the rotula fomewhat in the fame circular form with that of the vaftus exter- nus : and, like the externus, it fends fome fibres acrofs the knee-pan, to be inferted in the outer part of the head of the tibia. The rectus, and the vastus externus, internus, and crur^us, form one lage mafs of fielh, which embraces and inclofes all the thigh bone; and they are fo connected, that the crurasus cannot be feparated, and cannot be neatly diftinguilhed. The ufe of thefe four mufcles is evident to extend the leg and to bend the thigh on the trunk, or reci- procally to bend the trunk on the thigh. This, or thefe two motions alternately, is the common ufe of thefe mufcles, as in walking; and they are molt pecu- liarly ufeful in running and leaping. After defcribing a large mafs, conjoined in one ten- don, and concurring in one fimple action, it is fuperflu- ous to fay that its power mull be great. This power mull be ftill further increafed by the rotula, which removes the force from the centre, and gives the ad- vantage of a pulley, which it really and truly is : with- out this pulley thefe mufcles could be of no ufe in certain fituations; for inflance, in the recumbent pof- ture: for then the extending mufcles being in the fame line with their bones, could have no farther power ; but the r'e&us, by the pulley of the rotula, and by its attachment to the bafin, raifes the trunk, or at leaft helps the pfoas, the iliacus, and the mufcles of the belly.MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. 357 The rotula is again attached to the tib'a by a ftrong ligament, to fuftain the pulling of thefe great muf- cles *. FLEXORS OF THE LEG. CLXXY. The sartorius or Taylor’s muscle, is fo named from its bending the knees and drawing the legs acrofs. It is the longeft mufcle, and a very beauti- ful one: it extends obliquely acrofs the whole length of the thigh, crofling it like a fillet or garter, about two inches in breadth. It arifes from the upper fpinous procefs of the os ilium, by a tendon about half an inch in length; its thin flat belly extends obliquely acrofs the thigh, like a » ftrap, and is inferted in the fame oblique form into the inner tubercle of the head of the tibia ; its aponeurofis fpreads pretty widely, going over the whole joint of the knee a thin flieet of tendon. From the oblique pofition of the mufcle, it might in adlion change its place; but it is clofely embraced by the fafcia lata, and is tied by fuch adhefions as form fomething like a peculiar fheath of itfelf. * Thefe mufcles are in continual adlion : for theiroffice is to refift the bending of the knee, which would happen by this incumbent weight of the body ; fo that the continual fupport.of the body de-< pends wholly on thefe mufcles: and they are the great agents in running, leaping, walking, &c. Since, by extending the knee, they raife the weight of the pelvis and trunk, and of all the body, they muft be very powerful; and accordingly when they are weighed againft their antagonill mufcle, we find them greatly to exceed ; for the quadriceps, i. e. the reftus, crurceus, and vafti, will weigh four pounds, while the biceps, &c. their antagonifts, weigh but twQ pounds. This experiment was often repeated by the great Cowper for Mr. Brown, who was delivering ledtureson mufcular motion. It AA 3358 musCle^ moving THE LEG. If turns the {high like the quadrigemini and obtu* rator mufcles. It alfo bends the leg upon the knee; and when the leg does not yield, it bends the thigh upon the pubis ; or where the thigh alfo is fixed, it bends the body forwards : but in performing that ac- tion, whence it has its name, it does all thefe ; for firfl the leg and thigh are rolled, then the thigh is bended towards the belly, then the legs are bent to draw them acrofs. Though a fmall mufcle, yet it is of great power from its origin, and in fome degree from its infertion alfo $ being much removed from the centre of motion. CLXXVI. The gracilis, fometimes called rectus internus FEMORis #, is a fmall, flat, thin mufcle, in its general fhape fomewhat like the fartorius. It arifes by a flat tendon of two inches in length from the pubis and near the fymphyfis; and it pafles immediately under the integuments down to the knee : it pafles by the inner condyle of the knee, in the form of a fhort round tendon ; and as it bends behind the head of the tibia, it is bound down by a bundle of tendinous fibres, which eroding it, go to the back part of the leg. After pafling the head of the tibia, it turns obliquely forwards and downwards ; it here runs behind the tendon of the fartorius, and before that of the femitendinofus. It is inferted with the fartorius into the fide of the tuberofity at the top of the tibia, This mufcle runs alfo iq a line fo wide from the centre of motion, that its power is very great. It ferves chiefly as a flexor of the leg : When the leg is *1 ^ * Gracilis is from its fmallnefs ; rectus ikternus is from its ftraiAit duedtion. V fixed*MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. 359 fixed, It mufl, by its origin from the pubis, be a flexcr of the thigh, and an adduCtor in nearly the fame direc- tion with the peSlineus and triceps; and it is worth obferving, that while the knee is.ftraight, the fartorius and the gracilis cannot bend the knee ; they, on the contrary, keep it heady and firm: but when the knee is benr, they come into aftion ; for in proportion as the mufcles wh.cn have made the flexion are contrac- ted, they are lefs able to contract farther; and there- fore it is defirable that more mufcles lhould come into play. CLXXVII. The semitendinosus is fo named from its lower half being compofed of a fmall round tendon; and as tendon was once mifnamed nerve, this is the seminervosus of Winflow, Douglas, and others. Its origin is from the tuberofity of the ifehium (along with the femimembranofus, and touching the biceps) by a fliort thick tendon. It alfo arifes by many oblique fafciculi of fibres from the pofterior portion of its oppofite mufcle the biceps cruris. This crofs connection betwixt the two mufcles continues for three inches down from the tuber ifehii; it then departs from the biceps, goes obliquely inwards, and is flattened and contracted into a tendon fix inches from the knee. Its tendon then becoming fmaller and rounder, pafies down behind the inner tubercle of the knee j and getting round the head of the tibia, it pomes for- ward to be inferted into the tuber at the head of that bone. At this place the tendon grows broad and flat; it is expanded, and as it were grafps the inner fide of the knee ; its upper edge is joined to the lower edge of the tendon pf the gracilis, fo that the fartorius, gracilis^ t A A360 MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. gracilis, and femitendinofus, are implanted like one mufcle; and this tendinous expanfion feems like a capfule for enclofmg the heads of the tibia and femur, and for ftrengthening the knee-joint. The femitendi- nofus bends the leg. CLXXVIII. The semimembranosus has its name from the mufcle, which is flat, thick, and flefliy, begin- ning and ending with a flattened tendon, fomewhat like a membrane, but infinitely thicker and maflier than fuch a name fhould imply. It arifes from the tuber ifchii, before the femitendi- nofus and biceps. It arifes a broad, thin, and flat ten- don, of about three inches in length. It becomes flefliy and thick in its middle, but it foon becomes thinner again, and terminates in a fliort tendon, which, gliding behind the head of the tibia, is inferted there *•. This mufcle has little connexion with any other. It lies under, or, more properly fpeaking, on the infide of the femitendinofus, and the two together form the hamftrings. The hamftring. mufcles contribute alfo to another motion. Though, when extended, the tibia cannot roll, yet when we fit with our knees bent, it can roll flightly; and fuch rolling is accom- plifhed by thefe mufcles. All thefe mufcles which bend the leg, and which confequently extend the thigh at the fame time, are mufcles of very great power $ be- * The two tendons of this mufcle, the membranous tendon at the head, and this fmaller one by \\ hich it is inferted, Hand fo obliquely, that the mufcular fibres betwixt them mult be very oblique ; for the membranous tendon defcends low upon the back part or edge, and the tendon of infertion begins high upon the fore edge of the mufcle. caufeMUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. 361 caufe they arife in one common point, the tuber ifchii, and that point is very far diflant from the centre of motion. There is ftill cne finall mufcle, a flexor of the leg, which performs this rotation during the bent flate of > the knee with moil particular power. CLXXIX. TheMuscuLus poplit^eus, which isfo named from its lying in the ham, is a fmall triangular mufcle, lying acrofs the back part of the knee-joint, very deep under the hamftrings, and under the muf- cles of the leg. Its origin is from the outer condyle of the thigh- bone, and from the back part of the capfule of the joint. Its tendon is Ihort and thick, but of no great extent. It paflfes flefhy behind the knee-joint; and it is inferted broad into a ridge on the back part of the tibia ; fo that by its fmall origin and broad infertion it is a fan-like mufcle ; its fibres being almoft tranfverfe, and its lower fibres nearly perpendicular. Befides bending the leg, it is ufeful by pulling afide the cap- fule to prevent its being catched. CLXXX. The biceps cruris, fo named from hav- ing two heads, a long and Ihort one, lies immediately under the fkin, in the back part of the leg, running down from the pelvis to the knee, to form the outer hamfiring. It is the fingle flexor on the outfide of the thigh. Its origin is from the outer part of the tuber ifchii by a tendon of an inch and a half in length. And this tendon is, in its origin, clofely united with that of the femitendinofus for two inches, or at leafl the whole length of the tendon. After a Ihort, but very thick flefhyMUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. The fefhy belly, it degenerates into a tendon, efpecially on its back part; and this tendon, which begins above the middle of the thigh, is continued the whole way down. About one third down the bone is the beginning of the fecond or fhort head, which has its origin all the way down the linea afpera to the line above the outer condyle of the thigh-bone ; and here it is fomewhat connected with the origin of the vaftus externus mufcle and the infertion of the gluteus magnus. The tendons of the two heads are joined a little above the inner con- dyle, and go outwards to be inferted into the outer part of the head of the fibula, forming the outer hamfiring. Its infertion furrounds the head of the fibula, and a fmall portion alfo finks betwixt the bump of the fibula and the inner head of the tibia, to be implanted into This rnufcle, like the oppofite ones, ferves for bend- ing the kg. The fhort head Amply bends the leg j the long head affifls the fhort one in bending the leg, and is alfo a mufcle of the thigh. The mufcles of the foot are fix extensors and one FLEXOR MUSCLE, it alfo, EXTENSORS. Gastrocnemius vel gemellus. Gastrocnemius internets vel soleus Tisialis posticus, Peroneus pongus. all lying- on > the back part of the leg.363 MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG, The Flexor is, C lying on the fore part of The TIBIALIS ANTICUS. > 6, ^ l the leg. CLXXXT. The gastrocnemius is often divided into three mufcles, named gastrocnemii or gemelli. But, far from counting thus, we fhould rather favour the arrangement of Douglas, who couples this with the next mufcle, as forming a quadriceps or two mufi. cles joined with two heads each, and he calls it thq EXTENSOR CRURALIS. The gastrocnemius is the great mufcle of -the brawn ; its two heads are two very large and flefhy bellies, which arife from the tubercles of the thigh-, bone. The inner head is the larger, and arifes by a ftrong tendon from the back of the inner condyle, and a little way up the rough line; and it has alfo a ftrong adhefion to the capfular ligament of the knee. The outer head is fhorter than this: It arifes in the fame way, from the outer tubercle of the thigh- bone and the two mufcles meet and run down to- gether, forming the appearance of a rapha, by the direction of their fibres. But the two bellies continue diftind till they meet in the middle of the leg. They are diftind at their back part, but at their fore part they are conneded by a tendinous aponeurofis, or ftrong but flat tendon; and the two bellies being about the middle of the leg united firmly, they form a large flat tendon, very broad at its beginning, which unites with that of the foleus a little above the ankle. CLXXXII. Soleus.—This name is from its re- femblance to the fole-filh \ ajid it is often named 9*8.364 MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. gastrocnemius iNTERNUs. This, like the lafl muf- cle, has two heads, which arife from either bone. One head arifes from the bulb of the fibula, and continues to adhere to one fourth of the upper part of the bone ; another head arifes from about three inches of the upper part of the tibia. The firft of thefe heads is large and round; the fecond is fmaller and round ; they unite immediately; and a large fiefhy belly is formed, with flill a confpicuous divifion be- twixt the flefh of the two heads. The great tendon begins about half way down the leg, but ftill is inter- mixed with fiefhy fibres till it approach the heel. A little below the middle of the leg this tendon is united with the tendon of the gaflrocnemius, to form the great back tendon, named tendo Achillis, and fome- times, though very rarely, chorda magna. The tendon is large ; it grows fmail as it approach- es the heel; when it touches the extremity of the heel bone, it expands to take a firmer hold. In running, walking, leaping, &c. this mufcle, with the extenfors of the leg, are the great mufcles. The external gafcrocnemius has double power; for it, ari- ling from the tubercles of the thigh-bone, is both an extenfor of the foot and a flexor of the leg; but the gaflrocnemius internus is a mere extenfor of the foot, and both together have fuch flrength as often to break the tendo Achillis. CLXXXIII, Plantaris.-—rThis mufcle is named from a miflaken notion of its going to the planta pe- d's or foie of the foot, to form the plantar aponeuro- fis, like the palmaris of the hand; but, in fadt it does 1 notMUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. 365 ftot go to the foie, but is a mere extenfor of the foot, inferted along with the tendo Achillis. This long and {lender mufcle is fituated under the gaflrccnemius internus. It arifes from the external condyle of the femur wholly flefhy; it alfo has an at- tachment to the capfular ligament of the joint; after an oblique flefhy belly of about three inches, it forms its fmall flat tendon. The tendon runs betwixt the inner head of the gaftrocnemius and the foleus ; and where the tendo Achillis begins, the tendon of the plantaris attaches itfelf to the inner edge and fore part of the Achillis tendon ; it accompanies it down to the heel, running in a groove which feems made to receive it: and is implanted with the tendo Achillis into the inner fide of the heel bone. It is often awant- ing. The ufe of this mufcle is to tuck up the capfule in the great bendings of the knee-joint, and to affifl the gaftrocnemii mufcles. The PERONiEi mufcles are thofe which arife from the fibula. They are named from their length being different; the peron^eus longus being as long again as the brevis ; for it is one half longer in its origin, the one rifmg at the head, the other at the middle of the bone ; and again it is one half longer at its infertion, going fully round under the foot of the oppofite fide, \yhile the fhorter peronseus flops at the fide of the foot to be inferted. CLXXXIV. The peronseus longus is fo named from its lying along the fibula. It arifes partly ten- dinous, chiefly flefhy, from the upper knob of the fi- bula, and from the ridge of the bone, down to within three3&> MUSCLES MOVIKG THE LEG. three inches of the ankle. It h another fmall flip of a head from the upper part of the tibia, above where the fibula joins; it has alfo adhefions to the tendinous partition, which feparates this from the extensor di» gitorum communis and the soleus. Its tendon begins very high, above the middle of the leg; and it continues to receive the flefliy fibres almoft at right angles in the penniform manner. The tendon is concealed down to about or below the mid- dle of the leg: then it is feen immediately under the integuments ; and we can eafily diflinguifh it through the fkin, being that acute line or firing which runs down behind the inner ancle, and which gives fhape to that part. In palling the outer ankle, it runs down through a cartilaginous pulley or annular ligament, which alfo tranfmits the peronaeus brevis : it leaves the peronasus brevis on the fide of the foot; and pafflng by itfelf in a groove of the heel-bone, it bends obliquely acrofs the arch of the foot, goes quite down to the oppofite fide, and is inferted into the metatarfal bone of the great toe, and the great cuneiform bone on which it is founded. Under the eminence of the os cuboides it fuffers great fri&ion, fo as to be thickened to a degree of oflification, and to refemble a fefamoid bone. It is alfo thickened in a leffer degree as it pafles the outer ankle j and in all this length it is tied down by a flrong ligamentous expanfion. It is a powerful extenfor of the leg; it alfo gives that obliquity of the foot, which is fo handfome and na- tural, and ufeful in walking. This mufcle particular- ly turns down to the ground die inner edge of the foot jMUSCLES MOVING THE LEG* 36? Foot j fo it preffes to the ground the ball of the great toe; and that is the part which touches the ground, and which feels fore after long walking or violent leaping or running; It is by that part that we pufh in making a ftep; fo that this mufcle is perceived to be continually adtive in all motions of walking, leap- ing, running, and more particularly in dancing. CLXXXV. The peronjeus brevis is like its fel- low except in length and infertion. Its origin is from the ridge of the fibula; beginning about one-third down the bone, and continuing its adhefton the whole way to the ankle. It alfo has adhelions to the tendi- nous partition which is betwixt it and the common extenfor; fo that thefe two mufcles are by fuch ad- hefions very difficult to diffeft. It is fmaller at its origin, but increafes in its flefliy belly as it defcends; and it is flefhy lower down 'chan the peronseus longus. It is like it, a penniform mufcle. The tendons of the two peronsei pafs together by the outer ankle in the fame ring ; but the tendons crofs each other; for the peronseus longus is in its belly more forward. The brevis lies' under and behind it, quite covered by it; and yet the tendon of the brevis, by creeping under the longus, gets before it, juft under the outer ankle; and from that it runs in a feparate groove, fuperficially, upon the outer edge of the foot, to ,be inferted into the metatarfal bone of the little toe. In both muf- cles the tendon is upon the outer edge, and begins al- mofl as high as the upper head of each mufcle. This tendon of the peronseus brevis is the fhorier one, is fmall where it paffes through the pulley, and expands when it reaches its infertion, that it may grafp the metatarfal368 MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG, metatarfal bone firmly. The tendon of the longer mufcle alfo expands a little, and fomewhat in the form of a hand and fingers, taking hold of two bones by three little heads. This mufcle aflifls the former in extending the foot and coincides well in its oblique action with the laft; for as the laft turned down the inner edge of the foot, this turns the outer edge upwards, which is exa&ly the fame motion. CLXXXVI. The tibialis posticus is a penni- form mufcle, very much like the two laft defcribed, only its tendon goes round the cartilaginous pulley of the inner ankle. It is named tibialis from its origin, and posticus from its place. It arifes from the back part and ridge of the tibia, from the oppofite part of the fibula, and from the in* teroffoeus membrane below thefe ; and it continues its attachment to the interofleous ligament' quite down to the ankle. It has alfo ftrong attachments to the fur* rounding tendinous partitions. Its fibres are all ob- lique, and go to the middle tendon, which is in the heart of the mufcle. About the middle of the tibia this tendon begins to emerge from the flefhy belly; it grows gradually fmaller, but ftill continues to. re- ceive flefh quite down to the ankle. It paffes in the groove of the inner ankle, and is retained there by fuch a ligament as holds the peronaei. After palling the li- gament, it expands in the hand-like form, to grafp the bones of the tarfus: and it is expanded much more than the peronaeus; for it fends roots down among the bones both of the tarfus and metatarfus, fo as to take holdMUSCLES MOVING THE LEGS. 369 Ihold firft on the lower rough part of the naviculare in pafling over it. Then it is implanted into the two f rft metatarfal bones, then into the calcaneum, and laftly into the os cuboides; and where it paffes over the os naviculare it is hardened into a fort of fefamoid bone. In fhort, it is implanted in the foie of the foot by a tendon like a hand, which fends down its fingers among the tarfal and metatarfal bones, to take the fa- red: hold. This mufcle pulls the foot in fo as to put the toes together: and when balanced by the peronssi, it direCtly bends the foot. CLXXXVII. The tibialis anticus croffes ob- liquely the fore part of the leg. It arifes from the fore part and outfide of the tibia. It begins juft under the outer tuber, and continues its adhefion down two-thirds of the bone; then the tendon begins to be formed : and this mufcle, like almofl all the fmaller ones of the leg, adheres to the tendinous partitions, and to the fafcia, with which they are covered. The tendon begins al- moft with the origin of the mufcle; but continues co- vered by the flefh, and not appearing till within four inches or fo of the ankle, when it begins to pafs ob- liquely over the leg ; and having compleated the crof- fing above the ankle, it goes under the annular liga- ment in a peculiar ring ; it runs along the fide of the foot, and is implanted into the os cuneiforme internum j and a fmall production of the tendon goes forward to be inferted into the metatarfal bone of the great toe* It is the only mufcle which bends the foot, that is, which turns the great toe towards the leg. voL. i. b b MUSCLESMUSCLES MOVING THE TOES, 37° MUSCLES OF THE TOES. The long mufcles of the toes are juft four, two flex- or and two extensor muscles. The flexor mufcles lie upon the tibialis pofticus, or behind betwixt it and the folasus. The extenfor mufcles again lie under the tibialis anticus, or at leaft their heads are under it, and their bellies only appear from under it about the mid- dle of the leg. The flexor tendons follow the tendon of the tibialis pofticus by the pulley of the inner ankle into the hol- low of the foot. The tendons of the extenfor mufcles keep with that of the tibialis anticus, and crofs over the fore part or rifing of the ankle, where the tibia is united with the aftragalus. And in diflection we muft •follow thefe in an oppofite order to that in which they are defcribed ; for next to the fore part of the folseus is, ift, The flexor pollicis ; 2dly, The flexor digitorum ; and 3dly, The tibialis anticus. CLXXXVIII. The flexor longus pollicis is fmall and pointed at its origin, and arifes flefliy from three-fourths of the fibula to within an inch of the outer ankle. It grows thicker and larger as it defcends, and adheres to the tendinous partitions of the tibialis pofticus and of the peronsei. Its tendon can be feen only about an inch above the joint of the ankle. It pafles down behind the inner ankle, where it is bound in a fort annular ligament. It there pafles under the heel-bone, in the arch of the foot, betwixt the bones and the abductor pollicis ; it then glides into the chan- nel made by the two heads of the flexor pollicis bre- vis ; it then pafles betwixt the two fefamoid bones at theMUSCLES MOVING THE TOES. 371 tile root of the great toe; it then goes forward in a {heath, to be inferted into the lad bone of the great toe; at which implantation it is enlarged. Its office is to bend the great toe, but it is alfo con« tinually ufeful at every ftep in extending the foot, or in keeping the toe firm to the ground, while the gaf- trocnemii raife the heel; and therefore we fhould not be rafh in cutting away the great toe, for in it confifls not the ftrength of the foot only but of the leg. CLXXXIX. The flexor longus digitorum pe- dis, is named, in addition, the perforans ; becaufe, like the perforans of the hand, it runs its tendons through the fplit tendon of a fmaller mufcle, which is lodged in the foie of the foot. It is named alfo flexor communis ; although there be lefs reafon here, where there are no flexors for the individual toes, than in the hand, where there are feparate flexors for the individual fingers. It arifes from the back part of the tibia, its whole length ; that is from the end of the poplitseal mufcle, and from the feptum tendinofum, by which it is di- vided from the tibialis anticus, which lies immediately before it; and it continues this origin from the tibia down to within three inches or fo of the ankle. Its origin is not eafdy feparated before from the tibialis pofticus, nor behind from the flexor pollicis. The tendon is not formed till very near the ankle (within two inches of it), and the fleffi flill accom- panies it quite down to the joint. It crofles the tendon of the tibialis pofticus behind the ankle joint, and goes forward in the groove of the os calcis, tied down by a fort of capfule or annular ligament. In the arch of b b 2 themuscles moving the toes. the foot it crofles the tendon of the flexor pollicis, from which it receives a flip of tendon; and thus the office of either is affifted by the other, and could be wholly fupplied by it; it then pafifes over to the mid- dle of the foie, and growing flatter and thicker, divides into four flat tendons. Thefe go forward, diverging till they arrive at the ends of their metatarfal bones j then they emerge from the aponeurofis plantaris, along with the common fhort flexor. Now both thefe ten- dons run under a ligamentous {heath, and are included in it under the firfl: and fecond bones of the toes $ and having perforated the fhort flexor oppofite to the fecond joint, they are finally inferted into the root of the third or lafl: bone of each toe. Thefe tendons, like the correfponding ones of the foot, feem to be flit with a fort of longitudinal fiflure. The proper ufe of this mufcle is to bend all the joints of the toes, but more peculiarly the lafl bone; and alfo to extend the foot, keeping the point of the toes to the ground, confequently alfifting the gaftroc- nemii, and all the mufcles ufed in walking, &c. CXC. The mass a carnea Jacobi S ylvii, or plan* 'tje pedis, is a fmall body of flefli, naturally con- nected with the flexor longus. The mafia carnea arifes from the lower part of the heel-bone, in two di- vifions; one (the external one) tendinous, the other fiefhy. It is, upon the whole pretty nearly of a fquare form *, it joins the tendon of the flexor longus before its divifion into tendons for each toe : and by the long lever that this has upon the heel-bone it mull be of great afliftance to the flexor. It is more generally con- fidered in this light of a fupplementary mufcle; by forn a-MUSCLES MQVING THE TOES. 373 fome it is confidered as a diftindt mufcle, and as the origin and firlt beginning of the lumbricales pedis. Thus Cowper confiders the mafia carnea and the lumbricales as one and the fame ; that the mafia car^* nea joins the tendon, covers it with its flelh, continues flelhy along the common tendon, till at the bifurca- tion it alfo parts, along with the four tendons, into four fmall flelhy mufcles, which are called lumbricales. Albinus, again, paints the mafia carnea diftinfitly terminating at the common tendon, and the lumbri- cales as ariftng diftjnct from each of the divided ten. dons. CXCI. The flexor brevis mgitorum is alfo na- med the flexor fubiimis or perforatus. It arifes from the lower part of the heel-bone, or the bump upon which we Hand. It arifes by very fhort tendinous fibres ; and being placed immediately under the plantar aponeu- rofis, it takes hold of it, and alfo of the tendinous par- titions betwixt it and the two abductors of the fmall and of the great toe, which are on either fide of it. Under the metatarfal bones it divides itfelf into four heads ; their tendons begin earlier upon the fide next the foot; they grow round ; emerge from betwixt the dentations of the plantar aponeurofis ; they then pafs into the vagina or Iheath of each toe; and on this, the firlt phalanx, they lie over the tendons of the long extenfors. About the root of this firlt bone they di- vide into two little bands, which form a fplit (like the perforatus of the fingers) for the paflage of the long tendon. The long tendon pafles through it upon the fecond joint pf the toe ; and immediately after the perforated b b 3 tendonMUSCLES MOVING THE TOES. 374 tendon fixes itfelf by the two forks to each fide of the fecond bone or phalanx of the toe. Its life is to bend the firfl: and fecond joints of the toes, but moil peculiarly the fecond. And the obli- quity of the long flexor is exactly balanced by a cor- refponding obliquity of the fliort flexor: for the ten- don of the long flexor coming round the inner circle, runs obliquely outwards to reach the toes ; while the fhort flexor coming from the heel, which is towards the outer edge of the foot, runs in a like degree obliquely inwards, and meets the other at an acute angle near the toes. CXCII. The lumbricales mull be differed after the fliort flexor. They need no defcription, fmce they exactly correfpond with thofe of the hand. They rife like them in the forks of the extenfor tendons. They, like them, pafs through the digitations of the aponeurofis. They pafs on to the firfl; bone of the toes, and, like the lumbricales of the hand, creep over the convexity of the bone, to be united along with the tendons of the extenfors. Their infertion is al- ways at the fide of the toe next the great toe; and their ufe is to bend the firfl; joint of the toes, and to draw them towards the great one, making an arch in the foot, and aflifting the tranfverfalis pedis. The ex- tensor brevis lies mod fuperficially upon the foie of the foot, having its origin from the inner furface of the aponeurofis. The mass a carnea lies deeper, having no origin but from the tip of the heel-bone, and being fcon implanted into the tendon of the long flexor. The. lumbricales again rife from the tendons of the long flexor, beginning juft where the mafia carnea ends in it'*MUSCLES MOVING THE TOES. 375 it; and the lumbricales are the flexores primi interno- dii: the short muscle, the flexor fecundi intemodii; .the long flexor, the flexor tertii intemodii digitorum. EXTENSORS OF THE TOES. CXCIII. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM PEDIS is very difficult to difleet from its numerous adheffons. It arifes properly from the head of the tibia, at its outer and fore part, juft under the knee; but it has alfo ftrong adheffons to the inner furface of the fafeia; to the tendinous partitions betwixt it and the tibialis antieus before, and betwixt it and the peronaei behind ; and alfo to the interroffeous ligament and to the edge of the fibula. Its fmall origin foon becomes thick, and is divided even from the beginning very percepti- bly into three diftinct portions. Thefe foon form three round tendons, which go obliquely inwards, pafs un- der the the annular ligament of the ankle, and run in a ring of it peculiar to them and the peronaeus tertius. They then traverfe the two bands of the annular li- gament, upon the fore part of the foot; and now they change their direction a little, and go from within out- wards, and diverge towards their proper toes. There are three portions of mufcles and four toes to be moved ; the firft portion divides its tendon into two at the joint; fo that the firft portion ferves both the firft and fecond toe, the fecond the third toe, and the third ferves the fourth toe, • Here the tendon of the long extenfor receives four other tendons ; firft of the inter- olfaei externi; fecondly, of the interoflsei interni; third- ly, of the long flexor ; fourthly, of the lumbricales ; and thefe form a very large Iheath, quite furrounding •the toe. B B 4 Thefe376 MUSCLES MOVING THE TOES. \ ^ Thefe do not only, like other extenfors, extend the toes, but alfo, by the divergence of the tendon, expand them or feparate them one from another. CXCIV. The peron^eus tertius fhould have been defcribed as a flexor of the foot, along with the tibia- alis anticus; but is fo naturally connected with this, that it will be more eaflly underltood now. It is often named peron^eus tertius., fometimes nonus versa- lii, or ninth mufcle of the foot. Its origin is from the fibula, chiefly from the middle downwards ; alfo from the interofleous membrane ; and {till from the tendinous partition which divides it from the peronaeus brevis. Its origin is almoft entirely flefhy; and it lies behind and under the extenfor communis, fo that it feems in its belly to be a part of that mufcle. Its tendon alfo pafles along with the tendon of the extenfor communis, through the fame ring of the an- nular ligament; and there going obliquely towards the outfide or edge of the foot oyer the fhorter extenfor, it expands and covers the metatarfal bone of the littlp toe with an expanfion, and adheres to it as a flexor of the foot; and this, as well as the tibialis and other peronafi, have an oblique infertion generally into the fide of the foot; or if into the foie, it is after rum ning over the fide, as over a pulley $ fo that all of them tend to prefs down one edge, that of the ball pf the great toe, to the ground* CXCV. TheSNTENSOR DIGITCRUM BRpVIS is foC0I1- nedled with the extenfor longus, that it is natural to defcribe them together. The extenfor brevis is a fmall mafs of flefh, fome\vhat refembling the mafia carnea and lumbricales of the foot. It is placed juft where the I !MUSCLES MOVING THE TOES. 277 the buckle lies, upon the rifing of the foot, having its origin from the heel-bone, and running obliquely in- wards. Its origin is from the outer fide and fore part of the heel-bone, and alfo from part of the annular ligament. It is fmaller where it arifes by a ftiort tendon from the heel-bone, but it gradually increafes in fize: it divides early into four heads, which are mufcular, and very diftindt; the two inner of which are larger, the two outer more llender : each head has already formed an oblique tendon under its flefli, which begins to appear naked about half way down the metatarfal bones, 'fhefe tendons crofs thofe of the long extenfor, and pafs under them nearly about the end of the metatar- fal bones. Then one is implanted into the firft bone of the great toe, on the infide of the long tendon under which it had turned. The fecond, third, and fourth tendon are inferted Into their refpedtive next toes, and the little toe is left without one. The three laft of thefe tendons form a fort of fit; the two fides of which pafs along the fides of the toes, furrounding the long tendon, fomething like a perforatus; fo that the three laft tendons are inferted along with the long tendons into the laft bone of the toes, The obliquity of this ftiort mufcle countera&s the obliquity of the long ; and it ferves to extend and to fpread the toes, and to pull them away from the great toe. CXC.VI. The extensor pollicis proprius is a very fender mufcle, running from the top of the leg to the fecond joint of the great toe. It arifes from the fibulaMUSCLES MOVING THE TOES'. 37 s fibula a little below its head; grows tendinous as it approaches the foot; then palling under the annular ligament and the crofs ligament of the foot, it goes onwards to the fecond joint of the toe over the firft. The fucceftion in which thefe mufcles lie under and behind each other is this: Firft, The tibialis anti- eus, the outermoft mufcle, arifes from the fore part of the tibia, neareft the fore part of the leg, at the ridge of the tibia : Secondly, The extenfor pollicis lies irg- mediately behind and under the tibialis anticus; Thirdly, The extenfor digitorum communis lies be- hind that: And, fourthly, The peroneus tertius lies behind the common extenfor like a part of that mufcle. Thefe extenfor tendons are bound down by crofs bands, refembling the annular ligaments of the wrift. The general fafcia of the thigh is continued over the knee and down the leg : it is much ftrengthened at the knee, where it adheres to each point of bone ; it defcends very thick and ftrong over the leg, binding down and ftrengthening the tibialis anticus and ex- tenfor mufcles. The fiieath grows thinner towards the ankle; but where it paffes over the joint, it is fo remarkably ftrengthened by its adhefions to the outer and inner ankles, that it feems to form two diftindl crofs bands, which, going from the point of the outer ankle acrofs the extenfor tendons to the point of the inner ankle, forms a ftrong crucial ligament, re- fembling the annular ligament of the wrift ; fo that this ■which is called the crucial ligament of the ankle or foot, is plainly but a ftrengthening of the common ftieath. TheMUSCLES MOVING THE TOES. ^79 The mufcles of the foot are the interossei, which, in die foot, are found fingle on the lower furface or foie, but double and two-headed upon the upper part the foot. The abductor flexor, and adductor, pollicis, which furround the great toe, fomething like thofe of the thumb ; and the abductor and flexor minimi dxgiti, furrounding the little toe; and there is a fmall flip of mufcle, the transversalis pedis, which goes acrofs the foie of the foot. CXCVII. The abductor pollicis arifes by very fhort tendinous fibres from the knob of the os calcis, and alfo from a ligament which flretches from this knob to the ftieath which belongs to the tibialis pofli- cus ; and it arifes alfo from the tendinous partition be- twixt it and the fliort flexor of the toes ; and although it forms a beginning tendon oppofite to the cuneiform bone, the tendon is not naked till it has reached the middle of the long metatarfal bone. It unites with the fliort flexor of the fame toe, and is inferted into the firfl: bone or phalanx of the toe at its root. Its ufe is to pull afide the toe, and at the fame time to bend it a little ; it alfo curves the foot itfelf; for a joint, or any loaded part, is much better fupported by mufcles than by ligaments; and this arch requires fupport more than almofl: any other part. CXCVIII. Flexor brevis pollicis. This mufcle is much fliorter than the laft:, and lies betwixt the ab- ductor and the adductor : it lies immediately upon the metatarfal bone. Its origin is by a pretty long tendon from the heel- bone, and from the os cuneiforme externum, by two feparate flips, from the heel-bone, being a full inch380 MUSCLES MOVING THE TOES. inch in length; it alfo adheres to the membranous partitions on either fide of it. It is foon divided into two heads: one goes to the abdudtor, and the other goes to the adductor, to have the tendons inferted with, theirs into the root of the firfl: bone or phalanx. Thefe tendons contain the fefamoid bones ; and the parting of the two heads makes a channel for the tendon of the long flexor to run in- fo ufe is to bend the firfl: joint of the great toe. GXCIX. The adductor pollicis is the third and fall portion of the mufcle which encircles the great toe. It arifes from the heel-bone by a tendon as long al- moft as that which it gives the abductor : It does not immediately arife from the heel-bone ; but there is a ligament extended from the heel-bone to the os cu- boides, and it arifes from that ligament: This is the ligament under which the tendon of the peroneus longus glides. The addudtor is divided into two flefhy fafciculi or heads ; thefe unite, and, going obliquely inwards, are inferted either into the fefamoid bone, or directly into the firfl: bone of the great toe. CC. The transversal is pedis extends tranfi verfely acrofs the foie of the foot at the head of the rnetatarfal bones ; it is a very final! mufcle, and re^ fembles a good deal the palmaris brevis. It arifes from the ligament which connects the bones of the tarfus together ; and a fmall mufcular belly is formed, which is inferted into the tendon of the ad? DUCTOR POLLICIS. Its ufe is faid to be to make a fort of gutter in the foot, by drawing the heads of the rnetatarfal bones to- gethertMUSCLES MOVING THE TOESs 38! gether. But is it not evident that this is one of many inftances of mufcles being a more perfect fupport than ligaments ?—It is a fupport, having a fort of in- telligence, contracting or relaxing according to the ne- ceffity or degree of force : indeed, except this ufe, it is •not eafy to affign any ; for there is very little occafion for hollowing the foot in this direction. CCI. The abductor minimi digiti, like the ab- ductor pollicis, is a pretty long mufcle, but very fen- der, lying on the outer fide of the foot. Its origin is from the knob of the heel-bone, and from the tendinous feptum, which covers the flexor brevis : It forms two fmall tendons in the fame direc- tion ; one fmall and fliorter tendon is fixed into the metatarfal bone, at its root; the other goes forward, to be inferted into the root of the firft bone of the toe; fo that this mufcle clearly performs both the offices afcribed to the other flexors. It bends the toe to \ which it belongs, and it extends and fupports the tar- fus in walking ; and it carries the toe a little outwards, from which it has its name. CCII. The flexor brevis minimi digiti ip next, and is almoft the fame mufcle in place and office : It is an exceedingly fmall mufcle ; it juft meafures the length of the metatarfal bone, and arifes from it. Its origin is from the root of the metatarfal bone of the little toe, and from the ligament by which that bone is connected with the os cuboides ; it fmall belly runs the length of that bone ; and it is implanted by a jhort tendon into the root of the firft bone of the little toe. Its ufe is to bend the toee CCIII. The382 MUSCLES MOVING THE TOES* CCIII. The interossei interni are three final! mufcles feated in the planta pedis, as the interoiTei manus are in the palm of the hand. Their flender tendons pafs through the openings of the aponeurofis plantaris; and, going on the infide of the toes, are* like the lumbricales, inferted along with the extenfor tendons. Thefe pull the toes towards the great tee, bend the firfl joint, and extend the fecond and third. CCIV. The interossei externi are, like thecor- refponding mufcles of the hand, four in number, and double headed, and have been named bicipites. They rife from the metatarfal bones on each fide of them : each has fome little variety in its origin or courfe ; but it is far from being worth our while to deferibe each individually, as many do : it is fufficient to obferve their origin, and that their tendons all meet the ten- dons of the long and ffiort extenfors of the lumbri- cales, and of the interossei interni, upon the back of the toes ; fo that the whole forms a web, aponeurofis, or {heath, which covers the upper part of the toe, and adheres to its point. The office of thefe mufcles is to extend the toes. Plantar aponeurosis.—The palm and the foie are much expofed, and are efpecially defended by a thick tendinous aponeurofis. In the palm there is the more reafon to fufpect expanfion to proceed from the ten- don of the mufcle, becaufe the tendon of the palmaris is inferted into it: yet that is not probable ; for the tendon is very {lender, and quite unfit for the gene- ration of fo broad a fheet of aponeurofis. In the foot fuch an origin is {bill lefs lefs probable : for the plantaris ^ 13 tendonMU3CLES MOVING THE TOES. 383 tendon does not terminate in the plantar aponeurofis, but is inferted into the heel-bone. The plantar aponeurofis arifes moft diflin&iy from that part of the tuber of the heel-bone upon which we ftand: it is divided into three {heaths. Sabbatier makes a middle, external, and internal portion of the fame aponeurofis. Albinus alfo defcribes it as three diftinct aponeurofes ; one for the middle of the foot; one for the abductor of the great toe ; and one theapo- neurofis of the abdu&or of the little toe ; all conne&ed together only by their edges. Cowper confiders it as a general expanfion from the plantaris; and it is from, this prejudice that the mufcle has its name. But its true origin is from that part of the knob of the heel-bone on which we Hand. The middle, and more pointed tendon, arifes from the very point of the knob ; the inner fafcia arifes from the infide of this ; and the outer one from the outfide. And though thus divided into three heads, yet the whole origin is from the heel-bone, and is fmall and pointed. From this point the aponeurofis goes forward, expanding till it is as broad as the roots of the toes ; fo that the whole has the fhape of a fandal $ and as it expands, its fibres are more fcattered, fo as to have a radiated appearance. Accordingly, the part neared the heel is thicker, while the broader part is thinner. It goes forward like the foie of a fhoe, till, having approached the heads of the metatarfal bones, it is divided into five heads, correfponding with the five knobs: and each of thefe heads again fubdivides it- fe'lf into two bands; which, paffing on each fide of the heads of the metatarfal bones, is fixed into the fides*MUSCLES MOVING THE TOES'; 3%* fides, fo as to leave room for the palling of the tendons^ and nerves, and arteries. Now this middle aponeurofis fends down a deep ftrong partition on each fide of it; which is the belt reafon that I know for making thefe three diftindt apo- neurofes : for, by thefe perpendicular partitions, the , hollow of the foot is feparated into three diftindt chambers: under the middle one are concealed the tendons of the long flexors, with the lumbricales and ftiort flexor mufcles ; under the outer one, the flexor and abductor of the little finger ; and under the in- ner one, the addudtor, flexor, and abdudtors of the great toe. The ufes of this great and very ftrong aponeurofis are: That it protects all the parts, the blood-veflels, mufcles, and nerves that lie under it: That it fupports the arch of the foot, both in Handing and in motion, palling from heel to toe, like a bow-ftring, acrofs its arch : That it binds down the mufcles, and confe- quently fupports and aflifts them in their ftrong adtions: That it gives origin, or part of their origin, to many of the mufcles ; which by their frequent and irregular adhefion to it, are very difficult to difledt: That it forms openings or rings, in which the tendons of the other mufcles pafs. CHAP.CHAP. IX. OF THE MUSCULAR POWER, * rhat contractile power which refid.es in the mufcular or living fibre, is a phenomenon the moll wonderful and perplexing of all. When we cannot reach the true point, the mind too often condefcends to the moft trifling purfuits : And fo, when the older phyfiologifts could not underhand the intrinsic nature of this muf- cular power, they endeavoured to difcover the fize, the colour, and other external properties of the fibre ; foolifhly defiring to know what, if known, could be of no avail. Colour was believed to be efiential to the conflitution of a mufcle: but in fowls, in amphi- bious animals, in fifhes, in worms, and infedls, through all the gradations of animals, of different fpecies or different fizes, the colours of the mufcular fibre change. In fifhes and in infers it is entirely w7hite; even in the human body it is not effentially red; the fibres of the iris, the mufcular coats of the arteries, the muf- cles of the flomach, of the inteflines, and of the uri- nary bladder, are colourlefs: the blood which makes this fibre red in the other parts may be wafhed away. vol. i. c c ThenOF THE MUSCULAR POWER. 386 Then why fhould we define a mufcle by that acci- dental property which it fo often wants, and of which it may be fo eafdy deprived ; while we may define it more truly by its contraCtile power, the only evidence of its nature, and its chief diftinfition in the fyflem ? for the contraction of the iris conflitutes its nature ; it is a mufcle by truer marks than by its colour : and, by the fame rule, the mufcles of the leaft infeCt are as perfeCt as the mufcles of a man. Philofophers of the laft age had been at infinite pains to find the ultimate fibre of mufcles, thinking to dif- cover its properties in its form ; but they faw juft in proportion to the glades which they ufed, or to their practice and fkill in that art, which is now almoft for- faken. Some found the fibres to be of one equal fize in all creatures, however various : Others found them proportioned to the fize, or age, or ftrength, of their fubjeCt: but even fuch difcrepancies are trivial to thofe which, in one of the greateft of thefe minute philofophers, are found almoft in the fame page ; fome- times affirming the ultimate fibre to be greater or fmaller, according to the ftrength of the fubjeCt, and again making them of equal fize in the whale and in the infeCt. Others, lefs troubled about the ultimate fize of thefe fibres, have conceived notions of their form, which, in the credulity of the times, rofe into the importance of doCtrines; and, from the firft raw conceptions of their authors, were finally proved by the microfcope forfooth ; and while one author was drawing his rhom- boidal fibres all conjoined in regular fucceflion, and another defcribing them alfo from the microfcope as confidingOF THE MUSCULAR POWER, 387 confiding of fix cylindrical fibres involved in a fpiral one, a third reckoned the fibres a fucceffion of fphe- rical bodies ; and Cowper thought that he was inject- ing with quickfilver chains of bells jointed with each other. For the honour of the age, thefe vanities are forgotten now. And why, indeed, Ihould we feek the ultimate fibres of the mufcle, or dudy their forms, when the difcovery could not advance us one fingle dep in the knowledge of its nature or eflence ? What avails it, that we have difcovered (if we have really difcovered) the fhape of the particles of the blood; the wave-like fibres within the fubdance of the nerves; or the jointed appearance in the fmaller fibres of muf- cles ? We do not underdand the nature of the blood, the properties of the nerves, nor the contractile power of the mufcles, at all better by the knowledge of this peculiar form of the internal drudture, than we do by the grofler. marks of their external form. Phyfiologids have, by a late fenfe of their own weak- nefs, been at lad humbled to this becoming, but un- willing acknowledgment, that this contractility of die mufcles is an original endowment of this living matter derived from the Creator; imparted in a way which we cannot know ; and fo attached to the organization of the mufcular fibre, that when its organization is de- droyed, this power is lod. We have refigned the fearch after a mechanical or phyiical caufe, and feek only to learn the properties of this living power, and the excitements by which it is moved. To this end it is necefiary to define this power, didinguifhing it from thofe feelings or motions which refult from the nerves. The vis infita being that power which be- C c 2 longs388 OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. longs to mufcles, is the fource of motion and animal life. The vis nervea, being that property which is peculiar to nerves,.is the feat of feeling, and the caufe of voluntary motion, relating chiefly to the enjoyments and confcioufnefs of life ; for life and motion exifl even in plants, and in many creatures which, not having nerves, have neither confcioufnefs nor enjoyment, and in which the place of feeling is fupplied by a lefs perfect inflinfl by this vis infita, cr fome analogous inherent power. This irritable power redding in mufcles may be de- * fined the property by which' mufcles feel and re-a£t, upon certain flimuli being applied, without that feel- ing being conveyed to the fenforium ; without a con- fcioufnefs of action ; without any other natural depen- dence on the fyflem than that while certain orders of mufcles are obedient to their own flimuli only, as the heart to the blood, other orders of the mufcles are ready to receive the commands of the will. And above all, fo little dependent is this action upon the nerves, that it is as perfect in animals which have no nerves ; and is for a time very perfect in the parts which have been fevered from the fyltems to which they belonged. This power, inherent in the mufcular fibre, belonging to its conflitution, and not derived from without, is the vis infita or irritability of Haller *, the vis vitalis * The irritability of a mufcle is, perhaps, more properly the vis infita or inherent power called into immediate adtion by the pre- fence of ftimuli; and as for the names of Tonic Power, Vital Power, and the reft, the terms are quite undefined, and may per- haps have referred rather to the combined effect of all the powers of life, and of all the properties of inanimate matter, of nervous Sympathy, elafticity, and of mufcular power combined. ofOF THE MUSCULAR POWER* 389 of Goerter, the ofcillation of Boerhaave, and the tonic power of Stahl. It is feen in the fpontaneous and tre- mulous contractions of mufcles when lacerated, as' in wounds; when cut in operations; when entirely fe- parated from the body, as in experiments upon ani- mals ; like that tremulous motion which we often feel in various parts of the body, without any evident caufe, and independent of the will. Even when the body is dead to all appearance, and the nervous power gone, this contractile power remains ; fo that if a body be placed in certain attitudes before it be cold, its mufcles will contract, and it will be fixed in that pofture till the organization yields and begins to be diffolved. It is by this inherent power that a cut muf- cle contracts and leaves a gap ; that a cut artery fhrinks and retires into the flefh ; that the whole body fhrinks and grows fuff after death. Thefe are but faint indica- tions of that latent power which can be eafily excited to the mofc violent motions, and on which all the ftrength of the mufcles depends : For the ligaments, tendons, burfse of joints, and all thofe parts which have no living power, are capable of bearing the fame weight when dead as when alive. But fuch is the connection betwixt the organization of a mufcle and its contraCtile power, that the moment it dies all its power is gone ; and the mufcle which could lift a hundred pounds while alive, cannot bear the weight of a few pounds when dead. This latent power may be brought into full aCtion by various ftimuli. The latent power itfelf is called vis infita; the acting power put into aCtion, or the proof of the vis infita, upon ap- plying ftimuli, is called the irritability of mufcles. This c c 3 irritability39© OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. irritability is fo far independent of nerves, and fo little connected with feeling, which is the province of the nerves, that upon {Emulating any mufcle by touching it with a cauftic, or irritating with a {harp point, or driving the eleCtric fpark through it, or exciting with the metallic conductors, as of filver and zinc #, the mufcle inftantly contracts; although the nerve of that mufcle be tied; although the nerve be cut fo as to feparate the mufcle entirely from all connection with the fyftem; although the mufcle itfelf be feparated from the body ; although the creature upon which the experiment is performed may have loft all fenfe of feeling, and have been long apparently dead. Thus a mufcle cut from the limb trembles and palpitates for long after; the heart feparated from the body con- tracts when irritated ; the bowels, when torn front the body, continue their periftaltic motion, fo as to roll upon the table, ceafmg to anfwer to ftimuli only when they become ftiff and cold; and too often in the hu- man body the vis infita lofes the exciting power of the nerves, and then palfy enfues: or, loftng all go- vernance of the nerves, the vis infita, aCting without this regulating power, falls into partial and general con-, vulfions. Even in vegetables, as in the fenfitive plant* this contractile power lives. Thence comes the diftinc-. tion betwixt the irritability of mufcles and the fenfi- bility of nerves ; for the irritability of mufcles furvives the animal, as when it is aCtive after death ; furvives the life of the part, or the feelings of the whole fyftem., * See a moil ingenious differtation by my pupil Mr. Fowler, the firft writer, in this country, on this very interefting novelty, wher§ the operations of this new excitement are explained.391 OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. as in univerfal palfy, where the vital motions continue entire and perfed, and where the mufcles, though not obedient to the will, are fubjed to irregular and violent adions; and it furvives the connedion with the reft of the fyftem, as where animals very tenacious of life are cut into parts :■—but fenfibility, the property of the nerves, gives the various modifications of fenfe, as vifion, hearing, and the reft; gives all'o the general fenfe of pleafure or pain, and makes the fyftem, ac- cording to its various conditions, feel vigorous and healthy, or weary and low. And thus the eye feels, and the Ikin feels; but their appointed ftimuli produce no motions in thefe parts; they are fenfible but not ir- ritable. The heart, the inteftines, the urinary blad- der, and all the mufcles of voluntary motion, anfwer to ftimuli v/ith a quick and forcible contradion ; and yet they hardly feel the ftimuli by which thefe con- tradions are produced, or at leaft they do not con- vey that feeling to the brain. There is no confci- oufnefs of prefent ftimulus in thofe parts which are called into adion by the impulfe of the nerves, and at the command of the will; fo that mufcular parts have all the irritability of the fyftem, with but little feeling, and that little owing to the nerves which en- ter into their fubftance; while nerves have all the fenfibility of the fyftem, but no motion. The vis insit a is a power that is in continual force, preferving the parts ready for their proper ftimuli, whatever thefe may be; one fet obeying their own peculiar ftimuli chiefly; while others are obedient to the nervous power and the influence of the will. The heart is ftimulated by the quantity or quality of its blood ; the ftomach by the prefence of food ; the in- c c 4 teftines392 OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. teflines by their contents: the urine flimulates the bladder; the venereal appetite flimulates the genital fyflem ; the foetus flimulates the womb ; and the vo- luntary mufcles (if we may be allowed to guefs at a thing fo little known) are excited by the nerves, and fo are obedient to the will; for, to our limited view, the nerves feem to be the foie meffengers of thefe commands; and any flimulus to the nerves moves the mufcles like the commands of the will. The abfence of the due flimulus to each, or the prefence of ordinary flimuli in too great power, will excite enormous and irregular motions ; as fulnefs of blood in the heart, poi- fons in the flomach, acrimonies in the inteflinal canal, or the paffions of anger or fear in the fyflem of the vo- luntary mufcles. The due flimuli preferve their right tone and aftion ; but thefe violent flimuli hurt their ir- ritability or moving power ; the heart afts weakly af- ter fevers ; the appetite is languid after debauch ; the limbs are weakened by labour; and the whole fyflem Is ruined by excefs. Thus the functions by which the fyflem lives, the heart, the flomach, the bowels, and the womb, the various forts of .veffels by which the fluids are conveyed, are providently removed from the influence of the will; for thefe are the machines of the fyflem, whofe motions could not flop, mufl not be in- terrupted, nor lowered, nor raifed, but muff move and aft according to the needs of the fyflem. Not left to. the irregularities or careleffnefs of voluntary motions, they are governed each by its own peculiar flimulus, and aft in a continued and equal courfe. Thus there are in the body two living powers which are as caufe and effect in all the motions of our fyflem. TheOF THE MUSCULAR POWER. 393 The nerves (land as an intermedium betwixt all ex- ternal objects and our general fenfe ; by the impref- ftons through thefe come pleafure and pain, and all the motives to action; by the will, returned through the nerves, all voluntary motions enfue. Thus are the nerves, as internuncii, betwixt the external im» preffion and the moving power. But nerves were ne- ver known to move under the influence of flimuli; the moving power is another property of a diflinct part of our body, having its own arrangement of particles, and its own peculiar form. All motion then proceeds from the joint operation of either power j the nerves convey the impreffions, while the mufcles contain the power ; and it is here, as in other natural effects, the external caufe. changes, while the inherent property, the fub- je£t of its operation, remains the fame. The nervous power is the regulator of the fyflem; it is the property fuited to all the fupports of life, upon which they aft, and by which they maintain their power over our body: but it is fubjedt to continual changing; it rifes and falls, is perfect or low; but the energy of the mufcle, which is to anfwer to this power, remains ever the fame while its organization remains ; the nervous power is exhaufted and languid; but the mufcular power is al- ways perfect, always ready for the excitement of fli- muli or for the commands of the will. There is (if we may be allowed any expreffion fo loofe and indefinite) the will of the fyflem, and the will of the mind : it is the will of the fyflem that, through the medium of nerves of wide fympathy and confent, governs and leads in harmony all the confent- ing functions of the body, and lowers and raifes their powers,394 , OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. powers, according to the weaknefs, or ftrength, or full- nefs, or wants of the body; while the will of the mind commands thofe voluntary motions, which it is its choice to perform. So natural feems that notion which has long prevailed of an archasus, or prefiding fpirit, which, like a latent inftinct, regulates and pre- ferves the fyftem, prompts to what is right, and creates an averfion to what is wrong, and raifes or allays the actions of the vital organs, preferring the fyftem in health, and ftriving againft difeafe. The voluntary mufcles are put under the command of the will, while the involuntary mufcles, by which the vital organs move, are infulated and mechanical, and depend lefs on our fpiritual part: for life and exiftence depend lefs on feeling, or that which is allied to our fpiritual part, and more on the irritable or moving power; and it was fit that this irritable power fhould be divided from our feelings and our will, which are irregular and tranfitory, and apt rather to derange than to pre- ferve the fyftem. How this divifion is accomplifhed we do not know in any furer way; but we fee that the heart, the lungs, the ftomach, and the inteftines, have a proportion of nerves, fo much lower than the mufcles of voluntary motion, that the very exiftence of thefe nerves has been denied. Yet there are nerves proper to the vital parts : the phrenic nerve goes to the diaphragm ; the par vagum to the ftomach and bowels; the fympathe- tic nerve to the heart; they are fmaller, but they are appropriated and diftindt. Now this queftion occurs : If the irritable power be in thefe organs, if they be endowed with the quality of feeling their own peat* liarOF THE MUSCULAR POWER. 395 liar ftimuli, and anfwering to their impulfes, what need is there for nerves ? But they alfo have their nerves, that they may not want fome living connection with that fyftem to which they belong; that they may flourilh in its health, and languifh in its difeafes ; that they may ad according to the needs, and be fubjed to the will of the fyftem; that the grand movers of the mechanical fyftem may be affeded in their turns by the fpiritual part, and thus the digeftion, the cir- culation, the venereal appetite, and every vital power are languid and depreffed, or lively and perfed, ac- cording to the conditions of the whole: and how thefe functions are moved by anger, or joy, or fear, needs not be told. But the vital functions alfo lofe them action: “ The heart ads weakly after fevers; the appetite is languid after a debauch; the limbs are weakened by labour; and the whole fyftem is ruin- ed by excefs.” Thefe organs have lefs dependence on nerves; and fo fufpicions arife, that the irritable power, the very bafis of life, may alfo fail: but how fhould it fail ? If the motions of our fyftem ceafe, it muft be either from the incapacity of the mufcles, or from the lofs of exciting power in the nerves. The nerves are liable to change, but the mufcle retains its power till its organization be deftroyed. When the irritable power of a mufcle ceafes, when the heart, for inftance, begins to fail, whence can that lofs arife? Its power is not me- chanically exhaufted, elfe from what fource could it ever be renewed ? It is not from any inj ury to its nerves; for the heart, when cut out from the body, may be wearied out with conftant ftimuli till it ceafe to ad; find it will recover by reft, without communication with396 OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. with the nerves: but it is perhaps fuch a derange-, ment as happens in a fpring, which, being long bent, lofes of its elaftic power : the arrangement of its par- ticles fuffers by {training ; they are compofed by reft : and if . the elaftic power be thus reftored in an inani- mate fpring, much more fhould the contractile power recover by reft in the mufcular fibres of a living fyftem. The vis insita cannot be wearied nor exhaufted ; fo the heart is unwearied in its function, or if languid or too violent in its actions, that muft be from the power of ftimulus being lowered or increafed, not from any change on the inherent power. The volun- tary mufcles alfo are unwearied; and fo, after great fatigue, we are fenfible of cramps and irregular con- tractions, {howing that they are ftill aCtive, but more loofely governed by the nerves, and not fo fully un- der the command of the will. But the nervous system is more fubjeCt to wearinefs and to decay: The fenfes become tired; the feelings of the fyftem are exhaufted. It is from this failing of the nervous, power that violent exertions bring fatigue and pain: from this alfo that we need the refreftiment of fleep ; but during fleep, the heart, and all the involuntary mufcles, unwearied in their functions, proceed ftill in the fame regular and orderly courfe. This irritability or inherent power not only keeps the mufcles ready, each for its peculiar ftimulus, but preferves a balance over the whole fyftem of the muf- cles, We know that mufcles maintain a conftant action independent of the nerves. The mufcles of one fide balance the oppofite mufcles : and if the mufcles of one fide be relaxed by palfy, the aCtion of the oppo- fiteOF THE MUSCULAR POWER. 397 fite mufcles indantly appears : or if a limb be lux- ated, and its mufcles difplaced, they perfevere in a violent and fpafmodic aftion till they be redored ekch to its place. Have we not reafon to believe, that if mufcles were abfolutely and entirely quief- cent, they could not be fo indantaneoufly called into aftion; but that by this continual tenfion or tone they more readily follow the commands of the will: that by this leder tenfion they are prepared for greater adtion, and inclined to harmonize: for if all the mufcles were quiefcent, and one fuddenly moved by the will, its antagonid would rife into undue ac- tion, and the co-operating or affiding mufcles would be unprepared. Whereas, by this continual tendon of all the mufcles, one fet is oppofed to another, is confenting with it, and is ready to co-operate with it, or to oppofe it in the due degree: the mind has but to incline the power towards one fet, and immediate and orderly motions enfue. TheNERvous influence,again,is as a mere dimulus to the voluntary mufcles, as blood is to the heart, or the foetus, or any foreign body, to the womb. It lofes its influence over the fydem fader than the ordinary powers of life do; and the irritable date of the mufcles continues long after the voluntary motion, or the power of excitement from the nerves, is gone: for when we die flowly this inherent oower is exhauded in the druggies for life. If, while in perfedt health, we are killed by a hidden blow, the irritable power of the mufcles furvives the nervous fydem many hours or days, and the flelh trembles, and the abforbents con- tinue to abforb; and often, as after fuffocation, we 7 can,398 OF THE muscular power. can, by operating upon this poor remains of life, re- ftore the circulation, reanimate the nervous fyltem, and recover that life which feemed to have entirely left the body; and thus the nervous influence, which feemed to animate the fyltem, and to be the prime mover and fource of life, owes its reltoration to that which was thought to be but a fecondary power. It is this remains of contractile power which fixes the dead body in whatever polture it is placed : It is this remains of irritability which preferves frelhnefs in the animal which feemed dead, but which is really dying (till: For the moment this lingering portion of life is gone, the body diflfolves, and falls down ; and fo we judge of frelhnefs by the rigidity of the flelh, and forefee approaching putrefaction by its becoming foft. There is no putrefaction in creatures fuddenly killed, as in the accidents which happen to man, or in killing animals by a fudden blow; in thefe the body continues frelh and fufceptible of Itimuli long after death: but if this inherent power, this irritable nature of the fibre, be exhaulted before death, or in the moment of death, then does the body fall quickly into the condition of dead matter, running through thofe changes which are the only true marks of death. The filh, which is allowed to druggie till it be dead; the ox, over- driven before it be brought to the daughter; the animal killed by lightning, which fuddenly explodes (if we may be allowed the expreflion) all the powers of life—in thefe the contractile power is effectual- ly exhaulted ; no mark of irritability remains; pu- trefaction comes quickly on: and fo in thofe who die of the plague, of poifon, of fevers, or of any fud- denOF THE MUSCULAR POWER. 399 den and violent difeafe, which at once extinguifhes life, in the vulgar fenfe, and robs the fyftem of that remnant of life which the phyfiologift could produce to view; in all thefe cafes, the body becomes putrid in a few hours. If a body becomes putrid fo early in warm climates, it is not merely becaufe putrefac- tion is favoured by heat; but it is becaufe heat exhaufts the vital power, and often a part of the body has loft its organized power, and is almoft putrid, before the whole be dead. We find that we are wrong in this, that when a body has loft all feeling and motion, we pronounce it dead; the nerves indeed have ceafed to do their office; all feeling and confcioufnefs is gone ; but the mere animal power furvives the nerves, and through it the whole fyftem may be recalled into per- fect life. The powers and privileges of the nervous fyftem. muft not be ranked too high nor valued too low: the perfe<ft animal feels and moves by the nervous power; but furely its mufcles are actuated by a law of their own nature : The heart of the chick begins to move before we dare prefume that there is any organ for diftributing this nervous power. The pumftum fall- ens is the heart of the chick; it is feen beating while the body of the chick is but a rude, unformed, and gelatinous mafs; daily this active centre increafes in ftrength and power; and it has a dedicate feeling of ftimuli, and it quickly re-afts, fo as “ to fly out into an- gry and perturbed motions” by the application of a ftimulus. It is excited by increafed heat, and lan- guifhes when cold, till at laft it dies; then it ceafes to ad, but (till heat reft ores it to life ; And is not the proof400 OF THE MUSCULAR POWER* proof ftronger in the grown animal, when we cut out the heart, which anfwers to ftimuli for fome time ; at lafl feems to have its power exhaufted ; it lies dead for fome time, till it again recovers its power. If this power proceeded from the nerves, how could it be renewed ? but if it refide in the mufcle only, it may have been wearied, and may revive; its organization may have been deranged, and may be reftored by reft from ftimuli; and its parts may be compofed again, refum- ing their relative fituation, and their aCKve arrangement and form ; or though it may be infenfible to a ftimu- lus long applied, it may be ftill alive, even to a lower ftimulus of another kind; or it may awake again to the feeling of that ftimulus, which, by being too long applied, had loft its power. Senfibility depends upon the nerves; motion on the mufcles: both are equally admirable and infcru- table; the one conducing to all the enjoyments, and all the fufferings of life, and to the intellectual faculties of man ; the other being the chief fupport of animal life, and the fource of all the bodily powers. As for the mechanical powers, by which the con- tractions of the mulcular fibre is forwarded or retard- ed, they are not what they have been believed; for we find few circumftances in the origin, infertion, or forms of mufcles, to favour their power, but many by which their power is abridged. There are certain points where the length of lever gives an increafe of power. The maftoid procefs, and the occiput, are as leVers for the head; the fpines of the vertebras, for the back; the olecranon, for the arm; and the pifi- form bone, for the hand. The pelvis and the jutting trochanters,OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. 401 trochanters, are as levers for the thigh ; the patella is a lever for the leg ; the heel-bone is a lever for the whole foot; and the arch of the foot is as a lever for the toes. Thefe are not the whole, but they are perhaps the chief, levers in the human body. In all the other implantations the mufcle is fixed, not be- hind the joint, but betwixt the joint and the weight that is to be moved. There is a greater lofs of power when inferted near to the joint; there is lefs lofs of power when the tendon is inferted far from the joint; and though we call fuch infertion a longer or fhorter lever, there is always fome lofs of power, and the true levers in the body are very few. Far from providing mechanical forms to increafe the power, nature has provided fuch a quantity of contraftile power as to compenfate for any lofs of effect: So, in place of in- creafing the effect of mufcles by levers, pulleys, and hinges, there is in almoft every mufcle a great abate- ment of its force by the form of the bones which it is deflined to move; for mufcles lofe of their ef- fect by their being implanted, not behind the joint, but betwixt the joint and the body to be moved; by the infertion of almofl all mufcles being very ob- lique, with refpeft to the motions which they are to perform; fo that half their force is loft upon the immoveable end of the bone. Much force is loft by a mufcle paffing over many joints : one fet of fibres in a mufcle hinders the a&ion of adjoining fibres, and every degree of contraction takes from that mufcle an equal proportion of its power. Thus, every where in the human body, is power facrificed to the form and fitnefs ©f the part; that the joints may be final- VOL, 1. d d ler402 OF THE MUSCULAR POWER. ]er than the limbs; that the limbs may be propor- tioned to the body : and beauty and conveniency is gained by the facrifice of that power which is not needed in the fyflem, fince the wifdom and goodnefs of the Creator has appointed a degree cf force in the mufcles more than proportioned to all this iofs of the mechanical power. Thofe who will admire the ways of Providence, fhould know how to admire! Nature is not feeking to compenfate for want of power, by the advantages of pulleys, and levers, and mechani- cal helps; nor is it in the forms of the parts that the Infinite Wifdom is to be found j for among other gifts, fuch a portion of this fpirit is given to man that he has ufed the pulleys, and levers, accelerations of motion, and all the mechanical powers that refult from it 5 he has invented valves of infinite variety, each perfect and true to its particular office; he has anticipated all that he has found in the mechanifm of the human body; but the living power which compenfates for the want of levers, which allows every- where power to be facrificed to the beauty of form, which has ftrength in convulfive and violent actions to break the very bones; this is the ad of Infinite Wifdom, on which our admiration fhould chiefly dwell. It is but the very elements of fo deep a fubjed that can be delivered here. I muft proceed to explain thofe provifions for eafy motion, which may be con- fidered as belonging to the mufcles and bones, and as preparing us for a knowledge of the joints. CHAP,CHAP, X. OF'THE TENDONS, LIGAMENTS, BURSjE, AND ALL THE PARTS WHICH BELONG TO THE BONES OR MUSCLES, OR WHICH ENTER INTO THE CONSTITUTION OF A JOINT. The bones and mufcles themfelves are but the {mail- ed part of that beautiful mechanifm by which the mo- tions of the human body are performed ; for the parts by which the bones are joined to each other, or the mufcles fixed into the bones, are fo changed and va- ried in their forms, according to the ufes of each part, as to give a natural and eafy Ihape to the limbs, fecu- rity and firmnefs to their motions, and lubricity and fmoothnefs to the joints by which thefe motions are performed: and this apparatus deferves our attention, not merely that we may know the forms of thefe join- ings, but that we may learn fomething of the nature and ufes of each part, and the various degrees of fen- fibility with which each is endowed; for from this kind of dudy conclufions will arife which may lead us to the knowledge of their difeafes, fuggeding the means of their prevention and cure. There is a difference in the parts of the human bo- dy, according to the feveral ufes for which they are de- d d 2 figned jOF THE TENDONS, 4°4 figned; fome are vafcular and foft, others bony and hard ; fome fenfible, and very prone to inflammation and difeafe, others callous and infenfible, having little adtion in their natural Hate, and little pronenefs to dif- eafe. The greater part of the human body is merely inanimate matter, united into a moving and perfedt whole, by the fyftem of the nerves which abound in each creature according to its wants, and are diftri- buted in each fyftem according to the ufes and func- tions of every part. In fome places there is fuch a conflux of nerves as form the molt delicate and per- fect fenfe, endowing that part with the fullell life; while others are left without nerves, almoll inanimate and dead; left feeling, where it ought not to be, lhould derange the whole fyftem. The living parts of the fyftem are the mufcles and nerves ; the mufcles to move the body, and perform its offices, each mufcle anfwering to its particular fti- muli, and moft of them obeying the commands of the will; the nerves to feel, to fuffer, and to enjoy, to if- fue the commands of the will, and to move the muf- cles to adtion : but ftill the mufcles have their own pe- culiar kind of life, fuperior to the nerves, and inde- pendent of them, always acting, always capable of great- er adtion, always ready to receive the impulfe of the nerves. It is a power which furvives that of the nerves, acting even when fevered from the general fyftem ; and adting often on the living body without the impulfe of the nerves, and fometimes in oppolition to the will. The dead matter of the fyftem joins thefe living parts, and performs for them every fubfervient office ; forms coverings for the brain; coats for the nerves; fheaths for theLIGAMENTS, BURS.®, &C. 40J the mufcles and tendons ; ligaments and burfes ; and all the apparatus for the joints; unites them into one whole by a continued tiffue of cellular fubltance, which from part to part through all its various forms, has no interruption, and fuffers no change, but hill preferves its own inanimate nature, while it joins the living parts to each other. The tendons, ligaments, periofteum, and burfe, are all compofed of this cellular fubltance, which by its elafticity binds and connects the par^s, and by its dead and infenfible nature is lefs expofed to difeafe, and is a fitter medium of connection for the living fyftem, OF THE FORMS OF THE CELLULAR SUBSTANCE. Under various modifications and lhapes this dead matter performs molt important offices among the liv- ing parts :—i. It forms cells over all the body, which allow the parts to glide and move eafily j which con- tain the fluid that makes all the motion of parts more eafy and free ; which ftore up fat to fill the interltices, to fupport the parts in their aCtion, to give a plump- nefs to all the body, and to be re-abforbed for the needs and ufes of the fyllem. This cellular fubltance is pe- culiarly ufeful to the mufcles ; dives in among them ; keeps their fibres at fuch due dillance that each may have its action ; fupports and lubricates them ; fo that perhaps the difference of ftrength, in health and difeafe, depends, at lealt in fome degree, upon this fupport. The thinner halitus makes the play of the fibres eafy and free ; and the fat not only fup- ports the fibres in their aftion, but lubricates them D d 3 fo.406 OF THE TENDONS, fo, that a want of it is painful, while a fuperabundance of it incumbers the body. And Haller feems to have believed, that a difeafed increafe of it might not only opprefs, but almoft annihilate, the mufcular fibre. 2. But it is ftill further eflfential to a mufcle, that while it moves, it thou Id neither be hurt itfelf nor harm the furrounding parts. Therefore, where one mufcle moves over another mufcle, foft flefh upon foft flefh like itfelf, there can be no hurtful fridtion, aijd the cellular fubftance is loofe and natural, preferving its common form. But where tendons rub upon tendons, or bones upon bones, or where tendons rub upon mufcles, or upon each other; fome defence is needed, and the cel- lular fubftance affumes a new form. The cells are run together into one large cell, with thicker coats, and a more copious exudation; fo that, being more liberally Bedewed with a gelatinous mucus, it prevents the bad effedts of fridtion, and is called a bursa mucosa, or mucous bag. Thefe mucous bags are placed under rubbing tendons, and chiefly about the greater joints 5 fome are large and others fmall; their glairy liquor is the fame with that which bedews the cellular fub- ftance or the cavities of the joints j and the provifion of nature is fo perfedt, that the occafions which re- quire burfe feem to form them by fridtion out of the common cellular fubftance. 3. It is often ufeful that an individual mufcle fhould be inclofed in a tendinous {heath, to give it ftrength and firmnefs, and to preferve it in its fhape. All mufcles, or almoft all mufcles, form for themfelves in- dividual (heaths, fuch as are feen inclofing the fupra- fpinatus and infraTpinatus of the fcapula j the biceps humeri.,LIGAMENTS, BURS^, &C. 4°7 humeri, and mofl of the mufcles of the leg and thigh ; but it is efpecially neceflary that the whole mufcles of the limb Ihould be inclofed in fome ftronger mem- brane than the common (kin, both to give form to the limb and ftrength to its mufcles, and to keep the indi- vidual mufcles in their proper places, which otherwife might be luxated and difplaced. And fo the trunk of the body, the arm, the thigh, the leg, are bound each with a ftrong, fmooth, and gliftening (heath, formed out of the cellular fubftance, condenfed and thickened by continual prelfure. And this alfo is thicker and ftronger according to the need that there may be for fuch a help j for it is weaker over the flat mufcles of the back or of the abdomen, ftronger on the arm, ftronger ftill over the ftrong mufcles of the thigh. It is hardly to be diftinguilhed in the child ; grows thick- er and ftronger as we advance in years and in ftrength, and in the arms of workmen it grows particularly thick and ftrong, increafing in the back, Ihoulder, or limbs, according to the particular kind of labour. Thefe are the membranes which, by incloftng the mufcles like (heaths, are called the vagina, or fascia of the arm, the leg, the thigh, &c. 4. Tendons or ropes were needed, for the mufcles could not be implanted thick and fleftiy into each jbone without a deformity of the limbs, and efpecial- ly of the joints; which would have been not unfhapely only, but which muft have abridged them of their mo- tions and ufes. Where a mulble is not implanted di- rectly into a bone, tendons are feldom required ; and fo there are no tendons in the heart, the tongue, the eefophagus, .the ftomach, inteftines, or bladder. But D D 4 whereOF THE TENDONS, 408 where tendons pafs over bones, or traverfe the joints, their force is concentrated into narrower bounds ; and long tendons are fixed to the ends of the mufcles to pull the bones: tnefe tendons were once believed to be but the collected fibres of mufcles, gathered into a more condenfed form ; by which condenfation their properties of feeling and motion were loft, while they became hard, white, and gliftening ; and it was be- lieved that parts which were flefhy in the' child be- came tendinous in the adult. But we know by the microfcope that the tendon is not truly continued from the flefti; that the fibres of the tendon and of the flefti are not in the fame line, the fibres of all penniform mufcles running into their tendon, in a direction more or lefs oblique; and good anato- rnifts have been able to feparate the tendon from the flefti, without any violence, and with the blunteft knives. Mufcles are irritable and have nerves j ten? dons are quite dead, have no vifible nerves, have nei- ther feeling nor motion, nor any endowment by which we fhould believe them to be allied to the living parts of the fyftem ; and many tendons, as the expanfion of the palmaris, may be unravelled into mere cellular fubftance, 5. The periosteum is merely a condenfation of the common cellular fubftance, formed in fucceflive layers: and the tendons are of the fubftance of the periofteum ; they mix with the periofteum, and are implanted into it. In differing a child, we tear up the perioft teum, along with tendons, and without hurting the bones; but in procefs of time, the periofteum, and confequently the tendons, are infeparably fixed to the bones*LIGAMENTS, BURSiE, &C. 409 bones. The periodeum, tendons, fafcise, and burfse mucofae, are all of one fubdance, and of one common nature j they are various modifications of that dead matter which, having but little vafcularity, and no feeling, and hardly any difpofition to difeafe, is the fitted: for its office, and bears the roughed: ufage in our experiments, and the mod violent fhocks in the motions of the body, without any figns of feeling, and without falling into difeafe. 6. Thefe tendons mud be bound firmly down ; for if they were to rife from the bones during the actions of the mufcles to which they belong, the effect of contradtion would be lod, and they would diforder the joint, darting out in a draight line from bone to bone like a bow-dring over the arch of a bow. The fame inanimate fubdance dill performs this office alfo ; for the tendons of one mufcle often fplit to form a fheath or ring for the next; or their tendons after taking hold of the bone, fpread their expanfion out over all the bone, fo as to form an entire fheath for the finger and toe; or there is a wide groove in the bone which receives the tendons, and it is lined with a cartilage and with a lubricated membrane; the mem- brane comes off from the lips of the groove, or from corners or edges of the bone, paffes over the tendons fo as to form a bridge, or often it forms a longer fheath, as in the fingers, or where the peronsei mufcles pafs behind the ankle; and thus the vagina or si-ieaths of the tendons are connefted with the tendons, pe- riodeum, and other modifications of the common cel- lular membrane. 7. The periodeuin> which has run ajong one bone, leaves it at the head, and forming a bag for the joint, goes4io OF THE TENDONS, goes onwards to the next bone. Thus the periofteum of all the bones is one continued membrane, paffing from point to point: each bone is tied to the next by its own periofteum ; and this membrane betwixt the end of one bone and the beginning of the next, is fo thickened into a ftrong and hard bag, as to form the capfule of the joint; and the periofteum is affifted in performing this office by the tendons, fafciee, burfae, and all that confufion of cellular fubftance which furrounds the joint. The capsule of the joint is then a firm and thick bag, which, like a ligament, binds the bones together, keeps their heads and proceffes in their right places, contains that glairy liquor with which the heads of moving bones are bedewed, and prevents the adjacent parts from falling inwards, or being catched betwixt the bones in the bendings of the joints. The capfule of every joint proceeds from the peri- ofteum, and is ftrengthened by the tendons ; it is form- ed like thefe parts, out of the cellular membrane; and when a bone is broken, or its periofteum deftroyed by any accident or difeafe, when a tendon fnaps acrofs, when a joint is luxated, and the capfule torn, the injury is foon repaired by a thickening of the cellular fubftance round the breach ; and wherever a bone, being luxated, is left unreduced, a new focket, new periofteum, new ligaments, and new burfae, are formed out of the common cellular fubftance; and though the tendons may have been torn away from the head of the bone, they are fixed again, taking a new hold upon the bone. 8. There are other ligaments of a joint which prevent its luxation, guarding it at its Tides, or round411 LIGAMENTS, BURSiE, &C. all its circle, according to its degree of motion ; and thofe ligaments are of the fame nature with the firfl or burfal ligaments; arife, like them, from the periofteum chiefly; or indeed are truly but a thickening of the burfal ligament at certain points. The univerfal connexion of thefe parts is now fuf- ficiently explained, fince we have followed the feveral forms of cellular fubftance: ift, Clothing the bones with a think membrane, which, though infenfible, and almoft inanimate in its own nature, conveys blood- veflels, the means of life, to the bones, and is named periofteum: adly, The fame periofteum, thickened and ftrengthened by the adhefion of furrounding parts, fo as to form the capfules for the joints: 3dly, The tendon, alfo continued from the periofteum, and not growing from the mufcle, but merely joined to it: 4thly, we fee that fmaller tendon, expanded into a thinner tendinous fheet, as in the brawn of the leg where the ham-ftrings (whofe expanfion ftrengthens the knee-joint) go down over the mufcles of th« leg : 5thly, We fee the perpendicular partitions of this fafcia going down among the mufcles, and dividing them from each other; and the cellular fubftance, which lies under the fafcia, and immediately furrounds the mufcle, cannot be diftinguilhed from the inner furface of the fafcia itfelf: 6thly, And as for the burfae, we fee that they are formed wherever a tendon rubs over a bone. The upper furface of the burfa is formed by the tendon which rubs over the bone; the lower fur- face of the fame burfa is formed by the periofteum of fhe bone which it defends; the fides are formed by the common cellular fubftance. Its cavity appears to be .merelyOF THE TENDONS, 412 merely an enlarged cell; and the burfe mucofas and capfular ligaments are plainly of one and the fame na- ture ; their liquors are the fame ; they often open into one another naturally, or if not naturally, at leaf! it is no difeafe, fince no bad effects enfue. I mufl now explain more fully the confutation and nature of all the lefs feeling parts: For what I have faid might be thought to imply abfolute infenfibility and total exemption from difeafe or pain ; whereas the fenfibility of tendons, ligaments, burfag, and joints, (lands on the fame footing with the feeling of bones : They are infenfible in health ; not eafily injured ; en- tering llowly into difeafe; but their difeafes are equally dreadful from their duration and from their pain : for by inflammation their organization is deranged, their healthy confiflence deflroyed, and their fenfibility ex- cited in a dreadful degree- The tendons of animals have been cut or pierced with embowelling needles; they have been pinched with nippers, and torn and cauterifed; they have been burnt with a lighted flick, while the creatures neither (Iruggled nor fhrunk from the irritation, nor ever gave the fmallefl fign of pain. Oil of vitriol has been poured upon each of the parts belonging to a joint, and a piece of cauflic has been dropped into its cavity, but flill no pain enfued ; nay, fome have been fo bold, may I not fay fo vicious, as to repeat thefe experiments upon the human body, pinching, prick- ing, and burning the tendons of the leg, and piercing them with knives, in a poor man, whofe condition did not exempt him from this hard treatment $ whoLIGAMENTS, BURSAE, &C. 413 was ignorant of this injuftice that was done to him, while his cure was protracted, and he was made a fpeCtale for a whole city. Without fuch cruel and inhuman practices, we do not want opportunities of knowing, that, in the human body alfo, the tendons and burfas have no acute feeling. When we cut open a fafcia or tendinous membrane, there is little pain : when (as in amputation) we cut the ragged tendons even and neat, there is no pain : when we fnip with our fciflars the ragged tendons of a bruifed finger to cut it off, the patient does not feel: when we fee tendons of fuppurating fingers lying flat in their fheaths, we draw them out with our forceps, or touch them with probes, without exciting pain : in the old praftice of fewing tendons there was fonie danger, but no imme- diate pain : when we cut down into the cavity of a joint, {till the pain is but flight. In a luxation there is comparatively little pain. There is no pain when the ligament of the patella is broken away from the tibia, nor when the great Achillis tendon is tom. There is but little pain in the moments of thofe ac- cidents which appear flight in the time, but which turn out to be the mofl dreadful fprains. Yet after rupture of the patella, the knee inflames and fwells: after rupture of the Achillis tendon, there is fwelling and inflammation, with fuch adhefion of the parts as makes the patient lame : after the flighted: fprain fuch inflammation fometimes comes on as deftroys the joint. There is but little pain when we firft make an opening into any joint; yet it often brings on fuch pain and fever that the patient dies. In fhort, every thing confpires to prove, that though in wounds of414 of *he tendons, of the lefs feeling parts, there is indeed future danger, there is no immediate pain* Still there are many acci- dents which prove to us, that even in health the joints are not entirely exempted from pain : a fmart ftroke on the knuckles, or a blow on the elbow, or a fall up- on the knee, are not perhaps the pureft inftances of feeling in joints; for fuch blow may have hurt fome external nerve: but when a fmall moveable cartilage forms within the joint of the knee, though it be fmali and very fmooth, and lodged fairly within the cavity of the joint, it often gets betwixt the bones, caufmg inftant lamenefs ; the moment it c^ufeth this lamenefs, it brings dreadful pains: the pain, the lamenefs, and all the feeling of inconveniency, fubfide the in- ftant that this cartilage is moved away from betwixt the bones ; and the joint continues eafy till this moving cartilage chances again to fall in betwixt the heads of the bones. Even the pain from a blow upon the knee, for, example, is plainly within the joint, and is caufed by the force with which the patella is ftruck, down againft the ends of the bones. What indeed is a fprain, but a general violence and twilling of all the parts which compofe the joint ? Thefe parts are of one common nature, and may be arranged and enumerated thus: A joint is compofed of the heads of the bones, fwelling out into a broader articulating furface, and of a thin plate of cartilage, which covers and defends the head of each bone; fometimes of fmall and moveable cartilages which roll upon the bones, and follow all the motions of the joint, and, like fridion-wheels in ma- chines of human invention, abate the bad effeds of mo- tion. There are mucous glands, or rather mucous bags, \vhich convey a lubricating fluid: and there is a burfal 14 ligament.LIGAMENTS, BURSiE, &C. 4*5 ligament, which forms the purfe of the joint, binds the bones together, contains the fynovia, and prevents the furrounding parts from being catched in the joint: There are letter ligaments on the outfide of this, going along the Tides of the joint, and palling from point to point: There are great tendons moving over the joint and burtte, or mucous bags, which accompany thefe tendons, and prevent the violence which their conti- nual rubbing might do to the bones. All thefe parts are of one conftitution and nature ; we cannot fay that they are infenfible, for their feeling is only deferred ; it is flow, but not the lefs fevere. The eye feels the inftant that a mote falls upon it; but the Ikin does not feel a blitter till it has been fome hours applied; the ligaments and joints feel ttill lefs in the inftant that any injury is done : but as the inflammation of the blitter excites the feeling, and deftroys the fabric of the Ikin, producing pain and derangement of its parts, the inflammation of joints, and of all the parts belong- ing to them, breaks up the organization of the part, evolves the feeling, and then in them alfo comes difeafe and violent pain. They are flow in entering into ac- tion ; but, once excited, they continue to act with a perfeverance quite unknown in any other part of the fyftem. Their mode of action, whatever it may be at the time, is not eafily changed: if at reft, they are not eafily moved to action, and their excefiive action once begun is not eafily allayed. The difeafes are in- finite to which thefe parts are fubject. They are fub- ject to dropfical effufions; they are fubject to ge- latinous concretions; they are fubject to flight inflammation, to fuppuration, to erofions of their car- tilages.416 of the tendons, &c. tllages, and to exfoliation of their bones : correfpond- ing with the dropfies, fuppurations, and mortifica- tions of the fofter and more feeling parts. Rheuma- tifm is an inflammation round the joints, with a flighter effufion, which is foon abforbed: Chronic rheumatifm is a tedious and flow inflammation, with gelatinous effufions round the tendons, and permanent fwelling and lamenefs of the joints. Gout in a joint is a high inflammation, with a fecretion of earthy matter into its cavity. The inflammation of tendons is fprain : effufions of gelatinous matter round them is ganglion : fuppurations in the tendinous fheaths is whitloe: the inflammation of burfae is falfe white fvvelJing, not eafily diftinguifhed from the true : the difeafe of the joint it- felf is either a dropfy, where the joint, though emptied by the lancet, is filled up again in a few hours, fhowing how continual, and how profufe, both the ex- halation and abforption of joints naturally is; or it is white fwelling, which next to confumption, is the moft dreadful of all fcrophulous difeafes, which be- gins by inflammation in the joint itfelf, is marked by ftiffnefs, weaknefs, lofs of motion, and pain; which goes on through all the ftages of high inflammation, dreadful pain, deftrudtion of cartilages, enlargement of bones, foetid fuppurations, and fpontaneous open- ings of the joints; which fometimes flops by an effufion of callus and concretion of the bones, form- ing a fliff joint, but which oftener ends in hedtic fever, diarrhoea, morning fweats, and extreme weaknefs ; fo that the patient dies, exhaufted with fever and pain. bookBOOK III. OF THE JOINTS. C H A P. I. JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND TRUNK. JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. Almost every thing relating to the heads and pro- cedes of the bones, and every propofition concerning the motions which they have to perform, has been already explained, anticipating much of the anatomy of the joints: and the principles of motion mentioned in defcribing the bones fhall form the chief propofi- tions on which my defcriptions of joints fhall be ar- ranged, feeking that method chiefly by which the joints may be eafily and rapidly explained; for it is a fubjedt on which volumes might be bellowed, and not in vain. We may compare in the following order, the chief nations of the head and trunk. The head is fo pla- vol. i. ee ced I418 JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. ced upon the oblique furfaces of the atlas, that it cannot turn in circles; but at that joint all the nod- ding motions are performed. The atlas refls fo upon the dentatus, that there all die turning motions are performed. The neck and loins have their ver- tebras fo loofely framed, with fuch perpendicular pro- ceffes and eafy joints, that there all the bending mo- tions are performed; while the back is fixed, or al- mofl fixed, by its connection with the ribs, and by the obliquity and length of its fpines; and though upon the whole, the fpine turns many degrees, yet it is with a limited and elaftic motion where the whole turning is great, but the movement of each individual bone is fmalh To fecure thefe motions, we find, i. The occipital condyles received into hollows of the atlas, where the oblique pofition of the condyles fecures the joint, the occipital condyles looking outwards, the articu- lating furfaces of the atlas looking towards each other, the occiput fet down betwixt them, fo as to be fecu- red towards either fide, and the obliquity of the joint being fuch withal as to prevent the head from turn- ing round. Thefe joints of the occiput of the atlas are, like the greater joints of the body, fecured with regular capfules, or bag-like ligaments for each con- dyle, each riling from a rough furface on the verte- bra, and being fixed into a roughnefs at the root of the condyle. 2. We find a flat membranous ligament, which extends from the ring of the atlas to the ring of the occipital hole, clofing the interfiles betwixt the occiput and the atlas: It is confounded at the fides with the capfules of the articulating precedes* is419 JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINk. Is very ftrong before; and at the middle fhort point of the atlas it feems a diftintft ligament, which is ftrong only at this point, and very lax and membranous behind *. 3. We find the atlas tied to the denta- tus by a more complete order of ligaments. Thefe are, ift, (as betwixt the atlas and dentatus), regular capfules or bags, fixing the condyles of one verte- bra to the condyles of the other. 2dly, A crofs liga- ment f, which, croffing the ring of the firft vertebra* makes a bridge, embraces the neck of the tooth- like procefs, and ties it down in its place. 3dly, A fmooth and cartilaginous furface all round the root of the tooth-like procefs, where this tooth of the denta- tus turns in the ring of the atlas, and is bound by the ligament; and this rolling of the atlas upon the axis of the dentatus is fo fair and proper a joint, that it alfo is all included in a capfular ligament. 4thly, The point of the tooth-like procefs having threaded the ring of the atlas, almoft touches the occipital hole; and there another ligament ties it by its point to the occipital hole j. All * This is part of what Window called ligakentum infundi- biliforme, a funnel-like ligamenT, joining the firft vertebra to the occiput. ■f Viz. LigamentOM transversale, or transversum ; and what are called the appendices of the transverse liga- ment, are merely its edges, extending upwards and downwards, to be fixed into the dentatus, and into the occipital hole, fo as to in- clofe the tooth-like procefs of the dentatus in a capfule. £ There are two flat ligaments which come from about the neck cr root of the tooth-like procefs, and which go obliquely upwards, to be fixed into the groove juft behind the lip of the occipital hole j EE 2 butJOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. 420 All the other vertebras have another kind of articu- lation; to which the occiput, atlas, and dentatus, are the only exceptions; for their motions are particular, and quite different from the refl. The atlas and den- tatus bend, turn, and roll, by connexions refembling the common joints of the body; but the other vertebras are united, each by its intervertebp.al substance, to the bones above and below; they are alfo united by their articulating proceffes to each other: each ar- ticulating procefs is held to another by a diflinX cap- fule; each intervertebral fubflance is fecured, bound down, and flrengthened by flrong ligaments; for the intervertebral fubftance, which of itfelf adheres very ftrongly to the periofleum, and to the rough focket- like furface upon the body of each vertebra, is further fecured by a fort of crofs ligament, which go from the rim or edge of one vertebra to the edge of the next, over the intervertebral fubflance; and fo, by ad- hering to the intervertebral fubflance, they flrengthen it. Thefe ligaments crofs each other over the interflice. betwixt each vertebra, and are very flrong. They are very regular, beautiful, and fhining, and are named INTERVERTEBRAL LIGAMENTS. The fpine is further fecured by a general ligamen- tous or tendinous expanfion, which goes over the fore parts of all the vertebras from top to bottom of the fpine. It begins at the fore part of the atlas; if al- mofl paffes the body of the dentatus, or is but very but the ligament from the point of the tooth-like procefs is not what it has been fuppofed, a fair round ligament of fome llrength; there is nothing more than a few ftraggling fibres of ligament going from the point to the occiput, though Euftachius has drawn it round and flrong. flightlyJOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. 421 flightly attached to it. It is at firfl pointed, fmail, and round; it begins to expand upon the third vertebra of the neck, fo as to cover almofl all its body. It goes down along the bones, chiefly on their fore parts, and is but little obferved on their Tides. It is weaker in the neck,where there is much motion; ftronger in theTack, where there is none; weaker again in the loins, where the vertebras move; but ftill on the bodies of all the vertebrae it is feen white, Alining, and tendinous. We can diftinguifh all along the fpine interruptions and fafciculi, or firmer bundles, going from piece to piece of the fpine; which fafciculi are indeed very feldom continued without interruption farther than the length of two or three vertebras; yet the whole is fo much continued, that it is confidered as one uninterrupted fheath, and is called the external or anterior va- gina, or {Hgament of the spine *. But ftill the canal of the fpine were left open and undefended, rough and dangerous to the fpinal mar- row, if internal ligaments were not added to thefe. The rings of the vertebras are held at a confiderable diftance from each other, by the thicknefs of the inter- vertebral fubflance, and by the correfponding length of the oblique procefles : but this fpace is filled up by a flrong flat ligament, which goes from the edge of one ring to the edge of another; and fo extending from the articulating procefles, backwards to the fpinous pro- * The IIGAMENTUM COMMUNE ANTERIUS, FASCIA L0NG1TU- DINALIS ANTERIOR, FASCIA LIGAMENTOSA, &C. It is frOITl tlllS ligament in the loins that the crura diaphragmatis arife, with ten- dons flat and gliftening like the ligament itfelf, and hardly to be diftinguifhed from it. cefles, E E 3JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. 422 cedes, they fill up all the interface, complete the ca- nal of the fpinal marrow, and bind the bones together with great ftrength * : Thefe are aflifted in their of- fice of holding the vertebras together, by a continua- tion of the fame ligament, or of a ligamentous mem- brane connected with it, which runs all the way on- wards to the ends of the fpinous proceflfes, where they are ftrengthened by accidental fafciculi f; and in the middle vertebra of the back, but not of thofe of the loins or neck, fimilar ligaments are found alio betwixt the tranfverfe precedes J. Next, there is another internal ligament, which is not interrupted from bone to bone, but runs along all the length of the fpine, within the medullary canal, and it correfponds fo with the external vagina, or an- terior ligament of the fpine, that it is called the poste- rior or internal ligament §. It begins at the occi- put, lies flat upon the back part of the bodies of the vertebras; at the interftice of every vertebra it fpreads out broad upon the intervertebral fubflance, doing the fame office within that the intervertebral ligaments do without. It is broader above; it grows gradually narrower towards the loins. Although it is called a * They are named the ligamentA svbelava CRURUja pro- CESSUUM SPINOSORUM. -J- Thefe are named the membrane interspinales, and liga- menta apices spinarum comitantes. The ligaments which tie the points of the fpines, running from point to point, make a long ligament, which ftretches down all the fpine. J Called ligamehta processuum transversorum, and found only from the fifth to the tenth vertebra of the back. $ Fascia ligamentosa postica, fascia longitudinal^ TOSTICA, L1GAMENTUM COMMUNE POSTERIUS. vaginaJOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. 423 vagina or fheath, it does by no means furround nor in- clofe the fpinal marrow, but is entirely confined to the covering of the bodies of the vertebras, never going be- yond the fetting off of the articulating furfaces, or the place where the nerves go out. It adheres firmly to the bones, and does not belong at all to the fpinal mar- row. It fhould rather be called a ligament for the bones than a fheath for the medulla. The anterior ligament prevents framing of the fpine backwards: this one prevents the bending of the fpine too much forwards; and they inclofe betwixt them the bodies of the vertebras and their invertebral fubflances. There is yet a third internal ligament, which belongs entirely to the neck; it is called apparatus ligamen- tosus colei; it begins from the edge of the occipital bone, defcends in the canal of the vertebrae, is thin and flat, and adheres firmly to the body of each ver* tebra, covering the tooth-like procefs. The irregular fafciculi, or bundles of this ligament, flretch from bone to bone; and the whole of the apparatus' liga- mentofus extends from the edge of the occipital hole to the fourth vertebra of the neck, where it ends. Its chief ufe is alfo as a ligament, merely fixing the head to the neck. The dura matter is within thefe, imme- diately inclofing the fpinal marrow. The ligaments which I have juft named may be well enough allowed to be <c at once ligaments for the bones, and a fheath for the medulla.” But there is no fuch fheath as that called ligamentum infundibiliforme by Winflow; for either they are peculiar and diftindt ligaments for the bones, fuch as I have defcribed, or they belong exclu- lively to the medulla, as the dura mater, which i§ iu- £ e 4 deed454 JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. deed ftrengthened at certain points into the thicknefs of a ligament; but the only clofe connexion of the fpinal marrow with the ligaments of the fpine is juft at the hole of the occipital bone, and for a little way down; through all the reft of the fpine, the connec- tion is by the loofeft cellular fubftance. OF THE LOWER JAW. ' The lower jaw is, by its natural form, almoft a ftriQ: hinge, and the lateral motion in grinding is but very flight. The joint is formed by a deep hollow or focket in the temporal bone; by a ridge, which ftands juft before the proper focket, at the root of the zygo- matic procefs; and by a long fmall head or condyle, which is placed acrofs the long branch or condyloid procefs of the jaw. Thefe form the joint; and_ the con- dyle, the hollow of the temporal bone, and the root of the zygomatic procefs, are all covered with articu- lating cartilage. The joint is completed by a capfule of the common form, which arifes from the neck of the condyle, and which is fo fixed into the temporal bone as to include both the proper focket and the root of the zygomatic procefs. Thence it is manifeft, that in the motions of the jaw, this tranfverfe ridge is required as a part of its articulating furface; that the common and lefler motions are performed by the condyle mo- ving in the deepeft part of its focket; that the larger and wider openings of the mouth are performed by fuch depreflion of the jaw as makes its condyle mount upon the root of the zygomatic procefs; while the luxation of the jaw is a ftarting forwards of the con- dyle, til! it is lodged quite before and under the zygo- maticJOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. 425 ynatic procefs, and the condyle (landing upon the higheft ridge, is the dangerous pofition in which luxa- tion is mod eafily produced. To render thefe motions very eafy and free, a moveable cartilage is interpofed. We find fuch carti- lages in the joints of the clavicle, wrift, knee, and jaw, becaufe the motions are continual and rapid, The moveable cartilage is thin in its centre, and thicker to-? wards its edges, by which it rather deepens than fills up the hollow of the joint. It correfponds in (hape with the head or condyle of the jaw, and with the hollow of the temporal bone. It moves with every motion of the jaw, facilitates the common motions, and pre- vents luxation ; but the joint is ftill more firongly fe- cured by the (Irength of its pterygoid and temporal mufcles, which are inferted clofe round the joint, than by any (Irength of its capfule. It is the mufcles which prevent luxation ; and it is their adtion alfo that makes It xation, when it has happened, fo difficult to reduce, RIBS. The ribs have two joints, and a hinge-like motion, rifing and falling alternately as we draw in or let out the breath. The two joints of the ribs are thus fe- cured : Firft, the proper head of the ribs being hinged upon the intervertebral fubftance, and touching two vertebrae, it is tied to the bodies of each by a regular capfule : the bag is regular, is lubicrated within, and is as perfedt as any joint in the body; it is radiated without, fo as to expand pretty broad upon the fides of the vertebrae, and has a fort of divifion as if into two fafciculi; the one belonging to the vertebra above, the425 JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. the other to the vertebra below: they gradually va- nifti, and mix with the periofteum upon the bodies of the vertebras; thefe are named ligamentum capi- telli costaruMj as belonging to the little heads of the ribs. The back of the rib touches the fore part of the tranfverfe procefs, and is articulated there; confe- quently there is a fmall capfular ligament belonging to this joint alfo :• but this joint is further fecured by two fmall ligaments, which come from the tranfverfe procefs of the vertebra, and take hold on the neck of the rib: one fhort ligament coming from the point ©f the tranfverfe procefs, is behind the rib, and is thence named ligamentum tran&versarium ex- ternum ; another, rather longer, comes from the inner face of the tranfverfe procefs, goes a little round the neck of the rib, is implanted into the lower edge of the rib, and is named ligamentum transversariuu internum: another fmall ligament exactlyoppofke to this, going into the neck of the rib upon its back part, is alfo very regular; and other fubfidiary liga- ments from different points aflift thefe or fupply their place. The ribs are fixed into the fternum by their car- tilages ; each of which has a round head, a diftindt fecket, a regular capfule, and ligaments which ex- pand upon the furface of the fternum, much in the fame way that the ligamenta capitclli expand upon the bodies of the vertebrse : a tendinous membrane alfo binds the' cartilages of the ribs one to another, crofles over the interface, and fo covers the intercof- tal mufc-les with a fort of fafcia ; and the whole fur-JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. 427 face of the dernum and that of the cartilages is co- vered with this tendinous expanfion, which belongs confufedly to the origins of the pefloral mufcles, to the ligaments of the ribs and dernum, and to the pe- riodeum of that bone. CHAP. II. JOINTS QF THE SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. CLAVICLE. The joining of the clavicle with the dernum is the hinge upon which the whole arm moves, and is the only point by which the arm is connetded with the trunk : the round button-like head of the clavicle rolls upon the articulating furface of the upper bone of the der- num : it is in fuch continual motion that fome parti- cular provifion is required; and accordingly it has, like the condyle of the jaw, a fmall moving cartilage, which rolls betwixt this head and the dernum. The cartilage is thin, and of a mucous nature ; it is move- able in fome degree, yet it is fixed by one edge to the head of the clavicle. This joint is inclofed in a drong capfule ; confiding fil'd of a bag, and then of an outer order of fibres, which go cut in a radiated form, upon the furface of the dernum, like the ligaments of the ribs; and they crofs and cover the dernum, fo that the428 JOINTS OF THE the ligaments of the oppofite Tides meet; and this meeting forms a cord acrofs the upper part of the ffernum, which is named inter, clavicular liga- i-ENT, Thus is the clavicle fixed to the fternum, and another broad ligament alfo ties it to the firft rib. The joining of the clavicle with the fcapula is by the edge of the fiat clavicle touching the edge of the acromion procefies with a narrow but fiat articulat- ing furface. Roth furfaces, viz. of the acromion and of the clavicle, are covered with a thin articulating cartilage : in fonte fubjects a moveable cartilage is alfo found here. It is a regular joint, and is very feldom obliterated 3 yet its motion, though continual, is not very free 3 it is rather a fluffing and bending of the fcapula upon this bone, favo\iring the play of the other joints. It is fecured firft by a capfular ligament, which is in itfelf delicate and thin, but which is ftrengthened by many ligamentous bands, which pafs (over the capfule) betwixt the clavicle and the acromion procefs; the clavicle, as it pafles over the point of the coracoid procefs, is tied down to it by a ligament of confiderable ftrength, which comes from the point of the coracoid procefs, is implanted into the lower or inner edge of the clavicle, and is named LIGAMENTUM COMMUNE TE.APEZOIDES 3 trapezoid,On account of its fquare form, and commune, becaufe it goes from the fcapula to the clavicle; while other li- gaments, going from one procefs of the fcapula to an- other, are named proper or peculiar ligaments of the fcapula. There is a fmall flip of ligament which joins this, coming from the tendon of the fubclavian muf* cle. SHOULDERSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 429 SHOULDER-JOINT. The shoulder is one of the moft beautiful joints* loofe and moveable, very free in its motions, but very liable to be difplaced. To form this joint, the humerus has a large round and flattened head; the cavity of the fcapuia *, which receives this head, is oval or triangu- lar, fmall and very (hallow : it is eked out with a thick cartilaginous border, which increafes the hollow of the focket; but dill it is fo (hallow that the humerus can- not be fo much faid to be lodged in the glenoid cavi- ty, as to be laid upon it. Its capfule or bag is very loofe and wide, coming from the edges of the glenoid cavity, and implanted round the neck of the bone* The joint is richly bedewed with mucus; or rather with a mixed fecretion, which is partly fecreted by a fimbriated organ, confiding of lacunae or bags, the common organ for this fecretion through all the joints, and by a thinner exudation from thofe extreme ar- teries, which terminate, with open mouths, upon the internal furface of the bag. By the (hallownefs of its focket, and the largenefs of its head ; by the loofenefs of its capfule ; by all the forms and circumdances of its dructure;—the (hmi! - der is exceedingly loofe, and very liable to be difpla- ced : it has this loofe dru&ure and fuperficial focket, that its motions may be free ; but feldom is there any great advantage gained in the human body without a counterbalance of weaknefs and danger ; and every where in the limbs we obferve that a joint is weak and * It is called glenoid cavity from the Greek name of a joint, 3nd the name is not abfolutely appropriated to the fcapuia. 13 liable43<3' JOINTS OF THE liable to luxation in proportion as its motions are free and large. Yet the (houlder-joint is not with- out fome kind of defence; its focket is (hallow, but it is guarded by the larged projecting procefles in all the body; by the acromion projecting and drengthen- ing it above; and by the coracoid procefs within; its ligament is lax, eafily torn, and ufeful rather for con- fining the fynovia, and keeping the head of the fhoul- der-bone oppofite to its proper cavity, than in fecu- ring the joint by any drength it has; therefore a li- gament extends from the coracoid to the acromion procefs *, which completes the defences of the joint above, and at its inner fide ; and there comes alfo from the point of the acromion procefs an additional ligament which adheres to the capfule : But the cir- cumdance from which the chief drength of the (houl- der-joint is derived, is the infertion of the four mufcles which come from the (houlder-blade clofe round the head of the bone; fo that they adhere to the cap- fular ligament, pull it up to prevent its being check- ed in the motions of the joint; drengthen it by their thicknefs, for they are fpread upon it: and the con- traction of the mufcles hold the humerus in its place; their total relaxation (as in certain cafes of weaknefs) fuffers the humerus to drop away from the fcapula, without any fall or accident, forming what we are accudomed to call a luxation of the humerus from an internal caufe; and the (houlder cannot be luxated by a fall without fuch violence as tears up thefe mufcles by the roots. We mud add to this anatomy of the joint, that it is furrounded by numbers of burfae or mucous * LlGAMENTUM PROPRIUM TRIANCULAR.E SCAPULAS.SHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 432. bags * : one under the tendons of the fubfcapuiaris; one under the fliort head of the biceps mufcles; one betwixt the coracoid procefs and the (boulder-bone ; and one under the acromion procefs of the fcapula, exceedingly large : and thefe are fo fairly parts of the joint, that very commonly they open into it with com- munications, either perfectly natural or at lead not hurtful, either originally exifting or formed by con- tinual fri&icn. It fhould alfo be remembered, that the long tendinous head of the biceps mufcle comes from the margin of the focket, directly over the ball of the os humeri, and through the capfule, by a par- ticular hole. ELBOW. The elbow-joint is formed by three bones; the humerus, radius, and ulna: the ulna bends backwards and forwards upon the fhoulder-bone; the radius bends upon the fhoulder-bone along with the ulna; it al- ways muff accompany the ulna, but it alfo has a mo- tion of its own, rolling in circles; its round button-like head rolling continually with its edge upon a focket in the ulna, and with its flat face upon the tubercle of the humerus. The whole compofes one joint, and is inclofed in one capfule : the bones accompany each other in their luxations, as well as in their natural motions: the ulna is never diflocated without the ra- dius being alfo difplaced ; a cirCurnflance which is but * Vide Monro’s Tables of the Burfse Mucofas, where all thefe parts are reprefented ; the knowledge of which is fo very ufefulfor the furgeon. I have opened this great barfa u. der the acromion procefs, and let out four pounds of the peculiar mucus and gelati- nous lumps with which the difeafed burfe are commonly filled. tooJOINTS OF THE 432 too little noticed, and, fo far as I remember, hardly confidered or known. The general capsule arifes from the humerus, from both the tubercles, and all round the two hollows which receive the olecranon and coronoid procelfes of the ulna; it is implanted again into the tip of the olecranon, and all round that figmoid ca- vity which receives the lower end of the humerus, and all round the edge of the coronary procefs. It is alfo fixed round the neck of the radius; it comprehends, in one bag, the humerus, radius, and ulna; and unites them into one joint, performing two motions, viz. flexion and extenfion by the ulna,' and rolling by the radius. The joint is lubricated by mucus and by fat, which is found chiefly about the olecranon; and that the bones may be further fecured, additional ligaments are fpread out upon them, which are all without the common capfule of the joint lying upon it, and flrengthening it at the neceflary points. i. There is the common capfule inclofing the whole. 2. It is the form of every hinge-joint (and this is one of the purefl) to have its capfule flrengthened at the fides; and the Aides of this, the elbow-joint, are flrengthened by two fafciculi or ligamentous heads, which, coming from the tubercles of the humerus,fpread a little upon the capfule, and adhere to it like part of its fubflance. One, from the outer condyle, fpreads upon the neck of the radius, and is named the exter- nal lateral ligament : one from the innercondyle of the humerus, goes upon the infide of the capfule, and flrengthens it there: it is implanted near the root of the coronoid procefs of the ulna, and is named the internal lateral ligament. 3. The continual rol- ling motion of the radius requires a peculiar ligament; andSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. ' 433 «Tid this peculiar ligament of the radius is named liga- mentum coronarium, becaufe it encircles the neck of the radius; anulare or orbiculare,from its hoop or ring-like form. It is a very ftrong and narrow flripe or band, which arifes from that part of the ulna where the radius rolls upon it, and furrounds the ra- dius, making at leafl two-thirds of a circle; and fo having turned over the neck of the radius, is inferted Into the oppofite fide of thd ulna. This is commonly defcribed as a diftindt ligament furrounding the neck of the radius, and having the common capfule implanted Into its upper edge; but in truth it is, like the others* a thicker band of the common capfule, but with a diftindlion much more particular here, by the contrail of the great thicknefs of the coronary ligament, and the extreme thinnefs of the capfule at the fore part: for the capfule of every hinge-joint is ftrong only at its lides; other bands from the outer condyle, and from the coronary procefs of the ulna, ftrengthen this ligament of the radius, and are known by the gene- ral name of accessory ligaments of the coronoid ligament, as the lateral ones are known by the name of accessory ligaments to the capfule. So that there is 1. A complete capfule which enclofes all the bones; 2. Lateral ligaments which make the main llrength of the joint; 3. A coronary ligament which regulates and Hrengthens the rolling motions of the radius, and keeps it firm, turning like a fpindle in its bufh. The whole joint is furrounded with cellular Jubilance; the regularity of its ligaments is confound- ed by the adhefions of mufcles and tendons: though it is, on the whole, weak behind and before, and very VOL. 1. f f ftrongJOINTS OF THE 4 34 ftrong at its fades, yet tendinous and ligamentous fibres crofs it in all directions ; fo that the capfule, and its alii fling ligaments, are irregular and rough without 5 but gelatinous, fmooth, and glofly within. WRIST. The wrist is one of the mofl moveable joints in the body, having the ftrength of a mere hinge-joint (becaufe it is almofl a Uriel hinge, by the connection of the long ball of the carpus with the long hollow of the radius); and having, at the fame time, all the pro- perties of the moft moveable joint, by the free turn- ing of the radius, without the weaknefs which is pecu- liar to the circular and free moving joints. Th'efe dif- tinCtions divide the wrifl-joint into its two parts. 1. The articulation formed by the feaphoid and lu- nated bones, which form an oval ball of articulation, and the great feaphoid cavity of the radius which re- ceives this ball. The end of the ulna does not proper- ly enter into the cavity of the wriil, but its end, or little round head, is covered with a moveable carti- lage, and that cartilage reprefents the end of the ul- na. Now this firft joint, viz. of the feaphoid and lunated bones, the head of the radius, and the move- able cartilage which reprefents the head of the ulna, are furrounded by the general capfule or bag of the joint. The capfule arifes from the ends of the radius and of the ulna ; from the ftyloid point of the one round to the fame po'nt of the other; and is implant- ed near the lower rank of the carpal bones. Though it adheres firft to the feaphoid and lunated bones, it paffes them, going over all the bones of the carpus, 4 efpeciallySHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 435 efpedally in the palm, fo as to add ftrength to their peculiar ligaments; and in the palm, the tendons for the fingers run over it: fo it forms on one fide an ad- ditional ligament for the carpus; on the other, it forms the floor of the tendinous (heath, a fmooth and lubricated furface for the tendons to run upon. This general ligament is ftrengthened by particular ones coming from the ftyloid precedes of the radius and of the ulna. But there are fo many Irregular points of bone about the wrift, that the little fafciculi, with which this capfule is covered and ftrengthened, are innumerable. Within this joint, and ftretching from, the groove betwixt the fcaphoid and lunated bones, there .is an internal ligament of a foft and pulpy na- ture; it is named ligAmentum mucosum: but the ve- ry name fhews that it is lefs valuable as a ligament fince (the joint is already well enough fecured), than as a conductor for the lacunas or dufts which feparate the mucus. 2. The articulation by which the hand performs all its turning motions is that of the radius with the ulnathis is fet apart altogether from the ge- neral articulation of the joint. The lateral cavity of the radius receives the little round head of the ulna; they are inclofed in their own peculiar cap- fule; which is fo loofe about the-bones, that although it is a regular capfule of the common form, it has the name of membrana capsularis sacciformis. Thus there is one joint within another; a moveable cartilage betwixt them, and the capfule of one, the more moveable joint, peculiarly wide, and not fo ftrong; all which ihould be confidered in thinking about luxations of the wrift. F F 2 TheJOINTS OF THE 4 3s The carpal bones are connected with each other fo very clofely, that the name of joint can hardly be ufed. They are rather fixed than jointed together. Each bone has four fmooth articulating furfaces, by which it is united to the adjoining bones. The firft two bones form the great ball of the wrift; the fecond row again is united with the firft by a fort of ball and loc- ket ; for the os magnum, which is the central bone of the fecond row, has a large round head, which is re- ceived into the lunated hollow of the os lunare, which is the central bone of the firft row. The firft row is thus united to the fecond by a diftindl and general capfule; in addition to which each fingle bone is tied to the next adjoining, by a regular capfular ligament within, and by flat crofs ligaments without, or rather by many bundles of ligaments, which crofs each other in a very complicated manner; and the little flat and lhining fafciculi give the whole a radiated or ftar-like form *. The metacarpal bones are alfo joined to the carpal in one row, by a line of joints which are as one joint; befides their common capfule, the metacarpal of each finger has its peculiar ligaments proceeding in a radi- ated or ftar-like form from the carpal bones, and going out broad upon the metacarpal bones; and fo nume- rous, that each metacarpal bone is fecurely tied by li- * Thefe are the ligaments which are really fo unimportant to the anatomift or to the furgeon, but which are fo laborioully defcribed under the titles of ligamenta brevia, obliqua transnersa- ria,and propria ossium carpi; for they do in fadt crofs and travcrfe the carpus in every poffible direction. gamentsSHOULDER, ARM, AND HAND. 437 and gaments to one or two of the bones of the carpus * ; and at their heads, where the fingers are implanted upon them, forming the knuckles, they are again tied by flat ligaments, which go from head to head of the metacarpal bones f, binding them together, permitting a flight bending towards each other, fo as to make a hollow in the hand, but no fuch wide motion as might aflifl the fingers; they are but as a foundation upon which the fingers ftand and move, FINGERS. The joints of the fingers are formed by round heads in the upper end of one row of bones, and by hollow fockets on the lower ends of the next row. Each joint is qualified by the round form of its head to be a cir- cular and free moving joint; but it is reftri&ed by the forms of its ligaments to the nature of a hinge-joint; for each finger-joint is included firft in a fair round capfule or bag, of the ordinary form; but that capfule is ftrengthened by very diftindf lateral ligaments upon its fides, which lateral ligaments form the chief flrength of the joints; above thefe lateral ligaments the joint is ftrengthened by a broad fafcia or fheath, which comes from the tendons of the interoflei mufcles, co- vers the backs of all the fingers, and which is efpecially ftrong over the joints. One part of the apparatus of the wrift-joint is the fmooth and lubricated sheath, in which the tendons of the fingers run. It is formed in part by the outer fide of the capfule of the wrift, * And thefe alfo are named, according to their feveral directions, J.IGAMENTA ARTICULARIA, LATERALIA, RECTA, PERPENDICU- (S.ARIA, &C, f Thefe are named the eigamenta interossfa. P F 3,JOINTS OF THE 43 s and In part by that bridge cf ligament which proceeds from the four corner points of the carpal bones. This fheath is lined with a delicate and fofter modification of the common tendinous membrane; is fully bedewed with mucus; and is fairly to be ranked with the burfos mucofae, as it is indeed, like them, a fliut fack. But it is farther croffed in fuch a manner by partitions be- longing to each flexor tendon, that each of them may be faid to have its appropriated burfa mucofa. And thefe burfae, to prevent the bad confequences of fric- tion, are put both betwixt the crofs ligament and the tendons, and alfo betwixt the tendons of the upper- moft mufcle and of the deeper one, and again betwixt the tendons of the fingers and of the thumb. In the fame way the fheaths of the tendons, as they run along the fingers, may be confidered as part of the apparatus of their joints ; for the firft fet of burfae, viz. thofe which lie in the palm of the hand, Hop before they reach the firft joints of the fingers, and then other longitudinal burfae begin from the firft joint of the fin- gers, and go all along them to the laft joint; forming a {heath for the Tendons to run in, which does at once the office of a ftrong ligament, binding them down in their places, and which is fo lubricated on its internal furface as to fave the neceffity of other burfae. Thefe /heaths are thicker in certain points, fo as to form crofs rings of ftrong ligament; ^ but the common /heath and thefe thicker rings ftill form one continual canal: thefe are named the sheaths and annular ligaments, or cross ligaments *, of the fingers, and are of the fame nature with the burfae, Befides thefe, there are * Ligamenta vaginalia, ucamenta cruceata PHALAN- 6UM, &c. no439 ' SHOULUJ2R, ARM, AND HAND. no diftinffc burke on the fingers, but there are feveral about the wrift, and one efpecially of a confidsrable fize at the root of the thumb *. CHAP. III. JOINTS OF THE THIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE, OF THE HIP-JOINT. r-j-" 1 he acetabulum, which is rough in the naked bone, is naturally lined with a thick and very fmooth cartilage. The head of the thigh-bone is covered with a fimilar car- tilage, alfo very thick and fmooth; and thefe cartilages almoft fill up that deep dimple which is feen in the centre of the head of the thigh-bone, and fmooth that hole which is formed in the centre of the focket, by the meeting of the feveral pieces of which it is com- pofed. The focket is not only deep in its bones, but is further deepened by the cartilage which tips the edge of the focket, and which Hands up to a confiderable height. The focket is imperfeft at that fide which looks towards the thyroid hole; the bony edge is en- tirely awanting there, and the fpace is filled up by a flrong cartilaginous ligament which goes acrofs this gap, from the one point to the other, and from its go- ing acrofs is named the ligamentum laeri cartila- * Vide Monro’s Burfas Mucofae. F F 4 , GINvEI44© JOINTS OF THE ginjEi transversale *. The capfular ligament of th* hip-joint is the thickeft and ftrongeft of all the body. It is, like other capfules, a reflection and thickening of the periofteum; the periofteum coming along the out- fide of the bone, leaves it at the edge of the focket. The periofteum, or rather perichondrium from the in- fide of the focket, comes up to the edge, and meets the outer layer. They unite together, fo as to form the general capfule, encloflng the ring-like cartilage, which tips the edge of the focket between them. This ligament enclofes all the bones from the edges of the focket to the roots of the trochanters, embracing not only the head but the neck of the thigh-bone. The outer plate, continuous with the periofteum, is thick and ftrong, and is aflifted by much cellular fubftance condenfed round it, and it is further thickened by flips which come from the iliacus, glutseus, and other muf- cles which pafs over the joint, while the external plate of the ligament lines the whole with a foft and well lubricated coat. In addition to this general capfule, there are two in- ternal ligaments, ift, The round ligament, as it is call- ed, which comes from the centre of the focket to be fixed into the centre of the ball of the thigh-bpne. It is not round, but flat or triangular. It has a broad triangular bafis, rooted in the focket exactly at that place where the feveral bones of the focket meet, form- ing a triangular ridge, which gives this triangular form to the central ligament. It has three angles, and three * This ligament is.double ; that is, there is one on the infide of the edge, and one on the outfide ; thence it is often reckoned as two ligaments, viz. ugamentvm transversals internum^ et tXTERNUM, flatTHIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. 44* Hat fides. It is broad where it arifes from the bottom of the focket, is about an inch and a half in length, grows narrower as it goes outwards'towards the head of the bone, and is almoft round where it is implanted into the dimple in the head of the thigh-bone ; at wh'ch point it is fo fixed as to leave a very remarkable rough- nefs in the naked bone. But round the roots of this ligament, and in the bottom of the focket, there is left a pretty deep hollow, which is faid to be filled up with the fynovial gland. It is wonderful how eafily authors talk of the fynovial gland, as if they had feen it; they deferibe very formally its affections and difeafes,as when, hurt by a blow upon the trochanter ; yet there is no diftinft gland to be found. There is a fringed and rag- ged mafs lodged in the bottom of the focket, hanging out into the hollow, and continually rubbed by the ball of the thigh-bone in its motions: the fringes and points certainly are du£ts from which we can fqueeze cut mucus ; but it is by no means proved that they belong to a fynovial gland ; and it looks rather as if the dufts were themfelves the fecreting organ, like the lacunas or mucous bags in the tongue, or in the urethra vagi- na, cefophagus, and other hollow tubes. Such a ftruc- ture is fitter for fuffering the ftrong preffure and con- tinual aflion of the thigh-bone than any determined gland. We fee then nothing but mucous duds of a fringed form, hanging down from this hollow into the cavity of the joint; a quantity of fat accompanying thefe fringes ; and a pappy mucous membrane, which keeps thefe fringes and fatty membranes orderly and in their places, and which ties them fo to the angles of the triangular ligament, that they mull move with the motions442 JOINTS OF THE motions of the joint. This mucous membrane, which keeps thefe fatty fringes orderly, has two or three fmall bridles in different directions ; whence they are named the ligamenta mucosa,or ligamentula mafias adipofae glandulofa; and this may be confidered as the conti- nued inflection of the fofter internal lamella of the cap- fule, which not only lines the focket, but is reflected over the central ligament, and over the globe of the thigh-bone, covering them alfo with a delicate mucous coat. Other fringes of the fame kind are found at the lower part of the joint, lying round the neck of the thigh-bone, near the angle where the capfular liga- ment is implanted into the root of the great trochanter : the liquor from thefe mucous fimbriae, with the gene- ral ferous exudations, are mixed and blended for lu- bricating the joint. This capfule, which is naturally the thickeft and ftrongeft in the body, almoft a quarter of an inch in thicknefs, is farther ftrengthened by many additions : for a flip of very ftrong tendinous or cellular fubltance condenfed comes down from the lower fpinous pro- cefs of the os ilium, and fpreads out over the capfule, and ftrengthens it very much on its fore part; the fmalleft of the glutasi mufcles adheres to the capfule and ftrengthens it behind ; the pfoas magnus and ilia- cus intemus pafs by the inner fide of the capfule; and though they do not abfolutely adhere to it, they de- pofit much cellular fubftance, which is condenfed fo as to ftrengthen the capfule, forming at the fame time a large burfa mucofa betwixt their tendinous fibres and the joint. That tendon of the reClus mufcle which comes from the margin of the focket, lies upon the outer443 THIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. opter fide of the capfule, adheres to it, and ftrength- ens it. The fecurity of the hip-joint feems to depend tnore upon the flrength of its capfular ligament than that of almoft any other joint. THE KNEE-JOINT. The knee-joint is one of the moft fuperficial joints and one of the weakeft, fo far as relates to the bones; for the flat condyles of the thigh-bone are merely laid up- on the flat head of the tibia. There is here no fair ca- vity receiving a large head, as in the joint of the hip : no flighter ball and focket, as in the fingers ; no firong overhanging bones, as in the fhoulder ; no hook-like procefs, as in the ulna. This is not a hinge-joint, like the ankle, fecured between two points of bone. We do not find the means of flrength in its bones, but in the number, fize, and difpofition of the great liga- ments with which its bones are joined; by virtue of thefe ligaments it is the ftrongeft joint of the human body, the moil opprelfed by great loads, the moft exer- cifed in continual motions, yet lefs frequently difplaced than any other. But this complication of ligaments, which gives it mechanical flrength, is the very caufe of its conflitutional weaknefs; makes it very delicate j and very liable to difeafe. The bones which compofe this joint are the tibia, thigh-bone, and patella; and they are united by many ligaments, both within and without the joint. ift. The capsule of the knee is naturally very thin and delicate, tranfparent as a cobweb. This thin cap- fuie comes from the fore part of the thigh-bone, all round the articulating furfaces, whence it goes down- wardsJOINTS OP THE 444 wards by the fides of the condyles; from this origin it is inferted into all the edge of the rotula, and in fuch a way as to keep the rotula properly without the cavity of the joint; thecapfular ligament going over its inner furface, and lining it with a fmooth and delicate coat. It is fixed below into ail the circle of the head of the tibia, and thus completes its circle, embracing all the bones. This capfule, naturally fo thin and delicate, is made up from all the furrounding parts to a conlider- able thicknefs ; firft, it is covered behind by the heads of the gaftrocnemii; at the Tides by the biceps and other mufcles of the ham-firings ; on its for" part, it is flrengthened by the general fafcia of the thigh, which goes down over the knee, and being there reinforced both by its adhefion to the bones and by the broad expanfion of the vaflus internus, fartorius, biceps, and other mufcles which go out over the patella, it adheres to the capfule, and makes the whole very flrong; be- fxdes which, there is a ligament which, lying in the ham, upon the back part of the capfule, is named, in compliment t o Window,l igamentumposticumWin- slowii. It is a ligament fomewhat refembling the la- teral ligaments of the elbow. It arifes from the outer condyle, goes obliquely acrofs the back part of the joint, adheres to it, and flrengthens it; but often it is not found at all, or in fuch flraggling fibres as cannot be accounted as a ligament. It is manifeft that the knee requires fome fuch additional ligaments behind to ferve as a check, and to prevent its yielding too far. 2. The knee, as being a hinge-joint, has its flronger ligaments at the Tides; and although we fpeak of la- teral445 THIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. teral ligaments in the other joints, this is the only- one where the lateral ligaments are very diftindt from the common capfule of the joint; on the inner fide of the joint there comes down from the internal condyle of the thigh-bone a broad flat ligament, which is fixed into the inner head of. the tibia, and is named the internal lateral ligament; on the out- fide of the knee there defcends from the tip of the outer condyle a much ftronger ligament, not quite fo flat, rather round : It extends from the condyle of the thigh-bone to the bump of the fibula, which it em- braces. It is a little conical from above downwards; it is from two to three inches in length, and is na« medLIG AMENTUM LATE RALE EXTERNtJM LONGUS,tO diftinguiih it from the next: for behind this firfl ex- ternal ligament there arifes, a little lower from the fame condyle, along with the outer head of the gaf- trocnaemius mufcle, a ligament which is called the LIG AMENTUM LATER ALE EXTERNUM B RE VIUS ; and it is not lhorter only, but fo fcattered as not to be eafily diftinguilhed, not having the true forfn of a lateral ligament coming down from the condyle, but of a mere (lengthening of the capfule, coming upwards from the knob of the fibula. 3. The joint is ftill further fecured by internal li- gaments, which are within the cavity of the joint $ they are named the crucial ligaments of the knee. They arife betwixt the hollow of the condyles of the thigh-bone, and are implanted into the back part of the middle rifing of the tibia: they lie in the back part of the joint, flat upon the back of the capfule j and the one eroding a little before the other (but yet in contad446 JOINTS OF THE contact with each other at the place of crofting), they are diftinguifhed by the names of anterior and Posterior crucial ligaments. The posterior crucial ligament is more perpen- dicular ; it arifes from the hollow betwixt the con- dyles of the thigh-bone, and is implanted into a roughnefs on the back of the tibia, betwixt its two cup-like hollows, and behind the tubercle which di- vides thefe hollows from each other. While the pos- terior arifes rather from the internal condyle, the anterior ligament arifes properly from the external condyle, paftes obliquely over the tuber in the arti- culating Surface of the tibia, and terminates in the cup-like hollow. The eftfedt of thefe two ligaments is more particular than is commonly obferved ; for the one goes obliquely out over the articulating Surface of the tibia, while the other goes direfUy down behind the joint; and of courfe when the knee is bended, the pofterior ligament is extended; when the leg is ftretched out, the anterior ligament is extended : they both are checks upon the motions of the joint: the anterior ligament prevents the leg going too far for- wards; the pofterior ligament prevents its being too much bent back upon the thigh. 4. The moft admirable part of the mechanifm of this joint is the two semilunar caritilages. They are fo named from their femilunar form: they lie upon the top of the tibia, fo as to fill up, each of them, one of the hollows on the top of that bone. They are thick- er towards their convex edges, thinner towards their concave edges; they end by two very acute and long horns, named the cornua of the lunated cartilages. In447 THIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. In ihort, they referable the fhape of the label which we put round a wine decanter; and the two horns are tied to the tubercle or ridge that {lands in the mid- dle of the articular furface of the tibia; and confequent* ly they are turned cowards each other fo as to touch in their points. There are here, as in the other joints, maffes of fat inclofmg the fimbriated ends of the mucous duCts. Thefe fimbrise and fatty bundles are formed chiefly round the circumference of the patella, commonly furrounding it with a complete fringe; they are alfo found at the back of the cavity, about the crucial ligaments, and in all the interfaces of the joint; the fatty bundles filling up the interfaces, pro- tecting the mucous duCts from more violence than what is juft neceflary to empty them, and perhaps mixing their exudation with the mucus of the duds. Thefe mafles of fat lie covered by the delicate in- ternal furface of the capfule, and the mucous fimbrise projeCt from it. The inner furface of the capfule is fo much larger than the joint which it lines, that it makes many folds or lurks; and feveral of thefe are diftinguifhed by par- ticular names. Thus at each fide of the patella there are two fuch folds, the one larger than the other; whence they are named ligamentum alare majus, and ligamentum alare minus. Thefe two folds are like two legs, which join and form one middle fold, which runs acrofs in the very centre of the joint, viz. from the lower end of the patella to the point of the thigh-bone, in the middle betwixt the condyles. It keeps the loofer fatty bundles and fimbriated duCls in their place (viz, the hollow betwixt the condyles, where448 JOINTS OF THE where they are lead expofed to harm); thence it has been long named the ligamentum mucosum. The internal membrane of the joint covers alfo the femi- lunar ligaments as a perichondrium; it comes off from the ridge of the tibia, touches the horns of the femilunar cartilages, moves over the cartilage fo as to give them their coat; and at the point where it firft touches the horns it forms four little ligaments, two for the horns of each cartilage. Thefe tags, by which the four points of the lunated cartilages are tied, are named the ligament a cartilaginumlun at arum, or more fimply named the four adhefions of the luna- ted cartilages. There is a little flip of ligament which goes round upon the fore part of the knob of the ti- bia, and ties the fore parts of thefe two cartilages to each other. It is named ligamentum transversale commune, becaufe it goes acrofs from the fore edge of the one cartilage to the fore edge of the other, and becaufe it belongs equally to each; but for their fur- ther fecurity, thefe cartilages alfo adhere to their outer circle or thick edge, to the internal furface of the general capfule of the joint, and that again adheres to the lateral ligaments which are without it; fo that there is every fecurity for thefe cartilages being firm enough in their places to bear the motions of the joint, and yet loofe enough to follow them eafily. This joint has the larged burfe mucofas of all, and thefe perhaps the mod frequently difeafed. There is one burfa above the patella, betwixt the common tendon of the extenfor mufcles and the fore part of the thigh-bone, which is no lefs than three inches in length. There is a fmaller burfa about an inch be- lowTHIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. 449 ow the patella, and under the ligament of the patella, protecting it from friction, upon the head of the ti- bia. Thefe burfe, I am perfuaded, are often the feat of difeafe, when it is judged to be in the joint itfelf. But the truth is very eafily known ; for if a fwelling appear under the patella, projecting at the fides, and railing the patella from the other bones, we are fure that it muft be in the main cavity of the joint : but if fwel'lings appear above and below the patella, then there is reafon to believe that thefe belong to the great burfe, which are placed above and below the patella: a complaint which is far lefs formidable than a fwelling of the joint itfelf; I would almoft fay eafily cured; for openings into thefe burfe, though they Ihould be avoided, are lefs dangerous than openings into the joint. It is from miftaking fuch tumours for collections in the capfule itfelf, that authors fpeak of openings into the joint as a familiar or eafy thing, or think that they have done fuch operations fafely when probably they were punCturing the burfe only. Thefe burfe mucofe lie under the tendon of the ex- tenfor mufcles, and under the ligament of the patella: they are of the fame fubftance with the capfule of the joint itfebf; . they lie over the capfule, united to it by cellular fubftance, and the bundles of fat, which ' are difpofed irregularly about the joint, belong partly to the burfe and partly to the capfule; one end pro- jecting into the cavity of the burfe, while the other end of the fame fatty bundles projects into the cavity pf the joint. yon. I. 4p c ThusJOINTS OF THE 45° Thus the knee-joint, which is the moil important in all the body ; the moll oppreiTed by the weight of the trunk, and by the accidental loads which we carry; the mod exercifed in the common motions of the body, and the mod liable to docks and blows ; which is the mod fuperficial and the weaked in all that refpe&s its bones—is the dronged in its ligaments, and the mod perfect in all the providons for eafy motion. 1. The great capsule of the joint inclofes the heads of the bone ; fecretes (in part) and contains the fynovia; lines the joint with a fmooth and delicate membrane, and, by turning over all the parts, and adhering to them, it forms the perichondrium for the cartilaginous heads of the bones, and the covering and ligaments for the moving cartilages of the joint. 2. This capfule, which is exquifitely thin, and which was formed for other ufes than for giving drength to the joint, is furrounded on all ddes with fuch continuations of the common fafcia, and fuch particular expanfions of the ham-dring and other mufcles, as by adding outwardly fucceflive layers to the capfule, brings it to a confiderable degree of drength. 3. The capfule having no drefs upon its fore part. Is very thin upon its fore part, viz. at the fides of the patella; but is drengthened at the fides by fair and didin£t ligaments, going from point to point of the three great bones, and fo large and particular as to deferve, more than any others in the body, the name of lateral ligaments ; at the back part of the joint the fame drength is not required as at the fides; yet at mud be dronger than at its fore part, wherefore it is drengthened451 THIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. firengthened by the additional bands which are fame- times general and confufed, but often fo perfect and diftind as to be known by the name of the posterior, ligament of Winslow ; and as the lateral ligaments prevent all lateral motions, this ftrengthening of the capxule fares as a checl>-bt\nd behind. 4. It is only in the greatefi: joints that we find the additional fecurity of internal ligaments; and the ■only joints where they are perfect are the joints of the hip and of the knee .; the former having its round, or rather triangular, ligament, which fecures the great ball of the thigh-bone, and fixes it in its place; the latter having its crucial ligaments, v/hich, coming both from one point nearly, and going the one over the face of the tibia, and the other down the back of that bone, ferve the double purpofe of binding the bones firmly together, and of checking the larger and dangerous motions of the joint; the fore ligament pre- venting it going too far forwards, and the back liga- ment preventing it bending too much. 5. A moving cartilage, for facilitating motion and leffening fridion, is not common, but is peculiar to thcfe joints whofe motions are very frequent, or which move under a greater weight; fuch are the in- ner head of the clavicle, the articulation of the jaw, and the joints of the wri.fi and of the knee ; and it is in the knee that the movable cartilages have their molt perfed forms and life, are large and fiat, femilu- nar, to ccrrefpond with the forms on the head of the tibia; thicker at their outer edges, to deepen the fock- et; and though moveable, yet fo tied with ligaments gs never to go out from their right place. q q 2 And, G- ' ' *452 JOINTS OF THE And, 6.~ The mucous folicular bundles of fat, and the burfe mucofce, which completes the lubricating apparatus of the joint, and the mucous frenulae or ligaments, which both conduct the mucous fringes and keep them in their place, are more perfect in the knee, and greater in number and fize than in any other joint. I may well cal! this the moft complicated, and (by daily and melancholy proofs) it is known to be the moft delicate joint of the body. FIBULA. The fibula is a fupport to the tibia in its various accidents \ it gives a broader origin to the mufcles, and it is the chief defence of the ankle-joint. It has no motion upon the tibia; the belt authors fpeak of it as a fymphyfis, which clafles it with the joinings of the pelvis, and excludes it from the lift’ of true and moveable joints. It is united with the tibia by a fort of flat cartilaginous furface upon either bone ; it is merely laid upon the tibia, not funk into it. It is tied by a clofe capfule : it has no particular ligament for itfelf; but is ftrengthened by the external lateral ligament of the knee, which adheres to this knob, and by the in- fertiori of the biceps tendon, which is implanted into this point, and which fpreads its expanded tendon over the fore part of the tibia, and holds the bones together; and the firmnefs of the fibula is further fe- cured by the great interofleus ligament, which goes from bone to bone. ANKLE. The ankle-joint owes lefs of its ftrength to liga- ments than to the particular forms of its bones; for whileT.ilGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. 453 whfle the ftrong lateral ligaments of the knee guard it fo that it cannot be diflocated till they are torn, the lower heads of the tib’a and fibula fo guard the foot that it cannot be luxated fidewife without fuch violence as breaks thefe bones : Find, the fibula is fo conne&ed with the tibia at its lower end, that they form together one cavity for receiving the aftragulus, with two proj effing points; the fibula forming the outer ankle, and the tibia forming the procefs of the inner ankle ; the joining of the fibula to the tibia here, is like that of its upper end, too clofe to admit of the finalleft motion ; and it is thoroughly fecured by particular ligaments ; one of which palling from the fibula to the tibia on the fore part, is named the liga- mentum superius anticum, confifling in general of one or two diftinfl flat bands. Another more continu- ed and broader ligamentous membrane goes from the fibula to the tibia acrofs the back part, and is named LIGAMENTUM FOSTICUM SUPERIUS ; the LIGAMEN- tum posticum inferius being but a flip of the fame. Next comes the capfule of the joint, which joins the aftragalus to the lower heads of the tibia and the fibula ; it is thinner both before and behind than v/e fhould expect from the flrength of a joint which bears all the weight and the moft violent motions cf the body. But, in faft, the capfule everywhere ferves other pur- pofes than giving ftrength to the joint, and never is ftrong except by additional ligaments from without; fo it is with the angle-joint, the capfule of which is ex- ceedingly thin before, but it is ftrengthened at the back part, and efpecially at the fides, by fupplementary ligaments: Fir ft, a ftrong ligament comes down from g g 3 theJOINTS OF THE 45 4 the acute point of the inner ankle, expands in a ra- diated form upon the general capfule; adheres to it, and ftrengthens it, and is fixed all along the fides of the aftragalus: This ligament coming from one point, and expanding to be inferted into a long line, has a tri- angular form, whence it is named ligamentum del- Toides ; and while the general ligament fecures the joint towards that fide, the oblique fibres of its fore edge prevent the foot being too much extended, as in leaping; and its oblique fibres on the back edge prevent its being too much bended, as in climbing ; but the li- gaments of the outer ankle, tying it to the other fide of the aftragulus, are indeed diftinci, mne going for- wards, one going backwards, and one running directly downwards ; one goes from the point or knob of the fibula, obliquely downwards and forwards, to be infert- ed into the fide of the aftragalus : it is fquare and flat, of confiderable breadth and ftrength, and is called liga- mentum fibulfe anterius. Another ligament goes perpendicularly downwards, from the acute point of the cuter ankle, to fpread upon the fide of the aftra- galiis and of the capfule, and is finally inferted into the heel-bone; this is named the ligamentum fibulas ferpendiculare. A third ligament goes out ftill from the fame point,, to go backwards over the back part of the capfule ; adheres to the back of the capfule, and ftrengthens it, and is named ligamentum inter fibulam et astragalum, posterius. There is nothing very particularly worthy of notice in the ankle-joint; for it is covered with cartilages; lined with a foft and mucous membrane ; and lubricated with mucous fimbriae and maffes of fat, fuch as are found mTHIGH, LEG, AND ANKLE. 455 in all the joints. It is ftronger than the other joints ; it can hardly be luxated without a laceration of its ligaments, and breaking of the bones which guard it at either fide ; and it is the great violence which is required for completing this diflocation, and the ter- rible complication of diflocation, fracture, and lacera- tion of the (kin, which makes this accident fo dangerous beyond any other luxation. The ASTRAGALUS, OS CALOIS, OS NAVICULARE, and all the bones of the tarfus, are united to each other by large heads and diftinct and peculiar joints ; befides which, the bones are crofs tied to one another by li- gaments fo numerous and complicated that they can- not nor need not be explained. They pafs acrofs from bone to bone in an infinite variety of directions ; feme longitudinal; fome tranfverfe; and fome oblique. There is a curious complication, which we may call a web of ligaments, covering either fide of the foot with fliining and ftar-iike bundles : each bone has its cap- fular ligaments for joining it to the next; each joint of each bone has its articulating cartilages always frefh and lubricated; each joint has, befides its capfule, ftrips of oblique, longitudinal, and tranfverfe ligaments, joining it to the neared bones ; and the greater bones have larger and more important ligaments, as from the aftragalus to the os calc's, front the os calcis to the os naviculare, and from that again to the fcaphoid bone, &c. The metatarfal bones have their capfular ligaments joining them to the tarfal bones, and they have hga® ments ftrengthening their capfules, and tying them more ilrongly to the tarfal bones j and, as in the meta- i carpalJOINTS OF THE 4 56 carpal bones, the feverai ranks are tied one to- another by crofs ligaments, yhich pafs from the root of one bone to the root of the next. We have ligaments of the fame defcription and ufe, holding the metatarfai bones together, both on the upper and on the lower furface of the foot; and all the ligaments of the foot are of great ftrength and thicknefs. The lower ends of the metatarfai bones have alfo tranfverfe ligaments by which they are tied to each other. The toes have hinge-joints, formed by capfules, and fecured by latej ral ligaments, as thofe of the fingers are ; and except in the ftrength or number of ligaments, the joinings of the carpus, metacarpus, and fingers, exactly refemble the joinings of the tarfus, metatarfus, and toes. But thefe ligaments, though helping to join the in- dividual bones, could not have much effect in fupport- i'ng the whole arch of the foot. It is further fecured by a great ligament, which extends in owe triangular and flat plate from the point of the heel to the roots of each toe. This is named the aponeurosis plan- tarts pedis ; which is not merely am aponeurofis for cevering, defending, and fupporting, the mufcles of the foot; that might have been done on eafier terms with a fafcia, very flight compared with this ; but the chief ufe of the plantar aponeurofis is to fupport the arch of the foot. It paffes from point to point, like the bow-ftring betwixt the two horns of a bow, and, after leaping or hard walking, it is in the foie of the foot that we feel the {training and pain ; fo that, like the palmar aponeurofis, it fupports the arch, gives ori- gin to the ftiort mufcles of the toes, braces them in their addon, and makes bridges under which the long tendonsTHIGH, LEG, AND ARM. 457 tendons are allowed to pafs; it comes off from the heel in one point; it grows broader in the fame proportion as the foie of the foot grows broad ; it is divided into three narrow heads, which make forks, and are inferted into the roots of the fecond, third, and fourth toes ; and the great toe and the little toe have too fmaller or lateral aponeurofis, which cover their own particu- lar mufcles, and are implanted into the roots of the great tee and of the little toe. The burfse mucofse furround the ankle and foot in great numbers. None of them having any very direfl connection with the joint, and mod of them accom- panying the long tendons as they pafs behind the ankle, or in the foie of the foot, are of that kind which we call tendinous fheaths. Firft, There are fheaths of two or three inches long, which furround the tendons of the tibialis pofticus, and of the peronaei mufcles, as they pafs down behind the ankle. The fheaths of the pero- jiaei begin from that point where the tendons firft begin to rub againft the bone, and are continued quite down into the foie of the foot; making firft a common fheath for both tendons, and then a burfa peculiar to the ten- dons of the peronseus brevis mufcle, and about an inch in length. Where the peronseus longus begins to pafs under the foie of the foot, the fheath which inclofed it behind the ankle is fhut, and a new burfa begins ; in the fame manner, where the tendons of the flexor policis and flexor digitorum pedis pafs behind the inner ankle, a burfa of three inches in length furrounds them and facilitates the motion. As the tendons of the flexor mufcles go under the arch of the foot, they lie among foft parts, and rub chiefly againft the flefh of the mafia carnea45 8 THE JOINTS OF carnea and the belly of the fhort flexor mufcles: But whenever they touch the flrd joints of their toes, they once more rub againd a hard hone. New burfe are formed for the tendons. Each burfa is a diflind bag, running along the flat face of the toe, and is of a long fnape, and the tendon is carried through the centre of the lubricated bag ; fo that we fee once more that there is no true diflin&ion betwixt bur fee mucofae and tendi- nous (heaths, nor betwixt the tendinous (heaths and the capfules of joints* Joints have been arranged under various forms, but not with much fuccefs; and I do not know that enu- merating the joints in any particular order will either explain the motions of individual joints, or affid in recording their various forms ; fome joints are loofe and free, capable of eafy motions, but weak in pro- portion, and liable to be difplaced; fuch is the joint of the shoulder, which rolls in every direction : other rolling joints, more limited in their motions, are better fecured with ligaments of peculiar ftrength ; fuch is the joint of the hip, where the ligaments are of great ftrength both within and without: fome, want- ing all circular motions, are hinge-joints by the mere form of their bones ; fuch are the lower jaw, the vertebrae, the elbow, and the ankle-joints : fome are hinges by their ligaments, which are then dif- pofed only along the (ides of the bones ; fuch are the knee, the ribs, the fingers, and the toes. Some joints partake of either motion with all the freedom of a ball and a focket-joint, yet with the ftrength and fecurity of the drifted hinge : Thus the wrist, hav- ing one joint by which its turning motions are per- formed,THIGH, LEG, AND ARM. 459 formed, and another joint by which it rolls, has the two great endowments, fo rarely combined in any joint of the freed motion, and of great drength ; fo alfo has the head, by the combination of two joints of op- pofite ufes and forms ; for its own condyles play like a mere hinge upon the atlas; and the axis of the dentatus fecures all the properties of a circular joint : this combination gives it all the motions of either joint without their peculiar defedts. But there is dill a third order of joints, which have fuch an ob- fcure and fhuffling motion that it cannot be obferved. The carpus and metacarpus, the tarsus and me- tatarsus, the tibia with the fibula, have thefe fhuffling and almod immoveable joints \ they are not intended for much motion among themfelves, but are appointed by a diffufed and gradual yielding to facili- tate the motions of other joints. END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. Strahan and Prefton, Printers-Street, London.4 \ :■< ?*■ ■- \I /- ' • • ■ , ' I ' I