674 SYPHILIS IN INFANTS. t'1011) ; at the commencement this is attributed to cold, and seldom attended to until the eruption appears. In the interim, however, the child’s health is much affected, and i without auy obvious reason. It has no bowel complaint, and is not undergoing denti- tion, but yet wastes away, and is feverish, fretful, and pallid. In about a fortnight an eruption comes out rather suddenly, at first upon the lower extremities and buttocks, and subsequently upon the face and body ; * * * first in the form of copper-coloured jj blotches, about the size of a split pea, and slightly raised above the level of the skin. These are, in a slight degree, moist upon the surface, and in situations exposed to the air they soon become scaly, and subsequently are converted into dark-yellowish scabs. Where portions of skiu are naturally in contact, as between the buttocks, in the wrinkles . of the neck, &c., scales are not formed, but raised condylomatous sores. As the disease 1 advances, the skin in the intervals of the scabs becomes throughout of a copper colour, and perpendicular fissures are formed in the lips, giving the mouth a very peculiar and characteristic appearance, which cannot be verbally described, but to those familiar with the disease, is in itself diagnostic of its real nature. The voice at this period becomes feeble and stridulous; the inside of the mouth often covered with aphtha:; extreme i emaciation attends, and, if medical aid be not afforded, the child is reduced to a state of excessive debility, and lies covered with disgusting scabs and ulcerations.” (Evanson and Maunsell.) In addition to these, Lawrence mentions that he has seen two cases i of iritis as symptoms of syphilis in infants ; and that sometimes there are ulcers pretty much indurated, that is, with a superficial edge, and rather indurated base, about the * anus. “ The diagnosis is to be derived partly from its history, but in investigating this i the greatest caution is required, as a hint of any suspicion upon the subject might, in many instances, be productive of the most unhappy domestic results.* * * The snuffles of syphilis having nothing at first to distinguish them from those of common catarrh, the disease with which the eruption is most likely to be confounded is common itch, which in the delicate skin of the child may assume a frightfully severe form. It is to be known from syphilis by its pustular character, by the itchiness which it occasions, and by the absence of the copper colour of the skin, and the peculiar fissured appearance of the mouth. Itch is also commonly communicated to the attendants. * * * The prog- i 7iosis is always favourable when the case is seen early and properly treated, few diseases -j being more under the influence of medicine. If left to itself, however, Syphilis infantum is certainly fatal. “ The treatment is exceedingly simple—mercury being always required, and, when judiciously exhibited, seldom failing to produce a beneficial effect. * * * Administer from one to two grains of hydragyrum cum creta two or three times a day (according to the age) until the eruption and snuffles disappear. The child usually fattens under 1 this treatment; and salivation is never produced, at least we have never seen it, in a child under three years of age. Should the mercury affect the bowels, which some- times happens, we must combine with each dose from half a grain to a grain of Dover’s i powder, or of the powder of chalk and opium. The time required for treatment is : from six weeks to two or three months, and the medicine should always be continued l for two or three weeks after every symptom has disappeared; even when this precau- I tion has been observed, the disease may return and the mercurial treatment must be t again and again resumed.” Black wash or dilute citrine ointment may be applied to the sores, and when they become indolent they may be stimulated with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. Giving mercury to the nurse so as indirectly to affect the child is insufficient for the cure of the disease in the latter. “ When the mother is suckling t her own child it will be well to treat her with alteratives, as for example, sarsaparilla; !l but unless she labours under actual syphilitic symptoms the giving of mercury to her i should not be thought of until the child is weaned, as by affecting her general health I it would be likely to deteriorate her qualities as a nurse.” (Evanson and Maunsell.) ; Some practitioners make use of corrosive sublimate in treating syphilitic infants ; but it is objected to both by Swediaur and Bacot as likely to disagree and produce violent griping. In connexion with this subject one very important question may be here adverted to, namely, whether syphilis can be communicated by co-habitation, if the husband la- bour only under secondary symptoms. Hey is of opinion that the wife may be so infected, although he is not able to state any positive facts supporting it. Lawrence also says that the same is the impression on his mind from circumstances that have i come under his own observation ; and Todd’s case of the grandmother already men- tioned might be brought in support of these views, as in her case as well as in those : of married people, the only conceivable way of the infection being communicated is, the application of the secretion of the secondary sores to the surface of the healthy