338 SHOCK. (3) With regard to the shock, Guthrie makes the following very interesting obser- vations:—“ When an organ of importance has been injured, and the blow severe, as by a cannon or grape shot, or shell, or from the fracture of a bone, and even from the attention being directed to the receipt of an injury from the situation in which the soldier may be placed, a peculiar constitutional alarm ensues, in a much greater degree than would follow an injury of equal magnitude precisely in the same spot from any other cause. It affects alike, although not in an equal manner, the coward and the brave, the man of learning and the unlettered soldier. * * * On the receipt of a wound which has the appearance of being fatal, or if circumstances of situation can give rise to such an idea in the patient’s mind, the constitutional affection is often as manifest at first as when some vital organ has been injured; but it subsides much sooner, and offers us, in doubt- ful cases, a diagnostic symptom of the greatest value and certainty. * * * The continu- ance of the constitutional alarm or shock ought to excite great suspicion of serious injury; and when wounds have been received in such situations, or bear such appear- ances as render it doubtful whether any parts of vital importance have been injured or not, the surgeon may sometimes make up his mind as to the fact from it alone, when other symptoms more indicative of the injury are wanting; and under all such circum- stances he ought to be particularly guarded in the prognosis or opinion given to the patient or his friends, although every other appearance should even lead him to suppose the injury to be less serious.” (pp. 10, 11.) IIennen remarks, that “ some men will have a limb carried off or shattered to pieces by a cannon-ball, without exhibiting the slightest symptoms of mental or corporeal agitation ; nay, even without being conscious of the occurrence; and when they are, they will coolly argue on the probable result of the injury ; while a deadly paleness, constant vomiting, profuse perspiration, and universal tremor, will seize on another on the receipt of a slight flesh-wound. This tremor, which has been so much talked of, and which, to an inexperienced eye, is really terrifying, is soon relieved by a mouthful of wine or spirits, or by an opiate, but above all by the tenderness and sympathising manner of the surgeon, and his assurances of his patient’s safety.” (p. 33.) (4) “ Gun-shot wounds, from whatever cause,” observes Hunter, “ are in general contused wounds, from which contusion there is most commonly a part of the solids surrounding the wound deadened, as the projecting body forced its way through these solids, which is afterwards thrown off in form of a slough, and which prevents such wounds from healing by the first intention or by means of the adhesive inflammation, from which circumstance most of them must be allowed to suppurate. This does not always take place equally in every gun-shot wound, nor in every part of the same wound ; and the difference commonly arises from the variety in the velocity of the body projected; for we find in many cases where the ball has passed with little velocity, which is often the case with balls even at their entrance, but most commonly at the part last wounded by the ball, that the wounds are often healed by the first intention. Gun- shot wounds, from the circumstance of commonly having a part killed, in general do not ' inflame so readily as those from other accidents; this backwardness to inflame will be in the proportion that the quantity of deadened parts bear to the extent of the wound; i from which circumstance the inflammation is later in coming on, more especially when a ball passes through a fleshy part with great velocity, because there will be a great deal I deadened in proportion to the size of the wound. * * * On the other hand, where the ball has fractured some bone, which fracture in the bone has done considerable mischief il to the soft parts independent of the ball, then there will be nearly as quick inflammation f as in a compound fracture of the same bone, because the deadened parts bear no pro- portion to the laceration or wound in general.” (pp. 523, 24.) Instances, however, do now and then occur, in which the wounds made by gun-shot are perfectly regular and, more or less, like those made by a cutting instrument. Several such have been mentioned by H. Larrey (a); and in one case, a fragment of shell carried i away a piece of the skin of the chest, leaving a regular elliptical wound, resembling I that produced by amputation of the breast. The edges were brought together without d sutures, and was quickly cured, (p. 138.)] 336. The direction of the shot-wound varies extraordinarily, and depends on the speed of the ball, on the different thickness and resistance t of the parts which the ball strikes. Its course is usually indicated ex- < j ternally by a dark streak, or a certain emphysematous crackling may be observed by feeling along the shot track. Experience has proved that t (a) Hist. Chir. du Siege do la Citadellc d'Anvers. 8vo.