99 ERYSIPELAS. Second Section.—Of certain peculiar kinds of Inflammation. [.—OF ERYSIPELAS. Richter G. G., Diss. de Erysipelate. Goetting, 1744. 4to. Thierens, A. L., Diss. de Erysipelate. Lugd. Batav., 1790. Winkel, L. H. O., Aphorismi de cognoscendo et curando Erysipelate. Erlang., 1794. 8vo. Ferne, W. C. S., Diss. de diversa Erysipelatis natura. Franc ad Viadr., 1795. 4to. Desault, Observations sur Diverses Especes d’Erysipeles; in Journal de Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 13. 1791. Rust, das Pseudo-Erysipelas, eine noch nicht hinreichend erkannte Krankheits- i form; in his Magazin, vol. viii. part iii. p. 498. Hutchinson, A. C., Practical Observations on Surgery. 2nd Edit. London, 1820. chap. ii. Pauli, iiber Phlegmone telm cellulosac; in Rust's Magazin, vol. xxvii. p. 129. Lawrence, William, Observations on the Nature and_Treatment of Erysipelas ; in Medico-Chirurg. Trans, vol. xiv. part i. p. 1. Dupuytren, Du Phlegmon Diffus; in Lemons Orales, vol. ii. p. 289. Fencer, C. E., Diss. de Erysipelate ambulanti. Haoniae, 1842. 81. Under the terms Erysipelas, St. Anthony's Fire, {Rosa, Erysipelas, Lat.; Rose oder Rothlauf, Germ.; Erysipele, Fr.,) is usually understood an inflammation of the lymphatic vascular network overspreading the sur- face of the cutis, in which, not unfrequently, the skin, glands, and Mal- pighian mucous net, but more rarely the cellular tissue and muscles lying beneath, partiticipate. Under this general notion are included a number of •i diseased conditions which are considered as modifications of erysipelas, but in their nature are entirely different from it. Rust has the merit of having pointed out their special points of difference, and recognises a True Erysipelas(Erysipelas veram seu exanthematicum, Lat.; tide Rose,Germ.) and a False Erysipelas (Erysipelas spurium seu Pseudo-Erysipelas, Lat.; Iundchte Rose, Germ.) [Hunter long since observed, that “ most inflammations that are not of the true adhe- sive and suppurative kinds are called erysipelatous, although, probably, they do not in the T least belong to it.” (p. 269.) And Chelius has echoed him in the above observation, that “ a number of diseased conditions, which are considered as modifications of erysipelas, ! in their nature are entirely different from it.” But he has not at all, by his arrange- ment, mended the matter, and I have, therefore, pointed out, first, the different applica- tions of the terms erysipelas and erythema, which are employed by him very contrarily 1 to our ordinary usage of them ; and, afterwards, I have shown that one of his forms of erythema is really that important disease, inflammation of the cellular tissue, which, by other writers as well as by him, is confounded with inflammation of the skin, and often i mentioned as gangrenous erysipelas. It is, however, right to observe that our author * has, at the end of paragraph 83, shown that he is not unaware of the impropriety of l' considering this disease as an affection of the skin.—J. F. S.] 82. The True Erysipelas appears without any local disposition to dis- ease, but with previous general indisposition, which is usually shown by