759 TREATMENT WITH ELASTIC BOTTLE. brane of the bladder should be drawn with a fine hook into the opening. If at last it unite to the edge, its surface should be touched with lunar caustic, to render it more tough and hard. There is still to be mentioned Vidal’s proposal of, in complete destruction of the vagina and wall of the bladder, bringing together the labia, having first pared them ; after which care must be taken, by frequent introduction of the catheter, and, in men- struation, by injection, for clearing the urine and blood from the vagina. To the same purpose is Horner’s proposal (a) of drawing down the uterus into the vagina, and so to fasten its front that it may supply the loss of the bladder or its neck. [Among the various plans of treating vesico-vaginal fistula, may be mentioned that of introducing a small Indian rubber bag into the bladder proposed by Dr. Keith of Aberdeen (b), in consequenceof the following very remarkable case which came under his care. Case.—J. S., aged thirty years, was admitted into the Aberdeen Infirmary, com- plaining of constant pain in the region of the bladder, and constant distillation of urine from the vagina. She was delivered in 1831 by the forceps, and fourteen days afterwards the urine came away through an artificial opening in the vagina. This con- tinued for seven or eight years, when she plugged the opening with a pint-bottle cork, and for a time succeeded, and she enjoyed comparative comfort till the cork slipped into the bladder, and was followed by the usual symptoms of stone. For a time the urine flowed again through the fistulous opening, but as the spmptoms of stone became aggra- vated she regained the power of retaining her water, and this so entirely before the close of the year that she then passed the whole of her urine by the urethra. The irri- tation of the stone, however, became so intolerable that it was resolved to crush it by the screw lithotrite. The fistulous opening was then large enough to admit a No. lti- catheter, having once been large enough to admit a pint-bottle cork: When the stone and cork had been crushed, and the particles evacuated the urine again passed freely through the fistulous opening, which, however, had become sufficiently small to allow a button-headed cautery at a white heat to be applied to it, so as to touch at once the edge all around. This was repeated in six days, again in sixteen days, and lastly in twenty-two days, after which she continued quite cured. “ Several points of interest attach to this case,” says Keith ; “first, It affords convincing evidence, from the effect produced on the fistula by the presence of her calculus that were a foreign body of a smooth and unirritating character, of sufficient weight, introduced into the bladder in cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, the body would act as a bullet valve, and not only keep the patient dry, but actually favour the contraction of the false opening. After seven years, in the above case, the opening admitted a pint-cork, with so much ease that it slipped through but after a foreign body was lodged in the bladder, nine months sufficed to reduce the opening to less than one-third of its previous size, and it could only have been during the latter six months of that period that the cork could have acquired density and weight enough to operate as a valve-plug. I would suggest a small thin bulb or bag of Indian.rubber filled with mercury. . Should incrustation happen in the progress of the cure, a squeeze with a screw-lithotrite, or percussor, or a long oesophagus- forceps would throw it off, and at last when the opening had contracted to such a size as to admit of its ready cure by the cautery, the thin bag could be easily burst or punc- tured, and then withdrawn by the urethra. Secondly, If asked why I deprived myself of the bullet-valve, while cauterizing in the above case ? I reply, that the constant straining kept up by the rough stone, arising from the inflamed state of the mucous membrane of the bladder, kindled and kept up by its presence, obliged me to remove a source of irritation, sufficient to defeat, in more ways than one, any effort of mature adhesion. Thirdly, It is worthy of remark that the application of the actual cautery inside the vagina occasions nothing deserving the name of pain, and this observation I have had repeatedly corroborated. The heat of the reflected rays may be felt; but I have never found patients say that they really felt pain. Fourthly, It is advised by high authority to allow long intervals between each application of the cautery, that time may be afforded for the consequent contraction of the parts : the advice is judicious ; but it applies chiefly to cases where the orifice is large, and where there is much to accom- plish in the way of closing in. My bullet-valve will, in future, aid the process much in such cases; but I beg to remark that where we have a fistulous opening of the size of a female catheter, for instance, and where, as in the preceding and succeeding cases, we (a) American Journal, 1839. No. 7. # . (b') Remarks on the Treatment of Vesico-vaginal Journal of Medical Science, vol. iv. p 1- ; also in Fistula; in London and Edinburgh Monthly IJraithwaite’s Retrospect, vol. lx. p. 164.