ULCERATION. 49 to the ly mph-abscess of this paragraph, of which I was then ignorant than to a collection of synovia, as I thought it perhaps might be. The patient was a healthy country lad, seventeen years old, who three years previously had received a blow on the upper outer part of his left thigh, but seemed to have recovered from its effects. Two months since he noticed a swelling on the outside of the same thigh, about a hand’s breadth above the knee-cap, which gradually increased both downwards and upwards, so that at his admis- sion it occupied the outer and fore part of the thigh, from a little above the knee to near the great trochanter, fluctuated distinctly, and was presumed to be an abscess in the outer chamber of the femoral sheath. Fifteen minims of tincture of muriate of iron in mucilage thrice a day were ordered, to excite absorption, which was continued for nearly three weeks without benefit. The thigh then having increased, and fluctuation and swelling having extended about the whole knee, I made, by the direction of my then colleague Travers, whose patient he was, an incision two inches long, about the middle of the outside of the thigh, expecting to evacuate pus or open the femoral sheath; but neither pus nor any other fluid escaped, although I cut into the ni. vastus externus an inch deep A tent of lint was left in the wound to keep it open, and hasten the escape of pus if any should make its way through the wound; but none appeared, and in the course of a fortnight the wound had entirely healed. The tincture of iron, which had i been continued to this time, was now left off, and two grains of iodide of iron thrice a day, ordered in its stead. A week after the whole thigh was wrapped in mercurial ointment, and swathed in a roller. This treatment was continued for three weeks, but without any diminution in size, or apparent change; fluctuation was still very distinct, and the fingers of one hand being applied, whilst pressure was made with the other hand alter- 4 nately above, a thrilling fluctuation was felt. It was therefore determined to introduce i a grooved needle about the middle of the thigh, and some fluid very similar to synovia | escaping by it, an abscess lancet was then, with my colleague’s consent, thrust in, making an opening an inch long in the skin, and half its length in the sheath, from w hich i escaped about twenty ounces of the seemingly synovial fluid, which nearly emptied the i cavity, leaving a rather moveable lump about the middle of the fore part of the thigh, the character of which I could not make out. The edges of the wound were carefully brought together, the limb rolled, and in four days union had taken place. A week after i another free puncture below the former voided a quart of the same fluid as before, and on applying heat it coagulated speedily and almost entirely. The w'ound was left open, and a roller applied above and below it; but in the course of a week it had again united, and fluid was again secreted, though in smaller quantity. A solid but moveable swel- * ling had at this time also formed to some extent around the wounds. The iodide of iron was then omitted, and, instead, was ordered decoction of sarsaparilla four ounces, with ta five grains of iodide of potash twice a day; the whole thigh to be enveloped in ointment ■ i i of iodide of potash. Three weeks after the solidification had increased, and the fluc- Mtuation generally was less distinct, and soon after the ointment was given up, and mer- Hcurial plaster applied. Two months after, having begun to take the iodide of potash, irtthe thigh had much diminished, there was less fluctuation, the middle outer skin was l-< almost solid, and there is less effusion about the knee. The diminution of size and fluc- jq fixation continued, and in about two months he was able to walk about. He contimxed with us about four months longer, and, when he left the house, the swelling about his . .tcnee, although not completely subsided, had so considerably diminished as not to inter- ; 'fere with his walking.—J. F. S.] ^ 18. Ulceration (Exulceratio, Lat.; Verschivarung, Germ.; Ulceration, l’r.) is distinguished from suppuration, in being connected with an actual destruction of parts, (by ulcerative absorption,) and with the secretion of 1 thin, acrid, fetid, and variously coloured pus-like fluid. It arises either nimediately from inflammation, or from a preceding abscess. Its causes ire either local injury,—for instance, improper treatment of the abscess vliich has been opened,—or general disease, as scrofula, syphilis, and o on. ® [In considering the subject of ulcei’ation, or “ ulcerative inflammation,” as he most ■ )roperly calls it, Hunter first indicates the economy of the absorbent vessels, and 1 Ptaj\s °f them in two view's: first, as they absorb matter, which is not any part of the nacnine; secondly, as they absorb the machine itself.” The former of these functions * S 0 kinds, of which the one absorbs extenxal matter, either applied to the skin t received into the alimentary canal; aud the other takes up internal matter, as many VOL. 1. y