660 TREATMENT OF SECONDARY SYPHILIS destroyed at a time ; if there be little, one application of the acid is sufficient; but if much, it will be advisable to destroy portions successively till the whole is got rid of. If a bubo take to sloughing, as it will do occasionally, it must be soothed, or even treated with nitric acid as directed for sloughing chancre. I have known it destroy life by ulcerating the femoral artery and producing fatal bleeding. I doubt not much benefit would be derived by taking up the artery above the sore. (2) I am not in the habit of using pressure for dispersing buboes, but I have seen it occasionally beneficial. (3) Of the employment of sublimate after blistering to produce a slough I have no experience, but think it must be rather sharp practice. The application of blisters alone to indolent buboes is often very advantageous; sometimes they excite the absorb- ents, and the swelling is removed ; at other times they excite increased vascular action, and the bubo suppurates, and after opening, or having been opened, gets well: so that in either case the blister does good service. I have occasionally removed the skin from the blistered surface and dressed it with iodide of potash ointment, or with mercurial • ointment, and with beneficial result.—J. F. S.] 835. The treatment of the general venereal disease requires a more powerful use of mercury than in primary syphilitic affections. Mercury | is employed internally or externally. 836. The external use of mercury is to be recommended only in those c cases where the patient cannot bear it even in connexion with opium, mu- cilaginous remedies and so on, in consequence of habitual purging; in some persons also especially on account of pains in the bones. This mode of treatment, however, usually excites little salivation, and by many persons cannot be borne on account of the peculiar sensibility of the skin. From half a drachm to a drachm and still more of the gray mercurial ointment is to be rubbed on different parts of the body daily or at longer intervals. [, Sublimate baths have also been recommended, and the rubbing in of half a drachm of sublimate with as much muriate of ammonia every evening upon the soles of the feet, (after they have been softened by some days’- previous warm foot-baths,) together with the simultaneous use of a luke- warm bath every other day, of decoction of sarsaparilla (a), as also the ; rubbing in of red precipitate, dry or mixed with spittle, and many other modes of treatment (b). The last two modes of treatment are, however, much less efficient than rubbing in gray ointment. 837. In the ordinary and not very old cases of venereal disease, the in- ternal use of mercury is preferable to the external. The mercurius so- lubilis of Hahnemann, or calomel, are given ; or because these prepara-1 j tions easily excite salivation, which prevents their continuance, sublimate is especially used. Under this treatment the patient must closely follow the dietetic rules already laid down, and according to the different degrees of irritation they must alternate with the preparations of mercury. 838. Besides this general treatment, certain appearances of Lues require especial attention. In syphilitic ulceration of the throat and palate the pencilling recom- mended by Rust (a) is especially useful, and to be applied once or twice a day to the surface of the ulcer by means of a pencil of charpie (1). In syphilitic eruptions washes of sublimate water, of aquaphagadenica. C*0 Cirili.o, Praktisohe Bemerkungen iiber die venerischen Krankheiten, translated from the Italian by Dahne. Leipzig, 1790. There is also a French translation by Aubert. Paris, 1803. I am sorry I have not been able to see either the original or the translations of this work, for I cannot imagine the possibility of half a drachm of subli- matebeing recommended t.o_be rubbed in nightly. —J. F. S. IIuFEr.AND, Journal der praktischen Heilkunst 1819, March. (6) Anuiaux, Clinique chirurgicale. (c) R Merc. subl. corros. gr.vj.—xii. Extract, cicutae, flor. chamom. aa 3*j- Tinct. anodyn. simp. 3k Mell.rosar. Jj.