PRESSURE ON THE BRAIN 404 of rescuing the patient by the speedy application of the trepan upon the spot where he first suffered the inflammatory pain. Generally, however, in these cases, if the suppuration be much extended, the trepan must be applied in several places, the dura mater, the surface of the brain itself cut into, if pus be collected beneath it. Trepanning, however, can in any possible way only be useful when the pus is found circumscribed between the skull and dura mater. In outpourings over the surface of the brain, it is useless and in collections of pus within the substance of the brain itself, even after the dura mater has been cut into, the seat of the pus cannot be well deter- mined. Many observations, however, show satisfactory results even in such extreme cases. The cases of La Peyronie and Dupuytken, in which abscess in the brain was punc- tured, have been already noticed, {par. 400, note.) In reference to abscesses in the brain found on dissection, and the opening of which have confirmed their position, see La Peyronie {a), Roux (6), Velpeau {c). 412. Everything depends on averting the slow insidious inflammation of the brain which occurs at a later period. In every injury of the head, the patient is therefore to be closely watched, the antiphlogistic treat- ment, and especially the cold fomentations to be long persisted in, and the proper relief of the bowels attended to. If the symptoms already men- tioned {par. 386) exist, the patient can only be saved, if the suppuration be confined upon the dura mater, by a slight cut in the swelling there formed, and by trepanning. But if the outpoured pus overspread the greater part I of the dura mater or of the brain, every kind of treatment is generally useless. 413. It must, however, be remembered that oftentimes symptoms re- i sembling those of inflammation of the brain arise from bilious and other impurities in the bowels, which can only be relieved by vomiting and purging. B.—OF PRESSURE ON THE BRAIN. 414. Pressure of the Brain (Compressio Cerebri, Lat.; Druck des Gehirnes, Germ.; Compression du Cerveau, Fr.) may be produced by outpouring of blood, lymph, or pus, within the cavity of the skull; by depression of pieces of bone or by foreign bodies which have penetrated within the skull. The general symptoms of pressure of the brain vary according to the degree of pressure. In a slight case the patient feels a dull headache, I faintness, singing in the ears, dimness of sight, wide pupils, difficult volun- tary motions, deafness, loss of memory. In a more severe degree, he lies I in a deep sleep, from which he cannot be waked, his breathing is snoring (1) and difficult; the pulse full, hard, and irregular ; the pupils wide, and the eyes fixed ; there is palsy, convulsions, involuntary discharge of the stools f. and urine, a peculiar stiffness of the neck, as if the head were nailed to the trunk ; not unfrequently bleeding from the nose and ears, and high fever are present. In the greatest degree the patient dies apoplectic. [(1) Guthrie makes some very good observations on the uncertainty of snoring as a symptom of compression ; and also mentions a peculiar whiff or puff at the corner of the | mouth, which I have often seen, and do not think is to be considered a special symptom < of injured brain. “ Stertorous breathing,” says he, “ has always been considered a sign (a) Memoires de l’Academie de Chirurgie, vol. i. (b) Archives Generates de Medecine, vol. xxiv. p. 81. f p. 319. (c.) Above cited, p. 85.