248 TREATMENT OF ANCHYLOSIS. slightly moved from time to time, aud all other means used likely to produce a false joint; by degrees the two ends of the hone grind against each other, and the movable end rounds aud becomes blunted, whilst the other hollows slightly. The muscles soon adapt themselves to this new joint, and in the end permit the patient to use the limb as pre- viously.” Velpeau is favourable to this operation, from the motions occurring in false joints caused by ununited fractures. “ As to the danger of the operation,” says he, “ it is much less than those of amputation or resection of the bone.” (pp. 200,201.)' Two opera- tions of this kind have been performed with success upon the thigh; the first by Barton, in 1820, who cut through and detached all the soft parts about the great trochanter, and then divided the bone with a small saw ; after which the limb was placed on Dessault’s extending splint. The second was performed by Rodgers of New York, in 1830, and also did well. The third operation, viz., that of breaking through the anchylosis, was practised and recommended by the older surgeons; but Velpeau does not favour it, and mentions a case, referred to by Amussat (a), of anchylosis of the knee-joint, in which “an attempt was made to restore motion by bending the leg suddenly upon the thigh. A painful cracking was immediately heard in the knee, and very soon alarming abdominal and thoracic symptoms occurred, which in a few days destroyed the patient.” Velpeau thinks that “ if the union be but slight, or so dispersed that some little motion is per- mitted, prudence allows the anchylosis to be broken either suddenly or gradually; if the deformity be so great as to render walking or standing impossible without assist- ance, but not if the contrary be the case; * * * the rupture of the anchylosis being then, really difficult to effect, dangerous, and success by no means certain, as there is always a tendency to the reproduction of union. * * * Attempts only are justifiable when the limb is in such a state of flexion or deviation that its use is prevented. And if the patient earnestly require it, the operation may be performed, but never if the knee- cap adhere to the thigh-bone.” And he well observes that “ the adherence of the knee- cap to the front of the condyles of the thigh, when existing alone, does not appear to have sufficiently attracted the attention of practitioners. The action of the extensor muscles of the leg is destroyed thereby, and thus the flexors, deprived of their antagonists, gradually drag the head of the shin-bone into the ham, and bend the leg. It matters little that the mobility of the rest of the joint remains, or that it is by any means restored, the anchylosis of the knee-cap continues an insurmountable obstacle to the restoration of the functions of the knee-joint, (p. 204-206.) When the knee-cap is movable, and there is simply false anchylosis, the subcutaneous division of the ligaments or tendons is prefer- able to the sudden rupture of the anchylosis, because it is infinitely less dangerous and painful, and has at least as favourable a result. * # * If it be a true anchylosis, it would be better, in the greater number of cases, to do nothing at all. It may, however, be necessary, for some reason or other, to choose between the violent and sudden rupture, the wedge-shaped section of the bone, and the establishment of a false joint. Of the latter two operations I have already spoken. As to the rupture, if the soldering of the knee-cap is such as to render dislocation of the shin-bone backwards very probable, we should only operate at the urgent entreaty of the patient, and after having laid before him or his friends the chances of what may happen. This operation is indicated if the flexion be not directly at a right angle, if the knee-cap be not so fixed as to leave little hope of its being detached, or if even it be so situated that, notwithstanding its union, the shin-bone can be brought back beneath the thigh-bone.” (pp. 234, 35.) The apparatus (b) by which the rupture of anchylosis is effected was invented by Louvrier, and is thus employed:—“ The patient, seated on a padded table, is confined in that position by a laced thigh-bandage, fastened to the front of the table by a strong strap, and to the thigh by the lace and some straps and buckles, the thigh being pro- tected from pressure by wadded pads, and a roller lightly applied. The foot is then enclosed in a half boot, laced in front, the'Yole of which, near the heel, has a metal mortise of two inches, to receive the middle of a metal bar, seven or eight inches long, having at each end a little copper wheel, by which, during the extension, the leg can be directed on a double inclined ascending plane. In the groove of the mortise is at- tached and fixed one of the pulleys of the winch upon which the extending cord is wound. The thigh and leg are then to be confined in a sort of leather gutter, which is closed in front by straps and buckles, and has on each side, long stout steel splints, those on the outer side jointed together at the top of the knee, and taking at first the same angle as the anchylosis, the one corresponding to the thigh and the other to the leg; the inner splints are also similarly connected. To render his apparatus most effective, (a) Revue Medicate, vol. ii. 1831. (b) Dictionnaire des Dictionnaires de Medecine, vol. i. 8vo. Paris, 1840.