SUPPURATION. 34 the cavities may be filled with it; their walls and the organs they include may be covered with thick layers of fibrin, which at first is of a pale yellow hue and somewhat transparent, with the consistency of imperfectly coagulated albumen. If death then occur, this hyaline substance quickly becomes granular, and, in consequence of chemical decomposition, is dissolved in the serum; but, if life continue, the characters of the exudation are otherwise altered (p. 42;) which alteration he proceeds to describe as follows :—“ The separated serum is gradually absorbed whilst the fibrin floating in it is dissolved. The fibrin which is attached, on the other hand, becomes of a chrome- yellow colour, and, if examined under the microscope, is found to consist of a con- nected exudation of corpuscles, which are found in form twenty-four to thirty hours after the exudation, when the mass is of an orange yellow, and has acquired such con- sistence as to be stripped otf the membrane in slips. * * * The exudation-corpuscles are in every respect the same as the lymph-corpuscles; they generally form many superim- posed layers, being laid flat one over another, and so constituting membranes which completely resemble the tessellated epithelium when the connecting medium has disap- peared, so that the edges of the primarily round corpuscles thrust against each other, and are thus rendered polygonal.” Subsequently the cohesion increases, and a more fibrous structure is indicated, and “ under the microscope an ever-increasing linear arrangement of the exudation-corpuscles, which are more intimately united at two opposite points in one line, by means of the connecting cyto-blastema than any where else, is apparent. The original globular cyto-blasts now assume a spindle-like form, and the flat ones continue more flatted as their margins have become more spindle- shaped, and in their linear connexion form varicose fibres, at the enlargements of which the nucleus of the exudation-corpuscle continues visible, and either subdivides into several granules, or a new nucleolus is formed within it. Between these now formed cellular fibres there still remains an inter-cellular hyaline substance, so that the masses may be separated mechanically in any direction.” (p. 434.) Valentin (a) describes the exudation-corpuscles as “ like so many embryonic nuclei —round, granular, and lying tessellated one upon another, W'hilst their very small inter- stices contain a transparent gelatin.” (p. 215.) Gulliver (6) differs from Gerber as to the similarity between the exudation and lymph-corpuscles. “ In mammiferous animals,” he says, “ it has always appeared to me that the lymph-globules differ in size, structure, and chemical characters from exudation-globules. The latter are larger, more irregular in size and shape, more spongy or loose in texture than the former;” generally exhibit two or three nuclei when treated with acetic acid, whilst the lymph-globules are only rendered slightly smaller by it. The acid either dissolves or makes remarkably fainter the compara- i tively thick shell of the exudation-corpuscle, while the lymph-globule becomes more distinct when subjected to the action of the acid.” * * * “ The lymph-globules, in fine, in progress of development, may soon become more or less coated with fibrin; but, if examined at an early period, they will be found to resemble in chemical characters the nuclei (nucleoli of Valentin) of primary cells.” (p. 83.)] 9. Suppuration (Suppuratio, Lat.; Eiterung, Germ.; Suppuration, Fr.) is, when resolution does not ensue, the suitable termination of simple inflammation, and, if that be severe, it appears the natural result; there- fore, a fully developed simple inflammation is termed, by some, suppurative \ inflammation. The pus is secreted through the walls of the capillary vessels, not, however, immediately as such, but is first formed by the changes which the inflammatory exudation undergoes ; the coagulated i fibrin is gradually converted into pus-globules, which then mix with the serum. Pus is formed of all the components of the blood, the colouring ( matter excepted, and especially from its albumen and fibrin. If it. collect in the cellular tissue, Abscess (Eitergeschiviilste, Germ. ; Abces, Fr.) is J produced. The process of suppuration is a true secretion, and the vital / condition of the organs influences it as well as all other secretions. There l is usually no destruction of tissues connected with suppuration. That we f, often find the remnants of destroyed cellular tissue in pus, or that the skin ;. (V) See his “ Principal Features in the Development of the Animal Tissues,” in Wagnkr’s Element; i of Pnysiology, translated by R. Willis, M.D. (6) His notes in the Translation of Gerber.