183 METASTASIS OF GONORRHCEA, &c., TO THE BRAIN. plaster must closely envelop the cord, so that the testicle, especially if compressed at its lower end, cannot slip up through the loop which has been made towards the abdominal ring. The application of the sticking plaster is to be continued downwards to the bottom of the testicle in such way that each new turn overlaps one third of the breadth of the preceding one. Having reached the part of the swelling which has the largest girth, and where it gradually ‘diminishes towards the base, the sticking plaster must no longer be applied circularly; the left hand must now grasp the part where the first strip was applied, and apply other strips, that, beginning from the upper part, they may be stretched in the long diameter of the testicle over the bottom and the other end attached behind. So many strips are to be applied in this direction that every part of the purse is covered, and the testicle enclosed and compressed in every direction. The application over the testicle must not be too tight. If both testicles are swollen, the compression must be applied as above described on one ; there will not, however, be sufficient room for the circular straps to be applied separately on the other; they must, therefore, be so arranged that the previously compressed testicle should be enclosed with the other, and that thus strips of plaster should be carried around both testicles, the former serving as the point of support for the other. The strips from before to behind should be applied as already stated. [I do not either approve or practise this mode of applying the plaster, hut always commence from the bottom of the testicle, and pass upwards. It is rather more difficult; but if the skin of the purse be made tight over the testicle, as in operating for hydrocele, there is little awkwardness in applying the first few strips of plaster, and the rest follow with ease. Also as regards binding up the second testicle, if swollen, against that first compressed, I have not found much need to do so. The plasters will not fit very -well at the first application; but, generally at the second, the pressure yields quite sufficiently ' for the perfect adjustment of the compression on each single testicle.—J. F. S.j 178. The patient can generally leave his bed immediately after the plaster has been put on ; if the inflammation be not very severe, or, if just commencing, he may even go about. The reapplication of the bandage, if once be insufficient, should only be made when the sticking plaster has become so loose that the scissors can be introduced under it to divide it. If in patients with irritable skin the plaster causes excoriations, little notches must be made, and Goulard’s wash applied over it. [I have not found once nor twice sufficient for the reapplication of the compressing straps, but they need putting on afresh for several days. The diminution of the bulk of the testicle at each visit, till it reverts to its natural size, is often very remarkable.-—• J.F.S.j J [Metastasis of Gonorrhoea and Inflamed Testicle to the Brain. In speaking of Mumps it was mentioned that metastasis of that disorder sometimes occurred to the testicle or breast: and, I think, I am able to show that from gonorrhoea, and swelled testicle consequent on it, a metastasis may also take place to the brain, as in the following Case.—G. C., aged 31 years, a gardener, of healthy appearance, with a slight draw- mg up of the left corner of his mouth, was admitted into St. Thomas’s, under my care, Oct. 22, 1S44. He states, that during infancy he was subject to fits, whence ensued the drawing up of his mouth, as at present existing; but his health has been good up to two jears since, when, whilst walking, he suddenly became giddy and insensible, and was toid he was convulsed. He remembers he had then violent head-ache, and that he was cupped, blistered, and bled repeatedly, and under medical treatment for two months or More. Last June he had another attack of severe head-ache, and was relieved by cup- P!n,g,?nd Purging ; but he has since been subject to swimming in the head, with dread °1 falling.