DISLOCATION 772 halter bandage or by a cloth folded together passed beneath it and tied on the head. The patient must for some days refrain from talking or chew- ing, must only take fluid food, and for a long time use it cautiously, and in gaping support the chin with his hand. 1006. The case may be considered as subluxation of the lower jaw, when from great laxity of the ligaments, the condyles escape over the edge of the inter-articular cartilages in the sockets of the temporal bones, and fix the jaw with the mouth somewhat open. Generally this accident is relieved by the natural efforts ; it may, however, continue a longer time and yet the capability of moving the jaw and closing the mouth may be recovered. At the moment when this subluxation takes place the patient feels himself incapable of completely closing his mouth ; he feels some pain, and the mouth on the affected side is least closed. Great depression of the jaw directly downwards is required to restore the natural position of the joint. In great laxity of the ligaments, a snapping and some pain is felt in the joint of the jaw, immediately before the ear, when the jaw suddenly returns into its socket, out of which, on account of the looseness of the ligaments, it had escaped forward upon the articular eminences. Young ladies are most subject to this accident; it is best relieved by ammonia and steel, together with shower-bath and blistering, if the disease have existed some time (A. Cooper.) 1007. Congenital dislocation of the lower jaw was first noticed by Guerin (a), in a foetus with deficient formation of the brain. The stretch- ing and shortening of the depressing muscles, and of the m. pterygoidei externi are remarkably opposed to the lengthening and thinning of the m. masseteres. Smith (b) observed a congenital dislocation of the jawr on the left side, in an idiot from birth, and considered it as consequent on arrested development in the transverse root of the cheek-bone or of the articular eminence, so that neither socket nor articular process being present, the zygomatic process of the temporal bone was not formed, but that process of the cheek-bone was lengthened, the condyles of the lower jaw were deficient, atrophy of the articular processes of both upper jaw and cheek-bones, and the forward position of the orbits were changed. The case differed from dislocation by accident, in the mouth opening and shutting without hindrance, the lower jaw being movable to a great degree, as naturally, the upper jaw overhanging it, the coronoid process forming no prominence, and the speech not interfered with. II.—OF DISLOCATION OF TIIE VERTEBRAS.* ( Luxatio Vertebrarum, Lat.; Verrenliung der Wirbelbeine, Germ.; Luxation de la Colonne Vertibrale, Fr.) 1008. The connexion of the first vertebra with the occipital bone is so firm, partly from the ligaments, partly from the muscles, partly from the condition of the joint-surfaces, that a dislocation at the junction of the first vertebra with the head (Luxatio capitis, nuclice) cannot well be produced, and if it be so by extraordinarily great violence, it is absolutely fatal from the simultaneous injury of the spinal marrow. («) Recherches sur les Luxations Congenitales. (6) Dublin Journal of Medical Science. May, Paris, 1841. “ 1842. * The subjects Fractures and Dislocations of the Vertebrce are so closely connected, that it is almost impossible to separate them; and 1 have therefore already preferred considering them together under the former title (p. 581, and following.)—.1. F. S.