564 FRACTURES OF THE NECK inwards; in very rare cases turning of the foot inwards, where often at first there had been turning outwards, if, after suitable extension, the limb have acquired its proper posture ; slightly bent posture of the limb, so that it lies on the outside, and the heel of the ailing foot rests behind the inner ankle of the sound one ; crepitation of the broken ends on rotation of the thigh whilst it is held with one hand at the knee and drawn down, and the other hand laid upon the trochanter, and the knee being somewhat raised, it is observed that the great trochanter describes a smaller circle than usual. 670. According to the various direction and seat of the fracture, several of these symptoms are wanting, or first occur some time after the accident. In reference to the distinction of the fracture within and without the cap- sular ligament, according to A. Cooper, it may be observed that the former usually happens in old persons, in which case the trochanter is less projecting; nor can rotation upon its axis be so perfectly performed, and the limb is about an inch or two shorter ; the latter, on the contrary, happens commonly in younger persons and after much greater violence, the trochanter is drawn forward and upwards, the crepitation upon slighter movement of the limb is more distinct, the pain more severe, the swelling greater, the shortening less and rarely exceeding an inch. These signs are not, however, always present, as they depend on the direction of the fracture, and the tearing of the fibrous covering of the neck of the thigh- bone, and on the simultaneous tearing of the muscles. Earle, Smith, and others, have therefore given the least shortening within the capsule as from a quarter of an inch to an inch, and icithout, as an inch and a half to two and a half inches. In locking-in of the upper end of the fracture into the shaft of the lower, or if the head of the thigh-bone be shattered and the neck locked in between the fractured pieces, (Ekl,) the patient feels great weakness in the limb, and can only move a little, even though limping and with pain ; the pain is fixed specially at the upper and inner part of the thigh, and comes on especially in bending and straightening; bending is only effected with difficulty. Ericke found the thigh very movable, and felt crepitation, but which was deficient in firm locking. The shortening of the extremity is inconsiderable, (Fricke, however, found it to the extent of an inch,) and not removed by extension ; the foot is straight, directed imvards or outwards, and may be rotated in the oppo- site direction. The trochanter retains its position, and in rotation moves with the thigh, but without crepitation. If violent extension be employed (as by Delpech in a case which, on account of the direction of the foot inwards, was incorrectly supposed to be dislocation) the locking is sepa- rated, and the foot thereupon falls outwards. Upon the inlocking of the broken ends in fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, in addition to Desault, Delpech, and A. Cooper, may also be compared A. Ekl (a), Fricke (b), Hahn (c), J.eger (d). I have seen one case of locking in fractured neck of the thigh-bone, in which the upper was so thrust into the lower end that the great and little trochanter were for the most part destroyed. The rotation of the foot outwards, first observed by Pare', and after him by J. L. Petit, but disputed by Louis, was subsequently noticed by Desault, Dessaussoy, Delpech and many others, but its cause variously explained. The usual cause is generally held to be an oblique fracture through the great trochanter, stretching into the little trochanter, so that the muscles adhering to the former have the preponderance (a) Bericht liber die Ergebnisse im cliirurgisclien Klinikum zu Landshut, 1826. (/;) Annalen des Hamburg Krankenliauses, vol. (c) Wiirtemb. Correspondenzblatt, 1836, No. 26. ii. p. 286. (d) Above cited, p. 320.