HERPETIC ULCERS. 630 herpes, cured by external remedies, has no such dangerous consequences. The relapse of blood herpes commonly arises without any distinguishable cause or disease, especially after influenza; that of skin herpes after want of food, suspension of perspiration, after rheumatic fever, and so on. Blood-herpes depends, 1, on the quantitative mispro- portion of the blood: a, with excess of albumen, the moist herpes, Eczema chronicum, in which a group of capillary vessels pour out serum, whereby the cuticle is raised into bladders which seem to be grouped; b, with excess of fibrin the pustular herpes, Impetigo, in which serum containing fibrin is poured from the vessels of the corion into the tissue, whereby single, cellular pustules are produced: in milk-crust there is only modification from the child’s age; c, with excess of salts of the blood, the salt flux, Eczema impetiginoides pedum, in which salt serum is poured forth from the veins of the skin beneath it, which reddens, destroys it, and only on the edges forms distinct vesicles; d, with excess of serum, chronic vesicular eruption, Pemphigus, chronic nettle rash, chronic tetters, in which an effusion of water in the cells of the corion form the tubercles or papules of lichen, the tootli-rash, Strophulus: 2, on qualitative mispro- portion; a, from itch complicated with Eczema, Prurigo, or Scabies spuria, in which not groups of vessels, but only single twigs pour out serum and form distinct, scarcely perceptible vesicles beneath the cuticle; b, from the poison of Tinea, complicated with Impetigo, Porrigo adultorum mucosa, little pustules on the skin of the head. Skin-herpes depends—1, on disease of the glands which form the skin: a, there is only a diseased scaly cuticle secreted, without the participation of the dermal tissue in the disease; little herpetic eruptions, Pityriasis, Icthyosis, and Squammositas cutis; b, an unna- tural scale of skin may be deposited on the diseased corion; a dry scaly-herpes, Psoriasis; c, a deposit of unnatural scales on the diseased corion, and diseased under skin, and cellular tissue in a circular eruption, Lepra; if the cellular tissue be not merely inflamed but degenerated, it is Elephantiasis; 2, from disease of the per- spiratory glands, Miliaria chronica : 3, from disease of the sebacious glands, Acne: i 4, from disease of the roots of the hair, Sycosis: 5, from disease of the subcutaneous i cellular tissue; a, this gradually shrinks, thereby affects the glands of the skin, so that the cuticle exfoliates in a diseased state, finally the corion is destroyed, and the entire spot sinks in, becomes smooth, glossy, transparent, forms on the edge little i vesicles connected with the subcuticular cellular tissue, which ulcerate superficially; ; superficial eating herpes, superficial Lupus; b, the subcutaneous cellular tissue suppu- < rates, produces tubercles and pustules, which freely burst through the cuticle, suppura- i ting deep-eating herpes, Lupus ulceratus; c, single and, subsequently, confluent tubercles which raise the corion and cuticle, the Lupus hypertrophicus. 790. The cure of herpetic ulcers first requires the removal of the l cause. In stoppage of the bowels, laxative and opening remedies are to be given ; in diminished secretion from the skin and kidneys it must be en- ' deavoured to reproduce them ; in scrofulous, syphilitic, or any other com- plication, the treatment will direct the contrary ; as the mode of living • changes if it be in causal relation to the herpes, the mode of living must be especially regulated, in most cases less animal and more vegetable food, : but in others more strengthening though always simple diet must be prescribed. In general the following medicines are anti-herpetic:—antimony, mercury, sulphur alone, or connected with the other; athiops antimonialis, athiops mineralis, calomel with sulphur auratum, graphit (a), iodine, cod-liver oil; further, drinks operating on the skin and kidneys, especially if the secretion of urine be sparing or dropsical accumulations have been already produced; decoction of dulcamara, of various kinds of woods, the ola tricolor, lign. juniperi, cortex mezerei, tinctura cantharidis, and the like. If the skin be very much inflamed, flowers of sulphur, with cream of tartar and guiaicum. 791. The external treatment, which especially requires attention, and in all cases in which the herpes depends on internal causes, only after previous internal treatment, must be directed by the condition of the ulcers. If these be inflamed and painful, merely lukewarm water and mild salves or fomentations are to be employed. When the inflamma- I (it) Weinhold, K. A., der Graphit, oder neuentdecktes Heilmittel wider die Flechten. Meissen, 1812. 8vo.