72 INFLAMMATION OF SKIN, CELLULAR TISSUE, GLANDS, mation is said to be specific. Sympathetic inflammation is the conse- quence of a consensual change in the mutual relations which one part holds to another, by which their diseased affections become shared by both. The metastatic inflammation which passes from one organ to another is in close connexion with the sympathetic. Symptomatic inflammation is either the original symptom of geueral disease, or an originally idiopathic inflammation acquires, through the general disease, a definite character. 41. In whatever part inflammation may occur, its peculiar seat is always in the capillary-vascular system, hut, its symptoms vary according to the different conditions of the affected part. Inflammation of the Shin, if not severe, terminates in resolution with scaling of the cuticle, and not unfrequently also with dropsical swelling. In a more active inflammation a fluid is poured out beneath the cuticle producing vesications and pustules. If the inflammation be tedious with- out being active, the cuticle is destroyed ; the fluid poured out by the exposed vascular net thickens into crusts. If the inflammation extend to the subjacent cellular tissue, it is generally severe and runs into suppura- tion. Inflammation of the Cellular Tissue is usually accompanied with much ill-defined redness, with firm elastic swelling, much tension and throb- bing pain; it does not resolve except it be in a mild form; its usual termination is suppuration, not unfrequently gangrenous destruction of the cellular tissue. [This important affection of the cellular tissue, which has only within the last twenty years been particularly noticed, though commonly spoken of under the common title of erysipelas, is described more at length by our author, at page 103, “as a metastatic deposit in the cellular tissue, and one of the causes of his Erythema symp- tomaticum seu consensttale. Doubtless, it may be, and occasionally is, metastatic; but, generally it is idiopathic. It has of late years become common, and is a very rapid and dangerous disease, unless early and properly treated. Its importance is so great, that it is as fully entitled to a proper chapter as erysipelas, from which it most decidedly differs. But it will be, perhaps, more convenient to insert what I have to add where the subject comes under consideration in our author’s arrangement, rather than to remove and drag his paragraphs into places for which he had not intended them, under pretence of making his meaning more clear, as if the author did not best understand his own view of the subject he discusses; a proceeding which has been occasionally prac- tised in English translations, which I think cannot be too much deprecated, and the least inconvenience of which is, that it is not unfrequently impossible to refer from the original to the translation, or from the translation to the original.—J. F. S.] Inflammation of the Glands mostly exhibits not very acute but rather dull pain, no great heat, very solid circumscribed swelling, which also extends itself into the surrounding parts. Its termination is similar to that of inflammation in the cellular tissue, except that glandular inflamma- tion most commonly assumes a chronic character, and then easily passes into hardening. In inflammation of the Mucous Membranes, their secretion is stopped at the onset; at the same time, increased warmth and sensibility, heavy pain and great redness make their appearance, a secretion of thin some- what acrid fluid, the thickness of which increases, becomes creamy, and of perfectly mild character. No tissue so readily as the mucous mem- brane acquires a morbid disposition to inflammation. When affected with long-continued inflammation their spongy cellular tissue becomes loosened, swelled, thickened, and the vegetation on it often is so changed that new formations, polypous excrescences, are developed. In active