TYING OF ARTERIES. 306 of time. If they remain longer, they are retained by the surrounding granulations, and must be separated by repeated pulling and twisting. Cutting off both ends of the thread near the knot, as recommended especially by Lawrence (a), Hennen (6), Delpech (c), Walther (d), and others, is advantageous, in- asmuch as the quick union is less disturbed, the remaining knot being either enclosed in a cellular capsule, or separated and absorbed. Numerous experiments, however (e), prove that re-opening of the wound, suppuration, fistulous passages, and the like, may be pro- duced by the knots remaining; and, if the first-mentioned mode of tying the vessels have been employed, no inconvenience has been observed from the retention of small single threads, as I am convinced from repeated experience. For the purpose of helping the solution and absorption of the remaining knot, it has been recommended that the liga- ture should be made with softened catgut, or with the substance called by the English, “ silk-worm-gut,” [the silk tubes of the silk-worm containing the secretion from which the silk is spun, stretched and dried.—j. f. s.,] or with leather (f). Attempts to tie arteries with fine metal wire have also been made (g). For special apparatus to remove long retained ligatures, see A. Lau (/;), Kluge and von Graefe (£). [The practice of cutting off both ends of the ligature was first made public by Haire, of Southmiuster, in Essex, as long back as 1786. He says (k):—“ The ligatures some- times become troublesome, and retard the cure. An intimate friend of mine, a sur- geon of great abilities, proposed to cut the ends of them off close to the knot, and thus leave them to themselves. By following this plan, we have seen stumps healed in the course of ten days. The short ligature, thus left in, commonly made its way out by a small opening in a short time, without any trouble, or the patient being sensible of pain.” (p. 390.) In 1813, IIennen (Z)says that lie adopted this practice at the suggestion of one of his assistants, who believed it to have been an American invention. He treated several cases in this way, and observes:—“ As no inconvenience whatever followed, nor did the small particle of silk left behind give rise to any apparent irritation, I made a favourable report of the short-cut ligatures.” He adds, however, that, “ of the small circles of silk, a part had come away with the dressings, whilst some had floated out on opening the little pustules which formed over the face of the stump, at the points where the arteries had been tied. Some few of the ligatures never made their appearance, and the patients complained of no uneasiness whatever.” (p. 176.) Guthrie mentions tliat this practice was followed out successfully in the campaign of 1813; and that, in June of the following year, Delpech showed him several cases doing well at Montpellier. In this year, also, Lawrence read the paper already alluded to, advocating the practice of cutting off the threads just above the knot, and closing the wound. But latterly he does not seem to hold so closely with this practice; for, after making an observation about which it is scarcely possible there can be any difference of opinion, viz., that “ in every instance where you have an expectation that the wound will suppurate, you may cut off both ends, because the knot will come away with the suppuration,” he more re- cently says (m) : —“ If the wound, however, is likely to unite by adhesion, perhaps the safest and best method is to cut off one of the ends, and leave the other hanging out of the wound.” (p. 116.) I must confess I prefer retaining one end of the ligature, and bringing it out of the wound, to cutting off both, as scarcely ever do we desire or encourage suppuration in a wound, but take every precaution to favour adhesion. If there be an open wound, either by a portion of the skin being lost in the accident, and the edges incapable of (а) Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vi. p. 156. (б) Observations on some important Points in the Practice of Military Surgery, and the Arrangement and Police of Hospitals. Edinburgh, 1818. 8vo. (c) Memoire sur la Complication des Plaies et des Ulceres connuessousle nom dePourriturede l’hopi- tal, p. 29, Paris, 1815; and, Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, vol. i. Paris et Montpellier, 1823. 4to. Observations et Reflexions sur la Ligature des principales Arteres, p. 85 (d) Fraenkel, Pres. Walther, Dissert, de La- queis Arteriarum Deligatione inservientibus prope ad nodum revinctum resecandis. Bonn®, 1824.— Dieffenback, iiber das Abschneiden der Unter- bindungs faden nahe am knoten; in Rust’s Maga- zin, vol. xxiv. part i. p. 17. (e) Guthrie, G. J., On Gunshot Wounds of the Extremities, requiring the different operations of Amputation; with their After-treatment. London, 1815. 8vo.—Gross ; in London Medical Repository, vol. vii. p. 363. (f) Jameson, J. H. G., Observations on Traumatic Hiemorrhage ; in the Medical Recorder for Medicine and Surgery, vol. xi. Jan. 1827. . (g) Levret ; in American Journal of Medical Sciences, May, 1829. (/i) Ueber die Liisung zu langeliegenbliebender oder eingeheilter Gef ass Ligaturen; in Rust s Magazin, vol. xxiv. part i. (j) In von Graefe and von Walther s Jour- nal, vol. xvii. p. 339. (h) Remarks on Mr. Lucas’s Practical Observa- tions on Amputation ; in Simmons' London Me- dical Journal, vol. vii. 1786. ... (l) Principles of Military Surgery. 2nd Edit. Edinburgh, 1820, 8vo. (m) Lectures ; in Lancet.