385 SKULL. separated from the bone, there are collections of ichorous fluid, the dura mater is spoiled; frequently also between the dura and pia mater there are collections of pus. [The not very painful swelling which occurs on the bruised part of the scalp, is held by Pott to be the diagnostic mark of pus, either forming or formed between the dura mater and the skull. He says :—“ If the symptoms of pressure, such as stupidity, loss of sense, voluntary motion, &c., appear some few days after the head has suffered injury from external mischief, they do most probably imply an effusion of a fluid some- where. This effusion may be in the substance of the brain, in its ventricles, between its membranes, or on the surface of the dura mater ; and which of these is the real situation of such extravasation is a matter of great uncertainty, none of them being attended with any peculiar mark or sign that can be depended upon as pointing it out precisely; but the inflammation of the dura mater and the formation of matter between it and the skull, in consequence of contusion, is generally indicated and preceded by one which I have hardly ever known to fail; I mean a puffy, circumscribed, indolent tumor of the scalp, and a spontaneous separation of the pericranium from the skull under such tumor. These appearances therefore following a smart blow on the head, and attended with languor, pain, restlessness, watching, quick pulse, headache, and slight, irregular shiver- ings, do almost infallibly indicate an inflamed dura mater, and pus either forming or formed between it and the cranium. By detachment of the pericranium, I do not mean every separation of it from the bone which it should cover: it may be and often is cut, torn, or scraped off without any such consequence; but these separations are violent, whereas that which I mean is spontaneous, and is produced by the destruction of those vessels by which it was connected with the skull, and by which the communica- tion between it and the internal part was carried on; and therefore it is to be observed that it is not the mere removal of that membrane which causes the bad symptoms, but it is the inflammation of the dura mater, of which inflammation this spontaneous seces- sion of the pericranium is an almost certain indication.” (p. 52-55.) Dease does not agree with Pott in attributing almost entirely to the inflammation and suppuration of the dura mater the many threatening symptoms resulting from “ the injury which the different series of vessels that connect the pericranium and dura mater n to the skull, sustain in wounds of the head where the cranium has suffered either coutu- i i sion or division of its external table. * * * I should look upon it as a very fortunate 11 circumstance in the patient’s favour,” says he, “ did the mischief extend no farther, as it would put it more immediately in the surgeon’s power to obviate the danger by having j: recourse to the trepan, an operation which we would by no means find so ineffectual in ', relieving the patient as we but too often experience it to be when this is not the case. I am very far from thinking that the inflammation or suppuration of any part of the dura r. mater, let it be ever so circumscribed, is not an alarming circumstance, and which of itself is capable of destroying the patient; but from what I have seen it is ever in the surgeon’s power, by the application of the trepan, to rescue his patient from this danger, : provided no other part of more importance be engaged.” (pp. 46, 47.) He then pro- •1 ceeds to show that from “ the injury of the outward vessels ” there is no such great fear T of affection of the dura mater, of its detachment and suppuration, by reference to the 1 results of opening “ fontenels (issues) by the actual cautery over the sutures, and that - on account of the free communication which exists between the exterior vessels and those of the dura mater,” and keeping them open for years, and asks, “ have we a single t instance of those issues being productive of an inflammation or suppuration of the dura mater ? Although it evidently appears there must be a total destruction of all those i exterior communicating vessels, and that in subjects it may be well supposed of no good habit of body.” Again he asks :—“ Does not the caries in those (venereal diseases of the skull) and scorbutic, and even cancerous cases, often extend to both tables, where the bones become so perforated with small holes that we can perceive the pulsation of the dura mater pumping the most acrid matter through them ? How long do we see those ; unfortunate patients hold out in this miserable situation, and when they die do we in general impute their death to this as a local complaint, or rather to a broken-down con- stitution, perhaps exhausted by medicine, and still infected by the pocky virus? * * * H Does "the inflammation of this membrane, caused by the venereal virus or cancerous 'irus, he continues, “ run less high previous to its producing a fetid sanies than that t< which precedes a laudable suppuration succeeding the obstruction or destruction of the 1 vessels that pass between the pericranium and dura mater in consequence of contusions I or simple fracture ?” In this point of view we cannot certainly, with any degree of ‘i propriety, consider the putrefaction or inflammation of the dura mater in those cases to VOL. I. 2 c