348 WOUNDS RECEIVED IN V.—ON POISONED WOUNDS. Ranby, John, The Anatomy of the Poisonous Apparatus of the Rattlesnake; together ■with an account of the quick Effects of its Poisons. Phil. Trans., vol. xxxv. p. 377. 1720. Hai.i., Captain, Experiments on the effects of the Poison of the Rattlesnake; in Phil. Trans., vol. xxxv. p. 309. 1727. Portal, le Baron A., Observations sur la Nature et le Traitement de la Rage; suivies d’un Precis historique et critique des divers remedes qui ont ete employes jus- qu’ici contre cette Maladie. Paris, 1779. 8vo. Leroux, L. C. P., Observations sur la Rage suivies de Reflexions sur les Specifiques de cette Maladie, couronnees par l’Acade'mie de Dijon. 1780. 8vo. Fontana, F., Traite sur le Venin de la Vipere, sur les Poisons Americains, sur la Laurier-Ce'rise, et sur quelques autres Poisons vegetaux. On y a joint des Observations sur la Structure primitive du Corps animal differentes Experiences sur la Reproduction des Nerfs, et la Description d’un nouveau Canal de l’GEil. 2 vols. Florence, 1781. 4to. Fothergill, John, M.D., A case of Hydrophobia, and additional Directions for the Treatment of Persons bit by Mad Dogs ; in the Complete Collection of his Medical and Philosophical Works, by John Elliot, M.D. London, 1781. Mederer, Syntagma de rabie canina. Friburg, 1783. 8vo. Kruse, W., (Rougemont,) Dissert, de Vulneribus quae virus habent. Bonnae, 1784. 8vo. Eneaux, Methode de traiter les Morsures des Animaux Enrages et de la Vipere; suivie d’un precis sur la Pustule Maligne. Dijon, 1785. 8vo. Hamilton, Robert, M.D., Remarks on the means of obviating the fatal effects of the Bite of a Mad Dog or other rabid animal, and on the mode of cure when Hydrophobia occurs, etc. Ipswich, 1785. 8vo. Mosely, Benj., Dr., Treatise on Tropical Diseases, and on the Climate of the West Indies: in which are included the Treatment of the Stings of Scorpions, and of the Stings and Bites of other Poisonous Insects; of the Bites of deadly Venomous Ser- pents ; of the Bites of Mad Dogs; of the Dysentery; of the Yellow Fever; of the Te- tanus or Lock-jaw, &c. London, 1788. 8vo. Barton Benj. Smith, M.D., An Account of the most effectual means of preventing . the deleterious consequences of the Bite of the Crotalus horridus, or Rattlesnake ; in the Transactions of the American Society, vol. iii. p. 100. 1793. Andrey, C. L. F., Recherches sur la Rage. Paris, 1779. 8vo. Bardsley, S.A., M.D., An Enquiry into the Origin of Canine Madness, &c.; in Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, vol. iv. 1793; and also in Medical Reports. London, 1807. 8vo. Benedict, Ideen zur Begriindung einer rationalen Heilmethode der Hundswuth; | nebst einer Vorrede von Rosenmuller. Leipzig, 1808. 8vo. Home, Everard, The case of a man who died in consequence of the Bite of a Rattle- I snake; with an account of the effects produced by the Poison; in Phil. Trans., vol. c. 1 p. 75. 1810. Trolliet, Nouveau Traite de la Rage; observations cliniques, recherches d’anato- i mie pathologique et doctrine de cette maladie. Lyons et Paris, 1820. 8vo. ' Bardsley, J. L., M.D., article Hydrophobia; in Cyclopa'dia of Practical Medicine. I London, royal 8vo. 1833. von Lenhossek, M., die Wuthkrankheit, nach bisherigen Beobachtungen und neue- M ren Erfahruugen dargestellt. Pesth und Leipzig, 1837. Youatt, William, On Rabies; in his work, The Hog. London, 1845. 8vo. Rust, Aufsiitze und Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Medicen, Chirurgie, und Staatsarzneikunde, vol. ii. p. 805. 351. In poisoned wounds, not merely is the connexion of the part di- vided, but at the same time a peculiar matter is introduced into it, which gives rise to special symptoms. Here belong the stings of bees and wasps, I