497 FRACTURES OF BONES. Fractures are also divided into complete and incomplete; Boyer (a) rejects this dis- tinction as groundless, but he here manifestly goes too far. Meding (b) has, in his expe- riments ou dogs, frequently found the shin-bone broken merely half through, although he had produced the fracture with considerable force, as was proved both by the loud crack and by the mobility at the place of fracture. I have also not unfrequently observed in young children, where, after violence, a fracture was found, and pain, swelling, and mobility indicated its place, yet that there was not the least trace of projection of the ends of the fracture, nor crepitation to be perceived. The not uncommon curvature of such young bones, after external violence, also proves the comparatively greater yielding of the tender bones to external pressure, so that the bony fibres which suffer the greatest extension break, whilst the others merely bend, like the cracking of fresh willow. Boyer’s assertion is therefore to be restricted to the bones of adults. 575. Fractures of bones, like all solutions of continuity, may be pro- duced under any circumstances, if only sufficient violence be used ; they, however, occur more readily according to the different position and func- tion of the bones, the age of the person, and the diseased changes of the bones. Superficial break more frequently than deep-seated bones ; so also do those which on account of their functions are more exposed to the operation of external injuries. In advanced age the nutritious process in bones is altered, and the deposit of phosphate of lime is greater; they therefore lose their elasticity, and become more brittle, and break more easily. The greater frangibility of bone in age and during other diseased I states, depends on its diminished cohesion from the excess of absorption over deposition, by which the resistance of the structure is lessened. The i same changes of structure of bone may be produced by diseases which ^especially affect the bony system, for instance, syphilis, gout, rickets, scrofula, scurvy, and cancer. External violence causes the separation of the bone not always at that part on which it operates, but frequently at a greater or less distance from it, by propagation of the shock, or indirectly by the counter-blow. In the former case, severe bruising of the soft parts always accompanies the fracture. The external injury often produces only a violent contrac- tion of the muscles, which causes the fracture. This is possible even in (tubular bones ; hence violent cramps and convulsions also may cause frac- ture of bones. In a very great degree of brittleness or fragility of bone (e), the external violence often need be but very slight. Various opinions have been advanced in regard to the changes which the substance of bone undergoes in advanced age. According to Bichat (d), the quantity of lime in- ti' creases; others, however, state that the bone becomes more porous. According to IMercier’s numerous investigations (e), the compact tissue in the middle of the tubular (bones of old persons is tougher and closer than in adults, it rings when struck, is hard ■ and difficult to splinter. The calibre of the medullary cavity is indeed larger, but only at the expense of the internal spongy layers, which almost entirely disappear; but near lithe ends of tubular bones an increased absorption is observed, by which their substance I is thinned. Here the spaces in the spongy tissue are larger in proportion as they are near |l the medullary canal, and which seems to increase to the very end of the bone. This ti important difference explains why the porosity of the ends of tubular bones in old persons r contributes more to their fragility than the want of elasticity in their bodies, which is f; otherwise balanced by their greater toughness. Hence in old people fractures at the ends $J of tubular bones, and especially at the upper part of the thigh-bone, are very common, but equally rare in the middle of tubular bones, and perhaps even more rare than in middle-age persons.—Pigne (/). Rostan, in Nouveau Journal de Medecine, etc. vol. i. p. 138. Rum pelt, Ueberden Ursprung der sogenannten freiwilligen Knochenbruche; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xlii. pt. 3. (d) Anatomie Generale, vol. iii. p. 80. (e) Gazette Medicale, vol. iii. p. 561. 1835. (а) Above cited, p. 9. (б) Ueber Knock-Wiedererzeugung ; in Zeit- 1 schrlft fiirNatur und Ileilkunde, Dresden, lb'24, ' vol. iii. part iii. p. 305. (c) Nicod, Dissert, stir laFragilite des Os, et stir la contraction musculaire consideree comme cause de fracture. Paris. VOL. I. (/) In the French translation of Chelius’s Handbook. 2 K