CARIES—ITS CAUSES, 684 ■with simple suppuration of bone, Miesciier concludes, that “ the organic matter in caries is destroyed by necrosis, and that caries might very properly be named ‘ necrosis in particles,’ as the very able and experienced Rust had called it in his Lectures. It ap- pears that dead and separated bony particles are not to be found in every carious ulcer; for when that destructive process exists, ulceration proceeds no further, but it is only oc- cupied in secreting sanious pus and producing granulations of a bad character, the pre- viously dead particles having separated, and been thrown out with the pus, and no more make their appearance. It is further to be observed, that it is of no consequence wThat dead parts are separated and what destroyed by caries, but that in the destruction of the organic tissue much is to be attributed to the more active absorption as fitted for sepa- rating the dead parts.” (212-13.) “ When a carious bone has been macerated, the diseased part,” remarks Syme, “ is found excavated and rough, the cancellated structure being remarkably spicular, white and brittle, so as to resemble a spongy bone which has been exposed to the action of fire. The surface thus affected, is often of considerable extent, though frequently very small, even in cases of old standing; but the disease seldom reaches to a considerable depth. The field of the disease seems to be determined by the primary inflammation, and after being thus established, has little or no tendency to become larger. Around the carious part there is always an effusion of new osseous matter, in the form of warts or tubercles, extending to a considerable distance, and greatly increasing the thickness of the bone. This new mass, which is no doubt produced in consequence of the irri- tation of the disease, like that formed to re-unite fractures, and supply the place of ex- foliations, is characterized by compactness and smoothness when minutely examined, though on superficial inspection it appears rough and porous. The pores are apertures for the transmission of blood vessels, but their form is circular, and their edges rounded off, so that sharp edges cannot anywhere be perceived. The newly effused bone may thus be readily distinguished from the diseased part, to the irritation of which it owes its origin.” (p. 170-71.)] 863. All injuries, producing-inflammation of bone which ends in ulcera- tion may be considered as causes of caries (1). They are either external or internal; to the former belong external hurts, kicks, blows, wounds, tearing of the periosteum, fractured bones, continued pressure, suppuration in the neighbourhood of the bone ; exposure of the latter, especially if the air be freely admitted or the treatment have been improper. The internal causes are especially, scrofula, syphilis, scurvy, rickets, gout, rheumatism, suppression of customary discharges, metastasis after previous active or chronic eruptions of the skin (2). Ordinarily from the external causes rather the superficial, and from the internal rather thq parenchyma or internal substance of the bone is affected. Caries most commonly occurs in the soft spongy bones. As regards the distinction of bony ulcers from suppurating wounds of bone, and the exposure of the bone, what has been already said (par. 74G) of the distinction of ulcers, especially from abscesses, here applies. Delpech («) believes that the diseased changes which syphilis produces in bones does not deserve the name of caries, as therein the bones suffer little from change in their structure, but rather become necrotic. Although this is commonly the case, as already mentioned, (par. 823,) yet is it, however an opinion, which cannot in general be assented to. [(1) “ In caries,” says Mayo, “ absorption is preceded by a change in the bone, which (with very few and doubtful exceptions) has a well-marked inflammatory character. The same condition exists during the progress of the absorption. There is further present an imperfect restorative action, which is shown in the more or less partial growth of unwholesome granulations from the ulcerated surface. Of these changes, the inflamed condition of the bone is the primary and most important; the absorption is secondary and accidental.” (p. 36.) (2) Miescher points out the seat of the various kinds of caries from internal causes as follows:—“ Scrofulous caries, for the most part, attacks the spongy texture, as the bodies of the vertebra;, the carpal and tarsal bones, and the joint-ends of the long bones; beginning in the previously formed internal tubercles of which, it excites in them in- (a) Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier. Paris et Montpellier, 1823, p. 454.