CAUSES OF UNNATURAL JOINTS. 588 unnatural joint ( Artieulatio prceternaturalis, Pseudarthrosis, Lat.; JVi- dernatiir lie lies Gelenk, Germ.; Fausse Articulation, Fr.) is produced. The broken ends in this case are movable, but the natural motions of the joint are greatly interfered with, or entirely prevented. [On the subject of unnatural or false joints John Hunter (a) observes:—Sometimes simple fractures will not unite at all. This is a worse consequence than any of the foregoing, there being no soft union even, or if there ever was, that being absorbed. Here the surrounding parts thicken and form a kind of capsular ligament, and the ex- tremities of the bone rub against each other at each motion of the limb, by which stimulus the broken parts are absorbed, and the extremities become smooth, and in time are covered with something similar to cartilage, and at length the cavity between them becomes filled with a fluid very much resembling synovia.” (p. 504.)] 713. The cause of such unnatural joint may be bad setting of the frac- ture, improper apparatus, too frequent movements of the limb (1), general disease, and advanced age (par. 579) (2). A firm union of the broken ends may also be prevented by particular circumstances under which the bone may be absorbed, and the fractured ends connected only by cartilage. The formation of an unnatural joint depends especially on impeded ossification, on excessive absorption, and the condition of such joint ordinarily presents no actual resemblance to the construction of a natural joint. Frequently, however, the ends of the bone are rounded and enveloped in a thick fibro-ligamentous capsule attached to the ends of the bone, above and below, and its internal surface lined with a smooth membrane, resembling the synovia], and, like it, capable of secretion (Brodie, Gibson, Ames- bury) (3). The period at which firm union takes place in fractures is indeed very different (par. 578.) An unnatural joint may, however, be considered as formed, if more than six months have elapsed after the fracture, and the ends of the fracture he still movable. Unnatural joints have been noticed in almost every bone, but they are most frequent in the upper arm. [(1) Amesbury says:—“ By far theTnost frequent cause of non-union that I have noticed is want of rest in consequence of the inadequacy of the plans of treatment which have been employed. I consider this to have been the primary cause in almost all the cases I have examined.” (p. 716.) (2) I do not think advanced age can justly be considered as the cause of want of union or imperfect union, at least as regards the shaft of bones. In almost every un- united or imperfectly united fracture I have seen, the patient has scarcely, if ever exceeded the middle age, but has generally been younger. (3) Among the causes of want of union, Astley Cooper believes that it “ is some- times the result of continuing cold applications for too long a period to the part, thus checking that degree of inflammatory action which is absolutely necessary to bring about a restoration of the parts.” (p. 679.) I Pregnancy has been held to be a cause of want of union, but Amesbury says he has “ seen about ninety cases of non-union, but has not met with more than two which happened during the process of gestation. He is therefore disposed to attribute non- union, in persons so circumstanced, more to the inadequacy of the usual modes of treatment than to the peculiar disturbance of the system which is observed in preg- nancy.” (p. 714.) Sometimes after fracture the union of the broken bone is entirely prevented by one end being dragged from the other by muscular effort; such occasionally happens when the spoke-bone being broken just above the insertion of the m. pronator quadratus, its lower end is drawn in by that muscle. Sometimes a portion of neighbouring muscle slips between the fractured ends, and getting free, prevents union. At other times, in a comminuted fracture, a fragment dies and as effectually opposes union as a bullet, piece of cloth, or any other extraneous body is occasionally known to do; and this may happen either in simple or compound fracture. A very good example of an un- united simple fracture from this cause occurred within the last twelvemonth to my colleague Mackmurdo, and was discovered at the operation performed for sawing off the (n) Lectures on Surgery,Palmer’s Edition, vol. i.