54 MORTIFICATION. is to be feared in unusually severe and quickly developed inflammations with well marked general symptoms in young powerful subjects, and after the operation of severe injuries; in persons with the general appearance of weakness, if the redness of the inflamed part be bluish, of a dirty yellow, the pain slight, and if it be accompanied with typhus. If the pain quickly increase to a great degree, the inflammatory swelling be hard, dry, and very tense, the heat intolerable, the skin dark red, often brownish, the fever extraordinarily severe, and no appearances ensue which lead to the hope of the inflammation terminating in suppuration, then the signs of incipient exhaustion become manifest. The acute pain becomes dull, aching, stretching; there is still indeed circulation, but its current gets slower and slower, and at last stops altogether. The redness therefore becomes deeper, more dusky, and further extended ; the warmth diminishes, the swelling, at first hard and tense, becomes soft, doughy, oedematous, the cuticle rises in blisters, containing a dark-coloured brownish fluid. In this condition the part has not yet lost all its sensibility and warmth; the vital activity may therefore be reawakened and reparation effected. The pulse is small, quick, and loses all fulness and hardness; the patient is depressed, is uneasy, has a languid countenance, cold sweats, dry, dirty tongue, unquenchable thirst, frequently burning hot skin ; the features at the same time become pinched, and the urine is thick. When exhaustion of the living activity and fully developed mortification takes place, then the pain ceases entirely, the colour of the part becomes blue, ash gray, or even black, the bone assumes a light white, dirty yellowish, or even black spotted appearance. By the decomposition of the parts still covered with skin, and the evolution of the gases of mortification an emphysematous swelling is produced, the part becomes quite cold, and the general appear- ances of exhaustion are present in a higher degree, the mortification either spreads further, and death ensues from exhaustion, or on the confines of the slough is produced a bright redness, suppuration, and by the opera- tion of the absorbing vessels a groove, becoming deeper and deeper, by which the slough is thrown oft’. [This is Travers’s acute gangrene. He observes also, that “ if the inflammation oc- cupies a circumscribed space, it is generally consecutive upon, and defined by, the adhesive inflammation ; if it appears in several contiguous spots or patches, the whole of the in- tervening surface, and more or less of the subjacent and surrounding part, partakes of : the inflammation and is marked for destruction ; if, as often happens, it is of irregular size and shape and the surrounding margin darkly discoloured, tumid and painful to i the touch, it is spreading, and rapidly travels along a continuous surface without cheek, to the destruction of texture, and generally of life. * * * In some rare instances, i gangrenous inflammation takes possession of an entire structure, as, for example, hand or foot, or even a limb up to its connexion with the trunk, and beyond it, and the indica- I tion is the sudden subsidence of agonizing pain, change of colour to a pale bluish hue, f loss of temperature and of sensation, so that the limb looks and feels like gray or clouded ( marble. I have seen in two cases the upper and lower extremities of the same side so 1 affected in the same patient. The rapid dissolution of the vital principle in such in- stances, anticipates the march of disorganization; such cases are generally depending on nervous prostration from injury or operation, attended by peculiar circumstances of ag- gravation, or, yet more frequently, peculiar temperament.” (pp. 209, 10.)J 24. The decomposition of the mortified part is accompanied by a peculiar exhalation, different in smell from that occurring in the decomposition of dead bodies, the cause of which seems to depend on the higher tem- < perature to which the mortified part is exposed. The destruction of the mortified part occurs in different ways: 1st, the slough shrivels up, the