631 SCALLED HEAD. tion lias diminished, sulphur baths, solution of sublimate, the phagedenic water, red or white precipitate ointment, flowers of sulphur, with fat or with soap and water, mercurial ointment, unguentum citrinum, oxygena- tum, graphit salve, a solution of nitrate of silver, and the like are to be used ; in old herpetic eruptions the douche with sulphur water, or a blister upon the part of the eruption to destroy it completely, which may be effected by often touching with nitrate of silver. Sulphur with soap and water made up into a liniment and a solution of sublimate I have found more effectual than all other remedies. In this treatment derivation with issues or setons and strict dietetic regimen is always necessary. If symptoms arise from metastasis of the herpes, it must be reproduced as cjuickly as possible. In habitual herpes, where frequently all remedies are employed in vain, bathing of the part on which the herpes is situated in a decoction of almond bran is very serviceable. In very deep-rooted and wide spread herpetic eruption, when the skin is much changed, the sublimate baths (a), the hunger-cure, and Zittm Ann’s decoction are very efficient. In such cases, arsenic internally and externally is recom- mended. The Herpes exedens on the face is often alone cured by com- pletely destroying the diseased part with caustic, and best by IIellmund’s remedy (b). B.—OF SCALLED HEAD. Frank, J. P., Epitome de curandis hominum morbis, book iv. p. 87. Gallot, L. S., Dissert, sur la Teigne. Paris, 1802. Alibert, above cited, first book. 792. Under the term Scalled Head ( Tinea (c) Capitis, Lat.; Kopfgrind, Germ.; Teigne, Fr.) are included the ulcers situated in the skin of the hairy part of the head, covered with crusts of various thickness and colour and accompanied with a secretion of an often peculiarly smelling ichor. Previous to the formation of these ulcers, there occurs a more or less severe smarting, redness and often swelling on some part of the head not unfrequently accompanied with swelling of the glands in the neck and headache. These symptoms increase and then among the hairs are observed sometimes pustules or vesicles, surrounded with an inflamed edge, sometimes circumscribed, pea-shaped swellings, which are white and yellowish at their tip. When these burst an ichorous fluid pours out, mats the hair together, and when it dries forms crusts, beneath which the ichor collects, the skin is destroyed ; considerable pain and swell- ing of the glands of the neck are produced ; and usually many lice are generated. 793. According to the different forms of scalled head are distinguished : 1. Tinea favosa.—From the little pustules are produced by drying up of the matter contained in them yellowish crusts, often isolated and round, often by running together of considerable extent, with their centre in- dented, their edges raised, and accompanied with painful itching and secre- tion of ichor, having the smell of cat’s urine. When of long standing all the ulcerated places are covered with thick white crusts, which stick fast, and the intervening skin is covered with branny scales. The ichor collects (a) v. Wedekind; in IIufeland’s Journal, (c) Bateman and the modern English writers 1822. August. _ prefer the genuine term Purrigo used by Cklsus (f>) Rust’s Magazin, vol. xix pt. i. p. 55. to Tinea proposed by Sauvaoes.