426 CONSECUTIVE ABSCESS OF LIVER. 453. Abscesses in the Liver, and also in other intestines of the belly, not rarely occur after previous in juries of the head. They often happen without the intestines having suffered any shock ; and often they do not take place, although there has been a severe shock (1). They more frequently appear after injuries of the head, which suppurate, than after concussion without wound. They are frequently observed in affections of the brain which depend on internal causes ; for instance, in chronic inflammation of the mem- branes, in the so-called fungous growth of the dura mater, and so on. [(1.) “ In the liver,” says Hennen, “ morbid appearances are found throughout every shade of affection of its membranes or its secretion; either pain and tumefaction with bilious diarrhoea, or the same with a perfect torpor of its functions, and inflammatory affections, from increased vascularity, to the formation of extensive collections of matter. In the spleen pain, tumefaction, hardness, and abscess are occasionally observed. The stomach suffers more frequently than any other organ ; but it appears to be more from general nervous sympathy than from any organic affection, which is seldom discoverable on dissection.” (p. 310.) Hennen further, and very justly remarks:—“ It often happens, however, that neither the liver nor any other organ seems to sympathise with the injuries of the head, while, in other cases, almost every viscus will appear to suffer more or less. The sympathetic affections vary in the organs which they attack, and in the degree of violence. In the thorax they appear from simple increased secretion of the lungs, to tubercles and exten- sive purulent formation in their substance. Serum is also found in the cavity, and very frequently in the pericardium, and even in the heart itself abscesses have been dis- f covered.” (p. 310.) The same writer mentions that “ priapism is occasionally observed in wounds of the head,” and mentions a case in which, “ on dissection, the dura mater was found exten- sively separated all over the head. This separation included the tentorium cerebelli, and beneath its edge about four drachms of coagulated blood were found, the principal part of which lay on the cerebellum.” (p. 304.) As to the “ loss of the generative faculty, and atrophy of the organs connected with it, which have been attributed to blows on the back of the head,” Hennen observes, “ the fact is certain; but whether the anti-aphrodisiac effects proceed from injury to the organs of sexual love or to a general loss of power, is a subject for future inquiry.” (p. 302.) On this point he quotes the two cases mentioned by Larrey, and that of a Portuguese soldier who was his own servant, and in whom “ a piece of shell shattered the superior part of the occipital bone from within half-an-inch of the great knob on the left side to the lambdoidal suture. An irregular angular portion of the left parietal bone, nearly an inch in length and about an inch in breadth, was also fractured and beaten inwards.” This man laboured under very dangerous symptoms, but had recovered five months after; but he “ repeatedly consulted Hennen on the means of recovering his virility, which, he said, the shell had completely carried away with it.” (p. 303.)] 454. Abscesses of the Liver, after Injuries of the Head, are not always produced by one and the same cause. They are either the consequence of an indistinct but intimate sympathetic change of relations between the liver and brain, owing to which, when one organ is affected, slight disturbances occur in the others (1), or they are consequent on the shock of the whole body, connected with injury of the head, and by which the liver, on account of its bulk and its loose connexions, suffers more than all the other intestines, and is often torn so that fatal effusions of blood take place into the belly. [(1) With regard to the sympathy between the brain and liver, Hennen observes that “ it is by no means such an universal occurrence as some practitioners imagine; nor does the affection of the liver, I suspect, so very often depend upon the direct injury of the head as upon certain circumstances connected with it. A class of men more pecu- liarly liable to hepatic affections than others, are the most frequent subjects of fractured skulls, I mean quarrelsome and habitual drunkards, particularly those who indulge in ardent spirits; and we often find that the liver has been diseased long before the inflic- tion of the injury of the head. It is scarcely necessary to say, that it will very often occur in men of the most temperate habits, and totally unconnected with the affections I