796 DISLOCATION 1067. In the dislocation upward and backwards, the head of the thigh- bone gets upon the outer surface of the hip-bone, and rests between the external iliac pit and the m. gluteus minimus ; hence the foot is an inch and a half, or two inches and a half shorter, the toes are turned towards the tarsus of the other foot; the knee and foot turned inwards; the limb cannot be separated from the other, but the adduction which exists can be increased, that is, it can be bent obliquely over the other. If there be not any considerable effusion of blood or swelling, the head of the thigh-bone may, by rotation of the knee, be felt distinctly upon the outer surface of the hip-bone ; the trochanter projects less and is nearer the spine of the hip- bone ; the rounded form of the hip is lost. Such extension of the limb as can be made with the hand does not restore its natural length. If the dislocation be old, the limb retains its position inwards, and the patient can tread only upon the toes; notwithstanding the great shortening of the limb, the patient will gradually be able again to walk. Under these cir- cumstances the somewhat flattened head of the thigh-bone lies on the out- side of the hip-bone, in a corresponding hollow, surrounded by a newly formed bony mass. The least and middle gluteal muscles are extended, and converted into a cellular fibrous mass; the thigh diminishes in size. This dislocation is produced by a fall, or some other violence, which drives the thigh inwards and forwards. It happens the more easily, the farther the violence acting on the thigh-bone is distant from the hip-joint, and if at the same time the gluteal muscles be contracted. 1068. In the dislocation inwards and downwards, the head of the thigh- bone gets into the oval hole. Although the condition of the socket seems most favourable for this kind of dislocation, it, however, happens very rarely, because it can be only produced by a fall, when the thighs are far apart. The affected limb is two or three inches longer; the head of the thigh-bone is felt, by pressing with the hand upon the upper inner part of the thigh towards the perinceum ; the trochanter is less prominent; the body is bent forwards, on account of the extension of the m. psoas and iliacus, but when the body is erect the limb projects; the knee is wide apart from the other, and cannot be brought near it without great pain ; the foot is also separated from the other, but cannot be twisted either inwards or outwards. The thigh seems as if united, with the pelvis and has no mobility. If the dislocation be left alone, the limb remains immov- able, in the position described ; it has, however, been noticed (a) that the external obturator muscle is destroyed, and that the ligament of the oval hole is converted into a mass of bone, which surrounds the head of the thigh-bone as a socket in which it can move. Oli.ivier (b) describes a dislocation of the thigh-bone directly downwards, of which he gives the following symptoms :—the thigh slightly bent at the hip-joint, was a little rotated inwards, and separated from that of the other side; the bent thigh as well as the foot was rotated forcibly outwards; a line drawn from the iliac spine downwards falls upon the inner condyle of the thigh-bone; no sensible lengthening ; the m. sartorius and tensor vagincc femoris projected slightly ; the outer part of the m. triceps was much stretched; the dank showed a deep fold ; the great trochanter was directed downwards aud backwards ; the buttock rounded and prominent; the head of the bone was not in the least felt; the extension of the thigh was impossible; the leg might be straightened ; adduction, although painful and little, was easy; abduction could be increased. 1069. Dislocation backwards and downwards into the ischiatic notch, («) Asti.ey Cooper, above cited, p. (i(i. (6) Nouvelles Espc'ces de Luxation du Femur ; in Archives generates de Mcdecine, June, 1824.