731 'ACCIDENTS AFTER OPERATION. bandage. After the patient is put to bed in a convenient position upon his side, an opiate should be given, and the bandage is to be removed every time the bowels are relieved, (which should be every twenty-four hours,) 1 after that the rectum has been cleared with lukewarm water ; with the remark that in the following dressings the tent is no longer to be oiled, is to be thinner and thrust in less deeply as the wound is lessened by granula- tion. The scarring is promoted by the careful application of lunar caustic. The opinion of Pouteau and others, that after the operation of cutting a rectal fistula any dressing is unnecessary and injurious, which of late has found advocates in von Walther, Jaeger, and others, I cannot accede to, inasmuch as experience has only shown that without dressing, the edges of the divided partition readily in part unite, and the fistulous passage does not close. That kind of dressing in which the wound is completely filled with several tents, and one thick tent is introduced into the rectum, as Boyer, Sanson, Textor, I myself, and others have recommended, I consider as un- suitable, and have given it up for the above-mentioned more simple treatment. A. Cooper (a) put after the operation a dry tent in the wound, and on the following morn- ing applied a soothing poultice ; in two or three days the tent comes out, and a probe should be frequently introduced into the wound for the purpose of preventing the ad- hesion. Poultices are to be continued, and when granulations spring up the tent must be again introduced, and by this treatment much pain and severe inflammation and suppuration are prevented. 934. The accidents which may occur during and after the operation by cutting are severe bleeding, too much or too little inflammation, copious suppuration, colic, diarrhoea, retention of urine, and costiveness. A severe bleeding, if the bleeding vessel cannot be tied, or if the bleeding cannot be stopped by the application of styptics, requires plug- ging, in which a firm wad of lint bound crossways with two strong threads must be introduced into the rectum, up to the bleeding vessel, and be- tween them, as they hang down from the gut, sufficient lint is to be introduced to fill the rectum, and then the threads are to be tied upon it. In females the vagina must also be plugged (1). Severe inflammation requires besides loosening or removing the ban- dages, cold applications, leeches, soothing applications, clysters, oily mix- tures, and the like ; copious suppuration needs a corresponding strengthen- ing treatment; spasmodic colic, oily mixtures with opium, soothing clys- ters and warm applications ; for retention of urine, the use of the catheter, warm applications to the region of the bladder, soothing remedies and clysters, which are also equally indicated in costiveness (2). [(1) Instances, though rare, have occurred of death from bleeding after the division of a rectal fistula, and I recollect seeing such a case very soon after I became a student, injwhich the patient died within twenty-four hours of the operation. Copeland objects very properly to the practice here advised of stuffing the rectum for the purpose of stop- ping the bleeding. “ I have,” says he, “ so frequently seen the haemorrhage kept up as long as this method of plugging the intestine was persevered in, and cease spontaneously when every kind of application was omitted, and the parts left for a short time exposed to the open air, together with a cool room, and avoiding all drink that hurries on the circulation, that I cannot help thinking that the irritation of the compresses keeps up the bleeding, and that the most eligible mode of treating it, when it is impossible to secure the vessel with a ligature, is to take off- every kind of dressing, and to suffer the part, as much as possible, to be exposed to the external air. * * * I am persuaded, from repeated experience, that by being too busy with compresses, and styptics, and as- tringents, and such like applications, we most frequently only hide the bleeding and rather prolong its continuance, than otherwise. ** * After many unsuccessful attempts to secure a bleeding vessel under such circumstances, I once accomplished it by intro- ducing a blunt gorget into the rectum ; and by keeping the gut thus dilated, I was enabled to see the orifice of the bleeding artery and to secure it.” (pp. 90-91.) (a) Lectures on Surgery, rol. ii. p. 333.