MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 67 gnat. Upon inquiry, Wagner found that the skin of one of the infected beasts had been hun°- on a neighbouring wall, and thought it very possible that the insects might have beei^attracted to them by the smell, and had thence conveyed the poison. A very interesting paper upon malignant pustule has within the last two years been pub- lished by Dr. Bourgeois (a) illustrated with numerous cases. He states that the disease appears in from one to three days on the point where the virus charbonneux has been depo- sited, as a little reddish spot almost always of a deep hue, sometimes accompanied with itching, at other times without. It resembles a gnat-bite, is very ephemeral, and soon fol- lowed by a little vesicle slightly puckered, of the same colour, containing a small drop of reddish serosity. Sometimes, instead of this mark, the vesicle is preceded by a solid pimple as big as a pin’s head, more or less brown and rosy in some cases. The vesicle thus formed is accompanied with a sensation of great itching, and sometimes shivering, but is rarely painful. The patient scratches off the vesicle with his nail, and the itching generally ceases for a few hours, after which, around the scratched pimple, which is dry and yellowish, a regular circle of vesicles, similar to the first, but larger, are formed. In the centre of the circle, now only a few millimetres in diameter, a little brownish depression, deprived of its cuticle, and formed by the skin, on which rests the primitive ampulla, mortified, and forming a dry and very hard scar, and including the whole thickness of the skin. This continues enlarging, and fresh vesicles are formed around its margin. In from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the flesh on which the pustule rests swells, hardens, and forms a tumour more or less sensible, rarely deficient, and generally roundish, but sometimes oval, and of variable size; this he calls the tumeur charbonneuse, on the top of which, but rarely occupying its whole extent, is the pustule. That part not covered with vesicles is of a livid red, and spreading more or less on the neighbouring tegument. The middle part of the tumour is especially de- pressed, but the whole limb, head, trunk, or several of these parts, may simultaneously acquire an enormous size. As the pustule continues increasing, the redness spreads further, and fresh vesicles are developed. At this time the parts, if touched, have, in many cases, a hardness equal to that of a schirrous breast, but gradually soften at a greater distance from the centre, become tremulous, and even (edematous. But Bourgeois says he has never noticed the emphysema mentioned by authors, and copied by one writer from another. The heat of the diseased part, at first very great, by , degrees diminishes, till it becomes quite cold. On the limbs red tracks of inflamed superficial absorbents are constantly noticed. Before the parts in the neighbourhood of the tumour swell, there is most generally constitutional impregnation; the patient has lassitude, headache, the tongue is covered with a whitish coat more or less thick, the appetite diminishes, the pulse is full, rather fre- quent and soft. More rarely these symptoms do not appear till the disease is accompanied with considerable swelling. If the disease be not arrested, the swelling extends more and more ; the parts become enormously swollen, the phlycteense increase in number, and the scar in size, with scarcely any pain, but there is only weight and numbness of the affected parts. The general symptoms, however, become more formidable, the pulse small, quick, narrow, depressible and irregular; frequent vomiting of yellow or greenish bilious matter; violent thirst, faintings ; singing in the ears ; somnolence; urine scanty, red and brick- dusty ; difficult motions, but at other times, and, very rarely, very fetid purging ; the skin, at first hot and perspiring, becomes covered with cold clammy sweat; respiration more or less difficult; in the greater number of cases the intelligence remains undis- turbed, but in some there is violent delirium. Subsequently the pulse ceases at the wrist, the body is covered with a cold sweat; the voice quenched; the" skin becomes bluish; there is a sensation of burning heat within the body; unquenchable thirst; threatening suffocation; the patient cannot sit up; no urine; extreme anxiety, and ■ finally death puts an end to this frightful condition, generally without pain. Bourgeois says, that he has never observed the dull delirium mentioned in books, and that, with the exception of one case in which the patient had evidently an affection of the brain, all he saw were sensible to the last. Nor has he ever seen the enormous \i i eschars attacking all the soft parts of a limb or spreading to a great extent, as mentioned by writers in general. Authors have usually divided the disease into four stages, without including that of 1 i ? incuhation of the disease: these, however, Bourgeois considers arbitrary, and I flunks that there are only two distinct periods in the course of malignant pustule; the v nist commences with the appearance of the primitive malignant spot, which he calls the («) Memoire sur la Pustule Maligne, speciale- Archives Generales de Medecine, &c., Fourth ) ment sur celle qu’on observe dans la Beauce ; in Series, vol. i. pp. 172, 334. 1843. F 2