547 THE RIBS. The upper two ribs on the right side were broken near their cartilages ; and the upper five on the left side through their middle. The cavity of the left pleura contained two pints of bloody serum, and the left lung was collapsed, and torn at its apex. The sharp splintered end of one of the ribs, which had penetrated the pleura, had passed also through the pericardium, which contained a small clot of blood, and wounded the heart near its apex. There was a large tear through the right side of the diaphragm, but no blood in the cavity of the belly.—J. F. S.] 627. The diagnosis of this fracture is often very difficult, as the broken ends can project only inwards and outwards (indeed, in many cases the broken ends resume their natural position); and this displacement, espe- cially in fat persons, often cannot be well distinguished, particularly if swelling have already commenced. The patient feels a fixed and more or less severe pain, which increases on breathing; crepitation is felt if the hand be placed on the seat of fracture and the patient bidden to cough ; crepitation, and frequently unevenness of the ribs, if they be closely examined through their w hole length and a moving pressure made on them. An air swelling (emphysema) appearing on the seat of injury is an undoubted proof of fracture of a rib. 628. The local treatment of fracture of the ribs consists merely in pre- venting their motions, by means of a broad breast-band applied sufficiently tight. If the broken ends have fallen inwards, or have an inclination so to do, a compress is to be placed on the fore and hind ends of the broken bone, and over them the chest-bandage. The especial object of this ban- daging is always the restriction of the violent motions of the chest; the patient no longer hears so frequently the striking together of the fractured ends, and the pain is always much diminished. It is, therefore, improper not to apply a bandage, as recommended by many persons. The treatment of the patient must, in other respects, be in reference to the inflammatory condition produced by the violence itself or by the fracture. The patient should observe the strictest quiet, and must be frequently bled, and so on. A severe cough, which causes much pain, and produces displacement of the ends of the fracture, requires, with the proper antiphlogistic treat- ment, antispasmodic remedies, an emulsion with nitre, opium, or extract of hyoscyamus. If extravasation of blood occur in the cavity of the chest, or emphysema, they must be treated according to the rules laid down in wounds of the chest. For the purpose intended a properly applied chest-band is sufficient. Graefe employs an elastic chest-girdle with spiral springs; Laruev, his immovable apparatus; and Sectin applies pasteboard splints; Malgaigne will prevent respiration on the sound side but not on the injured side, by sticking plaster, which passes from the seventh rib of the affected side back to the spine, and above the healthy shoulder, and terminates at the hip of the injured side. A padded pasteboard splint, according to Baillie, applied, with an aperture for the seat of fracture, would afford great ease. [Although in fracture of the ribs of one side, bandaging the chest (without, however, the compresses which Chelius recommends in some cases to be applied) is the most proper and efficient treatment, yet, if the ribs on both sides be broken, and especially if many of them, no bandage must be employed, as the breast-bone being partially un- supported, the broken ribs slip behind each other, and being thrust into the pleura’, render the patient’s condition worse. The only thing to be done, therefore, is to keep the chest raised, and so supported by pillows as to keep it as much at rest as possible, and encourage breathing by the diaphragm. When there is much and inconvenient emplu/sema, a few punctures through the skin should be made for the escape of the air.—J. F. S.] 629. The cartilages connecting the ribs with the breast-bone may break without being ossified. If the fracture of the cartilage be near the breast- 2 n 2