86 INFLAMMATION, LOCAL TREATMENT. inflamed parts on account of its weight, and, indeeed, under any circumstances, it is best if made with an equal quantity of bread crumbs.—MS. Notes of Lectures. In cases where warmth is most agreeable to the patient’s feelings, and in which fomentations are employed, either because thin flannel dipped in them is lighter than the poultice, or because the surface to be covered is so large that a flannel is most con- venient, the moisture and warmth are easily preserved by enveloping the overlaying flannel with oiled silk; this treatment has also the advantage of not so repeatedly disturbing the patient as the flannels alone do.—J. F. S.] 48. In the Torpid inflammation this character may show itself from the first or during its progress : when tire expansion is more passive, and the vessels over distended, with diminished reaction, the congestion of the vessels must first be relieved by local blood-letting, and then the vital activity must be aroused by exciting remedies; by the momentary use of cold, by overlaying with watery or vinous infusions of aromatic herbs, by warm applications of lead wash or Theden’s arquebusade, by infriction of volatile salves, of mercurial ointment with camphor, by the application of irritating plaisters, of ammoniacum plaister, which we specially use at night, because the applications very readily cool. With these local re- medies a corresponding general treatment according to circumstances must be coupled. The local and general use of stimulating and irritating remedies in many cases of inflammation is not contradictory to the above-mentioned conditions, and does not mislead to the recognition of the so-called asthenic inflammations. There is no inflam- mation depending on weakness ; certain states of disease may, however, co-exist with inflammation, or be produced by the consumption of vital activity, caused by the ; inflammation, by the removal of which alone a cure of the inflammation is possible. 49. The derivative remedies are founded on the law of reciprocal action in our constitution ; by which means an existing irritation may be lessened or removed by a more severe one. To this class belong blisters, setons, i issues, and the rubbing-in of irritating salves. In general these are only to be used when the severity of the inflammation has been moderated by I the preceding treatment; they are particularly useful in chronic inflam- , mation. In how far this general mode of treating inflammation must be modified « according to the difference of the structure affected, will be subsequently I considered in many places. [“ Derivation” says Hunter, “ means a cessation of action in one part, in consequence i of an action having taken place in another: and when this is a cessation of a diseased I action, then a cure of that action in the original part may be said to be performed : this 1 cure was brought into use from the idea of humors; that is, the drawing oft' of the ■! humors from the seat where they had taken possession: but I believe much more has | been ascribed to it than it deserves. IIow far it really takes place, I have not been able fl fully to ascertain in all its parts; that is, how far the real disease has been invited, and I accepts of the invitation: but 1 have already observed that there is such a principle of a disease in the animal economy, although we must see from derivation, that the same I quantity or perhaps more irritation is retained in the constitution; yet the artificial >j irritation produced being either such as more readily admits of a cure than the diseased I part, or being in parts which are not so essential to life, an advantage by this means is I gained.” (p. 359.)] 50. If the inflammation have a disposition to recede, every thing must ij be removed from the inflamed part which can disturb the proper develop- *J ment of the inflammation and favour its recession. The inflamed part ] must be covered with warm flannel, it must be protected from the approach a of the air, and medicines given internally which will act on the skin. If I the inflammation have already subsided from the external surface, we must A