115 COTTON—FLOUR. cotton generally requires renewal about every six or eight days, until the sloughs have long separated and the discharge has been diminished. The comfort enjoyed during such intervals should go far to recommend this practice, even if, in other respects, it had no advantage over that by a daily renewal of the dressings. But I am now quite satisfied that a persevering use of this remedy, even in the chronic state of burns, and in many other ulcerations, is in every respects preferable to the practice usually adopted, (p. 211.) Some care is necessary, both in preparing and in applying the cotton. For this purpose it should be finely carded, and disposed in narrow fleeces, so thin as to be translucent, by which means it can be closely applied in successive layers, and is thus made to fill up and protect the most irregular surfaces. The burnt parts, if vesicated, are to be washed with tepid water, and the fluid evacuated by small punctures ; or, if more deeply scorched, they may be bathed with a spirituous or turpentine lotion. The cotton is then applied, layer after layer, until the whole surface is not only covered, but pro- tected at every point, so that pressure and motion may give no uneasiness. On some parts it will adhere without a bandage, especially when there is much discharge ; but, in general, a support of this kind is useful. Where the vesications have been broken, and the skin is abraded, or where there is sphacelus, more or less suppuration , always ensues, and in such cases the discharge may be so great as to soak through the cotton and become offensive, particularly in summer; so that it may be necessary to remove the soiled portions. This, however, should be done as sparingly as possible, taking care to avoid uncovering or disturbing the tender surface, (pp. 213, 214.) “ There appears,” Anderson further observes, “ to be a twofold effect from this kind of treatment. The primary effect arises from the exclusion of the air and the slow conducting power of cotton, by which the heat of the part is retained, whilst a soft and uniformly elastic protection from pressure is afforded. The secondary effect i depends entirely on the sheath or case formed by the cotton absorbing the effused serum or pus, and giving the best possible substitute for the lost cuticle. But, in order 1 that the full benefit may be derived from this substitute, and to ensure an equable and continued support to the tender parts until the new skin is formed, it is absolutely necessary that this new or cotton cuticle, as it may be called, should not be removed except under particular circumstances, until the real cuticle is sufficiently formed to bear exposure, (pp. 217, 218.) The use of flour as an application for burns was, I believe, first recommended by Dr. Ward (a), formerly one of the surgeons of the Manchester Infirmary, who ap- ; pears to have employed it accidentally at first; for, finding a young woman who had i been scalded from the elbow to the fingers’ ends, screaming with pain and shivering as if in the cold stage of an intermittent whilst her mistress was rubbing in goose grease, preparatory to the application of scraped potato, he absorbed the grease with soft linen, and then with a flour-dredger, which happened to be at hand, sprinkled the scalded parts as completely and expeditiously as he could, which almost immediately and en- i tirely relieved the pain. The same application was used by Ward in several other cases (p. 619.) His mode of proceeding he thus describes:—“ The first object will be, (after having laid the patient upon a bed or sofa,) without a moment’s loss of time, to take off the clothes and apply bread flour, by means of a common kitchen dredger, i i plentifully, and as expeditiously as possible, to the whole of the burned or scalded sur- i face, and this being properly and sufficiently done, carefully applying clean dry linen - I cloths immediately over the flour, and such bed-clothes or other coverings as may be lijrequired to keep the patient comfortably warm, but not too hot.” He strongly advises i ■ “ avoiding the application of liquids of whatever kind, including oil, and liniments, oint- ment, and salves containing oil, all of which are extremely pernicious.” If the pain i’be removed by this first application, it is advisable that the patient should go to . : sleep, even though he have no nourishment. “ If pain return we must commence by ■removing the linen coverings or bandages from those parts where the pain is the most ^considerable, without attempting to remove any of the flour previously applied, except | isuch portions as do not adhere, and then proceed as before to apply flour equally and ii [Copiously to the painful parts, by means of the dredge, which is the easiest and best ©•method of effecting it. * * * It would also be a good general rule, particularly at the li first and several of the succeeding dredgings or sprinklings, to continue the process ror U v certain time (longer or shorter, according to the extent of the violence, and the degree I >f pain complained of) after the parts become easy, (with a view to keep them in that ■ >tate as long as possible,) and steadily to persevere in it either until the last-mentioned • object be attained, or the parts affected shall have received a coating or covering of this 9 nvaluable article of from a quarter to nearly half an inch in thickness, and then apply (a) A New Method of Treating Scalds and Burns. Two Papers; in Lancet, vol. ii. 1808.