INFLAMMATION. 26 nervous influence from the small vessels, and consequently determining relaxation of their walls with dilatation of their calibre.” (p. 578.) The mode of action of the exci- ting cause he describes as follows :—“ The exciting cause, of what nature soever it may ; be, whether external or internal, acts primarily on sensitive nerves, exalting their acti- vity. The motor nerves of the vessels which have sympathetical relations with the excited sensitive nerves, are secondarily affected. But this affection of the motor nerves of the vessels, which supervenes by reflex action on the excitement of the sensitive nerves, is not a corresponding state of excitement, but an opposite one of depression, of suspension of action, of paralysis. This form of sympathy, on which the state of ex- citement of one nerve determines depression of another, Henle calls antagonism; when to that in which a state of activity of one nerve is called forth by a corresponding . state of another, he applies the term sympathy in a more restricted sense than generally employed: the latter form is more common in the domain of the cerebrospinal system; the former in that of the ganglionic system, the source of the nerves of the vessels. Sometimes, however, sympathy is exemplified in the vessels by constriction supervening . on irritation and preceding dilatation; but, in most cases, relaxation and dilatation of the vessels from suspension of nervous influence, are the primary effect of the irritation, no matter whether that irritation have been violent or moderate. Hence Henle con- tends that the relaxation of the vessels, on which their dilatation depends, cannot be a mere consequence of exhaustion of the vessels from previous action, as suggested by Alison and Billing, but can only be antagonistic.” (p. 582.) As to the cause of inflammation, Hunter observes:—“ I will venture to say, that any cause which can obstruct the motion of the blood for a given time, will become the cause of inflammation ; for, either the cause of the obstruction itself, or the blood being retained in the smaller vessels for a certain time, will either irritate or unite the parts,i or, where it irritates, will throw the vessels into such actions as naturally arise out of an extraneous irritating cause, but not an increased motion of the blood behind, to drive on the obstructed blood through these vessels, as has been supposed.” (p. 259.) The truth of these views is fully borne out by the observations of more recent inquiries, some of which will be presently detailed. (3) In reference to the pain in inflammation, Hunter also notices that, as “ Many parts of the body in a natural state give peculiar sensations when impressed: so when they are injured they give likewise pain peculiar to themselves;” of which the pain caused by squeezing or inflammation of the testicle is a good example. “ And I may also ob- serve,” he says, “ that the same mode of impression shall give a peculiar sensation to one part, while it shall give pain to another: thus, what will produce sickness in the stomach, will produce pain in the colon.” (pp. 288, 9.) Travers makes a remark shewing that pain is not necessarily an attendant on in- flammation, which is well worth remembrance, and with which few careful observers will not accord. “We are told,” says he, “ there can be no inflammation where there is no pain. I reply, that there are many, and destructive too; a joint, an eye, nay, the lungs may be destroyed by inflammation without pain; he is a speculative, not a prac- tical, pathologist who does not know this. It would be easy to superinduce pain in either of these cases; but let there be no interference, and the work of destruction in numberless cases is as silent as it is sure.” (p. 29.) (4) Touching the redness, Hunter observes:—“ It is of various hues, according to the nature of the inflammation : if healthy, it is a pale red ; if less healthy, the colour will be darker, more of a purple, and so on, till it shall be a bluish purple; * * * it is gra- dually lost in the surrounding part if the inflammation is of the healthy kind; but, in many others it has a determined edge, as in the true erysipelatous, and in some specific diseases, as in the small-pox.” * * * “ This increase of red appears to arise from two causes: the first is a dilatation of the vessels, whereby a greater quantity of blood is allowed to pass into those vessels which only admitted serum or lymph before; the second is owing probably to new vessels being set up in the extravasated uniting coag- luating lymph.” (pp. 283, 4.) Travers thinks that the intensity of the redness depends “on the degree of fulness -i (of the vessels) compatible with motion ; for, although the oxygen of the atmosphere ( will redden the blood in the congested vessels of the surface, while circulation, however imperfect, continues, from the commencement of the state of absolute stagnation, the colour gradually undergoes a change from pink to purple. In some modes of iuflani- I mation this shade of colour prevails even from the beginning, and soon turns to livid. I * * * These varieties are due to the state of the general circulation, which gives its character to the inflammation, and an attending change in the constitution of the blood.” (p. 50.)