WITH CUBEBS. 175 solid food forbidden for some days, mucilaginous drinks taken, and then the medicine resumed in the same doses as before, or in smaller ones. Frequently this symptom is the consequence of gastric irritation, which may be relieved by an emetic, anil then the earlier or stronger doses may be used. Some persons bear this remedy only when given at meal- time, or when food is taken with it. In many cases where it cannot be endured balsam of copaiva, according to Delpech’s experience, is useful; but, when that causes purging, cubebs must be employed. Frequently do the cubebs produce no satisfactory alteration ; but in no instance is the disease thereby rendered worse. In recent gonorrhoea the burning, the heat, the not very severe pain, and the discharge soon diminish, the latter becomes serous, and in two or three days the whole has passed off. The same occurs with the slighter claps, even when they are of longer standing. Three doses daily of two drachms each are sufficient in these cases. More severe gonorrhceee in the second or third week, with severe pain, chordee, and so on, yield less easily and only to larger doses. Improvement also takes place very rapidly; the chordee frequently continues longest, but often subsides after a blister, when every thing else fails. Also in those cases in which the inflammation has extended to the neck of the bladder accompanied with discharge mixed with blood, with severe inflammation, with swelling of the prostate glands, if the pain was exceedingly severe, and in swelling of the testicle, this remedy was very efficient. Old and rainless swellings of the testicle remaining after acute affection, which were connected with symptoms of general infection, and had even with- stood antisyphilitic treatment, yielded to the use of the cubebs, even although general syphilitic disease continued. The same occurred in the swellings of the inguinal glands, if depending on gonorrhoea. During the use of cubebs a mild diet and rest must be observed. The remedies must ►Jbe continued for at least eight days after all symptoms have disappeared. Delpech has disproved by numerous observations that cubebs can produce inflam- mation of the testicles as by some supposed. Previous to using cubebs Delpech had given balsam of copaiva in large doses in all stages of gonorrhoea with good effect. Both remedies, according to recent observations, contain an analogous substance. Perhaps the inefficiency of cubebs, when properly administered, may prove the peculiar syphilitic nature of the gonorrhoea. In order to prevent the general infection, Delpech, yhen the gonorrhoeal inflammation is not too great, uses at the same time twelve to Ifteen rubbings-in of half a drachm of mercurial ointment night and morning on both sides of the penis. t Velpeau (a) employs cubebs anil balsam of copaiva in clysters; two, four, six, or sight drachms rubbed down with yolk of egg or with decoction of marsh-mallows. Michaelis (6) has tried cubebs on many patients who were suffering from gonorrhoea, ind only in one single case, in which gleet had existed for a short time, did he observe i cure. Just as inefficient did he find it in the whites and in chronic catarrh of the ungs. Kichon and De Salle have given, as they assert, with great effect, thirty drops of incture of iodine night and morning in gonorrhoea. In some cases, leeches were first I ' applied to the urethra, and an antiphlogistic diet coupled with it. [Astley Cooper was a great advocate for the use of cubebs. He said it “ appears to iroduce a specific inflammation of its own on the urethra, which has the effect of j • uperseding the gonorrhoeal inflammation. * * * In the very early stages of gonorrhoea, : ihen the inflammation is just beginning, it often succeeds in removing the disease in » very short space of time.” But he observes :—“ I do not say that it would be advisable [ a employ this remedy at once for a first gonorrhoea, where the symptoms of inflam- aation run very high in a young and irritable person ; it is better not to begin with the ' se of it until a week or ten days have elapsed, and the inflammation is considerably *' e^uced.” He thinks it “ a most useful remedy also for the cure of gleet, as it is called, (o) Archives Generates de Medecine, Jan. 1827. (6) Journal of Gkaifi. und Walthfr, vol v. p. 70.