181 OF TESTICLE, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. on the perinmum and inside of the thigh, and warm softening bread poultice applied on the swelling. If, after this treatment, although the inflammation is reduced, great pain still continue, opium with nitre or calomel must be given, opium clysters administered, and narcotic poul- tices applied. When the tension has diminished, lead wash may be added to the poultices. After the resolution of the inflammation, if the swelling of the testicle still remain for a long time, it must be supported by a suspensory bandage, and mercury with camphor rubbed in. According to Delpech’s experience, the above-mentioned treatment of gonorrhoea, combined with cubebs, is sufficient to get rid of the inflammation of the testicle accompanying it. [The general practice in swelling of the testicle is to adopt the antiphlogistic treat- ment, which practice I formerly pursued, giving, after a dose of rhubarb and calomel, either a dram of sulphate of magnesia three or four times a day, or tartarized antimony sufficient to produce nausea; and sometimes giving mercury internally, and using fric- tion of mercurial ointment and camphor on the testicle till the mouth became affected. If the inflammation were very severe, cupping on the loins was employed, or local bleeding by leeches, or by opening two or three veins in the purse, and withdrawing three or four ounces of blood, and afterwards a warm bread poultice was applied. When the inflammation was subdued by these means, if the testicle still remained hard, as gene- rally happened when no mercury had been used, then either mercurial friction or bind- ing the testicle up in mercurial plaster was resorted to. Cold washes I never employed, nor have I any experience in the use of cubebs, as recommended by Delpech. I rarely now follow either of these plans, but prefer the use of compressing straps of adhesive or soap plaster, on Fricke’s principle, (pars. 176, 7.)—J. F. S.] 173. If the inflammation run on to suppuration and an abscess be formed, this must be opened and treated in the usual manner. The I whitish-gray jiocculi, which lie in the opening of the abscess, must be left alone; they often become covered with granulations and are united with the opening. If the suppuration cannot be restrained and the testicle pass into disorganization, its removal is called for. [When a fungus has sprouted from the aperture by which the pus has been discharged, it should be treated at first by brushing over with nitrate of silver, or solution of sul- Iphate of copper, and then compressing it with circular strips of adhesive plaster. But, if this practice do not succeed, it may be cut off with a knife to the level of the skin, II and the edges of the wound having been pared, to set the skin loose, it may be brought 1 together, and treated as a simple incised wound, which usually effects the cure. Occa- 1 donally, however, though rarely, little abscesses are cut through in removing the fungus: £ is these descend more or less deeply into the body of the testicle, it is better to remove i the entire gland at once; a case of which kind I have lately operated on. But under .. ordinary circumstances castration is neither required nor to be practised.—J. F. S.] 174. Hardening is for the most part confined to the epididymis, gene- rally gives scarcely any pain, and may continue throughout life. In dis- ; i eased dispositions and dyscracy, or from injuries which set up inflammation afresh, swelling of the spermatic cord, collections of water in the vaginal 'tunic, sarcomatous and cancerous hardenings are produced. The disper- 'i 5ion of the hardening may with proper care be attempted by the general [remedies (par. 68) already mentioned, during which the testicles must be < (supported in a suspender. If the pain in the testicle become more severe | lr*d shooting, if the swelling be uneven and knobby, its extirpation is the t wily mode of preventing its passage into cancerous destruction. Not un- requently, as a symptom of general venereal disease, a hard swelling of the !1 esticle is slowly produced, which may generally be dispersed by a regular mercurial treatment or by the proper exhibition of cubebs (par. 167.) J he i‘ gardening of the testicle from one gonorrhoea is not. unfrequent ly dispersed i Jy a fresh gonorrhoea; hence the proposition of passing bougies smeared