ERUPTIONS. 649 quently they are so, but sometimes the different characters of the eruptions are united; that is, you will find an eruption partly pustular and partly scaly. * * * The pustular eruption spreads into ulcerations; the cuticle, which has been elevated by lymph or pus, gives way, and the fluid which is discharged incrusts upon the surface. The skin ulcerates under that incrustation; a greater discharge of matter takes place, and the in- crustation is increased. If the parts be kept moist, an ulcer is seen; but if less exposed to the air, the matter concretes, and the part is covered with incrustations more or less thick. The ulcerations thus formed are superficial sores, generally of a circular shape and rapidly healing. In other instances they degenerate into very foul and intractable ulcerations of a phagedenic character. Very generally they retain the circular form and heal up in the centre but not towards the edges ; there is a healing up in the centre and a very foul or tawny margin by which the ulceration extends. Frequently the sores are of a crescent shape, that is, they have a convex edge by which they extend, whilst they heal up at the concavity. Sometimes the phagedenic edge is simply of a tawny colour; at other times it is considerably elevated and almost sloughy, with a very red, angry, and fiery state of the neighbouring skin. There is a considerable variety in the characters of these syphilitic ulcerations of the skin, all of which origi- nate, in the first instance, from a vesicle or pustule.” (pp. 773, 74.)] 822. Syphilis often produces on the skin a more herpes-like eruption, which exfoliates like scales, especially in the hollows of the hands, (Jiha- gades,) on the thighs, in the neighbourhood of the generative organs, on the buttocks. The skin also frequently has cracks, with copper-coloured, callous, painful edges, front which an ill-coloured acrid fluid is poured out. Or there arise, most commonly on the generative organs and the rump, Groivths, which, according to their different form and consistence, have various names, as Warts, (Verruca,) Fig Warts, (Condglomata, Fici, Mariscce, &c.,) with which are frequently connected ulcers on the generative organs, discharge of mucus from the urethra, vagina, and so on (a). [John Hunter first noticed the difference between the pus from a primary and that from a secondary syphilitic sore, and not admitting that though mercury cure both kinds, both were necessarily the same in their nature, “as mercury cures many diseases besides the venereal. On the other hand there are many strong reasons for believing that the matter is not venereal. There is one curious fact which shows it is either not venereal, or if it be, that it is not capable of acting in some respects on the same body, or on the same state of constitution, as that matter does which is produced from chancre or gonorrhoea. The pus from these latter, when absorbed generally, produces a bubo, but we never find a bubo from the absorption of matter from a pocky sore; for instance, where there is a venereal ulcer in the throat, we have not buboes in the glands of the neck ; when there are venereal sores on the arms, or even suppurating nodes on the ulna, there are no swellings of the glands of the arm-pit; although such will take place if fresh venereal matter is applied to a common sore on the arm, hand, or fingers. No swelling takes place in the glands of the groin from either nodes or blotches on the legs and thighs. It may be supposed that there is no absorption going on from such sores; but I think we have no grounds for such supposition. Its mode of irritation, or the action of the parts affected, is very different from what happens in chancre, gonorrhoea, or bubo, being hardly attended with inflammation, which in them is generally violent.” (p. 512.) He then mentions some experiments made with the matter of secondary syphilitic sores on the skin, and on the tonsils, but from neither was any chancrous sore produced. The truth of Hunter’s opinions and observations on this interesting question has been of late fully confirmed by the experiments of Ricord, who says that he has thus arrived at the conclusion “ that all reputed secondary phenomena are far from being specific; that infection by the venereal virus may excite in the economy disorders, lesions, the development of morbid symptoms analogous to those produced by any non- specific cause; but that independent of these, perhaps most common symptoms, and which afford a deceptive support to the doctrine of non-specificity of pox, or of the (n) At.bers, Ueber die Krkentniss und Heilung Martins, Memoires sur les causes gcncrales dps der sypliilitischen Ilautkrankheiten. Bonn, 1832. Svphilides (extr. de la Kevue Medicale, vol. i. Humbert, Manuel pratique des Maladies de la 183?.) Paris, 1838. ”eau appellees Syphilides. Paris, 1833.