367 ITS SYMPTOMS. 5 previous to dissolution, the most decided symptoms of hydrophobia were manifested, and continued with short intermission, until convulsive delirium closed his life.'’ (p. 675.) Dr. Bardsley (a) relates the case of a weaver aged thirty-six years, who was brought to the Manchester Lunatic Asylum with an attack of hydrophobia, of which he died at half-past four on Saturday afternoon, the disease having made its first appearance during the Wednesday night previous ; and, upon finding himself, when thirsty, unable to swallow balm tea, from a sense of pain and tightness about his throat, he was struck with the remembrance of having been bitten on the back of the leg, twelve years before, by a large dog apparently mad, which was flying from the pursuit of numerous persons. He had taken the Ormskirk medicine and the wound had healed kindly; he had never suffered any pain nor complained of the slightest uneasiness in that or the neigbouring parts, since the wound healed. Nor at the period of attack of the disease was any al- teration in the colour of the skin perceptible. It must, however, be observed, that Bardsley thinks the case just mentioned as one of the instances which he has noticed which “ do most unequivocally exhibit the patho- gnomonic symptoms of rabies canina. * * * They who, therefore, deny that a train of symptoms, exactly corresponding to those of rabies canina, can arise in the human subject without the intervention of the canine poison, must attribute Lindsay’s disorder (the case above) to the injury he sustained twelve years a/jo, from a dog supposed to have been mad. But this opinion is not confirmed by other facts of a similar kind. * * * “ I am happy indeed to learn,” adds he, “ that several eminent practitioners have coin- cided with me in the belief of Lindsay’s disorder having had no connexion whatever with the bite of a supposed mad dog.” (pp. 304, 305.) He thinks his opinion is sup- ported by a case of Dr. M. Lister’s, in which the patient’s symptoms did not come on till six weeks after the bite, and he quotes the opinions of Drs. Darwin, Haygarth, and R. Pearson, who entertained the same views as himself. Lister’s case, however, I really affords him no help; for, as Elliotson (b) observes, “ the average time is from H six weeks to three months and, in a case of his own, the disease did not set in till three y or four months after the bite. fp. 290.) That cases do occur which simulate hydro- id i phobia, and in which there is incapability of swallowing fluids, will be presently shown ; 1 but that these, when carefully looked into, will be distinguishable from this dreadful i • disease, cannot be doubted. By some physicians, the actual existence of any such disease >7 i as hydrophobia has been denied ; but no one who has once witnessed it, will, I think, ai< be disposed to hold with that opinion.—j. f. s. Professor Dick’s views (c) in regard to hydrophobia are extremely interesting, though, as he says, “ not a little peculiar; but being the result of considerable observation, and I leading, as we conceive, to most important and beneficial results, we will neither conceal nor compromise our decided convictions. We hold, then, that rabies is essentially an jki inflammatory affection, attacking peculiarly the mucous membrane of the nose, and B< extending thence through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bones, to the anterior part b 1 of the brain, so giving rise to derangement of the nervous system, as a necessary conse- v quence: this train of symptoms, we consider, constitutes mainly, if not wholly, the ou essence of an occasional epidemic, not unlike some forms of influenza or epizootie; and t the bite of a rabid animal is not, to another so bitten, the exciting cause of the disease, i but merely an accidental concomitant in the prevailing disorder; and the disease, hydro- phobia, produced in man, is not the result of any poison introduced into his system, but merely the melancholy, and often fatal result of panic fear, and of the disordered state ■ of the imagination. Those who are acquainted with the effects of sympathy, and imita- : tion, and panic, in the production of nervous disorders, will readily apprehend our i meaning; and if our view be correct, the immense importance of disabusing the public 1 mind on the subject is apparent. This is a task which we hope one day to accomplish. 0 But in the mean while, considering the vast responsibility of promulgating these views, ■ without the utmost certainty as to their truth, we shall not press them ; nay, we shall, to any greater extent, withhold them at present, and shall now do all the justice our | lm'fs allow, to the elucidation of the prevailing, and what is generally considered, the established pathology and history of the complaint.” (p. 95.)] 361. If the wound be still open, the outbreak of the madness is indicated 1 by a change of its colour, and by the secretion of a thin pus, wherewith it itches and smarts, and these sensations spread over the whole limb. If the wound have already scarred, an itching painful sensation begins t?) at *lea<f °f article. (c) Manual of V eterinary Science. Edinburgh, g. ..A°) Clinical Lecture on Hydrophobia: in Lancet. 1841. small 8vo. ; ami in Encyclopedia Britan- I ‘8-J-30, vol. ii. • nica. 7th Edit.