OF THE UPPER-ARM. 783 occurrence of dislocation downwards, the contraction of the m. pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi and teres major especially participate. It, how- ever, particularly depends on the m. deltoides, as shown by examples when this dislocation has happened in raising a heavy load. The destruction of the soft parts in dislocation of the upper-arm, is for the most part restricted to the tearing of the capsular ligament to a tole- rable extent and the bruising of the neighbouring parts. In dislocation inwards, however, a tearing of the m. subscapularis has been observed ; as also oftentimes palsy of the arm, ocdematous swelling of it; or a palsy of the deltoid muscle is connected with, or subsequently ensues on disloca- tion. Fracture of the neck of the upper-arm-bone has also been noticed simultaneously with this dislocation. 1032. The inflammatory symptoms which occur in dislocation of the upper-arm, are usually of little consequence, if reduction be soon effected ; but if the dislocation be left alone, considerable interference with the movements of the arm occurs; the dislocated head is kept fixed in its position, the motions of the arm depend only upon the mobility of the blade-bone, and often after from four to eight weeks, reduction is no longer possible, even with the greatest efforts. 1033. In reducing dislocation of the upper-arm, the shoulder must be well fixed, the arm extended to a proper degree, and its head brought back in the same way in which it was dislocated. The patient should sit on a common seat, (in difficult cases it is advantageous to lay him horizontally on a couch,) a folded cloth is to be applied above the wrist, its two ends tied and given to an assistant. An oblong, tolerably thick bolster should be put into the arm-pit, projecting beyond the edges of the great muscles of the breast and back, and over it a folded cloth, the ends of which are to be carried over the front and back of the chest, to the sound shoulder, there tied, and given to an assistant. For the more complete fixing of the shoulder-blade, a second cloth is applied, with its middle on the acromion, its ends carried obliquely forwards and backwards, towards the other side of the chest, and given to an assistant, who draws them properly in this direction towards him. Or the shoulder is fixed by a proper bandage, (retractor,) through the opening of which the arm is passed (a). The Surgeon stands on the outside of the limb, and directs the assistants as to the direction and commencement of the extension. In the dislocation downwards, extension must be made directly outwards, and when carried to a proper extent, the arm must be pulled downwards, and somewhat forwards till it be applied to the side of the body, when the Surgeon rests his body against the elbow, and with both his hands applied, the one on the upper, and the other on the under surface of the upper arm, carries the head back into the socket. In dislocation inwards the extension must be made outwards and back- wards, the arm brought forwards and downwards, till it lie obliquely across the front of the breast, and the Surgeon then assists the return of the head of the bone, by placing one hand upon the elbow and the other on the inside of the arm, and pressing the head outwards. The dislocation outwards requires extension in the opposite direction to the preceding (a). (a) Proper retractors are described by Pitscuet, zum Verbande. I.eipz, 1 TOO, p. COO. PI. viii. fig. (Anatom, und chirurg. Anmerkungen. Dresden, S, 0); by Schneider (Coders Journal, vol. ii. 178-1, p, 66) ; by Mennei. (Coder's Journal, vol. p. 4u6) ; and by Astley Cooper. iii. p. 300); by Eckoi.dt (Kohi.er’s Anleitung