BY EXTRAVASATED BLOOD, TREATMENT. 405 of extravasation causing compression of the brain ; I have, however, seen many cases of slight extravasation, with partial loss of power of one half of the body, accompanied by great numbness, without any stertor in breathing; although I have never seen a well- marked case of large extravasation without it, or another peculiarity of breathing which is less thought of, although an equally characteristic and dangerous sign of such mischief having taken place, when it is permanent; 1 allude to a peculiar whiff or puff' from the corner of the mouth, as if the patient were smoking, and which, when observed among other urgent symptoms, is usually followed by death. Stertorous breathing, and the whiff or puff at the corner of the mouth, are presumed to indicate an injury to the cere- bro-spinal axis as well as to the cerebrum; but whether the injury is direct or indirect is uncertain, although it is frequently accompanied by extravasation or laceration. When the breathing is only oppressed, or laboured, or heavy, neither extravasation nor lesion to any extent can in general be discovered after death.” (p. 17.)] 415. The following general circumstances point out the causes of pres- H sure of the brain. In fracture of the skull with impression, the surgeon J discovers it by the sight and touch. In extravasation of the blood, the u( symptoms appear most commonly some time, some minutes or hours, after i the injury. When the extravasation at once produces symptoms it is I ■ generally fatal. The seat of the extravasation may be between the dura tti mater and the skull, beneath the dura mater, under the pia mater, in the rf substance of the brain, in the ventricles, or on several other places at once, i but no definite symptoms mark the particular spot. Only in extravasation of blood between the skull and the dura mater is the pericranium always less attached, and in trepanning the bone does not bleed, so that even from the very onset of the extravasation its existence may be determined by that It circumstance. In elderly persons, however, these signs are less certain, on- Serous or purulent extravasation always takes place some time after the pre- ; vious accident, after symptoms of irritation, inflammation, or concussion have come on. If the extravasation be between the dura mater and the j skull, a circumscribed swelling is produced externally by the separation of ( the pericranium, (par. 386.) 416. The prognosis of pressure on the brain depends on its degree, its jftt causes on the accompanying injuries, and on the constitution of the pa- i! tient. What relates to impression of the skull has been already mentioned. : Extravasation of blood in young subjects and in small quantities may be W dispersed. Outpouring of blood into the substance of the brain or at its base is generally fatal. If the symptoms of inflammation be accompanied 1 with pressure, the prognosis is so much the more unsatisfactory. 417. The treatment of pressure of the brain consists in the removal of i its causes and in preventing inflammation. In impressions of the skull or ii when foreign bodies have penetrated from without into its cavity, the - rules already laid down must be employed. [The use of calomel to ptyalism, as already mentioned in treating of inflammation of r the brain, (par. 409,) is here also indispensably necessary.—J. F. S.J 418. Extravasation of blood may be removed either by absorption or by trepanning. The absorption may be attempted if the symptoms be t slight, do not increase, and if the seat of the extravasation be probably unconnected with any external injury. The means employed for this pur- pose are repeated blood-lettings, purging, and cold fomentations. 419. If the symptoms of extravasation be severe, if they do not subside under active antiphlogistic and derivative means, but, on the contrary, in- crease, if there be on the head any injured part at which the violence has es- i pecially acted, which is painful or swollen, and if it be found by a cut that lie pericranium is not attached but loose, then that part must be trepanned.