DISLOCATION 804 excite us to the early employment of the means of reduction ; although the hitherto known cases do not irrevocably prove the actually resulting- reduction, as the lengthening of the limb effected, and the diminished lameness, perhaps, depend on the displacement of the pelvis, or the position of the head of the thigh-bone in the ischiatic pit. (1) I have observed one case of dislocation on both sides, in which the walking was at first extremely difficult, but from the fifteenth year and onwards so improved, that now, when the patient is about twenty years old, there is scarcely any trace of peculiar gait to be noticed. (2) Pravaz (a) communicates a case of reduction of congenital dislocation of the , thigh, in a girl eight years old, by gradual lengthening of the limb, and by violent ab- duction, assisted by a methodical pressure on the great trochanter. If the reduction be ensured by long-continued rest, various movements of the limb should be performed, the body still being at rest. He believes that even in the cases in which there is not any existing cotyloid cavity, a dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone downwards causes slight halting. A second case happened in a boy of eight years, in whom the reduction was effected by gradual extension, kept up for several months, after which gymnastic exercises were used, which were proper for strengthening the joint and per- fecting its coaptation (b). Guerin effected a cure in six cases. H. Joffre (c) refers to the two cases of Pravaz, denies the observations of Humbert (d), and thinks that in them no perfect reduction was found, but that merely the head of the bone was situated in the ischiatic pit. Heine, of Cannstadt, has given a very clever apparatus, which, with continued exten- sion, permits every other seemingly necessary movement and direction of the extremity. But notwithstanding all his care and perseverance, he could not, in this dislocation of the thigh, effect any result (e). Guerin (/) makes a preparatory and continued extension, by which the shortened muscles are lengthened and are brought to stretch out; cutting through the muscles which do not lengthen ; extension of the shortened ligaments, and where this is im- possible, cutting them through ; reduction and its preservation by apparatus. According to Pravaz (g) every congenital dislocation may be reduced, if it be possible to bring the thighs up to the shoulders, without bending the legs against the thighs (A). OF DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-CAP. (Luxatio Patellai, Lat.; Verrenkung der Knieschiebe, Germ.; Luxation dc la Pot id e, Fr.) : Le Vacher et Picquet, Theses de variis patella; luxationibus. Paris, 17G1. 4to. Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 347. Cooper, A., above cited, p. 178. Malgaigne, Memoire sur la determination des diverses especes de Luxation de la Rotule. Paris, 1837. 1083. Dislocation of the Knee-cap may happen in two different direc- tions, viz., outwards and inwards; the former kind of displacement is much more common than the latter. These dislocations may be complete or incomplete ; in the first the cap leaves the joint-surfaces of the thigh- bone, and rests on one or other protuberance ; in the second it still partially touches the corresponding surface. Diagnosis of dislocation of the knee- cap is always easy ; the limb is outstretched ; and if it be attempted to bend the leg, the pain is increased ; the knee has lost its natural form. In (Vi) Revue Medicale, April, 1835. (6) Annalesd’IIygiene publique ; in Froriep's Notizen, No. 122. (c) Journal des Connaissances Medico-Chirurgi- cales, May 1838, p. 180. (d) P. Humbeht and N. Jacquier, Essai et Observations sur la maniere de reduire les Luxa- tions spontanees ou symptomatiques de 1’Articu- lation ileo-femorale; methode applicable aux lux- ations congenitales et aux luxations anciennes par cause externe. Paris, 1835; with Atlas of 20 ^ plates. (e) Ueberspontane und congenitale Luxationen, y so wie fiber einen neuen Schenkellials-Biirch- m Apparat. Stuttgardt, 1842. (f) Gazette Medicale de Paris, 1841. No. 7-10. 1 (</) Bulletin de l'Academie Royale de Medecine, vol. vii. p. 5. (/i) A. Sanson; in Rev. deSpecialites, 1841, Feb. fl —Journal de Medecine de Lyon, 1841, Nov. p. 381.