61 FROM COCKSPURRED RYE.—NOMA. fA very interesting account of mortification from the use of rye-bread affected with cockspur (secale cor nut um, Lat.; Mutterkom, Germ.; ergot, Fr.) has been given by Thomson. “ This is,” says he, “ a species of mortification which has not been observed in this country; but it is well known and has been frequently observed in different parts of the continent of Europe, particularly in France, where it has been repeatedly known to prevail in some districts as an endemial disease.” (p. 538.) Pereira (a) supposes this disease is referred to in a passage he quotes from Sigebert. “ 1089, a pestilent year, especially in the western parts of Lorraine, where many persons became putrid, in con- sequence of their inward parts being consumed by St. Anthony’s fire. Their limbs were rotten and became black coal. They either perished miserably or, deprived of their hands and feet, were reserved for a more miserable life.” He also refers to a similar passage in Bayle, with the addition, that “ the bread which was eaten at this period was remarkable for its deep violet colour.” (part ii. p. 595.) Thomson says, the disease was first noticed by Dodard in 1676; then by Saviard (b), in 1694; and by Noel (c), in 1710, in the Hotel Dieu at Orleans, of which they were both surgeons; in 1709 and i 1716 it appeared in Switzerland, and was described by Langius (d); Quassoud, and also Bossau, described it on its appearance in Dauphiny in 1709. Duhamel (e) mentions that in 1748 not more than four or five persons out of a hundred and twenty who had been attacked escaped with life. Elliotson some years since had, in St. Thomas’s : Hospital, a case of gangrene of the leg after using ergot; but he informs me that on examination after death the arteries of the limb were found ossified: it might, however, have been the immediate exciting cause of the disease. Although there was no doubt that in man the cockspur would produce gangrene, Model (/), a Russian, made experiments which led him to conclude that rye, damaged with cockspur, had not the power of exciting gangrene in brutes. This remarkable ■ statement induced the Royal Society of Medicine at Paris to employ Tessier (g) to visit ■ i those countries where the disease was prevalent, and to institute experiments to deter- mine the fact, and the result showed that brutes eating it were destroyed by gangrene; i but, in all the animals upon which it was tried a certain quantity, varying according to i circumstances, of the cockspur was required to be taken, in order to produce the effect; hi and, as Thomson says, “ this afforded also a simple explanation of the fact, that persons , might live for a considerable time upon rye affected with cockspur without suffering any Insensible injury from its use.” (p. 547.) Pereira states, however, that “there are not It wanting cases apparently showing that spurred rye has no injurious action on animals, i The most remarkable and striking are those related by Block. In 1811 twenty sheep d ate together nine pounds of it daily for four weeks without any ill effects. In another i; instance twenty sheep consumed thirteen pounds and a half daily for two months with- i out injury. Thirty cows took together twenty-seven pounds daily for three months with u impunity, and two fat cows took, in addition, nine pounds of ergot daily, with no other 1 obvious effect than that their milk gave a bad caseous cream, which did not yield good i butter. These statements furnish another proof to the toxicologist that the ruminants t suffer less from vegetable poisons than other mammals.” (p. 600.) A very curious history of a mother and five children, some of whom lost one and others both legs, as related by Dr. C. Woolaston (It), seems to have originated in the use of discoloured clog-wheat. Ergotism, as the disease produced by the cockspurred wheat or rye is called by the French, is of two kinds, the convulsive and the gangrenous; with the latter only have I ! to do here ; it sets in with formication, or the feeling of insects creeping over the skin, voracious appetite, coldness and insensibility of the extremities, followed with gangrene.] [32.* Here must also be mentioned that mortification of the cheek which has been called Noma by Vogel. It is fortunately not frequent, as it is a horrible and generally fatal disease. With a single exception, of the half dozen cases I have seen, all were children under four or three years old ; some idiopathic, and others originating in a sloughing of the mucous membrane of the mouth, under the careless use of mercurials ; and, though («) Elements of Materia Meilica, part ii. Lon- don, 1840. 8vo. ) Journal des Savans, 1076, p. 7 {'■) Memoiresde l’Academie Koya de Paris, 1710, p . 61. 76. Royale des Sciences (d) Descriptio Morborum ex esu Clavorum Seca Unorum. (e) Memoires de l’Academie Royale de Paris, 1748, p. 528. (/) Bomare, Dictioimaire d'Histoire Naturelle. vol. xix. (ff) Memoires de laSociete Royale de Modecine, 1776, p. 254, 1777-8, p. 587 (A) Philos. Trans., 1762, p. 5C3.