GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 335 IV.—OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. (" Vulnera sclopetaria, Lat.; Schusswunden, Germ.; Plaies par armes a feu, Fr.) Park, A., Maniere de traiter les Plaies faites par arquebuses, fleches, etc. Paris, 1 551. 8vo. Gale, Thomas, An excellent Treatise of Wounds made with Gunshot, in which is confuted both the grose error of Jerome of Brunswicke, &c., in that they make the wound venomous, which cometh through the common powder and shotte. And also, there is set out a perfect and true Methode of Curinge those Woundes. London, 1563. 8vo. Clowes, William, Aprooved Practise for all young Chirurgions concerning Burn- ings with Gunpowder and Woundes made w'ith Gunshot, Sword, &c. London, 1588. 4to. Wiseman, Richard, A Treatise of Gunshot Wounds; in his Eight Chirurgical Treatises. London, 1676. folio. 4th Edit., 1705, here used. Brown, John, A Compleat Discourse of Wounds, both in general and particular. As also a Treatise of Gunshot Wounds in general. London, 1678. 4to. Le Dran, Traite, ou Reflexions tirees de la pratique sur les Plaies d’Armes a feu. Pa- ris, 1740. 4to. I Louis, A., Coursde Chirurgie pratique sur les Plaies d’Armes a feu. Paris, 1746. 4to. Ravaton, Chirurgien d’arme'e, ou Traite des Plaies d’Armes a feu et d’Armes blanches. Paris, 1768. 8vo. Amsterdam, 1748 8vo., here used. Schmidt, Preissschrift von der Behandlung der Schusswunden. Wien, 1788. Percy, Manuel de Chirurgien d’armee, ou Instruction de Chirurgie Militaire sur le Traitement de Plaies, et spe'cialement de celles d’Armes a feu: avec la methode d’extraire de ces plaies les corps etrangers, et la description d’un nouvel instrument propre a cet ■•usage. Paris, 1792. Hunter, John, A Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds. Edited 1 by E. Home. London, 1794. 4to. Dufauart, Analyse des Blessures d’Armes a feu, et de leur Traitement. Paris, 1801. F. 8vo. Lombard, Clinique Chirurgicale des Plaies faites par Armes a feu. Strasbourg, 1804. I 8vo. Guthrie, G. J., On Gun-shot Wounds of the Extremities requiring the different Oper- ations of Amputation; with their After-treatment. London, 1815. 8vo. 3rd Edit. 1827. Thomson, Dr. John, Report of Observations made in the British Military Hospitals 4 in Belgium, after the battle of Waterloo, with some Remarks on Amputation. 8vo. j. Edinburgh, 1816. Hennen, John, Observations on some important points in the Practice of Military B Surgerv, and the arrangement and police of Hospitals. Edinburgh, 1818. 8vo. 2nd . Edit. *1820. Dupustren, Des Blessures par Armes a feu ; in his Legons orales de Clinique Chirur- V gicale, vol. ii. p. 417. Besides these the treatises of BoucnER, Bordenave, De la Martinique, and Faure, . I in the Memoires de l’Academie de Chirurgie, and the greater number of the writers on i Wounds in general, already quoted. 334. Gun-shot Wounds are those produced by hard, usually metallic bodies, as balls of various size, pieces of lead and so on, projected by the explosion of gunpowder. They are therefore, in the highest degree ' bruised wounds. The violence with which the body causing the division, [ of organic parts acts, is so great that, as a consequence of the immense i bruising and tearing, it is always accompanied with disorgzaniation, that I is, with a slough. [“ Wounds of this kind,” says Hunter, “ vary from one another, which will happen, i) according to circumstances. These variations will be in general according to the kind *' °‘ body projected, the velocity of the body, with the nature and peculiarit ies of the parts