557 AND FORE-ARM. , or completely destroyed. According- to Astley Cooper these fractures ii unite merely by ligamentous inter-substance except when the fracture is i external to the capsular ligament. [The splitting of the lower end of the upper-arm-bone into the joint is certainly the worst kind of fracture of this bone; but the higher it splits up, of the less consequence is it, as there is then ample room for its bony union external to the capsule. Fracture of the condyles, especially of the inner, is a very common accident in children, and, if not seen immediately after its occurrence, is difficult, to distinguish on account of the very great effusion which speedily occurs. If it cannot, therefore, be easily discovered, it is best to apply an evaporating lotion for a few days, and then ex- amine it. No bandage should be put on till the swelling has subsided, for at first it cannot be worn on account of the pain from the pressure, and afterwards if applied whilst the swelling is subsiding, it is continually loosening and needing repeated reappli- cations. The best mode of treating it is, to bend the fore-arm whilst supine, which re- laxes all the muscles attached to the condyle ; and then having applied a piece of wetted pasteboard, notched on each side at the bend of the joint, both before and behind the upper- and fore-arm, to wind a roller around it. A very important part of the treatment consists in employing gentle passive flexion and extension of the fore-arm about a fort- night after the accident, and gradually increasing it from day to day, otherwise the liga- mentous matter thrown out often restricts the movements of the joint. Fracture of the outer condyle is less frequent but is to be treated in the same manner. -J. F. S.j 651. In Compound Fractures of the upper-arm the limb is to be placed in a slightly bent position upon a pillow, the arm bandaged to suit the wound with Scultetus’s bandage, and the splints fastened with a double bandage. The rest of the treatment is to be according to the ordinary rules. Sauter has proposed his suspensory apparatus for compound frac- tures of the upper-arm. [In treating compound fracture of the upper-arm care should be taken that the splints, if applied immediately, should not be bound tightly. I think it is best, merely to bandage • the arm to a single well-padded splint, upon which it may lie till the wound be healed, or at any rate till all inflammation has subsided. If the wound be considerable and the i patient restless, it is advisable to put on, as a second, Abeknethy’s bracket-splint, by which the ends of the bone are kept quite quiet, and the wound can be daily tended without disturbing the apparatus. When the wTound is perfectly healed, the case is.to be treated merely as a simple fracture.—J. F. S.] XIII.—OF FRACTURE OF THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. 652. Of these are distinguished fractures of the spoke-bone alone or of the cubit alone, fracture of both bones together, and fracture of the olechranon. 653. Fracture of the Spoke-bone alone (Fractura Radii, Lat. ; Fruch der Speiche, Germ. ; Fracture du Radius, Fr.) is more frequent than that of the cubit and mostly consequent to a fall on the hand, when the arm is outstretched, in which case it usually happens in the middle of the bone ; more rarely it is produced by direct violence. The diagnosis is not dif- ficult ; the seat of fracture is felt, and during pronation and supination, crepitation also. The fractured ends turn towards the cubit. Only when the fracture is near the lower end of the bone is the diagnosis difficult, and its confounding with sprain so much the more possible, as frequently at the first there is scarcely any or no distortion of the hand, nor is its motion interfered with. The following appearances arise from the dis- placement of the fractured ends: the hand is more perfectly prone than if it were dislocated to the dorsal or radial side ; the lower end of the fore- arm is narrower, less flat, more rounded; there is a bending inwards of