501 UNION OF SIMPLE FRACTURES. Second period—Fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous state, from the sixteenth to the twentg- fifth dag.—The cellular tissue nearest the external surface, again softens and returns to its healthy state, whilst the soft parts below are daily more firmly united with the inter- mediate substance, and with it distinctly bound the circumscribed swelling of callus, in which the fragments of bone are, as it were, involved. This swelling consists principally of two substances, of which the outer, whitish, cartilaginous in appearance and density, here and there entirely cartilaginous, lies over the bone to some distance from the seat of fracture, and at the most distant point from the fractured part now presents the hard- ness and appearance of bone : the internal substance of the swelling is reddish and thin, adheres closely to the surfaces of the fracture, but more loosely to the first denuded surface of the bone not yet altered, and thus forms an intermediate substance ; both tissues gradually and indefinitely pass the one into the other. The periosteum, swollen at those parts which have now become changed into cartilage and bony matter, is easily ij distinguished and separated, but around the middle of the fracture appears entirely united with the swelling of the callus. The medullary tube is obliterated with compact or porous bony substance. Third period.—From the twentg-ffth dag to the third month.—Ossification commences at the part most distant from the fracture in that fibrous substance which is changed into cartilage, whilst, at the same time, the red intermediate substance is converted into fibro-cartilage. Thus the whole swelling at length becomes bony; still, however, there may be some motion, and if the bone be cut lengthways "with a saw, a white i streak will be observed traversing the callus in the region of the fracture, with which i the swollen periosteum is adherent. The medullary tube is obliterated ; the soft parts have returned to their healthy state. Fourth period.—Bong state; from the third to the sixth month.—The streak is still seen for a long time on the external surface, either with the periosteum more firmly adhering, or with a little remaining groove; within, as soon as the larger medullary cells begin to be formed, it disappears. Fifth period.—diminution of the Swelling. Restoration of the medullarg tube.—The | bony substance filling the medullary tube becomes cellular; the cells enlarge, and at length entirely disappear, and in their stead the healthy medulla appears. In the callus also cells are produced, and the size of the swelling being simultaneously diminished, § the external crust becomes compact. From this digest of the observations of Breschet and Villerme', which is given by 18'Miescher, from whose work I have copied it, it appears, as he says, that these writers, h “although they consider the formation of the callus does not so much originate from the eVperiosteum alone as that it is formed between the bone and the periosteum, in this respect, ■ > however, agree with Dupuytrf.n, that they confirm the double formation of bony sub- 0 stance; of which the one, produced in the external surface as well as in the medullary , tube, afterwards disappears, (cal provisoire,) whilst the other, formed between the frac- tured parts themselves, remains and by degrees becomes more firm (cal defnitif.)’* 'p. 119-121.) Miescher, endeavouring to settle the disputed points in regard to the production of callus, proposes to himself the following questions:—“ Whether, according to the laws of nature, it can be that the inflamed periosteum can be converted into bone; which seems from Weber’s observations to be effected ; Breschet, Villerme, and Meding hold that the plastic substance exuded from the internal surface of the periosteum, can alone be ossified, which, however, Scarpa entirely denies is ever converted into bone. The other question, whether really there be a formation of bony substance, such as Dupuy- ( trf.n says is formed, temporary or provisional, or not at all; if it exist, what is its nature, what its purpose ? It is also very doubtful whether the bone itself remains unchanged, or, being softened, is rounded by absorption, wastes, or lastly is loosened up and swells.” (p. 125.) Our space will not permit following the interesting history of Miescher’s inquiries upon these points, and we must therefore be content with the fol- lowing summary which he has given of their results:— “ To one considering these observations, the theory of the formation of the callus appears extremely simple; for it is produced, as in every reunion, by the first intention, by the exudative inflammation of all the parts injured by the fracture ; but the bony Mcallus originates from that exudation which proceeds from the bones. We observe the u iinflammation first in the soft parts, the periosteum, the cellular tissue, and the muscles ; ( all which becoming swollen, hardened, and consolidated together, surround the fracture (with, as it were, a pretty firm capsule. The inflammatory exudation is clearly perceived dn the internal surface of this capsule, from which I have frequently noticed that reddish 1 isemi-fluid substance produced which gradually becoming firm is provided vith vessels.