399 INFLAMMATION OF THE DURA MATER. cavity of the cranium, by breaking through the orbital process of the frontal bone, going through the anterior part of the brain, and then passing upwards about as far as the coronal suture, making a distinct track throughout its course upon the surface of the brain. In this instance there was no one symptom during the fortnight the patient lived that could have led one to suppose that any injury whatever had happened to the brain.” (p. 523.) (2) As in wound of the dura mater much danger is to be dreaded from the extension of the inflammation to and throughout the serous arachnoid membrane by which it is lined, the younger Cline advised that a puncture should be forthwith made through the arachnoid and pia mater into the surface of the brain, for the purpose of exciting a unore active and immediate inflammation, by which the general serous cavity might at once be shut off from the wound that he thus hoped to circumscribe. I once saw him adopt this practice, but the patient died ; the injury he had received, upon examination after death, showing itself to have been beyond remedy. Astley Cooper also recommended this treatment, but without acknowledging at whose suggestion.—J. F. S.] 400. When good suppuration takes place, a nourishing diet and con- stantly dry dressings are advisable. If the suppuration be bad and thin, if fresh symptoms of inflammation arise, there is probably some splinter, which it must be attempted to remove; or the pus may not flow freely, in which case it may be necessary to enlarge the opening in the bone by trepanning. If an abscess form in the brain, it must be opened with a lancet (1). If the patient be weak, the suppuration bad, or the wound itself gangrenous, strengthening remedies must be used, especially bark, and it must be bound up with astringent remedies, as lime water, decoction of bark or of elm bark, with tincture of myrrh, with digestive salves and the like. If a portion of the brain be entirely spoiled, it must be taken away. Loose pieces of bone must be carefully withdrawn. The dressings should be changed each time as quickly as possible, so that the wound be not long exposed to the air ; care must also be taken that the air surrounding the patient should not be foul. [(1) If there be any sufficient guide to the situation of the abscess, I do not see any (:i objection to making a cut through the brain to it; but to ascertain this is always very • difficult and generally impossible, as it by no means follows that the abscess is imme- 6t diately opposite the part where the blow has been received. The case which Guthrie ifi quotes from La Peyronie (a) appears to be merely a simple circumscribed collection O'f of pus beneath the dura mater, which, as its quantity increased, enlarged its cavity at b the expense of the brain, so that it was presumed to have attained the size of a hen’s a egg, and to have descended to the corpus callosum. It was immediately emptied by )• puncturing the dura mater. Dupuytren’s case (b) is, however, an abscess in the substance of the brain. A young man was wounded on the head with a knife; the wound healed, leaving only a little pain, which occasionally came on about the scar. Some years after he was brought to F the Hotel-Dieu, in a state of stupefaction, with which he had been suddenly seized. An i incision through the scar exposed the point of the knife sticking in the bone, the removal p of which gave no relief. The trephine was also applied without benefit. The paralysis B continuing on the side opposite to that on which the wound had been received, it was r determined to open the dura mater, and plunge a knife into the brain, which evacuated £ a large quantity of pus. The paralysis ceased that night; he recovered his speech, r became sensible, and entirely though gradually recovered.] 401. Foreign bodies often remain in the brain with different con- • sequences. Sometimes they do not give rise to the slightest symptom 1 through the whole of life; sometimes merely pain is produced when the head is placed in a certain position ; sometimes they cause cramps, and epileptic fits ; often sudden coma, convulsions, and death. ! [Numerous examples are given of foreign bodies lodged in the substance of the brain, and producing symptoms of less or greater severity; but in the greater number it 1 W'H be found, that after a few months they die either suddenly, or from some inflamma- i 00 Sur la partiedu Cerveauou 1’Arae exerce ses fonctions; in Hist, de l’Acad. des Sciences, 17-14, p. 190. (6) Lancette Franraise, 14th Oct. lSdO.