155 GONORRHOEA. Bacot, John, A Treatise on Syphilis, &c. London, 1829. 8vo. Abernethy, John, Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Surgery. Lond., 1830 8vo. Eisenmann, der Tripper in alien seinem Formen und in alien seinem Folgen, vol. ii. Erlangen, 1830. 8vo. Wallace, William, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease and its Varieties. London, 1838. 8vo. Ricorh, Philippe, M.D., Traite Pratique des Maladies Vencriennes; ou, Recher- ches Critiques et Expe'rimentales sur l’lnoculation appliquee a l’etude de ces Maladies. Paris, 1838. Svo. The same translated, as A Practical Treatise on Venereal Diseases; or, Critical and Experimental Researches on Inoculation applied to the study of these affections, &c., by H. P. Drummond, M.D. London, 1842. 8vo.—[N.B. The quota- tions are from this translation, but compared with the original.—J. F. S.] Besides these, the works upon the Venereal Disease, referred to in Venereal Sores. 154. Inflammation of the internal membrane of the Urethra, vulgarly called Clap, ( Gonorrhoea, Blennorrhcea, Blennorrliagia Urethra;, Ure- thritis, Urethralgia, Lat.; Tripper, Germ.; Chaude-pisse, Fr.,) is pro- duced by any irritation of the urethra by a foreign body, by gouty, rheu- matic, scrofulous acrimony, but most commonly by contagion in coition. [“ The disease,” says Swediaur (a), “ is commonly called a Clap, from the old French word clapiers, which were public shops kept and inhabited by single prosti- tutes, and generally confined to a particular part of the town, as we see still to-day in several great towns in Italy.”—(note, p. 22.) He disapproves of the term gonorrhoea, as conveying an incorrect notion, and proposes the use of Blennorrhagia, signifying a flow of mucus. Wallace objects to the employment of either designation, and pro- poses, in their stead, that of Venereal or Syphilitic Catarrh, which, however, is merely a trivial alteration of the modern French name, Catarrhe Urethrale.] 155. The symptoms and course of gonorrhoea vary considerably. In men, ; ata shorter or longer period, usually six, eight or ten days after an impure i connexion (1), there arises a tickling sensation at the orifice of the urethra, which frequently spreads over the whole glans ; the lips of the orifice are t generally a little swollen and inflamed (2) ; and the discharge of urine is painful (3). After some time a discharge takes place, at first more serous, but afterwards thick, puriform and yellowish white. The pain is some- I times slight, sometimes severe, extends towards the root of the penis, which i itself swells (4) ; the orifice of the urethra is much inflamed, excoriated, i and its canal narrowed by swelling (5) ; the stream of urine is lessened, and 1 frequently broken (6). Painful erections occur with bleeding from the urethra (7), and, if the spongy body itself be swollen, painful curving of the 1 penis or chordee, (chorda, Lat.,) on account of its not yielding during the : erection (8). The patient often feels a heaviness in the pelvis ; the scro- tum, testicles, and perinaeum become very tender (9) ; the prostate and : inguinal glands, painful and swollen. The surface of the glans itself often I inflames, swells, and secretes a puriform discharge (balanitis.) The fore- skin frequently inflames and becomes so swollen that it cannot be brought backwards over the glans ( phimosis,) or, if this have been forcibly effected, it remains constricted, behind the glans (paraphimosis.) The puriform fluid discharged from the urethra is, in active inflammation, of small quan- tity, discoloured, greenish, even blackish (10), and is not unfrequently wholly suppressed, (dry gonorrhoea,) febrile symptoms, inflammation of the testicles, of the eyes, and swellings of the joints ensue. In very acute gonorrhoea the inflammation may be continued even to the bladder and produce dangerous retention of urine (11). (a) Practical Observations on Venereal Complaints. Edinburgh, 1733. Svo.