775 AND OF THE PELVIC BONES. interspinous ligaments of the spinous processes, and the hinder so-called yellow liga- ments may be torn. If the tearing be confined to the interspinous and to the upper ligaments, the patient may recover after a longer or shorter period of rest; but tearing of the yellow ligaments causes palsy and death (a). 1013. 1 he ligaments of single vertebra may be partially or completely torn through, without dislocation, but the injury of the spinal marrow therewith connected may cause death suddenly or subsequently ; and to such cases all that has been said in relation to fractures of the spine applies. In every case of distortion and tearing of the ligaments of the spine, only a strict antiphlogistic treatment, with continual rest, and subsequently, fre- quent purgatives to prevent the destructive subsequent diseases, may be employed. III.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE PELVIC BONES. (Luxatio Ossium Pelvis, Lat.; Verrenkung der Beckenhnochen, Germ.; Luxation des Os du JJassin, Fr.) Creve, Von den Krankheiten des weiblichen Beckens. Berlin, 1795. 4to. p. 137. 1014. The broad surfaces of the articulations of the pelvic bones, and the great strength of their ligaments, render their separation impossible under natural circumstances, except when acted upon by extraordinarily great violence. The rump-bone may be dislocated inwards, and the hip- bone, upwards. These dislocations are never complete ; the effects of violence, however, usually act upon the intestines of the pelvic cavity and upon the spinal marrow, and inflammation and tearing of these intestines and effusion of blood, and so on, in the pelvic cavity, ensue; also, palsy of the lower limbs, of the bladder, and rectum ; and not unfrequently is frac- ture of the pelvic bones present. The treatment of these dangerous injuries must be precisely the same as has been mentioned (par. 615) for fractures of the pelvic bones. One case shows that a dislocation of the hip-bone upwards may be produced by a fall from a great height, without symptoms of concussion of the spinal marrow or injury of the pelvic intestines. The share-bone and the spine of the hip-bone of the left side were higher; the left limb was shorter than the other, but the distance from the tro- chanter to the spine of the hip-bone and to the knee, was the same as on the other side ; flexion and extension of the thigh were accompanied with severe pain in the symphysis pubis and sacro-iliaca, with which frequently the whole hip-bone moved. The exten- sion caused only severe pain, without bringing the limb to its natural length. The treatment in this case consisted in strict quiet, and the employment of proper antiphlo- gistic remedies. When the patient began to walk, he gradually, by the weight of his body, recovered the proper position of the hip-bone (6). 1015 Great as must be the violence to produce a separation of the hip- bone, if its articular connexions have their natural degree of strength, just as easily can it be produced if these connexions be lax and yielding. Such is the case in loosening and swelling of the ligaments of the pelvis during pregnancy. Wherefore also frequently from the extension which these bones suffer during delivery, or if the woman get about soon alter her downlying, a pretty smart pain is suffered in one or both joints of the pelvic bones, which recurs at every movement, and is accompanied at first with the sensation of a tearing, and subsequently, distinct crepitation is felt in the pelvic joints. The gait of the patient is then difficult, and on (6) Ibid, p. 135. (a) Boyer, p. 121.