716 BILIARY FISTULA. “ was conceived to be dying, being nearly choked by the tumour, when in consequence of an effort, the calculus was thrown out and he recovered.” In another the stone is stated “ to have occasioned a quinsy.” One specimen was removed after it “ had been twelve years breeding,” and another “formed in twelve days.” (p. 191.)—J. F. S.] B.—OF BILIARY FISTULA. (Fistula biliosa, Lat.; Gallenjistel, Germ.; Fistule biliaire, Fr.) 911. Biliary Fistula originates in a division of the gall-bladder, or ducts, after they have become adherent to the peritoneum. The bile is poured from the fistulous opening, and although its loss be often very con- siderable, it is rarely that important symptoms are produced. Not unfre- quently the fistulous opening closes of itself, in general after the escape of a gall-stone ; often it breaks again, and tire patient then usually finds him- self better. The fistula is mostly situated in the region of the liver; fre- quently, however, at a tolerable distance from it. I have observed the case of a woman in which, after severe symptoms, a fistulous opening formed near the navel, and out of it a considerable quantity of gall-stones, of the size of peas, escaped from time to time. 912. The cause of biliary fistula is usually a collection of bile in the gall-bladder, (Hydrops vesiculce fellis,) by which is formed beneath the short ribs a swelling, at first defined, regular, and fluctuating, which slowly increases, and is accompanied with pain, that had existed previous to the swelling, and at first not severe. It often is diminished by pressure, or spon- taneously, when the gall-bladder is much distended, in which case part of the bile is forced into the intestine, and is followed by bilious stools, with colicky pain. These symptoms distinguish the filling of the gall-bladder from abscess of the liver. If the swelling of the gall-bladder be consi- derable, it adheres, by means of the inflammation set up in it, with the peritoneum, and forms an opening by ulceration, through which the bile escapes. Gall-stones are usually the cause of this collection of bile. The gall-bladder or the bile-ducts may also be ulcerated by abscess; in which case, after it has opened, pus is discharged, mixed with bile. [Biliary fistulas, from whatever cause, are very rare. I have never seen a single example of this disease; hut I much doubt the possibility of distinguishing its precise origin. It certainly is possible that if, when the bile-duct is stopped, the gall-bladder be over distended, it may adhere to the wall of the belly, and that ulceration may ensue, by which its contents are discharged externally, and the aperture may continue fistu- lous. But there is in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital an enlarged gall-bladder, from stoppage of the common biliary duct, capable of holding at least three, if not four pints of fluid, which did not ulcerate, but was mistaken for an abscess of the liver, and tapped once or twice, and also another, in which the duct being stopped, the gall- bladder had become adherent to the duodenum, ulceration between them had taken place, and the bile thus finding an immediate passage into the bowel, the gall-bladder ceased to serve as a receptacle, and shrivelled to the size of an almond. And it is in this way probably that the gall-bladder more frequently empties itself than externally. The aperture by which abscess in the liver discharges itself, may become fistulous, and have the bile flowing from it, at first mixed with pus, but afterwards almost, if not quite pure. My friend Dr. Roots informs me he has seen one case in which, after an abscess of the liver, bile was discharged; and my dresser, Guest, tells me, that he saw in the Manchester Infirmary a man who, two months after falling on his loins, had an abscess burst in the right hypochondriac region, from which pus and bile at first escaped, subsequently only bile; and that he had seen this person alive, and in tolerable condition as to health, eighteen months after the accident, although his motions being very white, it is probable that little bile could have assisted in the process of digestion. —J. F. S.]