337 CHARACTERS OF shot, as it is called, from a fowling-piece discharged at a distance, which, as Dupuytren states, lodged in the subcutaneous tissue, and were of little consequence; some being dis- charged by suppuration, or removed by hand, whilst others remained quiet where they were lodged.—J. F. S.] 335. Gunshot wounds, like bruised and torn wounds, are at first accom- panied with slight pain (1). They bleed little, or not all; but the bleeding differs according to the way in which the artery is divided. If a large i artery be very quickly divided by a bullet, the bleeding is severe ; but, on the < contrary, scanty, if the artery be more bruised and torn by the diminished •j speed of the bullet (2). From the same circumstances the form of the shot- wound varies : with a quick ball it often rather resembles a cut or stab ; but a weak ball causes greater bruising, tearing, ecchymosis, and so on. ii Most commonly a greater or less degree of shock of the wounded part, or of the whole body, is connected with gun-shot wounds, especially if the ball strike above, or if the injury be in the neighbourhood of any impor- i tant viscus. The shock consists in a diminished sensibility, or complete numbness of the injured part, or of the whole body; in faintness, trem- bling, cold sweats, vomiting, giddiness, small pulse, and so on (3). The symptoms which come on at a later period in shot-wounds are active in- i flammation and swelling, fever, gangrene, nervous symptoms, and copious suppuration (4). [(1) “ It has been supposed,” says Guthrie, “ that gun-shot wounds are not painful at i the moment of infliction. This, as a general principle, is erroneous, although in many the pain is but trifling, whilst in others it is severe, and in some few rare instances the : patient has been unconscious of the injury, (p. 3.) I am induced to conclude, from i many considerations, that the greater the velocity with which the projectile is impelled, the rounder and smaller the size, and the less the resistance opposed, the less will be the :i sensation of pain produced in the sufferer. But even this opinion must be received with , considerable latitude ; and a cannon-ball will sometimes completely destroy the internal i* texture and life of a part, without tearing the skin or causing much pain, and yet the shot causing such injury have usually lost the greater part of the velocity with which it was originally propelled. A musket-ball merely impinging against a soft part, without 1 rupturing the skin, invariably causes much more inability, than if it had actually entered or passed through it.” (p. 5.) (2) “ According to theory,” says Guthrie, “ a gun-shot wound being a contused wound, ought not to bleed, in the first instance, because the parts are dead or deadened; . and, if it should bleed, some great blood-vessel must be injured ; whilst according to the 'j same authority, secondary haemorrhage was to be expected and dreaded at the moment t of the separation of the sloughs. * * * Facts are often opposed to theory, and in no- thing more than on this point; for although some gun-shot wounds bleed but little at the moment of infliction, there is in the greater number more or less loss of blood, and occasionally in considerable quantity, although there be no vessels of importance injured. In wounds of the face and neck, the quantity lost is often considerable, and the clothes are generally covered with it. If the ball inflicting the injury should have come in contact with any solid substance, previously to its touching the human body, it may have become of an angular, irregular, and even flattened form; the wound will be, in consequence of this change in the ball, more lacerated than contused, and the loss of blood in all probability greater. * * * The bleeding from a simple flesh wound soon ceases, and does not return except some violence be done to the part; whilst in a case of a wounded artery, it sometimes continues until the patient dies, which is frequently the case when a large artery is partially divided. If the artery be completely divided, a considerable quantity of blood is quickly lost, and the patieut may also die; but, in general, syncope or a state nearly allied to it supervenes, and the haemorrhage ceases spontaneously. The same thing occurs when a limb is carried away by a cannon-shot, r and proves the safe-guard of the patient’s life; for serious and destructive bleeding has ceased, in most cases, before a tourniquet can be applied: and indeed, in the greater number of cases, they are of no use whatever, for after the haemorrhage lias been spon- taneously suppressed, it does not in general return ; and whenever it does return, the patient’s life will certainly be lost, unless proper and effective assistance be at hand.” • (PP-6, 7.) J VOL. I. Z