81 NERVES, BONES. application of a blister. The red streak or streaks which indicate the inflamed absorbent vessel or vessels, is generally little thicker than a stout thread, pale towards its edges, can at first scarcely be called a swelling, but is more like a streak of paint on the skin, and only after some time has a slightly knotted feel. It runs along the limb with great rapidity, and will in the course of a few hours enter the cavities of the trunk. It termi- nates in suppuration less frequently and less quickly than inflammation of the veins. Generally it subsides as the irritation which has excited it is relieved, and I do not remember to have observed continuance of the cordlike feel long after the inflammation i has ceased.—J. F. S. In reference to these red streaks, Hunter observes:—“ These reddish streaks are sup- i posed to be absorbents, becoming inflamed by their carrying a stimulating fluid. I am apt to suppose them to be absorbents ; but 1 do not conceive that this effect arises from absorp- ; tion. If it arose from such a cause, it should be uniform ; the cause should always exist when the effect takes place. It is first to be observed that it only takes place in certain constitutions, in which absorption one way or other explains nothing; and I find upon observation that this effect shall be coeval with the inflammation where no suppuration has taken place. I have even seen it arise from accident, prior to the possibility of inflammation taking place, viz., in the time of the pain arising from the immediate effects 1 of the accident; this was in the finger, from the prick of a clean needle, which had been for some time pricking new buckskin leather; the glands in the arm-pit were sore, : sickness attended with its usual symptoms, such as oppression, was nearly immediate. Its direction from the source of the circulation is another strong proof of its not arising u from absorption, and its taking place at some distance is also a corroboration of the same opinion. Another strong circumstance in favour of this opinion is, that the morbid ■ poisons do not produce this effect where we know absorption has taken place. Thus the venereal seldom or never produces it.” (p. 275.) - I have seen earthy deposits in the absorbent vessels of the skin, and also of the spermatic • cord, giving them the appearance of corallines.—J. F. S.] Inflammation of Nerves or rather of their sheaths is no very rare circumstance. As the nerves have but few nutritive vessels, the usual symptoms of inflammation, viz., heat, redness, and swelling, are present only in a slight degree. It begins with formication, torpor, frequently with severe darting pain, which spreads in paroxysms, like electric shocks, along the branches of the nerves; and to these are added febrile excite- ment, cramps, and convulsions. The inflammation may have either a chronic or acute course; the former we observe in ischias nervosa and . many neuralgies, the latter in tetanus, hydrophobia, and so on. On examination we find the nervous sheaths especially affected, reddened, swollen; the nervous matter is frequently dissolved, as if grangrenous ; often there are produced exudations in the nervous sheaths, or degenera- tion of the nerves. Inflammation in the Bones occurs either in the periosteum or in the medullary membrane, or in the substance of the bone itself. In all these cases the symptoms are different, especially according to the acute or chronic course of the inflammation. In inflammation of the Periosteum, (Periostitis,) a circumscribed swelling with more or less acute pain is produced by exudation between the bone and the periosteum. If the in- flammation do not resolve, it runs on to hardening, gouty thickening, ex- fr ostosis, into caries, necrosis, and more rarely into fungous degeneration. Inflammation of the Medullary Membrane is characterized by deep-seated, i gnawing pain, at last the bone itself swells throughout its whole thick- ness ; and, if the inflammation do not resolve, it runs on to closing up of the medullary canal, or suppuration and destruction of the bone from I within outwards, in necrosis or fungous degeneration. In inflammation \ of the Bone itself thickening throughout its whole extent (Hypertrophy) I may occur, with closing of the medullary hole, ulceration, necrosis, and different kinds of degeneration of the bony tissue. VOL. i. g