678 CACHEXIA SYPHILOIDEA. and spongy; on the following day he had violent and irregular action of the heart, which did not yield to laudanum or stimulants, but went off suddenly in the afternoon; on the next two days he was severely griped and purged; on the tenth day, the mouth being sore, and the irregularity of the circulation continuing, the mercury was omitted, but as he was more comfortable on the following day, it was resumed, but the palpita- tion returned, and continuing on the twelfth day, the mercury was abandoned. During the whole of the following month the symptoms of irregular action of the heart, of extreme debility, and a strong tendency to syncope, accompanied with cough, evidently proceeding from a deranged stomach, and attended with violent retchings, continued to increase in severity, and his condition became very precarious. No solid food could be taken without an alarming increase of the feelings of oppression and faintness; and stimulants, as brandy in small quantities, ammonia, and aether, were principally bene- ficial. Among the most curious circumstances of this case, was the impossibility of attaining sleep even for a very short period, without bringing on the most painful sense of suffocation and distress, so that he was obliged to be removed immediately into a current of fresh air. These attacks were so violent, and recurred so frequently, as to entirely banish sleep. He recovered, but for more than a twelvemonth after, complained of a hurried circulation, want of strength, and lassitude.” Pearson speaks of a Cachexia syphiloidea, of which he says, he has “ not yet attained to that complete and satisfactory knowledge which would authorize him to obtrude a publication on the subject; but,” observes, “ the experience I have already had in the treatment of that multiform disease, has taught me that it may appear under the follow- ing different circumstances:—1. Where the syphilitic virus has lately existed in the constitution, and the patient has employed the accustomed course of mercury ; 2. Where the patient has been repeatedly diseased with syphilis, and has used several courses of mercury; 3. Where a great length of time, from three to twelve, and sometimes twenty years, has elapsed since the patient has been exposed to the agency of the disease and its remedy ! ! 4. After the gonorrhoea, where small quantities of mercury have been used; 5. Where no venereal complaints, general nor local, have preceded the appear- ance of the Cachexia syphiloidea, and where the patient has never been exposed to the hazard of contracting that disease, nor has laboured under complaints requiring the aid of mercury.” (pp. liv., v.) This is all he says upon the subject, and why he should prefer applying the term Cachexia syphiloidea to Cachexia mercurialis, which the disorder undoubtedly is, does not appear very satisfactory. No more reasonable is Bacot’s per- sistance in using the same title, under which he well enumerates the symptoms which occur in this affection, to wit, “ emaciation, long-continued, and severe nocturnal pains and enlargement of the bones; severe and extensive ulcerations, fever, profuse perspiration, followed not unfrequently by hectic fever and death. The most usual history which a case of this kind affords, is that of a patient, who, perhaps for some common sore of no great extent or severity^, has employed mercury until his health has given way, and until symptoms have arisen of so equivocal a nature as to lead to the belief that the original disease is making inroads into the constitution ; it is under this conviction that the patient either devotes himself to a fresh course of mercury, or his Surgeon, if a decided mercurialist, advocates the same plan; from that moment the disease becomes complicated ; bone generally becomes affected, fresh attacks of nocturnal pains, new and unobserved forms of eruption make their appearance, and are all referred to the original poison, until perhaps a severe form of fever is excited, or some local mischief obliges a discontinuance of the treatment. Then it is that the patient rallies, the constitution appears daily to acquire strength ; but, as in this condition it is not unusual for the osteopic pains to be renewed, and partial relapses to take place, the fatal misapprehension is again renewed, until another exhibition of mercury effectually overpowers the efforts of nature, and the patient sinks under the exhausting influence of the remedy.” (pp. 276, 77.) “ The mercurial cachexia,” says Travers, “ is characterized by irritable circula- tion, extreme pallor and emaciation, an acute and rapid hectic, and an almost invariable termination in phthisis, the utter destruction of the palate, extensive cicatrices, erup- tions, or ulcers of an anomalous character in various parts of the body, and large cranial exfoliations are seen in combination with it.” (p. 87.) (3) This disease is called Eczema rubram by Willan and Bateman, who state that it “ is not exclusively occasioned by mercury, either in its general or more partial attacks; it has been observed to follow exposure to cold, and to recur in the same indi- vidual at irregular intervals, sometimes without any obvious or adequate cause.” (p 254.) “ The quantity of this ichorous discharge,” say these distinguished writers, “ is very considerable, and it gradually becomes thicker and more adhesive, stiffening the linen