657 SYPHILIS WITH MERCURY. tice which was adopted by some, within my recollection, and even to a degree within these hospitals, there is no doubt very sufficient ground for not following the practice of our predecessors. But it would be evidently most injudicious to reject the aid of mercury in the cure of the venereal disease on the ground of the ill effects that may result from its mismanagement, or have been produced by its abuse. We now see the error of the older Surgeons, and do not think it necessary that patients should spit saliva by the pint, nor do we see them in what were fitly enough, from their stench and ill ventilation, called the * foul wards ’ of the hospital, with their tongues ulcerated, swollen, and protruded, their faces tumified, and under all the miseries attendant upon a thorough salivation. We give mercury now in moderate quantities, and it is, I believe, from this improved method of treatment that we now see comparatively few cases of horrible mutilations from sloughing of the penis, from losses of the palate and nose, and from extensive and destructive disease of the bones. Mercury may no doubt be regarded as a specific in the cure of the venereal disease. What this peculiar action of mercury consists in it is impossible to say, and it is equally obscure with the effects of other specific remedies ; but we judge of its operation from its sensible effects, and experience guides us in determining the quantity of the remedy which may be neces- sary, and the degree of effect which may be requisite for the cure of the disease; mer- cury, in short, requires the same caution and judgment in its administration as any other remedy. And although, as I said before, a much milder course than was formerly exhibited may be sufficient to cure the disease, yet it will be necessary to adopt it in particular cases, and to vary the mode of using it in different stages of the complaint, or you may have some of the ill effects which were formerly observed, and the patient’s health may be destroyed without curing the disease. The advantage and benefit of mercury are not then derived from the quantity introduced or from the violence of its effects, but from keeping up a regular and continued action for a certain period. In general the action of mercury should be kept up three weeks for a chancre, a month where the primary sore has been succeeded by bubo, and from six weeks to two months in cases of secondary symptoms ; and if the symptoms should disappear quickly, still it will be right that the remedy should be continued, for the mercury is not given to cure the local symptoms only, but to ensure the system against their recurrence, and to de- stroy the disposition to disease in those parts which have been contaminated by the poison. “ Something may be said too with respect to the form of giving mercury. Where you wish to continue it for a length of time you should give the mild form ; where you wish to affect the system quickly, those kinds should be exhibited which are calculated to operate more rapidly. Hence it is not an unimportant matter whether we should give calomel, blue pill, hi/drarg. c. cretd, or the oxy-muriate of mercury. What we ordinarily employ in private practice is the blue pill; but in the hospital we commonly use mer- curial friction. Mercurial friction can be very thoroughly effected in the hospital; but in private practice it is seldom effectually accomplished, as it is troublesome, dirty, and leads to the exposure of the complaint, and, therefore, except in peculiar irritability of the bowels, is seldom adopted. Five or ten grains of blue pill twice a day, with the addition of opium if the bowels should be irritable, will very commonly be sufficient to cure any complaint similar to that which we have been considering, in short, any se- condary form of the disease; but then it must be a sustained course of mercury, its in- fluence must be kept up on the system for six weeks or two months, or even for a longer period when the bones have been effected. It is necessary not so much to be guided by time as by the disappearance of the symptoms ; and it is right to continue the effect of the mercury somewhat longer, a week, ten days, or a fortnight after the symptoms have subsided. “ But you will ask me what proof you are to have of the system being sufficiently influenced by the mercury, and how you are to know that its action is kept up without prejudice to the patient ? During the mercurial treatment we ought to be satisfied that it has a due effect, and we commonly look for this in the affection of the gums, which become spongy, swollen, red, and tender. An increased flow of saliva is the usual ac- companiment of this state of the gums, and the term ptyalism is often used as an equiva- lent term for the requisite influence of the mercury on the system ; but the increase of the saliva is not at all a necessary consequence of the affection of the system, and is no proof in itself of the efficacy of the remedy; indeed, in some persons it does not take place at all, although there is abundant proof of mercurial action. In fact, the operation of mercury is that of producing a febrile action in some respects similar to hectic, that is, there is increased action of the heart and arteries, with an augmentation of the se- cretions ; and we shall find, in a person who is the subject of mercurial action, that the VOL. i. 2 U