IIERPETIC 628 riuced. Sulphur, sublimate, red and white precipitate, alkalies, and the like especially may be used as ointments, solutions, and baths. If the skin be completely degenerated, the application of caustic, and the entire de- struction of the diseased part of the skin is often necessary. In this treat- ment attention must be paid to cleanliness and suitable diet, each of the above-described ailments must be diminished, and a derivation kept up by issues, setons, and so on. A.-OF HERPETIC ULCERS. Roussel, II. F. A., Dissert, de variis herpetum speciebus, causis, symptomatibus. Cadom., 1779. 8vo.; in Schlegel’s Thesaurus path, therapeut., vol. ii. p. 1. Poupart, Traite des Dartres, 1782. 12mo. Conrad, J., Zus'atze zu Poupart’s Abhandlung von den Flechten. Strasburg, 1785. M'uhlenpfort, Dissert, de Ulceribus esthiomenis eoruinque methodo medendi rationali. Kilon, 1795. IIensler, P. G., De herpete seu formica veterum labis venereae non prorsus experte. Kilon, 1801. 8vo. Tilesius, W. G., Theorie der flechtenartigen Ausschliige. Ein Versuch zur naheren Bestimmung der chronischen Hautkrankheiten. Leipzig, 1802. 8vo. Alibert, Description des Maladies de la Peau observees a l’Hopital Saint Louis, et expositions des meilleures methodes suivies pour leur Traitement. Paris, fol. third book. Payer, P., Traite theorique et pratique des Maladies de la Peau, &c., 2 vols. Paris, 182G-27. 8vo. Ib., Translated into English by R. Willis, M.D. London, 1835. Schies, L., Dissert, de Lupo. Halae, 1831. The Works of Bateman, Schedel and Cazenave, on Diseases of the Skin. 787. Herpetic Ulcers (Ulcera herpetica, Lat.; flechtenartigen Ge- schwiirefi, Germ.) are characterized by the following appearancesat first there is perceived on some part of the skin, inflammation or little bladders, whence are produced crusts or scabs which subsequently either scale off like bran, or fall off in larger pieces, and expose an inflamed patch of the skin, from whence exudes a fluid of peculiar smell and colour, which drying, fresh crusts are produced, and these again fall off. These ■ ulcerations generally do not penetrate deeply, but readily spread on the surface, and are usually accompanied with much burning and itching. If the herpes spread over a large surface of the body, the perspiration is diminished, the nourishment is disturbed, the action of the bowels stopped, and at last hardening of the bowels, hectic fever, swelling of the I feet and so on are produced. 788. Herpes (Lichen, Serpigo, Lat.; Flechte, Germ.) is divided, ac- i cording to its form, into Herpes furfur aceus, crustaceus, squamosus, pus- i tulosus, phlycteenoides, erythemoides, according as at the onset it is con- nected with bran-like scales, crusts, pustules, blisters, or inflammation. It is called eating herpes (Herpes exedens, rodens, phagadcenicus, Lupus, Lat.; fressende Flechte, Germ.) when the ulceration (generally situated i on the tip of the nose, on the cheeks and lips) spreads quickly ; in this case the parts are eaten away and often considerably destroyed by an acrid fluid beneath a thick scab, or where thick brown or blackish scabs are formed upon roundish sores with bluish edges, dirty colour, and sur- rounding swelling, which enlarge and eat away the parts without secretion of ichor, as it were by dissolving them. When a pustulous eruption dries to a hard scab upon the hairy part of the chin and cheeks it is called