760 RECTO-VAGINAL FISTULA. are able at once to make the edges approximate, then I would urgently advise the frequent use of the hot iron, so as to keep up a raw edge, as well as a complete closure, thereby to ensure adhesion and complete obliteration at once.” (p. 13.) [RECTO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 981.* Still more serious and distressing- to the patient than the vesico- vaginal, is the Recto-vaginal Fistula, (Fistula recto-vaginalis,) in which the stools incontinently passing from the rectum, through an unnatural passage in the vagina, convert it into a cloaca, from whence they con- tinually escape by the vulva. When from the discharge of stool by this aperture, it is suspected that a fistula exists between the rectum and vagina, its situation and extent may be ascertained by the introduction of the finger of one hand into the rectum, and a blunt gorget into the vagina; but if the fistula be very high up, a sound must be introduced instead of the finger ; in the latter case, however, Duparcque prefers the speculum vagina;, as by it, every part, even the most minute fold of the vagina, can be thoroughly examined. He also observes, that “ injections are not to be despised, as they point out in the fistula, indications which cannot be so exactly determined by any other means. Thus the injection, which does not return by the vagina in stercoral fistula, otherwise very evident, shows that it is neither with the rectum, nor with the large intestines that there is a communication, but that it belongs to the small intestines. The nature of the matter escaping from the fistula, furnishes also a sign more or less positive of the region of the intestinal canal with which it is con- nected. Thus the matter is liquid and yellowish from the small intes- tines ; thicker and containing portions of formed motions when the fistula is in the large bowels, and more especially when in the rectum. * * * If the gas formed in the small intestines differ materially from that in the large, it may also afford some guide to the seat of the fistula ; the patient should therefore be put in a bath, and the gas collected and analysed.’] (p. 315.) “ The tendency to spontaneous cure which exists in accidental openings, is especially remarkable in tearings of the vagina. As the neighbouring parts converge concentrically towards the solution, so does it diminish, narrow, and at last the opening entirely disappears. The development of the cellular granulations, which is a sort of lengthening of the tissue, contributes to fill up the space, and especially to form the scar. Thus fistulous openings, of which the size is so great as to do away with all hope of occlusion, are notwithstanding, more or less immediately closed, either spontaneously after all treatment lias been given up as unavailing, or when it has been perhaps more injurious than beneficial.” (p. 327.) A remarkable instance of this kind is mentioned by Duparcque, in which there was one aperture between the vagina and rectum, an inch and a half above the anus, through which the finger readily passed ; and a second between the vagina and urethra, about an inch from the orifice of the latter, of an oblong shape, from seven to eight lines long and two wide. In four months from the delivery, the apertures had diminished to half the size they were of, at the preceding month, when first examined; and at the end of eight months, “ nothing escaped into the vagina, and there was merely a slight depression indicating the scar of the wounds.” (p. 331.) The only treatment in this case was great cleanliness, looseness of the bowels, quiet, and generous living. Duparcque observes, that “ the passage of the faeeulent matter over