636 ITCH. The itch-mite, (Acari/s scarabcei,) which, described formerly (1), and particularly by Wichmann (a), could not be found by others, (Bateman, Baker, Canton,) or has not been considered as the cause of itch, has, by the dispute between Alibert and Lugol, by Kenucci’s observations (b) confirming its existence, by the ingenious colonizing experiments which Albin Gras (c) instituted, and by the careful inquiries of Eble (d) and others, of late become of considerable importance, as thereby the earlier contradictory statements are put to rights. From Eble’s observations especially, it results that the itch-mite is to be found neither in the lymph nor in the pus of an itch patient, and just as little within the vesicles or pustules; also never in Scabies pustulosa, but always in Scabies vesicularis alone, and even at that time only just prior to the formation of the vesicle and its being filled with serum. Eble in vain employed himself to find them elsewhere than between the fingers and on the wrist; they may, however, occur on other parts of the body. In perfectly round, well-defined and iso- lated vesicles the mite is sought in vain ; but, on the contrary, it is seen in vesicles farther advanced, which are only well-rounded and defined on one side, but on the other side have a distinct, dark, grayish, yellow canal, from three-fourths to one line longer, perhaps one-fifth of a line wider, also filled with a little serum, at the opposite blind end of which is found a little wee body, somewhat darker than the rest of the cuticle. If this canal be slit up with a cataract-knife without injuring the dusky body, the mite, a drop of pale serum, usually escapes, and if the back of the cataract-knife be attempted to be brought under the mite, it may be raised and put upon a glass, where it may be ascertained with a simple but strongly magnifying lens, whether you have before you the mite or a piece of epidermis, or dried lymph ; for it shows the trunk and very hairy feet which are usually in motion. Under the microscope may be examined all the peculiarities shown by the mite, as Wichmann had already given them, and the accurate engravings are only to be ascribed to the best microscopes (e). The number of itch-mites has no direct proportion to the intensity of the disease; generally there are but few itch-mites on a person affected with the itch ; a hundred may, however, exist on the hands of a patient who has but few vesicles ( f ). Itch is produced only by the mite and not by the fluid of the pustule, and per- sons inoculated with pus from such pustules do not have the disease in consequence (Emery) (g). The itch-mite belongs to nocturnal animals, as it only wanders about at night, so contagion appears almost alone to be effected by sleeping with an itch patient (Aube) (A). It is important as regards determining the inoculation of itch by transplanting the mite, that the mite can only be found in the itch which has not been treated with external remedies, although the itch continues ; also that single itch-mites may be trans- ferred, but no itch produced, whilst it appears after the translation of a large number (Gras.) The number of mites has also no proportion to the number of pustules ; they are not found in the pustular form, although that is as contagious as the vesicular (i). [(1) Our countryman, Thomas Mouffet, the author and editor of the Theatrum Insectorum, London, 1634, fol., says that Abinzoar or Avenzoar, a Spanish-Arabian Physician of Seville, who lived in the twelfth century, was the first who described the itch-mites as acari, little lice that creep under the skin of the hands, legs and feet, causing pustules full of fluid. He also quotes Joubert, who called them sirones, or mites concealed under the cuticle, beneath which they creep like moles, gnawing and causing a troblesome itching. But Mouffet himself saw them, and remarks that their habitation is not in the pustule, but near it; which statement was subsequently proved by Linnaeus and Dr. Adams. And he also observes, that they cannot be lice as they live under the cuticle, which lice do not ( j). Hyacinth Cestoni, at the latter end of the seventeenth century, made a careful examination of the itch-mite; an account of which is given by Bonomo in a letter to the celebrated entomologist, Redi (A). (a) AetiologiederKr'itze. Hannov., 1791. Second Edit. (b) Gazette des Ilopitaux. Paris, 1834. Gazette Medicale. Paris, 1834. (c) Recherches sur l’Acarns ou Sarcopte de la Gale de l’homme. Paris, 1834. (d) Ueber die existenz tier Kratzmilbe; in .Tahrb. des dstr. Staates. Neueste Folg, vol. ix. p. 3. (e) Raspait., Memoire comparatif sur 1’IIistoire Naturelle de l'Insecte de la Gale. Paris, 1834, Svo. —Fkoriep’s Atlas zu Hautkrankheiten, book v. t. ii. Weimar, 1837.—IIeii.and, Dissert. deAcaro umans. Berol., 1836. 8vo. ( f) Gras; in Annales des Sciences Naturelles, vol. vi. p. 122. (g! Behrend’s Allgem. Repertor der ausl. Jour- nalise, Jan. 1835.—Kohler in Med. Vereins- zeitung fur Preussen. 1836. No. 9, 41. (A) Considerations generates sur la Gale et l’ln- sect qui la produit. Paris, 1836. (i) Pentzlin, upon Scabies vera; in von Grae fe und Waltiier’s Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 176. (j) Kirby and Spence, Introduction to Entomo- logv, vol. i. p. 92. (k) Observations sur les Cirons ou Insectes de la Peau desGaleux ; in Collect. Academ. Etrangerede Paris, vol. iv. p. 574.