TREATMENT OF 578 694. In transverse fracture, the two broken ends are in general easily brought into perfect contact, if the joint be completely straightened, the hip bent, so that the thigh forms an obtuse angle with the axis of the body, and the broken ends pressed together with both hands. If the broken ends be not far apart, that position of the limb is favourable to the cure, in which it is supported on a pillow laid beneath it, upon which it is to be closely pressed with a cross cloth carried round over the lower part of the thigh and fastened on both sides to the bed ; or the whole limb is put upon a machine in which the foot is fixed to a foot- board, and motion at the hip-joint can be restricted at pleasure. This is even to be considered as the most proper mode of treatment, as after it less stiffness of the knee is to be expected than after the use of band- ages (a). The close union of the fractured ends may also in this position be further assisted by properly applied strips of adhesive plaster (6). 695. In considerable separation of the broken pieces, a special bandaging is, however, necessary, which should counteract the contraction of the muscles, and press together the two ends of the fracture, in order to pro- duce union with the smallest possible interspace. After the coaptation of the fractured ends, as already directed, two long pads are to be applied above and below the knee-cap, so that their ends may cross in the ham. By means of a single or double-headed roller they are to be so fastened that a figure of qo is formed around the knee-joint. On the front of the limb is put a strip of linen, four fingers wide, somewhat longer than the limb, with two clefts in its middle, corresponding to the seat of fracture. This is to be fixed, its lower end being somewhat enveloped by spiral turns from the ankle to the knee. The remainder of the roller, with the loose strip of linen, is to be given to an assistant, and a second strip of linen, split to its middle into two heads, applied upon the front of the thigh, and fastened with another roller carried in spiral turns from the groin to the upper part of the knee-cap. The circular bandage is then given to an assistant, and the head of one strip of linen brought through the cleft of the other, both drawn in opposite directions, and their two ends turned in and fixed with the continuation of the spiral turns. The extremity thus placed has a splint laid behind the ham, in order to prevent the motion of the joint. Lanuenbeck (c) puts the extremity in a horizontal posture, allows the patient to sit, and envelops the leg with ascending, and the thigh with descending spiral turns, to the two fragments of the knee-cap. 11 cannot agree with Chelius in the use of this bandage, for the pressure necessarily made upon the front of the broken knee-cap will be very irksome, if not painful to the patient. It is far better, after fixing the circular pads above and below the knee-cap, to draw them together on each side with a tape; by doing which, as the pads are brought together, so is also the upper part of the knee-cap brought down to the lower without any pressure being made on the front of the bone.—J. F. S.] 696. Besides the apparatus mentioned, which best serves the purpose, numerous bandages and apparatus have been proposed, but which for the most part have the objection that they do not counteract the muscles, which draw up the upper fractured piece, nor press equally strongly upon both upper and lower broken end, in consequence of which the (a) Flajani, Medicinisch-chirurgische Beobach- Dupuytren; in Ammon. tungen, Niirnberg, 1799, vol.ii. p. 151. (6) Alcock, Practical Observations on Frac^e Richer and, Histoire des Progres recents de la of the Patella and of the Olechranon. Ixindon, lo-o- Chirurgie, p. 142. (c) Above cited.