DISLOCATION OF THE TOES. 814 with the first row of the instep-bones, in consequence of a fall backwards or forwards, whilst the fore part of the foot was fixed, has been observed by Dupuytren (a). The foot is shortened from four to eight lines by the pushing of the bones upon one another ; the arching of the top of the foot is destroyed, the hinder end of the first metatarsal bone forms a projection of half an inch across, behind which is a deep hollow; the concavity of the sole is completely destroyed ; the extensor tendons are to be felt distinctly, and the toes are raised by their stretching; the move- ments of the foot are impossible. Reduction is effected by fixing the leg when bent, by pulling at the front of the foot with a slip knot, and by pressure on the displaced bones. The foot is then to be laid on one side, and when inflammation has ceased, it should be kept steady in a proper apparatus. [A case of dislocation of the outer two metatarsal bones from the cuboid was admitted in 1835 at St. Thomas’s, under my friend Green’s care. The patient had received a violent blow by the falling of a heavy chest upon the inside of the foot. Upon the top of the foot there was a large swelling before and below the outer ankle, and behind it a cavity in which two fingers could be easily buried, in consequence of the bases of the metatarsal bones having been thrown upwards and backwards upon the top of the cuboid. At the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, where the blow had been received, was a swelling as large as a walnut, dependent, however, only upon effusion without displacement or fracture. The dislocated bones were reduced by continued extension with much difficulty, and as they recovered their place a distinct crackling was heard.— J. F. S.j 1108. Dislocation of the Toes rarely occurs, and to it applies all that has been formerly said in reference to dislocated fingers. Dislocation of the great toe from the corresponding metatarsal bone occurs most fre- quently in consequence of a fall or hanging in the stirrup. It is either incomplete with a painful projection of the lower end of the metatarsal bone, or complete with tearing of the capsule of the joint, of the tendons, of the skin and accompanied with projection of the end of the bone. Its reduction is performed by fixing the foot and extending the toe with a slip knot. If there be also a wound, it must be properly closed with sticking plaster, and inflammation prevented especially by perfect rest, cold applications and suitable treatment. If reduction cannot be effected, the projecting end must be sawn off, and the bone kept in its proper place by a suitable apparatus. Only in splintering of the bone and great destruction of the soft parts is amputation or disarticulation of the corre- sponding metatarsal bone necessary. If an incomplete dislocation remain unreduced, great difficulty in walking, continued pain and inflammation of the skin, which it excites, may indicate the laying bare of the projecting end of the bone by a longitudinal cut, and its removal, in which the tendon is to be pushed aside. Asteey Cooper (h) observed an old simultaneous dislocation of the four lesser toes from their connexion with the corresponding metatarsal bones, by which the functions of the foot were in a great degree destroyed. (a) Revue Medicate, Dec. 1822.—Heidelberg, klinisclie Annalen, vol. iv. pt. iv. (b) Above cited p. 385. END OF VOL. I.