494 TREATMENT OF DIVIDED ACHILLES’ TENDON. of the bandage over it only, are to be removed for the purpose of dress- ing it. Edmonston, A. (a), employs, instead of the bandage generally used in tearing of the Achilles’ tendon, strips of sticking plaster, which give the leg greater steadiness. 569. The slippers of Petit, Ravaton (b), Monro (c), and the sole- slipper (d), are different in their operation, as in the two former the foot is outstretched and the knee at the same time bent; in the two latter, the foot is outstretched, the muscles of the calf drawn down, but the knee is not kept bent. They do not answer, therefore, perfectly to any of the indi- cations laid down, (hence do they require the assistance of bandages (e) ), and their application is always accompanied with difficulties. Graefe’s slipper (/) is more suitable than the others ; it consists of a shoe open upon the instep, and held together with several straps; it is connected by an iron rod, like that used in distortions, to a knee-piece, and this, by means of a hinge, with a calf-piece. Graefe also uses the knee-piece of this apparatus in transverse fracture of the knee- cap, and in tearing of its ligament; as well as the whole apparatus in anchylosis and contraction of the knee-joint. 570. Bandaging has manifestly decided objections. The bandages easily give, become loose, and are not retentive in the same degree; neither flexion of the knee-joint nor extensionof the foot is at our command. The renewal of the apparatus is always troublesome, and exposes the patient, especially if there be a wound, to the danger of again tearing through the scarcely united ends of the tendon ; and so long as the apparatus remains on, the injured part cannot be looked at. 571. The after-treatment is simple. In wounds of the Achilles’ tendon, inflammatory symptoms may require antiphlogistic treatment. The union of the tendon takes place within from four to six weeks; the slipper or bandage is then to be taken off, and the curved splint is to be applied, only at night, upon the instep, for the purpose of keeping the foot properly extended. When the patient begins to walk, he must have a shoe with a high heel, which is to be gradually lowered, and the foot brought to its natural position. The stiffness which often remains for a long while ceases • by frequent motion and by the use of volatile rubbing; as does also the hard projection observed after healing on the part where the division lias existed. According to the indications mentioned in tearing of the Achilles’ tendon, the treat- ment of tears of other tendons may be easily determined, (par. 321.) X.—OF TEARS OF MUSCLES. Pouteau, Memoire sur la Luxation des Muscles, et sur leur Traitement; in his CEuvres Posthumes, Paris, 1783, vol. ii. p. 277. Theden, von der Flecksenausdehnung und Verriickung der Muskelfasein; in his Neuen Bemerkungen und Erfahrungen, vol. ii. p. 195. Beclard, Additions ii l’Anatomie Generale de Bichat, p. 215. Ueber Muskel und Sehnen-Rupturen ; in Hennemann’s Beitragen Meklenburgischer Aerzte zur Medicin und Chirurgie, vol. i. part i. (a) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1821, January. (b) Above cited, plate xxxii. (c) Muhsinna, Neue medicinisch cliirurgische ( c) lb., plate v. fig. 1-9. Beobachtungen. Berlin, 1796, p. 193. (rf) Beinstein, Systematische Darsfellung des (/) Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, chirurgischen Verbandes, p. 520. vol. v. 2, p. 309, plates ii. iii.