141 TREATMENT OF TONSILLAR ABSCESS. thing else, as a local application to the inflamed fauces, is the steam of hot water; whether we are hoping for resolution of the inflammation, or whether we desire to pro- mote and hasten the process of suppuration already begun. * * * The most convenient and effectual inhaler is that of Hercy, from which a large volume of steam is carried inwards against the fauces by the mere natural breathings of the patient.” (p. 790.)] 128. In great swelling of the tonsils scarifications are specially useful; these are made with the palate-lancet or with a common bistoury, the edge of which is guarded nearly to the point, or with the pharyngotome. The patient is to be placed so that the light may fall into his mouth, which is kept open by thrusting a piece of cork between the molar teeth ; the tongue is pressed down with a spatula, and shallow cuts are made with the instru- ment just mentioned into the swollen tonsils. The bleeding is to be pro- moted by soothing luke-warm gargles. [In scarifying the tonsils, there is danger of wounding the carotid artery, or some branch, which will continue bleeding and cause serious alarm. Watson mentions in his Lectures a case of fatal bleeding from wound of the internal carotid artery:—“ Only a very few years ago, in Ireland, it was struck by a surgeon while scarifying a gentle- man’s tonsil, and he died in three minutes.” In another case, which occurred under Watson’s own care in 1838, in which the tonsil glands, during convalescence from scarlet fever, having become so enlarged as to impede breathing considerably, “ the surgeon in attendance punctured the tonsils. The next day a good deal of haemorrhage took place ; and this recurred several times, to a considerable and even alarming amount. When the clots that formed were wiped away with a sponge, the blood could be seen welling out in a little stream, with a pulsating motion, from a small incision in the left tonsil. The haemorrhage was ultimately, after much trouble and anxiety, arrested, by applying a pencil of lunar caustic freely within the bleeding orifice.” (p. 792.) I believe, in such a case, the use of the actual cautery would be preferable to any other remedy, and should certainly employ it if opportunity occurred.—J. F. S.] 129. When the inflammation subsides, but the swelling still continues, astringent remedies, as the liquor ammonice acetatis, hydrochlorate of am- monia, sage, vinegar, and so on, are to be added gradually to the gargles, by the proper employment of which the disposition of the parts to chronic inflammation is prevented. 130. When an abscess forms in the tonsil, which can be distinguished by the above-noticed signs (par. 126), by fluctuation on touching the tonsil with the finger, and often by the pus itself showing through, and it does not break of itself under the use of softening gargles, great danger of suffo- cation, or burrowing of the pus, is to be feared ; and it must then be opened with a guarded bistoury, or the pharyngotome, used as in scarification of the tonsils. Irritation of the throat, and straining by vomiting, often effect the bursting of the abscess. After the pus has been discharged, soothing gargles with honey are to be frequently used, and commonly produce a speedy cure. In rare cases the abscess penetrates externally beneath the jaw, and then must be treated as common abscess. [In reference to the spontaneous bursting of abscess in the tonsil, which generally occurs v between the pillars of the fauces, Allan Burns (a) observes:—“ But Dr. Brown has in- formed me that in two patients it burst through the velum palati. In both these cases, ' the sore formed very much resembled a venereal ulcer, and, without great care, in tracing the origin and progress of the disease, would have been mistaken fora venereal affection, j I may also mention,” he continues, “ that where the chief prominence in abscess of the ■M tonsil is seen, not between the pillars of the fauces, but on the fore part of the velum, it < j is not to be expected that the tumour will point as in external suppurations. On the con- tj trary, the pus will continue long deep-seated, and, were the surgeon to delay, in the ex- I peetation that it would become more superficial, the patient, before this event took place, would be suffocated. So soon, therefore, as the difficulty of breathing renders it neces- i sary, an opening is to be made in the abscess, and that even where the matter is still (a) Observations on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. Edinburgh, 1811. Svo.