235 SELF-ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE. Of Ulceration of Cartilage.—This, the more rare mode in which destruction of carti- lage is effected, really occurs in the cartilage itself, and is described by Key (a) as “ an action altogether different from absorption, and analogous to the softening of the inter- vertebral substance,” in other words, “ the result of disorganization of texture.” (p. 135.) But before stating his opinions on this subject it will be advisable to mention his views on ulcerations in general, for the better comprehension of their application to cartilage. « Ulceration is a process analagous to the softening attending suppuration ; it is a de- generation of tissue, a change in the affinities existing between its component parts, by which it becomes changed from a solid texture to a fluid inorganic mass. It differs from gangrene in being a vital action ; while gangrene, by at once producing death in a part, prevents any such change taking place. In gangrene the supply of blood to the part altogether ceases, while the integrity of tissue is preserved; under ulceration the circulation in the vessels continues during the action, and the part still belongs to the living mass, and remains under the influence of vital action until its separation is com- pleted.” (pp. 137, 38.) “ Ulceration of cartilage,” says Key, “ is effected in the same manner as an ulcer in soft parts ; it is a destructive action that sooner or later is followed by suppuration of the joint. It commences in the structure of the cartilage itself, which, no longer under the influence of those forces that unite its integral parts, breaks up, and becomes con- verted into a purulent mass, which, mixing with the synovia of the joint, irritates the synovial membrane to inflammation, and ultimately to suppuration and ulceration. Ulceration of cartilage, however, as a primary disease, is a much less frequent occurrence than absorption through the intervention of membrane. I do not remember,” says Key, “ to have examined a joint, that had been the subject of ordinary chronic inflammation, in which this membrane was not more or less developed. Nor have I seen an instance of chronic inflammation, in the early stage of strumous disease, in which degeneration or ulceration of the cartilage existed as the primary action. Chronic inflammation, however, after existing for many months or years in strumous subjects, may, and often does, become acute, and ulceration sometimes, in such cases, supersedes the absorbing process, and abscess rapidly forms. * * * Nature endeavours, so long as she can, to remove the cartilage by absorption, in order to prevent the necessity of suppuration; for primary ulceration of cartilage leads to the formation of abscess. The breaking up of the tissue of the cartilage is equivalent to the suppurative process in softer tissues ; it creates a product that must be got rid of; the synovial membrane is irritated, and ulce- ration with abscess is the result. In absorption of the cartilage through the intervention of the membrane, suppuration is not a necessary attendant, and we sometimes find the whole process completed without abscess. But where the membrane is wanting, the process is analogous to the degeneration of soft parts, and is sooner or later followed by suppuration. * * * The diseases in which the texture of the cartilage primarily under- goes ulceration are, for the most part, acute from their commencement. The inflam- mation that follows wounds of joints often leads to the rapid ulceration of the cartilage, and to burrowing abscess. In these cases, the cartilage is found often to be extensively destroyed, and the bone laid bare, without any appearance of a membrane for the pur- pose of absorption. The remaining cartilage sometimes exhibits different stages of approaching disorganization ; in some parts retaining its natural form, consistence, and appearance; in others being soft and spongy, or even pulpy; and in those parts most advanced towards ulceration, the fibre of the cartilage can be seen to separate, and flakes here and there appeared to be almost detached. * * * The chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, attended with absorption of the cartilage, not unfrequently becomes acute from accidental causes, and, leading to ulceration, quickly disorganises the joint. Both ulceration and absorption may here be seen to operate. In some parts may be seen the membrane adhering to the cartilage or to the denuded bone, in various degrees of activity or vascularity, according as its office is completed or in progress; and in others a total loss of the cartilage may be observed, without the development of a mem- brane. It is not unusual for one half of a knee-joint to be losing its cartilage by absorp- tion, while, by a process of inflammation subsequently excited, the other is in a state of active ulceration. On one side the cartilage is furnished with the absorbing membrane, which sometimes spreads over the whole of that side of the cavity, and protects it from the devastating process of ulceration that is at work on the other side of the joint, which is filled with pus and the remains of the disorganised cartilage. In persons who have become extremely irritable and weak, the ulcerative process is so determined, that the membrane itself is sometimes found in a state of ulceration.” (p. 146-50.)] (n) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol xix.