239 OF THE JOINT-ENDS OF BONES. before the joint exhibits symptoms of participating in the mischief. From this time the disease makes rapid progress : if suppuration takes place in the cavity of the joint, the synovial membrane ulcerates and allows the matter to burrow between the muscles of the limb: fistulous openings at length form, and tend in some measure to abate the patient’s sufferings. The effect, however, on the constitution is such that amputation is usually resorted to for the preservation of life. Examination of the joint exhibits very different appearances from those which are observed in the chronic strumous disease of the bone; not in the cavity of the joint itself, for here the process of destruction is in some respects the same; but in the bone the affection is found to be altogether of a dif- ferent character. The substance of the bone retains its firmness of texture; and when cut through shows no signs of disease except at one part of the cancelli. There a cavity is found containing one or more portions of detached bone, surrounded with pus; this cavity is found to communicate with the joint by a fistulous opening of small size, which may sometimes escape observation. The cancellated structure of the bone surrounding the cavity usually appears natural and sending forth vascular granulations. The car- tilage covering the end of the bone is extensively ulcerated in some parts, whilst in others it appears to have undergone no change. The process of ulceration evidently begins on the outside of the joint, for the cartilage, when closely examined, appears to be undermined, and the surface towards the joint where this undermining process is going on seems quite sound. The synovial membrane shows signs of acute inflammation, and its cavity is found to communicate with one or more extensive collections of pus above and below the joint. This form of disease is in its nature analogous to necrosis of the shafts of the cylindrical bones.” (p. 24,’i-47.) “ In scrofulous disease of the cancellated texture of the heads of bone,” says Goousm, “or in cases where the joint only is affected, but to the extent of total destruction of the cartilage over part or the whole of its extent, the latter is, during the progress of the ulceration, attacked from its attached surface. Nipple-shaped processes of vascular texture pass from the bone into the attached surface of the cartilage, the latter under- going the change already described. The processes from the two surfaces may thus meet halfway in the substance of the cartilage, or they may pass from the attached, and project through a sound portion of the surface of the cartilage, like little vascular nipples or granulations. The cartilage may thus be riddled, or it may be broken up into scales of various size and thickness, or it may be undermined for a greater or less extent, or be thrown into the fluid of the cavity of the joint in small detached portions, or it may entirely disappear.” (p. 19-9] 222. According' to the stage of the disease, the joint ends are found on dissection in different conditions. They are soft, broken up, dusky red ; their vessels much enlarged, and the cells of the bone are filled with reddish lymph. The cartilages are often still unchanged externally, but their inner surface is loosened from the destroyed bone. In the most advanced stage, both bone and cartilage are destroyed, the synovial membrane and ligaments disorganized, and the cavity of the joint filled with ichorous pus. 223. This disease is more rare in the hip and shoulder than in other joints, and most frequent in the spongy bones of the wrist and instep. It is more frequent in children and young persons than in adults. Its occa- sional cause may be external violence, but there is always dyscratic disease, and especially scrofula, in causal connexion with it. [Brodie says :—“ The scrofulous affection of the joints occurs frequently in children ; it is rare after thirty years of age. Examples of it occur in almost every joint of the tody; but the hip and shoulder appear less liable to it than many other articulations.” (p. 248.) But Key states:—“The bones in which he has observed this (the chronic) form of disease are the small bones of the carpus and the extremity of the femur; and, more frequently, the head of the tibia and the bones of the tarsus. Persons of all ages appear to be liable to it: I have witnessed it,” he says, “ in patients from the age of two years to fifty.” (p. 244.) Brooie also further observes:—“ As it depends on a certain morbid condition of the general system, it is not surprising that we should sometimes find it affecting several joints at the same time, nor that it show itself in different joints in succession, attack- ing a second joint after it has been cured in the first, or after the first lias been removed >} amputation. It is seldom met with, except in persons who have the marks of what is called a scrofulous diathesis; and in many cases it is either preceded, attended, or