OF THE THIGH-BONE. 803 and are hence distinguished from the changed position of the head of the bone. These experiments may be made without pain and with the greatest ease. 1081. In the cases examined after death by Dupuytren, all the muscles appeared pressed against the iliac crest, and drawn up ; some of them were very much developed, others shrivelled, atrophic, and even converted into a yellowish fibrous tissue. The thigh-bones were naturally formed, and only sometimes the inner upper part of the head varying somewhat from its rounded form. The socket was either entirely deficient, or appearing only as a little irregular bony protuberance, without any trace of cartilage and ligament, and without any fibro-cartilaginous edge; and about and over it, the cellular tissue and the muscles attached to the trochanter. Only in one case was the sound ligament lengthened, flattened, and at some parts, as it were, worn out by pressure and friction. The head of the bone was found in a kind of newly formed socket on the external iliac pit, always very superficial, and having an undefined edge. Palletta found the under fore-part of the socket covered with ligament, and the upper hinder-part filled with a fat-like mass; the head of the bone round, inclosed in a tough capsule, connected with the fatty mass in the socket by the round ligament, which w as so long that it permitted the head to move upwards and downwards, and aside. No hollow in the bone in which the head of the thigh-bone should rest, had been formed in a child who had died sixteen days after birth. Hence, it seemed, that the above-mentioned absence of socket, and so on, was not original, but only consequent, and that this dislocation was, perhaps, simply produced by the peculiar position of the foetus, or by violence during birth. The flattening, or almost com- plete disappearance of the socket, is explained by the long continuance of the dislocation, and must be so much more distinct in the congenital, as in the progressive development of the pelvic bones it so easily occurs. The opinion, that the congenital dislocation depends on an arrested develop- ment of the bony parts of the joint (Breschet) is very improbable, rests only upon the relations of the socket, after the dislocation has been long existent, and remains refuted by Palletta’s and Cruvelhier’s cases, till it can be determined by examination at the very earliest period after birth. Compare par. 998 and the writers there quoted. 1082. Difficult as is the walking, and great as the lameness in this con- genital dislocation, especially when on both sides, yet however it may be, in time, considerably improved when the head of the bone is fixed in its new socket (1). Dupuytren recommended rest and a sitting posture to effect the fixing of the head of the bone, and to permit the muscles, as little as possible, to act upon it; for strengthening the parts in the neigh- bourhood of the joint, daily washing of the body for some minutes in cold water, or saltwater, and the constant wearing a padded leather belt, put on between the iliac crest and the great trochanter, and kept in its place by thigh-straps. Recently, various attempts for the reduction of this dislocation, have been made by long-continued extension, and fixing the thigh with proper apparatus. (Duvae, Jalade Lafond, Humbert, Pravaz (2), Guerin.) The possibility of a successful result is not, as already said in regard to the origin of this dislocation, to be considered as a thing decided, and must ° 3 f 2