794 DISLOCATION OF THE FINGERS, (1) Not the trapezial bone as stated by B. Cooper and others. Gras (a) lias described a dislocation of the pisiform bone. The great and unciform bones are often thrust somewhat out of their place, in conse- quence of the relaxation of their ligaments, so that in bending the hand they form a projection on the back of the wrist, and the hand cannot be at all used without sup- porting the wrist. Strips of sticking plaster and a bandage are usually sufficient for supporting the wrist, and the parts may at the same time be strengthened with the douche bath, and rubbing in volatile ointments and the like. 1064. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is alone subject to dislocation from its connexion with the trapezial bone, in consequence of violent bending’. The projection which the displaced end of the bone forms above, is very slight, the thumb is bent towards the palmar surface, and cannot be straightened. In reducing it, the extension and counter-extension are made at the thumb and carpus, and the displaced joint-end is to be pressed into its place. To retain it there, the thumb should be enveloped in compresses and a circular bandage, and a thin splint fastened on its hinder surface. If the dislocation be mistaken, which easily happens when swelling exists, the movements of the thumb are permanently prevented. 1066. The phalanges of the fingers may be dislocated forwards and back- wards, by violent bending in either direction. In the dislocation forwards, the dislocated bone is bent backwards, the other fingers are bent, the projection of the dislocated joint-surface is on the palmar side; in dislo- cation backwards the contrary happens. In dislocation of the thumb upwards from its metacarpal bone, the thumb stands almost at a right angle on the metacarpal bone, with the nail-joint bent; and the head of the metacarpal bone forms a large projection on the volar surface. If these dislocations have existed only a short time, they cannot be reduced. The reduction requires great force, as the edges of the joint-surfaces resist each other, and must be separated. This can only be effected, by means of a clove hitch applied round the phalanx. If in compound dislocation the joint-surfaces project out of the soft parts, and their reduction be not possible, they must be cut off, and their replacement effected ; this in one case of compound dislocation of the thumb I performed with the best success. Dislocations of the thumb from the metacarpal bone, most frequently occur, and cause greatest difficulty in their reduction. According to Roser (6), who has collected the various opinions upon this dislocation, together with his own observations, the disloca- tion is always direct, and on the same side on which the violence has occurred. If a person, fall on the ground with his thumbs outstretched, a dislocation takes place on the back, and not in the front of the hand; the thumb is fixed in hyper-extension or dorsal flexion, and forms, often almost a right angle with its metacarpal bone, which makes a considerable projection in the hollow of the hand, and has frequently been mistaken for the dislocated projection of the head of the phalanx, as stated by Fincke (c). I possess an old dislocation upwards of the thumb, in which the position of the two bones cor- responds entirely with this statement. The difficulty of reducing this dislocation is often so great, that laying bare the old bone, and cutting off the interfering tendons and ligaments has been recommended, (Desault, Dupuytren,) and even the removal of the projecting end of the bone itself, (Evans, Vidal.) In general the jutting against each other of the edges of the joint-surfaces is considered as preventing the reduction; A. Cooper held the interposition of the sessamoid bones to be the cause; Lisfranc and Dupuytren place it in the remarkable position of the tendon of the m. flexor longus, which is displaced backwards and downwards, so that it lies midway between the phalanx and the head of the metacarpal bone. Hey thinks the cause to be in the lateral liga- ments, between which the head of the metacarpal bone, on account of its wedgelike (а) Gazette Medicate, vol. iii. 1835. Mittelliandkncclien ; in Arckiv. fiir physiologische (б) Die Verrenkungen des Daumensvon seinem Ileilkunde, 1813, pt. 2. (e) Caspee’s Wochenschrift, 1838. No. 18.