ENLARGED TONSILS. 145 to their removal by the knife ; but their destruction by caustic is to be rejected. Only in not very great swelling of the tonsils, can their dimi- nution be effected by the repeated application of lunar caustic sufficiently to produce a superficial slough. The removal of the hardened tonsils has been performed from the earliest time by cutting, by tearing out, by tying, and by destroying with caustic. Celsus advised taking hold of the tonsil with a hook and cutting off the hardened part with a knife. In this manner the operation has been performed with little variation. According to Louis, the cut should be made from below upwards; according to Richter, from above downwards, and the imperfectly divided piece is to be removed with scissors; according to Moscati, the cuts are to be made in various ways, by splitting the tonsil from above downwards and sideways, by introducing charpie, by removing it piece-meal, and by cauterizing the surface of the wound with nitrate of silver. For holding the tonsil, a single or double hook is employed, Caque’s hook (a), Muzeux’s hook forceps (6), Wasseiu-unit’s forceps with thick blunt hooks, so that it may be more easily removed in case of vomiting. For the cutting, a narrow, button- ended, curved or straight scalpel, special knives of Paui.us zF.cineta, of Caque, of Ben. Bell, of Boyer. Dessault’s kiotome ; the scissors of Solingen, Percy, Levret ; the instrument of Rivieri (c) and of J. Cloquet (d), with two branches, which cross, and each of which has an edge at its extremity. Tearing out the tonsils was performed by Celsus with the fingers; by Fabricius ab Aquapendente with the hook or forceps. Tying the tonsils, mentioned so early as by Guillemeau (e), was performed by Sharp (f) with silver wire or catgut; by Cheselden (g) the loop was applied with the finger and fastened with an eyed probe; swellings with a broader base were tied on the side with a double thread introduced by a needle having an eye near the point; by . Bibrach (h) with a silver wire by means of Levret’s double cylinder; by Siebold (i) with a loop pushed on upon a pair of forceps, the ligature having been slipped on to hem by an assistant; Bell introduced through the nose a loop which by means of the finger was carried over the tonsil and tied with a polypus-cylinder introduced through k the nose ; by Chevalier (h), a double thread was drawn through the base of the tonsil, ifter Cheselden’s method and tied with a ring-shaped knot closer. Hard also in- dented a tying instrument (l) for the same purpose. Cauterization of the tonsil with red hot iron or with caustic, after the manner ofSeve- iinus and Wieseman. [Else objected to the excision of the tonsils, especially in children, on account of the roublesome and dangerous haemorrhage; neither was he favourable to tearing them iway with the forceps, nor to destroying them with caustic, but preferred Cheselden’s ipparatus, consisting of a tonsil probe, needle, iron, and speculum oris, or a piece of cork, f the base of the swelling be narrow, a thread can be readily carried round with the »robe; but if it be broad, it will be requisite to thrust the needle, armed with a double 1 hread, one white and the other black to prevent confusion, through the base from without nwards, and, when the eye of the needle appears behind the tonsil, the threads are to be aken hold of, the needle withdrawn, and the corresponding threads tied. The instrument for amputating the tonsils, invented by Physick of Philadelphia (w), consists of an oval iron loop, of two plates, rather larger than the ordinary size of the onsils, and attached to a long stem, upon which rests a sliding rod, terminating in a cnife of hexagonal form. The tonsil is received within the ring, and the knife being i i hen thrust forward, cuts it off as it traverses the loop. He also uses a pair of forceps, ' nth lunated extremities, and their opposing faces toothed, to draw the tonsil more firmly I hrough the loop. I do not know whether this is Physick’s guillotine instrument, which v pas been further improved by Mitchell, as I have not seen either. Within the last ighteen months, Simpson, instrument maker, of Westminster, has adapted Thorbern’s ■ taphylotome (which he has much simplified) to amputation of the tonsil, by giving the hding knife an oblique cutting edge, like the guillotine knife, and the tonsil, being drawn (n) Memoiresde l'Academie deChirurgie, vol. v. >1. xii. fis. l. ° 1 lb., fig. 3. 1 (c) Comment. Bonon., vol. vii. 1791. P W^Archives Generates de Medecine, May 1833, (<?) Sharp’s Treatise on Operations, plate xii. . de Cliir., vol. v. p. 480, p. 163. (e) Chirurgie, ch. vi. U ) Critical Inquiry, sec. vii. VOL. I. ch. (?) A. 11. C. (A) Memoires de l’Acad (i) Chirurg. Tagebuch, (ft) As above. (!) Froriep’s Cliirurg. Kupfertaf. (m) American Jour, of Medical Sciences, 182.-8, vol. i. p. 262.