PROPRIETY OF TREPANNING, 414 dangerous operation ; it is so esteemed because most commonly it is only employed when the diseased changes have already become great, or severe injury has been produced by the external violence. Besides the writers already mentioned, the following may be also compared : Henke’s Zeitschrif't, fiir die Staatsarzneikunde, 1824, part i. p. 166. Klein ; in Heidelberger klinischen Annalen, vol. i. part i. p. 86. Textor; in Neuen Chiron., vol. ii. part ii. p. 381. 432. If we compare these various principles which have been advanced as to the necessity of trepanning in injuries of the head, and consider them, unreservedly, according to the result of the experiments upon this important subject which have of late been made with the greatest care and attention ; if we consider that the treatment of wounds in general, as well as that of wounds of the head, has become more simple and satisfactory, we cannot agree to so extensive an employment of the trepan. Experience has satisfactorily proved that simple fissures and fractures of the shill, in most cases, occur without the severe injury of the neighbouring parts which has been said to be generally therewith connected, and that the consequences thereto ascribed may, by proper treatment, be prevented. If in such in- juries trepanning be employed as a prophylactic, it certainly, in most cases, only renders the state of things worse, and the proportionate needless use of the trepan is proved to be much greater than Pott and Zang have stated. If the danger of trepanning has been estimated by many too highly, on account of the wound inflicted by it, and for this reason its application has been too much restricted, it is not, however, to be denied, on the other hand, that it has been too lightly thought of, and such a mode of performing it recommended as must inflict an injury out of all proportion to the acci- dent for which it was undertaken ; for instance, Zang’s practice, in pene- trating fissures and fractures, of applying the crown of the trepan as frequently as requisite to take away entirely the fissured or fractured bone. | The same also holds in reference to the bruising of the diploe. Severe bruising of the cliploe may, without doubt, be extremely dangerous in its ; consequences ; but, how can it be distinguished whether there be not also injury of the bone ? The severity of the injuring violence is, indeed, an important circumstance in determining the danger of injury of the head; but experience shows, in this respect, so different effects and so different relations in respect of the skull, in each individual, in no way manifested in the former known condition, that it cannot be ventured to decide accord- ing to any definite scale. But, on the other hand, it is also equally im- proper to restrict the use of the trepan too much ; for instance, not to apply it in fractures with impression, or only when these are connected with wounds, or with symptoms of compression of the brain ; or in extravasation to do nothing, because the possibility of absorption cannot be denied, or the determination of its seat is often difficult, and frequently not possible with certainty. [The propriety of applying the trepan and under what circumstances has been al- ready necessarily discussed in considering the treatment of fractures with impression (par. 395); of separation of the sutures (par. 396); and of woimds of the brain into which foreign bodies have been admitted (par. 399.) It is not therefore necessary to | recur to these points.—J. F. S.] 433. The trepan should be only employed for the removal of decidedly dangerous conditions in injuries of the skull, which are certainly known, and of which it may be asssuredly foretold that they will produce symptoms <