CAUSES. 25 the inflammation, which at first was to be considered merely as a dynamic i disease, brings about distinct changes in the structure of organs. The increased activity of the nerves and capillary-vascular system produces a more copious infiltration into the cellular tissue than in the natural state; a part of the serum—in some cases even of the red part of the blood— penetrates through the expanded walls of the vessels, and empties itself into the cellular tissue. The walls of the cells are, therefore, in this case, i found thickened, filled with a serous, albuminous, often bloody fluid, in which frequently albuminous flakes float or are connected with the walls of the cells. The changed condition and increased plasticity of the blood is shown by the crusta infiammatoria, which consists of the fibrin of the blood. According to the different degree of irritation, and the consequent reaction of the nervous system, so long as, excepting the pain, no other appearance of inflammation exists, (which condition many consider as the forerunner of inflammation,) there is pro- duced a spasmodic contraction with accelerated motion of the blood in the small ves- sels, upon which first follow their vital expansion, the greater influx of blood, and the other phenomena of increased living actions (7). A comparison may therefore be insti- tuted between these local appearances and those coming in with inflammatory fever. As we have there contractions of the vessels and obstruction of the circulation, so we have here chilliness, contraction of the skin, small pulse, which are followed by the phenomena of vital expansion of the vascular system, increased warmth, and so on. In the commencement there is in a manner present an inflammatory spasm—the vascular system is entirely controlled by the nervous system. With the increased influx of the blood, and its accumulation in the capillary vessels, is the previously quickened motion of the blood corpuscles retarded, the capillary vessels, by the consequent exudation of the serum, become completely filled with blood-corpuscles, and an actual stagnation, an inflammatory stasis ensues, but which is not to be considered as a passive over-filling. [(1) But what causes this increased action of the nerves ? The squeezing and stretching of the minute nerves of the part, by the increased size of the capillary vessels, resulting from the obstruction of the current of blood through them, which occurs at the very onset, and which, indeed, is, as will be presently shown, the first step of the inflammatory process. Travers (a) considers “ the pain of inflammation directly or indirectly con- nected with the state of the blood-vessels,” and it is, “ probably, the nerves of the blood- vessels that are first excited in the pain of inflammation.” (pp. 46, 7.) This opinion is corroborated by referring to John Hunter’s observations on the passage of the ad- hesive to the suppurative inflammation, in which he says, “ The pain is increased at the time of the dilating of the arteries, which gives the sensation called throbbing, in which every one can count his own pulse, from paying attention merely to the inflamed part; and perhaps this last symptom is one of the best characteristics of this species of inflammation.” (p. 378.) And in a previous passage he had observed:—“ Whether this pain arises from the distension of the artery by the force of the heart, or whether it arises from the action of distension from the force of the artery itself, is not easily de- termined.” (p. 287.) The throbbing, however, is not entirely confined to suppurative, but also accompanies acute, inflammation; and Travers has well observed:—“ Throb- bing, lancinating or pulsatile pain,—i. e. pain accompanied with a sense of motion of the fluids in the part,—is the most characteristic distinction of acute inflammation ; and an obtuse, aching, or heavy pain belongs to a congested state of the local circulation.” And he also points out that “ the description of pain unattended with inflammation, differs from the pain of inflammation, although the former is subject also to varieties in kind, duration and intensity observing that “ Neuralgia is generally attended more or less with muscular cramp or spasm, and such pain is either intermitting or periodicaland that such medicaments “ as relieve pain in the absence of inflammation have little or no beneficial effect on the pain of inflammation. Blood-letting aggravates neuralgia and relieves inflammatory pain. Steel and arsenic aggravate inflammatory pain, and cure neuralgia.” (pp. 45,6.) (2) According to his neuropathological theory, Henle (6) asserts, that “ it is through the nervous system that the exciting cause of inflammation operates, by suspending the («) Physiology of Inflammation. ( ') I have made use of the Digest of this Au- tlior’s Pathologische Untersuchungen, 1840, "and ol his iiericht uber die Arbeiten im Gebiet der rationellen Pathologie seit Anfang des Jalires, 1839; in Wharton Jones's excellent Report on the Theory of Inflammation, in Forbes's Brit and For. Med. Review, vol. xvii., 1844.—(J. F. S.)