219 TREATMENT OF INFLAMED SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. filled with a thin, often reddish, fluid (1). In a more advanced state, thick- ening of the ligaments, swelling of the synovial membrane into a fungous fleshy-like mass penetrated with white streaks, often with a mass beset with polypous or hydatid-like growths, a collection of yellowish lymph mixed with white flakes (2) ; finally, destruction of the cartilages and caries of the joint ends of the bones (3). [(1) This is the result of simple inflammation. Brodie mentions one excellent ex- ample, in which, “throughout the whole of its internal surface, except where it covered the cartilages, the synovial membrane was of a dark-red colour; the vessels being as numerous and as much distended with blood as those of the tunica conjunctiva of the eye in a violent ophthalmia.” (p. 12.) In another case—“ the synovial membrane wras in- I creased in thickness about one-eighth of an inch, and was of a gristly texture.” (p. 14.) The former patient had died of fever, independent of the disease in the knee-joint; and the limb of the latter was removed for some other complaint. These are highly impor- tant cases, as opportunities for examining inflamed synovial membrane in this, its primary condition, are very rare. (2) This is the pulpy degeneration described by Brodie. (3) This appears to me the form of joint disease described by Key (a), in which “ the cartilage is not absorbed per se, but through the agency of a structure probably evolved for the special purpose of completing that process,” (p. 134,) or, as he elsewhere (&) ex- presses it, a “ highly vascular fringe of (synovial) membrane, 'which is a newly orga- nized, and, in some parts, a superadded structure for the purpose of producing ulceration of the contiguous cartilage.” (p. 224.) I fully concur with the correctness of Key’s views upon this point, having seen the condition he describes again and again. But it will be more convenient to consider the subject in connexion with true ulceration of cartilage, a little further on.—J. F. S.] 211. The inflammation of the synovial membrane occurs very readily in superficial joints, especially in the knee-joint, from mechanical violence, cold, rheumatism, gout, gonorrhoea, syphilis, or improper use of mercury. It takes place frequently in several joints at once, or in one after another. If When arising from some marked internal cause, the course of this inflam- mation is usually tedious. 212. The prognosis is more favourable when the disease is consequent to external than when it depends on internal causes. At first it can be dis- persed by proper treatment; subsequently, when a collection of fluid has taken place, the resolution is only slowly brought about, and there remains for a long while, and often permanently, a swelling of the joint. If the synovial membrane and the ligaments be much thickened or ulcerated, the cartilages and bones affected, and openings of abscesses present, anchylosis must be considered the most favourable termination: in the majority of cases, however, the removal of the joint is the only remedy. 213. The treatment is guided by the causes and degree of the inflam- mation. If the affection of the joint be connected with general disease, the plan of cure must be directed towards it. In rheumatism and gout espe- cially, vin. sem. colch. ; in scrofula, cod-liver oil ; in gonorrhoea and syphilis, Zittmann’s decoction. In more severe degrees of inflammation, general, but especially repeated local blood-letting with leeches, and cold fomentations with lead wash are required ; but warm fomentations or soothing poultices when the swelling is considerable. When the course of the inflammation is slow, cupping at the commencement is sufficient. [As regards the local treatment of simple acute inflammation of the synovial mem- brane, Brodie says, “ If the swelling has rapidly risen to such a height as to occasion considerable tension of the soft parts, the pain will be best relieved by means of warm omentations and poultices; but otherwise cold evaporating lotions seem to produce a (a) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xix. (h) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol, xviii.