TREATMENT 638 ■with much disagreeableness, and the observance of due cleanliness is scarcely possible. The wards of itch patients in hospitals where this mode of treatment is employed, give sufficient proof of this assertion. 808. The liniment recommended by Horn (a), composed of one part of tlowers of sulphur, two parts of black soap, and as much water as neces- sary to make a liniment, is to be rubbed in four times a-day to the amount of four to six drachms, on all parts affected with the itch and so smartly that the patient may feel a burning sensation and the diseased skin may spring off; at the same time, also, warm baths and the greatest cleanliness possible. The strenuous rubbiug-in of this liniment, so that the above-mentioned symptoms may be excited, is in no case to be neglected, and therefore also in hospitals the friction is not to be left to the will of the patient, but is to be made under the observation of trustworthy attendants. I have, by attending to this circumstance, perfectly cured in a short time cases of inveterate itch which have withstood various kinds of treatment. 809. Fischer (&) has proposed the application of smear soap (black or green soap, sapo viridis) in the following way :—The patient, quite naked, smears his whole body, in the morning, with from two and a half to three ounces of green soap, then puts on a clean fresh shirt and goes to bed from which he is not to get up till the cure is completed, except to eat and to go to the night-stool ; in the evening the same quantity of ointment is to be rubbed in as in the morning. On the second and third days two complete rubbings, each of two ounces, of the whole body are to be made, as well where the pock and smarting are, as where they are not. On the fourth day or after the sixth rubbing, the friction is to be con- tinued morning and evening but only on those parts where the eruption and smarting exist; the same also on the fifth and sixth days ; and from the fourth to the sixth day no more than four ounces are to be used. On the seventh day, when no more of the eruption and itching are observable, the morning rubbing is to be carefully used, but in the afternoon a general soap bath (of smear soap and warm water) is to be resorted to, which concludes the cure and the patient is to be provided with clean linen arid clothes. If after the soap baths a few pocks of itch still show themselves here and there, they must be anointed a day or two longer and the patient must then bathe again. In summer he may be at once set at liberty, but in winter requires a day or two’s rest. During the cure no internal treat- ment is needed, his food must be simple, soup, pulse and meat; his drink water; the temperature of his room at all times of the year should be from 18° to 21° Reaumur [rrabout 72° to 81° Fahr.] 810. I’he symptoms which occur during this treatment are the follow- ing. Some hours after the first rubbing there is tension of the skin with slight burning ; gradually the burning becomes more severe and at the third or fourth rubbing so great, that the irritable patient declares he feels as if he lay in the fire. The third day is usually the most painful; the skin is then not merely red and inflamed but elevated into little close- set watery blisters with which the itch pustules become confluent. On the fourth the redness for the most part still remains, the little vesicles become here and there larger, in many parts crack and the skin turns off in plates as in true smooth scarlet fever. The patient suffers in the night only a little smarting. Merely on those parts where the rubbing has been less severe and the inflammation of the skin together with the watery (a) Oeffentliche Rechenschaft iiber meine zwolf- (6) Graf ; in Heidelberger klinisch. Annalen, jahrige Dienstfiihrung, u. s. w. Berlin, 1818, p. 1C4. vol. vii. p. 554.