188 TREATMENT OF [The reason assigned by Chelius for the neglect of the primary symptoms of this disease is hardly carried far enough, as, in reality, the attack comes on so slowly and insidiously that the patient is scarcely aware of having anything more than slight rheumatic or “ growing pains,” as young people call them, till some trifling occurrence brings him to a stand-still, and the serious character of his disorder is almost acciden- tally discovered, often, indeed, not before it has proceeded to suppuration.—J. F. S.] 183. When the inflammation terminates in suppuration, and swellings are formed by the descent of the pus, such abscesses, even when they have ob- tained a considerable size, may, in some cases, although rarely, be dispersed, by perpetual blisters or issues on the loins, by general treatment which puts the abdominal functions in order and strengthens the patient’s powers (1). But if, under this treatment, the abscess increase, it must be openedwith alan- cet, which should be introduced obliquely (2). The pus must be discharged, as far as possible, in an unbroken stream. The wound is to be carefully closed with sticking plaster, a compress is to be laid over it, the patient kept quiet, and the above-mentioned treatment employed. The wound usually closes in a few days ; but the pus most commonly recollects, though in less quantity than at first. If the swelling again rise sufficiently high, it must be again emptied as before, and this must be repeated as often as the abscess is reformed. If the abscess be originally of no great size, or diminished by repeated punctures, it is often best to treat it as a common abscess, to open it freely, and simply apply a poultice ; at the same time, however, sup- porting the powers by tonic remedies, and by a proper dietetic regimen. [(1) Dupuytren observes, that “ these abscesses remain sometimes in the same state for years, and without causing any symptoms; the pus is gradually absorbed and no trace of them remains. At other times, after a greater or less interval, the skin cover- ing them inflames, bursts, and gives issue to the pus, which drains away and is not repro- duced. In other circumstances, the pus, having remained for a longer or shorter time, is converted into an adipocerous matter: chemical experiments have proved, indeed, that such is the nature of the substance sometimes met with in abscesses of this kind.” (p. 138.) Astley Cooper has made the following observation in regard to the treatment of this disease :—“ You must allow the abscess to take its course; very little can be done in this disease until it has acquired considerable magnitude.” (p. 460.) This recom- mendation is very unsatisfactory; for the treatment should be commenced so soon as the existence of the disease can be ascertained with any certainty, so far, at least, as the use of counter irritants is concerned; for I cannot agree with Cooper that “ little can be done to prevent its progress when once formed, and I do not know that any advantage is to be derived from counter irritation.” (p. 461.) I feel sure, on the contrary, that much may be done, and, believing that caries of the vertebra is always the origin of the disease, the treatment which it requires is that which at the onset is necessary for lumbar or psoas abscess, and which, indeed, must be persevered in, even after the abscess has either burst or been punctured; I mean the use of issues.—j. f. s. Various expedients have been proposed for exciting the absorbents to take up the pus. “ The elder Cline (a) once gave digitalis to a very considerable extent to a boy of fourteen or fifteen years old; the abscess diminished for a little time, but when the digitalis was given up, in consequence of its influence on the general health, the disease returned.” (p. 461.) Auernethy has recommended the application of repeated blisters or of open blisters upon the swelling, and has given two cases under this treatment in which the pus was absorbed. I have not had any personal experience on this point, and cannot, therefore, say anything about it. The same distinguished surgeon has also advocated the use of electricity; but, as in all the cases in which he employed it, other remedies were also used, it is not possible to determine what benefit was attained by it. The exhibition of emetics, to which he also resorted, was under the same cir- cumstances, and, therefore, much cannot be decidedly attributed to them. Issues are most important aids in the successful treatment of psoas or lumbar ab- scess, either whilst the abscess remains unopen, or after an aperture in it has been self-formed or made artificially, by which the pus has escaped, and from which it long (a) As stated by Asti.ey Cooper.