651 VARIETY OF SORES ON THE GENITALS. on the contrary, it attacks rather the bony system ; in warm climates, however, there may be noticed great severity of the primary symptoms, in which case severe inflammation follows, and runs into mortification. This disposition to erysipelatous inflammation and mortification in primary syphilitic ulcers is observed frequently in bad, tainted, and marshy air. The scurvy, or a similar affection, after too frequent use of mercury, scrofula, gout, and rheumatic affections, may produce different variations of syphilis from its usual course, and thereby render diagnosis difficult. Primary syphilitic ulcers have especially no decided external character; they have a very varied appearance, and cannot, at a mere glance, be dis- tinguished from such ulcers as are of a more common or totally different nature. [“ It cannot, I think, on due consideration of the subject, be denied/’ says Aber- nethy (a), “ that many sores are induced on the genitals, by sexual intercourse, which are not the effects of the venereal poison, and that many of them infect the constitution, and produce secondary symptoms resembling those of that disorder. It may be asked, how- ever, if these diseases be not venereal, what are they ? As they are all the consequence of sexual intercourse, they may, in one sense of the word, be said to be venereal. To avoid ambiguity, therefore, I shall denominate that disease which broke out at the siege at Naples, and which Mr. Hunter has described as the venereal disease by the name given to it by nosological writers, that is, syphilis; and I shall call those diseases, which differ from it in their progress and mode of becoming well, though they strikingly resemble it in appearance, by a name importing these circumstances, that is, pseudo- syphilitic diseases.” (pp. 2, 3.) He then proceeds to some observations on the probable origin of the latter complaints, and mentions that “ Celsus describes eight species of sores with which the genitals were affected in consequence of sexual intercourse ; and as this was long before syphilis was known, it follows that there must be other causes producing them. Some of the sores described by Celsus are not unfrequently met with at present, and they are not syphilitic. Sores also frequently form upon the genitals of females, in consequence of that irritation which accompanies diseased secretions from the vagina. Sores, for instance, very frequently succeed to gonorrhoea in the lower class of females, who pay little attention to cleanliness, and do not abstain from sexual inter- course. Sores frequently break out on the prepuce and glans of the male, in conse- quence of the irritation which gonorrhoea, or other diseases of the urethra produce in these parts. These sores generally heal without mercury, frequently without inducing any constitutional disease; and when they do affect the constitution, the disease oc- casioned by them is not syphilitic. I merely mention these circumstances at present to show that it is possible for ulcers to form which may not be syphilitic, and yet the discharges from them may prove morbific, and produce disease in others. Even dis- charges from the genitals of one person, where no ulcers exist, are capable of exciting ulcers in another.” (pp. 4, 5.) He further observes, that “ the primary infected sores, which are capable of producing secondary symptoms, strikingly resembling those of syphilis, do not themselves possess any uniform characters” (p. 40). And he thinks “it is probable that the morbific poisons which produce pseudo-syphilis, may be ab- sorbed without any evident ulcer, or from a trivial ulcer, which may heal spontaneously, much more frequently than the syphilitic poison.” (p. 41.) As regards the mode of distinguishing the false from the true disease, Abernethy says:—“ I have not been able to discover any (appropriate characters); the fictitious dis- ease, in appearance, so exactly resembles syphilis, that no observation, however acute, seems to be capable of deciding upon its nature. Although the ulcers in these ambi- guous cases generally spread more extensively along the surface of the part which they affect, yet this does not constantly happen. * * * It must also be remarked that true syphilitic spots and idcers sometimes assume the appearance of other diseases, and do not possess their ordinary characteristics. Since then our senses fail us in our endeavours to discriminate between these two diseases, and since the most important circumstance is to distinguish whether the disease be syphilis or not, we may inquire whether there are any circumstances in the progress of these different diseases which will serve us in distinguishing one from the other. It appears to me that there are. * * * A very simple fact has enabled me in most cases to distinguish between the two diseases ; yet simple as it is, if it be generally true, it is very important; and if it were universally true, it would be of the highest consequence. The fact alluded to is that the constitu-