PERINEAL FISTULA ; 746 the sides of the catheter, and collecting in it, the fistula must be opened with a bistoury upon a director introduced into it and connected with the groove of a staff passed into the bladder, so that the wound has a funnel- like shape, and its point corresponding with the internal opening of the fistula. If there be several fistulous passages, each must be divided with the director and bistoury. If the internal fistulous opening be very callous, it may be scarified, or touched with tinct. lyttee. The wound may be either gently filled with lint, fastened with sticking-plaster, and a T bandage, or merely covered with a sponge soaked in warm water. The wound fills from the bottom by granulations, the scarring of which may be promoted by touching with lunar caustic. [The continued in-lying of a gum elastic or silver catheter in the urethra, after the complete dilatation of the stricture has been effected, does not always lead to the healing perinceal fistula, for however completely emptied the bladder may be kept, a little urine will always flow by the side of the catheter, and dribbling through the fistulous passage, keep it open. But another circumstance also takes place, more especially I think I have remarked it, wheu a silver catheter has been kept in, and which, as Brodie has well observed, depends on “ the catheter acting like a seton, inducing inflammation and suppuration of the mucous membrane of the bladder; and some of the pus which is secreted passes through the fistula and keeps it open just as much as it would keep open by the urine itself In some cases,” he continues, “ I have adopted the following method : I have made the patient draw off the water with a catheter three times a day, so that he should never make water except through the catheter, and thus that the urine should be altogether prevented from finding its way into the fistula. This is a better mode of treatment than the constant retention of a gum catheter in the bladder ; and yet it will sometimes fail.” (p. 488.) In cases where a perinseal fistula is slow in healing, Brodie says, he has with some success, “ endeavoured to stimulate the bottom of the fistula, so as to make that heal, whilst he took measures to prevent the orifice from healing prematurely. This was effected in the following manner : he melted a little nitrate of silver in a spoon of platina, and dipped the end of a probe in it; which being repeated two or three times, the end of the probe became covered with a varnish of caustic. Thus prepared, he introduced the probe quite to the other end of the fistula; and when he had done this, just touched the orifice of the fistula very slightly with the caustic potash. The effect of nitrate of silver upon a sore surface is not so much to make a slough as to stimulate it to contract, granulate, and heal, whereas the effect of caustic potash is, to make a slough and prevent healing.” (p. 488.) Upon the question, if a fistula exist in the perinaum, attended with some little con- traction of the urethra, not giving the patient much inconvenience, so that it may not much attract his attention, “ Are you to allow him to remain thus because the fistula is not very troublesome ?” Brodie gives for answer, “ Certainly not; for you do not know to what mischief it may ultimately lead. The matter on some occasions may not readily escape ; it may burrow and cause sinuses in other directions, and may even do still greater mischief. Mr. Vincent and myself attended a gentleman who had suffered under a. fistula in perincco, and which he had neglected for a great many years. At last he observed the callosity around it grew bigger and bigger, so that it ultimately ex- tended to the scrotum and penis. When we were called to see him we found him with a malignant disease, either carcinoma or jungus hcematodes, which had clearly had its origin in the fistula, and had extended from that to the neighbouring organs. The patient ultimately died in great distress and misery.” (p. 489.)] 966. If the narrowing of the urethra be such, that it cannot be got rid of in a space of time in which, by the reaction of the fistula upon the whole constitution, life is to be feared for, there remains nothing else than to introduce a staff into the urethra, down to the seat of stricture, which is to be held by an assistant. A director is then passed through the fistula into the internal opening, and the fistulous passage divided on it to the stricture, and this towards the staff. But if the fistula do not lead to the stricture, all the soft parts in the direction of the point of the staff must be cut into, and the staff thrust forwards into the bladder, into which an