BLEEDING FROM 296 when the wound has been properly cleansed, the surgeon cannot obtain satisfactory information, lie must use his finger or the probe. Whenever it is possible, the finger is always to be preferred, because the feeling with it is more perfect, and the examination less painful. Probes for examin- ing wounds must be made of silver, furnished with a button at the end, suitably thick and flexible. When the patient has been put into the position in which he received the injury, the probe, loosely held between the fingers, is to be introduced into the wound. If it cannot be found out what his position was, the wound must be probed in different directions. Without a definite reason and object, the wound is never to be probed, because thereby increased irritation, and return of bleeding, and so on, are but too easily set up. 276. The bleeding in every wound requires the greatest attention, and, if it be severe the most prompt treatment. The vessels from which the bleeding occurs, are either partially wounded or perfectly divided. The blood from an artery, if not poured into the cellular tissue, spirts out, bright red, frothy, and in interrupted curves ; from a wounded vein, dark blood flows in an unbroken stream. Arterial bleeding is stopped by pres- sure of the vessel between the heart and the wound, but venous by pressure on the opposite side of the wound. The bleeding either ceases of itself, or is stopped by various artificial assistance. 277. Nature often stops the bleeding, even from large vessels, by the following means :—If the artery be perfectly divided, it retracts into the cellular tissue by which it is surrounded ; at the same time, the divided ex- tremity contracts circularly. This contraction is not sufficient to arrest the pressing stream of blood, which flows from the end of the artery into the canal of the cellular sheath, and thence outwards. By the retraction of the artery, the cellular tissue connecting it with its sheath becomes stretched and uneven at the inner surface of this sheath. In these irregularities the blood lodges and coagulates, by winch the area of the sheath is diminished, and at last completely plugged up. The contact of air, and the diminished power of the circulation, depending on the loss of blood, seem to assist the coagulation. From the divided end of the artery to the next collateral branch, the blood stagnates in the canal of the vessel and forms a clot, not, however, perfectly filling its area, and only slightly connected with it at its divided end. From this cut of the artery, coagulable lymph is poured out, which deposits itself between the inner and outer clot, and closes the mouth of the vessel completely; at the same time, the end of the artery is connected to the surrounding parts by the exuding lymph, and is thereby secured against the pressure of the blood. The artery, from its point of division to the nearest collateral branch, is gradually converted into a liga- mentous structure, of which the canal is completely obliterated: the coagulated blood is absorbed; the lymph poured out in the neighbouring cellular tissue gradually disappears, and the parts resume their cellular con- dition. The same changes also occur in that end of the artery farthest from the heart (a). The changes which the blood-clot (thrombus) undergoes in the canal of the artery are the following: between the fifteenth aud thirtieth hours, it becomes bright red in (a) Jones, J. F. D., M.D., A Treatise on the Process employed by Nature in suppressing the I hemorrhage from divided and punctured Arte- ries, and on the use of the Ligature; with Obser- vations on Secondary Ilajmorrliage. London, 1805. 8vo. Ebei., Thos., De Natura Medicatrice sicubi Arte- riae vulneratse et ligatse fuerint. Giessaj, 1826. 4to. Amussat ; in Mcmoires de l’Academie ltoyale de Medecine, vol v. fasc. 1. Sanson, Des Hemorrhagies traumatiques, avec une pi. col. Paris, 1886.