375 MAROCHETTI’S OBSERVATIONS. > bruised to blue redness. At the same time a dose, proportional to his age, of belladonna root, calomel, cajeput oil, and sugar must be given to the bitten person. And for a drink, R herb, et jior. anagall. arvens. 3iij., rad. bardan., saponar. ana jjss., liquirit. 3iij. stip. dulcam. 3vj., sem. anis. 3j.: misce. Of this three heaped up table-spoonfuls j are to be well boiled in two and a half quarts of water. The belladonna is to be in- Bi creased every day according to the age and constitution of the patient, about a quarter to half a grain, or even to a whole grain, till it produce incipient double vision and i giddiness. When these symptoms have come on sharply, the belladonna is not to be ,,; increased, but the same dose to be continued to the fourteenth day. If the symptoms i. i be diminished previous to the fourteenth day, the dose of the belladonna must be again M increased, in similar proportions, till it again resumes its full power, and to be con- ;, tinued to the fourteenth day. The dose of the calomel and cajeput oil is not to be changed. From the fifteenth day the belladonna is to be again diminished, as it bas n been increased, till the dose have returned to that with which it was commenced; and i this is to be continued to the twenty-eighth day. From the fifteenth day the wound o: is to be dressed only once with the above ointment; from the twenty-eighth day to 0 1 its complete cure, with an ointment of three drachms of unij. basilic, and five of ung. il althece. The drink is to be made fresh every day, and drank daily in sufficient quan- 1 t tity till the wound is healed. 368. According to the observations of M.vrociietti (a) and others, !! little bladders and knots should form, on both sides, beneath the tongue, upon the ducts of the sub-maxillary glands, upon the third, fifth, seventh, and ninth day, and even later, on the twenty-first, and even to the thirty- fourth day after the bite of a mad beast. These little bladders appear on the sides of the fraenum, one or more often on the side corresponding to the bite ; sometimes they occur upon the upper surface of the tongue. They are small, round, or oblong pustules, which project, are irregu- / larly large as linseed, or even as a pea; are generally transparent and 1 1 fluctuating, but often opaque; of a brownish white colour, and more or less knotty. At their commencement they exhibit no very diseased ap- ni pearance; they soon subside, often after thirty hours, or at least lose their fulness, their crystalline and fluid form, and then the other symptoms i set in simultaneously. If these vesicles be not opened within the first i. twenty-four hours after their appearance, the poison is absorbed, and the » patient lost. We should therefore look beneath the tongue of the bitten 1 person twice a-day for six weeks, during which time he must take daily a pint and a half of strong decoction of the tops and flow ers of genista lutea tinctoria, or, four times daily, a drachm of pulvis genistce. If vesicles do not appear during this period hydrophobia is not to be dreaded ; but, if they appear, they must be opened with a lancet, burnt with the actual t: cautery, and the patient may gargle with the decoct, genistce. These very important observations, the correctness of which have been frequently and by myself confirmed in a sufficient number of cases which have come under 1 my observation, must not, however, by any means restrict the local treat- ment of the bite (b). (a) Observations surl’Hydropliobie : Indicescer- . t tains pour reconnaltre l’existence du virus hydro- "J phobique chez un individu et moyens d'en pre- 1 venir le developpement en detruisant le germe ; in 1 * ermischte Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete dor Wlkunst von einer Gesellscliaft, &c. Petersburg, . 1821. Vol. I. (ij Ok. Mayf.r, ibid , vol. ii. p. 88. Rust’s Magazin, vol. x. p. 189.; vol. xvi. ^ p. 149. St. Petersburg Zeitung. 1823, 14th Aug. Xanthos; in IIufeland's Journal. 1824. March. Ameluno; ibid., 1824, Dec., p. 88. Omodei,Annali Universali di Medicina. June, 1825. Erdmann ; in Hamburger Magazin der aus- landl. Liter, vol. v. p. 293. Maoistel ; Journal de l'Hdpital de Burlay ; ou Memoire sur l’Hydrophobie. Saintes, 1823.—Journal General de Medecine, Sept. 1823. London Medical and Physical Journal. Feb. 1823. Laennec ; in Revue Medicale. Feb. 1824. Baum bach ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol.xv. p. 109. Ettmuller und 1dei.er ; ibid., vol. xvi. p. 109. Benorde und Muller ; ibid., vol. xxi. p. 294. Deutschert; ibid., vol. xx. p. 500. Schluter ; ibid., vol. xxii. p. 508. Sochtino; ibid., vol. xxiv. p. 492. Rust ; in his Magazin, p. 403.