ARTERITIS. Redness, however, is not always present in an inflamed artery, and it often exists when there is not any inflammation, when putrefaction has commenced, in consequence of the blood transuding. And Bouillaud says:—“ It is right to observe, that the redness of the internal membrane of arteries, even in the case where one is disposed to refer it to acute arteritis, is not produced, at least in the great majority of cases, by a capillary injection, but rather by a kind of tinting or fixation of the colouring matter of the blood on the internal membrane. Under this new point of view the inflammatory redness differs not essentially from that which is called cadaveric.” (p. 403.) In inflammation of the whole thickness of the arterial walls, the outer coat is generally red, in consequence of the active and free injection of the numerous vessels which everywhere penetrate them; and sometimes there is even a slight infiltration of blood. Bouillaud further observes, that “ after the internal coat, or even all the coats of an artery has been some time inflamed, it is easily detached in large flakes, the subjacent cellular tissue becoming friable.” I apprehend, however, that what he considers as flakes of the internal coat are really deposits of adhesive matter upon the coat, and not portions ofthe coat itself. The result of acute arteritis is then deposit of adhesive matter, and, as already mentioned in one of Hodgson’s cases, sometimes sufficient to fill up the tube of the artery, though, from the friction of the stream of blood upon the deposited lymph, Bouillaud considers that it is drawn into the stream, and that rather the “ inflammation determines the coagulation of the blood circulating in the artery, and thus is easily ex- plained how the secreted matter in' addition to the mass of coagulum, may produce arterial obliteration.” (p. 407.) Adhesion of the lining membrane, and obliteration of the arterial tube, is one of the results of arteritis; but, as will be presently shown, the effusion of adhesive matter, and even the coagulation of the blood in the inflamed vessel, do not always cause morti- fication of the limb, as Dupuytren would seem to consider; that condition depending rather on the number of the vessels affected with inflammation, and the quickness with which the adhesive deposit takes place, so that the supply of blood is cut off before the collateral circulation can come into play. The usual consequences of inflamed artery are seen in the application of a ligature upon an artery, in which case generally the collateral circulation is speedily established and no inconvenience to the limb is sustained, whilst, on the other hand, occasionally the circulation is restored so slowly that morti- fication to greater or less extent ensues. The following case of partial arteritis came under my own care, and for its previous history I am indebted to my intelligent friend Crisp of Walworth, whose patient he was. Thomas Batt, aged 21.) years, a grocer’s assistant, about five years prior to the present time, (August 1843,) had an attack of rheumatic fever which lasted six or seven weeks; and since has had several slight attacks of pleuritis, for one of which he was bled, but neither were so severe as to confine him to bed. The bellows sound was always heard over the region ofthe heart. On the 7 th of August he was seen on account of slight pain in the chest, for which he was ordered some aperient medicine with vin. antim. potass tart. The pulse at the left wrist was then felt and nothing remarkable observed. August 9. a. m. Whilst putting on his waistcoat, he was struck with pain like the prick of a pin, about the middle of the left upper arm, and in the track of the brachial artery, which continued for about an hour, and during that time his arm “ became dull and cold as low as the elbow.” He saw his medical attendant at 10 a.m. ; the arm and hand were then cold, and no pulsation could be felt below the arm-pit, at which part the artery was felt beating, but not forcibly, (90 a minute,) and over it great tenderness on pressure. The pulse of the right wrist was 100, and rather more powerful than usual. The ailing arm was ordered to be put in warm water for a quarter of an hour. 4^ p.m. In the same state as the morning; but has had five or six times a sensation of throbbing in the arm, with tingling and numbness of the fingers. 10 p.m. As he continued much the same, six leeches were applied to the arm-pit, and an opening draught given immediately. August 10, a. m. Caustic was applied to the leech-bites, which had bled all night and were still bleeding, so that he felt rather faint from loss of blood ; but the pulse of the right arm is not much affected. No pulsation in the left wrist; but the hand less cold than yesterday. There is great tenderness over the commencement of the brachial artery. K pulv. colchic., pulv. antim., ail gr.v. hydr. c. cretd, gr. x. quintis horis sum. August 11. Much the same : the artery painful on pressure; the powders continued. August 13. No change since the last report, except that the tenderness over the brachial artery is less and the hand not so cold. His bowels being confined, an aperient draught was ordered immediately, and the powders continued.