754 VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. stemmed slightly curved sharp hook, and brought into a suitable position ; a line is then to be drawn with the point of a fine pointed scalpel around the fistulous opening, and from three to four lines distant everywhere from it. The portion of the mucous membrane of the vagina between the line and the fistulous opening is then to be seized with the hook somewhat raised, and gradually removed about the whole extent of the opening as thinly as possible, to the breadth of three or four lines, by a saw-like motion of the scalpel, and the bleeding which ensues is to be checked by the injection of cold water. By Dieffenbach, the patient is put in the same position as in cutting for the stone, a silver catheter is introduced into the bladder and held by an assistant, and a two-armed speculum vaginee passed, in order to see the fistula distinctly. If the fistula be not high up, one of its edges may be seized after another, with a hook, or with a pair of hooked forceps, gently drawn down, and removed with a proper bistoury or pair of scissors, if the fistula be high up, Dieffenbach, after introducing Ricord’s spe- culum, passes one pair of hooked forceps into the wall of the vagina, above the fistula, and a second pair of hooked forceps beneath it; the speculum is then removed, and the vagina gently drawn with double hooks, if there be considerable tension, by an assistant, to one side, till the edges of the fistula are apparent between the nymphos. About the edges little hooks are to be introduced, and both double hooks and one pair of forceps removed ; the other pair is held by an assistant, and the little hooks by another person. A small scalpel is now thrust through the mucous membrane of the vagina and bladder, distant a line from the fiistulous aperture, and a strip, a line broad, is to be removed around the opening, and the hooks again introduced into the bleeding edges. The edge of the bladder is now to be taken hold of with a fine pair of hooked forceps, and a portion, two lines wide, removed with the knife, so that the wounded surface, which was only one line wide, is now four lines. In small fis- tulas, where the separation of the two walls is not possible, a funnel-like piece should be removed. Hobert (a) refreshed the edges by touching with lunar caustic. Peculiar instruments for refreshing the edges (Naegele’s bistoury with a covered edge, La l remand’s hook-shaped knife , and so on) are unsuitable and unnecessary. 977. For uniting the refreshed edges, the twisted, the glover’s, the inter- rupted and the running stitch have been proposed, and with different modifications employed ; the twisted and the interrupted are most con- venient. The latter is easier of application ; soft threads only and not hard metallic threads being employed, the threads are easily withdrawn ; on the other hand the twisted suture renders the union much closer and does not allow the urine to percolate so easily ; therefore Wutzeii prefers it, in a quiet intelligent patient, for a narrow vagina and soft fistulous edges. In using the twisted suture, the insect-needles should be fresh sharpened and pointed, just before the operation, but they must not be too fine. The needle in the needle-holder should be introduced at such an angle as suits generally the position of the fistula; its point should not project further than necessary. It may be requisite, in order that the movements of the needle be not prevented, to grip it with the needle-holder close to the head. The tip of the forefinger of the left hand is to be placed near the edge of the fistula, and so directed that the entrance of the needle (a) London Medical Journal, 1825, Dec. p. 439.