OPERATION FOR 610 fitrcula deeply torn, the size which the vulva has preserved depends in great part on this lengthening of the labia; sometimes even their commissure is confounded with the margin of the anus without any distinguishable trace of intermediate scar. This mechanism of the scarring explains, why the existence of a bridle separating the vulva from the wound, in central tearing of the perineum, renders scarring much more difficult and tedious than when the tear has been complete. In reality, the presence of this bridle, which is formed by the posterior commissure of the vulva, preventing, to a certain degree, the assistance afforded to the scarring lengthways by the elongation of the labia, either retards it considerably, or causes a fistulous opening. Cut this bridle, and you then observe the scarring, which up to that period had seemed stationary, make rapid progress and completely perfected.” lie farther observes, that “what has been mentioned in regard to the vulva applies also to the anus; it is by a similar mechanism, that tearings or ruptures which involve this opening and a part of the recto-vaginal partition, scar; the scarring occurs both in the direction of thickness and length; by the latter the extremities of the divided sphincter ani stretch and approach the rectal angle of the wound, contributing more or less to fill it up; the anus is then actually enlarged. In fact, the sphincter being then much outspread, at last embraces nearly the whole of this very large anus, which to a certain point is only as large as ordinary. Thus the excretion of the stercoraceous matter, which was involuntary, often terminates by returning to the natural control of the will. On the other hand, the edge of the rupture formed by the recto-vaginal partition, having been drawn together, in conse- quence of this mode of scarring, descends lower, forms a sort of spur, a kind of valve which opposes itself to the passage of the intestinal contents into the vagina, which had previously occurred. Thus, then, the deep ruptures or tearings of the perineum extending to the anus and recto vaginal partition, may be had without any other inconvenience than that resulting from a very large opening.” fp. 415-18.)] 743. Operation on an old tear of the 'perineum, when extending into the rectum, is always most uncertain as to its consequences, and so much the more so if the tear be large, and connected with loss of substance and much callosity of the edges, and if the endeavour to bring the edges together be fruitless. In bad condition of the powers, in lymphatic scrofulous persons, in habitual diarrhoea, the operation is contra-indicated if these evils cannot be got rid of by suitable treatment. 744. The skinned-over edges of the torn 'perineum are to be refreshed in the following manner. After suitable purging, the patient is to be laid on either side, with the thighs drawn up towards the belly, so that the breech projects beyond the edge of the bed, or she is to be laid in the same position as in cutting for the stone. If the perineum be covered with hair, it must be carefully removed. An assistant separates the buttocks from each other, and holds back any accompanying protrusion of the vagina. The operator, after having ascertained the extent and state of the separation, takes hold of the lower edge of the cleft with a pair of forceps, used as in the operation for entropium, and cuts off’ the part taken hold of with a bistoury, or less advantageously with scissors. lie then proceeds with the upper edge in a similar way, and freshens both edges of the cleft to such extent as will enable them to unite; care is also to be taken that no part covered with skin remain. As soon as the bleeding has been perfectly stanched with a sponge dipped in cold water, and all the clotted blood has been removed, the cleft is to be united with two in- terrupted sutures, for which purpose a sufficiently strong curved needle, with a handle, and furnished with waxed threads, is to be introduced and thrust through the whole thickness of both edges, an inch and a half from the angle, the threads being drawn after it; and, in this manner, four lines nearer the pudendum a second, and if the size of the cleft re- quire it, a third bundle of threads is to be introduced. The edges of the wound after proper cleansing are to be brought together, and the threads next the rectum are to be drawn together with a double knot sufficient])