540 HENRY CLINE’S OPERATION exist why the operation should not be successful, provided the injury of the spinal cord itself were not great, a condition which, as regarded the brain, would equally forbid operation, or render its success improbable or impossible.” The spinal cord may be simply compressed, (as in Tyrrell’s first case,) or it may be more or less torn, without or with injury to the spinal sheath (as in Cline’s case just recited, and in that on which I operated) ; or blood may be effused into the spinal canal, within or without the sheath, either at one spot or to a considerable extent, or it may be poured into the substance of the cord itself, and have the appearance of blood in an apoplectic cell. The result of Tyrrell’s case (a), which was certainly most favourable for operation, the cord not having been subjected to other injury than pressure, was most highly encouraging, and I cannot but think that if the after treatment had been different he would probably have recovered. In Cline’s case the cord was so much torn, and in my own so completely torn, and the sheath in both so rent, that their exposure by the operation at once showed the utter hopelessness of relief in either case. Cline can- didly stated that he thought the operation had hastened his patient’s death. Before undertaking the operation of cutting out that part of the arch of the vertebra which compresses the cord, Cline proposed to himself “ four questions:—1st, Will the patient die of the operation ? Probably he will, if the injury be severe. [I do not exactly understand the answer given, for there is no danger in the operation, if it be performed with care; but I suspect that he thought the exposure of the cord might hasten inflam- mation, and so death might more quickly result.—J. !•'. s.] 2nd, If the cord be much hurt will it recover its functions ? This is unknown; but we do know that if a nerve be divided it will unite, and the greater part of the spinal cord may be divided in a brute and yet the animal recover; in proof of which he detailed an experiment which he performed on a hitch. A cut was made at the back of the neck through the muscles and the yellow substance between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra having been divided, the handle of a scalpel was pressed firmly down on the cord, and the result was, that the parts behind the division were completely palsied, excepting that the tail con- tinued still capable of a very slight motion, proving that a small portion of the cord was still undivided. With very great care and attention, the animal recovered after some months, and resumed all h r paces as usual, with the exception of a peculiar move- ment of her hind limbs in galloping. She was afterwards destroyed, and the spinal cord being examined, was found to have united. [In what condition it was found the notes do not state, but as far as my recollection serves, without any very remarkable external appearance being observed.—j. F. s.] This then seemed to be sufficient proof that a spinal cord which had been considerably injured, if not all but entirely torn through, might be re-united and recover its functions 3rdly, After the removal of the arch of the vertebra will the spine be sufficiently strong to support the body ? Probably it will for ordinary purposes, though the patient may not be able to lift heavy weights. 4thly, Will a patient recover from a compound fracture of the spine, which, by the performance of the operation, it becomes ? The nearer a fracture is to the source of the circulation, and the less compact, and consequently the more vascular the hone is, the greater is the probability of recovery. Both these advantages are present in the spine, and therefore favour the successful issue of the case ” Such is the very brief account alone which I am able to give of Cline’s notions in reference to the removal of the compressing portion of the vertebral arch or arches. I regret especially that I have been unable to procure the details of this experiment upon the dog. But as no account whatever has been hitherto published of this first opera- tion, or of the observations of the operator in reference to the subject, I have thought it right to give these details, meagre as they are, rather than to allow their being en- tirely lost and forgotten. As might be expected, the case at the time excited considerable interest, and Surgeons were much divided in opinion as to the probability of any successful result. Astley Cooper, however, thought so well of it that within a few months he operated on a case in which there was supposed to be fracture with displacement; it turned out, however, to be merely a fracture of the spinous process of a dorsal vertebra at its root, and there- fore the arch was not meddled with. I saw the operation performed, but I do not recollect how the case terminated. In referring to Cline’s and Tyrrell’s cases, Cooper observes, “ whether future trials will be more successful, it is difficult to say; we cannot speak decidedly on the subject, as the first operations have been unsuccessful. The proposal is laudable, and the operation is not severe, nor does it increase the dan- ger of the patient; time and experiment can only determine its value. If we could (a) His edition of A. Cooper’s Lectures on Surgery.