304 TYING OF often seen to be made. All the tightening of the thread, really necessary, is such as is sufficient to embed it in the arterial coats, so that it shall not be thrown off by the impulse of the blood against it. The employment of a broad ligature, viz., ribbon, tied upon a piece of cork, and re- moving it some days before ulceration had taken place, was proposed and practised many years ago by the elder Cline in St. Thomas’s Hospital; the first case failed, but the se- cond succeeded; the preparation of the latter is now in the museum of that institution, the patient having died of diseased lungs three months after the operation. But subse- quently it was found to produce great irritation, the cork acting as an extraneous body, and therefore the operation was given up. Scarpa, however, used a cylinder of linen’ upon which the ligature was tied, thinking it preferable to wood, as being more like a cushion than anything which could bruise. In cases of amputation, when, as occasionally happens, the arteries are ossified, Ma- nec (a), who objects to tying such vessels at any time with small round ligatures, as likely to break up the diseased coats, in consequence of which bleeding happens between the second and fourth day, recommends the introduction of a piece of bougie into the ossified artery, as practised by Dupuytren and Roux. (p. 25.) I have not had any experience in this practice, and I do not remember to have seen bleeding of the wounds of old people, whose arteries are generally more or less ossified, more frequently than in other persons of younger age. Indeed, it occasionally happens, that the whole tube of the artery is filled with earthy matter, and impervious, therefore not requiring to be tied.—J. F. S.] 290. Notwithstanding' these objections to the use of the simple round ligature, which cuts through the inner arterial coat, experience is in favour of this kind of ligature, inasmuch as the inflammation excited by it renders the obliteration of the artery more sure, and after-bleeding is more certainly prevented, because the vessel is perfectly closed before ceration of the outer arterial coat has caused the ligature to fall off. This subject will be more fully considered in the treatment of aneurism. 291. In tying arteries the Surgeon must endeavour, as much as possible, to include none of the neighbouring parts in the ligature, and still not completely to isolate the artery. He seizes the mouth of the wounded vessel I with the forceps, by laying the points of the instrument on each side of it and gently drawing it forwards. An assistant carries a round, not very thick, but sufficiently strong, waxed silk ligature, about the vessel, ties a single knot, and, whilst he holds the ends of the ligature with both hands, f he draws the knot somewhat together, presses with both his fingers upon I the artery, draws it sufficiently tight, and then makes a second simple ( knot. The common forceps is certainly the best instrument to hold the divided vessel, and : makes the tenaculum, and all the knick-knackeries which have been added to the forceps, [ superfluous. In case the surgeon has to perform the ligature of a vessel unassisted, it is best that the forceps should be furnished with a slide. Besides the old broad arterial forceps, must also be here mentioned Brownfield’s tenaculum, with the alterations of Zang and Chari.es Bell; the hook-forceps of Assalini ; the forceps of Brunninghausen, 1 of Rust ; the forceps, with moveable auxiliary limbs, of Blcemer and Assalini, for projection of the loop; the tenaculum-forceps of Weinhold ; the double tenaculum of Weir; the loop-drawer of Jacobson, for the application and drawing together of the t ligature. Compare, IIoltze, E. G. F., De Arteriarum Ligatura; cum tab. xi. Berol., 1827. 4to. Colombat’s Forceps, in Revue Mc'dicale, December 1829, p. 407. Graefe, Beschreibung zweier neuen Instrumenten zur Unterbindung trefleegender i Gefasse; in his Journal, vol. xii. p. 651. * [I do not quite agree with Chelius as to the incomplete isolation of the artery before • applying the ligature; but I do fully participate in his preference of the forceps to any j other instrument for drawing out arteries. I always use two pair of forceps for taking i («) Traite tlieoriquc ct pratique dc la Ligature des Arteres. Paris, 1832. fol.