519 IN COMPOUND FRACTURES. The principal points to be considered in forming a determination on the necessity, for no other reason can he admitted, of immediate amputation in compound fracture, are :— 1st, the nature and extent of the injury: 2ndly, the present condition of the patient, and his capability of bearing immediately the second severe shock of amputation: 3rdly, the consequences immediate and remote of compound fracture: 4thly, the advantage hoped for, by the immediate removal of the injured parts, in preference to the attempts at saving them. 1st. Of the nature and extent of the injury.—In examining a wound of the soft parts, the condition of the skin is to be especially looked to. If the wound in the skin be small, and the surrounding parts not much bruised, it is favourable; but if the wound be large and torn, if the skiu be much stripped and accompanied with much bruising, it is unfavourable. If the bone do not protrude much, often, indeed, it does not protrude at all, and if it be not so tightly girt by the skin as to prevent its drawing back into its natural place, so much the better ; but if it stick out considerably, and if it be so tightly grasped by the skin that it can only be drawn back with great difficulty, or not at all without dividing the tight skin, and not always then, so much the worse: but if the wound be cleanly cut, and do not oppose the return of the bone, I do not think it of very material consequence whether an inch of bone, more or less, be protruded. Thus far is ascertained with little or no interference with the injured part. But the next thing to be i thought about is the depth of the wound, and the injury of the tissues contained within . it. This is one of the most important parts of the point under consideration, and upon I the proper conduct of which the patient’s safety, and the probable success of any attempt to save the limb, will mainly depend. If meddlesome midwifery be most justly eschewed, , meddlesome Surgery should be most utterly abhorred. The thrusting in of fingers, and poking about, for no other term is applicable, under the pretence of examining the depth of the wound and the condition of the fracture, is most improper, and ought most carefully to be refrained from. It matters not whether a wound be more or less deep; and if the Surgeon recollect the size of the bone and its natural relations to the soft parts, he can pretty well decide what the extent of the wound is beneath, and by a little gentle passing of the fingers over the skin in the neighbourhood of the wound, so that he inflicts scarcely any pain, he will be able to ascertain whether the fracture be \ comminuted or broken into many pieces ; and he can do no more if he thrust his finger in and grope about, except that he will put his patient to much unnecessary pain, and increase his danger by disturbing the injured parts still more than already, and thus i set up still more irritation, instead of endeavouring to soothe. The proceedings of a Surgeon on such occasions, more, perhaps, than any other, show his greater or less knowledge of the principles of his profession. He may be an excel- i lent operator, but unless he pay the most strict attention to points of practice like this, | which are often too lightly considered, and risk the patient’s well-doing, he is no Sur- ‘ geon; and should have no credit for the well performance of an operation, the necessity i for which has been caused by his own improper conduct at the onset of the case. He should recollect that, as has been often said, operations are the opprobria of Surgery, i and should never be desired nor performed but when all other means have failed. These views were strongly impressed on my mind when a student, by the precepts and practice of my dear master, the younger Cline, whose early death deprived our profession of a most highly-gifted member, and those who enjoyed his society of an amiable and kind-hearted friend. I gratefully acknowledge his able and continued professional ad- i vice and guidance in the early part of my career, and deeply grieve that he was not longer spared to increase the reputation of his distinguished family name, and to add to ‘ the high character of English Surgery. If there be much tearing of the muscles and tendons, or of the tendinous covering of the limb, either or all of which are commonly seen by gently sponging the wound, there is great j danger of trismus or tetanus, and amputation should be forthwith performed. The flow of i blood from the wound, and the probability of a wounded artery, must enter into the con- . sideration of the nature of the wound. Very frequently there is considerable loss of blood, but it must not be supposed that this always comes from an artery, or that even if it do, that i the vessel needs tying. More commonly the bleeding is certainly only from the small muscular branches, and soon ceases. But it may and does occasionally happen that a large I artery in the leg or fore-arm is wounded, pricked by the broken end of the bone or partially torn, in either of.which cases it will continue to bleed ; or it may, as I believe, be torn i through, and, retracting, be plugged up by a clot in its mouth whilst the patient is faint, 1 and at the same time compressed by the coagulation of the etfused blood in its neigh- bourhood, and thus a lnemorrhage, violent at first, ceases spontaneously, without any very apparent cause. Often, though there has not been much bleeding before the frac-