721 TREATMENT. upper part of the intestine, is always penetrated by the food and stercoral matter, is the most free and widest of the two. The other is the continuation of the lower end of the bowel, and as it does not receive either alimentary or stercoral matter, or only in : very small quantities, it is usually narrow, contracted, and difficult to find. To these orifices succeed the extremities of the intestine, villous, and lined with mucosities within, smooth, covered with peritoneum, and bathed in serosity without, buried in the belly, sometimes crossing, sometimes twisting about each other, sometimes running parallel, but most commonly separating from each other at an angle more or less acute ; and they are lost by curving more and more in the circumvolutions of the intestinal canal. On examining the space between the two orifices, a projection, more or less distinctly angular is perceived, and more or less near the entrance of the funnel just mentioned. This projection, the so-called spur (e'peron) already perceived and pointed out by Saviard and Morand, results from the application and union, at an acute angle, of the corresponding walls of the two parts of the intestine which abut in artificial 1 anus. * * * After a time this spur does not divide the bottom of the funnel into which the two ends of the intestine open, into two equal parts. Continually pressed on by the matters which the upper end brings down, this fold yields to their pressure, and is i gradually carried towards the lower end, upon which it advances more and more, till at last it covers its orifice with a sort of valve, which hermetically closes its entrance, and < renders its discovery very difficult. Towards the intestinal cavity the spur has con- i stantly a crescentic form, of which the angles directed from the concavity towards the i convexity of the new curve of the intestine, are confounded with it, and gradually lost : either in the walls of the organ or on the edges of the deepest part of the wound of the > belly. On the abdominal surface it is seen doubled, and the two equal halves of which it consists separate and receive the mesentery in their interval.” (p. 202-5.) “ Thus,” says . Lawrence, “ the two portions of the bowel lie near together, but are not adherent; they are separated by the ridge called by Scarpa promontorio, and by the French j e'peron. If we introduce a finger into each orifice, and bring the fingers together, they i are separated merely by the sides of the two portions of intestine. When it is de- scribed that they are kept apart by an intervening partition, we must remember that there is nothing but the intervening tunics. We might pass an instrument from one I end of the bowel into the other, and thus cause a direct communication between them ; by perforating their coats ; but as the bowels are simply contiguous without adhering, we should make a double wound into the cavity of the abdomen.” (p. 383.)] 919. The treatment of faecular fistula or artificial anus, consists at first merely in attention to the proper discharge of the stools, in cover- i ing the opening with a wad of lint, and the removal of all pressure from it; good nourishing food, and easy of digestion, should be given, and i frequent clysters and gentle purgatives. If there be externally several fistulous passages, they must be slit up, the irritation and callosity re- moved by poulticing and cleanliness of the dressings, and hard, tough, dry callosities, which will not disperse, are to be removed with the knife. If the opening contract too quickly, or the stools cannot escape sufficiently, the opening must be enlarged with sponge-tent or the knife, which, however, is less safe, as the adhesions of the intestine may be easily divided. A sufficiently large pad should be put into the opening to prevent it narrowing; and its introduction is also the only mode of pre- venting the protrusion of the bowel. If this occur, attempts must be made to return it, and if that be not at once possible, we must try to effect it by continued pressure with a bandage. The patient must be kept in bed, and avoid all exertion. In strangulated protrusion, the stricture must be carefully divided at the root of the protruded part. If under this treat- ment the excrements be gradually discharged by the natural passage, and so continue for some time, the opening may be allowed to close, gradually, except the patient feels pain in the belly, or uneasiness from collection of stools; it is, however, advisable to keep up a small opening for somo time longer by the introduction of a bougie. If the opening close too quickly, or if the stools collect largely at the opening of communica- vol i. 3 a