199 OF THE NAIL. torn off. Scarcely has the nail cut itself into the skin it covers, than the pain becomes very severe; walking, and even standing, are unbearable; a serous or sero-purulent oozing establishes itself in the part affected, and, if the patient take exercise, the whole foot swells. The pain, however, continues increasing, the oozing becomes more abundant, and the sanious pus which escapes has a smell more fetid from mixing with the per- spiratory humour of the feet. The patient, tormented with pain, is driven to raise the nail and cut it back; but this proceeding, though sometimes causing momentary relief, far from curing increases the difficulty of the treatment. Finally, if the disease be left alone, the ulcer produced sometimes runs into a cancerous state, sometimes is covered with enormous vegetations, sometimes even the inflammation is propagated to the peri- osteum, and soon gives rise to caries and necrosis of one or more phalanges.” (p. 46.) Dupuytren also mentions that this disease is liable to be confused with some others, and instances a case which, for eight years, had been treated as if depending on gout. Colles (a) observes, that “ the colour of the fungus is rather florid; surface is smooth; the discharge is purulent, in small quantity, and tolerably healthy, unless the part have been irritated by too much exercise of the limbs, or by some external in- flammation or local injury: there is little or no surrounding inflammation, no enlarge- ment of the toe, and the pain is in general trifling, unless during exercise, when the weight of the body on the limb causes the nail to press into the soft substance of the fungus, which thus often induces considerable uneasiness and lameness. This disease does not appear to me to have any tendency to spread to, or to involve, the adjoining parts, as 1 have seen cases in which it has remained stationary for some months, and in one for two years; at the end of which period the symptoms were in no way more severe than at the commencement, although most writers assert that it generally passes into malignant onychia. The origin of this troublesome affection is usually attributed to the effects of a tight boot or shoe, or to some accident in cutting or breaking off the end of the nail; in many instances, however, no cause can be recollected or assigned for its occurrence.” (p. 241.) Colles, however, speaks of the form of disease liable to be mistaken for gout as quite distinct from that just described. He says:—“ There is another morbid affection which occasionally engages the anterior and inner angle of the great toe nail, and which causes considerable lameness and uneasiness, particularly on pressure; this affection is often mistaken for an attack of gout, especially in those persons where such an attack may be expected or even desired. In this disease there is no swelling or redness; but pain, on pressure, at the anterior and internal angle of the nail. On close examination of this spot, we find that this angle rests on a hard white mass of laminated, horny cuticle, which we can easily remove in bran-like scales, when we shall see a small cup-like cavity, without any ulceration or disease. The ungual angle appears thick and bulbous opposite this point, and the pain is caused by its pressing against this mass. * * * I may remark I have never seen this disease engage the outer angle, neither have I seen that last described engage the inner angle of the toe-nail.” (pp. 244, 5.) 193. In the slighter forms of this disease, it may always be easily relieved by inserting a slip of lead under the edge of the nail which is to be fixed, there by twisting round it a piece of sticking plaster ; by which means the nail is raised and the flesh depressed. If there be fungous excrescences, these must be first removed with lunar caustic, or cut off with the knife. It would be too painful at once to insert the plate of lead beneath the edge of the nail; but it is also unnecessary, as its insertion under the front edge, if the nail be allowed to grow, gradually raises the hind part, and then the lead may be further introduced. When the nail has recovered its proper direction, it must not be cut too short nor rounded at the sides, but only shortened transversely. With these precautions, this treatment, recom- mended by Desault and Richerand, has, in almost all cases, answered my wishes. Introduction of charpie or wax beneath the edge of the nail is useless. Biessey (6) scrapes the whole free surface of the nail till nearly its entire thickness is destroyed, particularly in the centre. Then he touches the scraped part five or six times, (a) Observations on some Morbid Affections of (6) Remarks on Inverted Toe-Nail; in 1’hila- tbe Nailot the OreatToe; in Dublin Journal of dclphia Journal of Medical and Physical Sciences, Medical Science, vol. xxiii. 1843. vol. ii. 1821.