485 THE WOMB. own care, in which it was requisite to use forceps, “ fifteen clays after delivery the patient complained of dull pain towards the rump-bone, and an unpleasant weight upon the rectum. The neck of the womb was felt projected forwards, its hinder wall promi- nent, and rounded at the bottom of the vagina and fluctuating. This w'as punctured with the bistoury, and did well. In another similar case, he also mentions that the abscess discharged itself spontaneously at the neck of the womb, and the patient recovered.” (pp. 15, 16.) The womb, whilst impregnated, is liable to be burst by external violence, as by blow's or falls upon the belly, by squeezing against a wall, or by carriage-wheels passing over the body. Such cases are extremely dangerous, but not always necessarily fatal ; a most remarkable instance of which is mentioned by the younger Naegele (a) :—A healthy peasant woman, aged thirty-five years, and the mother of four children, in her fifth pregnancy, about six weeks previous to her expected delivery, received a violent blow on the belly from the pole of a waggon, which threw her down with great force; and at the moment she felt a severe tearing pain. She crept a little way from the waggon, and was carried home in a fainting condition. On coming a little to herself, she complained of a constant bearing down pain in the belly, which prevented sleep during the night; but she had no return of the fainting. When seen, her face wTas flushed; pulse 90, full and sharp; the bowels had been only once moved after several injections; she could pass water, but with pain and scalding. The belly was slightly tympanitic, but not tense; and between the navel and pubes, somewhat to the left, a round circumscribed tumour was felt, rising in the middle to the height of an inch and a half, but flattened off' towards tbe sides, and about six inches in diameter. Upon the surface there was a slight bruise, and beneath, the nates and foot of a foetus could be felt with the greatest ease. She complained of pain on motion, or on pressing the tumour; and on pressing the hand deep into the abdominal walls above the navel, it was believed that the fundus uteri could be felt. Examination per vaginam presented nothing unusual; the head presented naturally ; neither blood nor water had come away from the vagina; she had no p iins, nor were there any signs of incipient labour. The movements of the child, which had been very brisk before the accident, had ceased immediately after. The alarming symptoms usually observed in cases of ruptured womb were entirely absent. She was bled to fourteen ounces, on account of the headache and state of the pulse, and enjoined the strictest quiet. She went on several days wflthout change, till the forenoon of the 4th July, when pains came on, and in the course of the afternoon she was partly delived by the midwife of a putrid foetus; but as it was not entirely expelled, Naegele’s assistance was required, who saw her at four the next morning. The head had then descended and expelled; but neither bladder of mem- branes nor a drop of liquor amnii had come away. The/a^KS having been delivered to the breast had stuck, and the midwife pulling at the body, which was highly putrescent, it gave way near the loins, leaving the rest behind. The placenta had passed without any serious discharge. The patient lay with well-marked symptoms of metritis. The belly w'as more distended than before, but the tumour itself had diminished; the parts of the child were less evident, but the nates and a foot could be distinguished. The slightest touch produced insupportable pain. On examination, the os uteri externum was found very high up, and sufficiently open to admit two fingers. A leg of the child projected into the vagina, and around it at the knee-joint the os uteri internum had firmly contracted. Attempts to bring it away were unavailing, from its putrid condition and the severe suffering they produced. She was now bled to sixteen ounces, to induce re- laxation of the os uteri, but without success; the leg was then removed at the knee, warm fomentations applied, and perfect rest enjoined, with general antiphlogistic treatment. On the 8th July, the tumour, which had inflamed, burst; a foot protruded, at which the midwife had pulled till the whole remaining part of the foetus had been removed. On the 14th July, Naegele saw her, and she was then comfortable, had little fever, and her appetite was good. In place of the tumour w'as a round circumscribed opening, about five inches in diameter and an inch and a half in depth, from which mucus was discharged. On the right the whole thickness of the abdominal wall was as if it had been cut through with a knife, beneath v'hich the finger could be introduced for some extent; on the left side of the opening w'as a red globular mass, united with the abdominal teguments, and which appeared to be the womb, as it rose when the lower por- tion of that organ, was pressed up by the finger in the vagina. Below, the finger was stopped by adhesions, which had formed in all directions at the bottom of the abscess. On the right side a portion of intestine was seen. Mild dressing and poultices were applied, and (a) Neue Zeitschril't fiir Geburtskunde, vol. v.; and in Forbes’s British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. v. p. 581.