237 INFLAMMATION OF TIIE JOINT-ENDS OF BONES. existence of this disease. Brodie has described it, and appears to regard it as a not uncommon occurrence; in one instance he found it combined with disease of the inter- vertebral substance. Of three cases that have come under my notice, two have occurred in subjects brought into the dissecting-room, and the history of which 1 was unacquainted with; the other case was that of a gentleman who was labouring under stone in the bladder, and suddenly experienced a severe attack of pain about the head of the fibula and the bursae at the back part of the head of the tibia. The pain was accompanied witli considerable fever, and slight swelling of the parts in which he complained of the pain. On the third day the pain shifted from the fibula to the knee-joint, which swelled, as if from an effusion of synovial fluid. The suffering now became excessive, and the fever assumed a typhoid character. At the end of ten days from the commencement of the attack he died. The bladder presented less evidence of the inflammatory action than might have been expected from the intensity of his sufferings. The knee-joint was distended with a thin opaque synovial secretion, of a somewhat purulent character; the surface of the synovial membrane presented here and there patches of more than ordinary vascularity. The cartilaginous surfaces of the bones were entire, with the exception of a small spot on the end of the femur, which appeared ragged and irregularly broken up into a fibrous mass.” (pp. 241, 2.)] 218. This disease shows itself in every age, but especially in children ; more frequently in the hip and shoulder than in other joints. Its causes are external injury, but especially dyscratic diseases. [“ The ulceration of the articular cartilages may,” according to Brodie, “ occur at any period of life, but it is most frequent in those who have passed the age of puberty, and who are under thirty-five years of age. We meet with it, however, some times in young children, and at other times in old persons.” (p. 151.)] 219. The prognosis is always unfavourable, as the disease is often mis- taken at its commencement, and speedy destruction of the parts of the joint is produced. 220. In severe irritation of the joint, leeches, cupping, even blood-letting, warm baths, and so on, must be employed at the onset. If the inflamma- tion be thereby diminished, or if the disease has originally taken an insidious course,derivative remedies, and, among these, issues especially and the actual cautery are to be employed. The action of these remedies is often very rapid ; the suppuration must, however, be kept up from the surface for a long time, and the joint kept perfectly at rest. Sometimes improvement quickly takes place ; but the attacks recur, in which case, probably, sup- puration has already taken place in the joint. When abscesses are formed, they must be treated as already directed, and especially the general dis- eased condition of the body somehow connected with the disease of the joint, properly attended to. D.—OF THE INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINT-ENDS OF BONES. 221. The inflammation, in these cases, (Infiammatio Process man Arti- culorum, Lat. ; Entzundung der Gelenk-Enden der Knocken, Germ. ; Inflammation des Extremitcs Articulaires des Os, Fr.,) begins in the very vascular spongy part of the joint-end of the bone, and is at first accom- panied with little pain, which comes on imperceptibly. After a lapse of time of uncertain length, there appears an elastic, irregularly spreading swelling of the outermost parts of the joint, the form of which depends on the expanded joint processes: the swelling is larger when the joint is in action, and smaller when it is at rest. The motions of the joint are little interfered with. After a shorter or longer time, increased pain comes on, the external skin becomes dusky red, and finally breaks; ill-conditioned pus is discharged, and caries is felt on using a probe. So often as some