207 LIGAMENTS. rest.” (p. 79) 80.) Now, if the injuring cause here mentioned as “a blow,” be “ a twist or wrench,” from the foot slipping, or by falling on the hand, the symptoms are pre- cisely similar in their immediate appearance, and their long continuance. Whether, in such cases, the ligamentous fibres are simply stretched beyond what they can bear with comfort, or whether they are actually torn, in however slight degree, is very difficult to determine ; but that they at once become as painful before any inflammation can have been set up, as they afterwards are when they are said to be inflamed there is no doubt. Still, however, this seems the very utmost we know, and little enough it is,‘of inflamma- tion of ligaments, and 1 fully concur in the following observations of Wickham of Winchester, who says:—“ We have no reason, d priori, to suppose that the ligaments are not liable to primary disease, or that a lesion of these structures may not originate com- plaint, and propagate it to the other component parts of the joint. The result of my observation, however, has been, that the ligaments are the last of all the different parts diseased, and that it is very common, on dissection, to find the ligaments perfect and uninfluenced by disease, even when every other texture is either altered or destroyed. The intimate connexion of the capsular ligament with the cellular tissue which invests it, and the synovial membrane which lines it, renders it difficult to distinguish inflam- mation begun in the ligaments, from diseased action commencing in those other parts ; and, in its first stages, I should think it impossible to detect it; in the latter stages it has so blended itself with disorganising effects of disease in other parts as not easily to be selected as giving rise to primary affections.” (p. 98.)] 201. In Acute Inflammation of the Ligaments there is more or less severe pain, increased by pressure and motion, and accompanied with a feeling of heat and warmth; sometimes there is also an elastic, tense, not hard, shining swelling, which, in very severe inflammations, is red and extremely painful, and most prominent at those parts where the joint capsule is merely covered by skin and cellular tissue. The limb is bent. The pain is not simply confined to the joint; it spreads in the course of the tendons, and by the periosteum, over part of the limb, which frequently becomes cedematous. Fever is always connected with a high degree of this inflammation ; frequently the fever precedes, and the inflammation follows it. If the inflammation do not subside, it spreads upon the synovial mem- brane, and then produces the changes hereafter to be mentioned; or it runs into a chronic condition, in which the pain subsides, but the swelling increases. If this inflammation come on less actively, i. e., in a subacute form, it may continue a very long time. [I do not know in what respect simple acute inflammation of ligaments differs from acute rheumatism; nor how they are to be discriminated primarily except by reference to the constitutional disturbance which, in this condition, is a very uncertain sign. But that they are different I think there cannot be a doubt; as, in the one case, the disease is propagated to the other parts of the joint, and the ordinary results of inflammation attacking mucous surfaces, viz., suppuration and ulceration, ensue in the cavity of the joint itself; whilst, in rheumatism, the affection is confined to the ligaments and the parts exterior to or enveloping them, and consists only in the effusion of serum or ad- hesive matter into the cellular tissue, thereby increasing the bulk and interfering with the motions of the joint. I must confess that I am ignorant of the signs which indicate simple inflammation of ligament, independent of rheumatism or of injury, and that I do not know the peculiar symptoms which point out the extension of inflammation to the ligaments, from the synovial membrane or proper tissue of joints. As seems to me, all our knowledge of inflamed ligaments is merely negative, except, perhaps, so far as con- cerns the injuries to ligaments known as sprains. I say perhaps, because in sprains the pain, on motion, which is held to be one principal sign of inflammation, occurs imme- diately after the accident, and before it is possible that inflammation can have occurred, however early that condition may, under these circumstances, be set up; and, if the part be carefully preserved in a state of repose, pain does not exist, nor is any other sign of inflammation present, although the slightest movement will produce excruciating pain ; to explain the production of which, some other cause than inflammation must be sought for.—J. F. S.] 202. Chronic Inflammation of the Ligaments either begins with acute pain, or comes on gradually with a less degree of pain, observable only on