BLEEDING FROM TIIE TOOTH-SOCKETS. 707 not closing, the tooth must be drawn. If there be caries of the alveolar process, it must be treated according to the general rules. [(1) The bleeding which ensues occasionally in consequence of drawing a tooth of a person who has haemorrhagic diathesis, is a matter of very serious consequence, and has sometimes destroyed life. I have seen several severe, though not fatal cases, of this kind, and as it seemed to me, that the blood came from the very bottom of one or other of the fang- sockets, when the tooth had more than one, 1 presume that the bleeding vessel was the proper artery of the tooth, and that the difficulty in arresting the haemorrhage depended on the difficulty of getting at the vessel itself; for unless it can be immediately acted upon, whatever be the local application, it is sure to fail. Various remedies have been proposed; I have tried most of them without success, but I have never failed with the actual cautery, when I have properly applied it, that is, when its point has been sufficiently small to descend into the very bottom of the fang-socket. When I first had recourse to this practice I failed from not thrusting the hot wire (which makes the best cautery for this purpose, and should not be more than a line thick) down to the very bottom of the socket; but having corrected this error, I have never failed since, in at least half-a-dozen cases; and, therefore, believe that its inefficiency in the hands of others has arisen from the same cause which at first foiled me. There is nothing very frightful in the employ- ment of this remedy, nor does it produce more than momentary and slight pain, and I think it is, therefore, best to resort to it at once without wasting time, and allowing the patient to lose blood to such extent as to disturb the constitutional powers, and excite any latent phthisical tendency, of which I have known an instance. Hlagden mentions (a) the case of a person, wrho, whilst a boy, after the extraction of a tooth, bled from the socket for twenty-one days. Whenever he cut himself, or received a slight wound, there was always great difficulty in stopping the bleeding. At twenty-six years of age he had a trifling wound on the forehead, which bled profusely, and could not be stopped by pressure or styptics, or even by tying both ends of the artery, but was finally checked with caustic potash, which caused a large slough. In the next year he was much troubled with caries of the second upper molar tooth, which, remembering what had previously happened, he bore with for some time, but at last the pain became so severe that he had the tooth drawn June 30, 1816, and at its bottom was an abscess; free bleeding immediately ensued, and this continuing on the next evening, Blagden being called to him, applied lunar caustic to the bottom of the socket without effect; then introduced a sponge tent soaked in solution of sulphate of copper, which checked the bleeding for a few hours, but it recurred, and continued profuse, notwithstanding that the socket was carefully plugged. On the morning of July 4th, Brodie applied the actual cautery, and stopped the bleeding for six hours, but in the evening it broke out afresh, as violent as before, notwithstanding the socket was again carefully plugged, and the cautery twice applied; in doing the latter, a large quantity of matter apparently from the maxillary sinus, escaped. The bleeding still continued, and next day the patient being very low and depressed, although he had never fainted, it was determined to tie the common carotid artery, which was done by Brodie at 10 a.m., but “ the hemorrhage still continued. The wound made in the operation bled very little at first, but in the course of a few minutes after the operation it began to bleed profusely. No single vessel could be observed bleeding, but there was a general oozing from its sur- face. Ice was applied to the wound, and while this was continued the bleeding from it was suppressed, but it returned immediately on the ice being removed. Ice was also applied to the left side of the face, and there was reason to believe that it stopped the bleeding for a few hours; however, the haemorrhage afterwards returned, and the patient died at 5 a.m. on the 7th July, a week from the time of the removal of the tooth.” (p. 224-27.) The following case was under my own care:— C. K., aged 20 years, a leather-dyer, of delicate frame and not very temperate habits, was admitted into George’s Ward June 17, 1837. Twelve years since had leeches on his left arm, which bled for several days. Three years ago had leeches on his hip, which continued bleeding for three or four days. Eighteen months since had the first right upper bicuspid tooth drawn, which did not cease to bleed for four days. On the 12th of this present month, at 8 p.m., he had the second left upper molar tooth pulled out, which was immediately followed by considerable bleeding, and which continued during that night and the following day and night, he only attempting to stop it by frequently washing his mouth with cold water. On the morning of the 14th he went to his medical attendant, who applied Q/i) Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii. 1817. 2 z 2