FRICTION-CURE. 665 rubbings of a drachm and a half each are necessary; in very old and very stubborn cases, especially if the salivation be backward and sparing, from twenty-four to thirty rubbings of a drachm and a half each, but seldom more are required. On the contrary, Rust (a) thinks he has never found this necessary; but when it was practicable, he in- creased the quantity of the ointment to be rubbed in commonly to two, two and a half, and even to three drachms, which agrees with my own experience. [Our common hospital practice is to rub in a drachm of mercurial ointment every other night till the gums begin to swell, become spongy and sore, and the flow of spittle be increased; which effected, the rubbing is continued either as frequently or less fre- quently according as the soreness of the gums and the salivation continue the same or increase. The state of the gums and the flow of spittle are not, however, always indi- cative of the effect of the mercurial rubbing on the constitution ; often is there neither soreness of gums nor salivation, but other excretions are increased, as the perspiration, or urine, or both, or there may be neither even of these, but the constitutional affection is shown by the wasting of the body and of the strength. The best guide, however, is the condition of the sore, which improves as the rubbing lays hold on the constitution. —J. F. S.] 847. The following is the order in which the rubbings-in are to be con- ducted : On the first day, in the morning, the patient rubs in the prescribed quantity divided on the two legs, on the third day on the thighs, on the sixth day on the two arms, from the wrists to the shoulders, on the eighth or ninth day on the back, from the hips to the neck. From the seventh to the fifteenth day, according to circumstances, two, three, or four rub- bings on these parts may be made in the way mentioned. Between the fourteenth and sixteenth day a more or less remarkable change occurs in the patient. He becomes restless, anxious, his breathing is oppressed, the pulse quickened, tongue loaded, and the belly puffed up. At the same time come on colicky pains, palpitation of the heart, crying, out in his sleep, troublesome dreams, rumblings in the belly, and so on ; from which discomforts the patient is relieved by a perspiration often continuing from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, and by increased secretion from the bowels and kidneys. On the sixteenth day another rubbing is to be made at evening, then on the next morning a purge, and so continuing to the twenty-fifth day, when, if there be not convulsions, severe oppression, great weakness, and so on, an early termination of the cure may be expected. On the twenty-sixth day the patient is to be put into a warm bath, and after half an hour washed quite clean with soap-spirit and a sponge, and dried. He is then to have fresh linen and to be carried into another room. The patient must during the whole cure be kept in a regularly warm room, and should neither get up, change his linen, nor cleanse the parts smeared with the ointment. 848. The following are the principal symptoms to be observed during this cure. The salivation usually appears between the fourth and fifth rubbing in, and is only to be checked when severe. The inconveniences attendant upon it may be best diminished by syringing the mouth with mild or slightly astringent decoctions. If the tongue swell so that it squeeze itself between the teeth, a piece of cork must be introduced between the grinding-teeth. But if from its swelling there be danger of stifling, the cure must be suspended and the tongue scarified. Ulcers on the tongue and gums are to be touched with a mixture of a drachm of camphor to an ounce of oil of almonds. The patient must frequently move his tongue to prevent its growing together. If the salivation appear before the third rubbing-in, a smaller quantity (a) Above cited.