EXUDATION. 33 passes more or less into exudation. In every instance of undoubted inflammatory action an exudation of blood-plasma occurs which may be made visible. * * * Where the liquor sanguinis is poured out into shut cavities, the same phenomena occur as when blood is drawn from the body. The fibrin coagulates, and the serum is set free. The former then lines the serous membrane, and is denominated coagulable lymph, whilst the latter is called serous effusion. * * * In parenchymatous tissues, however, as in the lungs, liver, brain, &c., the structure of the parts will not allow of this dis- tinct separation. The liquor sanguinis exuded is, of course, at first fluid, and, in this state, insinuates itself among the elementary structure of the organs, filling up every minute space. When it coagulates, the tissues of the part affected are com- pletely blocked up, as if with cement. The blood-vessels, nerves, filaments, &c., are surrounded by a solid mass, in the same manner that the stones in a Avail are sur- rounded by mortar.” (pp. 38, 40.) As to he effusion of serum, Travers observes:—“ The first change external to the vessels in inflammation is not a permanent change, and looks like a measure of temporary relief to the over-loaded vessels which surround the inflamed centre. It is an aqueous exudation from the colourless capillaries into the adjoining cellular texture. It would seem to be a passive mechanical effect, as it doubtless often is, but for the precedence of other unequivocal signs of inflammation.” (p. 65.) Wharton Jones says:—“ Immediately after or during the stagnation of the blood, exudation commences. From being at first serous the exuded fluid comes at last to be pure plasma, at least a fluid containing a greater or less quantity of fibrin.” He attri- butes the exudation “ to the thinning of the walls of the vessels, from their relaxation and dilatation on the one hand and the pressure from within the vessels on the other and he also suggests, as likely to promote exudation, “ that the plasma will be pressed out from among the aggregating corpuscles, even when the blood would not, if out of the body, present the buffy coat, and that because within the body the fibrin of the j I plasma does not so readily coagulate;” but, when the blood is so changed that on i abstraction the buffy coat appears, “ the plasma at the same time that it is more quickly and energetically squeezed out from among the aggregating red corpuscles, will present ! itself in greater quantity and richer in fibrin, for transudation through the walls of : .the capillaries.” He considers, with Watson, that the cause of serum alone passing out . first, “ is, as in common oedema, OAving to obstruction; the obstruction in inflammation being from the stagnation of the blood ;” but how obstruction determines exudation of serum alone, remains a question: to help to a solution of this, it may be stated that, rt according to Kurschner, water passes most quickly through animal membranes and 9i saline solutions more quickly than viscid, gummy, and albuminous solutions. With . exudation,” he says, “ is completed the inflammatory process properly so called.” B ^pp. 584, 5.) “ The extravasation of the serum along Avith the coagulating lymph,” says John T Hunter, “ is, probably, not a separation of itself, as in a dropsy; but, a part of it being separated from the lymph in the coagulation of that fluid, is squeezed into the surround- ■ :ng cellular membrane, where there is but little extravasation, and where the cells are ii lot united by it. Thus, the circumference of such SAvellings is a little oedematous; but |-i the whole of the serum if there be a depending part will move thither, and distend it I considerably, as in the foot in consequence of an inflammation in the leg. But, in most cases, there is a continued extravasation of serum long after the extraArasation of the hi coagulating lymph is at an end, so that depending parts will continue oedematous, i Avhile the inflammation is resolving, or while suppuration, or eAren healing, is going on. The whole swelling looks like a part of the'body only a little changed, without any iHppearance of containing extraneous matter; and indeed it is simply formed by an 71extravasation of fluids without their having undergone any visible or material change, 1 except coagulation.” (p. 285.) Gerber speaks of the exudations after inflammation ns watery or serous exudation ffhen merely the serum of the blood is poured out; plastic, Avhen the liquor sanguinis ■ containing fibrin exudes without the blood-corpuscles; and sanguineous, when it is H flood-coloured ; the colour depending either on solution of the colouring matter of the , flood, or the effused liquor sanguinis contains all the components of the blood and “'cn the blood-globules, thus forming the transition to haemorrhage (p. 42.) He says, ■ tlso, that in the fluid of serous exudations albuminous granules of albuminous fluids !' usuaHy found; that after plastic exudations a yellowish turbid fluid is found in the P raected cavity, with fine pale yellow flocculi floating in it, or precipitated upon and >erhaps adhering to the walls of the exuding surface. If the exudation of plastic natter go on longer, and the quantity of effused liquor sanguinis, be considerable, VOL. I. 1)