[ 673 ] SYPHILIS IN INFANTS. [Infant children are occasionally affected with syphilis, either whilst still in the womb, during birth, or from sucking a diseased nurse. The latter two modes of infec- tion are those generally admitted, but Evanson and Maunsei.l state that “ the first mentioned has been in their experience by far the most usual, and that they have not in their own recollection any cases decidedly proving the occurrence of the third.” I do not, however, see any sufficient reason why infection during delivery should be infrequent, as it is far from uncommon that the medical attendant of a woman with primary sores, and whose hands are not long in contact with the sores, becomes subject of chancre. Evanson and Maunsell state that the communication of syphilis to the fatus in the womb “ happpens commonly in one of the following ways: one or both parents may have the disease at the time of the conception of the child, or they may have had it previously, and perhaps, at the period in question, present no sign of ill health whatsoever. Under either of these circumstances a child may be born appa- rently healthy, and continue so for an uncertain period, (varying from a fortnight to five or six months,) when marks of syphilis may show themselves; the most usual period for the disease to appear, is, according to our experience, from the third to the fifth week.” (Huguier (a) says that syphilis shows itself in an infant in from three to thirty days after birth.) “ In this way the symptoms may be developed in several succes- sive children of the same parents, but usually such cases are alternated with miscar- riages or premature births of children, dead and covered with syphilitic eruption; or all these occurrences may take place in the same family : for example, a woman may miscarry once or twice; may then produce a dead syphilitic child, and subsequently give birth to one apparently healthy, but showing disease when it has attained the age of four or five weeks. There is no regular succession in the occurrence of these different events, as they indifferently precede or follow each other. During the whole period of the production of these diseased children, both parents may appear perfectly healthy, and one of them may never have had any sign of the disease.” The child may also be infected from a syphilitic nurse, but whether simply from the infected milk, or whether only from sore nipples, I am not prepared to state ; for though Dyckman (b) maintains that a child may become diseased simply by the milk of an infected nurse, Lawrence’s case presently mentioned, however, seems to disprove this statement. But, on the other hand, the child can infect the nurse, of which the case related by John Hunter (p. 413) as one instance of disease resembling syphilis, is a most excellent example, for the history of the case proves beyond all doubt that the disease was genuine syphilis, and the child successively infected three wet-nurses, by the first two of whom their own children were consequently infected. Lawrence also mentions a case in which a syphilitic child gave the disease to a healthy woman who nursed it, but at the same time, her own child having been kept at the other breast, did not receive it. “The woman that so nursed this child had a primary sore on the breast, an affection of the absorbent glands, and an eruption over certain parts of the body similar to what we would regard in other cases as secondary symptoms of the venereal disease. The child then appearing to be well, was put to a second nurse, who had also a primary sore on the breast, and eruptions on the body; she became pregnant, and five weeks after deli- very her infant was covered over from top to toe with syphilitic eruptions.” (p. 783.) Whether in these cases the nurse be infected through a sore on her nipple, or merely by the application of the poison to the skin, is disputed. Colles doubts whether the child can infect the nurse unless she have ulceration of the nipple. Todd mentions (c) a very remarkable case of an old woman of seventy years of age who spoon-fed her grandchild, which was infected with syphilis, and died a fortnight after birth. Three days after the woman had a rash on the arms like itch, and in three or four days more she had excrescences on the labia, a few elevated blotches on her breast and back, and a deep ulcer in each tonsil. This woman tvas speedily cured by the mercurial treatment. When a child is born dead, and has been so for some time previous, its putridity pre- vents determination from its appearance of the existence of the disease; but when born alive, “the child appears healthy for an uncertain period (from a fortnight to five or six months) after birth. The first distinct symptom usually is the occurrence of a peculiar mode of breathing through the nose, known by nurses as the snuffles, (and depending on the nostrils being inflamed and stuffed with a thick viscid yellow secre- (n) Archives Generates de Mi-decine. Aug., 1840. those Affections of the Penis which are generally (b) On the Pathology of the Human Fluids. considered as primary symptoms of Syphilis, N:. ; (c) Surgical Report, containing an account of in Dublin Hospital Reports,vol.ii. p-182. VOL. I. 2 X