TREATMENT OF CARBUNCLE. 138 deep into it, (the carbuncle,) to give a breathing to the humour.” And perhaps it may be, that to this practice must be attributed the cause of his very remarkable, and to us almost incredible statement:—“ I never saw a true carbuncle suppurate.” (p. 87.) Bromfield («) recommends injections of bark and tincture of myrrh, but also “ strongly inculcates the necessity, at a proper time, of making an opening sufficient to draw out the slough; for, in case you rely on that opening which is generally made by nature, the thin matter only will be discharged, and the sloughed or flocculent membranes will remain, and the orifice close up. When this is the case, how greatly detrimental at present, as well as troublesome in future, it may prove to the patient, every practitioner in Surgery can declare.” (p. 129.) The free incision of carbuncle, generally in a crucial form and deep, was also recom- mended, years since, by Cooper, Abernethy and most other English surgeons, John Pearson almost alone excepted, for the purpose of relieving the tension of the skin, and thereby diminishing the chance of its destruction, by the burrowing into the neighbour- hood of the pent-up ill-conditioned pus, as well as that of the subjacent cellular tissue; so that, although Dupuytren has rather more pointedly stated, that “ the treatment, like that of all inflammations with strangulation, consists in the methodical employment of incision which must go to the bottom of the carbuncle, and of which the ends must pass two or three times beyond its boundary,” (p. 112,) yet our French friends have no right to claim either for him or for Rayer the origination of that practice. After the incisions have been made, stimulating poultices of either port wine, stale beer grounds, or yeast with linseed meal, should be employed to hasten the separation of the slough; which effected, the large hole caused by its voidance must be treated with a common poultice, to encourage granulations; and, if these be sluggish, some gentle stimu- lant, as lint dipped in nitric acid wash or black wash, may be laid on the sore and covered with the poultice.—J. F. S. Physick (b), of Philadelphia, U.S., recommends, as highly beneficial, the application of caustic vegetable alkali in quantity sufficient to completely destroy the skin when, in the second stage of the disease, the appearance of pimples and small orifices show that the process of making an opening through the skin to allow the dead parts and acrid fluids to pass out has commenced. “ In all the cases in which he has used the caustic in this manner,” he observes, “ the sufferings of the patient ceased as soon as the pain from the caustic subsided. It operates by destroying in a few minutes that portion of the skin covering the mortified parts which, if left to be removed by ulceration, would require several days for its completion, occasioning the chief part of the pain and danger attend- ant on and consequent to the disease.” (p. 175.) If it were necessary for the cure of the disease that the skin covering the dead cellular tissue should also die, then Physick’s practice would be very satisfactory. But, as the object is to save the skin, which cannot,: however, always be effected, though it ought always to be attempted, and in most cases is managed by making incisions through it early, and so relieving the tension w'hich causes the sloughing of the skin, then Physick’s treatment is decidedly improper. The use of blisters in carbuncle was also first proposed by Physick ; but he now doubts their value. He says:—‘ ‘ From the great power of blisters in checking mortification, when proceeding from some kinds of inflammation, I once entertained high expectations of their utility in the treatment of anthrax. But, though I have found them serviceable in abating the burning pain attending the inflammation, they have not shown any power in counteracting its progress to mortification.” (p. 179.,) Coates (c), however, thinks “ Still there is evidence enough to show that these remedies (epispastics) possess a high value in certain cases. * * * Although they may sometimes accelerate rather than re- tard the mortification of the centre of the tumour, where they very seldom produce vesi- cation, they appear to circumscribe the inflammation, and thus prevent the extension of the disease, (p. 30.) The commencement of the second stage,” he says, “ is the most suitable time for the use of blisters, and the most fitting cases those where the extent and the situation of the swelling preclude the knife.” He also mentions a case in which almost immediately a blister caused a complete line of demarcation where the mortifi- cation of an anthrax of the worst kind was spreading rapidly. The swelling was situ- ated on the first cervical vertebra and;extended some inches on the scalp, very dangerous cerebral symptoms came on, but yielded readily to the blister, (p. 30.) (a) Quoted at the head of the article. (6) Case of Carbuncle, with some Remarks on (c) Hays’ American Cyclopaedia of Practical the vise of Caustic in that disease; in Chapman’s Medicine and Surgery,—article Anthrax, vol. •*. Philadelphia Journal of the Medical and Physical Philadelphia, 1886. 8vo. Sciences, vol. ii. Philadelphia, 1821. 8vo.