809 AND INSTEP-BONES. which is here, as well as at the knee, to be fastened with a bandage (a). In disloca- tion aside, many persons recommend, that the limb should be laid on its outside, with the leg bent, and the foot enveloped in the many-headed bandage. [Sometimes in dislocation of the ankle-joint inwards, the internal lateral ligament is torn through without the malleolar process being broken oft'. This is a rare accident, and very difficult to keep in place if there be any disposition to spasm, of which there is an example in a case of Henry Earle’s (6). The splints were consequently applied more tightly, and perhaps from that cause irritation set up, which terminated in abscess, which was twice opened. The soft parts about the ankle-joint became sloughy, and the patient's violent efforts, whilst delirious, thrust the bone through the mortified skin, and it could no longer be at all kept in place. Amputation was performed, but the case terminated fatally.] 1095. If in dislocation of the foot, the joint-end of the shin-bone be driven through the integuments, so soon as it has been properly cleansed, its replacement must be attempted, the wound carefully closed, and the treatment conducted after the general rules. If the narrowness of the wound prevent the reduction, it must be sufficiently enlarged ; and if it cannot be then effected, the projecting bone must be sawn off, whereby, alone, the natural position of the foot can be restored, and dangerous symp- toms prevented. Amputation is only inevitably necessary, in old weakly persons, in very extensive tearings and crushings of the bones, on the occurrence of mortification and wasting suppuration. If in dislocation out- wards, the shin-bone be broken obliquely, near its joint surface, it cannot be kept in place after reduction, and amputation may be indicated. It may also be necessary in cases of continuing very troublesome deformity. [In compound dislocation of the ankle-joint, with protrusion of the shin-bone through the wound, most English Surgeons saw off the joint end, not merely to render reduction more easy, but also, according to Astley Cooper’s opinion, to lessen the suppurative process, by diminishing the synovial surface. This mode of practice is certainly not commonly followed in reference to other joints, and the younger Cline was always opposed to it being resorted to in dislocated ankle. It must however be admitted, that Cooper’s reasoning as well as practice favours the proceeding.—J. F. S.] XV.—OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE INSTEP-BONES. (Luxatio Tarsi, Lat.; Verrenkung cles Fusswurzelhioclien, Germ.) 1096. The connexions of the bones of the instep are so firm, partly from the strength of their ligaments, and partly from the broad surfaces by which they touch, and their motions are so confined, that their dislocation is extremely rare, and only possible from very great violence, therefore, also commonly accompanied with tearing of the soft parts. 1097. Dislocation of the Astragalus may, notwithstanding its situation in the hollow formed by the shin- and splint-bones, and its firm fastening to the heel- and navicular bones, occur in four different directions, in which it may be thrown forwards, inwards, or outwards, from its con- nexion with the navicular, or it may be so twisted on its axis, that its under joint surface is turned upwards. The dislocations forwards and inwards are more common than that outwards (1). These dislocations may be connected with fracture of the shin- or splint-bone, with dislocation of the foot, with tearing of the soft parts and protrusion of the head ot the astragalus. The cause is violence, which displaces the foot and leg at its greatest degree of extension, as in a fall from a height, when the sole of the foot lights on an oblique surface, and the body falls backwards; or a fa') Dupuytren, above cited.—Chirurgisclie Kupfertaf. Weimar, 1820, pt. ii. pi. vi. fig. o, (6) Medical Gazette, vol. iv. p. 61. 1829.