23 DISPOSITION TO. much as there must be a previous morbid or disturbed state to make such effort neces- sary.” (p. 260.) Again:—“ Inflammation is to be considered only as a disturbed state of parts which require a new but salutary mode of action to restore them to that state wherein a natural mode of action alone is necessary: from such a view of the subject, therefore, inflammation in itself is not to be considered as a disease, but as a salutary operation, consequent either to some violence or some disease.” (p. 249.) “ Inflammation is not only occasionally the cause of diseases, but it is often a mode of cure, since it frequently produces a resolution of indurated parts, by changing the diseased action into a salutary one, if capable of resolution.” (p. 250.) “ Inflammation may first be divided into two kinds as first principles, viz., the healthy and the unhealthy. The healthy probably consists only of one kind, not being divisible but into its different stages, and is that which will always attend a healthy constitution or part, is rather to be consi- dered as a restorative action than a diseased one, and would rather appear to be an effect of a stimulus than an irritation. The unhealthy admits of vast variety, (diseases being almost numberless,) and is that which always attends an unhealthy constitution or part, but principally according to the constitution: however, many parts naturally have a tendency to run into inflammations of particular kinds.* * The simple act of inflammation cannot be called specific, for it is an uniform or simple action in itself; but it may have peculiarities or specific actions superadded. Inflammation is either single or compound: it may be called single when it has only one mode of action in the part inflamed, as in its first stages; compound, when attended with another mode of action, or when it produces other effects.” (p. 251.)] 2. All organs of the body may become inflamed except the cuticle, hair, and nails. The disposition to become inflamed depends on the number of nerves and capillary vessels in a part. The actual seat of in- flammation is always the capillary-vascular system, and the ganglionic- nervous system, accompanying the most delicate branches of the vessels, which specially presides over vegetation in the organism. [“ Inflammation,” says Hunter, “ may arise from very different causes,”and often I without any apparent cause, and its operations are far more extensive than simply the act of producing union in parts divided by violence.” (p. 248.) “ Susceptibility for inflammation may be said to have two causes—the one original, the other acquired. The original constitutes a part of the animal economy, and is probably inexplicable. Of the acquired, it is probable that climate and modes of life may tend considerably either to diminish or increase the susceptibility for inflammation. The influence, how- ever, of climate may not be so great as it commonly appears to be; for it is generally accompanied by modes of life that are not suited to others.” (p. 226.) “ Inflammation, when the constitution is strong, will be commonly the most manageable, for strength lessens irritability; but in every kind of constitution inflammation will be the most i manageable where the power and the action are pretty well proportioned; but, as every part of the body has not equal strength, these proportions cannot be the same in every part of the same constitution. According to this idea of strength, the following parts— viz., muscles, cellular membrane, and skin,—and more so, in proportion as they are nearer to the source of the circulation—will be most manageable in inflammation and its consequences, because they are stronger in their powers of action than the other parts of the body. The other parts, as bone, tendon, ligament, &c., fall into an inflammation, which is less in the power of art to manage, because, though the constitution is good, yet they have less powers within themselves, and therefore are attended with the feel- 'ng of their own weakness ; and I believe they affect the constitution more readily than the former, because the constitution is more affected by local disease, when the parts have less power within themselves of doing well; and the effects, if bad on the consti- ■tution, reflect a backwardness on the little powers they have. * * * The inflammation, d in vital parts, will be still less manageable; for, although the parts themselves may j have pretty strong powers, yet the constitution and the natural operations of universal Hhealth become so much affected, that no salutary effect can so readily take place, and pit therefore the disease becomes less manageable. * * * In weak constitutions, although ■ the inflammation be in parts which admit of the most salutary operations, in the time If oi the disease, and in situations the most favourable to restoration after disease, yet the operations of inflammation are proportion ably more backward as to their salutary effects ■ :n such constitutions, and more or less, according to the nature of the parts affected.” ‘ .PP- 228, 9.)] b