85 LOCAL TREATMENT. infriction of emollient salves, especially mercurial ointment, in order to further resolution by hastening the absorption. [<< Fomentations, or steams, washes, and poultices,” says Hunter, “ are the common applications to a part in the state of inflammation. The first and last are commonly ap- plied to inflammation arising from external violence and proceeding to suppuration; the second commonly to internal surfaces, as the mouth, nose, urethra, vagina, rectum, &c. The action of the first two is but of short duration. “ Fomentations and steams are fluid bodies raised into vapour: they may be either simple or compound; simple, as steam or vapour of water, compound as steam of water impreg- nated with medicine. * * * * Washes are in general fluid applications, and are more commonly applied to inflammations of internal surfaces, than of the common integuments: there are washes to the eye, called collyria; washes to the mouth and throat, called gargles; washes to the urethra, called injections, and to the rectum, called clysters. * * * These applications, like fomentations, are of short duration, for there is no possibility of I applying these powers constantly, except in the form of a poultice, whose operation is j somewhat similar, and indeed they are only substitutes for a poultice, where that mode of application cannot be made use of, as 1 observed with respect to internal surfaces. “ Poultices are constant applications, and like fomentations may be of two kinds, either i simply warm and wet or medicated. The greatest effect that a poultice can produce must be immediate; but its power will extend beyond the surface of contact, although only in a secondary degree. “To the common inflammation, the simplest poultice is supposed to be the best, and that effect I believe is only by keeping the parts easier under the complaint; but 1 am of : opinion that such do not affect the inflammation any other way. A common poultice is, ■ perhaps one of the best applications when we mean to do nothing but to allow nature to perform the cure with much as ease to herself as possible. Poultices may be medicated i so as to be adapted to the kind of inflammation.” (pp. 361, 362.) Abernethy’s observation that “poultices are blessings or curses as they are well or ill made, and that more commonly they only irritate instead of doing good,” though it may excite a smile, is borne out by daily observation; for, instead of the highly sensitive it surface of an inflamed part being soothed, as it should be by the application of a poultice, if “the three properties of which are,” to use that excellent teacher’s words, “that it should be perfectly soft, perfectly smooth, and perfectly moist,” it is too frequently irritated by ’: loading with a heap of hard and lumpy materials which soon dry, and almost as soon ■ become sour. The bread and water poultice is the best, and in general most suited for all circum- stances, either as a simple application, or as a vehicle for the employment of the juices of substances which in themselves are too harsh to be applied to very sensitive parts. To make this poultice, Abernethy directs:—“ Scald out a basin (for you can never make a good poultice unless you have perfectly boiling water) and put boiling water in it; throw in some coarsely crumbled bread crumbs, and cover it up with a plate. When as much water has been soaked up as the bread will imbibe, drain off the rest, and a light pulp (not to be beaten into paste, as usually done, but merely broken with the edge i of a fork) is then left, which is to be spread, the third of an inch thick, on folded linen, and applied at the temperature of a warm bath.” If it be advisable to medicate the poultice, the juice of fresh hemlock, decoction of carrot, or opium, or any other material in solution, may be added to the sodden bread after it has been well drained; and thus is formed a very soothing application. It is best not to add lard or grease of any kind to a bread poultice, as thereby its relaxing effect on the skin is diminished or destroyed. But as, if left exposed to the air, it soon cools, dries, gets hard, and becomes uncomfortable and irritating, it must be either continually moistened by dropping on it, from a sponge, warm water or the warm medicated solution through the linen, without removing it from the part to which it is applied, and under which circumstances it acts to a certain extent by i: evaporation, diminishing the increased external heat, and lessening the action of the ves- I sels, though the warmth of the water prevents its reduction to coldness. But, if suppuration have set in and it is necessary to keep up the warmth, then the cloth containing the poultice I must be enveloped in a piece of oiled silk, which retains the moisture, and be overlapped with flannel, which preserves the warmth. Milk is often used instead of water for making a poultices ; but, if the skin be unbroken, water is preferable. No poultice should be boiled, * as it is merely converted into paste. The linseed-meal poultice is to be made like the former, by throwing the meal into ; perfectly boiling water; but it requires well beating to remove all the lumps, and is N then to be spread a quarter of an inch thick on linen. It is not a good application for