559 OF THE FORE-ARM. The principal cause of the altered shape of the fore-arm when the spoke-bone is broken near its base, is the constant dragging towards the cubit which is made on it t by the m. pronator quadrat us.—J. F. S.] 654. Fracture of the Cubit (Fractura Ulnce, Lat. ; Bruch der Ellen- bogenrohre, Germ ; Fracture du Cubitus, Fr.) is always consequent to direct violence acting on it. The lower fractured end inclines inwards towards the spoke-bone, the upper remains undisplaced on account of its former connexions at the joint. The irregularity is felt at the seat of the fracture, also mobility of the lower fractured end, and crepitation in pronation and supination. 655. Fracture of both bo?ies of the Fore-arm. occurs most commonly in the middle, frequently at the lower end, but rarely at the upper end. Both bones are often broken at the same, and often at different places. In most instances this fracture is produced by violence which affects the fore-arm, and more rarely by that which acts on the outstretched hand. The deformity arising from diminished breadth of the fore-arm, in which the broken ends are inclined inwards; the unnatural mobility at one part, w here a distinct pressing inwards of the bones is perceived ; the impossibility, on the patient’s part, of bringing the arm into pronation and supination ; the distinct crepitation when the Surgeon performs this motion, in which it is also observable that the upper end of the fracture does not follow these motions, are the symptoms which characterize this accident beyond all doubt. Only in fracture near the wrrist the symptoms mentioned {par. 653) must be borne in mind to avoid confounding it with dislocation. In fracture of the upper part of the fore-arm there is scarcely any displacement of the broken ends. 656. The fractures of the fore-arm are generally unimportant accidents. The only thing, however, to be dreaded is, that when the broken ends unite out of place, pronation and supination w ill be interfered with or rendered quite impossible after the cure. 657. Setting of the simultaneous fracture of both bones is effected by . extension of the hand and counter-extension of the fore-arm when half bent, and between pronation and supination. The Surgeon then presses the soft parts on both sides of the fore-arm with his fingers into the inter- 1 osseous space, for the purpose of bringing the broken ends into proper place. Two long graduated compresses are then to be put on both sides of the fore-arm which are to be fastened with a circular bandage applied from the tips of the fingers ; upon these are to be put two splints reaching from the elbow to the wrist and fastened with a second bandage. The fore-arm is then brought forwards to the breast and supported with a sling, or in an arm-tray. The bandage is not to be applied too tightly at first, because usually much swelling arises ; it is to be renewed, if not becoming loose previously, on the tenth or twelfth, then on the thirtieth or fortieth day wrhen the fracture is consolidated. Fracture of the spoke-bone or of the cubit alone, requires, in setting, only the bending of the hand, in the opposite direction to the fracture, then the pressing in of the soft parts between the bones and the apparatus already described. In fracture of the spoke-bone or cubit alone near the wrist it maybe often necessary, according to Dupuytren, besides the ap- paratus just mentioned, to place on the under part of the unbroken bone a thick pad and an iron splint somewhat bent below, which is longer than