NECROSIS. 696 Upon the reproduction of bone, the following notices are to be especially com- pared :— Troja, M., De novorum ossium, in integris aut maximis ob morbos deperditionibus regeneratione experimenta, &c. 12mo. Lut. Par., 1775. Blumenbach ; in Richter’s Chirurgischer Bibliothek,vol. iv. p. 107. Kohler, Experimenta circa regenerationem ossium. Gottingaj, 1786. Weidmann, Above cited. Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, &c., vol. iii. 8vo. Paris, 1822-26. Meding, Dissert, de regeneratione ossium per experimenta illustrata; cum tab. acneis. Lipsiaj, 1823. Kortum, Dissert, proponens experimenta et observationes circa regenerationem ossium; cum tab. sen. Berol., 1824. Richter, Above cited. Scarpa, De anatome et pathologia ossium. Ticini, 1827. Miescher, Above cited. 873. Necrosis is always a serious disease, of which the duration is in- definite. The 'prognosis is, however, various, according to its cause and its seat. Its cure may be hoped for by the natural powers alone, or by simultaneous artificial assistance, if the necrosis be superficial, of no great extent, in no bone of important function, not in the neighbourhood of important parts, produced by external causes, and when the patient’s general health is good. On the contrary, the cure is difficult, and the prognosis is doubtful, if the necrosis be of great extent, connected with other affections of the same, or of other bones, if the diseased bone be of great importance, if the necrosis be internal or exist in several places; further, if it be produced by internal causes, especially those dyscrasic diseases, against which we have not any decidedly efficient remedy, and if the patient be old and very weak. Necrosis rarely extends into joints, but then always require amputation (1). The circumstances which especially produce sequestres are different; the granulations arising from the interior of the capsule enclose the sequester, which is gradually but completely removed by absorption ; or it acts upon the walls of its cavity like a foreign body, and keeps up in it and in the neighbouring soft parts a copious sup- puration, which debilitates the patient; or the sequester lies in a very spacious cavity, the walls of which have already become callous, and produces no neighbouring irritation, but only a scanty pouring out of a thin purulent fluid (2). [(1) Of necrosis indirectly affecting joints, and in which from the symptoms it was presumed that the joint was diseased, and the limb consequently removed, I have known two instances, both of which are in the museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. In the one, a boy of ten or twelve years old, the necrosed piece, about the size of a marble, was contained in the epiphysal head of the shin-bone ; in the other the dead bone was nearly similarly placed, and the cloaca from it, had opened into the knee-joint. (2) Other, and very dangerous consequences may attend necrosis, as the very remark- able case mentioned by Porter (a), which he calls “ Aneurism in a case of necrosis,” but which was doubtless no other, than a wound of the popliteal artery, by the accidental movement of the point of a sequester. The patient had, fourteen or fifteen years pre- viously, violent pain in the left knee, which, as well as the lower part of the thigh, shortly after swelled to a great size, but without redness. A year after, a small swell- ing appeared four or five inches above the inside of the knee, which he himself opened and voided some matter, and the aperture remained fistulous. In August 1832 he had an alarming haemorrhage from this fistulous opening, but no recurrence of it till the night of Jan. 1, 1833, when he bled with great violence, the blood at intervals spirting (a) Surgical Report of Cases treated in the Meath Hospital; in Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemi- cal Science, vol. v. p. 190. 183d.