748 RECTO-URETIIKAL AND VESICAL FISTULA; which causes inflammation and excoriation, and an evil reaction upon the general constitution ; or on going to stool, some thin faecal matter, often only wind or apple or grape-stones, even cherry-stones, which I have noticed in one case, pass through the urethra. If the fistulous opening be neither large, nor of long standing, and the constitution of the patient not bad, nor himself old, it may be hoped that by the continued in-lying of an elastic catheter unstoppled and properly fastened, by placing the patient on his side with his buttocks raised, by constantly emptying and cleansing the rectum with clysters, by observation of great quiet and a strengthening regimen, the closure of the fistula may be effected. This, however, rarely happens, specially in old persons. If this fistula result from wound of the rectum in cutting for the stone, so is its division from the point of injury to the end of the rectum, its most proper treatment (1). Dupuytren (a) has in recto-vesical fistula effected complete cure, or at least considerable improvement, by applying the actual cautery and caustic remedies ; in which lie introduces his speculum ani (a metallic ring) well oiled into the rectum, seeks for the seat of fistula, and then introduces the cautery into the fistula, even to the bladder. The lunar caustic is to be used in the same way. After forty-eight hours, the cauterization is to be repeated. In the interim, attention must be paid to the removal of the urine and faecal matter by cooling diet, by the careful use of soothing clysters, and by the introduction of an elastic catheter into the bladder. Five or six cauterizations are often sufficient to improve the ailment, so that the escape of the urine is much diminished. The application of caustic may be avoided by cutting the sphincter muscles on one or both sides (Jaeger.) (1) Desault and Dupuytren have employed this mode of treatment with good result. Zang (b) considers it preferable to the division of the gut; I have not however, seen any cure result from it. I have seen a case in which, after the operation for the stone by another Surgeon, the fistula withstood this treatment with the in-lying of the catheter, hut after a year and a-half, healed of itself. In a recto-urethral fistula Astley Coopfr (c) made a cut upon a staff introduced into the bladder on the left side of the raphe till he felt the bulb, then thrust a double-edged knife into the perinceum, between the prostate and rectum, so as to divide the fistulous opening, between it and the urethra. \ I have once operated for recto-vesical fistula with considerable benefit to the patient, and I think, had he allowed the treatment to have been persisted in, that he would have been perfectly cured. The object of my operation was, by dividing the m. sphincter ani from the fistula into the perinceum to produce perinseal fistula, which would be much more easily managed; and I had hoped that the circular fibres of the rectum above the divided sphincter would assume the function of a sphincter, and thus retain the stools. IIow far I succeeded the following recital will show; and I have been induced to give it at length, as it well shows the distressing circumstances attendant on cases of this kind. Case.—S. B., aged 32 years, a labourer, of temperate habits and healthy, but very excitable, and subject to occasional attacks of dyspepsia, was admitted into Isaac’s Ward Oct. 3, 1837. Seventeen years before he was cut for the stone by the lateral operation, and the rectum wounded in cutting into the staff. This did not seem to interfere much with his recovery, as a fortnight after the operation he was sitting up in a chair and able to help himself at a pump, but in doing this he found his trowsers wetted by the flow of urine through the rectum. When he got sufficiently well to move about, he could never pass his water, whilst in the upright posture, without wetting himself, as the urine passed more freely by the rectum than by the urethra. Since the operation he has never been capable of retaining his urine beyond two hours, more commonly for not more than one, and occasionally for a still shorter period. At times all the w ater is voided by the anus, and not more than a drop or twro by the urethra. Between five (a) Ammon Parallele der franz'isischen und deutschen Chirurgie. Leipz., 1823, p. 111. (6) Above cited, vol. iii. pt. ii.p. 230. (c) Above cited.