176 OF EXTERNAL where gonorrhoea has continued for a length of time.” And also that “ the greatest advantage may be derived from combining its use with that of copaiba, when the balsam alone is beginning to lose its effect,” and he gives it as a mixture, viz., “ An ounce of the balsam of copaiba, an ounce of the mucilage of acacia, two drachms of cubebs, in four ounces of camphor mixture.” (pp. 146, 7.) For my own part, I may state that I have used cubebs very freely in all stages of clap and gleet, but not with the advantage attributed to it. I do not think it superior to other of the usual treatments, and it often produces much annoyance from loading the stomach. If used, I think it is better to employ it in the shape of extract, as pills, in which form, also, copaiba is prepared, and may be used in like manner. But the more common mode now of exhibiting copaiba in private practice is in little capsules of caoutchouc. Some years ago we were in the habit of using, at St. Thomas’s Hospital, the following copaiba mixture, which was very efficacious, and had the advantage of rarely disagreeing with the stomach, a matter of much consequence if the medicine be long persisted in:—R bals. copaib., spir. o ther, nitr. aa npxl., tinct. hyoscyam., liq. potass, aa iqxx., ex aqua ter die sumend. If necessary to increase the quantity of the balsam, a proportionate quantity of mucilage is added.—J. F. S.] On the use of cubebs or Java pepper see Crawford, J., on the Effects of the Piper Cubeba in curing Gonorrhoea; in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, Jan., 1818, p. 32. Adams, J., A short Account of Cubebs as a Remedy for Gonorrhoea. Ib., Jan., 1819 p. 61. Jeffreys, Henry, Practical Observations on the Use of Cubebs or Java Pepper in the Cure of Gonorrhoea. London, 1821. 8vo. Marly, M., in London Medical and Physical Journal. 1821, June. Broughton, S. I)., in Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. xii. p. 100. Delpech, Me'moire sur l’Emploi du Piper Cubeba dans le Traitement de la Gonorrhee; en Revue Medicale, May, 1822, p. 1 ; June, 1822, p. 129. Heyfelder, iiber die Anwendung des Bals. Copaivae und des Piper Cubeba; in Heidelberg. Med. Annalen, vol. iii. part iv. Hacker, iiber der Copaiva-Balsam beirn Tripper; in Summarium der Med., vol. viii. part i. 1839. 168. External Gonorrhcea ( Gonorrhoea Glandis, Balanitis, Posthitis, Lat.; Eicheltripper, Germ.; Blennorrhagie externe, Fr.) is either a mere consequence of want of cleanliness, in which case the sebaceous matter secreted by the odoriferous g'lands collects and becomes acrid ; hence it particularly occurs with a lengthened narrow prepuce, or is consequent on syphilitic infection. The latter may always be guessed at when it follows suspicious connexion, is connected with excoriation, and is obstinate. [Hunter believes, that, “ when the disease attacks the glans and other external parts, d as the prepuce, it is principally in those persons whose glans is commonly covered with the prepuce, and it is principally about the root of that body and at the beginning of ; the prepuce, the parts where the cuticle is thinnest, and of course where the poison gets \ most readily to the cutis; but, sometimes, it extends over all the glans and also the j whole external surface of the prepuce. It produces there a soreness or tenderness, with a secretion of thin matter commonly without either excoriation or ulceration. I am not certain, however, that it does not sometimes excoriate those parts; for I once saw a case • where the whole cuticle came off the glans.” (p. 44.) I have seen this condition not at < all unfrequently; it is quite distinct from any syphilitic affection. Excoriation with i little or no discharge often happens to young persons, even children, simply from the acridity of the secretion of the odoriferous glands; and I have seen it produce violent f inflammation and swelling of the prepuce, and threatening mortification. It frequently ( recurs and is very troublesome.—J. F. S.] In Gonorrhoea of the Glans which is not syphilitic the observation of great cleanliness, frequent washing of the glans with tepid milk, lead wash, j and so on, are sufficient for the cure. In the syphilitic form, mercury must n be used both externally and internally.