724 ARTIFICIAL ANUS. circumstances of artificial anus, to which first Scarpa and subsequently Dcpuytren have paid especial attention, and of which they have given very excellent account. Physick’s operation is, however, well worthy of being better known, and it is therefore here given from Dr. 13. H. Coates’s report (a) :— “ The two ends of the intestines,” says Coates, “ were found, by careful examina- tion, to adhere to each other for some distance, and the form thus presented has been compared in this case to that of a double-barelled gun. The next method proposed by Dr. Physick, was to cut a lateral opening through the sides of the intestines when they were adherent. But not knowing the extent of the adhesion inwards, he thought it necessary to adopt some preliminary measures for ensuring its existence to such a depth as might admit of the contemplated lateral opening, without penetrating the cavity of the peritoneum. By introducing his finger into the intestine through one orifice, and his thumb through the other, he was enabled to satisfy himself that nothing intervened between them but the sides of the bowels. He was thus enabled, without risk, to pass a needle, covered with a ligature, from one portion of the intestine into the other, through the sides which were in contact, about an inch within the orifices, which ligature was then secured with a slip knot. This operation was performed on the 28th January, 1809. The ligature was nearly drawn sufficiently tight to ensure the contact of those parts of the peritoneal tunic, which were within the noose. When drawn tighter, it produced so much pain in the upper part of the abdomen, of a kind resembling colic, that it became necessary immediately to loosen it. The ligature in this situation, gradu- ally made its way by ulceration through the parts which it embraced, and thus loosened itself. It was at several periods again drawn to its original tightness. After about three weeks had elapsed, concluding that the required union between the two folds of peritoneum was sufficiently insured, Dr. Physick divided with a bistoury all the parts which now remained included within the noose of the ligature. No unfavourable symptom occurred in consequence. On the 28th February, the patient complained of an uneasy sensation in the lower part of the abdomen, and on the 1st of March he ex- tracted with his own fingers some portions of hardened faeces from his rectum. On the 2nd March two or three evacuations were produced in this manner. On the 3rd an enema, consisting of a solution of common salt, was directed to be given twice every day. The first of these occasioned a natural stool, about two hours after its adminis- tration. The same effect was produced on the 4th, 5th, and 6th, and the discharges from the orifices in the groin now became inconsiderable. Adhesive plasters, aided by compresses, were employed, not only to prevent the discharge offaces from the artificial opening, but with the additional object of procuring the adhesion of the sides. This last effort was unsuccessful. On the 24th June, an attempt was made to unite them by the twisted suture. Pins were left in for three days, and adhesion was in fact effected; but owing to the induration of the adjacent parts, the wound again opened. On the 27th July, a truss of the common construction, furnished with a very large pad, and surmounted by a large compress, was applied to the wound. By these means the dis- charge of faces from the groin was completely prevented, and the patient had regular evacuations per anum, except when from improper diet or cold, he became affected with diarrhoea. At such times, a small portion of the mere fluid matter escaped by the sides of the compress. Not satisfied with this state of things, Dr. Physick made several attempts to improve the patient’s condition. On the 2nd August, a mould of the parts was taken in plaster of Paris, and being covered with buckskin, was employed as a pad for the truss. This expedient answered extremely well, as long as the patient continued in the same posture in which the mould was made; but as soon as the form of the parts was altered by a change of position,pieces escaped from the orifice. A bandage was then applied to the body, furnished with a thick compress, and having that part of it j which crossed the patient’s back formed of elastic extensible wire-springs, such as are e used in braces. This also, however, proved ineffectual. The truss, with a compress ^ and a large pad stuffed in the common wray, was then reapplied, and found to answer completely the purpose of preventing the discharge of faces, the hope of an entire i closure of the orifice being abandoned. On the 10th of November he was discharged | from the hospital in good health and spirits, and applied himself, with very good suc- cess, to acquire the profession of an engraver.” (p. 271-72.)] 921. When the intestinal scissors have divided the partition, which < happens usually in from seven to ten days, and the separated part of the bowel is found betw-een its arms, soothing- clysters must be con- (a) Account of a Case in which a new and pecu- Professor of Surgery in the University of Penn" liar operation for Artificial Anus was performed sylvania. Drawn up for publication in 'on)1 in 1809 by Philip Syng Physick, M.D., then American Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. ii. p-f-OJ.