480 WOUNDS OF THE SPLEEN ; OF THE KIDNEYS. Thomas’s Hospital, pale, and extremely depressed ; his abdomen became tense, and he died. Upon examining his body it was discovered that the dirk had passed from the ensiform cartilage, under the margin of the chest, into the abdomen on the left side and that its point had penetrated the concave surface of the spleen. The cavity of the abdomen was filled with blood.” (p. 226.) He also mentions two cases, in which the spleen was torn from its attachments. In one, the spleen, after violent vomiting, produced a swelling in the groin, supposed to be a rupture. The vomiting continued, and at a week’s end the patient (a female) died. The swelling was found to arise from the spleen, which had been detached from the diaphragm, and was enlarged by the interruption to the return of blood from the veins although the artery still contained blood. The spleen was turned half round on the axis of its vessels. The other case was caused by a fall in hunting, and the patient died the next day. (p. 227.) Ruptures of the spleen sometimes occur from the passage of heavy weights over the belly; and according to the size of the rupture and effusion of blood is the time which the patient lives after the accident. They usually are accompanied with other mischief of the abdominal viscera. Instances have occurred in which the spleen has protruded through a wound in the belly, and entirely or partially removed, without material inconvenience to the patient. The history is well known of the soldier who was found, after the battle of Dettingen, with his spleen protruding, and covered with dirt. The surgeon, not liking to return it, cut it off, and the patient did well. Another instance, of a somewhat similar kind, is mentioned by Ferguson (a). T. C. received, Jan. 5, 1734-5, a wound with a skane or great knife, which went through the muscular part of his fore arm, and into the left hypochoudrion. In twenty-four hours after he was seen, and the spleen found out at the wound, and by the pressing and thrusting it with the fingers, in endeavouring to return it to its place, which those about him could not accomplish, and by being so long exposed to the air, it was quite cold, black, and mortified. Ferguson therefore “ made a ligature with a strong waxed thread above the unsound part, and cut off three ounces and a half of the spleen. Notwithstanding the ligature, there was a pretty large artery that sprung with great violence, which he immediately tied; and after bathing all the parts with warm water, he returned the remaining part of the spleen into its place, leaving the threads hanging out.” On the tenth day the threads were removed, and the wound dressed. He was teased with difficulty in passing his water, w’hich did not cease till the eighth day. Ultimately he got perfectly well.] D.—OF WOUNDS OF THE KIDNEYS. 547. Wounds of the Kidneys penetrate either into the cortical substance alone, or into the tubular substance. In the former case blood only flows out of the wound, and according' to its depth and direction we presume the kidney is injured ; in the latter the blood mixed with urine escapes. ■ Pain comes on in the region of the kidney, which spreads over the whole belly; the testicle becomes painful, and is drawn up spasmodically towards i the abdominal ring; the urine discharged from the urethra is mixed with i blood. If the peritoneum and the kidney be wounded at the same time, ( the urine is effused into the cavity of the belly, and fatal inflammation soon •. ensues. 548. The treatment of wounds of the kidney must be strictly antiphlo- gistic. The patient should lie so that everything may readily escape from < the wound. If bleeding continue, cold applications must be employed. Ifll retention of urine take place, from coagulation of blood in the bladder, it must be drawn off with a catheter. If an urinary fistula remain care . must be taken for its cleanliness and for the escape of the urine; in most cases it is incurable. (a) A letter containing an account of the extirpation of part of the spleen of a man ; in Phil. Trans | vol. xl. 1737-tiS. p- 42j.