CONGENITAL DISLOCATION. 7 69 in general, soon and considerably diminish. When the reduction of a bone protruding through the soft parts is not immediately possible, it is still less so, when inflammation runs into suppuration ; the symptoms continue increasing, and amputation may be rendered necessary by gan- grene, and by progressive destruction, if the head of the bone have not been removed at the proper time. 997. When dislocation is connected with fracture of a bone, the latter must be always attempted to be set, if it can be done, without extension of the limb. If this be not possible, the fracture must be treated first, and on the length of time requisite for that purpose, depends, whether after union has occurred, putting to rights the old dislocation can be undertaken. 998. Congenital Dislocations, (Luxationes congenita,) noticed by Hip- pocrates, Avicenna, Pare, Palletta, Sandefort, and Schreger, at the hip-joint, where they most commonly occur, more carefully described by Dupuytren, and more recently the subject of numerous observa- tions, have been since noticed in almost all the joints of the extremities. Very different opinions are held as to the causes and origins of these dislocations, principally however with reference to the congenital disloca- tion of the thigh. Most persons have considered them as defaults of formation, as the consequence of arrested development of the bones and their sockets (Schreger, Dupuytren, Breschet, and others.) Some have considered them as consequent on distension of the capsular ligament, and of misproportion between the bone and its socket thereon depending (E. Stromeyer) (a). Others ascribe them to the position of the foetus in the womb, or to violence operating on them during birth (the Author, D’Outrepont, Cruveliiier.) Von Ammon (b) grounds them on default of development; he does not however deny, that therewith in many cases is connected an original deficient condition, ora diseased formative process ; and in like manner, may the ailment have a purely diseased origin, in certain, though very rare cases, and have no connexion with the foetal development of the hip-joint. Guerin (c) considers it as the product of an active or primary retraction of the muscles, the remote cause of which is to be sought in the affection of some central part of the nervous system. On the degree and form of the muscular affection, depends the degree of dislocation, as does its development and course upon many secondary cir- cumstances, to wit, prevention of the development of the muscles following on their retraction, physiological contraction and vertical operation of the tendons. 999. The examination of the joint after death, has explained various changes, in the several tissues constituting the apparatus of the joint, as distension, tearing of the capsular, and other ligaments; diminution, flat- tening, distortion of the head of the bone ; diminution of tfie socket, its filling up with a quantity of fat, flattening or entire disappearance ; a more or less deep new cavity for the dislocated head; the muscles surrounding the joint contracted, shortened, and variously altered in their substance ; considerable wasting in the affected limb. On examination soon after birth, tearing of the ligaments is found, but otherwise the natural form of the socket and head, and the joint especially, is as in acquired dislocation. t] (Palletta.) (d) Ueber Atonie der fibrosen Gebilde und deren (c) Gazette Medicale, 1841. No. < • 10. Re- Riickbildung. Wiirzb., 1840. cherclies sur les Luxations Congenitales. Fans (6) Die angeborenen chirurgischen Krankheiten 1841. des Menschen. Derlin, 184-, p. 118. VOL I. 3d