INOCULATION OF GONORRHOEAL MATTER. 165 ments prove that the ulcers which are produced, by inoculating the gonorrhoeal virus, are not syphilitic, and at the same time point out the source of errors which may render these experiments, which appear so simple and decisive, of little value. They show how circumstances may change the nature of ulcers, or disguise them, and to such degree that it may easily impose on inattentive observers who do not foresee these cases of com- plication.” Cpp- 48, 9; Fr. edit., pp. 112-13.) The assertion that “ one woman, having connexion with several men, could give chancres to some, and to others gonorrhoeas and buboes, whence the conclusion as to the identity of the nature of these different actions, the principle being always the same in all, and the difference only in the form determined by the locality and degree in which the cause acts,” is now completely disproved by Ricord’s observations:—“ If such reasoning have re- mained for a length of time without refutation, it cannot,” says he, “ be now persisted in. Since I have applied the speculum uteri to the study of venereal diseases, the hitherto inexplicable enigmas are reduced to the most common and simple facts. With the aid of this instrument I have found that a woman may be affected, at the same time, with go- norrhoea and deep chancres of the vagina or uterus and the gonorrhoea alone show itself externally; apparently affected with gonorrhoea, she could very easily communicate chancres and gonorrhoea together, or only one of them, according to the predisposition of the persons who exposed themselves to the infection. But we can affirm, and from numerous observations, that whenever we have examined women who have commu- nicated disease, we never found that a chancre had been produced by a discharge with- out ulceration in the sexual organs of the person who had communicated. Inoculation has confirmed what observation of ordinary contagion, better made with the assistance of the speculum, had established. In women, gonorrhoea, considered throughout, in the whole extent of the organs of generation, in its different phases of acuteness or duration, and inoculated in the same manner as employed for chancre, produced no result, when- ever the mucous membrane was not actually the seat of chancre.” (pp. 52, 3; Fr. edit., pp. 118, 19.) In reference to the opinion that “ the cause of chancre and gonorrhoea being the same, the difference in the form depended upon the tissues affected, and that thus the syphilitic virus applied to a non-secreting surface produced a chancre, and the pus of chancre, upon mucous membranes only, produced gonorrhoea,” Ricord says, positively :—“ We know that gonorrhoeal matter never produces chancre on the skin, and that, applied to mucous surfaces, when it acts, it only produces a discharge. The gonorrhoeal secretion, applied to the mucous membrane of the eye, has never produced chancres of the conjunc- tive coat, or of the eyelids, nor, on the other hand, has the muco-purulent secretion of go- norrhoeal ophthalmia ever produced chancres by inoculation or otherwise, although the eye- iids are susceptible of being affected by chancre. We may add that the muco-pus of a balanitis or posthitis, consequent on an impure coition, or produced artificially by an irritant, has never furnished a result by inoculation, and that these affections, therefore, cannot be followed by symptoms of constitutional pox, whenever they have existed with- out chancres.” (p. 58; Fr. edit., pp. 129-31.) In regard to the two “pretty frequent and regular consecutive symptoms of gonorrhoea, buboes, (yet far less frequent than after chancre,) and swelled testicle, I have ascertained, by inoculation, [that the pus from ;uch buboes, the buboes being then in similar condition, does not inoculate, which, in this case, rarely terminate in suppuration, and with engorgements, or simple abscesses, the characters of which frequently correspond to strumous and not syphilitic affections. As to swelled testicle, which still more rarely suppurates, the pus never produced any thing by inoculation.” (p. 58; Fr. edit., p. 132.) The following are the inferences which Ricord draws from his observations on the inoculation of gonorrhoeal matter :— “ 1. The matter of gonorrhoea, applied to a healthy mucous membrane, causes gonor- rhoeal inflammation, so much the more easily, the nearer it approaches the purulent form, md therefore, contrary to the opinion of Whateley, the less mucous its nature. “ ° Under no circumstances can it produce chancre; but, as an irritating matter, like :hat of coryza for instance, it may excoriate the skin, with which it remains some time u contact, but it never produces a specific ulcer. ” 3. The consecutive, undoubted, and regular symptoms of gonorrhoea do not furnish in inoculable pus. “ 4. The symptoms of constitutional syphilis are not the consequence of gonorrhoea, (n all the cases in which authors mention that it was an antecedent, the frequency of •vliich precisely corresponds with that of masked chancres, (chancres larve's,) the diagnosis )r vas not correct; the diseased surfaces not having been examined. " 5. Lastly, the only correct means of diagnosis, in the present state of science, is ino-