WANT OF CALLUS. 502 and not unfrequently has the appearance of kernels or caruncles. By the same inflam- mation there springs from the medullary tissue, at the place of fracture, a soft reddish substance which covers the surfaces of the fracture, and coalescing with the matter exuded from the soft parts, produces the intermediate substance. All these materials poured forth from the inflamed soft parts into the cellular-fibrous texture, are as usual changed, and fill the intervals between the fragments, whilst the muscles, cellular tissue and periosteum gradually return to their former condition. The bone itself is then attacked with inflammation, first indeed at those parts where the flow of blood and nutri- tion have not been disturbed, that is, on the external surface, where the periosteum has not been torn from the bone, and on the internal, where the vessels of the medulla and of the bone are still united together. Hence is exuded a reddish white, transparent, gelatinous fluid, scarcely differing from that poured out in inflamed soft parts. This, by vessels gradually forming in it, is changed into an organic tissue, and whilst at the one part it increases in quantity, at the other, and first indeed where connected with the bone, it is converted into cartilaginous and bony substance. Thus, within, is the medullary tube obliterated, near the fracture, with new bony matter; without, this substance pro- truding gradually, and propagated from both fragments towards the fracture, at length stretches beyond the bare surface of the fractured ends, and at last, as it may chance, con- nects both, either throughout their whole extent, or only here and there, Such is the formation of primary callus. Whilst these processes are going on, the surface of the bone first bared unites with the capsule formed by the soft parts, and with the prominent part of the primary callus itself, but the edges of the fracture with the intermediate substance; by which means the flow of the humours being renewed, by it also is the formation of bony matter, that is, the formation of the secondary callus, produced. From all these parts, then, which I have mentioned, new bony materials gradually in- creasing in turn come nearer, and the intermediate substance which in the mean while had i occupied the ligamentous structure, being got rid of, they at length unite together. Thus i does callus arise from the bony substance projecting on every side from the fragments l near the fracture; and is gradually perfected in exactly the same way as the original bone itself. Which concluded, it becomes part of the bone itself, and at last is so consoli- dated with it, into, as it were, one body, that oftentimes, even with the assistance of the microscope, it cannot be determined what should be assigned to the callus, what to the original bone.” (pp. 141, 42.)] 579. The callus often does not attain its proper degree of hardness in the usual time, which depends on the insufficient contact of the broken surfaces, on the frequent movements of the limb, on the already often i mentioned dyscrasic diseases, on much advanced age, or especially on weakness of the living activity, and on considerable tearing of the peri- I osteum. The broken ends are connected in these cases either merely by a cellulo-fibrous mass, and are in apposition or not, or they scar and include neighbouring parts betw een them ; the ends of the bone remain movable, and the natural motions of the joint are either completely prevented or rendered very difficult: thus an artificial, unnatural joint, is produced. Fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, (within the capsule,) of the olechranon, of the knee-cap and heel-bone, in most cases do not unite by bone, but by a tough cellular inter- substance. This partially depends on the violent muscular action which displaces the ends of the fracture, and partly on these bones being covered with a thick, tough, tendinous tissue, which causes the want of external ossification and swelling of the periosteum, as well as the change called by Dupuytren, provisional callus, which keeps the ends of the fracture in sufficiently close contact for ossification. Experiments prove that the periosteum, both in the neighbourhood of the epiphysis and where the tendinous expansion spreads over bones, is loosened with more difficulty by inflammation, and that no bony matter is deposited (a). From this circumstance, the opinion that want of the periosteum is the cause of w'ant of union, has especial value. The great looseness of the fragments, the yielding of the muscles, the small surfaces, capable of touching, of the little substantial knee-cap and olechranon, are to be borne in mind, as well also as to the poverty of vessels in the isolated head of the thigh-bone; and it is therefore readily perceived that the ossification of the inter-substance must be subject to great difficulty. But the opinion, that bony union never can take place, is not true (1.) («) Medino; above cited.