705 TOOTH-DRAWING. applicable to all the hind teeth and their stumps, the gums are not crushed, and the tooth not easily broken ; but the neighbouring- teetli must afford i it support and are liable to be thereby depressed ; the tooth can also be drawn with it only outwards. The punch and the pyramidal lever are only in the removal of stumps. 892. In drawing the front teeth of the lower jaw, the operator must place himself before the patient, who sits upon a sloping chair ; he de- presses the lip with the fore-finger of the left hand, puts the thumb on the next tooth, and the other fingers beneath the jaw, and with the curved forceps seizes the neck of the tooth as low as possible, makes a little movement inwards and outwards, and then gives the forceps a pull up- wards, by which the tooth is drawn. In drawing the front teeth of the upper jaw, the operator stands behind the patient, who sits on a low stool, separates the lip with the thumb of the left hand, seizes the tooth with the straight forceps, moves it a little in and out, and draws it with a pull directly downwards. 893. The hind teeth are drawn, either with the hey or with the pelican. In the former case, the operator envelops the bolster of the key with soft linen, after he has fitted it with a claw, of corresponding size to the diameter of the tooth, and places himself before the patient sitting on a common chair. He then fixes the claw of the key with the right hand, if the dis- eased tooth be in the left side of the jaw, but on the opposite side with the left hand, extends the forefinger on the stem of the key, fixes the point of the claw, by means of the guiding forefinger of the unoccupied hand, as deeply as possible, on the inside of the tooth, and keeps it fixed with that finger. He then turns the handle in a half circle downwards on the teeth of the lower, and upwards on the teetli of the upper jaw, by which the tooth is either at once drawn, or remains still connected with the gum, from which it may be completely separated with the fingers or forceps. If on account of the inner side of the tooth being destroyed, it must be drawn inwards, the point of the claw should be fixed externally, and the turn made with the handle of the key inwards. In using the pelican, after having chosen a claw proportionate with the 5 thickness of the tooth, and the distance of the point of support from the diseased tooth, and having covered the crown of the instrument with soft linen, the operator places himself behind the patient sitting on a low stool, fixes the pelican with the right hand in drawing a right side tooth, and the contrary, with the left hand, puts the point of the claw as deeply as possible, on the inside of the tooth, fixes the crown against the two neigh- bouring teeth in front, and the thumb of the unoccupied hand against the inside, and with the other fingers of the same hand grasps the jaw out- wardly and beneath. The handle of the pelican is then moved from behind, forwards and laterally, by which its crown is pressed against the 0.! teeth, serving as the pressure point, and the tooth is somewhat raised. If there be no adjoining teeth to support the pelican, a piece of cork must serve the purpose. 894. In the use of the punch, which is advisable only in teeth not very firmly fixed, the operator stands in front of the patient sitting on the sloping chair, if the teeth be of the lower jaw, but behind the patient, who is to sit low, if the teeth are of the upper jaw ; he fixes the claw of the in- rstrument against the root of the tooth, and the forefinger of the left hand von. i. 2 z