[ 550 ] XI.—OF FRACTURE OF THE COLLAR-BONE. (Fractura Clavicala, Lat.; Bruch des Schliisselbeines, Germ.; Fracture de la Clavicule, Fr.) Brasdor, in Memoires de 1’Academic de Chirurgie, vol. v. Evers, Bemerkungen iiber der Nutzen der BRASDOR’schen Binde zum Schliis sel- beinbruche ; in Richter’s Chirurgischer Bibliotliek, vol. v. p. 141. BrIInninghausen, H. J., Ueber den Bruch des Schliisselbeines. Wurzburg, 1791. With a copper-plate. Large 8vo. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. i. part i. p. 63. Wardenburg’s Zusatz., p. 122. Vermandois, Remarques sur le Traitement de la Fracture de la Clavicule; in the Journal General de Mcdecine, vol. xxi. 1804. Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, et des Operations qui leur conviennent, vol. iii. Wilhelm, Ph., Ueber den Bruch des Schliisselbeines und iiber die verschiedenen Methoden, denselben zu heilen. With lithographic sketches. Wiirzb., 1822. 8vo. Ribes; in Memoires de la Societe Medicate d’Emulation. Paris, vols. ix. iv. 636. Fracture of the Collar-bone occurs either between its sternal end and its connexion with the coracoid process, or between the latter and the scapular end. The former is the most common kind of this fracture, and is generally consequent on violence which operates on the shoulder, elbow, or hand, whilst the arm is outstretched ; the latter kind is mostly produced by direct violence upon the collar-bone, in which case it is always con- nected with bruising of the soft parts. 637. In fracture bctiveen the sternal end of the collar-bone and its con- nexion with the coracoid process, the diagnosis is always easy. The patient feels pain at the seat of fracture ; the motions of the arm are difficult, but little painful ; the patient cannot bring his arm up to his head (though this is possible some days after when the pain has passed by) ; the shoulder is lower and more inwards ; the arm rolls inwards; the patient supports the elbow with the other hand; distinct displacement of the broken ends is felt ; the inner end rises upwards and forwards; the outer drops below it and is directed downwards. The shoulder may be easily returned to its natural height, when the displacement of the broken ends ceases, but returns when the shoulder is again left alone. Distinct crepitation is commonly observed. In a transverse fracture, -which I have frequently observed in children, there was no separation of the fractured ends. Only in the rare case of an oblique fracture from behind and beneath, forwards and upwards, is the hinder end of the fracture above the front end, and lies with its whole under surface upon the upper part of the front piece. 638. Fracture of the collar-bone is generally of no great importance, and the symptoms are dangerous only when bruising or wounding of the soft parts, or of the vessels and nerves lying beneath the collar-bone accompany it. Setting of this fracture is easy ; yet only in very rare cases is the cure possible without any deformity, but if this be not great, it does not at all restrict the motions of the arm. In considerable deformity, when the broken ends unite at an acute angle, the elevation of the arm is impossible, the m. deltoides wastes, the blade-bone projects strongly, and the collar- bone is materially curved. In a remaining artificial joint, the use of the limb was not destroyed, (Gekdy, Velpeau,) but imperfect. 639. To set the collar-bone, the upper end of the upper arm should be laid hold of on the inside, and pressed outwards, and somewhat backwards,