734 SPASMODIC CONTRACTION OF THE ANUS AND end of the third or fourth week, if the cure be long protracted, a new ligature must be tied to the old one and drawn through. Usually, after the partition is cut through by the thread, there remains a little cleft which still suppurates for some time, and heals by the application of some dry lint to the suppurating part. 941. As to the preference of cutting or tying, the latter mode is usually accompanied with little or no pain; the one indeed is longer, but the patient may go about his business, no bleeding is to be feared, and it may be employed when the fistula is very high. The operation on rectal fistula by ligature has, therefore, considerable preference and is especially indicated in cases, where the fistulous orifice is high up, where the haemorrhoidal vessels are very large, and in persons who are subject to a habitual diarrhoea. Many Surgeons, indeed, dispute the necessity of dressing after cutting; but experience contradicts this opinion, and dress- ing is necessary throughout, if there be bleeding. On the contrary, in rectal fistula the preference is given to the operation by cutting, when the internal opening is not very high, when several neighbouring passages exist, a considerable exposure of the rectum is present and the external openings are distant from the anus. Mention must be made of the propositions for compressing rectal fistulas by the intro- duction of tubes into the rectum (a), or by a cylinder of linen stuffed with charpie (b). 942. In the externally blind fistulas, if the bottom of the fistula can be ascertained by the appearances already mentioned, (par. 927,) it may be cut into externally, and then treated as complete fistula. [SPASMODIC CONTRACTION OF THE ANUS, AND ANAL FISSURES. This would seem to be the most convenient place to treat of this subject, which was first clearly described by Boyer (c), and afterwards by Dupuytren (d), and subse- quently by Brodie (e). Boyer does not consider the “ rliagades ou fissures ” mentioned by Lemonnier as the fissures of which he treats, as they neither originate in the same causes, nor are cured by the same treatment. According to Boyer, “ Adults seem to be almost exclu- sively subject to this disease. I have never seen it,” says he, “ in children nor in young persons. The greater number of those attacked with it have been between twenty-five and forty years of age ; some even above it, and a single person M as sixty years old. No class of society is exempt from it; both sexes are alike liable to it; but females perhaps more frequently than men. The characteristic of fissure is a fixed pain at one spot of the circumference of the anus. This is always worse whilst passing the stools, but it gradually subsides afterwards. The m. sphincter ani is so contracted that the introduc- tion of the finger, of a bougie, or canula is very difficult and extremely painful. The causes of this affection are very obscure. I have only observed that in many persons it has been preceded by haemorrhoidal swelling, and that in some persons piles had been previously cut off. The disease commences insensibly; the voidance of the stools is attended with heat and smarting; some hours after the evacuation the troublesome pain ceases ; the patient is believed to have piles or to have chafed. Sometimes after a few days these symptoms subside. * * * But soon the heat and smarting returns, the evacuations become more painful, and the distress continues longer. The dejections are sometimes mingled with blood, and the pain increases. * * * When the pain is felt the slightest things exasperate it; coughing, urining, leaping, are sometimes sufficient; one patient cannot stand upright and at rest, and another cannot remain sitting. * * * After (a) Behmont, These, Paris, 1827, p. 33.—Co- j.ombe, Bibliotheque Medicale, 1828, vol. ii. (b) Piedaqnel, Velpeau, Diet, de Medecine, vol. iii. p. 328. (c) De la Fissure ou Gercure de l’Anus, accom- pagnee du reserrementspasmodique du Sphincter; in his Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. x. Paris, 1825. (d) De la Fissure a l’Anus; in Lerons Orales, vol. iii. 1831. (e) Lectures on Diseases of the Rectum ; in Med. Gazette, vol. xvi. 1835. vol. xviii. 1835.