720 F2ECULAR FISTULA. (c) Null'Ernie, Mem. iv. sect, iv.—I have to .1. F. S. connexions destroyed and the intestine floating freely in the cavity of the belly. In a case of artificial anus at the femoral ring, in a woman, which withstood the usual remedies, a spontaneous cure took place during pregnancy, (Wedesieyer,) which Du- puytren attributes to the gradual retraction of the intestine from the external opening and the lengthening of the funnel-like cavity. [Lallemand (a) had the opportunity of examining an intestine seven years after per- forming Dupuytren’s operation for artificial amts upon it; and of which the external scar iu the skin had twice given way after violent exertion, discharging fetid pus mingled with gas and flreal matter, but subsequently closed. lie gives the following account of the appearances he met with :—“There was found in the left inguinal region an oblique fistulous opening leading into the canal, of the size of a crow-quill. Round this, to the extent of five or six lines, was a thin shining cicatrix, in which wrinkled folds of the surrounding integuments terminated. A portion of ileum, not differing from the usual appearance of the intestines, was adherent to the left inguinal region by two slender columns. One of these, four lines long by two in width, contained the canal of com- munication between the fistula and the cavity of the intestine. This canal passed through the inguinal ring, which was short and nearly direct. The other was an ordi- nary slender fibrous adhesion. There were several ulcerations of the mucous membrane towards the ileo-csecal valve. As soon as the fistulous communication had passed through the ring, it began to enlarge and assume the funnel-shape, and was quickly lost in the cavity of the intestine. When the latter, which presented the usual circular figure was laid open, a slight prominence marked the situation which had been occupied by the edge : the mucous membrane was just the same here as elsewhere.” Dupuytren (6) himself also states that on examining the bodies of many persons who had been subject to artificial anus, but died years after of other diseases, instead of finding the intestine fixed to the wall of the belly, he saw it free and floating in the cavity. “ I should,” says he, “ have fancied I had been mistaken, had not the patient’s identity been indisputable, and had I not discovered a fibrous cord stretched from the point of the abdominal wall corresponding with the accidental anus up to the intestine. This cord, some lines in diameter and some inches in length, larger at its extremities than in its middle, covered with peritoneum and entirely formed of cellular and fibrous tissue, without any cavity, was evidently the progressive elongation of the cellular tissue which had united the intestine to the wall of the belly, and the cause of this lengthening could only be the constant dragging of the intestine by the mesentery, in the different motions of the body during life.” (p. 208.) The following account of the dissection of a case of artificial anus, after morti- fied strangulated rupture, given by Scarpa (c), explains the formation of the funnel:— “ I found,” says he, “ that the great sac of the peritoneum had not only become firmly adherent to the portion of the intestinal tube, which had been unaffected by the gan- grene behind the inguinal ring, and, properly speaking, iu the cavity of the abdomen, but likewise that this sac of the peritoneum, like a membranous funnel, (imbuto membra- noso,') extended from the cavity of the abdomen, through the inguinal canal, into the fistulous tube communicating externally by a narrow hole in the groin. * * * Having divided longitudinally the narrow fistulous canal, and the membranous funnel, I saw distinctly that the two orifices of the intestine had remained parallel, without being at all turned towards each other; and a ridge (promontorio) projected between them, which would have been sufficient of itself to prevent the direct passage of the faces from the superior to the inferior orifice. The alimentary matters must therefore have been poured from the upper end into the membranous funnel, and have passed thence, by a half circle, into the lower end of the intestine.” Upon the same point Dupuytren observes:—“ In examining the opening of the skin and the bottom of the artificial anus, a sort of funnel is discovered, the dispositions of which have been best observed and described by the celebrated Scarpa. It is formed of parts, which inflammation and contact have reduced to the same nature, to wit, that of mucous membrane. Its point is at the skin, its base at the intestine ; its length, direction, form, and dimensions vary to infinity, and have the greatest influence on the cure of the complaint. 1 he greater its extent and capacity, the greater disposition, in general, has nature to cure this ailment, or to second the efforts of art for that purpose. At the bottom of the funnel are found the most remarkable and important circumstances relating to the arti- ficial anus. There are the orifices of the two ends of the intestinal canal, and there the partition by which they are separated. Of these two orifices, the one belongs to the (a) Repertoire general d’Anat. et de Physiol, l’atholog., vol. vii. p. 133. (b) fieeons Orales. acknowledge making use of Lawrence's transla- tion (from his work on Ruptures) of this portion of Scarpa as well as that from Lallemand.