WHITE SWELLING. 276 a bandage. Motion of the diseased joint is difficult, and increases the pain and sensa- tion of fatigue. The colour of the skin is unchanged, nor is there any swelling, but the temperature is somewhat increased, and motion of the limb produces crepitation in the joint. The pain and sensation of weariness increase when the patient warms in bed, and destroys his sleep. After these symptoms have continued some weeks, and the girth of the joint has increased, the second stage sets in. The swelling of the joint is at first pale, free from pain, and most so where, at first, the pain was most severe ; it is soft, fungous, elastic, and somewhat hotter than the other parts. When pressed no pitting is produced, but merely a paleness on the skin. The swelling involves the greater part of the joint, and at last engages it completely; the skin appears shiny ; the pain becomes more severe ; the movement of the limb difficult and painful (a). On account of the pain the patient bends the knee, and in this continued position the tendons becomes rigid, so that in the end both flexion and extension become impossible. The pain and tension are specially situated in the knee-cap; therefore, in motion of the limb, the patient fixes it with his hands. The veins glimmer through the shining skin, the whole of which is bluish and reddish. If the joint swell, the limb shrivels below it, so that at last it seems to consist only of skin and bone, and the skin is exceedingly loose. In the third stage some spots of skin become redder and projecting, the veins show more distinctly through, the skin here becomes thinner and softer, and fluctuation beneath is felt; the wasted lower part of the limb becomes oedematous, and every part discharges, when opened by nature or art, a bloody, puriform, ichorous fluid. If the probe be introduced, the bone is felt carious, or deprived of periosteum, or the tendons and ligaments, and may be moved in all directions. And now, under continued suppuration of the joint, the well-known general symptoms occur with fatal result. In the acute form a rheumatic fever not un- frequently precedes the swelling, with wandering pain in all the joints, and, after a day or two, the pain and swelling fixes very decidedly in one joint, forming the commence- ment of Tumor albus. The joint is red, swollen, and extremely painful, so that it cannot bear the least touch or movement; the skin is shining and burning ; pressure diminishes the redness, but leaves no pit; fluctuation is sometimes felt, which depends on much synovia. The pain becomes especially severe when the person is warm in bed. The swelling occupies the whole joint, and stretches to the neighbouring parts of the limb. After some days it acquires its greatest extent, and is often quite extraordinary; but the circumference of the bone is unchanged, and the pain is not deep seated. When the fever has continued some days, the fever diminishes, or entirely subsides; the swelling loses its rosy colour, does not diminish, but rather increases; is usually soft, pale, and flabby, so that the finger when pressed on it causes a pit. The heat and pain subside, and the swelling now becomes chronic, as if from acute rheumatism; such is the so-called acute rheumatic species of Tumor albus. The joints, rich in cellular tissue and aponeurotic parts, and the articular parts are especially attacked by this disease, which, in its subsequent course, becomes chronic. Anatomy of Tumor albus.—In the first stage of the disease, the soft parts of the joint, the cellular tissue which surrounds the tendons and ligaments are very lull of blood, which is specially collected in the small vessels of the cellular tissue. The latter appears to be in large quantity ; at least, there is formed a yellowish white substance which co- agulates, resembles lymph mixed with jelly, and is in largest quantity near the tendons and ligaments. (At the knee-joint, it appears first on the lateral and posterior, then on the anterior, part; at the elbow, on the sides and behind; on the foot, at the sides of the ankle.) The deep parts of the joint seem little changed, only the periosteum and synovial membrane are redder, and have reddish dots and points; at some parts the synovial membrane is thicker, softer, and closely connected with the above-mentioned gelatinous mass. In the second stage, the Tumor albus contains, in the cellular tissue and around the I tendons, a fibrous, thick, tough substance, not unlike lard, in which run white threads, j connecting the skin to the deep parts. The blood-vessels are less numerous than in the I first stage ; but injection shows that every white thread is only a large vessel, which, I on account of the thinness of its walls, rather resembles a vein ; the arteries also may be distinguished, although, for the most part, they are obliterated. The lardaceous mass is l softer than the integument and tendons, which parts, although covered with this sub- stance, are perfectly healthy; a proof that the Tumor albus is situated only in the cellular il tissue surrounding it. In some parts of this substance, especially in the neighbourhoo 1 of large vessels, blackish-red spots are found, which contain a softer, cheesy, livid matter. I (a) Rust observes on this point: “The patient interfered with, and being compressed by an in^ I complains of the sinews being shortened, which is moderate deposit in the cellular tissuesurroun int? I explicable by the ligaments and tendons in the them.”—Handbuc/i, p. 556. neighbourhood of the joint having their motions