QUESTION OF IDENTITY OF GONORRHOEA, &c. 163 supposite ut saltet retro, descendat fortiter per gradus et sternutet cum pulvere piperis vel cum penna in aceto in naribus, ita ut sperma prius receptum descendat, et tunc lavet se in decoctione rosm et plantaginis decoctarum in vino et furfure, et tunc erit secura.” (p. 61) (a). John of Arden, who lived through the greater part of this century, and at the age of seventy years, iu the year 1377, wrote “ propria sua manu,” the MS. No. 75 of the Sloanian Collection, however, speaks, hi another MS. No. 2002 of the same collec- tion, of the disease “qui dicitur Chaude-pisseand Beckett quotes from another MS. a prescription of his, “ contra Incendium,” which I have not been able to find. On the other hand, the generality of Surgical writers presume that syphilis had not existed prior to the discovery of America, in 1492, or the siege of Naples, in 1495. I am not, however, by any means sure that even syphilis with its primary sores in shape of chancres, was not known to John of Arden, if not indeed also to John of Gates- den, as hereafter I shall endeavour to prove. I have therefore merely referred to the presumed later appearance of syphilis that I may avail myself of the opinions of those who so think; but I believe that disease existed long before. It is not however, in reality, of much consequence, but simply a matter of literary curiosity, because the decision of the question rests not there, but upon the experiments mentioned by Benj. Bell, and more especially on those performed by Hernandez and Ricord. “ Although,” Hunter says, “ it has been supposed by many, that the gonorrhoea and the chancre arise from two distinct poisons; and their opinion seems to have some founda- tion, when we consider only tire different appearances of the two diseases, and the differ- ent methods of cure ; which, in judging of the nature of many diseases, is too often all we have to go by : yet if we take up this question upon other grounds, and also have recourse to experiments, the result of which we can absolutely depend upon, we shall find this notion to be erroneous.” He proceeds to inquire into the introduction of the venereal poison among the inhabitants of the South Sea Islands, combats the opinion Eat chancre was first introduced into Otalieite, by stating that it was “ almost impos- i able to carry a chancre so long a voyage without its destroying the penis; while we know from experience that gonorrhoea may continue for a great length of time;” and deter- jnines, for this reason, and also that “only a gonorrhoea can be cured by simple means,” 'which seem all that the natives adopted, “ that the disease they had must have been a gonorrhoea,” (p. 14;) and “ that every form of the disease has been propagated from one I 'oot, which was most probably a gonorrhoea.” He then continues:—“ If any doubt still i remains with respect to the two diseases being of the same nature, it will be removed by i considering that the matter produced in both, is of the same kind, and has the same i properties; the proofs of which are that the matter of a gonorrhoea will produce either o 1 gonorrhoea, a chancre, or the lues venerea; and the matter of a chancre will also pro- m luce either a gonorrhoea, a chancre, or the lues venerea.” (p. 16.) To make this cir- u pie complete he ought to show' that the matter of lues venerea will produce gonorrhoea; c-imt he distinctly states:—“ It has never yet been known to produce a gonorrhoea from the it constitution.” (p. 308.) It must be here observed that Hunter considers chancre and |*rues venerea two distinct forms of the disease, the one primarily exhibiting it locally, > nd the other only through the constitution. f “ To account for these two different effects of the same poison,” Hunter observes, it is only necessary to observe the difference in the mode of action of the parts affected t; vhen irritated, let the irritation be what it may. The gonorrhoea always proceeds rom a secreting surface, and the chancre is formed on a non-secreting surface. * * * • he poison, then, being the same in both cases, why do they not always happen together in a he same person ? * * * Although it does not often happen so, yet it sometimes does, t least there is great reason to believe so. I have seen cases where a gonorrhoea came 1 n, and in a few days after in some, in others in as many weeks, a chancre has appeared ; d nd I have also seen cases where a chancre came first, and, in the course of its cure, a s unmng and pain in making water have succeeded. It may be supposed that the two lseases arose from the original infection, and only appeared at different times. * * * suspect,” he proceeds, “that the presence of one irritation in these parts, becomes in ,1 eneral, a preventive of the other. I have already observed that the two parts sympa- i use in their diseases, and it is possible that that very sympathy may prevent the ap- J narance of the real disease; for, if an action has already taken place which is not vene- 4 -al, it is probable that this sympathy will not cease while the cause exciting it exists ; r na therefore when both happen in the same person at the same time, I suspect that I ither the urethra never had sympathised with the chancre, or if it did at first that sym- i athy had ceased, and then the venereal matter might stimulate the parts to action.” T- U) 18.) It is not at all clear what Hunter means by this sympathy between the (a) Edition of 1492. Pavia. M 2