332 PUNCTURED, therefore, generally more dangerous than cut wounds; it is more difficult to examine them, they produce more active inflammation, higher fever, nervous symptoms, suppuration ; important parts are commonly wounded by the deep penetration of the instrument. Simple stabs, for instance, with a flat sharp-pointed blade, heal just as readily by quick union as cuts do; but, if the parts have suffered from tearing and bruising, the track of the stab suppurates. 326. The treatment of stabs must, in general, be quite simple. After the blood has been gently pressed out, and the wound cleansed, the open- ing is to be covered with sticking plaster, the parts brought into a proper position, and a graduated compress laid upon the track of the stab, which is to be moderately fastened with a bandage ; the patient is to be treated strictly on the antiphlogistic plan, and cold applications used to allay the inflam- mation. Under this treatment the wound often heals by quick union, with- out any particular occurrence. If active inflammation and swelling take place, we must employ, with the proper general antiphlogistic treatment and after general blood-letting, leeches in the neighbourhood of the wound, and softening poultices. When suppuration takes place, the discharge of the pus must be promoted by the proper position of the part, by suitable pres- sure from the bottom of the track of the wound to its orifice. If the matter collect and burrow, the position of the part must be changed according to circumstances, the opening of the wound enlarged, a counter-opening made, the whole canal opened, and it must, especially, be treated according to the rules given for fistulous passages {par. 66.) 327. If stabs penetrate parts of tough structure, or into those surrounded by unyielding aponeuroses, severe symptoms may be produced when swell- ing comes on, which can only be relieved or removed by suppuration of the wound. 328. Punctures of tendons exhibit no particular symptoms; but in tendons enclosed in sheaths severe inflammation usually takes place. The injury of large nerves in stabs always causes severe symptoms. The nerves, for the most part, are only partially divided. A peculiar sensation of numbness occurs in the part to which the wounded nerve is distributed; and along its course a severe pain and inflammatory redness extends above and below the wounded part; the fever is very high ; twitchings occur both in the wounded part and over the whole body ; the wound, also, may be so highly inflamed as to run into gangrene. The treatment must be strictly antiphlogistic; general and local blood- lettings, softening applications, and antiphlogistic medicines, must be em- ployed in connexion with narcotics, especially calomel with opium. The last remedy, according to some, should be the division of the nerve (?). If vessels are wounded in stabs, and the bleeding cannot be stanched by suitable pressure, and by the application of cold water, the wound must be enlarged, the injured vessel laid bare and tied, or a ligature applied above and below the wounded part. Descot, P. S., Dissertation sur les Affections Locales des Nerfs. Paris, 1825. 8vo. Swan, J., A Treatise on Diseases and Injuries of the Nerves. 2nd Edit. London, 1834. 8vo. Bell, G.; in the Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science. October 1S26. 329. The enlargement of a punctured wound, which was formerly made in every case for the purpose of converting it into an open wound, the