HENRY CLINE’S OPERATION. 539 rather than for its refusal, but especially soon after the accident and before inflammation has set in (a). [(1) The operation for the removal of the pressing vertebral arch, was first proposed and performed by the younger Cline, in the spring of 1814, and though unsuccessful, showed the practicability of such an operation; and in the following year he gave a lecture ex- planatory of his views on the subject, my own notes of which are unfortunately missing; and though 1 have taken considerable pains to obtain notes from pupils attending the hospital at that time, I have not succeeded in meeting with any, except the brief account of the case from our Museum book, and the short notes of my friend John Wallace, of Carshalton, for which I have to thank him. Cline considered, and very justly, as is amply proved by examination of these cases, that the symptoms resulted from the pressure of the spinal cord by the spinous process of the displaced vertebra, either fractured or not, a condition which he thought analo- gous to that of the brain when a piece of the skull is driven in upon it, and causes symp- toms of compression, but which are relieved by the removal of the cause of the com- pression. With this notion he held it feasible to remove the compressing vertebral arch, and so to relieve the palsy. And for this purpose he operated in the following Case.—A. B. was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital June 15, 1814. Having fallen from a window two stories high into a ditch containing little water, and received an injury, with displacement of the spine, for which the medical man by whom he was first seen bled him, and attempted to replace the bones by the pulling of five or six strong men, which, however, as might have been expected, not suc- ceeding, he was sent to the hospital. ' June 16. It having been determined to take out the compressing vertebral arch or arches, the man was brought upon his bed into the operating theatre, and carefully put upon the table with his face downwards. An incision was made through the skin over the projecting spinous processes, and of sufficient length to expose them completely. The muscles were then divided on each side, and being drawn outwards two spinous processes, which were broken at their roots, were removed. It was attempted to remove the vertebral arch by sawing it through with Machell’s circular saw, which was in- effectual ; a chisel and mallet were then employed, and also a trephine, by means of which the separation was effected and the arch lifted out with an elevator. The ope- ration was considerably embarrassed by the unfitness of the instruments, and occupied a considerable time, but was not accompanied with much suffering. In the evening, he was tolerably well, but complained of pain in the wound. Pulse 114. June 17, 2 p. m. Has not had any sleep since the operation : nor any relief from the bowels; tongue white; skin perspirable ; pulse 130. At 6 p. m. he had a fit and was thought to be dying. June 18, 1 p. in. Had another fit; has great difficulty of breathing, with much nervous irritation. Pulse 140. The upper part of the body is in a cold sweat; the lower part warm, but not perspiring. The bowels have been relieved. Has been taking fever mixture, with five drops of laudanum, which was ordered to be increased to fifteen drops, and given hourly, if the dresser thought necessary. At 4 p. in. the spasms had abated, and he was better. June 19. Through the morning he was more tranquil, but gradually sunk, and at 5 p. m. died, without convulsions and sensible to the last. On examination. The fore and upper part of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra was found to be fractured obliquely from above and behind, downwards and forwards. The upper portion of this vertebra continued attached by the intervertebral substance to the eleventh dorsal, which had moved forwards and a little downwards, tearing away the hinder half of the intervertebral ligament from the top of the twelfth vertebra. By this projection the arch of the eleventh had compressed the spinal cord between itself and the back of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. In the sheath of the cord were four lacerations opposite the injury, two of which would admit the little finger. The spinal marrow was three-fourths torn through, and the remaining portion was bruised. In the clinical lecture which Cline delivered, he explained the reasons that had induced him to perform this operation, and the grounds upon which he hoped for success. He considered that, *• in fracture with displacement of the vertebra;, which compressed the spinal cord, this great nervous cord was under precisely the same cir- cumstances as the brain when pressed by fractured skull, and that, therefore, as the elevation of the pressing bone was indicated in the latter case, and often effected with success, so was it equally called for in the former, and that no positive reason could (a) IIammick’s Practical Remarks on Amputations, Fractures, &t. London, 1830. p. 192,