328 SUTURES. [(1.) So our old friend Maister Gale, who also gives the reason for his recommenda- tion :—“ Make your first stiche in the middes of the wounde, than a finger breadeth from that make another on bothe sides of the midle stich, so leauing the space of a fynger breadeth, make so manye stiches as the wounde requireth. And take this for a gene- rail rule that you neuer begynne your stiching at the ende of the wounde, because through that occation the wounde might be drawen awrye, and the member lose his beautie, and some tyme parte of his office. And beginning your stiches in the middes, this foloweth of necessitie that your stiches shal be odde, if there be more or lesse than twaine. And if the wounde be deepe and ouerthwarte the member, then you must make your stiches deeper, and that for two causes, the one for that it shoulde not breake out againe, the other that the wounde mvghte haue lesse matter and better take consoli- dation. (pp. 2, 3.)] 316. The quill suture, especially employed for the union of wounds of the walls of the belly, but which is now almost out of use, is distinguished from the interrupted-stitch, inasmuch as the ligature consists of two threads separated on either side of the wound ; between which threads small cylin- ders of wood corresponding with the length of the wound are interposed, upon which the threads are tied, so that the edges of the wound are com- pressed together throughout their whole length. 317. When the suture is applied, the union is to be assisted by sticking plaster, which is to be placed between the stitches ; the wound is to be covered with fine charpie, with a compress, and the whole supported with some turns of a circular bandage. 318. The patient is to be kept at rest after the closing of the wound, and an antiphlogistic regimen pursued. If there be much traumatic reaction, active antiphlogistic remedies must be used. If severe pain and swelling of the edges of the wound occur, the bandage must be loosened, lead wash applied, and if, after the application of the sutures, the threads seem likely to tear through they must be removed, and the edges of the wound kept together with sticking plaster. If the loosening of the dressing, from these circumstances, or from after-bleeding, be not necessary, it may be left as long as it is not rendered too foul by the secretion from the wound. This at the first soaks into the dressings, subsequently dries, and the first dress- ing may, even in severe wounds, as in amputations, be often left until the cure is completed (in the strictest sense, per primam intentionem.) If the bandage be rendered too moist by the secretion from the wound, or if it have a bad smell, especially in hot weather, the superficial dressings must then be removed, but the sticking plaster left, if it keep the wound well closed. When, however, it is to be renewed, both ends of one piece of the sticking plaster must be loosened first towards the wound, and the middle part last, the edges of the wound being at the same time gently supported. As one piece of the plaster is removed, and the wound cleansed, another piece should be applied, because, if the wound be at once stripped of all the stick- ing plaster, the already united edges easily separate from each other. In this way the bandage is to be renewed daily, every other day less frequently, according to the quantity of secretion from the wound ; in doing which it is also to be specially observed, that the connecting bandages are to be loosened with warm water previous to their removal, and the ligature threads not dragged. If stitches be used, the threads may be removed between the second and fifth days, the knot being cut, and the thread drawn through with forceps on the other side. 319. If quick union do not take place, or if, on account of its condition, (par. 308,) a wound cannot be brought together, it must heal by suppu-