209 TREATMENT. improbable that the ligamentous fibres themselves are passive in the ulcerative process which, there is some reason for believing, is performed entirely by the vascular tissue that surrounds them.” (p. 215.) Sometimes, young people, from being compelled by their occupation to bear heavy weights, and especially from wheeling heavy barrows, have the plantar ligaments of the foot, or the inner lateral ligament of the knee, very considerably lengthened; and, as regards the lateral, that very common condition of the joint in labouring persons called knock-knees or in-knees, a very remarkable instance of which is mentioned by Wickham, in which “ the left leg was so affected by this lateral inclination that the leg was nearly at right angles with the thigh.” (p. 100.) Not unfrequently, also, are the ligaments of a joint generally relaxed, and thereby the strength of the joint greatly diminished, when large quantities of synovial fluid, produced by inflammation and long continuing, have at last been absorbed. In neither case, however, is there any actual disease of the ligament, but simply are they relaxed.—J. F. S.J 205. The causes of inflammation of the ligaments may be all the general causes already mentioned, (par. 199,) especially the traumatic and rheumatic in scrofulous and lymphatic persons, in whom particularly the chronic form of this inflammation is most common. It may occur in all joints, but it is most common in that of the knee and elbow. 206. The treatment must be guided by both the degree of the inflam- mation and its cause. In severe traumatic inflammation, general, but especially repeated and free local blood-letting by leeches, cold applica- tions, and a corresponding general treatment must be employed. Perfect rest in this, as in all other forms of inflammation of the joints is absolutely necessary. In rheumatic and gouty inflammation in the slighter stages, warmth is to be applied, by rolling in flannel, woollen, and the like, and the internal use of diaphoretics, as hydrochlorate of ammonia, antimonial wine in small doses, or wine of colchicum seeds; in more severe inflam- mation, more active antiphlogistic treatment is called for, always, however, with caution and proper restriction. In the chronic course of inflammation, repeated blood-letting by a small number of leeches or by cupping-glasses must be employed. If rheumatism or scrofula be the ground of the disease, the internal use especially of vinum colchici and cod-liver oil is requisite. As the inflammation subsides, mercurial friction and repeated blisters are very advantageous. 207. If without further inflammation thickening and swelling of the ligaments and cellular tissue occur, their dispersion must be attempted by encouraging absorption, for which purpose various infrictions, fomentations, and plasters are recommended. The most efficient remedies, according to my experience, are, repeated cupping or dry cupping, rubbing in mer- curial ointment either alone or with caustic ammonia and camphor, iodine ointment, proper pressure with a bandage; in suppuration, continued blis- ters ; corresponding general treatment of the internal cause. I have not seen any particular benefit from moxas, or from the slight scoring with the Ji actual cautery, which has been recommended. 208. If the inflammation run into suppuration on the external surface of the capsular ligament, it must, when fluctuation is distinct, be properly opened ; care must be taken for the free flow of the pus, and poultices ap- plied (1). If the suppuration attack the joint itself, and, if the simple local use of poultices and corresponding general treatment do not lead us to hope that anchylosis can be effected ; if the symptoms become worse, and hectic i consumption be feared, amputation, or, under favourable circumstances, removal of the carious joint ends of the bones, is the only remedy. During the treatment of the inflammation of joints, care must be taken that the VOL. I. p