OPERATION. 595 722. The hare-lip is a division of the lip upon which the red edges are continued. It is always a vice of the original formation, though an old division of the lip may be consequent on external violence, if the edges of the wound have not united, but have skinned over. In the former case the edges of the cleft are smooth, and overspread with a delicate epidermis ; in the latter irregular and callous. The hare-lip is always in the upper lip. The lip may be either partially or completely cleft, and is often accompanied with a cleft of the upper jaw and palate ( Wolf’s Jaw ; Palatum Jissum, Lat.; Wolfsrachen, Germ.) The cleft is sometimes simple ; frequently is there between its edges a larger or smaller middle piece. Bony processes often project into the cleft, or in adults the teeth protrude between the edges. Only when the hare-lip is connected with a cleft in the bone does it hinder children from sucking (1). I In adults the speech, especially the pronunciation of the labial letters, is always indistinct in hare-lip. [(1) This is commonly stated, but is not always so; the gap in the jaw and palate of course is a great obstacle to sucking, but it does not entirely prevent it, and the infant manages to acquire a compensation for a seeming want of which it was not aware.—J. F. S.] 723. Hare-lip, when an original vice, is an arrest of the development of the lip ; as is wrolFs jaw, of that of the jaw-bone. Both of them usually i occur on the left side, whilst the right is naturally formed. When the cleft in the lip and jaw-bone is double, that is, running into each nostril, they are often separated at the underpart of the nasal partition by a projecting piece of bone which contains more or less incisive teeth (Double Wolfs Jaiv, doppelter Wolfsrachen.') In several cases of hare-lip and cleft palate the olfactory nerves have been observed to be wanting (1). [(1) I have been obliged to alter this paragraph very considerably, as the descrip- i tion given by Chelius is very obscure and not quite correct.—J. F. s. Pigne (a) has very properly stated, that “ an acquired hare-lip may affect inde- finitely all kinds of direction and position ; but that the congenital form is always per- pendicular to the free edge of the lip, and but very rarely met with in the mesial line.”] 724. Hare-lip can only be cured by operation, which consists in removing the edges of the cleft with the bistoury, or with scissors, and uniting the - fresh cleft. This is easy in proportion as the cleft is simple. If the > palate be at the same time cleft it frequently closes after the cure of the cleft in the soft parts, but it may continue during the whole life. Although experience has shown, that the operation may be successful in very young children, it is, however, best to delay it till eight months (1). Only when wolf’s jaw is connected with hare-lip, and the child cannot suck, may the operation be undertaken within the first six months (2). In children of two years the operation may be delayed till they have become intelligent. The previous drawing together the edges of the cleft with sticking-plaster or bandage, with a view to its more speedy union, is useless ; but it may be advantageous in accustoming the child to the dressing. If there be a bony growth in the cleft it must, after the skin covering it has been raised, be removed with the nippers, and the bleeding having been stanched, the skin which has been preserved must be used for covering the septum. If the incisive teeth project, they must be extracted, if of the first set; but if of the second it must be attempted to give them their proper direction by ' continued pressure, and if this be not possible they also must be ex- (a) In his Translation of this Work. 2 q 2