GOUTY AND 626 though it may be difficult, if the patient, excepting the ulcers, have not suffered any decided gout. In these cases the symptoms must be espe- cially attended to, which usually accompany anomalous gout, as disturbed functions of the bowels and liver, unnatural urinary secretion, irritating, often periodically wandering pains in the limbs; also blennorrhcea, erup- tions of the skin and the like, which are often closely connected with the ulcer. 780. These ulcers are generally very stubborn; are often kept up by the deposition of chalky masses; their cure must therefore be undertaken with great care, because the patient is liable to the danger of a metastasis. 781. In treating arthritic ulcers the general affection must always be attended to. Above all, the patient’s mode of living must be specially regulated, frequently the very contrary to the previous course directed, and therefore a change to a diet sometimes with more meat, but more frequently to a more simple vegetable food, with suitable exercise. Ac- cording to the different character of the gout, means must be employed which either promote or diminish the perspiration and the flow of urine. Mindeker’s spirit, antimonial wine, aconite, guiaicum, camphor, the various preparations of antimony, the alkalies, the vinurn seminis colchici, and so on ; or bitter strengthening remedies, the calmus, bark, bitter extracts, steel, or the more opening and purging remedies. Baths, especially those containing sulphur, are of very great use. The vinum sem. colchic. autumn. I have proved to be generally the most efficient remedy against gout and rheumatic affections. The result of my observations and experience on this remedy, that its efficiency depends on the increased production of uric acid in the urine during its use (a), has been fully confirmed by the experiments of Lewin (b). 782. The local treatment of the ulcer is guided in part by the general treatment. If the ulcer have an inflammatory character, it must, in addi- tion to the removal of all irritants and proper general treatment, be covered merely with a dry warm vegetable poultice; all moist and wet remedies must be avoided. If the ulcer, as is commonly the case, have a torpid character, it must be covered with mercurial or cicuta plaster, with empl. de minio with camphor and opium, a powder of bark, camphor, and white sugar is to be daily strewed upon the sore, rubbing in mercurial ointment with camphor around the wound, and swathing the part with waxed taffeta, or the application of camphorated bags of vegetables. Schmucher’s plaster of assafoetida, soap, ammoniacum, and vinegar of squills often does good service, even when there is accompanying expo- sure of bone. In this treatment derivation must also be kept up at the same time with issues, setons, and the like. If the ulcers do not heal, their cure must not be forced by contracting and drying remedies. The ground of their stubbornness often depends on local complication ; they may be even incurable, if seated in parts which are already completely disorganized. The earthy masses (urate of sodaj) often, in gout, deposited in the joints, in the cellular tissue, or in the mucous bags, is consequent on repeated inflammation and effu- sion thereon dependent. If they be in any quantity, the motion is more or less dis- turbed, and by their irritation, or by a fresh attack of gout, inflammation and sup- puration are produced, the skin breaks, and the chalk-like mass is gradually discharged. A dry piece of this substance often penetrates the skin, and remains as an excrescence, without exciting inflammation and suppuration. If the collection of these masses produce (а) Heidel. klin. Annal., 1827, vol. iii. p. 345. and therapeutical effects of Colchicum 1 (б) Robert Lewin, jun., On the physiological in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journ., No. 14s- 1