577 KNEE-CAP. 691. Fracture of the Knee-cap, has most usually a transverse, rarely a longitudinal, and often a more or less oblique direction ; or the bone is split to pieces. In the former case it may be consequent on violent contraction of the muscles attached to the knee-cap in violent bending of the leg ; in other cases it is always produced by direct external violence and is accompanied with great contusion, with effusion of blood into the joint, or with wound. 692. The diagnosis is easy. There has been previous violent tension whilst the knee was bent, to preserve the equilibrium of the body, ora fall upon the knee whilst the leg was bent; the patient feels severe pain, often hears a crack, and can neither stand up nor stretch out his foot after the fall. In transverse fracture a space is distinctly felt between the two ends of the bone, which are separated, the upper piece being drawn upwards. This separation is the greater, the more the fibrous covering of the knee-cap is torn, and may extend to four or five inches; but it is lessened when the leg is straightened. Crepitation is not observed because the broken ends cannot be brought into immediate contact. In vertical, oblique, or splintered fractures of the knee-cap, the separation and mobility of the broken ends and crepitation are felt on examination. 693. The union of the fractured pieces is effected by means of a fibrous i inter substance, the cause of which does not depend on the sponginess and (isolation of the bone, nor on the want of blood between the fractured surfaces, nor on the intrusion of the synovia, and paucity of vessels in the bone and surrounding parts, but on the difficulty of retaining the fractured ends in sufficiently close contact. The opinion, however, that in trans- verse fracture the consolidation does not depend on callus, is unfounded and disproved by experience (a). In splintering of the knee-cap, the broken ends are usually connected by callus. If the intersubstance which effects the union be not very broad, the motions of the joint are scarcely hindered, but under contrary circumstances the gait is more unsteady. If with fracture of the knee-cap there be severe bruising or a wound of the joint, the injury is always important, as anchylosis or sup- puration of the joint with fatal consequences may ensue. Even in simple fracture, by the use of unsuitable and especially of too tight bandages, destruction of motion, union of the upper part of the knee-cap with the front of the thigh-bone, with atrophy of the ligaments and extending muscles may occur, which is worse than if a broad intersubstance had been formed. From Gulliver’s observations (6), it appears, 1. That if the aponeurosis be com- pletely divided as is the case in fracture from muscular contraction, a bony union is not to be expected; 2. In transverse fractures in which bony union is deficient, the i fragments and the interposed fibrous tissue are well provided with vessels; the want of union, therefore, is not to be ascribed to imperfect nourishment; 3. If the union in transverse fractures be effected by fibrous substance, there is often a bony deposit on the ends of the bone, so that the fragments have the appearance of two symmetrical i bones; 4. Bony union is simply the result of immovable adjustment of the frag- ments which, in many cases of fracture, the uninjured state of the aponeurosis on the fore part effects; 5. New bones, which in fracture of the knee-cap seem to be formed of the broken pieces. The surrounding cellular tissue rarely or never becomes con- N verted into bone; the fibrous tissue goes directly to the production of new bone. No ■ cartilaginoid substance appears during the ossification. 0 _ (rt)Dcpuytken; in Ammon l’arallele derfranz- Lanoenreck,neueBibliothek fiirChirnrgieund ii5 osischen und deutscher Chirurgie, p. 151. Ophthalmologie, vol. iii. pt. i. p. 49. (6) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical .lournal, 1837. No. 130. VOL. I. 2 V