736 TREATMENT OF ANAL FISSURES. find a small ulcer of the mucous membrane of the rectum, which is always in a parti- cular spot at the posterior part, opposite to the point of the os cocci/gis, (p. 26.) But he also observes, that “ in some instances the ulcer exists independently of the contracted sphincter muscle. * * * It is very difficult to heal, and very frequently it goes on spreading till it becomes of considerable size. It is a superficial ulcer of exquisite sen- sibility, and great pain is always produced by the passage of the fceces over it, lasting for a considerable time after each evacuation. In some instances, considerable haemorrhage takes place from an ulcer of this kind.” (p. 27.) Treatment:—“The spasmodic construction,” says Dupuytren, “is the true ailment; the lengthy ulceration, named fissure or crack, is merely a secondary symptom. If the constriction be removed, the complaint is cured. The application of belladonna under these circumstances is naturally indicated, and has been used very frequently with great advantage, when combined with acetate of lead in the following form: of lard 6 gros, of extract of belladonna and acetate of lead, of each one gros. With this a bougie of moderate size is to be greased, and its size gradually increased to that of the little finger. Its continued use for a few days often completely removes the pain.” (p. 286.) Brodie, however observes, that though he “ formerly used a suppository with extract of bella- donna with manifest advantage, yet that he is not in the habit of frequently employing it. Even used in the form of a suppository, the belladonna sometimes produces very serious symptoms, by its influence on the brain.” (p. 26.) He, therefore, only gives pur- gative medicine to prevent hard stools, directs the introduction of a bougie before going to the water-closet, and lets an opium suppository be introduced at night. “ The fissures below and above the sphincter most commonly heal,” according to Dupuytren, “ without any operation; the former, with linen or lint spread with simple cerate, opiate cerate, cucumber pommade, poplar ointment, mercurial preparations, &c., and the latter, by soothing and narcotic lotions of decoction of marsh-mallow, poppy heads, nightshade, henbane, stramonium, and other remedies, thrown up into the rectum. * * * But in very painful fissures accompanied with spasmodic contraction of the anus, and situated at the very top of the sphincter muscle, the most prompt and certain method is that introduced by Professor Boyer, which requires only a common and a button- ended bistoury,” (p. 290,) and which is thus described:—“ I place the patient,” says Boyer, “ upon his side, as in the operation for anal fistula; I then introduce the fore- finger of my left hand, smeared with cerate, into the rectum, and upon it slip up a bistoury laid flat, of which the very narrow blade is square, and with a rounded tip. The cutting edge is directed right or left, according to the situation of the fissure, and I divide, at a single stroke, the intestinal membrane, the sphincter, cellular tissue, and tegument. I thus form a triangular wound, of which the top corresponds to the gut and the bottom to the skin; it is sometimes necessary to lengthen the wound, and I then make a second cut. Sometimes the intestine slips from the cutting instrument, and the wound of the cellular tissue extends higher than that in the gut; the bistoury must then be again introduced into the rectum, for the purpose of lengthening the incision of the gut. If the constriction be very great, I make two cuts, one on the right and the other on the left, and when the fissure is before or behind, I do not include it in the wound. A large bougie is then to be introduced into the wound or into the two wounds, to prevent their edges uniting irregularly. A slight plugging with lint is then made, some pads applied, and the whole supported by a bandage.” (p. 137.) A very im- portant caution, in reference to operating on women, is given by Brodie. “In a female subject, whether you divide the sphincter in a case of fistula, or in one of any other disease, I caution you. that you should never make your incision exactly in front, towards the vagina. The wound made in this direction does not heal in a proper manner; the muscle, if divided at this point, is never a perfect sphincter afterwards, and the patient labours under an incontinence of fceces, from which she never completely recovers, and which makes her miserable for life. Then, it is not advisable, in either sex, that you should divide the sphincter directly backwards towards the os cocci/gis. If you do, you will find that the wound does not very readily close, and that it is liable to crack and be reopened afterwards. There is a sufficient anatomical explanation of what I have now mentioned. You will recollect that the sphincter ani consists of two parts or layers. The inner layer is circular, embracing the anus like a ring; the external layer on each side is attached posteriorly to the apex of the os cocci/gis, by elastic ligament, and anteriorly to the central portion of the perinceum. If you cut in the direction backwards towards the os coccygis, you divide, it is true, the inner or circular layer of fibres, but not of the outer layer. The knife passes between the two lateral portions of this outward layer and simply splits or separates them; and the contractive power of this part of the muscle remains and interferes with the cicatrization of the w’ound.” (p. 186.) “ The operation of