792 DISLOCATION 1056. The reduction of this dislocation of the spoke-bone is easy. The fore-arm is extended with one hand, whilst with the other, the head of the spoke-bone is pressed into its place, and the fore-arm brought into supina- tion, in the dislocation backwards, and into pronation, in that forwards, and should be kept in place after the joint has been surrounded with compresses and circular bandages, by a splint placed on its front or back part. In from twenty to twenty-five days, this apparatus may be entirely removed and careful motion of the arm permitted. According to Astley Cooper, the reduction of the dislocation forwards of the spoke- hone, requires much force, and he enumerates cases, in -which it was impossible ; from experiments on the dead body, however, the extension of the hand, in which the spoke- bone alone was acted on, was the most preferable; in this way I have also easily effected the reduction. If the appearances mentioned {par. 1054) indicate the relaxation of the articular connexions of the spoke-bone, all dragging and movement of the hand must be avoided, the fore-arm must be fixed in a half-bent position, and the relaxation of the ligaments removed by suitable applications and rubbings in. VIII.—OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST. {Luxatio Carpi, Lat.; Verrenkung des Handgelenkes, Germ.; Luxation du Poignet, Fr.) 1057. Three kinds of dislocation may take place at the wrist-joint:— 1, the dislocation of both bones of the fore-arm; 2, the dislocation of the spoke-bone ; and, 3, the dislocation of the cubit. 1058. Dislocation of the hand from its connexion with both bones of the fore-arm, may be forivards, backwards, or to one or other side ; the two latter kinds can only be incomplete, the former two more or less perfect. In the dislocation forwards, the hand is bent much backwards, and there is a great projection upon the inside of the wrist; the fingers are bent as well as the fore-arm. In the dislocation backwards, the very contrary symptoms occur; fracture of the spoke-bone mostly accompanies it (A. Cooper.) In dislocation on one or other side, there is always distor- tion of the hand, adduction or abduction, and a projection on the radial or ulnar side. Dislocation of tlie wrist-joint, mentioned from the earliest time, has been doubted by Dupuytren, as he denied its existence, and almost its possibility, and proved the pre- sumed cases of such dislocations were fractures of the lower end of the spoke-bone. This opinion is almost generally received, and by a strict criticism of the previous observations of such dislocations supported, against the opinions of Petit, Desault, Boyer and others. But few observations have excited doubts against the statements of Dupuytren. Voillemier has however shown the existence of such dislocations, by the most careful examination of a complete displacement of the wrist backwards and of the bones of the fore-arm forwards, and has given, as distinguishing marks between this dislocation and fracture of the lower end of the spoke-bone, that in the latter there is a bending in on the outside of the fore-arm near the joint, which is wanting in the former; the hand is abducted, but in dislocation, the whole hand is twisted towards the outside of the fore-arm ; there is swelling at the fore and under part of the fore-arm, which is wanting in dislocation ; but little decided projection of the ends of the fracture forwards and backwards, whilst in dislocation a projection of seven or eight lines back- wards is formed by the wrist-joint, and forwards by the bones of the fore-arm; great breadth of the bones on the carpo-metacarpal surfaces, but in the dislocation only the natural breadth; the spoke-bone is shorter, but in dislocation of equal length as in the sound arm ; the styloid process of the spoke-bone has its natural place at the wrist, but in dislocation it is situated on the inside of the wrist, to the inner side of the sca- phoid bone ; the styloid process of the cubit projects upon the back of the fore-arm, but in dislocation on the front; it projects as far or farther down than that of the spoke-