197 WHITLOW. 188. The second form of whitlow requires, in consequence of the severity of the inflammation, bleeding' or leeches to the affected finger, cold applications, and rubbing in mercurial ointment. If the cause of the whitlow be a puncture, it must be ascertained whether any splinter remain ; and, if so, it must be removed ; also, if any noxious matter have penetrated into a wound, it must be carefully washed out with warm water. 11 resolution do not occur in the first three days, the affected part must be cut into. The patient is always thereby relieved, either by the escape of the pus, or, if the pus be not perfectly formed, by the division of the tough and tight skin, and by the bleeding. The cut should always be pretty free. Soothing poultices should be applied till the pain and swelling have subsided. If the skin be thinned to a great extent, and raised like a bladder, it must be removed as soon as the pus is discharged. [The treatment of this is precisely similar to that directed for the previous form of the disease, excepting that, in the present case, it is always necessary to cut through the cutis as well as the cuticle, and relieve the tension of both at once; the pus, if the incision be made at the proper time, not having yet ulcerated through to the cutis, and poured itself beneath the cuticle.—J. F. S.] 189. The treatment of the third form of whitlow is the same as in the second, except that the incision must not be deferred beyond the third day ; for, otherwise, the tendon will be destroyed. The cut must penetrate into the tendon sheath. The pain is usually quickly diminished by the appli- cation of soothing remedies. As the inflammation often spreads over the whole hand, if in any particular part pain, swelling, and fluctuation occur, it must be opened : and as, when the tendons are destroyed, the motions of the finger are lost, care must always be taken to keep it in a proper position. [The incision, when the sheath of the tendon is concerned, should always be made deeply and freely, and in the course of the tendon, as if that be divided longitudinally, no inconvenience accrues to the movement of the finger or toe, as would were it cut transversely. It must not .be expected always to find pus flow in opening the tendon- sheath ; very frequently but a drop or two escapes, and sometimes none, the secretion not having been established. The anticipation of such occurrence is not, however, to be any bar to making the incision, as the immediate relief it affords, by getting rid of the tension, and emptying the vessels of the inflamed part, and checking the high constitu- tional disturbance almost always attending inflamed tendinous structures, is most re- markable. If the inflammation and suppuration be propagated to the palmar or plantar fascia, or further on the arm or leg, incisions through the fascia must be made, for the voidance of the pus. As this subject will be again treated of, in considering punctured wounds, it need not at present be further pursued. As regards the sloughing of the tendons of the fingers or toes, the extent to which they are destroyed is very great: indeed, I have known an instance of slough of the entire tendon, up to its junction with the muscular fibres, of one of the flexor muscles of a finger, of which the top had sloughed oft. The straight position is best for the finger, when either flexor or extensor tendons has sloughed; but very commonly, for working persons, its immobility is so inconveni- ent, that it is necessary to amputate it at the knuckle.—J. F. S. ] 190. The fourth form of whitlow must be treated the same as the pre- vious forms; and, if the severe pain and tightness do not diminish, an early cut through the whole must be made, to prevent the destruction of the bone. This must be made where the pain is most severe, and must be carried down to the bone. The finger must be put in decoction of chamo- mile if the suppuration be sluggish ; it must be bathed in lye (a), and sooth- ing applications employed. The bone of the last finger-joint often sepa- rates, or may be removed frequently without pain, the finger retaining its form, though rather shorter. If the bone of the second or first joint be affected, the removal of the finger is necessary. However, under the pre- (a) Common mixture of crude potash and water.