AND OF TIIE COLLAR-HONE. 777 the hinder end ; by a particular rustling, (which is not to be confused with that from fractured rib or from emphysema,) which is perceived on the movements of the body and ribs by the practitioner, or by the patient himself; by a yielding of the parts covering the hinder end of the rib; by a depression where the head of the rib should be found, and by motion of the hind end on pressure of the front end. It is accompanied with cough, difficult respiration, severe pain, and other symptoms, as in frac- tured ribs (par. 627.) 1020. To effect reduction, the patient should be placed with his chest upon a firm pillow, so that the front end of the dislocated rib may be pressed backwards, and then the vertebra above and below the dislocation is to be pressed down. The rib must be kept in place, by a thick com- press placed at the front end and upon the spinal column, and properly fastened with a chest bandage. If the object cannot be thus attained, it has even been advised to open the cavity of the chest, and with the finger or with a hook to bring the rib into its place. No one should be seduced to such a practice. It is most proper in every case to proceed, as in frac- ture of the ribs, to prevent the motions of the chest, with a broad bandage, and to counteract the other symptoms by proper means. 1021. The cartilages of the upper false and lower true ribs may be separated in violent bending backwards of the body, in which the liga- ments are torn where the under cartilage overlaps the upper. At this part projection and depression are observed, the patient feels pain, and the breathing is somewhat disturbed. The natural position of the carti- lage can be restored, if the patient inspire deeply and bends backwards, whilst some pressure is made on the projecting cartilage. The treatment is the same as in fracture of this cartilage (par. 629.) Astley Cooper (a) has noticed dislocation of the cartilage most frequently at the sixth, seventh, and eighth rib, from the breast-bone and the end of the rib, not unfre- quently in children, as consequent on general weakness. V.-OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE COLLAR-BONE. (Luxatio Claviculce, Lat.; Verrenkung des Scidiisselbcines, Germ.; Luxation de la Clavicule, Fr.) 1022. Dislocation of the Collar-bone is much more rare than fracture, and may be of the sternal end or the scapular end of the bone. 1023. It is generally held that the sternal end of the collar-bone may be dislocated forwards, backwards, and upwards. In this dislocation, it the separation of the joint-surfaces be only rather considerable, the tendinous strengthening fibres, the interclavicular ligament, and perhaps frequently ; the fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscles seem to be torn. In dislocation forwards, which is the most common, and depends on violent pressing backwards or inwards of the shoulders, a projection is observed on the fore and upper part of the breast-bone, which subsides i when the shoulder is pressed outwards; the shoulder stands deeper and more inwards ; the head is inclined towards the ailing side ; the movement of the arm is interfered with and painful ; if the shoulder be raised, the prominence subsides ; if the shoulder be depressed, the prominence rises up (towards the neck. The dislocation is frequently incomplete, the front only of the capsule being torn, and the bone but little projecting. In disloca- (n) Above cited, p. 537.