518 QUESTION OF IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION count of the severity of the injury, if the bone be broken into many pieces, if the muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and important vessels be injured the joint-ends of the bone split, and the ligaments of the joint destroyed, so that mortification may be predicted with certainty ; 2, for mortifica- tion ; and, 3, because of profuse suppuration, which exhausts the powers of the patient. [Of the three conditions, mentioned by Chelius, under which amputation is necessary in Compound Fracture, it must he remembered that although the decision on all requires great attention and practical experience, yet the first is most important, as it involves the question of immediate amputation, a point upon which Surgeons do not agree, but which is of the utmost importance to the patient. To prove the fact of this difference of opinion I quote the opinions of the two first Surgeons of our time, Astley Cooper and John Abernethy, at whose feet the greater number of English Surgeons of twenty years’ practice have had the privilege to sit, and whose opinions, as the most distinguished disciples of the school of John Hunter, have largely contributed to the formation of, and still continue more or less to influence the practice of Surgery throughout Great Britain. Astley Cooper, after enumerating the various conditions of compound fracture which require amputation, says:—“ If it will be necessary to amputate in a few days after the accident, then the sooner it is done the better. If you amputate at one hour after the accident, the patient will do better than if you leave it twelve hours. For this reason; if you amputate immediately, the constitution has but one shock to sustain, and in general rallies much better than when the amputation is delayed; but if you leave it eight or twelve hours there is a great degree of irritation previously set up. The loss of blood is rather a favourable circumstance than otherwise to precede the operation. The persons in whom these operations succeed the least are such as are loaded with adipose matter ; if you leave the limb, the constitutional irritation runs so high that it generally destroys life, and if you amputate they frequently die in twenty-four hours after the operation from the constitution being unable to bear the shock which that operation produces.” (p. 680.) Abernethy was decidedly averse to immediate amputation, and was accustomed to state his opinion on this point, in his own peculiar manner (a) :—“ If there is much injury, sloughing will come on, and we must then consider whether the patient can have his limbs saved, or whether amputation is required. And then we are in an awkward predicament; but I have no fear that Surgeons will be in a hurry to cut otf limbs ; they recollect that people will talk of it, and say, “ I wish had been under my Surgeon, he would have saved, or at least endeavoured to save his limb,” so that self-interest will make Surgeons attentive as possible to preserve limbs. In Surgery we must do as we would be done by, and then we shall be acquitted at the grand tribunal. I should be very shy of amputating, because I have seen many cases which, though it was said they would not do well, recovered. Ask the old Surgeons, men who have seen much of hospital practice, and they will tell you that what I say is the case. I hold that if there is not much likelihood to inflammation or slough, we ought to give the patient a chance for the salvation of his limb. We have no warrant for lopping off' parts of another person’s body but for the preservation of the remainder, of the whole. * * * I am averse to sudden amputations, for there is a shock already imparted to the constitution by the accident, and another is given to it by the operation, and they often die of the amputation itself; but even if not, at any rate we have a tremendous story, the muscles retract, the bone sticks out and exfoliates, and the case is a discredit to you. There have been numbers of cases of compound fracture since I have been in this (St. Bar- tholomew’s) Hospital, but they have all done well, except where amputation has been performed, not a single case had a good stump, and many died. Two men, however, who had their limbs broken did well. * * * It appears that in amputations those below the knee do worst, those in the thigh do better, and those of the arm best. Indeed I have no objection to amputating a lacerated hand or crushed elbow.” Such being the views of our most celebrated Surgeons, it must be allowed that it is no easy matter to lay down rules upon the important question under consideration, which cannot, on account of the improvement in the dietetic part of the practice of Surgery, if it may be so called, and to which, (although a most important part of the treatment,) till within the last few years, comparatively little attention had been paid, accord entirely with either teacher. (a) MS. Lectures on Surgery.