374 PROPOSED INTERNAL TREATMENT OF HYDROPHOBIA. of mind, sliced out the bite wound with a razor, and then applied a heated table-knife over the bleeding wound to cauterize it; and he had the happiness of saving his child from this most dreadful disease. I mention this case, in hope that should this book fall into the hands of unprofessional persons, they may see how they may be able to help themselves, or those dear to them, when medical aid is not at hand. Another very important point to be borne in mind is, that the scar should be always removed, whenever the patient informs his medical attendant that he has been bitten by a suspicious animal. That the poison often remains quiet in the part beneath the scar for weeks and months, and that when the disease is about setting in, the scar and its immediate neighbourhood become irritable and inflamed, and that the scar opens and discharges, and speedily after the hydrophobic symptoms appear, has been so frequently observed as to be past all doubt. The scar should therefore be cut out, and as much of the surrounding and subjacent parts removed with it as the surgeon may judge neces- sary, at any time before it has begun to be irritable, or before the symptoms appear. Some persons, indeed, advise that it should be cut out even after the disease has com- menced. This practice may certainly be permitted, but I fear the probability of benefit from it is but little.—J. F. S.] 367. Besides this local treatment, many remedies are advised for internal use in order to prevent the outbreak of the hydrophobia. Hereto belong, a diaphoretic condition, the internal use of cantharides, of belladonna, of mercury to salivation, of camphor, of oil beetles, (meloe proscarabceus,) of liquoram monice, free rubbing in olive oil and so on. The use of mercury to salivation seems most to be relied on («), and of cantharides or belladonna from one or more grains, gradually increasing the dose till traces of their narcotic effect are produced (b). Wendt (e) recommends especially the following mode of treatment proposed by Dr. Kruttge ; wash the wound with a sponge soaked in lukewarm water, fill it entirely i with powdered cantharides, and over this a plaster of the same extending half an inch beyond the wound; half a grain to a grain of calomel every four hours and also ! at night; rubbing in mercurial ointment to a scruple or half a drachm morning and even- ing, the first time upon the wound, afterwards upon the other limbs. The vesications produced by the blister-plaster are to be cut away with scissors, the foul powder to be removed, and whether the wound be superficial or deep, the powder is to be strewed on it afresh or the part deprived of its cuticle bound up in emp. cantliar.; this is to be continued six weeks, attention being paid to the irritability of the patient. The calomel and rubbing in are to be continued till salivation and swelling of the gums are produced, and the daily loss of a pint of spittle; then no more ointment is to be rubbed in, and enough calomel only is to be given to keep up a sufficient salivation. After six weeks a pea issue is to be established. Of 184 persons bitten only two died some weeks after of hydrophobia. The root of the belladonna has been of late especially recommended by Brera and von Schallein. Brera (d) employs the belladona in the largest doses of three drachms ( every twenty-four hours; and every patient uses about eight ounces and sometimes i more ; at the same time calomel or sublimate are employed internally, and mer- curial friction externally. Von Schallein (e) chooses scarification of the wound, i bleeding, deep burning with actual cautery, and binding up with an ointment composed f of twelve grains of camphor, two scruples of oil of turpentine, two ounces of basilicon i ointment, eight grains of red precipitate, and four scruples of powdered cantharides. I If the actual cautery cannot be perfectly applied, the wound, after having been scarified and let bleed, must be burnt with butyr of antimony, which is to be repeated after two - hours, and then bound up with ointment, which must be repeated morning and evening i to the fourteenth day. The same treatment must be employed if the wound be only < (a) Wai.ther, iiber die Ileilkraft des Queck- silbers bei dem Starrkrampfe und nach dem tollen Ilundsbisse; in his Abhandlungen aus dem Ge- biete der praktischen Medecin, besonders der Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, Landshut, 1810. vol. i. p. 169. (b) Munch, Praktische Abhandlung von der nnd sie zu heilen. Baireuth, 1824. 8vo. (c) Darstellung einer zweckmassigen und durcli die Erfahrung erprobten Methode zur Verhulung der Wasserscheu nacli dem Bisse eines tollen j Ilundes. Breslau, 1824. 8vo. (d) Commentario clinico per la cura dell' Idro- I fobia ; in Mem. della Soc. Ital. delle Scienze resi- I dente in Modena, vol. xviii. Also in Omodei, An- I nali Universali, vol. xix. p. 60. (e) Anweisung der Hundswuth auf eine durch- I lange Erfahrung erprobte Wesei richer vorzubauen I Belladonna und ihrer An wen dung, besonders zjur I Verbannung und Heilung der Hundswuth. Got- I ting., 1783.