OF CLEFT SOFT PALATE. 602 operation my patient was perfectly relieved of every vestige of his deformity. The ligatures were cut away on the fourth, fifth, and sixth day, and nothing of consequence occurred during the period of confinement.” (pp. 21, 2.) III.—OF THE CLEFT IN THE SOFT PALATE. (Fissura Palati Mollis, Lat.; Spalte imweichen Gaumen, Germ.; Division du Voile du Palais, Fr.) Graefe, Die Gaumen-Naht, ein neuentdecktes Mittel gegen angeborne Fehler der Sprache; in Journ. fur Chirurg. und Aungenheilk., vol. i. p. 1, and p. 556. Stephenson, Dissert, de Velosynthesi. Edinb., 1820. Doniges, De variis uranoraphes methodis Aphorismi. Berol., 1824. 8vo. Ebel, Beitrage zur Gaumen-Naht; in v. Graefe and v. Walther’s Journal,vol.vi. part i. p. 79. Wernecke, Ueber die Gaumen-Naht; ib., p. 102. Roux, Memoire sur la Staphylorapliie, ou Suture du Voile du Palais. Paris, 1825. 8vo. Dieffenbach, Vergleichonde anatomische Untersuchungen fiber den Gaumen-Segel; in Hecker’s literarischen Annalen.—Beitrage zur Gaumen-Naht; ib., Febr., 1826, p. 145; July, 1827, p. 343. Schwerdt, F., Die Gaumen-Naht; a description of all the various methods and the instruments known to have been used in, up to the present time; with a preface by v. Graefe and four copper-plates. Berlin, 1829. 4to. Velpeau, Nouveaux Elemens de Medecine Operatoire. Paris, 1832. 8vo. Hosack, A., Memoir of Staphyloraphy; with cases and description of the instru- ments requisite for the operation. New York, 1833. Mutter, Thomas D., M.D., A Report on the Operations for Fissures of the Palatine Vault. Philadelphia, 1843. 8vo. 732. The cleft in the soft palate occurs, not very unfrequently, as an original vicious formation, confined often merely to the uvula, which is then bifid, or including the whole soft palate. It is often also connected with a cleft of larger or smaller size in the hard palate, and also with hare-lip. The consequences of this misformation in early life, are great difficulty or complete incapability of sucking, especially in the horizontal posture. The bringing up of such children is, therefore, often accompanied with the greatest difficulty, suckling being only possible when the child is held quite upright, and when the flow of the milk is assisted by pressure on the breast, or the food is in this position allowed to flow into the mouth, in very small quantities at a time. The consequences of this misformation are manifested at a later period of life, by its interference with the speech, which is more or less indistinct and unpleasant. The person so affected cannot blow out air from the mouth with any force; and fluids cannot be swallowed in the horizontal position without great difficulty. 733. Artificial palates, such as are employed in cleft of the hard palate, are ordinarily useless in this ailment; because they always produce the same interference in the articulation of tones; but very carefully made elastic obturators may in some degree lessen the difficulty (a) ; their use, therefore, may be permitted in those cases in which the union of the cleft does not succeed, or is especially impracticable (b). The cure can be (a) GraEfe’s artificial palate-curtain ; in his and lustrated by cases of recent improvement. Lon- W aether’s Journal, vol. xii. p. 600. don. Second Edition, 1828. Snell, J., Observations on the history, use, and (6) For how little benefit is obtained from them see construction of Obturators or Artificial i’alates, il- Dieffenbach in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxix.p. 491 •