38 ABSCESS. “ The cavity (of the abscess,)” observes Travers, “ is surrounded by an effusion, and lined by a pellicle of lymph (pyogenic membrane,) -whence the pus is furnished.” (p. 125.) “ The aspect of the suppurating membrane varies to such extent as scarcely . to exhibit, in some circumstances and situations, the granular form, e. g. upon the walls of abscesses, and upon the free surfaces of mucous and serous membranes; but the fibrinous bed and the capillary loop of new formation, and a corresponding altera- tion of the pus-secreting surface from its normal state will always be detected upon careful examination, being essential elements of the suppurative process.” (p. 111.) “ A section of an abscess, from circumference to centre, presents the condensation of the wall by the deposit occupying the cells of the cellular membrane, the secreting membrane, the semi-solid flakes of lymph, and the collection of pus forming its contents; the arrangement, appearance, and proportion of each varying according to the stage of the suppuration.” (p. 125.) (2) Of the circumstances upon which depends the determination of abscess to the surface, the following very interesting account is given by John Hunter :—“ An internal pressure, produced by an extraneous body, acts equally on every side of the surrounding parts, and, therefore, every part being pressed alike, ought from this cause alone to produce absorption of the surrounding parts equally on all sides, supposing the parts themselves similar in structure, or, which is the same, equally susceptible of being absorbed; but we find that one side only of the surrounding living parts is susceptible of this irritation: therefore, one side only is absorbed; and this is always the side which is next to the external surface of the body. * * * From this cause we find abscesses, &c., whose seat is in or near the centre of a part, readily determined to the surface on the one side, and not on the other; and, whenever the lead is once taken, it immediately goes on.” (p. 448.) He also observes:—“ We find that the absorption of whole parts more readily takes place, to allow an extraneous substance to pass out of the body than it will to allow one to pass in. Thus we see that the slight pressure pro- duced by matter on the inside of an abscess has a great effect, and the matter is brought much faster to the skin (although very deep) than it would by the same quantity of pressure applied from without; and, indeed, so slight a pressure from without would rather tend to have an opposite effect, namely, that of thickening. The reason of this is evident: one is, a readiness in the parts to be freed from a disease already existing; the other is a backwardness in the parts to admit a disease. This principle, therefore,. in the animal economy produces one of the most curious phenomena in the whole process of ulceration, viz. the susceptibility which the parts lying between an extraneous body and the skin have to ulcerate, while all the other side of the abscess is not irritated to ulceration; and the necessity there is that it should be so must be very striking; for, if ulceration went on equally on all sides of an abscess, it must increase to an enormous size, and too great a quantity of our solids must necessarily be destroyed.” (p. 449.) . . t But mere pressure is not, according to Hunter’s views, sufficient for bringing the contents of an abscess to the surface ; “ there is an operation,” says he, “ totally distinct, and this is a relaxing and elongating process, carried on between the abscess and the skin, and at those parts only where the matter appears to point. It is possible that this relaxing, elongating, or weakening process may arise, in some degree, from the absorption of the interior parts; but there is certainly something more, for the skin that covers an abscess is always looser than a part that gives way from mere mecha- nical distension, excepting the increase of the abscess is very rapid.” (p. 460.) Travers, in commenting upon this point, observes:—“ Whether the tendency of matter to the nearest surface, external or internal, the outer or inner integument, as the case may be, is due to the more yielding structure of parts in the direction of the nearest surface or to the operation of a physical law, as the increased amount of pressure from the increased area of the summit over the base, I cannot determine.” (p. 1S8.)] 11. Pure good pus (1) is an opake, tolerably consistent, yellowish white 1 fluid, with a peculiar smell when fresh, which it loses on cooling, and of a > sweetish taste, specifically heavier than water, (spec. grav. 1,030.) (2), not readily subject to putrefaction (3); reacts in its fresh state as an alkali; but, 1 after a time is neutral or acid, probably because during its decomposition it <. forms acetic acid; and under the microscope is seen to consist of fluid \ parts and globules (4) which can be separated by straining (5) ; but very frequently this separation occurs spontaneously if the pus be left alone.