357 OF THE RATTLE-SNAKE’S BITE. Oct. 18. 8, a.m. Pulse 132, and very feeble. The swelling had not extended; but there was a fulness down the side, and blood extravasated under the skin, as low as the loins, producing a mottled appearance. The arm and hand cold, painful when pressed, very tense vesications near the elbow, and under each of these a red spot in the cutis as large as a crown-piece. The general surface had become warm ; but he was low and depressed; the faintings had continued recurring every quarter of an hour, and there was a tremulous motion of the limbs. The medicine had been continued during the night, but the last dose was rejected; some warm wine, however, was retained. Fomentations were applied to the arm. Noon. Some broth which he had taken was rejected; and, in addition to the previous symptoms, there was starting of the limbs. « The skin of the whole arm had a livid appearance, similar to what is met with in a dead body, when putrefaction has begun to take place, unlike anything which I (Home) had ever seen in so large a portion of the living body. An obscure fluctuation was felt under the skin of the outside of the wrist and fore arm, which induced me to make a puncture with a lancet, but only a small portion of a serous fluid was discharged.” The internal use of the volatile alkali was continued, to rouse the action of the stomach, not as a specific; but as neither it nor small quantities of brandy were retained, it was n omitted. At 11, p.m., two grains of opium were given, and repeated every four hours. The vesications and red spots had increased in size. Oct. 19, 3, p.m. Was drowsy, probably from the opium and brandy taken ; was more m depressed, and spoke only in whispers, but the faintings were less frequent. The vesi- cations had increased, but the arm had diminished in size, and he had sensation down to the fingers. At 11, p.m. The pulse 130, and low. The opium was left off; a motion obtained by clyster; and he was ordered camphor mixture, wine, and brandy, as often as he would take them. Oct. 20. Had dozed during the night; his spirits were better, and his extremities were warmer; he had taken some coffee at breakfast, but rejected fish at dinner; brandy and coffee a table-spoonful occasionally were given, as more could not be retained. Oct. 21. Had slept at intervals during the night, and was occasionally delirious; pulse 120. The size of the arm was diminished, but the skin was extremely tender. Brandy and jelly only staid on his stomach. Oct. 22. The right side of the back down to the loins was inflamed, painful, and had a very mottled appearance from the extravasated blood under the skin. As this even- ing his pulse had become full, he was ordered wine instead of brandy. Oct. 23. The vesications had burst, and the exposed cutis was dressed with white I ointment; but the arm was still very painful, though reduced in size. Porter was * ordered instead of wine ; and both yesterday and to-day he has had veal for dinner. A U saline draught with antimonial wine was ordered in the evening. Oct. 27. The swelling and inflammation of the arm have increased; he attempted to sit up, but the weight and pain forbade it. The arm was bathed with spir. vin. red. et liq. ammon. acet. aa part. aq. The pulse is now very frequent, and the tongue furred. Oct. 28. Had a rigor last night; a slough has began to separate on the inside of the arm below the axilla. Purging having come on, chalk mixture with laudanum was ordered. Oct. 29. The purging is abated ; but the pulse is 100, and feeble. A large abscess on the outside of the elbow was opened, and half a pint of reddish brown matter with some cellular sloughs discharged; but the upper part of the arm was still tense. A poultice to it; and the fore arm strapped with soap cerate. Ordered wine and porter and bark. Oct. 30. The purging having returned, the bark was left off; chalk mixture and laudanum given, and an opiate clyster administered. Oct. 31. The purging continued ; pulse 120; and at night he had a rigor. Nov. 1. Delirious at intervals; voice feeble; no appetite. Nov. 2. Pulse very weak ; countenance depressed ; tongue brown; the stomach rejects every thing but porter ; delirium last night; mortification extending more towards the ixilla. J\ov. 3. The purging continues ; the mortification has spread considerably ; the fore Snger, which had become gangrenous, was removed at the second joint. And on the following afternoon at four o’clock he died. Autopsy sixteen hours after death.—The fang wounds were healed, but the puncture an the back of the wrist was still open. The whole of the cellular tissue of the arm was doughy, the skiu separated from the muscles, and dark coloured offensively smelling fluid between them. The other morbid appearances detailed are of no consequence. The symptoms which follow the bite of the cobra di capello, (Naja,) as mentioned by