549 THE SHOULDER-BLADE. The diagnosis of the fracture is grounded on the readiness with which the arm can be raised up, by its dropping down when left to itself, and by the crepitation. The apparatus is the same as in fracture of the acromion, only the pad may be withdrawn (1). [(1) There seems to be good reason for believing that this accident never occurs. That •which has been so long described under this name has been shown by Astley Coopek, as will be presently stated, to be a fracture of the head of the upper-arm. I believe there is not any existing specimen of fracture of the neck of the blade-bone.—J. F. S.] 633. If the coracoid process be broken, which happens but rarely, the broken piece is drawn down. This displacement is removed by bringing i the arm to the chest, in which position it is to be kept. In such fracture i there must be always much bruising (1). [I had an instance (a) of this accident, under my own care some years ago in St. Thomas’s Hospital, and was accompanied with partial dislocation of the upper-arm-bone, from the glenoid cavity, and fracture of the olechranon.—J. F. S.] 634. Fracture of the body of the Blade-bone may be either vertical or transverse. Vertical fractures which run through the spine of the shoulder- blade are rarely accompanied with displacement, which, even when existing, is always slight. Crepitation is observed when the hand is laid flat upon the shoulder-blade. A compress dipped in some dispersing lotion is to be laid on the seat of fracture, and the arm should be kept by the already- mentioned bandage (par. 631) close to the trunk. Transverse fractures rarely happen above the spine, but mostly beneatli it near the lower angle, in which case the lower portion may be moved forwards or forwards and upwards. In fractures of the loivcr angle of the shoulder-blade it is best to keep the arm close to the trunk. The cure is always effected with some de- formity; but which does not interfere with the motions of the arm. If the fracture be farther from the angle, the broken ends may be brought into contact, when the arm is brought forwards against the chest, and so confined that the hand rests upon the sound shoulder. The patient, how- ever, can rarely endure this position, and therefore we must generally be content with approximation and confinement of the arm to the trunk. [I have never seen a vertical fracture of the blade-bone; but I have seen a fracture of the spine parallel to its length and below its ridge, though under what circumstances I do not remember. Neither have I ever seen transverse fracture above the spine, and not many times below it, as this accident is by no means frequent. In the cases I have seen, the lower end of the bone could not be brought forwards and upwards as Chelius mentions, nor does it seem to me possible, on account of its nearness to the chest; but it may be raised a little backwards and upwards by thrusting the fingers between the lower angle of the bone and grasping it with them and the thumb. The treatment of this accident is very simple, requiring nothing more than a roller tightly wound round the chest and putting the arm in a sling to keep it quiet. The French practice of putting the arm across the chest and binding the hand upon the shoulder is utterly uncalled for in this, as in most other cases in which it is advised, and must be extremely inconvenient and uncomfortable to the patient.—J. F. S.] 635. If the fracture be accompanied with crushing of the shoulder- blade, the treatment must correspond with the general treatment of com- pound fracture. Especial care must be taken to remove the splinters of bone by suitably large incisions, and to provide free outlet for the pus, so that it should not collect beneath the shoulder-blade, in which case even trepanning of the bone may be necessary. (a) Med -Chir. Trans, vol. xxii. p. 100.