220 TREATMENT OF SYNOVIAL EFFUSION better effect.” (p. 35.) I must confess in these cases I prefer warm poultices, either of bread or chamomile flowers, or hot flannels frequently reapplied: the warmth having appeared to me most soothing in the majority of cases. But, as sometimes cold, some- times heat, affords ease to patients of different constitutions, their feelings must be at- tended to, and either treatment, found most agreeable, continued. The subacute inflam- mation requires leeching more frequently, and sometimes cupping; but I think leeches are preferable, as the wounds they make often excite a little erythematous inflammation on tiie skin, which acts as a gentle diversion. Warm applications here also seem to me preferable to cold. Blisters should not generally be employed till blood has been taken from the part twice or thrice, and the tenderness is either subsiding or has subsided. But sometimes they may be needed earlier if the constitution be weakly and the patient cannot bear the loss of blood. If the simple acute inflammation of the syuovial membrane terminate, as it sometimes does, in suppuration, the swelling should be punctured and the pus discharged as soon as it points, or, perhaps, even before, as the severity of the constitutional excitement will lead to a tolerably sure diagnosis of its existence. The louger it is retained the more does the constitution suffer, and the greater is the liability of ulceration of the membrane and cartilages. There is but a choice of evils, and that of opening the joint seems, to me, less than that of the continued confinement of the pus. I do not think blisters in this case are of much use.—J. F. S.] 214. When the inflammatory stage has passed, but the swelling (from effusion of fluid into the joint) continues, the dispersion is to be encouraged by blisters, repeated around the whole joint, or applied in the neighbour- hood, or kept open for some sufficient time with savine cerate ; by rub- bing in mercurial ointment with camphor and caustic ammonia, by appli- cation of solution of acetate of ammonia, by stimulating and dispersing plasters, as emp. ammon. c. acet. scill., and so on. The stiffness in the joint, which often is long continued, may be removed by rubbings with volatile substances, by baths, douche, and careful motion. [For the removal of fluid in the joint I believe that blisters are the most efficient re- medy we can employ; but I do not like blistering the whole joint at once, nor dressing blisters with savine ointment, as, in the one case, independent of strangury which is sometimes excited, and is very annoying as well as painful, it is requisite to wait till the sore is healed before a second application can be made ; and, as regards the savine oint- ment, the pain it causes, if properly applied, (i. e., immediately to the cutis, the cuticle having been previously removed,) is extremely severe, and, as I think, not warrantable by the benefit obtained. I therefore prefer the employment of repeated blisters, two at a time, each about as large as a crown-piece, one above and the other below and on opposite sides of the joint, applied on the alternate parts every third day, by which time, generally, the first applied blisters are beginning to heal, if, immediately after they have risen, they be punctured, and either poulticed or dressed with simple ointment. In this way a constant diversion on the skin may be kept up to an almost unlimited period, with little actual inconvenience to the patient, but with remarkable benefit to his joint. Or, each side of the joint may be alternately blistered, and, the cuticle having been removed, may be dressed with the ointment of iodide of potass, a drachm to the ounce, which is often very efficacious.—J. F. s. In reference to friction, which was formerly more in vogue than at present, and, if properly employed, is very useful in cases of stiffness alter the absorption of the fluid, Brodie very justly observes:—“ It should be employed with caution, as, when used too freely, it sometimes occasions a return of the inflammation. Whenever there is the slightest indication of this being the case the friction should be omitted, blood should be taken from the part, and some time should elapse before the friction is resumed. It is sometimes productive of very essential benefit, but not unless it be employed to a con- siderable extent, as for two or three hours daily, and during a long period of time.” He also mentions having “ sometimes tried the effect of pumping hot water on a stiff joint, as recommended by Le Dran, and now practised at some watering-places. 1 he blow of a column of water, falling from a height of several feet, produces considerable friction, even so as to excoriate the surface, with which are combined the relaxing powers of heat and moisture. This practice is certainly productive of benefit; but the observa- tions just made apply to this as well as the other modes of producing frictiou.” (p- 40-42!)]