303 TYING OF ARTERIES. w ' - s ^ £-L-=—2- sure, and after clearing out the clotted blood, placing the hand as first mentioned, raised much above the elbow, and constantly applying cold wet linen over the wound. This practice I have often adopted successfully, and at any rate it should always be employed before cutting upon the arterial trunk above.—J. F. S.] 288. The Tying or Ligature (Ligatura) of a bleeding artery is the most simple, certain, and, in most cases, practicable method of stanching the blood. The operation of the ligature consists in its preventing the current Iof the blood, and, by its irritation, producing inflammation, exudation of plastic lymph, and union of the coats of the artery. This takes place as well when the arterial coats are kept merely in contact by the ligature, as when the inner and middle coats are torn through by means of the tightening and the small size of the ligature, the outer coat alone remaining undivided. Jones, supported by his experiments, asserts that the cutting through of the inner and middle coats is necessary to produce such degree of inflammation as is sufficient to effect the union of the apposed arterial coats; and further, that this cutting through of the inner and middle coats, in tying arteries in their course, is sufficient to produce the union of the vessel, even although the ligature be immediately removed. That this cutting through of the inner and middle coats of the artery is not necessary, however, to produce the union of the arterial coats, is proved by the experiments in which arteries were brought to close by continued pressure, or by the use of broad ligaments, without tearing the inner and middle coats. Crampton (a) and Scarpa (b) have proved, by their experiments, that the inner arterial coats, which belong to the class of serous membranes, are well dis- posed, without requiring division, to adhesive inflammation, and to the pouring out of plastic lymph ; and a continued compression suffices to bring the artery to adhesion. [In brutes not even continued compression is necessary to produce the adhesion and obliteration of an artery, for I remember many years since passing a ligature around the carotid of a dog and tying it so loosely, as not merely to offer no obstruction to the flow of blood, but also to admit the introduction of a probe between it and the artery, without causing any compression, yet in the course of three weeks, at the end of which the animal was destroyed, the artery had become obliterated for two or three inches. I should, however, be sorry to attempt such practice on the human subject.—J. F. S.] 289. Upon this difference in the operation of the ligature depends the variety of its application, as practised by surgeons. Those who hold the cutting through of the inner arterial coats necessary, use a round thread, not very thick, and sufficiently strong, wherewith the artery is so firmly drawn together, that only the latter coat remains undivided. Others who maintain the opposite opinion, endeavour to flatten the artery, and bring its walls into close contact by the broad ligature (in tying arteries in their course, even by means of a cylinder of wood or linen placed beneath it;) in which case they tie the ligature only so tight as is necessary to prevent the current of the blood. They object to the division of the inner coat on the ground that the division of the arterial coats, effected by means of a liga- ture, rather resembles a torn and bruised than a cut wound, and is conse- quently more prone to suppuration ; that the ligature does not bring into contact the two divided coats of the artery, but only the puckered walls of the external coat, and that in suppuration, after-bleeding occurs much more readily, inasmuch as the outer coat of the artery is little capable of with- standing the pressure of the blood. [Although English Surgeons differ as to the size of the ligature to be used for tying arteries, some preferring a thinner and others a thicker one, yet there are few, if any, who do not now tie the vessel sufficiently tight to produce division of the internal coat, > tor which purpose, however, it is not necessary to employ the vigorous efforts which are ^ f '^n Account of a New Method of operating tion of the Arteries; in the Medico-Chirurg. I I or the cure of external Aneurism ; with some ob- Trans., vol. vii. p.341. H 'jbflrani^ experiments illustrative of tlieefTects (b) Memoria sulla Legatura delle principali Ar- i o he different methods of procuring the oblitera- terie degli Arti ; con una Appendice all' Opera sull’ Aneurisms. Pavia, 1817. dto.