246 BONY ANCHYLOSIS. edge, where unapplied, still exhibited a trace of cartilage. On clearing off the half-fatty lialf-ligamentous structure into which the ligaments had been converted, the ends of the bone were found close together and not separated as within. There was a slight indi- cation of cartilage between them on the exterior, but on the interior of the joint the union seemed to be bony. The posterior ligament was undistinguishable, being involved in the fibrous mass between the thigh and shin bone. In front of the thigh-bone at top of the pulley for the knee-cap, there was a slight remnant of what was probably syno- vial membrane, but it was little vascular. Of the second cause or inflammation of the surrounding parts, in which the parts themselves partake of it, J ohn Hunter gives the following Case.—A lady had an inflammation come on from the opening of a sacculus mucosus on her elbow, which inflammation was very violent and extended to the joint, soon after which she lay in and died of puerperal fever. On opening the joint, soft union was found to have taken place, which, if she had lived, would probably have become bony, and the joint would have been anchylosed, merely from adhesive inflammation.” (p. 522.) The following very similar instance is given by Mayo (a):— Case.—“ A young man had a lacerated wound of the ankle; ten days after erysipelas had supervened, and matter had formed about the joint; the integument sloughing, an opening could be seen into the fore and outer part of the ankle-joint, the cartilage of which became rapidly absorbed. The patient suffered severe pain, which he described as gnawing, throbbing pain, with occasional violent shootings through the joint, and a distressing sense of grating when the limb was disturbed. The patient’s strength de- clining rapidly, amputation was thought necessary. The limb was removed two months after the accident. “ Upon a vertical section being made of the ankle, one common change was found to have taken place in both the joints, which the upper and under surfaces of the astra- galus contribute to form. In each of these joints the cartilage had entirely disappeared; and the denuded ends of the bones were joined together by a layer of semitransparent and organised lymph, from a sixth to a quarter of an inch in thickness. This union by lymph was a step towards union by bone. One circumstance appeared to me of peculiar interest. The interior of the bones was perfectly healthy, but the surfaces to which the lymph adhered, were for the depth of one or two lines, extremely vascular. They combined with that vascularity the roughness of surface and softness of texture de- scribed as found upon the articular aspect of bone in the third kind of ulceration of cartilage, specified above, (p. 228.) I conclude, from hence, that long anchylosis may, under favourable circumstances, take place after that form of ulceration of cartilage, which depends upon inflammation of the adjacent surface of the bone.” (pp. 68, 9.) Bony Anchylosis may occur in any joint, either by the conversion into bone of the cartilages forming symphyses, as in those connecting the pelvic bones together, which can scarcely be called disease,—1st, by the conversion of ligament and fibro-cartilage, as in the anterior and crucial ligaments, and the intervertebral substance of the spine, which scarcely at all differs from ossification of the symphyses just mentioned, instances of which are far from uncommon in elderly persons as regards all the vertebra;, except the two uppermost, which, however, in very rare cases, are also in like manner not only united by bone to each other, but also to the occipital bone, of both which conditions we have examples in St. Thomas’s museum; in these the articular surfaces have been de- prived of their cartilages either by ulceration or ossification, and the true joints destroyed by bony union : 2dly, by conversion of the ligamentous capsules alone into bone, the con- tained joints still existing ; this occurs in the capsules of the articular processes of the vertebra;, and is not to be confused with that just mentioned. I am not aware that it happens on any other joints. One or other, or all these forms together, are found in elderly persons. But the most important form of bony anchylosis is that which I have mentioned above, and produced, as I believe, from the granulations of the joint-ends of bones, the cartila- ginous covering of which, as well as the articular surfaces, having been destroyed by sup- puration, whether arising from acute or from scrofulous inflammation; and thus circum- stanced, “ the two bones are,” as John Hunter observes, “ united into one exactly similar to compound fracture.” This kind of anchylosis is undoubtedly most common in the hip-joint, where the inflammation seems to run more readily into suppuration than in any other joint; it is next frequent in the bones of the wrist and instep, but least usua. in the elbow, knee, and shoulder; indeed, as regards the latter, anchylosis is, under an) circumstances, rare. Instances of anchylosis, even of the lower jaw to the temporal («) On Ulceration of the Cartilage) of Joints, and on Anchylosis ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xix.