440 REMARKABLE INSTANCES OF /■ * depression of the collapsed lungs in the laborious inspiration and expiration of animals,v as will be described in accidents of the lungs. [(1) To these symptoms Astley Cooper, adds “ considerable irritation and tickling in the larynx.” (p. 230.) (2) In endeavouring to determine the course which balls take when wounding the chest, Hennen’s observation must not be forgotten, that “ a ball striking the body or a limb will run round under the skin, and appear to penetrate right across the member or the cavity. By the deep-seated course which balls sometimes take, the deception is rendered still greater. Thus I have traced a ball by dissection, passing into the cavity of the thorax,, making the circuit of the lungs, penetrating nearly opposite the point of entrance, and giving the appearance of the man having been shot fairly across, while bloody sputa seemed to prove the fact, and in reality rendered the same measures, to a certain extent, as necessary as if the case had been literally as suspected. The bloody sputa, however, were only secondary, and neither so active nor alarming as those which pour at once from the lungs when wounded. There is also another source of deception as to the actual penetration of balls into the cavities or the limbs; this is where they strike against a handkerchief, linen cloth, &c., and are drawn out unperceived in their folds.” (p. 368.) In the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London, there is a preparation of a most remarkable penetrating wound of the chest w hich recovered, and which was under the care of Maiden of Stratford, Essex (a), and the late Sir William Blizard. In this case the lungs were probably not wounded. Case 1.—T. T., aged thirty-five years, on the evening of 13th June, 1812, having incautiously taken oft' the bridle, before disengaging his horse from the harness and chaise, the animal became unruly, and T. T., catching hold of the foretop, attempted to replace the bridle; “ whilst thus occupied the horse made a violent plunge, and thrust him by the end of the off-shaft against the projecting part of the chaise-house; at which instant he felt the shaft perforate his side, under the left arm ; whereupon he made a violent effort to draw himself back, while the horse kept plunging forward, and he soon felt the end of the shaft pass from under his right arm, occasioning acute pain. * * * The horse continuing to press forward occasioned on the left side a second wrnund, by the front tug-hook under the shaft.” A person alarmed by his cries came to him, and drawing back the shaft discovered that its “ end, which had confined T. T., had also entered the weather-boarding of the chaise-house, and passed through it, * * * and that he was pierced through the body by the shaft of the chaise, and apparently standing on tiptoe with both arms extended and that “ the end projected several inches beyond the trunk of the body.” The shaft was then gently withdrawn, and when released he respired two or three times, and found no alteration in his breathing; after which he walked up two flights of stairs to bed. Whilst being undressed for the first time felt faint, and soon had extreme difficulty of breathing, feeling as he said, “ as if he should be suffocated by the blood trickling on his lungs.” He was very speedily hied by a large orifice to the amount of four pounds, when fainting came on, but no stimulants were used, and only a little cold water given. Upon the left side of the chest there were two wounds, the lower by the iron under the shaft, and the upper where the shaft itself entered, immediately under the arm. On the right side was also a wound in nearly the same direction, through which the shaft came out; the latter two wounds, each four inches in extent. The left shoulder and side of the chest were slightly em- physematous. He had not thrown up any blood. On the morning of the 15th, as the difficulty of breathing had much increased, with considerable pain, weight, and sore- ness, he was bled to thirty ounces with much relief: and in the evening, as there was fulness of the belly and nausea, a castor-oil injection and five grains of calomel were given. On the following day vomiting had come on, and also pain about the region of the diaphragm, in addition to the previous symptoms ; he was therefore bled to eighteen ounces. The vomiting increased, and was accompanied with hiccough, but towards evening these were relieved by effervescing mixture. On the 17th the difficulty of breathing being worse, seventeen ounces of blood were taken away, which alleviated the symptoms; and the bowels had been cleared by the calomel, which has been taken nightly. He had no pain in his back, nor any on either side except smarting at the wounds; hut he thought from the great pain and tenderness about the breast-bone that it was broken. Next day the breathing being very laborious, he was hied to twenty- two ounces; but, though his respiration was relieved, he had still general tenderness in the chest and epigastric region, and therefore a large blister was applied over the front of the chest, which benefited him. On the evening of the 20th the breathing bad (a) An Account of a case of Recovery after the shaft of a chaise had been forced through the thorax. London, 1824. 4to.