363 DOG-MADNESS. moisten and to cool his dry and parched fauces. Hence, instead of this disease being always characterised by the dread of water in the dog, it is marked by a thirst often perfectly unquenchable.” (p. 130.) (5) “Some very important observations maybe drawn from the appearance and character of the urine. The dog, and at particular times when he is more than usually salacious, may, and does diligently search the urining places; he may even, at those periods, be seen to lick the spot which another has just wetted,- but if a peculiar eager- ness accompanies this strange employment, if, in the parlour, which is rarely disgraced by this evacuation, every corner is perseveringly examined and licked with unwearied and unceasing industry, that dog cannot be too carefully watched, there is great danger about him; he may, without any other symptom, be pronounced to be decidedly rabid I never knew a single mistake about this.” (p. 135.) (6) This observation is corroborated by Youatt:—“ Much has been said of the pro- fuse discharge of saliva from the mouth of the rabid dog. It is an undoubted fact that in this disease, all the glands concerned in the secretion of saliva, become increased in bulk and vascularity. The sublingual glands wear an evident character of inflammation; but it never equals the increased discharge that accompanies epilepsy, or nausea. The frothy spume at the corners of the mouth, is not for a moment to be compared with that which is evident enough in both of these affections. It is a symptom of short duration, and seldom lasts longer than twelve hours. The stories that are told of the mad dog covered with froth, are altogether fabulous. * * * The increased secretion of saliva soon passes away. It lessens in quantity, it becomes thicker, viscid, adhesive, and gluti- nous. It clings to the corners of the mouth, and probably more annoyingly so to the membrane of the fauces. * * * The dog furiously attempts to detach it with his paws. It is an early symptom in the dog, and it can scarcely be mistaken in him. When he is fighting with his paws at the corners of his mouth, let no one suppose that a bone is sticking between the poor fellow's teeth ; nor should any useless nor dangerous effort be made to relieve him. If all this uneasiness arose from a bone in the mouth, the mouth would continue permanently open instead of closing when the animal for a moment discontinues his efforts. If after a while he loses his balance and tumbles over, there can be no longer any mistake. It is the saliva becoming more and more glutinous, irritating the fauces and threatening suffocation.” (pp. 135, 36.) (7) “ In the great majority of cases of furious madness, and in almost every case of i dumb madness, there is evident affection of the lumbar portion of the spinal cord. There is a staggering gait, not indicative of general weakness, but referable to the hind quarters alone, and indicating an affection of the lumbar motor nerves. In a few cases it > approaches more to a general paralytic affection.” (p. 139.) (8) “ In an early period of the disease in some dogs, and in others when the strength of the animal is nearly worn away, a peculiar paralysis of the muscles of the tongue and jaws is seen. The mouth is partially open, and the tongue protruding. In some cases the dog is ' able to close his mouth by a sudden and violent effort, and is as ferocious and as dangerous as one the muscles of whose face are unaffected. At other times the palsy is complete, I and the animal is unable to close his mouth or retract his tongue. These latter cases, i however, are rare. A dog must not be immediately condemned because he has this open » mouth and fixed jaw. Bones constitute a frequent and a considerable portion of the food , of dogs. In the eagerness with which these bones are crushed, spicula or large pieces of them become wedged between the molar teeth, and form an insuperable obstacle to j the closing of the teeth. The tongue partially protrudes. There is a constant discharge of saliva from the mouth, far greater than wrhen the true paralysis exists. The dog is continually fighting at the corners of his mouth, and the countenance is expressive of ! intense anxiety, although not of the same irritable character as in rabies.” (p. 141.) (9) “ Absence of pain in the bitten part is an almost invariable accompaniment of I rabies. I have known a dog set to work, and gnaw and tear the flesh completely away | from his legs and feet. At other times the penis is perfectly demolished from the very base. Ellis in his ‘ Shepherd’s Sure Guide,’ asserts, that, however severely a mad dog I is beaten, a cry is never forced from him. I am certain of the truth of this, for I have I again and again failed in extracting that cry. Ellis tells that at the kennel at Goddes- i den, some of the grooms heated a poker red hot, and holding it near the mad hound’s 1 mouth, he most greedily seized it, and kept it until the mouth was most dreadfully | burned.” (p. 139.) Youatt makes a most important observation in regard to the diagnosis, between the pain in the ear in canker and hydrophobia:—“ The dog appears to suffer a great deal of pain in the ear in common canker. lie will be almost incessantly stratching it, crying 1 piteously while thus employed. The car is, oftener than any other part, bitten by the