233 ADVENTITIOUS MEMBRANE. sive condition of the parts absorbed; the same suppurative action from the vascular granulation; and a similar degree of vascularity bestowed upon the newly organised structure which has to perform the office of absorption. It is uot, however, in every instance of suppuration in a joint, even where this villous membrane is found, that ulceration of the opposite cartilage is to be looked for as an uniform occurrence ; for strumous joints are occasionally examined, in which the synovial capsule has been for many months distended with purulent secretion, and the synovial membrane covered with flocculi hanging into the joint, without a trace of ulceration in the opposite carti- laginous surface. This exception rather favours the view which I have advanced of the ulcerative process in the case of suppuration from wound. The condition essential to the act of absorption is here wanting. There is not a wound or opening by which the pus can escape as fast as it is secreted : it consequently collects in the cavity of the joint, and, by distension, prevents the membrane coming in contact with the cartilage; and the villous projections from the membrane, even when the vessels are well filled with fine injection, do not exhibit that degree of vascularity which is so clearly de- veloped when ulceration of the cartilage takes place, (p. 234-37.) Nature, it seems, does not often adopt this mode of removing the cartilage. It is only in the acute form of inflammation, as in wounds of joints, that I have observed it. The process of removing the cartilage appears at all times, and under all circumstances of disease, an object that she endeavours to accomplish; while the cartilage remains entire, anchylosis, the natural cure in some forms of diseased joint, cannot be effected; and, therefore, we may often observe ulceration of cartilage going on very early in those diseases that, forming some defect in the patient’s constitution, cannot be arrested without anchylosis, (pp. 239, 40.) Brodie (a), however, still considers that “ the explanation which Key has offered does not admit of a general application, and that the absorption of the cartilage, com- mencing on the surface towards the cavity of a joint, may take place under such circum- stances, that it cannot be supposed to be the result of any other agency than that of the vessels of the cartilage itself, (p. 331.) In speaking of ulceration of the articular car- tilages, as a consequence of inflammation of the synovial membrane, I have not endea- voured to explain the exact nature of the process by which such ulceration is effected, and simply for this reason,—that I have not been able completely to satisfy my own mind on the subject. There can be no doubt that, in many instances, ulceration begins at the margin of the cartilage, where the synovial membrane is reflected over it from the neigh- bouring bone, or from the inter-articular ligaments, where such ligaments exist; but it may still admit of a question, in what manner the ulceration is accomplished ; whether it be from the inflammation extending directly to the cartilage itself, or to the bone first, and the cartilage afterwards; or whether, according to the views entertained by Mr. Key, the latter, being altogether in a passive state, becomes absorbed by the action of the vessels of the fringed processes of the synovial membrane lying in contact with it. But there are other cases of inflammation of the synovial membrane, in which ulceration begins in the centre of the cartilage, so that none of these hypotheses afford any reason- able explanation of it. It seems not improbable that, in some of those cases which are usually regarded as examples of simple inflammation of the synovial membrane, the inflammation may not have been confined (even in the first instance) to this individual part, but may have begun simultaneously iu all the textures of the joint. This is in conformity with what is observed to happen occasionally in the eye and other organs ; and, under such circumstances, it is no more than might be expected, that, as the in- flammation subsides, the cartilage should ulcerate either in the centre or in some other part of its surface. Nor is this a merely speculative opinion; at least I am much mis- taken if it be viewed in that light by any one who, after having perused the history of the following case, considers what would probably have happened if the patient had not died of another disease before there was time for the disease in the joint to have run its course. A gentleman, about twenty-five years of age, had laboured for several years under a disease of the brain, in consequence of which he had been in a state of complete helplessness and imbecility. In the summer of 1820 he became indisposed otherwise: there was a cluster of enlarged glands in the left groin, and a purulent sediment was deposited by the urine. I was now desired to see him in consultation with Dr. Maton, who was his ordinary medical attendant. Soon afterwards, it was observed, that there was a general tumefaction of the left thigh and nates, and the patient complained of pain in certain motions of the limb. Under the treatment em- ployed, the tumefaction subsided; but, immediately afterwards, a violent attack of larrhcea took place, under which he sunk, and died on the 29th July. On examin- Join? 'Vi'-liti0nal ^'°^es on Ulceration of Cartilage; in the Third Edition of his book on the Diseases of