TREATMENT BY TRANSPLANTING. 757 gistic diet, injections of cold water every half-hour, with a large syringe, through the catheter lying in the bladder should be made, and by an oesophagus tube into the vagina; cold applications on the region of the pubes, and according to the state of the constitution, blood-letting ; if pain come on, leeches to the region of the bladder, and even in the vagina; emulsions with aqua lauro-cerasi and castor oil, with mucilaginous drinks. About the sixth day the ligatures are to be carefully removed with forceps and long scissors, and injections made with lukewarm chamomile tea. If the union succeed and there remain only a little opening in place of the early cleft, or one of the needle-holes, we must endeavour to close it, by touching with tincture of cantharides, and the like, or by the loop suture. According to Wutzer, the symptoms of inflammation coming on moderately, may be opposed by frequently drinking cold water, and careful injections. In more careful examination of the patient, together with the application of leeches, some doses of calomel, rubbing in gray mercurial ointment on the insides of the thighs, and the frequent introduction of small pieces of ice into the vagina maybe sufficient against severe inflam- matory symptoms. The latter remedy employed with a cautious hand, will be especially advantageous and diminish the still burning pain. In increased inflammatory symptoms, blood-letting, calomel followed with infusion of senna, and injections of luke-warm oil into the rectum are to be employed. When, however, there is no danger of threatening symp- toms, constipation for four or five days is rather desirable, and if there be disposition to diarrhoea, it must be checked with opium. If the puncture of the bladder have not been made, or if the tube have again slipped from the bladder, a thin elastic catheter must be introduced through the urethra every hour or two, or even oftener, with frequent pressure to discharge the urine; Wutzer considers it most advantageous when the patient her- self can do this ; but if not., the introduction of the catheter must be care- fully performed by an assistant; and only when neither is possible, should the catheter be allowed to remain permanently. When, however, not merely the disposition to inflammation of the bladder is much increased, but also, by the continued irritation, the mucous secretion in the bladder is so great, that particularly after the third day, the catheter is frequently stopped, against which injections are not sufficient, this instrument must often be changed. The sutures should be first examined three days after the operation; if about this time a needle or a thread be near cutting through it, must be removed. After the third day, the examination must be made daily, that according as suppuration comes on, the several threads or needles may be removed. In successful cases the scar acquires the desired strength in four days. After the removal of the threads or needls injections only of lukewarm water or of w eak lead wash should be used. 980. The cure of vesico-vaginal fistula by transplantation, was first attempted by Jobert, in a case where previously two attempts with suture had failed. By means of Museux’s forceps or a hook, he drew down the hinder edge of the transverse fistulous opening, pared it, and then did the same with the front edge. He next separated an oval piece of skin from the mucous membrane of tfie right labium, so that the flap at the edge of the vaginal aperture formed, by closing the cut, a neck of four lines broad. With a female catheter, he introduced a loop of thread through the urethra, up to the fistulous orifice in the vagina, and drew the one end of the loop out of the vagina, and the other by the catheter, out of the urethra. I lie