COMPOUND FRACTURES. 509 which still remain attached must be pressed into their place, and they should only be removed if they produce inflammatory nervous symptoms or abscesses (7). If the wound suppurate it requires, should the suppu- i ration be slight, the usual treatment; if it be more copious, care must be J taken for the free outlet of the pus either by sufficient enlargement of the wound or incisions, and by suitable position of the limb every collection and burrowing of the pus must be prevented. If, during suppuration, splinters become loose, they must be dextrously removed ; the dressings must be renewed as often as the quantity of pus renders it necessary (8). Injuries of large vessels in open wounds are of little consequence, as they may be tied, either at once, or after enlarging the wound. Deeper- seated vessels are generally injured by the ends of the bones, and the blood collects in the cellular interspaces of the limb. In this case the wounded vessel, or if that be not possible, the trunk of the artery above the wound should be laid bare by a proper incision and tied (9). Mortification may take place, either as a consequence of a high degree of inflammation, or of the weakly constitution of the patient, or from severe bruising and tearing of parts, from very great violence employed in setting the fracture, or from too tight bandaging. Sometimes therefore a strict antiphlogistic treatment must be employed, and every irritant and pressure removed. Sometimes strengthening remedies internally and externally must be used. Opium is frequently of most important service (10). In delirium nervosum tremens, which occurs particularly in old persons, in drunkards, also in great corporeal irritability, from mental emotions, severe pain and so on, generally two or three days after the accident, but often later, during suppuration with restlessness, confused ideas, talkative- ness, screaming, raging, insensibility to pain, sleeplessness, with weak or small, soft or quickened pulse, opium must be given in large doses till the patient is kept constantly asleep; only in great determination of blood to the head may careful blood-letting, leeches to the temples, mustard poul- tices, and so on, be previously necessary. I have always noticed the best effects from opium; not so however from tartar emetic in divided doses, assafcetida, valerian, which have been recommended by different persons for this disease. Spirituous liquours must not be withdrawn entirely from drunkards during this treatment. If sleep do not take place, death is the consequence. On dissection no disease is found (Dufuytren) ; frequently there is exudation on the arachnoid, pus in the joints, and in the sheaths of the tendons (Jjegek). [(1) In the consideration of compound fracture it must be carefully remembered that the existence of a large wound with fractured hone does not constitute a compound fracture, but that a fracture is onhj compound when a wound, however small, communicates with it, so as to expose the broken bone to the air. A fracture with a wound may, how- ever, become in a shorter or longer period compound, by this communication being established. And even a simple fracture, where the soft parts are very thin above the broken bone, or where they are much bruised, may, and often does in the course of two or three days, become compound ; or the same result may be produced in simple frac- tures, (especially if the bone be broken obliquely,) either by spasm of the muscles, or by the patient’s restlessness thrusting the broken end of the bone through the skin, almost immediately after the accident, of which I have seen instances, and one from the latter cause but very lately.—j. f. s. “Compound differ from simple fractures,” observes John Hunter, “ in the first and second modes of union being lost; and, therefore, the third, by granulation, takes place. The granulations between the ends of the bone and on the lacerated surfaces take on an ossific disposition, and the suppuration is always more or less surrounded by the adhe- sive inflammation, so that it extends pretty far, and consequently the callus is large.