258 DISLOCATION IN IIIP-DISEASE. [As regards the lengthening of the limb Astley Cooper says :—“ It is possible that an effusion into the joint may push the limb a little, but I doubt whether this has any influence in producing an elongated appearance of the limb. The length of the limb is not really increased, but an appearance of elongation is produced by the parietes being depressed on the diseased side.” (p. 454.) Lawrence gives a very good description of the lengthening of the limb. He says “ In the earlier period of the disease we sometimes find the limb longer than that on the sound side, and sometimes shorter. This is only apparent. It depends on the position of the pelvis; hence, when the lower extremity of the affected side appears to be longer thau that of the other, we shall find that the anterior superior spine of the ilium on that side is so much lower than its fellow ; if the extremity of the sound side appear to be the longest, we shall find that the anterior superior spine of the ilium of that side is lower down than that of the affected side. When a patient has this disease of the hip-joint, the weight of the body is not supported on both hips, but by that of the sound side; so that when the patient stands erect, the sound thigh sustains the weight of the trunk, and the diseased lower extremity is placed in front of the sound leg, the knee being a little bent, and the anterior part only of the foot brought to the ground. Under these circumstances, the pelvis, generally speaking, sinks a little towards the diseased limb, and this is compensated by the limb being tent a little towards the oppo- site side ; a degree of curvature of the spine is thus not unusual in affections of the hip- joint. In other instances, however, the patient bends the knee slightly on the affected side, and rests the foot on the ground ; this will be attended with an apparent shortening of the extremity. In order, then, to form a correct judgment, you must strip the patient, and make the examination on a straight horizontal surface. You will then immediately observe the position of the pelvis, and discover the cause of the apparent elongation or shortening of the affected limb.” (pp. 484, 85.)] 235. Dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone is not a necessary pheno- menon in the third stage of coxalgy, it is rather accidental, and depends on the position of the diseased extremity, on the motions of the patient, and other influences during the relaxation of the muscles, and on the relaxation and destruction of the ligaments, specially of the round ligament. Hence the dislocation may occur in various directions; most commonly, indeed, backwards and upwards ; but also downwards and inwards, (Nester, Yan der Haar, Berdot, Schreger, Textor,) in which case the direction and length of the extremity are differently circumstanced. In rare cases the head of the bone superficially destroyed by caries may remain, and be- come anchylosed with the socket, which has also been deprived of its carti- laginous overspreading by similar caries; of this termination of coxalgy I have two specimens. Spontaneous separation, and throwing off of the head of the bone through the enlarged apertures of the abscess, may also ensue (a). [Coulson quotes from Hoffman two cases in which the detached head of the femur made its way through the abscess and was removed by the assistance of the surgeon. (P-23.) . . , , , If the patient’s constitution be sufficiently strong to carry him through the stages ot this disease which have teen mentioned, the hip-joint will be found on examination after death, in one of three or four different conditions; two of these I have already no- ticed, viz., the overspreading of the head of the thigh-bone and its socket with an ivory- like deposit, and anchylosis of the ball and socket, almost invariably by bone. But sometimes the capsular ligament having given way the head of the thigh-bone slips through and is dislocated, and the most common direction it takes is upwards on the back of the hip-bone (dorsum ilii.) But it may be displaced, though more rarely, into either of the other localities of dislocation ; thus the younger Earle (i) mentions a dis- location into the ischiatic notch ; in the Museum of the Loyal College of Surgeons of England there is a dislocation into the foramen ovale; Boyer also mentions a case of (n) Cases of this kind, in which the cure was al- ways followed by the use of the joint, are to be found in Schlichting; in Philos. Trans. 1742 : A. F Vogel, Obs. qu*d. chirurg. Kiliaj, 1771, No. 2: Hofmann, vom Scharbrocke, Munster, 17-2, § 233 : IIedknus de Exstirpatione Femoris, p. 65 : Klingf. ; in J/eger’s llandworterb. der Chir. u. Augenheilk, vol. i. p. 535.