CIIliONIC HIP-DISEASE. 203 Ion"' time in a less degree, especially in strumous subjects, a continued and powerful derivation must be kept up by a pea-issue behind the great tro- chanter. If all pain cease, and the motions of the hip-joint become free, only gradual and careful use of the limb may be permitted, so that no cause may be given for a relapse, or a passage of the disease into the chronic form, which so easily happens in negligent and too early motion. [With regard to salt-water bathing Coulson observes:—“ In no class of patients, and in no stage of this particular disease, are sea air and warm salt-water bathing so benefi- I cial as here. Warm or tepid bathing agrees with nearly every patient. * * * The sea-side, however, is not beneficial in cold weather. The best time is from the beginning of May to the end of October; but, if the autumn sets in cold earlier than usual, the patient should return before this. * * * The period at which patients affected with diseases of the hip-joint derive most benefit from going to the sea-side is, either at the commencement of the disease, before much inflammatory action has begun, or towards the end of the third stage, when the abscesses are discharging, and the health is im- paired by the long continuance of the complaint. On the contrary, during the formation of matter, and before the abscess begins to discharge, the patient will not derive much benefit from the change. The plan adopted at the Margate Infirmary is as follows :— For the first two or three days after the patient’s admission, warm bathing only is em- ployed, in order that the constitution may recover the effect of the journey, and adapt itself to the atmospheric change. The patient commences with the warm salt-water bath about three times a-week, at a temperature.of 96 degrees, and is directed to remain in it from fifteen to twenty minutes each time. Afterwards the tepid bath is used ; and then, dependent on the state of the weather, and the health of the patient, the cold bath is employed; one dip only in the sea being allowed each time. The time selected for bathing is in the morning. The cold or warm douche bath is often used in this stage with very good effect.” (p. 79-82.)] 242. If the coxalgy have from the beginning assumed a chronic course, the most perfect rest, which can be produced by securing the diseased limb in a suitable apparatus, is essential, and is often alone sufficient in slight i form of the disease, to produce a cure, in a space of time varying from I eight to ten weeks. According to the degree of pain in the liip-joint and the inflammatory symptoms, leeching or cupping, rubbing in mercurial i ointment with caustic ammonia, repeated blisters, or an issue behind the great trochanter, are here especially indicated. Nicolai (a), Klein (b) and others have recommended, (and employed with advan- . tage,) for keeping up the continued rest of the diseased limb, the apparatus for fractured , neck of the thigh-bone. Physick (c) has proposed a treatment of coxalgy, of which the fixing of the limb in apparatus is the principal part. If the joint be swollen and inflamed, he applies leeches; then gives his patient for some weeks a laxative of cream of tartar, and jalap every other day, so as to produce copious stools. During the employment of the purgatives, the patient must be kept lying horizontally in bed upon a horse-hair mat- tress, and not leave that posture till he is perfectly cured. When the patient, during the use of the purgatives, has become accustomed to lying, a padded splint, reaching from the middle of the chest to the outer ankle, fitting closely, and surrounding nearly half of the parts, is to be applied. If the leg be bent, the splint must be accommodated to the curve ■ of the limb. When the patient has worn the angular splint for some time the limb may be brought to a straight position, and a straight splint applied. In most cases only two splints are necessary. The splint should be attached by one bandage around the breast, and by a second from the ankle to the hip. The shortest time for the cure is six months, • the longest two years, and the middle and usual time a year. During this time the splint 1 should be continually on the limb, and never removed till the symptoms of the disease ' i are manifestly diminished; in which case the limb may be moved very gradually. This I treatment is, however, admissible only when the head of the thigh-bone is neither de- stroyed by caries, nor has become displaced; when no abscess has yet formed, and the I I,abont has not apparently a scrofulous constitution. Ihe following is the plan of treatment recommended by the Scotts (</), which is often very efficient, and may be employed on any joint. ^ ■ r, ',0urn'6 vonGraefe unit Walther, vol. iii. (c) American Journal of Medical Science, Feb., . i part li. 1831. do lb., vol. iv. p. 25. (dj Cited above.